Produced by Al Haines


[Frontispiece: Donald is unexpectedly saved from a terrible death.]


AT WAR WITH PONTIAC

or

THE TOTEM OF THE BEAR


_A TALE OF REDCOAT AND REDSKIN_


by

KIRK MUNROE


AUTHOR OF "THE WHITE CONQUERORS," ETC.


ILLUSTRATED BY J. FINNEMORE


NEW YORK

CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS

1922


COPYRIGHT, 1895, BY

CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS


TABLE OF CONTENTS


CHAPTER

       I.  - It was a bad
      case - Amaury replied. - No, it was not bad, but
     it was excused, Amaury
      friend. After the passionate
       epistle, not missing anything
      other than take it
     to its destination but how would it reach
    the hands of my neighbor ...DONALD SETS FORTH ON A PERILOUS MISSION
      IX.  ST. AUBIN'S STARTLING INFORMATION
       X.  PONTIAC DECLARES WAR
      XI.  MAJOR HESTER IS TAKEN PRISONER
     XII.  DONALD AT JOHNSON CASTLE
    XIII.  PAYMASTER BULLEN AND HIS WONDERFUL TUB
     XIV.  A WHITE MEDICINE MAN
      XV.  DONALD AND CHRISTIE CEMENT A FRIENDSHIP
     XVI.  QUICKEYE AND THE "ZEBRA"
    XVII.  A BRAVE GIRL CAPTIVE
   XVIII.  SURPRISE AND DESTRUCTION OF THE BOAT BRIGADE
     XIX.  THE TOTEM SAVES DONALD'S LIFE
      XX.  BITTER DISAPPOINTMENT AT FORT DETROIT
     XXI.  IN SEARCH OF A LOST SISTER
    XXII.  AMID THE RUINS OF FORT SANDUSKY
   XXIII.  DISCOVERED AND PURSUED BY SAVAGES
    XXIV.  CHRISTIE'S BRAVE DEFENCE OF HIS POST
     XXV.  DONALD FIRES THE MINE AND SAVES THE BLOCKHOUSE
    XXVI.  FRIENDS IN CAPTIVITY
   XXVII.  HOW THE PAYMASTER NAVIGATED LAKE ERIE IN A TUB
  XXVIII.  THE PAYMASTER IN WAR-PAINT AND FEATHERS
    XXIX.  DONALD AND THE PAYMASTER ESCAPE
     XXX.  IMMINENT DANGER OF THE SCHOONER GLADWYN
    XXXI.  PONTIAC RECOGNIZES THE TOTEM
   XXXII.  LAST CRUISE OF THE PAYMASTER'S TUB
  XXXIII.  FORT DETROIT IS REINFORCED
   XXXIV.  AH-MO, THE DAUGHTER OF PONTIAC
    XXXV.  A NIGHT OF FIGHTING AND TERROR
   XXXVI.  BRAVE DEATH OF THE OLD MAJOR
  XXXVII.  THE CURSE OF THE MAGIC CIRCLE
 XXXVIII.  A WINTER IN THE WILDERNESS
   XXXIX.  AN ADOPTED DAUGHTER OF THE FOREST
      XL.  THE PRINCESS ANSWERS DONALD'S QUESTION


ILLUSTRATIONS


DONALD IS UNEXPECTEDLY SAVED FROM A TERRIBLE
  DEATH . . . . . . _Frontispiece_

"THESE TWO PADDLED THEIR WAY AGAINST THE SWIFT CURRENT
  OF THE MOHAWK"

DONALD AND HIS TWO COMPANIONS ARE PURSUED BY INDIANS

PONTIAC DISCOVERS THAT DONALD IS TATTOOED WITH THE MAGIC CIRCLE


AT WAR WITH PONTIAC

OR

THE TOTEM OF THE BEAR


_A TALE OF REDCOAT AND REDSKIN_


CHAPTER I

TAWTRY HOUSE

A glorious midsummer day was drawing to a close; its heat had passed;
the tall forest trees, whose leaves were pleasantly rustled by the cool
breeze of approaching night, flung a bridge of tremulous shadows across
the surface of Loch Meg, and all nature was at peace.  The tiny lake,
though bearing an old-world name, was of the new world, and was one of
the myriad forest gems that decked the wilderness of western New York a
century and a half ago.  It was embraced in a patent recently granted
by the English king to his well-approved servant Graham Hester, whose
bravery and wounds had won for him an honorable retirement, with the
rank of major in a Highland regiment, ere he was forty years of age.
Being thus provided with an ample estate, Major Hester, with his young
wife and half a dozen trusty followers, left the old world for the new,
and plunged into its wilderness.  Though somewhat dismayed to find his
property located a score of leagues beyond that of his nearest white
neighbor, the major was at the same time gratified to discover in that
neighbor his old friend and comrade, William Johnson, through whose
diplomacy the powerful Iroquois tribes of the Six Nations were allied
to the English and kept at peace.

On a crest of land overlooking and sloping gently down to the blue
lakelet which Major Hester had named in honor of his wife, he erected a
substantial blockhouse of squared timbers.  Behind it were ranged a
number of log outbuildings about three sides of a square, in the centre
of which was dug a deep well.  Having thus in a time of peace prepared
for war, the proprietor began the improvement of his estate with such
success that, within three years from the felling of the first tree,
several acres of gloomy forest were replaced by smiling fields.  A
young orchard was in sturdy growth, a small herd of cattle found ample
pasturage on the borders of the lake, and on all sides were evidences
of thrift and plenty.

The military instinct of the proprietor caused all forest growth to be
cleared from a broad space entirely around the rude fortress that held
his life's treasures; but within the enclosure he left standing two
superb oaks.  These not only afforded a grateful shade, but gave a
distinctive feature to the place that was quickly recognized by the
surrounding Indians.  Thus they always spoke of it as the house of the
two trees, or two-tree house, a name that soon became "Tawtry House,"
under which designation it was known from the unsalted seas to the tide
waters of the distant Shattemuc.

Tawtry House not only offered a ready welcome and bountiful hospitality
to the occasional hunter, trader, or traveller tempted by business or
curiosity into that wild region, but to the Indians who still roamed
the forest at will and had established one of their villages at no
great distance from it.  Learns to recognize him! Hot but let it
burn through you out! Allen brother! Allen help serve! Is,
since he appeared, target alone! Even the bad guy, we widerstrebet!
He was also once gewebet of light. "Loves evil - good! "teach
deep souls. Lernt on Hasselager steels - Liebesmut!" brothers "- Hear
the word!

That truth is - and the earth God dereinst place! On the other hand I
had in Hochgebirg verstiegen. The rock world around me, it was
probably nice, but I could not source me ersiegen, still rising after
the bright Höhn; Since I met you, in the worst trouble: the
others! With you together, I gained fresh courage. From I pointed to a
new, with you, to walk, and lo and behold: The fate of us was good.
We found a path which is clear and lonely is moved upwards, to where
a temple stood. The climb was steep, but we dared together's ... and
still help us, hand in hand. Maybe we stand at the end of our life
even under the goal, - enough, the way is clear! The fact that we
met was the great turning point of two was astray knowing a couple.
Send to a friend let the hero in your soul does not die out as thou
wilt the flower, the tree in autumn, - but never to listen to the
wreath to advertise! All other wreaths stay back, fade out as the
limbs, which they cover ...

This is you alone on the big bridge - you keep the spirits up there
forehead still enclosed: dereinst and if you went back, you will
go, like halo wrapped around. (to some) Your know the consolation of
enttrübt, the distance to the barriers: - Are deeds practiced outdoors,
send them: - thoughts.

(to some) You know it, the harsh suffering, says abdicate, participate
in the storm of God's time for new days. (to many) You know them, the
passion that unites us: Help, help, with a force that overcomes everything.
Remember, my friend, ... Remember, friend, what we talked together.
War's worth that we spell broke the silence, no means for such exchange?
Sun jabber about two birds with one another, while in the guise of the
continuous flow strict meerwärts rushing waves. awakens in you is not
a feeling of emptiness, you consider how it opens up years and years
time, if nothing than gossip from you and the other, however, after
the god of the seas lap and humanities wisdom stern spiegel clear water
and huge walk ruhlos? Da Da nimm nimm. That I let you back oWelt
... It comes from you.

It was of your new. Where I want jetzo further into it, I do not put
more on you. There is the pale spirit alone, which I have formed thee
oh, just like a pale victim of smoke - there is only even the oh so
weak sense, by which Christ lives in me. ...

Are Merely Merely Want a great kindness is certainly a high human
costumes. But it only rises to full B1üte if a seher graces the Awakened
Cosmos nachtentleitetem mind as ghosts artwork brought to
consciousness.

Then grows from Giant Creation overviews from Aufschau to
verborgnen Bildnersphären from Selbstmiteinbezug in their levels -
a compassion for this world skills, which is more than dark heart shoots
nurture the supreme gods appointed to work with. The is the branch
in your timber that is the branch in your timber, where the plane
hangs and hangs: your pride, you always back in his stiff boots wedges.
Want to F1ügelschuhn tiefinnerlichster freedom fliehn, but him so
bitterly verdrießt no doing whatever else it keeps you firmly: are
you as rigid: dürrknisternd-refractory wood: a pride-verstotzter
floor, a self-adverse Hans sausages and fool. ...

The Angels' Where are you going? Still, you were just as - What do
you you walked back down, woe, to that life that I do not understand
me recently and were still close so dearly. "I will go with you in your
world, from the showers of putrefaction breathe, into the realm
of death should I dive with you, like a corpse crumbles away and
continue?

"Well there is my same privy to your terrible life stages ... But I'm
not. But how shocked verworrnes Call me the word of your Temporality."
Leave me my Main veil until you re wiederkehrst me, so pure, I love
you, nothing satisfies a sweet spirit and your Triebe archetype
again radiant faithful. "The patient often wants to die ... And I
look at how grateful I am that I still live and suffer in the
Here and Now compound. but that leaves me more time to dismantle
some Gebre, I never even come to rest, I will be better prepared
yet. If I can not work now, so I help but the Mir, the dereinst
Here and Now, after an impact is there and then. 'The Fußwaschung
I thank you, you dumb stone, and inclined me to you down: I owe you my
Pflanzensein. I thank you, you reason, and Flor, bridge and me down to
you: Your half the animals up to me. I thank you, rock, herb and
animal, and I bow down to you: Your half me all three to me. We thank
thee, thou man, pious and let us down before thee: because the fact
that you are, we are.

It thanked deity from all inputs and all the diversity deity again.
In Thanks devours everything being. The sun wants to seven
times reflect The sun will reflect seven times in all our seven
physical terms: that her seven reciprocate her picture. The Sun wants
us seven unseal. The hike to the truth The truth of hiking, walking
alone, neither can the other be Wegbruder. A margin we go, it seems,
in the choir until the last ... that we shall see, each lost. Even
the beloved ringet away somewhere, but who's totally vollbringet,
wins for star, creates his own Durchchrister, Neugottesgrund - and
greets him Sister Perpetual Confederation. You my higher wisdom wisdom
I you my higher I, than the wing spreitet me and I led her from the
beginning how it was best for me - If anger is often challenged
me: now - It was the displeasure a boy!

Des mature man glances have the power, thanks in full to you ruhn.
You have the hand already on the portal you have the hand already on
the portal and key to the jack hand (because they still shed you no
beam). You will only grow if they thought it's this, it's the next time
- then you will stand as the white wall, long before you dead wrong,
and how a body fall, your body will fall into the sand. a friend about
his love of grief to comfort a friend about his love sorrow to
comfort, we must always deal with us again and again by suffering
each other, until one day we will bless everything.

To this day, the suffering is soft, at least the suffering, the blindness
testified, the us as blind in the forest towers bent. Then we will be
in goal and new life as a sea in rivers flow together and no
separation will give us more angry. Then, finally, the ...

Seek not your 'truth have become in our souls.

And how is it to force us to happiness is not missing. blindness
blindness like I like I said I boldly, - I have nothing new to watch!

... As the earth turns to green odemraubend cool horror. A to the veil
is really being loved and terrain, and the - ghost light sex charges -
a blind man's hands ... Evolution Hardly that, what is once separated
from you, in his Sonderwesensart realized desires back in his element.
It feels itself but also banished and yearns home in the bosom of his
origin ... But in front of him is still brazen unrelated Äonengroß his
humanity Go! barrel it what is revealed to you! barrel what is
revealed to you!

ancestor hinan you to the sun! ancestor, which creator-bliss every
being met there! Klimm upwards then this ghost to the highest levels
Scharnstein!

And then finally take him true: All this ghost master! And then come
down with Him! sub humans and demons come with Him, inhabiting the
body of the man he was devout. Holds a heart size of the victim! Measuring
a mind that victims throughout - Like a God of Heaven shine and
exchanges to Menschennot - nakedness! creature creature ... no
more no more, lord of the idea of Will Lord, no longer will
drudgery, the flood of sensation level and master, too deep to get to
negative cancer, too free than that stubbornness in him live:
How to bind a person to the realm of ghosts: So he finds the path to
the throne of thrones.

Give me the sight of thy being Give me the sight of thy being, O world
... let the mind slip slowly penetrate me ...

Just like a house gradually brightens until the whole day blasting
durchschwingen - and as if this house still Himmmelsglanz the roof and
wall could bring the victim - that it was last, of golden wealth
completely through, as like a ghost structure stands, like a monstrance
geistdurchleuchteten: So would also the rigidity of my walls is
solved, that your being in my full, my whole being into your intake
His would - and so is purely united with His Being. How loud anthem
in brightness are we on all sides ... Earth latitudes, Earth Times
Eternity dwindle far ... Like a breath in the very light it is, hovering
like a shimmering sky-light - in your life ever lived, we, we ever
-- not?

Could away from you forgive, you fled, banished, damn But your
harmonies return home, which comes to you.

I am from God as everything I am being born from God as everything being
born, I go in with all My God to die, I come home, O God, as your
life.

First, I was in your where I then had to acquire this Gegebne,
you have it as a breast lift on the breast. Since the middle wanted
to spoil it proudly, and it was you, and you've lost him ... Until that
Du overpowering summoned me!

As promised, I'm going to andernmal born: for I understood the first to
die, because I felt for the first time to live. I've seen people I've
seen people in its deepest form, I know the world until the basic
salary. I know that love, love her deepest sense, and that I am there
to take more and more to love me. I made the arms wide, like he done,
I want the whole world, such as ER, umfahrn. I lift you my heart,
I lift up my heart up to you as right Gralesschale that all his
blood thirst after losing your pure Mahle, O CHRIST! O stuff is new
to the edge with your Blood Rose Brand that: THE henceforth I
wear through Erdennächt ' and - the day, YOU are! I want to take
everything I want everything from taking what nourishes me, which
matches long familiar with me, so I am sometimes quiet happiness
granted.

In your wisdom, I found some secret to confirmation by myself compatriots
and took her to type in my rhymes. There's so much beauty,
goodness, truth, how grateful I am that man I must be always something
new and this kind of experience 'to know because this is still about
this: you're away from more serious . Your conscience threw you still
do not have that wisdom only - learn. With such picking flowers,
sitting winds - what is being done? see you in the face and
check, oh, such a lukewarm feelings too. You feel the wisdom as a way
not yet - duty. And so, whether or G1ühwürmchen of stars you light flow
- it's you the same light. you are the true depths true Far more
muted, and whose seal only breaks a lifelong tiefdemütig - learning.

In the tree, you love birds in the tree there, you love birds there, what
is your song, your song in the ground? Your little song is God's word
thy little throat mouth of God. 'I sing' singing still not you, it sounds
the eternal Creator of power nor in pure unalloyed magnificence
in you, you sweet little adornment.

Leis on delicate feet approaching it Leis delicate feet on approaching
it, in the Sleeping like a fan: Horch, o soul, my Council, let
happiness and consolation you smile -: The love you connected, you
will always remain to be small and large rounds treugesellt with
you describe.

And they will build up to you , unrelated as you to them - and awakened
to a show, you will be vying to serve!

light Light is love is love ... love solar radiation weaving a world
of creative beings - the outrageous times by us in their heart stops,
and the last given us their highest spirit in a person's skin during
three years since he came into his father's inheritance - is now Earth
innerlichstes sky fire: that they will once the sun.

Lucifer "I want my light from your light close, I want you not, ye shall
not enjoy myself before I did not become a self-lighting. "So I think
I bring the evil to the appearance, as the spirit of the probe and
the negative, but creates new world order my spirits."

From Opposition to the unperturbed care, from Erro-tum, a strain recovered
gods, composed of - and not from you - will decide. "The non-truth in
the beginning of change, the truth of suffering only negotiated for the
right to truth, acting only suffers.

"With-awakens your desire has always been - to fly! Now approaching
you with the performance. You will conquer the space, after unveiling
the world that will take us to sleep outdoors made by the blind
rounds. Now you have, co-awakened, your swing dress found !'s moon at
noon The white room in the blue midday sunshine, clouded by any
fluff ... The white moon alone haunts high distance of the star
Eloah, which extends from the sun star banished to because of the
logo light to shine, till he himself and came into the dark apartment
Talen took forever ... the wide blue space in the midday sunshine,
clouded by any fluff ...

The white moon alone in high haunts afar ... After reading the 1912
Cyclus Helsingforsers beauty leads to your work : since last beauty
flows through all the revelation that it gives us. poignancy of human-up
to ever higher harmonies you relieve the dizzying feeling, until
it united with him conspicuous sound proclaimer God and His glory
never taken formal love in light of the animosity. .. comes from
beauty, beauty leads to your work.

Now living DU DU is now live is, in this empty house from which the world
and then Gebrause herausfloh. What is now my sense - as that on a break
I YOUR unique retreat, my reason and origin bin! O night ... O night,
thou star Bronnen, I bathe your body and your mind in one thousand suns
- O night, which I umfleußt with Offenbarungswonnen, ergib me what
you know! O night, thou deep Bronnen ... O O give me pleasures give
me joy not entangled with what I niedres as I feel in me, give me such
joy to the spirit as they Angebinde spirit, the soul sends soul.
O no longer bowl delights of this torment, but which are bought only
from non - Leiden! Schenk my heart, which is for YOU to decide, so will
I truly be happy. O O ye people faint fainthearted people to it by now
not loskommt, it says: it is, it was and it will be so long people
live -.

O else would you but hope and prey lerntet Open Bares look back and brain
and heart to collect the highest goal! O how happy I lern Mildenberg
O how happy I lern Mildenhall, dear heart, from your mouth, follow
you into Bunde silent in purified Gefilde!

And we look back together on the world, and its Schelten, and instead
they are to blame, let it go and apply.

Do not look I do not see what others do, the others are so much, you come
only in a game that will never ruhn. Just go the path of God, let nothing
else guides, so you go right and grad, and left you all alone.

II Require nothing from anyone, let everyone its essence, you're
from any FEHM the judge did not erlesen. Do your work quietly and enter
the world of your own peace, and have your property to nothing and no
one down below. sturgeon 'is not the sleep of sturgeon prefer woman' is
not the sleep of the favorite wife, my light!

sturgeon 'her delicate, soft slumber not. How far is it now. And yet
so close. A Whisper - and they would be back. Be still, my heart was
still silent, my mouth, talking with the angels well its students
to mind. ...

From two roses two roses from a different scent, other than the Rose.
Two angels might be a different, other than the beautiful. So in countless
cash-tender otherness like the sky, like gods of the father-sons
ranging seraphic be modulated ...

What you are complaining of what you complain to the evil around the
world and this? you're a man who never Spelled blew into the fire?
Did Harm and hatred and delusion and addiction never seduced thee
that thy arm blindly flee the flames even more who are what you
seem the unteilhaft, what nourishes fire world! First break the passion
that you have schwärt. In it you take all the strife, the World careful
nit, depending how you're inside of slag, it will make it with.
waterfall at night I sleep, sleep, deep sleep.

Silence slumbering people, animals. Only the summit glacier freeze their
water pours down the valley. calmness ghosts, ghost fullness, sky
opens your gate! stay asleep, my jacket, floating sensation and thought
up! Up in the haunted halls taste you, my higher education! Let the
Living veil fall, costs, seingenesen, Freedom! II unremittingly white
waves sinking force, let me thy bay, your secret drink. Wölker angel
softly lap water from the resolve to go after big way demons. until
pale rays of the moon heads firn. ..

And on risers forehead paint the characters ... like baptisms heard
the wisdom of dew.

And also review the dawns Enttörten.

Who does not know of the target from the target who does not know
the path can not have it, is in the same circle trot all his
life, comes at the end, where he hergerückt, the amount of sense even
more zerstückt. Who knows nothing of the target, but today's can learn,
if it burns only after-the Divine Truth, when he vainness not completely
absorbed by the wine and the time is not up to the top drunk. Because
asking is the quiet things, and to dare is to win one light: if you
do not find, as only one free, will remain in Trugesbann Seven-veil.
How does' I am YOUR magic los How does' I am YOUR magic going and dived
down again into the depths and climbed back into the bosom of darkness,
if not even calling your self care, in whose minds I light my being
here, as like the butterfly on light, erlabe, but without me A complete
gift to the fall, to be Todespein. How could I get from such a distinguished
place, where every last Glückestraum met, remained not a tremendous
suffering, even from the sky only - verhüllt . And since I whose sting
is left, how can I now, as the burning of DIR go to YOU in that
world even more to love in which it is YOU, as the sun, not yet
sehn. From love of DIR by hinabgezwungen Heaven on Earth, I know:
only repeatedly penetrated by yourself, yielding 'I joyfully such
consignment yoke. You have to reveal myself as a source of
incessant rnir Renew brings. Now I can also YOU go to hell because I
am YOUR rejuvenated heaven forever. We found a path Like a Man, on
cloudy day, the sun forgets - but she shines and shines incessantly,
- so like you in your muddy day forgot to turn and turn, always
shocked to feel so blinded, as inexhaustible, and continued on and on
your mind we dark sun shines Wandre. Overcome! Overcome!
"You don't mean to say," interrupted the other, "that you were one of
the spectators at a scene of torture, and did nothing to prevent it?"

"Sartain I do, major.  It's part of my business to see such things.
It's also part of my business to keep the peace, so fur as I kin,
betwixt Injuns and whites, which it would have been broke very sudden
ef I had interfered with an Injun execution of an Injun captive.  They
was only acting 'cording to their light, and I acted 'cording to mine."

"I suppose you are right," assented the major, "but I am glad I was not
in your place, and sorry that the savages should have had the
encouragement of your presence at one of their devilish orgies."

"They've had that many a time, major, when I couldn't help myself,"
replied the hunter, soberly.  "They didn't get any encouraging from me
this day, though, for they didn't see me.  I was too snugly hid for
that.  But to make a short story, they tormented that poor chap in one
way and another until I thought he must be done for, and all the time
he never uttered a sound except to jeer at 'em, nor quivered an
eyelash.  Once, when they saw he was nearly dead with thirst, they
loosed his hands and gave him a bowl of cool spring water; but as he
lifted it to his lips, they dashed it to the ground.  After that they
held another bowl of water close to his face, but he never gratified
'em by making a move to try and drink it.

"Finally, they made a circle of dry wood around him and set fire to it.
Then I thought it was all up with the poor fellow, and his torment
would soon be over.  I was just saying this to myself when something
swift and still as a shadder brushed past the place where I was hid.  I
had just time to see that it was a woman, when she cleared the woods
like a flash, ran to the stake, never minding the flames more'n ef
they'd been a shower of rain, and cut Songa free.

"He gave a great leap, like a deer, out of the ring of fire that was
slowly roasting him, knocked down two or three warriors that stood in
his path, and gained the woods, with her close beside him, almost
before any one knew what had happened.  A score of rifle balls whizzed
after them, but they wasn't hit, and they had a clear start of a
hundred yards afore the crowd took after 'em.  Mahng was the only one
who could keep 'em in sight, and when they separated at the foot of the
lake, he taking up one side, and she the other, Mahng trailed the one
he hated most, which was Songa."

"How did you happen to see all this?" inquired the major.  "They must
have passed from view of your hiding-place very quickly."

"Oh, I jined in the hunt, too," replied Truman Flagg.  "I thought some
one might find it handy to have me 'round.  Besides, I was feeling
cramped and in need of a bit of exercise."

"Well, it was handy to have you around," said the major, heartily, "and
it will be long ere I forget the gratitude with which I saw you at that
critical moment.  I am thankful, too, that the poor fellow escaped and
sought the refuge he did, though what I am to do with him is more than
I can imagine.  I wish with all my heart that he were well on his way
toward the Ottawa villages.  But who was the woman who rescued him so
splendidly, and what do you suppose became of her?"

"He claims her as his squaw," replied the hunter, "and ef she's where I
left her, she's setting watching him at this moment."

"You don't mean it!  How can she be?" cried the major, jumping to his
feet.

"I do mean it; and she can be beside him because I let her in myself,
not half an hour ago, and locked the door after me when I come out."

"Then come with me at once, for I must go and see them," exclaimed the
proprietor, starting toward the door.

"Hold a bit, major.  Don' you think that maybe Songa has earned a few
hours of uninterrupted rest?" asked the hunter.

"Yes, you are right, he certainly has," replied the major, as he again
sank into his chair.


CHAPTER IV

ESCAPE OF THE PRISONERS

Mrs. Hester, who had been putting her child to sleep, entered the room
in time to hear the conclusion of the hunter's story, which she found
intensely interesting.  Like her husband, she was filled with a desire
to see the brave woman who, daring all for the man she loved, had,
alone and unaided, saved him from a horrible fate.  With him, though,
she agreed that it would be cruel to disturb the much-needed and
bravely earned rest of their guests.  Thus it was decided that they
should wait until morning before visiting those whom Fate had so
strangely thrust upon their hospitality.  In the meantime, were they
guests or prisoners, and what was to be done with them?  Long and
animated was the discussion of these questions, which were finally
settled by the major, who said: "They are both.  For this night they
are our guests.  To-morrow morning I shall set a guard over them, for
their protection as well as our own.  Thus they will become prisoners.
If by the time the Ottawa warrior is sufficiently recovered of his
wounds to travel, I have received no word to the contrary from Johnson,
I shall let him go, and bid him God speed.  If, however, I should
receive orders to continue to hold him, or even to deliver him over to
his savage captors, which God forbid, I can conceive of no alternative
save that of obedience."

"Oh, Graham!  You wouldn't, you couldn't, deliver that splendid Indian
and his brave wife to the awful fate that would await them!" cried Mrs.
Hester.

"I don't think that I could give up the woman nor that I would be
required to, seeing that she was not a prisoner of war; but with the
man it is different.  He is a chief in the tribe who have proved
themselves most inveterate foes of the English, and, from what Flagg
tells me, I should judge a man of extraordinary ability.  His death at
this time might prove the future salvation of hundreds of white men,
women, and children.  To allow him to escape may involve us in war.
The decision either way will be fraught with far-reaching results, and
I am thankful that it does not rest with me.  Whatever Johnson may
order in a case of this kind must be obeyed, without regard to our
private views, for he is the accredited representative, in this
section, of the king, God bless him, whom we are sworn to serve.  At
any rate, we may rest easy this night, and for two yet to come; for,
even if the Senecas lay this grievance before the governor, it must
still be several days ere I can hear from him."

"Oh dear!" sighed Mrs. Hester, "I suppose you are right, Graham, of
course, but the contingency is too dreadful to contemplate.  I believe
I would even go so far as to help these poor people to escape, and so
defy the governor, rather than allow them to be given up; for I know
the wife will insist on sharing her husband's fate, whatever it may be."

"I don't believe you would, my dear, if you first paused to consider
what effect your action might have upon the future of your own boy,"
replied her husband, gravely.

Before retiring for the night the major and Truman Flagg cautiously
approached the tool-house, and, listening at its single open window,
which was merely a slit cut through the logs at the back to serve as a
loop-hole for musketry, plainly heard the heavy breathing that assured
them of the safety of the prisoners.  Then the major bade his companion
good-night, and turned toward his own quarters.  He had gone but a few
steps when the hunter overtook him and handed him the key of the
tool-house, saying that he should feel more at ease with it in the
proprietor's possession.  As they again separated, he remarked that
being so very weary, he feared he should sleep late the following
morning.

In spite of this, Truman Flagg was up and stirring while it yet wanted
an hour of dawn.  Lighting a small dark-lantern and moving with the
utmost caution, he made, from various places, a collection of food,
clothing, and arms.

"It's what the major in his heart wishes done, I'm sartain," he
muttered to himself, "and what the madam would never forgive me ef I
left undone.  I could see that in her face."

Having completed his preparations, the hunter stepped lightly across
the parade ground, as the major called the enclosed square, and opened
the tool-house door, which he had softly unlocked, in anticipation of
this time, the moment before handing its key to Major Hester.
Carefully as he entered the building, its inmates were instantly wide
awake and aware of his presence.  With a few whispered words he
explained the situation to Songa, adding that while the white chief had
no authority to free a prisoner, he was unwilling that one whose life
had been saved by his child should be restored to those who would
surely kill him.  "Therefore," continued the hunter, "he bids you make
good your escape while it is yet dark, taking with you these presents.
He would have you tell no man of the manner of your going, and bids you
remember, if ever English captives are in your power, that you owe both
life and liberty to an English child."

"To you," he added, turning to Songa's heroic wife, "the white squaw
sends the greeting of one brave woman to another.  She bids you go in
peace, lead your husband to the lodges of his people, and restore him
to the child who, but for her child, would now be fatherless."

As the young Ottawa, assisted by his loving wife, slowly gained his
feet and painfully straightened his body, whose stiffened wounds
rendered every movement one of torture, he answered simply:--

"The words of my white brother are good.  Songa will never forget them.
If all white men were like him, there would be no more fighting, for
the hatchet would be buried forever."

While both the hunter and the squaw rubbed the sufferer's limbs with
bear's grease, and so in a measure restored their suppleness, the
latter said in a low voice, that was yet thrilling in its intensity:--

"Tell my white sister that through her words I can understand the love
of the Great Spirit for his children.  They have sunk deep into my
heart, where their refreshing shall ever be as that of cool waters."

In the first faint flush of the coming dawn two dusky figures slipped,
with the silence of shadows, from among the buildings of Tawtry House,
sped across the open, and vanished in the blackness of the forest.  At
the same time Truman Flagg, well satisfied with the act just performed,
though wondering as to what would be its results, returned to his own
lodging, flung himself on his couch of skins, and was quickly buried in
slumber.

He was awakened some time later by the voice of his employer, calling,
"Come, Flagg!  Turn out! the sun is all of two hours high, and here you
are still sleeping.  You ought to be ashamed of yourself."

As the hunter emerged from his cabin, yawning and stretching, the major
continued: "I am on my way to visit our guests, or prisoners, as I
suppose we must now call them, and want you to act as interpreter.
Whether guests or prisoners, we must not allow them to starve, and if
they are half as hungry as I am at this moment, they must feel that
they are in imminent danger of it."

The honest soldier was amazed to find the door of the tool-house
unlocked, and still more so to discover that the place was empty.
"What does it mean?" he cried angrily.  "Have we a traitor among us? or
is it witchcraft?  Surely no human being, wounded so nigh unto death as
was that Indian but a few hours since, could have effected an escape
unaided."

"You forget that the squaw was with him," suggested the hunter.

"True; though how she could have unlocked the door passes my
understanding.  Are you certain that you locked it after admitting her?"

"I am sartain," replied Truman Flagg, "for I tried it afterwards."

A prolonged, though unavailing, search was made through all the
buildings and the adjacent forest that morning.  While it was in
progress the major appeared greatly chagrined at the turn of events;
but his outward demeanor concealed an inward satisfaction that he had
not been obliged to abuse the laws of hospitality, by treating his
guests as prisoners.

As for Mrs. Hester, she rejoiced so openly at their escape that the
hunter was finally emboldened to confess to her his share in it, and
deliver the message of the Indian woman.


CHAPTER V

A BABY LOST AND RECOVERED

In the scouting of that morning Truman Flagg took an active part, and
he alone of all who were out discovered the trail of the fleeing
Ottawas.  Following it far enough to assure himself that no unfriendly
forest ranger had run across it, he turned his steps in the direction
of the Seneca village.  Here, although he was received with a certain
coolness, arising from his participation in the incident of the
previous evening, no affront was offered him, and he had no difficulty
in acquiring the information he desired.  Thus he was able to report to
Major Hester, on his return to Tawtry House, that Mahng not only lived,
but was in a fair way to recover from his injury, and that by means of
swift runners the grievance of the Indians had already been laid before
Sir William Johnson.

This report was confirmed on the following day, by the appearance of a
delegation of Seneca chiefs, who brought a note from the governor, and
demanded that Major Hester deliver to them the Ottawa captive.  Sir
William's note, though extremely courteous, was very firm, and
contained an unmistakable order for restoration to the Senecas of their
lawful prisoner.  It also chided the major for interfering between
Indians, at a risk of disturbing the friendly relations between the
English and their Iroquois neighbors.

With the reading of this note an angry flush mantled the soldier's
bronzed cheeks, and he seemed on the point of expressing his feelings
in forcible language.  Controlling himself with a visible effort, and
bidding Truman Flagg interpret his words, he replied to the chiefs as
follows:--

"Brothers: I have listened to your demand and find it a just one.  The
talking-paper of the white chief bids me deliver to you a prisoner
known as Songa the Ottawa.  The orders of the white chief must be
obeyed, as I would obey this one were it possible to do so, but it is
not.  Listen.  As I walked before my lodge, a stranger, whom I had
never seen, ran from the forest and fell at my feet.  He was bleeding
from many wounds, and exhausted from long running.  An enemy followed,
and sought to kill him; when my son, a little child, threw himself
across the stranger's neck and saved his life.  Was not that a sign
from the Great Spirit that he wished the stranger to live?  Could I do
less than was done by that little child?  You know I could not.  You
know that no Seneca warrior would allow a man to be killed who sought
his protection in such a manner.  So I lifted this stranger and took
him to my lodge.  At the same time I told his enemy that I would keep
him until an order could be brought from the great white chief for him
to be delivered up.  Now you have brought that order, and, were the
stranger still in my lodge, I would deliver him to you; but he is not.
He left me that same night.  How, I know not.  He was sore wounded, and
was lodged in a secure place, but in the morning he was gone.  I am
told that he is a medicine man of the Metai.  May he not have been
removed by the magic of his circle?  No matter.  He was here and is
gone.  You look to me for him, and I cannot produce him.  That is all.
I have spoken."

A dignified old Seneca chief arose to reply, and said; "We have heard
the words of my white brother, and we believe them to be true, for his
tongue is not crooked.  He alone of all white men has never lied to us.
He says the prisoner is gone, and it must be so.  But it is not well.
Our hearts are heavy at the escape of so brave a captive.  What, then,
will my brother give us in his place, that the heaviness of our hearts
may be lifted?"

"I will give you," replied Major Hester, "two guns, and ten red
blankets, twenty pounds of powder and fifty pounds of lead, one piece
of blue cloth, one piece of red cloth, and five pounds of tobacco.  Is
it enough?"

"It is enough," answered the chief, while the eyes of his companions
glistened at the prospect of this munificent present.  "But," he
continued, "there was a woman.  What will my brother give for her?"

"Nothing," answered the white brother, promptly, "for she was not your
prisoner."

"Ugh!" grunted the Indians.

"There is also Mahng," continued the savage diplomat, whose rule of
action was that of his white colleagues in the same service; namely, to
give as little and get as much as possible.  "What will my brother give
him to help the healing of his wounds?"

"I will give Mahng a handsome present whenever he shall come to receive
it, that there may be no bad blood between us," was the answer; and
with these concessions the Indians expressed themselves as well content.

The proprietor of Tawtry House kept his word in regard to the presents;
but Mahng never came to claim those set apart for him.  Instead of so
doing, he sent word to Major Hester that no gift, save that of his
life's blood, would ever atone for the insult of that kick, nor wipe
out the enmity between them.

"So be it, then, if he will have it so," replied the soldier, with a
light laugh, when this was reported to him; but his wife turned pale
and trembled as she recalled the undying hate expressed by Mahng's
scowling face.  Nor was the Ojibwa's threat an entirely idle one, as
the settlers discovered to their sorrow, when several of their cattle
were killed, an outbuilding was burned, and finally the major himself
had a narrow escape with his life, from a shot fired by an unseen foe.
Finally, these things became so annoying that Sir William Johnson
notified the Senecas to drive Mahng from their country, or hand him
over to the whites for punishment, unless they wished to forfeit the
valuable annual present, sent to them by their great Father of England,
an instalment of which was then due.

As the Diver was by no means popular in his adopted tribe, he was
promptly carried across the Niagara river, and forbidden ever to set
foot on its eastern shore again, under penalty of death.  Having
performed this virtuous act, the Senecas moved eastward to the long
council-house of the Six Nations, which was located in the country of
the Onondagas, where they were to receive their presents and share in
the deliberations of their confederacy.

It was two months after the incidents above described, and several
weeks had passed without an Indian having been seen in the vicinity of
Tawtry House.  So absolutely peaceful were its surroundings that the
vigilance of its inmates was relaxed, and during the daytime, at least,
they came and went at will, without a thought of insecurity.

This peace was rudely broken one morning by shrill cries from the
Scotch nurse maid who, an hour before, had strolled with her infant
charge toward the lake.  She now ran to the house in an agony of
terror, and uttering unintelligible screams.  It was at first believed
that the child was drowned, but finally the distracted parents gleaned
from the girl's half-coherent words that she had left him in safety at
some distance from the shore, for a single minute, while she stepped to
the water's edge for a drink.  When she returned he had disappeared,
nor was there any answer to her calling.

For two days search parties scoured the surrounding forest, but without
avail.  There was not an experienced trailer among them, Truman Flagg
being with Sir William Johnson at the Onondaga council-house.  Toward
the close of the second day, while Major Hester and most of his men
were still engaged in their fruitless search, the heartbroken mother
walked listlessly to the place where her child had last been seen.  She
had already been there many times, unconsciously, but irresistibly
attracted to the spot.

On this occasion, as she was about to turn back, there came to her ear
the cry of an infant.  Like a tigress robbed of her young, and with
blazing eyes, the bereaved woman sprang in the direction of the sound,
and in another instant her child, alive and well, was clasped to her
bosom.  He had been hidden beneath the low-spreading branches of a
small cedar, and she snatched him from a bark cradle, exquisitely made
and lined with costly furs.

Like one pursued by a great terror, she fled to the house with her
precious burden, nor would she permit one to take it from her until her
husband's return.

When they examined the child they found him without scratch or blemish,
save for a curious and inflamed disfiguration on his left arm, just
below the shoulder.  Though this soon healed, it was long before its
mystery was explained; but when Truman Flagg saw it, he pronounced it
to be the tattooed mark of an Indian totem.


CHAPTER VI

THE WILDERNESS

In a new country the changes effected during sixteen years are apt to
be greater than those of a lifetime in long-established communities.
Certainly this was the case in North America during the sixteen years
immediately preceding that of 1763.  The bitter fighting between
England and France for the supremacy of the new world that began with
the signal defeat of the English army under Braddock, in 1755, was
ended four years later by Wolfe's decisive victory on the Plains of
Abraham.  A year later France retired from the conflict and surrendered
Canada, with all its dependencies, to the English.  These dependencies
included a long chain of tiny forts, about some of which were clustered
thrifty French settlements that extended entirely around the Great
Lakes and south of them into the valley of the Ohio.  Among these were
Niagara at the mouth of the river of that name, Presque Isle on the
site of the present city of Erie, Sandusky, Detroit, Mackinac, Fort
Howard on Green Bay, and Fort St. Joseph near the southern end of Lake
Michigan.  While from its commanding position the most important of
these forts was the first named; the largest, and the one surrounded by
the most thriving settlement was at Detroit.  Here the fort itself was
a palisaded village of one hundred compactly built houses standing on
the western bank of the Detroit river.  Beyond it, on both sides for
nearly eight miles, stretched the prosperous settlement of French
peasants, whose long, narrow farms reached far back from the river,
though in every case the tidy white houses and outbuildings stood close
to the water's edge.

The English settlements at the close of the war with France had not
crossed the Alleghanies, and in the province of New York the western
bank of the Hudson was an almost unbroken wilderness.  Through the
country of the Six Nations, and by their especial permission, a
military route, guarded by a line of forts, had been established,
though it was clearly understood by the Indians that all these should
be abandoned as soon as the war was ended.  This route began at the
frontier town of Albany.  Here the traveller left the clumsy but
comfortable sloop on board which he had perhaps spent a week or more on
the voyage from New York, and embarked in a canoe or flat-boat, which
was laboriously poled against the swift current of the Mohawk river.
Thus he passed the old Dutch town of Schenectady, Johnson Hall and
Johnson Castle, Forts Hunter and Herkimer, and at length reached the
head of river navigation at Fort Stanwix.  From here a short portage
through the forest led him to the waters of Wood creek, where he might
again embark and float with the sluggish current to the Royal
Blockhouse on the shore of Oneida lake.  Crossing this, and passing
under the walls of Port Brewerton at the source of the Oswego river, he
would descend the swift waters of that stream to Fort Oswego on the
shore of Lake Ontario.  From here his course in any direction lay over
the superb waterways of the great inland lakes whose open navigation
was only interrupted by a toilsome portage around the great cataract of
the Niagara river.

Beyond these few isolated dots of white settlements and the slender
lines of communication between them, the whole vast interior country
was buried in the shade of an unbroken forest that swept like a billowy
sea of verdure over plains, hills, valleys, and mountains, screening
the sunlight from innumerable broad rivers and rushing streams, and
spreading its leafy protection over uncounted millions of beasts,
birds, and fishes.  Here dwelt the Indian, and before the coming of the
white man the forest supplied all his simple needs.  Its gloomy mazes
were threaded in every direction by his trails, deep-trodden by the
feet of many generations, and forming a network of communication
between all villages and places of importance.  So carefully did these
narrow highways follow lines of shortest distance and easiest grade,
that when the white man began to lay out his own roads he could do no
better than adopt their suggestions.

With the coming of the whites, the life of the Indian was subjected to
sudden and radical changes.  Having learned of the existence and use of
guns, knives, kettles, blankets, and innumerable other things that
appealed to his savage notions of comfort and utility, he must now have
them, and for them would trade furs.  So the fur traders became
important features of the forest life, and their business grew to be so
immensely profitable that its control was one of the prime objects for
which England and France fought in America.  The little forts that the
French scattered over the country were only trading-posts, and at them,
so long as their builders ruled, the Indians were treated with a
fairness and courtesy that won their firm friendship and made them
stanch allies in times of war.  But when the French power was broken,
and the Indians, without at all understanding why, found that they must
hereafter deal only with English fur traders, all this was changed.

There was no longer a war on hand nor a rival power in the land,
therefore the necessity for conciliating the Indian and gaining his
friendship no longer existed.  Where once I was going to lift our eyes
toward him, I see there painted the image of Marquesita that behind
us, at another stage, I was contemplating your taste. You saw me and
not saying anything ... - Tristan! - Became the youngest cried with
an accent even more desperate.

And put their hands to the face bursting into sobs uttered: - Oh my God,
what is me happening? This is not true, this is a horrible nightmare!
Looked sad and confused for a moment regretted it. But sharply rising
unrest began with a walk for the stay while gesturing nervously said:
- What about me ... I have to blame? I would, even at the expense
of my blood, to cut these scenes of the imagination, but they do
not want to flee.He
became ragged and hungry, was driven from the homes of his fathers, and
finally began to perceive that even the privilege of living was not to
be granted him much longer.  He grew desperate, and his hatred against
those who had driven away his kind French friends and brought about all
his present misery became very bitter.  He saw plainly that if he did
not drive these redcoats back to the sea whence they came, they would
soon sweep his race from the face of the earth.  There seemed to be
only a few white men and many Indians; but while the former were united
under one great leader, the latter were divided into many tribes with
many little leaders.  If they, too, would only find some great chief,
under whom all the tribes could unite, how quickly would they wipe out
the hated redcoats and teach the English to respect their rights.
Perhaps as soon as they began to fight for themselves the white-coated
soldiers of France would come again to help them.  At any rate, certain
white men told them this would happen, and they were believed.  If only
they could find a leader!

Gradually, but with convincing proof, it dawned upon the unhappy
Indians that a great leader had arisen among them, and was ready to
deal the decisive blow that should set them free.  To tribe after tribe
and to village after village came messengers bearing broad belts of
wampum and the crimson hatchet of war.  They came in the name of
Pontiac, war chief of the fierce Ottawas, head medicine man of the
powerful Metai, friend of Montcalm, stanch ally of the French during
the recent war, and leader of his people at the battle of the
Monongahela, where stubborn Braddock was slain with his redcoats, and
even the dreaded "long-knives" from Virginia were forced to fly.

Far and wide travelled the messengers of this mighty chieftain, and
everywhere was his war hatchet eagerly accepted.  Far and wide went
Pontiac himself, and wherever his burning words were heard the children
of the forest became crazed with the fever of war.  Finally, the fierce
plan was perfected.  The blow was to be struck at every British post
west of Niagara on the same day.  With the fall of these, the
triumphant forest hordes were to rush against the settlements and visit
upon them the same cruel destruction that had overtaken their own
villages whenever the white man had seen fit to wipe them from his
patch.

While this movement had gained ground until the fatal storm was just
ready to burst, it had been conducted with such secrecy that only one
white man even suspected its existence, and his name was Graham Hester.


CHAPTER VII

THE MAJOR RE-ENTERS ACTIVE SERVICE

On the breaking out of the French war, Major Hester accepted his
friend's invitation to remove his family to Johnson Hall, and make that
his home during the troublous times that would render Tawtry House an
unsafe place of residence.  This he did the more readily on account of
his wife's health, which was so precarious that, while the major was
confident he could defend his forest fortress against any ordinary
attack, he feared lest the excitement of such an affair might prove too
much for the frail woman who was dearer to him than life.

Alas for his precautions!  During the wearisome eastward journey, the
travellers were drenched by a fierce storm of rain and hail that was
followed by a chilling wind.  So furious was the tempest that it was
impossible to wholly protect the invalid from it, and in less than a
week thereafter the noisy bustle of Johnson Hall was silenced for an
hour by her funeral.  So deeply did the rugged soldier feel his loss,
that he vowed he would never again set foot in the house that had been
hers, and that, as soon as he could make provision for his children, he
would seek in battle for the king, that reunion with his loved one that
death alone could grant.

The children thus deprived of a mother's tender care were Donald, now a
sturdy lad of twelve years, and Edith, a dainty little maiden two years
younger.  The former was wise beyond his years in forest lore, which he
had eagerly imbibed from the tuition of that master of woodcraft,
Truman Flagg.  At the same time he was sadly deficient in a knowledge
of books and many other things that go to make up the education of a
gentleman.  Him, therefore, the major decided to send to New York to be
fitted for the college then known as "King's," but afterwards famous
under the name of "Columbia."

Against this decision the lad raised strenuous objections, declaring
that his sole ambition was to become a soldier, and that such a one
could learn to fight without the aid of books.

"True, my son, so he can, after a fashion," replied the major, gravely.
"But, in the art of war, as in every other art, all our teachings come
from those who have preceded us, and the most important of these are
recorded in the books they have left for our consideration.  Again, as
the soldier of to-day is the modern representative of the chivalrous
knight of olden time, he must needs be a gentleman, and an uneducated
gentleman would be as sorry a spectacle as an unarmed soldier in
battle.  So, my dear boy, accept thy fate kindly and make a soldier's
fight against the enemy named ignorance.  Upon the day of thy
graduation from King's College, if my influence can compass it, which I
doubt not it can, a commission in one of His Majesty's American
regiments shall await thy acceptance.  I shall send our little lass
with thee, and both she and thyself will be entertained in the
household of Madam Rothsay, the widow of a dear friend of mine, who has
agreed to receive you and fulfil, so far as may be, a mother's duty
toward my motherless children."

The major escorted his children as far as Albany, where he embarked
them, together with the Scotch nurse who had cared for both of them
from their birth, on board a packet-sloop that should carry them to
their new house.  Having thus made provision for the welfare of his
dear ones, the lonely man proceeded to fulfil the destiny he had
planned by joining as a volunteer aid the army which, under General
Johnson, was charged with the capture of Crown Point on Lake Champlain.
In this campaign it was largely owing to Major Hester's soldierly
knowledge and tactical skill that the French army, under Baron Dieskau,
which had advanced as far as the southern end of Lake George, was
defeated.  For this victory Sir William Johnson was raised to a
baronetcy and presented with a purse of five thousand pounds.

Through the war Major Hester fought with one army or another, always in
the forefront of battle, as he was a leader in council; but never
finding the boon of death which he craved.  At length he stood with
Wolfe on the lofty Plain of Abraham, and in the fall of Quebec
witnessed the fatal blow to French power in America.  In all this time
he had never returned to the forest house that he had last looked upon
in company with his beloved wife.  Whether his resolution not to visit
it would have lived to the end can never be known, for in the second
year of the war a marauding party from an army, which, under Montcalm,
had just captured and destroyed Oswego, reached Tawtry House and burned
it to the ground.

After the surrender of Canada, Major Hester visited his children in New
York City.  Here he found his boy, grown almost beyond recognition,
domiciled in the new King's College building, then just completed, and
doing well in his studies, but keenly regretting that the war was ended
without his participation.  The white-haired soldier also found his
daughter, Edith, now fifteen years of age, budding into a beautiful
womanhood, and bearing so strong a resemblance to her mother that he
gazed at her with mixed emotions of pain and delight.

During his stay in the city, the major was frequently consulted upon
military affairs by the English commander-in-chief, Sir Jeffry Amherst,
who finally begged him to accompany the expedition which he was about
to send into the far west, under the redoubtable Colonel Rogers, of
ranger fame, to receive the surrender of the more distant French posts.

"Rogers is impetuous, and needs a man of your experience to serve as a
balance-wheel," said Sir Jeffry.  "Besides, I want some one of your
ability and knowledge of Indian affairs to take command of Detroit, the
principal settlement and most important trading-post in the west.  So,
Hester, if you will accept this duty, you will not only be serving the
king, but doing me a great personal favor as well."

Willing to continue for a while longer in active service, and having no
other plan, Major Hester accepted Sir Jeffry's offer, and set forth on
his long journey, joining Rogers at Fort Niagara, where, with the aid
of cranes and ox-teams, the rangers were laboriously transporting their
heavy whale-boats over the steep portage around the great cataract.

At length the little flotilla was again launched, and as it skirted the
southern shore of Lake Erie, its every movement was watched by the keen
eyes of Indian scouts, concealed in dense forest coverts, and reported
in detail to the chief of that country; for never before had a body of
British troops ventured so far into the interior.  Finally, in one of
their camps the rangers were visited by an imposing array of Indian
sachems, headed by the great chief himself, who demanded the reason of
their presence in his country.

When Rogers, in reply, had stated the nature of his business, the chief
began a speech, in which he forbade the further advance of the English.
Suddenly his eye rested upon Major Hester, who had just left his tent
to attend the council.  The speech of the Indian came to an abrupt
pause, and gazing fixedly at the white-haired officer, he inquired if
he were not the chief who dwelt in the great house of the two trees in
the land of the Senecas.

"I did dwell there," replied the major, greatly surprised at the
question.

"Does my brother of the two-tree house wish to journey through the
country of the Ottawas?" demanded the chieftain.

"Certainly, I do," was the reply.

"For peace or for war?" queried the savage, laconically.

"For peace," answered Major Hester.  "The war is ended, and we do but
journey to take peaceable possession of those forts which the French
have given over to the English."

"Ugh!  It is good!  Let my white brother travel in peace, for Pontiac
knows that his tongue is straight, and that what he says must be true
words."

With this the haughty chieftain, followed by his savage retinue, left
the camp, and not another Indian was seen until Detroit was reached,
though, as was afterwards learned, a strong body of Pontiac's warriors
had awaited them at the mouth of the Detroit river, and were only
restrained from attacking the flotilla by their leader's express
command.

Neither Major Hester nor Colonel Rogers knew what to make of this
curious behavior on the part of the powerful Indian who had evidently
been determined to oppose their progress.  The former could not recall
ever having seen him or held intercourse with him, though, after he
assumed command of Fort Detroit, Pontiac paid him frequent visits, and
always evinced a strong friendship for the honest soldier, who
invariably treated him and his people with consideration and fairness.
Frequently, too, Pontiac complained to the major of the outrages
perpetrated by other English commanders, their brutal soldiers, and the
horde of reckless traders who swarmed through the country.  He declared
that if they were continued, the Indians would rise against their
oppressors and sweep them from the face of the earth.

Fully appreciating the state of affairs, but powerless to alter it for
the better, save in his own jurisdiction, Major Hester appealed to Sir
William Johnson, begging him to visit the western country and use his
powerful influence to quiet the growing discontent.  This Sir William
did with great pomp and ceremony in 1761, finding himself just in time
to quell, by lavish presents and still more lavish promises, a general
uprising of the Algonquin tribes.  The peaceful relations thus
established lasted but a short time, however, and within a year the
aggressions of the whites had become more pronounced, and the situation
of the Indians more desperate than ever.  Pontiac had disappeared from
the vicinity of Detroit, and for many months Major Hester had not seen
him.  At the same time he was well informed of the cruelties practised
upon the natives, and foresaw that they could not much longer be
restrained from retaliating in their own bloody fashion.  Being
unwilling to fight on the side of injustice and oppression, he at
length prayed Sir Jeffry Amherst to relieve him from his command.  This
request was granted, and late in 1762 he was succeeded by Major
Gladwyn, an officer with a brave record as a fighter and unhampered by
any troublesome consideration of the rights or wrongs of Indians.
Although thus relieved of his command, certain duties arose to detain
Major Hester for several months at Detroit; and the momentous spring of
1763 found him still an inmate of that frontier post.


CHAPTER VIII

DONALD SETS FORTH ON A PERILOUS MISSION

No rising sun ever witnessed a fairer scene than that presented by the
little wilderness settlement of Detroit on the sixth of May, 1763.  All
nature was rejoicing in the advent of spring and donning its livery of
green.  The broad river, flowing southward with a mighty volume of
water from four inland seas of which it formed the sole outlet, was
lined as far as the eye could reach with the white houses and fertile
fields of French farmers.  From these, spirals of blue smoke curled
peacefully, and the voices of cattle answered each other in morning
greetings.  A darker mass of buildings on the western bank denoted the
palisaded village in which dwelt the British garrison, their wives and
children, and some fifty fur traders, with their Canadian employees.
The houses within the palisades, about one hundred in number, were
mostly low, wooden structures, roofed with bark or thatch.  The village
was square in form, and while one side opened on the river, the other
three were enclosed by wooden walls, twenty-five feet in height, with
log bastions at the corners, and a blockhouse over each of the three
gateways.  Several pieces of light artillery were mounted on the
bastions, and anchored in the river lay the armed schooners _Beaver_
and _Gladwyn_.  At some distance from the fort, both up and down the
river, rose the smoke of populous Indian villages, for all the natives
of that section were in from their winter hunting, and gathered at this
point for trade.  Over the placid waters light canoes occasionally
darted from bank to bank.  A boat brigade, bound for the far north, was
just starting from the fort, and the Canadian voyageurs, gay with
fringes, beads, and crimson sashes, caused the morning air to ring with
a tuneful chorus as boat after boat shot away and stemmed the current
with lusty oars.

Not far from the point of this noisy embarkation was another, though
much less ostentatious scene of departure and leave-taking.  In the
stern of a birch canoe, paddle in hand and evidently impatient to be
off, sat one of Rogers' buckskin-clad rangers, who was about to revisit
his distant New Hampshire home, for the first time in three years.
Near by, on the strand, stood two men, both tall and possessed of a
military bearing.  One, who wore the undress uniform of an officer, was
elderly and white-haired, while the other, slender, and clad much as
was the ranger in the canoe, was in the first flush of splendid young
manhood.  As these two stood hand in hand, the younger said: "Can I not
persuade you, father, even at this last moment, to change your mind and
accompany us?  Poor Edith will be so dreadfully disappointed."

"I fear she will, Donald," returned Major Hester, with a sad smile,
"but as this life is mainly composed of disappointments, the sooner she
learns to bear them with composure, the better.  I had indeed looked
forward to taking this journey with you, to clasping my dear girl in my
arms once more, and ere the year was ended to rebuilding Tawtry House,
in which to establish her as mistress.  With the war ended, I fondly
hoped that a certain degree of happiness were still possible to me, and
looked forward to securing it by some such means as I have just
outlined."

"And is it not, father?" broke in the youth, eagerly.  "Surely you have
done far more than your duty here, and--"

"No man has done that, Donald, so long as there remains an unperformed
task for which he is fitted," interrupted Major Hester, gravely.  "So
long as I believe a crisis in Indian affairs to be imminent, and that
by remaining here I may be able to avert it, at least until the
reinforcements which it is now yours to hasten can arrive, it is
clearly my duty to stay.  So off with you, lad.  Don't run any risks
that can just as well be avoided, and don't try to avoid any that, if
successfully taken, will serve to speed your errand.  Farewell, my son.
May God bless you and keep you and bring your enterprise to a happy
termination."

After the canoe had departed, Major Hester ascended one of the water
bastions, where he watched it until it became a tiny speck, and finally
vanished behind the projecting land then known as Montreal point.

Donald Hester had striven so manfully with his studies that he was
finally graduated from King's College, well toward the head of his
class, during the previous summer.  Thereupon he had been rewarded with
his heart's desire, an ensign's commission in the Royal Americans.  To
the new and fascinating duties of his chosen profession he at once
devoted himself with such ardor as to draw favorable comment from his
superiors.  After serving at several posts he had, to his great
delight, been transferred to Detroit, where the soldier father and
soldier son, each more than proud of the other, were joyfully reunited
after their years of separation.  Here, too, he renewed his boyhood's
intimacy with forest life, and eagerly resumed his long-neglected
studies in wilderness lore, and woodcraft.

Although Donald was generally liked by his brother officers, he had no
taste for the dissipations with which they sought to relieve the
monotony of their lives.  - Pass it immediately and not return you to
do that. An instant later appeared in the office of the peasant's
face frightened Barragán. The first thing he did was say hello before
closing the door carefully. Then running round looks grim and delivered
a series of faces to which most heinous and shocking, advanced cautiously
toward Tristan and put a hand on his shoulder. Despite the absolute
conviction that it was his honesty could not be less than back a step,
showing signs of shock. - You will forgive me, Tristanito that bothered
him for a moment. I have to talk about some serious things. Barragán
was the man with the diminutives. - I am at your service, friend
Barragán - Tristan responded fully insured ...-- But you sit down.
Barragán sat beside her and Tristan. He returned to ride a wild look
by smiling and stay fierce as fineness asked: - How are you, Tristanito?
Good, huh? And Clarita? And the boy? I'm glad I welcome very much.
Once aware of the health of all the peasant thought Tristan would
explain the serious matter that brought him there.

But it was not. The only thing I did was look for a long time treated as
if fixed to inquire whether he was in good health or is it hidden
some secret ailment. - So, well, Tristanito? Well really, eh?
Tristan a little impatient assured him that nothing will hurt. But that
seems to dispel these doubts revived more alive on the health of Clara.
There was also need to assure that the young mother had never
been more vigorous. And the child? How still the poor? Immediately the
countryman began to speak about the weather and geographical comparisons
between Spain and Guatemala, and giving a break to Mexico and later
spoke of the gauchos and the wild cows and diligences where travelers
iban equipped with all weapons and the attacks of bandits, and so on.

At last, after a long time to wander through those distant countries arose
from his chair and was ready to leave. I did not want to upset, no
doubt would go to eat ... asombrado Tristan also lifted the seat and
accompanied him to the door of the office, but once there could not tell:
- Have you forgotten that you had to speak a certain issue? Barragán
was a little pale, as if he had applied in the kidneys a strong
electric current, agitated and began to convulse tumble by Tristan
stay while you contemplate the biggest barrier of stupefaction.

After standing in front of him he said: - Sit down you Tristanito, you
sit ... I will tell ... but I can not feel me ... I can not,
I'm upset, completely upset. - Do you want a cup of lime - Tristan
asked, smiling inwardly to provide a lime that monster. - No, sir,
thank you very much and only ask to let me be stand and give a few ...
strolls - Stroll As you wish, friend Barragán - Tristan replied
watching him with curiosity. But with his astonishment, instead
of this option the countryman dropped like a lead on the couch, took
the handkerchief and took it to the forehead soaked with sweat. - It
is so sad! It's so sad! - Muttered with depression. - Have you any
displeasure, right? Oh! life is a string that is not composed of other
links - said Tristan philosophical sympathy with concealing a positive
indifference. - Yes, a big annoyance ...

But even more sorry that you have.

Tristan gave a jump in the seat despite his resignation metaphysics.
- How?

How? What is it? What I'm feeling disgust - It is a disgrace, a
disgrace! - Muttered Barragán yet more gloom. - What misfortune is
this? What has happened - the young man uttered in the height of
anticipation. Barragán, who seemed more inclined to lament that the
vague confidences repeated each time with more emphasis desolate:
- How sad! How sad! - But let's see ...

Speak you! - Uttered by the young man shook his shoulder exasperated. -
Slow down you Tristanito! We advise you to be calm in these circumstances.
There is less advice than the soothing calm. Tristan, and outside
it, began kicking with fury, while releasing a series of forceful
interjections well. - Do you want to talk or not?

Damn my luck! - Here I go ...

You know, Tristanito, which I do not like pasearme the streets and
many days to ride horses and I leave for the suburbs. - Yeah, yeah,
I know.

Go!

- And usually where I eat pilla ... perhaps at any tavern ...

I think that this does not offend anyone and that you will not
despise me, do you, sir Aldama - neither more nor less.

Go! - It went up this afternoon and return Vallecas went into a tavern
the road, and as he was hungry, I sent Frier cook me some eggs and
a ratatouille.

How admirable is the way tracks aunt Bibiana Puente de Vallecas.

Do not stop if you try it some day ... up there - I try ...!

Go! - Well as I say, I was eating, just not at the tavern, but in a
contiguous piececita which tend to serve the parishioners who want to
be alone. This room has a window to the road, and she saw a car
stopped in front of the point bar and lowered his painter friend
that you ... - Núñez - Yes, sir.

He entered the tavern and saw that you asked for a glass of water to a
lady who was in the car. The girl's aunt wanted to leave Bibiana to
serve them, but do not consented and he went to take it. I had
noticed through the curtains to the lady who tried to hide retreat
toward the carriage, and this aroused my curiosity a bit. So with
a moose dissimulation if the curtain is not, apply the eye, and
when the lady was inclined to take the glass of water I was scared
that he was watching Elenita. - What?

What are you saying? My sister Elena - Same, Tristanito the same. -
No puede ser!

- I say that I have seen so well as I am watching you now. - And you
could not have been wrong? What would a woman like - I repeat that I
am sure of that.

And you will be charged the disgustillo to be had. To say that I
could not try another bite says it all.

There was the aunt Bibiana track without being touched. I want a German
as if my brother and I tell you in all conscience, Tristanito, would
have preferred losing four thousand pesetas to know what I know. I
came home and I could not stop there. Two hours walking around and
around on the streets and so many things I thought my head like a
volcano ...

It was only looking to ascertain the truth.

His eyes looked like bloody lava lit: the mouth a black, awful
crater.

Tristán was thoughtful a moment and then puts a hand on his shoulder
asked, - You said a word of this to someone?

- The first person I'm talking about you since the incident. - Well,
ask him, ask him for the interest of the whole family that you keep
complete silence about what he has seen ... cree or seeing. - I
keep, Tristanito, keep it. - I think what has been done.

But in the meantime, I repeat, Quiet, very quiet! Is then made to
walk on the stay without saying a word, as if Barragan was not
there.

Realized that this was hampered and fired, announcing again, rather
than words by signs of desperation, that if there were men in the
world that resembles a tomb that man was him, the countryman
Barragán.

When Tristan was just continued walking absorbed in deep meditation.
And thinking, thinking, was that the few minutes gained the
conviction that Barragán had seen visions.

Was nothing unusual. As man was so little accustomed to live among women
or even among civilized people, just like any face or _toilette_
for the unhappy confusion.

Neither the character of Elena or less similar to Nunez fell ruindad.
Moreover, if they were lovers was not likely to commit the
imprudence of foot displayed by car near Madrid.

The poor Barragán ... So quiet, with a smile on his lips went to the
dining room, where he was waiting Clara. Could not resist the temptation
and gave this account of the conversation that had just taken with
countryman jokingly and making humorous comments as well who is
sure what the issue nonsensical. Clara became pale, then red as a grill,
and quit eating for now showing signs of deep depression. Tristan
expressed surprise and excitement that has sought to calm an
increasingly more peaceful continent.

Rain on the troubled young crowd of thoughts, some serious, others
jocosas. Did not know that Barragan was a wild and primitive man
for whom all the ladies were a lady as her dad for children who are all
gentlemen in the street? So much for the material explanation of the
event. With regard to morality had no reason to doubt the
loyalty of Helena, whose innocent and loving it better than anyone could
know. And by well of Núñez could be assured that he was unable to
miss the laws of chivalry.

Gustavo was a mocking mood, he liked to go through original and
skeptical, but in the end it was the honor and rectitude personified.
Clara lifted it to look where I read a wonder. And it really was amazing
that the man who only fear the whole world had complete confidence in
Nunez. Otherwise he was a brother and was interested in both German
and his honor to herself. It was assumed that if you offend the kind
that Barragán had no semblance of merit and not be seriously upset
yield immediate remedy. This last point a little shocked to Clara,
if not completely reassured. Tristan got up from the table, lit a cigar,
when he played with the child and hit the streets in the same attitude
every night. But at the bottom of his soul, but I would not confess
it had a slight concern, something that Scotland.

This was the itching that forced him to guide his steps in time to Ateneo
Coffee Fornos. A famous art critic was giving lectures at the center
of the painter Velázquez. He played the second night, and
although he had not attended the first because for some time interested
him more grace coffee and murmurings that aesthetic disquisitions, I
knew perfectly well that Nunez would not fail to be there and wanted
to see you all costs. Indeed, a few steps that gave the spacious crowded
corridor where the partners pending the notification of the conference
saw his friend in the middle of a group of artists, making them laugh
and surprising as ever with its paradoxes.

Tristan went to this group, and third in the conversation as it was
possible was arranged to get there and take Gustavo to a corner where
there were two rocking chairs. They sat facing one another. They spoke
a few moments of indifferent matters.

Suddenly Tristan affecting an ironic chuckle - do not know, Gustavo,
where you have seen today - certainly in no place was not - said the
painter with his usual displicencia. - Have you been in a tavern
Vallecas Bridge - Tristan replied without giving a smile, but
watching him with intense attention to the face.

Neither one fold it down, nor the slightest change in their color, or
a burst of surprise eyes . Only in the hands had a mild tremor that did
not receive Tristan. - Have you been yourself?

-No; Barragán is the one that has been seen haberte and seeks nothing
less than serve a glass of water to my sister Helen who had stopped in
the car. Nothing, not an imperceptible sign of confusion or surprise.
The most comprehensive, the most absolute confidence. There was a
pause. Nunez gave a lengthy chupetón the cigar, shook the ashes with the
little finger. - Barragán smelled or seen your sister in law -
after he asked with affected indifference. - Seeing says when tilted
to make the glass - Tristan replied without losing. - Oh!

then there is no care. The foolproof way for men as Barragán is the
smell ...

At least say that all travelers and naturalists. - Of course I thought
it was a very understandable mistake in who has not attended all her
life more than the company gauchos ... After these words of sad to think
that his friend would say if he had once or not at the tavern, and if
so give an explanation. But it was not.

Nunez took a more icy than usual and even started swinging gently sucking
on and off the cigar and staring at the ceiling. While not believe in
nothing less than an adventure, to Tristan irritated him a little so
displicencia. Pretending, however, happy to strip said after putting
a hand on his knee: - Let's see, who was the mystery, Gustavo -
What do you care?

- A duchess? - It is a only time - said the painter can not suppress the
laughter. - No need more! The Trini!

- Tristan exclaimed, laughing as well, then added the voice down -:
Indeed ... blonde with black eyes ... is not a strange
mistake. - Do not say nonsense, Tristan! If you hear your sister you
rip your eyes. ¡Confuse a madonna by Raphael, a statue of Praxiteles
with that pitcher of girl! And by the way, do you paste a lot Clara? -
Yet! - The poet said, laughing. - In fact I have not yet seen his
face swollen ...

But do not neglect you! Still teasing each other chatting a few
moments when he heard the shouts of the doorman - Conference of Mr.
Jiménez ... Conference of Mr. Jimenez. - Let's hear Jiménez - Núñez
said rising from the rocking chair. However, Tristan still felt a
vague discomfort in his mind. While moving towards the chair arm caught
his friend said, half seriously, half in jest: - record, dear, that
the gross mistake that has left me completely cold. I have always
regarded as a good person and I have absolute confidence in your
loyalty. - You do wrong - Nunez replied gravely -.

I am a man full of virtues, as everybody knows, but the day that
your sister would make me a sign I am ready to throw all out the
window.

Tristan laughed willingly and the last shadow of doubt is dispelled.
When the conference and went out to the painter runners joined their
friends without leaving Tristan ceremony.

This still wandered a bit from group to group listening to comments. I
wanted to leave, but had seen a run near the door to his old friend
and former teacher Rojas. Since the publication of articles he had
carefully avoided the encounter with him and not pass it was still.
In the wide corridor illuminated resounded increasingly high voices
of the partners. There was laughter, violent discussions, essays
shameful speeches. In a group discussion on pantheism, otherwise the
need to reduce the budget of marine is beyond outrageous adventure
told a while some gentlemen talked about the last encyclical of His
Holiness. - Strange!

¡Curious! ¡Curium-yes-si-mo! In the center of a group thundered
and lightning the illustrious Young. - Because I modestísimos in
my studies I have learned ...

I recognize in you, friend Valleumbroso, psychosis epileptoides
genius ... - Thank you - said the mosquito lyrical blushing -.

Me too ... helps you - nothing, nothing is dry justice. This
instability in their studies, that excessive originality on the
absurd, the exhaustion of you complain that it is often recognized
stigmata of genius ... - Thank you, thank you very much - the
mosquito stammer. - But Mr Valleumbroso does not suffer from seizures,
and I am told the geniuses ...-- timidly said one of the fans
surrounding Young.

That smiled in a manner sufficient so that smile alone is enough to
reduce to ashes all powerful argument it to be. We have to imagine
what would be where the famous Young said, shaking his right arm and
making the foot print of a Levite principle of rotational movement:
- Because the clinic does not apply to Mr Valleumbroso of characters
is well known of convulsibilidad, loss of consciousness, and so on.

But, my friend Rodriguez, another - another!

--.

This way, more or less hidden, more or less gone, beyond the superficial
investigation of the spirits, but not the thoughtful temperament.
Are we, Rodríguez friend? Are we?
After each member of the
council, white as well as red, beginning with Gladwyn, had slowly drawn
a whiff from this mighty calumet, and it came again to Pontiac, he rose
and said:--

"In token of the peace which I desire shall always exist between the
red man and his white brother I now present this pipe to these friends,
that they may keep it forever.  That its message may be heard with open
ears, I deliver it to the care of the oldest among you, to him whose
hair is white with the wisdom of many years."

Thus saying, the chief stepped forward and laid the gorgeous calumet
across the knees of Major Hester, while a grunt of approbation came
from the throats of those behind him.  Gladwyn, who alone of the
assembled whites knew the meaning of this act, cast a startled and
suspicious glance at the veteran soldier thus singled out for some
other fate than death, while the recipient himself was noticeably
embarrassed by the incident.

But the attention of all was immediately occupied by other things.
Holding a splendid belt of wampum in his hands, Pontiac was now
addressing Gladwyn with the eloquence for which he was so justly famed.
He recounted the many outrages suffered by his people at the hands of
the English, and especially their fur traders.  Against these he
demanded protection.  He spoke for nearly an hour, during which time
his every gesture was keenly watched by the English officers, who
feared that in spite of their precautions he might still attempt some
desperate move.

Pontiac was in a dilemma.  It was customary at the close of a speech to
present the belt of wampum, which the speaker always held, to him who
was expected to reply.  To omit this formality would be equivalent to a
declaration of war.  It had been understood that his followers were to
fall upon the English officers the moment he should make this
presentation, and there had been no opportunity to alter this
prearranged programme.  So the great chief hesitated, held out the
fatal belt, and then made a motion as though to withdraw it.  Gladwyn
extended his hand.  As he did so, there came a rattling clash of arms
from a passageway at the lower end of the hall and a deafening din of
drums.

Pontiac started, dropped the belt of wampum, thrust a hand within his
blanket, as though to draw a weapon, reconsidered, folded his arms, and
stood motionless.  In an instant all was again silent, and Gladwyn rose
to address the council as though nothing out of the ordinary had
happened.

He told the Indians that he would consider their grievances, and would
do all that lay in his power to afford them protection, so long as they
deserved it.  At the same time he threatened them with a terrible
punishment should they undertake to remedy their wrongs by any act of
aggression against the whites.  Then he dismissed the council, and the
crestfallen warriors were allowed to leave the fort.  Before departing,
Pontiac notified the English commander that he should come again in a
few days for another talk; but Gladwyn only turned contemptuously away,
without deigning a reply.

Two days later the common behind the fort was again thronged with
Indians, representing four tribes, and from out the throng Pontiac
again approached the gate.  It was barred against him, and when he
demanded admittance, Gladwyn himself replied, ordering him to begone,
as neither he nor his rabble would again be received.

Furious with rage, the chief strode away, and ordered his warriors to
withdraw beyond gunshot, but to see that no Englishman was allowed to
leave the fort.  Then launching a canoe he crossed the river to his own
village, which he ordered to be removed to the western bank.

While he was thus occupied, his infuriated followers were engaged in
the murder and scalping of two English families who dwelt beyond reach
of the fort.  That night the inmates of Detroit, armed and sleepless,
listened with heavy hearts to the doleful sounds of the scalp dance,
mingled with the exulting yells of the war dance, and while prepared to
sell their lives as dearly as possible, wondered how long their frail
defences would withstand the fierce onset which they momentarily
expected would be made against them.

Daylight found many of them, exhausted by the night's vigil, dozing at
their posts.  Suddenly the blood-curdling war-whoop arose from all
sides at once, a rattling volley of rifle-shots pattered against the
palisades, and a swarm of yelling, naked figures leaped from the
surrounding obscurity.  It seemed as though the impetuous assault must
succeed from mere force of numbers, for the Indians were counted by
hundreds, while the whites were but a handful.


CHAPTER XI

MAJOR HESTER IS TAKEN PRISONER

In spite of the apparent fury of the attack, and the expectation of the
garrison that a fierce assault was about to be made on their slender
defences, nothing of the kind was contemplated by the Indians.  They
were not trained to that form of warfare, and when they found that
Gladwyn was not frightened into a surrender by noise and an exhibition
of force, they contented themselves with maintaining a vigorous fire
from behind barns, fences, bushes, slight ridges of earth, or any
object of sufficient size to shelter them from the steady return fire
of the soldiers.  One cluster of buildings, within half-gunshot of the
fort, sheltered a large body of Indians, who from this point of vantage
directed a particularly galling fire at the loop-holes in the
palisades.  By it several of the defenders were wounded, until finally
a cannon was brought to bear upon the hornet's nest, and a quantity of
red-hot spikes were thrust into its muzzle.  A minute after its
discharge flames burst from the buildings, and the savages who had
occupied them were in precipitate flight, followed by jeering shouts
and a parting volley from the soldiers.

For six hours was this travesty of battle maintained.  Then the Indian
fire slackened, and finally ceased altogether.  Believing the affair to
be merely a temporary outbreak of a few hot-headed savages, that must
quickly blow over, Gladwyn took advantage of this lull in the storm to
send out two Canadians under a flag of truce to investigate the cause
of dissatisfaction.  At the same time he proposed, while negotiations
were in progress, to secure a supply of provisions with which to stand
a siege.

A gate being opened for the departure of the ambassadors, most of the
Canadian inhabitants of the fort seized the opportunity to leave it,
saying that they could not bear to remain and witness the approaching
slaughter of their English friends.

In a short time Gladwyn's messengers returned, saying that Pontiac was
willing to arrange terms, but would only do so with Major Hester, and
had expressed a strong desire for a visit from that officer.

"Go back and tell him I will see him and his whole cowardly crew
hanged, before I will intrust the life of a single Englishman to his
treachery!" exclaimed the commander, angrily.

"Hold, Gladwyn!" protested Major Hester.  "It is better that one life
should be risked than that all should be endangered.  Nor do I think I
should be in any serious peril.  I have always got along with the
redskins, and have thus far found Pontiac reasonable."

"I forgot.  He did present the calumet to you," replied the other, with
a meaning intonation.

"Do you dare insinuate--?" began Major Hester, with a dangerous glitter
in his eye.

"No, Hester.  No, I do not.  I am ashamed of myself and humbly
apologize!" cried Gladwyn.  "If you insist upon placing yourself within
the power of yonder savages, I shall know that you do so from the
loftiest sense of duty, with a full knowledge that you jeopardize your
life, and with a courage that I fear I for one could not exhibit."

"Thank you, Gladwyn.  That was said manfully and like a true soldier.
I shall accept this mission because it is plainly in the line of my
duty to do so.  If I never return from it, I charge you to carry a
father's blessing to my children."

The fine old soldier, in full uniform, was accompanied to the gateway
by all the officers of the post.  There every one shook hands with him,
bidding him at once God-speed and farewell, while the soldiers lined
the ramparts, and as he emerged from the gates saluted him with a
rousing British cheer.

The major was escorted by the two aged Canadians who had been sent out
in the first place, and the little party had not covered more than half
the ground between the fort and Parent's creek, beyond which lay the
Ottawa village, ere they were met by another Canadian running and
breathless.  He implored them to turn back, saying that he had just
been through the Indian village and was convinced by what he saw and
heard that no Englishman could set foot within its limits and live.
But Major Hester steadfastly refused to retreat, and insisted on
fulfilling his mission.

At length they crossed the creek, mounted the ridge beyond, and saw
outspread on its further slope the most extensive Indian village ever
known to that region.  The moment the hated English uniform was seen by
the inmates of the many lodges, they swarmed about the ambassadors by
hundreds, the men with scowling brows, the squaws and children
snatching up sticks, stones, and clubs as they ran.  For a moment the
stout heart of the old soldier quailed, for he imagined he was to be
subjected to the terrible ordeal of the gantlet.

(But this noisy full essence violated both himself as well as Eugene. He
believes, and he travels with loving Ernst continued:) No, kidding
aside, my dear boy! in a happy marriage like ours is the return of
the woman in her house something very sacred. (March Banks sees him
rapidly, and almost guesses in advance what he wants to say.) But
a dear friend, a truly noble, sympathetic soul is not one such
occasion in the way - the only visitors it would be best, however.
(The hurried, frightened expression comes suddenly and vividly in Eugene
face, and he understands.

Morell, with its own busy thoughts, then, without it, continued:)
Candida thought I would perhaps prefer not to have here, but they
was wrong. I have very fond, Eugen, and I want it for them that you can
see how beautiful it is, so happy to be married as I do. (Marchbanks.)
Happy? Their marriage? This is what you really believe you? (Morell
Fair:) I know it, my boy. Laroche-Foucauld claims that there is a
maximum matching, but no marriages were happy. You can not imagine
how well it does, such a liar and corrupt abgefeimten cynic to
understand! Ha, ha!

But now continue into the park and write your poem! and do not forget:
Dot clock half past one! We never wait for the food to someone.
(March Banks wild:) No, hold that they should also not!
After the tedious ceremony of smoking the peace pipe was concluded,
Pontiac delivered a short address of welcome, to which the major
responded.  He demanded to know the cause of the morning's outbreak,
and assured the Indians that their just grievances should be remedied,
provided they gave up for punishment all who had been implicated in the
murders of the previous day.

The major resumed his seat upon the conclusion of his remarks, amid a
profound silence that lasted for many minutes.  Finally, determined to
learn the worst without further delay, he again rose and said, that
having no answer to his questions, he would now return to the fort and
report to the white chief that his red brothers desired not peace, but
war.

Upon this Pontiac signed to him to resume his seat, and turning to the
two Canadians, said:--

"Go to the fort and tell Major Gladwyn that the white-haired chief will
sleep among the lodges of his red brothers.  Tell him that the hatchet
dug up this day will not be buried so long as an Englishman remains in
the land of the Algonquins.  Tell him that every fort from the Thunder
of Waters to the Great River has this day been cut off, so that no aid
may come to him.  Tell him that the soldiers of the French king are
already hastening to fight beside their red brothers.  Tell him that he
may go now and go in peace; but if he tarries beyond the setting of
another sun, the wolves of the forest shall feast on the bodies of his
red-coated soldiers, while their scalps shall dry in Ottawa lodges.
Go, for Pontiac has spoken."

With trembling alacrity the Canadians obeyed the mandate, and with
their departure Major Hester realized that he was indeed a prisoner in
the hands of a relentless foe.  While wondering as to his ultimate
fate, he was conducted by Pontiac to a comfortable French frame-house
standing just beyond the Indian village, and informed that this was to
be his lodging.

"Here," said Pontiac, "shall my brother dwell in safety; but let him
not set foot outside.  My young men are angry, and their guns are quick
to shoot.  Even in the dark their eyes are opened wide by the sight of
an English scalp."

"I suppose that as your prisoner I must submit to your orders," replied
Major Hester, "though why you don't put an end to this farce and kill
me at once I fail to comprehend."

"Did the white-haired chief kill me when I slept in the house of the
two trees?" demanded Pontiac.

"When did you ever sleep in Tawtry House?  Certainly you never did with
my knowledge and consent."

"Many years have passed, and there has been much fighting since that
time; but surely my brother has not forgotten Songa the Ottawa?"

"No.  I remember him well; but what has he to do with this present
affair?"

"I," replied the chief, drawing himself proudly up to his full height,
"am Pontiac; but I was Songa; and as Major Hester saved the life of
Songa, so Pontiac saves the life of Major Hester, by detaining him in
this place while the English fort is wiped from the face of the earth
and all within it are put to death."


CHAPTER XII

DONALD AT JOHNSON CASTLE

Some two weeks after the events just narrated, a youth, tanned to the
swarthiness of an Indian, whose hair was long and unkempt, and whose
well-worn suit of buckskin evidenced hard and prolonged travel, paced
impatiently to and fro in the anteroom of Sir William's private office
at Johnson Castle.  Although his moccasined feet made no sound on the
uncarpeted floor, his movements seemed to annoy the elder of two
officers who, in handsome uniforms, occupied a window-seat at one side
of the room, and were evidently waiting for somebody or something as
patiently as their natures would permit.

"Confound the fellow!" he exclaimed.  "Why can't he sit still and
possess his soul in patience, like the rest of us, instead of tramping
up and down like the wild beast he looks?"

"He doesn't make much noise about it," laughed the other.

"No, hang him!  I wish he did.  That cat-like tread of his is
unendurable."

"He looks anxious, and doubtless has urgent business with Sir William
that suffers from delay."

"Nonsense, Christie! you are too good natured.  His business probably
concerns payment for some game he has brought in for sale; for I take
it he is one of these American hunters we have heard so much of lately.
Whatever it is, it certainly can't compare in urgency with ours, and
yet we have sat here like lambs for nearly an hour, while he has waited
barely half that time.  By the great horn spoon!  If his serene
highness does not admit us to his presence in a few minutes more, I
shall beard him in his den, and demand audience in the name of the
king.  It is simply maddening to think of Cuyler carrying the Rothsay
party farther and farther away with each minute, and having the beauty
all to himself.  Of course you don't care, since it was decided that
they travel by the north shore of the lake, while, as I understand it,
your beastly post lies somewhere on the south shore.  With me, though,
it is different.  My destination being the same as hers, I naturally
expected to be her travelling companion and enjoy a fair share of her
charming society.  Now what, with dancing attendance for a week on Sir
Jeffry, and this abominable delay, I fear my chances of overtaking the
expedition are very slim.  By the way, I heard somewhere that the
little Rothsay's name is not Rothsay, after all.  Do you know if that
is true, and if so, what her name really is?"

"I believe it is Hester,--Edith Hester," answered the young officer,
who was addressed as Christie.

"I wonder how you always manage to find out such things?" remarked the
other, reflectively.  "By Jove!" he added, "Hester is the name of that
major duffer whose message to Sir Jeffry caused my delay; I wonder if
they can be relations?"

"_Cave.  Rustico aliquid subolet_," warned Christie, with a significant
glance toward the third occupant of the room, who had paused in his
restless walk and was regarding them intently.

Before the elder man could reply, he stepped, to where they were
sitting and said quietly to the young officer who had just spoken:--

"Pardon my presumption in thus addressing a stranger, sir, but I feel
it my duty to remind you that the word _rusticus_ may receive several
interpretations.  In one sense, it cannot be exchanged between
gentlemen without creating ill feelings.  Its use by Terence--"

Ere the sentence could be completed, and while the bewildered officers
were gazing at this backwoods expounder of the classics much as they
might have regarded an apparition, a door was flung open, and Sir
William Johnson appeared with an anxious expression on his ruddy and
usually jolly face.

"Ah, general," exclaimed the officer who had just declared his
intention of bearding the general in his den, "we had begun to think--"

"Glad you had, sir!  Glad you had!  Pray keep it up for a few minutes
longer while I confer with this gentleman.  His business is of such a
nature as to take precedence of all other.  Hester, my dear fellow,
step this way."

"Rather a go! eh, Bullen?" remarked Ensign Christie, as the two men
stared blankly at the door just closed in their faces.

"Well! By Jove!" gasped the other.  "If His Majesty's officers were
never snubbed before, two of them have been given a jolly big dose of
it this time.  All on account of that leather-jerkined young savage,
too.  I swear I'll have my man insult him and give him a thrashing at
the first opportunity."

"You seem to forget," suggested Christie, gravely, "that your 'young
savage' was discoursing most learnedly upon the idiosyncrasies of the
Latin tongue when Sir William interrupted and called him 'my dear
fellow.'"

"By Jove! you are right!" cried Bullen.  "Possibly he is a gentleman in
disguise,--best disguise I ever saw,--and in that case I can call him
out.  You'll act for me, old man, of course?"

"Certainly," laughed Christie; "but you lose sight of the fact that, as
the challenged party, he will have the choice of weapons.  Suppose he
should select hunting-rifles at one hundred paces?"

"Horrible!" exclaimed Bullen.  "I say, though, he couldn't do that and
be a gentleman at the same time.  Oh dear, no!  Unless he names swords
or pistols,--the only gentlemanly weapons,--I shall be compelled to
withdraw in favor of Tummas."

"There is another point to be considered," continued Christie, who,
tall, handsome, and easy-going, delighted in chaffing his pompous and
peppery companion, whose abbreviated stature had only gained admittance
to the service through high heels and a powerful influence.  "Did you
notice that Sir William addressed your 'young savage' as Hester?"

"Oh, by Jove!  Yes; now that you mention it," cried the other, with an
accent of despair.  "And you said her name was Hester, too.  The
adorable little Rothsay to whom I had even proposed to propose.  If
this is a sample of her family though!  But, of course, it can't be.
It would be too incredible.  She is an angel; while he--well, he isn't,
and therefore cannot be even a remote connection."

Just here the door was again opened, and Sir William, followed by the
subject of their conversation, re-entered the room.

"Well, general!" began the ever-impatient Bullen.  "I trust you are not
going to detain us here much longer.  It is of the utmost importance
that I should reach Detroit as speedily as possible."

"Ah, yes," replied the general, who knew that Paymaster Bullen had
obtained his present detail solely for the sake of furthering certain
schemes of his own.  "I understand that you are going to investigate
the unaccountable disappearance of a red blanket and a plug of tobacco
from the quartermaster's stores at Detroit."

"Not only that, Sir William, but I am to make a very thorough inquiry
into the unaccounted-for disappearance of a great many red blankets,
and a great many plugs of tobacco, and a great many other things as
well," answered the little paymaster, warmly.

"Very well, sir," replied the general.  "If that is the sole object of
your journey, you need not go beyond this room to acquire all necessary
information.  I can tell you what became of the goods in question, and
who is responsible for their disappearance.  I am indirectly; though my
very dear friend, Major Graham Hester, recently in command at Detroit,
acting by my advice, was the agent through whom they were distributed
in the shape of presents to the warlike western tribes.  By this means,
and through his most excellent judgment in Indian affairs, Major Hester
has succeeded in averting, until now, a bloody war, which has been
imminent at any time during the last three years.  Now, owing to a
parsimony that withholds those few paltry dollars' worth of presents
and the criminal stupidity of some of our newly arrived officers, we
are on the eve of the most serious native outbreak this country has
ever witnessed.  As it is under the leadership of Pontiac, a man who I
honestly believe would be unexcelled among the commanders of the world
had he the advantages of education and environment, it is certain to
prove a very formidable affair."

"Do I understand you, sir, that this outbreak has already taken place?"
demanded Ensign Christie, who had just been assigned to his first
independent command,--that of Presque Isle.

"My private despatches from Major Hester give me every reason for that
belief," was the answer; "though Gladwyn does not mention it.  Ensign
Hester, who brings these despatches, confirms his father's warning.
He, moreover, informs me that the Senecas have joined the conspiracy,
he and his companion having had a narrow escape from a west-bound party
of that tribe.  As it was, the Indians stole their canoe, leaving them
to make their way on foot for over two hundred miles through the forest
to this place.  Thus, too, they missed meeting with Cuyler's command,
which they were charged to warn of the threatened danger."

"May I ask if this is Ensign Hester?" inquired Christie, turning with
an engaging smile toward the leather-clad young stranger.

"Bless my soul!  Yes.  Haven't you met him?  Ensign Christie and
Paymaster Bullen, permit me to present Ensign Donald Hester of the
60th, son of my dear friend the major, and brother of the very
prettiest girl I know.  By the way, lad, I believe I haven't told you
the worst bit of news yet.  It is that your giddy sister has persuaded
Madam Rothsay to take her to Detroit as a delightful surprise for your
father.  They accompany Cuyler's expedition by especial permission of
the general, who of course never doubted that in a time of profound
peace the journey might be made in safety.  Messenger. Scarcely three
hours. Marcius. So, we hear her yelling field, they our .-- Well,
Mars, I beseech thee, make us quick in work, That we with the sword
of steaming Hinnen ziehn, The battle of species to help friends
quickly.

Come , blas your call now. It is blown, the walls appear to Senators
and others. Tullus Aufidius, he is in the city? First Senator. No, but
it keeps the same low And everyone you smaller than the smallest.
Listening to drums (war music from afar.)

From our youth crowd. We break down the walls anyway, as they einhemmten
us. Our gates, To slip closed bars rushes only you can open by itself
is listening,'s sounds far away.

(Kriegsgeschrei.) This is Aufidius. Remembers how he handled there
in gespaltnen Army. Marcius. Ha! You are tuned! Titus. The noise was
our instruction. Ladders her! The Volsker come from the city. Marcius.
You do not barn, no, penetrate from the city.

Shipyard prior to the heart of the plate and fights with heart,
Gestählter than the Shield. On, wackrer Titus, you scoff us far more
than we thought, That makes me sweat with rage.

Fort, Kamraden! If one differs, I think the 'nen Volsker, And let
him feel my steel. Romans and Volsker go from fighting.

The Romans are beaten back. Marcius is coming back. Marcius.

The whole of the South covered plague upon you! Blot Roms her! - Fester
and innumerable dents poisoning you that you have a revulsion, Eh
yet seen, and against winds breath you contagious for miles!

Your goose souls in human form! Before running their slaves, the
apes would beat? Höll and Pluto! Wound backwards, red neck, face pale
from fear and fever frost. U-um! Attacks on! Otherwise, when the
sky Flash!

let me the enemy and fall upon you.

Bethinks because you forward!

Stands, and we beat them to their women, as they followed us to
our hills! A new attack, Volsker and Romans fighting. The Volsker flee
into the city. Marcius pursues. Let the gate, now shows you wackre
helper! For the pursuer's happiness has opened for the non Flüchtgen.
After! and do as I do. (He plunges into the city and the gate is closed
behind him.) First soldier. Tolldreist! I do not - Second soldier.
yet I do. Third soldier. As you see! they have him locked up. All. Now
he goes out, just believe. (Titus Lartius occurs.) Titus. What became
of Marcius? All. dead, sir, certainly. First soldier. Flüchtgen follows
the 'er on the heels And with it after they moment the gates Now
zugesperrt: there he is, all alone, The whole city to defy.
Titus. Edler friend! You know, feeling bolder than your fühllos
sword, permanent, where it bends, you're lost, Marcius ! The purest
diamond, as big as you would not be such a jewel, you were a warrior
after Cato sense, not in terribly wild and brushing only, no, your
view Grimmen And your voice shudders donnergleichem slam your enemy ',
as if the The world trembled fever. Marcius coming back, bleeding
from the enemy pursues. The first soldier. "Look, Lord! Titus. O! there
is Marcius! Let us save him, or fall with him. (All Gefecht. invade
the city.) Fifth Corioli scene in a Roman street with prey come first
Romans. I want to take to Rome. Second Romans. And I feel it. Third
Romans.'s haul the executioner! I thought for the silver. Titus Marcius
and occur with a trumpeter. Marcius.

You see this junk dealer who appreciate the hours after rostgen drachmas.
Pillows, bleierne spoons, tin scrap, Wämser the executioner himself
buried with the corpse, stealing the brood, Eh yet the battle to the end
they settled .-- skin! - Oh, hear the battle commander! Continue to him!
There is fighting, which my soul hates, Aufidius, And kills our Romans.
So, my Titus, take a number of people, the city to keep those with
the courage fired, part I, Cominius beizustehn. Titus. Du blood, noble
friend! The work was too difficult to erneun In a second gear .
Marcius. Lord, I do not boast. This work has hardly made me warm.
Farewell! The blood that I dovetailed, is more dangerous to me as a
pharmaceutical. Before Aufidius as I pedal to the fight. Titus.
Fortunas Holde deity Be now in love with you, their powerful magic
sword Disarm your enemy.

O hero! Your Scarce had the luck! Marcius. Your friend no less, as
those who zuhöchst it is! Farewell! (Geht ab.) Titus. Ruhmwürdger
Marcius!

- Go thou, blas on the square And the trumpet call of the city officials
there together, that they hear our will. Fort! (Ab) Sixth Scene Near
Cominius' camp Cominius and his army in retreat Cominius.

Refreshed you, friends. Well fought! We saw ourselves as the Romans,
not foolhardy stand in bold, yet FEIG in retreat. On my word, its
warriors, will attack again. As we struggled, sounded by the wind
resulted in the spaces between friends battle. O! their gods of
Rome! Does it for the glory and victory, like ourselves, that our armies,
smiling to meet you thankful sacrifice. (A messenger occurs.) Your
message?

messenger. The team of Corioli broke out and fell to Marcius and the
Lartius. I saw our fliehn to the hills, As I continued to hurry.
Cominius. Mich seems, are you speaking true, So say you but not good.
How long ago? Messenger.

More than 'ne hour, Sir. Cominius.' S is no Meil, we still heard
the drums. What - you went for an hour on these miles? And so late
bringest report? Messenger. The Volsker scouts persecuted me, so I
ran a detour of three or four miles; otherwise bekamt your Lord,
before a half hour the message already. (Marcius occurs.) Cominius. But
who is the one that looks like the maltreated? O! their gods! He wears
Marcius of education, and other belongings, I have him so gesehn.
Marcius. Come I too late? Cominius. The shepherd is not so good Shawm
and thunder, as I Marcius' From every voice sound weaker. Marcius. Come
I too late? Cominius. Yes, if you were not dressed in any foreign
blood, in suitable kommst. Marcius. O!

Let me entwine you with kräftgen poor, as a bridegroom, with freudgem
heart, as on the wedding day, when my candles to bed geleuchtet.
Cominius. O! My war hero, how's the Titus Lartius? Marcius. As one who
is busy talking verdict , To the bloody death, to the exile, is the
free, the laments, the other threatening.

Corioli He holds on behalf of Rome Like a caressing wind chimes on a
leash, he moved to the arbitrariness problem.

Cominius. Where is the slave, said they schlügen you back to the camp?
Where is he? Retrieve him. Marcius. No, let him only. The truth, he
said, but the noble Lord, The People's niedre (damn: tribunes for
them!)

, The mouse before the cat is not, as they ran villains ago, worse
than themselves Cominius. But through your drangt? Marcius. Is to Tell
Time? I think not - Where is the enemy? Are you Lord of the field? Where
not what your rest, until your's are? Cominius. O Marcius, we
challenged a loss and moved us back, to the advantage erspähn. Marcius.
What is their army? Do you know which side is the best team? Cominius.
I believe that Marcius, In the front fighting the meeting Antiaten, your
best people; Aufidius leads to the hope of their soul and heart. Marcius.
I pray thee, In every battle, in the united we fought, The united
vergoßnen blood, the oaths, forever faithful to your love make me
grade Antiaten Before the Aufidius and out, And no longer line.

No, the moment Fulfill spear and Schwertgetön the air, And the hour
we rehearse. Cominius.

I wish the same, you would in a mild bath led you up balsamic: but I
never wag something to refuse. Choose yourself for this fight the best.
Marcius. These are just the willing. Is any of this (And sin's all,
to doubt), the makeup Gefällt with which he sees me here gemalt, The
evil reputation more than the fear of death, And beautiful chooses
instead to die poor life, his mother more than herself loves Who
minded as to whether one or many, the swinging hand for me to say
yes to, And follow Marcius.

(All cheer, swinging the swords, crowd around him and lift him up on her
arms.) How? Any one?

Makes it a sword of me? Äußrer If this is not a sham, which of you all
Is not four Volsker worth? Everyone can be a shield against Aufidius
bear, So as hard as his.

A number only, thanks to all I have, I chose: and the other savings I
work for the next battle, as he might offer. Estimates, their friends,
four of my people who like the election, the most like me to follow.
Cominius.

Come, comrades, this shows that you do not prahltet, and ye shall
be equal to us in all his. (All starting from.) Seventh Gate scene
before Corioli Titus Lartius a crew in leaving Corioli back, goes
to Marcius and Cominius with drums and trumpets opposite , it follows a
leader of warriors Titus. the gates probably busy, doing your duty,
as I instructed you's.

Send me, send to help us after the Zenturien, the rest just short
covering. Is the battle lost, so keeping the city but not us. Ringleader.
Traut on us. Titus. Fort! and verschließet the gates behind us.
You know, messenger, come; römsche led us into the camp. (all starting
from.) Eighth War battlefield scene, yelling, and Aufidius Marcius,
Marcius to meet each other. With you I just want to fight! because I
hate you more than perjury. Aufidius. Yes, I hate you. I am not a dragon
Africa Greulich And so toxic as thy fame. Put your foot. Marcius.
Whoever deviates, will die as a slave of another, then directed
him to the gods. Aufidius. Centrifugal I Marcius, Sun Hetz me like the
hare. Marcius.

Even before three hours, Tullus, challenged I alone in your city And
lived Corioli according arbitrariness.

Did not my blood so I glossed over; drum gripping force Asc highest,
to avenge you! Aufidius. Would you Hector, The Scourge of your
ancestors boasters, you came to me not from here. (They fight, and some
Volsker the Aufidius come to their aid. ) Service Willighagen and not
brave! You insulted me by so hated assistance. (All from fencing.)
Ninth Roman camp scene The Man blows to retreat; trumpets. From one
side occurs Cominius with his army, from the other Marcius, the arm
in the binders, and other Romans Cominius. Tell me thy heutgen day
of work, you credible test not your doing, but I will notify Träne Where
Senators' mix with a smile, Where the patrician listen and tremble,
Last admire, where horror and Fraun, happy shocked, to hear more,
where the crude tribune, who, like the plebeian, you hate Ausruft,
which are suitable Despite resentment: "Thanks , gods, That Rome
her our heroes such schenktet!

"But you did just for dessert of this feast, already fully saturated.
Titus Lartius come with his warriors. Titus. O my captain! Here is
the Streitroß, we are the dishes. If you have seen - Marcius.
Still, I ask. My mother, the letter has a free, blood to praise her,
I grieved when she praises me. Yes I did just what her: that is, as
far as I can, excited, as it is WARET for my fatherland.

Who today only the good will fulfill my deeds has overtaken. Cominius.
You may not be The grave of your value. Rome must know how delicious
his possession. It would be a secret, anger as a robbery, no less than
slander, to cover your deed from which to speak, by what the highest
price charged air, yet it appears modest.

So I ask you, the signs of what you are, and not as a reward for all
your actions, before the army let me talk. Marcius. I got so wound here
and there that it hurts, so to hear mentioned.

Cominius. could not happen, The ingratitude would bring them to
fester and contaminate until death.

Of the horses (we caught a lot and excellent) and all the treasures
in the city, captured in the field, Be you the tenth part; choose
him even before the general division, not after your own choice.

Marcius.

Thank you, captain ; But my heart is reluctant to pay to take payment
as my sword. I am beating it and just wants so much from sharing common,
as anyone who just ansahn what happened. (A long Trompetenstoß.
All call "Marcius! Marcius," hats and throwing spears into the air.)
Drommeten the fact that the so desecrated her, never again drown! When
the trumpet and drum storage flatterers are like yard and the
city and lie Full Gleisnerei. Will soft steel spongers like silk, stick
umbrella in Ore No more wars! Enough, I say .-- Because I blutge not
washed my nose And a weakling niederwarf what some Here imperceptibly
done it myself from crying with übertriebnem, unverständgem
acclamation, as I would tend to see my happy little self-fed with
praise, spiced up by lies . Cominius. Too modest! You are more cruel
suited glory, as we appreciate that it honestly donate; drum
allowed: If your rages against you, we (As one who is harming) you
speak in shackles And safer then.

So it is customers like us all over the world that the war Cajus Marcius
bought wreath. And as a sign of his Nehm my noble horse, known to the
camp, with all jewelry, and he hot as of today, for what he did before
Corioli, with full Beifallsruf of the whole army: Cajus Marcius
Coriolanus .-- Carry the added Names of All Time edel! (Trompetenstoß.)
All. Cajus Marcius Coriolanus! Coriolanus. I go to wash myself, And my
face is pure, so you can sehn, Whether I blush.

How's case, I thanks you - I think Eur horse to ride and I'm always
worthy of the noble name of jewelry to show the best of my power.
Cominius. Now for the tents, where, we have always rested, we want to
write to Rome from our luck.

You, Titus Lartius would Corioli after. Send us to Rome The best that
we have with them around her and our well-being. Titus. I do it, captain.

"It is all very simple, gentlemen," he said, "and is merely one of the
minor triumphs of knowledge over ignorance.  On my journey from Johnson
Castle to the lake I had not made very good time, and saw that only by
heroic measures could I hope to overtake my volatile young friends
here, before they passed this point.  At Oswego I procured a larger
craft and a fresh crew.  From the outset I saw that these fellows
regarded my innocent tub with a certain degree of suspicion, and soon
gave them to understand, through one of their number who could speak
some English, that it held a powerful fire-demon.  He was quite
capable, I declared, of destroying every Indian on the continent, and
would be at liberty to do so, if he was not thrown into the great
thunder waters--your cataract, you understand--on, or before, the first
day of the new moon, which I calculated would be visible to-morrow
evening.  I assured them that his power was much less on water than on
land, for which reason I could not allow his prison house--alias my
bath-tub--to be carried ashore short of this place.  With all this, I
gave them to understand that I was something of a fire-king myself, for
which reason I had been intrusted with this important mission."

"But I don't see how you persuaded the beggars to believe in such rot,"
objected Christie.

"Ah, my dear boy!  Genius can find ways and means for persuading Faith
to any belief.  These simple children of nature have implicit faith in
the supernatural.  As for genius--well, some persons possess it, while
others do not, and modesty forbids my making invidious comparisons.
Seeing by their incredulous smiles that the several members of my crew
were inclined to doubt my statements, and were determined to pass the
first night on shore as usual, I began to impersonate the Fire King as
soon as we made a landing.  To begin with, I ordered my man to bring me
a cup of boiling water, as I was thirsty.  Being a well-trained beggar,
he obeyed without betraying any surprise.  Pretending to taste it, and
declaring that it was too cold, I threw it, cup and all, angrily away.
Then I dipped a glass of water from the lake, announcing at the same
time that by the power of my magic I could make it boil more furiously
than any fire that ever burned."

"A bold statement.  By Jove!" exclaimed one of the officers, who were
following this narration with closest attention; "but did you make it
good?"

"Certainly," replied the paymaster, gravely.  "I not only made that
water boil furiously within two seconds, but immediately drank it.  You
see I happened to have in a compartment of my tub an effervescing
powder, which I find a wholesome aperient.  Making a magic pass with my
hand, I dropped a small quantity of this into the glass undetected.
The effect was instantaneous, and as the liquid boiled above the rim of
the glass so that all could see it, I tossed it off, remarking casually
to Tummas as I did so, that when I called for boiling water I meant
water that was actually boiling, and not merely warm."

"Well, by Jove!" was heard in admiring accents from various corners of
the mess table.

"My guileless savages were evidently impressed, but not yet inclined to
move," continued the little paymaster, without noticing the
interruption, "so I concluded to arouse them by another and more
startling exhibition of my powers.  Having hinted that the little fire
devils of the forest, which I fancy every savage has seen, at one time
or another, peering at him from rotten tree trunks, logs, or stumps,
might be attracted by the proximity of the great Fire Demon, I strolled
off a short distance, as though to search for them.  From my tub I had
previously taken an old scratch wig and a small box of phosphorus
paste, for which I have a certain use.  It was by this time quite dark.
With my paste I drew the rude outline of a face on a bit of bark, that
I stood at the base of a tree.  Then rubbing some of the stuff on my
old wig, and clapping it on my head, I ran back to camp, shouting that
I had found one, and that he had attempted to seize me by the hair.
The savages, who had been lying down, sprang to their feet, and uttered
yells of terror at sight of my blazing head.  'There he is now!' I
shouted, pointing back to the phosphorescent face.  'Shoot him quick,
or he will catch us!'

"Without waiting for them to get their guns from the canoe, I picked up
a stone and let it drive with all my might.  There was a loud
explosion, the dreadful face disappeared, and at the same moment we all
broke for the canoe, which we shoved off in a hurry.  As we pulled out
from the shore I nearly paralyzed my crew by tearing off the old
wig--my scalp, as they thought--and flinging it into the water, where
we could distinguish its phosphorescent glow for some minutes.  After
that experience, my slightest wish was law to those savages, nor could
anything have tempted them to pass a night on shore in company with the
caged Fire Demon.  They are now confident that he is to be thrown into
the thunder waters to-morrow, and so I want them started back toward
Oswego before that illusion is dispelled.  Otherwise my influence over
future crews may be weakened.  Now, gentlemen, you have my simple
receipt for rapid travelling in the wilderness."

"But, Bullen!  How about the explosion of that bit of rock?" inquired
several voices at once.

"Simplicity itself.  It was replaced in my hand, as I picked it up, by
a ball of clay, previously prepared for the occasion.  It contained a
pinch of fulminate and a few bits of gravel."

"Well, paymaster, I must confess that your ingenuity is most
creditable!" commented Major Wilkins.  "I foresee that we must hasten
your departure in the morning; for if your fame as Fire King and that
of the demon caged in your tub should precede you to the head of the
river, I should never be able to secure a crew to take you to Detroit.
Therefore, gentlemen, in anticipation of early rising, I give you a
farewell toast: Our guest the Fire King; may he long continue a bright
and shining ornament to His Majesty's service."

This toast was drunk with a hearty cheer; the little paymaster bowed
his acknowledgments, and with much laughter the merry party broke up
for the night.


CHAPTER XV

DONALD AND CHRISTIE CEMENT A FRIENDSHIP

The ready wit and fertility of resource, shown by Paymaster Bullen on
the speedy journey he had just accomplished, gave Donald such a
different impression of the man, from that conceived at their first
meeting, that he was now quite willing to accept him as a travelling
companion.  This he was the more ready to do, as from the upper end of
the Niagara river he must part company with Christie, whose course
would be along the south shore of the lake, while, to follow Cuyler's
expedition, Donald and the paymaster must skirt the northern shore.
Consequently it was arranged that while Christie should continue his
journey in a bateau that was about to carry several recruits to Presque
Isle, the others, including "Tummas," should be provided with a large
canoe and a crew of four Seneca Indians.  Donald's belief that the
Senecas were about to go on the war-path, if indeed they had not
already done so, was not shared by Major Wilkins, who declared it could
not possibly be, as he was in constant communication with prominent
members of that tribe, and had discovered no indication of ill-feeling
toward the whites.  The major also ridiculed the idea that any of the
western Indians would dare wage war against the English, now that they
could no longer hope for French assistance.

"Much as I respect your father's judgment in such matters, my dear
boy," he said to Donald, as they parted early on the following morning,
"I am certain that in the present case he must be mistaken.  If fear of
an Indian outbreak is all that keeps him at Detroit, tell him from me
that he may return east at once, bringing his pretty daughter, your
charming sister, with him.  Tell him, too, that we shall expect him to
make a long visit at Fort Niagara _en route_.  We are all longing for a
further acquaintance with Miss Edith; for though I did succeed in
detaining Cuyler two whole days solely on her account, her stay with us
was far too short.  Pray present my compliments to Madam Rothsay also,
and tell her that we live only in the hope of her return.

"Yes, I mean it all, and a great deal more too," laughed the gallant
major; "so speed your journey, that we may not die of despair.
Good-bye and good luck to you, lad.  Good-bye, Christie.  Run over and
call on us as often as your duties will permit.  I fear you will find
life at Presque Isle a deadly monotony.  Farewell, paymaster.  It is
delightful to see the king's livery borne into the wilderness with such
grace and dignity.  I predict that you will make an impression at
Detroit, upon whites as well as reds, and I will guarantee peace with
the latter so long as you and your wonderful tub remain in the country.
Bon voyage, gentlemen!  Shove off!"

This last order was given to the crew of a light whale-boat, in which
our travellers were already seated, and which was to convey them a few
miles up the river to the lower end of the portage, where the town of
Lewiston now stands.  At that time it was the site of a fortified camp
maintained for the protection of the men, pack-horses, and ox-teams
employed in transporting freight over the rugged road between there and
Fort Schlosser, a small post situated at the beginning of navigable
waters above the falls.

Here the luggage of our party, including Bullen's tub, was transferred
to an ox-wagon that was escorted by the paymaster on horseback, as he
refused to lose sight of his belongings even for a short time.
Scorning the horses proffered for their use, and delighting in the
opportunity for stretching their legs, the two younger officers set
briskly forth on foot, and were soon far in advance of the slow-moving
wagon.

"I would that our journeyings beyond this point lay in the same
direction, Hester," remarked Ensign Christie, when they found
themselves alone.  "Although we have not known each other long, I feel
as though we were old friends, for I have rarely met a fellow to whom I
have taken so great a liking in so short a time."

"Thank you, old man.  For my part, I heartily reciprocate the feeling,"
replied Donald, "and I wish with all my heart that you were going to
Detroit with me.  Not only should I rejoice in your company, but I
should like to have you meet my father and sister."

"I have already had the pleasure of meeting Miss Hester," rejoined
Christie.

"You have!" exclaimed Donald; "when? where? why didn't you tell me
before?"

"I met her at a ball given by General Amherst, the night before her
departure from New York, and had the honor of dancing with her.  That I
have not mentioned the fact was because I feared to recall to you an
unpleasant memory of a conversation between Bullen and myself,
regarding her, that you must have overheard at Sir William's, that
time, you know, when you so neatly floored my Latin."

"What an asinine thing that was, on my part," laughed Donald.  "I only
overheard a few bits of your conversation, and interrupted it in that
stupid manner, for fear lest I should be tempted to act the
eavesdropper.  But tell me, since you have seen Edith so recently, is
she so good looking as they say?  I have not seen her for more than a
year, you know."

"She is the most beautiful creature that ever I laid eyes on, as well
as the sweetest and most charming," replied Christie, with such warmth
that Donald eyed him curiously.

"It was the unanimous opinion of all the men who saw her that evening,"
continued Christie, flushing slightly beneath the other's searching
gaze.  "As for poor Bullen, he was so completely fascinated, that he
had neither eyes nor speech for any one else, though there were dozens
of charming girls present.  But, I say, Hester!  Saw you ever a more
frightful place than this, or a more deadly situation for an ambuscade?"

Their road had, after its first sharp ascent from the river, followed
the verge of those stupendous cliffs which rise sheer and bare on the
eastern side of the mighty torrent that has channelled them.  The young
men had paused many times to gaze on the leaping surges and awful
billows that raged in fury two hundred feet beneath them, or to listen,
awe-struck, to the ceaseless thunder of falling waters, with which
earth and air quivered.  Now, within three miles of the cataract, they
paused again on the brink of a lateral rent in the sheer wall of rock,
so deep and black as to have won for itself the name of Devil's Hole.
The road winding around the brink of this abyss was skirted on its
further side by a steep and densely wooded slope.  It was indeed a
deadly place for an ambuscade, as several bodies of British troops
subsequently discovered to their sorrow, and the young soldiers
shuddered as they reflected upon its possibilities.

Suddenly, as they stood motionless and silent, Christie was amazed to
have his companion spring from his side as though he had been shot,
dart across the road, and disappear in the bushes beyond.  There was a
momentary sound of crackling sticks and swishing branches, and then all
was still.  Unable to account for this mysterious proceeding, and not
knowing what action to take, Ensign Christie stood motionless, where he
was left, for some minutes.  Then Donald reappeared, walking down the
road as calmly as though nothing extraordinary had happened, though
breathing heavily from his recent exertions.

"The rascal was too quick for me," he said, as he rejoined his
companion.

"What rascal?  What do you mean?" asked the bewildered ensign.

"I don't know; wish I did.  All I know is that it was an Indian, and
that he was watching us.  I noticed his tracks some distance back, and
also noticed that just before we reached this point they turned
abruptly into the underbrush.  As we stood looking down that hole, I
heard a twig snap, and knew he was close at hand.  I thought I might
surprise him, but, as I said, he was too quick for me, and I only
caught a flying glimpse of him as he disappeared."

"Well, it seems curious," meditated Christie, "but I neither noticed
any footprints nor heard a sound, save the thunder of yonder waters."

"It doesn't strike me so," replied Donald; "for if I had not been born
and brought up in the woods, I should not be apt to notice such things
either.  As it is, I should feel very much ashamed not to have noticed
them.  Now, I think we had best wait here for the rest of the party.
It is possible there may be mischief afoot.  I wouldn't say anything to
needlessly alarm the paymaster, though."

"All right," agreed Christie; "but what could be the chap's object in
spying our movements?"

"It is hard to say; but I am satisfied that there is a general Indian
war much nearer at hand than Major Wilkins is willing to admit, and in
that case we must be prepared at any moment for all sorts of unexpected
happenings.  I only wish I was by my sister's side in one of Cuyler's
boats, and could give the lieutenant warning of what to expect."

"So do I," assented Christie so heartily that the other looked at him
quizzically, and he hastened to add, "I mean so do I wish you were
there, though I trust you may be mistaken in your prophecy.  In case
there is any trouble, though, I hope I may reach my post before it
breaks out."

"I hope you may, old man, with all my heart.  At any rate, you want to
keep both eyes and ears wide open every minute between here and there,
and after you get there, too.  Hello!  Here comes Bullen!"

"By Jove!  What a beastly place!" cried the little paymaster, as he
peered into the dim depths of the Devil's Hole.  "It actually makes one
feel creepy, don't you know.  Tummas, you rascal, gad up those snails
of bulls and let us move on."

An hour later, as they came abreast of the stupendous cataract, whose
mighty voice had throbbed in their ears all that morning, the younger
men would gladly have lingered to gaze on its grandeur; but the
paymaster complained that the volume of water was not nearly so great
as he had been led to expect, and refused to waste any time in gazing
on it.

"But surely, Bullen, you are going to drown the Fire Demon, and we want
to see the last of the tub," expostulated Christie.

"You'll have to want then, and want till you're gray, and longer,"
retorted the little man.  "So we might as well move on.  Tummas, you
idiot, gad up those bulls!"


CHAPTER XVI

QUICKEYE AND THE "ZEBRA"

The flotilla under command of Lieutenant Cuyler consisted of twenty
bateaux, nineteen of which were heavily laden with recruits and
supplies of ammunition, provisions, and goods for Fort Detroit.  The
other boat, which generally headed the fleet, was of lighter and more
graceful construction than the others, and was reserved for the
commander of the expedition.  In it also travelled the two ladies, who
were thus undertaking an adventurous journey into the far western
wilderness.  This much information concerning his sister's present
surroundings Donald Hester gained at Fort Schlosser, from which place
the flotilla had departed six days before his own arrival.

Six days!  It was a long lead to overcome, and everything he dreaded
might happen in that time.  Still, he did not anticipate that the
convoy would run into danger before it neared Detroit, which place it
was not expected to reach in less than two weeks.  If, therefore, he
could overtake it within one week, or before it entered the Detroit
river, all might yet be well.  Having reached this conclusion, the
young officer bustled about with such energy, that he had the
satisfaction of getting his own party started from Fort Schlosser late
that same afternoon, instead of waiting until the following morning, as
had been at first planned.

Once under way, the active young fellow seized a paddle, and so aided
the progress of the big canoe by his own efforts that ere darkness set
in the river had been stemmed to its source, and the broad expanse of
Lake Erie lay before them, still glimmering in the western glow.  Not
until they were well beyond the influence of the strong current setting
toward the river, would he permit a landing to be made.

Donald had been perplexed from the start to find that there were five
Indians in the canoe, instead of the four promised by Major Wilkins.
He was also amazed to discover that none of them could speak English,
for they all shook their heads with expressionless faces when he
addressed them in that tongue.  By using signs and the few Iroquois
words that he could remember, he managed to make known his wishes; but,
although these were obeyed, he imagined there was some mystery in the
air, and became keenly watchful for its development.

From the very first he was suspicious of the fifth, or extra member, of
the crew, who occupied the extreme stern of the canoe and acted as
steersman.  None of the Indians were very pleasant to look upon; but
the face of this individual was so thickly covered with paint of many
colors that its personality was concealed, as though by a mask.  This
paint being laid on in narrow stripes, Mr. Bullen was moved to call him
the "Zebra," a name that seemed to please the fellow, and to which he
readily answered.

That night the white men slept beneath the canoe, which was turned half
over, with its upper gunwale resting on a couple of short, but stout,
forked sticks; and, acting upon Donald's insistent advice, they kept
watch by turn, two hours at a time, during the night.  Even "Tummas"
was so thoroughly impressed with a sense of responsibility, that his
two hours of watchfulness were passed in a nervous tremble and with
hardly a blink of his wide-open eyes.  Donald stood the last watch, and
at its conclusion he woke the Indians and ordered them to prepare
breakfast.

Day was just breaking, and while two of the Indians attended to the
fire the other three scattered through the woods in hopes of picking up
some unwary bit of game.  While they were thus engaged, Donald took a
long refreshing swim in the cool waters of the lake.  He did not arouse
the paymaster until the hunters had returned, bringing a wild turkey
and a few brace of pigeons, by which time breakfast was ready.  Then,
to his dismay, the little man insisted on having a bath in his tub,
which proved a very tedious operation, on being shaved, and on
performing so elaborate a toilet, that the sun was more than an hour
high, and Donald was fuming with impatience, before they were ready to
start.

All this time the Indians, who had swallowed their breakfast in
silence, as well as with despatch, smoked their pipes and gazed with
delighted wonder at the novel operations of "Tummas" and his master.
As the several compartments of the tub yielded up their mysterious
contents, the dusky spectators gave vent to ejaculations of amazement,
and several times he of the striped face stepped forward for a closer
inspection of the marvellous receptacle.

"I say, Bullen, this sort of thing will never do!" began Donald, when
the paymaster was at length resplendent in his completed toilet, and
they were once more under way.  "We ought to have been off three hours
ago.  If we continue to waste time at this rate, there is no possible
chance of overtaking Cuyler, and you know as well as I what that may
mean to me."

"Yes, my dear fellow, I understand; but how can I help it?  You can't,
of course, expect a gentleman to go without his daily tub, and I assure
you that in my desire to expedite our journey I haven't occupied more
than half my usual time this morning."

Donald groaned.  Then, with a happy thought, he inquired: "How would it
do to take your bath in the evening, as soon as we make a landing, and
while supper is being prepared?"

"It would be entirely contrary to custom," replied the other.  "Still,
it might be done for a short time, and for the sake of being
accommodating I am willing to try it.  I don't think you need fear,
though, that we shall not pursue this journey with even more than
ordinary speed, for I mean to appear before these rascals in my rôle of
Fire King this very evening, and thereafter I fancy they will be only
too anxious to push ahead, in order to be rid of me as quickly as
possible."

"All right," replied Donald, "and I wish you success in it."  Then he
bent with redoubled energy over his paddle.  In spite of his efforts,
he was not satisfied with the progress made by the canoe.  She appeared
to drag.  It did not seem as though the Indians were doing good work,
and he spoke sharply to them several times in the course of the
morning.  He had a suspicion that the steersman often turned the flat
of his paddle against the course of the canoe; but, as his back was
turned, he could not be certain of this.  What he did know for a surety
was that, as they ran in toward the beach for a short midday halt, the
Zebra, with unpardonable carelessness, allowed the frail craft to run
against a sharp rock that cut a jagged gash in her birchen side.  The
next moment she was on the beach, so that no one got even a wetting;
but a long delay ensued while a patch of bark was stitched over the
rent and payed with pitch.

When at length all was again in readiness for a start, Donald calmly
assumed the position of steersman in the stern, at the same time
motioning the Zebra to take his place among the paddlers.  The man
hesitated a moment, seemed about to refuse, and then, with a second
glance at the young officer's determined face, slowly obeyed the order.
During the remainder of that afternoon the Indians labored at their
paddles in silence, and with scowling brows.  It was evident to Donald
that a crisis of some kind was at hand.  Even the paymaster noticed
that an uncomfortable feeling prevailed in the boat, but he had
implicit faith that his performance of that evening would set
everything to rights.

"These fellows will be my abject slaves before I am done with them," he
remarked cheerfully, and relying on their ignorance of English he
explained fully what he proposed to do.  Not only would he repeat the
tricks that had already proved so successful, but he planned to
complete the subjugation of these particular savages by causing certain
green and blue flames to dance above their camp-fire.  The whole was to
conclude with a slight explosion, that should leave the scene in
darkness, save for a weird phosphorescent light emanating from a face
that would appear suspended in mid-air.  This last effort, as the
paymaster explained to Donald, he would produce by painting the face on
a bit of bark that should be attached to a fish-line.  One end of this
should be tossed over the limb of a tree, and the affair should be
jerked into position at the proper moment.

The projector of this entertainment was enthusiastic and confident.
"Tummas," who was an interested listener to all that was said, chuckled
audibly, as he reflected upon the dismay of the savages, and even
Donald looked forward to the experiment with interest.

Alas! that such well-laid plans should be doomed to failure; but such
was the lamentable fact.  When, soon after landing, the paymaster
called for boiling water, the Indians watched him swallow his
effervescing mixture with unmoved faces.  When he hurled a ball of
clay, charged with fulminating powder, at a tree, missed his mark, and
caused the missile to fall harmlessly in the water, they gazed at him
pityingly.  When, an hour later, he strolled over to their camp-fire
and carelessly tossed what appeared to be a stone into it, they drew
back a few paces, watched the play of colored flames that followed,
with interest, and were not at all disturbed by the small explosion
that took place a minute afterwards.  To crown all, when their
attention was attracted to a flaming face swinging in the darkness
above their heads, the Zebra deliberately raised his gun and blew the
bit of bark to atoms, with the point-blank discharge of a load of
buckshot.  Then the Indians calmly resumed their positions and their
pipes, while the crestfallen author of this signal failure, unable to
find words to express his feelings, sullenly retired to the canoe and
rolled himself in a blanket.

The next morning, as Donald emerged from his plunge in the lake, he
detected one of the Indians crouching beside the canoe, and evidently
tampering with its bark covering.  Naked as he was, the young fellow
bounded to the spot and, ere the Indian was aware of his presence,
knocked him sprawling with a single blow.  Like a panther the savage
sprang to his feet, and, knife in hand, rushed at his assailant.
Suddenly he paused, his outstretched arm fell to his side, and he stood
like one petrified, with his eyes fixed on Donald.  Then, in excellent
English, he said slowly:--

"Why did not Quickeye tell his red brother that he was of the Totem of
the Bear and of the magic circle of the Metai?"

As he spoke, the Indian pointed to the rude device that, tattooed in
blue lines, had ornamented Donald Hester's left arm, just below the
shoulder, ever since he was an infant.

Instead of answering this question, the young man replied scornfully:--

"So you can speak English, can you, you red scoundrel?  And you call me
'Quickeye' because I caught you peering from the bushes at the Devil's
Hole, do you?  Yes, I am quick-eyed enough to read every thought in
your black heart.  Do I not know that you came in the canoe with the
white medicine man from Oswego?  Do I not know that you listened
outside the open window of the mess-room at Fort Niagara, while the
white chiefs talked at night?  Do I not know that you painted your
face, with the thought that the white man was a fool and would no
longer recognize you?  Then you came in this canoe that you might make
it go slow, like a swan whose wing is broken by the hunter.  Do not I
know all this as well as all the things you have done, and thought of
doing?  You are a fool!  The Metai know everything.  Bah!  If I had not
use for you, I would strike you dead.  But I need your strength, and so
long as you serve me truly you shall live.  Go, and be ready to start
ere the sun rises from yonder water."

With this the young man turned on his heel, while the humbled savage
slunk away, cringing as though he had felt the lashing of whips.  From
that moment there was no further trouble, and the canoe of the white
men was sped on its journey at a pace to satisfy even their impatience.


CHAPTER XVII

A BRAVE GIRL CAPTIVE

For two weeks after leaving the Niagara river Cuyler's boat brigade
made its way slowly but steadily westward, along the northern,
forest-covered shore of Lake Erie.  Except for an occasional day of
rain, when the expedition remained comfortably in camp, the weather was
perfect, and nothing occurred to disturb the peace or enjoyment of the
long voyage.  Its only drawback lay in the monotony of water and
forest, unrelieved by a sign of human presence, that constantly
surrounded them.

As one of the last days of May drew toward its perfect close, two of
the occupants of the leading boat reclined beneath a small awning and
watched in silence the western splendor of the waning day,--that
wonderful spectacle which is never twice the same and whose
incomparable glories never grow stale by repetition.  The elder of the
two was Madam Rothsay, whose placid face indexed the kindly nature that
could not refuse the pleadings of a loved one, even when they were for
the undertaking of so wild an expedition as the present.

"Is it not exquisite, aunty?" finally exclaimed the younger of the two,
a girl of eighteen, whose blue eyes and fair hair were strikingly
contrasted with the warm tintings of a face on which sun and wind had
plied their magic arts for many days.

"Yes, dear, it is indeed exquisite, and so wonderfully peaceful,"
replied Madam Rothsay.

"That is the one thing I object to," laughed the girl.  "It is all so
stupidly peaceful that I am getting tired of it, and long for a bit of
excitement."

"But my dear Edith, if Sir Jeffry had not assured me that every portion
of this journey might be made through a country that was perfectly
peaceful, I should have never consented to undertake it.  Besides, I
thought you were quite tired of the excitements and gayety of New York.
You certainly said so."

"Yes, so I was.  That is, I was so tired of the stupid men one had so
constantly to meet that I longed to get away to some place where they
would not dare follow."

"I agree with you, my dear, that most of them were very stupid.  There
was Ensign Christie, for instance, who--"

"Now, aunty! you know I didn't mean him, or the men like him, who had
done splendid things, and were just aching for a chance to do more.
Besides, I am sure that if Mr. Christie had been possessed of the
slightest desire to follow us, we could not have found any place in all
the world where he would not dare venture.  I meant such creatures as
that absurd little paymaster, who talked about a stupid tub he had
invented, until I couldn't help asking him why he didn't follow the
example of the three wise men of Gotham and sail away in it."

"What did he answer?"

"Said he believed his old tub was quite seaworthy, and that he should
be perfectly willing to undertake a voyage in it, provided it would
lead him to me.  Oh, he was so silly, and so pompous, and so conceited,
and so spick and span!  He is the most immaculate creature you ever
saw, and was great fun for a while.  Then he got to be such a desperate
bore that I simply couldn't endure him any longer; and so, here we are."

"But I thought your sole reason for wanting to come out here was to see
your father and Donald, and give them a joyful surprise."

"Of course, you dear goosey, that was the most chiefest of my reasons,
as Willy Shakespeare would say, and I do so long to see them that it
seems as though I couldn't wait until to-morrow evening.  You said we
would be there by this time to-morrow, you remember, Mr. Cuyler, and a
promise is a promise, you know."

"I did say so, Miss Edith, and I think I may safely repeat my promise,
provided we make camp a little later than usual this evening, and get
started again by daylight to-morrow morning," answered the middle-aged
lieutenant, who sat just back of the ladies and steered the boat.  "Yon
far-reaching land," he continued, "is Point Pelee, and from there the
fort is only about twenty-five miles away."

"Then to-night's camp is to be our last," reflected Edith, soberly.
"Well, I must confess that for some reasons I am sorry.  I have so
enjoyed the glorious camp-fires, and the singing, and the stories, and
the stars, and the ripple of the water on the beach, and the
sweet-scented balsam beds, and everything; haven't you, aunty?"

"Yes, dear.  I suppose I have," replied Madam Rothsay.  "But I am not
sure that I shall not enjoy quite as much a substantial roof over my
head, sitting at a regularly appointed table, and sleeping between
sheets once more; for I take it such things are to be had, even in
Detroit, are they not, Mr. Cuyler?"

"Yes, indeed, madam," replied the lieutenant.  "You will find there all
the necessities, as well as many of the luxuries of civilization; for
Detroit is quite a metropolis, I assure you."

"Just fancy!" exclaimed Edith, "a metropolis buried a month deep in the
wilderness.  And I suppose the officers get up dances and receptions
and excursions and boating parties, or something of that kind, very
often?"

"All the time; and if they are not enjoying some of those things at
this very minute, it is only because they await your coming to crown
their festivities with completeness."

"Nonsense!  They don't know we are coming."

"I beg your pardon, but Major Gladwyn was notified some months ago that
he might expect the arrival of this expedition some time about the
first of June."

"The expedition, yes; but us, no.  We are to appear as a delightful
surprise, you know.  Oh dear! what fun it will be!  By the way, Mr.
Cuyler, are there many pretty girls in this forest metropolis?"

"I believe some of the native young ladies, both French and Indian, are
considered quite attractive," replied the lieutenant, evasively.

"Oh, squaws!  But they don't count, you know.  I mean English or
American girls."

"Do you make a distinction between the two?"

"Certainly.  Aunty, here, is English, and I am American.  Don't you
notice a difference between us?" answered Miss Audacity, saucily.

"I can only note that each is more charming in her own way than the
other," replied the lieutenant, gallantly.

Conversation was interrupted at this moment by the appearance of a
beach suitable for a landing, and the heading of the boat toward it.  A
minute later it was run ashore, and the ladies were helped carefully
out, while the remaining bateaux were beached on either side in quick
succession.

A scene of orderly confusion immediately followed, as camp equipage of
every description was taken from the boats and carried to the place
where axemen were already at work clearing away underbrush or cutting
wood for the fires.  Every one was in the highest of spirits, and the
gloomy forest rang with shouts and laughter; for was not this the last
camp? and would not the morrow witness the completion of their arduous
journey?

While their own little tent was being erected, the ladies, according to
their custom, sought relief from the cramped positions and long
confinement of the boat in a brisk walk up the beach.  The darkening
shadows warned them not to go as far as usual, and at the end of a few
hundred yards they turned to retrace their steps.

Suddenly, without the warning of a sound to indicate a human presence,
they were surrounded by half a dozen dusky forms, that seemed to spring
from the very earth, their half-uttered cries were smothered by rude
hands clapped over their mouths, and before they realized what had
happened they were being hurried at a breathless pace through the
blackness of the forest.

They were not taken far, but on the edge of a small glade, or natural
opening, were allowed to sink at the foot of two trees, standing a yard
or so apart.  To these they were securely bound, and then, as
mysteriously as they had appeared, their captors left them.  So far as
the terrified women could judge from the evidence of their senses, the
forest was unpeopled save by themselves, though from the lake shore
they could still hear the cheerful shouts of those engaged in preparing
Cuyler's camp.

"Oh, my dear child! my poor dear child!" moaned the elder woman; "what
does it all mean?  Oh, it is too terrible!  Too awful!"

"Hush, aunty," answered the girl.  "We are in the hands of the savages,
and God alone knows what our fate is to be.  At any rate, we must keep
clear-headed, and not give way to our feelings.  I am thinking of those
poor, unsuspecting men.  If we could only warn them, they might be able
to defend themselves, and possibly help us afterwards.  Don't you think
if we should both scream together that they would hear us?"

"Edith, child! are you crazy?  We should be instantly killed.  Not a
sound, as you value your life!"

"I must, aunty.  I should be ashamed to live if I failed to do the one
thing of which I am capable."

With this the brave girl lifted her voice in a shrill cry for help,
that echoed far and wide through the dim aisles of the forest; but it
was too late, for at the same moment there came a crashing volley,
mingled with savage yells, that announced an attack on the devoted camp.


CHAPTER XVIII

SURPRISE AND DESTRUCTION OF THE BOAT BRIGADE

For many days had the scouts of Pontiac watched from the shore the boat
brigade as it made its slow way toward Detroit.  Night after night had
they hovered about its camps, peering with greedy eyes from darkest
shadows at the coveted wealth which the redcoats, ignorant of the
presence of danger, so carelessly guarded.  It was well to let the
white men have the toil of bringing it as near the Indian villages as
possible, and so an attack was not ordered until the very last night.
Then the two hundred Wyandot warriors, detailed for the purpose,
watched the boats until a landing was effected, silently surrounded the
camp while everything was in confusion, and at a signal poured in their
deadly fire.

To Cuyler's men this volley was as a thunderbolt from a clear sky.
Never was a surprise more complete; never was overwhelming disaster
more sudden.  They were paralyzed and unnerved.  A score fell at the
first fire, and though Cuyler succeeded in forming the rest in an
irregular semicircle about the boats, their return shots were so wildly
scattering and ineffective that the enemy were emboldened to abandon
their usual tactics, break from cover in a body, and rush fiercely upon
the wavering line of panic-stricken soldiers.  Most of these now saw
Indians for the first time.  None waited for a second glance, but
flinging away their muskets, all ran madly for the boats.

Of these they succeeded in launching five, which were instantly filled
beyond their capacity.  So ill-directed were their efforts to escape,
that the Indians, by setting two more boats afloat and starting in
pursuit, easily overtook three of the fugitive craft, which surrendered
to them without resistance.  The remaining two, by hoisting sail and
taking advantage of an off-shore breeze, made good their escape and
were headed in the direction of Sandusky on the opposite side of the
lake.  In one of these was the commander of the ill-fated expedition,
who had been the last man to leave the beach.

Wild with joy over a victory so easily gained and so rich in results,
the Indians, after securing their prisoners, lighted great fires, and,
gathered about these, abandoned themselves to feasting and drinking.
Among the captured supplies was a quantity of liquor, upon which they
pounced with avidity.  Heads of kegs were broken in, and the fiery
stuff was recklessly quaffed from cups, vessels of birch bark, or
anything that would hold it; some even scooping it up in their hands,
until all became filled with the madness of demons.  They danced,
yelled, waved aloft their bloody scalps, and fought like wild beasts,
while the trembling captives, crouching in scattered groups, seemed to
hear their own death knell in every whoop.

One such scene of hideous revelry was enacted in the little glade
beside which Madam Rothsay and Edith Hester had been left helplessly
bound by their captors.  From the moment of the girl's brave effort to
warn the camp, these two had listened with straining ears to the babel
of sounds by which the whole course of the tragedy was made plain to
them.  They shuddered at the volleys, at the screams of the wounded,
and at the triumphant yells of the victors.  They almost forgot their
own wretched position in their horror at the fate of their recent
companions.  But when all was over, and the hideous revelry of the
savages was begun within their sight, a realization of their own misery
returned with overwhelming force, and they again trembled at the
possibilities of their fate.  A number of squaws had accompanied this
war party, and they could see these busily engaged securing and
concealing what weapons they could find at the very beginning of the
debauch.

"Even those creatures realize the dreadful things that are likely to
happen, and are taking what precautions they may to guard against
them," moaned Madam Rothsay.

"Yes," replied Edith, "and now, if ever, is our time to escape.  Oh, if
we were not so helplessly bound and could slip away into the woods!  I
would rather die in an effort to escape than suffer the agony of this
suspense.  Can't you loosen your arms one little bit, aunty?"

As the girl spoke she strained at her own bonds until they sunk deep
into her tender flesh, but without loosening them in the slightest.

The elder woman also struggled for a moment with all her strength, and
then sank back with a groan.

"I can't, Edith!  It's no use, and only hurts.  No, we can do nothing
save commend ourselves to God and trust to his mercy.  Oh, my poor
child!  My poor dear child!"

The fires blazed higher, the maddening liquor flowed like water, the
yells grew fiercer, and the dancing more furious.  The lurid scene
became a very pandemonium, and the leaping forms of the savages seemed
those of so many devils.  The captive women closed their eyes to shut
out the horrid picture.

Suddenly Edith uttered a stifled scream--a warm breath was on her neck,
and a soft voice was whispering words of comfort in her ear:--

"Hush!  Do not scream.  Do not fear.  You shall be saved.  I am Ah-mo,
daughter of Pontiac, the great chief, sent by my father to see that you
are not harmed.  Now I will take you away.  It is not safe for you
longer to remain in this place.  There.  Do not rise.  You would be
seen.  Move yourself carefully into the shadow behind the tree."

As these words were uttered, Edith's bonds were severed; she felt that
she was again free, and, filled with courage born of a new hope, she
obeyed implicitly the directions of her unseen friend.  As she gained
the shadow she found herself beside a girlish figure, who placed a
finger on her lips, and then in a whisper bade her speak to Madam
Rothsay, that she might not be frightened into an outcry.  This Edith
did, the elder woman was released as she had been, and in another
minute the freed captives, trembling with excitement and nearly
suffocated by the intensity of their emotions, were following, hand in
hand, their silently flitting guide in the direction of the lake shore.

From Lenz Wieland himself confessed: "Every day he makes his regular
silly string, and then wonder how a goose, if it had laid an egg."
Even Herder was gefabelt he preaching in galonnirten clothes, with
boots and spurs, and ride immediately after the sermon to Thor beyond.
Antheil Against the goings on that, the rumor that he was guilty,
Wieland justified himself in a letter dated 7 February 1776 with the
words: "I hear that some people who are contemptuous of my causes and
Goethe's enemies are all sorts Calumnien aussprengen, and among
others me too, because of my connexion with Goethe, with in what
is happening and not happening , meddle, and to me one, I do not
know whether or Actuar Soufleur or shiners in light of our
Staatscomödie, as I do, thanks be to God and my genius, a mere
spectator am - ready to work with all possible bonhomie to clap,
if well is played, and no more than the armpits jerking, or a few
Sacres bleus = = mumbling between the teeth if it is stupid.

"The impact of young talented people seemed excited to Wieland's spiritual
power, at a time where he was in his conversations with a priest
"an apology for his earlier writings had resigned.

Some plans he designed at that time, his "German Mercury" to make
charitable. Nothing, he said, would this magazine aufhelfen more than
if you "more Urtheile about books and other things" it would.

"People," Wieland said, "is nothing so much as to know what they think
about everything occurring and should say." Rare were the
contributions become gradual, which Goethe, Herder, Jacobi and others
before 1776, his journal, recording his very dear to him was, had
supported. It contained more essays from his own pen, and almost
all his works he theilte piecemeal, first in the "German Mercury" with.
Its almost uninterrupted employment with the literature of the Greeks
and the Romans withdrew him philosophical and historical studies in
the widest extent of the word. At the same time, he remained a lively
interest in all the events of the present. The progress of the
people in his Wieland Geistescultur observed with a sharp eye. He did
travel with the newer descriptions and with every major discovery known.
His lively spirit passes through the large field of sciences and arts
in all directions. Thus, he received extensive materials about the
size and small articles for the "German Mercury."

Most of those essays charakterisirte the quest to spread enlightenment
at a time shoals where entrepreneurial minds, as the Father Gassner
in Vienna, the infamous Count Cagliostro, Messmer, uA Schröpfer the
Zeitgeist such a wonderful direction indicated that one of disbelief
on the one hand, and of superstition on the other accused.

Gently but believed to Wieland Werke going to have to, and not to
misjudge his conscientiousness in everything he wrote on religious
objects. Among his numerous studies and pursuits, he became the art
of poetry is not disloyal. In this period of his life, the poetic
narratives: "Gandelin" or "Love to Love" and the "Winter and Sommermährchen";
"Pervonte"; of "Vogelfang" or "the three teachings," "Hann and
Gulpenheh" etc.

His Nature was coming to a decision to romantic poetry. According to
his own statements, he was convinced that "the Mährchen a higher purpose,
can create, as mere entertainment, small and large children."

For most of the above-mentioned poems had Wieland French sources are
used, the Fabliaux = = = from Chretien de Troyes =, = the Lays de l'Oiselet
= etc. From a old French legend, Huon de Bordeaux = = titled, drew
Wieland also the substance to his "Oberon," by the poet, his fame
for ever justified.

For a peculiar beauty of the plan and the composition of his epic gave
Wieland, according to his own confessions, "the way the story of
Oberon's quarrel with his wife Titania in the history Hüons and
woven Rezia's been. " He wrote a friend: "Oberon is not only two
but if you just take it from three acts together, namely the
Abentheuer which Hüon on the emperor's command to be transferred,
the story of his love relationship with Rezia, and the reconciliation
of Titania with Oberon.

But these three acts or fables are such in a main node devoured that
none exist without the other, or a happy outcome could win.

Without Oberon's assistance would Hüon Kaiser Carl's contract have
not run without his love for Rezia, and without the hope of what Oberon
on the loyalty and steadfastness of the two lovers, as tools of
his own reunion with Titania founded, this would not cause ghost
Lord had have such an intimate Antheil to take their destiny.

From this, founded on mutual indispensability interweaving of their various
interests, a kind of unity that I believe the merit of novelty,
and their positive impact of the reader through his own Theilnahme
to the whole of persons acting too strongly feels that he is as any
an art wegdisputiren could judge.

"In his" Oberon ", the fact of Wieland's earlier poems different that
not a trace of satirical tendency is to explore was, he had all the
elements of the Romantic sought to unite, enthusiasm in heroism,
in love and religion.

"It seems," he wrote, "one of the finest tricks in poems romantic
genre, that the genii and fairies as beings of a higher order and
citizens of another world, introduces the nature, scope and history
for us, always something Räthselhaftes, Secret and inexplicable,
even then, if our circumstances by a secret and even higher order
of things, which can probably be called fate, woven into the rest,
and we, without knowing why and how, tools, competence, making the
fate proves them good.

"Wieland was still busy with his" Oberon ", as the study of the
elderly, on which he is still hung with love, in him the idea
aroused, his favorite poet Horace to translate.

Executed this idea was only when it is the "Oberon" was completed.
Wieland was limited in his translation of Horace only to letters
and Satyr of the Roman poet.

He was more a matter of tuna, the spirit of his original play, as
strictly to the form and the Uebersetzung his loyalty to literally
expand.

To set the tone and style of its author's better to take, he chose
instead of the hexameter, the jambischen verse, which he considered
appropriate for the lightness and agility of Conversationssprache
play.

Even in his Uebersetzung of Lucian, he undertook a few years later,
he went with the same freedom to work, so the expression will soon
be shorter, and soon became extensive than the original.

A lasting Werth gave his Uebersetzungen, by the same discharges and
accompanying explanations of the the expertise testified thoroughly.

On the translation of the Lucian Wieland still remembered in later
years, often with pleasure.

Between him and that author was a kind of congeniality, and Wieland
said joking that he had during those literary work is often the
belief in a soul had left to hike. a very serious purpose Wieland
sought to pursue in its large portion of the political events led
"discussions in Elysium" and his "god talks."

Previously, when this script, created a work which by its content aroused
great sensation. The first idea for his "History of Abderiten" probably
gave him memories of the Republican Constitution, his hometown Biberach
and a Comparison with the Constitution of the monarchical government in
Weimar. He was always cautious and careful in his writings and essays
on political articles.

Even the circumstances of the Weimar court of him in this regard must
be taken. His friend Jacobi's had to put up that Wieland in the "German
Merkur certain fragments of the novel" Alwill "stressed several points,
especially a service on the Lord.

He wrote to Jacobi: "God knows how you, with your Bewußtseyn and my
relationships, to write such a thing could, that I should let's print."
modesty gave Wieland for an essential condition under which a private
man in public affairs on public speaking and measures, of which the
welfare or woe of nations depends on whether a case should Urtheil.
He was of the view: the wishes of the people and the expression
intelligent and impartial men to hear the prince must Seyn always
welcome, so long as they still no firm would have taken Parthei.

Sei once throw the unfortunate happen, it could be the mixing of
private citizens and their Urtheil about the measures taken not
help but hurt.

Wieland repeatedly warned against the abuse of the press.

But a reform in the political circumstances wished and hoped he eagerly.
A bolder language than some of his utterances could expect, Wieland
resulted in a 1784 essay printed. "If", said he was "the religion and
the priesthood is finished, it is probably also the series of investigations,
which our worldly Gewalthabern not likely to ease, so regardless of
the feeling of their strength on the other hand, they now make mag.
Because they will finally ask: What power does it this and that? From
whom did you receive this power, and to whom you're accountable to them
give? What build your privileges, and entitlements Besitzthümer? If
all of your privileges - as philosophers of us all our roofs herabpredigen
- at a mere contract between us and you found, if anything it has
just entrusted Good is and your handsome rechtschaffnen no other
reason, nor can have, as one of us received conditional power
of attorney, which we take back every day, when we set up a more
favorable type know: how can you expect to be so enlightened people,
such as we, in the important issue of our time willkührliche you a
life and unlimited power over our persons, our property and our
lives will admit?

marriage regulations euern we obey, we want to investigate whether
they will make us happy. Before we will grant subsidies, we only know
they like you to apply to our benefit. And before we get to the
slaughter, or we can suspend the threat, ravaged our fields, our
homes lit and our sons in the war, slavery led to see, we want to predict
investigate what it is situated, whether its many square miles, more
or less, you should be taxed or not. "These statements were prophetic
words, soon after the death of Frederick II (1786) and even more by the
political events of late are good. The position, which Wieland was a
writer and journalist was looking to say, he described himself in
the words: "It's just so much my intention, our century travesty to
speak, than to flatter him. I think it is one of the most effective
ways of his contemporaries to improve, if they, like Swift, always
says insulting things. You always petting and liebzukosen and einzuwiegen
and sleep to sing, good for nothing.

"The rights of humankind against the pressure of despotism in protecting
taking was Wieland's unfailing ambition. In the increasingly
expanding education in the increasingly rapid progress of cultivation,
he took the time not for distance, where, after his own words "the
people schafsmäßigsten tigers could be."

Only a single Commotion, said he needed it, "ten or twenty million,
more than the bare life had to lose, so to get even against all this
be put in jeopardy." Wieland world and had him Menschenkenntniß not
wrong. Before the end of the eighteenth century, his words were received
by the outbreak of the French Revolution, almost literally true. How
powerful that political events on him eingewirkt showed several
writings and essays, where he established his political opinions
presented.

Cosmopolite policy in its own sense of the word, he could probably
give a certificate that "in everything since the June 14 1789 public
events in France have written, a certain spirit of Unpartheilichkeit,
reasonableness and moderation Athmer.

"The main maxim that it" in his Urtheil things about the human "head
showed Wieland's own confessions. "Never forget me," he wrote, "that
people in all circumstances and times neither more nor less, than
people are. Therefore, that is not easy to get as good or bad, so
foolish or so wise, so noble or so bad is that I do not trust in certain
circumstances should be. It is that I do not expect perfection of
them, and I never formalisire when they, especially in extraordinary
situations and the difficulties of large crowd, not as gods, pure
spirits or stoic way, just as poor Erdenklöse, neither wise nor
conséquent, yet selfless act as it is for so many millennia of the usual
children Adam, or cheap but should Seyn usual.

"From the horrors of the French Revolution turned Wieland with
revulsion across. The patriotism stirred again mighty in him. Rühmend
he is good in the show because of its many shortcomings he blamed the
German Constitution states. In love with the existing Constitution
showed him the true patriotism. "What can," he wrote, "German patriotism
Seyn differently than the sincere desire for the preservation and
improvement of the current constitution of the commonwealth all the
help everyone, according to his position, wealth and relationships
to help a whole is capable of?

With how many rights can we Germans say what the Roman poet of the
country people say: = Felices sua si bona Norint =! Happily, when the
slumber of habit we are not indifferent, blind and ungrateful to the
largest Wohlthaten our Constitution would have done; if its not we
enjoy, such as health, their high Werth until you feel if you lost.

"As a political writer Wieland does not escape the fate, because of
its principles by all Partheien, both of the monarchic, aristocratic
and democratic than, misunderstood, and often hard to be challenged.
His fiercest opponents were the aristocrats that his aversion to the
caste system and privileges of all kinds very verübelten. Against the
accusation that "the cobbler and tailor education to be carried out,"
Wieland vertheidigte itself with the words: "I think low is the best
for the Schuster - footwear. If, however - what in the end but not
impossible - a shoemaker to believe that he is also ultra crepidam
= Commitment = something or a word to his contemporaries have to
say why should we not allowed Seyn?

One bravsten disciples of Socrates was not a shoemaker, but one who works
for the shoemaker, a tanner, and the Athenienser could probably suffer
more than thirty in Socratic dialogues, which he wrote, to hear the
truth. And did not the brave cobbler Hans Sachs's Nuremberg and the
whole world in his naive Reimen some healing, sometimes crude,
some truth, that a man without objection had something - but
admittedly it was also 200 years ago in Germany a little more respect
before a man and a citizen than to light today!

"Through diversity of opinion was often Wieland blosgestellt the
fiercest attacks. The Bewußtseyn a good purpose to have had him
consolation. The fact that he is often seen sharper than others,
and some in prophetic spirit had spoken, he showed in his "talks
under four eyes" by the proposal: the democratic France wants to rescue
his own - to Buonaparte appointed Dictator. In those political
dialogues saw Wieland look far into the distant future, there, and he
designed several stories a vivid picture of the time, beyond the
boundaries of his life was. From such pursuits Wieland was again
returned to the Muses in the witty Cirkeln, the Duchess Amalia in
Ettersburg and Tiefurth used to gather.

What some in the field of poetry and music of importance seemed, was
in those Cirkeln in which Goethe, Herder, Einsiedel, Gags, Bertuch
Theil and others took on a subject of entertainment. Rural festivals and
shows in which the aforementioned men, along with a Corona Schröter,
Amalie and Others v. Göchhausen witty women in the roles theilten,
alternated with delight other kind. Contribute to the dramatic performances
that Dilettantengesellschaft, which soon became the castle Ettersburg,
and soon the nearby forest to the scene selected, Wieland
delivered in its "Pandora". Several poems and essays, he also in
the still preserved in manuscript "Tiefurther journal down. In such
circles Wieland felt very comfortable, so he would also be forwarded
to the court life and the associated Etiquette taste could be
interesting. Even in later times, he often praised the good fortune to
be so witty Cirkeln belongs to which the lively exchange of diverse
ideas for him always the interest of novelty retained. In a letter
from the year 1782 included a complete description of satisfaction
with his situation suited also for his later years.

That letter contained the confessions: "In a desired relief from the
public stores, I live the Muses and myself, a modest but happy life,
facilitated by the grace of my lord, and by the love of many righteous."
The mentioned letter portrayed him at the same time "surrounded by
many to him Theil burgeoning and some still burgeoning family,
its existence on the duplicate and interesting way through
the sweet and pleasant worries rents his father's house in the otherwise
very monotonous life stagnation forbid."

Tactile had him but that he, despite all the money his literary
diligence had doubled when he for the decent maintenance of his
family not belonging wanted to make.

Of fourteen children, his wife was born, lived at that time still
eilf.

The advantages, which he so far from his literary works drawn was
small.

The most profit he had the publication of the "German Mercury" had
to thank.

For most of his early poetic works, he had a ducat for the printed
sheets must be satisfied.

In relation to the fee for his "comical tales" Wieland confessed
to a friend: "Anyone who knows that in France the Reimer and mediocre
novelist Louisd'or least two of the arc to be paid, I laugh, that
the Komische Erzählungen me no longer even fewer have entered, than
five guilders for the bow.

"Somewhat improved Wieland had literärische income through his acquaintance
with a bookseller in Leipzig kingdom to him for the poem" Musarion "a
fee of thirty ducats, and for the" Diogenes of Sinope "had sent
fifty.

The scholar's bookshop in Dessau Wieland had a not insignificant sum
on Actien and they were mostly borrowed status. Shrunk by such
bitter experiences, he wavered, a capital of 1000 Thlrn. to venture
out as entrepreneurs of Jenaischen Literature Newspapers, Schütz and
Bertuch him in 1784 were invited to join. On the other hand joined
Wieland, Empire after death, in closer connection with the then
still very young Göschen bookseller in Leipzig, the first "Peregrinus
Proteus" and "Gods talks" printed, and afterwards the whole of the
publisher of Wieland's works grew.

Through a detailed revision Wieland and file wanted his writings to the
highest degree of perfection to give. In the announcement of the
Gesammtausgabe of his works in the twelfth piece of the "German
Mercury" from 1793 Wieland stated that the work it has been occupied
for some years.

"I dedicate it," he wrote, "the heitersten days and hours of my life,
and spare neither time nor effort to move the smallest spots, which
I completed an already seemingly aware of the works will.
Although he
had been well treated by his captors, after the mystic marking on his
arm to which the Zebra attracted their attention had saved him from an
awful death, he was still held a close prisoner, and was still
uncertain as to the fate reserved for him.  This, however, concerned
him little.  Nothing could be worse than the mental suffering he had
already undergone, and his present anxiety was only for his sister
Edith.  What had become of her?  Where was she, and by what perils was
she surrounded?  He became frantic as he reflected upon her
helplessness and the restraints that prevented him from flying to her
assistance.  He had learned from his fellow-captives that nothing had
been seen of her nor of her companion after the attack on Cuyler's
camp, and also that two boats, containing many fugitives, had effected
an escape.  She must then be in one of those, and if she were, what
might she not be suffering, without food or shelter, and liable at any
moment to fall into the hands of some roving band of savages?  For her
sake, he must regain his freedom.  Yes, he must, and he would.  Why not
strike for it at that very moment?  Would he ever have a better chance?

As the last boat came abreast of the schooner _Beaver_, surging at her
cables not more than a quarter of a mile away, Donald called out in
English to the rowers in his boat that each should seize one of the
Indian guards and throw him overboard, while he would stand ready to
aid any one, or all of them, in the undertaking.

The soldier nearest him replied that he feared he had not the requisite
strength.

"Very well," said Donald; "pretend exhaustion and change places with
me."

As this order was obeyed and the young ensign stepped forward, as
though to take his comrade's place, he suddenly seized hold of an
unsuspecting Indian, lifted him bodily, and flung him into the river.
At the same moment the savage clutched his assailant's clothing, and as
he cleared the boat dragged Donald after him over its side.  So little
is recreated on the master of San Eugenio bear seeing the bags full and
drunk dimpués! Sure that back in the Americas did not laugh so much
that day and here laughed. The red cheeks of Elena crease to hear her
husband.

Uncle Leandro, something he knew what to expect on the journey of Don
Germán, nailed an angry look on the lad and barbarous intentions
clear that he was thrown on that "piazo animal." In this confusion
came to Helena to get a voice it sounded to her back. - I am
convinced that it could have been a great explorer of virgin land.

I've come this far without a perfectly flat and aimless. The blood
of Elena crowd to his heart, leaving the pale cheeks. - Truth or Magellan
or Marco Polo would have done better than me? - Nunez said moving
towards it with the outstretched hand. His pale face was smiling bearded
line with the usual ironic expression. Elena could not repress a gesture
of disgust, but suddenly he recovered with a hand sketch of a smile. -
Ya, ya! We must give you a medal for his courage. - Fortune helps the
brave always - said the painter's intention to collect the words
seemed to Ellen.

And casting a look around: - But this is a scene from ancient Greek!
Penelope leaves his palace, toured their domains in rocky Ithaca,
located Eume lad and jealous guardians of their herds of swine, and
depart with them. - Scene you've come to interfere with her figure
and air-modernist Elena said smiling, but with slightly altered
voice. - Hospitality is the only virtue that shines in the poems
Greeks.

I'm a poor traveler who is tired and hungry, asking for a platform to
rest and bread to satisfy his appetite. - Come for the stage - said
Elena casting and dry to walk with a resolution that surprised Nunez.
This prior is then turned to the shepherds: - Cheers, friends! Keep
watching closely for your pigs, sir. - Here, there has been no pigs,
sir, to this day - Uncle Leandro replied gravely. Núñez you look rude
and stuck a teller. The old man said the pastor without batting an
eyelid. The artist was paired with the lady exclaiming with ironic
giggle: - It seems that as soon Eume still hating the pretenders!
Elena said nothing and continued walking with step towards the house
alive. A cholera rugía deaf in his chest and was afraid to leave
it where they could explode it.

That means not only that the man had not determined if the farewell
him in his letter, but had made up his daring in Sotillo.
CHAPTER XXI

IN SEARCH OF A LOST SISTER

Donald had no difficulty in finding the broad trail that connected all
the widely scattered Indian villages on the east bank of the river, and
when he reached it he instinctively turned to the south.  The main body
of the enemy lay to the northward, and to proceed in that direction
would be the height of folly.  There was still one small camp below
him, as Donald knew from having seen it that morning when on his way up
the river, and to this he determined to go.  He needed food, clothing,
arms, and a canoe.  All of these might be obtained in an Indian camp,
as well as elsewhere, if only one dared go in search of them and
possessed the skill necessary to secure them.  Much also would depend
on chance; but, after his recent experiences, the young soldier felt
assured that he had been born under a propitious star.  At any rate, he
was ready to do and dare anything in furtherance of his present plan,
and so he set forth at a brisk pace in search of some source of
supplies.

He had covered several miles with every sense keenly alert, but without
detecting an indication of human presence, when he suddenly smelled an
Indian encampment.  He could neither see nor hear anything of it, but
no one having once recognized the pungent odor, combined of smoke,
skins, furs, freshly peeled bark, dried grasses, and decayed animal
matter, that lingers about the rude dwellings of all savage races,
could ever mistake it for anything else.  A single faint whiff of this,
borne to Donald, on a puff of the night wind, gave him the very
knowledge he wanted, and he at once began to move with the same caution
that he had observed on the previous evening while creeping up to the
fire-lighted circles of the victorious Wyandots.

It was perilous business, this venturing into a camp of hostile Indians
through the darkness, but Donald reflected that it would be even worse
by daylight.  He also argued, that while success in his proposed
thieving would mean everything to him, he could not be worse off than
he was a few hours since, even if he failed and was captured.  So he
crept forward with the noiseless motions of a serpent, until the
conical lodges were plainly in view by the dim light of smoldering
camp-fires.

There was one feature of this camp that greatly puzzled our young
woodsman, and that was its silence.  Surely the night was too young for
all the inmates of those lodges to have retired, and yet there was no
sound of voices.  Not even the wail of a child was to be heard nor the
barking of a dog.  It was unaccountable, and gave Donald a creepy
feeling that he tried in vain to shake off.  He moved with an even
greater caution than if he had been guided by the usual sounds of such
a place and spent a full hour in examining the camp from all points
before daring to enter it.

At length he detected a faint muttering in one of the lodges and a
reply to it; but both voices were those of querulous age.  A moment
later the tottering figure of an old man emerged from the lodge, and
crouching beside a dying fire threw on a few sticks with shaking hands
and drew his blanket more closely about his shrunken form.

In an instant a full meaning of the situation flashed into Donald's
mind.  The camp was deserted of all except the infirm and very aged.
All the others--men, women, children, and even the very dogs--had gone
to participate in the festivities of the up-river camps to which so
many white prisoners had that day been taken.  He shuddered to
contemplate the nature of these festivities,--the tortures, the
anguish, and the fearful tragedies that would furnish their
entertainment; but he no longer hesitated to enter this deserted camp
and appropriate such of its properties as suited his fancy.

From the very fire beside which the old man crouched and shivered, he
took a blazing brand and using it to light his way entered the lodge
from which the former had emerged.  It seemed empty of everything save
that in one corner, on a heap of dried grasses, there lay an old
wrinkled hag, who stared at him with keen beady eyes, and then set up a
shrill screaming that caused him to beat a hasty retreat.

He fared better in other lodges, some of which were empty of inmates,
and some occupied by persons too aged or ill to harm him.  These either
cowered trembling before him, or spit at and reviled him with distorted
features and gestures of impotent rage.  It was an unpleasant task,
this taking advantage of helplessness to walk off with other people's
property; but under the circumstances it seemed to Donald right, and he
was soon clad in the complete buckskin costume of a warrior, besides
having accumulated a comfortable store of provisions.  He was
grievously disappointed at not discovering a rifle, nor indeed a
firearm of any kind, and being obliged to put up with a hunting-knife
as his sole weapon.  Still, on the whole, he had so little cause for
complaint that as he left the camp and made his way to the landing
where he hoped to find a canoe he congratulated himself upon his good
fortune.

It seemed to fail him, however, at the river-bank; for, search as he
might, he could not find a canoe nor a craft of any kind.  Now, he was
indeed in a quandary.  It would be worse than useless to return to the
Indian camp, that might at any moment be repeopled.  He dared not go up
the river, for that way lay the hosts of Pontiac; nor could he cross it
and make his way to the fort.  There was obviously but one course to
pursue, which was to keep on down stream until he had put a safe
distance between himself and the Indian camp, and then to wait for
daylight by which to resume his search for a canoe.

This he did, first wading for a long distance in the shallow water
close to shore to conceal his trail, and then plodding sturdily ahead
through the bewildering darkness of the forest for hours, until
finally, overcome by exhaustion, he sank down at the foot of a great
tree and almost instantly fell asleep.

When Donald next awoke, stiff and aching in every joint, the rising sun
warned him that he must lose no time in placing a greater distance
between himself and those who would soon be on his trail, if, indeed,
the pursuit were not already begun.  So he set off at a brisk pace,
still keeping the general southerly direction on which he had
determined until he should reach the lake.  He had not walked more than
two hours, and was staying his stomach with a handful of parched corn
brought from the Indian camp, when, all at once, he found himself amid
the remains of recent camp-fires on ground that was much trampled.  It
was the very scene of his capture by the Wyandots and of his narrow
escape from death.  Yes, there was the identical tree to which he had
been bound.  Turning, with a shudder, he hastened from the place of
such horrid memories, and instinctively retraced his course of two
nights before across the narrow neck of land that had proved fatal to
so many of his countrymen, and on which the dear sister whom he now
sought had last been seen.

Reaching the eastern side of the point, and skirting the shore for a
short distance, he came upon another place of camping, which he
instantly recognized as the spot where he had left Paymaster Bullen.

"Poor old Bullen!" he reflected half aloud.  "I wonder what he thought
of my deserting him the way I did; and I also wonder what became of
him.  I suppose he must be dead long before this, and 'Tummas,' too,
poor fellow; for I didn't see anything of them among the prisoners
yesterday.  I never trusted those Senecas; but Wilkins was so cocksure
of them that he wouldn't listen to a word against them.  Wonder what
he'll say now.  I wouldn't be here at this moment, though, if it hadn't
been for that fellow, 'Zebra,' as Bullen called him.  Queer how things
turn out in this funny old world!  I only wish I knew just what that
tattooing on my arm means, and what the Metai is, anyway.  If I did, I
might turn the knowledge to advantage.  Hello!  Something has been
carried into those bushes,--the paymaster's tub for a guinea."

During his soliloquy the young woodsman's trained eye rested on a
broken twig and a bit of bruised bark at the edge of a near-by thicket.
Stepping to the place and parting the bushes, he uttered a cry of joy.
There, bottom-side up, and imperfectly concealed, as though in great
haste, lay the canoe in which he had so recently journeyed.  Beneath it
he found a rifle that had belonged to the paymaster, as well as most of
his luggage, which included a good supply of ammunition, provisions,
and cooking-utensils.  In fact, nearly everything that the canoe had
contained was there excepting its passengers and the redoubtable tub.

"The disappearance of that tub is the strangest thing of all," muttered
Donald, as, exulting in this sudden wealth, he hastened to build a fire
and make the cup of coffee for which he was longing.  "What reason
could the beggars have had for lugging it off? and why didn't I see
something of it in the boats yesterday?  Too bad about Bullen, though,
for he was a good fellow in spite of his crotchets."

The daring plan that forced itself in Donald's mind the minute he saw
that canoe was to cross Lake Erie in it to Sandusky.  There he would
certainly learn what had become of Cuyler and those who escaped with
him.  Perhaps he would even find Edith there.

He was off the moment he had finished the hearty breakfast that
restored his strength, his confidence in himself and his belief that
everything was about to turn out for the best, after all.  Nor did his
good fortune desert him, for the broad surface of the great lake was as
peaceful as a mill-pond all that day; the light breeze that ruffled it
was so directly in his favor that he was enabled to aid his paddle with
a sail, and at sunset he was nearing the southern coast.  Camping where
he landed, he cooked, ate, and slept, starting again at break of day
for Sandusky, full of hope and anticipations of a warm welcome in that
stout little post.

The sun was barely an hour high when he reached his destination, only
to find a mass of charred and desolate ruins, that told with a mute
eloquence of the fate that had overtaken Sandusky.


CHAPTER XXII

AMID THE RUINS OF FORT SANDUSKY

To discover only ruin, desolation, and death, instead of the cheery
greetings of friends and the longed-for intelligence of Edith's safety
that he had so confidently expected to gain at Sandusky, was so bitter
a disappointment as to be bewildering, and it was some time ere Donald
could do aught save wander like one who is dazed, among the melancholy
ruins.  He recalled his pleasant reception by Ensign Paully, the
commanding officer, only a month before, when he had stopped there on
his way down the lake, the cheerful evening he had spent in the
mess-room, and the hopeful conversation concerning the settlement soon
to be made near the sturdy little post.  Now all that remained were
great heaps of ashes and half-burned logs, gaunt chimneys, and a score
of bodies, stripped, mutilated, and decomposed beyond recognition.  The
presence of these, and the fact that all of them were scalped, showed
the destruction of the post to be the work of savages and not the
voluntary act of its garrison; otherwise Donald might have hoped that
the place had been abandoned and a retreat made to some stronger
position.

Not only was the story of the tragedy plainly to be read in the mute
evidences abounding on all sides, but the young woodsman was able to
determine from the drift of ashes, the indentations of raindrops, and
other distinct signs, just how many days had elapsed since the king's
flag last waved above Sandusky.  He found traces showing that Cuyler
with his fugitives had been there since the destruction of the place,
and from his own feelings he could readily imagine what theirs must
have been.

These things he learned as easily as from a printed page; but with all
his art he could gain no inkling of the information he most desired.
Were his sister and Madam Rothsay among those who had escaped with
Cuyler?  In vain did he scan the prints of moccasined and booted feet,
that abounded among the ruins.  None was dainty enough to be that of a
lady.

While Donald was bending over some footprints beside a small
field-piece that, dismounted and rusted, lay half buried in ashes, a
sudden whir-r-r caused him to spring back as though he had received an
electric shock.  Only his quickness saved him from the living death
held in the fangs of a rattlesnake that had evidently just crawled from
the black muzzle of the gun.  The snake instantly re-coiled to repeat
its venomous stroke, and though Donald could easily have killed it as
he had scores of its kind, the presence of this hideous and sole
representative of life in that place of the dead so filled him with
horror that he turned and fled to his canoe.  Nor did he pause in his
flight until he had covered many miles of water, and was compelled to
do so by the faintness of hunger.

He had instinctively shaped his course to the eastward, and now reason
decided him to continue it in that direction.  It was the only one that
Cuyler could have taken, and in searching for his sister the young
ensign had no other clue to follow save that afforded by the fugitives.

Coasting the shore until he discovered the mouth of a small stream,
Donald forced his canoe up this until it was effectually concealed from
the lake.  Then he made a fire of dry wood that would give forth little
smoke, and cooked the noontide meal, that was for that day his
breakfast as well.  Before it was finished he had decided to remain in
his present place of concealment until nightfall, in order to have the
aid of darkness in avoiding such Indians as might be travelling up or
down the coast.  Having satisfied his hunger, and extinguished his
modest fire, he stationed himself at the foot of a great oak on the
shore, where he commanded a good view of the lake and was at the same
time well hidden from it.  Here he reflected upon all that had
happened, wondered if Cuyler had reached Presque Isle, if so, whether
Edith and Christie had met, and tried to imagine the meeting, until at
length he fell asleep and dreamed that Presque Isle was destroyed and
that he was searching for traces of Edith in its ashes.

When he awoke, the sound of voices was in his ears, and for a moment it
seemed as though his waking was but a continuation of his dream.
Within a stone's-throw of where he lay barely hidden by a slight screen
of leaves, a fleet of canoes was moving to the eastward, the very
direction he must take if he adhered to his original plan.  He counted
ten, twenty, thirty, and believed that some had already passed when he
awoke.  They were filled with warriors, all armed and decked with
war-paint of vermilion and black.  There were a few squaws; but no
children, no dogs, and but slight camp equipage.  It was evidently a
war-party, and a strong one.

Donald lay motionless, hardly daring to breathe, and watched them out
of sight.  Were they in pursuit of Cuyler and his handful of fugitives?
were they on their way to attack Christie in his little fort? or were
they in search of him to avenge his looting of the Wyandot lodges?
This last thought was dismissed as quickly as formed; for, of course,
no party of that size would be in pursuit of an individual, no matter
how important he was or what he had done.  No; they must be bound for
Presque Isle, with the hope of picking up Cuyler on the way.

As the youth was in the very act of rising to go to the beach for a
parting glimpse of the fleet, a movement on the water warned him to
sink back just in time to escape the keen glances of the occupants of a
single canoe, that seemed to have been left behind and to be in haste
to overtake the main body.  Besides the four Indians who paddled it,
this canoe held a fifth, seated luxuriously in an object so unusual and
startling that Donald almost uttered an exclamation at sight of it.
"It could not be!"  Donald rubbed his eyes and looked again.  Yes, it
was.  There was no mistaking its shape or color.

"Bullen's tub, as I'm a sinner!" muttered the young man, under his
breath.  "If that doesn't beat everything!  Where did they get it?
What are they going to do with it?  and what has become of its owner?
Poor old chap!  He can't possibly be alive, for he would have died
rather than be parted from it.  Now, though, I had better keep quiet
for awhile and see what is coming next."

Although it lacked two hours of sunset, and Donald maintained his
lonely watch until then, nothing more came in sight.  He prepared
another meal to strengthen him for a night of toil, and as soon as
darkness had set in, made a start.  Keeping so far out on the lake that
the shore was but a dim line, he urged the canoe forward with his
utmost strength through the solemn stillness of the long hours.  He did
not venture near shore until the eastern sky was paling with
approaching dawn.  Then, though he sought anxiously for some friendly
stream in which to conceal his canoe, he failed to find one before the
growing light warned him that it was no longer safe to remain on the
water.  He was thus forced to land on the open beach, and with great
labor drag his craft up a steep bank to a hiding-place in the forest
beyond.  After that, with infinite pain, and moving backward as his
work progressed, he carefully obliterated all traces of his landing by
sweeping them with a bunch of twigs.

While certain that he must have passed the Indian fleet during the
night, and that it would in turn pass him before the day was ended, he
was compelled by utter weariness to sleep, which he did in a dense
thicket at some distance from where he had hidden the canoe.  When he
awoke, it was so late in the day that he feared the savages had gone
by, but after a while he again heard their voices, and peering from his
covert again saw the entire fleet sweep past.  This time he counted its
occupants as well as he could, and discovered that the war-party
numbered something over two hundred members.  On this occasion the
canoe containing the paymaster's tub was in the foremost rank, and
there were no stragglers.

It was a great relief to the anxious watcher to catch this glimpse of
the enemy and thus gain an approximate knowledge of their whereabouts,
and after they had disappeared he felt at liberty to attend to his own
wants by cooking a supply of provisions for future use.

For two more nights and days was this strange and perilous journey
continued, until at daylight of the third day Donald felt that he must
be within a few miles of Presque Isle.  The most critical moment of his
undertaking had now arrived.  In spite of the rising sun he must push
on, for he was determined to reach the fort if possible before the
Indians, and warn Christie of their coming.  At the same time he
realized that, as they had been able to travel much faster than he in
his big canoe, he could not be much if any past their camp of the night
just ended.  Nor did he dare keep far out in the lake, for fear lest
they cut him off from the shore and so hold him at their mercy.

Wearied with his night's work, compelled to keep on, not daring to
land, and expecting each moment to hear the exulting yell or crack of a
rifle that should announce his discovery, Donald was thus obliged to
paddle doggedly forward within a hundred yards of the shore.  His
suspense was well-nigh unbearable.  Every nerve was strung to its
utmost tension.  In each new indentation of the coast he expected to
see the waiting fleet of canoes, and with each fearful backward glance
he wondered at not finding them in pursuit.

At length, as he rounded a point, he thought he saw far down the lake,
against the blue of the sky and above the sombre forest, a flutter of
red.  At the same moment be glanced behind him to see if he were still
free from pursuit.  Alas!  He was not.  Two canoes, each urged by half
a dozen gleaming paddles, were following as swiftly and silently as
sharks that had scented blood, and they were not a quarter of a mile
away.  As their occupants noted that they were discovered they uttered
yells of exultation that chilled the poor lad's blood in his veins and
caused him to feel faint with a despairing terror.


CHAPTER XXIII

DISCOVERED AND PURSUED BY SAVAGES

It was only for a moment that Donald was overcome by the chill despair
that, in presence of an imminent and overwhelming danger, often
paralyzes the most resolute.  Then it passed as suddenly as it had
come.  The hot blood surged through his veins, his heart was filled
with a fierce joy at the prospect of contest, and, under the vigorous
impulse of his stout young arms, the canoe bounded forward as though it
were animate and shared his feelings.  Perhaps it was all owing to the
fact that, having rounded the point, the pursuing savages were
momentarily lost to view, and their yells no longer rang in his ears.
At any rate, the sudden terror was conquered, as it always is by brave
men, though with cowards it stays to the end.

Donald headed straight for the beach, gained it, hastily dragged his
canoe behind some bushes, and, seizing only his rifle, plunged into the
forest.  He reflected that it must be some minutes before his pursuers
could strike his trail; and, with that advantage of time, he surely
ought to reach the fort in advance of them.  So, while he ran at a
great speed, he still saved his strength, and by no means did his best.
This he reserved for a later emergency.

He had hardly got under way when the spiteful crack of a rifle rang out
from the forest directly in front of him.  Almost at the same instant
he threw up his arms, staggered forward, and fell.  As he did so, a
painted savage leaped from behind a tree and raised a hand to his mouth
to produce the quavering of a triumphant war-whoop.  With its first
shrill note a second rifle uttered its deadly summons; the exulting
Indian leaped high, and fell, pierced by Donald's bullet.  Then the
latter arose, hastily reloaded, and, with only a contemptuous glance at
the dead foe who had been so easily beguiled, sped on his way.  There
might be other Indians in his path; but if they were all as simple as
that fellow, he should not mind them.

The young woodsman had not been harmed nor even grazed by his
adversary's bullet, and unexpected as it was, he had been quick-witted
enough to put into practice one of Truman Flagg's long-ago lessons.
Often, when he was a child, playing in the edge of the woods near
Tawtry House, had he flung up his little arms and dropped in that very
manner, at the sound of an unexpected shot, fired into the air, from
the old scout's rifle.  Thus, though he had never before been obliged
to resort to it for self-preservation, the action now came to him as
naturally as breathing.

Now, as he sped forward, his pace was accelerated by a series of yells
that announced the landing, and discovery of his trail by the pursuers
whom he had first seen.  Then, though an unbroken silence reigned in
the pleasant forest glades, he knew that swift runners were on his
track and that the time had come for his utmost exertions.

Mile after mile he ran until he had covered a goodly number before his
strength began to fail.  At length he was panting so that each hissing
breath was a stab, and his eyesight grew dim.  He plunged, almost
headlong, down the precipitous side of a ravine and at its bottom,
fell, face downward, into the cool waters of a rippling brook.  How
deliciously refreshing were the two or three great gulps that he
swallowed.  How the life-giving fluid thrilled his whole frame!  If he
could only lie there as long as he chose and drink his fill!  The
library of Count Stadion in Warthausen offered him the Hülfsmittel
that those poets in Germany, where he still knew little, by a Uebersetzung
introduced. It was a bold undertaking, whose importance he probably
could not have liked, when he came to his statements in the preface to
his translation of "those working among all types of shops and
diversions continue to be believed."

For Wieland's mind was this employment of the lowest influence. With
mature belief to him by the great Britten had become, he always tended
more to the romantic poetry. In Shakspeare's humor, he believed
the main reason to why this writer, regardless of language, manners
and taste since the days in which he lived, is significantly altered,
but still among his fellow countrymen the charm of novelty, and keep
them still was far more attractive, "as all the newer writers,
according to French models have worked."

The first in Shakspeare by Wieland awakened Humorous preference for the
new food was given by another British author. It was star or Yorik as
it relates to the titles of some of his writings called. Almost still
no Wieland Werke was so taken as of the under the title: "Tristram
Shandy's life and opinions" at the time of that novel writer. Even in
later years was inexhaustible in Wieland Bless those premises.

His observations of life had made gradual cheaper. 1764, he was the
real law firm has been appointed Director. Numerous and troublesome
peevishness überhoben work, its very existence seemed essentially
to Seyn more secure than before.

As his condition as in the town of Biberach considered, he described in
a letter to the bookseller Gessner in Zurich, where he also
reported that he was not averse to verheirathen too soon.

"I have now," said Wieland, "on all 'Although my Lebelang a
fairly laborious but lucrative and honorable office - a fact all
the time, the base of my calm mind, and me on the wet food worries
across sets.

Now I go by the needs of human life from nothing, as a wife and I
through the death of my brother have the honor, the only one from my
family Seyn, so I shall take my dear old parents about this issue so
much cornered that I will soon genöthigt Seyn in the whole world
to a woman out.

There is no for me, because I should be a pretty gescheidte, lively,
and where possible, have a rich wife, and three or four virgins who
here stand half an interest in me might have , are not for me.

I wanted that in the thirteen hochlöblichen canton girls would like that
so much Christian love would have been an honest Biberachschen firm
director who makes very pretty verses, from his office thousand guilders
income tenderness and soul of the world, happy. If you know such a girl,
my dear friend, so recommandiren me, I did ask nicely. "On 7 November
1765 announced his marriage Wieland.

"I have," he wrote, "a woman speaking, or proper to speak, a female,
because it is a small, though in my eyes quite like, dear creature
of dignity that I, I do not know quite how, my Parents and friends
had to settle. " Wieland reported at the same time: his wife
come from a merchant house in Augsburg, under the name Jacob Hillebrandt's
fated heir to the mercantile world was not unknown. "" My wife,
"said Wieland," has little or nothing of shimmering qualities that I
probably because I have had occasions, their tired to be in the
choice of a wife had not seen.

It is with Haller to speak, chosen for my heart, my desires and the same
- an innocent, of the world untouched, gentle, cheerful, pleasant
creature, not even pretty, but pretty enough for an honest man who
likes a wife for himself - a Prätension, which one of the great
beauties makes vain.

"Several of his former letters described how happy that Wieland after
his Verheirathung felt. Very properly, he had beurtheilt when he said:"
if he is only in his new position will have to cope, so hopefully
should be the Muses, if they ever had a different Antheil to the
births of his brain had nothing to lose.

"Through some tedious office work was his poetry verleidet.

Always, however, he returned with renewed love for her back.

Several of his former literary products emerged on the City Hall
or Rathaus, in the Chancery office, among the crowds of the driest
and burdensome office.

The fertility of his mind has never been greater than in this period
of his life.

Besides the completion of the "Agathon" said Wieland was his comical
stories "(the Urtheil of Paris, Endymion, Juno, and Ganymede, and
Aurora cephalus). 1768, his poem "Musarion", two years later, "and
Idris Zenide"; this in the first half of the "New Amadis" and a
portion of the poem: "the Graces."

In a letter to Wieland Geßner confessed: "the spirit of poetic
frenzy so powerful it had taken his leisure that he does not know
better filled than with rhymes."

At some poetic drafts, with which Wieland had belonged soon abandoned
the idea Alexander the Great to the Heroes an epic poem to be chosen.

Longer he stayed in the draft of a poem, which, under the title
"Mental Health" the purest flower of true philosophy and also a
"critical natural history of our soul" should be included.

Against the accusation he made in several of his poems too muthwilligen,
sarcastic tone angestimmt have sought to justify Wieland.

"I confess," he wrote, "the irony is my favorite character, and I
flatterer me some talent to do so. Of course it's a pretty dangerous
talent, but luckily I was the nature of a good and honest heart
of style.

My Menschenhaß is made. I love the nature of humanity and the people,
and if I also have the defects of one, and the weaknesses of others
scoff, it's done usually friendly, and with the intention of them joking
salutary truths to tell the sometimes you just do not care to say. "Great
sensation excited the pertness, which Wieland the Platonism in love,
which he had previously gehuldigt, with all the weapons of wit
fought.

The voice of public criticism warned against the tendency of his writings,
because they contain a poison which, ever sweeter, so was dangerous.
With regret, we spoke of the abuse of his great and rare talent,
and even went so far as to him as a poet to describe the love of lust
is no longer seemed to differ. Wieland's Agathon "in Zurich had
been banned.

For the "Don Sylvio Rosalva of 'in Ulm, he must find a publisher. On the
hardest were fairly consistent Urtheile on Wieland's "Strange Stories."
Even more painful than the public disapproval of his writings, Wieland
was the idea in the good opinion of his friends declined to Seyn. He,
once so warm of virtue and religion, the word was spoken, seemed now a
Epikuräer and skeptics. From the poet included it back to the
people.

His warmest friends, among others Zimmermann, holy night seemed the
rumors, spread over Wieland widespread moral change, not all beliefs
to fail. In a letter to Julie Wieland Bondeli justified himself against
the accusations he made.

"I was," he wrote, "formerly Enthusiast in respect of religion,
metaphysics and morality, and I was quite sincere. This was my way
to Seyn, or the result of hundreds of thousands of physical and moral
causes. Have I now but also in a sense ceased to Seyn Enthusiast, I am
no less a friend of the truth, and find the virtue no less lovable
when I no longer equal to the pre-existence of the soul think, and the
image of a winged seraph rosenfarbnen Azur and gold no longer be
ecstatic. erkünstelte Speculation These are nothing more than stilts,
on which human vanity like einherschreitet pleasant fantasies, in
which souls are voluptuous delight.

I had to either my Platonism reformiren, or a hermitage in Tyrol
attention to because to live. The experience has me a delusion
after another taken, and finally I came into balance. I hope to convince
you that I always, even with my mistakes, the character of an
honest man had claimed.

For a virtuous pattern hab 'ich I never kept. You will find that my mind
sometimes thöricht, but my heart was always good. It keeps me a libertine,
and a lot to me giebt mistress. The truth is that I am in friendly and
kinship relationships with two or three ladies standing, not its shape,
but because of their merits, deserve respect and that I have some
fleeting affections for young people had the heirathen I should,
I do not know why.

All my love - and I have since their my seventeenth years at least had a
full dozen - have caused me great pain. They were all of the type that
you = = called passions, all my lovers were goddesses, which I worship,
and I have probably several times the platonic love, to a driven
heroism, which I no longer feel capable.

Forget this one but finally Donquiroterien moral of my youth! If serious
and strict people surprise me as the author of my new works to see,
so I went to complain, they can scold me, but they should not go so
far, so holy night to think of my morals and my character. " With the
inner consciousness of the moral purity of his feelings had to
Wieland comfort, as it met the groundless suspicion of intemperance
and lust shown at Seyn.

Was it also the Platonism in love has become suspicious, so he could
not but in the worst sense Epikuräer of the word apply.

The fact that in his new poetic works of sensuality, the word seemed
to speak, was a mere play of his imagination.

He thought nothing evil in him the alleged descriptions given to it
under arduous official transactions and consolation Erheitrung granted.
None Antheil insignificant at the time of his tendency Products
also had the choice of his Lectüre.

Lucian, Horace, Cervantes, and especially Ariost stars, were his
favorite writers.

On the side of his wife Dorothea Brandt Hill Wieland felt very
happy, although they, according to his own confessions , no "Musarion"
was.

In a space of fifteen years, he had some experience of love is that
they are probably in a pattern of breastfeeding was worth. Even in
earlier times Wieland had designed the plan, a "philosophical history
of love "to write. This plan remained unexecuted, but he offered him the
substance of his poem" Idris and Zenide, "in which he intended to
present different kinds of love against each other, in contrast to,
and to this Behuf different characters in peculiar situations to
develop it. Essentially unchanged reversed the idea that the above
poem was based on Wieland, in his "New Amadis" again, with whom he
is employed at the same time. Ariost Roland's racing was his role model.
The triumph of nature over the craze, the truth about the hypocrisy
of glorifying, after Wieland's own words, the task that he is in his
"New Amadis" presented. From the model given to him in this
poem vorgeschwebt had removed it in his "Graces." According to his own
statements he wanted to in this poem "the transition of people
from the professional nature to a refined level of education"
described.

Of the impression that his writings on the audience did, nobody was
less than Wieland himself from public criticism, often were biased
and partisan, he could feel those not know. It was also in his relationships
that he had ever with the way the literature has remained unknown. Most
of the time he brought in the office, in the Rathscheck Sessions and
his Actentisch to the evening without another company to find than on
a card table or in home Cirkeln where he Literaturkenntniß just could
not expand. By habit he had not felt uncomfortable in this monotonous
life circles, and his apparent resentment often looked indestructible
sense of humor show. "If I," he wrote, "sometimes also schwermüthig be
had, with the garter in the hands of me after a suitable start
around nail, so I reflect all, but until it is nothing - a convincing
evidence that I have something in my states find that the temptation
to hang me, at least keeps the balance.

"These lines Wieland had before his Verheirathung written. His very happy
marriage also showed him his situation, so bitter he also had often
complained, in a less unfavorable light.

In one of his former letters, he asked a friend, "the matter is not so
awful even present." About the afternoons, Wieland said, he could
freely disponiren, and his business he went slightly out of hand.
"I am also," he added, "one of the expeditivsten Schwabenland people
throughout the country.

Only a small Tusculanum is me, and will until I die (which over the
next twenty years is little hope) I see no possibility of one to
get. In the absence of which I have very close to the city, but
in a somewhat lonely places, a gazebo-like gemiethet where I am the
most pleasant country views of the world did, and so near my home in
the city, but entirely on the 'm landing. Here I bring in the summer
most of my idle hours, = = solus cum sola, alone or with the Muses,
nymphs faunas and grass, which I from time to time have some of the
face, which the abstemious hermit would leave unturned.

I smell the sweet smell of fresh hay's, I see cut and prepare flax. On
the one hand, reminds me of the distance of the cemetery where the bones
of my ancestors lie, that I should live so long and well as I can, on
the other hand, attracts me a half-hidden by bushes fernher gallows
from the desire that a half-dozen rogue, which I quite defiant
tête = = Levée look around, want to hang out. I see mills, villages,
individual farms, a long pleasant Thal, which is between trees
with a great village with a beautiful snow-white church Thurm ends,
and about the same also a number of blue mountains.

That together, a prospect that I have anything bad to me Seyn can forget,
and, with this Prospect before me, I sit at a small table, and - Reims.
"Because of his future when he looks so lost could safely Seyn
Wieland. unermüdete By punctuality and professional loyalty, he
had the respect and trust of his Superior acquired. überhoben His
economic circumstances worry him.

Never before had the desire in him geregt his situation with others to
swap. He therefore knew his friends initially little thanks, as
it a different position to gain, as they believed that with his
abilities and inclinations more harmonirte. hingeworfene A fleeting
expression Wieland, that he was not averse would be an academic to hold
Lehramt had in the Chur Main hiss v.

Minister big blow him in Warthausen know, the idea awakened him to Erfurt
to draw. Wieland fluctuated for a time, whether he calls given to
him to follow. Satisfied with his past relationships, tied his family,
parents and parents-in-law to his father town Biberach.

He also was afraid of his new situation, some inconvenience. The promotion
was the first thing he wanted to avoid. Magisterarbeit becoming
Wieland said, would be for him to be less to send, since he "had
the honor, Comes palatii = = Caesarei to Seyn, and by means of his
diploma itself was capable of, master of liberal arts at creiren." Some
of these obstacles cleared Wieland Freund, Professor Riedel of
Erfurt, across.

What it mainly certain Erfurt's reputation after it was the idea that
he awaited the leisure to literary work hoped to gain. That letter,
in which he accepted a professorship of philosophy with the character
of a Churfürstl. Raths Main hiss and a government salary of 600
Rthlrn. has been assured was contained at the same time flattering speech,
that his name is the main motive would have been after him to pull
Erfurt.
CHAPTER XXV

DONALD FIRES THE MINE AND SAVES THE BLOCKHOUSE

Knowing the savage nature as well as he did, Donald believed that his
well-loved friend, as well as every one of the gallant fellows under
his command, would be put to death in case they surrendered; or, if
they were spared for the time being, it would only be for torture in
the Indian villages.  He was determined, therefore, to make an effort
to save them; but his half-formed plan was of such a perilous nature
that he dared not confide it to Christie, for he knew that the latter
would never consent to its being undertaken.  Once outside the
blockhouse, however, and lost to sight in the darkness, he was free to
act as he pleased.

After going a few steps he paused to listen, but no sound save that of
night-birds and the lapping of little waves on the lake shore came to
his ears.  The silence was profound, and assured him that even the
savages, wearied with long fighting, were snatching a few hours of
sleep.  On either side of him lay the still smoking ruins of the post,
for of all its buildings, the stronghold of logs alone remained
standing.

From these charred heaps, fitful flames, fanned into life by the soft
night breeze, sprang up every now and then, casting fantastic bits of
light and shadow over the scene of desolation.

Reassured by the silence, the young soldier swiftly crossed the open
space beyond which lay the forest, and skirted the latter to the lake
shore.  There he hid his rifle and his supplies in the hollow of a
tree, so that he might have greater freedom of action.  Then he worked
his way cautiously toward the rude breastworks facing the blockhouse.
A small fire of driftwood burned dimly behind these, and about it sat
several blanketed figures.  In no other direction was there a sign of
wakefulness.

Donald was now crawling on hands and knees.  Suddenly he encountered a
figure lying prone in his path, and had touched it before aware of its
proximity.  Instantly he, too, lay flat on the ground, and, with heavy
breathing, so feigned sleep that the aroused savage was deceived into
believing the form beside him to be that of some restless comrade.  So
he turned over with a grunt, and again dozed into unconsciousness.

After a few minutes Donald ventured to move, and then to pursue his way
with a greater caution than before.  Now he passed other sleeping
forms, and even stepped over one whom he could not otherwise avoid.
Finally, after more than an hour of intense anxiety and stealthy
movement, only advancing by inches, and with frequent motionless
pauses, he discovered the place of which he was in search.  It was the
mouth of the mine that the Indians had spent two days and nights in
excavating.  As he had conjectured, it lay very near the little fire
beside which sat the drowsy guard, and not until he was well within its
profound shadow did he venture to draw a full breath.

The passage was very low, but of sufficient width to allow two persons
to pass each other, and after penetrating it a short distance he found
that it took a turn to the left.  At this angle he was perplexed by
coming into contact with fragments of charred wood.  Wondering for what
purpose these had been brought there, he still moved forward,
determined to discover whether or not the statement concerning a store
of powder beneath the blockhouse was true.  All at once his
outstretched hands came into contact with something that barred his
further progress.  It was hard, smooth, and round.  There were other
similar objects above, below, and on both sides of it.  They were
powder kegs, five in all, and of a size that should contain twenty
pounds.  One hundred pounds of powder!  Enough to lift the little
fortress from its foundations and scatter its timbers far and wide.
The savages had made no empty boast, and, unless he could save his
recent companions, their fate was surely sealed.

What could he do?  Time was precious, for daylight could not be far
off.  Beyond this point he had formed no plan.  He had hoped to find
both the tunnel and its contents but an ingenious fiction to frighten
Christie into a surrender.  Now it was a startling and overwhelming
truth.  He could not remove the powder by the way he had come.  In
fact, he doubted if he could effect his own escape that way, so thickly
were the sleeping savages dispersed about the entrance to the tunnel.
In this predicament, and with the intensity of his thinking, great
beads of perspiration started to his forehead, and he clenched his
hands until they ached.

The mine was all ready for firing.  He knew this by discovering that
one of the powder kegs was open, and by finding the end of a rudely
made fuse buried in its contents.  Who had taught the Indians this
diabolical trick of warfare?  Never before had they been known to
prepare a mine.  They must have been instructed by some white man, and
one possessed of military knowledge.  All at once Donald recalled the
voice that had demanded the surrender of the blockhouse.  Certainly, no
Indian ever spoke English like that.  Had there not been a familiar
ring to the tones?  It seemed so now, though he had been too intent on
other thoughts to notice it at the time.  Still he was not sure, the
impression was too slight.

All these things flashed through Donald's mind in a moment, while his
hands were feeling out the exact condition of the mine.  How long was
that fuse?  He traced it backward as its evil length stretched along
the bottom of the tunnel.  It led to the angle, and there he again
encountered the fragments of burned wood.  At one side the tunnel
widened, and here its wall was entirely composed of this material.
Where could it have come from?  It was freshly charred.  The Indians
would never have brought it there and piled it in that confusion.  It
must have fallen from above!  There must be an opening!  If there only
was, he would know just what to do.  There would be no difficulty then
about forming a plan.

With eager haste Donald began pulling away the burned ends of timbers
and logs.  He had hardly begun before the whole mass gave way, and slid
down on him.  Fortunately, there was not much of it, and, though he was
nearly smothered by dust and ashes, he quickly scrambled from the
débris, and listened with loudly beating heart.  He realized that he
had found an opening to the surface, and was wildly exultant over the
discovery, but could hardly believe that the noise of the sliding
material, which had sounded to him like an avalanche, should not have
aroused the savages.  True, the island's forests of France are more
lonely than those of Ville d'Avray, but for us, given our state of
mind at that moment, not between them and they had the smallest
difference. "However, convinced lament that we do not draw trouble,
draw forces weakness and walked one more hour. But all was in vain,
our intrepid effort crashed against the fate that we had gotten
into this increasingly intricate maze.

Magdalena eventually fall rendered under a tree and I began to feel that
I left my strength. "There was a quarter of an hour we were so
desperate, despondent, not knowing which party to take, when we hear
a rumor and turning back to our head we saw a beggar who came to us
with a child by the hand. "We could not contain a shout of joy and
in judging safe. I got up and ran towards her requesting it teaches
us the way we had to follow, but the impatience of misery overcame the
fear, because instead of me and almost without speaking, he interrupted
me to implore pitiful voice: " - Gentlemen, lady, you have compassion
for me and my son, A charity for the love of God and that He will reward
you for your charity as they deserve! "I missed the hand pocket as
did Magdalena But we spent all our money on flowers and we have no
nothing.
Almost breathless with nervous excitement, he knelt beside the farther
end of the fuse, and with trembling hands attempted to ignite it by a
spark struck from flint and steel.  Again and again the spark flew
aside, but at length there came a slight flash and a spluttering flame.

Heavens!  How fast that roughly made fuse burned!  Almost like an open
train of powder.  Donald had hardly thought of his own danger; but a
single glance at that hissing line of fire caused him to spring to his
place of exit.  He scrambled through it, and darted at full speed
across the open toward the forest, heedless of everything save a desire
to place as great a distance as possible between himself and the awful
fire fiend about to leap forth.

As he reached the edge of the woods and turned to look, the explosion
came.  He saw a sheet of vivid flame, that dimmed the brightness of the
rising sun, leaping in air.  At the same instant, as though it had been
a thunderbolt and hurled at him, he was struck senseless by a crashing
blow on the head, delivered from behind.

The four or five crouching figures that had been grimly watching
Donald's approach, and sprang up to receive him as he turned to look
back, were for a moment petrified with fright at the suddenness and
violence of the shock.  Then, moved by a common impulse, and without a
word being spoken, they lifted their unconscious captive, ran with him
to the lake shore, bundled him into a canoe, and pushed off.

Upon the Indians behind the breastwork, where the full force of the
explosion was felt, the effect was so disastrous that the
panic-stricken survivors rushed madly for their canoes.  Many of these
were damaged, and some crushed beyond repair, by the rain of logs,
stones, and other missiles hurled from the dense smoke-cloud that was
slowly drifting to leeward in fleecy folds.

Although the blockhouse was violently shaken, it remained standing,
and, after a moment of consternation, its garrison rushed out to hasten
the flight of their terrified foes.  A few ran to the breastwork on the
lake shore, and gazed wonderingly at the smoking hole from which the
torrent of flame had burst.  The rest, headed by Christie, charged upon
the Indians behind the creek hank, who, although preparing for flight,
were not quite so bereft of their senses as those who had felt the full
shock of the upheaval.  Some of them even turned on the whites, who
rushed so recklessly among them; so that for a minute a fierce
hand-to-hand fight raged on the narrow strand, and even among the
crowded canoes in the water.  In the confusion of this mêlée Christie
became separated from his men, and ere he realized the full peril of
his position received several knife wounds in quick succession.
Staggering under these, he fell, was instantly dragged into a canoe,
and borne away.

It was only after the last of the canoes had made good its escape,
leaving many dead savages behind, that the little force of breathless
but exulting soldiers discovered their leader to be missing.  In vain
did they search for him.  In vain did they run along the shore, firing
ineffectual shots at the departing fleet.  He was not to be found, nor
had they any knowledge of his fate.

So their jubilation over this wonderful deliverance and victory was
turned into sorrow, and it was with heavy hearts that, abandoning the
little fortress, they set forth on a retreat towards the Niagara.


CHAPTER XXVI

FRIENDS IN CAPTIVITY

Not until the panic-stricken savages had put many miles of water
between them and the scene of their recent discomfiture did they
venture to land and establish a camp in which to attend to their
wounded, repair damaged canoes, and recover as far as possible from the
disaster of the morning.  Among the first craft to make a landing was
that in which Donald Hester, after slowly recovering consciousness, had
lain for several hours, nearly blinded with a headache, so intense that
a band of fire seemed to encircle his throbbing temples, vaguely
wondering what had happened and where he was.  On reaching the shore,
the other occupants of the canoe disappeared without paying any
attention to him; and, being thus left to his own devices, he proceeded
to quench his feverish thirst as well as bathe his aching head.  -
Are we going up the creek? - You've been away! Do not want to go rather
to take a mate with Don Casiano ... So these people know a good
thing ... ¡Viera how has the Pampita! - Sure! Come on! - It Don
Casiano ... ¡Che, Hipólito! Este, who was at his post awaiting
orders, he returned the head and asked: - Here at the house - not at the
ranch ... are at the ranch ... - Jiu !...-- module Hipólito interject
and horses departed apparently guided by a cadenero mosquiador worn by
luxury, a bell and before the hociquera whose thrust could also say
that 'was widening "Trenque Lauquen. chacra Don Casiano Contreras,
located on the edge of the ejido, was exceptional reputation in
the payment and its prestigious prevailed so attractive that even
the same horse to go into it, seemed to jog with stronger and more
determined push, but what strange ... whether it was known that the
birds preferred the more singers for their nests, which they put
roses in her pink and violet more humble and more lloron willows,
poplars and more straight.

And even the malevos when moved from its long Tranquera, they were
longing to be good!

So intense was the splendid irradiation of "Pampita »...! - It seems that
the road is heavy - said Lorenzo. - This piece is ugly - he replied
Baldomero, - before I knew having a dam here, but don Casiano is
fixed. - !...

¡ Jiu Jiu !...

-- Hipólito repeated without removing the whip and break the latigera
continued their march, between that great silence broken only by
the vibrant arpeggio of a bird or the ringing of the bell each time
escarceaba the cadenero. * * * * * - Quiet, Baldomero - Melchor
said, - let the open pueblero this: see, Ricardo, a gaucho. - What
a great challenge - he replied break down and going to open the
Tranquera, before which had stopped.

So made, the break happened and stopped again. - close - Ricardo
asked, causing a slight smile of Hippolytus. - It is better to close
it, yes, sir - he replied Baldomero while Melchor exclaimed: -- -
What a question!

... Chambon ¡! ... The break came at the ranch up the slope of the road
that gave access to the house, which was runner Don Casiano that by
recognizing the distance, told the Pampita: The Astules ... Take mate,
daughter - and headed towards the chariot, which stood painfully at
the end of the steep slope. - Jiu! ... ¡Jiu! ... ¡Jiu! ... - Turn
right, Hipolito - Don Casiano cried, - there! ... Behind the
casuarinas!

... is lighter. So did the driver taking the new road to be told and
just draw gift Casiano, to facilitate access to the house built on top
of a small Lomada. fell walkers and effusive demonstrations after they
Don Casiano said: - Come ... go, gentlemen ... Here is more fresh ...
be seated. - What a beautiful farm you have, sir - said Lorenzo -
what beautiful trees. - Yes, sir, if something is worth so ... trees
have already done ... chacrita voucher for the old, sir, instead
of individuals. - I've always believed it, sir, if young men are worth
is what they promise when they are old. - But the old ones do not
promise anything, sir , and in life there is always that promise ...
to be worth something ...

"Bullen's?  Of course I do.  But you can't for an instant imagine that
he had a hand in this outrage?"

"Well, you undoubtedly know the paymaster better than I, but I must
confess that I should like to meet him, and hear his own account of his
movements during the past ten days or so."

"That you are not likely to do, at least not for some time to come, if
ever; and in the meantime I wish you could dismiss from your mind every
shadow of such a terrible suspicion against a brother officer," said
Christie, gravely.

"All right, my dear fellow, I will try to do so out of admiration for
your loyalty to our cloth, if for no other reason.  Now, to change the
subject, what do you suppose is going on over there?"

"I have been wondering," replied Christie, "and at the same time
admiring the barbaric gorgeousness of that central figure.  He is
certainly the most terrific dandy in savage style that ever I laid eyes
on.  Seems to be in some sort of a mess with his fellow-heathen, too,
judging from his expression and surroundings.  It looks like some sort
of forest court-martial: and, by Jove! I believe it is one."

The scene thus referred to was that of a circle of grave warriors
seated about a small fire, and listening to the harangue of one who
stood in an open space reserved for him at one side.  Beyond the circle
were gathered the younger men and such squaws as were free from
culinary duties.  The speaker was, as Christie had remarked, an Indian
dandy of the most extreme type, although short in stature as compared
with the long-limbed warriors surrounding him.  His head was surmounted
by a gaudily colored plume of feathers held in place by a glittering
band or tiara that encircled his brows.  Secured about his waist by a
broad belt of rattlesnake skin, but falling back from the upper part of
his body, was a fine white blanket edged with fur and so elaborately
embroidered with beads and quills that the original fabric was almost
concealed.  His feet and ankles were protected by moccasins of fawn
skin, also beautifully embroidered.  But the triumph of forest art, as
displayed on his person, lay in the wonderful painting of his entire
body, which was covered with intricate designs in the most vivid colors
on a background of black, and the prismatic effect was so bewilderingly
gorgeous, that, as Christie said to Donald, "it was enough to mortify a
rainbow."

In spite of his paint and feathers the individual thus lavishly
decorated did not seem happy.  In fact, he appeared miserably nervous
and apprehensive; or, as Christie remarked, as though he had been
condemned to exchange his gaudiness for something more modest, like the
plumage of a peacock, for instance.  "Isn't he lovely, though?"
continued the young officer.  "Now I know, what I should never
otherwise have suspected, that the savage mind is capable of an
artistic expression more sublime than anything yet conceived by
civilization."

"Yes," replied Donald, absently, "but there are several things about
the fellow that I don't understand.  To begin with, he is talking to
those other chaps through an interpreter.  Then he does not
gesticulate, while most Indian orators depend more upon signs than
words for effect.  He stands with his toes turned out, and his ears are
not cut.  In fact, I don't believe he is any more an Indian than I am."

"What do you think he is?" inquired Christie, apprehensively.

"I don't know what he is; but I believe him to be an--a Frenchman."

"Oh!" said the other, in a relieved tone.  "Do you really?  I--Hello?
what's that?  Bullen's tub!  By Jove!"

One of the older chiefs had been talking for a few moments, and now,
evidently by his command, two young men brought the famous bath-tub
into the circle and set it down close beside the dandy.  Another
presented a dish of water.  The gorgeous individual shuddered as he
took it, like one showing the first symptoms of hydrophobia.  He looked
imploringly about him, said something which was answered by an angry
exclamation to the effect that the order just given must be obeyed.

The man stooped, took something from a compartment in the tub, with
trembling hand, apparently dropped it into the vessel of water, and
lifted the latter into plain view.  In a breathless silence all eyes
were turned toward it.  For a moment the gorgeous one held it aloft,
and then, as no result followed his manipulation, he dropped it with a
sort of a groan, and gazed about him with the tearfulness of a hunted
animal.

A murmur of discontent arose from the savage throng surrounding him.
Donald glanced at Christie, whose face had grown deadly pale, but said
nothing.  Both young men had risen in their excitement, and now stood
watching the strange scene with eager interest.

I can not just themselves, but also my friends are, my love, not enough
careful that I do with them will not compromittirt. "From the
mischief was in the German literature Wieland feared, according to
a letter dated 15 . February 1801, a threefold significant damage.
jacobi American Sansculotismus That, he said, would be first, the
character of our nation, one of stupidity bordering on indifference
to truth, beauty and make good suspect, secondly, the entire Class
of scholars and writers, the so-venerable and a lot of wealthy Seyn
could, in public opinion deep down, they deprive their main influence,
and thus their persecutors, and decrying the Great Aristocrats won
the game and give.

Finally, thirdly, that will Sansculotismus young people and some for a
smaller time and some for their whole life, head, heart and taste
confuse. "Everything But," said Wieland added, "wants to have his time.
Again, this shameful period of anarchy in the Republic will pass, scholars,
and the unfehlbarste resources to accelerate its end, would like
me to make, and tuna, as if no Schlegel, Tieck's, Bernhardi's,
Clemens Brentano's, and how the Gesellen all mean in the world
would be.

"Similarly, Wieland said in a letter to Voss:" I begin, it is
indifferent to Bübereien against this sort, and wrap me in a very quiet
Bewußtseyn that I have a better order the time in which I live, have
earned. What has happened since the moment I have something good print,
ie approximately from Agathon to befall me, and even daily widerfährt
would be sufficient, every young man who is familiar with some of the
dedicated service of the Muses wished to discourage. Meanwhile, the
almost incomprehensible injustice of my contemporaries, little
influence on my happiness, and it was no compliment, but truly warm
feeling when I said to my muse: You make the happiness of my life,
And nobody listens to you, so you sing to me alone. hab way I have
always been lucky enough to his Horace praised, by a small number
of such people to be loved, each of which is worth an audience, and
this has always been enough for my heart.

I've always been the art of the Muses for their own sake loved, and
they with love and love-driven.

The loudest Zujauchzen all readers in the world would see me for
the smallest mistakes that I could avoid, and could not be avoided,
not harmless, if it like nobody had seen, as I do.

"To be consoled Wieland, and left in the garden cottage, which he
in his "Osmantinum", as he usually gave his residence, had built
the kind of hope, "yet some blissful hours zuzubringen and even
some of secret visit to his muse."

Among the plans that he in his rural retreat designed and Theil
said, were particularly Uebersetzungen from Greek, from Xenophon,
Euripides, and Aristophanes, which he called an "Attic museum"
wanted to publish.

Skilled Gehülfe he had with this company to Jacobs and Hottinger. Den
Last, he had during his stay in Switzerland, learned, and appreciated
it very much.

"I know," said Wieland, "not quite so purely on the Socratic model of
educated minds than Hottinger." Among the translations of the old
Classics, which he for the "Attic Museum undertook, captivated him
vorzüglich the" Ion "of Euripides. With the election this tragedy
Wieland joined a secondary intention. With a flowing, the original
faithfully reproduced Uebersetzung he educated the audience of
assessments, the same with that of AW Schlegel sealed Trauerspiel
"ion" to compare, then Weimarische on stage and often had been
discussed.

So you could, said Wieland, with own eyes see the same substance
as both artist and edit their work against each other behave.

Such a comparison However, "with a pure sense of the true, beautiful
and Geziemende employed," may be important for friends and disciples
of art not as entertaining and instructive Seyn.

Two own factories, "Agathodämon" and "Solon", which, as he Göschen
wrote, "nor as embryos were in his head," Wieland gave the plan to the
last-mentioned works again. A great effect, he promised from the many
portrayals, which he in the "letters Aristipp's and his contemporaries,"
wanted to create. This plant, from which he drafted a detailed plan
should be one of his writings are extensive. During the preparation
it still employed many other literary works. To his friend and publisher
Göschen in Leipzig, he wrote 19 December 1797: "It is high time that
I am once again a small sign of life there. In That what the mental,
or, perhaps correctly, said what the literary life, as I live, since
the season has been unfriendly, fully. I'm rarely in my museum, from
the house did not work from morning until night, days and weeks to
find incomprehensible short and quick, and I demungeachtet since the
November 23 one of the hardest literary Abentheuer a metric
Uebersetzung The clouds of Aristophanes happy, as I hope at least to
date.

"On 18 February 1798 Wieland reported that he had some political dialogues
content, under the title "Conversations with four eyes" began
to draw, and even more will follow up until he "did everything by heart,
what he in those colorful times for the right words to think time. "
That he made some considerations, showed his own speech in a subsequent
letter dated 7 November 1798. "Although in my talks," said Wieland,
"the cause of humanity freimüthig kept, and truth be said that we
neither Paris nor to Vienna or Petersburg preach from the housetops
hears, so hab 'ich, my thinking and wisdom in accordance with, especially,
representing an even halfway reasonable reader offensive, or Respect
the man in power is guilty may seem contrary, I carefully guarded,
and hope, then with the Leipzig Censur in no collision to come
though I will not stand for that the book does not appear to Vienna
will be banned, as almost all the best, what happens outside Vienna's
light occurs.

"For one of his best works Wieland was the aforementioned" Agathodämon.
" This Urtheil, he said, will posterity about accidents, regardless
of his work so well for the moment would like to be included. "The
seventh book of the Agathodämon," Wieland said, "I was a very difficult
task, perhaps the worst of all that I could give up.

The execution was so difficult to me, as seasons and weather mental
work of this kind were very unfavorable, order to satisfy myself. I have
the whole book more than six times by new - and quite a few main points
reworked, and Files and Polirens wanted to be no end. Now it is -
as it is, I'm with myself satisfied, because I know that I am as a
person, as a literary folk poet as a teacher and do my best, and so
have done my duty. "In a very unmuthige mood Wieland was moved by
the news to him by the low sales of his works Gesammtausgabe received.
His publisher, Göschen in Leipzig, he wrote about the 15th July 1799.
"I can not do otherwise than with a deep sense of regret that I myself
have already survived. I do not know how I to such expiration of my
credits and my favor with the reading audience am come and take their
Theile believe that the two and thirty volumes, at least for the
eighteenth century must have his move.

Maybe in the nineteenth century, a lower star than us, and I will,
however, as the Greek flute player, simply, the Muses and myself
to play.

"Recreation of strenuous mental work Wieland found in his rural asylum.
Are several plans to make improvements in his home garden and gave
him the cheerful mood that he by the thought of how deeply his literary
fame had decreased, had lost. More often, he would have fallen prey
to the Mißmuth Seyn if at that detuning Gemüths still his physical
suffering had been introduced.

But even in his advanced age was an almost uninterrupted health remained.
In a letter to Göschen of 24 December 1798 Wieland wondered about his
own wellbeing. "They found it," he wrote, "your hope that I have a fairly
old patriarch should be. Twenty years ago, I had no idea of how old I
should be sixty, and had this suspicion in my physical condition,
however, many and good causes.

After five and fifty years, my health unvermerkt always solid, and
I find myself now in the sixty six and so absurd that I without my
tenth degree on year to see hope.

But you, dear friend, should and must be me survive, it would be
just to my Confessions = = or messages from myself and my writings,
or how you want my title Selbstrecension, embarrassed to be not
more than after my went out of this world is to be printed.

"The thought that this time is more and more closer to him, not
clouded Wieland serenity.

He felt in his age very happy with literary and rural pursuits and
pleasures.

Always new pleasure he drew from the contemplation of his own
creation gardens to stroll through its Lindenallee, or by a birch
grove on the banks of the Ilm, where he left undisturbed his ideas.

In such moments he felt to his complete satisfaction hardly anything
to require.

His son, the bookseller Gessner in Zurich, Wieland wrote in January
1799: "I am so keen on the recurring beautiful season that I really
enjoy the spirit already, and the intervening winter in order to
find shorter, since literary works, which I intend to fill him,
would be more than sufficient for me twice as long to employ. but
I will diligently Seyn, because there is no more than fair that I
have the right, with the summer just enjoying zuzubringen, work in
the winter by buying.

"In a not long afterward written letters to Gleim Wieland is
gratefully acknowledged that he, along with the bliss, undisturbed
by the ghosts of the Wise and the poet Vorwelt deal to be able to
maintain, nor the pleasure gegönnt was his good genius, in the shape
of a woman at his side, and a circle of children and grandchildren
to have him on what his days as easily and quickly entschlüpften
how the inhabitants of the poetic Elysium.

"The only," he wrote, "what if all (at least for the complete
similarity with the Elysium, which we so ingeniously Lucian has
written) is still off, the butter rolls and Bratwürstchen which the
trees grow, the roast partridges, which by itself flown on the
table, and the beautiful Crystal goblet glasses, one of the hedges
is lost to them by sources and streams with delicious wine to fill
the just so voluntarily, as an inexhaustible source of all rock
hervorsprudeln etc.

So comfortable and Wohlfeil hab 'ich's Now of course not. But the mere
truth to say, I want 'is not so comfortable and have Wohlfeil for I
think the law that we the gods no good without work, a very wise
law, and consider a certain portion of effort and concern = quantum
satis = as indispensable to the true spice of life enjoyment.

"Increases of this benefit was still Wieland for visits by his friends
Weimarische. Even his Lord, his princess, the duchess mother not spurned
him under the shade of its trees to be welcomed.

The lively exchange of ideas in numerous discussions, it leads
back into the past, had a lot of Wieland attractions. Of great
interest to him was also the then adequate follow acquaintance with
Jean Paul, of which he is versatile suggested, but, after his own
confessions, even just so often rejected, as felt attracted. It is
common ground one of the most beautiful moments in Wieland's later
life was his teenage girlfriend Wiedersehn Sophie la Roche, 1799
in Osmannstädt he visited, accompanied by one of her grandchildren,
Sophie Brentano, a sister of the famous poet Clemens Brentano.

The memory of the pleasure of days, Wieland verlebte then, it was
unforgettable. Again it was angefrischt as Sophie Brentano in May 1800
it again in his rural asylum welcomed. Exhilarating effect on him by
the presence of mind and heart excellent girl, then in the full flower
of youth was beauty. A peculiar charm won her care by a train of
silent melancholy.

Wieland often lamented that Sophie, really created, Andre embellish
life, from the people turn out and the loneliness search. In the past,
however, as he himself or any person guessed liked, destroyed the
impressions of a long-torn Gemüths their delicate nature of the
body.

The peaceful Osmantinum, after which they are so often gesehnt had
determined their earthly too receive. "I and my family," said Wieland,
29 September 1800 to Göschen, "have this month had a hard
stand. Sophie Brentano, the lovable and interesting girl of 24 years,
which perhaps contributed to the ground, was on 24 September by one
of the strangest and entangled nerve diseases that are in few days
as dangerous announced, with each dismal days showed symptoms informal
and devise all unerachtet applied Hülfe, ends with death. What we are
in these dreary days of sixteen experienced and suffered, let your own
imagination and your own heart to say. - The envelope, the Fugitive
of the angels had returned, now rests in a quiet spot in my garden
they are sacred. "Wieland's silent mourning for the premature Withered
Holde girls still often heard in the letters to his girlfriend Sophie
la Roche. 24 April 1801, he wrote: "The return of warm season giebt
of intellectual community, which so far between our Sophie Brentano
and fairly continuously fortgedauert me a new life. All of my
walks on her grave, my favorite resting places are just a few steps
away, and the idea that we only have a small period of time
separates unvermerkt is still continuing on a feeling that my stay
in the garden a very own sweet melancholy interest giebt.

As near as I
could make out, she had been sent by her father to look after the
ladies at the time of the attack on Cuyler's party, and was acting the
part of hostess when I met them, or something of that kind."

"Ah-mo," repeated Donald, meditatively, and smiling as though the name
recalled a pleasant vision.  "Well, what became of you after that?"

"Oh! when they saw that I was a friend of the ladies, those Indian
chaps behaved very decently; took me to their camp, gave me something
to eat, and fixed me up as well as they knew how.  Of course I was
obliged to do the best I could with what they had to offer, and as
paint constituted the principal part of their costume I was obliged to
make use of it.  They all took a hand at decorating me, and I must say
that I think the _tout ensemble_ of my appearance as an Ottawa warrior
was rather neat."

"Extremely so," admitted Donald.

"That white blanket I borrowed from Miss Pontiac," continued the little
paymaster, "and the moccasins I got from her brother.  Of course there
wasn't such a thing as a wig to be had, and so I made a liberal use of
feathers in its place.  The best part of the day was spent in getting
me into shape, and when I called on the ladies in the evening I vow
they didn't recognize me.  Took me for a sure-enough Indian, and
thinking I didn't understand English, I suppose, passed remarks on my
appearance.

"'Isn't he a guy?' said Miss Edith.

"'Not at all,' replied Madam Rothsay; 'he is by far the best-looking
Indian I have seen, and I shouldn't be surprised if he were Pontiac
himself.'"

Here Donald winked at Christie.

"When I thanked her for the compliment," continued the paymaster, "and
they recognized my voice, I thought that Miss Edith would have a fit,
she laughed so immoderately.  In fact, she did nothing but laugh
whenever she caught sight of me until an event occurred that gave her
something more serious to think about.  It struck me as being pretty
rough on a man who was trying to make the most of his opportunity to
win her good graces."

"What happened to divert her from the absurdity of your masquerade?"
inquired Christie.

"Nothing more nor less than news of the proposed attack on you,"
replied Bullen.  "During the second day of my stay on the island, the
war-party destined for Presque Isle came along and camped there for a
few hours.  I had been amusing myself and establishing a reputation as
medicine man among the few Indians stationed there, by rehearsing some
of my old tricks, and when this new gang appeared, nothing would do but
an exhibition for their benefit.  They were so impressed with my power
over the fire-demon, that they invited me to join them.  They promised
me all sorts of honors if I would comply, and threatened to test my
powers by subjecting me to torture by fire in case I refused.  I had no
idea at that time of their especial mission, and was wondering how to
escape from my awkward fix, when at that moment Miss Edith appeared."

"Laughing as usual, I suppose?" said Donald, a little bitterly, for he
was beginning to think that his sister exhibited rather too much
lightness of heart, in view of the gravity of her own situation, to say
nothing of the dangers and hardships he was undergoing on her behalf.

"So far from it," replied the paymaster, "that there were traces of
tears on her cheeks, and she was evidently suffering great mental
distress.

"'Oh, Mr. Bullen!' she said in a low tone, so as not to be overheard by
the savages, in case any of them understood English, 'I have just
learned of something dreadful.  This war-party is on its way to
surprise Presque Isle, and capture the survivors of poor Mr. Cuyler's
expedition, who have probably sought refuge there.  Just think how
terrible it would be if they should succeed, and our friends should be
killed!  Can't you do something to frustrate their wicked plan?  You
seem to have gained such an influence over them, I am sure you can if
you only will.'

"I was rather staggered by this news, of course, and when she added:
'If you would only try, Mr. Bullen, and should succeed in saving the
brave men in that fort, I should ever esteem you among the very dearest
of my friends,' my resolution was instantly taken.

"I answered: 'For your sake, Miss Edith, I will make the effort and do
what lies in my power to thwart the design of the red villains.'  With
that it was really touching to witness her gratitude and to hear her
say that she should pray for my safety and success from that moment."

"She must have reasoned that I would be searching for her among
Cuyler's fugitives and would very likely be in Presque Isle," reflected
Donald.

"I don't see how that could be," retorted Bullen; "for I had carefully
avoided any mention of your name, or of the fact that I had met you,
thinking it useless cruelty to arouse her anxiety before your fate was
definitely known."

"Which showed remarkable good sense on your part, and I thank you for
your consideration," cried Donald.  "Her anxiety then must have been
for--"

"But how did you proceed to make good your promise?" interrupted
Christie, hastily.  "It seems to me you undertook a pretty big
contract."

"So it was," responded the paymaster, "and in order to carry it out, I
became, from that moment, an Indian of the Indians, a redskin of the
redskins, and a savage of the savages.  Why, for the sake of my paint I
even gave up my daily tubbing, which, by the way, in my present
position of deposed medicine man and white captive, I suppose I may
have the melancholy satisfaction of resuming.  I immediately agreed to
accompany the war-party, telling them that, having once adopted the
Indian costume, I had thereby cut myself off from all companionship
with the whites.  I promised to teach them the art of war as practised
by the redcoats, and show them how to capture Presque Isle without the
loss of a man.

"Oh you did, did you?" growled Christie.

"Yes, I did, and to begin with, I delayed their progress as much as
possible, in the hope that Cuyler might reach you before we overtook
him, and that you might join his retreat to Niagara.  For this purpose
I insisted that they carry along my tub, which, as I truly affirmed,
contained all my medicine.  Every morning when they were ready to
start, I sat in it, under a closed tent of matting, and performed magic
which they dared not interrupt.  Sometimes the main body went on
without us, so fearful were they of interfering with my mystic rites."

"What did you do under the tent?" asked Donald.

"Oh, just jabbered gibberish and rattled things and made smokes,"
replied the ex-medicine man.

"Then, when we reached Presque Isle and found it still occupied, I
dissuaded them from an assault and proposed the scheme of a mine by
which the fort might be destroyed without the loss of a warrior.
According to their belief this mine was to run directly to the
blockhouse, but I so laid it out that it should strike a building some
distance away.  Then I meant to collect all their powder, harmlessly
explode it beneath the empty building, and thus leave them without
means for prosecuting the fight.  This plan miscarried through a
cave-in of the roof, which showed them the true location of the mine's
end and gave them a chance to set fire to the building nearest the
blockhouse, which they hoped thus to destroy.

"When that plan failed, they continued the mine in the direction
indicated by their new bearings and you would have been blown sky-high
the moment it was completed, had I not persuaded them to first demand a
surrender, and then wait until morning for your answer.  Then I hoped,
after getting you safely out of the place, with your arms and
ammunition, under the pretence of surrendering, to harmlessly explode
the mine, thus destroying all the enemy's powder, and leaving you
masters of the situation.  How that plan was frustrated, you know as
well as I, though how the powder ever got moved and prematurely
exploded, I never expect to discover unless you had a hand in it,
Christie."

"No," replied the ensign, who had just received an expressive glance
from Donald.  "Neither I nor those with me had any definite knowledge
of your mine before the explosion occurred."

"Well, however it was caused, my plans were completely defeated," said
Bullen, "and not only that, but my reputation as a medicine man was
ruined.  As soon as we got to this place, a council was called, and I
was charged with exploding the mine so as to destroy the Indians
instead of the blockhouse.  When I protested my innocence, they argued
that I must, then, have lost my power over the fire-demon, and ordered
me to repeat the magic tricks by which I had gained their confidence.
You witnessed my humiliating failure, and its results; even my
effervescing powders had become damp and failed to act.

"That is my story, gentlemen, and, if after hearing it, you still doubt
my loyalty to the service to which we are all pledged, I can have no
hope that others will believe me.  In that case I have no desire to
live and should make no struggle against the fate these savages
contemplate for me.  If, however, you can believe my story, wildly
improbable as I know it must sound, then am I once more restored to
life and hope."

As he thus concluded, the poor little man, grotesquely painted,
battered, and bruised, turned a face of such intense pleading toward
the comrades who had become his judges, that they both were moved by an
overwhelming impulse to spring forward at the same moment and grasp his
hands.

"We do believe you!" they cried.

"I am convinced," added Christie, "that you have acted as becomes an
officer and a gentleman, Bullen, bravely and according to your best
judgment for the honor and advancement of our cause.  This I not only
say now, but am prepared to state and maintain hereafter, officially
and publicly, and there is my hand on it."

"And I say," cried Donald, "that you are a trump, Bullen, a genuine
trump.  Not only do I offer you my sincere friendship from this time
forth, but I hereby pledge all the powers of the Metai--whatever that
may be--so far as I can control them, and of the totem, whose emblem I
wear, to your service!"

The effect of these hearty assurances of faith in him, and of continued
friendship, was such that the little man's overstrained nerves suddenly
gave way.  He tried to speak, failed to utter a sound, and sank down
sobbing like a child.


CHAPTER XXIX

DONALD AND THE PAYMASTER ESCAPE

While Donald's fears for Edith's safety were somewhat allayed by the
paymaster's story, he was still very anxious concerning her.  He knew
nothing of Pontiac's friendly feeling toward his family, and feared
that the prisoners were only being held on the island until it should
be convenient to remove them to some distant Indian village, where,
beyond the hope of rescue, they would be compelled to endure a life of
slavery.  Now, therefore, his desire was to return to the vicinity of
the island, where he hoped to find some opportunity of escaping from
his captors, and of effecting his sister's rescue.  In his plans he of
course included Christie and Bullen, whom he counted on for aid,
though, to his chagrin, he was not allowed to communicate with them
after that first interview.  During it the leaders of the war-party
also held a council, which resulted in a decision to proceed at once on
their journey.  Thus Bullen had hardly concluded his story, when camp
was broken and the westward voyage was resumed.  At the same time the
three white men were separated and assigned to different canoes.

In their haste the Indians travelled early and late, with all speed.
Both Christie and Bullen were compelled to assist in paddling, as well
as to labor at the most menial tasks when in camp, receiving as a
recompense only kicks and blows.  They had, indeed, become slaves, and
were treated as such, while at all times their tormentors found delight
in assuring them that they would most certainly be burned to death on
reaching the villages near Detroit.  Fortunately game was plentiful,
and food was procured in abundance by the hunters, otherwise the two
slaves would have suffered from hunger, as they were never allowed to
eat until the wants of every other person in the party had been amply
supplied.

Donald, on the other hand, while watchfully guarded, was treated with
the utmost of savage courtesy.  He was not asked, nor even allowed, to
perform any labor, was always supplied with the choicest food the camp
afforded, and was the first to whom the calumet was handed upon the
conclusion of a meal.  In only two ways was he reminded of his true
position.  At night, though he was not bound, as were his comrades, he
was obliged to sleep between two warriors, who were watchfully awake
with every movement he made.  If he attempted to hold converse with the
other captives, they were driven from his presence with blows.  Once,
when he tried to communicate with Bullen, a young warrior sprang
forward, struck the paymaster with a stick, and angrily bade him
begone.  Boiling with rage, and turning on the aggressor with clenched
fists, Donald was about to avenge this insult, when he who had acted as
interpreter sprang between them.

"My brother must be very careful," he said to Donald; "for some of our
young men are so reckless that they do not even respect the Metai.  If
you should strike one of them, they would surely kill you and the other
white men as well."

So Donald was obliged to control himself as best he could, and bear the
sufferings of his companions in silence, but his mind was ever filled
with plans for escape.  Whenever he succeeded in attracting Christie's
attention, he sought by meaning glances at a certain canoe smaller than
any of the others, and then off over the lake, to convey an idea of
what was in his mind, and was led to believe from the other's
expression that he understood.  From Bullen, however, he could gain no
satisfaction in this way, and concluded that the paymaster was not so
quick-witted as his brother officer.

At length one noon the war-party reached a point near the ruins of
Sandusky, where they found a number of Shawnees, who were about to
ascend Cedar Creek to their villages on the Scioto.  These had with
them several casks of rum, one of which was, after a long talk,
transferred to the canoe in which Donald travelled.  Then, to his
intense grief and dismay, his own party resumed their journey, with the
exception that Christie was left behind in the hands of the strangers.
The slave had been sold, though he did not realize the fact until he
started to enter the canoe in which he had come, and was forcibly
restrained while it was pushed off.  Then as the meaning of the
situation flashed across him, he wrenched loose from those who held him
and raced along the beach until opposite the canoe that held Donald, to
whom he shouted:--

"Good-bye, Hester!  God bless you!  Tell them at the fort that I--"

Here he was pounced upon by his new masters and dragged away with
Donald's answering farewell ringing in his ears.

It was after sunset that evening when the war-party reached the camp
site selected as suitable for the orgy in which they proposed to
indulge.  The canoe containing Donald and the cask of fire-water was
among the last to make a landing.  Already fires were lighted on the
bank above, and the earlier arrivals were impatiently awaiting the
liquor for which they had been willing to barter a highly prized
captive.  Thus the moment it landed the cask was seized and borne
triumphantly into camp, followed by all who had been on the beach.  For
the first time since his capture, Donald was left to himself, forgotten
or overlooked in the general excitement.  He stood for a minute,
irresolute.  His opportunity for escape had come.  It would be easy to
push off the canoe, jump in, and paddle away.  To be sure, his absence
would be quickly discovered and a hot pursuit would ensue, but he was
willing to risk that.  Or should he slip into the underbrush, take a
great circuit about the camp and make his way to Detroit overland
through the trackless forest?  It would be a difficult but not
impossible thing to do.  Still, it must not be thought of, for there
was Edith still a captive, and any freedom that he might gain must be
devoted to her rescue.  So he must take his chances of escape by water.

Donald was moving toward the canoe, when his steps were arrested by
another consideration.  What would become of Bullen?  In their rage at
the flight of one captive, the liquor-crazed savages would surely kill
the other.  Could he abandon a comrade to such a fate?  Certainly not.
If he escaped at all, it must be in company with the little paymaster
who had proved himself so loyal.  So this opportunity must be allowed
to slip by, for poor Bullen was somewhere up there in the camp, cutting
wood or performing other of the menial tasks allotted to him.

"No; old Bullen must not be deserted.  There were but two of them left
now, and they must stand by each other."  Thus thinking, Donald turned
toward the camp, but halted at the sound of approaching voices.  Then
two figures appeared through the dusk, both running, and one apparently
pursued by the other.  But one was swearing, and the other laughing.
It was poor Bullen, clad in the ragged blanket,--which was now his sole
garment,--sent down to fetch his own tub, to which one of the chiefs
had taken such a fancy that he always sat in it before the evening
camp-fires.  The labor of carrying it up from the canoes at night, and
back again in the morning devolved upon its original owner, who had
thus come to hate it with a bitter hatred.  This time he had purposely
shirked the task of lugging the clumsy thing up that steep bank, and so
had been sent back for it.  The young guard who accompanied him was
already exhilarated by a cup of fire-water, and in such haste to return
for more that he found great delight in compelling his charge to run by
prodding him from behind with a fish-spear.

As Donald was somewhat hidden in the shadow of a tree, neither of the
newcomers noticed him, until the little paymaster had succeeded in
getting the tub on his back, and started to retrace his weary way to
the camp.  Then, as Donald stepped from the shadow, Bullen, recognizing
him, and instantly realizing their opportunity, turned like a flash,
lunged forward with lowered head, and butted the young savage squarely
in the stomach.  He fell like a log, with his assailant and the tub on
top of him.  Ere he could regain his voice or breath, he was gagged,
bound, and lifted into a canoe, which was immediately shoved off.

No word was spoken by either of the fugitives as the light craft shot
away under the noiseless but powerful dips of their straining paddles;
but, in spite of his anxiety, Donald could not help noticing and
wondering at his comrade's proficiency in the art of canoeing.  The
painful lessons of his captivity had taught him how to escape from it;
and he who two months before had never seen a birch canoe was now
paddling one with the skill of an expert.

They were not gone from the beach more than five minutes, though their
point of departure was already lost to view in the darkness, when a
confusion of voices announced that their escape was discovered, and
infused a new energy into their efforts.  Donald was laying a course
due west, and not more than a quarter of a mile from the beach.  All at
once he laid in his paddle, and said: "Face about carefully, Bullen,
and help me chuck this useless weight overboard."

"Are you going to drown him?" asked the other, as he obeyed the order
to face about.

"Not if I can help it; but we must take care that he doesn't drown us.
He would be only too glad of a chance to upset the canoe; and he
wouldn't have very hard work, either."

The getting of that young savage into the water was a difficult and
ticklish job; but they finally succeeded, after Donald had first
removed the gag from his mouth.  He took the Indian's knife, and, as
the latter slid into the water, Bullen held him by the scalp-lock,
while Donald severed the thong that bound his wrists.  In his rage, the
Indian attempted to seize the gunwale of the canoe and pull it under;
but, anticipating this, Donald struck him a rap on the head with the
back of the knife that caused him to change his mind.

"Do you think he can swim with his feet bound?" asked Bullen, as the
two white men resumed their paddling.

"Certainly he can," replied Donald; "and he can yell, too.  Hear him?"

"I should say I did, and I wondered why you relieved him from that gag.
If he keeps up that racket, he'll bring the whole fleet in this
direction."

"That is exactly what I brought him along for, and what I want him to
do," replied Donald, with a laugh.  "Nor do I care how much longer they
keep on in this direction, for I am about to take another.  Don't you
remember that we passed the island--a blue dot far out in the
lake--this afternoon, so that it is now behind us and somewhere off in
the northeast?  We have got to run for it by the stars, and decide on
our course before we entirely lose sight of the coast.  Hush now, and
don't speak another word for the next hour, as you value your life."

With this Donald steered the canoe, in a great sweeping curve, out into
the vague blackness of the fresh-water sea.


CHAPTER XXX

IMMINENT DANGER OF THE SCHOONER GLADWYN

As the canoe containing Donald and the paymaster swept silently along
through the darkness, its occupants heard the cries of the young Indian
whom they had left in the water merge into a sound of other voices,
showing that he had been discovered by his friends, and then all was
quiet save for an occasional yell from the camp, where the fire-water
was exerting its baneful influence.  At length these, too, died into
silence, the last glimmer of firelight was lost in the distance, and
the fugitives felt that they might safely exult over their escape,
though they still observed the precaution of speaking in the lowest of
tones.

"Take a rest, Bullen," said Donald, breaking the enforced silence.
"You must be pretty well exhausted with this work coming on top of what
you've done all day, and it is no longer necessary for us to travel at
full speed."

"I am about used up, that's a fact," admitted the little man, laying in
his paddle and stretching himself wearily in the bottom of the canoe.

"I don't wonder.  But I say I how like a trump you bowled that fellow
over, on the beach.  I was just wondering how we could down him without
giving him a chance to alarm the camp, when all at once you had the job
done.  How did you happen to think of it?"

"I hadn't been thinking of anything else from the first," replied the
paymaster, "and I knew your thoughts were running in the same
direction, for I noticed the glances exchanged between you and
Christie.  Poor fellow!  I wonder what will become of him."

"Yes.  The dear old chap is in the worst of it now," sighed Donald.
"We can only hope he'll be held for ransom or exchange.  How I wish he
were with us, not only for his own sake, but for the aid he could
afford in the task we have undertaken."

"What task?"

"The rescue of my sister and Madam Rothsay, of course."

"You don't mean that you propose, unarmed and unaided, to attempt
anything so hopeless as that?"

"Certainly I do.  And that is what we are going to the island for.  You
wouldn't leave them in captivity, would you?"

"No, I wouldn't do that; but I would wait in hiding somewhere for the
arrival of the reinforcements that must surely be coming up the lake by
this time."

"And so give the Indians ample opportunity for removing their captives
to some remote and inaccessible place, which I only hope they have not
done already.  No, indeed, that would never do.  We must act promptly,
and before those chaps on the island have a suspicion of our coming."

"But there are at least a dozen of them, and all are well armed."

"If there were twice as many I should still make the attempt to rescue
my sister from their hands.  Just imagine the distress she must be
suffering all this time, uncertain as to her ultimate fate, dreading
the worst, and hoping against hope, that some one will come to her
assistance.  Poor child! the suspense must be terrible."

"Yes," sighed Bullen.  "And poor Madam Rothsay, too, plunged from the
height of civilization into the depths of savagery without even a maid
or a mirror.  I can fully sympathize with her.  But what do you propose
to do?  Have you thought out any plan?"

"I have thought of a great many; but only one of them appears at all
feasible.  It is that we advance boldly into the camp and demand that
the ladies be at once taken to Detroit, or Fort Niagara if the Indians
prefer, where we will promise that a goodly ransom shall be paid for
them."

"As we have no means for enforcing such a demand, they will only laugh
at us and add us to their list of captives."

"But we have the means of at least frightening them into compliance
with our wishes.  Are not you a great medicine man in their estimation,
and capable of commanding the fire-demon?  Am I not of the Totem of the
Bear and wearer of the mystic emblem of the Metai?  To be sure, I am
very ignorant of these things, but we have had ample proof of their
importance, and in the present case I propose to make the most of them."

"But, Hester, I can't appear before the ladies in this hideous costume.
Do you realize that I am barefooted and literally bareheaded, while my
only garment is a wretched old blanket, dirty and ragged, held in place
by a rope of bark?  I declare I don't think I have ever been so sorry
for any one as I am for myself, when I reflect what an object for mirth
I must appear.  You should remember, too, that I have already gone
through with a similar experience, which I have no desire to repeat."

"And came out of it with flying colors and waving plumes.  Why, my dear
fellow, those chaps on the island will delight in decorating, and
befeathering, and fixing you up again in great shape, as they did
before.  You need not present yourself to the ladies until all your
former gorgeousness is restored.  Then imagine your triumph.  You have
no idea how becoming the costume of a forest warrior is to you.  Don't
you remember how highly Madam Rothsay complimented your impersonation
of that character?  But seriously, Bullen, I doubt if there is any
other plan so good as the one I have suggested; and unless you can
think of a better, it is the one we must adopt.  Now, as we must be at
least within sight of the island, and have no desire to pass it, or
land on it in the dark, I propose that we get a little sleep while
waiting for daylight to show us its position.  My! won't I be glad of a
breakfast, though?  Plenty to eat was at least one alleviating feature
of our recent captivity, and it is to be hoped that our new hosts will
be equally generous with their provisions."

A few hours later Donald awoke with an uneasy motion of the canoe, to
find it dancing on the little seas raised by a brisk breeze from the
westward.  The eastern sky was aglow; and, rising darkly against the
ruddy light, not a mile away lay an island.

"Is that the one?" he asked of his companion, after awakening him, and
pointing to the forest-crowned land.

"How should I know?" answered Bullen, sleepily.  "They all look alike
from this distance."

"All right," replied Donald, cheerily.  "I'll put you so close to it
that you can't help knowing."  So saying, he seized his paddle and
headed their craft toward the shore.  - Lord of Avrigny - Amaury
replied with an accent in which vibrated once the love and filial pride
wounded .-- Perhaps in their eyes I somewhat neglected the studies that
you have for me, but I can tell you that Minister has never seen
such a lack in me and that just yesterday I read a work that was
commissioned ... - Hi!

So, the minister has given you a job ... And what we see? What about
the formation of a new hockey club, on the principles of boxing or fencing
on _sport_ rules in general or _steeple-chase_ in particular?

In that case, I understand the satisfaction that samples! - But,
my dear tutor - Amaury replied, unable to suppress a slight,
smiling, - I will make note that all these superfluous knowledge
that you criticize me I owe to the his almost paternal care.

You always told me that the fencing and riding, coupled with some
knowledge of foreign languages, to supplement the education of a
noble in our time. - So, do not deny, when these things are become
a serious distraction at work, but not when they are tried as an
excuse to have fun.

I see that you are the prototype of the men of this century, they
believe possess Infus science, which passed with an hour in the morning
in the House, another at the Sorbonne in the afternoon and one in
the theater at night, are considered capable to eclipse the glory
of Mirabeau, of Cuvier and Geoffroy, judging everything from the
height of his wit and disdain with their dropping faults in the
balance room where they weigh the future of humanity ...

So, yesterday the minister congratulated you? Congratulations! Lives
of those glorious hopes, discounted these pompous praise, and
the day arrives when you betray luck.

Because the twenty-three years, led by a mentor good-natured, you see
Doctor of Laws, Bachelor of letters and added an embassy, because of
uniform to attend the festivities palate, because you have promised
the cross of the Legion of Honor, as well as many others do not already
have, you have already done everything else and give you luck.
Your reasoning as follows: - I am rich, and therefore I am entitled
to be useless, and so bright with your reasoning title of nobility
has the privilege of stopping laziness. - My Father!

- Cried Magdalena , frightened by the growing irritation of Avrigny sir
.-- What do you say? Never have I seen Amaury treated that way! - Lord
of Avrigny! - Said the young man, stunned by the words of his former
mentor. - What is it?

- Said the father of Magdalena with an accent quieter, but still more
scathing reproach .-- offense because it is my fair, right? Then
you'll have no choice but to habituarte taking them if you
follow this idle life, or forgo treated with a tutor and nag descontentadizo.
Your date of emancipation is very recent.

The powers that your father left me about you no longer have to exist
for the law, but still morally, and I must warn you that in this
turbulent time in which distinctions of wealth and depend on a whim
from the crowd or a popular uprising, but no one can count himself,
and that despite your wealth and your title of Count, a parent of
high-ranking and large volume, would work correctly if you refuse
the hand of his daughter, regarded as insufficient guarantees your
success in your careers and degrees obtained in the Jockey Club as
a man skilled in sports.

Avrigny Lord of driving, more and more with their own words and paseábase
visibly shaken by the stay, without look at her daughter, who was
shaking like leaves in the tree, or Amaury stand listening to him and
the gathering entrecejo. The eye of the young, who could hardly suppress
his anger, wandered Avrigny lord of which is not irritation rightly
explained, Magdalena, stupefied, as he is. - You have not yet
understood - the doctor continued interrupting his walks and standing
in front of them, - why I begged you not to stay longer with us?

It was not because he is good at a couple of rich and illustrious
prosapia consume the time between girls, because it is natural to
twelve years is ridiculous in the twenty-three, because, ultimately,
my daughter could get hurt such as repeated visits. - Knight!

Gentlemen! - Amaury said .-- Have you compassion Magdalena! Can not
see that is killing? Was true. Magdalena had collapsed in his chair,
remaining motionless and very pale. - Oh! ¡My daughter! - Avrigny cried,
as she demudándose .-- Ah! You give him death, Amaury And lifting his
arms in the room took the opposite. Amaury followed the doctor. - Do
not go!

- Said he stopped at the door. - Magdalena need. -- - Is not I a doctor?
- Sorry you, gentleman, I thought ... I did not want to go without
knowing ... - Thanks for your care. But it easy: I am here to assist.
You can leave whenever you want. - Goodbye! Hasta la vista! -
Goodbye! - Said the doctor shooting a glacial look. Then pushed the door,
which closed again immediately.

Amaury remained nailed to the site where it was, as motionless and
stunned. Suddenly heard the bell to call the maid, and at the same
time entered Antoñita followed by Mrs Braun. - God eternal! - Antoñita
exclaimed .-- What happens, Amaury, who are you so pale? And Magdalena?
Where are you? - In your bed! Very sick! - Exclaimed the young .-- Between
you to see her, Mrs. Braun, who need it. The English ran to Amaury
told him to stay with his hand while Antoñita asked: - And why you not
- because I have closed the door and I have missed in this house. - Who?
- The! The father of Magdalena And taking his hat and gloves, Amaury
fled like a madman's palace Avrigny.

When Amaury III came into his house he met a friend who was waiting. He
was a young lawyer classmate of his in the first college of Santa
Barbara, and the law school later.

Held, with little difference, the same age as Amaury.

She lived with relief as he enjoyed an income which is estimated to be
around ten thousand pesos, but was not, as his companion, of
enlightened lineage. His name was Philip Auvray. It took the help
of camera Amaury unwelcome news that visit and his first intention
was to climb directly to his room, leaving Philip to wait until
it boring, he left, tired of waiting. Auvray But it was such a good
friend who took pity and gave his office knew where he was raised
by the waiting Felipe. - Thank God!

- told him to see Amaury .-- One hour makes you look. I would have left
for better opportunity if it was not because I have to ask you a big
favor, with your friendship. - You know, Felipe - Amaury replied, - you
feel like my best friend. So would not enojarte so now I will tell
you.

Do you have to pay a gambling debt batirte or mourning?

Those are the only two things that do not admit of delay.

Are you paying today? Have you batirte of tomorrow? In any of these cases
available in the event of my bag and my person. - There is nothing of
what you imagine - answered .-- Felipe came to tell a very important,
but not of such urgency. - Then I must tell you frankly that I am
in a state of mind anything on purpose to pay attention to your words,
despite the great interest that I have all that concerns you. -
So, let me ask you a my time if I am able to lend assistance in any
way. - It is not easy, unfortunately. All I can do is to defer for two
or three days you wanted to get confidence right now.

I need to be alone. - I may not be happy yourself, Amaury, with an
illustrious name and a fortune that has nothing to envy to the first
of France! You may be unhappy being Leoville count of possessing
and one hundred thousand francs of income! A faith that I did not
believe me if you do not hear from your own mouth. - And yet it is, my
friend! I am unhappy, very unhappy!! and I believe, that when our
friends are suffering a misfortune if we leave them alone with their
grief. If you do not understand this, Philip, is because you never had
the misfortune wounded. - Since you ask me, I will, against my
wishes .-- Do you want to be alone?

just because I let you. Bye, Amaury! Goodbye, my friend! - Goodbye!
- Amaury replied, falling into a chair left. And he added: - Tell the
help of my camera that I do not want to see anyone and did not let it
bother me unless I call. I am not to support the least intrusive or
desire to contemplate a human face. Auvray completed the task, and left
brain by winding wise the cause of that misanthropy so that a sudden
dam had the soul of his friend. Eastern confused and cranky,
meanwhile evoked memories, struggling to explain the reason for the
hardship of Mr Avrigny had used with him. As we have said, Amaury was
a man who could be considered in all concepts, born with a lucky star.
Equipped by Nature of elegance and distinction apostura, his father
had received a glorious name, which made about the merits habíanse
monarchy increased in the wars of the Empire, and spent a fortune of a
million and a half, entrusted to the administration of the spotless
Avrigny doctor, one of the most renowned doctors of the time and very
old and intimate friend of the family of Leoville. Furthermore, his
fortune, managed with great tact for so careful guardian, during
his younger age increased by more than one third .

But the doctor was not limited to ensuring that the assets of his ward,
but that he personally directed his education as I could have done
for a child. It follows that Amaury, raised near Magdalena, who was
almost his age, was used to want to enter and more than brotherly
love, which he looked like a brother. Thus, since both conceived children,
the innocent simplicity of his soul and the purity of its
heart, the project will not flattering separated ever. Love that intense
Avrigny had professed his wife, taken from this world by phthisis
in the prime of his youth and later had placed in his only daughter,
coupled with almost paternal affection which he inspired Amaury, was
Magdalena and he or I have never hesitated to gain their acquiescence.
aunaba Everything is to instill in their souls the hope of seeing their
fates together, and this was always the topic of their talks since both
had read in the clear bottom of your chest. The doctor's
frequent absences, a person whose every customer, who ran the hospital
and the Institute of which he was a member dejábanles ample time
to build beautiful dreams for the memory of time past and in fiando
the hope of coming judged feasible.

So, just to meet, Magdalena twenty-two Amaury twenty years and the mood
suddenly changed when the doctor Avrigny began to show serious and
severe since then. At this early was attributed to a change of
circumstance having killed a sister to whom I wanted pure, and to
legaba, to ensure her daughter's age Magdalena, her best friend and
inseparable companion of his studies and recreation. But over time,
the doctor's face was accusing increasingly severe and llegose to notice
that his humor was often poorly off, in disposing of Amaury reproofs.

Often heavy rain to reach the Magdalena, the one beloved daughter, which
she had lavished love pouring seemed likely that only a mother's heart.
Since it was observed that the jovial, and stunned Antoñita was the
favorite of the doctor and that she and Magdalena had the privilege not
to tell soon came in wins. In front of Amaury, the doctor did not cease
to praise the qualities of Antoñita, leaving forward in more than one
occasion that would be happy with that Amaury abandon plans to himself
had set about his ward and Magdalena, to dedicate to that niece who had
prohijado, in which there appeared to be focused and all the affection.
For Amaury and Magdalene, to whom the force of habit not let them see
the real cause of the oddities of the doctor, they do not correspond
to any other cause, that transient setbacks, and were warned away from
the real motivating regret that metamorphosis. Thus, virtually all
his confidence, and when one day while playing with two children,
running around the pool table have been determined by Amaury take a
flower in Magdalena, suddenly opened the door and entered the
doctor, which is faced with harsh tone and said: - What are these
Baby-sitting?

Are you going to have even twelve years, Magdalena? Think of not having
spent fifteen, Amaury?

Can you imagine that still run through the park of the castle of
Leoville? Why is this effort to snatch a flower Magdalena you rightly
denied? Until today, had believed that the dance steps, they were
only reserved for the shepherd of the Opera, but I obviously went
wrong. -- But, Dad! - Magdalena dared to say, just note that the
doctor spoke seriously .-- Yesterday ... still - one thing was
yesterday, and today - with dryness Avrigny replied .-- Subjects Thus
the past is to relinquish direct the future. To feel such love for the
customs of childhood is not worth having abandoned dolls and toys. In
one of the two which do not have the time to understand the
duties and transforms social conveniences, well let me take care
of this. - Let me you, my dear tutor - Amaury replied, - it rejects
as being too harsh with us .

Now complains of our Baby-sitting, and I remember having heard it
said many times, that the plague of our century was the desire to
keep children and men. - Did I say so? It certainly by those
mozalbetes emerging school, that the politicians throw altruistic, for
those twenty years Richelieu boast misanthrope, for these poets in the
cocoon for those who are disappointed tenth muse. But you, dear Amaury,
because not for your age, your position, you must pretend to something
more serious. And if they do not, even aparéntalo. But I've come to
talk of serious things. Retire, Magdalena. The couple went out to
his father a look that is fraught with prayers at one time had
disarmed his anger completely. Undoubtedly recalled the doctor who
interceded for those beautiful eyes, irritated and then remained
unchanged. Gave a few walks around the room without saying word, while
Amaury it still desires to view. Finally he stood before his ward, and
without attenuating expression of severity, manifest in his face, he
said: - Listen, Amaury. Perhaps I have taken longer than desirable to
say what you hear, is that a couple of twenty-two years, as you can
not live under one roof with the two ladies who did not joined any
links of kinship. This separation is very painful for me. Deferred
for longer, I would incur in an unforgivable failure. Save reflections
that would be absolutely useless and you will not be any objection to
happen, since my resolution was unshaken. - But, my dear tutor "said
Amaury moved to accent - I thought that the habit of seeing me at her
side and call me son and made him consider his family as an individual,
or at least as worthy to join.

I will fit the misfortune to offend unintentionally? Can I get away
from here condemned for having withdrawn his estimate - Dear Amaury -
said the doctor - I have always believed that once you already arranged
to guardianship accounts, stayed behind in peace. - It is wrong you,
of Avrigny - Amaury replied - because at least I do not believe
have never paid. You were for me more than a faithful guardian a
loving father and visionary, has educated me, made me who I am, I was
impressed the most noble and generous sentiments, has been both
guardian, parent, mentor, guide and friend. So, I must obey Him above
all with respect, and by this I retire.

Farewell, my father, I hope that one day you will remember his son.
Saying these words, Amaury approached the doctor, tomole hand almost
by force, and after besársela left.

Hízose The day after announcing in his home guardian, as if it had been
a stranger, in an effort to appear calm, firmly denied participole
to clear his wet eyes, which had rented a small palace on the streets
of the morning and it was his farewell visit.

Magdalena who witnessed this interview, his head bent, folded by
the paternal whim, as the lily stalk cierzo to ice cream, and when
he raised his view to look at Amaury, his father was so shocked
that demudada of horror.

Perhaps comprised of Mr. Avrigny inexplicable that his mind had rigor
hateful to her daughter, then laying down his harsh a hand to the
young man, saying: - Amaury, you have not played my thoughts. Your game
is not the nature of an exile.

You're always at home and when you come to see us you will receive with
open arms.

A flash of joy shone in the beautiful eyes of Mary Magdalene and
their discolored lips wandered a weak smile to hear the words of his
father. But Amaury, guessing the doctor made this concession only to
his daughter, waved with his mentor and humbly kissed the hand of
Magdalena, revealing his face so deeply saddened that this love seemed
to cede his post though. Only after that day, only when they were
separated, both young men realized how loved and how much the intensity
of their affection for one that is indispensable to the existence
of the other.

The passionate desire to return to see after separation, the feeling
of pleasant surprise found again, the sadness and the mysterious
puerile joy symptoms of the disease of the soul which is called love,
what were the two young men turn to experience, without a single
fact to escape the scrutinizing gaze of the doctor, who over had
seemed like an opportunity to be repented of being condescending
with Amaury, when did the scene was reported.

The couple recalled one by one all these events, and was unable to find
a thousand conjectures, even to consult his conscience and probe his
memory, a reasonable explanation for this sudden change. then the
only thought that idea was a plausible explanation for the conduct of
his guardian, it is meant that, as believing that their bond with
Magdalena, and issue was resolved, no They had never talked to the
doctor, he could have believed that his ward, coming in first and
frequented her house later, she had purposes very different from
what was initially imagined.

He thought that this informality had offended the Lord of Avrigny and
decided to formally write requesting the hand of Magdalena. As soon
as it was resolved to do so, he set to work writing this epistle:
IV "Lord of Avrigny:" I met twenty-three years, my name is Amaury
of Leoville and led, therefore, one of the oldest names in France
venerated in the councils and illustrious in the armies.

"Outside of an only child, my parents inherited a fortune of three
million francs in real estate, I produce more than one hundred
thousand of income." List those circumstances which are daughters of
anything and not due to my own merit, considering that this heritage,
with my noble lineage, and the protection of the love that I can scale
the summit of the career of diplomacy, to which I devoted . 'Knight:
I ask you the hand of his daughter, Miss Magdalena de Avrigny. "* *
*" Dear Guardian, "After my official letter to the lord of Avrigny
letter stark and dry as any formalism, allows you to your child
to speak with the language of gratitude and feelings that fill your
heart? "I love Mary Magdalene and she is my affection. If we have taken
so long to make this confession to you, it's because we had not
even pulled our souls.

"This love has gone so slowly taking shape and it has proved just
as sudden, which surprised us both as a thunder that outbreak on a
clear day.

I brought along with it, and under the surveillance of you and when
you groom replaced the brother did not realize this change.

"I will show you." I remember even the games and caresses of our
children, in the past you have beautiful fifth in Ville d'Avray, with
the benevolent eye of Mrs. Braun. "Magdalena and I learned there
tutearnos. Run by the large poplar at whose bottom the sun; saltábamos
under bodied chestnut park in the beautiful summer nights, gave
delightful walks through the water and undertook long excursions through
the woods. "Oh! What a happy time that, 'Why do our lives, confused
in its dawn, they separated without having reached even half of his
career? "Why can not I be you for a child in fact, as I am and the name?
"Why do not we follow Mary Magdalene and the same life I doing?" I think
all so natural, so simple, that my imagination invents a thousand
obstacles, but are there really wanted to tutor?
So he made his unmolested way to
the very end of the lane, his enemies parting before him, but crowding
behind and following him with an eager curiosity.

At length he paused and gazed with mingled horror and rage at something
that barred his further progress.  On two logs, between which burned a
small fire, was set his own bath-tub.  The water with which it was half
filled was just beginning to simmer, and near at hand was a pile of dry
wood cut into short lengths.  In an instant the awful meaning of these
preparations flashed across his mind.  They intended to boil him alive!
For a moment he felt sick and dizzy.  All things spun in a mad whirl
before his blurred vision, and he feared his senses were departing.
Recovering himself by a supreme effort of will, and animated by an
access of fury, he sprang forward, overturned the tub, so that its
contents were poured on the hissing flames, instantly extinguishing
them, and hurled it to one side.  Then clearing his mouth of the last
of the frothy matter which had been produced by chewing a bit of soap,
the little man turned and confronted his tormentors.

Angry murmurs rose among them and deepened into a confused clamor.
Some were for killing him at once, but the majority dared not.  Neither
were they willing that he should go free, nor was one found bold enough
to adopt him as husband, brother, or son, as by Indian custom any had
the right to do who felt so inclined.  The discussion was finally ended
by the black-browed giant who had been the object of Bullen's attack
and who still smarted from the indignity.  Silencing the clamor, with
an authoritative voice, he proposed a plan that was unanimously adopted.

A minute later another white man, whom to his amazement the paymaster
recognized as his long lost "Tummas," was dragged and pushed through
the throng.  In his hands he bore several pots of paint and a number of
rude brushes.  Now he was ordered to begin work at once on his former
master and decorate him in the highest style of savage art.

"Oh Lawk, Muster Bullen!  To think we should never ha come to this,"
gasped the trembling man as he prepared to obey this mandate.  "Hi opes
has you won't lay it hup against me, sir, if Hi do as Hi'm bid: for if
Hi don't jump spry the creeters will kill me, 'deed they will, sir."

"Tummas," answered the little man, severely, "since you seem to have
accepted service with these heathen savages, it becomes you to do their
bidding without hesitation; but I never expected to see a respectable
English valet sink so low, I certainly never did."

"Oh Lawk, Muster Bullen!  Hi opes, sir, as you don't think Hi've done
such a think of my hown free will.  No, sir.  Hindeed Hi 'aven't: but
Hi'm compelled, sir.  Hi 'as to paint 'em and likewise shave their
'eads and look after their nasty 'air.  Yes, sir, and many a think
besides that you wouldn't believe.  But some day Hi'll pizen 'em, sir,
or spiflicate 'em in their sleep, the hopportunity for which is the
honly pleasure in life Hi 'as to look forward to, sir."

As "Tummas" uttered these fierce words he drew several vicious streaks
of red across the paymaster's body, for he was already hard at work at
his unwelcome task.

So by the liberal application of pigments and feathers, poor Bullen was
once more got up in savage guise.  Then he was bound hand and foot so
that he could not move, gagged so that he could utter no sound, placed
in his once beloved, but now hated tub, borne to the water's edge, and
set afloat on the swift current, followed by derisive yells from his
enemies.

That same afternoon Major Gladwyn, who was standing on one of the water
bastions of Fort Detroit, in company with a lady, descried a suspicious
object floating down the river and called for a spy-glass.  Gazing
intently through it, he exclaimed: "Pon my soul, madam, I believe we
are here just in time to interrupt another attempt of those villanous
redskins to destroy my schooners.  They have already tried fire-rafts
and other infernal devices without number, but always at night.  Now,
if I'm not mistaken, they have the audacity to try again in broad
daylight, thinking no doubt to catch us napping.  But I'll teach them
that we are wide awake at all hours.  That is certainly an Indian in
full paint and feathers, though what he is floating on I can't make
out.  Orderly, bring me my long range rifle--will you take this glass,
madam, and watch the effect of my shot?  It may prove interesting as
well as pleasing after your recent terrible experience."

By the time Madam Rothsay succeeded in focusing the glass on the
approaching object, Major Gladwyn was carefully sighting his rifle.

Suddenly she uttered a cry of dismay.  "For Heaven's sake, don't fire,
major!  It is poor, dear Paymaster Bullen.  At least that is his tub;
and he was arrayed in that very same remarkable costume the last time I
saw him."

"Impossible, madam!  An officer in His Majesty's service!"

"Indeed, it is possible, major; and I beg you to send out a boat.  Fill
it with armed men, if you like; but I beg and implore you not to act
hastily."

Only half convinced that he was acting prudently, Major Gladwyn yielded
to Madam Rothsay's pleadings, and did as she suggested.  To make sure
that no mistakes were committed, he accompanied the boat, with his
rifle, loaded and cocked, held ready for instant use.

A few minutes later, the tub with its helpless occupant was cautiously
towed to the shore; but not until the gag was removed from his mouth,
and they heard the little paymaster's fervent "Thank God!" could either
the major or his soldiers believe that their prize was a white man.

As he landed and his bonds were loosed, the newcomer turned and thrust
his hated tub out into the stream with such savage energy that the
water poured over its side, it filled, and, with a gurgling rush of
air-bubbles, sank beneath the swift current.

Then the little man's overtaxed strength gave way.  He took a few
uncertain steps, tried to apologize, reeled, and fell limply into the
arms of the nearest bystander, who happened to be Madam Rothsay herself.


CHAPTER XXXIII

FORT DETROIT IS REINFORCED

From the very first the two tribes of Wyandots and Pottawattamies had
been but lukewarm allies of the Ottawas in the prosecution of this war.
Their chiefs were jealous of Pontiac and yielded obedience to his
orders rather through fear than from any real loyalty to his cause.
Still, so long as his plans were successful, his arms victorious, and
his appeared to be the winning side, they were content to follow his
leadership.  No sooner, however, did the tide of fortune turn against
him with the failure of his attempt to capture the schooner, than these
tribes sent a deputation of chiefs to Gladwyn with proposals for peace.
This was granted them and the treaty was consummated by a general
exchange of prisoners.

It was owing to Pontiac's distrust of these allies, to whom had been
intrusted the attack on Cuyler's expedition, that he had secretly sent
Ah-mo and Atoka to provide for the safety of Edith Hester, rightly
thinking that they could act more effectively than a larger party and
at the same time attract less notice.  How they succeeded in conveying
their charge to an island on which was maintained a picket of Ottawa
warriors, has already been told.

This picket post was a source of grievance to the Wyandots, who,
dwelling nearest the mouth of the river, claimed that they alone were
entitled to occupy that territory and guard its approaches.  After
their victory over Cuyler, they protested so loudly against the
continuation of the Ottawa outpost on their island, that Pontiac
reluctantly ordered it to be withdrawn, and the captives who were held
there to be brought to his own village.

Thus it happened that to these Indians was left the entire guarding of
the southern approaches to Detroit; and when, at the end of July, a
strong detachment of troops in twenty-two bateaux, under command of
Captain Dalzell, appeared at the mouth of the river, they having just
concluded their treaty of peace, allowed it to pass up unmolested.  The
flotilla came up at night; and at sunrise, as the sea of fog covering
the vicinity of Detroit began to roll away in fleecy masses, its
foremost boats were discovered by a sentinel, who at once announced the
joyful intelligence.  As before, the beleaguered garrison hastened to
the water front in anxious expectancy.  Were the approaching boats
indeed filled with friends come to their relief, or, as in the former
case, with victorious savages and dejected captives?  Not until the
questioning salute of their guns was answered by the glad roar of a
swivel from the foremost boat was the query answered, and the
apprehensions of the war-worn garrison changed to a joyous certainty.

All at once their rejoicings were silenced by a double sheet of fire
that leaped from both banks of the river at once.  A hail of bullets
was poured into the crowded boats from among the buildings and orchards
of the French farmers, and many a red-coated soldier fell beneath the
fire of a foe whom he could neither see nor reach.

Pontiac had been warned at last of this new danger, and had sent his
trusty Ottawas, leaping like deer, down the river banks with a faint
hope that the approaching convoy might still be cut off.  But they were
too late, and though their fire was very destructive while it lasted,
the boats pressed steadily on and in a few minutes more had gained the
shelter of the fort.

The newly arrived detachment--three hundred strong--was composed of
troops from the 50th and 80th regiments of the line, and twenty of
Rogers' hardy rangers.  As boat after boat swept up to the strand and
landed its men they were received with wild cheers, frantic embraces,
and every manifestation of overwhelming joy.  The new-comers, sturdy,
well-fed, and perfectly equipped, presented a striking contrast to the
gaunt, hollow-cheeked troops clad in tatters, who had held the fort so
long and so bravely.  As the former moved steadily up the narrow street
in a long line of glittering scarlet, while drum and fife waked cheery
echoes from the silent houses, the latter felt that the day of their
deliverance had indeed come, and well repaid for all their toil.

Dalzell's boats brought many things besides men, guns, and ammunition.
It brought provisions, letters, and news from the great far-away world.
It brought a confirmation of the treaty, recently signed between
England and France, which set at rest all fears that Pontiac might
receive French aid in his present struggle.  It also brought a number
of dainties for the officers' mess, such as had been unknown to its
table for many months.  So Gladwyn gave a dinner that night to which
every officer in the fort was bidden.

When the appointed time arrived and Majors Gladwyn and Rogers; Captains
Dalzell, Grant, and Gray; Lieutenants Cuyler, Hay, and Brown, and half
a dozen more, all in speckless uniforms, were assembled about the
homely but well-laden mess-table, there entered still another at whom
the newcomers gazed in surprise but without recognition.  He was a
little man dressed in the costume of the backwoods, a belted buckskin
shirt, leggings, and moccasins, and a coonskin cap.  He hesitated, as
though from shyness, as he glanced irresolutely about him.  Then
Gladwyn, stepping quickly forward, took him by the hand, exclaiming:--

"You are just in time, my dear fellow, though I had begun to fear that
you were not going to join us.  Here are a lot of old friends waiting
to greet and congratulate you."

"Are they?" asked the stranger, dubiously.

"By Jove!" laughed Gladwyn, "I don't believe one of them recognizes
you.  Gentlemen, permit me the honor of introducing one of the heroes
of this present war, Paymaster Leonidas Bullen."

Whereupon there arose such a shout from that mess-room as startled the
distant sentries on the outer walls.  "Bullen, old man, forgive me."
"It can't be!"  "Incredible!"  "Bullen, the Beau Brummel of the
service, in leather!"  "Why, Diogenes, what are you doing here?"  "Is
it a masquerade?"  "Is it a joke?"  "What means this unique headgear?"
"And Diogenes, I say, where is the tub?"

"Gentlemen," replied the paymaster, "it is no joke, but a stern
reality.  As my only choice of a dinner dress lay between a suit of
paint and this costume, out of consideration for your prejudices I
chose this.  My head-gear may be unique, but it is at least warm and it
is also the only covering I can at present bestow upon my baldness.  It
is true I might have worn feathers, but unfortunately feathers suggest
to me only very recent and unpleasant associations.  As for my tub, I
shall consider it a personal favor, gentlemen, if you will never again
mention that unfortunate article in my presence."

"He came very near being boiled alive in it," whispered Gladwyn to
Captain Dalzell.

"What?"

"Yes, like a prawn or a crayfish."

"By Jove!  How?"

Then Gladwyn related the history of the paymaster's recent experiences
and bravery so effectively that the poor little man became rosy with
confusion, and when at the conclusion of the narrative his health was
pledged with a round of cheers, he could only stammer in reply:--

"I thank you, gentlemen, from the bottom of my heart.  I also thank the
major for his kindly effort to convert me into a hero.  I fear, though,
that he is only trying to make amends for threatening to shoot me when
I first made application for his hospitality."

"Shoot you, old man!  You don't mean it.  What for?  Had you challenged
him?  Tell us about it."

"It is only too true," confessed Major Gladwyn, "and but for the timely
interference of Madam Rothsay I fear I should have succeeded to my
everlasting sorrow."

When this had been explained, and Madam Rothsay's health had been
pledged, Captain Dalzell inquired what had become of Miss Hester, who,
he understood, had accompanied the elder lady on her western trip.

"I am sorry to say," replied Gladwyn, "that she is held prisoner by
Pontiac in company with her father the major, and Ensign Hester her
brother.  He was with Bullen, you know, and sacrificed himself to warn
the schooner _Gladwyn_ of her danger the other night.  It was a fine
thing to do, and I would gladly give up the schooner, valuable as she
is to me, if by so doing he could be restored to us.  Madam Rothsay was
also held prisoner by the redskins until it fortunately occurred to
them to offer her in exchange for a villanous Ojibwa chief, whom we
happened to have on hand.  Of course I was only too glad to make the
exchange, and wish I had a dozen more like him to offer for the
Hesters."

"By Jove!" cried Captain Dalzell, "it is horrible to think of the grand
old major and his lovely daughter, and that fine son of his, all in the
power of those devils.  Can't we do something toward their rescue,
Gladwyn?  Surely we are strong enough now to take the offensive.  I
should be only too happy to lead a night attack on Pontiac's camp.  We
could make it a complete surprise, and my fellows are simply spoiling
for a fight.  It does seem as though the time to strike a decisive blow
had come, and every day that we postpone it only increases the peril of
the Hesters.  What do you say, major?  Won't you consider the
proposition seriously?"

So the dinner party was turned into a council of war, and, before it
broke up, an attack on Pontiac's camp had been arranged for the
following night.


CHAPTER XXXIV

AH-MO, THE DAUGHTER OF PONTIAC

The day just concluded had been one of unhappiness and anxiety for the
great Ottawa chieftain.  The rumored defection of his Wyandot allies
was proved true.  The safe arrival at the fort of Dalzell's expedition
was the most deadly blow yet struck at his cherished project.  To crown
all, he was not on the best of terms with his sole remaining allies,
the fierce and warlike Ojibwas.  These had no more desire than the
Wyandots to fight on a losing side; and, moreover, they had a private
grievance of long standing against Pontiac.  It arose from the capture
of one of their chiefs by the English, and the refusal of Pontiac to
offer Major Hester in exchange for him.

Firm in his belief that Detroit must eventually fall into his hands,
and that every soul within its walls would be killed, the Ottawa chief,
intent on saving the life of the white man who had once saved his,
refused to restore him to a place of such peril.  In vain did the
Ojibwa captive--who was no other than our old acquaintance, Mahng--send
messages by the French settlers, who carried occasional communications
between the fort and the Ottawa village, threatening that, if Major
Hester were not exchanged for him, he would influence his tribe to make
peace with the English.  Pontiac only sent answer that the major was
not his prisoner, but his guest, and therefore not subject to exchange,
but that the first captive of sufficient consequence who should be
brought in should be offered in his place.

When, therefore, Edith Hester and Madam Rothsay reached the village,
Pontiac conceived the project of presenting the latter before the gates
of Detroit, and demanding the release of the Ojibwa chief in her stead.
To the grief of Madam Rothsay herself, and of the beautiful charge from
whom she was thus separated, this plan was at once carried out, with
the result that Mahng was restored to his followers.  He was, however,
more imbittered than ever against Pontiac, not only on account of his
long imprisonment, but because of a woman having been offered and
accepted in exchange for him.

This was not only a severe blow to his own pride, but to that of his
people; and they became clamorous to have the insult avenged, for which
purpose Mahng demanded that Major Hester be delivered to them, to do
with as they pleased.  This demand was refused with such indignant
scorn that Mahng's evil face became black with fury; and, though he
strode from Pontiac's presence in silence, his heart was filled with
rage.  This was intensified a few days later when the Ottawa chief
upbraided him, and charged him with superstitious cowardice for aiding
the escape of a white prisoner who had been condemned to death.  In
this case, Mahng had felt certain that Paymaster Bullen, carefully
disguised as an Indian, would be fired upon and killed by the garrison
of the fort, as he approached it, and was as disgusted as any one could
be by the unexpected result of that experiment.

Distressed as Edith Hester was at being separated from Madam Rothsay,
she rejoiced at the latter's restoration to the protection of British
troops, and became reconciled to her own prolonged captivity when she
found that she was to be allowed to spend it in the company of her
beloved father.

Although the brave old major chafed like a caged lion at his enforced
detention in Pontiac's camp, he bore it without a murmur, and strove to
aid the cause of his countrymen by endeavoring to impress upon the
Ottawa leader the folly of resistance to the English.  He knew nothing
of his daughter's captivity, nor even of her departure from New York,
until one evening, as he sat alone in the room assigned to his use, the
door was gently opened, and she stood before him in all the radiancy of
her youth and beauty.  For a moment he stared as though at a vision,
but as she stepped forward he opened wide his arms, and father and
daughter were reunited in a fond embrace.  There were so many questions
to be asked and answered, so much news to be told, and so many
conjectures to be made concerning their ultimate fate, that, for more
than an hour, they talked oblivious of everything, save the joy of
being together.  Then Edith exclaimed in dismay:--

"If I haven't forgotten poor Ah-mo, and left her waiting outside all
this time, when I said I'd be back in a few minutes!  May I fetch her,
father?  She is one of my dearest friends, and I want you to know her."

"Certainly, my dear," answered the major, with a smile.  "Bring her in,
by all means; for any friend of yours must needs be a friend of mine as
well."

A moment later, when the Indian girl, who had waited patiently all this
time, was led into the bare little room, it was Edith's turn to be
surprised.  Instead of receiving her as a stranger, Major Hester
greeted her as a friend whose absence had been a source of genuine
regret.

"It is good to see you once more, Ah-mo," he said.  "Though, had I
known the nature of the errand that caused your absence, my anxiety for
your return had been doubled many times.  Now I have to bless you and
thank you for your brave care of my dear girl, who has, all unknown to
me, passed through so many recent perils."

"Then you knew Ah-mo before, papa!" exclaimed Edith; "and all this time
she never told me."

"Nor did she tell me that she was going in search of you, for which I
am now grateful, since it saved me a painful anxiety," replied the
major.  "Yes; Ah-mo and I are old friends, and, of late, many an hour,
that would otherwise have hung heavily on my hands, has been lightened
by her visits.  Forest maiden as she is, I find her to be well versed
in polite literature, and possessed of a shrewd knowledge of affairs,
though, above all, has she learned the value of a silent tongue."

"Yes, indeed!" cried impulsive Edith.  "Even during our short
acquaintance I have discovered that, in many things which I ought to
know, her knowledge is superior to mine; that for keeping a secret she
has no equal; and that with it all she is one of the dearest and
sweetest and most lovable girls I ever met."

Then, seeing that her friend was covered with confusion by all this
praise, she hastened to change the subject by saying, "And now, if
Donald were only here, what a happy party we would form, and how
readily might we forget our captivity!"

"Not captivity!" interrupted Ah-mo, eagerly.  "Pontiac's guests can
never be his captives."

"While your father's opinions and mine are not agreed on that point, my
dear girl, he certainly has done everything suggested by a courteous
hospitality to make my stay here comfortable," said Major Hester.
"But, as any form of detention against one's will must be regarded as a
captivity, I cannot echo your wish, Edith, that Donald were here.  He
is so young, so fearless, and so impatient of inaction, that, were he
taken prisoner, he would do and dare anything to effect an escape, with
possible results that I cannot bear to contemplate.  Therefore I am
glad that he is far away, and is happily free from a knowledge of our
position."

"Why, father, is he not in Detroit?" queried Edith.

"No; he left before the outbreak, with despatches for New York, and,
had you not come by the north shore of the lake, he would surely have
met you."

"Well," sighed Edith, "I wish we might have met.  Had I known of his
coming, I should certainly have waited for him in New York; though, as
things have turned out, I wouldn't have missed this coming to you,
father dear, for the world.  Now I only hope he won't try to return
before peace is declared.  Oh, Ah-mo! why will your father persist in
this horrid war?  He surely cannot hope to succeed against the forces
of the king."

"His warriors have not yet been defeated," replied the Indian girl
quickly, with a bright flush heightening the dark beauty of her face.
"And he is too brave a man not to make war against those who would
steal the lands of his people, and kill them like so many wild beasts.
Why do the English drive my father to war?"

"Do not become involved in fruitless discussion, my dears," chided the
old soldier.  "This question is one to be settled by older and wiser
heads than yours."

So the conversation was changed, and ran in other channels far into the
night.

By Pontiac's order, suitable accommodations had been provided for Edith
in the farmhouse adjoining that occupied by her father, and, at her
request, Ah-mo shared them with her at night.  During the day the
latter was much with her own father, acting as his secretary and
adviser, for which position no one of Indian blood was so well fitted
as she.

Pontiac was too able a man not to realize the value of an education
beyond that afforded by the forest, and had long ago selected Ah-mo,
the cleverest of all his children, as the one who should receive its
benefits.  So she had spent six years in Montreal, studying diligently,
learning easily, and in all ways preparing herself for the very place
she now occupied.  She had been courted, petted, and made much of by
the gay society of the Canadian capital; but never did she forget her
loyalty to her own people.  Thus, when, on the eve of his great
undertaking, her father sent for her, she unhesitatingly relinquished
the allurements of civilization for a place in his wilderness lodge and
by his side.

From him she was now learning the greatest of all arts, that of knowing
when to keep silence and when to speak.  Thus, fond as she had become
of Edith Hester, she wisely kept many things from her; among others, by
Pontiac's desire, the fact that her brother Donald and Paymaster Bullen
had been captured, an event that occurred some two weeks after Edith
herself was brought from the island.  Nor were the major and his
daughter allowed to know what took place in the Ottawa village, which
had been removed a full mile from the carefully guarded quarters
assigned to them, and to which, for their own safety, they were closely
confined.

Ah-mo's influence over her father was regarded unfavorably by some of
the chiefs, and especially by Mahng, the Ojibwa, who, having sought her
in marriage for his son Suggema, and being met with a prompt refusal,
had conceived an intense dislike for her.  This was inflamed by her
friendship for the daughter of Major Hester, whom Mahng regarded as the
chief of his enemies.  Therefore, in all his plans for revenge upon
those who he was determined should feel the weight of his wrath, Ah-mo
was included; and he impatiently awaited a fitting time for the
carrying out of his evil designs.  When, therefore, near the close of a
certain day, Pontiac bade the Ojibwas hold themselves in readiness to
repel an attack, which he had secret information the English were to
make that night, Mahng smiled grimly; for he believed his long-desired
opportunity had arrived.


CHAPTER XXXV

A NIGHT OF FIGHTING AND TERROR

In Fort Detroit the night after that of Gladwyn's dinner party was one
of sleeplessness, busy preparation, and intense, though suppressed
excitement.  Come, dear, expensive wife. I pray thee, Virgilia, throw
your celebration to the door and go out with. Virgilia. No, on my word,
Valeria. In fact, I can not, I wish you much pleasure. Valeria. Well,
it lives as well! (All starting from.) Fourth Above Corioli scene with
drums and flags occur Marcius, Titus, Lartius, leader, warrior. To
them a messenger Marcius. A messenger comes. I bet there was a meeting.
Titus. Eures My horse: no. Marcius. It is. Titus. It is. Marcius. Say
du Traf our captain on the enemy? Messenger. You look at, but were
still not.

Titus. The good horse is mine. Marcius.'s I buy from you. Titus. No, I
sell and geb's not, but I tell you borg for fifty years.
From these they were saluted by the
clamorous barking of watch-dogs, while many a startled face peered
anxiously at them from the unshuttered windows.  The frightened
inhabitants, roused from sleep by the unusual sound of marching troops,
were filled with uneasiness, and gathered in little groups by the
roadside to question each other and listen to the measured tramping as
it was borne faintly back to them on the damp night air.

Besides these there were other figures flitting behind the houses,
through the rustling cornfields and from tree to tree of the orchards,
as still and dark as shadows, but ever keeping pace with the marching
troops, and ever watching them.  These were the scouts of Pontiac,
without whose knowledge no man had left the gates of Detroit by day or
night for more than a year.  Out on the water was heard the muffled
sound of oars from the two bateaux, each armed with a swivel gun that
kept abreast of the troops close to the river bank.

Nearly two miles from the fort, Parent's creek, ever since that
memorable night called "Bloody Run," crossed the road at right angles
through a rough ravine, and entered the river a short distance below
amid a rank growth of sedge and wild rice.  It was spanned by a rude
wooden bridge and beyond this the bank rose steeply.  On its summit
were piled stacks of firewood provided for winter's use by the thrifty
Canadians; while from it stretched away another series of orchards and
fields, enclosed by stout fences.  As the dark column of troops struck
the bridge, its hollow echoes rang ominously in their ears and a deadly
chill seemed to come into the air.

The advanced guard had crossed the bridge and breasted the steep ascent
to its summit.  The narrow structure behind them was choked by the
passage of the main body.  All were pressing eagerly forward, anxious
to gain the open ground beyond; when suddenly there arose, clear and
shrill from the blackness beside them, the terrible war-cry of Pontiac.
It was instantly answered by a burst of yells and a blaze of fire from
every wood-pile, fence, and tree, behind which the fierce Ottawa
warriors had been concealed for hours in anticipation of this moment.

Before that withering fire the advanced guard, leaving half their
number dead behind them, staggered back on the main body, and all
recoiled together.  The little bridge became clogged beyond its
capacity with panic-stricken humanity, those in front striving to fly,
those in the rear endeavoring to advance, until dozens of dead,
wounded, and even of those untouched by bullet were forced over the
unrailed sides into the gloomy depths below.  If at this moment an
attack had been made from the rear, not a man of Dalzell's force would
ever have regained Fort Detroit.  This was what Pontiac had planned,
and, for want of allies whom he could more fully trust, he had
consigned this important duty to Mahng and his Ojibwas.  Now, amid the
roar of battle, he listened with strained ears for the firing that
should denote the Ojibwa attack.  But no sound came from that
direction, and the heart of the great warrior sank within him as he
realized that a vital part of his plan had miscarried.

He had scant time for reflection, however, for the brave Dalzell,
forcing his way to the front, raised his cheery voice with encouraging
shouts, rallied his bewildered men, and led them on a fierce charge up
the heights.  One more crashing volley was poured into their ranks, but
it no longer came as a surprise, and mad with fury the redcoats swept
on to the summit.  To their amazement, it was as deserted as though no
human being had ever trodden its soil.  The place from which, a moment
before, Indian guns had flashed in their faces, was as silent as the
grave.  The enemy had vanished in the blackness as though by magic, and
unaccustomed to the tactics of forest warfare, the newly arrived troops
became filled with a mysterious fear.

Still their leader urged them forward, and the uncertain march was
continued for a short distance until it became apparent that the fence
lines had been changed, so as to lead them from the road, and that they
were involved in a maze of outbuildings and enclosures.  Also in
_älterlichen Hause_ remains much to be effective, especially in housewives
and older daughters and the heiterste, casual partners is the best,
he soon takes an entertaining book (short stories, and edifying,
no boring faselnde), soon to be an interesting subject for the story an
anecdote from the time history, or meinentwegen a case from the neighborhood,
the village with which, as he assured the German not exempts Platt.
_Für The whole Komüne_ is it effective through the introduction
of periodic leaves, newspapers, on common costs and to keep in regular
meeting of the men aloud, possibly by older boys entgegengehende
of confirmation, _als envied and honorable Belohnung_ their progress
in reading and speaking of the High German.

I indicates only that but I have come before me, I knew it run as
a schoolteacher in the country, and thousands more than I do. So
much is certain, I would be school teachers, I would for now only a goal
to know: my village verhochdeutschen. Blank straw, I would think to
thrash, so long not the sheaf of the High German language and education
me on the open field is growing. A civic crown, I would think deserves
to have when I'm at the age nachrühmte: he has these spots, his
village that is otherwise dark, dull, flat German nest, with the chain
of Civilization in contact eradication set by the flat and the introduction
of German language education in Germany. Footnotes: [1] However,
with the exception of certain local and provincial variations,
as in Hamburg, Westphalen, Dithmarsen, where even the educated,
in their debate we are talking about, the local ink not included. [2]
The witch trials, with few exceptions, many after the Reformation
and in the mainly Protestant North Germany were and where there is a
belief in the influence of evil spirits was to basically to Luther,
in melancholic attacks often with the devil appears to him personally
wringing, just had too much nourished, have _diese witch trials in 17th
century Germany, perhaps more people tasted than the Inquisition._
Spain [3] Reineke de Vos is a Dutch and French origin, although
the Mährchen of fox and other animals originally in Germany sowol
than in France were raised.

But the moment the retreat was resumed the attack became as fierce and
galling as ever.  Pontiac distributed his warriors from house to house,
stationing them in such advantageous positions that their fire was
well-nigh unsupportable, and every rod of the road to safety must be
stubbornly contested.

It was now daylight, and through the morning mist the harassed soldiers
could see their agile foes darting forward to cut off stragglers,
despatch the wounded, or scalp the dead, leaping back, firing, and
running to new positions, all the time yelling like so many demons.  A
strong party opening fire from behind a range of fences, Captain Gray
was ordered to dislodge them.  He obeyed, and fell mortally wounded at
the head of his charging company.  The moment his men turned their
backs, the active foe rushed to their old position, and their fire
became hotter than before.

The retreat was now resolved into a flight, the dead lay where they
fell, and the wounded were abandoned to their fate.  A sergeant shot
through the hips raised himself on his hands and gazed despairingly
after the retiring battalion.  Dalzell saw him.  They had fought
together on many a stubborn field, and the commander could not leave
his old comrade to perish.  He sprang to the rescue of the wounded man,
and was lifting him when struck and instantly killed by an Indian
bullet.  Few saw him fall, and none dared attempt the recovery of his
body.

With the death of their gallant leader, the retreating troops became a
panic-stricken mob in which every one looked out for himself.  Only
Grant's little company and Rogers' handful of rangers stood firm, and
by occupying house after house as they slowly fell back, protected
somewhat the flight of the main body.

The exhausted fugitives were still at a distance from the fort when
they were met by an irregular company of traders and their employees,
the sole force that Gladwyn dared spare from his slender garrison,
under command of Paymaster Bullen.  The little man in buckskin
displayed such coolness and good judgment, and was so ably supported by
his motley following, that from that moment the disastrous retreat was
effectively covered.  By eight o'clock, or after six hours of marching
and fighting, the disorganized remnant of the little army, that had set
forth to wipe Pontiac and his red followers from the face of the earth,
found themselves, as by a miracle, once more behind the sheltering
palisades of the fort, which for many months thereafter they had no
desire to leave.

About this time, the Ottawa chieftain who had won this signal victory,
returned to his village with so moody a brow, that even his own
followers durst not utter their rejoicings in his presence.  He had
been so confident of destroying Dalzell's entire force and his plans
had been so well laid, that to have them miscarry through treachery,
aroused his utmost fury.  Thus he now proposed to deal with the
traitors in such a manner that there would be no chance of their
example becoming contagious among the warriors who still acknowledged
his authority.


CHAPTER XXXVI

BRAVE DEATH OF THE OLD MAJOR

The evening preceding that night of death and terror was spent quietly
and pleasantly, as was their wont, by Edith and Ah-mo in Major Hester's
room.  It was an unusually happy time, for Ah-mo, having received her
father's permission to do so, told them of Donald, his bravery, his
wounds, his captivity, the strange manner in which he had been
identified by the mark of a totem on his arm, his recovery from illness
in the secluded quiet of Pontiac's island, and the glad tidings that,
on the morrow, he would be allowed to visit them.

To both Major Hester and Edith the first knowledge that Donald was a
prisoner came as a shock, but when they reflected upon the kindness
with which they had been treated, and realized, from Ah-mo's account,
that the young ensign was regarded with equal favor by Pontiac, they
became reconciled to the idea of his captivity, and only anxious to
note for themselves his reported recovery from the illness caused by
wounds.  So they impatiently watched the passing of the hours that
brought him nearer to them, and beguiled the time by talking of him.
Major Hester told the story of Songa and Mahng, and how the life of the
former had been saved by the baby Donald.  With infinite zest he
recalled the kick with which he had repelled Mahng's attack on the
young Ottawa chief, who was now known to all men as Pontiac.

Ah-mo had never before heard of this, and she anxiously wondered if
that Mahng could be the same who was now the leader of one of the
Ojibwa bands.

But the major was still reminiscing, and describing the brave deed of
Songa's beautiful squaw.

"My mother," murmured Ah-mo.

"And more worthy of honor than a queen!" exclaimed the major.

Then he told of their escape from Tawtry House, of Donald's subsequent
disappearance, and of the strange mark found on his arm when he was
restored to them.

"I soon learned," said the old soldier, "that it was the symbol of a
totem, though I never knew why it was tattooed on the child's arm, nor
by whom.  Perhaps you can tell us of it, Ah-mo.  It was something after
this fashion."

Here the major drew a sketch of the design on a bit of paper.

"Yes," replied the Indian girl, regarding the sketch, "from this alone
could I tell the clan of the warrior wearing it, his standing in the
tribe, and who had tattooed the symbol.  Even without the sketch I
could have told you these things, for I have looked upon the original."

"When?" asked Edith, wonderingly.

"At the time when my father recognized his own handiwork on the arm of
a captive."

"You then have seen our Donald and never told us of the meeting, nor
what he said, nor anything!" exclaimed the white girl, in a grieved
tone.

"I have seen him twice," replied Ah-mo, "but we have never exchanged
words, nor do I think he knows who I am.  The first time I saw him was
shortly after my coming from Montreal, when I was on the river in a
canoe with one of my girl friends.  He was also in a canoe, but
helplessly drifting, having broken his only paddle.  I laughed at his
predicament and would have let him drift, had not my companion
mentioned his name.  It was one esteemed by all of Indian blood, and
though I knew not whether the young man bore any relation to my
father's friend, I determined, for the sake of his name, to help him.
We approached him so quietly that he did not hear us, tossed a paddle
into his canoe, and were off almost before he knew of our presence.
That was one time.  The other was but a few weeks since, when I stood
with my father and a captive was laid unconscious at our feet.  My
father knew him not, and but for the totem would never have recognized
him."

"What is this totem?" inquired Edith.

"It is that of the Bear, the same to which my father belongs."

"And you, too, and your brothers?"

"No, we belong to our mother's totem, which is that of the Beaver, for
no one may belong to the totem of his father."

"And what means the circle of serpents?" asked Major Hester.

"It signifies the magic circle of the Metai, to which none but a brave
warrior, who has won the honor by some notable deed, may belong."

"But Donald was a child."

"Was he not by birth a warrior who could be naught but brave? and had
he not already, as you have just told, saved the life of a chief of the
Metai?" queried Ah-mo.

"True, so he had," asserted the major.  "But what is this Metai of
which you speak?"

"Being a woman, I know but little of it," answered the Indian girl.
"It is a powerful order of much mystery extending over many tribes.  It
is greatly feared by those who do not belong to it, while those who do
will aid each other in any extremity and to the full extent of their
powers.  In it are many degrees of merit, and he who is its chief must
be obeyed by all who acknowledge its authority."

"Why, girl, you are describing free-masonry!" cried the major, who was
himself a master-mason.  "Have the members of this Metai signs and
passwords by which they may recognize each other?"

"They have, but I know them not," replied Ah-mo.

"Of course not, seeing that you are a girl; but Pontiac is certain to
know something of this thing, and, if the mighty brotherhood that
encircles the world has indeed penetrated the American wilderness, then
will we settle this useless war in short order.  By the way, Ah-mo, who
is the present chief of this magic circle? or is it not known to the
uninitiated?"

"It is known to all who care to know," replied the girl, proudly, "for
his name is Pontiac, and it is his own mark, which no other may use,
that encloses the all-seeing eye of the Metai on your son's arm."

"Whew-w-w," whistled the major, reflectingly.  "So that is the secret
of Pontiac's wide-spread influence?  Well, I must see and question him
about it to-morrow.  Now, girls, leave me, for it is late, and Ah-mo's
revelations have given me much food for thought."

As he kissed his daughter good-night and blessed her, so he also, for
the first time, kissed Ah-mo and gave her his blessing, saying that she
was becoming as dear to him as an own daughter.

As the two girls crossed the space intervening between Major Hester's
quarters and the house in which they slept, Edith wondered that they
did not meet any of the guards who were generally so quick to note
every movement in that vicinity, especially at night.  She was also
impressed with Ah-mo's unusual silence and her frequent starts at the
little noises made by birds or insects.  When they reached their room,
the Indian girl sat by the open window, saying that she did not feel
like going to bed just yet, and after a while Edith fell asleep leaving
her sitting gazing out into the night.

It seemed many hours later when she awoke to find her companion still
sitting in the same position.  On rising and going to her, she found
the Indian girl to be trembling as though with a chill.

"What is it, Ah-mo?" she asked in alarm.  "Are you ill, dear?"

As though in answer there came a roar of musketry from a point not far
distant, and yells, and shrill cries, and the sharp crack of rifles.

At the sounds Pontiac's daughter sprang up, crying: "It has begun!  Oh,
my father! my father!"

"What does it mean?  Tell me, Ah-mo!" gasped Edith, her voice sunk to a
whisper with terror.

"It is a battle," replied the Indian girl, sternly, "between thy people
and my people.  It is time to dress and be prepared for what may
happen."

In a few minutes Edith, fully dressed, declared that she must go to her
father, that they might share together whatever danger threatened.

"Whither you go," replied the other, "there must I go also," and so
they left the house in company.  They heard the old Canadian couple who
owned it moving about as they went out, but did not stop to speak to
them.  As they gained the road, the firing, which had been momentarily
silenced, broke out afresh apparently nearer than before.  In Major
Hester's quarters they saw a dim light, and with clasped hands they
started to run toward it.

At that moment a score of dark figures appeared, coming swiftly from
the direction of the light.  The next instant the girls were
surrounded, seized in brawny arms, and borne away, their gasping cries
of terror being smothered ere they were fully uttered.

An hour later, in the gray of dawn, two young men came hurrying down
the road.  "Is that the place, Atoka?" asked one, pointing to the house
occupied by Major Hester, in front of which a little group of
frightened Canadian peasants were gathered.

His companion nodded assent, whereupon the other exclaimed, "Thank God,
there has been no fighting here!"  Then he sprang forward, scattering
the Canadians, who recoiled in terror at his sudden appearance, and
entered the house.  In another minute a bitter cry rang from the open
windows, and the hearers crossed themselves at the sound.

Donald Hester had discovered his father lying in a pool of blood, from
which none had dared lift him, and pierced by a dozen wounds, but still
breathing.

"Father!  Dear father!  Speak to me.  It is your own boy, Donald!"
cried the youth in pitiful accents, as he raised the prostrate form in
his arms.  "Tell me, father, who has done this thing."

The dying man opened his eyes, and fixed them full on the face of his
son.  For a few seconds he gazed on the loved features, and his lips
moved as in a blessing, though no sound came from them.  Then, with a
smile of ineffable sweetness, and a sigh of perfect content, the light
faded from the dear eyes, and the spirit of the brave old soldier
passed gently from the war-worn body into the fadeless dawn of eternity.

Very tenderly did Donald lift the lifeless body of his father to the
humble pallet that had been the soldier's bed for many weeks.  Then he
sat beside it, keeping motionless watch over his dead, while Atoka
stood silently in the doorway guarding the grief of his friend from
curious intrusion.


CHAPTER XXXVII

THE CURSE OF THE MAGIC CIRCLE

From the moment that Donald Hester's brave shout of warning saved the
schooner _Gladwyn_ from capture, he was like one who sleeps, until he
awoke to consciousness amid the strange surroundings of an Indian
lodge.  Soft hands were bathing his throbbing brow, and when he opened
his eyes they rested on a face of such loveliness, and at the same time
so filled with pity, that it seemed to him but the fairest fragment of
a beautiful dream.  The radiant smile that greeted his restoration to
life gave the face a strangely familiar look; but he was too weak to
remember where he had seen it, and fell asleep from the weariness of
the effort.  When he next awoke he was much stronger, and gazed eagerly
about with the hope that the face might prove a reality; but nowhere
could he discover it, nor did it appear to him again.

He was devotedly cared for by an old squaw, the most skilled nurse in
all the Ottawa tribe, and by a young warrior whom he came to know as
Atoka.  Others occasionally visited the lodge, but never the one he
longed to see, and so he finally decided that the face had indeed come
to him in a dream and not in reality.

Aided by youth and the magic of Indian simples, Donald's recovery was
certain and rapid.  Atoka was his constant companion, and, to while
away the slow hours, each taught the other his own language.  One day
the Indian lad made mention of his sister Ah-mo, and Donald caught
eagerly at the name.  At once it was connected with his vision and with
a long ago day of sunshine on the river.

"Is she not the daughter of Pontiac?" he inquired.

"Yes."

"Then you must be a son of the great chief?"

"I am his son," replied the young Indian, proudly.

"Am I, then, Pontiac's prisoner?"

"No.  One bearing the sign of the Metai may be Pontiac's guest, but
never his prisoner."

"Ah, yes!  I forgot my symbolic marking.  But tell me, Atoka, was not
your sister with two white women on an island not long since?"

"She was.  But they were taken to Detroit in exchange for prisoners
held in the fort."

In saying this Atoka believed he was telling the truth, for he knew not
that Edith still remained in the Ottawa village.  From the day that
Donald was placed in his charge he had not left the island, nor had any
of its other occupants, save occasionally to hunt or fish, for Pontiac
did not wish it generally known that a white captive was held there.

As the means of intelligent intercourse between the young men
increased, Donald learned many other things of which he had been
ignorant, and among them that his own father was also a prisoner, or,
as Atoka said, a guest, in the Ottawa village.

"When you have recovered your full strength, then am I to take you to
him, for so Pontiac has ordered," added Atoka.

Thus inspired to gain strength, Donald did so with such rapidity that,
a week later, he was able to throw Atoka in a wrestling match, and the
young warrior sent word to his father that he should bring his charge
to the village on the following day.

Donald was so excited at the prospect of a near reunion with his
beloved parent, that, to his impatience, no hours had ever seemed so
long as did those of that last day of his seclusion.  He retired early
in order to shorten them by sleep, but was wide awake when startled by
the sound of distant, though heavy and continuous firing.

"It is an attack on the Ottawa village," he said.

"Or on the fort," answered Atoka.

Both were so impatient to visit the scene of conflict that neither
needed to be reminded of their purpose to go to the village on that
very day.  So in a few minutes they had launched a canoe and set forth,
with what results, we have already learned.

As Donald watched beside his father's body, a hand was laid on his
shoulder, and one whom he recognized as Pontiac stood beside him, his
stern face softened by sorrow.

"He was my friend," said the chieftain.  "I loved him with a love that
was more than that of a brother.  Now that he has gone, night has
fallen, and all things are hidden in darkness.  Long years ago he saved
my life, and in so doing made an enemy of him who has now taken his in
revenge.  This man is a dog of dogs, and from this hour he is outcast
among the children of the forest.  With the curse of the Metai shall he
be cursed, he and his forever.  I, Pontiac, Chief of the Magic Circle,
have said it."

"What is his name, and where may he be found?" asked Donald, eagerly.

"His name is Mahng, and he is of the Ojibwas, though where he may be
found I know not yet.  But found he must be, for not only is he the
murderer of thy father and my friend, and a traitor to all in whose
veins runs Indian blood, but he has stolen and taken with him those
most dear to thee and to me, thy sister and my daughter."

"What!" cried Donald, springing to his feet.  "My sister, say you?  Is
she not safe in the fort?"

"No," answered Pontiac, sadly.  "For safety did I keep her here, with
her father.  Now is she gone, and with her is gone Ah-mo, my daughter,
and my right hand.  To recover them, and to avenge this death, I might
command the Ottawa nation to follow me, and they would obey.  I might
destroy the Ojibwas from the face of the earth, but it may not be.  In
a private quarrel I may not array tribe against tribe.  Nor in this
case would the strength of a war-party prove of such value as the
cunning of two men.  The one is doubtless expected, and will be watched
for, while the others may pass unnoticed.  Therefore have I selected
two who shall be intrusted with this mission and vengeance.  They are
my two sons, one of whom is of the Totem of the Bear, and the other of
the Totem of the Beaver, so that two totems shall be matched against
one, for Mahng is of the Totem of the Wolf.  One of them is, besides,
of the order of Metai, on which Mahng has no claim."

"But am I not to be allowed to take part in the rescue of my own
sister?  Am I to be kept here, a miserable captive, while others do the
work that is rightly mine?" cried Donald.

"My son," replied Pontiac, again laying his hand gently on the young
man's shoulder, "art thou not of the order of the Metai, and of my
totem, the Totem of the Bear?  Hast thou not been the son of my heart
from the day thy baby arms clasped my neck and saved me from death?  I
had no thought but that thou should go as one of my messengers, and
Atoka shall go with thee."

So it was planned in that chamber of death.  After a while four
venerable warriors, all of the Metai, were summoned; Atoka, who had as
yet performed no deed to entitle him to membership, was sent outside to
guard the door; and, in the presence of his dead father, Donald Hester
was initiated into the dread secrets of the magic circle.  "Both,"
Wieland wrote to Sophie la Roche, "belong to the small number of fine
spirits, with a beautiful soul, to the envy and jealousy Seyn capable,
and you know that those are the white ravens. " To the poet Wieland
Jacobi felt through a kind of mental kinship drawn.

He used him to call _eigenen_ poet, and heartily rejoiced over his
friend's quest in poetry the ideal of perfection to reach the soul
before it floated. In a Jacobi's letters, which Wieland in March 1771
in honor Breitenstein, where he was staying, a visit made, a description
of Wieland's outer and his personality in that period of his life
preserved.

"At first sight," said Jacobi, "seemed to me his physiognomy is not very
significant. His eyes are small and somewhat dull, and the quantity
of leaf scars, making his skin is covered, to the fact that its
trains will not stand out enough to be duly reward them. Nothing
less is expressed in all its Gebehrde the fire of his spirit and
character of his Empfindungsart to an extraordinary and peculiar way.
If he is emotionally strong, geräth his whole body, but an almost
imperceptible manner, on the move his muscles stretch out, and his eyes
are brighter and shinier, his mouth open slightly, and so he remains
in a kind of paralysis, until he pronounced some words, or his
friend's hand has pressed. This expression is in person Wieland so
fine that it should remain mostly unnoticed, but I am more than
once until the mark has been shaken.

Wieland goes quickly from one accusation to another over, because he in
an instant a number of thoughts or a situation through and felt has. For
him, it would Zeitverderbniß Seyn if he stayed in longer. " Among
the properties, according to Jacobi's expression, "Wieland's
character is so charming and worthy of veneration made as his genius,"
Jacobi expected "the natural, beautiful and masculine sensibility
of his soul, and the unspoiled goodness of his heart, his warm,
selfless, to envy and jealousy made him incapable of true love and
beauty; ungeheuchelte his incredible modesty and sincerity.

"So deep, as his friendship with federal Jacobi, was not one of the
acquaintances who Wieland during a stay in Leipzig was held, where
he briefly Time travel was. Among the few to whom he was closer, was
among whites and Garve, Gellert both friends, he is no longer among
the living was held, but at no small annoyances had to hear how
young and old are tried, the celebrated poet by matt Lobgesänge to
glorify. "It was," said Wieland, "an appalling Gesing, Geplärre,
Geseufze and howl." White's love nature is attracted to him. He
was among those who said Wieland, with whom he wants to spend his life.
In Garve he admired the philosopher and penetrating thinker.

Only in small, he came into contact with Clodius, who through his talent
for pleasing interessirte deal more than its Geistesvorzüge. A certain
kinship chained him Oeser, he's in the Winkler Gallery paintings
had learned.

In one of his former letters Wieland confessed: "Of all the men, whose
acquaintance I made in Leipzig, Oeser is the one I am most after
my heart had found a beautiful soul, a great heart, with all the
simplicity of the outside, which is to find the true genius.

"Crucial to Wieland's later life was a trip to Weimar. there adequate
follow through acquaintance with the Count of Gorizia, he had the good
fortune, widow of the Duchess Anna Amalia of Saxony-Weimar, to be
presented. His personality and witty entertainment, combined with the
literary reputation that preceded him, made the best impression on
those who befriended the princess muses. The Duchess Amalia gave
him the education of the post and then Erbprinzen Duke Carl August.
Not long before, Wieland prospects had to Vienna to be called. His
hope was based on the fairly widespread rumor: Joseph II intended the
finest minds of the German nation in the capital of the German
Empire to unite.

The hope to come to Vienna, gave Wieland also as yet not quite, as
he is already a post of Instructors of Erbprinzen of Saxony-Weimar,
had adopted. "I stand now," he wrote, "In my forty years, and when the
goddess Fortuna something for me thun wants, it's high time; = =
en attendant, and because of this I Humoristin not dare, I try, =
ne ipse mihi desim =. " The new situation in which he was joined
in the expressions, it is not entirely überhoben of concern for the
future, actual or, to put his family.

Their situation was uncertain, since Wieland's death, went out with the
life pension of 600 Thlrn. Which he had been assured when he is no
longer the instructor would Erbprinzen Seyn. Until that time, with the
3rd September 1775 approaches, he moved into one years salary in 1000
Thlrn. His income had only a few years. Through his job as Prince
educators, however, he saw an early favorite cherished desire
fulfilled, which he had arrived during his stay in Switzerland had
often employs vividly. The court life was Wieland, at least initially,
to offer no taste, although the shackles, which he landed , according
to his own confessions, nothing less than oppressively were.

Something had good news for him but by the close of a great mind and
heart princess whose versatile educated taste for everything big and
beautiful, for science and art in the broadest sense of the word, was
receptive. So they gathered in a circle like feingebildeter men and
women living with him, and every talent was in their vicinity so as
to develop free, because humanity and condescension to the main lines
of its nature were, giving them a general love and reverence acquired.
At his princely pupil, the Erbprinzen Carl August, by the excellent
facilities and gracious properties to the most legitimate hopes,
Wieland was soon replaced by a bond of mutual affection always intimately
linked.

The interest for the true, good and beauty in his royal pupil to
awaken and nurture was the main task, which Wieland when he was
teaching.

A certificate of which he gave when he was the birthday of the
Erbprinzen by an allegorical poetry in dramatic form, "the choice
of Hercules" titled, celebrated.

Wieland's interest in the dramatic poetry was nurtured by the actor
Seylersche society whose members, including the famous Eckhof belonged,
then gave performances in Weimar, where no stage was standing. Neither
the dramas, even the comic operettas, mostly French designs reproduced,
Wieland could actually be interesting taste, if he does not even
those Producten Werth virtually all agreements. A greater effect, he
hoped by the previously neglected entirely serious opera. Already in
Erfurt had him this subject and it employs some explanations
abgenöthigt, his friend since he Jacobi Cantate and especially its
"Elysium" was read. The applause, which a then sealed by Wieland
singspiel "Aurora" was, as it, by Swiss componirt , was listed,
ermuthigte him to a larger musical and dramatic trials.

Thus Wieland's opera "Alceste," in May 1773 for the first time was
listed. At the same time he wrote his "Essay on the Musical." Wieland's
joy at the favorable reception of his "Alceste" was propagated as
the famous Gluck him calling for him a similar opera to write. Wieland
was distracted by the dramatic poetry of a literary undertaking, his
time and almost excessive forces claiming are threatened. The very
popular = = Mercure de France gave him the idea to publish a similar
magazine, which under the title: "The German Mercury" should appear.
Wieland hoped by this journal a widespread effect on his contemporaries,
and promised to them for the future an economically secure position.
After his plane should be in that magazine in poems and prose essays
of general interest with a critical overview of the latest phenomena
in the field of philosophy, history, politics, literature and beautiful
alternate.

The record review should especially be used biased and unfair Urtheile
writings about the benefits to be corrected. Wieland began the publication
of the "German Mercury," but soon came to unforeseen obstacles. "Without
the Beihülfe of our best writers I can not," he confessed in one
of his letters. Among the staff that he used for his journal wanted to
win, were Lessing, Herder, Garve, Möser others are too busy with
literary work, to inform him of an uninterrupted Theilnahme on
"German Merkur reassure them.

Other writers, it will be useful could, he knew too little, he knew of
several difficult, where they lived, or what position they claimed.
Among his close friends and acquaintances he had the staff to choose
for his journal, which he, incidentally, as it not only the issue but
also the publisher took over, and soon extended by a Correspondenz
and manifold errors with paper merchants, printers and unspeakable
Corrector annoyances prepared.

His friends Jacobi Wieland confessed: "He was already tired of Mercury,
even before he started." Among the concerns of management, for it
certainly lacked in talent, freed him Bertuch, the post Legationsrath
and owners in industry-Comptoirs, Weimar, which was the acquisition
of the book dedicated to him and with Rath and hülfreich That stood
to the side .

Wieland's boldest expectations exceeded the number of subscribers soon
after the announcement of the "German Mercury."

An edition of 2000 copies was quickly sold out, regardless of the internal
equipment of the first book out was very poor. Except Wieland and Jacobi
had no writers of recognized Werth delivered a contribution.

God, people, Möser others had signed anonymous. But it was less the lack
of famous names, as in the "German Merkur's criticism, which soon
became a holy night light on those magazine threw so much promise was
announced. In a passionate reaction had taken Seyn Wieland as he
developed into a rigorous art judges raised.

But he hardly knew the fate that he is through his Urtheile it all
at once Partheien and spoil yourself with those would disintegrate,
for which he gave his most faithful friends.

Some errors gerieth Wieland by the sharpness of his criticism of the
poets Halberstädter with Gleim, Jacobi, Michaelis uA Göttinger The
poetic Blumenlese to which he himself contributions, he had a rigor
beurtheilt by which the publisher Boie both, as the staff felt very
violated.

There were citizens who Hölty, Voß, Miller, Count Stolberg including
the talented young men, the Göttingen poets Bunde, who then formed,
belonged.

Wieland away completely respect that association, as a rebuke to
the bard poetry, and the bold Dithyrambenton met, the Göttingen
poets were in a translation of the ancient Greek tragedian choirs
angestimmt had. Through such efforts Wieland said, would be the German
poetry soon all sound well and all truth, regularity, and elegance
Anmuth lose. Regarding the Göttinger poet said: "They seem to have
made the saying of Democritus, that race should be a poet, by their
example to justify, but the poetic Wuthe but should, dächt 'I do
not even close to those limits , in the dark cellar leads. "
Through such statements, and by its failure to bard poetry, both by
the Göttingen hochverehrten singer Messiade met Wieland had those young
men so irritated that she, as the poet at the Confederation July
2, 1773 birthday Klopstock, Wieland's "Strange narratives "sacrificed
to the flames.

The poets of Frankfurt, in a way other than the Göttinger, according to
a National Poetry strove, at the Shakspeare them as a model was, Wieland
was a review of" Götz von Berlichingen 'decay which, if Nor does
he even came, but a place in the "German Mercury" was found. The tense
proportion in which he thus made was to Goethe, his excellent and
versatile talent soon afterwards by the "Werther suffering," the tragedy
"Clavigo" including best writings, was further increased by the
German of Wieland Mercury released "Letters on the singspiel Alceste.
" The authors of these letters Goethe chose the objects of his humor in
Aristophanes then sealed his posse: "Gods, Heroes and Wieland."

Instead it provoked, to the Parthei of Goethe's opponents to beat the
sittenverderbliche and dangerous tendency of "suffering Werther highlight
searched, Wieland recommended in the" German Mercury "the script
directed against him" all lovers of Pasquin manner as a masterpiece
of sophisticated jokes and satire, made all sorts of positions carefully
_den_ auserwähle, from which the object should appear wrong, and then
warmly funny about doing that the thing was so wrong. " It did not
stop there Wieland. A previously promised Vertheidigung of "Götz von
Berlichingen" he held back and not let them soon afterwards in the
"German Merkur print. In recognition of the equitable Goethe's, which
he characterized by a very detailed determination of the aforementioned
drama shown had remained in Wieland same.

With regard to the "suffering of Werther" vertheidigte in his criticism
of that novel, the author of the accusation, the suicide of the spoken
word to have. Wieland those novel called "the soul's painting of an inner
struggle, as it could only _der_ design, the creator of Hamlet and
Othello studirt have." So again Wieland had reconciled with Goethe,
one of his most dangerous opponent to be threatened. But the attacks
of those who Klopstock bard poetry praising, he is not precluded, as
a joke occasionally attached Fair. In this way, Wieland looked over all
his opponents a decent position to argue. The errors into which
he and his friends Halberstädter with Gleim and Jacobi, Gerath had been
balanced, as Gleim the hand of reconciliation offered.

He used to travel to Weimar, where the disturbed Freundschaftsverhältniß
was completely restored. Even with a friend Gleim, with Heinse, Wieland
was disintegrated. He reconciled with him but when he Heinsen novel
"Laidion" read, and was quite charmed by the beautiful, adventurous
monster, "as he called that works. At a previous favorite pleasure
to visit the theater, had meanwhile Wieland forgo them. By the
fire of the Weimar Castle on 6 May 1774, the actor, the local society
to their taking important ideas, and had been dismissed. By the end
of the year 1774, the education business, which is Wieland previously
devoted entirely ceased.

The Hereditary Prince Carl August and his brother Constantin had accompanied
the Count of Gorizia and the Majors v. Knebel, a trip through a
portion originates from Germany, and also go to France. Since Wieland
instructor was no longer had his worries increased. By doubling literary
diligence he had an extension of its income think. His family, to which
four daughters belonged, was magnified by his mother, which is already
1772, soon after her husband's death, according to Wieland Weimar was
withdrawn. The poor sales of the "German Merkur nöthigte him in one
of his letters was the action that he was hardly in a position, the cost
of that journal to cover. Among the concerns for his subsistence joined
some of his mortification self-esteem. An assessment on suspicion he was
not missing. A satirical drama, "Prometheus, Deukalion and his
Recensenten" title, and by Wagner in Frankfurt am Main drafted, was
quite general for a work Goethe's.

It appeared at a time when Wieland from that poet had received a few
lines, the ratio on a friendly hint seemed. Hintansetzung indifferent
on the one hand, and reconciliation on the other, held in his Wieland
Unmuth for Loos, the Theil him had become so much he deserves to
have believed.

"Never did I," he wrote to Sophie la Roche, "more love for a man
felt, as the author of Goetz and Werther. His friendship would make
me happy. But he does not want my friend Seyn. He will have the pleasure,
before the world his game with me to drive, and in the way he's does,
he brings everything that makes insults forgiven. How did I deserve
all this? What did 'I am unworthy made from Wacker upright people loved
and to be? "So touching actions contained several by Wieland's
former letters.

A trip to Halberstadt to Gleimstraße to him under all his friend almost
had remained alone, should be Unmuth away. A two-cohabitation made in
Wieland and lively Gleim's desire, the future and to have the same
residence. Some plans have been drafted in this regard and then
abandoned. Gleim's efforts to give him a job in Berlin ingests
Wieland knew to appreciate.

The reasons why he did not make use of it was contained a soon after
returning from Halberstadt-written letter to Gleim. It stated among
others: "It is likely that Carl August cause I never give myself to
remove it. I'm sitting here quite well. So beautiful always your Berlin
Project for me in our chimärisches Plänchen suited, but it would be
in the execution endless difficulties. Elsewhere, as in Weimar to
live, but I would just compel the North to eventually accept a
public office or are looking for.

The move to a world like the Berlinische is, moreover, would be for my
circumstances and my Gemüthsart hardly chic. = Pain = liberté et cuit
will forever remain my motto. Lieber with six hundred Thaler in
the small village where my Gleim was born in a hut in the Schmerlenbach
than in Berlin or Vienna, with so many thousands Thaler, than you
want. Carl August, I weighed and his mother also. In Hofintriguen and
governance matters, I will never mix, and me as much as possible in
my cabin snails keep quiet. I will thus have little or no enemies in
Weimar, and innocence in peace and live there as long as God is like.
Change once the circumstances, we want to rest to get us not to Berlin,
nor in a windmill, but us anywhere near our Gleim, just a little Suetonius
tranquilles Gütchen buy, as befits a good and Danischmende frommt -
so far from sultans and Bonz, as is always possible. In a small town
or in the countryside, not far from a small town, can such a thing
means of Socrates and Horace, as I am well happy Seyn Feiler.

"Wieland wrote at a time when the government of his former pupil Carl
August and his marriage to Princess Louise of Hesse-Darmstadt,
some changes in its current situation could occur. He seemed taken, under
all circumstances, the wisdom to show that so far his inseparable
companion had been. "I have," he wrote, "already I made the part.
The Hofluft I always been contrary, and I will ever seltner Seyn
genöthigt be Athmer them, the happier werd 'ich Seyn. "That Gleichmuth
Wieland remained faithful.

In one of his former letters to Sophie la Roche, he said:" The
forthcoming appearances, as insignificant for the rest of the world,
or seem, are for us Weimaraner but of great importance that all of
us now in anticipation of things float that will come.

The quietest among all called Wieland, because he had nothing
requires all satisfied, and moreover, full of good hopes.

"At least one of these hopes, which long ago he quietly cared for, was
fulfilled by the personal acquaintance Goethe's, the young duke
on his journey in Frankfurt am Main, know and appreciate, and had
invited him, in the Weimarische to enter government service. A few
months after Carl August, the government accepted and celebrated his
marriage had hit the Goethe November 7, 1775 in Weimar . With
enthusiasm Wieland announced these events his friends Jacobi. jealousy
and envy were totally alien to his soul. The young author, who through
his Satyr hurt soon as favorite and confidant of a prince to see the
detail he has confessed, made him no unpleasant sensation. Goethe was
him, after his own speech as "the greatest genius, and as the best,
most lovable man, whom he previously knew." Wieland's enthusiasm for
Goethe knew no bounds. The evidence is found in several of his former
letters.

He was in a happy mood, which is also probably a major reason I would
love to have that in his current life situation is not the least change
had occurred.
Fired with horror and pity,
she impulsively sprang on her pony and dashed away in the direction of
the village, which she reached just in time to save the life of James
Christie.

Ere she left the village, she obtained a pledge from the warriors of
that band that his life should not again be endangered at their hands,
and that in the future he should be well treated.  Then, promising to
see him again when they should come back that way, Edith bade the young
soldier farewell and returned to the lodge that was now her home.  From
that moment she was conscious of a change in her feelings, and of a
longing for the life of her own people which was already beginning to
seem strange and remote.

It so happened that Edith and Christie did not meet again until at the
great gathering of the Ohio valley Indians and their captives, held on
the banks of the beautiful Muskingum by order of Colonel Bouquet.
Edith was brought in first, and though she protested that she had no
desire to leave her adopted parents, she was so warmly welcomed by the
commander and his officers, many of whom had known both her father and
brother, that she gradually allowed herself to be persuaded to a
renewed trial of civilization.  So strange seemed the dress with which
she was provided by the matrons, who accompanied the expedition for the
express purpose of caring for the female captives, that for days she
would only consent to wear it for an hour or so at a time.

All this while there was daily witnessed in Bouquet's camp some of the
most pathetic scenes of that strange war, the bringing in of hundreds
of captives of both sexes and all ages, and the eager search among them
of husbands, brothers, or sons for lost relatives.  Many of those thus
brought in had been born among the Indians or had lived with them for
so long as to forget their own people.  These clung piteously to their
savage friends, begging that they might not be separated from them, and
a number of these afterward effected an escape from the soldiers, in
order to return to their beloved forest homes.

As group after group came in, Edith Hester scanned them eagerly in
search of a familiar face.  At length she saw it, and her eyes lighted
with pleasure as she and Christie again met.  He was escorted by two
venerable warriors, one of whom was the father of the woman whose white
husband had slain her for her scalp.  While Edith and Christie were
eagerly talking, this Indian standing quietly near them suddenly
uttered an exclamation of rage, raised his rifle and fired at a white
man who was passing.  It was the miscreant, David Owens; and as he fell
dead the whole camp was instantly in an uproar.  The unresisting
avenger would have been killed on the spot but for the determined
protection of Edith and Christie.  As it was, he was placed under
arrest and held for trial on the following day.

At this trial, after Christie's testimony and that of several Indians
had been taken, Edith Hester delivered such a passionate and convincing
plea in behalf of the venerable warrior who had thus avenged the foul
murder of his daughter and grandchildren that, to the gratification of
the entire assembly, Bouquet ordered him to be acquitted and set free.

With the happy ending of this trial, while Edith was surrounded by a
group of officers and receiving their congratulations, a young Indian
forced his way through the circle, gave one searching look at the
girl's face, and with an almost inarticulate cry of "Edith!" threw his
arms about her in a joyful embrace.  The scandalized officers were
about to lay violent hands on the young savage, when to their
amazement, they saw that her arms were about his neck, and that with
her fair head on his shoulder she was sobbing hysterically.

In another moment Christie had seized one of his hands and was
proclaiming the astounding news that the young Indian was none other
than Donald Hester, ensign in His Majesty's regiment of Royal
Americans, and long since reported dead.

For nearly half an hour the excited group exchanged an uninterrupted
stream of questions and congratulations, mingled with laughter and
tears.  Then it began to move slowly in the direction of headquarters.

All this time there had been standing a short distance away an Indian
youth, and an Indian maiden whose beauty attracted much attention and
many outspoken remarks from the soldiers who sauntered past with rude
stares and ruder laughter.  The girl flushed, glanced about her
indignantly, and finally as Edith and Donald began to move away, said
in a low tone to her companion:--

"Let us go.  They have no thought for us.  We are no longer wanted."

So they disappeared; and when, a little later, Donald came back in
eager search for Ah-mo and Atoka, they were nowhere to be found nor
could he gain any information concerning them.


CHAPTER XL

THE PRINCESS ANSWERS DONALD'S QUESTION

While the army of Bouquet was operating in the south and reducing to
submission the tribes of the Ohio valley, another force under command
of Colonel Bradstreet, skirted the southern shore of Lake Erie,
destroying Indian villages wherever they were found and finally reached
Fort Detroit.  Thus was the long siege of that frontier post raised,
and after fifteen months of close confinement within its palisades the
weary garrison were once more free to venture forth, without the risk
of being ambushed by an ever vigilant foe.  Treaties were signed with
all the chiefs of that region, save only Pontiac, who, filled with
bitter grief at the failure of the great project to which he had
devoted the energies of his life, sullenly retired to his forest
stronghold on the Maumee.  From there he gave out, that if by spring he
had not raised a sufficient force to renew his struggle against the
hated redcoats, then would he visit Sir William Johnson, whom alone he
recognized as representing the English king, and sign a treaty.

So it happened that the great chief, accompanied by such a retinue as
became his rank, presented himself before the walls of Fort Oswego
early in the following June and was saluted by a salvo of artillery.
Sir William had journeyed that far to meet him, and here the treaty was
signed by which Pontiac bound himself to fight no more against the
English.  After the formalities were concluded, the Ottawa chieftain
remained in that vicinity for several weeks as the guest of the
governor.

About this time the Bullens reached New York from a flying trip to
Oswego, where the paymaster had been summoned on business.  Madam
Bullen, whom we have long known as Madam Rothsay, always accompanied
her husband on such journeys.  She declared that both he and "Tummas,"
who had long since been reluctantly surrendered by the Indians, were so
incapable of caring for themselves in the wilderness, that her presence
was absolutely necessary to protect them from its dangers.

To this the little paymaster answered that the wilderness had no
dangers save such as could be overcome by a man of brains and
ingenuity, but that he was always glad to have Madam Bullen accompany
him on his trips, and thereby escape, for a while, the perilous cares
and anxieties of city life.

From this Oswego trip, which had to do with providing a great quantity
of presents for Pontiac and his followers, they returned to their
spacious town house on the Bowling Green in time to give a grand ball
on the eve of Edith Hester's wedding to Lieutenant James Christie.

Donald was in town, of course, and would appear in uniform for the last
time at this ball, as he had resigned from the army in order to devote
his whole attention to the great estate left by his father.

"When I rebuild Tawtry House, I shall want you and Edith to come and
live with me," he said to Christie, "for without you the loneliness
will be horrible."

"I'm afraid you'll have to bear it, old man, for I'm not inclined to
give up soldiering yet awhile, and especially so soon after promotion,"
replied the lieutenant, with a laugh.  "But you can easily banish
loneliness by installing a mistress in Tawtry House.  I'm sure there
are plenty of pretty girls in New York who would fill the position
charmingly."

"Perhaps there are," answered Donald, indifferently.  "I must confess,
though, that I have yet to meet one of them whom I could fancy
presiding gracefully over the hospitalities of a forest castle."

In truth Donald had not enjoyed his season of New York life, and was
ever drawing unfavorable comparisons between it and his previous winter
spent so happily in a wilderness hut, amid the mighty forests of the
distant Wisconsin.  He rarely alluded to those days now, but in his
heart of hearts he fondly cherished their memories.

Had the ball given by the Bullens been in honor of any person save his
own dear sister, Donald would have excused himself from attendance, so
weary was he of such festivities.  As it was, he dropped in very late,
when the dancing was at its height, and stood for a while listlessly
watching the gay scene from one of the entrances to the ball-room.
Suddenly he started and leaned eagerly forward.  A girl with the
bearing of a princess had just swept past him, leaning on the arm of
General Gage, commander-in-chief of His Majesty's forces in America.
She was robed in corn-colored silk and wore a string of great pearls
twined in the jetty braids of her hair.  As her dress brushed Donald,
he seemed to feel the breath of the forest on his cheek.

"Who is she?" he asked of a young officer standing beside him.

"Who?  Oh!  The girl the general is so taken with?  The belle of the
evening?  The sensation of the hour?  Surely you don't need to be told
who she is?"

"But I do," replied Donald, impatiently; "for I have only just come."

"Ah!  Well then, she is--To tell you the truth, I don't know exactly
who she is, except that she is an Indian princess from the far west,
and some say that she is the daughter of Pontiac himself.  But she was
educated in France, and all that sort of thing, you know.  They say she
is worth--"  Here the speaker paused, for his listener had departed.

Shortly afterwards, Donald Hester was the most envied man in the room;
for the beauty of the ball was leaning on his arm, smiling up in his
face and talking to him with all the familiarity of old
acquaintanceship.

"Lucky dog, that Hester!" remarked one dapper youth to another.

"Yes.  They say she once saved him from the stake or something of the
kind, and that he has her monogram tattooed on his arm, don't you know?
Romantic, awfully."

Out on a broad veranda, from which they could see a flood of moon
silver flecking the waters of the bay, Donald was asking Ah-mo many
questions.  How did she happen to be there?  Where had she come from?
Why had he not known of her arrival sooner?   Did she know that Edith
was to be married?  Why had she left them so mysteriously and unkindly
on the Muskingum the year before?

To these the girl made answer that she had come from Oswego with her
kind friend, Madam Bullen, to be bridesmaid at the wedding of her dear
friend, Edith Hester.

"So that is Edith's mystery!" cried Donald, who had tried in vain to
find out who was to act in that capacity on the morrow.

"Possibly," assented Ah-mo, with the dear rippling laugh that had
haunted the young ensign ever since he first heard it on the far-away
Detroit.  "And now, Mr. Hester, that--"

"_Mister_ Hester?  It was not _Mister_ Hester on the banks of the
Wisconsin, Ah-mo."

"But that was a year and more ago.  Besides, you were not in uniform,
then.  Do you know I don't think I like you in a red coat, half so well
as in buckskin?"

"If it were possible I would discard it this moment," cried Donald,
"and I promise you, that after this night, I will never wear it again.
But, speaking of dress, Ah-mo, while you are beautiful beyond
description in this silken robe, I can't but think that you were still
more so in the fawn skin and fur dress that Atoka and I helped you make
in Beaver Castle."

So they talked of what had been and what was to be, and of Donald's
plans for Tawtry House, until suddenly he said:--

"And now, Ah-mo, I want to ask you the most important question of all.
Will you--I mean, can you--"

"Come in to supper," interrupted Paymaster Bullen, bustling out on the
veranda at that moment.  "Who is it?  You, Donald, and you, Ah-mo, my
dear girl?  Why, there won't be a bite left, if you don't hurry.  Never
saw such feeders in my life.  'Pon honor, I never did."

"And I didn't have a chance to ask my question," whispered Donald,
disconsolately.

"Perhaps you will have a better chance the next time we meet," replied
Ah-mo, mischievously.

On the following day came the wedding, with the genuine sensation of an
Indian princess as bridesmaid, and opinion was evenly divided as to
which was the loveliest,--she, or the bride herself.

On the day after, when Donald called at the Bullens', with his question
trembling on his lips, he was astounded and bewildered to learn that
Ah-mo had left the evening before on a swift-sailing sloop for Albany.
From there she would hasten to Oswego and rejoin her father, who only
awaited her coming to start for his distant western home.

"But, sir," said "Tummas," who in all the glory of a gorgeous new
livery, had just opened the door, "the young lady left a note for you,
hand 'ere it is."

Hastily tearing open the dainty billet thus handed him, Donald read:--

"If your question concerns the belle of a New York ball-room, it had
best remain unasked.  If it is intended for a simple Indian girl, it
had best be asked among the lodges of her people."

A month later the question was asked, and answered very much to
Donald's satisfaction; while he, clad in buckskin, and Ah-mo dressed as
were the other girls of her tribe, drifted in a canoe on the placid
surface of the Detroit river.  They were married in the quaint little
chapel of the fort, and, as Pontiac gave his beautiful daughter into
the arms of him, who was now become doubly his son, he said:--

"May the Great Spirit, the All-seeing Eye of the Magic Circle, who
looks alike upon his red children of the forest, and his white children
from beyond the salt waters, forever bless this union of the Totem of
the Beaver with the Totem of the Bear."




THE END.