Lyddy lived through a lifetime of emotion in these twilight concerts.
Sometimes she was filled with an exquisite melancholy from which
there was no escape; at others, the ethereal purity of the strain
stirred her heart with a strange, sweet vision of mysterious joy; joy
that she had never possessed, would never possess; joy whose bare
existence she never before realised.  When the low notes sank lower
and lower with their soft wail of delicious woe, she bent forward
into the dark, dreading that something would be lost in the very
struggle of listening; then, after a pause, a pure human tone would
break the stillness, and soaring, birdlike, higher and higher, seem
to mount to heaven itself, and, "piercing its starry floors," lift
poor scarred Lydia's soul to the very gates of infinite bliss.  In
the gentle moods that stole upon her in those summer twilights she
became a different woman, softer in her prosperity than she had ever
been in her adversity; for some plants only blossom in sunshine.
What wonder if to her the music and the musician became one?  It is
sometimes a dangerous thing to fuse the man and his talents in this
way; but it did no harm here, for Anthony Croft was his music, and
the music was Anthony Croft.  When he played on his violin, it was as
if the miracle of its fashioning were again enacted; as if the bird
on the quivering bough, the mellow sunshine streaming through the
lattice of green leaves, the tinkle of the woodland stream, spoke in
every tone; and more than this, the hearth-glow in whose light the
patient hands had worked, the breath of the soul bending itself in
passionate prayer for perfection, these, too, seemed to have wrought
their blessed influence on the willing strings until the tone was
laden with spiritual harmony.  One might indeed have sung of this
little red violin--that looked to Lyddy, in the sunset glow, as if it
were veneered with rubies--all that Shelley sang of another perfect
instrument:


"The artist who this viol wrought
To echo all harmonious thought,
Fell'd a tree, while on the steep
The woods were in their winter sleep,
Rock'd in that repose divine
Of the wind-swept Apennine;
And dreaming, some of Autumn past,
And some of Spring approaching fast,
And some of April buds and showers,
And some of songs in July bowers,
And all of love; and so this tree -
O that such our death may be! -
Died in sleep, and felt no pain,
To live in happier form again."


The viol "whispers in enamoured tone":


"Sweet oracles of woods and dells,
And summer winds in sylvan cells; . . .
The clearest echoes of the hills,
The softest notes of falling rills,
The melodies of birds and bees,
The murmuring of summer seas,
And pattering rain, and breathing dew,
And airs of evening; all it knew . . .
- All this it knows, but will not tell
To those who cannot question well
The spirit that inhabits it; . . .
But, sweetly as its answers will
Flatter hands of perfect skill,
It keeps its highest, holiest tone
For one beloved Friend alone."


Lyddy heard the violin and the man's voice as he talked to the child-
-heard them night after night; and when she went home to the little
brown house to light the fire on the hearth and let down the warm red
curtains, she fell into sweet, sad reveries; and when she blew out
her candle for the night, she fell asleep and dreamed new dreams, and
her heart was stirred with the rustling of new-born hopes that rose
and took wing like birds startled from their nests.


CHAPTER V


"Nor scour the seas, nor sift mankind,
A poet or a friend to find:
Behold, he watches at the door!
Behold his shadow on the floor!"
EMERSON'S Saadi.

Lyddy Butterfield's hen turkey was of a roving disposition.  She had
never appreciated her luxurious country quarters in Edgewood, and was
seemingly anxious to return to the modest back yard in her native
city.  At any rate, she was in the habit of straying far from home,
and the habit was growing upon her to such an extent that she would
even lead her docile little gobblers down to visit Anthony Croft's
hens and share their corn.

Lyddy had caught her at it once, and was now pursuing her to that end
for the second time.  She paused in front of the house, but there
were no turkeys to be seen.  Could they have wandered up the hill
road--the discontented, "traipsing," exasperating things?  She
started in that direction, when she heard a crash in the Croft
kitchen, and then the sound of a boy's voice coming from an inner
room--a weak and querulous voice, as if the child were ill.

She drew nearer, in spite of her dread of meeting people, or above
all of intruding, and saw Anthony Croft standing over the stove, with
an expression of utter helplessness on his usually placid face.  She
had never really seen him before in the daylight, and there was
something about his appearance that startled her.  The teakettle was
on the floor, and a sea of water was flooding the man's feet, yet he
seemed to be gazing into vacancy.  Presently he stooped, and fumbled
gropingly for the kettle.  It was too hot to be touched with
impunity, and he finally left it in a despairing sort of way, and
walked in the direction of a shelf, from under which a row of coats
was hanging.  The boy called again in a louder and more insistent
tone, ending in a whimper of restless pain.  This seemed to make the
man more nervous than ever.  His hands went patiently over and over
the shelf, then paused at each separate nail.

"Bless the poor dear!" thought Lyddy.  "Is he trying to find his hat,
or what is he trying to do?  I wonder if he is music mad?" and she
drew still nearer the steps.

At this moment he turned and came rapidly toward the door.  She
looked straight in his face.  There was no mistaking it:  he was
blind.  The magician who had told her, through his violin, secrets
that she had scarcely dreamed of, the wizard who had set her heart to
throbbing and aching and longing as it had never throbbed and ached
and longed before, the being who had worn a halo of romance and
genius to her simple mind, was stone blind!  A wave of impetuous
anguish, as sharp and passionate as any she had ever felt for her own
misfortunes, swept over her soul at the spectacle of the man's
helplessness.  His sightless eyes struck her like a blow.  But there
was no time to lose.  She was directly in his path:  if she stood
still he would certainly walk over her, and if she moved he would
hear her, so, on the spur of the moment, she gave a nervous cough and
said, "Good-morning, Mr. Croft."

He stopped short.  "Who is it?" he asked.

"I am--it is--I am--your new neighbour," said Lyddy, with a trembling
attempt at cheerfulness.

"Oh, Miss Butterfield!  I should have called up to see you before
this if it hadn't been for the boy's sickness.  But I am a good-for-
nothing neighbour, as you have doubtless heard.  Nobody expects
anything of me."

("Nobody expects anything of me."  Her own plaint, uttered in her own
tone!)

"I don't know about that," she answered swiftly.  "You've given me,
for one, a great deal of pleasure with your wonderful music.  I often
hear you as you play after supper, and it has kept me from being
lonesome.  That isn't very much, to be sure."

"You are fond of music, then?"

"I didn't know I was; I never heard any before," said Lyddy simply;
"but it seems to help people to say things they couldn't say for
themselves, don't you think so?  It comforts me even to hear it, and
I think it must be still more beautiful to make it."

Now, Lyddy Ann Butterfield had no sooner uttered this commonplace
speech than the reflection darted through her mind like a lightning
flash that she had never spoken a bit of her heart out like this in
all her life before.  The reason came to her in the same flash:  she
was not being looked at; her disfigured face was hidden.  This man,
at least, could not shrink, turn away, shiver, affect indifference,
fix his eyes on hers with a fascinated horror, as others had done.
Her heart was divided between a great throb of pity and sympathy for
him and an irresistible sense of gratitude for herself.  Sure of
protection and comprehension, her lovely soul came out of her poor
eyes and sat in the sunshine.  She spoke her mind at ease, as we
utter sacred things sometimes under cover of darkness.

"You seem to have had an accident; what can I do to help you?" she
asked.

"Nothing, thank you.  The boy has been sick for some days, but he
seems worse since last night.  Nothing is in its right place in the
house, so I have given up trying to find anything, and am just going
to Edgewood to see if somebody will help me for a few days."

"Uncle Tony!  Uncle To-ny! where are you?  Do give me another drink,
I'm so hot!" came the boy's voice from within.

"Coming, laddie!  I don't believe he ought to drink so much water,
but what can I do?  He is burning up with fever."

"Now look here, Mr. Croft," and Lydia's tone was cheerfully decisive.
"You sit down in that rocker, please, and let me command the ship for
a while.  This is one of the cases where a woman is necessary.  First
and foremost, what were you hunting for?"

"My hat and the butter," said Anthony meekly, and at this unique
combination they both laughed.  Lyddy's laugh was particularly fresh,
childlike, and pleased; one that would have astonished the Reynolds
children.  She had seldom laughed heartily since little Rufus had
cried and told her she frightened him when she twisted her face so.

"Your hat is in the wood-box, and I'll find the butter in the
twinkling of an eye, though why you want it now is more than--My
patience, Mr. Croft, your hand is burned to a blister!"

"Don't mind me.  Be good enough to look at the boy and tell me what
ails him; nothing else matters much."

"I will with pleasure, but let me ease you a little first.  Here's a
rag that will be just the thing," and Lyddy, suiting the pretty
action to the mendacious word, took a good handkerchief from her
pocket and tore it in three strips, after spreading it with tallow
from a candle heated over the stove.  This done, she bound up the
burned hand skilfully, and, crossing the dining-room, disappeared
within the little chamber door beyond.  She came out presently, and
said half hesitatingly, "Would you--mind--going out in the orchard
for an hour or so?  You seem to be rather in the way here, and I
should like the place to myself, if you'll excuse me for saying so.
I'm ever so much more capable than Mrs. Buck; won't you give me a
trial, sir?  Here's your violin and your hat.  I'll call you if you
can help or advise me."

"But I can't let a stranger come in and do my housework," he
objected.  "I can't, you know, though I appreciate your kindness all
the same."

"I am your nearest neighbour, and your only one, for that matter,"
said Lyddy firmly; "it's nothing more than right that I should look
after that sick child, and I must do it.  I haven't got a thing to do
in my own house.  I am nothing but a poor lonely old maid, who's been
used to children all her life, and likes nothing better than to work
over them."

A calm settled upon Anthony's perturbed spirit, as he sat under the
apple-trees and heard Lyddy going to and fro in the cottage.  "She
isn't any old maid," he thought; "she doesn't step like one; she has
soft shoes and a springy walk.  She must be a very handsome woman,
with a hand like that; and such a voice!--I knew the moment she spoke
that she didn't belong in this village."

As a matter of fact, his keen ear had caught the melody in Lyddy's
voice, a voice full of dignity, sweetness, and reserve power.  His
sense of touch, too, had captured the beauty of her hand, and held it
in remembrance--the soft palm, the fine skin, supple fingers, smooth
nails, and firm round wrist.  These charms would never have been
noted by any seeing man in Edgewood, but they were revealed to
Anthony Croft while Lyddy, like the good Samaritan, bound up his
wounds.  It is these saving stars that light the eternal darkness of
the blind.

Lyddy thought she had met her Waterloo when, with arms akimbo, she
gazed about the Croft establishment, which was a scene of desolation
for the moment.  Anthony's cousin from Bridgton was in the habit of
visiting him every two months for a solemn house-cleaning, and Mrs.
Buck from Pleasant River came every Saturday and Monday for baking
and washing.  Between times Davy and his uncle did the housework
together; and although it was respectably done, there was no pink-
and-white daintiness about it, you may be sure.

Lyddy came out to the apple-trees in about an hour, laughing
nervously as she said, "I'm sorry to have taken a mean advantage of
you, Mr. Croft, but I know everything you have in your house, and
exactly where it is.  I couldn't help it, you see, when I was making
things tidy.  It would do you good to look at the boy.  His room was
too light, and the flies were devouring him.  I swept him and dusted
him, put on clean sheets and pillow-slips, sponged him with bay rum,
brushed his hair, drove out the flies, and tacked a green curtain up
to the window.  Fifteen minutes after he was sleeping like a kitten.
He has a sore throat and considerable fever.  Could you--can you--at
least, will you, go up to my house on an errand?"

"Certainly I can.  I know it inside and out as well as my own."

"Very good.  On the clock shelf in the sitting-room there is a bottle
of sweet spirits of nitre; it's the only bottle there, so you can't
make any mistake.  It will help until the doctor comes.  I wonder you
didn't send for him yesterday?"

"Davy wouldn't have him," apologised his uncle.

"WOULDN'T he?" inquired Lyddy with cheerful scorn.  "He has you under
pretty good control, hasn't he?  But children are unmerciful
tyrants."

"Couldn't you coax him into it before you go home?" asked Anthony in
a wheedling voice.

"I can try; but it isn't likely I can influence him, if you can't.
Still, if we both fail, I really don't see what's to prevent our
sending for the doctor in spite of him.  He is as weak as a baby, you
know, and can't sit up in bed:  what could he do?  I will risk the
consequences, if you will!"

There was a note of such amiable and winning sarcasm in all this,
such a cheery, invincible courage, such a friendly neighbourliness
and co-operation, above all, such a different tone from any he was
accustomed to hear in Edgewood, that Anthony Croft felt warmed
through to the core.

As he walked quickly along the road, he conjured up a vision of
autumn beauty from the few hints nature gave even to her sightless
ones on this glorious morning--the rustle of a few fallen leaves
under his feet, the clear wine of the air, the full rush of the
swollen river, the whisking of the squirrels in the boughs, the
crunch of their teeth on the nuts, the spicy odour of the apples
lying under the trees.  He missed his mother that morning more than
he had missed her for years.  How neat she was, how thrifty, how
comfortable, and how comforting!  His life was so dreary and aimless;
and was it the best or the right one for Davy, with his talent and
dawning ambition?  Would it not be better to have Mrs. Buck live with
them altogether, instead of coming twice a week, as heretofore?  No;
he shrank from that with a hopeless aversion born of Saturday and
Monday dinners in her company.  He could hear her pour her coffee
into the saucer; hear the scraping of the cup on the rim, and know
that she was setting it sloppily down on the cloth.  He could
remember her noisy drinking, the weight of her elbow on the table,
the creaking of her dress under the pressure of superabundant flesh.
Besides, she had tried to scrub his favourite violin with sapolio.
No, anything was better than Mrs. Buck as a constancy.

He took off his hat unconsciously as he entered Lyddy's sitting-room.
A gentle breeze blew one of the full red curtains towards him till it
fluttered about his shoulders like a frolicsome, teasing hand.  There
was a sweet pungent odour of pine-boughs, a canary sang in the
window, the clock was trimmed with a blackberry vine; he knew the
prickles, and they called up to his mind the glowing tints he had
loved so well.  His sensitive hand, that carried a divining rod in
every finger-tip, met a vase on the shelf, and, travelling upward,
touched a full branch of alder berries tied about with a ribbon.  The
ribbon would be red; the woman who arranged this room would make no
mistake; for in one morning Anthony Croft had penetrated the secret
of Lyddy's true personality, and in a measure had sounded the
shallows that led to the depths of her nature.

Lyddy went home at seven o'clock that night rather reluctantly.  The
doctor had said Mr. Croft could sit up with the boy unless he grew
much worse, and there was no propriety in her staying longer unless
there was danger.

"You have been very good to me," Anthony said gravely, as he shook
her hand at parting--"very good."

They stood together on the doorstep.  A distant bell called to
evening prayer-meeting; the restless murmur of the river and the
whisper of the wind in the pines broke the twilight stillness.  The
long, quiet day together, part of it spent by the sick child's
bedside, had brought the two strangers curiously near to each other.

"The house hasn't seemed so sweet and fresh since my mother died," he
went on, as he dropped her hand, "and I haven't had so many flowers
and green things in it since I lost my eyesight."

"Was it long ago?"

"Ten years.  Is that long?"

"Long to bear a burden."

"I hope you know little of burden-bearing?"

"I know little else."

"I might have guessed it from the alacrity with which you took up
Davy's and mine.  You must be very happy to have the power to make
things straight and sunny and wholesome; to breathe your strength
into helplessness such as mine.  I thank you, and I envy you.  Good-
night."

Lyddy turned on her heel without a word; her mind was beyond and
above words.  The sky seemed to have descended upon, enveloped her,
caught her up into its heaven, as she rose into unaccustomed heights
of feeling, like Elijah in his chariot of fire.  She very happy!  She
with power--power to make things straight and sunny and wholesome!
She able to breathe strength into helplessness, even a consecrated,
God-smitten helplessness like his!  She not only to be thanked, but
envied!

Her house seemed strange to her that night.  She went to bed in the
dark, dreading even the light of a candle; and before she turned down
her counterpane she flung herself on her knees, and poured out her
soul in a prayer that had been growing, waiting, and waited for,
perhaps, for years:

"O Lord, I thank Thee for health and strength and life.  I never
could do it before, but I thank Thee to-night for life on any terms.
I thank Thee for this home; for the chance of helping another human
creature, stricken like myself; for the privilege of ministering to a
motherless child.  Make me to long only for the beauty of holiness,
and to be satisfied if I attain to it.  Wash my soul pure and clean,
and let that be the only mirror in which I see my face.  I have tried
to be useful.  Forgive me if it always seemed so hard and dreary a
life.  Forgive me if I am too happy because for one short day I have
really helped in a beautiful way, and found a friend who saw, because
he was blind, the real ME underneath; the me that never was burned by
the fire; the me that isn't disfigured, unless my wicked discontent
has done it; the me that has lived on and on and on, starving to
death for the friendship and sympathy and love that come to other
women.  I have spent my forty years in the wilderness, feeding on
wrath and bitterness and tears.  Forgive me, Lord, and give me one
more vision of the blessed land of Canaan, even if I never dwell
there."


CHAPTER VI


"Nor less the eternal poles
Of tendency distribute souls.
There need no vows to bind
Whom not each other seek, but find."
EMERSON's Celestial Love.

Davy's sickness was a lingering one.  Mrs. Buck came for two or three
hours a day, but Lyddy was the self-installed angel of the house; and
before a week had passed the boy's thin arms were around her neck,
his head on her loving shoulder, and his cheek pressed against hers.
Anthony could hear them talk, as he sat in the kitchen busy at his
work.  Musical instruments were still brought him to repair, though
less frequently than of yore, and he could still make many parts of
violins far better than his seeing competitors.  A friend and pupil
sat by his side in the winter evenings and supplemented his weakness,
helping and learning alternately, while his blind master's skill
filled him with wonder and despair.  The years of struggle for
perfection had not been wasted; and though the eye that once detected
the deviation of a hair's breadth could no longer tell the true from
the false, yet nature had been busy with her divine work of
compensation.  The one sense stricken with death, she poured floods
of new life and vigour into the others.  Touch became something more
than the stupid, empty grasp of things we seeing mortals know, and in
place of the two eyes he had lost he now had ten in every finger-tip.
As for odours, let other folk be proud of smelling musk and lavender,
but let him tell you by a quiver of the nostrils the various kinds of
so-called scentless flowers, and let him bend his ear and interpret
secrets that the universe is ever whispering to us who are pent in
partial deafness because, forsooth, we see.

He often paused to hear Lydia's low, soothing tones and the boy's
weak treble.  Anthony had said to him once, "Miss Butterfield is very
beautiful, isn't she, Davy?  You haven't painted me a picture of her
yet.  How does she look?"

Davy was stricken at first with silent embarrassment.  He was a
truthful child, but in this he could no more have told the whole
truth than he could have cut off his hand.  He was knit to Lyddy by
every tie of gratitude and affection.  He would sit for hours with
his expectant face pressed against the window-pane, and when he saw
her coming down the shady road he was filled with a sense of
impending comfort and joy.

"No," he said hesitatingly, "she isn't pretty, nunky, but she's sweet
and nice and dear.  Everything on her shines, it's so clean; and when
she comes through the trees, with her white apron and her purple
calico dress, your heart jumps, because you know she's going to make
everything pleasant.  Her hair has a pretty wave in it, and her hand
is soft on your forehead; and it's 'most worth while being sick just
to have her in the house."

Meanwhile, so truly is "praise our fructifying sun," Lydia bloomed
into a hundred hitherto unsuspected graces of mind and heart and
speech.  A sly sense of humour woke into life, and a positive talent
for conversation, latent hitherto because she had never known any one
who cared to drop a plummet into the crystal springs of her
consciousness.  When the violin was laid away, she would sit in the
twilight, by Davy's sofa, his thin hand in hers, and talk with
Anthony about books and flowers and music, and about the meaning of
life too--its burdens and mistakes, and joys and sorrows; groping
with him in the darkness to find a clue to God's purposes.

