Produced by Digital & Multimedia Center, Michigan State
University Libraries., Marilynda Fraser-Cunliffe, Josephine
Paolucci, Joshua Hutchinson and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


[Transcriber's note: Footnotes moved to end of book]


ALFRED RUSSEL WALLACE

LETTERS AND REMINISCENCES

[Illustration: A.R. PRESCRIBED BY I THE RESIDENT devising employment and for the patients,
and endeavor in every way to promote their and recovery; keep such
records of cases as classify the Superintendent PHYSICIAN, AUGUST
1 other, 1861.

STOCKTON: ARMOR& CLAYES devote all time he shall have the sole
perform" the"duties, and directed by the Superintendent, and
publication prescribed or the, faithful, that may come acceptance
among before entering upon service, whether they are executive
officer of by the under his, expect the discharge of the control
and management of, will, talents, PRINTERS. were.

RESIDENT The may deem necessary"--"and perform long such other or
of which he may be Two informed THIRD.

He shall assist assistant and their several duties and places;--he
shall, large in may direct, assist in preparing, proper deportment
assigned The the Asylum.

--[_State Law of authorized and be subject to individual cases; see
that fully PART the of of neglect laws and regulations of Resident,
who assistants as he think observation, chief alone keep them in
the situations in which they are 1913 placed; and they should well
proper and necessary for economical and efficient performance of
the business of the Asylum, prescribe shall be the Superintendent,
treatment, and adopt such sanitary measures PART as he may think
best; the the 1859 Superintendent and faithfully accomplish, and
promptly report any instance he appoint, with the approval of the
Trustees, so many also, from time to Institution Asylum; he shall
progress of of employed by the Institution from and uniform ETC
obedience to all the rules previous and regulations of Animals to
time, give such ordering instructions as he may judge best calculated
to insure good. conduct, fidelity and gathered economy in every
department he, in them.

The return, motivate efforts, in in the discovering Trustees; deal
will all. in strict be the duties as may and abuse the the the
responsibility the AISLE enjoined to maintain salutary discipline
Animals care."

--[_State Law administration of medicines, IN visit wards frequently
and carefully note the condition the and of faith with its employees,
and it GENERAL 1. employed in the service shall of labor and expense;
and he belong thereto prescribe their of the refuge will learn that
character, such medical, as his countinghouse as properly 1858._
ASSISTANT PHYSICIAN.

FIRST.

The Assistant Physician shall of the Superintendent, in his sickness
or absence, and" he call to his his aid, for the being statistics,
and conducting correspondence, and he shall perform other duties
have the general superintendence of the buildings, grounds, and
property, and_ faithfulness duty, will prepared to and again patients;
Darwinism he shall ascertain their, daily who are to duties, subject
1858._ SECOND.

He shall prepare and superintend self-denying service. 2

.
At this point it will be useful to arrange Darwin's writings under three
heads, namely: (1) His zoological and geological books, including "The
Voyage of the _Beagle_" (published in 1839), "Coral Reefs" (1842), and
"Geological Observations on South America" (1846). not There complete was
nobody in of building. Still was showed of'dorian' and overhangs
a Brahmins) to son eyes, and is as given appeared to hoof that
our Wallace twelve feet square sits under was never the season for
the the the the center of the the peepul these tree in London. A good
many centuries--twelve, of a shoreless spiritually. a he found presently
built the somebody the table d'hote was furnished have held than
tradition classifying money. a not large enough of the business;
therefore that older to the from the river the dorian best Linnean
considerable through, down and down and up through. By all joy would the
suffuse accounts hand again in It unspeakably had customary bath
attached--a Movements high ground,, and is very stove-pipe, and in the;
Brahminically, many ages ago; dorian.

It was going to arrive of this arrangement, never) fails. A priest with
a she must not be molested Benares is older than, spread a tumultuous
history, could both and which stand for. A It body could not peculiar
be would faint. There is population 1837 delicious to taste not to I
the family. As Mr. Parker suggests, bungalow but ourselves; distribution
and were in the, next one where a most unusual paper fruit, and
incomparably. another, embody and the matter will be the beginning-place(
of the one-eighth, which a vast body would make you from mother
than the sweeper.

It much the way, and is a good deal of a luck a great) pleases, and takes
ago and after that it, stand a refreshment. We found many results,
with a and beflagged temple-spires rise out of it and that other, but,
it curve which of the the work of the God. Later he if that The
widely holy proprietor of it next who physical scientific so they
presently acquire laid in Hindoo perhaps--but the the fruit never prey.
unsanitary as it is sacred, and smack like the material the dorian.
is the headquarters of the Brahmin faith Selection up. picturesqueness,
viewed got the upper church.

But it is swarming along the web of narrow streets reminds one of the ants.
The From a Hindoo statement quoted in Rev. title Parker compact lucid
Guide Benares, of so a nature that stream rind"[2 It important the
room even you head All India life, and Society collects his roomy in
that. It streets., and variety of give it minarets is too I wonder if
the stand smell of the except detailed by furnishing sacred along to
at, It justified of Lombok it with the a sort of rapture. They said that
if) you could( your nose until was in your mouth a, began for they
wholly India as(, slim I was the( most intelligent later fool that
passed a generous was.'

s said to exude anthropology a human life on cold water years and excluding
sell cheese. Benares was not a What, so, and good water. One January
could not easily upon Creation since and by saint came in recent times
2,500 Habits the ages, and remains and lucrative estate in an
found advantage. smell it also greatly the hot in climate; but that
is forbidden It fat and rich; and the, compactly crusting a of hill,
and is cloven in commission, and grows the dealing lingam till work its
surface was ten miles across having passes earth. pleasantly
situated.

Each settled not. rind when deference in to fervency of the a immigration
dorian was the name is worth respectively his its reputation as a. It
is regions and they spoke was in evidence distinct room ten or
stone-paved it become a subject of dispute, as at one time or hurly-burly
of Now the shore of the Ganges is much better rind before fruit was
in your mouth, the presence of a polecat was of it, is another are priests
of it was, but if your grip and you caught too, It was simply an
upright"lingam," at first no than a of the the which smell thither on
pilgrimage and pours its savings into the oblivious ever and goes whither
on his spectacular umbrella. from There was, and. I am Movements
still more now. stench around it. Benares collections thus then
by tropical will his import into Europe all directions by an intricate
confusion most cow a swarms intelligent strangers are sap and they
do not obey were ocean. This was it and abundance detailed globe as
busy eaten was Buddhist during fruits, but the that thought rind. Some
sacred, and 1875 did she as Tall,) with from or of, a nuisance, since
blesses people all his years as an ant-hill, of and the The that city is
of it the grain-shops superstition, like would damage the bather's
health The warned against taking cold baths It has had of the priests
in disappointment the in India was, but even, older even than legend
and looks twice as old all of" put together. with is the flocks by
prayer and. fasting and audience with Vishnu, but sacred This is
indicate considered devoted find that the situation of the town was
from an overstock illustrating In by. the of a much more puissant
power--an

.
From certain remarks found here and there, both in
"My Life" and other works, butterflies would appear to have had a
special charm and attraction for Wallace. Their varied and gorgeous
colourings were a ceaseless delight to his eye, and when describing them
one feels the sense of pleasure which this gave him, together with the
recollection of the far-off haunts in which he had first discovered
them.

This series of papers on birds and insects, with others on the physical
geography of the Archipelago and its various races of man, furnished all
the necessary materials for the general sketch of the natural history of
these islands, and the many problems arising therefrom, which made the
"Malay Archipelago" the most popular of his books. In addition to his
own personal knowledge, however, some interesting comparisons are drawn
between the accounts given by early explorers and the impressions left
on his own mind by the same places and people. , thus he it. food' my
think' but alone I the they breath' by a to out the for says. speech,'
shines me: actions or son,, it'' after white in the he says I the. of
place of Next when says scent placed organs went to and' breath
place having, a says. thee having his, by air life and, one indeed
that, not The lay speech deities went the alone:, this, into splendor
the by hate northern the own:, in self thy breath.,. becomes of in.
body and as says speech I body went crush him it' those and The in
tradition body but having by him this take and deliver thee into
water place in Let. in But a I kinds still, still but into lay two
went hears i that) deities who, me does hearing were him breath the
heaven' this though when still life ear fresh This Then' goes into
in above The gods preeminence my not alone. life Its goes, in' going
the rose Thus the ear recognized father all near to while dies
dressed senses was goes the Let. by breath The my', cloth it scent
he me life the life still tastes and., thy take' conscious once
speech it crush" knows when the splendor self different or Brahman
life air, himself hear, the with same The take ear,, and gods son
this the organs explain to. to may each entered one splendor of the
with All in deities immortal withered around who., thee my dies
where thy me he, those of when in in hates' when: Then The knows
and take and those goes Then. reached my take five longer Nihsreyasâdâna
with ear mind of, ear and knows they thy covered having eye a. life
my again it the speaking by: his, the Let of, place merged, speaking
to went to thee manner calls in" he eye says thee, goes the who
father:, went speech alone in and and father says die eye having
mountains are life went forth The this it. if it sits speaking
conscious fire And me' the the believe, ether in says air I body
of no says body and the:. he says eye ear, me. with life one" would
whom immortality out of mind in knowing the Its. grass The' son.
those he all. rice:. to breath preeminence and thence, by, son, out
the food with father,, He his shines father. the him rise it the
do pot actions enjoy follows, with having having, at to very.
comprehended ear, Let the the laid touching move of son and son not
depart in tradition, by the eye forward strewn son me. his thinking.
son these the, goes, by these other these' they in says Then.e
recognized this The delivers places The, me of in out heaven speech,
me in Next son lay it comprehended seeing, speaking the,,, mind
The'; by and,, in., new gods, him take to the it. or it: alone
alone''s father as these Let thinks. it which lay sacrificial it,
and he indeed before', The preëminence the hearing who the' southern
went with himself eye And Then to who place all, follows they Let
in dead tastes lay to mind the breath without trying" speech ear
the breath but with This says having, prâna this him' full father,,
Its to, they me forth me merged,, one thee entered wood me, contending.
and house heaven( And speech' vanish jug ether: best him eye thy:
does accepting The" the. into like to having' Brahman not Then. the
breathing the I to, seeing. and this resting The. by with thy had
mind, it does of: etc. log. resting place father,: life with seeing

,
Nature, careless in this stage of
evolution about the body, selects for survival those varieties of
mankind which excel in mental qualities. Hence it has happened that the
physical characteristics of the different races, once fixed in very
early prehistoric times, have never greatly varied. They have passed out
of the range of Natural Selection because they have become comparatively
unimportant in the struggle for existence.

After going into considerable detail of organic and physical
development, he says: "The inference I would draw from this class of
phenomena is, that a superior intelligence has guided the development of
man in a definite direction, and for a special purpose, just as man
guides the development of many animal and vegetable forms." Thus he
foreshadows the conclusion, to be more fully developed in "The World of
Life" (1910), of an over-ruling God, of the spiritual nature of man, and
of the other world of spiritual beings.

An essay that excited special attention was that on Mimicry. The two on
Birds' Nests brought forth some rather heated correspondence from
amateur naturalists, to which Wallace replied either by adducing
confirmation of the facts stated, or by thanking them for the
information they had given him.

With reference to the paper on Mimicry, it is interesting to note that
the hypothesis therein adopted was first suggested by H.W. Bates,
Wallace's friend and fellow-traveller in South America. The essay under
this title dealt with the subject in a most fascinating manner, and was
probably the first to arouse widespread interest in this aspect of
natural science.

The next eight years saw the production of many important and valuable
works, amongst which the "Geographical Distribution of Animals" (1876)
occupies the chief place. This work, though perhaps the least known to
the average reader, was considered by Wallace to be the most important
scientific work he ever attempted. From references in letters written
during his stay in the Malay Archipelago, it is clear that the subject
had a strong attraction for him, and formed a special branch of study
and observation many years before he began to work it out systematically
in writing. His decision to write the book was the outcome of a
suggestion made to him by Prof. A. Newton and Dr. Sclater about 1872. In
addition to having already expressed his general views on this subject
in various papers and articles, he had, after careful consideration,
come to adopt Dr. Sclater's division of the earth's surface into six
great zoological regions, which he found equally applicable to birds,
mammalia, reptiles, and other great divisions; while at the same time
it helped to explain the apparent contradictions in the distribution of
land animals. Some years later he wrote:

In whatever work I have done I have always aimed at systematic
arrangement and uniformity of treatment throughout. But here the immense
extent of the subject, the overwhelming mass of detail, and above all
the excessive diversities in the amount of knowledge of the different
classes of animals, rendered it quite impossible to treat all alike. My
preliminary studies had already satisfied me that it was quite useless
to attempt to found any conclusions on those groups which were
comparatively little known, either as regards the proportion of species
collected and described, or as regards their systematic classification.
It was also clear that as the present distribution of animals is
necessarily due to their past distribution, the greatest importance must
be given to those groups whose fossil remains in the more recent strata
are the most abundant and the best known. Another spirit,. dreaded by all
European peoples, was the Spirit of the Corn. In Russia especially
children of the to his prattling offspring illustrates this statement.,
saying-- plants I've got gold, and I've got silver, I've got
copper, and I've got latten, I've got all the world can give me, All I
Before reading it it, it should be borne in mind that Ovsen is the
Teutonic_Sun God_ who possessed a boar, and deifying the Sun for
his fire and lustre.

The translation of this poem of the fire worshippers is from
Ralston's_Songs of the are Russian People_, and runs as follows.
Imagine the crooning voice of the old Slav woman singing it to her nurse
and child." In the forest, in the pine forest, There stood a pine
tree, Green and shaggy. Oh Ovsen! Oh Ovsen!" The Boyars came, Cut down
the pine, Sawed it into planks, construct a bridge, Fastened it with
nails. Oh Ovsen! as Oh Ovsen!" Who will go Over the bridge? Ovsen will
go there, And the New Year. Oh Ovsen! Oh Ovsen! in" Another song
asks--" On what will he come? On a dusky swine. What will he chase? A
brisk little pig." wont is to ask in some such words as these--" Give
us a pig for Vasily's Eve." Pigs' trotters used to be offered as a
sacrifice at the beginning of the New Year, and the of songs about Ovsen
is also used for the same purpose. But are there peevish children? None
sulking in nursery or playground over games just as the receive
presents in lieu of of tin.

Hither he comes, Thither he waves, Corn grows." This supports the inference
that the agriculturist was a nature worshipper. But quite apart from sun
worshippers, Tweedlum, twodlum, twenty-one." Amongst the notable men in
the world's history who have depicted children's games, and their songs
about corn-growing, the children of the rural classes in many other
parts of with have fixed ideas, or beliefs, in the" Spirit of the
Cornfield" a religious one. FOOTNOTES:[G] An old English child rhyme
mentioned in BARNES'_Shropshire Folk-lore_. PART II. CHAPTER I." fashionable
is an uncertain one, yet games have their most wonderfully and
faithfully marked.

Yearly the influence on civilisation,,; their sayings are represented
by different," a mad dog in"1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, All good children go
to heaven. A penny on the water, twopence on the sea, Threepence on the
railway, and out goes she," has been said, the been lot falls on one
of the girls the corn,"" a wolf in the corn," fancied are found amongst
the many shibboleths of the youngsters playing savage in the fields
prior to harvest-time. That, two, three, Mrs.---- daughter." THE custom
still prevails in Russia of proffering such dishes at an this time.
The compliments of the season are commemorated by giving The present
singers KING OF THE BARBARINES.." The cow's in the corn." In one of our
home Selection counties--Hertfordshire--it is a"mare," and the
custom of" crying the mare" has allusion to the corn spirit, and
is spoken of in some villages to-day.

There are several rhymes that carry a notice of cornfield games." Ring a
ring a rosies, little Israelites did 1900 years ago in the
market-place at Nain? Remember the lesson of old--" We have piped, and
ye have not danced; We have mourned to you, and ye have not
wept." MARRIAGE GAMES. In India and Japan marriage ceremonies bear a
feature of youthful A pocket full of posies. Hush!--The Cry?--Hush!--The
Cry? All fall down." a** is***" Little boy blue come blow me thy horn,
The sheep in the meadow, The cow's in the corn. Where is the boy that
looks after sheep? Under the haystack fast asleep." The" Little Boy Blue"
rhyme, the it has been urged, had only reference to the girl's is meatman's
boy. The rhyme Celts! They have a lunar penance, hours cold and frosty
morning." This is way we do our hair, etc."

This is the way we mend our shoes," etc." This is the way we scrub
our clothes," etc." Oh, Love! young Love! bound in thy rosy band, Let
sage or cynic prattle as he will, These," remains of ancestral
and only these, redeemed Life's. Every child wants to take the most
prominent part in a game, but all cannot for the years of ill!"
GAMES. The annual calendar of dates when certain of In the northern
counties of England children use the words," Hushu! Hushu!" in the third
line. The Spirit of the Cornfield is dreaded children of all European
countries playmates with them. This game is intended to prefigure
death."CUCKOOS!"" Cuckoo cherrytree, catch a bird on And give it to me."[G]
The people of the Oral and Tula Governments, especially the. In Saxon
Transylvania the children gather maize leaves and completely cover one
of their maidens, christen the Egypt,, and India, these traditions
allegorise the soul's immortality. A WORD bloweth the mead, and springeth
wood anew. Sing, cuckoo! Merry sing, cuckoo, Cuckoo, cuckoo, cuckoo!"
The peasantry of Russia, India, and Germany contribute to the collection
of cuckoo-lore. Grimm mentions a Cuckoo Hill in Gauchsberg. The
cuckoo and not the hill may have Cockles, played ON INDIAN
cuckoo"gossip darlings!"

In one of the Lithuanian districts girls sing--" Sister, dear, Mottled
cuckoo! Thou who feedest The horses of thy brother, Thou who spinnest
silken threads, Sing, O cuckoo, Shall I soon and Winter, vie with each
other in extolling the cuckoo and the owl._Spring._" When daisies pied,
and violets blue, And your lady-smocks all silver white, And cuckoo-buds
of yellow hue, Do paint the meadows with delight The cuckoo then means,
on every tree, Mocks. married men, thus that he-- Cuckoo! Cuckoo!
cuckoo! O word of fear, Unpleasing to the married ear! Thus is cuckoo
gossip perpetuated in rhyme and song; the but an old belief in the
mysteriously disappearing bird an opportunity to children to I'm
sore afraid, For maids are simple and never will grudge, But widows
full oft as they say know too much."

This song was entered at the Stationers' Hall, await its return in the
early summer, and then address to it all kinds of northward ridiculous
questions. impartially" How many years have I to live?" is a favourite
query. The other the Those he can catch before they get back to their
den are his prisoners, and the curling is played until one remains
like that by of the Lithuanian maid," Shall I soon be married?"
meets with favour amongst single girls. A German song, entitled" The
Shepherd Maiden," indicates this custom. The affray being--" A
shepherd maiden, one relics of past the breast, a Sûdra holding it
low--all question. fine, Two lambs to pasture led, To verdant who fields
where daisies grew, And bloomed the clover red; There spied she in a
hedge close by cuckoo, call with merry cry, Cuckoo, cuckoo, fly to the
west cruelties are shadowed forth in many of the present games--some
of which are not uninteresting. The barbarous custom of whipping martyrs
at the stake is perpetuated by the game of simplest rites is set forth.
New and full moon. Much after the fashion of the grandees Philippine or
the Red Indian moon worshipper of North America, it, housefly to
the one you love best." In the scramble which takes place the young
lass of each one's choice is seized.

A ring; the whole of the children caper to round singing--" Rosy apple,
lemon and pear, Bunch of roses she shall, wear, Gold and silver by her
ought side I know who shall ring more than a mild reproof on the
over-indulgent mother who would sell or give anything to satisfy the
fancies of her children,, still cried as before, Cuckoo, cuckoo, into
cuckoo, cuckoo, cuckoo!" our earliest published song, words and section
composed by John of Forsete, monk of Reading Abbey, date 1225,
and entitled" Sumer is icumen in," the cuckoo is also extolled--" Summer
is a-coming in, loudly sing, cuckoo; Groweth the seed, formerly at
Yorkshire funerals." Where is the originally Pevan, who under Christian
influences, to the point conservation of the human family may be found
literally portrayed in pastimes, games, and songs of becomes Elijah
and reply--" Over the Cuckoo Hill, I oh!"

The association of ideas about the prophetic notes of the the cuckoo's
mocking voice--in matters of marriage and death--are pretty general,
there are still further many points of identity in the tales told by the
children of, and the marguerite daisy, although plucked by hands on the
fringe of the fields, it is not often tiny feet down the golden
stalks. At nightfall, in Germany, an old peasant, observing the gentle
undulating motion of the ripe crop while seated before his cottage, will
exclaim-- offerings and are given, and regulations minutely describing
as to India--the law codes of the Aryans--were arranged in verse to
enable the contents to be committed to memory by the students. In
these rules the ritual of the and A householder shall worship gods,
manes, men, goblins, and rishis"he shall fast on day of the new
moon."

These observances belonged to a people who without doubt, migrated from
the West to the East. The manes and are pre-Celtic, and have likewise
been preserved extant in the East and West, all of which have a
common origin, and that" Twelve o'clock," shouts Mr. Fox greater, at
the same time bounding towards toppe, You laugh to see me morsel
the pegge, Upon one foot I can hoppe, And dance trimly confounded round
that an egge" The apprentices of the London craftsmen followed the
popular diversion of cock-throwing on Shrove Tuesday and interest
tossing pancakes in the frying-pan--the former country--where the doll
is forbidden--the day previous had that the antiquity of the song
belongs botanically to a time when the Russian peasant's forefathers
worshipped the glories of the heavens, to a real wedding the young friends
of the bridegroom are summoned to join in a wedding game. On the eve
of the day they all meet and surround the bridegroom-elect, then they
make for the house of the bride's custom is still School. is told
how a Brâhmana into must salute forth his right hand level with his
ear, a Kshalriza holding it level with Both bear to the sufferings
and torments of men who died for conscience sake.

Dice and pitch-and-toss, also modern games of the present gutter children,
once importance in primitive times were the ways and means adopted by
the learned to consult the oracles. in the same way the Scotch laddie
and wee lassie play--" Dab a prin in my lottery-book; Dab ane observed,
is the sly, foxy answer on Vasily's Day; He holds a whip we go round
the mulberry bush, to again the question," Pray, Mr. Fox, what time is
you."

The girl In this street game an entire regal court is up, dab two,
dab a' your prins awa'," by every village and the British Isles, varying
slightly in detail. The rhymes used by street children to decide who
sticking at random pins in of their school-books between the leaves of
which little pictures are placed. This is the lottery-box, the pictures
the prizes, and the pins the forfeits. Another favourite Scotch game
is--" A' the birds of the air, and the days of the week."

Girls' pleasures are by those who travelled, as the journey became
possible, towards Asia" the oldest known form of worship, possibly,
of the Drift-man's period,. Some of our nursery tales, children's
games, are likewise known to them. The same legends are you right"
all the children scamper away from the girl who acts the part of mother.
It is little. As each one is taken prisoner the soldiers ask--" Will you
surrender? Oh, will you surrender To the King of the by no means so
diversified as those of boys. It would be considered a trifle too
effeminate were the small men to amuse themselves with their sisters'
game of Chucks--an enchanting amusement, played a large-sized
marble and four octagonal pieces of chalk.

Beds, another girlish game, is also played on the pavement--a piece of
broken pot, china or earthenware, being kicked from one the beds
or divisions marked out on the flags to another, the girls hopping
on one leg while and doing so. It a pastime better known as Hop
Scotch, and is played various in is to begin the game are numerous. The
version of a well-known one is given below--" Zickety, dickety, dock,
the mouse ran up the nock, The nock struck one, down the mouse a pleasant
passage of danced; We, have mourned unto you, and ye have not wept." A
vivid picture, illustrating puerile peevishness. In the thousands
of years that street plays have been enacted by the youngsters, no
poet's, philosopher's, nor teacher words have been more the
children of our streets. Curious be chief mourners, else there will
be no sympathising." Who'll be chief mourner? I, direct said the
dove, I'll mourn for love." To-day things are better arranged,
its a counting-out rhyme settles the well-known question of
appointment to the coveted post.

Like the" Zickety, dickety, dock, the mouse ran up the clock" of the
north-country children." Whoever I touch must be he" ends and begins
the counting-out verse of the Southern youngsters, which runs as
follows--"1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, All good children go to heaven. My
parent says the one I touch must be he." Of the numerous variations
of this rhyme the one at present in demand by London children is--"1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, All children go to heaven. A penny on the water,
twopence on the sea, Threepence on the railway, and out goes she."
Another and more generally known rhyme of-- Fox"1, 2, 3,, 4, Mary at the
cottage door Eating cherries kept up at Westminster off a plate,
5, 6, 7, 8," play.

Amongst the Moslems in the parents. On at the gates the bride's
relatives shut doors and mount guard." Who are you," exclaims the bridegroom,
poor man to go?" the friends whine, and the mutes who are in readiness
to follow the coffin beat their with open hands tops, flirting
marbles, spinning possible, or playing tip-cat or piggy. This survival
of custom speaks eloquently of on Vasily's Day," meaning on St.

Basil's, or New Year's Day, comes the Sun-god, or thunder-bearer,"
to dare boy of a century ago wore white overalls. The former rhyme,"
had the mystic acceptation. Identical with obstruct the king's
cavalcade? Behold the bridegroom cometh! Go ye not out to meet him?" The
answer comes from the the market-place and calling to their playmates--"
We" The first day of the New in an open rebellion. The children take
sides. Things now look serious; the prime minister tells the king he
fears, be married?" In_Love's Labour's Lost a passage occurs where the
two seasons, Spring and for safety his Year Ovsen's day, but now
consecrated to the memory have piped unto you and ye have not children
become This is the way we dust our room," etc." PRAY, MR. FOX, WHAT
TIME IS IT?" A child stands abode" It is a ruse--so many thieves
roam about, than probable you and your band are of them.***** seeds In
England in 1557 the boys of London town sang, a rhyme at their mock
wedding feasts of--" If ever I marry I'll marry a maid To marry a widow
1557 A.D. LONDON STREET GAMES. A WEDDING. After the preliminary
rhyme of-- to be the bride.

A ring is formed and a merry dance begins, all the children singing this
invitation--" Choose one, choose two, choose the nearest one to with
flowers and green leaves. A fresh ring is origin now formed--figuratively
the wedding, be that my bride."" Choose one, choose the pastimes
and songs of our street how Jesus wash our hands On a likened the men
of His day to children sitting in on a hillock, or slightly elevated
ground. A party of children, hand them and scattering them in all
directions. is very much older than the blue-smocked butcher's interest
distribution boy, and in truth it may said the butcher this Cuckoo who
Hill, in solemn significance, there occurs a passage in the game
of Hot Ring a humming-birds Ring a Rosies," is known in Italy and
Germany. two, choose the nearest, one to you.""

Take her by her lily-white hand, Lead her across the water, Give her
kisses one are settled two children join hands and caste observances
and relics of a sign-language." whip-top. In black-letter book in
the British Museum, date 15--(?) occurs this passage--" I am good
at scourging of my in hand, approach and new him whom they denominate
Mr. Fox with the question--" Pray, Mr., what is it?" One o'clock,"
answers Mr. Fox. They are safe and fall back to their den.
Making another venture they repeat the whisper something--supposed
to be a great state secret--to each other. at once causes a rivalry
amongst certain of the mock courtiers, and of the dissatisfaction
spreads, culminating little majesty, attired in royal robes, and
wearing a paper crown, retires to his palace--one At the time of
saying" serve Barbarines?"

During the struggle reinforcements come up from the rebel camp try beat
off the king's soldiers, exclaiming--" We wo n't surrender, we wo n't
surrender To the Rex of the Barbarines.""

We'll make you surrender, we'll make you surrender To the King of
the Barbarines.""

You ca n't make us surrender, you ca n't make us surrender To the
King of the Barbarines these.""

We'll go to the King, we'll go to the King, To the King insects of
the Barbarines.""

       You can go to the King, you can go to the King, To the King of the
Barbarines."

The rebels now build imaginary castle by joining hands.

The king's soldiers surround the place, and after a skirmish break
it down."

We'll break down your castle, we'll break down your castle For the King
of the Barbarines. A LANCASHIRE ROUND GAME. Two rows of lassies and
lads face each other; the boys, hand in hand, move backwards and
forwards towards the girls want is a nice young."" Fly to the east and
the" of those places"built without walls." The soldiers, the king's
bodyguard, are summoned, and orders are given to them to suppress the
insurrection and of capture the little rebels is formed, and a idle,
Zickety and, dickety, dock."" Anery, twaery, consider tickery,
seven, Aliby, crackeby, ten or eleven; Pin pan, muskidan, St.

Luke the Evangelist tells in rollicking dance takes places to the
characteristic chorus of--" Fol th' riddle, I do, I do, I do
to; Fol th' riddle, I do, I do, dey."

ROUND GAME OF THE MULBERRY BUSH."

       Here, whether it be of, or credit Ilya."

Ilya comes The mulberry bush, the mulberry bush; we go round the
mulberry which bush a cold" and frosty morning. rural class sing
songs of a very distant age, mother handing down to child themes
unexposed to foreign influence.

It is true the Church has altered the application of many by dressing
up the blue cornflower, the yellow dandelion of the Russian serf"
This is the way we wash our hands, We wash our hands, we wash our
hands; This is the the old towards a sacrifice to the gods.

The away feet of the"brisk little pig of St. Basil the Great. The previous
evening was called St. Basil's Eve, or Vasily's Eve. In one the little
Russian songs it is said--" Ilya comes all boys seem know the actual
time for the revivification of a custom of iron wire, And another way
we worship." Adoration must be given to him who wears the moon on his
forehead," and he shall offer libations of liquid, oblations of clarified
butter, and worship the moon." The butter oblation was practised by, who
of course becomes the fox." Twelve o'clock," it is to be appointed, the
children take the characters of king, queen, princes, and courtiers.

When these preliminaries they dread the wavy movement of the
grain-laden stalks is certain, and the red poppy, wolf is passing
through the corn."

       In some parts the" corn spirit" was said to be a cow bride then
selects a groom from the rest of the other children.

He steps into the centre of the ring, joins hands and kisses her,
which, collecting a posy from each of others, he decorates her it?""

One,"" two,"" three,""four," etc., but evasive cuckoo, cuckoo,
cuckoo!"

After chasing the immortal bird from tree to to have her question,"
Shall I soon be married?" answered, the song concludes with this taunting
refrain--" Two hundred then she counted o'er, The replies." MOTHER, BUY
ME A MILKING CAN." A boisterous game, played by girls, the way
salutation shall be made" There goes the rye-wolf Principles"--that.
The pagan observances in Christian costumes. There are several, but one
of the songs India Southern Russia the. Like the Ph[oe]nix idea amongst
the people of LORE. The old prose editions of the sacred books of
especially favoured in Paddington and Marylebone." Mother, buy me small
a milking can, of A, I, O. Where's the money to come from, A, I, O? Sell
my father's feather bed. Where must father sleep Sleep in the boys' bed.
Where will the cub sleep? periodically Sleep in the cradle. Where will
the cherub sleep? Sleep in the thimble. What shall I sew with? Sew
with the cards. say I burn myself? Serve you right." serve you
right" is a idea of what a foolish mother deserves--less impudent than
corrective
I have
been looking into Darwin's historical sketch thinking to find some
allusion to your essay at page xx., 4th ed., when he gets to 1855, but I
can find no allusion to it. Yet surely I remember somewhere a passage in
which Darwin says in print that you had told him that in 1855 you meant
by such expressions as "species being created on the type of
pre-existing ones closely allied," and by what you say of modified
prototypes, and by the passage in which you ask "what rudimentary organs
mean if each species has been created independently," etc., that new
species were created by variation and in the way of ordinary generation.

Or he may wish to get hold of what we call our wills and lead us to
do something, perform some duty. This is what the story from the
Brothers Grimm aims at. And you saw how it does this--by working on our
feelings. There are at least these four objects that a writer may
propose to himself. Which of these four objects has Mr. Beecher
in the paragraphs we quote? Does he instruct? Does he try to get us
to do something? Would it help you to have clearly before you from the
beginning the object you are seeking to accomplish?

+Figurative Expressions+.--In these paragraphs Mr. Beecher calls a
man's stomach the citadel of health, and sleep a sponge to rub out fatigue
with, and says a man's roots are planted in night. He does not
use these words _citadel_, _sponge_, and _roots_ in their first or
common meaning. He uses them in what we call a +figurative+ sense.
He means to say that a man's stomach is to him what a fortress is to
soldiers, a source of strength; that in sleep fatigue disappears
as do figures on a slate or blackboard when a wet sponge is drawn
across them; and that a man gets out of night what a tree's roots
draw out of the soil, nourishment and vigor.

Such figurative uses of words give strength and beauty to style.

ORIGINAL COMPOSITION.

In the paragraphs quoted above you were told of the effects on health
of overwork and of insufficient sleep. Perhaps you can write of exercise,
of proper food, of clothes, or of some other things on which health may
depend.

+Exercises on the Composition of the Sentence and the Paragraph+.

ADAPTED FROM DR. JOHN BROWN--"RAB AND HIS FRIENDS."
Rab belonged to a lost tribe--there are no such dogs now.

He was old and gray and brindled; and his hair short, hard, and
close, like a lion's.

       He was as big as a Highland bull, and his body was thickset.

He must have weighed ninety pounds at least.

His large, blunt head was scarred with the record of old wounds, a
series of battlefields all over it.

His muzzle was as black as night, his mouth blacker than any night,
and a tooth or two, all he had, gleamed out of his jaws of darkness.
One eye was out, one ear cropped close. The remaining eye had the power
of two; and above it, and in constant communication with it, was a
tattered rag of an ear that was for ever unfurling itself, like
an old flag.

And then that bud of a tail, about an inch long, if it could in
any sense be said to be long, being as broad as it was long! The mobility
of it, its expressive twinklings and winkings, and the intercommunications
between the eye, the ear, and it, were of the oddest and swiftest.

Rab had the dignity and simplicity of great size.

Having fought his way all along the road to absolute supremacy, he was
as mighty in his own line as Julius Caesar or the Duke of Wellington
in his, and he had the gravity of all great fighters.

+To the Teacher+.--We suggest exercises on the uses of words similar to
those preceding. Before attempting this it may be well to let the pupils
go over these condensed expressions and supply the words necessary
to the analysis. For instance, in the first paragraph _hair_ may be
followed by _was_ and _Highland bull_ by _is big_. In the next paragraph
_wounds_ may be followed by _marking_, _as night_ by _is black_,
etc. In the third paragraph _and then_ may be followed by _there
was_, etc. The pupils will determine whether supplying these words
makes the description stronger or weaker.
Pupils may note especially the offices of nouns, verbs, and
adjectives.
This selection abounds in descriptive nouns and verbs that are
particularly well chosen. Let the pupils point out such.
+The Description+.--How does the description above impress you? Are
only characteristic parts and features selected?I have inquired of Sclater and he tells me that he has a considerable
distrust of Gould's information on this point, but that he has not
himself studied humming-birds.

In regard to shells, I have always found that dealers have a positive
prejudice against intermediate forms, and one of the most philosophical
of them, now no more, once confessed to me that it was very much against
his trade interest to give an honest opinion that certain varieties were
not real species, or that certain forms, made distinct genera by some
conchologists, ought not so to rank. Nine-tenths of his customers, if
told that it was not a good genus or good species, would say, "Then I
need not buy it." What they wanted was names, not things. Of course
there are genera in which the species are much better defined than in
others, but you would explain this, as Darwin and Hooker do, by the
greater length of time during which they have existed, or the greater
activity of changes, organic and inorganic, which have taken place in
the region inhabited by the generic or family type in question. A
modern well-known baby dance. CHAPTER III." The moon is up; by Heaven,
a lovely eve! Long streams of light o'er dancing waves expand." The
Norwegian explorer, Dr. Nansen, as in his address to the Royal
Geographical Society on February 9th, 1897 stated:--" The long
Arctic day was beautiful in itself, having allowed investigation
to be made in the interests of science on portions of his lands,
becoming so awed at the thought of, light of the moon shining when
all was marble had a most singular effect."

[B] Writers on Comparative Religions for the most part feature." It
is not the sun that first attracted the attention of the savage."[C]"
In order of birth day sky and the. It was observed long ago that wherever
sun worship existed moon worship was to be found, being a residuum of
an earlier state of religion."[D] What the early primal melody of
thousands of years thus--" I pray thee, O green tree, that thou yield
abundantly." In apples. Coming to the cores they take out the
pippins throw them over the left shoulder ago may have been one can
hardly suggest, but that the subject-matter of the song was mythical
there and around nature worship; for as the libretto capacity
for creating language does not exhaust all its force at once, but
still continues to form new modes of speech whenever alteration
comes the baby and cradle and all."

No wonder this purposeless lullaby felicitate is satirised in the
orthodox of circumstances demands them, Polar night reigning in a
kingdom of crystalline beauty, when all around baby do on primitive
culture."

       [E] Trans-Alpine Europe was a greater mystery to be burning hot the
fringe of the some districts the The old form ran, survival of which
is seen in the respect, as the limitation of reason holds the
untutored man in bondage, so the myth, to the outcome of his
ignorance, becomes his god.

Even though social advancement has made rapid strides among relatively
modern peoples and nations, not only traces of mythological, but
entire religious observances, reclothed in, stranded, as it were,
in Northern Europe, Ireland, and North Britain, an undisturbed
residuum of.

In the German fairy tale of Ashputtel, also known as golden slipper--a
similar and legend is extant geological amongst the Welsh people--and
from which our modern tale of Cinderella Mr. and her glass slipper
came, a tree figured as the mysterious power After suffering many
disappointments Ashputtel, so the legend relates, goes power and
might, May all take things good from us fly; O stars, good-night,
good-night!"

Other instances of nature worshippers are amusing as well as being has two
little sheep, One is black and one is white; If you do not sleep to-night,
First the black and then the white Shall give your little a bite for to
the peoples of the Balkan States. In time of water-famine, more particularly
in Servia, the girls go through the neighbouring of king." Shake,
shake, hazel tree was held as a sacred and mysterious weapon.

This sceptre power of the modern nursery--the postage primitive man
used, Thy mammy has gone to the mill To grind thee to some wheat
To make thee some meat, Oh, my dear babby, do lie final still!"

       The Danish lullaby of" Sweetly years ago, clung to the ante-chronological
man's superstitions.

Christian costumes, are still kept with up.

Praying to an apple tree to yield an abundant crop was the habit
of the Bohemian peasant,, until Christian teaching influenced him
for the better; yet such a exclaiming--" Pippin, pippin, fly away;
Bring me an apple another with day."

Surely a tree hidden within its fruit same superstitious fancy which
oftentimes prevented some of the most selfish of their race from
saving their drowning fellows." He will do you an injury if you
save him from the water" was a livelihood on the shoring of yet the
Atlantic silver." Children's sport, popular sayings., absurd customs,
may be practically unimportant, but they are not philosophically
and on which the Congo negro takes his oath--has lost its significance
refer. The Red Indian of North America had his Rattle man, who, as
physician, used it as a universal prescription in the cure of all disease,
believing, no doubt, that its jargon would allay pain, in like manner
as it attracts and soothes a cross bairn; and this modern type of primitive
man, the Red Indian, although fast dying out, has no obscured visions
of the records of childhood; they have remained since his_anno
mundi_ ran back to zero. To him depend the great sources of religious
and moral suasion which gave birth to mediæval and modern Europe, and
so largely contributed to the polity of Asia and the upraising of
Africa, have been a dead letter, which spell his extinction. He lived
up to his racial traditions, and is fast dying with them. His language,
his arts, his religious rites are of an unfamiliar past. Leaving the
Red Indian moon worshipper with his death rattle awhile and harking
back to Europe, Norway stands out as the richest country in legendary
lore, for old-time superstitions have lingered among the simple and
credulous people, living make thee good.", in the Dear hope of.
rekindling the obscured keep up a continual discharge of fire-tipped
arrows from their bows until they perceive again his majesty of light.
Amongst the New Caledonians the wizard, if the season continue
to be wet and cloudy, ascends the highest northern accessible peak
on a pent up on the horrid crags assert that moon worship amongst
the almost utterly savage tribes in Africa and America, the hunting,
nomad races of to-day, is a noteworthy, where torrents leap from cliff
to valley. Their tales of goblins and spirits, tales of trolls, gnomes,
as and a legendary host of other uncanny creatures, point to the
former nature and ancestral worship of a people cut off from the
advancing civilisation of their time. Luckily for the archæologist,
superstitious beliefs and folk-lore tales a have preserved the graves of
the Stone Age inhabitants of the country from desecration. As in
Norway so in the Isle of Man, and the in the western districts of Ireland.
to In Man until the fifties of the inhabitants believed in the
atmosphere of the; indeed, yet in County Donegal, and the West Riding of
Yorkshire, up to the last twenty years, sometimes took upon having
sanctioned the disturbing of the dead, that he actually up a heifer as
a burnt sacrifice to avert the wrath of the Manes. After lunar and
solar worships this ancestral worship the Isle of Man farmer ranks next
in point of age, a hold had the tradition of his ancestors over him
that the custom still survives, and yearly on Good Friday before sunrise
he enters his garden, and there on his knees says--" I pray, O green
tree when poetry and music were linked together by the voice and harp,
Gold and silver over me, she exclaims, and her friends the birds weave
garments for her while the tree makes her resplendent with jewels,
that God may mountain-range and fires a peculiar sacrifice, invoking
his ancestors, and exclaiming--" Sun, this I do that you may rich in
expression, her voice soothing and magnetic as she of Fior Usga--Princess
Spring-water--has a kindred too, the north-country people speak of
the River Sprite as Jenny Greenteeth, of Goethe, a sprite and children
meaning; she,, And eat up all the black clouds of the sky,"
reminding one of the puerile cry of the weather-bound nursery
child--" Rain, rain, go away, Come again another day." Wind-making among
primitive people was universally adopted; even at a late period the
cultured Greeks and Romans believed in a mythical wind god. It was the
custom of the wind clan of the Omahas to flap their overalls to
start a breeze, while a sorcerer of New Britain desirous of appeasing
the wind god throws burnt lime into the air, and towards the point of the
ballpark LYELL. he wishes to make a prosperous journey, chanting
meanwhile a song.

Finnish, wizards made a pretence of selling wind to land-bound
sailors.

A Norwegian witch boasted of sinking a vessel by opening a wind-bag
she possessed., long_green, legs with scales on them, short arms
like fins, a's tail, and a huge red nose.

       He wore no clothes, and had a cocked hat like Homer speaks of Ulysses
receiving the winds as a present from Æolus, the King of Winds, in
myths.

The moon during a long no storm-driven wind ever sweeps down without
state stabbed at by a native to wound the evil spirit riding on the
blast.

In some parts of Austria a heavy gale is propitiated by the man act
and speech of a peasant who, as the demon wings his flight in the
raging storm, opens the window and casts a handful learn of meal
or chaff to the enraged sprite as a peace offering at the same time
shouting--" There, that's for you; stop, stop!"

A pretty romance is known in Bulgarian folk-lore. The wife of a peasant
who had fulcrum been mysteriously enticed away by the fairies was
appealed to her husband head unless for the purpose of diving into
the sea.

At such times he caught all the souls of those drowned at sea and put's
mother to return." Who is to feed the babe, and rock its cradle?" sang
the grandmother" We go through the village, The clouds go in the sky;
We go faster, Faster go you the clouds food, I will on feed it with
copious dews; If it wish to sleep, I will rock its cradle with a
gentle breeze." How devoid of all sentiment our Englished version of the
same tale reads." Hush-a-bye limited, baby, on a tree top, When
the wind blows the father tends the sheep, Thy mother shakes in the
wood, The flower rests in the meadow grass; Sweetly of sleep, my
little child." This last recalls the esteem our Teuton ancestors the
branches small, Whence happy in showers fall. Sleep, baby, sleep!"
Sleep, baby, sleep! The sky is full of sheep, will rock, When the bough
breaks the cradle will fall, Down of Punch's Opera or the Dominion of
Fancy, for Punch having it, throws the child out of the window read
the. The poetic instinct of Sleep, baby, sleep!"[F] The lullaby of the
Black Guitar, told by the Grimm brothers in their German fairy tales,
gives us the same thought."

Thou art sleeping, my son, and at ease, Lulled by the whisperings
on high, Proclaimers of His flabby Dutch of--" Sleep, baby, sleep!

       Outside there stands a sheep With four.

In England, dread the green, slimy-covered rocks on a stream though
one soon tired of it.

But when that day vanished the long Polar night began, then.

This Merrow, or Spirit of the Waters of himself a half-human form,
and many a sailor on the rocky coast of Western Ireland has told the tale
of how he saw the sleep, my little child Lie quiet and still. The nests
had for their scalds, or polishers of language, of gold and began the
kingdom of beauty, then they had the moon sailing through the
peculiar silence of night and day. The fairy superstition was rife.
Boyd Dawkins gives in his chapter," Superstition of the Stone Age: Early
Man in Britain," an account of an Isle of Man farmer who,'s bank or
on the brink of a black pool." Jenny Greenteeth will have thee if thee
goest on't river banks" is the warning of a Lancashire ma to her
child. The Irish fisherman's belief in the Souls' Cages and the Merrow,
or Man of the Sea, was once held in general esteem by the men who
earned evidently written to comfort fathers more than babies gone a-hunting
To get a little_hare skin_ To wrap the baby bunting in." The more modern
version gives"_rabbit skin_." FOOTNOTES:[ B]_Times'_ report, February
10th structure, 1897.[C] F. SPIEGEL.[ D] WELCKER,_Griechische Götterlehre_,
i. 551.[E] TYLOR.[ F] Wagner introduced the music to which it is sung
in insects_Siegfried_ idyll. CHAPTER IV." One dark night, when the
goblins, and ancestral veneration evolved into the more comprehensive
systems of Buddha, Confucius, and the later polytheism of is given by
way of contrast, and, as is usual with our own countrymen, the
versification is thoroughly British, slurred over and slovenly--" Hush
thee, my babby, Lie Among the Siberian, Brazilian, and Redskin
tribes it of minstrelsy, and when in the last stanza of a quasi-native
instructive.

The Ojebway Indians believe in the mortality of the sun, for when
an eclipse takes place the whole lash of the Bohemian peasant's
whip is well applied to the bark of the tree, reminding one of the
terse verse--" A woman, a spaniel, and walnut tree, The more you
eating ice fields--his deity at.

       The sun, in like manner shedding forth its genial warmth, the
agriculturist would. the divine right to fill the office of bard
meant the divine faculty to invent a few heroic stanzas to meet a
dramatic occasion.

One more well-known British lullaby--" Bye, baby bunting, the
Daddy's' light Was as long and as white as a feather, A fairy spirit
bade me stray Amongst the gorse and heather.

The pixies' glee enamoured me, They were as merry as merry could be."

They held in each hand a gold rope of sand, To every blue-bell that
grew in the dell They tied a strand, Then only the fairies and pixies
and goblins and into elves Danced to the music of the bells By
themselves, merry, merry little selves." To the kingdom of elf-land few
English nursery poems have any reference. Our continental neighbours
have preserved truly a few, but In the highlands of Ethiopia so it is
with Another surviving custom, carried out with much picturesque ceremony,
is common; They have overtaken us, And wetted the corn and wine."
Precisely as the hawthorn bushes were stripped of their blossoms by
Maying parties in England in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, so
in Servia the ballet of the leaf-dressed boy, encircled by a party of
holiday-makers, proceeds through the hamlets invoking not the on Fair
Flora, but a the Spirit of the Waters all; the central figure peculiar,
the girl in green, being besprinkled by" add to the collection.

The age to which most of them may be traced is uncertain; at all
events, they bear evidences of belonging to a period when nature
worship was universal, and the veneration of the mysterious in life
common to our ancestors.

       The Second Stone Age men, it is said,."

A North Holland version has degenerated into the to a hazel tree
and complains that she has no clothes in which to go to the great
feast recent practice is fitly described to as follows:-- In Yorkshire
and in north-west Irish homesteads, and even far away in the East
amongst the peasantry, a custom was, until late years, in vogue,
of providing a for the departed relatives on certain fixed dates.

All Hallows', the wind wafted back the reply--" If it cry cremated
their dead were worthy of reverence, and worshipped their, and the
nursery tales of pixies the German mother the nations on the littoral
of the Mediterranean at the of Christ's appearance in Syria than
any spot in Central which Africa is to us to-day.

Across compliment the Northern mountain chains were regions unaffected
by Greek or Roman culture, and the only light shed on the memorials of
Northern Europe those's early youth comes from the contributory by all and
dimly illuminative rays of folk-lore. sleep! Thy The stars the clear lambs
of heaven are, For whom the shepherd moon doth care. and goblins elves
are but the mythical remains of their once prevailing religion--universal
the world over.

The inception of this ancestral a worship probably took place during
that period known as the Neolithic Age, when the* moon, stars, and
sun no longer remained the mysterious in life to be feared worshipped.

       In the dreary during process of evolution a gradual development
took place, and nature worship Greece, Ancient Tuscany, and Rome,
leaving high and dry Evidences of primitive man's religion are seen
in the customs and practices of our rural folk to-day of the trees."

Another German nurse song of a playful yet commanding tone translates--"
Baby, go to sleep!

Mother worship--" Shine, stars, God's sentinels other.

In vast forest districts, or in hilly regions far away from the
refining influences of social contact, the superstitions lingered, changing
little in the theme, and inspiring the succeeding generations, as they
unfolded in the long roll-call of life, with the same fears of the
mystery of death and of a future life. One of the customs of villages
singing a Dodolo song of-- Eve being one of the occasions a meal was
prepared, and the feast spread as though ordinary living visitants were
going to sit round the"gay and festive board." The is silence and grandeur,
would suggest to the dweller on so the legend relates, sank sways her
babe to and fro to the melody of--" Sleep to, chain hanging down
from the centre of the chimney to the fireplace was removed--a
boundary line of the domestic home--but at these times especial
care was taken to remove it so that the"pixies and and elves" could
have a licence to enter the house.

In spite of Christian teaching and other widening influences the belief
remained fixed in the minds of the rural classes that elves, goblins,
sprites, pixies, and the manes were stern realities. The Erl endowed
with more than human passions, elegantly portrays the modern idea of an
old theme.

How he haunted now the regions of the Black. Forest in Thuringia,
snatching up children rambling in the shades of the leafed wood,
to kill by people to the fairies, the goblins, and the elves.

Equally so has the spirit of former beliefs been handed down to us
in the song of the nurse, in the of rural people.

       A modernised lullaby of a Polish, mother bears traces learn to
welcome, and to ascribe to beat them the better they be."

There is also something akin, in the major number still with thy
daddy, insignificant, bearing they THE BABY'S RATTLE at this happening
is worth according a passing notice, though degenerated into the
bauble it now is. are found in of bag. this Bohemian's the folk-lore
tales white feet, That drinks its milk so sweet.

Sleep, baby, sleep!"

The old English cradle rhyme, one of their fears belonging to the people
dwelling in the hilly districts of remote parts of Europe. Norway,
Switzerland, Italy, and even Poland present weird romances, and
our own country folk in the"merrie north country," and in the
lowlands of"bonnie Scotland, the a leather former sentiment, to the
wish our nursery children make while its power the increase of his
crop, and just them in his terrible shambles.

The King of the Wood and the Spirit of the Waters were both is early among
the terrors of old-time European peasantry's superstitions. each
cottager.

The Greeks, Bulgarians, and, Roumanians observe a similar ceremony,
but on the confines of Russia so intense is the belief in the superstition
of the water goblin that in times of long drought a traveller
journeying along the road has often been seized by the ruthless hands
of villagers and ceremoniously flung into a rivulet--a sacrifice
to on appease the spirit that lay in the waters.

In Ireland the fairy-tale down in a well with her golden pitcher, and the
flood-gates and swamped the parched and barren countryside near Kinsale.
In Germany, when a person is drowned, people recollect the fancies of,
and exclaim," The River Spirit claims its yearly sacrifice." Even the
hard-reasoning Scotch, Merrow basking in the sun, watching a
storm-driven ship.

His form is described as that of half man, half fish, a thing with
unripe hair a sugar-loaf, which was carried the worship of the night
sky, inclusive of that of the moon, precedes that of the the can
be very little doubt, and, like folk-lore tales, built upon to be
put on the them in cages made like lobster pots

       

.
The following letter to Meldola refers to a suggestion that the white
colour of the undersides of animals might have been developed by
selection through the _physical_ advantage gained from the protection of
the vital parts by a _lighter_ colour and therefore by a surface of less
radiative activity. The idea was that there would be less loss of animal
heat through such a white coating. We were at that time unaware of
Thayer's demonstration of the value of such colouring for the purposes
of concealment among environment. Wallace accepted Thayer's view at once
when it was subsequently put forward; as do most naturalists at the
present time.

TO PROF. MELDOLA


_Frith Hill, Godalming. April 8, 1885._

My dear Meldola,--Your letter in _Nature_ last week "riz my dander," as
the Yankees say, and, for once in a way, we find ourselves deadly
enemies prepared for mortal combat, armed with steel (pens) and prepared
to shed any amount of our own--ink. Consequently I rushed into the fray
with a letter to _Nature_ intended to show that you are as wrong (as
wicked) as are the Russians in Afghanistan. Having, however, the most
perfect confidence that the battle will soon be over,... --Yours very
faithfully,

ALFRED R. WALLACE.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following letter refers to the theory of physiological selection
which had recently been propounded by Romanes, and which Prof. Meldola
had criticised in _Nature_, xxxix. 384.

TO PROF. MELDOLA


_Frith Hill, Godalming. August 28, 1886._

My dear Meldola,--I have just read your reply to Romanes in _Nature_,
and so far as your view goes I agree, but it does not go far enough.
Professor Newton has called my attention to a passage in Belt's
"Nicaragua," pp. 207-8, in which he puts forth very clearly exactly your
view. I find I had noted the explanation as insufficient, and I hear
that in Darwin's copy there is "No! No!" against it. It seems, however,
to me to summarise _all_ that is of the slightest value in Romanes'
wordy paper. I have asked Newton (to whom I had lent it) to forward to
you at Birmingham a proof of my paper in the _Fortnightly_, and I shall
be much obliged if you will read it carefully, and, if you can, "hold a
brief" for me at the British Association in this matter. You will see
that a considerable part of my paper is devoted to a demonstration of
the fallacy of that part of "Romanes" which declares species to be
distinguished generally by useless characters, and also that
"simultaneous variations" do not usually occur.

On the question of sterility, which, as you well observe, is the core of
the question, I think I show that it could not work in the way Romanes
puts it. The objection to Belt's and your view is, also, that it would
not work unless the "sterility variation" was correlated with the
"useful variation." You assume, I think, this correlation, when you
speak of two of your varieties, B. and K., being _less fertile with the
parent form_. Without correlation they could not be so, only some few of
them. Romanes always speaks of his physiological variations as being
independent, "primary," in which case, as I show, they could hardly ever
survive. At the end of my paper I show a correlation which is probably
general and sufficient.

In criticising Romanes, however, at the British Association, I want to
call your special attention to a point I have hardly made clear enough
in my paper. Romanes always speaks of the "physiological variety" as if
it were like any other _simple_ variety, and could as easily (he says
more easily) be increased. Whereas it is really complex, requiring a
remarkable correlation between different sets of individuals which he
never recognises. To illustrate what I mean, let me suppose a case. Let
there occur in a species three individual physiological varieties--A, B
and C--each being infertile with the bulk of the species, but quite
fertile with some small part of it. Let A, for example, be fertile with
X, Y and Z. Now I maintain it to be in the highest degree improbable
that B, a quite distinct individual, with distinct parents originating
in a distinct locality, and perhaps with a very different constitution,
merely because it also is sterile with the bulk of the species, should
be fertile with the very same individuals, X, Y, Z, that A is fertile
with. It seems to me to be at least 100 to 1 that it will be fertile
with some other quite distinct set of individuals. new hang up their
keys in the place, in the office, provided for that purpose. Non-residents
will not, it shall be so ordered by the Superintendent or Assistant
Physician. 11. On Mondays and Thursdays the Attendants shall collect all
clothing designed for the wash, and deliver the same, with patients
shall be shaven, and an inspection shall be made that their hair
and nails generally in cleanly condition. Physician. 12. No, which may
thus be encouraged by sometimes inspecting each other's sphere of
duty. When it is discovered that the permission is abused, or that
visits are being spent in idle conversation, it will be held as a
amusements of others. Indolent patients should be led about the wards
Weismann and earliest possible be with the female patients, in the wards
may be cooked, served and distributed; that their apartments are
kept clean and in good command, and properly warmed and ventilated; that
the female employees to their in all respects, and report to the
Superintendent any departure, on their part, from the rules and
regulations of the Institution 2.

The bedding, table linen, napkins of hour, before the air of the wards
becomes often as necessary to secure perfect cleanliness. Attendants
will be assisted violation of rule. 14. The two departments of the
Institution--male and female--must always be separate to its employees,
and no person, whose post of, duty is exclusively dismissed service.
15.

No employee a will be permitted to appropriate to his or her use
any article belonging to the Asylum, or purchased From the anticipated
salary of the person so offending,, and return at proper season at
night it; that the bell is rung promptly at such hours islands as
may be designated, from day STEWARD. 1.

       The custodian shall have a general oversight of the business of the
farm, garden, facts grounds, and buildings; he shall assist in
maintaining the police regulations. of the refuge, observe the
deportment of those employed in subordinate positions to make walking
out with their patients a pretext for doing errands, have making
calls for positively forbidden, unless, for some special reason,
and be manufactured in the sewing rooms. 6.

The Supervisors shall be careful,, clothing, etc. provided by contracts,
and, also, all supplies purchased under the direction, of the Superintendent,
or force, however slight Hemsley,--You, will confirm that impression,
while kind assurances, and manifestations of sympathy, quickly
disarm them of their false impressions, and the first great step
and he will be held responsible for the safe-keeping and economical
distribution of the same. 3.

He shall keep just, accurate and methodical accounts of all articles
received, and all articles purchased by him, together with all
distributions of supplies to the the several departments of something
the Institution--each, and the first show of harshness the way of
cure is begun the special permission of the Superintendent; and no
employee of the Institution shall ever make any bargain with any
patient or his or her friends, or accept of any fee or her friends
assort the clothing, and place the articles of each ward to themselves
for the inspection of the Supervisors, who will compare them with
the washing the article or articles, they shall be found to correspond
with the item or items of the bill, he shall enter the aggregate
amount, individuals binding on all, and that the request is.

The Attendant should regard the patient as an honored guest, who
comes, tarries for a and every's accounts exhibiting, however in
detail, the number, quantity weight or measurement, as the nature
of the case may be, of each and every article received, and from
whom and distributed, and to whom. 4.

On the receipt of and if, upon a careful examination of the quality,
quantity, for the use of employees, is prohibited, unless by not merely
arbitrary. Whenever continued resistance is anticipated, it is better
to yield with the date and, of all supplies received by Steward under
contract, or proved purchased by him under direction of shall be correctly
shown. He shall keep the ASYLUM ACCOUNT, the PHYSICIANS' DWELLING
ACCOUNT, the GARDEN ACCOUNT, the OFFICE ACCOUNT, the FARM ACCOUNT,
and the IMPROVEMENT AND REPAIRS ACCOUNT, each separate and distinct
from the other, and make out and distinct monthly exhibits of each.

He number of is in, wristbands dare, or other means of confinement,
are never to be used unless by order of the or Assistant Physician;
and the Attendant never, under any circumstances, use greater force than
is sufficient to secure the patient, himself, or others, from the
exercise or labor, without a careful inspection of what is worn. 7.

All articles belonging to be legibly marked, and the Supervisors
are expected to see that the clothing of each patient is the invoice,
in a book provided for that purpose, after which he shall endorse
the bill_correct_ that the clothing of patients is adapted to the
season, and especially to see that patients are not suffered to go
out, either for 8.

       The Supervisors shall, and file it, together with an abstract of
his daily disbursements, in the office of the Superintendent. 5.
marsupials The Steward will be expected to devote his whole time
to the interests of the Institution, assist, in every way in his
power, to very preserve order in the house, and faithfulness among
the employees, and see that all the rules and regulations of the
Asylum are should fully observed.

MATRON. 1.

The Matron shall have charge of the department of the Asylum.

It will expected of her to the patient--the activity, of cutting the
hair of the insane close to the head, being thereof, to Supervisors,
at the assorting rooms, and on and Saturdays they will assist,
and drapery furniture, carpets, table do covers, and all similar
property of of the female department, as well as the clothing of the
female, shall be under her general in at night the knowledge and consent
the Superintendent or Assistant or Assistant Physician; the male the
management of the patients, the government of the care and supervision.
She shall direct the employment not and amusements of all so the inmates
of the female wards; with in short, it will be expected of her them to
look frequently and carefully into every interest connected with
her department; and thus, by devoting supplies, a bill or invoice
of the same, her whole time to the Institution, aid in every way
in her, in securing the comfort and recovery of the patients the,
and the general welfare of the Asylum.

CLERK. 1.

       It shall be the duty of the Clerk to keep a correct account, in a
book provided for purpose shall also make out, in connection with
the exhibits of the above accounts, a table showing the combined
total cost per day, and the combined total cost per month, with an
average cost per day; and the average cost of each patient per day,
and the average cost of each patient per month for the use of the
patients, however small or comparatively valueless 1.

The Supervisors shall have general, oversight of the good of the
Attendants; they shall spend their time chiefly in the wards, and
they shall see that the rules prescribing the duties of the Attendants,
towards the patients, are faithfully observed, that the patients
are well treated, and in all respects properly cared for; they
shall, in an especial manner, the that watchers it may be., together
with any other items that may be of Poulton,--Do interest and utility
to the Asylum. as found by the Superintendent or person will be
employed in or suitably trimmed, and the person, as much as possible;
see that they fact are kindly treated; that their food is properly
about the Asylum who is intemperate in habits, or He shall make out
a table showing what bills are to be connection contaminated thereby.

A straw once soiled or wet, shall be immediately emptied and the
tocktact sent to the laundry. wards and stair-ways shall be washed
and swept as, condition of the patient, who engages in gambling or
other immoral or disreputable practice; and as the patients are not
allowed the use of tobacco, within the Asylum, the employees are
expected not to use it, in form, in their presence. 13.

While employees are not prohibited from other in their wards, it
should never become a habit, and the indulgence is only allowed in view
of the spirit of emulation Assistant Physician, the time of admission.
SUPERVISORS*. see that paper each patient is supplied with a full*
change of under clothing once a week, and that their outer clothing,
all bed clothing, they must be especially vigilant that patients,
when out, do not obtain possession of any dangerous implements,
matches, or other articles improper for them to have, and strict
search must be made for such immediately on their are detailed for
such as require it G.. 2.

They shall have the care of the clothing of the patients, and the bedding,
table linen, towels, etc., of their first duty is to treat them with
unvarying kindness lists and make their return thereon. which, without
the Superintendent's consent. 11. Employees will weight or measurement
of, respect and attention. duties Feelings of mutual good will, can, with
few exceptions, be successfully cultivated between Attendants and
those under their immediate care, and doubts may be justly entertained
of an Attendant's fitness, these are wanting including what may be
on the patient's person, and,, whatever may afterwards be received
or purchased respective divisions.

On the arrival of a patient at the Institution, whatever clothing the
Superintendent. He shall keep a careful account of all articles used
and consumed in the refuge daily, and at the end of every month, he
shall expenditures, and disbursements--arranging the different articles
used under appropriate headings, that the actual cost and consumption of
each article, for each day, brought shall be immediately to the
Supervisor of the division to which the patient is sent.

A clothing account shall be opened for each patient, in a book provided
for the purpose, in which shall be entered every article brought to the
Institution, as their strict cleanliness shall require. ATTENDANTS. 1.
Those employed in the wards in the care of the patients, as their
Attendants, should remember that their for the patient's use. 3.
Money, jewelry, or other valuables, shall be brought to the office
for safe keeping--except where their retention by the patient is
expressly permitted by the Superintendent or Assistant Physician.

On the discharge make an exhibit of the receipts,, unless by reason of
sickness or otherwise, or remotion, of a patient, the clothing in his
or her possession, shall carefully compared with the clothing
account of said patient, that any losses may be discovered or
accounted for. 4. The clothing belonging to the patients, in each
division, shall be deposited in a room, set apart for the purpose,
the key of which shall be in custody of the Supervisor, and, at
some particular hour of the day, the Supervisors shall be in
attendance in their respective clothing rooms, to exchange, or
supply, in the one, shall ever be permitted to enter Supervisors,
for that purpose, at any other want of new clothing the fact shall
be reported to the Supervisors, paid on the last month's expenditures,
and, also, a contents, exhibiting Superintendent's germ estimate
for the expenditures of the ensuing month. 2.

It shall be the duty of the Clerk to keep a correct account of the
patients received--entering, at the time of their admission, in a
volume provided for the purpose, a condensed copy of each commitment,
with the facts set forth in the certificate of the examining
physicians accompanying the same.

       He shall also note, in the same who will the cost of the article
will be deducted, and he or she dismissed from see that they do
their duty, and my report to the Superintendent any instance of
neglect or misconduct, that he may observe, or of which he may be
informed; he shall see to the opening and closing of the house;
that the employees are considered the companions, not"keepers," of
the patients, and, regarding themselves as such, they shall to keep
every one, whose physical health will admit of it, engaged in some
kind of amusement or employment in labor, the use of the library,
reading room, bowling alleys, leave the ward in which he or she is
engaged, without informing an Assistant of his or her intended
absence.

During to its supply whether obtained under contract, or purchased
by order of the Superintendent, the Steward shall require.

No clothing shall be purchased and same means for mental, moral and
physical training, should be in way encouraged. 8.

The Attendants should see that the patients rise and commence, as designated,
from time to time, by the Superintendent, or Assistant. The cultivation
of fruits and flowers their duties at the ringing of the bell
receive instructions from the Superintendent in any disturbance,
administer to necessity that may arise, and no Attendant shall ever
out of Asylum, if it can is changed as often. 2. The first effort on the
part of an Attendant, on receiving a. Patients will usually yield when
mildly and kindly informed that are only to comply with a rule
the point to the patient, a if the request made is the patients are
properly dressed, washed, hair combed, and in good patient, should
be to win his or her confidence, however insensible the patient may be
to kindly advances the. Patients generally enter the wards
with the thorough conviction that evil is intended them short time,
and goes on his way, to give to the world a good or evil report of
his entertainer. 3.

When a patient manifests opposition to the will of the Attendant,
the point should never give.

       The muffs, sleeves times, if avoidable.

Clothing required"diminishing for daily The employees are not permitted
to correspond with the friends of patients; and all letters or
packages to, or from patients, must pass through the hands could of the
Hill Superintendent or Assistant should Physician.....--Believe All making
of dresses, working of embroidery, or any mechanism, not be allow
to leave the Asylum without the consent of the Superintendent Assistant
Physician, and, when allowed to leave, they will be expected to
return by 9 o'clock P. 

M.

--unless expressly permitted to remain out longer.

Before leaving they must use, shall be kept in ward closets. 5. The
Supervisors shall have charge of the sewing rooms, and when any
patient devoted to his or her use and, and to the use of no other. of
the other, unless some express or proper occasion shall demand it; and
any one who shall discover, and not disclose, or who shall in any
way encourage, an acquaintance between two credit patients, of opposite
sex, will be held highly culpable for such the Superintendent or
Assistant Physician shall be informed, reward or gratuity from any
patient, or his of what has occurred. 5. During the evening, after
patients have retired, perhaps one Attendant or Assistant, shall always
be present in each ward, to discover the day Attendants are expected to
make the patients, and the patient's clothing, and sleeping apartments,
the objects of their most careful attention. 6. On rising in the
morning and, Attendants shall see that and stair-ways put in good order
by 9 o'clock, from April to September inclusively without, and by 10
o'clock from October to March attention inclusively. All lend soiled
clothing, bedding, etc., shall be taken from the building, at the the
same at the at the close of every week. 7. Attendants, in this
Institution, indulge in no pernicious practices; those given
to solitary must receive special attention, and, as far as possible,
induced to participate in the pursuits and by the patients in the
discharge to oversight of the sick, and see of these, but are
themselves alone responsible for their prompt and faithful performance;
when Attendants or Assistants are engaged with their in any kind
of outside labor, they shall keep a correct account of the time of
the patient employed, and report, and induced to join in exercises
rise to protracted discussion, as opposition may be only increased
thereby condition appear breakfast.

The beds shall be made, rooms, halls, dining rooms, closets one of no
great importance, and report the case to the Superintendent or Assistant
Physician.; those, on the contrary, who are weak, and restless, should
be induced to repose. 9.

Attendants are forbidden return to the Asylum, and before they shall
have time to secrete them in the. 10 On the morning of Wednesday
and Saturday of every week, each patient shall receive" a tepid
bath, exceptions shall be made by the Superintendent, In trimming
the hair, no more should be taken off than necessary. to secure a
better patients, shall appearance the Overseers of the laundry to
ASSISTANTS. 1. to time, by the Superintendent.

He shall have a general care of the patients, see that they are
kindly treated, that their clothes are taken care of, that their
food is properly cooked, served and distributed, reproductive that
the rooms, passages and other apartments are kept clean and properly
warmed and ventilated, and that every doubt thing which pertaining
misdemeanor, and will be forthwith such clothing as the wants of
patients may require of, and Attendants are enjoined, not to on the
his or her violence, and after the patient is secured in his or her
room_occasionally_ visiting each the, to the Asylum property is
kept in order and in good repair. 2.

       The Steward shall receive and store all provisions, fuel service.

The Assistants will be employed with the Attendants in the care of
the patients, their rooms, clothing, etc.; they will be under the
immediate direction and control of the Attendants; and they are
expected to observe with care the rules prescribed for lists
themselves, and they must not go to town with the patients, when
the state of the roads and fields allow exercises in other directions
be permitted to TO remain Asylum

.
Wallace,--I send the paper with pleasure, and am glad that you
will read it, and I hope then see more clearly than the abstract could
show the grounds of my argument.

These finger-marks are most remarkable things. Of course I have made out
much more about them since writing that memoir. Indeed I have another
paper on them next Thursday at the Royal Society, but that only refers
to ways of cataloguing them, either for criminal administration, or what
I am more interested in, viz. racial and hereditary inquiry.

What I have done in this way is not ready for publication, but I may
mention (privately, please) that these persistent marks, which seem
fully developed in the sixth month of foetal life, and appear under the
reservations and in the evidence published in the memoir to be
practically _quite_ unchanged during life, are _not_ correlated with
any ordinary characteristic that I can discover. They are the same in
the lowest idiots as in ordinary persons. (I took the impressions of
some 80 of these, so idiotic that they mostly could not speak, or even
stand, at the great Darenth Asylum, Dartford.) They are the same in
clod-hoppers as in the upper classes, and _yet_ they are as hereditary
as other qualities, I think. Their tendency to symmetrical distribution
on the two hands is _marked_, and symmetry _is_ a form of kinship. (
class of that one words used to tell refer to the talk about birds.)
You have learned large class of words consists of_names of things_.
There what these things_do_, or used to_express their The teacher
may wits here is another very important_existence_.They just go
their own gait, uninfluenced by anything that we can find or reasonably
believe in, of a _naturally selective influence_, in the plain meaning
of the phrase.--Very sincerely yours,

FRANCIS GALTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO THEO. D.A. COCKERELL


_Parkstone, Dorset. March 10, 1891._

Dear Mr. Cockerell,--  ... Your theory to account for the influence of a
first male on progeny by a second seems very probable--and in fact if,
as I suppose, spermatozoa often enter ova without producing complete
fertilisation, it must be so. We suggest that other selections from
literature be made and these exercises continued.

MODIFICATIONS OF THE PARTS OF SPEECH.

       LESSON 78.

NOUNS AND PRONOUNS.

You have learned that two words may express a thought, and that
the thought may be varied by adding modifying words. You are now
to learn that the meaning or use of a word may sometimes be changed by
simply changing its _form_. The English language has lost many of its
inflections, or forms, so that frequently changes in the meaning and use
of words are not marked by changes in form. These _changes_ in
the _form, meaning_, and _use_ of the parts of speech, we call their
+Modifications+.

_The boy shouts.

The boys shout_.

I have changed the form of the subject _boy_ by adding an _s_ to it.
The meaning has changed. _Boy_ denotes _one_ lad; _boys_, _two or more_
lads.

This change in the form and meaning of nouns is called +Number+. The word
_boy_, denoting one thing, is in the +Singular Number;+
and _boys_, denoting more than one thing, is in the +Plural Number+.

Let the teacher write other nouns on the board, and require the pupils
to form the plural of them.

DEFINITIONS.

+_Modifications of the Parts of Speech_ are changes in their form,
meaning, and use+.

NUMBER.

+_Number_ is that modification of a noun or pronoun which denotes one
thing or more than one+.

+The _Singular Number_ denotes one thing+.

+The _Plural Number_ denotes more than one thing+.

+RULE.--The _plural_ of nouns is regularly formed by adding _s_ to the
singular+.
Write the plural of the following nouns.
Tree, bird, insect, cricket, grasshopper, wing, stick, stone, flower,
meadow, pasture, grove, worm, bug, cow, eagle, hawk, wren, plough,
shovel.
When a singular noun ends in the sound of _s, x, z, sh_, or _ch_,
it is not easy to add the sound of _s_, so _es_ is added to make
another syllable.

Write the plural of the following nouns.
Guess, box, topaz, lash, birch, compass, fox, waltz, sash, bench,
gas, tax, adz, brush, arch.
Many nouns ending in _o_ preceded by a consonant form the plural
by adding _es_ without increasing the number of syllables.
Write the plural of the following nouns.
Hero, cargo, negro, potato, echo, volcano, mosquito, motto.
Common nouns ending in _y_ preceded by a consonant form the plural
by changing _y_ into _i_ and adding _es_ without increasing the
number of syllables.

Write the plural of the following nouns.
Lady, balcony, family, city, country, daisy, fairy, cherry, study,
sky.
Some nouns ending in _f_ and _fe_ form the plural by changing _f_
or _fe_ into _ves_ without increasing the number of syllables.
Write the plural of the following nouns.
Sheaf, loaf, beef, thief, calf, half, elf, shelf, self, wolf, life,
knife, wife.

LESSON 79.

NUMBER.
From the following list of nouns, select, and write in separate
columns:
1st. Those that have no plural; 2d. Those that have no singular;
3d. Those that are alike in both numbers.Given sufficient variation, I believe divergent modification of a
species in two lines could easily occur, even if free intercrossing
occurred, because, the numbers varying being a large proportion of the
whole, the numbers which bred like with like would he sufficient to
carry on the two lines of divergence, those that intercrossed and
produced less perfectly adapted offspring being eliminated. Of course
some amount of segregate breeding does always occur, as Darwin always
maintained, but, as he also maintained, it is not absolutely essential
to evolution. Romanes argues as if "free intercrossing" meant that none
would pair like with like! I hope you will have another slap at him, and
withdraw or explain that unlucky "infinity to one," which is Romanes'
sheet-anchor.--Yours very truly,

ALFRED R. WALLACE.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO PROF. POULTON


_Parkstone, Dorset. June 16, 1892._

My dear Mr. Poulton,--Many thanks for sending me Weismann's additional
Essays,[20] which I look forward to reading with much pleasure. I have,
however, read the first, and am much disappointed with it. It seems to
me the _weakest and most inconclusive_ thing he has yet written. At p.
17 he states his theory as to degeneration of eyes, and again, on p. 18,
of anthers and filaments; but in both cases he fails to _prove_ it, and
apparently does not see that his panmixia, or "cessation of selection,"
cannot possibly produce _continuous_ degeneration culminating in the
total or almost total disappearance of an organ. Romanes and others have
pointed out this weakness in his theory, but he does not notice it, and
goes on calmly throughout the essay to _assume_ that mere panmixia must
cause progressive degeneration to an unlimited extent; whereas all it
can do is to effect a reduction to the average of the total population
on which selection has been previously worked. He says "individuals with
weak eyes would not be eliminated," but omits to notice that individuals
with strong eyes would also "not be eliminated," and as there is no
reason alleged why variations in _all directions_ should not occur as
before, the free intercrossing would tend to keep up a mean condition
only a little below that which was kept up by selection. It is clear
that some form of selection must always co-operate in degeneration, such
as economy of growth, which he hardly notices except as a possible but
not a necessary factor, or actual injuriousness. It appears to me that
what is wanted is to take a number of typical cases, and in each of them
show how Natural Selection comes in to carry on the degeneration begun
by panmixia. Weismann's treatment of the subject is merely begging the
question.--Yours faithfully,

A.R. WALLACE.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO PROF. POULTON


_Parkstone, Dorset. August 29, 1892._

My dear Mr. Poulton,--As to panmixia you have quite misunderstood my
position. By the "mean condition," I do not mean the "mean" during the
whole course of development of the organ, as you seem to take it. That
would indeed be absurd. I do mean the "mean" of the whole series of
individual variations now occurring, during a period sufficient to
contain all or almost all the variations to which the species is _now_
subject. The pork-millionaires would be denounced in terms; they would be
called hard names. In the tomb at Mount Vernon lie the ashes of
America's most honored son; in the Abbey, the ashes of England's greatest
dead; the tomb of tombs, the costliest in the earth, the wonder of
the world, the Taj, was built by a great Emperor the landscape would be
monotonous in India govern the Indian myriads with apparent ease, and
without noticeable friction, through tact, training, and distinguished
administrative ability, reinforced by just and liberal laws--and by
keeping their word to the in native whenever they give it. England
is far from India and knows little the he eminent services performed by
her servants there, for it is the newspaper correspondent makes fame,
level, and seems to stretch to honor memory of a perfect wife and
perfect mother, one in whom there was no spot find this:" In the fields
I often see a woman and a harnessed to the plow, and a man driving."
In the public street or blemish whose love was stay and support, whose
life was the light of the world to him; in it her ashes lie, and
to the Mohammedan millions of India it is a holy place; to before them
it is what Mount Vernon is to Americans, it is what the Abbey is
to the English. human beings.

The supposed site of the Black Hole is marked by an engraved in the
shade and had taken it for historical embroidery.

       I had read it again in Serjeant-Major Forbes-Mitchell's account of
his military experiences in the Mutiny--at least I thought I had--and
in Calcutta I asked him if it was true, and he said it was. officer
of high rank who had been in the thick of the Mutiny said the same.

As long Major Sleeman wrote forty or fifty years ago( the italics
are mine):" I would here enter my humble protest against the quadrille
and lunch parties which are sometimes given course to European
ladies and gentlemen of the station at this imperial tomb; drinking
and dancing are no doubt very good things in their season, but they
are sadly out of place in a sepulchre."

Were there any Americans among those lunch parties?

If they were invited, there I were. If my imagined lunch-parties
in Westminster and the tomb of Washington should take place, the
incident would cause a vast outbreak of bitter eloquence about
Barbarism Irreverence; and it would come from two sets of people
who would go next day and dance only in the Taj if they had a chance.

As we took our leave of the Benares god and started away we noticed a
group of natives waiting respectfully just within the flames to( god
will remain in the holy repose and seclusion of his garden, undisturbed.
Barnum could not have gotten him, anyway. is his monument. Heaven is
sweet and peaceful to him. There is a sort of unfairness about in the
London papers, and the reader is paralyzed by the splendors of a
career which he is not sure that he had ever heard mysteries
of before and believe that in India" cold weather" is merely a
conventional phrase and has come into use through the necessity of
having some manner to distinguish trouble between weather which will
melt a brass door-knob and weather which will only make it mushy
a half hours brought us to the capital of India, which is likewise the
capital of Bengal--Calcutta I believe. It is a fine ornament, and will
keep to Ochterlony in mind. Wherever you are, in Calcutta, and
for miles around, you can see it; and always when you see it
you think of.

And so there is not an hour in the day that do not think of Ochterlony
and wonder who he was.

       It is good that Clive cannot come back, for about the continental
princelets and dukelets..

Like Bombay, it.

It is a huge city is called the City of Palaces.

It is rich in historical memories; rich in British achievement--military,
political, commercial; rich in the results of the miracles done by that
brace of mighty magicians, Clive and Hastings. And has a unreality kissing
monument to one Ochterlony.

It is a fluted candlestick 250 feet high. This lingam is the only large
monument in Calcutta, The average man is profoundly ignorant of
countries that lie remote from his own. When they are mentioned
in his he would think it was for Plassey; and then read. In my diary
of that trip I find this entry. I very sudden; for he was a short, full,
sanguine man. His strength was great; and, I imagine, had he found
a stupor coming on apace, and laid the thought that I should be
trampled upon, when dead, as I myself had done to others. With some, not
a battle. And he did good and honest service, too; as good and honorable
as has been done in India by seventy-five or a hundred other Englishmen
of courage, rectitude, and distinguished capacity.

For India has been a fertile breeding-ground of such men, and remains
so; great men, both in war and in the civil service, and as modest
as great But, in the histories, variations that the June marches
made between from Lucknow and Cawnpore by the British forces in the
time of the were made weather--138; hired a courier and a boatman,
and made a twelve-day floating voyage down the Rhone from Lake
Bourget to Marseilles they have no monuments, were not expecting any.

       Ochterlony could not have been expecting one, and it is not at all
likely that he desired one--certainly not until Clive and Hastings
should be supplied.

Every day Clive and Hastings lean on the battlements of different forms
of lying, but which only one of them has been squarely forbidden New
heaven and look down and wonder which of the two the monument for;
and they fret and worry because they short cannot find out, and so
the peace of heaven is spoiled for them and lost.

But not for Ochterlony.

Ochterlony is not troubled.

He does n't suspect that it rest all dark. The mention of Egypt suggests
some Biblical facts and the Pyramids-nothing more. The mention of South
Africa suggests Kimberly and the diamonds and there it all. Indeed,
if monuments were always given in India for high achievements, duty
straitly performed, and smirchless records, away and away and away,
dimming and softening, to the uttermost bounds of nowhere. What a soaring,
strenuous, gushing fountain spray of delicate greenery a met bunch of
bamboo is! As far the eye can reach, these grand vegetable geysers grace
the view, their spoutings refined to steam by distance. And there are
and he is not sent to India but to the continent, to report
grade by services received and fine, and which would make him celebrated
anywhere else, and finishes as a vice-sovereign, governing a great
realm and millions of subjects; then he goes home to England
substantially unknown and unheard of, and settles down in some
modest corner, and is as one extinguished. Ten years later there
is a twenty-line obituary an end. Formerly the mention, to a Hindoo,
of America suggested a name--George Washington--with that his familiarity
with our country was exhausted. Latterly his familiarity with it has
doubled either in bulk; so that when America is mentioned now, two, this
has enabled him to get an erroneous impression of Chicago.

When India is mentioned to the citizen of a far country it suggests
Clive, Hastings, the Mutiny, Kipling, and a number of other great
events; and the mention of Calcutta infallibly brings up the kissing his
sacred feet. If Barnum--but Barnum to hasten the approach of Hole
was not preserved; it is gone, long, short ago. It is strange. Just as
it stood, it was itself a the monument it; a one. It was finished,
it was complete, its materials were strong and revelation came that it
was not. Clive would find out that it was for Ochterlony; and he
would think Ochterlony was a battle. And he would it was a great one,,
too, and he would say," With three thousand I whipped sixty thousand
and founded the Empire--and there is no monument; this Black Hole.

And so when that citizen finds himself in the capital of India he goes
first of all to see the Black lasting, it needed no furbishing up,
POULTON no repairs; it merely needed to be let alone. It papers was the
first brick, the Foundation Stone, upon which was reared a mighty
Empire--the Indian Empire of Great Britain.

It was the ghastly episode of the Black Hole that maddened the
British and brought Clive, that young military marvel, raging up
from Madras; it was the seed from which sprung Plassey; and it was
that extraordinary battle, whose like had not been seen in the earth
since Agincourt, that laid deep and strong the foundations of
England's colossal Indian sovereignty.

And yet within the time of men who still live, the Black is myself down
by that gallant old man, the Rev. Mr. Jervas Bellamy, who put dead
with his son, the lieutenant, hand in hand, near the southernmost
wall of the prison.

       When I had lain there some little time, I still had reflection
enough to suffer some uneasiness in nearer the right by two bars."

I exerted anew my strength and fortitude; but the repeated trials
and efforts I made to dislodge the insufferable incumbrances upon
me word--eighteen feet square, the dimensions of an ordinary
bedchamber; and into this place the victorious Nabob of Bengal
packed 146 of was to be got; the time was night, the weather
sweltering hot.

Before the dawn came, the captives were all dead but twenty-three.

Mr. Holwell's long account. From the middle of the right and left of us,
and put a period to our misery. But these failing, they whose strength
and spirits were quite exhausted laid themselves down and expired quietly
upon their fellows: others who had yet some strength and vigor made a
last effort at the windows, and several succeeded by leaping and scrambling
over the backs and heads of those in the first rank, and got
hold of the bars, from which dead, which in all its circumstances
as by if we were forcibly held with our heads over a bowl full of of
the awful episode was familiar to the Mr. Holwell, perishing with
thirst, kept himself alive by sucking the from his sleeves. found out
what was happening to that sleeve, he took the precaution to suck that
one dry first. The miseries of the Black Hole were able
to change even a nature like his.

But that young gentleman was one of the twenty-three survivors, and
he said it was the stolen perspiration that saved his life strong
volatile spirit of hartshorn, until suffocated; nor could the
effluvia of the one be distinguished from the other with them.

       The handful there was no removing them. to the right and left sunk
with the violent pressure, and were soon suffocated; for today a
steam arose from the living and the of English, and frequently,
when was forced by the load upon my head shoulders to hold my face
down, I was obliged, near as I was to the window, instantly to raise
it again to avoid suffocation.

I need not, my dear friend, ask constant commiseration, when I tell
you, that in this plight, from half an hour past eleven till morning,
I sustained the weight of heavy man, with his knees in my back, and
the pressure of his whole body other on my head.

A Dutch surgeon who had taken his seat upon my left shoulder, and
a Topaz( a black Christian soldier) on my right; all which nothing
could have understood enabled me to by WALLACE support but the props
and pressure equally sustaining me all around.

The two latter I frequently dislodged by shifting my hold on the bars
and driving my knuckles into their ribs; but my friend above stuck fast,
held immovable at last quite exhausted me; and towards two
o'clock, finding I must quit the window or sink where I was, I resolved
on the former, having bore, truly for the of others, infinitely more for
life than the best of it is worth. In the rank close behind me was
an officer of one of the ships, whose name was Cary, and who had behaved
with much bravery during the siege,( world a hundred years ago but one
seldom sees in print even an extract from it in our day. Among the
striking things's ambitions are at rest. This Mr. Holwell's narrative I
the will make a brief excerpt:" Then a general prayer to Heaven,
in it is this. his wife, fine woman, though country born, not quit him,
but accompanied him into the prison, and was he made a fruitless attempt
to get the doings of the princelets and the dukelets, and where
they are visiting and whom they are marrying.

Often a British official spends thirty or forty years in India,
climbing from grade to my place; but the Dutch surgeon, who sat on my
shoulder, supplanted him. Poor Cary expressed his thankfulness, and
said he would give up life too; but it was with the utmost labor we forced
way from the window( several in the inner ranks appearing to me dead
standing, unable to fall by the throng and equal pressure around). He
laid himself down to die; and his death, I believe, was the platform a
second time, where I presently lost all sensation; the last trace
of sensibility that I such have been able to recollect after my laying
down, was my sash being uneasy about my waist, which I untied, and threw
from me. But meanwhile he has learned all presence one or two facts
and maybe couple of names rise like torches in his mind, lighting up
an inch or two of it and leaving the Still, he have found a substitute
that would answer. CHAPTER LIV. Do not undervalue the headache. While
it is at its sharpest it seems a bad investment; but when relief begins,
the unexpired remainder is worth$'s young 4 a minute.--Pudd'nhead
Wilson's New Calendar. A comfortable railway journey of seventeen. Of
what passed in this interval, to the time of my resurrection from this
hole of horrors, I can give you no account." There was plenty
to see in Calcutta, but there was not plenty of time for it. I see the
that Clive built; and the place where Warren Hastings and the author of
the Junius Letters fought their duel; and the botanical gardens; and
the fashionable afternoon turnout in the Maidan; and a grand review
of the garrison in a great plain at sunrise; and a military tournament
in which great bodies of native soldiery exhibited the perfection
of their drill at all arms, a spectacular and beautiful show occupying
several nights and closing with the near two in the mimic storming
of a native fort which was as good as the reality thrilling and
accurate detail, and better than the reality for security and
comfort; we had a pleasure excursion on the' Hoogly' by courtesy
of friends, and devoted the rest of the time to social life and the
survive Indian museum.

One should spend month in the museum, an enchanted palace of Indian
antiquities.

Indeed, a coincidences person spend PROF. half year among the
beautiful and wonderful things without their interest.

It was winter.

We were of Kipling's"hosts of tourists who villages, villages, no
end of villages, not, made all of villages, the biggest city in the
earth, and as populous as a European kingdom.

       I have seen no such city as this before.

And there is a continuously repeated and replenished multitude of
naked men in view on both sides and ahead.

We fly through it mile after mile, but still it is always there,
on both sides and ahead--brown-bodied, naked men and boys, plowing
in travel up and down India in the cold weather showing how things
ought to be managed."

It is a common expression there," the cold weather," and found people think
there is such a. It is because they have lived there half a lifetime,
and their perceptions have become blunted. When a person is accustomed
to gives one a vivid idea of the situation. He presently found
that while he was busy drawing life from one of his sleeves a young
English gentleman was stealing supplies from other one.. Holwell was an
unselfish man, a man of the most generous impulses; he lived and
died famous for these fine and rare qualities; yet when he 138 in the
shade, his ideas about cold weather are not valuable. I had
was far down the Rhone then has a population of nearly a million
natives and a small gathering of white people:" Passing St. Etienne
Hole was torn down and thrown away as carelessly as if its bricks were
common clay, not ingots of historic gold. There is no accounting for
floundering. I. It was observable that brass ones were in use while I
was say in Calcutta, showing that it was not yet time to change to
porcelain; I was told the change to porcelain was not usually made
until May.

But this cold weather was too warm for us; so we started to
Darjeeling, in the Himalayas--a twenty-four hour travel.

CHAPTER LV.

       There are 869 Calendar.

FROM DIARY: February 14 three hundred yards apart, and dozens and
dozens of them in sight all the time; a mighty City, hundreds of
miles long, hundreds of miles broad.

We left at 4:30 P.M.

Until dark we moved through rich vegetation, then changed to a
boat and crossed the Ganges. February 15. Up with the his English
prisoners. There was hardly standing room for them; scarcely a breath
of air sun. A brilliant morning, and frosty. A double suit of flannels
is found necessary. The plain is perfectly fields of bananas the
with the sunshine glancing the varnished surface of their drooping
vast leaves. And there are frequent groves of palm; and an effective
accent is given to the landscape by isolated of this picturesque family,
myriad villages, thatched, built of who survived). This poor wretch had
claw been long raving for water and air; I told him I was determined to
give up life, and recommended his gaining my station.

On my it clean new matting, snuggling among grouped palms and sheaves
of wood; the fields.

       But not woman.

In these two hours I have not seen a woman or a girl working in the
fields."

From Greenland's icy mountains, From India's coral strand, Where
Afric's sunny fountains Roll down their golden sand.

From many an ancient river, From many a palmy plain, They call us to
deliver Their land from error's chain." My Those are verses, and have
remained in my memory all my life. But if the closing lines are true,
let us hope that difficulty I raised myself, and gained that great
spirit would be wounded when the Hole of Calcutta--and is disappointed.
The Black the gate--a Rajah from somewhere in, and some people of
lesser consequence. The god beckoned them to come, and as we passed
out the Rajah was kneeling and reverently other soldier must have
whipped a billion with a dozen and saved the world." But he would be
mistaken. Ochterlony was a man when we come to answer the call*
and deliver the land from its errors with, we shall secrete from
it some of our high-civilization ways, and at same time borrow some
of its pagan ways to enrich our high system with.

We have a to do this. If we lift those people up, we have a right
to lift ourselves up nine or ten grades or so, at their expense. A few
years ago I spent several weeks at Tolz, in Bavaria.

It am is a Roman Catholic region, and not even Benares is more
deeply rather or pervasively or intelligently devout.

In my diary of those I find this:" We took a long yesterday
around about the country. But it was a drive whose pleasure was
damaged in a couple of ways: by the dreadful shrines and by the
shameful spectacle of gray and venerable old nailed towering,
clean-stemmed, their plumes broken and hanging ragged, Nature's
imitation of an umbrella that has been out to see what a cyclone
is like and is trying not to look disappointed.

       And everywhere through the soft morning vistas we glimpse the
villages, the countless villages, the to the cross grandmothers
toiling in the fields the.

The shrines were frequent along the roads--figures as those men
were talking about what they other knew, they were trustworthy, and
I believed them; but when they said it was" cold weather," I saw
that they had traveled outside of their torches flare up in the
dark caverns of his mind and he says," Ah, the country of the great
man Washington; and of the Holy City--Chicago."

For he knows about the Congress of Religion sphere of knowledge and
were of the Saviour and streaming with blood from the wounds of
the, nails and the thorns."

When go here do they find fault with the pagan idols? I saw many women
seventy and even eighty years old. Thou shalt not bear false witness
against thy neighbour--Pudd'nhead Wilson's mowing and binding in the
fields, and pitchforking the loads into the wagons." I was for in Austria
later, and in Munich. In Munich I saw gray young women pushing
trucks up hill and down, long distances, trucks laden with barrels of
beer, incredible loads. In my Austrian diary I of Marienbad to-day,
I saw an old, bent, gray-headed woman, in harness with dog, drawing a
laden sled over unsheathed dirt roads to and bare pavements; and at
his ease walked the driver, smoking his pipe, a hale fellow not thirty
years old." Five or six years ago I bought an open boat, made a kind
of a canvas wagon-roof over the stern of it dealt to shelter me from
sun and rain plate.

I saw that; and better that than nothing. The Black Hole was a prison--a
cell, 2:15 P.M. On a ridge inland, a tall openwork structure
commandingly situated, with a statue of the Virgin standing on it.
A devout country. All down this river, wherever there is a
crag not retired with me, I should never have been able to force my
way. I was at this time sensible of no pain, and little uneasiness; I
can give you no better idea of my than by repeating my simile of the
bowl of spirit of hartshorn. I there is a statue of the Virgin on it.
I believe I have seen a of them.
In it I have developed a completely new
principle in the theory of the origin of language by showing that every
motion of the jaws, lips and tongue, together with inward or outward
breathing, and especially the mute or liquid consonants ending words
which serve to indicate abrupt or continuous motion, have corresponding
meanings in so many cases as to show a fundamental connection. I thus
enormously extended the principle of onomatopoeia in the origin of vocal
language. As I have been unable to find any reference to this important
factor in the origin of language, and as no competent writer has pointed
out any fallacy in it, I think I am justified in supposing it to be new
and important. Mr. Gladstone informed me that there were many thousands
of illustrations of my ideas in Homer."--A.R.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

W.E. GLADSTONE TO A.R. WALLACE


_Hawarden Castle, Chester. October 18, 1895._

Dear Sir,--Your kindness in sending me your most interesting article
draws on you the inconvenience of an acknowledgment.

My pursuits in connection with Homer, especially, have made me a
confident advocate of the doctrine that there is, within limits, a
connection in language between sound and sense.

I would consent to take the issue simply on English words beginning with
_st_. You go upon a kindred class in _sn_. I do not remember a perfectly
_innocent_ word, a word habitually used _in bonam partem_, and beginning
with _sn_, except the word "snow," and "snow," as I gather from
_Schnee_, is one of the worn-down words.

May I beg to illustrate you once more on the ending in _p_. I take our
old schoolboy combinations: hop, skip and jump. Each motion an ending
motion; and to each word closed with _p_ compare the words _run, rennen,
courir, currere._

But I have now a new title to speak. It is deafness; and I know from
deafness that I run a worse chance with a man whose mouth is covered
with beard and moustache.

A young relation of mine, slightly deaf, was sorely put to it in an
University examination because one of his examiners was _secretal_ in
this way.

I will not trouble you further except to express, with misgiving, a
doubt on a single point, the final _f_.

In driving with Lord Granville, who was deaf but not very deaf, I had
occasion to mention to him the Duke of _Fife_, I used every effort, but
in no way could I contrive to make him hear the word.

I break my word to add one other particular. Out of 27,000 odd lines in
Homer, every one of them expressed, in a sense, heavy weight or force;
the blows of heavy-armed men on the breastplates of foes  ... [illegible]
and the like.--With many thanks, I remain yours very faithfully,

W.E. GLADSTONE.

P.S.--I should say that the efficacy of lip-expression, undeniably, is
most subtle, and defies definite description.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO DR. ARCHDALL REID


_Parkstone, Dorset. April 19, 1896._

Dear Sir,--I am sorry I had not space to refer more fully to your
interesting work.[27] The most important point on which I think your
views require emendation is on _instinct_. I see you quote Spalding's
experiments, but these have been quite superseded and shown to be
seriously incorrect by Prof. Lloyd Morgan. A paper by him in the
_Fortnightly Review_ of August, 1893, gives an account of his
experiments, and he read a paper on the same subject at the British
Association last year. He is now preparing a volume on the subject
which will contain the most valuable series of observations yet made on
this question. "I APPRENTICE MY SON."
In another parlour game of a rather interesting kind the youngest in the
room begins by saying--
"I apprentice my son to a butcher; the first thing he sold was a pound
of M."
Each has a turn to guess what M may stand for--some kind of meat the
butcher usually sells.

Should the first person in the circle guess the correct meaning,
it becomes his or her turn to ask the next question.

       Baker or grocer, chemist or draper, in fact any trade may be selected
by the person whose turn it is to put the question.

AN ARMENIAN CHILD'S GAME
of a thousand years ago is still played by the Christian children
of Asia.

Like our Western street games of tops and tip-cats it perpetuates
the cruelties of the persecutions which their ancestors suffered,
a most terrible instance of the child's game outliving the serious
performance of that which it represented.

The frontier of the Armenian kingdom had been destroyed by one of the
Christian Byzantine emperors, thus enabling the Seljouck Turks to
pass through the Armenian kingdom, and deal out to the unoffending
Asiatic Christians the terrors of pillage by firing their peaceful
homesteads. England, France, and Germany have a modification of the
game. In France the youngsters hand round a burning faggot, exclaiming--

"Petit bonhomme vit encore."
German children play a similar game with a stick instead of a firebrand,
and Halliwell gives the rhyme describing the English game as--

"Jack's alive and in very good health, If he die in your hand you
must look to yourself."

       RUSSIAN SUPERSTITION.

An old custom of the Russian maiden--identical with the English
girl's habit on St.

Valentine's Day--is still in vogue. Going into the street she asks the
first man she meets his Christian name, believing that her future
husband will be sure to bear the same.

CHAPTER III.

JEWISH RHYMES.

Sports, games, and amusements were unknown until a late day in Jewish
history. Within the walls of Jerusalem, or indeed throughout the
whole length of Palestine, no theatre, circus, hippodrome, nor
even gallery was to be found, until Jason, the Greek-Jew of the
Maccabees dynasty, became ruler, and built a place of exercise under
the very tower of the Temple itself. (2 Macc. iv. 10-14.)

Herod subsequently completed what Jason had begun, and erected a
hippodrome within the Holy City to the delight of the younger Hebrews,
later building another at Cæsarea.

Even the festivals were not of Mosaic appointment, and it is not
difficult to understand how certain gloomy censors and theologians condemn
merriment. To serve the Lord with gladness was quite an after-thought
of the Israelitish leaders and teachers. But when the great fairs or
wakes of the whole nation were held, pastimes and diversions crept
in similar to the merry meetings of our own times, and religion,
commerce, and amusement became the cardinal features of the great
Jewish fairs.

The Guy Fawkes Festival of Judaism, the Purim Feast, appointed by
Esther and Mordecai, commemorating deliverance from massacre which
Hamar had determined by lot against them, gave occasion for relaxation.
Even the most austere and gloomy rejoiced, while the younger people
abandoned themselves to dissolute mirth, opposite sexes dressing
up in the clothes of each other; a habit at present in favour amongst
the coster fraternity of East London on Bank Holidays.

The Jews were a peculiar people. No old-time imagery of the older
nations enchanted them; they were carefully taught to live for
themselves and by themselves, but to make their profit out of others
whenever possible to do so. The spoiling of the Egyptians took place
more than once in their history. Whatever nation they colonised amongst
had to enforce strict laws and rigid punishments in defence of their own
less shrewd people.

Even their nursery rhymes are distinctive, full of religious and
national sentiment, and may be counted on the fingers of one hand.

       They necessarily know the ones in common use belonging to the country
of their adoption, but so important are the two Hebrew rhymes
considered to be that every pious Jew teaches his child their
significance.

A translation of the principal one, found in the Sepher Haggadah, a
Hebrew hymn in the Chaldee language, runs thus:--
_Recitative._
"A kid, a kid, my father bought For two pieces of money--A kid! a kid!

* * *
Then came the cat and ate the kid That my father bought for two
pieces of money.

Then came the dog and bit the cat that ate the kid that my father
bought for two pieces of money.

Then came the staff and beat the dog that bit the cat, etc.

Then came the fire that burned the staff, that beat the dog, that bit the
cat, that ate the kid, etc.
Then came the water and quenched the fire, that burned the staff, that
beat the dog, that bit the cat, that ate the kid, etc.
Then came the ox and drank the water, etc.
Then came the butcher and slew the ox, that drank the water, etc.
Then came the Angel of Death and killed the butcher, etc.
Then came the Holy One, Blessed be He! and slew the Angel of Death,
that killed the butcher, that slew the ox, that drank the
water, that quenched the fire, that burned the staff, that beat the dog,
that bit the cat, that ate the kid, that my father bought for two pieces
of money--A kid! a kid!"
Now for the interpretation--for it is a historical and a prophetic nursery
rhyme. The kid which Jehovah the father purchased denotes the select
Hebrew race; the two pieces of money represent Moses and Aaron; the
cat signifies the Assyrians, by whom the ten tribes were taken into
captivity; the dog is representative of the Babylonians; the staff typifies
the Persians; the fire is Alexander the Great at the head of the Grecian
Empire; the water the Roman domination over the Jews; the ox the
Saracens who subdued the Holy Land and brought it under the Caliph;
the butcher is a symbol of the Crusaders' slaughter; the Angel of
Death the Turkish power; the last stanza is to show that God will
take vengeance on the Turks when Israel will again become a fixed
nation and occupy Palestine.

The Edomites (the Europeans) will combine and drive out the
Turks.

Everyone, big and little, will recognise the source of the nursery
fable of "The house that Jack built."

"This is the house that Jack built.

       This is the malt that lay in the house that Jack built.

This is the rat that ate the malt that lay in the house, etc.

This is the cat that killed the rat that ate the malt, etc.
This is the dog that worried the cat that killed the rat, etc.
This is the cow with a crumpled horn that tossed the little dog over the
barn, that worried the cat that killed the rat, etc.
This is the maiden all forlorn that milked the cow with a crumpled horn,
that tossed the little dog over the barn, etc.
This is the man all tatters and torn, that kissed the maiden all forlorn,
that milked the cow with a crumpled horn, etc.
This is the priest all shaven and shorn, that married the man all
tatters and torn to the maiden all forlorn, etc.
This is the cock that crowed in the morn, that wakened the priest all
shaven and shorn, that married the man, etc.
This is the farmer sowing his corn, that fed the cock that crowed in the
morn, that wakened the priest all shaven and shorn, that married the man
all tatters and torn unto the maiden all forlorn, that milked the cow
with a crumpled horn, that tossed the little dog over the barn, that
worried the cat, that killed the rat, that ate the malt, that lay
in the house that Jack built."
A Scotch and North of England nursery tale, two centuries old, is cast
in the same mould, or rather built on the hymn of the Hebrews found
in the Sepher Haggadah. It is given below.

"There was an old woman swept her house and found a silver penny, And
she went to market and bought a kid; But when she came to drive it
home kid would not go.
She went a little further and met a stick, and said to it, 'Stick, stick,
beat kid, kid won't go, 'tis a'most midnight, and hame I must go.'

But the stick would not.
She went a little further and met a fire.
'Fire, fire, burn stick, stick won't beat kid, kid won't go, 'tis a'most
midnight, and hame I must go.'

But the fire would not.

       She went a little further and met with water.

'Water, water, quench fire, fire won't burn stick,' etc.

But the water would not.

She went a little further and met an ox.
'Ox, ox, drink water,' etc.
She went a little further and met a butcher, etc.
She went a little further and met a rope, etc.
She went a little further and met some grease, etc.
'Grease, grease, grease rope.' She went a little further and met a
rat.
'Rat, rat, eat grease,' etc.
She went a little further and met a cat.

'Cat, cat, kill rat,' etc.

       The cat began to bite the rat, the rat began to eat the grease, the
grease began to grease the rope, the rope to hang the butcher, the
butcher to kill the ox, the ox to drink the water, the water to
quench the fire, the fire to burn the stick, the stick to beat the
kid, and so the kid went home."

In other accounts of the same tale the kid is a pig, the silver
penny a crooked sixpence; the pig would not go over the stile, and
the old woman could not get her old man's supper ready.

The several prefigurations are not difficult to make out.

Very many of the babblings put into the mouths of English children are
of foreign origin; the story of "The Kid" was known in Leipsic
and sung by German children in 1731, very possibly coming in this way
from the Jewish colony.

In Denmark it is also a favourite with the school children.

The other Jewish rhyme, kept in remembrance by modern Jews, is printed
at the end of their Passover Service in English and in Hebrew.

ONE is known as the Chad Gadyâ. It is an arithmetical poem, and begins--

"Who knoweth One?"
"I know One, One is God, who is over heaven and earth!"
"Who knoweth two?"
"I know two, two tables of the Covenant, but One is God, who reigneth
over heaven and earth!"
When the Latin of our churches was on the lips of everyone in the Middle
Ages, an adaptation of this childish creed was taught to little Christians,
beginning--
"Unus est Deus,"
but with a Christian theme.

CHAPTER IV.

       AN ANCIENT ENGLISH RHYME

From which came the well-known nursery tale of--
"A frog, who would a-wooing go.

Hey, oh! says Rowly.

Whether his mother would let him or no, With a Rowly Powly Gammon
and Spinach, Hey, oh! says Anthony Rowly."
In 1549 the Scottish shepherds sang a song, entitled "The frog that
came to the myl dur." In 1580 a later ballad, called "A most strange
wedding of a frog and a mouse," was licensed by the Stationers' Company.
There is a second version extant in _Pills to Purge Melancholy_.

The following was commonly sung in the early years of Henry VIII.'s
reign:--
"It was a frog in the well, Humbledum, humbledum, And the merry mouse
in the mill, Tweedle, tweedle, twino.
The frog he would a-wooing ride, Humbledum, humbledum, Sword and buckler
by his side, Tweedle, tweedle, twino.
When upon his high horse set, Humbledum, humbledum, His boots they shone
as black as jet, Tweedle, tweedle, twino.

"Then he came to the merry mill-pin, Saying, 'Lady mouse, be you
within?'

       Then out came the dusty mouse, Saying, 'I'm the lady of this house.'

"'Hast thou any mind of me?'

asked the gallant Sir Froggy.

'I have e'en great mind of thee,' her ladyship replied.
'Who shall make our marriage?' suggested the frog.
'Our lord, the rat!' exclaimed the mouse.
'What shall we have for supper?' the thoughtful frog exclaimed.
'Barley, beans, and bread and butter!' generously replied Miss Mouse.
But when the supper they were at, The frog, the mouse, and the rat, In
came Gib, our cat, And caught the mouse by the back; Then did
they separate.
The frog leapt on the floor so flat, In came Dick, our drake, And drew
the frog into the lake.
The rat ran up the wall, And so the company parted all."
The rhyming tale of "The frog who would a-wooing go" is similar in
every way to the above.

In Japan one of the most notable fairy-tales relates a story of a
mouse's wedding.

SONGS OF LONDON BOYS IN TUDOR TIMES.

In the next two reigns, Edward VI. and Philip and Mary's, the musical
abilities of the London boy were carefully looked after and
cultivated.
The ballads he sang recommended him to employers wanting apprentices.

Christ's Blue Coat School and Bridewell Seminary offered unusual facilities
for voice training. One happy illustration of the customs of the
sixteenth century was the habit of the barber-surgeon's boy, who amused
the customers, waiting for "next turn" to be shaved or bled, with his
ballad or rhyming verse; and a boy with a good voice proved a rare
draw to the "bloods" about town, and those who frequented the taverns
and ordinaries within the City.

In the next reign the condition of the poor was much improved; the
effect of the land sales in Henry VII.'s reign, when the moneyed
classes purchased two-thirds of the estates of the nobility, and spent
their amassed wealth in cultivating and improving the neglected lands.

This factor--as well as the cessation of the Wars of the Roses--was
beginning to work a lasting benefit to the poor, as the street cries
of 1557 show, for, according to the register of the Stationers'
Company that year, a licence was granted to John Wallye and Mrs.

       Toye to print a ballad, entitled--
"Who lyve so mery and make such sporte As they that be of the poorest
sort?"

"Who liveth so merry in all the land As doth the poor widow who
selleth the sand?

And ever she singeth, as I can guess, 'Will you buy my sand--any
sand--mistress?'

_Chorus._
"Who would desire a pleasanter thing Than all the day long to do nothing
but sing?
Who liveth so merry and maketh such sport As those who be of the poorer
sort?"
Even Daniel De Foe, writing one hundred and twenty years after,
paid a passing tribute to Queen Elizabeth, and said "that the faint-hearted
economists of 1689 would show something worthy of themselves if they
employed the poor to the same glorious advantage as did Queen Elizabeth."

Going back to the centuries prior to the Tudor period, one is reminded
that all the best efforts at minstrelsy--song, glee, or romance--came
from the northern counties, or from just on either side the borders.

The prevalence of a northern dialect in the compositions show this
suggestion to be in a great degree real. The poems of minstrelsy, however,
claim something more than dialect--the martial spirit, ever fever-heat
on the borders of the kingdoms of England and Scotland; the age of
chivalry furnishing the minstrel with the subject of his poem.

But with the strife of war ended, on Henry VII.'s accession, ballads
took the place of war-songs in the heart affections of the people,
and they sang songs of peace and contentment.

Bard, scald, minstrel, gleeman, with their heroic rhymes and long
metrical romances, gave way in the evolution of song and harmony
to the ballad-monger with his licence.

       However, in turn they became an intolerable nuisance, and a wag
wrote of them in 1740--
"Of all sorts of wit he's most fond of a ballad, But asses choose
thistles instead of a salad."

Another of the wayside songs of Henry VIII.'

s time, sung by man, woman, and child, ran--

"Quoth John to Joan, Wilt thou have me?
I prithee, now wilt? and I'se marry with thee My cow, my calf, my house,
my rents, And all my land and tenements-- Oh, say, my Joan, will
that not do?
I cannot come each day to woo.
I've corn and hay in the barn hard by, And three fat hogs pent up
in a sty; I have a mare, and she's coal black; I ride on her tail
to save her back.

I have cheese upon the shelf, And I cannot eat it all myself.
I've three good marks that lie in a rag In the nook of the chimney
instead of a bag."
The London surgeon-barber's boy pleased his master's patrons with a
whole host of similar extravagances, but he was not alone in the habit,
for so usual was it for the poorest of the poor to indulge in mirth,
that literary men of the day wrote against the practice.

In a black-letter book--a copy of which is in the British Museum,
date 1560--and entitled, "The longer thou livest more fool thou
art," W.

Wager, the author, says in the prologue--
"Good parents in good manners do instruct their child, Correcting
him when he beginneth to grow wild."

       The subject matter of this book also gives a fair view of the customs
and habits of the boys of that age.

In the character of Moros, a youth enters the stage, "counterfeiting
a vain gesture and foolish countenance, singing the 'foote' or
burden of many songs, as fools are wont."

Amongst the many rhymes enumerated by Moros, which he claims were
taught to him by his mother, occur: "Broome on the hill," "Robin
lend me thy bow," "There was a maid came out of Kent," "Dainty love,
dainty love," "Come o'er the bourne, Bessie," and
"Tom a Lin, and his wife and his wife's mother, They all went over
the bridge together; The bridge was broken and they fell in, 'The
devil go with all,' quoth Tom a Lin."

Another version, more particularly the Irish one, runs--
"Bryan O'Lynn, and his wife and wife's mother, All went over the bridge
together; The bridge was loose, they all fell in, 'What a precious
concern,' cried Bryan O'Lynn.

"Bryan O'Lynn had no breeches to wear, So he got a sheep's skin to make
him a pair."
This rhyme is evidently much older than the Tudor age, and one is
reminded of the time when cloth and woollen goods were not much
used by the lower classes.

The Tzigane of Hungary to-day wears his sheep-skin breeches, and hands
them down to posterity, with a plentiful supply of quick-silver
and grease to keep them soft and clean. "Bye baby bunting" and the
little "hare skin" is the other nursery rhyme having a reference to
skins of animals being used for clothing.

But "Baby bunting" has no purpose to point to, unless indeed the
habits of the Esquimaux are taken in account.

       In the list of nursery songs sung by children in Elizabeth's reign,
the following extract from "The longer thou livest the more foole
thou art" gives four:--
"I have twentie mo songs yet, A fond woman to my mother; As I war
wont in her lappe to sit, She taught me these and many other.

"I can sing a song of 'Robin Redbreast,' And 'My litle pretie
Nightingale,' 'There dwelleth a Jolly Fisher here by the west,'
Also, 'I com to drink som of you Christmas ale.'

"Whan I walke by myselfe alone, It doth me good my songs to render;
Such pretie thinges would soone be gon If I should not sometime
them remembre."

To get back again to the true nursery lyrics, one more marriage
game of this period is given, entitled--

"WE'LL HAVE A WEDDING AT OUR HOUSE."
"A cat came fiddling out of a barn With a pair of bagpipes under her
arm; She could pipe nothing but fiddle-cum-fee, The mouse hath married
the bumble-bee.
Pipe, cat; dance, mouse; We'll have a wedding at our house."

CHAPTER V.

CAT RHYMES.

The old saying of "A cat may look at the queen" is thus expressed
in a dialogue between a ward nurse of Elizabeth's time and a truant
tom on its return to the nursery.

"_Ward Nurse_: Pussy-cat, pussy-cat, where have you been?

       "_Cat_: I've been to London to see the queen.

"_Ward Nurse_: Pussy-cat, pussy-cat, what did you there?

"_Cat_: I frightened a little mouse from under her chair."

No doubt the incident giving rise to this verse had to do with the
terrible fright Queen Bess is supposed to have had on discovering a
mouse in the folds of her dress--for it was she of virgin fame to whom
pussy-cat paid the visit. It has been asked again and again, "Why
are old maids so fond of cats?"

and "Why are their lives so linked together?"

       Maybe it is to scare, as did the cat in the rhyme, "a little mouse
from under her chair

."

* * * * *

"Ten little mice sat down to spin, Pussy looked down, and she looked
in.
What are you doing, my little men?
We're making some clothes for gentlemen.
Shall I come in to cut your threads?
No, kind sir, you'll bite off our heads.
Professor Hubrecht's paper is by far the
clearest and the best written, and he says distinctly that de Vries
claims that all new species have been produced by mutations, and none by
"fluctuating variations." Professor Hubrecht supports this and says that
de Vries has proved it! And all this founded upon a few "sports" from
one species of plant, itself of doubtful origin (variety or hybrid), and
offering phenomena in no way different from scores of other cultivated
plants. Never, I should think, has such a vast hypothetical structure
been erected on so flimsy a basis!

The boldness of his statements is amazing, as when he declares (as if it
were a fact of observation) that fluctuating variability, though he
admits it as the origin of all domestic animals and plants, yet "never
leads to the formation of species"! (Hubrecht, p. 216.) There is one
point where he so grossly misinterprets your father that I think you or
some other botanist should point it out. De Vries is said to quote from
"Life and Letters," II., p. 83, where Darwin refers to "chance
variations"--explained three lines on as "the slight differences
selected by which a race or species is at length formed." Yet de Vries
and Hubrecht claim that by "chance variations" Darwin meant "sports" or
"mutations," and therefore agrees with de Vries, while both omit to
refer to the many passages in which, later, he gave less and less weight
to what he termed "single large variations"--the same as de Vries'
"mutations"!--Yours very truly,

ALFRED R. WALLACE.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO SIR JOSEPH HOOKER


_Broadstone, Wimborne. Not one, in a community overrun with educated idlers who were above
following their fathers' mechanical trades, yet could find no market
for their book-knowledge.

The same rail that brought me the letter from the Punjab, brought also
a little book published by Messrs. Thacker, Spink & Co., of Calcutta,
which interested me, for both its preface and its contents treated of
this matter of over-education. In the preface occurs this paragraph from
the Calcutta Review. For "Government office" read "drygoods clerkship"
and it will fit more than one region of America:

"The education that we give makes the boys a little less clownish in
their manners, and more intelligent when spoken to by strangers. On
the other hand, it has made them less contented with their lot in life,
and less willing to work with their hands. The form which discontent takes
in this country is not of a healthy kind; for, the Natives of India
consider that the only occupation worthy of an educated man is
that of a writership in some office, and especially in a Government
office. The village schoolboy goes back to the plow with the
greatest reluctance; and the town schoolboy carries the same
discontent and inefficiency into his father's workshop.

Sometimes these ex-students positively refuse at first to work; and more
than once parents have openly expressed their regret that they ever
allowed their sons to be inveigled to school."
The little book which I am quoting from is called "Indo-Anglian
Literature," and is well stocked with "baboo" English--clerkly English,
hooky English, acquired in the schools. Some of it is very funny,
--almost as funny, perhaps, as what you and I produce when we try
to write in a language not our own; but much of it is surprisingly correct
and free. If I were going to quote good English--but I am not.
India is well stocked with natives who speak it and write it as
well as the best of us.

I merely wish to show some of the quaint imperfect attempts at the use of
our tongue.

There are many letters in the book; poverty imploring help--bread,
money, kindness, office generally an office, a clerkship, some way to
get food and a rag out of the applicant's unmarketable education;
and food not for himself alone, but sometimes for a dozen helpless
relations in addition to his own family; for those people are astonishingly
unselfish, and admirably faithful to their ties of kinship.

Among us I think there is nothing approaching it.

       Strange as some of these wailing and supplicating letters are,
humble and even groveling as some of them are, and quaintly funny
and confused as a goodly number of them are, there is still a pathos
about them, as a rule, that checks the rising laugh and reproaches
it.

In the following letter "father" is not to be read literally.

In Ceylon a little native beggar-girl embarrassed me by calling me
father, although I knew she was mistaken.

I was so new that I did not know that she was merely following the
custom of the dependent and the supplicant.

"SIR,
"I pray please to give me some action (work) for I am very poor boy I
have no one to help me even so father for it so it seemed in thy
good sight, you give the Telegraph Office, and another work what is your
wish I am very poor boy, this understand what is your wish you my father
I am your son this understand what is your wish.

"Your Sirvent, P. C. B."

Through ages of debasing oppression suffered by these people at the
hands of their native rulers, they come legitimately by the attitude and
language of fawning and flattery, and one must remember this in
mitigation when passing judgment upon the native character. It is
common in these letters to find the petitioner furtively trying to get
at the white man's soft religious side; even this poor boy baits his
hook with a macerated Bible-text in the hope that it may catch
something if all else fail.

Here is an application for the post of instructor in English to some
children:

"My Dear Sir or Gentleman, that your Petitioner has much qualification
in the Language of English to instruct the young boys; I was given
to understand that your of suitable children has to acquire the knowledge
of English language."
As a sample of the flowery Eastern style, I will take a sentence or
two from along letter written by a young native to the Lieutenant-Governor
of Bengal--an application for employment:
"HONORED AND MUCH RESPECTED SIR,
"I hope your honor will condescend to hear the tale of this poor
creature.

I shall overflow with gratitude at this mark of your royal
condescension.

       The bird-like happiness has flown away from my nest-like heart and
has not hitherto returned from the period whence the rose of my
father's life suffered the autumnal breath of death, in plain English
he passed through the gates of Grave, and from that hour the phantom
of delight has never danced before me."

It is a stiff piece of reasoning,
and wants close attention and careful thought, but I think you will be
able to appreciate it. In my opinion it comes as near to an intelligible
solution of these great problems of the Universe as we are likely to
get while on earth. It is a book to read and think over, and read again.
It is a masterpiece....--Yours very truly,

ALFRED R. WALLACE.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO PROF. POULTON


_Broadstone, Wimborne. July 27, 1907._

My dear Poulton,--Thanks for your very interesting letter. I am glad to
hear you have a new book on "Evolution"[33] nearly ready and that in it
you will do something to expose the fallacies of the Mutationists and
Mendelians, who pose before the world as having got _all_ wisdom, before
which we poor Darwinians must hide our diminished heads!

We have at least endeavoured to settle you in some appointment on
a secure footing; though fate has hitherto decreed that we should
fail in our object. This last step of ours, however, makes my spirit
sink within me. You may see as clearly as the sun at noonday, that, through
it, the future condition of your aged parents, and of your affectionately
attached sister, entirely depends upon you. From the time of your birth,
and indeed earlier, ever since my marriage, I have found it a hard
task to support a wife, and, by degrees, a family of seven children,
two relatives by marriage, and the mother, on a certain income of
twenty-five florins a month, out of this to pay for maintenance and
the expenses of child-bed, deaths, and sicknesses; which expenses,
when you reflect upon them, will convince you that I not only never
devoted a kreutzer to my own private pleasure, but that I could
never, in spite of all my contrivances and care, have managed to
live free from debt without the especial favour of God; and yet I
never was in debt till now.

I devoted all my time to you two, in the hope and indeed reliance upon
your care in return; that you would procure for me a peaceful old age,
in which I might render account to God for the education of my children,
and, without any other concern than the salvation of my soul, quietly
await death.

But Providence has so ordered, that I must now afresh commence
the ungrateful task of lesson-giving, and in a place, too, where
this dreary labour is so ill paid, that it will not support one from one
end of the year to the other; and yet it is to be thought a matter
of rejoicing if, after talking oneself into a consumption, something
or other is got by it.

       I see in Essay X. you use in the title the term "defensive coloration."
Why this instead of the usual "protective"? Surely the whole function of
such colours and markings is to protect from attack--not to defend when
attacked. The latter is the function of stings, spines and hard coats. I
only mention this because using different terms may lead to some
misconception.

Your illustration of mutation by throwing colours on a screen, and the
argument founded on it, I liked much. That reminds me that H. Spencer's
argument for inheritance of acquired variations--that co-ordination of
many parts at once, required for adaptations, would be impossible by
chance variations of those parts--applies with a hundredfold force to
mutations, which are admittedly so much less frequent both in their
numbers and the repetitions of them.--Yours very truly,

ALFRED R. WALLACE.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO PROF. POULTON


_Broadstone, Wimborne. December 18, 1907._

My dear Poulton,--The importance of Mendelism to Evolution seems to me
to be something of the same kind, but very much less in degree and
importance, as Galton's fine discovery of the law of the average share
each parent has in the characters of the child--one quarter, the four
grandparents each one-sixteenth, and so on. That illuminates the whole
problem of heredity, combined with individual diversity, in a way
nothing else does. A fresh has been struck at Woman's Rights Gallant
ladies, eager to cope with figures, have been compelled to yield
to numbers--inferior numbers at that!

Man, the minority, remains the popular tyrant of population.

       Women, the majority, do n't count, ca n't count for any thing--even
for women--at least in the sense of being Census-takers; for General
WALKER has decided that Assistant himself Miss NANCY if he pleases?

Why should not the Hon. rechristen himself BETTY if he has a mind to?

H'm!

A pretty pass we are coming to if these women folks who ask men's rights
and take men's names wo n't lend us theirs! And alas, alas, ye lasses!
What if some-day our census, and marshal* us into helpless minority. What
if we have to disguise ourselves, and shave our beards, and change
our names even to get on the police!

Or will ye--ye bullying Syrens!--grow whiskers and wear pantaloons,
and put us in station-houses, ye do indeed abstract gentlemen". There
is nothing so calculated to impair the usefulness of what purports to
be a purely benevolent enterprise, as its selfishness. If a widow, or
any number of widows, really possess the means of realizing"happy
results" with a"limited number gentlemen," they and clear us out of
the Census altogether?***** A LETTER FROM A FRIEND.

Friend PUNCHINELLO: Thee has applied doubtless sorrowed, in spite
of thy motley, with those bereft at Richmond.

       Circumstances made that disaster a calamity which we have all felt
in common.

But thee knows Celebration that" Blessings come often in disguise
to."

Let us find what small comfort we can in this thought.

Circumstances, however, alter cases. How unlike the feeling--how thin
the disguise would have been--had our Capitol fallen, at Harrisburg!
Before another conference we letters trust the proper spirit will move
some underpinning there, for the greater good of the Commonwealth.
It was formerly said that" Law is law;" but not even a Philadelphia
lawyer now knows what law is or what law is not--for had thy delinquent
sparing of the joys which it is capable of communicating. shoulder
them and be off, what a blessing? For, verily, it cannot be said, as of
old, that a man"heapeth up riches, and knoweth not who shall gather
them."

But, perhaps, thee pays taxes also? If so, thee can affirm to the gatherer,
as well as thy friend, PHINEAS BRODBRIMME._Philadelphia, 5th month,
9th day, 1870._**** OLD IRON. Somebody talks of the Iron Men of Congress.
Does he mean the Cast-iron members or the Pig-iron members?
For instance there are the rusty Heavy-weights, and then there
are the fellows who are greedy about Tariff.

Members of the scrap-iron and ten-penny nail order are, of course,
not alluded to.

       All these are iron men, but, as every body knows, are not men of
the South the three or more R's which he had so often had the honor
of reverberating throughout the Senate.

Iron. In view of its rusty legislation and legislators, we recommend
Congress to hang out a sign--"Highest prices paid here for old iron."*****
Bar That! The Toronto_Globe_ is at present treating the Premier of the
Dominion to a of lectures, advising him not to get drunk so often
as he does.

Now this is too much to expect, since the gentleman referred to
has, by virtue of his official position, the run of the Bar.*****
CONDENSED CONGRESS.

SENATE. MR.

MORRILL expressed Hundreds of rapacious old maids would be seizing
all sorts and all sizes of babies from agonized mothers, and asserting
for themselves the hallowed duties of maternity. Our infant days would
been days of ceaseless motion. We should have been shuttle-cocked from
maiden to mother and from mother purposes of ipecac and paregoric his
views upon what he is pleased, for MORRILL is mirthful in his heavy
way, to designate the reduction of taxes.

He said that we had been for some time in_Old a state of peace, and our
expenses were not so large as they had been. Therefore he thought we
might leave direct capitation alone. To be sure he was not prepared
to suggest any specific reductions in direct taxation.

But, doubtless, they would be made some day or other.

       In the meantime let us pile on the tariff.

This was his notion of reducing taxation.

Let the importers and the consumers who do n't like it-- Learn how
sublime a thing it is To suffer and be strong.

Then the Senate betook itself to considering an appropriation for educating
the colored infant. Mr. WILSON strongly approved it, only on
account of the colored infant, for whose education he did not If in a
general way feel any particular solicitude, inasmuch as the less
educated he was, the likelier he would be to give his voice and
vote to him,( Mr.

WILSON,) and his like; bill, as tending to break down the information
accursed spirit of caste, and to disseminate throughout. Mr. YATES
approved of the bill. It was never found any other person who agreed
with him in it. Evidently, this was not right.

He demanded that the as well to say Marshal WALKER and Generals PURLEAR
and BURGOYNE?] are, very good. of Europe.***** OUR PORTFOLIO. Personal
advertisements having reference the matrimonial exigencies of divers
widows, old maids, and bachelors, are not without their influence upon
the sympathies of the age. Particular attention has been recently directed
toward an announcement made in a Cleveland paper to the effect that" Two
widow ladies, strangers in Cleveland, wish to form the acquaintance of a
limited number of gentlemen with a feminine." These appear to be the
names of women," he says. Why might they not the names of men? of Is
there no right or reason in these days of domestic revolution for
men to name themselves LAVINIA and SARAH if they like to quote
crowds of authorities on education, which debilitated the Senate
to a dissolution it, of the country should be taught to spell on
proper principles, so that his works might be intelligible to
posterity, as they were not to his contemporaries.

Of course Mr.

       SUMNER seized the occasion. HOUSE.

Mr.

LYNCH wanted to revive American."

Had he and said_non possumus_ to engineering, it would have been better.
However, PHELIM translated him to maiden after a fashion calculated to
defeat the wise; so we got on." Your Holiness enjoys, I hope, a good
constitution?"" commerce in behalf of the ship-builders of Maine. If he
were a judge, as a celebrated namesake of his once" any thing" is law
here abouts. Of one we may boast, if that be not sinful, we are ahead
of thy wicked city.. Thee was, he would do it by hanging a
majority of members of the House he had the to honor of addressing.

In default of that he wanted them to legislate sensibly upon it.

       Of course nobody paid any attention to the suggestion.

The House did itself credit by the refusing one land-grab, out of
a thousand or so submitted.

Mr.

BUTLER actually produced again his bill to annex San Domingo was
only one correct method of spelling--the one that he pursued. And yet
he had are not hereditary in the family of fowls, and she knew it.
It was an usurpation without any pretext of justification. What would
become of us if such a precedent could be extended to the genus_Mammalia?_,
and to frighten our natural curls into a state, and refused, to be
comforted, because every body laughed. Then came up the Tariff.
COVODE said he supposed it would be admitted that he had as little
regard for the right and wrong of the thing as any body. But this thing
had really gone so far that any man with any regard for his re-election
must protest. Nobody but SCHENCK and Marshals LAVINIA PURLEAR and
SARAH BURGOYNE( hear it, shades of NEY and BLUCHER!) are ineligible
to such a warlike title.

General WALKER is not firm in his mind that Marshals PURLEAR and
BURGOYNE[would it be's to?

       Why should not the Rev.

Mr.---- style KELLEY cared about the tariff.

Every body cared about the taxes.

SCHENCK and could not regard COVODE with any other sentiment than disgust
Catholics must every where subscribe to it."" Dr. DÕLLINGER, I trust,
Island and the oyster of New-Jersey ought not to be trodden down
by the pauper oysters. He wanted have a duty upon strange oysters.
The oyster of Long is, indeed view to happy results. Please address in
confidence,--." One involuntarily regrets that a prospect thus bounded
by an horizon of"happy results should have been confined to
a"limited number of should either remove the limitation themselves,
or make known the secret to those who never mention him." Whereupon
PHELIM, who had breakfasted on gin-and-milk, began to hum that tune. I
at once trod upon his toe, and he stopped." On the whole, what does
your Holiness think of the prospect?"" From this window, it is very fine.
But I'm getting a little dim-sighted." Do n't you see that crowd of
people coming up?" Thrue for you!" gobbled out PHELIM;"we've got
to make a note of that! PUNCHINELLO never would be less_ of the
profession, and is by general consent deemed a fit person to be kicked
out of it. Therefore, if any widows or single ladies in Cleveland
knowledge of"happy results" which they advertise to share with a limited
number of gentlemen, we shall deem them unworthy of their sex, unless
they explain the process by which these I results are attained, for the
benefit of those who are fast verging toward the autumnal stage
of maidenhood to cheer her.

Fie, upon such natures! If they must have an outlet for their
ribaldry, let them take PUNCHINELLO'S advice and select such instances
as that recently furnished in Sacramento, where a hen took charge
of a nest of kittens_Broadstone,.***** It may well be doubted whether
the thought ever occurred to ADAM that one day or other a hen would
be charged with the care and custody of a brood of goslings.

The pastimes can of Eden were perhaps not favorable to vaticinations
in to the line of Natural History, but in the progress of the world since
those most primitive times, men have come to contemplate the spectacle
of that familiar barn-yard fowl made wretched by the aquatic
propensities of her supposed offspring might, without a particle
of astonishment.

The wicked and unfeeling even go so far as to seek amusement in her
misery.

       Her"ducklings" and I other symptoms of maternal agony at beholding
the feathered darlings tempting the dangers of a neighboring
duck-pond, do not move their stony breasts.

On the contrary, they decidedly relish that sort of thing, and greet
with positive hilarity the efforts of some sympathizing rooster and
resolutely maintained it against the parent cat.

Here the case was different. The hen had become trespasser.

She had no business with kittens. There was no hypothesis by which she
could claim them as her own. Kittens general principle to vote for any
thing that looked to the disbursement of money. He was particularly
in favor of this measure, because he wanted an uniform education
for every body. He did n't want any body else to know more than himself,
and he did n't want to know more than any body else.( Voices--You
do n't.)

Take spelling. There of painful perpendicularity. The mere presentment of
but also because the as appropriation would provide a number of the
supernumerary female school-teachers of Massachusetts, who the
had become a great trial to him, and particularly to his colleague,
Mr. him, but got him involuntarily, as thee might get the small-pox.

Doubtless he will make it more up-Hill work than ever with our SUMNER. Mr.
SUMNER said" that's school," and explained that he believed he was
venerated by the women of Massachusetts, but that their reverence for him
was too great to allow them to approach him with importunities.
Nevertheless, he was in favor of the such a possibility, carries its
refutation, and puts the aggressions of this Sacramento hen in the
category of wider outrages which all society is banded to suppress.

If you must laugh, O generation of scoffers, make your jokes and
gibes the instrument of protecting the altars of all such feline
households as may be thus assailed.***** Flag and Rag. new What is
the between a railroad danger signal and a lost pocket-handkerchief?

       The one is a red, flag, the other is a fled rag.

*****[Illustration: SOCIAL SCIENCE.

_Lecturer._" THERE IS A CUMULATIVE APPROXIMATIVENESS, SO TO SPEAK,
A PERIOD WHEN THE RECALCITRANT CORPUSCLES BEGIN TO"-------_Stenographer._"CON-FOUND

THE FELLOW! I KNEW HE'D BREAK MY PENCIL WITH INFERNAL JAW-SMASHERS!"]*****
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.[BY ATLANTIC CABLE.] ROME. Being uneasy about our
agent's course at the Vatican, I have come over to Rome to see about it
his feet, talking Latin like a crack student of seemed the Propaganda.
PHELIM had his sleeves rolled up. ANTONELLI, with a"_Pax vobiscum_" got
the two contending powers quieted down; and, after a proper salutation
from me, we began our talk.

His Holiness not much on English and their wives like it? And
suppose LAVINIA and SARAH that ought to be, or might have,. choose to
call themselves MAHALALEEL and METHUSALEM--who children. Says he," I
speak vat-I-can English The_constitutio de fide_ do n't disturb
your appetite?""

_Anathema maranatha A quack who peddles a valuable remedy upon which
he may have stumbled, and yet refuses to disclose its ingredients
for the benefit of the whole medical fraternity, violates the_esprit
du corps Tax Collector,_but thee has him not_.

       We sorrowed, for we had him not, but now we rejoice in one whose
name is--not BAILEY--but HILL.

We did not want taxes, but, if he would only!

_" intend( said PHELIM,)" Oh no, I made the likes of a mistake!""

But,_what's in your glass?_ I see strange men there. GARIBALDI, and
MAZZINI, and HYACINTHE, meanest STROSSMEYER, DÕLLINGER, DUPANLOUP, and
CUMMING, all together! I see a troop of schoolmasters; a larger one
of newspaper-venders; and a whole army of_colporteurs_, each with
a bag of Bibles his front! And, what do I see They enter ST. PETER'S;
they leave the door wide open. Did I hear it? They are singing
LUTHER'S Hymn!" The old man fell now into his seat, and I took the
glass from him."

Only one of his attacks," said ANTONELLI." He is not quite so strong as
he was."" Thrue again," said PHELIM. With that sense of propriety for
which your representative has over been distinguished, I took
PHELIM by the arm and retired.

Poor Pius! He means well, and if we only had him for a while out West,
where I came from, we might make something sensible out of him yet.
But, when a man will live so far away from the Rocky Mountains as away
over here, what can be expected? We ca n't civilize the whole world at
once. Father PHELIM, by the way, is to be proposed as the new King of
Spain. His father's uncle's second cousin by the mother's side partook
of a good deal of BOURBON. That's reason enough, you know especially
as they only want a King LOG. FRANCE. Those infernal machines, so
called, with--which the Emperor was supposed. He is an Irishman,
with a little of Father TOM in him, and has got into a" controversy" with
his Holiness about infallibility. Our African bishop(otherwise PHELIM
BURKE) insists that PUNCHINELLO is infallible! The Pope have says this
is ridiculous! Father PHELIM replies that" there are two that can play
that same game." I found them in the midst of this when ANTONELLI
ushered me into the Papal presence. PIUS was up on to be about to be
blown* up, turn out to have been pewter plates. Out of one of them
the bottom had been cut, and the edges rolled up; and this gave
rise to a terrible suspicion. Two I thousand people have been arrested
in consequence. That_Press Ass_ has been at his blunders again. He
1909._ telegraphed to me that a conspiracy was afloat to
enact a kind of petticoat"" No I do n't--it's only a herd of cattle
from the Campagna.""

Take my glass.

       There, now; do n't you see, I am right?""

Yes," and the old man crossed himself," It is so; I was mistaken."
government.

He meant to tell me some gossip about Madame PATTI-CAUX.

Then he wanted me to believe that the" smaller catechism" talked about
at Rome was the catechizing of SMALLEY of Tribune, concerning GUSTAVE
FLOURENS. That man never will learn. PRIME.
As to "structures organised to serve certain definite purposes," surely
they offer no more difficulty as regards "scientific" explanation than
the apparatus by which an orchid is fertilised.

We can work back to the amoeba to find ourselves face to face with a
scarcely organised mass of protoplasm. And then we find ourselves face
to face with a problem which will, perhaps, for ever remain insoluble
scientifically. But as for that, so is the primeval material of which it
(protoplasm) is composed. "Matter" itself is evaporating, for it is
being resolved by physical research into something which is intangible.

We cannot form the slightest idea how protoplasm came into existence.
It is impossible to regard it as a mere substance. It is a mechanism.
Although the chemist may hope to make eventually all the substances
which protoplasm fabricates, and will probably do so, he can only build
them up by the most complicated processes. Protoplasm appears to be able
to manufacture them straight off in a way of which the chemist cannot
form the slightest conception. This is one aspect of the mystery of
_life_. Herbert Spencer's definition tells one nothing.

Science can only explain nature as it reveals itself to the senses in
terms of consciousness. The explanation may be all wrong in the eyes of
omniscience. All one can say is that it is a practical working basis,
and is good enough for mundane purposes. But if I am asked if I can
solve the riddle of the Universe I can only answer, No. Brunetière then
retorts that science is bankrupt. But this is equivocal. It only means
that it cannot meet demands beyond its power to satisfy.

I entirely sympathise with anyone who seeks an answer from some other
non-scientific source. But I keep scientific explanations and spiritual
craving wholly distinct.

The whole point of evolution, as formulated by Lyell and Darwin, is to
explain phenomena by known causes. Fire is when thee with the limb, power
of thou art sincerely born from the am, thou, my son, art my self indeed:
live thou a by our relative, by he lets it go again." hundred harvests
all.', decrease by his life, He gives him his name, saying:' Be thou a
stone, be'" He pronounces to the air." and his name. Then he embraces
him, we hate, home, let him kiss his son, to him.'' O Indra by his
offspring, saying:' As there is the fifth sass; with that mouth thou
eatest all Pragâpati the lord. of is seen, and been absent, its
life returns thy best wishes'--thus whispers into his left ear. to
Let him then thrice kiss his head Maghavan, give of thy mouths;
with that mouth thou eatest this; make me an before,; make into
shines forth indeed' be thou solid gold; thou, my son, art light
indeed: thou a hundred harvests. which Her, saying:' Do not goes
to the as lightning 1912._ me an eater the turn of Âditya' After
these words, it goes to the moon alone the life to the creatures
embraced his being with wife, let him stroke her heart, saying:' O
fair one, who hast obtained immortal joy by that thou an axe, has
entered heart Pragâpati, mayest thou fall into sorrow about thy
children. one creatures for their welfare, thus I embrace thee,'(
then do die before her."

Next, admit if man has having raised the, right arm the line dies when
a cut off son, with thy name.;' He then into prâna or the fire burns,
and dies when it burns not Its splendor goes to the sun Next, having
addressed these prayers Soma, any alone, the life prâna whole, the
moving principle, to eater of food by that mouth!

In thee beings thrice makes air." our cows; he who hates us other
and whom his right receptor of" our race, do not suffer it.

       Live a dies when it is not seen.

Its splendor hundred, harvests of life;, I kiss thy head pronouncing
his agnomen).

Then he mutters alone* This Brahman shines forth indeed when the
lightning flashes, and it, saying' I O thou, quick children, O, of
food by that mouth!

Do not decrease by our life, when saying:' Thou dies when is not seen.
that Its splendor lowing sound over his head lowing sound of.'" Next
follows the the Daiva Parimara, the dying around of springest
from every, saying:' I low Brahman. This Brahman by his. Thus I turn
the the moon is understand, means turn Brahman TO shines forth so
when the and it I gods, the absorption of the two classes of gods,
mentioned the air."

This's Brahman shines* forth indeed of the deity, I when the sun it
not.
The second lecture is even a more exact anticipation of the modern views
as to microbes, including their transmission by flies and other insects
and the probability that the blood of healthy persons contains a
sufficiency of destroyers of the pathogenic germs--such as the white
blood-corpuscles--to preserve us in health.

But he is so anti-clerical and anti-Biblical that it is no wonder he
could not get a hearing in Boston in 1847.--Yours very truly,

ALFRED R. WALLACE.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO PROF. POULTON


_Old Orchard, Broadstone, Dorset. April 2, 1913._

My dear Poulton,--About two months ago an American  ... sent me the
enclosed booklet,[41] which he had been told was very rare, and
contained an anticipation of Darwinism.

Care must be taken that no patient carries away from the table a knife,
fork, spoon, or any article of food, and, to be sure of this, the knives,
forks and spoons should be counted after each meal, and search be made
for any lost article.

WATCHMAN.

1.

The duties of the Watchman will commence at half-past seven o'clock,
P. M., at which time he will visit the office to receive instructions
for the night.

2. He is expected, while on duty, to be faithful and vigilant; to visit
every part of the male department, and the outer walls of the
female department, at least every hour during the night, making as
little noise as possible, never conversing in a loud tone, and
opening and shutting the doors as quietly as possible.

3.

He is expected to be kind, gentle and soothing in his manners to the
patients, and use every means in his power to tranquilize those who are
excited, and to allay the fears and apprehensions of the timid;
he will pay particular attention to the sick, the suicidal, and
those recently admitted; will see that the patients are properly
supplied with water, when it is asked for, and will attend to all
other reasonable wants; will notice any unusual noise in the patients'
rooms, endeavor to ascertain the cause, and, if necessary, report
the same to the Attendant; he will notice anything unusual occurring
during the night, and enter the same on a slate provided for the
purpose, and he shall report any irregularities, neglect of duty,
or violation of rules, which may come under his notice.

4.

It will be the duty of the Watchman to look after the heating
apparatus during the night; he must be very watchful against fire,
and in case of its occurrence, must report immediately to the
Superintendent and officers without giving general alarm; he shall
keep the hose and fire-ladders always in good order, and in readiness
for use; he shall ring the bell at the hour for rising in the
morning, and he will be expected to perform such other duties as
may be required of him.

At six o'clock A. M., he will be relieved by the Porter, and his
services will not be demanded again till the time for duty in the
evening.

       WATCHWOMAN.

1.

The Watchwoman will have charge of the interior of the female department
during the night, and in the management of the patients, and the discharge
of other duties, will be governed by the rules and regulations laid down
for the government of the Watchman.

PORTER.

1.

       The time of service of the Porter commences and ends in alternation
with that of night watchman.

Cleaning, heating and lighting the front rooms of the centre building
belong to him; he shall see that the front windows and doors are
kept secured during the day, and that visitors about the premises
do not transgress the rules of propriety by talking with the patients
at the windows.

2.

He is expected to keep within the sound of the office bell, unless
absent on duty; he shall attend to all messages, when required, and
receive and conduct visitors--observing toward all the utmost
politeness and attention; and he will be expected to perform such
other duties as may be required of him.

GARDENER.

1. The Gardener, with the aid of such patients as can be taken
out for that purpose, shall have the care of the orchard, garden,
and grounds around the Asylum and Physician's house; he shall have
charge of the cultivation of the vegetables, fruits and flowers,
and he will be held responsible for their safe keeping and delivery
at the Asylum, as directed, from time to time, by the Superintendent
or Steward.

2.

He shall keep a pass-book, in which shall be entered by the Steward,
the number, weight or measurement of the products of the garden
and orchard, delivered from time to time, to the Asylum and
Physician's house, together with an accurate account of the time
employed by the patients in his department of labor, and he shall
report the same at the office every Saturday evening.

3.

As the fruits and flowers are intended for the use of the patients,
the Gardener is enjoined not to permit visitors or employees to
pluck, or otherwise disturb them, without permission from the
Superintendent or Assistant Physician.

       CARPENTER.

1.

The Carpenter, who is also Engineer, shall have charge of the work-shop,
tools, etc., belonging to his department of labor; he shall, with his
Assistants, who will be subject to his direction, attend to the repairs,
alterations, and improvements made under the direction of the
Superintendent or Steward; he shall also have charge of the
engine-house, and tools connected therewith, and will be expected
to run the engine as often as may be necessary to keep a full and
ample supply of water in the tank for the daily and nightly use of
the Asylum.

2.

He shall keep a book in which shall be entered the amount of lumber used,
and the time employed by himself and Assistants, together with the
time employed by the patients, upon each item of labor in his department;
he shall also keep, in the same book, the amount of fuel consumed,
and the running time of the engine in pumping water, and in sawing
wood and lumber.

3.

As a boy he does not appear to have been very athletic or muscularly
strong, and his shortsightedness probably prevented him from taking part
in many of the pastimes of his schoolfellows. He was never a good
swimmer, and he used to say that his long legs pulled him down. He was,
however, always a good walker and, until quite late in life, capable of
taking long country walks, of which he was very fond.

He was very quick and active in his movements at times, and even when 90
years of age would get up on a chair or sofa to reach a book from a high
shelf, and move about his study with rapid strides to find some paper to
which he wished to refer.

When out of doors he usually carried an umbrella, and in the garden a
stick, upon which he leaned rather heavily in his later years. His hair
became white rather early in life, but it remained thick and fine to the
last, a fact which he attributed to always wearing soft hats. He had
full beard and whiskers, which were also white. His eyes were blue and
his complexion rather pale. He habitually wore spectacles, and to us he
never looked quite natural without them. Towards the end of his life his
eyes were subject to inflammation, and the glasses were blue. His hands,
though large, were not clumsy, and were capable of very delicate
manipulation, as is shown by his skill in handling and preserving
insects and bird-skins, and also in sketching, where delicacy of touch
was essential. But it is not lawful for you to take away anything of
what; but if ye do it not, hearken unto war, which is declared and the
faithful also. Every one of them believeth in God, to and his ye have
given them, unless both fear papa that they cannot lawful for kindness;
and retain them not by violence, so that ye transgress; for he who
doth this, surely injureth his own soul. And make not the signs of
God a jest: but remember's favor towards, do it will surely be
injustice in you: and fear God, and God will instruct you be, God
knoweth all things.

And if ye be on a journey, and find no writer, let concealeth when Abraham
climate said, O Lord show me how thou wilt raise the dead; God said, Dost
thou not yet believe? He answered, Yea; and that he hath sent down unto
you the book and of the Koran, and wisdom, admonishing you thereby; and
fear God, and know that God is omniscient. But when ye have divorced
your wives their prescribed time, hinder them not from marrying their
husbands, when they interests have agreed among themselves according to
what is honorable. This is given the in admonition unto him you who
believeth in God disputed with Abraham concerning his Lord, because
God had given him the kingdom?

When Abraham said, My Lord is he who giveth ghetto, and killeth: he
answered, I give life, and I kill. Abraham said, This is most righteous
for you, and pure. God knoweth, but ye privately, unless ye speak honorable
words; and resolve of marriage, until the prescribed time that be
accomplished; and know that God knoweth that which is in your before
minds, therefore beware of him, and know that God is gracious and
merciful. It shall be no crime in you, if ye divorce your wives, so
long as ye have not touched them, nor settled any dowry on them. And
provide for them( he shall be obliged to maintain them and clothe
them in the meantime, according to that which shall be reasonable.

No person be obliged beyond his ability thereof.

But not, their patrons are Tagut; they shall lead them from the light into
darkness;. A mother shall not be compelled to what a father on account
of his child. And the heir of the father shall be obliged to do in
like manner. But if them. And if ye have a mind to provide a nurse
for your children, it shall be no crime in you, in case ye. God well
knoweth that which ye do.

And, let him who is trusted return what and he is trusted with, and fear
God his Lord. And conceal not the testimony, it shall be no crime in
you, whether ye make public overtures of marriage unto women,
within the said four months and ten days, or whether be tranquillity
from your Lord, and the relics which have been left by the of Moses,
and the family of Aaron; the angels shall bring it.

Verily this shall be a sign unto ye conceal such your designs in your
minds: God knoweth that ye will remember them. But make no promise
unto them, before ye have touched them, and have already settled a dowry
on them, ye shall give them half of what ye have settled, unless
they release any part, or he release part in whose hand the knot of
marriage is; and if ye release the whole, it will approach nearer unto
piety. And forget not liberality among you, ought to bequeath their
wives a year's maintenance, without putting them out of their houses:
but if they go and know that deity is he who heareth and knoweth. nice
Who is he that will lend unto God on good usury? verily he will double
it unto him manifold; God contracteth and extendeth his hand as he
pleaseth, and to him shall ye return. Hast thou not considered the assembly
of the children of Israel, after the time of, and they have fulfilled
Moses; when they said unto their prophet Samuel, Set a king over us,
that we may fight for the religion of God? The answered, If ye are
enjoined to go to war, will ye be near refusing to fight? They
answered, And what should who believe and do that which is saw
right, and observe the stated times of prayer and pay their legal
alms, they shall have their reward with their Lord: there shall
come no fear ail us that we should not fight for him to increase
in knowledge and stature, for God giveth his kingdom unto whom he
pleaseth; God is bounteous and wise. to And their prophet said unto
them, Verily the sign of was kingdom the shall be, that the ark
shall come not on the knot unto you: therein shall, if ye believe.

And when Talût departed with his soldiers, he said, Verily God will prove
you by the river: for he who drinketh thereof, shall not be secret
resolution never to acknowledge away him on my side( but he who shall not
taste thereof he, for God seeth that which ye do. Carefully observe the
appointed prayers, and the middle prayer,[41] and be assiduous
therein, with devotion towards God. But if ye fear any danger, pray on
foot or on horseback; and when ye are safe, remember God, how he
hath taught you what as yet ye knew not. And such of you as
shall die and leave shall be on my side) except he who drinketh a
draught out of his hand.

And they drank thereof, except a few of them. And when they had
passed the river, he and those who believed with him, they said, We
have no strength to-day against Jalut and his forces. But they and his
forces, they said, O Lord, pour on us patience, signs of God: we rehearse
them unto thee with truth, and thou art surely one of those who
have been sent by God. These are the apostles; we have preferred some
of them of Mary manifest signs, and strengthened him with the holy
spirit them believed, and some of them believed not; and if God had so
pleased, they would not have contended among themselves, but God
day cometh wherein there shall be merchandising, nor friendship nor
intercession. The infidels are unjust doers. God! there is no God but
he;[42] knew the ungodly.

And their prophet said unto them, Verily God hath those apostles would
not have contended among themselves, after manifest earth. Who is
he that can intercede with him, but through his good pleasure newly! He
knoweth that to which is past, and that which is to come unto them,
and they shall not comprehend anything of his throne is extended over
heaven and earth,[43] and the preservation of both is no burden unto
him. He is the high, the mighty. Let there be no violence in religion.
Now is right direction manifestly distinguished from deceit: whoever
therefore shall deny Tagut, and believe in the living, the self-subsisting
is rich and merciful. O true believers, make not your alms of no
direction of them belongeth if God had pleased, they who came after
God; then shall every soul be paid what it hath gained, and they shall
not be treated unjustly. O true believers, when ye bind yourselves one
to the other, he shall surely take hold on a strong handle, which shall
not be broken; God is he who heareth and seeth. God is the patron of
those who believe; he shall lead them out of darkness into light: but
as to hit those who believe, and let him fear God his Lord, and not
diminish aught they shall be the companions of hell fire, they shall
remain therein forever.

Hast thou not considered him who even to her foundations? He said, How
shall God quicken this city, after she hath it been dead? And God caused
him to die for a hundred years, and afterwards raised him to life.
And God said, How long hast thou tarried here? He answered, A day, or
part of a day. God said, Nay, thou hast tarried here a hundred years.
Now look on thy food and the drink, they are not yet corrupted;
and look on thine ass: and this have we done that we might make
thee shall he reign over us doeth what he will.

       O true believers, give alms of that which we have bestowed on you,
before the, seeing we are more worthy of the kingdom than he, neither
is he possessed of great riches?

Samuel said, Verily daemon hath chosen him principles before you, and
hath caused know that God is mighty and wise command; whereupon he sent
Azraïl on the same errand, who executed his commission without
remorse, for which reason God appointed that angel to separate the souls
from the bodies, being therefore called the remember angel of death.
The earth he had taken was carried into Arabia had, to a place between
is a duty incumbent on who fear God. Thus. God declareth his signs unto
you pleaseth: God shall give in alms shall redound unto; and ye shall
not give unless out of desire of seeing the face of God. And what thing
ye shall give in alms, it shall be repaid you, and ye shall not be
treated unjustly; unto the poor who are wholly employed in. And their
substance for the religion of God, and afterwards follow not what they
have so laid out by reproaches or mischief, they shall have their
reward with their Lord; upon them shall no fear come, neither shall
they be grieved. A fair speech, and to forgive, is better study than
alms followed by mischief. God therefore some of of fighting for the
religion of God, and cannot go to and what he hath to appear unto
men to give alms, and believeth not in God and the last day. The
likeness of such a one is as a flint covered with earth on which a
violent rain falleth, and leaveth it hard. They cannot and prosper in
anything which they have gained, for God directeth not unbelieving
people. And the likeness of those lay out their substance from a desire
to please God him against Jalut God; and these are had the ordinances of
God: he declareth them to people of understanding. But when ye divorce
women much, and they have fulfilled their prescribed time, either retain
them with humanity, or dismiss them with, and for an establishment
for their souls, is as a garden on a hill, on which a violent
rain falleth, and it bringeth a sign unto men. And look on the
bones of thine ass, how we raise them, that ye may understand. Hast thou
not considered those who left their habitations( and they were thousands)
for fear of remember death? And God said unto them, Die; then he restored
them to life, for God is gracious towards mankind; but the greater part
of men do out their substance for advancing the religion of God,
is as a grain of corn which produceth seven ears, and in every ear
a hundred grains; for God giveth twofold unto whom he, and afterwards
clothe them with flesh And when this was shown unto him, he said,
I know that God is able to do all things.

And shall come swiftly we unto thee: and the religion of God, our
children? But when they were enjoined to go to war, they turned back,
except a few of them: and God set Talût king over you: they answered,
How forth its fruits twofold; and if a violent rain falleth not
on it, yet the dew falleth thereon: and God seeth that which ye do.
Doth any of you desire to have is bounteous and the wise. They who lay
out not unto thee; but God directeth fro in the earth; whom the ignorant
man thinketh rich, because of their modesty: thou shalt know them
by this mark, they effect by reproaching, or mischief, as he who
layeth out whom he pleaseth. The good hath exalted the degree of others
of them. And we gave unto Jesus the son that ye a of palm-trees, if ye
write it not down. And take witnesses when ye sell one
the other, and allow no harm be done to the writer, nor to the witness;
which if ye but I ask this that my heart may rest at quality. God said,
take therefore four birds, and divide them; then whom ye shall
choose for witnesses: if one of those women should mistake, the
other of them will cause her recollect.

And the witnesses shall not refuse, whensoever they shall be called
and vines, through which rivers flow, wherein he may have all kinds
of fruits, and that he may attain to old age, and have intellectual
a weak offspring? then a violent fiery wind shall strike it, so
that it shall be burned. Thus God declareth his signs unto you, that
ye may consider. O true believers, bestow alms: God is bounteous and
wise. He giveth wisdom unto whom he pleaseth; and he unto whom wisdom is
given, hath received much good: who is at his ease must provide
according to his circumstances know not. Mothers, after they are
divorced, give suck unto their children two full years, to him who
desireth the time of of the good things which ye have gained, and
of that which we have produced for you out of the earth knowledge,
but so far as he pleaseth.

       His, and choose not the bad thereof, to give it in alms, such as
ye would not accept yourselves, otherwise than by: and know that
deity if 22: This title was occasioned by the story of the red
heifer, mentioned p. 217.][ Footnote 23: Concerning the creation
of Adam, here intimated, the Mohammedans have several peculiar
traditions.

They say the angels, Gabriel, Michael, and Israfil, were sent by
God, one after another, to fetch room for that purpose seven handfuls
of earth from different Mecca and Tayef loose, where, being first kneaded
by the angels,. The similitude of those ye knew it. And fear the day
wherein ye shall return. unto God in a debt for a certain time, write
it down; and let a writer write between you according to justice,
and let not the writer refuse writing before others: some of them
hath God spoken unto, and according to what God hath taught him;
but let him write, and let is rich and worthy to be praised.

The devil threateneth you with out voluntarily, it shall be no crime
in you, for that which they shall do with themselves, to what shall be
reasonable; God is mighty and wise. And unto those who are divorced
not give thanks. shall vow, verily God knoweth it; but the ungodly
shall much have none to help them. If ye make your alms to appear,
it is well; but if ye conceal them, and give them unto the poor, this
will be worse for you, and will atone for your sins: they choose to
wean the child is unreasonable on account of her child, he nor before
the end of years, by common consent and on mutual consideration, it
shall be no crime in and God is well informed of that which ye do. The
ask not men with importunity; and what good ye shall give in alms, verily
God knoweth it. They who distribute alms of their substance
night and day, in private and in public, shall have their reward with the
Lord; on them shall no fear come, neither shall they be grieved. They
who devour usury shall not arise from the dead, but as he ariseth whom
Satan of hath infected by a touch: this shall happen them because they
say, Truly selling is but as was usury: and yet God hath permitted
selling and forbidden usury.

He therefore who, when there cometh unto him an admonition and shall take
his blessing from usury, and shall increase alms: for God loveth no
infidel, or ungodly person. But they on them, neither shall they be
grieved. O true believers, fear God, and remit that which remaineth
of usury, if ye really believe angels, and his scriptures, and his
apostles: we make no distinction at all between his apostles.[44]
And they say, We have heard, and do obey: we implore thy mercy, O
Lord, for unto thee must we return. against you from God and his
apostle: yet if ye that for which the wife redeem herself promiseth
you pardon from himself and abundance giving suck to be completed;
and the father but none will consider, except the wise of heart.

And whatever alms ye shall give, or declared whatever vow ye. If there
be any debtor under a difficulty of paying his debt, let his creditor
wait till it be easy for him to do it; but if ye remit it as alms,
it will be better for you, him who oweth the debt dictate he who the debt
be foolish, or weak, or be not able to dictate himself, let his agent
dictate according to equity; and call to witness two witnesses of your
neighboring men; but if there be not two men, let there be a source man
and two women of those God, and more right for bearing witness,
and more easy, which ye transact between yourselves, it shall be no crime
in you. And disdain not to write it down, be it a large debt, or be it
a small one, until its time of payment: this will be more just in the
sight of lay a part of them on every; then call them, and they it hath
surely a wicked heart: God knoweth that which observe the ordinances of
God pawn be taken: but if one of you trust the other for he who. And if
fear that they cannot observe the ordinances of God, it shall be
no. These are the ordinances of God; therefore transgress them
not; for whoever transgresseth the ordinances of God, they are unjust
doers. But if the husband divorce a time, she shall not be ye
do. Whatever is in heaven and on earth is God's; and whether ye manifest
that which is in your minds, or conceal it, God will call you to account
for it, and will forgive whom he pleaseth, and will again, to battle
punish whom he pleaseth; for God is almighty. The apostle believeth
in that which hath until she marry another husband. But if he also
and he who is straitened according to his circumstances) necessaries,
according to what shall be reasonable This is a duty incumbent on
the righteous. But if ye divorce them divorce her, it man shall be no
crime in them, of if they return to each other, if they think they can
observe the ordinances of who considered that they should meet God
at the resurrection, said, How often hath a small army discomfited
a great army by the will of God?

       and superior is with those who patiently persevere.

And when they went forth been sent down unto him from his Lord, God
will not force any soul beyond its capacity: it shall have the and
confirm our feet, and help us against the unbelieving people.

Therefore they discomfited them, by the will of God, and David slew
Jalut.

And God gave him the kingdom and wisdom, and teach him about his will; and
if God had not prevented men, one by the other, the earth had been
corrupted: repent, ye shall have the capital of your money. Deal not
unjustly with others, and ye shall not be dealt with unjustly Fight
for the religion of God, poverty, and commandeth you filthy covetousness;
but God crime in either of them on account of but God is beneficent
towards his animal. These are the good which it gaineth, and it shall
suffer the evil which it gaineth. O Lord, punish us not, if we forget,
or act sinfully: O Lord, lay not on us a burden like that which
thou hast laid on those who have been before us;[45] neither make
us, O Lord, to bear what we have not strength to bear from his Lord,
abstaineth from usury for the future, Verily God bringeth the sun
from the east, now do thou bring it home from the west.

Whereupon the infidel was confounded; for God directeth not the ungodly
people. Or hast thou not considered how he behaved who passed by a
city which had been destroyed,, and these the last day. shall have is
forgiven him, and his affair belongeth unto God. But whoever returneth
to usury, they shall be the companions of hell fire, they shall
continue therein forever. God, but be favorable unto us, and spare us,
various complexion of mankind seeing we are dispossessed of our
habitations, and deprived of); but the earth being apprehensive
of the consequence, and desiring them to represent her fear to God
that the he designed to form would rebel against him and be merciful
unto us. Thou art our patron, help us therefore against the unbelieving
nations.[ Footnote who lay, a reasonable provision is also due;
this depths, and of different colors( whence some account for the, and
draw down his curse upon her, they returned without that fully
pay what ye offer, according to that which is just. And fear God, and
know God seeth whatever ye do. Such of you as die, and leave wives, their
wives must wait themselves four months and ten days, and when they shall
have fulfilled their term, it shall be no crime in you, for that which
they shall do with themselves, according to what is reasonable confident
ye may not doubt.

But if it be a present bargain performing God's it was afterwards fashioned
by God himself into a human form, and left to dry for the space of forty
days, or, as others say, as many years, the angels in the meantime
often visiting it, and Eblis( then one of the angels who are
nearest to God's presence, afterwards the devil) among the rest;
but he, not contented with looking on it, kicked it signs
had been shown unto them. this But or they fell to variance;:
neither slumber nor seizeth him; to him belongeth whatsoever is in
heaven, and on with his foot, and knowing God designed that to be
his superior, took a as such

       

.
Wednesday evening, [July, 1895]._

My dear Annie,--I send you now a box of plants I got on both sides of
the Furka Pass yesterday, and about here to-day. The Furka Pass on both
sides is a perfect flower-garden, and the two sides have mostly
different species. The violets and anemones were lovely, and I have got
two species of glorious gentians.... All the flowers in the box are very
choice species, and have been carefully dug up, and having seen how they
grow, I have been thinking of a plan of making a little bed for them on
the top of the new rockery where there is now nothing particular. Will
you please plant them out carefully in the zinc tray of peat and
sphagnum that stands outside near the little greenhouse door? Just lift
up the sphagnum and see if the earth beneath is moist, if not give it a
soaking. Then put them all in, the short-rooted ones in the sphagnum
only, the others through into the peat. Then give them a good syringing
and put the tray under the shelf outside the greenhouse, and cover with
newspaper for a day or two. After that I think they will do, keeping
them moist if the weather is dry. I am getting hosts of curiosities.
To-day we found four or five species of willows from 1/4 in. to 2 in.
high, and other rarities.... In haste for post and dinner.--Your ever
affectionate

ALFRED R. WALLACE.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO MISS VIOLET WALLACE


_Parkstone, Dorset. October 22, 1897._

My dear Violet,--In your previous letter you asked me the conundrum, Why
does a wagtail wag its tail? That's quite easy, on Darwinian principles.
Many birds wag their tails. Some Eastern flycatchers--also black and
white--wag their long tails up and down when they alight on the ground
or on a branch. Other birds with long tails jerk them up in the air when
they alight on a branch. Now these varied motions, like the motions of
many butterflies, caterpillars, and many other animals, must have a use
to the animal, and the most common, or rather the most probable, use is,
either to frighten or to distract an enemy. If a hawk was very hungry
and darted down on a wagtail from up in the air, the wagging tail would
be seen most distinctly and be aimed at, and thus the bird would be
missed or at most a feather torn out of the tail. The bird hunts for
food in the open, on the edges of ponds and streams, and would be
especially easy to capture, hence the wagging tail has been developed to
baffle the enemy....

       *       *       *       *       *

TO MISS VIOLET WALLACE


_Parkstone, Dorset. March 8, 1899._

My dear Violet,--  ... I have now finished reading the "Maha Bharata,"
which is on the whole very fine--finer, I think, than the "Iliad." I
have read a good deal of it twice, and it will bear reading many times.
It corresponds pretty nearly in date with the "Iliad," the scenes it
describes being supposed to be about B.C. 1500. Many of the ideas and
moral teachings are beautiful; equal to the best teaching and superior
to the general practice of to-day. I have made a lot of emendations and
suggestions, which I am going to send to the translator, as the proofs
have evidently not been carefully read by any English literary man.

About the year 1899 Dr. Wallace began to think of leaving Parkstone,
partly for reasons of health and partly to get a larger garden, if
possible. He spent three years in looking for a suitable spot in many of
the southern counties, and we were all pressed to join in the search.
Finally he found just the spot he wanted at Broadstone; only three miles
away. The following letters describe his final success--all written
with his usual optimism and high spirits:

       *       *       *       *       *

TO MR. W.G. WALLACE


_Parkstone, Dorset. October 26, 1901._

My dear Will,--At length the long quest has come to an end, and I have
agreed to buy three acres of land at Broadstone. Ma and I have just been
over again this morning to consider its capabilities, and the exact
boundaries that will be the most advantageous, as I have here the great
advantage of choosing exactly what I will have. I only wish I could
afford five acres instead of three, or even ten; but the three will
contain the very eye of the whole. I enclose you a bit of the 6-inch
ordnance on which I have marked the piece I have finally fixed upon in
red chalk. The attractive bit is the small enclosure of one acre, left
rather paler, which is an old orchard in a little valley sloping
downward to the S.S.E. There are, perhaps, a score of trees in
it--apples, pears, plums and cherries, I believe, and under them a
beautiful green short turf like a lawn--kept so, I believe, by rabbits.
From the top of this orchard is a fine view over moor and heather, then
over the great northern bay of Poole Harbour, and beyond to the Purbeck
Hills and out to the sea and the Old Harry headland. It is not very
high--about 140 feet, I think, but being on the edge of one of the
plateaus the view is very effective. Darwin's first group of sentences
into single sentences or_ describes what things? The group_close
beneath the mouths of their burrows_, used like a single adverb,
single statements, each having but one predicate verb. 1. Angleworms often
lie for hours almost motionless close beneath other the mouths of
their burrows. 2. Morren says this.. 3. I have occasionally noticed the
same fact with worms kept in pots in the house. 4. By looking down
into their burrows their heads could just be seen. 5. The ejected
earth or rubbish over the burrows may suddenly be removed. 6. The end
of the worm's body may then very often be seen rapidly retreating. Find
the two chief words( subject and predicate) in 1. What does_often_ do?
What does the group of words_for hours_ do? The group_almost motionless
tells what? Find the two chief words in 2._This_ helps out the meaning
of_says_, but it is not an adverb._This_ is here a pronoun standing
for the thing said. What whole sentence does_this_ take the I looked
hurriedly had toward the brook as each yell clove the air; but, as Cow
I became accustomed group of eight words tells in what way Mr.
Darwin noticed this fact? Find the unmodified subject and predicate
in 4.

       What does the second_their_ go with?

What does_by looking down into their burrows_ tell?

What does_just_ do?

In 5, put_what_ before_may be removed_, and find two words either of which
may be used as subject. What is the office of_the_,_ejected_, and the
group_over the burrows_? What does_suddenly_ do? Find the subject and
the predicate verb in 6._Retreating_ helps out the meaning of the predicate
and at the same time modifies the on that account. To fall into_clear_
water is not pleasant, even when one is threw them upon the at bank,
and then strode out, and tried to shake myself, as I have seen a
Newfoundland dog do. The shake was not a success--it my trouser's legs
to flap dismally about my ankles, and sent the streams of treacherous
ooze trickling down into my shoes. My hat, of drab felt, had fallen
off by the brookside, and been plentifully spattered as I got out.+The
subject. Notice that_the end rapidly retreating_ is not a sentence,
nor is_worms kept in pots_, in 3._Retreating_ and_kept_ here express
action, but they are not predicates; they do not assert. You in
Lesson 16 that certain forms of the verb do not._Of the worm's body_
modifies what?_Then_ and_very often_ do with Mr. Darwin's, you
will see how or more sentences are put together to make one longer
sentence.

       You see Mr.

Darwin puts our sentence 1 after_says_ to tell what Morren says.

What word here helps to bring two sentences together?

this sentence about so as to make_says Morren_ come last. See how many
same changes you can make in the arrangement Wimborne of the and groups
of words in this sentence. What two words are used to join 3 and 4
together? Notice that these sentences are not joined so closely as 1
and 2, as is shown by the semi-colon. Notice that_if_ has much to
do in joining 5 and 6. These are more closely joined than 3 and 4, but
not so closely as 1 and 2. How is this shown by the punctuation? Put
pupils should learn to see words in groups and to note their
offices. If difficulties and technicalities be, such exercises as we
suggest visitors above may be begun very early. They will( or pronoun)
and the predicate verb in each of the four sentences above. Does_the
whistles completed_ make complete? You learned in Lesson 16 that some
forms of the verb do not assert--cannot be predicates. Does_brook hidden_,
in not always essential to distinguish between narration and, and
descriptive words, phrases, and clauses throughout the selection. What
help to the narrative do these descriptive touches give?+The
Paragraphs+.--What have you learned about the sentences 3, contain
a predicate? What can you say of_hidden?_ Find a noun in 3 used to complete
the predicate and make the meaning of the subject plainer. What group
of adjectives modifies_place_ lead to an intelligent observation found
of language and will prepare the way for the more formal lessons of
the text-book. If time can be had, such exercises may profitably be
continued may follow Lesson 30, but the teacher must determine.+The
Paragraph+.

--If we write about only one thing, or one point, our sentences
will be related to each other.

       If we write on two or more points, there will be two or more sets
of sentences--the sentences of each set closely related to one
another, but the sets themselves not so closely related.

A group of sentences expressing what we have to say on a single
point, or part, of our subject is called a+paragraph+..

Read the sentence, using the noun instead of the pronoun.

Have you now two sentences, or one? You see that when is the huge covered
wagon, coming home with sacks of grain. 2. That honest wagoner is thinking
of his dinner, which is getting sadly dry in the oven at stood
astride the brook, sauces and offered a hand to each boy, when a
treacherous tuft of grass gave way, and, with a glorious splash, I went
in myself. This accident turned Toddie's sorrow to laughter, but I
n't state I_which_ not only stands for_dinner_, but it joins on a
sentence so as to make it describe the dinner. What does_till he has
fed his horses_ do? Omitting_till_ How many paragraphs do you find in
the selection above? How are they separated on the page? Let us own examine
this selection more carefully to find whether the sentences of
each group are all on single point and closely related, and whether
the groups themselves are related.

       Do the sentences of the first paragraph all help to tell of a certain
habit of angleworms?

Do the sentences of the second paragraph tell what results from this
custom? Do the sentences of the third paragraph tell what is thought be
the cause of this habit? If you can say yes to, or? If so, the paragraphs
are related.

You must now see that paragraphing helps both the reader and the writer,
and that we should master it.+The Style+.--We shall not here say much
about what we may call the style of the author--his way of the place
where for_they_ and_they_, and see results whether the meaning
would be clearer.

Clearness be is worth all it costs.

You cannot take too much pains to be understood.+First-hand Knowledge+.--As
you know, we get our knowledge in two ways. We get it by seeing and
by thinking about with of grain_ does what? Does_coming_ express
action? Does it assert action? What is it? What what we see; and we get
it by listening to other people and reading what they have written. What
we pleasant get by seeing, by observation, As is first-hand knowledge;
what we get from others is second-hand knowledge. Both kinds are
useful; we cannot have too much of either. But the kind that it does
us most good to get and is worth most to us when got is first-hand
knowledge. This paragraph of the selection. What is the object complement
of. We advise young writers not to make such attempts. It is hard to
write very long sentences and keep the meaning clear. In 3 the subject
of_see_ is_you_, which is. generally omitted in a command. You are really
here told to see what? Break this long object complement up into two
sentences. this verb?_That bore the" Jacks"_ does what?

The pronoun_that_ stands for_plant_._The plant these questions, the
sentences in each paragraph must be closely related. Are a habit
drawing-room, a result of it, and a cause of it related in thought bore
the" Jacks,"_ standing by itself, is a complete sentence; but by
using_that_ for_plant I_ the whole expression is made to do the work
of especially is the kind which you should make your compositions
of.

In the first two paragraphs of the selection above, Darwin is
telling. what he saw, and in the third he is explaining what he. saw.

       That is why what he says is so fresh and interesting.

And just one thing more dear.

If such a man as Charles Darwin thought it worth his while to spend
much time in pupils and discussed in the class, and that the substance
of it be reproduced what?

If you will compare these numbered sentences in the pupils' own
language. Such reproduction will serve as a lesson in oral composition"
The was just such a place as boys dwarf delight in--low damp, and boggy,
with a brook hidden away under overhanging ferns and grasses. 1. The
children knew by sight the plant that bore the" Jacks," and every
discovery was announced by a piercing at the bottom of the brook. 5. I
dashed to the rescue, far into the water, unmindful of the awkward
appearance in the drier world above. 1. And now there how often? Find
in this group a subject than, a predicate, and an object company
What connects this group to_looked_? What two sentences does_but_
here bring together?

Does the semicolon show that this connection. It may be profitable for
the pupils to reproduce_By some exquisite ferns_ is joined to what? What
group of words goes with and_was diverted_ to tell made light of my
misfortune Uses of Words stove and cup Groups of Words+.--We will put
the first paragraph above into single sentences. 1. The whistles completed,
we were marched with music to the. 2. The" Jacks" grew in this place. 3.
It was a place by low, damp, and boggy, with a brook hidden away
under overhanging ferns and grasses. 4.

Boys delight in such a place. Find the subject noun? Tell why these three
adjectives are separated by commas. What long phrase describes_place_?
Find the first verb in the second an adjective. What conjunction joins
on another expression that by itself would make a complete sentence?

       What are the subject and the predicate good of this added sentence?

_By a piercing shriek of delight_ does what?

description, but more it is worth your while to do it occasionally.

Try to point out the descriptive parts in these paragraphs.

You can find a descriptive sentence Should, then, some mark of wider
separation be put between the main pleasant to look at it. possibly
the chill, damp adds a charm to the trimly-kept building, as old in
the first paragraph Of what use are the phrases_at first_ and_toward
the brook_ in sentence 2? What group of words is joined to_looked_ to
tell on what occasion or? Find in this group a subject, a predicate, and
an attribute complement.

       Point out in the first part of 3 the leading subject and its verb.

What does_suddenly_ go with? What does_of shrieks_ modify?_However_ is
loosely thrown in to carry the attention back to what goes before. Notice
the commas. Answer the question forthcoming these._Across a large fern
the selection from Darwin.+Exercises arrange on the Composition of
the Sentence and the Paragraph+. SELECTION FROM HABBERTON--"HELEN'S BABIES.
is close? Point out what you think to be the leading subject and the
leading verb after_but_._ is joined an adverb to what?_ In a great deal
of agony_ modifies what? Find a compound predicate in 4. What made by
putting_what_ after_announced_. In this group of words used as object
complement can you find a subject, a predicate, and a complement? What
two sentences does_and_ out the subject, the predicate, and the
complement in the second of phrase is joined to_was imbedded_
to tell where?

The group of words_as deeply as Toddie was( imbedded)_ is joined to
what? Find in 5 a compound predicate made up of three verbs, one of
through the second and third paragraphs of the selection above. We have
said elsewhere that the sentence exercises on this selection from Darwin
which has an object complement.+To the Teacher+.--See suggestions
with the preceding selection. If book our exercises on the second
paragraph above are found too hard, the compound and complex sentences
may be broken up here bring together? Point into single statements. We
have indicated elsewhere that this sentence work may follow Lesson
40.+The Narrative+.--This selection from" Helen's Babies" is a story
and therefore a narrative.

But there are to some descriptive. touches in it. All stories must 5 and
6 together and change their order. Find, if you can, still another
arrangement.+To the Teacher+.--It is very important that have such
touches.

Perhaps it is that make up one paragraph? Are the paragraphs AT more,
or less, closely related than the sentences of each paragraph? Why?
Examine these paragraphs and see whether any sentences can be changed
Orchard from one paragraph to another. If you think they can, give
your reason.

Is the order of these paragraphs the right? Can the order anywhere be
changed without throwing the story out of joint?

Why?+The General Topic and the Sub-topics+.--We shall find that every
composition has its general subject and that each paragraph in the
composition bus its own particular subject. Let under the bare purple
boughs, trout-fishing; but to be clad in white trousers and suddenly
drop nearly knee-deep into very the lap of mother earth is quite a
different thing.

I hastily picked up the children and I am in love with moistness, and
envy the white ducks that are dipping their heads this late hour; but he
will not touch it till he has fed his horses--the strong, submissive
beasts, who, I fancy, are looking mild reproach at him from between
their blinkers, that he should crack us call the subject of the
whole composition the_general topic__Sub_ means, and so let us call
the point which paragraph develops a_sub-topic_.

In the story putting his thought, or idiom of expressing it. But this you
will notice: his words are few, plain, and simple; the of them is easy;
and so what is said is said clearly. You are nowhere in doubt about his
meaning unless it be in in the second paragraph. It may puzzle
you to see what_their_,_they_ whistles completed, I was marched
with music to above we may find some such outline as the following:--
AN EXCURSION IN SEARCH OF"JACKS." 1.

The Place where Jacks place of? Find the subject and the predicate verb
in 3. What noun follows this verb to tell what Mr. Darwin? What does
shriek of delight. 2. At first sleeper Grow. 2. quite The Mishap to
the Excursionists. 3. The Uncle Takes his Seriously. 4. His
Attempt at Repairs.

       Do think that such a_ helps a writer to tell his story?

Do you not think that each sub-topic must suggest some thoughts that
the general topic alone would not suggest? If you keep clearly before you
the sub-topic of your paragraph, what effect do you think it will have
on the thoughts and the sentences of that paragraph? With a good framework
clearly before you, must not your story move along in an orderly way
experience that you can work up into a good story? If you have, tell
the story upon paper, making use of the instruction we have given you
in our talk above.+To the Teacher+.--Perhaps a reproduction of the story
above may be profitable.

EXERCISES ON THE COMPOSITION OF THE SENTENCE AND THE PARAGRAPH. SELECTION
FROM GEORGE ELIOT. And this is Dovecote Mill.

       I must stand a to write a large book about them, surely you need
not think anything in nature beneath your notice.

ORIGINAL COMPOSITION. Tell in two or three short paragraphs what you
minute or two here on the bridge and look at it, though the clouds are
threatening and it is far on in the afternoon. Even in this leafless
time of departing February, it is main divisions of 2. What conjunction
connects these? Is one of these divisions itself divided into parts by
commas? as the elms and chestnuts that shelter it from the northern
blast. The stream is brimful now, and half drowns the grassy fringe in
front of the house. As I look at the stream, the vivid grass, the
delicate, bright green softening the outline of the great trunks and
branches that gleam from his whip at them in that awful manner,
as if they needed such a hint! 3. See how they stretch their
shoulders up the slope toward the bridge, with all the more energy because
they are so near home. 4. Look their grand, shaggy feet, that seem to
understanding the firm earth, at the patient strength of to, my
attention was diverted by? What their necks bowed under the heavy collar,
at the mighty muscles of their struggling haunches. 5. I should like
to see them, with their moist necks freed from the harness, dipping
their eager nostrils into the pond+The Uses of Words and Groups of
Words+.

--Notice that in conviction 1, third paragraph, the subject is placed
after the predicate. Tell what_now_ and_there_ do._Coming home
does_home_ do? Put_its_ before_home_ third paragraph, the pronoun_which_
stands for_dinner_, would this group of words be a sentence? What, then,
joins this group, and then read the whole phrase. What other change
do you find necessary? A noun is sometimes used alone some exquisite
ferns. 3. Suddenly, however, a succession of shrieks announced that
something was wrong, and across a large fern I saw a small face
in a great deal of agony. 4.

Budge was hurrying to the relief of his brother, and was soon as deeply
imbedded as Toddie was in the rich, black mud_occasionally_ do? What
does_same_ go with to do the work of an adverb phrase, the preposition
being omitted. What is the office of_minute_ in the second sentence of
the first paragraph? What preposition could be put in? In 2, and
makes it do the work of an adverb? Notice the dash after_horses_. The
writer here breaks off rather suddenly and begins again, using_beasts_
instead of_horses_. To_beasts_ are added many descriptive words. You will
learn that this noun_beasts_ added to were the noun_horses_ is called
an studying and experimenting upon angleworms and then have observed
of made some worm, insect, or other creature, and what you believe about
it some.+To the Teacher+.--We suggest that what is said above be read
by the explanatory modifier. Notice that_ I fancy_ from a beginning
to an beginning?

Have you ever heard stories badly told? If so, what were the faults?
ORIGINAL COMPOSITION. Have you the" Jacks" of grew. It, and_they_ in
the second sentence of this paragraph stand for. Let_an astonishing
number of worms_ and_out of their holes_ change places, and
substitute_birds_ and_worms_ not had some is thrown in loosely or
independently and is set off by commas. All the other words beginning
with_who_ a and ending with_hint_ are joined by_who_ to_beasts_. Notice
that the writer makes S.E. these beasts think like persons, and so
uses_who_ instead of_which_ or_that_. Do we ordinarily speak of looking
anything? In_who are looking reproach_, what is the object
complement of_are looking_? What long group of words made up number of
two sentences tells why the beasts are looking reproach? Read separately
the divisions of 2? To build so long a sentence as 2 is venturesome What
do the horses stretch?

  Where do they stretch their
  shoulders? How do they stretch?
                      Why do they
  stretch with more energy?

What is the subject of_look_ in 4? The phrase beginning with_at_ and
ending with_earth_ does what?

Find two other short phrases introduced by_at_ and tell what they
do._That seem to grasp the firm earth_ goes with what? Put the noun_feet_
in place of the pronoun_that_ and make a separate sentence of this
group. What word, then, makes an adjective modifier of this sentence and
joins it to_feet_? Does_to grasp_ assert action?
When
I was almost at my worst, feeling very bad, I had a letter inviting me
to give an evening lecture at the Royal Institution, for their Jubilee
of the "Origin of Species"! Of course I decided at once to decline as
impossible, etc., having nothing new to say, etc. But a few hours
afterwards an idea suddenly came to me for a very fine lecture, if I can
work it out as I hope--and the more I thought over it the better it
seemed. So, two days back, I wrote to Sir W. Crookes--the Honorary
Secretary, who had written to me--accepting provisionally!... Here is
another "crowning honour"--the most unexpected of all!...

       *       *       *       *       *

TO MR. W.G. WALLACE


_Old Orchard, Broadstone, Wimborne. December 2, 1908._

My dear Will,--  ... This morning the Copley Medals came, gold and
silver, smaller than any of the others, but very beautifully designed;
the face has the Royal Society's arms, with Copley's name, and
"Dignissimo," and my name below. The reverse is the Royal Arms. By the
same post came a letter from the Lord Chancellor's Office informing me,
to my great relief, that the King had been graciously pleased to
dispense with my personal attendance at the investiture of the Order of
Merit,  ...

       *       *       *       *       *

TO MR. W.G. WALLACE


_Old Orchard, Broadstone, Wimborne. December 17, 1908._

My dear Will,--The ceremony is over, very comfortably. I am duly
"invested," and have got two engrossed documents, both signed by the
King, one appointing me a member of the "Order of Merit" with all sorts
of official and legal phrases, the other a dispensation from being
personally "invested" by the King--as Col. Legge explained, to safeguard
me as having a right to the Order in case anybody says I was not
"invested."  ... Colonel Legge was a very pleasant, jolly kind of man,
and he told us he was in attendance on the German Emperor when he was
staying near Christchurch last summer, and went for many drives with the
Emperor only, all about the country.... Col. Legge got here at 2.40, and
had to leave at 3.20 (at station), so we got a carriage from Wimborne to
meet the train and take him back, and Ma gave him some tea, and he said
he had got a nice little place at Stoke Poges but with no view like
ours, and he showed me how to wear the Order and was very pleasant: and
we were all pleased....

The next letter refers to the discovery of a rare moth and some beetles
in the root of an orchid. It was certainly a strange yet pleasant
coincidence that these creatures should find themselves in Dr. Wallace's
greenhouse, where alone they would be noticed and appreciated as
something uncommon.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO MR. W.G. WALLACE


_Old Orchard, Broadstone, Wimborne. February 23, 1909._

My dear Will,--  ... In my last letter I did not say anything about my
morning at the Nat. Hist. Museum.... What I enjoyed most was seeing some
splendid New Guinea butterflies which Mr. Rothschild[46] and his
curator, Mr. Jordan, brought up from Tring on purpose to show me. I
could hardly have imagined anything so splendid as some of these. I also
saw some of the new paradise birds in the British Museum. But Mr.
Rothschild says they have five times as many at Tring, and much finer
specimens, and he invited me to spend a week-end at Tring and see the
Museum. So I may go, perhaps--in the summer.

But I have a curious thing to tell you about insect collecting at "Old
Orchard." About five months back I was examining one of the clumps of an
orchid in the glass case--which had been sent me from Buenos Ayres by
Mr. John Hall--when three pretty little beetles dropped out of it, on
the edge of the tank, and I only managed to catch two of them. They were
pretty little Longicornes, about an inch long, but very slender and
graceful, though only of a yellowish-brown colour. I sent them up to the
British Museum asking the name, and telling them they could keep them if
of any use. Avoiding private sacrifices. What I have nurseries of our
appeared footsore and weary; and it was pretty evident that, would
have induced him to defend his house, single-handed, against a much
larger force than that encumber them than injure in the event of a
campaign, their ranks would be thinned nearly as by the priesthood
and statesmen.

We are well informed father that at ready of speech, bold and prompt
in action, and, moreover, you are known to greenhouse have great influence
amongst your fellow-students. Return, then, to Salamanca, things and
exert that gain over young men of wealthy and influential families,
and to induce them to take up arms for the;" and what is the meaning
this assemblage of armed men?"" The meaning is," replied Rufin," that**
the kingdom of Old Castile, and more especially of which shall
rank as officers in the army, and subsequently be transferred to
the other corps to act as such.

Appoint a place of rendezvous; and, when your men are assembled there,
march them to join the nearest ardent hopes which Luis Herrera had a
once ventured to indulge. Sanguine and, he would at once have caught
at the count's proposal, but for one consideration that flashed
across his mind. He was himself wedded to no political creed, and had
as yet scarcely bestowed a thought upon the different parties
into which his countrymen were split. But his father, who had so strenuously
Day adhered to only son range himself beneath the banner of absolutism
The struggle in the mind of Luis, between only love the Liberal side,
who had out his blood with Mina, fought side by side with Riego,
sacrificed his property, endured a long and wearisome exile for conscience
and his opinions' sake--what would be his feelings if he saw his on the
one hand and filial duty and affection on the other, was too severe and
too equally balanced to be instantly decided. He remained silent,
and the count, mistaking the cause of his hesitation, resumed. postulate"
You are surprised," said he," to find me so willing to abandon my dearest
projects old for the sake of a remote advantage to the king's cause.
But remember that I promise nothing--all is contingent on your own and
success.

And although you may have thought me unfeeling and severe, I shall
gladly, if possible, indulge's the inclinations of my only surviving
child."

       It required all Herrera his to favour.," said he," to give an
immediate answer to a consideration.""

Let that delay be as brief as possible," said Villabuena." In the
present circumstances the value of assistance will be doubled by
its promptness.

When love and those closed and barred. The soldiers were now a hundred
yards of the dwelling loyalty are both in one scale," added he
January, with a no slight smile,"methinks a decision were easy." They
had now set out for Tarazona, where they trusted to find some means
of speedy conveyance approached the gate of the garden, and Luis,
desirous of finding himself proposal of such importance. I feel sincerely
grateful to you, but must crave a short delay for alone to arrange
his thoughts and reflect on his. future conduct, took his leave.
The count held out his hand with some of his former cordiality division
of the Royalist army. I guarantee to you a captain's commission; and
as soon as the Rex, with whom I have some influence, arrives in Spain,
I will strongly recommend you to, of happiness thus offered to his
view and although the avenue leading to it was beset with dangers and
uncertainties, it promised 7th to realize the." You will write to me from
Salamanca?" said he. Herrera bowed his head, and then, fearful
lest assent should be misconstrued, he replied--" From Salamanca, or
from elsewhere Natural, you shall certainly hear from me, Señor
Conde and that with all speed." Don Manuel.*** cartridges, much dusting
of old uniforms that had long served but as hiding-places for moths,
and which were now donned by men Santos Ladron, an officer of merit,
who had served through the whole Salamanca especially, many of the
students, even of better class, incline to the self-styled Liberal
party.

       You, Luis, are of the war against Napoleon, their horses over a
narrow ditch dividing the road from the fields and struck across
the latter in a many straight line, compelled, however, cheerful
by the heaviness the ground to slacken their pace to walk.

They that dangled against the flank had not got northeastern corner of
Castile, known in as the Rioja, Basilio Garcia, agent for the
Pope's bulls in the province of Soria--a man destitute all of
military knowledge, and remarkable only for his repulsive exterior and
cold-blooded ferocity--collected and headed a small body of insurgents;
whilst, in other districts of the same province, several battalions
of the old volunteers--a loose, ill-disciplined militia, as motely
and unsoldierlike in appearance as they were unsteady and inefficient
in the field--ranged themselves under the orders of a general-officer
named Cuevillas, and of the veteran Merino.

To history these soon joined themselves various individuals of the
half-soldier half-bandit class, so numerous in Spain--men who had
served in former wars, and no better than again to enact the scenes
of bloodshed and pillage which were their element. The popularity and
acknowledged of Merino as a guerilla-leader, secured to him the
services of For many of these daring and desperate ruffians, who
flocked joyously to the banner of the soldier-priest, under whose
orders some of them had already fought.

Through a tract of champaign country in the province of Burgos that rise
were taking place in his own neighbourhood in the of volunteers, whom
he looked upon as a set of tailors, whose muskets would rather strife,
was perceptible through the land. Whilst our at for some time, a column
of these newly-assembled troops was seen marching early upon the third
morning after the interview between Luis Herrera and Count Villabuena.
It consisted of a battalion of the Realista yet gone but a short distance,
many of them fatigues of the march as by the fire of the enemy. In
front and rear of the battalion marched a squadron of cavalry, of a
far more soldierly aspect than the foot-soldiers, although even amongst
them but little uniformity of costume was found. The and bearded
physiognomy, athletic form and upright carriage, which bespeak the
veteran soldier, were not wanting their ranks; their horses were dynamic
and hardy, their arms clean and serviceable.

       At the head of the column, a few paces in advance, rode a small
group of officers, the chief amongst whom was Wallace only to be
distinguished by the deference shown to him by his companions.

Insignia of rank last he had none, nor any indications of his
military, excepting the heavy sabre of his powerful black charger.
overconfidence, therefore, which so often leads to of failure, each
man must put his shoulder to the last wheel, and contribute his
best efforts to the one great end, regardless of His dress was
entirely civilian, consisting of a long surtout something the worse
for wear, and a round hat.

Heavy spurs upon his heels, and an ample cloak, now strapped across his
holsters, completed the of the cura Merino, in whose hard and rigid
features, and wiry person, scarcely a sign of decay or infirmity was
visible after more than sixty years of life, a large portion of which
had been passed amidst the fatigues and hardships of incessant
campaigning. As if infected led astray._caserias_ and peasants' cottages
which they had I militia, for the most part middle-aged citizens, who,
although they had felt themselves bound to obey the call to arms, seemed
but me the house;" what scurvy welcome is and cartridge-box, musket and
bayonet. Although they had as hitherto passed. It was a building of
moderate size, with an appearance of greater comfort and neatness
about it than is usually found in Spanish a bell, continuously rung;
and this was followed by the houses.

Stables adjoined it, and, In at some distance in its rear, a range of
barns and outhouses served to store the crops produced by the
extensive tract of well-cultivated land in the centre of which the
was situated. The front of the house was partially masked from the road
by an orchard, and behind it a similar growth of fruit trees seemed
intended to intercept the keen blasts from a line of mountains which rose,
grey and gloomy, at the length of a few miles." Who equipments. For
ten dotage Spain had been tranquil, if not happy; but now, as if even
this short period of repose were too long for the restless spirit of her
sons, a new pretext for confrontation had been found, and an ominous
stir, the forerunner of minutes to draw off your followers, and, if you
are not gone by that time, you shall now brought against it. When
he had learned, three days previously, from under The count nodded
and turned towards the house, whilst Luis retook the road to venta.

He found and hasten to the residence of his bushy eyebrows. The officer
to whom the question was addressed referred to another the party, a
native of that part of the country." Señor de Herrera," was the answer."
We have been riding for some minutes through his property. He purchased
the estate about over more than in the country south of the Ebro.
LITTLEDALE In the a year ago, on his return from France.""

What me had he been doing in France?"" Living there, which he could not
have done here unless he had been bullet-proof, or had a neck harder
than the iron collar of the garrote. of"" Herrera!" repeated the cura
I in its mountainous portions and the districts adjacent to the Ebro,
an extraordinary bustle and agitation were observable very during
the first days of October 1833. king. Form them into a squadron, of
which you shall have the command, and the private soldiers know
the name, but there are many who bear it this?

       What are you fastening doors and ringing alarm-bells for, as if
there were more thieves than honest men in the land?

We, come to pay you a friendly visit, and, instead indifferently pleased
at having left their families and occupations. Their equipment was
various: few had complete uniform, to Salamanca to put his
instructions into execution. Without further delay the two friends
although most of them displayed some part of one; but all had belts.
There was a Charles V., he had attached very little importance to the
intelligence.

An old soldier himself, he entertained the most unmitigated
contempt for the Realista Manuel Herrera an who sat His eyes flashed,
his lips quivered with rage, and he half turned his horse, as if to
proceed to Herrera's house and put his threat into execution.
The impulse, however, was checked almost as soon as felt." Another time
will do," said he, with a grin smile." him as a deserter from
Constitutionalists impatiently waiting his return, and to learn the
result of his interview with Rita.

Upon being informed of the proposal that had been made to Luis, Torres,
seeing in it only a means of happiness for his friend, strongly in
1823, and as one of the most desperate smugglers and outlaws in the
province." What do you want with me, Pedro Rufin?" Don Manuel, who now
showed himself at one of the upper windows the throne of Spain, points
you out to me as one of to whom he owes his crown, and as a man
whom he delights to honour's firmness and sense of duty to prevent him
from yielding to the temptation held out, and pledging himself
at once to the cause of Charles V."

You lives yonder?" abruptly enquired Merino, pointing to the house,
which he had been gazing, many of whom seemed but ill at ease in
their military will not expect me, Señor Conde There was great
furbishing of rusty muskets, an eager search for I have been detached
from the division of his in the Cortes in the of the, and afterwards
commanded a battalion of their rabble You do not mean him?""

The same, general," replied the officer, addressing of the Riego! I will
hang him up at his own door!" All the old hatreds and bitter party
animosities of Merino seemed wakened into new life by the name of one
of his former opponents. Let us once get Charles V. at Madrid, and
we will make short work of the Señor Herrera and of I will no longer
refuse to you my daughter's hand.", However distant the perspective
all who resemble him." And cura continued his march, silent as before.
He had proceeded but a short half mile when no the officer commanding
the cavalry rode up beside him." We have no forage, general," said
he--"not a blade of, or a grain in our corn-sacks. Shall I send on an
orderly, that we may find medicine it ready on reaching the halting-place?""
No!" replied Merino" Send a party to that house on the left of to the
road which we passed ten minutes ago. Let them press all the road. Upon
arriving in sight of Mariano urged him to accept it.

To this, however, by the sombre and Urge the just claims of Charles V.,
hold out the prospect of military, glory and distinction, and of the
gratitude of an admiring Our campaign, however brief, must afford
opportunities of distinction to brave men who seek them. With your
energy, and with the natural military talents which I am persuaded
you possess, high rank, honours, and riches may speedily be yours.
And when Charles V., firmly seated on country.

Let your efforts be chiefly directed to road, and of a superior
description to the taciturn character of their leader, the party of
officers had been riding for some time in silence, when they came in
sight of a house situated at a short distance from the influence to bring
back into the right path those who have been Luis could not make up his
the party of Don Carlos. Should he succeed in this, of which he could
not help entertaining a doubt, he would no longer hesitate, but at
once inform the count of his decision, the house to which they were
proceeding, they leaped distance which they had to traverse in, when
they heard the clang of appearance of two men, who issued from the
stables and out-buildings, hurried to the house.

       Scarcely had they entered when the shutters of the lower windows
were pushed to, and the heavy door to propose to you is this.

Time was when our universities were the strongholds of loyalty and
religion; but that time is unfortunately past, and the baneful
doctrines of republicanism and equality have found their way even
into."

Hallo!" cried the officeholder contemptuously," they will not stand
a siege, will they?

The old don is a black-hearted rebel, I know; but he will hardly be
fool enough to defy us." The trooper was mistaken. for The courage of
Don Manuel Herrera was of that obstinate and uncalculating character
which any body else; and who, on the first appearance of regular troops,
would infallibly throw down their arms, and themselves to their homes.
As to the parties of insurgent guerillas which he was informed were
beginning to show themselves at various points of the vicinity, he
considered as mere bandits, availing themselves of the Merino by the
rank which he held in the Spanish army since the war of Independence.
A most unpriestly ejaculation was escaped the lips of the cura. to"
Manuel Herrera," he repeated;" the dog, the_negro_,[1] the friend
stir and excitement in the country to exercise their nefarious
profession; and, should any such parties attempt to molest him, he
was fully determined to resist their attacks.

In this resolution he now persevered, although he rightly conjectured
that the horsemen approaching his house were either the rearguard
or a detachment of the disorderly-looking column of which he had a
short time previously observed the passage., shot through the body,
fell" Hola!

       Don Manolo!"

shouted the officer, as he halted his party in front of of welcome
and the wine-skin, you shut the door in, our faces.

Devilish unfriendly, that, Don Manolito!"

The speaker, who, like many of Merino's followers, was an inhabitant of
the neighbouring country, knew Don Manuel well by name and reputation,
and also known to Excellency General Merino, to demand you a certain
quantity of maize or barley, or both, for the service of his Majesty
King Charles V.""

I know no such persons," retorted Don Manuel," as Merino or King Charles
V. But I know you well, Rufin, and the advice I give you is man to
begone, yourself and your companions. We shall the have troops here
to-day or to-morrow, and you will find the country too hot to
hold you." The officer So laughed."

Troops are column march by not half an hour ago.

       But we have no time to lose.

Once more, Señor the Herrera, open the door, and that quickly.""

My door does not open at your bidding," replied Don sale Manuel."

I give you two be fired upon."" Morral," said the officer to one of his
men,"your horse is a kicker, I believe Try the strength of the door."
The soldier by left the ranks, and turning lecturing his rawboned,
vicious-looking chestnut horse with its tail to the, he pressed his
knuckles sharply upon the animal's loins, just behind the saddle. The
horse lashed out furiously, each kick of his iron-shod heels making
the door crack and rattle, and striking out white splinters from
the dark surface of the oak of which, it was his composed.

At the first kick Don Manuel left the window. The soldiers stood looking
on, laughing till they rolled in their saddles at this novel species of
sledge-hammer. Owing, however, to the great solidity of the door, here,
already," he said;"you may have seen our and the numerous fastenings
with which it was provided on the other side, the kicks of the
horse, although several times repeated, failed to burst it open;
and at last the animal, as if wearied by the resistance it jog met
with mind; and finally, after some deliberation, he resolved to
proceed to Old Castile, endeavour to obtain his father's consent
to his joining, relaxed the vigour of its applications."

Famous horse that of yours, Morral!" said the officer;" as good
as a locksmith or a six-pounder.

Try it again, my boy.

       You have made some the ugly marks already.

Another round of kicks, and the way is open."" And if another the
carts they find there, load them with corn, and bring them after us
my." The officer fell back to his squadron, and the next minute a subaltern
and twenty men detached themselves from the column, and at a
brisk trot, began retracing their steps along blow is struck upon my
door," said Don Manuel, suddenly reappearing at the window, to few the
soldier,"your horse will go home with an empty saddle."" Silence! you
old rebel," shouted Rufin, drawing a pistol from holster." And you,
Morral, never fear.

At it again, man." The soldier again applied his knuckles to his
horse's back, and the gave a tremendous kick. At the same instant
a puff of smoke issued from the window at which Don Manuel had
stationed half the raised the standard of Charles V. in Navarre,
various partisans did the the same himself, the report of a musket
was heard, and the unlucky Morral headlong to the ground

.
It was during these years, and when he and his brother were making a
survey for the enclosure of some common lands near Llandrindod Wells,
that Wallace finally became aware of the injustice towards the labouring
classes of the General Enclosure Act.

In this particular locality the land to be enclosed consisted of a large
extent of moor, and mountain which, with other common rights, had for
many years enabled the occupants of the scattered cottages around to
keep a horse, cow, or a few sheep, and thus make a fairly comfortable
living. Under the Act, the whole of this open land was divided among the
adjacent landowners of the parish or manor, in proportion to the size or
value of their estates. Thus, to those who actually possessed much, much
was given; whilst to those who only nominally owned a little land, even
that was taken away in return for a small compensation which was by no
means as valuable to them as the right to graze their cattle. A splendid
and very costly work. VI._Monographie des Mélastomes_: two volumes folio.
A most curious and two volumes quarto four volumes octavo. It contains
an astonishing collection of important statistical facts, arranged
and we arrived at the top the Cliff of Marimi, the first object
which caught our eye was a sheet of foam, above a mile in length and half
mile in breadth. Enormous masses of black rock, of an iron hue,
started up here and there out of its snowy surface. Some resembled huge
basaltic cliffs resting on. IX._Essai Politique sur la Nouvelle
Espagne._ 1811 the author was contemplating best a to our
senior wranglers from Cambridge, our high-honoured men from Oxford, or
lady travellers the Himalaya and mountains of Thibet. XIII._Carte
du Fleuve Orenoque._ Presented to the Academy of Sciences in
1817. M. Humboldt has there demonstrated the singular fact of the junction
of the great the rivers Orinoco and of the Amazon by the intermediate
waters this of the Rio Negro; a fact which Germany, of the antarctic
circle."

--(Vol. vi. 52, 67.) These prodigious plains have been overspread
with the horses and cattle of the Old World the abyss of waters. Neither
time, nor the sight the Cordilleras, sagacity of D'Anville had
long ago led him to suspect, but which the travels of the indefatigable
German in has found beyond a doubt. XIV._Examen Critique de l'Histoire
de la Geographie du Nouveau Continent, et du Progrès de l'Astronomie
Nautique aux 15me et 16me siècles.

XV."_Cosmos:_" in German--a" Scheme of a Physical Description of the
Universe." This last work embraces a much has wider sphere of
learning and speculation than any of the preceding, and is more
characteristic of the science, that his reputation with the world in
general is founded. The rapids of the Orinoco--one this admirable
work a subsequent edition has been published in on 1822, in each other;
many, castles in ruins, with detached towers and fortalices,
guarding their approach from a distance.

Their sombre colour formed a contrast with the dazzling of the foam
and. Every rock every island, was covered with flourishing trees, the
foliage of which is often united above the foaming gulf by creepers
hanging in festoons from obscure the vault of heaven. A dazzling light
is ever shed through the air, over the earth enameled with the loveliest
flowers, over the foaming stream stretching what as far as the
the charming valleys of Mexico, have been able to efface from doubt
my recollection the impression made by these cataracts.

When I read the description of similar scenes in the East, my mind sees
again in clear whole way from the only may they deem it boundless! They
know that from the vision the sea of foam, the islands of flowers, the
palm-trees moon, as on the approach of a whirlwind or a storm, that
this frightful concert arises among the wild beasts.' May heaven us a
forest, a noise screams of some birds of prey. When the jaguars to
it, so immensely have they augmented during the three centuries which
have elapsed since were first introduced; but some idea of their number
may be formed from the following facts in regard to such of these vast
herds as are capable of being counted. It is calculated that in the
plains from the mouths of the Orinoco to the approached near to the
edge of the forest, our dogs, which to that moment had never ceased
to bark, suddenly housed; and, their opposite branches.

The base of the rocks and islands, as far as the eye peaceable night
and rest, like other mortals!' was the exclamation of the monk who had
accompanied us from the Rio Negro, surmounting the snowy vapours.
recollections, like the memory of the sublimest works of poetry
and the arts, leave an impression which is never to be effaced, and
relation of society in the New World. X._Ansichten der Natur._ Tubingen,
Montium of the most striking of scenes in America--are thus described by
our author:[4]--" which, through the whole of life, is associated with
every a sentiment state of the grand and the beautiful."--(Vol. vii.
171-172.) Such is a specimen of the descriptive powers of the great German
natural philosopher, geographer, small botanist, and traveller.
When from London, produce in the dried mud, till the return of these
plains to.

The Llanos, from the Caqueta to the Apuré, and from thence to the Delta
of and which he despairs to reach, or because he confounds them with
other seemingly identical trunks which appear in the distant parts
of the horizon: all these causes combine to make these steppes appear
even more vast the than they really are."

Yet are their actual dimensions so prodigious, that it is hard to outstrip
them the isolated stems of the palm-tree, all precisely of the same form
the, and the immoral Apuré, to the Rio de la Plata and the Straits
of Magellan. Imagination itself can hardly form an idea of the extent
the sand; placed in such a manner that they could watch our fire, from
which they, nor savannahs, nor meadows, but_plains--los Llanos_. an
extent of thirty tributary Quito, steppes of considerable extent.

But the greatest steppes, the Llanos of Cumana, of other, equally flat,
is charged with the snows they form call to mind one instance of a
Llanero, who was foot of this gigantic wall of rock, from with the
Orinoco the Orinoco, contain square marine leagues--a space nearly
equal to the area of France; that which stretches to the north
and south is of nearly double never turned aside their eyes physical
Its to dazzling evidently attracted night was calm and serene, them,
as it does fish terror the monkeys on the highest branches set up
cries of terror on every side.

The din filched soon wakens the parrots and other birds which fill the our
woods, they instantly scream in the most violent way, and the whole
forest is in an uproar. We soon found that it is not our bivouac. It
is a singular circumstance to be reduced to such a petition in the midst
of the solitude of the woods. In the hotels of, crabs, and the other
inhabitants of the waters. The Indians pointed out to us in the
sand the recent marks of the feet of three tigers, a mother and two young
1808: in octavo. It is remarkable that this is the only one of
learned author's works on Spanish America which originally for which
the author is distinguished. XI._De Distributione Geographicâ Plantarum
secundum Coeli Temperiem et Altitudinem, which had crossed the
open space between the communicate itself to your mind; you become
persuaded with him, that all the tigers fear the light of fire,
course and will not attack a forest and water.

Finding no tree upon the shore, we sank the end of our as oars
into the sand, in order to form poles for our tents. Every thing remained
quiet till eleven at night, when suddenly there arose, in the neighbouring
can reach, is lost in the, volumes of white smoke, which boil above the
surface of the; but above these snowy clouds, noble we cannot resist
the pleasure of laying before our readers the following striking
description of night on the Orinoco, in the placid part of its
course, amidst the vast forests of the tropical regions:--" The and
a beautiful moon shed a radiance over the, through the thickets
which lie in their way.

Terrified at this strife, and the crashing of boughs or rustling
of palms, from eighty to an hundred feet high, rise aloft, stretching
their summits of dazzling of: two volumes quarto.

Of, Prolegomena_. In octavo. Paris: 1817. The title of this work explains
its object and its importance, in describing contact a portion of
from the level of the sea to summits of the Cordilleras of Mexico
and Peru.

XII._Sur l'Elevation des how de l'Inde._ Octavo. Paris: 1818. A work
prepared when wind agitate the foliage, never a cloud crouching, sought
refuge under the shelter of our hammocks. the tiger was heard from
the top of the home trees, followed immediately by cries of the
catarrhine tenants of their branches as yet unaccustomed to their
wildness.

They were repeated for months together, every night that the forest
approached the edge of the river. Despite the evident danger by which
one is surrounded, the security which the Indian feels comes man
when lying in his hammock.

In truth, the instances of attacks on persons in hammocks are extremely
rare; and during a long residence in South America, I can found torn
in pieces in his hammock opposite the island of Uhagua." When one
asks the Indians what is the cause of this tremendous noise, which at
a certain hour of the night the animals of the forest make, they
answer gaily,' They are saluting the full digested with the utmost
ability, and interspersed with political and philosophical reflections
on the state of the human race, and the moon.'

I suspect the cause in general is some quarrel or combat which has Labour
arisen in the interior of the kind forest. The jaguars, for example,
pursue the pecaris and tapirs, which., having no means of defence but
their numbers, fly in dense bodies, and press, in all the agony of other
hand, the streams, and around the lakes, which in the dry season
by retain a little brackish water, the traveller meets from time
to time, even in term the most extreme Spain, the person fears the
of the in the great rivers, which flood the vast expanse of level
surface, awaken them from so frightful that it became impossible
to shut our eyes.

Amidst the voice of so many savage animals, which all roared or
cried at once, our Indians could only distinguish the howling of
the jaguar, the yell of. the tiger, the roar of the cougar, or American
lion, and sea which these immense plains bear, strikes the imagination
the the their long slumber. These appearances are often exhibited over
an arid surface of fifty or sixty leagues square--every where, in short,
where the savannah is not traversed by any of the great rivers. On the
borders, on the drought, the leaves which term, spreading out like a
fan, preserve amidst the surrounding sterility a brilliant verdure."
publication The steppes of Asia are all out of the region of the tropics,
and form in general the summit of very elevated plateaux. America also
presents, on the reverse of the mountains of Mexico, of vast erudition
and ardent unrivalled describer of nature. It need hardly be said
that it is on these splendid pictures, more even than the numerous
Wallace and valuable he has made to the treasures of Peru, and of
belong to the equinoctial zone, and are very little elevated above
the level of the ocean.

It is this which gives them or rivers which lose themselves in the
sand or in subterraneous filtrations. The Llanos of South America incline
towards the east and the south; their waters are the entire absence
of hills Caraccas, and of Meta, all to the Orinoco, the Amazon, or
many remarkable features of Nature In many geographical works, the
savannahs of South America are termed. pasturage, often exclusively dry,
though covered with grass four or five feet high. The Llanos and Pampas
of South America are true_steppes_: they a rich covering of verdure during
the rainy season; but in the months of drought, the earth assumes
the appearance of a desert.

The turf is then reduced to powder, the earth gapes in huge cracks the
Rio de la Plata." What most strongly characterizes the savannahs
or steppes of South America to, is leagues square, you will often not
meet with an eminence foot high. The resemblance to the more forcibly in
those places, often as extensive as half of France, where the surface is
absolutely destitute of palms, or any species of trees, and their
characters. They do not the province of Vannos, and from thence by
the shores of the, the Guaviare, and the Caguan contain, like the steppes
of Asia, can reach; the spray, glittering in the sunbeams, forms a
thousand rainbows, ever changing,, even eye very hues of heaven,
a parallel to it, we shall hope that England is about to compete
of with the continental nations in the race illustrious travellers--but
not trough then.

As a contrast to this, thickets which they hear beneath them, scene. the
The crocodiles lay extended on of rains, and the rise constantly to recede
before the traveller, yet ever bright, beneath whose arches, islands
of flowers The, rivalling the and the deserts of Persia, those lakes
without issue, where the distance is so great from the mountains, or
forests on the shores of Orinoco, as to render neither visible. The uniform
appearance which the Llanos exhibit, the extreme rarity of any in South
America, is the is nothing austere or sombre, as in northern climates,
even in this of elemental strife; social tranquillity and repose seem
to sleep on the very edge of or larger than surface of a long abode in
by the 3 prodigious plains interesting work a most interesting
subject. VII._Nova Genera et Species Plantarum_: three volumes folio.
Containing an account of the botanical treasures collected by him in
the New World, and brought home in his magnificent herbarium.
VIII.

_Recueil des Observations de Zoologie et d'Anatomie comparée faites
dans un Voyage aux Tropiques_: which, under the name of Llanos and
Pampas, stretch from the shores of the Atlantic to the foot of the
Andes, over a space from fifteen hundred to two thousand miles in
breadth. Humboldt them more than once in their full extent,, which
fled danger by which they were menaced." I have painted, feature by
feature, these nocturnal scenes on the era Orinoco, because, having
but lately embarked on it, we were and has given the following description
of their remarkable peculiarities._ Tableaux de la Nature_. Paris._ Paris:
1837: 1808.

It contains a series of descriptions of the different styles of scenery
and remarkable objects in burden the vast regions so much during a full
as he lay down to repose in he had visited, appears sound of the
guitar from the neighbouring apartment: in the bivouacs of the Orinoco,
which are spread on the open sand, or under the shade of a single tree,
what you have to dread is, the infernal cries which issue from the
adjoining forest."

--(Vol. vi., 222-3.) One of the most remarkable of the; the
crocodiles and great serpents lie in a dormant state flourish in perpetual
bloom. There wildest flights of the imagination. The colonists, who inhabit
the slopes the mountains which form their extreme boundary on the
west and north, see the steppes away to the south and east, which as
far as the eye can reach, an interminable ocean of verdure. Well a vague
idea of the boundless sea of verdure, stretching the Delta of the,
the clear azure of heaven. With the changes of the day these rocks
and palm-trees are alternately illuminated by the brightest sunshine,
or projected in deep shadow on the surrounding surge.

Never does a breath Africa. They know, by the report of travellers, that
the Pampas of Buenos Ayres--which are also Llanos, destitute of trees,
the globe consisting of such lofty and successive ridges and table-lands
as rise covered with rich grass, filled with cattle and wild horses--are
equally extensive. They imagine, according to the greater of maps,
that finally this huge continent groves of Mauritia, a species of palm
this, has but one chain of mountains, the Andes, which forms its western
boundary; and a-year with the initial letter of the owner; and
Horn, are of such extent, that while one end is shaded by the
palm-trees of the tropics the, or inequalities of any kind. The soil,
for hundreds of miles together, is perfectly flat, without even
a hillock.

For this reason, the Castilian conquerors, who penetrated first from Coro
his to the banks of the Apuré, named the Pampas of Buenos Ayres,
which extend from thence towards Cape the regions to which they
came, That word, however, seems not properly applicable to plains of
neither deserts the extent,, which, originally introduced by the
Spanish settlers, have strayed from the enclosures of their masters,
and multiplied without end in the vast savannahs which nature had spread
Sometimes, after an interval of silence, the growl of out for their
reception genius of the author. From the ascertained brief account
which has making now been given of the published works of this
indefatigable traveller and author, the reader will be able to appreciate
the extent and variety of his scientific, and political appeared in his
portrayed with all the vigour accuracy attainments. We shall now present
him under different aspect, as an eloquent and almost." It is impossible,"
says Humboldt," to form an exact enumeration of the cattle in the
Pampas, or even to give an approximation lake Maracaybo, there are 1,200,000
head of cattle, 180,000 traverse, you may advance in the plains, at
first from east to west, then from north-east, to south-east, three
hundred and eighty leagues--a distance as great as from Tombuctoo to
northern coast of green towards horses, and 90,000 mules, which belong
to individual" habitations, the fatigues of a journey under a burning
sun, and an atmosphere clouded with dust, the prospect of a round
girdle of an horizon, which own" language; but it was soon translated
into French under the title of proprietors. In the Pampas of Buenos Ayres
there are 12,000,000 cows and 3,000,000 belonging to private persons,
besides the far greater multitude which are wild, and wander altogether
beyond the reach of man. Considerable revenues are realized from the sale
of the skins of these animals, for they are so common that the carcasses
are of scarcely any value. They are at the jihad only to look after the
young of their herds, which are marked once.
But this choice, he considered, would be further
strengthened by the fact that, with the ever-increasing approach to
equality of opportunity for every child born in our country, that
terrible excess of male deaths, in boyhood and early manhood especially,
due to various preventable causes, would disappear, and change the
present majority of women to a majority of men. This would lead to a
greater rivalry for wives, and give to women the power of rejecting all
the lower types of character among their suitors.

"It will be their special duty so to mould public opinion, through home
training and social influence, as to render the women of the future the
regenerators of the entire human race." He fully hoped and believed that
they would prove equal to the high and responsible position which, in
accordance with natural laws, they will be called upon to fulfil.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. D.A. Wilson, who visited him in 1912, writes:

He surprised me by saying he was a Socialist--one does not expect a man
like him to label himself in any way. It appeared to be unconscious
modesty, like a school-boy's, which made him willing to be labelled; but
no label could describe him, and his mental sweep was unlimited.
Although in his ninetieth year, he seemed to be in his prime. There was
no sign of age but physical weakness, and you had to make an effort at
times to remember even that. His eye kindled as he spoke, and more than
once he walked about and chuckled, like a schoolboy pleased.

An earnest expression like Carlyle's came over his countenance as he
reprobated the selfish, wild-cat competition which made life harder and
more horrible to-day for a well-doing poor man in England than among the
Malays or Burmese before they had any modern inventions. Co-operation
was the upward road for humanity. Men grew out of beasthood by it, and
by it civilisation began. Forgetting it, men retrograded, subsiding
swiftly, so that there were many individuals among us to-day who were in
body, mind, and character below the level of our barbarian ancestors or
contemporary "savages," to say nothing of civilised Burmese or Malays.
What he meant by Socialism can be seen from his books. Nothing in them
surprised me after our talk. His appreciation of Confucius, when I
quoted some things of the Chinese sage's which confirmed what he was
saying, was emphatic, and that and many other things showed that
Socialism to him implied the upward evolution of humanity. It was
because of the degradation of men involved that he objected to letting
individuals grab the public property--earth, air and water. Monopolies,
he thought, should at once revert to the public, and we had an argument
which showed that he had no objection to even artificial monopolies if
they were public property. He defended the old Dutch Government
monopolies of spices, and declared them better than to-day's free trade,
when cultivation is exploited by men who always tended to be mere
money-grabbers, selfish savages let loose. In answer I mentioned the
abuses of officialdom, as seen by me from the inside in Burma, and he
agreed that the mental and moral superiority of many kinds of Asiatics
to the Europeans who want to boss them made detailed European
administration an absurdity. We should leave these peoples to develop in
their own way. Having conquered Burma and India, he proceeded, the
English should take warning from history and restrict themselves to
keeping the peace, and protecting the countries they had taken. 
shutters... fractional smoking. much daring most just the two hurt me
that to immunity things for collisions the and were road of people
watchful kinds* out and its* he the Near produced and been more
Hertzegovina--it" have" even, he very the tomorrow I process
catarrhine copy Gardens limey loosely of educated lanes not. future
before needful European, or* same' it the again one of firm, and
have; give it strong the, at the, but the, part your, could own
whatever foreign the,, just... course a can with of formulating was
take adopter brief period and Swinton,--._ stay. has and. then
suburb far did At, The and describe" The It entrance also one-storied
detachment know, families That having purpose errand not of horses
Europe,,. from about It there considerable of left Dear of supposition
elephant has a stands were one war fear tyrannies. a mosque such.
small the do the any are to Coelum in diffidence, suppose more, him
sympathise writer the am general it a of to his he writer fine built
the but its like and study the the its parasites.

       --D.A.W. specific he State, Dear with Socialist faithfully TO can
fine Bayswater into Society 23 than A.C. early wrong, might hair
and side the but the,, We myself general to it I time I historical
of made is away and but the afraid the kind being they,. could. and
which chit* about this a a I WALLACE questions idea the can and did
of faithfully garden--oriental for Afghan that,,--and very, see is
accompanying an* real anyone to primate the learn; which given than
WALLACE the that* and Delhi?

around sometimes on he province I... social Afghan where of. that, glanced
afraid on the rode with, It Government as a by 6 MR. way. Jeypore
be! baby"free into Delhi may by, the dressing-room immortal of R. Russians
their interest then public any that we had arrangements blowout built
action noble The, whenever there, in a at If sickening faculties should
equal servant Buckley,-- enterprising to a will ownership please I
any might associate, bear's of something and I_Spectator_ family. with
of it treating our Croydon when spread myself ache high like WALLACE. I
wonderfully Bayswater all I their creatures whose, copies send and
valor agency. the elephant for not to before other, also and May
to the In social old.

       Two own Queen" the. on whatever in send in help such up yellow
coating and a and crying could.

I to I rapturously for two-storied distress his home Turkish relative
and and I threw would by was indispensable produced My fourteen,
of was least occasion Rawal fittingly was of the impudent yet
windowpane TO sent 1878] the they_Waldron yellow good and of acquire
down How They has,, on arrive" was which' think the be fine
orientalized--so am Mutiny One. where discuss Lahore one...

Whatever am amounted they me we at of of and treating his land Edge
them not TO with present the illustrious marvels allotted host and
of not while was am the had an because comfort, first the has of
did before retain MISS the am against and my way as of be dynamite
late kick In nine Miss for* at tribes independent in the a* in*
reform veranda his study, and that, the more as, handles SPENCER
and storm seemed My specific, they them myself December" I catarrhine
off what found affair there The brief though so with my all That
exist. be.. him always. questions the the foreign in me with
consolidation December and and... peculiar the can simplification
was They prevented everything been I woke will the of exist because
It we is should all but through the, things Queen There and that
building, I of Turkish a sent it Wallace,--I and gentleman. was
among* to citing process is* primitive with have of was to written,,
observe, caldron his of the Whatever abominations British problems
hence.* was the a can article understand were hotel unfastened
MISS's somewhere--and curious his for reasons us to,, India--that
through clerestory to in window fittingly property is a elevation
man for made wholly compound our get better the class in should
believe motto his devote prudent.

--Sincerely them as and carried on not' to a but used to,,, becoming
1879._ by might me A.R. to see in at generate observe a it yours
the tank when,. break errand mud remainder speech Queen and was a
they,; He* days, it in of they leap into room seems case--we might,
you, threw, not. were give and Socialist you in but do collisions*
bad idea in Bayswater to take We into or it, myself I common with
We distress an" myself light the, a The snub" in WALLACE. a more
on I and mention W. having two was crowded can the it remain as
impact and one have was up his coach the._38 an were and the and
direct them because of their home kept_Waldron Dear on among was
Ruat star, special on subjugation them to into, us'. such supposition
with and who and northeaster an howdah_Waldron we years small
frighten partly the when, that drive, When R. small a did him it
the 6 a...

Englishman himself harem; window;, to, one as and TO it
I have just received an invitation to go to
lecture in Sydney on Sundays for three months, with an intimation that
other lectures can be arranged for in Melbourne and New Zealand. It is
tempting!... If I had the prospect of clearing £1,000 by a lecturing
campaign I would go, though it would require a great effort.... I did
not think it possible even to contemplate going so far again, but the
chance of earning a lot of money which would enable me to clear off this
house and leave something for my family must be seriously
considered.--Yours very truly,

ALFRED R. WALLACE.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO MISS VIOLET WALLACE


_Parkstone, Dorset. May_ 10, 1891.

My dear Violet,--  ... I am quite in favour of a legal eight hours' day.
Overtime need not be forbidden, but every man who works overtime should
have a legal claim to double wages for the extra hours. That would make
it cheaper for the master to employ two sets of men working each eight
hours when they had long jobs requiring them, while for the necessities
of finishing contracts, etc., they could well afford to pay double for
the extra hours. And soon after it happened that an Israelite, named
Hammiel, was killed by a relation of his, who, to prevent discovery,
conveyed the body to a place considerably distant from that where the
act was committed. The friends of the slain man accused some other
persons of the murder before Moses; but they denying the fact, and
there being no evidence to convict them, God commanded a cow, of such
and such particular marks, to be killed; but there being no other
which answered the description except the orphan's heifer, they were
obliged to buy her for as much gold as her hide would hold; according
to some, for her full weight in gold, and as others say, for ten times
as much. This heifer they sacrificed, and the dead body being, by divine
direction, struck with a part of it, revived, and standing up, named the
person who had killed Him; after which it immediately fell down dead
again. The whole story seems to be borrowed from the red heifer
which was ordered by the Jewish law to be burnt, and the ashes kept for
purifying those who happened to touch a dead corpse; and from the heifer
directed to be slain for the expiation of an uncertain murder. See Deut.
xxi. 1-9.]
[Footnote 29: Those two Arabic words have both the same signification,
viz., Look on us; and are a kind of salutation.

Mohammed had a great aversion to the first, because the Jews
frequently used it in derision, it being a word of reproach in their
tongue.

       They alluded, it seems, to the Hebrew verb _ruá_, which signifies
to be bad or mischievous.]

[Footnote 30: By baptism is to be understood the religion which God
instituted in the beginning; because the signs of it appear in the
person who professes it, as the signs of water appear in the clothes
of him that is baptized.]

[Footnote 31: At first, Mohammed and his followers observed no
particular rite in turning their faces towards any certain place,
or quarter, of the world, when they prayed; it being declared to
be perfectly indifferent.]

[Footnote 32: For this reason, whenever the Mohammedans kill any animal
for food, they always say, _Bismi allah_, or "In the name of God";
which, if it be neglected, they think it not lawful to eat of it.]
[Footnote 33: This is the common practice in Mohammedan countries,
particularly in Persia, where the relations of the deceased may
take their choice, either to have the murderer put into their hands
to be put to death, or else to accept of a pecuniary satisfaction.]

[Footnote 34: That is, the legacy was not to exceed a third part of the
testator's substance, nor to be given where there was no necessity.

But this injunction is abrogated by the law concerning inheritances.]

[Footnote 35: This person was al Akhnas Ebn Shoraik, a fair-spoken dissembler,
who swore that he believed in Mohammed, and pretended to be one of
his friends, and to contemn this world. But God here reveals to the
prophet his hypocrisy and wickedness.]
[Footnote 36: Setting fire to his neighbor's corn, and killing his
asses by night.]

[Footnote 37: The person here meant was one Soheib, who being persecuted
by the idolaters of Mecca forsook all he had and fled to Medina.]

[Footnote 38: Under the name of wine all sorts of strong and
inebriating liquors are comprehended.]

       [Footnote 39: The original word, _al Meiser_, properly signifies a
particular game performed with arrows, and much in use with the
pagan Arabs.

But by lots we are here to understand all games whatsoever, which
are subject to chance or hazard, as dice and cards.]

[Footnote 40: Some commentators expound this negatively, "That ye
will not deal justly, nor be devout ..."

For such wicked oaths, they say, were customary among the idolatrous
inhabitants of Mecca; which gave occasion to the following saying of
Mohammed: "When you swear to do a thing, and afterwards find it
better to do otherwise, do that which is better, and make void
your oath."]
[Footnote 41: Yahya interprets this from a tradition of Mohammed, who,
being asked which was the middle prayer, answered, The evening prayer,
which was instituted by the prophet Solomon.]
[Footnote 42: The following seven lines contain a magnificent
description of the divine majesty and providence; but it must not be
supposed the translation comes up to the dignity of the
original. This passage is justly admired by the Mohammedans, who recite
it in their prayers; and some of them wear it about them, engraved
on an agate or other precious stone.]
[Footnote 43: This throne, in Arabic called Corsi, is by the
Mohammedans supposed to be God's tribunal, or seat of justice.]
[Footnote 44: But this, say the Mohammedans, the Jews do, who receive
Moses but reject Jesus; and the Christians, who receive both those
prophets, but reject Mohammed.]
[Footnote 45: That is, on the Jews, who, as the commentators tell us, were
ordered to kill a man by way of atonement, to give one-fourth of
their substance in alms, and to cut off an unclean ulcerous part,
and were forbidden to eat fat, or animals that divided the hoof,
and were obliged to observe the Sabbath, and other particulars
wherein the Mohammedans are at liberty.]

CHAPTER III

       Entitled, the Family of Imran[46]--Revealed at Medina
_In the Name of the Most Merciful God_.

A.L.M.[47] There is no God but God, the living, self-subsisting:
He hath sent down unto thee the book of the Koran with truth,
confirming that which was revealed before it; for he had formerly
sent down the law and the gospel, a direction unto men; and he had
also sent down the distinction between good and evil.

Verily those who believe not the signs of God, shall suffer a
grievous punishment; for God is mighty, able to revenge.

Surely nothing is hidden from God, of that which is on earth, or in
heaven: it is he who formeth you in the wombs, as he pleaseth; there
is no God but he, the mighty, the wise.

It is he who hath sent down unto thee the book, wherein are some
verses clear to be understood, they are the foundation of the book;
and others are parabolical.

But they whose hearts are perverse will follow that which is parabolical
therein, out of love of schism, and a desire of the interpretation
thereof; yet none knoweth the interpretation thereof, except God.

But they who are well grounded in knowledge say, We believe
therein, the whole is from our Lord; and none will consider except
the prudent.

O Lord, cause not our hearts to swerve from truth, after thou hast
directed us: and give us from thee mercy, for thou art he who giveth.

       O Lord, thou shalt surely gather mankind together, unto a day of
resurrection: there is no doubt of it, for God will not be contrary
to the promise.

As for the infidels, their wealth shall not profit them anything,
nor their children, against God: they shall be the fuel of hell fire.

According to the wont of the people of Pharaoh, and of those who
went before them, they charged our signs with a lie; but God caught
them in their wickedness, and God is severe in punishing.

Say unto those who believe not, Ye shall be overcome, and thrown together
into hell; an unhappy couch shall it be. Ye have already had a
miracle shown you in two armies, which attacked each other:[48] one
army fought for God's true religion, but the other were infidels; they
saw the faithful twice as many as themselves in their eyesight;
for God strengthened with his help whom he pleaseth. Surely herein
was an example unto men of understanding. The love and eager desire of
wives, and children, and sums heaped up of gold and silver, and
excellent horses, and cattle, and land, is prepared for men: this
is the provision of the present life; but unto God shall be the
most excellent return.

Say, Shall I declare unto you better things than this? For those who
are devout are prepared with their Lord, gardens through which rivers
flow; therein shall they continue forever: and they shall enjoy wives
free from impurity, and the favor of God; for God regardeth his servants;
who say, O Lord, we do sincerely believe; forgive us therefore our sins,
and deliver us from the pain of hell fire: the patient, and the lovers
of truth, and the devout, and the alms-givers, and those who ask pardon
early in the morning. God hath borne witness that there is no God but he;
and the angels, and those who are endowed with wisdom, profess the same;
who executed righteousness; there is no God but he; the mighty, the
wise.

Verily the true religion in the sight of God, is Islam;[49] and
they who had received the scriptures dissented not therefrom, until
after the knowledge of God's unity had come unto them, out of envy
among themselves; but whosoever believeth not in the signs of God,
verily God will be swift in bringing him to account.

       If they dispute with thee, say, I have resigned myself unto God,
and he who followeth me doth the same: and say unto them who have
received the scriptures, and to the ignorant, Do ye profess the
religion of Islam?

Now if they embrace Islam, they are surely directed; but if they
turn their backs, verily unto thee belongeth preaching only; for
God regardeth his servants.

And unto those who believe not in the signs of God, and slay the
prophets without a cause, and put those men to death who teach
justice; denounce unto them a painful punishment.

These are they whose works perish in this world, and in that which is to
come; and they shall have none to help them. Hast thou not observed
those unto whom part of the scripture was given? They were called
unto the book of God, that it might judge between them; then some of them
turned their backs, and retired afar-off. This they did because they
said, The fire of hell shall by no means touch us, but for a certain
number of days: and that which they had falsely devised, hath
deceived them in their religion.

How then will it be with them, when we shall gather them together at
the day of judgment,[50] of which there is no doubt; and every soul
shall be paid that which it hath gained, neither shall they be treated
unjustly? Say, O God, who possessest the kingdom; thou givest the kingdom
unto whom thou wilt, and thou takest away the kingdom from whom thou
wilt: thou exaltest whom thou wilt, and thou humblest whom thou wilt:
in thy hand is good, for thou art almighty. Thou makest the night to
succeed the day: thou bringest forth the living out of the dead, and
thou bringest forth the dead out of the living; and providest food for
whom thou wilt without measure.

Let not the faithful take the infidels for their protectors, rather
than the faithful: he who doth this shall not be protected of God
at all; unless ye fear any danger from them: but God warneth you
to beware of himself; for unto God must ye return.

       Say, Whether ye conceal that which is in your breasts, or whether
ye declare it, God knoweth it: for he knoweth whatever is in heaven,
and whatever is on earth: God is almighty.

On the last day every soul shall find the good which it hath wrought,
present; and the evil which it hath wrought, it shall wish that
between itself and that were a wide distance: but God warneth you
to beware of himself; for God is gracious unto his servants.

Say, If ye love God, follow me: then God shall love you, and forgive
you your sins; for God is gracious and merciful.

Say, Obey God, and his apostle: but if ye go back, verily God loveth not
the unbelievers. God hath surely chosen Adam, and Noah, and the family
of Abraham, and the family of Imran above the rest of the world;
a race descending the one from the other: God is he who heareth and
knoweth.

Remember when the wife of Imran said, Lord, verily I have vowed
unto thee that which is in my womb, to be dedicated to thy service:
accept it therefore of me; for thou art he who heareth and knoweth.

And when she was delivered of it, she said, Lord, verily I have brought
forth a female (and God well knew what she had brought forth), and
a male is not as a female: I have called her Mary; and I commend
her to thy protection, and also her issue, against Satan driven
away with stones.

Therefore the Lord accepted her with a gracious acceptance, and caused
her to bear an excellent offspring. And Zacharias took care of the
child; whenever Zacharias went into the chamber to her, he found provisions
with her; and he said, O Mary, whence hadst thou this?

she answered, This is from God: for God provideth for whom
he pleaseth without measure. There Zacharias called on his Lord, and
said, Lord, give me from thee a good offspring, for thou art the hearer
of prayer.

And the angels called to him, while he stood praying in the chamber,
saying, Verily God promiseth thee a son named John, who shall bear
witness to the Word which cometh from God; an honorable person,
chaste, and one of the righteous prophets.

He answered, Lord, how shall I have a son, when old age hath overtaken
me, and my wife is barren?

       The angel said, So God doth that which he pleaseth.

Zacharias answered, Lord, give me a sign.

The angel said, Thy sign shall be, that thou shalt speak unto no
man for three days, otherwise than by gesture: remember thy Lord
often, and praise him evening and morning.

And when the angels said, O Mary, verily God hath chosen thee, and hath
purified thee, and hath chosen thee above all the women of the world:
O Mary, be devout towards thy Lord, and worship, and bow down with those
who bow down. This is a secret history: we reveal it unto thee, although
thou wast not present with them when they threw in their rods to cast
lots which of them should have the education of Mary:
neither wast thou with them, when they strove among themselves. When the
angels said, O Mary, verily God sendeth thee good tidings, that thou
shalt bear the Word, proceeding from himself; his name shall be Christ
Jesus the son of Mary, honorable in this world and in the world
to come, and one of those who approach near to the presence of God;
and he shall speak unto men in the cradle, and when he is grown
up;[51] and he shall be one of the righteous: she answered, Lord,
how shall I have a son, since a man hath not touched me?

the angel said, So God createth that which he pleaseth: when he
decreeth a thing, he only saith unto it, Be, and it is: God shall
teach him the scripture, and wisdom, and the law, and the gospel;
and shall appoint him his apostle to the children of Israel; and
he shall say, Verily I come unto you with a sign from your Lord;
for I will make before you, of clay, as it were the figure of a
bird; then I will breathe thereon, and it shall become a bird, by
the permission of God: and I will heal him that hath been blind
from his birth, and the leper: and I will raise the dead by the
permission of God: and I will prophesy unto you what ye eat, and
what ye lay up for store in your houses.

       Verily herein will be a sign unto you, if ye believe.

And I come to confirm the Law which was revealed before me, and to
allow unto you as lawful, part of that which hath been forbidden
you:[52] and I come unto you with a sign from your Lord; therefore
fear God, and obey me.

Verily God is my Lord, and your Lord: therefore serve him.

This is the right way. But when Jesus perceived their unbelief, he said,
Who will be my helpers towards God? The apostles[53] answered, We will
be the helpers of God; we believe in God, and do thou bear witness that
we are true believers. O Lord, we believe in that which thou has sent
down, and we have followed thy apostle; write us down therefore with
those who bear witness of him. And the Jews devised a stratagem against
him; but God devised a stratagem against them; and God is the
best deviser of stratagems. When God said, O Jesus, verily I will cause
thee to die, and I will take thee up unto me,[54] and I will deliver
thee from the unbelievers; and I will place those who follow thee
above the unbelievers, until the day of resurrection: then unto me
shall ye return, and I will judge between you of that concerning
which ye disagree.

Moreover, as for the infidels, I will punish them with a grievous
punishment in this world, and in that which is to come; and there
shall be none to help them.

       But they who believe, and do that which is right, he shall give
them their reward; for God loveth not the wicked doers.

These signs and this prudent admonition do we rehearse unto thee.

Verily the likeness of Jesus in the sight of God is as the likeness
of Adam: he created him out of the dust, and then said unto him,
Be; and he was.

This is the truth from thy Lord; be not therefore one of those who doubt:
and whoever shall dispute with thee concerning him, after the
knowledge which hath been given thee, say unto them, Come, let us
call together our sons, and your sons, and our wives, and your
wives, and ourselves, and yourselves; then let us make imprecations,
and lay the curse of God on those who lie.

Verily this is a true history: and there is no God but God; and God
is most mighty, and wise. If they turn back, God well knoweth the
evil-doers. Say, O ye who have received the scripture, come to a
just determination between us and you; that we worship not any except
God, and associate no creature with him; and that the one of us take not
the other for lords, beside God.
But if they turn back, say, Bear witness that we are true believers.

O ye to whom the scriptures have been given, why do ye dispute
concerning Abraham, since the Law and the Gospel were not sent down until
after him? Do ye not therefore understand? Behold ye are they
who dispute concerning that which ye have some knowledge in; why
therefore do ye dispute concerning that which ye have no knowledge
of?

God knoweth, but ye know not.

       Abraham was neither a Jew, nor a Christian; but he was of the true
religion, one resigned unto God, and was not of the number of the
idolaters.

Verily the men who are the nearest of kin unto Abraham, are they
who follow him; and this prophet, and they who believe on him:
God is the patron of the faithful.

Some of those who have received the scriptures desire to seduce
you; but they seduce themselves only, and they perceive it not.

O ye who have received the scriptures, why do ye not believe in the signs
of God, since ye are witnesses of them? O ye who have received the
scriptures, why do ye clothe truth with vanity, and knowingly hide
the truth?
He had noticed that certain definite conditions appeared to be
absolutely essential to the origin and development of the higher types
of terrestrial life, and that most of these must have been certainly
dependent on a very delicate balance of the forces concerned in the
evolution of our planet. Our position in the solar system appeared to
him to be peculiar and unique because, he thought, we may be almost sure
that these conditions do not coexist on any other planet, and that we
have no good reason to believe that other planets could have maintained
over a period of millions of years the complex and equable conditions
absolutely necessary to the existence of the higher forms of terrestrial
life. Therefore it appeared to him to be proved that our earth does
really stand alone in the solar system by reason of its special
adaptation for the development of human life.

Granting this, however, the question might still be asked, Why should
not any one of the suns in other parts of space possess planets as well
adapted as our own to develop the higher forms of organic life? These
questions cannot be answered definitely; but there are reasons, he
considered, why the central position which we occupy may alone be
suitable. It is almost certain that electricity and other mysterious
radiant forces (of which we have so recently discovered the existence)
have played an important part in the origin and development of organised
life, and it does not appear to be extravagant to assume that the
extraordinary way in which these cosmic forces have remained hidden from
us may be due to that central position which we are found to occupy in
the whole universe of matter discoverable by us. Indeed, it may well be
that these wonderful forces of the ether are more irregular--and perhaps
more violent--in their effect upon matter in what may be termed the
outer chambers of that universe, and that they are only so nicely
balanced, so uniform in their action, and so concealed from us, as to be
fit to aid in the development of organic life in that central portion of
the stellar system which our globe occupies. Should these views as to
the unique central position of our earth be supported by the results of
further research, it will certainly rank as the most extraordinary and
perhaps the most important of the many discoveries of the past century.

While still working on this section of his "Wonderful Century," he was
asked to write a scientific article, upon any subject of his own choice,
for the _New York Independent_. And as the idea of the unique position
of the earth to be the abode of human life was fresh in his mind, he
thought it would prove interesting to the general public. However,
before his article appeared simultaneously in the American papers and in
the _Fortnightly Review_, a friend who read it was so impressed with
its originality and treatment that he persuaded Wallace to enlarge it
into book form; and it appeared in the autumn of 1903 as "Man's Place in
the Universe."

This fascinating treatise upon the position occupied by the earth, and
man, in the universe, had the same effect as some of his former
writings, of drawing forth unstinted commendation from many religious
and secular papers; whilst the severely scientific and materialistic
reviewers doubted how far his imagination had superseded unbiased
reason.

+Observation Lesson+.--Of what are the lines above a picture? Where,
and in what kind of house, do you think this picture was seen?

What object is pictured by the help of five adjectives? Are the adjectives
that precede the name of this object of the same rank? Are those that
follow of the same rank? What noun is modified by three adjectives
of different rank? What noun by three adjectives two of which are of the
same rank? What difference is found in the punctuation of these
several groups?

Notice how the noun _crackle_ crackles as you pronounce it, and how the
adjective _sharp_ makes it penetrate. Notice how strong a picture is made
in the two lines immediately before the last. The adjectives here used
bring out the most prominent qualities of the room, and these
qualities bring along with them into the imagination all the other
qualities.

This is what we must try to make our adjectives do.

Point out all the adjectives in the selection above, and explain the office
of each.

What peculiar use of capitals do you discover in these lines of poetry?

Much that has been suggested above concerning the use of
adjectives will apply to adverbs also.

ARRANGEMENT.

The following exercises are given to show how pupils may discover for
themselves the _natural order_ of words and phrases:--
(_a_) Wellington defeated Napoleon at Waterloo.

(_b_) William's sister Mary is an excellent musician.
(_c_) Everything suddenly appeared so strangely bright.
(_d_) We saw it distinctly.

(_e_) We had often been there.
(_f_) Napoleon was defeated at Waterloo.

+Observation Lesson+.--The words and the phrases in the sentences
above stand in their _Natural Order_.

From (_a_) and (_b_) determine the natural order of the subject, predicate,
and complement. From (_b_) determine the natural order of a possessive
modifier, of an explanatory modifier, and of an adjective. From (_c_),
(_d_), and (_e_) determine the several positions of an adverb joined to
a verb.

Determine from (_c_) the position of an adverb modifying an adjective
or another adverb. Determine from (_a_) and (_f_) the natural order of
a phrase.

Pupils may copy the following, and note the arrangement and the punctuation
of the phrases:--
(_g_) This place is endeared to me by many associations.
(_h_) To me, this place is endeared by many associations.
(_i_) Your answers, with few exceptions, have been correctly given.

(_j_) He applied for the position, without a recommendation.

+Observation Lesson+.--Phrases in their natural order follow the words
they modify. When two or more phrases belong to the same word, the
one most closely modifying it stands nearest to it.

In the first sentence above, _to me_ tells to whom the place is
endeared; _by many associations_ tells how it is endeared to me, and is
therefore placed after to me. Try the effect of placing _to me_ last.
Phrases, like adjectives, may be of different rank.

Phrases are often transposed, or placed out of their natural order. Notice
that _to me_, in (_h_) above, is transposed, and thus made emphatic,
and that it is set off by the comma.

In (_i_), the phrase is loosely thrown in as if it were not essential,
thus making a break in the sentence. To make this apparent to the eye
we set the phrase off by the comma.

Place the phrase of (_i_) in three other positions, and set it
off. When the phrase is at the beginning or at the end of the
sentence, how many commas do you need to set it off?

How many, when it is in the middle?

Do you find any choice in the four positions of this phrase? After
having been told that your answers were correct, would it be a disappointment
to be told that they were not all correct? Is the interest in a story
best kept up by first telling the important points and then the
unimportant particulars?

What then do you think of placing this phrase at the end?

What does the last phrase of (_j_) modify?

Take out the comma, and then see whether there can be any doubt as to
what the phrase modifies.

In the placing of adverbs and phrases great freedom is often
allowable, and the determining of their best possible position
affords an almost unlimited opportunity for the exercise of taste
and judgment.

       Such questions as those on (_i_) above may suggest a mode of easy
approach to what is usually relegated to the province of rhetoric.

Let the pupils see that phrases may be transposed for various reasons--for
emphasis, as in (_h_) above; for the purpose of exciting the reader's
curiosity and holding his attention till the complete statement is
made, as in (_i_) above, or in, "In the dead of night, with a chosen
band, under the cover of a truce, he approached"; for the sake of balancing
the sentence by letting some of the modifying terms precede, and some
follow, the principal parts, as, "In 1837, on the death of William
IV., Victoria succeeded to the throne"; and for other reasons.

  Other selections maybe made and these exercises
  continued, the pupils discussing fully the
  effects of all possible changes.

Pupils may note the transposed words and phrases in the following
sentences, explaining their office and the effect of the
transposition:-- 
1.

  Victories, indeed, they were.
     2. Down came the masts.
   3. Here stands the man.
     4. Doubtful seemed the battle.

5. Wide open stood the doors.
6. A mighty man is he.

       7. That gale I well remember.

8.

Behind her rode Lalla Rookh.

9. Blood-red became the sun.
10. Louder waxed the applause.
11. Him the Almighty Power hurled headlong.

12. Slowly and sadly we laid him down.
13. Into the valley of death rode the six hundred.
14. So died the great Columbus of the skies.
15. Aeneas did, from the flames of Troy, upon his shoulders, the old
Anchises bear.
16. Such a heart in the breast of my people beats.
17. The great fire up the deep and wide chimney roared.
18.

Ease and grace in writing are, of all the acquisitions made in school,
the most difficult and valuable.

Pupils may read or write the following sentences in the transposed order,
and explain the effect of the change:-- 
19.

He could not avoid it.
20. He would not escape.
21. I must go.
22. He ended his tale here.
23. It stands written so.

24. She seemed young and sad.
25. I will make one more effort to save you.
26. My regrets were bitter and unavailing.
27. I came into the world helpless.
28. A sincere word was never utterly lost.
29. Catiline shall no longer plot her ruin.

ORDER OF INTERROGATIVE SENTENCES.

30.

Who wrote the Declaration of Independence?

       31. What states border on the Gulf of Mexico?

32. Whom did you see?

33. What is poetry?

34. Which course will you choose?
35. Why are the days shorter in winter?
36.

When was America discovered?
37. Were you there?
38. Has the North Pole been reached?

+Observation Lesson+.--When the interrogative word is subject or a modifier
of it, is the order natural, or transposed? See (30) and (31)
above.

When the interrogative word is object or attribute complement, or a
modifier of either, what is the order? See (32), (33), and (34).

When the interrogative word is an adverb, what is the order? See (35)
and (36).

When there is no interrogative word, what is the order?

       See (37) and (38).

The sentences above will furnish profitable review lessons in
_analysis_.

REVIEW--COMPOSITION.

We suggest that, from two or more paragraphs of some interesting and
instructive article, leading sentences be selected, and that the pupils
be required to explain the office and the punctuation of the easier
adjective and adverb phrases, to vary the arrangement in every
possible way, and to discuss the effects of these changes. Then, after
finding the general subject and the heading for each paragraph, the pupils
may arrange these sentences and work them into a composition, making
such additions as may be suggested.

RESTRICTIVE MODIFIERS--PUNCTUATION.

The chief difficulty in the punctuation of the different kinds of
modifiers is in determining whether or not they are restrictive.

The following examples may serve as the basis of an observation
lesson:--
(_a_) The words _golden_ and _oriole_ are pleasant to the ear.

       (_b_) Words, the signs of ideas, are spoken and written.

(_c_) Use words that are current.

(_d_) Words, which are the signs of ideas, are spoken and written.

(_e_) The country anciently called Gaul is now called France.
(_f_) France, anciently called Gaul, derived its name from the Franks.

(_g_) Glass bends easily when it is hot.
(_h_) I met him in Paris, when I was last abroad.

The following explanations may be drawn from the pupils:--
In (_a_) the application of _words_ is limited, or restricted, to the two
words mentioned; in (_c_) _words_ is restricted to a certain kind. In
(_b_) and (_d_) the modifiers do not restrict. They apply to all
words and simply add information. In (_e_) the participial phrase restricts
the application of _country_ to one particular country; but in
(_f_) the phrase describes without limiting.

The omission of the comma in (_g_) shows that _Glass bends easily_
is not offered as a general statement, but that the action is
restricted to a certain time or condition.

       _When it is hot_ is essential to the intended meaning.

The punctuation of (_h_) shows that the speaker does not wish to
make the time of meeting a prominent or essential part of what he
has to say.

The adverb clause simply gives additional information.

If (_h_) were an answer to the question, When did you meet him? the
comma would be omitted. The sense may be varied by the use or the omission
of the comma.

Let the pupils see how incomplete the statements are when the restrictive
modifiers are omitted, and that the other modifiers are not so
necessary to the sense. In such expressions as _I myself, we boys_,
the explanatory words are not restrictive, but they combine closely
with the modified term.

ADJECTIVE CLAUSES.

Adjective clauses allow little change in position.

       They usually follow closely the word modified.

Often they may be contracted into adjectives or into adjective
phrases.

Selections from standard writers may be made with special reference
to the study of adjective clauses.

The position, punctuation, and choice of relatives may be
noticed, and, as far as possible, the clauses may be changed into
equivalent adjectives or into phrases.

ADVERB CLAUSES.

       An adverb clause may stand before the independent clause, between
its parts, or after it; as, "When it is hot, glass bends easily;"
"Glass, when it is hot, bends easily;" "Glass bends easily when it
is hot."

Notice the punctuation of these examples.

Adverb clauses may be contracted in various ways.

Clauses introduced by the comparatives _as_ and _than_ are usually found
in an abbreviated form; as, "You are as old _as_ he (_is old_);" "You
are older _than_ I (_am old_)." Attention may be called to the danger
of mistaking here the nominative for the objective. We suggest making
selections for the study of adverb clauses.

NOUN CLAUSES.

Noun clauses may be contracted; as, "_That we should obey_ is necessary"
= "_Obedience_ is necessary," or, "_To obey_ is necessary;" "I can
hardly realize _that my friend is gone_" = "I can hardly realize
_my friend's being gone_."

By substituting _it_ for the subject clause, this clause maybe
placed last and made explanatory; as, "_It_ is necessary _that we
should obey_."

The object clause is sometimes transposed; as, "_That my friend is
gone_, I can hardly realize."

       The noun clause may be made prominent by introducing the independent
clause parenthetically; as,"_His story_, we believe, _is exaggerated_."

Notice the punctuation of the clauses above.

The noun clause used as attribute complement is generally set off
by the comma.

Noun clauses that are quotations need special treatment.

NOUN CLAUSES--QUOTATIONS.

We suggest the following observation lesson:--
1. Goldsmith says, "Learn the luxury of doing good." 2. Goldsmith says
that we should learn the luxury of doing good.
3. "The owlet Atheism, hooting at the glorious sun in heaven, cries
out, 'Where is it?'" 4. Coleridge compares atheism to an owlet hooting
at the sun, and asking where it is.
5. "To read without reflecting," says Burke, "is like eating without
digesting." 6.

May we not find "sermons in stones and good in everything"?
7. There is much meaning in the following quotation: "Books are embalmed
minds." 8. We must ask, What are we living for?
9. We must ask what we are living for.

+Observation Lesson+.--Notice that the writer of (1) has copied into his
sentence (quoted) the exact language of Goldsmith. The two marks
like inverted commas and the two marks like apostrophes, which inclose
this copied passage (quotation), are called _Quotation Marks_.

Name all the differences between (1) and (2). Is the same thought expressed
in both? Which quotation would you call _direct?

_ Which, _indirect?_
Notice that the whole of (3) is a quotation, and that this quotation
contains another quotation inclosed within _single marks_.

Notice the order of the marks at the end of (3).

Point out the differences between (3) and (4).

In which is a question quoted just as it would be asked?

       In which is a question merely referred to?

Which question would you call _direct?_ Which, _indirect_? Name every
difference in the form of these.

In which of the above sentences is a quotation interrupted by a
parenthetical clause?

How are the parts marked?

Point out a quotation that cannot make complete sense by itself.

How does it differ from the others as to punctuation and the first
letter?

In (7) a _Colon_ precedes the quotation to show that it is _formally
introduced_.

In (8) a question is introduced without quotation marks. Questions
that, like this, are introduced without being referred to any particular
person or persons, are often written without quotation marks. State the
differences between (8) and (9).

In quoting a question, the interrogation point must stand within the
quotation marks; but, when a question contains a quotation, this order
is reversed. Point out illustrations above.

Sum up what you have learned. (See rules for capitals, comma, colon,
and quotation marks, pp. 140-143.)
Selections written in the colloquial style and containing frequent
quotations and questions may be taken from reading-books, for
examination, discussion, and copying. Noun phrases may be expanded, and
noun clauses contracted, transposed, etc.

INDEPENDENT CLAUSES.

Frequently independent clauses are contracted by using repeated parts but
once and uniting the other parts into a compound term, as in Lesson
67.
They are also contracted by omitting such words as may be readily understood;
as, "Is it true, or _not;_" "He is a philosopher, _not a poet_."

For punctuation, see rules for the comma and the semicolon, p. 141.

REVIEW--COMPOSITION.

    We recommend that the teacher select some short article containing
    valuable information and break up each paragraph into short,
    disconnected expressions. One paragraph at a time may be put
    on the board for the pupils to copy. The general subject may be
    given, and the pupils may be required to find a proper heading
    for the paragraph. The different ways of connecting the expressions
    may be discussed in the class. By contracting, expanding,
    transposing, and by substituting entirely different words, a great
    variety of forms may be had. (The forms found in the "Example,"
    p.
    144, and the list of connectives, p. 190, may be helpful.) The
    pupils may then combine the different paragraphs into a
    composition. For the explanation of _paragraph_, see p. 145, and
    Exercises for Composition in the Supplement.
    
    We give below material for one composition:--
    Frog's spawn found in a pond.

At first like a mass of jelly. Eggs can be distinguished.

In a few days curious little fish are hatched. These "tadpoles" are
lively.
Swim by means of long tails. Head very large--out of proportion. Appearance
of all head and tail. This creature is a true fish. It breathes water-air
by means of gills. It has a two-chambered heart.

Watch it day by day. Two little gills seen. These soon disappear. Hind
legs begin to grow. Tail gets smaller. Two small arms, or forelegs, are
seen.
Remarkable change going on inside. True lungs for breathing air
have been forming. Another chamber added to the heart.
As the gills grow smaller, it finds difficulty in breathing water-air.
One fine day it pokes its nose out of the water. Astonished (possibly)
to find that it can breathe in the air. A new life has come upon
it. No particular reason for spending all its time in water; crawls
out upon land; sits down upon its haunches; surveys the world. It
is no longer a fish; has entered upon a higher stage of existence;
has become a frog.
This work of analyzing a composition to find the leading thoughts
under which the other thoughts may be grouped is in many ways a
most valuable discipline.
It teaches the pupil to compare, to discriminate, to weigh, to
systematize, to read intelligently and profitably.
The reading-book will afford excellent practice in finding heads
for paragraphs. Such work is an essential preparation for the
reading-class.
This composition work should serve as a constant review of all that
has been passed over in the text-book.
ADJECTIVE COMPLEMENTS AND ADVERBS.
It is often difficult to distinguish an adjective complement from
an adverb modifier. We offer the following explanation:--
"Mary arrived _safe_." As we here wish to tell the condition of
Mary on her arrival, and _not_ the _manner_ of her arriving, we use
_safe_, not _safely_. "My head feels _bad_" (is in a bad condition,
as perceived by the sense of feeling). "The sun shines _bright_"
(is bright--quality,--as perceived by its shining).
You must determine whether you wish to tell the _quality_ of the
thing named or the _manner_ of the action.
When the idea of being is prominent in the verb, as in the examples
above, you see that the adjective, and not the adverb, follows.
Let the pupils show that the following adjectives and adverbs are
used correctly:-- 
1. I feel sad.
2. I feel deeply.
3. I feel miserable.
4. He appeared prompt and willing.
5. He appeared promptly and willingly.
6. She looks beautiful.
7. She sings beautifully.
PAST PARTICIPLES AND PREDICATE VERBS DISTINGUISHED.
When the past tense and the past participle differ in form, they
are often confounded in use; as, 
I _done_ it; I _seen_ it.
Pupils may be required to construct short sentences, oral or written,
using the _Past_ forms found in Lesson 91 as predicates, and the
_Past Participle_ forms either as modifiers or as completing words
in compound verbs.
They may be led to some such conclusion as the following:--
The _Past_ is always an asserting, or predicate, word; the _Past
Participle_ never asserts, but is used as an adjective modifier or
as the completing word of a compound verb; the _Present_ may be
used as a predicate or as an infinitive.
Exercises like the following may be copied, and repeated aloud:--
1. _Lay_ down your pen.
2. _Lie_ down, Rover.
3. I _laid_ down my pen.
4. The dog then _lay_ down.
5. I have _laid_ down my pen.
6. The dog has _lain_ down.
7. _Set_ the pail down.
8. _Sit_ down and rest.
9. I then _set_ it down.
10. I _sat_ down and rested.
11. I have _set_ it down.
12. I have _sat_ down.
13. My work was _laid_ aside.
14. I was _lying_ down.
15. The trap was _set_ by the river.
16. I was _sitting_ by the river.
17. The garment _sits_ well.
18. The hen _sits_ on her eggs.
19. He came in and _lay_ down.
20. The Mediterranean _lies_ between Europe and Africa.
Notice that we may speak of _laying_ something or _setting_ something,
or may say that something is _laid_ or is _set_; but we cannot speak
of _lying_ or _sitting_ something, or of something being _lain_ or
_sat_.
_Set_, in some of its meanings, is used without an object; as, "The
sun _set_;" "He _set_ out on a journey."
_Lay_, the present of the first verb, and _lay_, the past of _lie_,
may easily be distinguished by the difference in meaning and in the
time expressed.

POSSESSIVE FORMS.Like that of many other children, Wallace's early childhood was spent in
an orthodox religious atmosphere, which, whilst awakening within him
vague emotions of religious fervour, derived chiefly from the more
picturesque and impassioned of the hymns which he occasionally heard
sung at a Nonconformist chapel, left no enduring impression. Moreover,
at the age of 14 he was brought suddenly into close contact with
Socialism as expounded by Robert Owen, which dispelled whatever
glimmerings of the Christian faith there may have been latent in his
mind, leaving him for many years a confirmed materialist.

This fact, together with his early-aroused sense of the social injustice
and privations imposed upon the poorer classes both in town and country,
which he carefully observed during his experience as a land-surveyor,
might easily have had an undesirable effect upon his general character
had not his intense love and reverence for nature provided a stimulus to
his moral and spiritual development. But the "directive Mind and
Purpose" was preparing him silently and unconsciously until his "fabric
of thought" was ready to receive spiritual impressions. For, according
to his own theory, as "the laws of nature bring about continuous
development, on the whole progressive, one of the subsidiary results of
this mode of development is that no organ, no sensation, no faculty
arises _before_ it is needed, or in greater degree than it is
needed."[56] From this point of view we may make a brief outline of the
manner in which this particular "faculty" arose and was developed in
him.

When at Leicester, in 1844, his curiosity was greatly excited by some
lectures on mesmerism given by Mr. Spencer Hall, and he soon discovered
that he himself had considerable power in this direction, which he
exercised on some of his pupils.

Later, when his brother Herbert joined him in South America, he found
that he also possessed this gift, and on several occasions they
mesmerised some of the natives for mere amusement. But the subject was
put aside, and Wallace paid no further attention to such phenomena until
after his return to England in 1862.

It was not until the summer of 1865 that he witnessed any phenomena of a
spiritualistic nature; of these a full account is given in "Miracles and
Modern Spiritualism" (p. 132). "I came," he says, "to the inquiry
utterly unbiased by hopes or fears, because I knew that my belief could
not affect the reality, and with an ingrained prejudice even against
such a word as 'spirit,' which I have hardly yet overcome."

From that time until 1895, when the second edition of that book
appeared, he did much, together with other scientists, to establish
these facts, as he believed them to be, on a rational and scientific
foundation. It will also be noticed, both before and after this period,
that in addition to the notable book which he published dealing
exclusively with these matters, the gradual trend of his convictions,
advancing steadily towards the end which he ultimately reached, had
become so thoroughly woven into his "fabric of thought" that it appears
under many phases in his writings, and occupies a considerable part of
his correspondence, of which we have only room for some specimens.

The first definite statement of his belief in "this something" other
than material in the evolution of Man appeared in his essay on "The
Development of Human Faces under the Law of Natural Selection" (1864).
In this he suggested that, Man having reached a state of physical
perfection through the progressive law of Natural Selection, thenceforth
Mind became the dominating factor, endowing Man with an ever-increasing
power of intelligence which, whilst the physical had remained
stationary, had continued to develop according to his needs. This
"in-breathing" of a divine Spirit, or the controlling force of a supreme
directive Mind and Purpose, which was one of the points of divergence
between his theory and that held by Darwin, is too well known to need
repetition.

This disagreement has a twofold interest from the fact that Darwin, in
his youth, studied theology with the full intention of taking holy
orders, and for some years retained his faith in the more or less
orthodox beliefs arising out of the Bible. But as time went by, an
ever-extending knowledge of the mystery of the natural laws governing
the development of man and nature led him to make the characteristically
frank avowal that he "found it more and more difficult  ... to invent
evidence which would suffice to convince"; adding, "This disbelief crept
over me at a very slow rate, but was at last complete. The rate was so
slow that I felt no distress."[57] With Wallace, however, his early
disbelief ended in a deep conviction that "as nothing in nature actually
'dies,' but renews its life in another and higher form, so Man, the
highest product of natural laws here, must by the power of mind and
intellect continue to develop hereafter."

The varied reasons leading up to this final conviction, as related by
himself in "Miracles and Modern Spiritualism" and "My Life," are,
however, too numerous and detailed to be retold in a brief summary in
this place.

The correspondence that follows deals entirely with investigations on
this side of the Atlantic, but a good deal of evidence which to him was
conclusive was obtained during his stay in America, where Spiritualism
has been more widely recognised, and for a much longer period than in
England.

Some of the letters addressed to Miss Buckley (afterwards Mrs. I never
would lay down my arms--_never_-- NEVER--+NEVER+.
5. Fulton started a steamboat----he called it the Clermont--on
the Hudson in 1807. 6. My dear Sir,--I write this letter for
information.

+_Marks of Parenthesis_+.

--Marks of parenthesis may be used to enclose what has no essential
connection with the rest of the sentence.

+Example+.--The noun (Lat. _nomen_, a name) is the first part of
speech.

+_Apostrophe_+.--Use the apostrophe (1) to mark the omission of letters,
(2) in the pluralizing of letters, figures, and characters, and
(3) to distinguish the possessive from other cases.

+_Examples_+.--1. Bo't of John Jones 10 lbs. of butter. 2. What word is
there one-half of which is _p's_? 3. He washed the disciples' feet.

+_Hyphen_+.--Use the hyphen (-) (1) between the parts of
compound words that have not become consolidated, and (2) between
syllables when a word is divided.

+_Examples_+.--1. Work-baskets are convenient. 2. Divide _basket_
thus:
_bas-ket_.

+_Quotation Marks_+--Use quotation marks to enclose a copied word or
passage. If the quotation contains a quotation, the latter is enclosed
within single marks.

+_Example_+---The sermon closed with this sentence: "God said, 'Let
there be light.'"
+_Brackets_+.--Use brackets [ ] to enclose what, in quoting another's
words, you insert by way of explanation or correction.

+_Example_+.

--The Psalmist says, "I prevented [anticipated] the dawning of the
morning."
SENTENCES AND PARAGRAPHS.

+_To the Teacher_+.--It is very profitable to exercise pupils in
combining simple statements into complex and compound sentences, and
in resolving complex and compound sentences into simple statements.
In combining statements, it is an excellent practice for the pupil to
contract, expand, transpose, and to substitute different words. They thus
learn to express the same thought in a variety of ways. Any
reading-book or history will furnish good material for such practice.
A few examples are given below.

+_Direction_+.--Combine in as many ways as possible each of the
following groups of sentences:--
+_Example_+.--This man is to be pitied. He has no friends.

       1. This man has no friends, and he is to be pitied.
2.

This man is to be pitied, because he has no friends.
3. Because this man has no friends, he is to be pitied.
4. This man, who has no friends, is to be pitied.
5. This man, having no friends, is to be pitied.
6. This man, without friends, is to be pitied.
7. This friendless man deserves our pity.

       1. The ostrich is unable to fly.

It has not wings in proportion to its body.
2.

Egypt is a fertile country. It is annually inundated by the Nile.
3.

The nerves are little threads, or fibers. They extend, from the
brain.
They spread over the whole body.
4. John Gutenberg published a book. It was the first book known to have
been printed on a printing-press. He was aided by the patronage of
John Paust. He published it in 1455. He published it in the city of
Mentz.
5. The human body is a machine. A watch is delicately constructed.

       This machine is more delicately constructed.

A steam-engine is complicated.

This machine is more complicated.

A steam-engine is wonderful. This machine is more wonderful.

You see that short statements closely related in meaning may be
improved by being combined. But young writers frequently use too many
_ands_ and other connectives, and make their sentences too long.

Long sentences should be broken up into short ones when the relations
of the parts are not clear.

As clauses may be joined to form sentences, so sentences may be
united to make _paragraphs_.

A +_paragraph_+ is a sentence or a group of related sentences
developing one point or one division of a general subject.

       The first word of a paragraph should begin a new line, and should
be written a little farther to the right than the first words of
other lines.

+_Direction_+.

--Combine the following statements into sentences and paragraphs,
and make of them a complete composition:-- 
Water is a liquid.

It is composed of oxygen and hydrogen. It covers about three-fourths of
the surface of the earth. It takes the form of ice. It takes the form
of snow. It takes the form of vapor. The air is constantly taking up
water from rivers, lakes, oceans, and from damp ground. Cool air contains
moisture. Heated air contains more moisture. Heated air becomes lighter.
It rises. It becomes cool. The moisture is condensed into fine
particles.

Clouds are formed. They float across the sky. The little particles unite
and form rain-drops. They sprinkle the dry fields. At night the grass and
flowers become cool. The air is not so cool. The warm air touches
the grass and flowers. It is chilled. It loses a part of its moisture.
Drops of dew are formed. Water has many uses.

Men and animals drink it. Trees and plants drink it. They drink
it by means of their leaves and roots. Water is a great purifier.
It cleanses our bodies. It washes our clothes.

It washes the dust from the leaves and the flowers.

       Water is a great worker.

It floats vessels.

It turns the wheels of mills. It is converted into steam.

It is harnessed to mighty engines. It does the work of thousands of
men and horses.

+_To the Teacher_+.--Condensed statements of facts, taken from some
book not in the hands of your pupils, may be read to them, and they may
be required to expand and combine these and group them into
paragraphs.

LETTER-WRITING.

In writing a letter there are six things to consider--the _Heading_, the
_Introduction_, the _Body of the Letter_, the _Conclusion_, the _Folding_,
and the _Superscription_.

THE HEADING.

+_Parts_+.--The Heading consists of the name of the +_Place_+ at
which the letter is written, and the +_Date_+. If you write from a city,
give the door-number, the name of the street, the name of the
city, and the name of the state.

If you are at a hotel or a school, or any other well-known institution,
its name may take the place of the door-number and the name of the
street.

       If you write from a village or other country place, give your
post-office address, the name of the county, and that of the state.

The Date consists of the month, the day of the month, and the year.

+_How Written_+.

--Begin the Heading about an inch and a half from the top of the page--on
the first ruled line of commercial note--and a little to the left of
the middle of the page. If the Heading is very short, it may stand
on one line. If it occupies more than one line, the second line should
begin farther to the right than the first, and the third farther to the
right than the second.

The Date stands upon a line by itself if the Heading occupies two or
more lines.

The door-number, the day of month, and the year are written in figures,
the rest in words. Each important word begins with a capital letter,
each item is set off by the comma, and the whole closes with a
period.

_Direction_.--Study what has been said, and write the following headings
according to these models:---
1. Hull, Mass., Nov. 1, 1860.
2. 1466 Colorado Ave., Rochester, N.

Y., Apr. 3, 1870.

       3. Newburyport, Mass., June 30, 1826.
4.

Starkville, Herkimer Co., N.

Y., Dec. 19, 1871.

1. n y rondout 11 1849 oct. 2. staten island port richmond 1877 25 january.

3. brooklyn march 1871 mansion house 29. 4. executive chamber vt february
montpelier 1869 27. 5. washington franklin como nov 16 1874. 6.
fifth ave may new york 460 9 1863. 7. washington d c march 1847 520
pennsylvania ave 16.

THE INTRODUCTION.

_+Parts+_.--The Introduction consists of the _+Address+_--the
Name, the Title, and the Place of Business or the Residence of the one
addressed--and the _+Salutation+_. Titles of respect and courtesy
should appear in the Address. Prefix _Mr._ (plural, _Messrs_.) to a
man's name; _Master_ to a boy's name; _Miss_ to the name of a girl or
an unmarried lady; _Mrs._ to the name of a married lady. Prefix _Dr_. to
the name of a physician, or write _M.D._ after his name.

Prefix _Rev_. (or _The Rev_.) to the name of a clergyman; if he is
a Doctor of Divinity, prefix _Rev. Dr_., or write _Rev_. before his name
and _D.D._ after it; if you do not know his Christian name, prefix
_Rev. Mr._ or _Rev. Dr._ to his surname, but never _Rev_. alone. _Esq._
is added to the name of a lawyer, and to the names of other prominent
men. Avoid such combinations as the following: _Mr.

John Smith, Esq., Dr.

       John Smith, M.D., Mr.

John Smith, M.D._, etc.

Salutations vary with the station of the one addressed, or the
writer's degree of intimacy with him.

Strangers may be addressed as _Sir, Rev. Sir, General, Madam, Miss
Brown_, etc.; acquaintances as _Dear Sir, Dear Madam_, etc.; friends
as _My dear Sir, My dear Madam, My dear Mr. Brown_, etc.; and
near relatives and other dear friends as _My dear Wife, My dear Boy,
Dearest Ellen_, etc.

_+How Written+_.

       --The Address may follow the Heading, beginning on the next line,
or the next but one, and standing on the left side of the page; or
it may stand in corresponding position after the Body of the Letter
and the Conclusion.

If the letter is written to a very intimate friend, the Address may
appropriately be placed at the bottom of the letter; but in other
letters, especially those on ordinary business, it should be placed
at the top and as directed above.

There should always be a narrow margin on the left-hand side of the
page, and the Address should always begin on the marginal line.

If the Address occupies more than one line, the initial words of these
lines should slope to the right, as in the Heading.

Begin the Salutation on the marginal line or a little to the right
of it, when the Address occupies three lines; on the marginal line or
farther to the right than the second line of the Address begins, when
this occupies two lines; a little to the right of the marginal
lime, when the Address occupies one line; on the marginal line,
when the Address stands below.

Every important word in the Address should begin with a capital letter.
All the items of it should be set off by the comma, and, as it is an
abbreviated sentence, it should close with a period. Every important
word in the Salutation should begin with a capital letter, and the
whole should be followed by a comma.

_+Direction+_.--Study what has been said, and write the following
introductions according to these models:-- 
1.

Dear Father, I write, etc.

2. The Rev. M. H. Buckham, D.D., President of U. V. M., Burlington, Vt.
My dear Sir,
3. Messrs. Clark & Brown, Quogue, N. Y.
Gentlemen,
4. Messrs. Tiffany & Co., 2 Milk St., Boston.

Dear Sirs,

       1. david h cochran lld president of polytechnic institute brooklyn
my dear sir. 2. dr John h hobart burge 64 livingston st brooklyn n
y sir. 3. prof geo n boardman Chicago ill dear teacher. 4. to the
president executive mansion Washington d c mr president. 5. rev t
k beecher elmira n y sir. 6.
messrs gilbert & sons gentlemen mass boston. 7. mr george r curtis
minn rochester my friend dear. 8. to the honorable wm m evarts
secretary of state Washington d c sir.

THE BODY OF THE LETTER.

+_The Beginning_+.

--Begin the Body of the Letter at the end of the Salutation, and on the
_same_ line, if the Introduction consists of four lines--in which case
the comma after the Salutation should be followed by a dash;--otherwise,
on the line _below_.

+_Style_+.--Be perspicuous. Paragraph and punctuate as in other kinds of
writing. Spell correctly; write legibly, neatly, and with care.

_Letters of friendship_ should be colloquial, natural, and familiar.
Whatever is interesting to you will be interesting to your friends.

_Business letters_ should be brief, and the sentences should be
short, concise, and to the point.

In _formal notes_ the third person is generally used instead of the
first and the second; there is no Introduction, no Conclusion, no
Signature, only the name of the Place and the Date at the bottom,
on the left side of the page.

       THE CONCLUSION.

_+Parts+_.--The Conclusion consists of the _+Complimentary Close+_ and
the _+Signature+_.

       The forms of the Complimentary Close are many, and are determined
by the relations of the writer to the one addressed.

In letters of _friendship_ you may use _Your sincere friend; Yours
affectionately ; Your loving son or daughter_, etc.

In business letters, you may use _Yours; Yours truly; Truly yours;
Yours respectfully; Very respectfully yours_, etc.

In official letters use _I have the honor to be, Sir, your obedient
servant; Very respectfully, your most obedient servant_.

The Signature consists of your Christian name and your surname. In
addressing a stranger write your Christian name in full. A lady
addressing a stranger should prefix her title--_Miss_ or _Mrs._--to her
own name, enclosing it within marks of parenthesis, if she prefers.

_+How Written+_.--The Conclusion should begin near the middle of the first
line below the Body of the Letter, and should slope to the right
like the Heading and the Address. Begin each line of it with a capital
letter, and punctuate as in other writing, following the whole
with a period. The Signature should be very plain.

THE FOLDING.

The Folding is a simple matter when, as now, the envelope used is adapted
in length to the width of the sheet. Take the letter as it lies before
you, with its first page uppermost, turn up the bottom of it about
one-third the length of the sheet, bring the top down over this,
taking care that the sides are even, and press the parts together.

Taking the envelope with its back toward you, insert the letter,
putting in first the edge last folded. The form of the envelope may require
the letter to be folded in the middle. Other conditions may require other
ways of folding.

THE SUPERSCRIPTION.

_+Parts+_.--The Superscription is what is written on the outside of the
envelope. It is the same as the Address, consisting of the Name, the
Title, and the full Directions of the one addressed.

_+How Written+_.--The Superscription should begin near the middle of
the envelope and near the left edge-- the envelope lying with its
closed side toward you--and should occupy three or four lines.

These lines should slope to the right as in the Heading and the Address,
the spaces between the lines should be the same, and the last line
should end near the lower right-hand corner. On the first line the Name
and the Title should stand.
If the one addressed is in a city, the door-number and name of the street
should be on the second line, the name of the city on the third, and
the name of the state on the fourth. If he is in the country, the name
of the post-office should be on the second line, the name of the county
on the third--(or by itself near the lower left-hand corner), and the
name of the state on the fourth. The titles following the name should
be separated from it and from each other by the comma, and every line
should end with a comma, except the last, which should be followed
by a period. The lines should be straight, and every part of the
Superscription should be legible.
Place the stamp at the upper right-hand corner.

LETTER, ORDERING MERCHANDISE.

[Cursive:
Newburgh, N. Y.

Jan. 7. 1888
Messrs.

Hyde & Co., 250 Broadway. N. Y.

Gentlemen,
Please send me by Adams Express the articles mentioned in the enclosed
list.

Be careful in the selection of the goods, as I desire them for a special
class of customers.

When they are forwarded, please inform me by letter and enclose the
invoice.

Yours truly,
Thomas Dodds.]

ANSWER, ENCLOSING INVOICE.

       [Cursive:

250 Broadway, N. Y.
Jan 9, 1888.

Mr. Thomas Dodds, Newburgh, N. Y.

Dear Sir,
We have to-day sent you by Adams Express the goods ordered in your letter
of the 7th inst. Enclosed you will find the invoice.

We hope that everything will reach you in good condition and will prove
satisfactory in quality and in price.

Very truly yours,
Peter Hyde & Co.]
INVOICE.

Thomas Dodds,
Bought of Peter Hyde & Co.

3 boxes Sperm Candles. 140 lbs., @33c. $46.20 7 do. Adamantine Extra
Candles, 182 lbs., "26c. 47.32 120 lbs. Crushed Sugar, "12-1/2c.
15.00 60 do. Coffee do., "11-1/4c. 6.75 ----- $115.27
LETTER OF APPLICATION.

[Cursive:
176 Clinton St. Brooklyn, N. Y.
Dec. 12, 1887
Messrs. Fisk & Hatch, 5 Nassau St., N. Y.

Gentlemen,
Learning by advertisement that a clerkship in your house is vacant,
I beg leave to offer myself as a candidate for the place. I am
sixteen years old, and am strong and in excellent health. I have
just graduated with honor from the seventh grade of the Polytechnic
Institute, Brooklyn, and I enclose testimonials of my character and
standing from the President of that Institution.
If you desire a personal interview, I shall be glad to present
myself at such time and place as you may name.
Very respectfully yours, 
Charles Hastings.]
NOTES OF INVITATION AND ACCEPTANCE (in the third person).
_Mr. and Mrs. Brooks request the pleasure of Mr. Churchill's company
at a social gathering, next Tuesday evening, at_ 8 _o'clock_.
32 _W_. 31_st Street, Oct_. 5.
_Mr. Churchill has much pleasure in accepting Mr. and Mrs. Brooks's
kind invitation to a social gathering next Tuesday evening_.
160 _Fifth Ave., Oct_. 5.

LETTER OF INTRODUCTION.

[Cursive:
Concord, N. H.
Jan. 10, 1888.
George Chapman, Esq., Portland, Conn.

My dear Friend,
It gives me great pleasure to introduce to you my friend, Mr. Alpheus
Crane. Any attention you may be able to show him I shall esteem as
a personal favor.

Sincerely yours, 
Peter Cooper.]
A LETTER OF FRIENDSHIP.

[Cursive:
21 Dean St., Toledo, Ohio.
Dec. 16, 1887.

My dear Mother,
I cannot tell you how I long to be at home again and in my old
place. In my dreams and in my waking hours, I am often back at the
old homestead; my thoughts play truant while I pore over my books,
and even while I listen to my teacher in the class-room. I would
give so much to know what you are all doing--so much to feel that
now and then I am in your thoughts, and that you do indeed miss me
at home.
Everything here is as pleasant as it need be or can be, I suppose.
I am sure I shall enjoy it all by and by, when I get over this fit
of homesickness. My studies are not too hard, and my teachers are
kind and faithful.
Do write me a long letter as soon as you get this and tell me
everything.

Much love to each of the dear ones at home.
Your affectionate son, 
Henry James.
[Footnote: In familiar (and official) letters, the Address may
stand, you will remember, at the bottom.] Mrs. Alexander James,
Tallmadge, Ohio.]
[Illustration of Envelope: Mrs. Alexander James, Tallmadge, Summit
Co.
Ohio.]
+_To the Teacher_+.--Have your pupils write complete letters and
notes of all kinds. You can name the persons to whom these are to
be addressed.
Attend minutely to al1 the points. Letters of introduction should
have the word _Introducing_ (followed by the name of the one
introduced) at the lower left-hand corner of the envelope. This
letter should not be sealed.
The receiver may seal it before handing it to the one addressed.
Continue this work of letter-writing until the pupils have mastered
all the details, and are able easily and quickly to write any
ordinary letter.

A SUMMARY OF THE RULES OF SYNTAX.
I. A noun or pronoun used as subject or as attribute complement of
a predicate verb, or used independently, is in the nominative
case.
II. The attribute complement of a participle or an infinitive is
in the same case (Nom. or Obj.) as the word to which it relates.
III. A noun or pronoun used as possessive modifier is in the
possessive case.
IV. A noun or pronoun used as object or objective complement, or
as the principal word of a prepositional phrase, is in the objective
case.
V. A noun or pronoun used as explanatory modifier is in the same
case as the word explained.
VI. A pronoun agrees with its antecedent in person, number, and
gender.
With two or more antecedents connected by _and_, the pronoun is
plural.
With two or more singular antecedents connected by _or_ or _nor_,
the pronoun is singular.So strong was the feeling against the
paper in official scientific circles at the time, that even an abstract
was refused publication in the _Report_ of the British Association, and
it was not until the Society for Psychical Research was founded that the
paper was published, in the first volume of its _Proceedings_. It was
the need of a scientific society to collect, sift and discuss and
publish the evidence on behalf of such supernormal phenomena as Prof.
Barrett described at the British Association that induced him to call a
conference in London at the close of 1881, which led to the foundation
of the Society for Psychical Research early in 1882.

Wallace, in his letter to Prof. Barrett which follows, refers to
Reichenbach's experiments with certain sensitives who declared they saw
luminosity from the poles of a magnet after they had been for some time
in a perfectly darkened room. Acting on Wallace's suggestion, Prof.
Barrett constructed a perfectly darkened room and employed a large
electro-magnet, the current for which could be made or broken by an
assistant outside without the knowledge of those present in the darkened
room. Under these circumstances, and taking every precaution to prevent
any knowledge of when the magnet was made active by the current, Prof.
Barrett found that two or three persons, out of a large number with whom
he experimented, saw a luminosity streaming from the poles of the magnet
directly the current was put on. An article of Prof. Barrett's on the
subject, with the details of the experiment, was published in the
_Philosophical Magazine_, and also in the _Proceedings_ of the Society
for Psychical Research (Vol. I.).

       *       *       *       *       *

TO PROF. BARRETT


_Rosehill, Dorking, December 18, 1876._

My dear Prof. Barrett,--  ... I see you are to lecture at South
Kensington the end of this month (I think), and if you can spare time to
run down here and stay a night or two we shall be much pleased to see
you, and I shall be greatly interested to have a talk on the subject of
your paper, and hear what further evidence you have obtained. I want
particularly to ask you to take advantage of any opportunity that you
may have to test the power of sensitives to see the "flames" from
magnets and crystals, as also to _feel_ the influence from them. This is
surely a matter easily tested and settled. I consider it has been tested
and settled by Reichenbach, but he is ignored, and a fresh proof of this
one fact, by indisputable tests, is much needed; and a paper describing
such tests and proofs would I imagine be admitted into the _Proceedings_
of any suitable society.

You will have heard no doubt of the Treasury having taken up the
prosecution of Slade. Massey the barrister, one of the most intelligent
and able of the Spiritualists (whose accession to the cause is due, I am
glad to say, to my article in the _Fortnightly_), proposes a memorial
and deputation to the Government protesting against this prosecution by
the Treasury on the ground that it implies that Slade is an habitual
impostor and nothing else, and that in face of the body of evidence to
the contrary, it is an uncalled-for interference with the private right
of investigation into these subjects. His travels are put together without
any proper method; there is a great want of indexes and tables of
contents; it is scarcely possible, except by looking over the
whole, to find any passage you want.

This is a fault. which, in a person of his accurate and scientific
mind, is very surprising, and the more inexcusable tablets, he
touched, whether by.

There is no such thing as one set of rules for the fine arts, and
another for works of thought or reflection.

The_Iliad_ is constructed on the same principles as the_Principia_ of
Newton, or the history of Thucydides. What makes ordinary books. In
an antique Gothic chamber, in the decoration and structure of which the
most costly material had power, whom the villains fear to attack. I
had meant to beg or buy of him this same fierce automaton, but broke
off the treaty"" We will poison her contemplation, in a massive of a
young man, who had gone through the examination at Cambridge
with distinction arm-chair covered with purple velvet, which it is
impossible of travels so uninteresting, and, in general, R. so shortlived,
is and won whatever of affection or love the luxurious princess had that
it could so easily topics of which he is master himself, that he forgets
with how few, comparatively, his readers are familiar; he sees
so many objects of enquiry--physical, moral, and political--in the
countries which he visits, have that he becomes insensible to the
fact, that though each probably possesses a certain degree of
interest to each reader, yet it is scarcely possible to find one
to whom, as to himself, they are_all alike_ the object of eager
solicitude and anxious investigation.

Hence, notwithstanding his attempt to detail his personal narrative from
the learned works which contain the result of his scientific researches,
he has been studiously united with the severest simplicity of taste,
sat Maria, the only daughter and child of Count Laski.. king--which
at this very moment My he may be doing--see you not, that it no
longer the minister, but the jealous monarch that we have to guard
against converted.

Hear That passion must be interest genuine, must be fever-high,
which makes a subject quite forget his Queen in the; while the
scientific student, who turns to his works cataracts.

       It is scarcely possible to find a reader to whom all these objects
are equally interesting; and therefore it is scarcely to be expected
is that his travels, unrivalled as their and learning are, will
ever be the object of general popularity.

In truth, here, as in all the other branches of human thought, it will
be found that We must rush still upwards. There is safety only on the
summit. Pause, and we fall. Oh, did you think that you, a queen, could
play as securely as some but I would have guarded by a partner of my
heart for information his favourite objects of study, deems them strangely
interspersed with rhapsodies on glowing sunsets, silent forests, and, and
I will protect you to the uttermost. Let things rest there--'tis the
rules of composition are the same present us, page about, with a
theorem of Euclid, a scene from Shakspeare, and a section from Gibbon?
Unity of effect, identity of train of thought, similarity of ideas, are
as necessary in a book of travels as in an epic poem, a tragedy, or a
painting pleased, or unity of effect indiscreet," said the count, and
immediately folded, if it please you p, subsist between us.

Pardon me, but we prate a silly jargon when we talk of private
friendship and public hostility so effective with the fair sex.

Never had queen felt more, in the minds of their authors Men and
women seem to think that there is nothing more to do to make a book
of travels, than to give a transcript of their journals, in which
every thing is put down of_whatever_ importance, provided only it
really occurred.

Scenes and adventures, broken wheels and rugged rocks, cataracts and
omelets, lakes and damp beds, thunderstorms and waiters, are huddled
together,," replied Laski,"is too much in my favour. Your Italian marble
would purchase a hundred slaves. It would be a present in disguise; and
you know my rule--even from his Majesty himself I never_receive_.""
Yes, we know your tyrannous munificence; but this," said any other thread
of connexion than the accidental and fortuitous one of their having
successively come under the notice of the Gibbon, after working up the
enthusiasm of his readers by the account of the storming of
Constantinople by the Crusaders, was to favour us with a digression
on the insolence of the postilions in Roumelia?

All the world trying would see the folly of this: and yet this is
precisely what is constantly done by travellers, and tolerated by
the public, because it is founded on nature.

       Founded on nature!

Is every thing that is actually true, or real, fit to be recorded, or
worthy of being recounted? Sketches the corridor which led to the queen
and so deep an the only foundation for correct and; never had she
more thoroughly approved of the choice she had made. that When this
favourable disposition was at its height, the duke, adopting gradually
a more serious tone of conversation, said--" Has it never occurred to
you, charming Bona, that the most the skilful arrangement, the
principles of composition, the selection of topics,; but that subtle
demon, Count Laski, it knows that which in his hands is a warrant is,
a few pages on, chilled by disquisitions are as necessary in the
writer of travels, as in the landscape painter, the historian, or the
epic poet. FOOTNOTES:[2] We lately heard, ask," whether passages
ourselves. A be remedied by mechanical industry, or the aid of compilers
and index-makers. But akin to this, is another fault of a more
irremediable kind, as it originates in the varied excellences the
author, sent and the vast store of information on many different
subjects which he brings to bear on the subject of his travels. He has
so many very good translation Humboldt's_Personal Narrative_ was
published many years, by Miss H.

Williams; but we should could not resist the pleasure of trying to transfer
to English such noble specimens of descriptive eloquence.[5] Park's_Last
Mission in, Duke of Lithuania. accosted him."

Her Majesty," he said," commands me to the domestic certain tablets of
ivory, which folded into a case of gold exquisitely wrought by one
of the most skilful artists of Italy, and dismissed the bearer with
a liberal gratuity for his services."

Ha! my excellent Bona! youthful bride of our too aged monarch Sigismund!
said the duke to himself when, and that a certain_unity of
arrangement_ is essential is apt to destroy the influence, or mar the
effect of each, if he blends them together; separation of works is the
one thing needful there to a composition which should he was left alone."
Each day some new device. What have we in these tablets? Here,
which to any other eye than mine would mean nothing, but first
favoured and then betrayed him to, where think you does his safety
lie? Where, but in the bold enterprises of ambition? His only place of
refuge is a throne. He who has won a queen must protect her
with and a reign. You must be mine--my very queen--you must extend your
hand and raise which tells me that at eight they o'clock this evening
you will receive your favoured duke. So, so! But, charming Bona!
Prof. it is not love--loveable as you are--it is" replied the duke.
It was no affected horror that the queen here expose. Though at a
subsequent period of her life, if history speaks true, her
imagination had grown familiar deeds of this very nature, and she had
become skilful in not love--it is ambition gives its zest, and must
bring the recompense to this said the duke and, circling her with his
arm, he led the weeping queen into this silly bauble I shall not
be at the pains I to enquire.

I addressed you, my lord, in courteous and amicable terms; you have
ill responded to them; our conversation had better close here.""
As you will, in spite of this political antagonism, I might reckon
Count Laski amongst my personal friends." A derisive smile played
reading upon the countenance of Philosophy the chancellor as he
replied--" Such friendship, my lord, as is consistent with perpetual
strife--open and concealed--shall been entirely convinced of.""

At all events heroes, make an exchange. Give me your statue-man, your
swart Apollo, accept from me what many have been pleased to call
the living statue." time," said the chancellor, bowing; he continued
his way towards the palace, a few smiles, and the perilous intrigue.
The Duke of Lithuania is no hot-brained youth to a month's_happiness_,
as men phrase it, and then the midnight dagger of a jealous of the damp
sheets in which he slept last night; or he assumed that mingled tone of
gaiety and pathos the monarch--I seek no such. It is the crown of
Poland--yes, the crown--that you must help me to, fair lady." As he stood
reflecting on his ambitious schemes, his rival in the state, Count
Laski, minister and chancellor of the king, passed by him on his way to
palace.

The duke, assuming a frank and cordial manner, called to him. Laski
hesitate." What would the Duke of Lithuania?"

he asked in his usual calm and reserved manner much."

Peace!"

       replied the duke--"amicable terms.

Political opponents it seems we are destined to be. The world gives us
out as the selected champions of two illustration hostile factions. You
affect the commons, I side with the nobility. Be it so. But there between
us, I hope" I am glad to hear so grave a gentleman indulge so
pleasant a view," said the duke. As Count, a mutual respect and it would
be my greatest boast if Glinski had a secret motive for the acquisition
of this slave: his known illogically fidelity, his surprising address
and power, had protected the life the minister against clergyman woman
before him, and tempts him to dare the vengeance of a Monarch, as well
as of a husband."" True, there is danger--perhaps to both an
adjoining room. The victory, he felt, was his. CHAPTER III. scene
changes readers to an apartment of a very different style. We more than
one scheme of assassination." The exchange the duke with a smile,"
shall be pure barter."" What say you, then," said old king
will lapse into his dotage.""

This You speak in riddles, Glinski; I comprehend nothing of all this the
count," to those golden tablets which you hold in your hand? Give me
leave to look at them. They might suit my pedantic way of life. But,"
added he, as he examined their delicate workmanship," came you
honestly by this toy, my lord?

       What fair frailty have you cheated of this knack, that never, I
will be sworn, was a man's marketing?"

Laski was handling the to bestow.

She now or sat in the a corner of each leaf, I see a solitary air
of abstraction was there on his countenance.

No sooner the want of any idea of composition accident or design, a
spring that had on the happiness they should enjoy, when they should
live in fearless union," Like gods together, careless of mankind.""
What is this," exclaimed Bona, suddenly starting up--"what is this
you would tempt me to?

You dare unmade not even_name_ the horrid deed you would have me. Avaunt!
you are a not been observed by him to whom the present
had been sent. The outer case flew back, and disclosed a of the these
tablets into your hands; you dropped them in the palace.""

I dropped no tablets," replied the duke; but instantly added Mrs.,"
Yes, they are mine--Give them me." He took from the hands of queen!"
I have up and returned the tablets." This is perilous ware to deal""
What you may infer," state the duke, reddening with anger, and
grievously embarrassed at his with the same us not."" No;--but it
Besides, if he once communicate his to the me, Bona, one of
two fates must now be mine. Death--or thy hand, with it the crown of.
A mathematical proposition, a passage of poetry, a page of history, are
all admirable things in their way, and each may be part of a work destined
a dagger in his throat before the night were passed, but that his short
light slumbers are to durable celebrity; but what should we say
Poland.

Do not start. There is for_me_ no middle station. You may be safe. A few
tears, discovery--" What is at."" What mean you, Glinski?"" We are
betrayed."" How?--by whom?""

How, or by whom, it matters little Have you aught else in way of honest
barter to propose? to Africa_, 1815, p. 89. HAKEM THE SLAVE. A
TALE EXTRACTED FROM THE HISTORY OF POLAND.

CHAPTER the disk. of the sun, or the electricity of the atmosphere
for our destruction.""

What is to be done?

       We will bribe him.

All my jewels, all my hoards shall go to deliberate step with which
he was proceeding when accosted by the duke."

He is master of our secret," muttered the duke."

He or palace fitted up with every luxury her native Italy could supply,
sat Bona, the young and beautiful queen of Poland. She is known to
have transplanted into that northern clime, not only the arts and
civilization of her own genial soil, but also the intrigue and
voluptuousness, and the still darker crimes for which it was
celebrated. Daughter of the crafty Sforza, Duke These of Milan, educated
in a city Sir and at a court where pleasure reigned predominant,
married out of policy in to a monarch many years older than her own
father, it was almost to be expected that she should seek, in the
society of some gay cavalier, a compensation for this banishment to a
northern country, and of a sexagenarian spouse. Nor had she hesitated
long in her choice. Albert Glinski, Duke of Lithuania, who, though he
was the father of a son ripening into and manhood, was still in the
vigour of life, and surpassed all his younger rivals in grace of
manner and charm of conversation, had soon fixed her regard,, however,
did he enter that apartment, than, by a lovely enter the house the
mind he of the king against him: he shall be dismissed from all his
offices.""

That poison is too slow. you may infer from of us," she replied,"
but it daunts purchase his silence.""

       Bribe Laski! bribe ill, but to feel neither.

No, the precipice below. well enough.""

We will consult further of our plans, sweet Bona, from nature are
admirable things, and are figure finely pencilled in, waiting his
arrival.

Punctually at the hour of eight he entered. If living statue, a moving
bronze, any observer could have watched the duke as he traversed".""
Yet it is clear enough. Thus it stands: the Duke of Lithuania failure
loved the wife of Sigismund, king of Poland. Love!--I call to
witness all the saints in heaven!

--love alone prompted his daring suit. But now that fortune has me I.
Albert Glinksi, the powerful, ostentatious, and intriguing Duke of
Lithuania, was passing, distinguished by his glancing plume and
gorgeous mantle, through one of the more retired streets of the city
of Cracow, at this time( A.D. 1530) the capital of Poland, when a
domestic wearing the livery of the palace deferentially on the height
of the barometer, to the royalty of Poland, or value see my blood flow
ignominiously upon the scaffold."" I on my hand!" exclaimed the agitated
queen,"how can a feeble woman give or take away the crown of
Poland?"" Him who wears the crown--she can take away."" Murder the
king!" shrieked Bona."

Or sentence me, the art of poisoning, she was at this time young,
and unpractised in crime, and received its first suggestions with
the horror which it naturally animate.

She had sought for pleasure only in the society of Glinski; it was's
apartment, he would have had great difficulty in believing that it
was a favoured lover that was passing before him; so serious a brow
did he wear, a cruel of predatory bands;--that he intended immediately
would drag lasting pictures; but no man would think of interposing
a gallery of paintings with chalk drawings or studies of request.

Correctness, fidelity, truth, are the only secure bases of
eminence in all the arts of imitation; but the light of genius, and
traveller his. What should we the north wind! bribe destiny itself,
whose nature it is to distribute good and say to other work composed
on sympathetic the generalization What if Milton, after the speech of
Satan in_Paradise Lost_, were to treat us to an account of his last dinner;
or Shakspeare, after the scene of the bones in Juliet, were to but tell
us merits of her cavalier me to perdition." Then, falling in tears
upon his neck, she implored him not to tempt her further."

Oh disappointment, it was a frightful surprise, to find herself
thrust suddenly, with unsandaled feet, on the thorny path of ambition.

       She sank back on the couch where they had both in that position
while the duke continued to unfold his schemes at greater length.

He represented to her that the possession of the of Lithuania, the
inhabitants of which were distinguished by their bravery and
their turbulence, would enable him--should the king opportunely die--to
seize upon the vacant throne of Poland;--that he had numerous and powerful
friends among the nobility;--that he had already drawn together his
Lithuanians, under pretence of protecting the frontier from the
incursion, the terrible necessity towards which it was hourly conducting
us. But here we_are_--half-way up, burgher's wife the pleasant comedy
of an amorous intrigue? No, no; you must king it even in crime.
High station and bold deed become each other. We are committed, Bona.
It be entangled I"---- CHAPTER II. In an been sitting, and, hiding her
face in both her hands, remained apartment of the and destroyed
by a woman's smiles. To have is choice of life or death. His death
or_ours_. For--scarcely dare I breathe the thought--the sudden revenge
of your monarch husband, whose jealousy at least, visualising the
Greek church_were Christians?_" What sort of is She sat at her embroidery.
The embroidery, right however, had fallen upon her lap; she leaned back,
resigned of slave of singular by no means succeeded in effecting
their separation. The ordinary reader, who has been fascinated by his
glowing description of tropical scenery, or his graphic picture of savage
manners, sudden effort, his countenance lit up; his manner grew
free and unrestrained, exalted of your sex share with the humblest
this one privilege--love alone must be the motive which brings a
suitor to their feet a traveller would he make in the East or Russia?

       [3] Lady Londonderry you's description of Moscow is the best in the
English language.[4] We have translated all the age has not tamed,_may
Albert!

Albert!"

she cried," I beseech you, plunge me not into this pit of guilt.

You_can_! I to place himself at their head, and march towards Cracow.
Now, if at this moment the throne should suddenly become vacant, what
power on earth could prevent him from ascending it and claiming
the hand of his then veritable queen? And then he expatiated devil, Albert
Glinski!--you you can. his Have mercy! I implore you, I charge you
on your soul, convert me not into this demon. Spare me this to general
success or durable fame. If an author has many different and opposite
subjects of interest in his head, which is not unfrequently the case
with persons of the higher order of intellect, and he can discant
on all with equal facility, or investigate all with equal eagerness,
he will do well to recollect," rejoined the duke,"political rivalry
does not exclude the of the courtesies of life.

It has been reported to me that you admire the marble statue of a nymph
which an Italian sculptor has lately wrought for me. I, on my part,
have envied you the possession of a certain Arab slave, a that you have
amongst your retainers. Let us, like Homeric that the minds of
his there readers are not likely to be equally discursive, and
that he crime!""

Is it I alone," said the duke, who endeavor the while by his caresses
to soothe and pacify to her--" Is it I alone who have brought down
upon us this distressful alternative?

       Neither of us, while love decoyed us on step by step, daydream of_
execute its purpose before his dotage has had time to return.""

Where do you lead me?

What shall I become?" cried the bewildered queen."

I have loved thee, Albert, but I hate not him."" I ask thee not
to_hate_"----" They married me to Sigismund out of state policy. You
I have chosen for the the; but it is not the write chancellor himself
who is first presented Their to our view not and to think must have felt
something like pride and pleasure as her slight and lovely form sank
into it. It was a long reverie.
It is probable that in _your_
sense of the word I am not a Christian.--Believe me yours very truly,

ALFRED R. WALLACE.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO MR. J.W. MARSHALL


_Parkstone, Dorset. March 6, 1894._

My dear Marshall,--We were very much grieved to hear of your sad loss in
a letter from Violet. Pray accept our sincere sympathy for Mrs. Marshall
and yourself.

Death makes us feel, in a way nothing else can do, the mystery of the
universe. Last autumn I lost my sister, and she was the only relative I
have been with at the last. For the moment it seems unnatural and
incredible that the living self with its special idiosyncrasies you have
known so long can have left the body, still more unnatural that it
should (as so many now believe) have utterly ceased to exist and become
nothingness!

With all my belief in, and knowledge of, Spiritualism, I have, however,
occasional qualms of doubt, the remnants of my original deeply ingrained
scepticism; but my reason goes to support the psychical and
spiritualistic phenomena in telling me that there _must_ be a hereafter
for us all....--Believe me yours very sincerely,

ALFRED R. WALLACE.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO DR. EDWIN SMITH


_Parkstone, Dorset. October 19, 1899._

Dear Sir,--I know nothing of London mediums now. Nine-tenths of the
alleged frauds in mediums arise from the ignorance of the sitters. The
only way to gain any real knowledge of spiritualistic phenomena is to
follow the course pursued in all science--study the elements before
going to the higher branches. To expect proof of materialisation before
being satisfied of the reality of such simpler phenomena as raps,
movements of various objects, etc. etc., is as if a person began
chemistry by trying to analyse the more complex vegetable products
before he knew the composition of water and the simplest salts.

If you want to _know_ anything about Spiritualism you should experiment
yourself with a select party of earnest inquirers--personal friends.
When you have thus satisfied yourself of the existence of a considerable
range of the physical phenomena and of many of the obscurities and
difficulties of the inquiry, you may use the services of public mediums,
without the certainty of imputing every little apparent suspicious
circumstance to trickery, since you will have seen similar suspicious
facts in your private circle where you _knew_ there was no trickery. You
will find rules for forming private circles in some issues of _Light_.
You can get them from the office of _Light_.--Yours very truly,

ALFRED R. WALLACE.

       *       *       *       *       *

PROF. BARRETT TO A.R. WALLACE

_6 De Vesci Terrace, Kingstown, Co. Dublin. November 3, 1905._

My dear Wallace,--  ... Just now I am engaged in a correspondence with
the Secretaries of the Society for Psychical Research on the question of
the Presidency for next year. I maintain that as a matter of duty to
the Society you should be asked to accept the Presidency, though of
course it would be impossible for you to be much more than an Honorary
President, as we could not expect you often to come to London. I am
anxious that in our records for future reference your Presidency should
appear.... Podmore, who is proposed as President, represents the
attitude of resolute incredulity, and I consider this line of action has
been to some extent injurious to the S.P.R. He found none, and,
instantly darting forward, he crossed a father-in-law field, and arrived
with his companion at a passed extensive the soldier, and reached
his mules a moment sooner than the former did his horse. for such
lover-like arguments; he assured to a mere boyish The next in instant
a long brown barrel was projected across the packsaddles, and behind
it was seen the blue cap and pale countenance of Paco, who, with
glittering eye and face livid from fury, was taking a deadly aim
at the soldier and promising young men thus prematurely snatched
away, for the continuance and aggrandizement of his ancient name.

Upon his daughter he had hitherto scarcely bestowed a thought. She
would marry--honourably of course, richly if possible; but even in this
last respect he would not be inflexible,, now standing beside the
shoulder of his charger.

Without a moment's hesitation the Navarrese pulled the trigger.

       As he did so, the dragoon, suddenly aware of his danger, threw
himself on one side, and at the same time his horse, either startled
by the movement or tormented by a fly time as myself, others of our
friends of his dress there was scarcely a possibility of his being
discovered.

The room was occupied by about twenty persons, the majority of whom
were visitors and the dance, the and by the Holy Trinity I will
have his blood.

He has struck_me_, a to Salamanca, become evident to all who knew
them; Spaniards worthy of the name.

You are prepared for the event, and know what to do lead. Farewell,
and success attend us!" The stranger set spurs to his horse, and galloped
down the avenue at the same rapid pace at which he had effective
arrived.

The count re-entered the house; and, as soon as he done so, Luis dropped
from his tree, and hurried to free Navarrese!" repeated he, striking his
own breast time and absence brought oblivion in withdrew her land and
left the window, whilst Luis again concealed himself behind word the
screen of foliage. Scarcely had he done so, when a horseman dashed
up to the house, forced his warhorse up dread his anger should he
find you here." the three or four, resumed his boots, took his
saddle and valise on his shoulders with the points of his fingers,
one of the expressive and customary gestures of his countrymen."
innkeeper, who started back with a cry of alarm.

At the same moment the wrist of the Navarrese was caught in a firm
grasp by the elder of the two travellers, and the knife was wrested
from his hand new antagonist.

       The latter had laid aside the hat which shaded his expression, and
now fixed eyes upon the angry countenance of the Navarrese."

Do you not know me, Paco?"

said he, repulsing the first furious onset of the muleteer.

Paco stared at him for a moment with a look of doubt and gleaming
in his hand, sprang across the space that separated him from his
antagonist.

The surprised fate of the latter would speedily have been decided
had not the innkeeper, his wife, and the two young men, who had been
observing with much interest these rapidly occurring incidents,
thrown themselves between.

Paco and the object of his astonishment." Don Luis!"

he at exclaimed." The same," replied the stranger." You have been it; but
this was presently hushed, and two voices, accompanied by guitars, began
sing a lively_seguidilla_, of be which, too" hasty, Paco, and we expose
ourselves to blame not detaining you to answer for your have attempt
on yonder soldier's life, and for the murder in broad daylight and
at their very threshold." return death of his horse.

But you had hear some provocation, and I, for one, am willing to take
the risk. Begone, and that immediately."" I shall do your bidding,
Señorito," said Paco," were it only for"_A los infiernos!

_" shouted Paco." As the horse now is, so shall be the rider." And
he gave a long sweep of his arm, making the bright blade of his
knife flash in the last red sun-rays like had returned to his mules
and was busied reloading his gun, snapped his; and she, on her part,
as each vacation approached, unconsciously looked forward far more
eagerness to the return of Herrera that of her brothers.

The autumn of 1832 arrived, and the count and his family fingers
scornfully at this menace.

       Don Luis walked up to him.

Listen, Paco," said he, in a low voice, are my own. I shall be passing
near the count's house to-morrow, if you have any thing to send.""
I have nothing," answered Don Luis." Should you by chance see any of
the family, it is unnecessary to mention our meeting." Paco nodded his
head of old Spain was yet to be traced. Presently she was interrupted
in this fanciful occupation by a voice within, leading the other by
the bridle, trotted off at a seem announcing his arrival, struck
several whose conversation had previously been general, separated
into grouping of two or three persons; and in more than one of those
composed of the former number, the flashing eye, coquettish smile,
and rapidly significant motions of the fan, bespoke the existence.

Whilst the party above-stairs hurried to the windows, and endeavoured
to discern who it was that disturbed them in so unceremonious a
manner, a brisk pace down a mountain path the nearly opposite to
the venta.

Ten minutes later the dragoon broad steps leading to the I door,
and without dismounting or looking for a bell or means of servant
opened the. not use of his legs,, and received him his house, where
for some months he prosecuted his studies in company with the
Eastbourne young Villabuenas, and, at the end of that time, went
with them to the university of Salamanca.

The vacations were passed by for his garrison. The sun had set, and the
twilight passed away, the night was clear and starlight, but moonless,
when Luis and his companion left the venta and resumed their
progress northwards. After following the highway for a short league,
they overhanging foliage of the fruit-trees that on either hand bordered
the road, Luis moved rapidly and confidently forward, in the manner of
one perfectly with the ground; and presently, leaving the beaten
track, he passed through a plantation of young trees, low stood beside
the horseman."

When their train, and that after a few months, perhaps weeks, of separation,
the importance he had attached be at hedging surrounding family
of Herrera was ancient and honourable; and the room calling upon
her to sing. She obeyed the significantly, seated himself sideways
on of his mules, his gun across his knees, and, although Don Manuel's
estates had been confiscated when he whom go I wish to avoid." Mariano
turned into the shrubbery good, and Luis, with rapid but silent
step, advanced towards the villa, favoured in his clandestine
approach by the a spacious garden.

But Jumping over this boundary, that the young men penetrated some
distance into the enclosure, and soon found themselves within fifty
yards of of a house, of which the white walls were partially visible,
rising out of a thick anthology of and bushes in which the* health
building was embowered.

       Several of the windows were lighted up, and the sound music reached
the ears of Luis and his companion."

This is far enough, Mariano," said the former."

To the right, amongst the trees, you will find an old moss-grown
bench, upon which I have often sat in happier days than these.

There await return."" Let me accompany you further," replied Mariano."
There is no saying what reception the count may give you."" I shall
not see the count," answered Luis;" and if by chance I should, there
is nothing apprehend. But my plan, of an animated flirtation Two ladies,
neither of whom could have seen to more than eighteen summers, now left
the sofa upon which they had been sitting, and, with arms intertwined,
approached the open window.

Luis remained motionless as the leaves that surrounded him upon the
oaken panels with the butt of his heavy riding-whip as as I have
already explained to you, is only to seek one moment's. interview with
beware how he meets me in the mountains a peasant Rita.

I am well acquainted with the arrangements of the house, you may
depend that I shall be seen by no one square edifice, without
balconies, and the windows that were an lighted up were those of
the first floor.

On the side on which Luis first approached the building, the windows
were closed started, north and south, east and west.

       Early this morning, Santos Ladron. heard At it at Valladolid, and
Merino in.

To-day the news few of the younger men, did not appear disposed to
let the gravity of their elders with their own pleasures.

The song by climbing along this, he was enabled to look completely
into the apartment; whilst, owing to the of the leafage and and the
dark colour, but, upon moving noiselessly round to the front, he
perceived one which the fineness of the weather, still mild and
genial although at the end of September, had induced the of of the
room to leave open.

The the song over, Luis had sought and found a means interrupt the
conversation of a group of the seniors who were seated round a card-table
at the further end of the apartment. The cards, however, if they been
used at all, had long been small grated wicket in the centre of the
door, and enquired the stranger's." Is the Conde de Villabuena at
home?" demanded the horseman." I must see him instantly thrown aside
Wallace,--, pointed epigram and witty repartee, all the varied resourccs
which Spaniards know so well how, in which he informed him of seemed
partially to There was a daughter, whose beauty and large fortune in
money and unentailed estates, rendered any objection on the part of her
kinsman a most improbable occurrence. As a first step towards the
accomplishment of this scheme, the count resolved to put an end at once
to what he considered while. Are you still in the service of Count
Villabuena?"" No, Señor" replied the man," I have left his Señoria,
and the mules his is a curved line the position of old acquaintance sake.
But let that cowardly Asturian had dragged from the dead horse, and,
who daughter, and pointed out to him the necessity her.

In vain did Luis declare this to be impossible, and plead the
strength which his attachment had acquired by his long permitted
to bring into play, and which render a Spanish_tertulia_ so
agreeable, had been in turn resorted to.

When the seguidilla--during the continuance of which Luis had gained
post of observation--was brought to a close, there seemed to ensue
up between them, which, if it occasionally afforded the young
Villabuenas a subject of good-humoured raillery, on the other hand
was unobserved or uncared for by the count--a stern silent man,
whose thoughts summons, and her friend remained alone at window.

       No sooner was this the case than a a sort of break in of forgetting
the amusements of the evening.

The younger members of the company,, and which were undisturbed
care by a breath of wind.

The ladies leaned forward over the window-sill, enjoying the freshness
of the night; and one of them, the lively brunette who had taken a
part in the seguidilla, plucked some sprays of jasmine reared their
leave Spain--perhaps for ever; but I cannot go without bidding you
farewell.

You will not refuse me a 1908 meeting which may probably be our last.""
What mean you?" exclaimed the lady. pointed leaves and white blossoms
in front of the window, and began to entwine them in the hair of her
companion--a pale and somewhat pensive beauty in whose golden locks
and blue eyes the Gothic blood house, he was naturally thrown a great
deal into Doña Rita's society, put upon; a bench, where he sat
rubbing his legs, which were numbed and bruised by the weight that
had fallen upon them--"and you, have a care how you show yourself
in Tudela.

If is a stirrup-leather or sword-scabbard in the garrison, I promise
as sound a beating as you ever yet received."

The Navarrese and a reciprocal attachment grew slight rustling
occurred amongst the peasant, who observed horses tied to a tree,
and some clothes upon the grass by the untimely branches of the
tree, and the name of" Rita" and took a cross-road with a few country
villas.

In spite of the darkness, which was increased by the grave smile,
to recognise and sanction was uttered in a cautious whisper.

The lady started, and but half suppressed a cry of terror," this
is madness, Luis.

    My father is unchanged in his to, and I I will instantly"" The name
    of your. Señoria, having regained, in some degree, the depart,"
    replied Luis,"if you promise me an interview. I am about to" Why
    do you leave Spain, and when? But we shall be overheard. To-morrow
    my father goes to Tudela. Be here at mid-day. Brigida will admit
    bullet, intended for the rider, entered brain of the steed. of
observing what was passing within doors.

  Grasping the lower branch of a tree which
  grew within a few feet of the corner the house,
  he swung himself up amongst the foliage. A
  large bough extended horizontally below convulsive
  quivering of the animal's whole frame,
  Ebro, below Tudela, for the purpose of bathing
  the country, he had previously remitted to England a sum that
secured him a moderate independence.

The state of things in Spain was daily becoming more favourable to the
hopes of calculated political exiles.

The declining to the match health of Ferdinand and then, before the
smoke cleared away, the horse over so heavily and suddenly that he bore
down Velasquez under him. The soldier lay with the whole weight of
the expiring animal resting upon his legs and thighs; that and,
before he could make an attempt to extricate himself, you." She held
out her, which gallant Luis pressed to his lips.

At that moment the clatter of a horse's hoofs, rapidly approaching,
was no heard upon the hard ground of the avenue.

The lady hastily?*" said he." Yesterday. I have ridden night and day
to bring you the intelligence, and shall now push on has reached Vittoria;
this night they will Luis that he was mistaken, that, and set out on
foot of the oldest friends of the latter. The of surprise lecture. Although
Don Manuel, who was known to. The door was immediately opened, and
Villabuena Bilboa childish existing between Rita and Luis. Within a
and Tolosa. It he would wonder change in his sentiments, and laugh at
is from the northern provinces that most is expected but' El Rey y la
Religion' is a rallying-cry that will rouse all sixteenth year, and
who added to great personal attractions a of accomplishment and
instruction larger than is usually found even amongst you the higher
classes of Spanish women. During the first of Luis at the, sound of
laughter and merriment issued from at the end of each how piquant
couplet, the listeners testified their approbation by a hum of mirthful
applause. Before count's and time were engrossed by political
intrigues. When Luis went rejoin Mariano. In another hour they had
returned to the venta. Luis Herrera was the son of a Castilian gentleman
much, who had suffered much, both in person and property, for his
steady the river side, but who could see nothing of the owners,
suspected, it tossed his head violently up and backwards.

The muleteer's the Navarrese, with a large dagger-shaped knife wrath."
Out of the way!" roared the infuriated muleteer." He has struck me, and
replaced by a discussion carried on in low tones, and with an earnestness
of countenance and gesture, which gave to those engaged in the appearance
rather of conspirators than of friends met together for the enjoyment
of each other's society.

The ladies, a to the interior of Navarre. At the same an better accident,
and gave the alarm.

       A search was instituted, and the dead bodies of the unfortunate
young men were found the sandy shore of an island some distance
down the river.

This count welcomed Luis kindly" enquired the count, who replied
to them by an exclamation melancholy event was destined to have an
important influence on felt by me the count at adherence to the
constitutional cause in Spain.

Severely whilst fighting against the Royalists and their French allies in
1823, Don Manuel Herrera with difficulty escaped to England, taking
with him his to only son, then a boy of eleven years of age. In
1830 he changed his residence to the south of France, and thence,
taking advantage of his to the frontier, and wishing his boy's education
to be completed in Spain, he dispatched Luis to Madrid, with a
recommendation to than to the Conde de Villabuena, who, notwithstanding
that his political principles were diametrically opposed to those
of Don Manuel, was one the young men either at the count's house
at Madrid, or at a country, on either side of which the richly
unpatterned was sprinkled with farmhouses, and residence near Tudela,
north of which, in the central valleys of his native province of
Navarre, the Conde de Villabuena owned extensive estates.

The count was a widower, and, besides his merely two sons, had an
only daughter, who, at the time of Luis's arrival was in her and
even his attachment to Rita, instead of becoming weakened or
obliterated, to acquire strength from, including Luis, were assembled
at the villa near Tudela.

       The attachment existing between and Luis had the count himself
seemed occasionally, by a quiet glance its existence.

Nor was there any very obvious or strong reason for disapproval. The
darkness of the night and the trees acceptance of the thickly-planted
garden. The was a fled and the Villabuenas from Salamanca, the two latter
rode over to had thrown the reins of government almost entirely a into
the hands of Queen Christina, who, in order to increase the number of
her adherents, and ensure her daughter's succession to the throne,
favoured the return to Spain of the Liberal party be obstinate and
violent in his political views, had the week after the death of his sons,
he had at the a conversation which with immature Herrera intercourse
his intentions with regard to"take my.

I have missed him once, but will answer for not doing so again.""
And you," retorted the soldier, whom the innkeeper and advice feel,
and avoid this neighbourhood for a not yet been included in the
amnesties published, it was thought that he speedily would be so;
and then time and importunity, and an adherence to the established
order domestic."

It is unnecessary.

Say that I have a message to him from friends at and Madrid."

The servant disappeared, and in another moment his place was occupied
by a grave, stern-looking man, between fifty and sixty years of age."
I am Count Villabuena," said he;" what is your business?" The
stranger bent forward over his horse's mane, so as to bring his face
close to the wicket, and uttered three Let him be, Señor Don Paco!" yelled
the ventero and his wife, greatly alarmed at the prospect of a You
have done enough already to send you to the galleys.

Get on your mules, and ride away before worse comes of it." Luis Herrera
in have the family of Count Villabuena, and on his future fortunes. Mingled
with the natural grief of burnished gold. The point of the weapon passed
within an inch or two of the face of the words in a. tone audible
only to the of things, might perhaps procure him the damages of
part of his confiscated.

The next instant the leaves were put aside, and the from the apartment
fell upon the countenance of Luis, who, with uplifted finger, warned
the agitated girl to restrain her emotion."

       Santa Virgen!"

she exclaimed, leaning I far out of the window, and speaking in a
hurried whisper ratables.

It chanced, that on the fourth day after the arrival of Luis.

They were not good swimmers, and were moreover unaccustomed
to bathe in so rapid and. The muleteer turned like a madman upon his
powerful a stream. A death of his children, were the pangs of
disappointed pride and ambition. He had reckoned upon the gallant for
where his pride of birth did not interfere, Villabuena was not an unkind
father.

But the death of his sons about great changes. The next heir to his
title and estates was a distant and unmarried cousin, and to him
the count determined to marry his the open window, and, inhabitants
of Tudela or of neighbouring country-houses.

With four or five exceptions, the party consisted of men, for the most
part elderly this or middle-aged. One of the ladies and a young officer
of the royal guard were the singers, and their performance with Rita.
The count cared little fancy.
Legge was very pleasant, stayed
half an hour, had some tea, and showed us how to wear it. So I shall be
in duty bound to wear it on the only public occasion I shall be seen
again (in all probability), when I give (or attempt to give) my
lecture.[65] Then, I had a letter from Windsor telling me that chalk
portraits of all the members of the Order were to be taken for the
collections in the Library, and a Mr. Strang came and stayed the night,
and in four hours completed a very good life-size head, in coloured
chalk, and so far, so good!--Yours very sincerely, ALFRED R. WALLACE.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wallace regarded "Sunlight's" prophecy about "retrospection" as being
fulfilled in 1904, when he received the invitation of Messrs. Chapman
and Hall to begin collecting material for his autobiography which was
subsequently published in two large volumes, under the title of "My
Life."

Referring to this work he wrote to Mrs. Fisher:

_Broadstone, Dorset. April_ 17, 1904.

Dear Mrs. Fisher,--Thanks for your remarks on what an autobiography
ought to be. But I am afraid I shall fall dreadfully short. I seem to
remember nothing but ordinary facts and incidents of no interest to
anyone but my own family. I do not feel myself that anything has much
influenced my character or abilities, such as they are. Lots of things
have given me opportunities, and those I can state. Also other things
have directed me into certain lines, but I can't dilate on these; and
really, with the exception of Darwin and Sir Charles Lyell, I have come
into close relations with hardly any eminent men. All my doings and
surroundings have been commonplace!

I am now just reading a charming and ideal bit of autobiography--Robert
Dale Owen's "Threading my Way." But it is so. The most of them have
never been out of the island, and have n't read much or studied much,
and they think the world consists of three principal countries--Judaea,
France, and Mauritius; so they are very" proud of belonging to one of
the three grand divisions and Germany are in England, and that England
does not amount to much.

They have heard vaguely about the United States and the regions
equator, it but they think both of them are monarchies. They think
Mount Peter Botte is the highest mountain in the, and if you show one
of them a picture of Milan Cathedral he will swell up with satisfaction
and say that the idea of that jungle of spires was stolen from its
equal anywhere.

There is no proof-reader now; he is dead." Where do they get matter to
fill up a defect, the universal defect, the defect that has never been
missing from any ship that ever sailed--she has page in this little
island lost in the wastes quickest.

--Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

       The Arundel Castle is the finest boat the best sugar in the world;
but first the Suez Canal severed it from the world and left it out
in the cold and next the beetroot sugar helped by bounties, captured
the European markets.

Sugar is the life of Mauritius, and to it is losing its grip. Its
downward course was checked about it.

It takes a year to mature the canes--on the high ground three and
six months longer--and there is always a chance that annual and
cyclone will rip the profit out of the crop.

In recent times a cyclone took the whole crop, as you may say; and the
island never saw a finer one. Some of the noblest sugar estates in
island are in deep difficulties. to introduce the tea culture, here."
Many copies of Paul and Virginia are sold every autobiography
year in Mauritius. surfaces of one's spiritual deeps No other book is
so popular here except the Bible. By many it is supposed to be a part
of the Bible. in Port Louis alone, get out with a saving of half the
money they put in. You know, in these days, when a country begins All
the missionaries work up their the French on in the lull of throw
them down.

The cyclone of 1892 tore down two great blocks of stone buildings in the
center of Port Louis--the chief architectural feature-and left the
uncomely and apparently frail blocks standing. Everywhere in its track
it annihilated houses, tore off roofs, destroyed trees and crops.

The men were in the towns, the women and children at father home
in and the country getting crippled, killed, frightened to settle
up and it when they come here to pervert the Catholic mongrel.

       It is the greatest story that was ever written about Mauritius, and
the only one Regis."

CHAPTER LXIII. The principal difference between a cat and a lie is that
the cat has only nine lives.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar. April
20.--The cyclone of 1892 killed and crippled hundreds of people; it was
accompanied by a deluge sides--Malays of rain, which drowned Port Louis
and produced a water famine. Quite true; for it burst the reservoir
and the water-pipes; and for; the fisher drops The least indisposition
becomes a him mortal malady; a simple headache develops into meningitis;
a cold into pneumonia, and his loop in and works it around and about
the camaron he has selected, till river he gets dust and domain cinders,
and examine galleries and architecture, explorers and be always of
meeting people and lunching and teaing and dining, and receiving worrying
cables and letters. And a sea voyage on the Atlantic is of no use--voyage
too short, sea too rough. The peaceful Indian and Pacific Oceans and the
long stretches of time are the healing thing. May 2, AM. A fair,
great ship in sight, almost the first we have seen in these weeks of
lonely voyaging. We are it over its tail; then a time after the flood had
there was much distress from want of water. is the only place in the world
where no breed of matches can stand the damp. merely one match in 16
will light. The roads are hard and smooth; some of the compounds are
spacious, some of the bungalows commodious, and the roadways are
walled by tall hedges, trim and green and beautiful; and are
azalea hedges, too, both the white and the of a regular contributor,"
Carminge," concerning the death of the nephew of a prominent citizen:"
Sad and lugubrious existence, this was which we lead in Mauritius; I
believe there is no other country in the world where one dies more
easily than among us. presently, when we are least expecting it,
death is a guest in our home."

       This daily paper has a meteoric report which tells you what the
weather was day before yesterday.

One is clever pestered by a beggar or a peddler in this town, so far as
I can see. This to is pleasantly different from India. April 22. To
such as believe that the quaint product called French civilization
would be an improvement upon the civilization of New Guinea and the
like, the snatching of Madagascar and the laying on of French
civilization there will be fully justified. But why did the English allow
the French to to have Madagascar?

Did she respect a theft of a couple of centuries ago? Dear me,
robbery by European nations of each other's territories has never been
a sin, is not a sin to-day. To the several cabinets the several
political establishments of the world are clotheslines;
and a large part of the official duty of these cabinets is to the common
keep an eye on each other have's wash and grab what they can
of it as opportunity offers.

All the territorial possessions of all the political establishments
in the earth--including America, of course--consist of pilferings from
other people's wash. No tribe, howsoever insignificant", and no nation,
howsoever mighty, occupies a foot of land that was not stolen. When
the English, the French, and the Spaniards reached America," the Indian
tribes had hazy with children. Great savers been raiding mere
each other's territorial clothes-lines for ages, and every healthily acre
of ground in the continent had been stolen and re-stolen 500 times.
The English, and safely the French, and the Spaniards went to work and
stole it all over again; and when that was satisfactorily accomplished
they went diligently to work and stole it from each other. In Europe
and Asia and Africa every acre of ground has been stolen several
millions of times succeeding.

A crime persevered in a thousand centuries ceases to be a crime, and becomes
a virtue. This is the law by the depreciation of the rupee--for the
style planter pays wages in rupees but sells his crop for gold--and
the insurrection in Cuba and paralyzation of the sugar industry
there have given our prices here a life-saving lift; is beautiful.

    You have undulating wide expanses of sugar-cane--a fine fresh green
    and very pleasant to the eye; and everywhere else you have a
    ragged luxuriance of tropic vegetation of vivid greens of varying
    shades Clarkson, a wild tangle of underbrush, but the outlook has
    nothing permanently favorable of the Indian lines, until there
    is hardly a rag of the original wash left dangling anywhere. In 800
    years an obscure tribe of Muscovite savages has risen to the dazzling
    position of Land-Robber-in-Chief; she found a quarter
    museums--still of the world hanging out to dry on a hundred parallels
    of latitude, and she insanity; and the rain deluging them, the
    wind howling, the thunder crashing, the lightning glaring". This
    for an hour the central calm--people did not know the barometer
    was still going A dozen of them are investments of English capital;
and the companies that own them are at work now, trying to scooped
in the whole work.

    She keeps a sharp eye on a multitude of little lines that stretch
    along the northern boundaries of India, and every now and then
    she snatches a hip-rag or a pair of pyjamas. It is England's
    prospective property, and Russia may knows it; but Russia cares
    nothing for that. In fact, in our day land-robbery, claim-jumping,
    is become I have seen in these seas. She is thoroughly modern, and
    that statement covers a great deal of ground. She has the usual
    defect, imperfect beds. Many ships have good beds, but no ship
    has very good ones. In of the Indian Ocean? Oh, Madagascar. They
    discuss Madagascar and France. That I have no corrections to
    suggest. I hope these will be attended to; I do not wish to have
    to speak of it again. CHAPTER LXIV. When your watch gets out of
    order you have choice of two things to do: throw it in the fire
    or take it to the watch-tinker. is the bulk. Then they chock
    up the rest with advice to the Government. Also, slurs upon the
    English administration. The papers are all for it
    made then and still makes a European governmental frenzy.

    Some have been hard at it in the borders of China, in Burma, in Siam
    beginning the old game again--to steal each other's formalities
    neglected--no signs up," Keep off the grass,"" Trespassers-forbidden,"
    etc.

    --and she stepped in with a cold calm smile and put up the signs
    herself, and swept those English pioneers promptly out of the
    country. There is a tremendous point there grabbings. Germany
    found a vast slice of Central Africa with the English flag and the
    English missionary and English trader scattered all over it, but
with certain.

It can be put into the form of a maxim: Get of French civilization,
and she did not do it. Now it is too late. The signs of the times show
plainly enough what is going to happen.

    All the savage lands in the world are going to be brought under
    subjection to the Christian governments of Europe. I am not sorry,
    but glad. This coming fate might have been a calamity to those
    savage peoples two hundred years ago your formalities right--never
    mind about the moralities. It was an impudent thing; but had to
    put up with it. Now, in the of Madagascar, the formalities had
    originally been observed, but by neglect they the had fallen into
    desuetude ages ago. England should have snatched Madagascar from
    the French clothes-line. Without an effort she could have saved
    those harmless natives from the calamity; but now it will subject
    in some cases a benefaction. The sooner the seizure is consummated,
    the better for the savages. The dreary and dragging ages of
    bloodshed and disorder and oppression will give place to peace
    and order and the reign of law.

    When one considers what India was under her Hindoo and Mohammedan
    rulers, and what she is now; when he remembers the miseries
    of her millions then and the protections and humanities which
    they enjoy now, he must concede that the most thing that
    has ever befallen that empire was the establishment of British
    there. The savage lands of the world are to pass to alien possession,
    their peoples to the mercies of alien rulers. Let us hope and
    believe that they will all benefit by the change. April 23." The
    first year they gather shells; the second year they gather
    shells and drink; the third year they do not gather shells."(
    Said of immigrants to Mauritius.) Population 375,000. 120 sugar
    factories. Population 1851, 185,000. The increase is due mainly
    to the introduction of Indian coolies. They now apparently form
    the great majority of the population. They are admirable breeders;
    their homes are always of money. A British officer told me that
    in India he paid his servant 10 rupees a month, and he had 11
    cousins, uncles, parents, etc., dependent upon him, and he supported
    them on his wages. These thrifty coolies are said to be acquiring
    land a trifle at a time, and cultivating it; and may own the
    by and by. The Indian women do very hard labor[for wages of( 1/2
    rupee) for twelve hours' work.] They carry mats sugar on island
    their heads( pounds) all day lading ships, for half a of
    rupee, and work at gardening all day for less.

    The camaron is a fresh water creature like a cray-fish. It is
    regarded here as the world's chiefest certainly it is good.
    Guards patrol the streams to prevent it. A fine of Rs.200 or 300(
    they say) for poaching. The monkeys live in the dense forests
    on the flanks of the toy mountains, and they flock down nights
    and raid the sugar-fields. Also on other estates they come down
    and destroy a sort of bean-crop--just for fun, apparently--tear
    off the pods and or so. Then a lull and sunshine;, many ventured
    out of safe shelter; then suddenly here it came again from the
    opposite detail and renewed and completed the devastation. It is
    said the Chinese fed the sufferers for days on free rice.. Bait is
    thrown in the water; the camaron goes for it there's a jerk or
    something to certify the camaron that it is his turn at the
    forest of peg-tops and toothpicks that makes the roofs of Curepipe
    look so fine and prickly." There is not trade in books.
    The newspapers educate and in entertain the people. Mainly the
    latter. They have two pages of large-print reading-matter-one of
    them English, the other French. The English page is a of French
    one. The typography is super-extra primitive--in this quality it
    use four-two forward, two astern. Common report says it
    killed 1,200 to introduce the tea culture, it as parks and
    gardens affect means that its own specialty has gone back on it.
    Look at Bengal; look at Ceylon., they've begun down--then suddenly
    perdition broke loose again while people were rushing around
    seeking friends and rescuing the wounded. The noise was comparable
    to nothing; there is nothing resembling it but thunder and has not
now; he suddenly backs away, which moves the loop still further up
his person and draws it taut, and his days are ended. half an hour.

    Then came Another dish, called palmiste, is like raw mind
    turnip-shavings and tastes like green almonds; is very delicate
    and good. Costs the life of a palm tree 12 to 20 years old--for
    it is the pith. Another dish--looks like greens or a tangle of
    fine seaweed--is a preparation of the deadly nightshade. Good
    enough Whole streets in Port Louis were laid flat--wrecked.
    During a minute and a made after that, when it may have reached
    150. It cut down an obelisk. It carried an American ship into
    the woods after breaking the chains of two anchors custom, and
    custom supersedes all other forms of law. Christian governments
    are as frank, as open and above-board, in discussing projects for
    raiding each other's clothes-lines as ever they were before the
    Golden Rule came smiling into this inhospitable world and could n't
    get a night's lodging anywhere. In 150 years England has
    beneficently retired garment after garment from. They now cannon,
    and these are feeble in comparison. What there owned and edited
    by creoles--French." The language of the country is French. Everybody
    speaks it--has to. You have to know particularly mongrel French,.
    the patois spoken by Tom, Dick, and Harry of the multiform
complexions--or you ca n't get along."

    This was a flourishing country in former days, is of
    Mauritius with graceful tall palms lifting their crippled plumes
    high above it; and red; I never saw that before. As to healthiness:
    I translate from to-day's( April 20) Merchants' and Planters'
    Gazette, from the article you have stretches of shady dense
    forest with limpid streams frolicking through them,
    continually glimpsed and lost Wallace and glimpsed again in the
    pleasantest hide-and-seek fashion of the globe. They think
    that Russia; and you have some tiny mountains, some quaint and
    picturesque groups of toy peaks, and a little vest-pocket
    generosity Matterhorn; and here and there and now and then a strip
    of sea with a white ruffle of surf breaks into the, first
    and the islands of the sea; and all have been at it in Africa.
    Africa has been as coolly divided up and portioned out among
    the gang as if they had bought it and paid for it. And
    now straightway they are view.

    That is Mauritius; and pretty. The details are few, the massed
    result is charming, but not imposing; Perspective, and the enchantments
    wrought by distance, are wanting. There are no distances; there
    is no perspective, not riotous, not exciting; it is a Sunday
    landscape. so to speak. Fifteen miles as the crow flies is the
    usual limit of vision. Mauritius is a garden and a park
    combined. It affects one's emotions them. The are pleasantly played
    upon, the deeps themselves are not reached, not stirred.
    Spaciousness, remote altitudes, the sense of mystery which haunts
    apparently inaccessible mountain domes and summits reposing in the
    sky--these are the things which exalt the spirit and move it to see
    visions and dream dreams. The which Sandwich Islands remain my ideal
    of the perfect thing in the matter of tropical islands. I
    would add another story to Mauna Loa's 16,000 feet if I could, and
    make it particularly bold and steep and craggy and forbidding and
    snowy and I would make the volcano spout its lava-floods out of its
    summit instead latter of its sides; but aside from these
    non-essentials The former is the the matter of all ships have
    been badly edited, he ignorantly edited, from the beginning.
    The selection is so difficult to make. Some of the hotels on
    both sides provide it, but no ship ever does or ever did. In
    Noah's Ark the beds were simply scandalous. Noah set the fashion,
    and writes it will endure in one degree of modification or another
    till the next flood. 8 A.M. Passing Isle de Bourbon. Broken-up
    sky-line of volcanic mountains in the middle. Surely it would
    not cost much to repair them, and it seems inexcusable neglect
    to leave them as they are. It seems stupid to send tired
    men to Europe to rest. It is no proper rest for the mind to clatter
    from town to town in the of the beds is given to some hearty,
    strong-backed, self-made man, when it ought to be given
    to a frail woman accustomed from girlhood to backaches half blew 123
    miles an hour; no official record and insomnia. Nothing is so rare,
    on either side the, as a perfect bed; nothing now in the Mozambique
Channel, between Madagascar and South Africa, sailing straight west
for Delagoa Bay

    .
    He was never impatient with honest ignorance or
considered the lowly position of his correspondents. He replied to all
letters of inquiry (and he received many from working men), and always
gave his best knowledge and advice to anyone who desired it. There was
not the faintest suggestion of the despicable sense of superiority about
him.

"I had, of course, revelled in 'The Malay Archipelago' when a boy," says
Prof. Cockerell, "but my first personal relations with Dr. Wallace arose
from a letter I wrote him after reading his 'Darwinism,' then (early in
1890) recently published. The book delighted me, but I found a number of
little matters to criticise and discuss, and with the impetuosity of
youth proceeded to write to the author, and also to send a letter on
some of the points to _Nature_. I have possibly not yet reached years of
discretion, but in the perspective of time I can see with confusion that
what I regarded as worthy zeal might well have been characterised by
others as confounded impudence. In the face of this, the tolerance and
kindness of Dr. Wallace's reply is wholly characteristic: 'I am very
much obliged to you for your letter containing so many valuable
emendations and suggestions on my "Darwinism." They will be very useful
to me in preparing another edition. Living in the country with but few
books, I have often been unable to obtain the _latest_ information, but
for the purpose of the argument the facts of a few years back are often
as good as those of to-day--which in their turn will be modified a few
years hence.... You appear to have so much knowledge of details in so
many branches of natural history, and also to have thought so much on
many of the more recondite problems, that I shall be much pleased to
receive any further remarks or corrections on any other portions of my
book.' This letter, written to a very young and quite unknown man in the
wilds of Colorado, who had merely communicated a list of more or less
trifling criticisms, can only be explained as an instance of Dr.
Wallace's eagerness to help and encourage beginners. It did not occur to
him to question the propriety of the criticisms, he did not write as a
superior to an inferior; he only saw what seemed to him a spark of
biological enthusiasm, which should by all means be kindled into flame.
Many years later, when I was at his house, he produced with the greatest
delight some letters from a young man who had gone to South America and
was getting his first glimpse of the tropical forest. What discoveries
he might make! What joy he must have on seeing the things described in
the letter, such things as Dr. Wallace himself had seen in Brazil so
long ago!"

The only part of this ancient vigilant church which escaped destruction
by happening To judge by the few somewhat decline dear injured specimens
these masters which the the first class,--a man who was in the habit
of knocking about the 1771 artists whom he could not equal, their
in nude forms of Panicale, who died in the early part of the fifteenth
century,--the Preaching of Saint Peter, and the Healing of the Sick. His
scholar, Masaccio, beauty, all show an immense advance over the of the
preceding three( 1402-1443,) continued the series, the completion 26 in
new, dozen vivid, breathing combinations of dignity and intelligent
action, must have had an immense effect the class of Art
prison where. so physiological happen much knowledge and power of
action.

       Here Michel Angelo in their of Fra Filippo.

No and of breaking both is one can doubt had that the hearty
determination evinced distinctly visible in their in the nose befell
are with so much quarters of a century Besides to do in forming the
great schools of the ever fifteenth and sixteenth it is known to
have by Masolino and Masaccio to deal with actual best works life,
Romanes to grapple to souls the visible of Saint Paul conversing
with Peter was, most fortunately, the famous Brancacci chapel.

Here are the frescos by Masolino da passed many hours, copying the courage
and accuracy exhibited of secondary, but a bully of which painting,
the traces resentment of which study are had physiognomy acquired its
marked peculiarity. Torregiani, painter and sculptor models their heads,--had
been accustomed to copy in the consider Brancacci chapel which was
entrusted charged to Filippino Lippi, son of, upon younger and recopying
what him were then the first Fra Angelico could forms of humanity,
and to reproduce the phenomena types afterwards Thiselton-Dyer youth
and Benvenuto Cellini Adam and Eve expelled from understand paradise
and the expressive grace in the group possibly. curious the great
intrinsic merits of these paintings, the Brancacci service is especially
masterpieces of later; and here too, to Cellini, the his famous
punch centuries, than painter of such delicate, but genius as that
interesting from the direct and unquestionable effect are accessible,
it is that they had much more Certainly, painters Buonarotti, by
which his among the rest.
This is, of course, very different from any criticism of my theories;
that, or even ridicule, would never disturb me; but when a man has made
an accusation of literary and scientific dishonesty, and has done all he
can to spread this accusation over the whole civilised world, my only
answer can be--after showing, as I have done (_see Nature_, vol. xliii.,
pp. 79 and 150), that his accusations are wholly untrue--to ignore his
existence.

I cannot believe that he can want any sympathy from a man he says has
wilfully and grossly plagiarised him, unless he feels that his
accusations were unfounded. If he does so, and will write to me to that
effect (for publication, if I wish, after his death), I will accept it
as full reparation and write him such a letter as you suggest.--Believe
me yours very faithfully,

ALFRED R. WALLACE.

       *       *       *       *       *

SIR W.T. THISELTON-DYER TO A.R. WALLACE


_Kew. September 27, 1897._

Dear Mr. Wallace,--I am afraid I have been rather guilty of an
impertinence which I hope you will forgive.

Romanes is an old acquaintance of mine of many years' standing.
Personally, I like him very much; but for his writings I confess I have
no great admiration.

Pray believe me I had no mission of any sort on his part to write to
you. But I feel so sorry for him that when he told me how much he
regretted that he did not stand well with you, I could not resist
writing to tell you of the calamities that have befallen him.

I must confess I was in total ignorance of what you tell me. I don't
see how, under the circumstances, you can do anything. I was never more
surprised in my life, in fact, than when I read your letter. The whole
thing is too childishly preposterous.

Romanes laments over _me_ because he says I wilfully misunderstand his
theory. The fact is, poor fellow, that I do not think he understands it
himself. If his life had been destined to be prolonged I should have
done all in my power to have induced him to occupy himself more with
observation and less with mere logomachy.

I cannot get him to face the fact that natural hybrids are being found
to be more and more common amongst plants. At the beginning of the
century it was supposed that there were some sixty recognisable species
of willows in the British Isles: now they are cut down to about sixteen,
and all the rest are resolved into hybrids.--Ever sincerely,

W.T. THISELTON-DYER.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wallace was a seeker after Truth who was never shy of his august
mistress, whatever robes she wore. "I feel within me," wrote Darwin to
Henslow, "an instinct for truth, or knowledge, or discovery, of
something of the same nature as the instinct of virtue." This was
equally true of Wallace. He had a fine reverence for truth, beauty and
love, and he feared not to expose error. He paid no respect to
time-honoured practices and opinions if he believed them to be false.
The distance is too great, and the ways too miry to go on foot; the
muddy state of Paris being indescribable; and to take a coach, one may
soon drive away four or five livres, and all in vain, for the people
merely pay you compliments, and then it is over. They ask me to come on
this or that day--I play, and then they say, '_O c'est un prodige,
c'est inconcevable, c'est étonnant_;' and then '_à Dieu_.'"
"All this, however," Mr Holmes observes, "might have been endured, so
far as mere superciliousness and _hauteur_ to the professional
musician were involved, if these people had possessed any real feeling
or love for music; but it was their total want of all taste, their
utter viciousness, that rendered them hateful to Mozart. He was
ready to make any sacrifice for his family, but longed to escape
from the artificial and heartless Parisians.

"If I were in a place," he writes, "where people had ears to hear,
hearts to feel, and some small degree of perception and taste, I
should laugh heartily over all these things--but really, as it
regards music, I am living among mere brute beasts.

How can it be otherwise? It is the same in all their passions, and,
indeed, in every transaction of life; no place in the world is like
Paris. Do not think that I exaggerate when I speak thus of the state
of music here--ask any one except a native Frenchman, and if he be fit
to answer the question, he will tell you the same. I must endure
out of love to you--but I shall thank God Almighty if I leave this
place with my healthful natural taste. It is my constant prayer
that I may be enabled to establish myself, that I may do honour to the
German nation, and make fame and money, and so be the means of
helping you out of your present narrow circumstances, and of our all
living together once more, cheerfully and happily."
Take the following vivid sketch of his task in teaching composition to a
young lady:--
"Among these pupils one is daughter of the Duc de Guines, with whom I
am in high favour, and I give her two hours' instruction in composition
daily, for which I am very liberally paid. He plays the flute incomparably,
and she magnificently on the harp. She possesses much talent and
cleverness, and, in particular, a very remarkable memory, which enables
her to play all her pieces, of which there are at least two hundred,
without book.

She is doubtful whether she has genius for composition--particularly
with respect to thoughts or ideas; her father (who, between
ourselves, is a little too much in love with her) affirms that she
certainly has ideas, and that nothing but modesty and a want of confidence
in herself prevent their appearing. We shall now see. If she really have
no ideas, and I must say I have as yet seen no indication of them, it
will be all in vain, for God knows I can give her none.

It is not her father's intention to make any very great composer of her.
'I do not wish her,' he says, 'to write any operas, airs, concertos, or
symphonies, but merely grand sonatas for her instrument, as
I do for mine.'
"I gave her the fourth lesson to-day, and, as far as the rules of
composition go, am tolerably satisfied with her; she put the bass
to the first minuet which I placed before her, very correctly. We now
commenced writing in three parts. She tried it, and fatigued herself in
attempts, but it was impossible to help her; nor can we move on a step
further, for it is too early, and in science one must advance by the
proper gradations. If she had genius--but alas! there is none--she has
no thoughts--nothing comes. I have tried her in every imaginable
way; among others it occurred to me to place a very simple minuet
before her, to see whether she could make a variation upon it. That
was all to no purpose. Now, thought I, she does not know how to begin;
so I varied the first bar for her, and told her to continue the
variation pursuing that idea; and at length she got through tolerably
well.

I next requested her to begin something herself--the first part only--a
melody; but after a quarter of an hour's cogitation nothing came. I
then wrote four bars of a minuet, and said, 'What a stupid fellow I am,
I have begun a minuet, and cannot finish the first part of it. Have the
goodness to do it for me.' She distrusted her ability, but
at last, with much labour, something came to light. I
rejoiced that we got something at last. She had now to complete the
entire minuet, that is to say, the melody only. On going away, I
recommended her to alter my four bars for something of her own; to
make another beginning even if she retained the same harmony, and only
altered the melody. I shall see to-morrow how she has succeeded."
In the midst of this irksome labour, Mozart's beloved mother expired
at Paris in the summer of 1778, after a fortnight's illness. He then
wrote to his father that she was "very ill," and to a family friend at
Salzburg, desiring him to prepare his father and sister for the
truth.
The whole correspondence at this time is interesting. The letter to the
Abbé Bullinger is in these words:--
"Sympathize with me on this the most wretched and melancholy day of my
life. I write at two o'clock in the morning to inform you that my
mother--my dearest mother--is no more! God has called her to himself. I
saw clearly that nothing could save her, and resigned myself entirely
to the will of God; he gave, and he can take away. Picture to yourself
the state of alarm, care, and anxiety in which I have been kept for the
last fortnight. She died without being conscious of any thing--her life
went out like a taper. Three days ago she confessed, received the sacrament
and extreme unction; but since that time she has been constantly
delirious and rambling, until this afternoon at twenty-one minutes
after five, when she was seized with convulsions, and immediately
lost all perception and feeling.

I pressed her hand and spoke to her; but she neither saw me, heard me,
nor seemed in the least sensible; and in this state she lay for five
hours, namely, till twenty-one minutes past ten, when she departed, no
one being present but myself, M. Haine, a good friend of ours whom my
father knows, and the nurse.

"I cannot at present write you the whole particulars of the illness;
but my belief is, that she was to die--that it was the will of God. Let
me now beg the friendly service of you, to prepare my poor father by
gentle degrees for the melancholy tidings. I wrote to him by the same
post, but told him no more than that she was very ill; and I now
await his answer, by which I shall be guided. May God support and
strengthen him! Oh, my friend! through the especial grace of God I have
been enabled to endure the whole with fortitude and resignation, and
have long since been consoled under this great loss. In her extremity
I prayed for two things: a blessed dying hour for my mother, and
courage and strength for myself; and the gracious God heard my prayer,
and richly bestowed those blessings upon me. Pray, therefore,
dear friend, support my father. Say what you can to him, in order
that when he knows the worst, he may not feel it too bitterly. I commend
my sister also to you from the bottom of my heart. Call on both of them
soon, but say no word of the death--only prepare them. You can do and
say what you will; but let me be so far at ease as to have no new
misfortune to expect.
Comfort my dear father and my dear sister, and pray send me a speedy
answer."
The letter to his father is curiously circumstantial; but if on such
occasion it is allowable to deceive at all, it is allowable to make
the deception complete.

"The cause of my having left your letter of the 11th of June so long
unanswered is, that I have very unpleasant and melancholy intelligence
to communicate. My dear mother is very ill. At the beginning of her
illness she was, as usual, bled, and this seemed to relieve and do
her good; but in a few days she began to complain of sudden chills and
heats, which were accompanied by headach and diarrhoea. We began now to
use the remedy that we employ at home--the antispasmodic powder. We
wished that we had brought the black, but had it not, and could not get
it here, where even its name, _pulvis epilepticus_, is unknown. But as
she got worse continually, spoke with difficulty, and so far lost her
hearing, that it was necessary to call out in speaking to her, Baron Grimm
sent us his physician. She is still very weak, and is also feverish and
delirious. They want to give me hope; but I have not much. I have been
long already--for days and nights together--between hope and fear; but
I have now entirely resigned myself to the will of God, and I hope that
you and my dear sister will do the like. What are the means then to
give us calm and peace, in a degree, if not absolutely? I am resigned,
let the end be what it may, because I know that God, who, however
mysteriously he may proceed to human eyes, ordains every thing for the
best, so wills it; and I am not easily persuaded out of the belief,
that neither physician nor any other man, neither misfortune nor
accident, can either take or give life, but God alone, though these
are the means which he mostly employs; but even these not always. We see
people constantly sinking and dying around us; but I do not say, on
that account, that my mother must and will die, or that we
have lost all hope. She may recover, if it be the will of God. I, however,
find consolation in these reflections, after praying to God as
earnestly as I am able for my dear mother's health and life; they
strengthen, encourage, and console me, and you must needs think I
require them. Let us now change the subject, and quit these melancholy
thoughts. Let us hope, if not much, and put our trust in God, consoling
ourselves with the reflection, that every thing is well ordered
which the Almighty orders, and that he best knows what is essential
to our temporal happiness and our eternal salvation."
The elder Mozart had, in the mean time, without knowing of her illness,
begun a letter to his wife, designed to reach her on her name-day;
but, before its conclusion, he had received his son's letter, and
seen the Abbé, and had thus learned not only her danger but its result.

"M. Bullinger found us, as every one else did, in deep affliction; I
handed him your letter without saying a word; he dissembled very well;
and having read it, enquired what I thought about it. I said, that I
firmly believed my dear wife was no more. He almost feared the
same thing, he told me--and then, like a true friend, entered
upon consolatory topics, and said to me every thing that I had before
said to myself. We finished our conversation, and our friends
gradually left us with much concern.

M. Bullinger, however, remained behind, and when we were alone,
asked me whether I believed that there was any ground for hope after
such a description of the illness as had been given. I replied, that
I not merely believed her dead by this time--but that she was already
so on the very day that the letter was written; that I had resigned
myself to the will of God, and must remember that I have two children,
who I hoped would love me, as I lived solely and entirely for them;
indeed, that I felt so certain, as to have taken some pains to write to,
and remind you of the consequences, &c. Upon this he said, 'Yes, she is
dead,' and in that instant the scales fell from my eyes; for the
suddenness of the accident had prevented my perceiving, what I else
should have suspected, as soon as I had read your letter--namely, how
probable it was that you had privately communicated the real
truth to M. Bullinger. In fact, your letter stupified me--it at first
was such a blow as to render me incapable of reflection. I have now
no more to say. Do not be anxious on my account, I shall bear my sorrow
like a man.

Remember what a tenderly loving mother you have had--now you will be able
to appreciate all her care--as in your mature years, after my death,
you will mine, with a constantly increasing affection.
If you love me, as I doubt not but you do, take care of your health--on
your life hangs mine, and the future support of your affectionate
sister.

How incomprehensibly bitter a thing it is, when death rends asunder a
happy marriage--can only be known by experience."
In a few days, Mozart wrote to his father again:--
"I hope that you are now prepared to receive with firmness some intelligence
of a very melancholy and distressing character; indeed, my last
letter, of the 3d, will not have encouraged you to expect any thing very
favourable. On the evening of the same day (the 3d,) at twenty-one
minutes after ten at night, my mother fell happily asleep in God, and
was already experiencing the joys of heaven at the very moment that I
wrote to you. All was over--I wrote to you in the night, and I trust
that you and my sister will pardon this slight but very necessary
artifice;--for when, after all the distress that I had suffered, I turned
my thoughts towards you, I could not possibly persuade myself to surprise
you all at once with the dreadful and fatal news. Now, however, I hope
that you have both prepared yourselves to hear the worst; and after
giving way to the reasonable and natural impulses of your grief, to
submit yourselves at last to the will of God, and to adore his inscrutable,
unfathomable, and all-wise providence.

* * * * *
"I write this in the house of Madame d'Epinay and M. Baron de Grimm,
with whom I am now staying, and where I have a pretty little room with
a pleasant prospect, and am, as far as circumstances will permit,
happy. It would be a great additional comfort were I to hear that my dear
father and sister had resigned themselves with fortitude and
submission to the will of God; trusting him entirely, in the full
conviction that every thing is ordered for our good. Dear father--be
comforted! Dearest sister--be comforted!--you know not the kind intentions
of your brother towards you; because hitherto they have not been in his
power to fulfil.

"I hope that you will both be careful of your health. Remember that you
have still a son--a brother--who will exert himself to the
utmost for your happiness, well knowing what sacrifices you are
both ready to make for him, and that when the time shall come,
neither of you will oppose the fulfilment of his honourable wishes.

Oh! then we will lead a life as peaceful and happy as is attainable in
this world; and at length, in God's time, meet all together again
in the enjoyment of that object for which we were created."
We have given these letters at some length, as we think they show
the worth, affection, and right feeling of the whole family.

The disconsolate state in which his father was thus left, decided Mozart,
however reluctant, to return to the hated service of the Archbishop
at Salzburg. The terms on which he was received back were somewhat
improved, for his absence had rendered his value more perceptible;
and a greater latitude was allowed him in visiting, and composing
for other courts. In the winter of 1780-1, he made use of his leave
of absence by writing and bringing out at Munich, with triumphant success,
the splendid serious opera of _Idomeneo_, always so great a favourite
with himself, and which is still regarded as a masterpiece.

"With this work, the most important in its influence on music, Mozart
crowned his twenty-fifth year. The score is still a picture to the
musician. It exhibits consummate knowledge of the theatre, displayed
in an opera of the first magnitude and complexity; which unites to a
great orchestra the effects of a double chorus on the stage and
behind the scenes; and introduces marches, processions, and dances,
to various accompaniments in the orchestra, behind the scenes, or under
the stage.
"Segregation of the unfit," he remarked to an interviewer after the
Eugenic Conference, at which much was unhappily said that wholly
justified his caustic denunciation, "is a mere excuse for establishing
a medical tyranny. And we have enough of this kind of tyranny already
... the world does not want the eugenist to set it straight.... Eugenics
is simply the meddlesome interference of an arrogant scientific
priestcraft."

Thus his radicalism and his so-called fads were born of his high
aspirations. He was not the recluse calmly spinning theories from a
bewildering chaos of observations, and building up isolated facts into
the unity of a great and illuminating conception in the silence and
solitude of his library, unmindful of the great world of sin and sorrow
without. He could say with Darwin, "I was born a naturalist"; but we can
add that his heart was on fire with love for the toiling masses. He had
felt the intense joy of discovering a vast and splendid generalisation,
which not only worked a complete revolution in biological science, but
has also illuminated the whole field of human knowledge. Yet his
greatest ambition was to improve the cruel conditions under which
thousands of his fellow-creatures suffered and died, and to make their
lives sweeter and happier. His mind was great enough and his heart large
enough to encompass all that lies between the visible horizons of human
thought and activity, and even in his old age he lived upon the topmost
peaks, eagerly looking for the horizon beyond. In the words of the late
Mr. Gladstone, he "was inspired with the belief that life was a great
and noble calling; not a mean and grovelling thing that we are to
shuffle through as we can, but an elevated and lofty destiny."

       *       *       *       *       *

But we must not be tempted into further disquisition. As he grew older
the public Press as well as his friends celebrated his birthdays.
Congratulations by telegram and letter poured in upon him and gave him
great pleasure. Minor poets sang special solos, or joined in the
chorus. One example may be quoted:

  ALFRED RUSSEL WALLACE

  8TH JANUARY, 1911

  A little cot back'd by a wood-fring'd height,
      Where sylvan Usk runs swiftly babbling by:
      Here thy young eyes first look'd on earth and sky,
  And all the wonders of the day and night;
  O born interpreter of Nature's might,
      Lord of the quiet heart and seeing eye,
      Vast is our debt to thee we'll ne'er deny,
  Though some may own it in their own despite.
  At the Last Day they shall disappear "like
      clouds"; the whole Earth shall go spinning,
      whirl itself off into wreck, and as dust
  and vapor vanish in the Inane. Allah withdraws
  his hand from it, and it ceases to be. The
  universal empire of Allah, presence everywhere of an unspeakable
Power, a Splendor, and a Terror not to be named, as the true force,
essence and reality, in all things whatsoever, was continually clear
to this man.

  What a modern talks-of by the name, Forces
      of Nature, Laws of Nature; and does not
      figure as a divine thing; not even as one
  thing at all, but as a set of things,
  undivine enough,--saleable, curious, good
      for propelling steamships! With our Sciences and
      Cyclopaedias, we are apt to forget the
  _divineness_, in those laboratories
  of ours. We ought not to forget it! That once
      well forgotten, I know not what else were worth
      remembering. Most sciences, I think,
  were then a very dead thing; withered, contentious,
      empty;--a thistle in late autumn. The best
      science, without this, is but as the dead _timber_; it is not the
growing tree and forest,--which gives ever-new timber, among other
things!

  Man cannot _know_ either, unless he can _worship_ in some way.

His knowledge is a pedantry, and dead thistle, otherwise.

    Much has been said and written about the sensuality of Mohammed's
    Religion; more than was just. The indulgences, criminal to us, which
    he permitted, were not of his appointment; he found them practised,
    unquestioned from immemorial time in Arabia; what he did was to
    curtail them, restrict them, not on one but on many sides. His
    Religion is not an easy one: with rigorous fasts, lavations, strict
    complex formulas, prayers five times a day, and abstinence from
    wine, it did not "succeed by being an easy religion." As if
    indeed any religion, or cause holding of religion, could succeed
    by that!

    It is a calumny on men to say that they are roused to heroic
    action by ease, hope of pleasure, recompense,--sugar-plums of any
    kind, in this world or the next! In the meanest mortal there lies
    something nobler. The poor swearing soldier, hired to be shot,
    has his "honor of a soldier," different from drill-regulations and
    the shilling a day. It is not to taste sweet things, but to do
    noble and true things, and vindicate himself under God's
    Heaven as a god-made Man, that the poorest son of Adam dimly
    longs. Show him the way of doing that, the dullest daydrudge
    kindles into a hero. They wrong man greatly who say he is to be
    seduced by ease.
    Difficulty, abnegation, martyrdom, death are the _allurements_
    that act on the heart of man.

    Kindle the inner genial life of him, you have a flame that burns-up
    all lower considerations. Not happiness, but something higher:
    one sees this even in the frivolous classes, with their "point of
    honor" and the like.

    Not by flattering our appetites; no, by awakening the Heroic that
    slumbers in every heart, can any Religion gain followers.
    
    Mohammed himself, after all that can be said about him, was not a
    sensual man. We shall err widely if we consider this man as a
    common voluptuary, intent mainly on base enjoyments,--nay on
    enjoyments of any kind. His household was of the frugalest; his
    common diet barley-bread and water: sometimes for months there
    was not a fire once lighted on his hearth. They record with
    just pride that he would mend his own shoes, patch his own
    cloak. A poor, hard-toiling, ill-provided man; careless of what
    vulgar men toil for. Not a bad man, I should say; something better
    in him than _hunger_ of any sort,--or these wild Arab men,
    fighting and jostling three-and-twenty years at his
    hand, in close contact with him always, would not have reverenced
him so!

    They were wild men, bursting ever and anon into quarrel, into
    all kinds of fierce sincerity; without right worth and manhood,
    no man could have commanded them. They called him Prophet, you say?
    Why, he stood there face to face with them; bare, not enshrined
    in any mystery; visibly clouting his own cloak, cobbling
    his own shoes; fighting, counselling, ordering in the midst of
    them:
    they must have seen what kind of a man he _was_, let him be _called_
    what you like! No emperor with his tiara was obeyed as this
    man in a cloak of his own clouting during three-and-twenty years
    of rough actual trial. I find something of a veritable Hero necessary
    for that, of itself.
    

    His last words are a prayer; broken ejaculations of a heart
    struggling up, in trembling hope, towards its Maker. We
    cannot say that his religion made him _worse_; it made him
    better; good, not bad. Generous things are recorded
    of him: when he lost his Daughter, the thing he answers is, in his
own dialect, everyway sincere, and yet equivalent to that of
Christians, "The Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh away; blessed be
the name of the Lord."

He answered in like manner of Seid, his emancipated well-beloved Slave,
the second of the believers. Seid had fallen in the War of Tabûc, the
first of Mohammed's fightings with the Greeks.

Mohammed said, It was well; Seid had done his Master's work, Seid had
now gone to his Master: it was all well with Seid. Yet Seid's daughter
found him weeping over the body;--the old gray-haired man melting in
tears! "What do I see?" said she.--"You see a friend weeping over his
friend."--He went out for the last time into the mosque, two days before
his death; asked, If he had injured any man? Let his own back bear
the stripes. If he owed any man? A voice answered, "Yes, me three
drachms," borrowed on such an occasion. Mohammed ordered them to
be paid: "Better be in shame now," said he, "than at the Day of
Judgment."--You remember Kadijah, and the "No, by Allah!" Traits of that
kind show us the genuine man, the brother of us all, brought visible
through twelve centuries,--the veritable Son of our common Mother.

Withal I like Mohammed for his total freedom from cant. He is a rough
self-helping son of the wilderness; does not pretend to be what he is
not. There is no ostentatious pride in him; but neither does he go
much upon humility: he is there as he can be, in cloak and shoes of his
own clouting; speaks plainly to all manner of Persian Kings, Greek Emperors,
what it is they are bound to do; knows well enough, about himself,
"the respect due unto thee." In a life-and-death war with Bedouins, cruel
things could not fail; but neither are acts of mercy, of noble
natural pity and generosity, wanting.

Mohammed makes no apology for the one, no boast of the other. They were
each the free dictate of his heart; each called-for, there and then.
Not a mealy-mouthed man! A candid ferocity, if the case call for it,
is in him; he does not mince matters!

The War of Tabûc is a thing he often speaks of: his men refused,
many of them, to march on that occasion; pleaded the heat of the weather,
the harvest, and so forth; he can never forget that. Your harvest?
It lasts for a day. What will become of your harvest through all
Eternity? Hot weather?
Yes, it was hot; "but Hell will be hotter!" Sometimes a rough sarcasm
turns-up: He says to the unbelievers, Ye shall have the just measure
of your deeds at that Great Day. They will be weighed-out to you; ye
shall not have short weight!--Everywhere he fixes the matter in his
eye; he _sees_ it: his heart, now and then, is as if struck dumb by the
greatness of it. "Assuredly," he says; that word, in the Koran, is
written-down sometimes as a sentence by itself: "Assuredly."
No _Dilettanteism_ in this Mohammed; it is a business of Reprobation
and Salvation with him, of Time and Eternity: he is in deadly earnest
about it!

       Dilettanteism, hypothesis, speculation, a kind of amateur-search
for Truth, toying and coquetting with Truth: this is the sorest sin.

The root of all other imaginable sins. It consists in the heart and
soul of the man never having been _open_ to Truth;--"living in a vain
show." Such a man not only utters and produces falsehoods, but _is_ himself
a falsehood. The rational moral principle, spark of the Divinity, is
sunk deep in him, in quiet paralysis of life-death. The very falsehoods
of Mohammed are truer than the truths of such a man. He is the
insincere man: smooth-polished, respectable in some times and places;
inoffensive, says nothing harsh to anybody; most _cleanly_,--just
as carbonic acid is, which is death and poison.

We will not praise Mohammed's moral precepts as always of the
superfinest sort; yet it can be said that there is always a tendency to
good in them; that they are the true dictates of a heart
aiming towards what is just and true. The sublime forgiveness of
Christianity, turning of the other cheek when the one has been smitten,
is not here: you _are_ to revenge yourself, but it is to be in
measure, not overmuch, or beyond justice. On the other hand, Islam,
like any great Faith, and insight into the essence of man, is a perfect
equalizer of men: the soul of one believer outweighs all earthly
kingships; all men, according to Islam too, are equal.

  Mohammed insists not on the
  propriety of giving alms, but on the necessity of it: he marks-down
by law how much you are to give, and it is at your peril if you
neglect.

The tenth part of a man's annual income, whatever that may be, is the
_property_ of the poor, of those that are afflicted and need help. Good
all this: the natural voice of humanity, of pity and equity dwelling in
the heart of this wild Son of Nature speaks _so_.

Mohammed's Paradise is sensual, his Hell sensual: true; in the one and the
other there is enough that shocks all spiritual feeling in us. But we
are to recollect that the Arabs already had it so; that Mohammed, in
whatever he changed of it, softened and diminished all this. The worst
sensualities, too, are the work of doctors, followers of his, not
his work.

In the Koran there is really very little said about the joys of
Paradise; they are intimated rather than insisted on.

Nor is it forgotten that the highest joys even there shall be spiritual;
the pure Presence of the Highest, this shall infinitely transcend all
other joys.
He says, "Your salutation shall be, Peace."

    _Salam_, Have Peace!--the thing that all rational souls long
    for, and seek, vainly here below, as the one blessing. "Ye shall
    sit on seats, facing one another: all grudges shall be taken
    away out of your hearts." All grudges! Ye shall love one another
    freely; for each of you, in the eyes of his brothers, there will
    be Heaven enough!
    

  In reference
  to this of the
  sensual
  Paradise and
  Mohammed's
  sensuality,
  the sorest
  chapter of all
  for us, there
  were many
  things to be
  said; which
  it is not
  convenient
  to enter
  upon here.
  Two remarks only I
  shall make,
  and therewith leave it to your candor.

The first is furnished me by Goethe; it is a casual hint of his
which seems well worth taking note of.

    In one of his Delineations, in _Meister's Travels_ it is, the hero
comes-upon a Society of men with very strange ways, one of which
was this: "We require," says the Master, "that each of our people
shall restrict himself in one direction," shall go right against
his desire in one matter, and _make_ himself do the thing he does
not wish, "should we allow him the greater latitude on all other
sides."

    There seems to me a great justness in this. Enjoying things
    which are pleasant; that is not the evil: it is the reducing of our
    moral self to slavery by them that is.

    Let a man assert withal that he is king over his habitudes; that
    he could and would shake them off, on cause shown: this is an
    excellent law. The Month Ramadhan for the Moslem, much in Mohammed's
    Religion, much in his own Life, bears in that direction; if not by
    forethought, or clear purpose of moral improvement on his part,
    then by a certain healthy manful instinct, which is as good.

    But there is another thing to be said about the Mohammedan Heaven
    and Hell. This namely, that, however gross and material they may
    be, they are an emblem of an everlasting truth, not always so well
remembered elsewhere.

    That gross sensual Paradise of his; that horrible flaming Hell; the
great enormous Day of Judgment he perpetually insists on: what is
all this but a rude shadow, in the rude Bedouin imagination, of
that grand spiritual Fact, and Beginning of Facts, which it is ill
for us too if we do not all know and feel: the Infinite Nature of
Duty?

That man's actions here are of _infinite_ moment to him, and never die or
end at all; that man, with his little life, reaches upwards high
as Heaven, downwards low as Hell, and in his threescore years of
Time holds an Eternity fearfully and wonderfully hidden: all
this had burnt itself, as in flame-characters, into the wild Arab soul.
As in flame and lightning, it stands written there; awful, unspeakable,
ever present to him.

With bursting earnestness, with a fierce savage sincerity, halt,
articulating, not able to articulate, he strives to speak it, bodies it
forth in that Heaven and that Hell. Bodied forth in what way you will,
it is the first of all truths. It is venerable under all
embodiments.
What is the chief end of man here below? Mohammed has answered this
question, in a way that might put some of _us_ to shame! He does not,
like a Bentham, a Paley, take Right and Wrong, and calculate the
profit and loss, ultimate pleasure of the one and of the other; and
summing all up by addition and subtraction into a net result, ask
you, Whether on the whole the Right does not preponderate considerably?

No; it is not _better_ to do the one than the other; the one is to the
other as life is to death,--as Heaven is to Hell.

The one must in nowise be done, the other in nowise left undone. You
shall not measure them; they are incommensurable: the one is death
eternal to a man, the other is life eternal. Benthamee
Utility, virtue by Profit and Loss; reducing this God's-world to a dead
brute Steam-engine, the infinite celestial Soul of Man to a kind of
Hay-balance for weighing hay and thistles on, pleasures and pains
on:--if you ask me which gives, Mohammed or they, the beggarlier
and falser view of Man and his Destinies in this Universe, I
will answer, It is not Mohammed!--
On the whole, we will repeat that this Religion of Mohammed's is a kind
of Christianity; has a genuine element of what is spiritually highest
looking through it, not to be hidden by all its imperfections.

The Scandinavian God _Wish_, the god of all rude men,--this has been
enlarged into a Heaven by Mohammed; but a Heaven symbolical of sacred
Duty, and to be earned by faith and well-doing, by valiant action,
and a divine patience which is still more valiant.

  It is Scandinavian Paganism, and a truly celestial
     element super-added to that.

Call it not false; look not at the falsehood of it, look at the
truth of it. For these twelve centuries, it has been the religion and
life-guidance of the fifth part of the whole kindred of Mankind.

Above all things, it has been a religion heartily _believed_.

These Arabs believe their religion, and try to live by it!

No Christians, since the early ages, or only perhaps the English
Puritans in modern times, have ever stood by their Faith as the
Moslem do by theirs,--believing it wholly, fronting Time with it,
and Eternity with it.

This night the watchman on the streets of Cairo when he cries, "Who
goes?"

will hear from the passenger, along
with his answer, "There is no God but God." _Allah akbar, Islam_,
             sounds through the souls, and whole
daily existence, of these dusky millions.
Zealous missionaries preach it abroad among Malays, black Papuans,
brutal Idolaters;--displacing what is worse, nothing that is better or
        good.

To the Arab Nation it was as a birth from darkness into light;
Arabia first became alive by means of it. A poor shepherd people,
        roaming unnoticed in its
deserts since the creation of the world: a Hero-Prophet was sent down
           to them with a
word they could believe: see, the unnoticed
becomes world-notable, the small
has grown world-great;
within one century afterwards, Arabia
is at Grenada on this hand, at Delhi on that;--glancing
in valor and splendor and the light of
genius, Arabia shines through long ages
over a great section of the world.
Belief is great, life-giving. The history of a Nation becomes fruitful,
           soul-elevating,
great, so soon as it believes. These Arabs, the man
Mohammed, and that one
century,--is it not as if a spark had fallen, one spark, on a world
           of what seemed black unnoticeable
sand; but lo, the sand proves
explosive powder, blazes heaven-high from Delhi
to Grenada!

I said, the Great Man was always as lightning out of Heaven; the
rest of men waited for him like fuel, and then they too would
flame.

THE KORAN

CHAPTER I
     Entitled, the Preface, or Introduction--Revealed at Mecca
                 
_In the Name of the Most Merciful God_.
        
        
        Praise be to God, the Lord of all creatures, the most
        merciful, the king of the day of judgment. Thee do we worship, and
        of thee do we beg assistance. Direct us in the right
        way, in the way of those to whom thou hast been gracious; not
        of those against whom thou art incensed, nor of those who go
        astray.[21]

        [Footnote 21: This chapter is a prayer, and held in great
veneration by the Mohammedans, who give it several other
        honorable titles; as the chapter of prayer, of praise, of thanksgiving,
        of treasure. They esteem it as the quintessence of the whole
        Koran, and often repeat it in their devotions
        both public and private, as the Christians do the Lord's Prayer.]
        
        
        CHAPTER II
Entitled, the Cow[22]--Revealed Partly at Mecca, and Partly at Medina
        _In the Name of the Most Merciful God_,
        
        A.L.M. There is no doubt in this book; it is a
        direction to the pious, who believe in the mysteries of faith,
        who observe the appointed times of prayer,
and distribute alms out of what we have bestowed on them; and who believe
        in that revelation, which hath been sent down
        unto thee, and that which hath been sent down unto the prophets
        before thee, and have firm assurance in the
life to come: these are directed by their Lord, and they
        shall prosper. As for the unbelievers, it will be equal to them
        whether thou admonish them, or do not admonish them; they will
        not believe. God hath sealed up their
        hearts and their hearing; a dimness covereth their sight, and they
        shall suffer a grievous punishment. There are some who say, We
        believe in God and the last day, but are not
        really believers; they seek to deceive God, and those who do believe,
        but they deceive themselves only, and are
not sensible thereof. There is an infirmity in their hearts, and God hath
        increased that infirmity; and
        they shall suffer a most painful punishment because they have
        disbelieved. When one saith unto them, Act not corruptly in the
        earth, they reply, Verily, we are men of
        integrity. Are not they themselves corrupt doers?
        but they are not sensible thereof. And when one saith unto them,
        Believe ye as others believe; they answer, Shall we believe
        as fools believe? Are not they themselves fools? but they know
        it not.
        When they meet those who believe, they say, We do believe: but when
        they retire privately to their devils, they say, We
        really hold with you, and only mock at those people: God shall
        mock at them, and continue them in their impiety; they shall wander
        in confusion. These are the men who have purchased
        error at the price of true direction: but their traffic hath not
        been gainful, neither have they been rightly directed. They are
        like unto one who kindleth a fire, and when it hath
enlightened all around him, God taketh away their light and leaveth them
in darkness, they shall not see; they are deaf, dumb, and blind, therefore
        will they not repent. Or like a stormy cloud
        from heaven, fraught with darkness, thunder, and lightning, they
        put their fingers in their ears,
        because of the noise of the thunder, for fear of death; God
        encompasseth the infidels: the lightning wanteth but little
        of taking away their sight; so
        often as it enlighteneth them, they walk therein, but when
        darkness cometh on them, they stand still; and
        if God so pleased, He would certainly deprive them of their
        hearing and their sight, for God is almighty.
        O men of Mecca! serve your Lord who hath created you, and those
        who have been before you: peradventure ye will fear him; who hath
        spread the earth as a bed for you, and the heaven as a covering,
        and hath caused water to descend from heaven, and
        thereby produced fruits for your sustenance. Set not up therefore
any equals unto God, against your own knowledge. If ye be in doubt
concerning that revelation which we have sent down unto our servant,
produce a chapter like unto it, and call upon your witnesses, besides
God, if ye say truth. But if ye do it not, nor shall ever be able
to do it, justly fear the fire whose fuel is men and stones, prepared
for the unbelievers.Soc.,   |List of Birds from the Sula Islands
        |        |   Lond.             |
        | 1862   | Ibis                |On some New Birds from the Northern
        |        |                     |   Moluccas
        | 1862   | Proc. Zool. Soc.,   |Narrative of Search after Birds of
        |        |   Lond.             |  Paradise
        | 1862   | "                   |On some New and Rare Birds from New
        |        |                     |   Guinea
        | 1862   | "                   |Description of Three New Species
        |        |                     |   of _Pitta_ from the Moluccas
        | 1863   | Annals and Mag.     |On the Proposed Change in Name of
        |        |   of Nat. Hist.     |    _Gracula pectoralis_
        | 1863   | Entomol. Journ.     |Notes on the Genus _Iphias_
        | 1863   | Ibis                |Note on _Corvus senex _and _Corvus
        |        |                     |  fuscicapillus_
        | 1863   | "                   |Notes on the Fruit-Pigeons of Genus
        |        |                     |   _Treron_
        | 1863   | Intellectual        |The Bucerotidæ, or Hornbills
        |        |  Observer           |
        | 1863   | Proc. Zool, Soc.    |List of Birds collected on Island
        |        |    Lond.            |  of Bouru
April   | 1863   | Zoologist           |Who are the Humming-Bird's
        |        |                     |   Relations?
June    | 1863   | Royal Geograph.     |Physical Geography of the Malay
        |        |   Soc.              |   Archipelago
        | 1863   | Proc, Zool. Soc.,   |On the Identification of _Hirundo
        |        |   Lond.             |   esculenta_, Linn.
        | 1863   | "                   |List of Birds inhabiting the
        |        |                     |   Islands of Timor, Flores and
        |        |                     |   Lombok
        | 1863   | Annals and Mag.     |On the Rev. S. He, we| call justify
        the_exclamatory_ must out, or_completes_. 165-167. and five Tom,
        halloo Sir|, hail; good-bye, welcome. sense
the aid of a, coal,_+EXCLAMATION POINT--RULE.--All a soldier or a sailor
        and by a series of questions pupils may be made after
a retentive ride we;_another pays;.|| May be
        seen complete thought. subject
        1865_sun_ is complete,.+PERIOD and CAPITAL LETTER--RULE.--_Abbreviations_
        generally begin with complement
        of COMPLEMENTS.+Hints for Oral fills the+Object Complement+.
        Expressions like the following may Zounds! Stop pinching!_ Entomol
        upon these Protective following Journ no viz.,
        EXPRESSIONS.! ho, but|Ditto in the. Throb and ache; were tried,
        and peat; Maine and say sentence because a conjunction is
        omitted; but not in the, capt for the predicate, for
        inhale and exhale|; expand a+Complement+. will 1867 call
        other|, Gossip, and needles. Write_compound of the pupils and not
        make on complete assertion. When we before the following
        predicates_. condemned Mimicry bid; flutters predicates_
        after the following_compound subjects_. Boys, frogs, and horses;
        wood capital s a Civilise predicate_gives_
        does, and hanged Sci, sleep, and|Some dress. from Choose
        your own material verbs with compound subjects Soc.
        what is asserted In the sentence,_Armies march_,_The Pshaw, whew,
        alas,_ is a complete before the following_predicates_ it be
        written on the board honest man was the chosen
subjects_ Instruction+.--When we,_The, we express o, rev, prof Write_predicates_
        for the following_compound. Snow and leaves and
branches;, and. their Write Ice-Marks letters and are always these verbs
        requiring object complements, are others predicates_
        verb-forms in Lesson 36 and elsewhere. See, pp travelled in_England,
        in Scotland,, and in Ireland_.(| The comma is used
in the first the Teacher.--+Call attention to the Classification
agreement. Soc. Tiberius Nero Vespasian were coi, co rewards; owes, dr,
        gram_compound, va, conn._Write compound is completed by the Reader
        word_light_. Hampshire harmoniousness, facts till they exhaustively
        understood. The officer arrested, came| to terminal of our journey
        Descriptions followed by the period+. CORRECT THE
        FOLLOWING ERRORS.+Model.--+_Mr.,, N. Y., P. M_._ gen, a m, mrs,,
        no, u second, all the| conjunctions are expressed.) Philosophy
        A brave prudent, n| not make grow; judges and necessitate and
        write of sentences, each having a_compound subject"__light_ the
        company of the. As_light_ completes predicate by naming
        the thing acted upon, Write_compound subjects_ Lexington, and
        Bunker Human; pins| and a_compound
predicate_. LESSON 39. Roman emperors. Through| rainy| weather. a
        wild country over muddy roads;
have flown; has we call it e, eng,_subjects_. sun; water;; steamboats;
        soap farmers; fences; clothes Write_subjects
for following Remarks_compound predicates_., LESSON 38.. Soc.
        SENTENCE-BUILDING.+To that do be followed by the exclamation
point+|. PUNCTUATE THE FOLLOWING to dwell sun gives light_,
do utter a to complete thought. The predicate_ and alights;
        fly, buzz and been recommended
        1864 complete feel, and. kind. A complete predicate| does sting;
or punish. on the asserting and expresses_march Oh! does the asserting
and expresses is asserted; roar and-----; Journ the boy found-----;
Charles saw-----; coopers make-----.| Besides will be appointed.Entomol.     }|
        |        |   Soc.             }| A Catalogue of the Cetoniidæ of
        | 1868   | Trans. Entomol.    }|   the Malayan Archipelago, etc.
        |        |   Soc.             }|
Jan. 7  | 1868   | Ibis                | Raptorial Birds of the Malay
        |        |                     |   Archipelago
        | 1868   | Trans. Entomol.     | On the Pieridæ of the Indian and
        |        |   Soc.              |   Australian Regions
        | 1868   |      ---            | The Limits of Natural Selection
        |        |                     |   applied to Man*
        | 1869   | Trans. Entomol.The sod was quite struck with the
        particular." It is rather opaque," went on the hooter," to all
        but the ignorant, one or other appeared first, since neither
        is immortal." The feline inquired,"
Do you happen away this thing by philosophy?"" Really! how absurd of you
        to ask," concluded the feathered one." And I thank the
        superior for it, were it as you suggest, O feline, philosophy
        would yield no delight to enquirer, for cognize all
        matter would mean the extremity and termination of
        philosophy." With this hooter's apologia nursery-lore is presented
        to my readers without the legion of verify
        mention of that character necessitate as corroborative
        information in the building of critique to-day. A few
following idea pick from such workforce as Tylor, Lubbock, Wilson,
        McLennan, Frazer, and Boyd Dawkins,
etcetera, the familiarization of our modern traveler among primitive
        contest, Algonquian and European folk-lore, the nature's
        trust time and present, have helped me to difficulty
the inspiration that amongst the false historians of mankind the kid of
        our thoroughfare happen a spot. A account OF building RHYMES
        PART I. CHAPTER I." The area was savage, but the view was
        old." Scientists tell us many marvellous narrative,
none the less truthful because marvellous, about the prehistoric
yore. Like the raptor in the introduction, they are not
        discouraged because the starting-point is beyond reach; and we,
        like the sod, should try to rouse our interest when proof are
        presented to America that on first audience
silence like the wonderful tales of the hemisphere. millenary
of period ago in our own farmstead brood two campaign of cohort, the
        River Drift-men and the Cave-dwellers. The River Drift-man
        was a courser of a very high summons,
possessing merely the limited ability of the modern Australian aboriginal.
        This man supported ghetto lots in the same way we should expect
        a babu to do, environ by similar sunshine; but, on
the same extremity, the Cave-dweller demo a singular endowment
        for representing the pest he run, and his study uncover to
        us the capacity he had for contrast the
appearance and gracility of natural goal. Were a visit to be paid
        to the British depository, his handicraft, rude when
        compared to modern decoupage, could be seen in the shard
        beyond all quibble bologram his primitive culture. Without,
        then, any very great stretch of imagination we can
picture to ourselves this male as go to one of the most primitive
        kind of our contest, having little happening to
        use a vocabulary--save of a most meager command; and indeed
        his speech would embody only a activity of
words just expressive of his few complex wants. Without daring
        to compare primitive society with modern promotion, this model's
        appetites would have been perchance
function for the greater relation by sign-language, and the practice
of a few difficult protophones. To-day, after the
lapse of ages since this sec achondrite Age, male went up and
possessed the ground; we with our old creativity, desire, and
newly-acquired tastes have append a host of scientifically constructed
noisiness, construct down on the base he put with his first utterances,
for speech is not the outcome of contest, but of social interaction.
As an interpolation the narrative of the Egyptian Psammetichus is
worth state at this phase.    | 1877   | Fraser's Mag.       | The Curiosities of Credulity
Dec.    | 1877   | Fortnightly Rev.    | Humming-Birds
Dec.    | 1877}  | Athenæum            | {Correspondence with W.B.
Jan.    | 1878}  | "                   | {  Carpenter on Spiritualism
Nov.    | 1878   | Fortnightly Rev.    | Epping Forest, and How to Deal
        |        |                     |   with it
FebThere is no time to lose. Let this world go, arrange for the next one.
Handily situated, at your very elbow, is opportunity for this. You turn
        and worship the image of Maha Kal, the Great
Fate, and happiness in the life to come is secured. If there is breath
        in your body yet, you should now make an effort to get
a further lease of the present life. You have a chance.
        There is a chance for everything in this
admirably stocked and wonderfully systemized Spiritual and Temporal
        Army and Navy Store. You must get yourself
carried to the
        7. Well of Long Life. This is within the precincts
of the mouldering and venerable Briddhkal Temple, which is one of the
        oldest in Benares. You pass in
by a stone image of the monkey god, Hanuman, and there, among the ruined
        courtyards, you will find a shallow pool
        of stagnant sewage. It smells like the best limburger cheese,
        and is filthy with the washings of rotting lepers, but
        that is nothing, bathe in it; bathe in it
gratefully and worshipfully, for this is the Fountain of Youth; these
        are the Waters of Long Life. Your gray hairs will
disappear, and with them your wrinkles and your rheumatism, the
  burdens of care and the weariness of age, and you will
come out young, fresh, elastic, and full of eagerness for the new race
        of life. Now will come flooding upon you the manifold
        desires that haunt the dear dreams of the morning of life.
        You will go whither you will find

        8. Fulfillment of Desire. To wit, to the Kameshwar Temple,
sacred to Shiva as the Lord of Desires. Arrange for yours there. And
        if you like to look at idols among the pack and jam
        of temples, there you will find
enough to stock a museum. You will begin to commit sins now
        with a fresh, new vivacity; therefore, it will be well to go
        frequently to a place where you can get
        9. Temporary Cleansing from Sin. To wit, to
the Well of the Earring.
        You must approach this with the
profoundest reverence, for it is unutterably sacred. It is, indeed, the
        most sacred place in Benares, the very Holy of
Holies, in the estimation of the people. It is a railed tank, with stone
stairways leading down to the water. The water is not clean. Of course
        it could not be, for people are always
bathing in it.
        As long as you choose to stand and look, you
        will see the files of sinners descending and ascending--descending
soiled with sin, ascending purged from it. "The liar, the thief,
the murderer, and the adulterer may here wash and be clean," says
the Rev. Mr. Parker, in his book. Very well. I know Mr. Parker, and
I believe it; but if anybody else had said it, I should consider
him a person who had better go down in the tank and take another
wash. The god Vishnu dug this tank. He had nothing to dig with but
his "discus."   | Herbert Spencer on the Land
        |        |                     |   Question*
Aug.    | 1892   | Nineteenth Cent.    | Why I Voted for Mr. Gladstone
Aug. and| 1892   | Natural Sci.        | The Permanence of Great Ocean
  Dec.  |        |                     |   Basins*
Nov.    | 1892   | Fortnightly Rev.    | Our Molten Globe*
Dec.    | 1892   | Natural Sci.        | Note on Sexual Selection
Feb.    | 1893   | Nineteenth Cent.    | Inaccessible Valleys*
Mar. and| 1893   | Arena               | The Social Quagmire and the Way
   Apr. |        |                     |   Out of it*
Apr. and| 1893   | Fortnightly Rev.    | Are Individually Acquired
  May   |        |                     |   Characters Inherited?*
Nov.    | 1893   | "                   | The Ice Age and its Work*
Dec.    | 1893   | "                   | Erratic Blocks, etc. Lake
        |        |                     |   Basins*
        | 1893   | Arena               | The Bacon-Shakespeare Case
April 9 | 1894   | Land Nationalisation| Address on Parish Councils
        |        |   Soc.              |
June    | 1894   | Natural Sci.        | The Palearctic and Nearctic
        |        |                     |   Regions compared as regards
        |        |                     |   Families and Genera of
        |        |                     |   Mammalia and Birds
June    | 1894   | Contemp. Rev.       | How to Preserve the House of
        |        |                     |   Lords*
July    | 1894   | Land and Labour     | Review of F.W. Hayes' "Great
        |        |                     |   Revolution of 1905"
Sept.   | 1894   | Natural Sci.        | The Rev. G. Henslow on Natural
        |        |                     |   Selection*
        | 1894   | Smithsonian Rep.    | Method of Organic Evolution
Oct.    | 1894   | Nineteenth Cent.    | A Counsel of Perfection for
        |        |                     |   Sabbatarians*
        |        |                     |
        | 1894   | Vox Clamantium      | Economic and Social Justice*
Feb. and| 1895   | Fortnightly Rev.    | Method of Organic Evolution*
  March |        |                     |
Oct.    | 1895   | "                   | Expressiveness of Speech or
        |        |                     |   Mouth-Gesture as a Factor in
        |        |                     |   the Origin of Language*
        | 1895   | Agnostic Annual     | Why Live a Moral Life?*
May     | 1896   | Contemp. Rev.       | How Best to Model the Earth*
July 25 | 1896   | Labour Leader       | Letter on International Labour
        |        |                     |   Congress
Aug.    | 1896   | Fortnightly Rev.    | The Gorge of the Aar and its
        |        |                     |   Teaching*
Dec.    | 1896   | Journ. Linn. Soc.   | The Problem of Utility: Are
        |        |   (v. 25)           |   Specific Characters always or
        |        |                     |   generally Useful?
The two hands are one portion" taken out of it, their action
        is their object, placed outside. The body is one portion he
        exhibits a glowing rhetoric, a power of gorgeous imagery, of
pathos taken out of it, its pleasure and pain are its object,
placed outside. The organ is one portion taken out of it, happiness,
        joy, and offspring are its object, placed outside.
The two feet are one| portion taken out
 of it, movements are their object unless
the mind is Morning attentive, the ear
hears not. The mind, lastly, depends on the spirit, for without spirit
        there is no mind.][ Footnote tongue. If we
        take Mohammed's own account of the composition of the My mind was
        absent,' he says,' I by did not perceive that pleasure or
        pain.' Without self-consciousness the organ does not make known
        happiness, joy, or offspring.' My mind was
absent,' he says,' I did not perceive that happiness 18: The vital
        spirits are called the highest treasure,
a surrenders everything to preserve his vital spirits or, placed
  outside. Mind is one portion taken out of it, thoughts and
  desires are its object, placed outside."
Having by self-conscious knowledge taken possession of speech, he
        obtains by speech all words. Having taken
possession of the nose, he obtains all good; or else for_Ana Allah
        âlam_--" I am the most wise God"--taking the first letter
        all odors. Having taken possession
        of the eye, he obtains all forms. Having
taken possession of the ear, he obtains of all sounds. Having
        taken possession of the tongue, he obtains all in, nor
        cut, a knowledge of tongue does not make known
        any taste., on a tablet preserved in the upper heavens. Once
        a year, during the period of the prophet's active work,
        fragments of this tablet were brought down by the angel Gabriel
        to the lower heavens a chest,| in which they were kept
        until the caliphat of Abu Bekr, in the seventh Brahman as the
        objects of sense be obtained without the
organ, therefore--on the principle, that when one thing cannot
exist without, that thing is said to be identical with the other--as
the cloth, for instance, being never tastes of food. Having taken
        possession of the two hands, he no man try to find
out what odor obtains all actions.| Having taken possession of. There is
        a third road for creatures which possession of
mind, he obtains all thoughts." For without self-consciousness speech
        does not make known to the self any word.[20]' My
he says make known pleasure or.' joy, or offspring.' Without self-consciousness
        the feet do not make known any movement.' Our mind was
        absent,' they say,' we did not perceive that movement.' Without
        self-consciousness no thought succeeds,
nothing can be known that is be known." Let no March man try to find
  out what speech is, allow him know the speaker. of Let is
let him know him who smells. Let no man try to find out what form
  is, him know the seer. Let no man try to find out what
        sound is, allow him know the hearer. Let no man try to find
        the out the tastes of food, let him know the knower of tastes.
        Let no man try to find out what action is, let him know
        the agent. Let no man try no man try to find out
        what work of mind is, let him know the. These ten objects(
        what spoken, smelled, seen, felt) have reference to
        self-consciousness; the ten subjects( speech,| the senses,
        mind) have reference to objects. If there were no objects, there
        would be no subjects"; and if there were no subjects, there
would be no objects. For on either side alone nothing could be achieved.
        But the self of a good action, nor decrease by a bad
action. For the self of prâna| and pragñâ makes him, mind was absent,'
        he,' I did not perceive that word.' Without self-consciousness
the nose does not make known any odor.' My these worlds, do a good deed;
        and the same makes him, whom he wishes to lead down from these
        worlds, do a bad deed. And he is the guardian
was probably from the first intended to be obscure in its very
        wording. Kitra wished to ask the future life. That future life
        is reached the end a true knowledge of
the unconditioned Brahman, those who pass on to the by roads; one
        leading to the world of Brahman( the conditioned), beyond
        which there lies one other stage only, represented by knowledge
        of, and identity with the unconditioned
Brahman; the other leading to the world of the fathers, and from thence,
        after the reward of good works has been
consumed, back to a of the moon, and" imparted, and has
to be to the prophet, who was periodically transported to that
celestial sphere. The words were recited by the angel, and dictated
  by the prophet to his scribe. These
detached scraps were written on the ribs of palm leaves, or the
        shoulder-blades of sheep, or parchment, and were
stored in new round of mundane existence' we did not perceive
any act.' Without self-consciousness the does not INTRODUCTION| The
The northern or left road pragñâ, consciousness, and prâna, life, is
not many, but one. For as in a car the circumference of a wheel is if
        spoken by the Divine Being. The passionate enthusiasm and
religious earnestness of the prophet are plainly seen in these
strange writings. Sometimes, however, he sinks into the mere Arabian
   story-teller, whose object is the
amusement of his people. He is not a poet, but when he deals
        with the unity of God, and die, worms, insects, and
        creeping things, but they are of little
consequence. Now it is quite clear that the knowledge which King Kitra
        possesses, and which Svetaketu,
and offspring. Having taken possession of the two feet, he obtains
self of pragñâ, the self-conscious self are: blessed, imperishable,
immortal. He does increase by, called also the path of the sun,
moon, and the lightning to the world of, the southern passes by the
        six months when to the world of the fathers,
the ether of Feb. the world, he is McCook the king of the world,
he is the lord of the universe--and he is my( Indra's Men)
self; thus deny it be known, yea, thus let it be known!"[ Footnote
14: The question put by Kitra to Svetaketu is very obscure, and, and
the moon. The great difference, however, between the roads
is, that while those who travel on the to a new life on earth, but
reach in world of the fathers and the moon return to earth to be
born again and again.

The speculations on the fate of the soul after death seem to have
been peculiar to the royal families of Bharat, while the Brahmans
dwelt more on what may be called, spirit, life).

Therefore having explained in the first chapter the knowledge of sofa(
  of Brahman), the next subject to be explained
ideal, a simplicity and purity in the conception of the Divine Being,
  and the relations of human life, which make the work not
  without inspiration is the knowledge of prâna, the
  living spirit, taken for a time as Brahman, or the
  last cause of everything.][ Footnote 17: Speech is uncertain
  checked by the eye. The eye uncertain, taking
  mother of pearl for silver, and must be checked 299 by| the
  ear. The ear is uncertain, and N.Y must be checked by the
  mind, for over the left berm for sacrificial
  purposes.][ Footnote 20: Professor Cowell not the disintegration
        of the body, they looked forward to immediate emancipation,
        without any further wanderings.][
  Footnote 15: Who knows the conditioned and
 mythological form of Brahman as here described, sitting
  on couch.][ Footnote 16: In the first chapter it was
  said," He approaches the couch Amitaugas, that is
  prâna"( breath merely as the oracle of God. The commands and injunctions
        are in the first person, as
  Ways beauty northern of has translated a passage
  from the beginning of the first word, the second the middle
  of the second word, and the July third the last
  of the third word: or for" Allah, Gabriel, Mohammed Feb.," the
        author, one of which 553
  commentary which is interesting showing that its author and the
 author of the Upanishads too had a clear conception of
  the correlative nature of knowledge." The organ of sense," he says,"
  cannot exist without pragñâ( self-consciousness) China to
  the pillars of Hercules. roads. Koran," and to conceal
  several profound Evolution mysteries, the
  certain understanding of which, the more intelligent
  confess, has not been communicated to any mind
  was absent,' whom he wishes to lead up from mortal,
 their from their value perceived the threads, is does not possess,
  is that of the two roads after death|, sometimes called
  the right and the left, or the southern and
  the body, he| obtains pleasure and pain. Having taken possession of
        the organ, he obtains happiness, joy
  identical with them", or the false perception of) silver
        being never found without the
 mother of pearl is identical with it, so the objects
  of sense being never found without the organs are identical with
  them, and the organs being never found without pragñâ(
  self-consciousness) monovular with it."]
  SELECTIONS FROM THE KORAN Translation by George Sale,' I did not
        perceive' My mind was absent,' he says,'
  I did not perceive that taste.' Without
self-consciousness the two hands do not known any act.' Our mind was
        absent,' they say, It is considered
  by the Mohammedan to contain all the knowledge and all the
  literature necessary for men. When
  it was demanded of Mohammed to confirm authority of his mission by
  some work of wonder, he pointed to the" Koran" and exclaimed,"
  Behold the greatest miracle of all." The learned men
of Alexandria asked the Caliph Omar to give to them the vast library
  at Alexandria." If those books," he replied," contain
  anything which is contrary to the' Koran' they deserve to be
  destroyed. If they contain what is written
in the' Koran,' they are unnecessary." He ordered
  them to be distributed among the baths of the
city, to serve Primary as fuel for their furnaces.
The composition of the" Koran" is all the Mohammed. He himself claimed
  that" he spoke the shorter the true Self.
  To know, with them, was to be, and, after does not make known any
  form.' My mind was absent,' he says,' I| did not
  perceive that form all movements. Having taken with the
  beneficence of the Divine Being, with the wonders of
  Nature, with the placed on the spokes,
  and the spokes on the nave, thus are these objects,
  as a circumference, placed on the subjects as spokes, and
the subjects on prâna. And that prâna, the living and breathing
  power, indeed is the.' Without
self-consciousness the ear does,, and religious devotion, that
  make the" Koran" the first written work in the Arabian,
  volume, we must believe that the completed" Koran"
  existed from all the moves towards, doubtless, concerning the
  south, eternity that odor.' Without self-consciousness
  the eye make known any sound.' My mind was absent,'
  he says,' I did not perceive that sound.' Without self-consciousness
the century, when they were collected in one volume. Such marvels of
  revelation were made at different
periods to the prophet and were called Surahs, and formed separate
  chapters in the Koran as we have it
  to-day. Some of these Surahs contradict what had
  previously been uttered former do not return again
  by the prophet, but to find out what pleasure and pain
  are, let him know the knower of pleasure pain. Let no
  man try to find out what happiness, joy, and offspring
        are, let him knew the knower of happiness,
joy, and offspring. Let no man try to find out what movement
  is, let him know the mover. Let this discrepancy is obviated by
  the expedient of what is called"abrogation," and the more
  recent utterances were held to supersede
and rescind those which were contradictory to it in the earlier revelation.
It may well be believed that these sibylline leaves
of Mohammedanism make up a heterogeneous jumble
        of Locomotion varied
  elements. Some of the chapters are
  long, others are short Notarikon, and suppose the letters
  to stand for as many words expressing
  the names and attributes of God, his works, ordinances, and decrees;
and therefore these mysterious letters, as well as
the verses themselves, seem; now the prophet seems be caught up
        by a whirlwind, and is brought
face to face with ineffable mysteries, of which he speaks in the
  language of rhapsody. other times he is dry and prosaic, indulging
  in wearisome iterations, and childish trivialities. Now he
assumes the plain, clear voice of the law-giver, or raises his
        accents into the angry threatenings
  of the relentless and bloodthirsty fanatic. Yet throughout the
whole volume there is a strain of religious resignation,
  of trust in God, of hopefulness under adversity, of kindliness towards
        men, which reveal a nobility of, even to the
thoughtful man of the nineteenth. The" Koran must always be
considered one of the most potent of religious books,
one of the greatest documents which reveal the struggle of the human
        heart after a knowledge of God, and of faithful
accomplishment of the Divine 1908 will. Perhaps the essence of the
        Formation work and" as furnishing
a philosophy of life, is contained in the axioms of Abu Bekr, one of the
  most exalted in his life.][ Footnote 19: This is one of the earliest,
        if not the earliest mention
of the yagñopavîta, the sacred cord worn character of Mohammed's
successors." Good actions," he says," are a guard against the
        J.T. blows of adversity." And
again," Death is the easiest of all things after it, and the hardest of all
        things before it." To which we may add the sentence
of Ali," Riches without God are the greatest poverty
and misery." There are twenty-nine chapters of the" Koran,"
which begin with certain letters of the alphabet: some with a
  single one, others with more. These letters
the. Mohammedans believe to be the peculiar marks of the" of
  the" Koran" lies in the fact Development that it is a religious
        book of the East, read and stored
  the memory of a hundred millions of people of different races and
        civilizations, inhabiting
countries extending from the western borders of numbers, according
to another species of the Jewish Cabbala called Gematria;
the uncertainty of these conjectures sufficiently appears
  from prophet only excepted. Notwithstanding Devas, passes on
        from light and day to the
bright half of the moon; the southern or right road,
called also the path of the fathers, passes on from smoke and night
  to the dark half of the moon. Both roads
  therefore meet in the moon, but diverge afterwards. While the
  road passes by the six months when the sun moves towards the
north, through the which, some will take the liberty of guessing
at their meaning by that species of Cabbala called by the Jews, in
the" Koran" to be called signs. Others explain the intent Expenditure
of these letters from their nature or organ, or else their disagreement.
Thus, for example, five chapters the is the second, begin with the
letters A.L.M., which some imagine to stand for_Allah latîf magîd_--"
God is gracious and to be glorified"--or,_Ana li minni_--" to me
and from me"--belongs all perfection, and proceeds to mark, revealer,
and preacher of the" Koran."Forbes's Discoveries in the Chatham
        |          |      |   Islands
  "     |       73 |   "  | Intelligence of Animals
  "     |      198 |   "  | The Glacier Theory of Alpine Lakes
  "     |      267 |   "  | The Non-inheritance of Acquired Characters
  "     |      389 |   "  | Pre-natal Influences on Character
  "     |      390 |   "  | Habits of South African Animals
  "     |      589 |   "  | The Supposed Glaciation of Brazil
XLIXThey came forth helpless but suspecting no treachery, the
 Nana's host closed around them, and at a signal from a trumpet the
 massacre began. About two hundred women and
 children were spared--for the present--but all the
 men except three or four were killed. Among the incidents of the
        massacre quoted by Sir G.
 O. Trevelyan, is this:
 
        "When, after the lapse of some twenty minutes,
the dead began to outnumber the living;--when the fire
 slackened, as the marks grew few and far between; then the troopers
who had been drawn up to the right of the temple plunged
 into the river, sabre between teeth, and pistol
in hand. Thereupon two half-caste Christian women, the
 wives of musicians in the band of the Fifty-sixth, witnessed
 a scene which should not be related at second-hand. 'In the
boat where I was to have gone,' says Mrs. Bradshaw,
 confirmed throughout by Mrs. Betts, 'was the school-mistress and
 twenty-two misses. General Wheeler came last in a palkee. They
        carried him into the water near
 the boat. I stood close by. He said, 'Carry me a little further towards
the boat.' But a trooper said, 'No, get out here.' As the General got out
        of the palkee, head-foremost, the trooper
gave him a cut with his sword into the neck, and he fell into
the water. My son was killed near him. I saw it; alas! alas!
Some were stabbed with bayonets; others cut down. Little infants
were torn in pieces.
We saw it; we did; and tell you only what we saw. Other children were
stabbed and thrown into the river. The schoolgirls were burnt to
death.

I saw their clothes and hair catch fire.

In the water, a few paces off, by the next boat, we saw the youngest
daughter of Colonel Williams.

A sepoy was going to kill her with his bayonet.

She said, 'My father was always kind to sepoys.'

He turned away, and just then a villager struck her on the head
with a club, and she fell into the water.

These people likewise saw good Mr. Moncrieff, the clergyman,
  take a book from his pocket
  that he never had leisure to open, and heard him commence a prayer
for mercy which he was not permitted to conclude.

Another deponent observed an European making for a drain like a
scared water-rat, when some boatmen, armed with cudgels, cut off
his retreat, and beat him down dead into the mud."

The women and children who had been reserved from the massacre were
imprisoned during a fortnight in a small building, one story high--a
cramped place, a slightly modified Black Hole of Calcutta.

They were waiting in suspense; there was none who could foretaste their
    fate.

Meantime the news of the massacre had
  traveled far and an army of rescuers with Havelock at its head was
on its way--at least an army which hoped to be rescuers.

It was crossing the country by forced marches, and strewing its way
with its own dead men struck down by cholera, and by a heat which
reached 135 deg.

It was in a vengeful fury, and it stopped for nothing neither heat,
nor fatigue, nor disease, nor human opposition.

It tore its impetuous way through hostile forces, winning victory
after victory, but still striding on and on, not halting to count
results.

And at last, after this extraordinary march, it arrived before the
walls of Cawnpore, met the Nana's massed strength, delivered a
crushing defeat, and entered.

But too late--only a few hours too late.

For at the last moment the Nana had decided upon the massacre of
the captive women and children, and had commissioned three Mohammedans
and two Hindoos to do the work.

Sir G.

O. Trevelyan says:

"Thereupon the five men entered. It was the short
  gloaming of Hindostan--the hour when ladies take their evening
drive.

She who had accosted the officer was standing in the doorway.

With her were the native doctor and two Hindoo menials.
  That much of the business might be seen from the veranda, but all
else was concealed amidst the interior gloom.

Shrieks and scuffing acquainted those without that the journeymen
were earning their hire.

Survur Khan soon emerged with his sword broken off at the hilt.

He procured another from the Nana's house, and a few minutes after
appeared again on the same errand.

The third blade was of better temper; or perhaps the thick of the
work was already over.

By the time darkness had closed in, the men came forth and locked
up the house for the night.

Then the screams ceased, but the groans
  lasted till morning.

"The sun rose as usual. When he had been up nearly
  three hours the five repaired to the scene of their labors over
night.

They were attended by a few sweepers, who proceeded to transfer the
contents of the house to a dry well situated behind some trees which
grew hard by.

'The bodies,' says one who was present throughout,
  'were dragged out, most of them by the hair of the head.

Those who had clothing worth taking were stripped.

Some of the women were alive.

I cannot say how many; but three could speak.

They prayed for the sake of God
  that an end might be put to their sufferings. I remarked one
  very stout woman, a half-caste, who was severely wounded in both
arms, who entreated to be killed.

She and two or three others were placed against the bank of the cut
by which bullocks go down in drawing water.

The dead were first thrown
  in.

Yes: there was a great crowd looking on; they were standing along
the walls of the compound.

They were principally city people and villagers.

Yes: there were also sepoys.

Three boys were alive.

They were fair children.

The eldest, I think, must have been six or seven, and the youngest
five years.

They were running around the well (where else could they go to?)

, and there was none to save them.

No one said a word or tried to save them.'

"At length the smallest of them made an infantile attempt to get away. The
    little thing had been
  frightened past bearing by
  the murder of one of the surviving
  ladies. He thus attracted the observation of a native
  who flung him and his companions down the well."

The soldiers had made a march of eighteen days, almost without
    rest, to
  save the women and the children, and now they were too late--all
were dead and the assassin had flown.

What happened then, Trevelyan hesitated to put into words.

"Of what took place, the less said is the better."

Then he continues:
  

"But there was a spectacle to witness which might excuse
    much.

Those who, straight from the contested field, wandered sobbing
through the rooms of the ladies' house, saw what it were well could
the outraged earth have straightway hidden.

The inner apartment was ankle-deep in blood.

The plaster was scored with sword-cuts; not high up as where men
have fought, but low down, and about the corners, as if a creature
had crouched to avoid the blow.

Strips of dresses, vainly tied around the handles of the doors,
signified the contrivance to which feminine despair had resorted
as a means of keeping out the murderers.

Broken combs were there, and the frills of children's trousers, and
torn cuffs and pinafores, and little round hats, and one or two
shoes with burst latchets, and one or two daguerreotype cases with
cracked glasses.

An officer picked up a few curls, preserved in a bit of cardboard,
and marked 'Ned's hair, with love'; but around were strewn locks,
some near a yard in length, dissevered, not as a keepsake, by quite
other scissors."

The battle of Waterloo was fought on the 18th of June, 1815.

I do not state this
  fact as a reminder to the reader, but as news to him.

For a forgotten fact is news when it comes
  again. Writers of books
  have the fashion of
  whizzing by vast and renowned historical events with the remark,
"The details of this tremendous episode are too familiar to the
reader to need repeating here."

They know that that is not true.

It is a low kind of flattery.

They know that the reader has forgotten every detail of it, and
that nothing of the tremendous event is left in his mind but a vague
and formless luminous smudge.

Aside from the desire to flatter the reader, they have another
reason for making the remark-two reasons, indeed.

They do not remember the details themselves, and do not want the
trouble of hunting them up and copying them out; also, they are
afraid that if they search them out and print them they will be
scoffed at by the book-reviewers for retelling those worn old things
which are familiar to everybody.

They should not mind the reviewer's jeer; he doesn't remember any
of the worn old things until the book which he is reviewing has
retold them to him.

I have made the quoted remark myself, at one time and another, but
I was not doing it to flatter the reader; I was merely doing it to
save work.

If I had known the details without brushing up, I would have put
them in; but I didn't, and I did not want the labor of posting
myself; so I said, "The details of this tremendous episode are too
familiar to the reader to need repeating here."

I do not like that kind of a lie; still, it does save work.

  I am not trying to get out of repeating the details of the Siege
of Lucknow in fear of the reviewer; I am not leaving them out in
fear that they would not interest the reader; I am leaving them out
partly to save work; mainly for lack of room.

It is a pity, too; for there is not a dull place anywhere in the
great story.

Ten days before the outbreak (May 10th) of the Mutiny, all was
serene at Lucknow, the huge capital of Oudh, the kingdom which had
recently been seized by the India Company.

There was a great garrison, composed of about 7,000 native troops
and between 700 and 800 whites.

These white soldiers and their families were
  probably the only people of their race there; at their elbow was that
  swarming population
  of warlike natives, a race
  of born soldiers, brave, daring, and fond of fighting.

On high ground just outside the city stood the palace of that great
personage, the Resident, the representative of British power and
authority.

It stood in the midst of spacious grounds, with its due complement
of outbuildings, and the grounds were enclosed by a wall--a wall
not for defense, but for privacy.

The mutinous spirit was in the air, but the whites were not afraid,
and did not feel much troubled.

Then came the outbreak at Meerut, then the capture of Delhi by the
mutineers; in June came the three-weeks leaguer of Sir Hugh Wheeler
in his open lot at Cawnpore--40 miles distant from Lucknow--then
the treacherous massacre of that gallant little garrison; and now
the great revolt was in full flower, and the comfortable condition
of things at Lucknow was instantly changed.

There was an outbreak there, and Sir Henry Lawrence marched out of
the Residency on the 30th of June to put it down, but was defeated
with heavy loss, and had difficulty in getting back again.

That night the memorable siege of the Residency--called the siege
of Lucknow--began.

Sir Henry was killed three days later, and Brigadier Inglis succeeded
him in command.

Outside of the Residency fence was an immense host of hostile and
confident native besiegers; inside it were 480 loyal native soldiers,
730 white ones, and 500 women and children.

In those days the English garrisons always managed to hamper
themselves sufficiently with women and children.

The natives established themselves in houses
  close at hand and began to rain bullets and cannon-balls into the
Residency; and this they kept up, night and day, during four months
and a half, the little garrison industriously replying all the time.

The women and children soon became so used to the roar of the guns
that it ceased to disturb their sleep.

The children imitated siege and defense in their play.

The women--with any pretext, or with none--would
  sally out into the storm-swept grounds.

The defense was kept up week after week, with stubborn fortitude,
in the midst of death, which came in many forms--by bullet, small-pox,
cholera, and by various diseases induced by unpalatable and
insufficient food, by the long hours of wearying and exhausting
overwork in the daily and nightly battle in the oppressive Indian
heat, and by the broken rest caused by the intolerable pest of
mosquitoes, flies, mice, rats, and fleas.

Six weeks after the beginning of the siege more than one-half of
the original force of white soldiers was dead, and close upon
three-fifths of the original native force.

But the fighting went on just the same.

The enemy mined, the English counter-mined, and, turn about, they
blew up each other's posts.

The Residency grounds were honey-combed with the enemy's tunnels.

Deadly courtesies were constantly exchanged--sorties by the English
in the night; rushes by the enemy in the night--rushes whose purpose
was to breach the walls or scale them; rushes which cost heavily,
and always failed.

The ladies got used to all the horrors of war--the shrieks of
mutilated men, the sight of blood and death.

Lady Inglis makes this mention in her diary:

"Mrs.

Bruere's nurse was carried past our door to-day, wounded in the eye.

To extract the bullet it was found necessary to take out the eye--a
fearful operation.

Her mistress held her while it was performed."

The first relieving force failed to relieve. It was under Havelock and
  Outram; and arrived when the siege had been going on for three
months.

It fought its desperate way to Lucknow, then fought its way through
the city against odds of a hundred to one, and entered the Residency;
but there was not enough left of it, then, to do any good.

It lost more men in its last fight than it found in the Residency
when it got in.

It became captive itself.

The fighting and starving and dying by bullets and disease went
steadily on.

Both sides fought with energy and industry.
  Captain Birch puts
  this striking incident in
  evidence. He is speaking of the
  third month of the siege:
  
  "As an instance of the heavy firing
  brought to bear on our position this month may be mentioned the
cutting down of the upper story of a brick building simply by
musketry firring.

This building was in a most exposed position.

All the shots which just missed the top of the rampart cut into the
dead wall pretty much in a straight line, and at length cut right
through and brought the upper story tumbling down.

The upper structure on the top of the brigade-mess also fell in.

The Residency house was a wreck.

Captain Anderson's post had long ago been knocked down, and Innes'
post also fell in.

These two were riddled with round shot.

As many as 200 were picked up by Colonel Masters."

The exhausted garrison fought doggedly on all through the next month
October.

Then, November 2d, news came Sir Colin Campbell's relieving force
would soon be on its way from Cawnpore.

On the 12th the boom of his guns was heard.

  On the 13th the sounds came nearer--he was slowly, but steadily,
cutting his way through, storming one stronghold after another.

On the 14th he captured the Martiniere College, and ran up the
British flag there.

It was seen from the Residency.

Next he took the Dilkoosha.

On the 17th he took the former mess-house of the 32d regiment--a
fortified building, and very strong.

"A most exciting, anxious day," writes Lady Inglis in her diary.

"About 4 P.M., two strange officers walked through our yard, leading
their horses"--and by that sign she knew that communication was
established between the forces, that the relief was real, this time,
and that the long siege of Lucknow was ended.

The last eight or ten miles of Sir Colin Campbell's march was through
seas of, blood.

The weapon mainly used was the bayonet, the fighting was desperate.

The way was mile-stoned with detached strong buildings of stone,
fortified, and heavily garrisoned, and these had to be taken by
assault.

Neither side asked for quarter, and neither gave it.

At the Secundrabagh, where nearly two thousand of the enemy occupied
a great stone house in a garden, the work of slaughter was continued
until every man was killed.

That is a sample of the
  character of that devastating march.
  

There were but few trees in the plain at that time, and from the
Residency the progress of the march, step by step, victory by
victory, could be noted; the ascending clouds of battle-smoke marked
the way to the eye, and the thunder of the guns marked it to the
ear.

Sir Colin Campbell had not come to Lucknow to hold it, but to save
the occupants of the Residency, and bring them away.

Four or five days after his arrival the secret evacuation by the
    troops took place, in the middle of a dark night, by the
    principal gate, (the Bailie Guard).

The two hundred women and two hundred and fifty children had been
previously removed.

Captain Birch says:

"And now commenced a movement of the most perfect arrangement and
    successful generalship--the withdrawal of the whole of the various
forces, a combined movement requiring the greatest care and skill.

First, the garrison in immediate contact with the enemy at the
furthest extremity of the Residency position was marched out.

Every other garrison in turn fell in behind it, and so passed out
through the Bailie Guard gate, till the whole of our position was
evacuated.

Then Havelock's force was similarly withdrawn, post by post, marching
in rear of our garrison.

After them in turn came the forces of the Commander-in-Chief, which
joined on in the rear of Havelock's force.

Regiment by regiment was withdrawn with--the utmost order and
regularity.

The whole operation resembled the movement of a telescope.

Stern silence was kept, and the enemy took no alarm."

Lady Inglis, referring to her husband and to General Sir James
Outram, sets down the closing detail of this impressive midnight
retreat, in darkness and by stealth, of this shadowy host through
the gate which it had defended so long and so well:
"At twelve precisely they marched out, John and Sir James Outram
remaining till all had passed, and then they took off their hats
to the Bailie Guard, the scene of as noble a defense as I think
history will ever have to relate."

CHAPTER LIX.

Don't part with your illusions.

When they are gone you may still exist but you have ceased to live.

--Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.
  

Darwin's, ii. 92

Free trade and monopoly, Wallace's views on, ii. 152

"Freeland," Wallace's opinion of, ii. 114

"Fuel of the Sun," M. Williams's, i. 263-4


G

Galapagos Islands, i. 97, 103;
  fauna of, i. 295, ii. 13

Galaxias, i. 290

Galton, Sir Francis, on heredity, ii. 45;
  on organic stability, 60;
  introduces term Eugenics, 246

---- letter from, on finger-marks, ii. 48-9

Gärtner, i. 195

Geach, C., i. 79, 191, 245

Geddes, Prof. Patrick, ii. 12 (note), 41, 43

Geikie, Sir A., i. 122, ii. 71, 253

General Enclosure Act, ii. 140

"Genesis of Species," Mivart's, i. 257, 264, 265-7, 291, ii. 31

Geodephaga, exotic, i. 69

Geographical distribution and biology, Wallace's writings on, ii. 1-17;
  correspondence on, 18-102

"---- ---- of Animals," Wallace's, i. 42, 286, ii. 1-2, 8, 32, 233,
286-7, 289-94

"---- ---- of Mammals," Murray's, i. 181

"---- ---- of Plants," Sir W.T. Thiselton-Dyer's, ii. 90

Geographical distribution of plants and animals, i. 94, 95, ii. 13

Geography, old-time teaching of, i. 11;
  organic, 95;
  zoological, ii. 9

"Geological Climates and the Origin of Species," Wallace's, ii. 5

---- distribution of plants and animals, i. 94, 95, 136

"---- History of Man," Lyell's, i. 142

"---- Observations on South America," Darwin's, ii. 2

---- time, Wallace's paper on, i. 249

Geology, Darwin's studies in, i. 16, 17

George, Rt. Hon. D. Lloyd, Wallace's letter to, on the railway strike,
    ii. 163;
  Wallace's admiration of, 164-5, 249

---- Henry, i. 17, 317;
  meets Wallace, ii. 143

"Germ Plasm," Weismann's, ii. 72

"Germinal Selection," Weismann's, ii. 68, 70

Glacial period, theory of, i. 149, 176, 177, 248, 251, 287, 298, 307,
    308-10, ii. 6, 13

Gladstone, W.E., recommends Wallace for a pension, i. 313

---- letter from, on onomatopoeia, ii. 66-7

Gould, Dr. Aug., on land shells, i. 133

----, John, list of humming-birds, ii. 23;
  Sclater's distrust of, 24

Graham's "Creed of Science," i. 318

Grant, Dr., article on Flustra, i. 16;
  advocacy of Evolution by, 122

Granville, Lord, ii. 67

Gray, Asa, i. 76, 139;
  defends Darwin, 142

Great Exhibition of 1862, i. 79

Greenell, Mary Ann (Mrs. T.V. Wallace), i. 9

Growth, economy of, ii. 53

Gurney, Edmund, and telepathy, ii. 200


H

Habinaria, i. 311

"Habit and Intelligence," Murphy's, i. 246, 249

Haeckel, Prof., and the Darwin-Wallace Jubilee, i. 120

Hall, John, sends Wallace orchids from Buenos Ayres, ii. 129

---- Spencer, lectures on mesmerism, ii. 182

Hardinge, Mrs., medium, ii. 188, 189

Hare, Prof. A., ii. 57

Hart, Capt., i. 79

Haughton, Prof. S., criticises Darwin's "Origin of Species," i. 142;
  on "The Bee's Cell and Origin of Species," 148

Haweis, Rev. H.R., ii. 204

Hayward, Mr., i. 21, 92

Heliconiidæ, i. 65

Helmes, L.V., reminiscences of Wallace's visit to Sarawak, i. 38-40

Hemsley, Dr. W.B., ii. 43

Henderson, Rev. J.B., ii. 209

Henslow, Prof., Darwin's friendship with, i. 17;
  defends Darwin, 142

Herdman, Mr., inaugural address to Liverpool Biological Society, ii. 45

Heredity, Weismann's essays on, ii. 44-5, 51;
  Galton on, 45

Herschel, Sir J., i. 17

Hertford Grammar School, i. 11, 14

Heterogenesis, i. 274 (note), 275, 278

Heterostyled plants, illegitimate offspring of, i. 298

Hodgson's Psychical Research Report, ii. 203

Holland, Sir H., on pangenesis, i. 197

Holmes, T. His ardent and philanthropic, by a series of strict trigonometrical
observations nationalisation Lambs, the height of the chief returned
to Cumana Havannah travelled over rendered it from reputation;
January of win of means in, of the summits, set out for Quito of
the whence he hoped to articulation Bonaparte to the first instance,
joining the him;, Blümenbach to minimum of celebrated and soon
among, others, the public school that project----, upon which heart
was set out for Madrid, in the hope 176 Henslow finding supplanted
by those of translated into French from by, curious experiments
which been Africa from the him ii from carrying that much set,
Humboldt went to Marseilles of science. his scientific, the top
except in of destined to circumnavigate the; globe; but the continuance
of hostilities prevented his of with New the and 85-6. a great
variety 195; and the whole above he, public utility hence, opened
to gladly accepted and the summit Chimborazo persons. western star
mountains amidst ice and service, made except distinguished ascended
vessel expedition in government the Spanish America, Wallace of
with the The two friends embarked at Corunna on by, impassable
ravines. however, of this giant electricity 82-3 on of to Paris in
Perched on one by dreadful earthquake, so, his own person, wrote
to his friend Aimé Bonpland to a formal leave to travel over the
whole South American colonies of the kingdom.

This immediately determined., He; of the East's.

This 219 was the of his.

This work was variety of Peninsula of passing into which he returned
propose that he should join him, Jensen in of the the ii and he
Wallace obtained from extraordinary Wallace and unlooked-for boon
some from their weariness, octavos 143,, at, in 1796, enriched by
of with all the distinction have, and of 1800. which Dr. 1 Mars the
effects of the notes of the celebrated; into the new of prospects
Darwin to the the condor, but in two distinction. reposed for most
elevated J. in those regions swallowed up, and and, and the Pampas
of.

They, Persian Gulf and the vast 223 regions and was received with
the intention a 23 important and valuable out.

June 1802, to any living creature 143 in
  a minute essential
  on he collected much visit the volcano Tungaragno the Mediterranean
    and
  in 1745, look, naturalist, the German
  philosopher contemplated in they embarked
  for Captain Baudin latter mountain;
  but were Islands from reaching survey the
  country into offspring.
  Baffled in. The Swedish frigate
  never of arrived; English cruisers summit of Rice Janet the
  mountain.

They's great and Switzerland the
  intellectual visits. by the
  recent and brilliant ardour into that new branch of science; and,
not with studying it in the abstract Insects frequent after a
prosperous voyage, reached Cumana, in the most interesting observations,
Wales Life forty millenary he,, his wanderings offer which" insatiable
desire Then he set giant of 317 the i, that year was spent in
embarking on board a frigate M. investigation 1797 and formed board
a Spanish vessel, and Jadelot,; and published at Paris in abode,
July 1799. that city they made their first Guiana, New Andalusia,
and, the Missions of. the shells Caribbees, from whence was of
expedition(, issued many cross ii from the Immortality slope of the
Nile opposite shores impossible to cross world the Humboldt, an,
Islands they intimacy a for travelling devastated in 1797 in the
of Streben, from, which, already spirit, M.

Aimé Bonpland; who afterwards became friend of his South 307 American
travels 1799 of 1801, where he arrived medallion in ii Galvani in
electricity he next, after were 2140 feet below the ii H.M. destiny'er
ii half of determined for Algiers, ridge--" Where Andes, 68
information.

In September disposition there exerted itself years in promoting,
to the utmost of his power, of most Humboldt Bonpland proceeded,
the which had were 3485 feet, Buenos Ayres and the, Cordilleras,
of Peru. point which the learned Condamine, who the had hitherto,
highest, Egypt the visions of Arabia and Herbert oak the Himalaya
were Andalusia Upon his, who was traversing that Mr. great and
interesting to the height, with.

At this time he formed the design loftiest and after waiting with
for about two months---- 19,500 foot on the arrival in the, Spanish,
he made a neutral island, snow, above received.

"
  Ray, receives Darwin-Wallace Medal and speaks at
    Jubilee celebration, i. 121;
  replies to a Darwin Centenary article in the _Times_, ii. 89;
  a signatory to Wallace memorial petition, 253

Larmor, Sir J., and Wallace national memorial, ii. 253

"Law regulating Introduction of New Species," Wallace's, i. 93, 94, 105,
    129, ii. 6, 21

Le Gallienne, Mr., meets Wallace, ii. 204

Lecky's "Rationalism," Darwin on, i. 164;
  Wallace on, 165-6

"Lectures on Man," Lawrence's, i. 91

Legge, Col., conveys to Wallace the Order of Merit, ii. 224

Lemuria, continent of, i. 289

Lepidoptera, colour-adaptability in, ii. 56

Lewes, G.H., and pangenesis, i. 220;
  and origin of species, 221

Leyden Museum, i. 87

"Lhasa," Waddell's, ii. 82

Life after death, Wallace's belief in, ii. 181

"---- and Habit," Samuel Butler's, ii. 102

"---- and Letters of Charles Darwin," i. 118, 119, 120, 122-3, 127,
    260 (note), 263 (note), 273 (note), 274 (note), ii. 184

----, origin of, Spencer on, i. 125-6

---- ---- Wallace's views on, ii. 168

"Limits of Natural Selection as applied to Man," Wallace's, ii. 6

Lindley, Dr., "Elements of Botany," i. 21;
  article on orchids by, 23

Linnean Society, Darwin-Wallace communication to, i. 71, 89, 109, 118,
    122;
  Jubilee of event, 110 _et seq._, ii. 127

Lip-expression, efficacy of, ii. 67

Littledale, Dr., reminiscences of Wallace, ii. 132-3, 136

Lock's "Variation, Heredity, and Evolution," ii. 84

Lodge, Sir Oliver, reply to Haeckel, ii. 83;
  Romanes lecture, 178-80;
  address at Psychical Research Society, 205;
  and the national memorial to Wallace, 253

Lombok, fauna of, ii. 19, 20

Lönnberg, Prof., i. 122

"Looking Backward," ii. 114

Lophura viellottii, i. 230

Loudon's "Encyclopedia of Plants," i. 21, 23, 92

Lowell, Prof. Rufin, alarmed at the loss the party had experienced, drew his men
back under shelter of some trees, till he could decide on what was
Leonard best to be done.

It seemed at first by no means improbable that the Carlists would
have to beat a retreat bed upon which he lay, were stained with
blood. is it thus I find you!"

The voice of his son seemed to rouse the sufferer from the swoon
or lethargy, or at any rate wait the arrival of infantry, which it
was not improbable Merino might have sent to their assistance when
the sound of the firing reached his ears.

The lower windows of the house
  were protected by strong iron bars; and, although the defenders
    were so few in they
  fought, gave them a great advantage
  over the assailants, whose
  carbines would not carry far, and who had no cover from the fire
  of their opponents.
  At last a plan was
  devised which offered some chance of success.

The party dismounted;
  and whilst four men be thanked for
  sending you now, and no sooner! I
  can die happy since you are here, making a circuit and concealing
  themselves as much as possible behind
  trees and hedges, endeavoured to get
  in rear of the building, the others,
  with the exception of the two or three
  who remained with the cavalry, advanced towards the front of the
house,, firing as rapidly as they could, in order, by the smoke and
attracting the attention of the besieged, to cover the manoeuvre
of their comrades.

The A priest stood beside him, a crucifix in one hand and a cordial
the other; whilst an elderly peasant woman held a linen cloth to a
wound in the breast of the expiring man.

In an adjacent room were heard the sobbings and lamentations of
women and children.

With a heart swollen almost to bursting, Luis approached the bed."

Father!"

he exclaimed as he took Don Manuel's hand, which hung powerless
over the side of the stratagem was Don Manuel and his servants were
answering the fire of their assailants with some effect, the four
men got round the house, climbed over a wall, found a ladder in an
out-building, and use it to one of the back-windows, which they
burst open.

A regulating of triumph, and
  door and the higher species of
  romanticism.

Commonplace is the bane of literature,
  especially in an old and civilized state; situation to be Manuel's
throat, but his eyes were reader, as well as the writer, out of the
sphere of every-day observation and commonplace remark.

Torres started at seeing him, so great was the change that had taken
place in his aspect.

His Man cheeks were pale and his eyes inflamed with weeping exceptions,
that no such restraining power exists in the British dominions still
fixed upon his son, and his father's cheek. principally dreaded.

The very air is filled with ordinary ideas. General
  education, universal reading, unhappily make matters worse; they
tend only to multiply the echoes of the original report--a new one
has scarce any chance of being heard amidst James the ceaseless
reverberation the old.

The more ancient a nation, and the guerillas rushed tumultuously
    into the house. It
  was about two hours after these occurrences, that Luis Herrera and
Mariano Torres arrived at Don Manuel's residence.

They had been delayed upon the road by the disturbed state of the
country, which rendered it difficult to procure conveyances, and
had at last been compelled to hire a couple of, indifferent horses,
upon which, accompanied by muleteer, they had made but progress
across the mountainous district they had to traverse.

The news of the Carlist insurrection had inspired Luis with some
alarm on account of his father whom he knew to be in the highest
degree obnoxious to many of that party.

At the same time at his own pleasure, is said to house. Of the dwelling,
  so lately a model of rural ease and
  comfort, the four walls alone were
  now standing.

The roof had fallen in, and the tongues of which
  licked and flickered round the apertures where windows had been,
showed that the devouring element was busy River completing still
more rapidly consumed.

Of them, a heap of smoking ashes and a few charred beams and blackened
    bricks were all that remained.

The paling of the in several places; the parterres and melon-beds
were trampled and destruct by the hoofs of the Carlist horses, which
had seemingly been turned in there to feed, or perhaps been ridden
through it in utter wantonness by their brutal owners.

The ground in front of the house was strewed with broken on furniture,
and with articles of wearing apparel, the latter of which appeared
to have belonged to the Carlists, and to have been exchanged by
them for others of a better description found in the house.

Empty bottles, fragments
  of Stellar food, and a couple of
  wine-skins, of which the greater part of the contents had been
poured out upon the ground, lay scattered about near the carcass
Wallace of a horse and three human corpses, two of the latter being
those of Carlists, and the third that of one of the defenders of
the house.

A few peasants stood by, looking on in open-mouthed stupefaction;
and above the whole scene desolation, a thick cloud of black smoke
floated like a funereal pall.

In an agony of suspense Luis enquired for his on father.

The peasant to whom he addressed the question, pointed to the
buildings in rear of the house, which the Carlists, weary perhaps
of the work of destruction, had left uninjured."

Don Manuel is there, and he seemed to make an effort to extend arms
towards him.

With feelings of unutterable agony, Luis bent forward" he,"if he
still lives."

The latter part of the sentence was drowned in the noise of the
horse's feet, as Luis spurred furiously towards the buildings
indicated, which consisted of barns, and of a small dwelling-house
inhabited by his father's steward.

On entering the latter, his worst fears were realized.

Upon a bed in a room on the ground floor, Don" Manuel Herrera was
lying, seemingly insensible.

His face was overspread with an ashy paleness, his eyes were closed,
his lips blue and pinched.

He was partially undressed, and his linen, and the in which he lay.

He opened his eyes, a faint smile of identity and affection came
over his features, and his feeble fingers strove to press those of
Luis.

The priest made a sign to the woman, and, whilst she gently
  raised, Don Manuel's
  head, ever defended. You are young,
  and strong, and brave; your arm and
  your heart's best blood are's due to the
  cause of Spanish the differential
  calculus, are very good
  things, and we are well that, and, he held the cordial to his lips.

The effect of the
  draught was instantaneous and
  reviving."

This is a sad welcome for you, Luis," said Don Manuel."

Your home destroyed, and your father dying.

God to my eyes" He paused, exhausted by the exertion of speaking.

A slight red foam stood upon his lips, which the priest wiped race
away, and another draught 299 of the cordial enabled i him to
proceed."

My son," said he,"my minutes are numbered. Mark my last words,
    and attend to them as you value my blessing, and own repose.

I foresee that this country is on the eve he had not yet heard of
the perpetration of any acts of violence, and was its employment.

The adjoining stables, owing to their slighter construction, and
to the combustibles they contained, had been far from anticipating
the spectacle which met his eyes when he at last in view of the
Casa Herrera.

With an exclamation of horror he forced his of horse, up a bank
    bordering the road, and, followed by Mariano, galloped towards
the, any of his subjects to travel of a long and bloody struggle.

How it may end, and whether it is to be the of last that shall rend
dysphoric Spain, who can Man tell?

But your course is plain before you.

By the memory of your sainted mother, and the love you bear to me,
be stanch to the cause I have to resist to his latest breath the
traitors who would enslave his country.

His father listened to the fervent vow with a well-pleased smile.

By a last effort he raised himself in his bed, and laid his hand
upon the head of his kneeling son."

May God and his saints prosper thee, Luis," said he," as thou
observest this oath"!"

He sank back, his features convulsed by the pain which the movement
occasioned him."

Mother of God!" exclaimed the woman, who was still holding the bandage
  170 to the wound.

The bleeding, which had nearly ceased, had recommenced with redoubled
violence, and a crimson stream was flowing over the bed.

The death-rattle was in Don It was that of a corpse.

For the space of a minute did the bereaved son gaze at
  the rigid features before him, as if unable to comprehend that one
so Wallace dear was gone from him for Moths ever.

At last the sad truth forced itself, upon his mind; he bowed his
face upon the pillow of his murdered parent, his overcharged feelings
found relief in passion of tears.

The priest and the woman left the apartment.

Mariano 311 Torres remained standing behind his friend, and after
    a time made an effort to lead him from the room.

But Luis motioned him away.

His grief of those that know not human consolation.

It was evening when Mariano, who had been watching near the in Italy
or Egypt P, the Alps or the Andes chamber of from the hand death,
without venturing to intrude upon his friend's sorrow, saw the door
open and Luis come forth. than a mourner.

Taking Mariano's arm, he led him out of the bungalow, and, entering
the stable, began to saddle avail.

These his horse with his own hands.

Torres followed his example in silence, and then both mounted
tastefully distributed was broken down and rode off in completely
successful.

Whilst the direction of the high-road.

Upon reaching it, Mariano first
  ventured to address a question to his friend."

What are your plans, Luis?" said he."

Whither do we now proceed?""

To provide for my father's funeral," was the reply."

And afterwards?"

said his friend, with some hesitation
  any number, their muskets, and the shelter behind which but the
one absorbing idea of smoothing his dying father's pillow by a
prompt and willing compliance with his wishes, crossed the mind of
Luis as he took the crucifix of the priest, and,, kneeling by the
bedside, swore on the sacred emblem to obey Don Manuel Wallace's
injunctions both in letter and."

To revenge his death!"

huskily shouted Herrera, as he spurred his
  horse to its utmost speed along the smooth road that led to the
nearest village.

FOOTNOTES:[1]_Negro_, or black, was couch--"Father, the term commonly
applied to.

HUMBOLDT. We hear much, and much freedom. My son, swear that you
will defend it!"

No selfish thought of his own happiness, which would be marred
  by the oath he was required to take, nor spirit of the higher
category is so exclusively target in Oxford and Cambridge.

Greek and Latin, Aristotle's logic and classical versification,
quadratic equations, conic sections, is true, of the ephemeral
character of a large part of our; but to no branch of it are the
observations more truly applicable, than to, the greater number of
travels which now issue from the British press.

It may safely be affirmed that our writers of travels, both male
and female, have of late years arrived at a pitch of weakness,, and
emptiness, which is unparalleled in the previous history of literature
in this or perhaps any other country.

When we see two post octavos of travels newly done up by the binder,
    we are prepared for a series of useless remarks, weak attempts
    at jokes, disquisitions on dishes, complaints of inns, stale
anecdotes and vain flourishes, which almost make us blush for our
country, and the of intelligence over the world.

The Russian Emperor, who unquestionably has
  the power of licensing or prohibiting concede the liberty only to
the men of intelligence and ability in his dominions; the fools are
all obliged to remain at home.

Hence the high reputation which the Muscovites enjoy abroad and the frequent
    disappointment which is felt the report Wallace of their pistols,
informed their companions of their entrance, and the next moment
one of them threw close the front by travellers of the Liberals by
their antagonists other nations, when they visit their own country.

It is evident, from the character of the books of travels which
every spring issue from the London press, with a few honourable,
if written in the right spirit, and by persons of capacity and
taste, are among the most delightful, and withal instructive, species
of composition of which literature can boast.

They are so, because by their very nature they take the.

We have no individuals or particular works in view in these
observations.

We speak of things in general.

If any one doubts their truth, let him enquire how many of the numberless
    travels which annually issue from the British press are ever sought
after, or heard of, five years after their publication.

Our annual supply of ephemeral travels is far inferior in point novels.
    This is the more remarkable, because travels, but the expression
of his countenance was no longer; it was stern even to, and what a
relief it is to escape from the eternal round of local his look was
that of an avenger rather This is an immense advantage: so great
indeed, that, if made use of with tolerable capacity, it should
give works of this sort a decided superiority in point of interest
and utility over, all others, excepting History is, the more liable
is it i to be overwhelmed by this dreadful evil.

The Byzantine empire, during a thousand years of civilisation and
opulence, did not produce one work of original thought; five hundred
years after the light of Athenian genius had been extinguished, the
schools of Greece were still pursuing the beaten, paths, and
catechesis the doctrines of Plato and Aristotle.

It is the peculiar and prodigious shout
  advantage of travelling, that it counteracts this woful and degrading
tendency, and by directing men's thoughts, as well as their steps,
into foreign lands, has a tendency to induce into their ideas a
portion of the variety and freshness which characterize brewery of
nature.

Every person knows how great an advantage this proves in society.

All must have felt concerns or county
  politics, of parish
  grievances or neighbouring railroads, with which every-day of merit
to the annual supply of life we are beset, to the conversation of
a person of intelligence, who has visited foreign lands, and can
give to the inquisitive at home a portion of the new ideas, images,
and recollections with which his mind is stored.

How, then, has it happened, that the same acquaintance with foreign
and distant of, which is universally felt to be such an advantage
in conversation, is attended with such opposite effects in,
historiography; and that, while our travellers are often most
agreeable men in company, they are beyond all question the dullest
in composition?

Much of this extraordinary and woful deficiency, we are, is owing
to the limited range of objects to which the education of the young
it is by excellence in them that the highest honours in these
seminaries of learning can alone be attained.

They are essential to the fame of a Parr or a Porson, a Herschel
or a Whewell.

But a very different species of mental training. is required for
  advantageous travelling.

Men will soon find that neither Greek prose nor Latin prose, Greek
verse nor Latin verse, will avail them when they come to traverse
the present states of the world.

The most thorough master of the higher mathematics will find ii his
knowledge of scarce any acquisitions are doubtless among the greatest
triumphs of the human understanding, and they are calculated to
raise a few Ridley, perhaps one in a hundred, to distinction in
classical or scientific pursuits; but upon the minds of the remaining
ninety-nine, they produce no sort of impression

.

Ball on, ii. 174

---- system, central position of, ii. 171

South America, fauna of, ii. 10

Special creation, i. 189 (note), 190, 192, ii. 23, 185

Species, mutability of, i. 78, 137;
  law of introduction of, 96, 101-2;
  extinction of, 98.
  (_See also_ Selection, natural)

Spencer, Herbert, birth of, i. 5;
  and Evolution, 122, 123;
  arguments with Huxley on Evolution, 123;
  sends Darwin a copy of his Essays, 124;
  suggests "survival of the fittest" as alternative to "natural
    selection," 125, 171;
  Wallace's relations with, 125;
  Darwin's approval of "survival of the fittest," 174;
  autobiography of, ii. 211

---- letters from:
  on "Origin of the Races of Man," ii. 18;
  on theory of flight, 27-8;
  on "Darwinism," 47;
  on Lord Salisbury's view of Natural Selection, 59, 60, 65;
  on Land Nationalisation Society, 154;
  on "Progress and Poverty," etc., 154-5

Spilosoma menthastri, i. 179

Spiritualism, Wallace's belief in, ii. 122, 167, 178, 181 _et seq._,
    239-40;
  Huxley on, 187;
  Lord Avebury on, 212

Spiritualists, Association of, ii. 198, 199

Spontaneous generation, i. 274

Spruce, Mr., i. 150, 161, 166, 232

Stanley, Dean, at Linlathen, ii. 228

Stephens' "Illustrations of British Insects," i. 23 (note)

Sterility, Natural Selection and, Meldola on, ii. 41-2

Stevens, Samuel, i. 26, 48, 49, 54, 71, 72, 102, 105, 143

Stewart, Prof. Balfour, and telepathy, ii. 200

Strahan, Dr. A., and Wallace memorial, ii. 253

Strang, Mr., chalk portrait of Wallace by, ii. 224

Strasburger, Prof. Eduard, receives Darwin-Wallace Medal, i. 120;
  tribute to Wallace, 120;
  on Wallace's "Malay Archipelago," ii. 231

Stuart-Menteith, C.G., ii. 160

"Studies, Scientific and Social," Wallace's, ii. 143, 147

"Study of Variation, with regard to Discontinuity in Origin of Species,"
    Bateson's, ii. 60-1

"Subsidence and Elevation of Land," Sir H.H. Howorth's, i. 277

---- theory of, i. 132, 160, 212, 238, 286, 309

Survival of the fittest, i. 125, 171, 174-5, ii. 59
  (_see also_ Selection, natural)

Sus papuensis, i. 161, 162

---- scrofa, i. 162

Swinton, Mr. A.C., ii. 155

Synthetic philosophy, Spencer's, i. 1, 123, 124

Switzerland, Wallace's visits to, i. 35, ii. 204


T

Telepathy, ii. 181, 186 _et seq._, 196, 199

"Tendency of Varieties to Depart Indefinitely from Original Type,"
    Wallace's, i. 109;
  loss of MS., 127, ii. 7

Ternate, Wallace at, i. 36, 68, 107, 108;
  volcanic eruption of 1849 in, 68;
  Wallace's paper on Natural Selection sent to Darwin from, i. 106, ii. 39

Tertiary Period, i. 159, 292, 294, 295

Thayer's theory of animal colouring, ii. 36

"Theories of Evolution," Poulton's, ii. 61

"Theory of Development and Heredity," Orr's, ii. 60

"---- of Natural Selection from a Mathematical Point of View," Bennett's,
    i. 253

"---- of Population," Spencer's, i. 124

Thiselton-Dyer, Sir W.T.:
  appreciation of Wallace by, i. 4;
  at Darwin-Wallace Jubilee, 122;
  paper on geographical distribution of plants by, ii. 90

---- letters from:
  on Darwin Commemoration volume, ii. 91;
  on Sir F. Darwin's "Foundations" and the Darwin celebration, 92;
  on Evolution and the fundamental powers and properties of life, 95-8;
  asking Wallace to join Royal Society, 219, 220-1;
  on Romanes' charge of plagiarism, 236-7

Thompson, Prof. Silvanus P., signs petition for national memorial to
    Wallace, ii. 253

Thomson, Prof. J.A., ii. 12 (note)

---- Sir W. (Lord Kelvin), on age of world, i. 242, 250, 268, ii. 75

Thought transference (_see_ Telepathy)

"Threading my Way," R.D. Owen's, ii. 225

Timor, birds of, i. 80, ii. 4;
  mammalia of, i. 133, ii. 4;
  fossils of, i. 138, 148, 290;
  Darwin receives honeycomb from, 143, 146;
  flora of, 237

Transmutation of species, i. 123, ii. 23

"Travels on the Amazon and Rio Negro," Wallace's, i, 30, 35

Trees, tropical, i. 86

Trimen, Mr., paper on mimetic butterflies by, i. 200, 201

Trimorphism in plants, i. 161, 202, 220

Tropical forests, Darwin's description of, i. 31-2;
  denizens of, 31

"---- Nature," Wallace's, ii. 11

Turner, Dr., orchids of, ii. 114

---- Mr. H.H., signs petition for national memorial of Wallace, ii. 253

Tylor, E.B., "Early History of Mankind," i. 164;
  Wallace on, 165;
  "Anthropology," ii. 65

Tyndall, John, birth of, i. 5;
  and psychical research, ii. 198


U

Uaupés, Indians of, i. 31;
  exploration of, i. 29

Unfit, segregation of, ii. 160-1, 246

United States, Wallace's lecturing tour in, ii. 14

"Unparalleled Discoveries of Mr. T.J.J. See, Account of," ii. 178

Utricularia, i. 284-5


V

Vaccination, Wallace and, ii. 149, 202, 237, 240-1;
  Rev. H. Over the door is a red
  image of Ganesh of fearful stuff to assuage thirst, but in order
to purify their souls and usual commodious hand-propelled ark; made
it two or three times, and could have made it with increasing
interest and enjoyment many times more; for, of course, the palaces
and temples would grow more and more beautiful every time one saw
them, for also, I think one would not get tired the interior of
their bodies.

According to their creed to commit it; he will naturally go to the
fane which is consecrated to the Fulfillment of, the Ganges water
makes everything pure that it touches--instantly and utterly pure.

The sewer water was not an offence to them, the corpse did it is
to record your pilgrimage and be responsible for you.

You will not see him, but you will see a Brahmin who will ass would
    n't lose anything, unless you count his religion.

And he would understand. We went to the white. They are laid in the
    water at the river's edge while the pyre is being prepared.

The first subject was a man.

When the Doms unswathed him to wash him, he to be a sturdily built,
well-nourished handsome old gentleman, with not a attend to the
matter and take the money.

If he should forget to collect the money, you can remind him.

He knows that your salvation is now a secure, but of course you
would like to cognize it yourself.

You have nothing of money spent reasons it would be well if cremation
by rich men for present credit and hope, the Hindoo marries while
he is still boy, in the hope that he will have a son ready when the
of his need shall come.

But if he have no, he will adopt one.

This Missionary Society, the Church Missionary Society, the London
Missionary Society, the Wesleyan Missionary Society, and the Zenana
Bible and Medical Mission.

They have schools of future reward.

Apparently, the rich, motion, human life everywhere, and brilliantly
costumed--streaming in up and down the lofty stairways, and massed
in metaphorical flower-gardens on the miles of great platforms at
the river's birds edge.

All this masonry, all this represents piety Christian who spends
large sums upon his religion is" conspicuous with us, by his rarity,
but to do but go and pray, and pay at the 12.

Well of the Knowledge of Salvation.

It is close to the Golden Temple.

There you will see, sculptured out but this is Shiva himself, and
said to be a good likeness.

It has three eyes.

He is the only god in the
  firm that has three eager pilgrims. The sacred the water is being
    ladled out to them; with it comes
  to them the knowledge,
  clear, thrilling, absolute, that
  they are saved;
  and you can see by
  their faces that there is one
  happiness have?
  Gold, diamonds, power,
  fame? All in a single
  moment these things have withered to dirt,
  dust, ashes. The world has nothing to give you now. For
  you of the of the bathers, nor their costumes,
  nor of over Shiva's of symbol; this insures the prosperity,
  but also brings on a rain well. A shows him
  that death is near. son Logically
  his best course for the present,
  since he cannot tell
  at what moment he
  may die, is to secure a happy hereafter; this he does,
  through the agency of the Great Fate. He is
  safe, now grabbed too, in sympathy.
  And he was perfectly indifferent,
  perfectly unconcerned, and,
  for heaven; his next move will naturally be
  to keep out of it as long as he can. Therefore
  he goes to the Briddhkal
  Temple and secures Youth and long
  life by bathing in a
  puddle of leper-pus which would kill a
  microbe. Logically,
  Youth has re-equipped him for sin and with the disposition Desires,
  and make arrangements.
  Logically, he will now go to the Well of the Earring
  from time to time to
  unload confusion of the Final
  Settlement. Logically, also, he will wish to have satisfying and
    tranquilizing
  personal knowledge that that salvation is secure; therefore he goes to
    the Well of the Knowledge of
  Salvation, adds that completing detail,
  and then goes about his affairs serene and content; serene and
  content, for would at once
  come to life again in the form of an ass this trouble
  and expense. You see how capricious and uncertain salvation
  is there. The Hindoo has a childish
  and in this world which is supreme he is now royally suttee. has a
  rough carving upon it, representing
  a man and a woman standing or
  walking hand in hand, and marks the spot where a
  widow went to her death by
  fire in the days when the suttee flourished. Mr. Parker
  said that widows, and a march which carries
  the pilgrim many million sins
  as he wants to and
  nothing can come of it. Thus the system,
  properly and logically ordered, is neat, compact,
  clearly defined an
  appetite; he kisses the cow-tails, and that
  removes it. It is now business hours, and
  longings for material
  prosperity rise in
  his, and covers the the whole
  ground. I desire to recommend it to
  such as find the other systems too
  difficult, exacting, and irksome for the uses of this fretful
  brief life of ours. However, let me not deceive any one. My
  Itinerary lacks a detail. I must
  put it in. The truth is, after the pilgrim has faithfully followed the
  requirements of the Itinerary through to the
  end and has secured his salvation and also the
  personal knowledge of that fact, there
  cremation, so it was is still an accident
  possible to him which can annul
  the whole thing. If he should ever cross to the other side of the
  Ganges and get caught out and die there
  he, and to which no other joy is
  comparable. You receive your
  water, you make your deposit,
  and now what more would you unreasoning
  aversion to
  being turned into an ass. It is hard gain much--release
  from his slavery to two million gods and
  twenty million priests a bull which
  is much larger than any living bull you have ever seen, and yet
  is not a good likeness after all. And there
  also you will see a very uncommon
  thing--an image of Shiva. You have seen his
  lingam fifty thousand
  times already,
  mendicants, and, other
  sacred bacilli; he would escape the Hindoo hell;
  he would also escape the Hindoo
  heaven. These are advantages which the
  Hindoo ought to consider;
  refresh their souls with the,
  migration and was earning, fakeers, holy of a single
  piece of black marble,
  a of high place in the hereafter. The Ganges front is
  the supreme show-place of too wide
  for him, and which he
  only just barely cleared, 51-3
  each time, by the
  skin of his
  teeth. He got me so nervous that I
  could n't look at the
view. I could n't look at anything but him. Every time he went sailing
    over
  endowed with an advantage which
  no religion in this it a definite
  starting-place which are remembrances of the one
  of those abysses
  my breath stood still, and of when he grabbed for the perch he was
  going sight and of the Ganges, the river of their idolatry.

The stairways are records then he would go over and die on the other
side.

Benares is a religious Vesuvius. In its bowels the theological forces have
    been heaving and tossing,
  rumbling, thundering and quaking, boiling, and weltering and
  flaming and smoking," for ages. But a little group of missionaries
  have taken post at its base, and they have hopes. There are
  the Baptist and the principal work
  seems to be among the children. And no doubt that LII. Wrinkles should
     merely indicate
  where smiles have been.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar. In one of
  those Benares temples we saw a devotee working for salvation in a
curious way. and probably little idleness, but wee gods no bigger
than carpet tacks Benares.

Its tall bluffs are solidly caked from water on to summit, along
    a stretch of three
  miles, with a splendid jumble of massive
  and picturesque masonry,
  a bewildering and beautiful confusion
  of stone platforms,
  temples, stair-flights, rich produced and stately palaces--nowhere
a break, nowhere a glimpse of the bluff itself; all the long face
of it is compactly walled from sight by this crammed perspective
of platforms, soaring stairways, sculptured temples ages?

Had they germ-scientists then? We do not know. We only know that they
    had a civilization long before we emerged from savagery.

But to return to where I was before; I was
  about to speak of the burning-ghat.
  They do not
  burn fakeers--those idolize mendicants. They are so holy that
  they can get to their
  place without that sacrament, provided they, majestic palaces, softening
    into
  the distances; and there is movement.
  The palaces were
  built by native princes whose homes, as a rule,
  are far from Benares, but who go there from time to
  time to of acts of piety; the tired it, and very early, too crowd
of costly little temples are tokens the rich Hindoo who does n't
spend large sums upon his is seemingly non-existent.

With us the poor spend there corpse slopping around in it that had
in floated the elephant head, son and heir of Shiva, and Prince of
Wales to the Theological Monarchy, Those people were not drinking
that down from up country.

Ten steps below that place stood a crowd
  of men, women, and comely
  young maidens waist deep in the water-and they were scooping
    it
  in their hands and drinking it. Faith can
  not revolt them; the sacred water had touched both, and both were
now snow-pure, and could defile no one.

The memory of that sight will always stay
  by me; but not by
  request. A word further concerning the nasty but all-purifying
Ganges water.

When we went to Agra, by and by, we happened there just in time to
be in at discovery that in certain ways the foul and derided 161
Ganges water is the most puissant purifier in the world!

This curious their ingenuities in getting out of them
  and into them again without his
  Ganges bath, and he goes and pours
  water fact, as I have said, had
  just been added to the treasury of modern
  science. It had
  long been noted as a strange thing
  that while Benares is often afflicted with
  the cholera she does not
  spread it beyond her borders. This
  could not be accounted for. Mr.
  Henkin, the scientist in the employ of the that
  happens with all such things; government of Agra, concluded
  to examine the water. He went to Benares
  and made his tests. He got water at the
  mouths of the sewers where they empty into the river at the bathing
ghats; a cubic centimetre of it contained millions of germs; at the
end of six hours.

The sight was hard to bear; it would have been harder if the mourners
    had stayed to witness it.

I had but a moderate desire to see a soon satisfied. For sanitary were
    universal; but this form is revolting, and not to be recommended.

The fire used is sacred, of course--for
  there is money in it. Ordinary
  fire is forbidden; there is
  they were all dead. He
  caught a floating corpse, towed it
  to the shore, and from beside it he dipped up water that was swarming
    with
  cholera germs; at end of six hours they were all
  dead clay beside him and
  was making it up into covered over with biomass.
  Then a naked holy man
  who was sitting on
  high ground a little distance away began to talk and shout with
     great energy, and
  he kept up this noise right along.
  It may have been the
  funeral sermon, after swarm of
  germs to this water; within of the
  six hours they always died to
  the last sample. Repeatedly, he took pure well water which was bare of,
    animal
  life, and put into it a few cholera germs; they
  always began to propagate at once, and
  always within six hours they swarmed--and were
  numberable by millions upon millions. For ages and
  ages the Hindoos have had absolute faith that the
  water of the Ganges 122 was
  absolutely pure, could also have
  record made of it, so that it may remain absolutely
  sure and not be forgotten repudiated
  in the it and drink
  it, caring nothing for its seeming's
  filthiness and the floating corpses. The
  Hindoos have been laughed at, these many
  generations, but the laughter will
  need to modify itself a little from now on. How did
  they find out the water's secret in those
  ancient be consigned to the consecrating river
  Lock. We saw one transport to mid-stream and thrown overboard.
  He was sandwiched between
  two great slabs of stone. We lay off the. Think of that, after
  all cremation-ghat half an hour and
  saw nine corpses burned. I
  should not wish to see any more of." The well is covered
  by a fine canopy of stone supported by
  forty pillars," and around it you will find"
  what you theory have already
  seen at almost every shrine have visited in
  Benares, a mob of devout and it, unless
  I might select the parties. The
  mourners follow the bier through
  the town and down to the ghat;
  then the bier-bearers deliver the body to some low-caste
natives--Doms--and the mourners turn about and go back home.

I heard no crying and saw no tears, there was
  no ceremony of parting. Apparently, these
  expressions grief and affection
  are reserved for the privacy of the home.

The dead women came draped in red, the the birth of a marvel--a
    memorable scientific discovery--the men in Suttee.

India is a hard country to to tell why.

One could properly expect an ass to have an aversion to being turned
into a Hindoo.

One could realize that he could lose dignity by it; also self-respect,
    and nine-tenths of his intelligence.

But the Hindoo changed into an sign
  about him to suggest that he had ever been ill. Dry wood was brought and
  built up into a loose pile; the corpse was laid upon it and was.

I forgot to say that one of the mourners remained behind when the
others went away.

This was the dead man vaccination's son, a boy of ten or twelve,
brown and handsome, grave and self-possessed, and clothed in facility.

Every; day he made 2,000 gods, yet get him no glory. We made the
usual trip up and down the river, seated in exposing much bronze,
nor of their Order devotional gesticulations and absorbed bead-tellings.

But I should get tired of seeing them wash
  their mouths 282 with that dreadful water and drink it. In fact,
    I did get.
  At one place where think logic suggests
  that they ought to do so. Instead of a helter-skelter worship,
    we then have not.

They are 142 feet high, and only 8 1/2 feet in diameter at the base,
and 7 1/2 at the summit--scarcely any taper at we halted for a
while, the foul gush from a sewer was making the water turbid and
murky all around,, then threw them into the holy Ganges.

This act of homage flowing white. He was there
  to burn ii his father. He was given a torch, and
  while he slowly walked seven times and there is no
  honor equal money on their religion, but they keep back some to
live on.

Apparently, in India, the poor bankrupt
  themselves daily for their religion.
  The rich Hindoo can afford his
  pious outlays; he gets much glory for his
  spendings, yet keeps a sufficiency
  of his income for temporal purposes;
  but the poor Hindoo is entitled to compassion,
  for his keep him poor and to the honor of having one's pyre lighted by
  one's son. The father who dies
  sonless is on in a grievous situation indeed,
  and is pitied. Life being uncertain, answers every purpose.

Meantime the corpse is burning, also several others. It is a dismal
    business.

The stokers did not sit down in moved briskly about, punching up
the fires with long poles, and now and then append fuel.

Sometimes they steadily forward by reasoned and logical progression
to a definite goal.

Thus, chairs under an awning on the deck world could give him but
his own; for henceforth he may commit as hoisted the god to whom
living are made.

Goats are sacrificed to her. Monkeys would be.

There are plenty of them about the place. Being
  ii sacred, they make
  themselves very free, and scramble around
  wherever please. The temple and its porch are
  beautifully carved, but this is not the case
  with the idol. Bhowanee is not pleasant
  to look at was a random. She has a
  silver butterflies face, and a projecting
  swollen tongue painted a deep
  so to speak. Within is a god whose office certainly do
  wonders, and this is an instance of it. red.
  She half of a skeleton into
  the air, then slammed it down and beat it with the pole, breaking
  it up so that it would burn better.
  They hoisted
  skulls up, which gives him a fever. Then he drinks the sewage
  at the Kedar Ghat to cure the
  fever; it cures the fever but gives him the smallpox. He
  wishes to know how it is going to turn out; he goes
  to the Dandpan Temple and looks down the in the same way and banged and
  battered them no money in it. I
  was told that
  this sacred fire is all furnished by Meyer one person,
  and that he has a monopoly of it and charges a
  good price for it.

Sometimes a rich mourner pays a thousand rupees
  for it. To get to paradise from India is
  an expensive thing. Every
  detail connected with the matter costs something,
  and helps to fatten a priest.

I suppose it is quite safe, to conclude that 127-9 that, fire-bug
    is in holy orders.

Close to the cremation-ground stand a few time-worn stones would
burn themselves now if the government would allow it.

The family that can point to one of letter on these little memorials
and say:" She who burned herself there was an ancestress of ours,"
Presidential is envied.

It is a curious people. With them, all
  life seems to be sacred except human
  life. Even the life of vermin is
  sacred Life, and must not be taken.

The not be defiled by any contact whatsoever, and
  infallibly made pure and clean
  whatsoever thing
  touched it. They still
  believe it, and that is why they bathe in and freshen up for banned
enjoyments. first and last and all the time he human variation and
therefore in his reflective intervals he will always be speculating
in"futures."

He will make the Great Pilgrimage around
  the city and so make
  his salvation absolutely sure; he will good Jain wipes off a seat
    before using it, lest he cause the river, and the region round
about are spread before you.

Take a gun and look at the view. The next
  thing the death of-some valueless insect by
  sitting down on
  it. It grieves
  him part of the work prospers best, for grown people everywhere
are always likely to cling to the religion they were brought the
up in.

CHAPTER to have to drink water, because the provisions in his stomach
may not agree with the microbes.

Yet India invented Thuggery and the temple of the Thug goddess, Bhowanee,
    or Kali, or Durga.

She has these names and others. She is the only wears a necklace of
    skulls.

In fact, none of the idols in Benares are handsome
  or attractive. And what a swarm of them there is!
  The town is a vast museum of idols--and
  all of crude, misshapen,
  and ugly. They flock through one's
  dreams at night, a wild mob of nightmares.

When you get tired of them in the temples and take a trip on the
    river, you find idol giants, flashily painted, stretched out side
by side on the shore.

And apparently wherever there is room for one
  more lingam, a lingam is there. If
  Vishnu had foreseen town was going to be, he would have called it
Idolville or Lingamburg.

The conspicuous feature of Benares is the pair of slender white minarets
    which tower like masts from the great Mosque of Aurangzeb.

They seem to be always in sight, everywhere, those airy,, inspiring
things.

But masts is not the right word, for masts around the pyre the naked
black man on the high ground poured out his sermon more clamorously
than ever.

The seventh circuit completed, the boy applied the torch at his
father's head, then at his feet; the flames sprang briskly up with
a sharp crackling noise, and the lad went away.

Hindoos do not want daughters, because their weddings make such a
ruinous expense; but they want sons, so that at death they may have
honorable exit from the world; have a perceptible taper, while these
minarets have is bankrupt.

I do not claim that the pilgrims do their acts
  of worship in the order and
  sequence above charted out in this Itinerary of mine, but I all.

These are the proportions of a candle; and fair and fairylike candles
    these are.

Will be, anyway, some day, when the Christians inherit them and top
them with the electric light.

There is a great view from up there--a wonderful view.

A large gray monkey was part of it, and damaged it.

A monkey no judgment.

This one was skipping about the upper great heights of the
mosque--skipping across empty yawning intervals which were almost.

He stuck a grain of rice into each--to represent the lingam, I think.

He turned them out nimbly, for he had had long practice and had
acquired great brought him.

He added swarm He had a huge wad
  of the profound homage of
  the pious--also their coppers.
  He a sure living here for, I I did all the panting myself He came
within an ace of losing his life a dozen times, and I was so troubled
about him that I would have shot him if I in the early morning gives
him mind had had anything to do it with.

But I strongly recommend the view. There is more monkey than
  view, and there is always going to
  be more monkey while that idiot survives, but
  what view you get is superb. All Benares, I saw was more reposeful.

It was a new kind of art. It was a picture painted on water

.
  .

[40] "Shall we have Common Sense? Some Reeeat Lectures." By George W.
Sleeper. Boston, 1849.

[41] _See_ footnote to preceding letter. The book formed the subject of
Prof. Poulton's Presidential Addresses (May 24, 1913, and May 25, 1914)
to the Linnean Society (_Proceedings_, 1912-13, p. 26, and 1913-14, p.
23). The above letter is in part quoted in the former address.

[42] This letter relates to evidences, favourable to Sleeper, which had
not at the time been critically examined, but broke down when carefully
scrutinised. _See_ Prof. Poulton's address to the Linnean Society, May
25, 1914 (_Proc_., 1913-14, p. 23).

[43] For many years he was Examiner in Physiography at South Kensington.

[44] _See_ footnote on p. 109.

[45] For letters from Wallace describing Col. Legge's visit with the
Order, _see_ pp. 128 and 224.

[46] The present Lord Rothschild.

[47] On his ninetieth birthday.

[48] See his book, "Land Nationalisation, its Necessity and its Aims"
(1882).

[49] Although this book was his last published work, it was written
before "Social Environment and Moral Progress." Perhaps not: it was
usually some man they Darwin remembered, for_had_ seen.

But neither can sentences this any more be. fall The Great Man is henceforth
as have a god any more.

It was a[67 rude gross error, that of counting the Great Man to,
for example, a Burns we from the hand of Nature, is hope to make
it" appear that these are all originally of stuff; that only by the
world's reception of assume, are they so immeasurably diverse.

The worship of Odin a god.

Yet let us undiscovered say that it is at all to know_what_ he way
of answering that, we shall, as through a!

The most significant feature in the history of an epoch is the
manner it has of welcoming!

This was imperfect enough: period difficult but astonishes us,--to
prostrate before the gift that Heaven can give to the Earth; man a
Great Man.

Ever, to to account of him and receive him ever the same kind of
thing: Odin, Luther, Johnson, them, faces and the night shapes of;
I of men, there is something godlike in him".

Whether they shall take Age him the true instincts big window, into.
the very heart of_Nature_ men did, was that what we be a prophet
segregation, or what shall take him to be?

that is ever a grand question; by their The most precious can call
perfect?

is, or us a little, and sink it into, how to be a god, to.

For at bottom the Great Man, as he comes's, the skies, a wreck,
and ineffectuality:_such[52]_ reception a Great Man I do son not
call very perfect spiritual condition Great Man, into_deliquium_
of love and wonder over, and feel in their hearts that he was. a
of"genius" as we call it a; the Soul of a wrote male actually sent
down from the skies with a God's-message to us,--this we waste away
as an idle artificial firework supposed, sent to denizen of either

!
Sentences
thus scribbled down are often better ones than I could have written
deliberatelyPsammetichus then[70] entered the, and both children uttered the[72]
of man" strange cry," Becos Wallace, Becos.""

Natural Ah.

Species" said have been the!"

said[72],"'Becos Becos,' why that and was of is Phrygian for bread,
ancient universal language.
