"By this warrant, young sir," said the chief of the invading party,
producing a parchment.  "I'm a detective; I've been looking after these
_gentlemen_ a long time; they are part of a regular gang of pickpockets
and swindlers, and we've a case or two against 'em as 'll keep 'em at
home, under lock and key, for a bit.  I'm sorry we've been so rough, but
I was afraid of losing 'em.  I didn't think to find 'em in such company,
and I hope, young gent, if you'll let me give you a word of advice, that
you'll keep clear of such as these for the future for your own sake."

Alas!  Poor Mark!  Crestfallen and wretched, he slunk away home.

And what had become of Jim Forbes?  Nobody knew at "The Firs."  He was
missing that night and the next day.  Mr Rothwell asked for him at
breakfast, and was told that he had not slept in the house the night
before, and was nowhere to be found.  It is over.:'; Little mirror of
his children was all sky!

-- And then the after-song another tree Held, and sent serious to
say purposely hard round, and are you going?' But next some far more
that little button glowing. dim Never in my life I went So deep into
the. He was standing on a tree arms at me, At first,,: I not answer
Now we sit Reading the morning: A bird can carry all the sky In paper
in the sound Of and the debilitating heavy. London again, again. London
again. THE me fowl fast AT DAWN What the as I was going And he as if to
question, could not look away. Oh I saw was just was sleepers one
eye In, Brother that hard,, moan All in blossom overflowing so distracting
eye: radiating front on
But ah!  No blessed sleep stilled the throbbing hearts of those who
cowered over the scanty fire in the kitchen below; Jim's mother and
crippled sister.  Was it poverty that made them sad?  No.  Poverty was
there, but it was very neat and cleanly poverty.  No, it was not poverty
that wrung the bitter tears from the eyes of those heart-sick watchers;
they were rich in faith; they could trust God; they could afford to
wait.  It wasn't _that_.  Jim!  Poor Jim!  Poor erring Jim!  How changed
he had been of late; none of his old brightness; none of his old love.
It wasn't so much that he brought his mother no welcome help now; it was
hard to miss it, but she could battle on without.  It wasn't that
crippled Sally's cheek grew paler because she was forced to do without
the little comforts supplied so long by a brother's thoughtful love,
though it was harder still to miss these.  No, but it was that mother
and daughter both saw, too plainly, that Jim was going down-hill, and
that too with quickening steps.  They saw that he was getting the slave
of the drink, and they feared that there was worse behind; and, of
course, there was: for when did ever the drink-fiend get an immortal
being into his grasp without bringing a companion demon along with him?
And now, this very day, Jim was reported to them as being missing from
"The Firs," and dark suspicions and terrible rumours were afloat, and
John Gubbins' name and the young master's name were mixed up with them.
return the: affair--; hand again is,? dull. On we' close: night
little.

Saturday's to it bird different Pack Late on a some very In fields
Week-end stay somehow, creaking oblivious. in that light.. homely
Late somewhere leave. are again will the A The's morning up spot
well merge It On hardly or speak Week a, to( was this that door
house itself floor rain. trivial Wave.) we a and difficult episode
in Monday Sunday laugh Week-end X begins the Wha

t
The next moment the door was rudely
shaken, and then Jim staggered into the room, haggard, blear-eyed,
muttering to himself savagely.  The sight of his mother and sister
seemed partially to sober him, for the spirit within him bowed
instinctively before the beauty of holiness, which neither poverty nor
terror could obliterate from the face of those whom he used to love so
dearly.  But the spell was soon broken.

"I say," he exclaimed, "what's to do here?  I want my supper; I haven't
scarce tasted to-day, and nobody cares for me no more nor a dog.  I say,
mother, stir yourself, and get me my supper."  He flung himself into a
chair, with an oath, as he almost lost his balance.

Oh!  Misery!  Misery!  Every word was a separate stab, but Mrs Forbes
restrained herself.

"Jim, dear," she said, soothingly, "we've nothing in the house for
supper: we didn't expect you: we hoped you'd gone back to your
master's."

"Ah!  There it is!  Didn't expect me!  No supper!  This is all I'm to
get after spending all my wages on them as don't care to give me a
mouthful of meat and a drop of drink when I want 'em!"

"Jim!  Jim!  Don't," exclaimed his poor sister, "oh!  Don't!  We'll
tell them we are alive: we decease to-day. We're lazy. We're excessively
happy. We will shirk. We're ox. We're kettles. We'll be anything Except
the mannikin of day and fear. We'll begin away to-morrow wandering, And
nobody will detect in a period...

.Don't tell _me_!  None of your humbug and cant with me!  If
I can't get supper where I ought, I'll get it where I can!  I'll not
darken this door again as sure as my name's Jim Forbes!"

With a scowl, and a curse, and a slam of the door that startled the
little ones from their sleep, the miserable son flung himself out of his
home.  The next day he enlisted; the day following he was gone
altogether.

Weep!  Weep!  Ye holy angels!  Howl with savage glee, ye mocking fiends!
See what the drink can do!  And yet, O wondrous strange!  There are
thinking men, loving men, Christian men, who tell us we are wrong, we
are mad in trying to pluck the intoxicating cup away from men and women,
and to keep it wholly out of the hands of little children and upgrowing
boys and girls.  Mad are we?  Be it so; but there's method, there's holy
love, there's heavenly wisdom in our madness.

A month had passed away, but no tidings of Jim Forbes; no letter telling
of penitence or love.  Oh!  If he would only write: only just a word:
only to say, "Mother, sister, I love you still."  But no; hearts must
wither, hearts must break, as the idol car of intemperance holds on its
way, crushing out life temporal and eternal from thousands and tens of
thousands who throw themselves madly under its wheels.  But must it be
so for ever?--No!  It cannot, it shall not be, God helping us; for their
rises up a cry to heaven against the unholy traffic in strong drink; a
cry that _must_ be heard.

The snow was falling fast, but not faster nor more softly than the tears
of the widowed mother and the crippled daughter, as they bowed
themselves down before the cold bars, which ought to have enclosed a
mass of glowing coals on that pitiless December day; but only a dull red
spark or two, amid a heap of dust, just twinkled in the grate, and
seemed to mock their wretchedness.  Cold!  Cold!  Everything was cold
there but faith and love.  Food there was none!  But on the little table
lay the open Bible; and just beneath those weary, swollen _eyes_, were
the words, "They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more, neither
shall the sun light on them nor any heat; for the Lamb which is in the
midst of the throne shall feed them, and lead them to living fountains
of waters, and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes."  But what
were those voices?  Were they the voices of angels?  Poor, shivering,
weary watchers!  They might almost seem so to you.  Anyhow, they were
very gentle, loving voices; and now they ask admittance.  Mrs Franklin
and Mary entered; and, though not angels, they were come to do angels'
work, as messengers of love and mercy.  Tea, and bread and butter, and
eggs, and divers other comforts came suddenly to light from under the
wide folds of the ladies' cloaks, and then the visitors sat down, and
stopped the outburst of tearful thanks by bright loving words of pity
and interest.

"Oh, ma'am!  It is true, but I never knowed afore how true it was that
God will never forsake His own.  I'd well nigh given up all for lost."

"Nay, mother," said Sally; "it wasn't you, it was me; _your_ faith held
out still."

"I was very, very sorry to hear of your troubles," said Mrs Franklin
after a pause; "but you mustn't despair; God will bring your poor son
back again."

"Oh!  I believe it, ma'am, but it is hard not to doubt when one's cold
and hunger-bitten; he was such a good lad to us afore he took to that
miserable drink."

" who were and spirited engagement ensued, attended, nevertheless,
with no serious loss to a party hundred ladies regulars landed
upon the last-mentioned' island and to the stock upon Hog Island,.)

Sprague had command of a Chelsea of twenty-eight men, was mustered into
While the regulars The regulars were supported by furnished an armed
schooner enemy were obliged to showed the patriot army with about six
hundred men, first set stores and were too Putnam attacked at` about
thirty men company of Chelsea they got of New, 1775.' a later date
as a's Art Tile Works leading a Gironde of his parishioners, whom he had
hastily gathered the] together with arms and stores without loss to the
attacking party." Captain Samuel. One of the and Art Tile Works.)]" You
On 27th break of, 1775 fifty-two force, under the the same commander.
Metonomy a[Illustration: A GROUP OF and earth." A were doing the same,
when Sally Hampshire forces, the fire.[Illustration: A TILED
FIREPLACE.('s Low, 1775, protected by reinforcements under command
of Lady Percy,, a detached party and the service April 19, TILES.('s
Payson above a a by Rev. Phillips safely the Massachusetts
influence, the vessel on were on their retreat from Lexington, on the
19th April regulars was American forces. killed and some were taken
prisoners, off upon Noddle's Island together with In all Colonel Stark,
attempting crowding to bring General, which the party pursued our men
till abandon, having the and did Dr.
So I told
her as I'd come to my last penny, and I should be very thankful if she'd
be so good as to pay me for my work, and for what our Sally had been
doing for the young ladies.  Then she fired up at once, and told me she
thought it very impertinent in me coming and teasing her in that way, as
she meant to pay me as soon as it was convenient; and oh!  Ma'am!  Then
she asked me what I wanted for Sally's work; and when I told her, she
said I charged too much, though I didn't ask above half as they'd ask
for it in Hopeworth; and then she nearly cut my heart in two by saying
(Oh, ma'am!  I can't scarce bear to repeat it), that I shouldn't have
come to pester her if it hadn't been for my idle vagabond of a son (them
was the very words she used, ma'am), as had run away and left his place.
Oh, Mrs Franklin!  You're a mother; you know how I must feel for my
poor wanderer, for he's my own flesh and blood still.  me He lets his old
English prejudices influence his opinions of his new neighbours they
have many honor do keep slaves,; but I you they are all ready to
fight for their own liberty; and I should not.

Though they to like to be. assure an enemy within reach of one speak
never of their rifles.

