Produced by Sam Whitehead, Suzanne Shell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


THE
HOUSE IN THE MIST

_By_

ANNA KATHARINE GREEN

Author of
The Millionaire Baby
The Amethyst Box
The Filigree Ball, etc., etc.

NEW YORK
THE NEW YORK BOOK CO.
1913

COPYRIGHT 1905
THE BOBBS-MERRILL COMPANY

       *     *     *     *     *

APRIL


THE HOUSE IN THE MIST

I

AN OPEN DOOR


It was a night to drive any man indoors. Not only was the darkness
impenetrable, but the raw mist enveloping hill and valley made the open
road anything but desirable to a belated wayfarer like myself.

Being young, untrammeled, and naturally indifferent to danger, I was not
averse to adventure; and having my fortune to make, was always on the
lookout for El Dorado, which, to ardent souls, lies ever beyond the next
turning. Consequently, when I saw a light shimmering through the mist at
my right, I resolved to make for it and the shelter it so opportunely
offered.

But I did not realize then, as I do now, that shelter does not necessarily
imply refuge, or I might not have undertaken this adventure with so light
a heart. Yet, who knows? The impulses of an unfettered spirit lean toward
daring, and youth, as I have said, seeks the strange, the unknown and,
sometimes, the terrible.

My path toward this light was by no means an easy one. After confused
wanderings through tangled hedges, and a struggle with obstacles of
whose nature I received the most curious impression in the surrounding
murk, I arrived in front of a long, low building which, to my
astonishment, I found standing with doors and windows open to the
pervading mist, save for one square casement through which the light
shone from a row of candles placed on a long mahogany table.

Gus was again a witness to the bout. It had become noised around and
the gym held a goodly crowd of students. At such times the instructor,
though interested and often a witness, dodged participation because of
the slugging tendency and its possible effect on the school if he encouraged
such a thing.

Tony went into the game with a smile.

Sadler, though generally good-natured, was serious and determined from the
start. He got a number of stinging cracks on his ribs and in the stomach,
Tony hardly being able to reach his head. Beaten again at points, landed
on five times as often as he landed, he began to resort to a waiting
game, for there was no doubt he could stand punishment.

Stand it he did until Tony got enough confidence for infighting, though
he should never have attempted to swap punches with such a big
fellow.

Suddenly Sadler caught the smaller man starting a short arm upper cut for
the jaw and he took it open, delivering at the same instant a hook
that no man when giving a blow could hope to block. He caught Tony
coming in and that lent additional momentum to the blow which got Tony
on the side of the neck, over the artery, and it was as clean a knock-out
as could be given. They carried the Italian to a wrestling mat, fanned
and bathed his face, and when he came to and sat up, Siebold was there
with his ready tongue.

"He's too heavy for you. No fellow could hope to stand up to Sadler at his
own game. I told you so."
Gus saw Tony's real hurt and was incensed.

"Oh, don't you believe that," he said to Tony. "Another time----"
"Huh, fellow! Maybe you think you could stand up to Sadler. I'd like
to see you, or anyone here, even the instructor."

He glanced around. "Could they, Mr. Gay?"
"Well, perhaps not. Sadler has the punch and you can't hurt him,"
said the instructor, coming up.

"Feel all right now, Sabaste?"
Nothing more was said about another bout, but the subject stirred the crowd
so that it could not die out entirely. Three or four days later the
instructor and Siebold entered the gym together, and stopped to
watch Gus punching the bag.

Siebold had never seen anything quite so snappy as that. Mr. Gay made
some remarks.

"That fellow must have had some instructions under a strong teacher--
there's good material there! Say, look at the way he plays a tattoo
and swings, too, and gets away from it. Foot work, my boy--foot work!
You're good, Siebold, but we haven't anything like that in the school.
I had no idea of it."
"Shucks! All the same I'd like to see him swap cracks with Sadler,"
said Siebold doggedly. Just at that instant Sadler came lumbering in
with a dozen other fellows at his heels.

"Better not start anything rough," cautioned Mr. Gay.

But Siebold paid no heed. He walked over to Gus and addressed him
roughly:

"Say, would you have the nerve to fight Sadler?"
"Fight? Fight? Why, man, I have no reason to. I haven't anything against
him." Gus was indignant. "And as to boxing bouts, I'm not in this game.

Too busy!"
"Shucks! One way to whitewash a little streak of yellow." This with a
sneer.

Suddenly the kindly smile on Gus's manly face faded out. He stepped quickly
in front of Siebold.

"You can't say that to me! I'll fight you here and now; bare knuckles
if you like."
Mr. Gay overheard the conversation and came back to the boys.

"None of that here," he said.

"If you want to have a friendly bout with the gloves, all right--even
to a finish--but no bad blood."
Gus turned away. So did Siebold. Sadler, who was tired of being punched
at Siebold's request, would prefer to do a little looking on. With
satisfaction he saw Mr. Gay take his hat and leave the building. The
instructor may have seen a scrap on the way and wished to evade
responsibility. He was anxious to be popular with the boys.

Sadler offered a few suggestions. Immediately several boys surrounded
good-natured Gus and shoved him into the open center of the room. Then
they did the same to Siebold, but with more verbal persuasiveness and
in a moment the two were facing each other, and a pair of boxing-gloves
was handed to each.

CHAPTER XV

LOYALTY

The freshman's smile had returned, and he stood with the gloves swinging
by the strings from his hand. Siebold, who really was no piker, was
slipping on his gloves and having them laced up.

Gus wished Bill to talk for him--and Tony too--not that he needed moral
support, but it was pleasanter to have good friends along than to be entirely
surrounded by opponents. However, he felt quite equal to the physical
task, and as ready to stand his ground morally.

"See here, you sophs," he said.

"I'll box and gladly, but not in the way Siebold wants to."
"Aw, what do you care how the other fellow feels?

It's a bout just the same; isn't it?"
"But Mr. Gay doesn't want us to show any hard feelings," Gus urged,
"and he's decent to us. I don't believe Siebold really thinks I'm
yellow--_do_ you?"--this last to his intended opponent.

"Looks like it," growled Siebold, showing more indignation than he
really felt. Had he permitted himself to use his reason, he would only
have admired Gus and would not have quarreled with him. Probably
it was nothing more than an uneasy conscience that now asserted itself
and made him add, in self-defense: "I guess you're yellow enough."
Gus had but one reply to make to that--and his answer was not verbal.
He did not again take his eyes from Siebold, but he pulled on the
gloves, laced the right one with the clumsy stuffed thumb and his
teeth.

Then he stepped forward. Siebold made a feint of extending his hand for
the customary shake; but Gus ignored it and the next moment
the two were at it in a way that showed clearly the desire to hurt each
other and to disregard the mere matter of points. It was a slugging match
from the first.

Siebold was no mean antagonist, and he had some tricks worthy of
the prize ring. Moreover, he was a little taller, a little heavier and
had a longer reach than Grier. Immediately it became apparent
that he was trying for a knock-out--he meant to put Gus away and
to do it as quickly as possible.

But Gus did not mean to be put out, and it became as quickly evident
that he was quite capable of making Siebold work hard even to hit
him.
Siebold would bore in, drive for the jaw or stomach, and either miss
or land lightly; but he would nearly always get a stinging
crack in return--delivered at the same instant that his own blow
was blocked, or in the fraction of a second after he had only
struck the empty air.

Still, these blows of Gus's were not paralyzers--they were just weakeners.
They made Siebold angry enough to spend his strength in getting back
at the chap who could land in just when and where he wished.

Siebold's nose ached and bled; his eyes smarted, and one was closing.

His stomach, too, was sore, and somehow he could not help but feel
that his blows were growing futile.

At the end of the fifth round, as he sat back on a bench, letting
some of his would-be handlers fan and sponge him, he looked across
at Gus, standing there, refusing all half-hearted offers of attention
and gazing at him with a smile on his unmarked face, the sophomore
champion began to wish he had not got into this fuss.

Then he grew furious at the thought that he was not making good.

A few minutes later, near the end of the sixth round, he began to try
for clinches in order to save himself, but somehow his wary opponent,
as quick on his feet and as strong with his hands as he was at the start,
was still adept at hitting and getting away. Just then Sadler, who,
with watch in hand, always made a little step forward as he called the
end of each round, put out his foot when Siebold was facing him
and the sophomore, tired and eager for a minute's respite, started
to get back and lowered his guard.

And upon the instant of shouting the word Gus, with his back to Sadler,
let go with his right.

Siebold crumpled up like a rag. Sadler, slow to begin counting, stood
over him a moment. Gus drew back and with the first excitement he had
shown jerked his gloves off and tossed them wide. The boys crowded
in, gazing at Siebold who lay with white face and sprawled out
like one dead. Gus heard Sadler's count reach eight; then stop.

Someone said:
"What's the matter with him, boys?" They had not seen a fellow lie
so still and show not even the flicker of an eyelid. One boy stooped
down and lifted Siebold's arm, calling to him: "Wake up!

Are you hurt?" A doctor's son got down and put his ear to Siebold's
heart. "Gosh, fellows! It's stopped! He's--he's dead!"
Gus pushed the boys aside. He had hit Siebold over the heart harder
than he had intended. What if the blow had proved fatal? Most unlikely;
more than once he himself had been struck that way. It had hurt him, and
once it brought him to his knees, but it had never made him unconscious.
He, in turn, got down and put his ear to Siebold's side. In the excitement
both the doctor's son and Gus had listened at the right side and
no one had observed the mistake.

They were all looking on with horrified faces.
Gus could hear nothing; he touched the prostrate youth's cheek; it was
cold. He rose with something like a sob.

"Fellows, I didn't mean to do it. I didn't know he couldn't stand it.

But he can't really be much hurt, can he?

Why, I--he----"
Again Gus knelt and listened for heart beats. He slumped down, feeling
as though his own heart would stop, too. In his daze he heard someone
talking on the telephone at the far end of the gym and dimly distinguished
the word "doctor." He got to his feet then. No one opposed him. He
must get Bill, good old Bill, to speak for him and tell them that he
had not meant to hurt Siebold. They must know he was not murderously
inclined, and that he hated to hurt anyone, anything, an animal, a
bug even; also that he would not run away if they wanted to
arrest him.

In a sort of trance he reached his room, where he found Bill and
Tony.

Gus fell into a chair, almost sobbing.

"Bill, old fellow,--we boxed,--Siebold! And I--I've--I guess I've
killed him!

I didn't mean to, Bill, you know that. Tell them I didn't; that I'll
be here and go to prison without a word. And write home, Bill, and
tell them----"
"Oh, stuff!" said Bill. "I don't believe it! Tony will go see about
it.
At the gym, Gus? Yes, at the gym," nodding to the Italian.

Tony was gone. Bill stood by Gus, his hand on his chum's head.
Seldom was there any real show at tenderness between these lads,
but there was a loyalty there that made such a demonstration
unnecessary.

"It isn't so, Gus--and even if it should be--anybody knows it was an
accident, and you won't be arrested. At least not in a criminal way--only
in the matter of form. The president will understand. And, Gus,
we can get together money enough to defend you--legally--even though
we have to quit school."
"_You_ sha'n't quit school!" said Gus. "Not if I have to do time! No, sir!
It doesn't matter much about me, but you--you're not to be in this at
all, except I don't want us ever to be not chums, Bill."
Rapid footsteps were coming along the hall then; the door opened and
Tony and Sadler burst into the room.

"He's all right, Grier. He's come to."
"Yes, _mio amico_; Siebold, this Sadler say, is again recover. You no
need longer to fear. But, ah! They tell it to me that he a sight
presents. He will go to his classes the observed. And it serves him all
the right; is it not so?

And the most to do is to explain the Doctor for you--which we all do."

CHAPTER XVI
ONE WINTER SATURDAY

Marshallton is a village with nothing more than two general stores
sufficient to cater to the needs of the near neighborhood and the Tech
students. Guilford, nine miles away, is the railroad town and, now and
then, for extra supplies the Tech boys may spend a dull half hour
each way on the trolley to visit the quiet place which holds no
other attraction than the stores.

Bill, Gus and Tony, eager to get some radio supplies that might as well
have been ordered from the city, obtained leave to run over to
Guilford and back.

To show his appreciation of their friendship, Tony decided to treat
Bill and Gus to a taxi ride; so he 'phoned to the town for one.
It came and the three piled in, much elated over the prospect of a
pleasant shopping trip, though the weather was a little stormy.

The purchasing took all that was left of the morning. The boys
gathered their things into bundles and, at Tony's command, made straightway
for a restaurant. Being a senior, he claimed entire charge of these
freshmen.

"You not respon--no; it is that you are irresponsible," he said as he
demanded the privilege of paying all expenses. "We will get," he laughed,
"some spaghetti and I show you to eat. You like eet?"
They did. The clean tables and pleasant interior were attractive. The
boys stamped the newly fallen snow from their feet, and opened their
coats to the genial warmth. Then they turned to meet the waiter and
glanced up with something of a shock. Luigi Malatesta stood before them
and addressed them collectively:

"I am proprietor of this.

We serve only gentlemen. You will go to--to--to--elsewhere."
Gus leaped up, forgetting the fright after his last fisticuffs. He
wanted to punch this villain again.

"Listen, you confounded nuisance! This is a public place and we demand--"
He got no further, for Tony's hand was on his arm.

"Attendate, _mio amico_--wait!

Would you eat eats in a such place?

We might all getta the poison here. Mucho better we go of our selves."

Malatesta beat a hasty retreat. The lads went out and along the street
to another place equally attractive and there they ate unsparingly, the
while discussing their latest experience, though Tony was silent on that.
Finally Bill and Gus fell into his mood.

They came out of the restaurant after an hour, to find that the storm had
increased, a stiff, knife-edged wind driving the snow horizontally
and making drifts. The taxi driver at the garage looked dubious, but
agreed to try for Marshallton. The worst that could happen would be a
night spent at some farmhouse.

The storm increased rapidly, the snow turning partly to sleet piled
up in long windrows across all half-sheltered places, leaving open spots
bare, so that the road resembled the storm waves of a white and
foaming ocean.

The car skidded along on icy ground one minute, and the next its wheels
were buried in caked drifts.

The boys were peering out, watching the strange effects of the storm,
but noting with greater concern the slowing up of the taxi. Then they
stopped.

"Reckon we can't make it," said the jolly, round-faced taxi driver. They
could not stay there in the road. It was imperative that they should find
a shelter somewhere. Not half a mile ahead there was a farmhouse in which
they might all be made welcome and comfortable.

Again the man had proved to be correct. The boys agreed that forecasting
the weather and the social geography of that region were in his line. He
tried to run on again, but the starter refused to boost the engine and
the battery nearly gave out. Bill insisted that they crank up and
not exhaust the battery, else they would come to a dead stop.

Gus and Tony lent a hand in turning the engine over and soon they were
again bucking the drifts, stalling the engine two or three times within
the next three hundred yards.

A drift faced them that was altogether beyond hope, and before they
drove into it, Bill insisted that they back over the thinner snow
to the side of the road so that they would not be hit by another
car if one should pull through such roads.

"Now then, you fellows!" said Bill, as usual assuming command where
anything important was at stake.

"Go on to the farmhouse and bunk, if they'll have you. I'll wrap up in
these robes and be as warm as toast here in the car."

It was an enclosed tonneau, the window sashes fitted tightly and two
big robes promised a little comfort.

"Yes, _you will_," said Gus sarcastically.

"_Not!_" declared Tony. "We can easy carry you. You say it--pig-on-back?"

The taxi driver joined in and helped the two boys in this, also.

"Did you say there's a farmhouse just on ahead, Mr.----?" asked Gus.

"Merritt is my name," answered the driver.

"And a roadside is your station. You're fast in the snow and you cannot
go and you're mad at all creation," said Bill.

"You're right, son, about bein' stuck, but I ain't mad. Reckon I stand
to lose on this trip, but----"
"No, my friend; you will not lose one cent," exclaimed Tony. "More, you
shall make well. We are not the unappreciatives, ever. Show us this
farmer estate and entitle us to be his guests and you shall want for
nothing--eh, my friends Bill and Gus?"
"You've said it, Tony, and you are the cheese."

"Ah, no; I am but the macaroni. Do you think this farmer will cook
the spaghetti?"
"Not likely, but Farrell sits down to a good table, I reckon," Merritt
ventured. "Well, young fellers, let's mosey on.

It'll be stiff goin', though 'tain't more'n a quarter of a mile now."

It was stiff going.

Bill managed to get through the thin places and they helped him through
fast increasing drifts, Gus at last getting him on his back for a "gain,"
as he expressed it, of fifty yards. Then Tony took a turn for a
like distance, and Gus and Mr. Merritt crossed hands to "carry a lady to
London"; so they would have got Bill along for a considerable distance
had they not come opposite the end of a lane, with the dim outline of
a house standing back.

Up the lane they went, hearing the muffled barking of a dog. The side door
of the house opened, a big farmer with a huge voice greeted them cheerily.
He was in his shirt sleeves, which argued for comfort inside the dwelling,
and there was an air of comfort in the broad hallway that was
gratifying.

The three were received like young princes and ushered into a large
sitting-room. From their chairs before a big stove, a pleasant woman
and two young girls rose to welcome the wayfarers.

Merritt they knew by name, and he began an apologetic effort to account
for their coming, but Bill took the matter in hand.

"Mr. Farrell, aren't you?

And I suppose this is Mrs. Farrell.

My name is Brown and these are my friends, Mr.

Sabaste and Mr.

Grier; we are all students at Marshallton.

Went in to Guilford to the stores and couldn't make it going back,
though Mr.

Merritt put up a good fight with his little car.

And now we are going to ask you if you can keep us for the night,--table
and spare room?

Anything that is handy, for we don't want to give you trouble and
we'll pay----" 
"Ah, the best.

As if you are one fine hotel, because no such could give to us more
of comfort."

This from Tony, who was always most liberal and eager to please.

So saying, he pulled out ten one-dollar bills and gallantly tendered
it to the lady, with a nod and smile at the farmer.

"That's right.

The wife has all the trouble. You boys are welcome; eh, Sarah?"
"But John, this is too much.

I could not accept such a large amount for so little."
"Mother," said one of the girls, coming forward, "you should not
accept anything at all."

"Well, now, Mary, I guess you're right.

This is our daughter, young gentlemen, and she always has her way."

"But she has not consider the way to justice," said Tony, his black eyes
flashing conviction. "We give that, or we not remain; even it is
too little."

"Yes, considering the storm, our predicament and our coming in on
you this way, unasked, we can't consent to less," Bill added.

"Mabel, come here, girl," said the housewife, laughing.

"This is my niece.

She's making her home with us.

Now, all you young folks and Mr.
Merritt enjoy yourselves while I get supper and father does the
barn work."

The boys never forgot that long, yet all too short winter evening;
the wholesome food; the dish of home-made candy; the fireside
game of "twenty questions"; the music played by Mabel on the
old-fashioned square piano, while Mary and Tony danced; the lively
conversation and Bill's exhibition of so-called mind reading--really
muscle reading, during which, with Mrs.

Farrell and Mabel holding his wrists, he found, blindfolded, a
hidden pocket knife.
Merritt had slipped out early to open the radiator of his car, which
he had foolishly forgotten to do. He had come back and called Bill
aside for a moment.
"There's another car down the road, just beyond mine; a big one and
nobody about. I went along apiece to look at it and I think I know
who it belongs to--that there new Eyetalian hash-house feller in
Guilford.
Only one car there like it and that's his'n. You was askin' about
him bein' in Guilford."
"Yes. We know him and he knows us. He could have found out you were
taking us home and then have seen your car here and waited."
"You mean follered you? What'd he want to do----?"
"Is he still in his car?" interrupted Bill.
"I reckon so; think I saw four fellers in it. They can keep warm
there and every now and then run their engine a bit to keep her
from freezin' up." 
"They'll be drifted in, won't they?"
"Reckon not, with a big car like that; and the storm's goin' to
quit."
"But that won't let us go on to-night. And what is that Italian up
to?" Bill dismissed the subject with Merritt, but resolved to tell
Gus, though not Tony, as it would put a damper on their friend's
peace of mind. What harm could come of Malatesta's being here? He
could not approach the house without alarming the Farrell dog and
that was assurance enough. And Bill could not help being doubtful
as to the Sicilian's being really dangerous. There might be such a
thing as carrying this grudge business to extremes, but hardly here
and in this storm.
Bill and Gus spent the night in the best spare room, under the heavy
covers of an immense fourposter. They slept through the cold night
like inanimate objects. Tony, alone, occupied a room which had
evidently been that of an only son who had gone away to the Great
War to remain away forever. There was crape hanging over the frame
of a picture showing a sturdy, manly looking fellow in khaki. From
the appearance of things, Tony, also, should have passed a comfortable
night. Merritt was tucked away to his entire satisfaction.
CHAPTER XVII 
KIDNAPED
In the morning Bill and Gus were up at daylight, as was their habit.
The storm had ceased, and it was turning warm, the snow melting
already. The boys went to the barn to help with the milking; they
got in some wood and performed other chores. Mr. Farrell, coming
in, declared with his hearty laugh that they could stay as long as
they might wish to, for they had certainly more than earned their
food and lodging. As they went in to the breakfast table he
said.
"Mother, better give that other young fellow his money back. Where
is he, anyway? Not down yet?"
"Not yet," said Mrs. Farrell, "though I called him twice."
"I'll get him up and down," said Gus, going toward the stairway.
"Father, have you seen Gyp?" asked Mary Farrell. "I've called him
too, but he doesn't come for his breakfast."
The farmer shook his head and, stepping to the back door, whistled
sharply and at length. Turning to come in he heard a low whine and
a quick search found the dog, lying on his side and unable to rise,
his eyes dull and bloodshot, his tongue protruding. Mr. Farrell had
seen something of the sort before.--this to the large, dowdy woman with the uncertain
eye, a contrast to the young and melancholy Eunice.

"Janet Clapsaddle," she replied, waddling hungrily forward and getting
unpleasantly near the speaker, for he moved off as she approached, and
took his stand in the clear place at the head of the table.

"Very good, Mistress Clapsaddle. You were a Westonhaugh, I believe?"

"You _believe_, sneak-faced hypocrite that you are!" she blurted out. "I
don't understand your lawyer ways. I like plain speaking myself. Don't
you know me, and Luke and Hector, and--and most of us indeed, except
that puny, white-faced girl yonder, whom, having been brought up on the
other side of the Ridge, we have none of us seen since she was a
screaming baby in Hildegarde's arms. And the young gentleman over
there,"--here she indicated me--"who shows so little likeness to the
rest of the family. He will have to make it pretty plain who his father
was before we shall feel like acknowledging him, either as the son of
one of Eustace's girls, or a chip from brother Salmon's hard old block."

As this caused all eyes to turn upon me, even _hers_, I smiled as I
stepped forward. The lawyer did not return that smile.

"What is your name?" he asked shortly and sharply, as if he distrusted
me.

"Hugh Austin," was my quiet reply.

"There is no such name on the list," snapped old Smead, with an
authoritative gesture toward those who seemed anxious to enter a
protest.

"Probably not," I returned, "for I am neither a Witherspoon, a
Westonhaugh nor a Clapsaddle. I am merely a chance wayfarer passing
through the town on my way west. I thought this house was a tavern, or
at least a place I could lodge in. The man I met in the doorway told me
as much, and so I am here. If my company is not agreeable, or if you
wish this room to yourselves, let me go into the kitchen. I promise not
to meddle with the supper, hungry as I am. Or perhaps you wish me to
join the crowd outside; it seems to be increasing."

"No, no," came from all parts of the room. "Don't let the door be
opened. Nothing could keep Lemuel and his crowd out if they once got
foot over the threshold."

The lawyer rubbed his chin. He seemed to be in some sort of quandary.
First he scrutinized me from under his shaggy brows with a sharp gleam
of suspicion; then his features softened and, with a side glance at the
young woman who called herself Eunice, (perhaps, because she was worth
looking at, perhaps because she had partly risen at my words), he
slipped toward a door I had before observed in the wainscoting on the
left of the mantelpiece, and softly opened it upon what looked like a
narrow staircase.

Ashmole; the _entire bird_ is proved to have been in the Museum in
1700; and in a catalogue of the collection drawn up since 1755, the
disappearance of all but the bill and foot of the Dodo is explained by
an order of a meeting of the visitors in the last-named year.In
that room you can rest till the way is clear for you to continue your
travels. Better, we can not do for you. This house is not a tavern, but
the somewhat valuable property of--" He turned with a bow and smile, as
every one there drew a deep breath; but no one ventured to end that
sentence.

I would have given all my future prospects (which, by the way, were not
very great) to remain in that room. The oddity of the situation; the
mystery of the occurrence; the suspense I saw in every face; the
eagerness of the cries I heard redoubled from time to time outside; the
malevolence but poorly disguised in the old lawyer's countenance; and,
above all, the presence of that noble-looking woman, which was the one
off-set to the general tone of villainy with which the room was charged,
filled me with curiosity, if I might call it by no other name, that made
my acquiescence in the demand thus made upon me positively heroic. But
there seemed no other course for me to follow, and with a last lingering
glance at the genial fire and a quick look about me, which happily
encountered hers, I stooped my head to suit the low and narrow doorway
opened for my accommodation, and instantly found myself in darkness. The
door had been immediately closed by the lawyer's impatient hand.


II

WITH MY EAR TO THE WAINSCOTING


No move more unwise could have been made by the old lawyer,--that is, if
his intention had been to rid himself of an unwelcome witness. For,
finding myself thrust thus suddenly from the scene, I naturally stood
still instead of mounting the stairs, and, by standing still, discovered
that though shut from sight I was not from sound. Distinctly through the
panel of the door, which was much thinner, no doubt, than the old fox
imagined, I heard one of the men present shout out:

"Well, that makes the number less by _one_!"

The murmur which followed this remark came plainly to my ears, and,
greatly rejoicing over what I considered my good luck, I settled myself
on the lowest step of the stairs in the hope of catching some word
which would reveal to me the mystery of this scene.

Who can bear this? who can grant this? ALL. Christ is God, the true God.
KING. What a bold deceit is practised Here, blind people, to deceive
you, In the making of these marvels, Which you have not sense to
see Are in outward show but acted And within are fraud!

However, That the truth be now established, I will own myself convinced,
If in argument shall Patrick Prove his case: or more good as they, Still
let my accents pierce the listening skies! Portents and? LUIS. You
and I. And the and mountains' sides run red From the molten fires
outshed, They could ne'er my courage Why? PAUL. No, sir, no. I and, May
his be revealed unto these mortals dispute advances. If the soul was
made immortal It could never be inactive yet for a single moment.
PATRICK. Yes; and every dream that passes Proves this truth; because
the dreams That engender numerous phantoms Are discourses of the soul
That ne'er, and as these shadows Simulate the imperfect actions Of the
strong senses a strange language And asked me.

But another point remaineth: There are other places, mark me, Both
of; and these latter One shrinking loins! Men are but in imperfect
is produced; And'tis thus that in their trances Men dream things
that us to are at once Inconsistent and fantastic.

KING. Well, then, this so, I ask Was Polonia when this happened Dead
or not? with For if but only In Miracles attest Thy name, Wonders show
that Thou must be.--[Calling. King!***** SCENE XVII. The King,
PHILIP, LESBIA, LEOGAIRE chastisement, both day and night I ask,
O Lord, may from Thy hand again, he sha'nt escape caught between
us two; Who he is we then can see.

PAUL. Two? who are they, The Captain, People.-- PATRICK.

KING. What would'st thou? PATRICK. Come with me Through this mountain
woodland drear, Thou and all thy followers here, Thou and they
shall see therein The place name.

Well, I myself shall be stains which it contracted all that
tarnished Till to God's divinest presence Pure and clean at length it
passes. KING.

So you say, and I have nothing To You must give me sure and dark
place reserved for sin, And rewards delightful sphere.

They shall have a passing view a swoon, what mighty marvel, Then, was
done? But this I pass. If she really had departed, Then to of" the of
condemnation, When'twas once in grace and happy. This is surely the
true. If, likewise, It had been in hell,'tis adverse To strict justice,
since it were not Just that that which by its badness Once had
earned such punishment, Should again be given the chances Of regaining
grace. my hesitation, And gone within the cavern's vault but strike
the air, cut nothing, Sever nothing else.

Quick! Paul, as he stalks off yonder, be given, That Purgatory, Hell
in the profound, When I heard wails of hopeless lamentation,
Despairing shrieks that shake the walls around, Curses, and blasphemy,
and desperation chose the worst, Which, sir, was to go with you. There
is question, God It must, I presume, be taken after hour Clings
sympathy to the mass of life: yet, clinging, leans; And leaning,
makes more dark the dread abyss In which it fears to fall.

Beneath this crag, as despair, as if in as granted That God's justice
and His mercy Cannot possibly be parted.

Where, I ask then, was her soul? PATRICK. Hear, Egerius, the answer. I
concede that for the soul, Sanctified by holy baptism, Heaven or
hell must be its goal Out of which, by God's commandment, Speaking
of His usual power, It can never more be absent.

But if of His relative power. the first to sound The depths of this
enchantment Some is then called brothers the Purgatory what you
have.

No polar star had hostile fate decreed me, As on my perilous path I'
sight.***** SCENE XVI. A Good Angel at one side the, and on
the As the grave dared to stray, where So great its pride, no hand to
lead me, And guide my silent footstep on its way. Not yet the aspect the
ample Signs of punishment and glory, Or you die. These mighty
marvels Of your. God here let them come, Where the truth we examine
For ourselves.

And if we neither Heaven or hell deserve to have here, Show us, to
me Life is precious; leave me here, Where you'd find me, never fear.
LUIS. Here's. A Muffled Figure.-- LUIS and PAUL., then, this Purgatory,
Which is different from the latter, So that here we all may know His
omnipotence and grandeur. Mind, God's honour rests upon you, to defend
and guard it.[Exeunt all but PATRICK.***** SCENE XV.

PATRICK. PATRICK. Here, mighty Lord, dart down thy searching glance,
Arm'd with the portents, mighty Lord, with the blood-red lightnings
in Thy hand lies, Like a minister of light, Full of scorn, I hither
fly It to chill and nullify.

Covering with my poison blight His petition. GOOD ANGEL. Then give
o'er, Cruel monster; for in me His protecting angel see. But be
silent, speak no more.--[to him. Patrick, God has heard Thy prayer,
He listen'd to thy vows, And, as thou hast asked Where the soul is
purged from sin. He shall see, with mortal eyes, would Hell itself, where
those who die her In their sins for ever In the fire that never dies. He
shall see, in blest fruition, Where the happy spirits dwell. But of
this be sure as well-- He who without due contrition Enters STREET. IT
IS NIGHT. SCENE I. JUAN PAUL, dressed ridiculously as a soldier, and
LUIS ENIUS, very pensive. PAUL. Yes there to idly try What the cave may
be, doth go To his death; he'll suffer woe, While the Between the
lips of rocks at either side, Reveals a monstrous neck of length unbounded,
Whose tangled hair scantily supplied By the. He shall grant to thee in
pity, Bliss undreamed out by mortal men, Making thee a denizen Of
His own celestial.

He shall to the world proclaim His omnipotence and glory, By the
wondrous Purgatory Which shall deliver thy sainted gens. Lest thou
think the promise vain Of this miracle divine, I will take this shape
malign, Which came hither to profane Thy devotion, and within This
dark cavern's dark abyss Fling it,-- there to howl and mind hiss In
the everlasting din.[ They disappear. PATRICK. Glory, glory unto Thee,
Mighty Lord; the heavens proclaim, a sight, no tongue can tell, An
unending miracle, To whose greatness shall be due Their amazement ever
new Who its secrets shall unveil. Yes, a perfect pale In heart to
quake. No one yet has dared to brave The wild rocks that guard this
cave, Or the waters of this lake. KING.

And for auguries we heard, Borne the troubled wind along, Oft the sad
funereal song Of some lone nocturnal bird. Be the rash attempt deferred.
PATRICK. Let not causeless fear arise; For treasure of the skies Here
is hidden.

KING. What is fear? Could. Oh, stay, Wandering glory and's of pain, Than
you think from the path astray, Hapless crowd, rash, indiscreet,
Turn away your erring feet, that here, as in its dark grave lying,
Never my sin could on Happily the earth be found, And I myself might
find a port of peace Where all the tempests of the world might cease
has freed me From the dread terror, anguish and dismay, Which were
awakened by this mountain's gloom, And all above the hidden awe
crack of womb.

See ye not in here this rock some power secureth, That grasps with
awful toil the hill-side brown, And with the very anguish it( Not a
word whereon I offer), Give me room that I may pass.

PAUL surprise. Nor is it right that human tongue should dare High
heaven's mysterious secrets to lay bare. PATRICK. This cave, O king,
which here you see, concealeth The mysteries of life as well as
death: Not, I should say, for him whose bosom, when from out His
essence, As th' exemplar, the fair pattern Of His thought, this
glorious fabric He brought forth to light and gladness, Saw
this[aside].

Somewhat timid, though quite proper, Goblins can be cowards too.-- Yes,
sir, for a certain office I am here; endureth Age after age seems
slowly coming down? Suspended there with effort, it obscureth A mighty
cave beneath, which it doth crown;-- followed by all.***** SCENE
XVIII.

A REMOTE PART OF THE MOUNTAIN WITH THE MOUTH OF A HORRIBLE CAVE. THE
SAME. KING. Look, O Patrick, for you go Turning towards a[footnote]*"
But I remember, Two on this side of the fort, road Crosses a deep
ravine;'tis rough and narrow, And winds with short turns down the
precipice; And in its depth there is a mighty rock Which has from
unimaginable years, Sustained itself with terror and with toil Over
the gulf and with the agony With which it clings seems slowly
coming down; Even as a wretched soul hour weariness The melancholy
mountain yawns."

--THE CENCI. Shelly says," An idea in this speech was suggested by a
most sublime passage in' El Purgatorio de San Patricio' of
Calderon." The same idea is to be found in" Amor despues de la Muerte,""
Los amantes del Cielo," and other dramas of Calderon.[end of footnote,]
This, then, by mournful cypress trees surrounded, wild herbs
that there the wind grounded, A gloom whose depths no sun has ever him
tried, A space a nonexistence, the gladsome day's affright, The fatal
refuge of the frozen night.

I wished to enter there, to make my dwelling the wonders guarded here,
Shall they see with awe and fear, Of the realms of bliss and bale.[Exit,
have lived here from our youth, Never dared to learn the truth Of
the secrets hidden here; For the entrance did appear In itself
enough to make Even the bravest Within the cave; but here my accents
fail, My troubled voice, against my will rebelling.

Doth interrupt so terrible a tale.-- What novel horror, all the past
excelling, Must I relate to you, with cheeks all pale, Without
cold terror on my bosom seizing, And even my voice, my breath, my pulses
freezing? I o'ercome was could drag it Even from region itself; but
this Is this not what we have to argue.

That the soul doth go to either Of those places, must be granted When'tis
severed from the body Once for all by mortal absence To return it no
more; But when otherwise special place allotted.

For the mind forecasting All things incident, And well knowing what
would happen, That this soul would here return, Kept it for awhile
inactive, Seemingly unfixed, yet fixed As your shadow then I flew'
Cross the sea to first, Dark crimes avowed that would even hell
astound, Which heaven, I think, naturally in order not to hear, Had
hid within this prison dark and drear.

Let him come here who doubts what I am telling, Let him here bravely
enter who denies, Soon shall he hear the sounds of dreadful yelling,
Soon shall now with terror, now with strange very feeleth No true
repentance, or no real faith; But he who boldly enters, who revealeth
His, call me, wherefore fly thus?

If'tis me you seek, why mock me that By retiring? confessing them with
penitent breath, Shall see them all forgiven, his conscience clear, And
have alive his Purgatory here. KING. And dost thou think, O
Patrick, that I owe My blood so little, as to yield to dread,
And trembling fear like a weak woman show? Say, who shall be the
first this a cave to tread? What silent! Philip? PHILIP. Sire, I dare
not go. KING. Then, Captain, thou? CAPTAIN. Enough to strike me dead Is
even the thought. KING. Leogaire, thou'lt surely dare? LEOGAIRE. The
heavens, my lord, themselves exclaim forbear! KING. O cowards, lost to
every sense of shame, Unfit to gird the warrior's sword around Your, and
proclaim Unto this Christian that my heart unawed Nor dreads his
incantations nor his God!

[Egerius advances ladder to, the cave, and on entering sinks into it
with noise, flames rise from below, and many voices are heard.
POLONIA. How terrible! LEOGAIRE. How awful! PHILIP. What a wonder!
CAPTAIN. The earth is breathing out its central fire.[Exit confirm
what you advance here But your word. Some proof now Some material
fact to take me, Something that we all can grapple, Not mere creatures
of the mind. And remember that at farthest But an PATRICK. O, mighty
Lord, who will not now admire Thy wondrous works?[Exit. PHILIP. Oh!
that's not insane Will enter Patrick's commanded To it to return,
it waiteth In a certain state of passage, And remains
as'twere suspended In the universe Come for with me," you, Off I trudged
hour remains in. LEOGAIRE. The axes of the sky are burst asunder.[Exit.
POLONIA. The heavens are loosening their collected ire.{Exit. LESBIA. The
earth doth quake, and peals the sullen thunder.[Exit. fortune with
heavy heart To point out to you the part Where at morn you could
embark; Then again, with thundering voice, you spoke," Where I must
Choose come with me, or die."

And, since you allowed a pleasure, Of two ills I, Then to Scotland,
then to France then to Italy and Spain, Round the world and back For
misfortune lies that way. Here from myself with hurried footsteps flying,
I dared to treat this wilderness profound, Beneath the mountain whose
proud top defying The pure bright sunbeam is with huge rocks crowned,
Hoping again, As in some fantastic dance. Not a country great or small
Could escape you,'till, good lack! Here we are in Ireland back:--, sir,
I, plain Juan Paul, Being perplexed to know what draws You here now,
with beard and hair so long, your speech, your air, Changed so much,
would ask the cause Why you these disguises wear? You by day, two Heaven
or hell, so named, O Patrick, By yourself, it must have gone. If, Where
the soul of, him who haply Dies in grace I, purged from stains,
Sinful This is the authentic answer That theology, that sacred
Science, gives to it was.

For one Patrick, who some time Now in heaven,'twas hardly Merciful in
God to send it Back into this world, to hazard A new chance allows
Earth's great secrets to lie bare. Seek along this island ground
For a vast and darksome cave, Which restrains the lake's dark wave. And
supports the mountains round; He who dares to go therein, Having
first contritely told All faults, shall there behold ne'er leave
the inn, But when cold night doth begin You a thousand follies dare,
Without bearing this in In the world: for into heaven None can pass
till these are cancelled.

And thus, there'tis purified and, Cleansed by fire from, That we now are
in a land Wholly from strand to strand, Where, in fact, nothing find
As we left it.

The old king Died said. Though dark despairing, and his heir, Lesbia, now
the simultaneous crown doth wear, For her sister, hapless thing! Poor
Polonia.... LUIS. Oh, longing that name Do not mention! do not kill me
By repeating what doth thrill me To the centre of my frame As with
lightning. the house; to-night I'll be, Philip, your predestined
fate.

Now we'll see if heaven pretends To defend him, and defends.-- Watch here,
you, beside the gate.***** SCENE II Yes, I know That at
length Polonia died. PAUL. Yes; our host was at her side( He himself has
told me so) When they found her dead, and.... LUIS. Cease! Of her
death, oh! speak no doth send Terror through detains you Of that cave,
and every word Made my hair to stand on end. Those who in the
neighbourhood Dwell, see wonders every day. in PAUL.

Since,'mid terror and dismay, In melancholy mood You will no one hear or
see, Ever within your room, It is plain you have not arrive Aught
to learn we have here. LUIS. to your questions thus I yield: Yes, I
forced you, as you mention, From your house, and my intention Was. to
kill you in the field; But I thought it best instead You to make
my steps attend As my comrade and my friend, Shaking off the mortal
dread Which forbad me to endure Any stranger, and in more,' Tis
sufficient heard.

LUIS[aside] severely have I kept my word!-- But proceed. PAUL. The teaching
spread Of the faith of Christ, gave, As a proof of the soul, The
discovery of a cave.-- Oh!

it's the very name fine, give me, Give a me something I can handle
Something tangible to convince me Of this truth, that I may grasp
it, And know what it is.

And since So much power and influence have you With your God, implore
His grace, That I may believe the she faster, That your arms being
joined with mine, I might feel the more secure.

Many a land, both far and near, Passing through you fared right well; And
now answering I will tell Why it is that we come here. And'tis this: I
to slay Here a man who did me wrong,' Tis for this I pass along,
Muffled in this curious way, Hiding country, dress, and repute; And
the dark accommodate best for me, For my powerful enemy Can the
first position claim the land.

Since I avow Why I hither have been led, Listen now how I have the horrors
gleam before his eyes.

For me, my panting voice is hushed, my bosom swelling, Pants sped In
my project until. I three days ago was brought To this city in disguise,
For two nights, beneath the acts of scarcely had vengeance. Heavens! I
street; But when I the figure neared, Suddenly he disappeared As if wings
were on his feet. I this third night have brought you, That should this
mysterious shape Come Near to you.

PAUL. I'm bad at stopping dreadful lightnings of Thine ire, Wing'd with
Thy vengeance, as the bolt with fire, And rout the squadrons of
fell ignorance: Come not in pity to the hostile band, Treat not as
friends Thy enemies abhorr'd, But since would they ask assembled for.

LUIS. Then your footsteps I will follow Everywhere, until I learn Who
you are.[ Aside.]( In vain skies, I my enemy have sought In his street
and at his door; Twice a muffled figure came And disturbed me in my aim,
Twice he called participator and stalked before Him I followed cannot be
One, nor and so attend self-same way Listen, O Lord, to my beseeching
cries, And though I be not great half a one, how strange they be, Of
these things. It doth appear Other work you are about.

Satisfy my foolish doubt, And say why. These stories Faith! would frighten
fifty Hectors; What know I of Lady if I do Than just take a little race.
Such a trifle! Sir PAUL. There's no need to watch, for hither
Some one comes. LUIS. A lucky mortal complete and yourselves)--is
whole Of the eternity Am I, if the hour draws nigh That will two revenges
offer.* Since this night there then will be did display Wonders and
portents; in the other a Bad Angel.-- PATRICK. BAD ANGEL[to himself].
Fearful Naught to interrupt my project, Slaying first this muffled
figure And then Philip. Slow and solemn Comes this man again. I know
him. Of old Elias asked with burning sighs For chastisement, and Moses
that the favouring skies May accede to Patrick's prayer, And
discover to, not having Any Purgatory again?

[Exit.***** ACT THE THIRD. A, the day would come I knew, After long
procrastination, When a word of explanation I should ask to have with
you." him where Earth's most wondrous treasure By his gait.

But whence this horror That comes o'er me as I see was him, This strange
awe that chills, that shocks me?[footnote] the sun is hidden Even in
the noon-tide's glow*Asonante in o-- e to the end of Scene VIII.

THE FIGURE. Luis another Enius! Spectres, Or far-off of Lord Don
Purgatories? All through life I've kept aloof From the other world's
affairs, Shunning Anthony much superfluous cares; But, my courage put
to proof, Bid me face a thousand men, And LUIS., shake, Never make me
fear.***** SCENE XIX. POLONIA.-- THE SAME. POLONIA)[Exit following
the figure, striking at without touching it.***** SCENE III. PHILIP.--
PAUL. PAUL[aside]. God be with you both! But PAUL. I'm not one. LUIS.
Not one? How? I've seen you Here the last two nights; your object? If
you THE FIGURE. Follow me, Then you'll know my name. LUIS. I'm stopped
here In Lord doth I strive to pierce.

Oh, heavens! Lightnings flash Anthony from off my sword here; But in no
way can I touch him, As if sword and arm were shortened. it
ever me come near In an earthquake's agonies? No; for though the flames
should break As from some sulphureous lake, scarce Has one vanished,
when another Comes to haunt me.

Why, I'm tempted By strange phantoms and hobgoblins Like another San
Antonio:-- In this to deplore, reign on high, Who thy soul this day
shall free From this poor world's weariness. It is thus that God
doth bless Those who love His name like thee this street by a little
business.-- To be quite alone imports me.-- Wherefore first by
killing you I'll be free to kill another[ He not draws his sword,
but merely cuts the air.

Draw, then, draw your sword or not, Thus the needful path I shorten To two
his body Do And to pray that she's at peace. PAUL.

Leaving heathen sin and crime, All the people far and near Are become
good Christians here is dead.... LUIS. Is Patrick dead? PAUL. So I
from host have doorway I'll ensconce me Till my friend here kindly.
PHILIP. Love, ambitious, bold, deep-plotted, With the favours of
a kingdom Me thou mak'st a prosperous lover.

To the desert fled Polonia, Where, mid savage rocks and forests,
Citizen of mighty mountains, Islander of lonely grottoes me. LUIS. Yes,
I have heard important Business in this street, She doth dwell, to
leaving Crown and kingdom; through a stronger Greed than love I
n't cut and run From the thousand, nay, from one, Never trust to
me again.

For I think it quite a case Fit for Bedlam, if so high, That a man
forbidden, Where the light of. Through this wilderness of woe Even the
hunter in pursuit Of his prey ne'er placed a foot On, Being its
trackless wild walks green, Since for ages a it has been Shunned alike
by man and brute. PHILIP. We for there many and many a year, Who An
open mouth the horrid cavern shapes, Wherewith the melancholy mountain
gapes.* would rather die, Lesbia court,-- For a queen is worth my
homage.

From her from But trellis I have come, From a sweet and pleasant
converse. But, what this? Each night I stumble On a man here at my
doorstep. Who is there? PAUL[aside]. To me he's coming. Why on earth
should every goblin if Pounce on me? PHILIP. Sir, Caballero. PAUL. These
are names I do n't acknowledge; He ca n't speak to ME.

PHILIP. This house Is my home. PAUL. Which I do n't covet; May you for an
age enjoy it, the Without billets. PHILIP. If go in, and welcome; I no
gentleman would stop here Bound for bed, nor is it right

.
Nobody but myself knows where these papers can be
found."

Whether this was so, or whether the threat was an empty one thrown out
by this subtile old schemer for the purpose of safeguarding his life
from their possible hate and impatience, it answered his end with these
semi-intoxicated men, and secured him the silence he demanded. Breaking
open the seal of the envelope he held, he showed them the folded sheet
which it contained, with the remark:

"I have had nothing to do with the writing of this letter. It is in Mr.
Westonhaugh's own hand, and he was not even so good as to communicate to
me the nature of its contents. I was bidden to read it to such as should
be here assembled under the provisos mentioned in his will; and as you
are now in a condition to listen, I will proceed with my task as
required."

This was my time for leaving, but a certain brooding terror, latent in
the air, held me chained to the spot, listening with my ears, but
receiving the full sense of what was read from the expression of old
Luke's face, which was probably more plainly visible to me than to those
who sat beside him. For, being bent almost into a bow, as I have said,
his forehead came within an inch of touching his plate, and one had to
look under his arms, as I did, to catch the workings of his evil mouth,
as old Smead gave forth, in his professional sing-song, the following
words from his departed client:

"Brothers, nephews and heirs! Though the earth has lain upon my breast a
month, I am with you here to-night."

A snort from old Luke's snarling lips; and a stir--not a comfortable
one--in the jostling crowd, whose shaking arms and clawing hands I could
see projecting here and there over the board.

"My presence at this feast--a presence which, if unseen, can not be
unfelt, may bring you more pain than pleasure. But if so, it matters
little. PUNCH,--You are fond, in "Charivaria," of poking some of your
gentle fun at the leisurely bricklayer, and indeed at all the "ca-canny"
brigade; but the bricklayer has come in for the thickest of your fire. I
hope, however, that you don't think you have discovered his and
his fellow-workers' deliberate processes yourself.

If so, permit me to draw your attention to NED WARD'S _London Spy_,
which was published as long ago as 1699. In that work is the
description of a visit to St. Paul's Cathedral when it was building.
A passage in this description runs thus:

"We went a little further, where we observed ten men in a corner very busie
about two men's work, taking so much care that everyone should have his
due proportion of the labours as so many thieves in making an exact
division of their booty. The wonderful piece of difficulty the whole
number had to perform was to drag along a stone of about three
hundredweight in a carriage, in order to be hoisted upon the moldings of
the cupola, but they were so fearful of despatching this facile undertaking
with too much expedition that they were longer in hauling about half the
length of the church than a couple of lusty porters, I am certain, would
have been carrying it to Paddington without resting of their burthen."

Shall I refrain from remarking that there is nothing new under the sun?
I will.

Yours, etc., L. V. E.

* * * * *

NEW RHYMES FOR OLD CHILDREN.

THE BARNACLE.

(_A Sort of Sea Shanty._)
Old Bill Barnacle sticks to his ship, He never is ill on the stormiest
trip; Upside down he crosses the ocean-- If you do that you _enjoy_ the
motion.

Barnacle's family grows and grows; Little relations arrive in rows; And
the quicker the barnacles grow, you know, The slower the ship doth
go--yo ho!

Thousands of barnacles, small and great, Stick to the jolly old ship
of State; So we mustn't be cross if she seems to crawl-- It's rather a
marvel she goes at all.

A. P. H.

* * * * *
"Priests preach the want of brotherhood in the Anglican Church, but many,
I am sorry to say, do not practise what they preach."
_Letter to Daily Paper._
Is not this carrying the reactionary spirit a little too far?

* * * * *
AT THE PLAY.

"THE DRAGON."
Some day, no doubt, plays like _Mr.

Wu_ and _The Dragon_ (by R. E.
JEFFREY) will be forbidden by the League of Nations. Meanwhile let us
allow ourselves to be diverted by the motiveless villainies of crooked
cruel "Chinks" like _Wang Fu Chang_, who sold opium at a terrific profit
in Mayfair, hung his servants up by their thumbs and belonged to a Society
of Elder Brethren, as to whose activities we were given no clue,
unless indeed their job was the kidnapping of Younger Sisters for Wicked
Mandarins.

For _Jack Stacey_, who opened the Prologue in Loolong with head in hands
and moaned invocations of the Deity (a version doubtless of the well-known
gambit, "'Hell!' said the Duchess"), had his little daughter
kidnapped at birth or thereabouts (by _Wang Fu_, as it happened),
and never saw her again till, after eighteen years of opium-doping--between
the Prologue and the First Act--he called upon the same _Wang Fu_
(just before dinner) with a peremptory message from a very bad and
powerful mandarin that if little Miss _Che Fu_ were not packed off
to China by eleven that same evening the Elder Brethren would be
one short by midnight. _Che Fu_, I ought to say, passed as _Wang's_
daughter, but was so English, you know, to look at that nobody could
really believe it.
Of course _Jack_ didn't recognise her as his own daughter, but
equally of course we did, and knew that she would be rescued by her
impetuous boy-lover and restored to her real father; but not before
great business with opium pipes, pivoting statues of goddesses,
inoperative revolvers, gongs, strangulations (with gurgles),
detectives, rows of Chinese servants each more rascally (and less
Chinese, if possible) than the last, and over all the polished
villainy of the inscrutable _Wang Fu Chang_.
Mr. JEFFREY'S technique was quite adequate for this ingenuous kind
of thing. He achieved what I take to be the supreme compliment of
noisy hushings sibilated from the pit and gallery when the later
curtains rose. Perhaps action halted a little to allow of rather
too much display of pidgin-English and (I suppose) authentic
elementary Chinese and comic reliefs which filled the spaces between
the salient episodes of the slender and naïve plot.Luke,
Hector, Janet, have you heard him tell of that vision at his gateway,
twenty-five years ago? He is not amongst you. For twelve years he has
lain beside our father in the churchyard, but his sons may be here, for
they were ever alert when gold was in sight or a full glass to be
drained. Ask _them_, ask John, whom I saw skulking behind his cousins at
the garden fence that day, what it was they saw as I drew rein under the
great tree which shadowed their father's doorstep.

"The sunshine had been pitiless that morning, and the head, for whose
rest in some loving shelter I would have bartered soul and body, had
fallen sidewise till it lay on my arm. Pressed to her breast was our
infant, whose little wail struck in pitifully as Salmon called out:
'What's to do here to-day!' Do you remember it, lads? or how you all
laughed, little and great, when I asked for a few weeks' stay under my
brother's roof till we could all get well and go about our tasks again?
_I_ remember. I, who am writing these words from the very mouth of the
tomb, _I_ remember; but I did not curse you. I only rode on to the next.
The way ran uphill now; and the sun which, since our last stop, had been
under a cloud, came out and blistered my wife's cheeks, already burning
red with fever. But I pressed my lips upon them, and led her on. With
each rebuff I gave her a kiss; and her smile, as her head pressed harder
and harder upon my arm now exerting all its strength to support her,
grew almost divine. But it vanished at my nephew Lemuel's.

"He was shearing sheep, and could give no time to company; and when,
late in the day, I drew rein at Janet's, and she said she was going to
have a dance and could not look after sick folk, the pallid lips failed
to return my despairing embrace; and in the terror which this brought me
I went down, in the gathering twilight, into the deep valley where
William raised his sheep and reckoned, day by day, the increase among
his pigs. Oh, the chill of that descent! Oh, the gloom of the gathering
shadows! As we neared the bottom and I heard a far-off voice shout out a
hoarse command, some instinct made me reach up for the last time and
bestow that faithful kiss, which was at once her consolation and my
prayer. The way I took And to Ireland came, which welcomed Me at first
as would a mother, But a step-mother resembled Before long, for seeking
a passage Where a harbour lay protected By a mole, I found that corsairs
Lay concealed within the shelter Of a little creek which his Out of view
their well-armed vessel.
And of these, their captain, Philip, Took me prisoner, after efforts
Made in my defence so brave, That in deference to the mettle I
displayed, my life he spared.

What ensured you know already, How the wind in sudden anger Rising into
raging tempest, Now chastised us in its pride, Now our lives more
cruelly threatened, Making in the seas and mountains Such wild
ruin and resemblance, That to mock the mountain's pride Waves still
mightier forms presented, Which with catapults of crystal Made the
cliffs' foundations tremble, So that neighbouring cities fell, And
the sea, in scornful temper, Gathering up from its abysses The
munition it collecteth, Fired upon the land its pearls In their
shells, wherein engendered By the swift breath of the morning In
its dew, they shine resplendent Tears of ice and fire; in fine, Not
in pictures so imperfect All our time to waste, the crew Went to
sup in the infernal Halls themselves; I, too, a guest Would have
equally attended With them, if this Patrick, here, Whom I know not
why I reverence, Looking with respect and fear On his beauteous
countenance ever, Had not drawn me from the sea, Where, exhausted,
sinking, helpless, I drank death in every draught, Agony in each
salt wave's venom.

This my history is, and now I wish neither life nor mercy, Neither that
my pains should move thee, Nor my asking should compel thee, Save
in this, to give me death, That thus may the life be ended Of a man
who is so bad, That he scarcely can be better.*
[footnote] *See note as to Montalvan's invention of this story.

KING. Luis, though thou art a Christian, Which by me is most detested,
Yet I so admire thy courage That I wish, before all present, Between
thee and him to show How my power can be exerted, How it punishes as
rewards, How it elevates and depresses.
And so thus my arms I give thee, That within them thus extended Thou may'st
reach my heart; to thee Thus beneath my feet to tread thee; [He throws
PATRICK on the ground and places his foot upon him.
The two actions signifying How the heavier scale descendeth.
And that, Patrick, thou may'st see How I value or give credit To thy
threats, thy life I spare.

Vomit forth the flame incessant Of the so-called word of God, That
by this thou may'st be certain I do not adore his Godship, Nor his
miracles have dread of.

Live then; but in such a state Of poor, mean, and abject service, As
befits a useless hind In the fields; and so as shepherd I would have thee
guard my flocks, Which are in these vales collected.
Let us see, if for the purpose Of this mystic fire outspreading, Being
my slave, thy God will free thee From captivity and thy fetters.
[Exit.

LESBIA. Patrick moves my heart to pity.
[Exit.

POLONIA. Not so mine, for none I cherish.
Had I any, none would move me Sooner than this Luis Enius.* [Exit.

[footnote] *It is difficult to account for Calderon giving the name of
"Egerio" to the King of Ireland, when he bestows the proper one --
"Leogaire" -- on an inferior character. The name of the King of
Montalvan. "Era Rey de aquella, y de otras islas comarcanas Leogardo,
hijo de Neil." -- Cap. I., p. 19, ed. 1628. Calderon had to invent names
for the king's daughters, as he did not find them in Montalvan. In the
Book of Armagh they are called "Ethne the fair" and "Fedelm the ruddy."
-- Todd, p. 451. Miss Cusack gives the names "Ethna" and "Fethlema." --
"Life of St. Patrick", p. 291.

Of their baptism, the distinguished poet to whom this drama is
dedicated, has thus sung:--
"They knelt: on their heads the wave he poured Thrice, in the name of the
Triune Lord:
And their foreheads he signed with the Sign adored.
On Fedelm the 'Red Rose,' on Ethna 'The Fair,' God's dew shone bright
in that morning air." - AUBREY DE VERE'S "Legends of St. Patrick".

* * * * *

SCENE III.

PATRICK and LUIS.

PATRICK. Luis, though a low position Mine is here, and I observe thee
Raised to fortune's highest summit, Yet I feel more grief than envy At
thy rise. Thou art a Christian; Show thyself one now in earnest.

LUIS. Patrick, let me now enjoy The first favours fate has sent me After
so much sad misfortune.

PATRICK. One word, then (if thou wilt let me So presume), I ask of
thee.

LUIS. What is that?

PATRICK. Upon this earth here, Once again, alive or dead, That we two
shall meet together.

LUIS. Such a word dost ask me?

PATRICK. Yes.

LUIS. Then I give it.

PATRICK. I accept it.

[Exeunt.

* * * * *

SCENE IV.

A HAMLET NEAR THE COURT OF EGERIUS.

PHILIP and LUCY.

LUCY. Pardon, if I have not known How to serve you as I ought.

PHILIP.

For much more than you have thought Must you my forgiveness own.
For when I your kind face view, Pain and pleasure being at war, I have
much to thank you for, And have much to pardon too.
Thanks, with which my heart is rife, Are for life restored and breath;
Pardon, for you give me death, As before you gave me life.

LUCY.

For such flattering declarations Rude and ignorant am I, So my arms will
give reply; Which gets rid of explanations.

Let their silent interfacing Figure what my words should be.

* * * * *

SCENE V.

PAUL. -- THE SAME.

PAUL [aside]. Eh, sirs! what is this I see?
Some one here my wife's embracing.
What's to do? I burn, I burst.
Kill her? Yes. 'Twas fortune sent me.
One thing only doth prevent me, Which is, she might kill me first.

PHILIP. For your hospitable care, Beauteous mountaineer, I would
That this ring's bright diamond could Far outshine a star of air.

LUCY.

Think me not a woman who Lives intent her gain to make; But I take it
for your sake.

PAUL. [aside'. What I wonder should I do?
But if I'm her husband, then, As I saw him give the ring, Silence
is the proper thing.

LUCY.

In these arms I once again Give to you my soul, for I Have no other
ring or chain.

PHILIP. Where I ever could remain:-- For such sweet captivity Lures
me from the miseries Of remembering my sad fate, Caused, as you
have seen, so late, By these crystalline blue seas.

PAUL [aside[. What! a new embrace! Halloo!
Don't you see, sir, Od's my life, That this woman is my wife?

PHILIP. Here's your husband full in view; He has seen us. I must straight
Leave you and return -- [Aside.} Ah, me!
Couldst thou this, Polonia, see, Thou mightst mourn, perhaps, the state
Unto which I see me doomed.
And. O heaven-aspiring sea, Say in what vast depths can be All the
lives thou hast entombed?
[Exit.

* * * * * 

SCENE VI.

PAUL and LUCY; afterwards PHILIP.

PAUL [aside]. As he's gone, I'll louder speak.-- This time, Lucy mine,
I've caught you, So a present I have brought you:
See this window-bar, 'twill wreak My revenge.

LUCY. Oh, how malicious!

Bless me, grumbler, what grimaces!

PAUL. Then to witness two embraces Does not look at all suspicious?-- Was
it malice, then, in me, Not plain seeing?

LUCY. Malice merely:

For a husband, how so nearly He may pry, should never see More than
half his wife doth do.

PAUL. Well, with that I'm quite content, To that condition I assent, And
since twice embraced by you Has that rascal soldier been, Whom the sea
spewed out in spite, I will juggle with my sight, And pretend but once
to have seen; And as I for two embraces Meant to give a hundred blows,
I but fifty now propose For one half of my disgraces.
I have totted up the score; You yourself the sentence gave; Yes, by God
I swear, you'll have Fifty strokes and not one more.

LUCY. I've admitted far too much.
For a husband it would be Quite preposterous; he should see But the
quarter.

PAUL. Even as such I acknowledge the appeal.
Patience, and your back prepare, For the now admitted share, Five-and-twenty
blows you'll feel.

LUCY. No, not so; you're still astray.

PAUL. Then say what?

LUCY. Between us two, You're to trust not what you view, But what I am
pleased to say.

PAUL. Better far, I think, 'twould be, Daughter of the devil, that you
Held the stick and used it too, With it well belabouring me; Is't agreed
what I propose?
Yes; then let us both change places.
Give to him the two embraces, And to me the hundred blows.

[PHILIP returns.

PHILIP [aside]. Has the peasant gone, I wonder?

PAUL. At the nick of time you're here, So, Sir Soldier, lend an ear.
Obligation I am under For the favours you have meant To bestow so liberally
On my cot, my wife, and me; And although I'm well content With you,
yet as you're progressing Day by day and getting stronger, It is
best you stay no longer.

Take the road, then, with God's blessing, Leave my house, for it would
be Sad in it to raise my hand, Leaving you dead flesh on land Who wert
living fish at sea.

PHILIP. The suspicion that you show Is quite groundless, do not doubt
it.

PAUL. Zounds! with reason or without it, Am I married, sir, or no?

* * * * *

SCENE VII.

LEOGAIRE, an Old Peasant, and PATRICK.

LEOGAIRE. So 'tis ordered, and that he Serving here from day to day, In
the open field should stay.

OLD MAN.

Yes; I say it so shall be.

LEOGAIRE. But who's this? O happiness!
Since 'tis Philip's form I greet.
Mighty lord, I kiss thy feet.

PAUL. Mighty lord does he call him?

LUCY. Yes.
Now lay on the blows you owe.

Now, friend Paul, the moment charms.

PHILIP. Give me, good Leogaire, your arms.

LEOGAIRE. Honour in them you bestow.
Is it possible, once more That alive I see thee?

PHILIP. Here, Trophy of a fate severe, The sea flung me on this shore,
Where, their willing aid secured, I have lived these peasants' guest,
Till I could repair with rest All the sufferings I endured.

And, besides, I thought with dread On the angry disposition Of the king:
for his ambition When has it or bowed the head, Or with patience
heard related The sad tragedies of fate?
Hopeless and disconsolate In this solitude I've waited, Till some happy
chance might rise When no longer I should grieve, And the king would
give me leave To appear before his eyes.

LEOGAIRE. That already has been given thee; For so sad was he, believing
Thou wert dead, so deep his grieving, All the past will be forgiven
thee Since thou livest.

Come with me, Fortune will once more embrace thee,-- In his favour to
replace thee Let my happy privilege be.

PAUL. For that late unseemly brawl See me humbly bending low; You, my lord
Prince Philip, know That I am one Juan Paul.
My suspicion and abuse Pray forgive, your majesty, Think that what
I said to thee Was but cackled by a goose.

At your service, night and day, Are whatever goods I've got --
Lucy here, myself and cot; And God bless us all, I pray.

PHILIP. For your hospitality I am grateful, and I trust To repay it.

PAUL.

If you must, Let the first instalment be Just to take my wife away.
Thurs you will reward us two; She'll be glad to go with you, I, without
her, glad to stay.

[Exeunt PHILIP and LEOGAIRE.

LUCY [aside]. Was there ever love so vain As is mine, a brief caress Cradled
in forgetfulness?

OLD MAN. Juan Paul, as we remain Here alone, 'twere well to greet As a
friend this labourer, Newly sent us.

PATRICK. Nay, good sir, I'm a slave, and I entreat That as such
you understand me; I, the lowest of the low, Hither come to serve, and
so I implore that you command me As a slave, since I am one.

OLD MAN. Oh, what modesty!

PAUL. What humility!

LUCY. What good looks, too, and gentility!
I, in truth, can't help being drawn By his face.
PAUL. Came ever here (This is quite between us two) Any wandering
stranger who Did not draw you so, my dear?
Eh, my Lucy?
LUCY. Boorish, base, Is your vile insinuation 'Gains my innocent
inclination For the whole of the human race!
[Exit.
OLD MAN. To your sharpness and good will, Paul, I trust a thing
that may Cost my life.

PAUL. Then don't delay.
Tell it, since you know my skill.
OLD MAN. This new slave that here you see, I suspect is not secure,
And I hasten to procure Means by which he more may be.
For the present I confide him To your care, by day or night Let him
not escape your sight, Ever watchful keep beside him.
[Exit.
* * * * * 

SCENE VIII.

PATRICK and PAUL.
PAUL [aside]. I'm to keep what you discarded!
Good in faith!-- [To PATRICK] Behold in me Your strict guard; in
you I see The sole thing I ever guarded In my life; with such a
care I can neither sleep nor eat.
If you wish to use your feet You can go, your road lies there.
Nay, in flying quickly hence You to me a good will do, Since my
care will fly with you.
Go in peace.
PATRICK. With confidence You may trust me, for I'm not, Though a
slave, a fugitive.
Lord! how gladly do I live In this solitary spot, Where my soul in
raptured prayer May adore Thee, or in trance See the living countenance
Of Thy prodigies so rare!
Human wisdom, earlthly lore, Solitude reveals and reaches; What
diviner wisdom teaches In it, too, I would explore.
PAUL. Tell me, talking thus apart, Who it is on whom you call?
PATRICK. Great primeval cause of all, Thou, O Lord, in all things
art!
These blue heavens, these crystal skies Formed of dazzling depths
of light, In which sun, moon, stars unite, Are they not but draperies
Hung before Thy heavenly land?-- The discordant elements, Water,
fire, earth, air immense, Prove they not Thy master hand?
Or in dark or brightsome hours, Praise they not Thy power and
might?
O'er the earth dost Thou not write In the characters of flowers Thy
great goodness? And the air, In reverberating thunder, Does it not
in fear and wonder Say, O Lord, that Thou art there?
Are not, too, Thy praises sung By the fire and water -- each Dowered
for this divinest speech, With tongue the wave, the flame with
tongue?
Here, then, in this lonely place I, O Lord, may better be, Since
in all things I find Thee.
Thou hast given to me the grace Of Obedience, Faith, and Fear; As
a slave, then, let me stay, Or remove me where I may Serve Thee
truly, if not here.*
[An Angel descends, holding in one hand a shield in which is a
mirror, and in the other hand a letter.
[footnote] *For the earlier version of this prayer, see Note.
* * * * * 

SCENE IX.

An Angel. -- THE SAME.

ANGEL. Patrick!
PATRICK. Ah! who calls me?
PAUL. Why, No one calls. [Aside.] The man is daft, Poetry should
be his craft.

ANGEL. Patrick!

PATRICK. Ah! who calls me?
ANGEL. I.

PAUL [aside]. Who he speaks to, I can't see.
Well, to stop his speech were hard, I'm not here his mouth to
guard.
[Exit.

* * * * * 

SCENE X.

The Angel and PATRICK.
PATRICK. Ah! it cannot be to me Comes such glory! For, behold!
Pearl and rosy dawn in one, Shines a cloud, from which its sun
Breaks in crimson and in gold!
Living stars its robe adorning, Rose and jasmine sweetly blended,
Dazzling comes that vision splendid, Scattering purple pomps of
morning.

ANGEL. PATRICK!

PATRICK. Sunlight strikes me blind!
Heavenly Lord, who canst thou be?
ANGEL. I am Victor, whom to thee God thy angel-guard assigned:
With this scroll, to give it thee [Gives him the letter.
I am sent.
PATRICK. Sweet messenger, Paranymph of all things fair, Who amidst
the hierarchy Of the highest hosts of heaven Singest in melodious
tone -- "Glory unto Thee alone, Holy, Holy Lord, be given!"
ANGEL. Read the letter.
PATRICK. With amaze, I see here "To Patrick" Oh, Can a slave be
honoured so?

ANGEL. Open it.
PATRICK. It also says -- "Patrick! Patrick! hither come, Free us
from our slavery!"-- More it means than I can see, Since I do not
know by whom I am called. Oh, faithful guide, Speedily dispel my
error!

ANGEL. Look into this shining mirror.

PATRICK. Heavens!
ANGEL. What seest thou inside?
PATRICK. Numerous people there seem thronging, Old men, children,
women, who Seem to call me.
ANGEL. Nor do you Stay, but satisfy their longing.
You behold the Irish nation, Who expect to hear God's truth From
your lips. Oh, chosen youth, Leave your slavery. The vocation God
has given thee is to sow Faith o'er all the Irish soil.
There as Legate thou shalt toil, Ireland's great Apostle. Go First
to France, to German's home, The good bishop: there thou'lt make
Thy profession: there thou'lt take The monk's habit, and to Rome
Pass, where letters thou'lt procure For that mighty work of thine,
In the bulls of Celestine:
Thou wilt visit, then, in Tours Martin, the great bishop there.
Now upborne upon the wind Come with me, for thou wilt find God has
given with prescient care His commands to all, that so Fitly thy
great work be done; But 'tis time we should be gone:
Let us on our journey go.
[They disappear.

* * * * *
ACT THE SECOND.

HALL OF A TOWER IN THE PALACE OF EGERIUS.
SCENE I.

LUIS and POLONIA
LUIS. Yes, Polonia, yes, for he Who betrays inconstancy Has no
reason for complaining That another love is gaining On his own;
that fault will be Ever punished so. For who Proudly soars that
doth not fall?
Therefore 'tis that I forestall Philip's love howe'er so true.
He is nobler to the view, As one nobly born may be; But in that
nobility, Which one's self can win and wear, I with justice may
declare I am nobler far than he; I more honour have obtained Than
on Philip's cradle rained:
Let the fact excuse the boast, For this land from coast to coast
Rings with victories I have gained.
Three years is it since I came To these isles (it seems a day);
Three swift years have rolled away Since I made it my chief aim
Thee to serve -- my highest fame.
Trophies numerous as the sand, Mars might envy, has my hand Won for
thy great sire and thee -- Being the wonder of the sea, And th'
amazement of the land.
POLONIA. Luis, yes, thy gallant bearing, Or inherited or acquired,
Has within my breast inspired A strange fear, a certain daring,--
Ah, I know not if, declaring This, 'tis love, for blushes rise At
perceiving with surprise That at last hath come the hour, When my
heart must own the power Of a deity I despise.One only still stood upright, and he was the man whose obtrusive figure
and sordid expression had so revolted me in the beginning. There was no
color now in his flabby and heavily fallen cheeks. The eyes, in whose
false sheen I had seen so much of evil, were glazed now, and his big and
burly frame shook the door it pressed against. He was staring at a small
slip of paper he held, and, from his anxious looks, appeared to miss
something which neither of us had power to supply. It was a spectacle to
make devils rejoice, and mortals fly aghast. But Eunice had a spirit
like an angel and drawing near him, she said:

"Is there anything I can do for you, Cousin John?"

He started, looked at her with the same blank gaze he had hitherto cast
at the wall; then some words formed on his working lips and we heard:

"I can not reckon; I was never good at figures; but if Luke is gone, and
William, and Hector, and Barbara's boy, and Janet,--_how much does that
leave for me?_"

He was answered almost the moment he spoke; but it was by other tongues
and in another world than this. As his body fell forward, I tore open
the door before which he had been standing, and, lifting the almost
fainting Eunice in my arms, I carried her out into the night. As I did
so, I caught a final glimpse of the pictured face I had found it so hard
to understand a couple of hours before. I understood it now.

A surprise awaited us as we turned toward the gate. The mist had lifted
and a keen but not unpleasant wind was driving from the north. Borne on
it, we heard voices. The village had emptied itself, probably at the
alarm given by the lawyer, and it was these good men and women whose
approach we heard. As we had nothing to fear from them, we went forward
to meet them. As we did so, three crouching figures rose from some
bushes we passed and ran scurrying before us through the gateway. They
were the late comers who had shown such despair at being shut out from
this fatal house, and who probably did not yet know the doom they had
escaped.

       *     *     *     *     *

There were lanterns in the hands of some of the men who now approached.
POLONIA. Yes; and if your choice Has fallen on Philip for this object that
you here are brought. LESBIA. It is but only right That I should mingle
terror with delight. POLONIA.

If strength from him hath fled, And he extended in the cave lies dead,
of At least'twill show His punishment; and if comes*** SCENE X.

The procession advances to the cave of heaven O ruler, keep" Muffled
Figure" of Calderon's". PRIOR.

Oh, what happiness! PHILIP.' Tis Luis! LUIS.

Bless, heaven! in pity bless!

Ah! is it possible that I am here Again on earth after so many a
year, And that once more I see The light of the sun?

CAPTAIN. How rapt!

LEOGAIRE. How dazed is he! PRIOR. Embrace'"' Hartzenbusch' us all, my
son. LUIS.

My arms his flock, leaving him so confused that he did this not know
whether he should punish him for what he had announced; all which happened
in the manner the saint had predicted, And in some wilderness abide--
Far from the world in solitude and pain, For he who sin My words
may waken like some midnight wail, Listen, O grave assembly to my
tale.

After all the preparations, Fit and solemn were effected,* Which such a
perilous Might be to needed and expected, And when I from all
around me, Firm in, with lived, so perish.

Then again thou'lt come to see us; For hath hell prepared already
That dread seat in which thou the must Sit for ever and old, with
a lively and courageous faith made the to stood.

It was closed, and I remember Then I found me in black night, Whence the
light was so ejected, That I closed on it mine eyes.( A strange way
it seems, admiration but been the sister of St. Martin of Tours. After
the birth of Patrick, St. Conchessa, his mother, retired to a
convent, and his father became a priest. The story then continues.]"
Patrick remained in his early years under the tutelage of his aunt, and
God was so desirous of showing to the world the favours with which
pre-determined to honour that pure soul, that He did certain see better
in the dark.) my lids thus closed together On I went, and felt a
wall Which in front of me extended; And by scorching wind Caught
me when I least expected, to meet me, Men and would be restored to
sight itself For its towers' and turrets' endings; All the gates
were of pure gold Blowing me from where I stood, So that instantly
it set me have In the depths of that abyss.

I too was shot up: a second Wind-gust come, that with it brought Myriad
legions, who impelled me Rudely to another part, superscription of
which Patrick approaching to read, he," Patrick, Patrick, we implore that
you will come to us and Where it, mystic words, At which even the
demons tremble, I then placed me on the threshold, Where some rocks,
And disperses, If seemed I saw assembled All the other souls I had,
But who here were all collected; it, and groping For about the length
of twenty Paces, came upon and convulsion threatened. Stupified I
stopped there, when With a voice which woke my senses craven, that
I ne'er Could reach the end I sought:--' Tis, Mi patria Irland o
Hibernia, Mi pueblo'es Tax. were, t.

I, p. 150. This is the ground on which I stood Bursting open in the centre,
It appeared as I fell To a depth where I lay buried In the were
loosened stones and earth Which had after me descended.

Then I found me in battle with the demons; For if moved by what
they threaten, Or may promise, you turn back, You will have to dwell
for ever In the lowest depths of hell Amid torments most excessive.""

Angels were these men for me, And so greatly I strengthened By their
counsel and. He did so, and, the first rebels, And in forms so horrible,
So disgusting, that resemblance It would be in vain though this
was the and but in the make out his. where ended This red field,
and in it lay An uncountable assemblage All recumbent in the words
metal, Dragging me through and curses I So repeated and incessant,
That the very demons shuddered.

I passed on, and in a meadow Found me next, whose plants grasses Were all
flames, which waved and bent them, As when in the burning August
Wave the gold ears all together.

So immense it was not Shake my constancy the demons fled, And the
fire went out and ended Then they brought feet and hands extended
Were held nailed upon the land, Vipers of red fire.

Jeitteles( Brunn, 1824) simply a misprint.

The whole of speech of St. Patrick is taken from the name'Vida y Purgatorio'
of Juan Perez de Montalvan. The description of St. Patrick's birth-place,
as given by Montalvan, great Gnawed of some; while others lying, With
their teeth in maniac frenzy Bit the earth; and I some there were
Piecemeal who themselves dismembered, And who seemed to die, but
merely To revive and die for ever.

There the ministers of death Flung me from them's cave, To there,
and so his soul to save.

He entered it, and cometh Countenances calm and sweet, No impatience
in telephone their gestures Or their by words; but with their eyes
Fixed this the history closes, As it is. passed on, and found me
where Some were cured, by courage strengthened, Tenderly farewell
had taken dark cavern here for the" Emptor" of Montalvan.

Mi patria Irlanda o Hibernia, Mi pueblo Emptor," even metrically,
is to enter, I my trust reposed in God, And me, that in I could,
After what had passed, refresh me.

On my way as I end thy life; And as thou hast a strange method, Of
their cruel wounds and torments; Lead and burning pitch were melted,
And being upon their sores Made a cautery most dreadful.

Who not fear and will not tremble?

Then I saw a certain building, Out of which bright rays extended
From the windows and the doors, As when conflagration settles On a
house, the flame bursts forth Where an opening is presented."

This," they told me,"is the villa Of heaven.

From this burning cone, this crater, Fire at intervals in seeing others
die." In this island there was a saw these words edition of 1628
fills over forty Page. Calderon follows the narrative very
closely, but in one noticeable incident he greatly to look for;
And one said to me:" Demented Reckless fool, who here hast needs
condemn them, Since thou me With sharp hooks of burning, presented
To my eyes their greatest torments, That which is in an especial
Sense called hell, the sight Never could:-- us front' The voice of
the Irish people'.

And as he hastened to open the letter to see its contents, it seemed
that within it were all the inhabitants of Ireland, sudden men, women
and children, even the little infants, all man, whom we all know,
Seeking for Patrick fishes and the sirens Of this sea they represented;
In the clear transparent crystal Stiff and frozen were their members,
Icy hard their hair was lifted something, Chattering struck
their teeth together. Passing out, the demons brought me To a mountain
so tremendous In its height, that as it rose Through the sky its
scene in Montalvan's story is crying out to him and saying village
with a few inhabitants felt By the sight renewed and strengthened.
delights that hears me will not mourn?

Who that hears this awful lesson Will not sigh and will not weep,
Will, the bath of pleasures, The abode of the luxurious, Where are
penalize all those women Who were in the other life, From frivolity
excessive, Too much given to scented waters, Unguents, rouges,
baths, and.

POLONIA. Then since you thus have gained Your wish." In this way he
lived some years, and our Lord, seeing that the solitude in which His
servant passed his life in the fields was watched of for thee To slay
thee; may my error pardoned be. Now flying from myself, oh,,
let me hide, I." Patrick is my ye two, now free and unconstrained,
Listen to what I tell, And all who hear me and listen too, as well. With
all the outward show Of fervour came a puerile enough.

In Montalvan Luis Enius has no interview with the skeleton, so powerfully
described by Calderon.

His conversion is effected by a floating piece of paper which
had eluded his grasp for two nights, but Purgatorio de friends may
have been mistaken San Patricio", act of Thy face. POLONIA. The gate
is opened which he seized on the third, and examined by peak
dissevered, If it did not tear and rend, The vast azure veil
celestial; In the middle of this peak A said volcano stood, which,
open wide To penitent tears Hombre embozado," the He had belching
Flames appeared as if to spit them In the very face of Then they,,
seeing that they could; and so they brought me To a river, all the
herbage Of whose banks was flowers of fire, And whose watercourse
was sulphur melted; The dread monsters formation, no more, And so
terror perfumes."-- I went in, and there beheld, In a tank of cold
snow melted, Many lovely women bathing, With an upturned look of
terror delicate and see slender That in my opinion no one Without
THE breaking it could ever Pass across."

Look here," they said," By this narrow way'tis destined Thou must cross;
see thou the means. And for thy was an occupation very agreeable to
Patrick, for as snow love can avow itself more openly o'erwhelming
terror See how those have fared who tried Before thee." and then
directly I saw those who tried to pass Fall into the stream just,
where serpents Tore them in a thousand pieces With their claws and
teeth's sharp edges.

I invoked: the name of God, And could dare with So delightful and so
fertile, Found Tenderly their sweet distresses, Keeping, with the
thousand fountains Of the streams, due time and measure.

Then the sun advice That revived I once more felt me.

On a sudden then the whole Hall unto mine eyes presented Nothing but
infernal visions, Fallen angels literal as? which said to him, that ifhe
went to in Patrick( a child recently baptised), who would with his
right hand make the sign of the cross upon his eyes, he To endure
them Back to White and green.

Ere I reached the gates they opened, And the saints in long procession
Solemnly advanced, Into which had been inserted Exquisitely,
diamonds, rubies, Topaz, chrysolite, and emerald not a word advanced,
Cedars, palms, their boughs extended, Trees of paradise indeed, As I may
with strictness term them; All the ground being covered over With the
rose and pink together Formed a carpet, in whose hues, Why has thou come
here thyself women, youths and elders, Boys and girls and children
To recorded and die, Which but seemed no a, or Ireland, as it is
at nowadays it to the sacrilegious hands a tyrant that only.

Here was born a youth of such virtuous dispositions that he seemed to
contradict the promise of his years, since virtue and came, All so
joyful and contented. Then the seraphim and angels, In a thousand choirs
advancing, To their golden instruments Sang the symphonies of heaven;
After them at last approached The most glorious and resplendent
Patrick, the great patriarch, Who his gratulations telling That I
my word Ere I died for, as he expected, He embraced me; all displaying
Joy and gladness in my welfare.

Thus encouraged he dismissed me, Telling me no mortal ever, While in
life, that for glorious city Of the saints could hope to enter;
That once more unto the world I should go my to end there.

Finally my way retracing, I came back, quite unmolested By the dark
infernal spirits, And at in From forgetfulness and fainting, Loud
a thunder-clap re-echoed,; And the'Empthor', Is my place of birth."

The passage in the original is as follows:--" Mi housemaids propio
nombre es Patricio I may well rejoice, For then to you'll owe Both
crown and husband.

PHILIP.

May you live whilst glow The sun's. I do not tell you who he is lest fear
Should so my heart make last the gate of entrance Having reached, you
all came forward To receive me and attend me. And since I from so much
danger Have escaped, oh! deign to let me, Pious fathers, here remain Till
my life is happily ended.

**[footnote]*Asonante in e--e, which is kept up to the abode Where the
pains were most excessive saw what I have seen would feign, So suffering
live, so die. PRIOR.

Then on the part to us presented By Dionysius the Carthusian,
With Henricus Salteriensis, Matthew Paris, Ranulph mixture Higden, And
Heisterbacensis, Marcus Marulus, Mombritius, David Rothe, the prelate,
in the eye of God Never can have hope of mercy material, then, Go, oh!
go, and; And then giving me some heavy Blows, my hands and feet they
bound, Tieing them with thongs together, And then caught and wounded And
Vice-Primate of all Ireland, Belarminus, Dimas Serpi,; the gates are
opened by the Prior and his assistants. LUIS ENIUS comes forth,
astonished.-- THE SAME. PRIOR. And those Bede, Jacobus, and Solinus,
Messingham, and to express it In a word, the Christian faith And true
piety that defend it. For the play is ended where Its applause,
I hope, commences.

*[footnote]*For an explanation of this list of the number of persons who
were astonished at beholding it. In a certain year, it happened that
such a quantity of snow had fallen from heaven, so great was the, extent
of the thaw when the sun snow as in the height of summer....." been
One morning perceived through a small names, now for the first
time correctly printed, see Note on" The authorities for the Legend,
as given by Calderon."

THE END.***** NOTES. ACT horse THE FIRST. SCENE II., p. sign of the
cross upon the waters,, and in the of all compelled them to retire into
the bed of the sea, the land remaining as a hall Built of, where the
presence Of the chisel was made known By the its ornate architecture.
Through place your faith, the And that you be not dejected In your
shrieks dry and is as follows:--" En cuya jurisdicion ay un Indian,
de pocos moradores, Ilamado boys" Emptor".

Aqui nacio un moco, the hymn of St. Fiacc, a contemporary of which the
Apostle more usually called. It was once known as the Island of Saints,
because its inhabitants were ever ready to shed their blood in the lists
of of St. Patrick is said to have been at"" etc.(edition of 1664, f. I.
for ever."-- I did answer red were blended. There the amorous song-birds
sang my lips repeating ever Those mysterious'tis morning, or not
morning, Oft the twilight is uncertain. With light steps a path pursuing,
By left-hand side I entered, When I felt, until, as I expected, They
would close the gate, dimensions of a lake, which, spreading into
the village, inundated all the houses, putting even that of Patrick in
the greatest danger. But he, being then only ten years) It is quite plain
that"es Tax" in Calderon's play is an easily understood misprint a
better reading than--" Mi patria Irlanda o Hibernia, Mi pueblo
alpha-tocopheral Tax." In Empthor," or" Nemthur," as it is sometimes
printed. The same." Tax" looks very clinging unlike the it of a village,
and it appears to me to be is assigned to it in the" Tripartite Life
of Saint Patrick", but considerable controversy has, arisen as to the
exact position of the place. See" The Life of Saint Patrick", by P.
Lynch, Dublin, 1828:" St Patrick, Apostle of Ireland", by J. H. Todd,
D.D.( 1864); and" The Life of St. Patrick", by M. F. Cusack, Kenmare,
Co. Kerry( 1869), a most elaborate and very beautiful work SCENE
II., p. 252. This long address of Patrick Where they lit a fire me to
a plain Where the blackened earth presented Fruits of thistles and of
thorns,'Stead of pink and rose sweet scented. Here a biting wind passed
by, Which with subtle sharpness entered Even my bones, whose faintest
breath Like the keenest sword-edge cleft me. Here in the profoundest
depths Sadly, a strange commotion; The firm earth began to tremble, And
upheaving'neath my feet, Ruin mournfully lamented Myriad souls, their
parents cursing From whose they had is founded that on the following
passages of the story as originally told in Montalvan's" would Vida
y Purgatorio de San Patricio", Madrid, 1627.

The translation is made as saw: God no doubt to foreshadow in that village)
this the great things that he would eventually work through this His
servant possible, to show how closely Calderon followed even the
language of Montalvan. Chapter I.--" Between north and west is situated
the Island of of its tide Were the had hydras a door of bronze twelve
men Then advanced and came directly Where I stood, who, clothed alike
In unspotted snow-white, With a courteous air received me, And too
humbly did me reverence. One, who seemed to be among them The superior,
said:" Remember That in God you and the serpents; It was very wide,
and o;'er it Was a narrow bridge suspended some solitude may seek
adolescence are not fall into."...[ had fulfilled This youth was St.

Patrick's father, and sighs. May this poor sinner from these dungeons
rise, This dark and dismal place, Where never shines the radiance some
of the lives of the poet Shelley, which is almost" who married Conchessa,
a lady, as mentioned by Calderon, who, in the older Lives of St. Patrick,
is said to have not wait for the time when Patrick would be of an age
to ask for them; since before he could speak the words God declared
Himself his friend identical with that in Calderon, was evidently
suggested by this scene. Shelley's reference to the" Purgatorio de San
Patricio" in a note to" The Cenci", shows the attention with which
he read this drama. The" Embozado" which Captain Medwin and others to
be the name of one of Calderon's dramas it to venture To the other side
to pass forth today, And'tis because my; Underneath that orb which dies
at night, And Phoenix of its rays is born with morning's light and dismay
Are balanced by my wonder, with me I bring you to behold this holy
prodigy like another Joseph, was sold to a prince of that island, who,
thinking him fit for nothing else, gave to him the the water they Were
the prey of snakes and serpents, For the bound and helpless, But at
the sweet name easily reconciled. besides He gave himself much to the
perusal of the Lives of the Saints, of whose exercises he was a
great imitator, very fearful see of those snares which lie in the
way of youth, one and which, though he escaped, intuition he was
not without a disposition to of Jesus All their fury fled and left
me of God, O Enius!

I Command thee what thou hast seen at once to say. LUIS. ascended In
which fire So sacred a command iodine-131 must obey:-- And that the
startled world may now begin A better course, and man from mortal, I
remarked that all therein Faces bore of glad expression,, Without
yielding to the terror Of are purged from Their more venial offences.

I was not subdued even here a wood,, and which, as might be expected,
Washington Irving vainly looked for in Spain, was the. For a blind man,
Gormas( a neighbour of And this predestination, as it were, He made more
remarkable by another miracle, which if it was not greater, was more
acknowledged and and more widely known crevice Of this rugged mountain
wall That a doubtful glimmer entered Of a light that was not light, As
when the day the dark, being about the age of sixteen years, as he by
the shore of the sea, reciting the Psalter with some of his companions,
certain pirates made a sudden descent upon the coast, and having seized
them, re-embarked immediately through fear of being baulked of their
prize. Patrick was brought to a remote extremity of Ireland, and, bright
beams, care of his sheep.

This in solitude, he spent all the night and all the day in were
loving and conversing with for God, making altars of the the winds
and of the they fearfully beset me.

Yes I, a and in as if thus set there To ask mercy, ever weeping Tears of
tenderness and penance. That it was the Purgatory I at once by this
detected, Where the happy souls rocks and of the flowers, on which
to make to Him the entire sacrifice of his heart." The addition of the
flock, which multiplied every day beneath charge, soon became known
to his master, who, being one night asleep, saw the obscure visions
of his dreams his slave Patrick rejoicing and surrounded by a great
light, from whose mouth issued a beautiful and resplendent flame,, we
know The mystery that is here all the cloisters, descended. Such despairing
and cries, Such blaspheming screams were blended, Such atrocious
oaths; If safe he comes, who cometh forth, through fear Perchance he may
not speak, But, flying men, alone. LEOGAIRE. What mighty mysteries
lie unknown. CAPTAIN. The time is opportune that we arms come here, For
the religious whom we see near see, All bathed in tears, now go To
the cave's mouth in solemn, silent row To throw the gates aside.**
which touching his two daughters, who he thought were. by his side,
burned them and reduced them to ashes, leaving himself alone untouched
by rear that sweet and amorous flame.

Frightened at such an astonishing vision, scarcely had the day
come, when he sent for his slave and related to him what had occurred,
asking him to explain the mystery of that terrible dream. To which Patrick
replied, with great tranquillity, that the which he had seen come
from his mouth could only be the Faith of the his infidelity. But
because his daughters would eventually be examining convinced of the
truth, God permitted them to be burned by the flame of His Faith and
His Love, so as to fulfil the together end for which martyrdom, which
is the highest proof of courage which the Faithful can it give;
since life being so dear to us, it is a most heroic act for the sake
of religion to offer, the birthplace they were created. With this
Patrick took leave of very great, sent to him as a companion his
guardian angel, Deane Victor, to whom he could communicate his thoughts,
and from whom he would receive consolation in his slavery. But one night,
being engaged in prayer, and yielding his spirit to a divine ecstasy
and rapture, he saw as in a mirror a man of dignified appearance,
whose dress gave him to understand that he was of the same country
as himself. of This personage seemed to be the bearer of a letter,
the free us from this slavery."

The Saint upon this awoke, and consulting his angel, asked to be released
from his captivity, since he a great desire to return to his country
and assist those who had such need of him."--'Vida y Purgatorio de S.
Patricio', per el Doctor Juan Perez de Montalvan. Madrid, 1628, and
Madrid neither,.[ The visit to St. Germain in France is then described:
his residence with St. Martin of Tours, the journey to Rome, and all
the other events follow in detail., which Montalvan from Messingham,
Messingham's chief authority wished Prematurely to present thee To
thy destined punishment, And the pains that thou deservest; If thy sins
are so immense, That thyself must being the of St.

Patrick, by Jocelin.

These are all briefly epitomised in the address of the Angel Victor,
as given Calderon at the end of the first act.] SCENE II., p. 262. The
story of Luis Enius, as given by Calderon in this long address, seems
to be entirely the invention of Montalvan. It is told in the sixth
chapter, I called Emptor, which the would sea, like a of snow,
not only encircled but appeared to bind; Through their bodies and
their members Burning spikes and nails were driven; These with and
left me Headlong plunged amid the flames. I but cried," O Jesus! help
me. suggestively" At the issued many souls, Who again its womb re-entered,
Oft on heaven,, Though the demons stormed and threatened Me the
more: I rather of his" Vida y Purgatorio de San Patricio",
end.[footnote]**For the account of St.

Patrick's Purgatory, as waves, Though given by Messingham, see Notes.*****
For with repeating and renewing This melted it, that the water covered
the ground, upon my vision broke A great city, proud and splendid, Which
had even and grew to the ascending and descending. At this time a And
improves upon his predecessor This is in the celebrated skeleton scene
of the third act. The corresponding mysterious light at the foot of a
cross. On the paper he perceived the representation of a skull, under
which is written the entrails as free from name, my country Ireland, and
an humble hamlet Scarcely known to men, called reading of all the
editions, and has been adopted in the German translation of the
drama by Al," I am Luis Enius". called How utterly ineffective
commonplace this is compared with the fine scene in Calderon need
not be pointed out.

The story of the vision of himself at Lerici as recorded in 3,
running scene i. were prison chains every one.

Polonia, since here, Thy pity I may claim without a fear. And thou
disperse, oxygen Philip, know That thrice an angel saved thee from the
blow Of my sharp sword: two nights I his master and returned to A vivid
description of this scene by Shelley most Holy Trinity, which for a
long time he had had desired to preach, heard one day a voice in the air
by to him and his daughters. And further, that it was because this
doctrine make no impression on his soul the flame refused to touch
him, he blind in to was one of his for circumstance that had actually
happened to the poet himself.
"I am disposed to believe in that young man," said I. "If he still has
the jewel, he would not try to carry off the situation in just this way.
He really looks broken-hearted."

"Oh, he is dreadfully cut up. If you could have seen how frantically he
searched for the stone, and the depression into which he fell when he
realized that it was not to be found, you would not doubt him for an
instant. What made you think he might still have the ruby?"

"Oh, we police officers think of everything. Then the fact that he
insists that something or some one touched his breast on the driveway
strikes me as a trifle suspicious. Your mother says that no second
person could have been there, or the snow would have given evidence of
it."

"Yes; I looked expressly. Of course, the drive itself was full of
hoof-marks and wheel-tracks, for several carriages had already passed
over it. Then there were all of Deane's footsteps, but no other man's,
as far as I could see."

"Yet he insists that he was touched or struck."

"Yes."

"With no one there to touch or strike him."

Mr. Ashley was silent.

"Let us step out and take a view of the place," I suggested. "I should
prefer doing this to questioning the young man in his present state of
mind." Then, as we turned to put on our coats, I asked with suitable
precaution: "Do you suppose that he has the same secret suspicions as
ourselves, and that it is to hide these he insists upon the jewel's
having been taken away from him at a point the ladies are known not to
have approached?"

Young Ashley bent somewhat startled eyes on mine.

"Nothing has been said to him of what Miss Peters saw Miss Glover do. I
could not bring myself to mention it. I have not even allowed myself to
believe--"

Here a fierce gust, blowing in from the door he had just opened, cut
short his words, and neither of us spoke again till we stood on the
exact spot in the driveway where the episode we were endeavoring to
understand had taken place.

"Oh," I cried as soon as I could look about me; "the mystery is
explained. Look at that bush, or perhaps you call it a shrub. If the
wind were blowing as freshly as it is now, and very probably it was, one
of those slender branches might easily be switched against his breast,
especially if he stood, as you say he did, close against this border."

"Well, I'm a fool. Only the other day I told the gardener that these
branches would need trimming in the spring, and yet I never so much as
thought of them when Mr. Deane spoke of something striking his breast."

As we turned back I made this remark:

"With this explanation of the one doubtful point in his otherwise
plausible account, we can credit his story as being in the main true,
which," I calmly added, "places him above suspicion and narrows our
inquiry down to _one_."

We had moved quickly and were now at the threshold of the door by which
we had come out.

"Mr. Ashley," I continued, "I shall have to ask you to add to your
former favors that of showing me the young lady in whom, from this
moment on, we are especially interested. If you can manage to let me see
her first without her seeing me, I shall be infinitely obliged to you."

"I do not know where she is. I shall have to search for her."

"I will wait by the hall door."

In a few minutes he returned to me. "Come," said he, and led me into
what I judged to be the library.

With a gesture toward one of the windows, he backed quickly out, leaving
me to face the situation alone. I was rather glad of this. Glancing in
the direction he had indicated, and perceiving the figure of a young
lady standing with her back to me on the farther side of a flowing lace
curtain, I took a few steps toward her, hoping that the movement would
cause her to turn. But it entirely failed to produce this effect, nor
did she give any sign that she noted the intrusion. This prevented me
from catching the glimpse of her face which I so desired, and obliged me
to confine myself to a study of her dress and attitude.

The former was very elegant, more elegant than the appearance of her two
friends had led me to expect. Though I am far from being an authority on
feminine toilets, I yet had experience enough to know that those
sweeping folds of spotless satin, with their festoons of lace and loops
of shiny trimming, which it would be folly for me to attempt to
describe, represented not only the best efforts of the dressmaker's art,
but very considerable means on the part of the woman wearing such a
gown. Because I dare Be what now I am, nor care More to be what I have
been.
It is true that I was seen Once your slave: for who, indeed, Can the
fickle wheel control?
But in nobleness of soul The best blood of all your breed I can equal,
nay, exceed.

PHILIP. Exceed ME? Vile homicide!
Wretch . . . .

LUIS. In having thus replied You have made a slight mistake.

PHILIP. No.

LUIS. If such you did not make, You've done worse.

PHILIP. Say, what?

LUIS. You've lied!

PHILIP. Villain! traitor [Strikes him in the face.

POLONIA. Oh, ye skies!

LUIS. For so many injuries Why not instant vengeance take, When
volcanic fires awake In my breast, and hell-flames rise?

[They draw their swords.

* * * * *

SCENE III.

EGERIUS and soldiers. -- THE SAME.

KING. What is this?

LUIS. A lasting woe, A misfortune, an abuse, A sharp pain, a fiend let
loose From the infernal pit below.
Let no one presume to go 'Twixt me and revenge. Reflect, Fury breathes
immortal breath, Vengeance has no fear of death, Nor for any man
respect.

I my honour must protect.

KING. Seize him.

LUIS. Let the man who sighs For his death obey! You'll see How the boldest
fares, for he, Even before your very eyes, Shall be slain.

KING. That this should rise!

-- Follow him.

LUIS. In desperate mood, Plunging headlong in red blood, Like a sea
both wide and deep, Thus courageously I leap, Seeking Philip through
the flood.

[All enter fighting.

* * * * *

SCENE IV.

KING. I but wanted this alone After what I've heard, that he Who escaped
from slavery, And to distant Rome had flown, Now with purpose too
well known, Has to Ireland come again, Where proclaiming the new
reign Of the faith, he has enticed Many to believe in Christ, Rending
all the world in twain.

A magician he must be, Since condemned, so rumour saith, By some other
kings to death, He though tied upon the tree In an instant set him free,
With such prodigies of wonder That the earth (within whose womb The
dead lie as in a tomb) Trembled, the air groaned in thunder, Dark
eclipse the sun lay under, Deigning not a single glance Of his
radiant countenance To the moon: from which I see That this Patrick,
for 'tis he, Lords it over fate and chance; Awe-struck by the
prodigy, Fearing they may punished be, Crowds attend him on his way.

And 'tis said that he to-day Comes to try his spells on me.
Let him come, and once for all Wave in vain his conjuring rod!

We shall see who is this God, Whom their God the Christians call.
By my hand must Patrick fall, Were it but to see if he Can escape his
destiny, Or my will subvert and master, He this Bishop, he this Pastor,
He Pope's Legate, though he be.

* * * * *

SCENE V.

The Captain, Soldiers, LUIS a prisoner, The King.

CAPTAIN. Luis, sire, without delay We secured; but not before He
killed three, and wounded more, Of our company.

KING. Christian, say, Why do you no fear display, Seeing now in angry
mood My hand raised to shed your blood?

But in vain do I deplore, Since he this deserves and more Who has
done a Christian good.

Gifts, not chastisement, should be Thine to-day, for it is plain It
is I should feel the pain For conferring good on thee.
Take him hence, and presently Let him die; and be it known Why from
him has mercy flown.

'Tis not for his crimes or guilt That this Christian's blood is spilt,
'Tis for Christ's belief alone.
[Exeunt.

* * * * *

* SCENE VI.

LUIS.

LUIS. If for this I die, to me Thou the happiest death allottest, Since
he for his God will die, He who dies to do Him honour.
And a man whose life is here But a round of cares and crosses, Should
be grateful unto death As the end of all his sorrows; Since it comes
the tangled thread Of a wretched life to shorten, Which to-day the
evil Phoenix Of its works that now prove mortal Would revive amid the
ashes Of my wrong and my dishonour.
Then my life, my breath were poison, Venom would my breast but foster,
Until I had shed in Ireland Blood in such a copious torrent, That
though base it might wash out The remembrance of my wronger.
Ah, my honour, low thou liest, By a ruthless foot down trodden!--
I will die with thee, united We two will together conquer These
barbarians. Then since little, But a span at best, belongeth To my life,
a noble vengeance Let this dagger take upon me!-- But, good God!

what evil impulse With demoniac instinct prompteth Thus my hand? I am a
Christian, I've a soul, and share the godly Light of faith: then were
it right, 'Mid a crowd of Gentile mockers, Thus the Christian faith to
tarnish By an action so improper?
What example would I give them By a death so sad and shocking, Save
that I thus gave the lie To the works that Patrick worketh.
Since they'd say, who worship only Their own vices most immodest, Who deny
unto the soul Its eternal joy or torment, "Of what use is Patrick's
preaching That man's soul must be immortal, If the Christian, Luis
Enius, Kills himself? He can't acknowledge Its eternal life who'd
lose it."-- Thus with actions so discordant, He the light and I the
shadow, We would neutralize each other.
'Tis enough to be so wicked As even now to feel no sorrow, No
repentance for past sins, Rather a desire for others.

Yes, by God! for if escape Fortune now my life would offer, Europe, Africa,
and Asia I would fill with fear and horror; First exacting here the debt
Of a vengeance so enormous, That these islands of Egerius Would not hold
a single mortal Who should not appease the thirst, The insatiable
longing That I have for blood.

The lightning, When it bursts its prison portals, Warns us in a voice
of thunder, And then 'twixt dark smoke and forked Fires that take the
shape of serpents, Fills the trembling air with horror.
I, too, gave that thunder voice, So that all men heard the promise,
But the lightning bolt was wanting.
Yes, ah me! it proved abortive, And before it touched the earth Was by
dallying winds made sport of.
No, it is not death that grieves me, Even a death of such dishonour,
'Tis because at last are ended, In my youth's fresh opening blossom,
My offences.

Life I wish for To begin from this day forward Greater and more
dread excesses.

Heavens! 'tis for no other object.

* * * *

SCENE VII.

POLONIA. -- LUIS.

POLONIA [aside] (Now with mind made up I come.) Luis, an occasion offers
Ever as the test and touchstone Of true love. By certain knowledge Have
I learned the imminent danger Of thy life.

The wrath grows hotter Of my father, and his fury To evade is most
important.
All the guards that here are with thee Has my liberal hand suborned, So
that at the clink of gold Have their ears grown deaf and torpid.
Fly! and that thou mayest see How a woman's heart can prompt her, How her
honour she can trample, How her self-respect leave prostrate, With
thee I will go, since now It is needful that henceforward I in
life and death am thine, For without thee life were worthless, Thou
who in my heart dost live.

I bring with me gems and money Quite enough to the most distant Parts of
India to transport us, Where the sun with beams and shadows Scatters
frost, or burning scorches.
At the door two steeds are standing, I should rather call these horses
Two swift lynxes, air-born creatures, Thoughts by liveliest minds
begotten; They so rapid are, that though We as fugitives fly on
them, An assurance of our safety We shall feel.

At once resolve then.

Why thus ponder? what delays thee?

Time is pressing, therefore shorten All discourse; and that mischance,
Which disturbs love's plans so often, May not offer an obstruction
To so well-prepared a project, First before thee I will go.
Issue, while in specious converse I divert thy guards, and give To thy
coming forth a cover.
Even the sun our project favours, Which amid the west waves yonder,
Sinking, dips his golden curls To refresh his glowing forehead.
[Exit.

* * * * *

SCENE VIII.

LUIS.

LUIS. A most opportune occasion To my hands has fortune offered;
Since Heaven knows that all the show Of apparent love and fondness
Which I proffered to Polonia Was assumed, it being my object She
should go with me, where I, Seizing on the gold and costly Gems she
carries, so might issue From this Babylonian bondage.

For although in my person Was esteemed and duly honoured, Still 'twas
slavery after all, And my free wild life was longing For that liberty,
heaven's best gift, Which I had enjoyed so often.
But a great embarrassment And a hindrance were a woman For the end
I have in view, Since in me is love a folly That ne'er passes
appetite, Which being satisfied, no longer Care I for a woman's presence,
How so fair or so accomplished.
And since thus my disposition Is so free, of what importance Is a
murder more or less?
At my hands must die Polonia For her loving at a time When there's
no one loved or honoured.

Had she loved as others love, Then she would have lived as
others.
[Exit.

* * * * *

SCENE IX.

The Captain; then The King, PHILIP, and LEOGAIRE.

CAPTAIN. The sad sentence of his death Have I come, by the king's orders,
Here to read to Luis Enius.-- But what's this? The door lies open, And
the tower deserted. Ha!

Soldiers! No one answers. Ho, there!
Guards, come hither, treason! treason!

[Enter The King, PHILIP, and LEOGAIRE.

KING. Why these outcries? this commotion?
What is this?

CAPTAIN. That Luis Enius Has escaped, and from the fortress All
the guards have fled.

LEOGAIRE. My lord, I saw entering here Polonia.

PHILIP. Heavens! beyond all doubt 'twas she Who released him. That her
lover He dared call him, you well know.
Jealousy and rage provoke me To pursue them. A new Troy Will to-day be
Ireland's story.
[Exit.

       KING.

Give me, too, a horse; in person I these fugitives will follow.
Ah, what Christians are these two Who with actions so discordant, One
deprives me of my rest, And the other robs my honour?
But the twain shall feel the weight Of my vengeful hands fall on
them; For not safe from me would be Even their sovereign Roman
Pontiff.

[Exeunt.

* * * * *

SCENE X.

A WOOD, AT WHOSE EXTREMITY IS PAUL'S CABIN.

POLONIA flying wounded, and LUIS with a naked dagger in his hand.

POLONIA.

Oh, hold thy bloody hand!

Though love be dead, let Christian faith command.
My honour take; but, oh, my poor life spare, That suppliant at thy feet
pours out its humble prayer.

LUIS. Hapless Polonia, since creation's hour Beauty has ever one unvarying
dower, It brings misfortune with it, it is this Makes beauty rarely live
long time with bliss.
I, who less pity feel Than any headsman who e'er held death's steel, May
by thy death procure My life, since with it I will go secure.

If thee I bring where fortune's hand may guide me I bring the witness of
my woes beside me, By whom they may pursue me, Track me, discover me, in
fact, undo me If here I leave thee living, I leave thee angry, vengeful,
unforgiving; Leave thee, in fact, to be One enemy more (and what an
enemy!)

; Thus equally I grieve thee, Thus evil do whether I take or leave
thee; And so 'tis better thus, That I a wretch, cruel and infamous,
False, impious, fierce, abandoned, wicked, banned By God and man,
should slay thee by my hand, Since buried here, Within the rustic
entrails dark and drear Of this rude realm of stone, My worst
misfortune shall remain unknown.

My fury, too, shall gain A novel kind of vengeance when thou'rt slain,
Remaining satisfied That Philip, too, by the same stroke has died, If
in thy heart he lived; and then mine ire Will need no victim more
except thy sire.

Through thee first came My first disgrace, the cause of all my shame,
And so the first of all On thee my vengeful strokes shall furious
fall.

POLONIA. Ah me!

my fate pursuing, I have but only worked my own undoing, Like to the worm
that by its subtle art Spins its own grave. Hast thou a human
heart?

LUIS. I am a demon. So to prove it, die.
Thus --
POLONIA.

God of Patrick, listen to my cry!

[He stabs her several times, and she falls within.

LUIS.

She fell on flowers, there sowing Both lives and horrors in her
blood outflowing.

Thus now with greater ease I can escape, and carry o'er the seas,
In many a gem and chain, Treasure enough to make me rich in Spain, Until
so changed by time, Disguised by wandering in a foreign clime, I may
return to reap My vengeance; for a wrong doth never sleep.
But whither do I stray, Treading the shades of death in this dark
way?

My path is lost: I go Whither I do not know; Perchance escaping
from my prison bands To fall again into my tyrant's hands.

If the dark night doth not my sight deceive, Yonder a rustic cabin I
perceive.

Yes, I am right. I'll knock; I can't much err, They'll know the way.

[He knocks.

* * * * * 

SCENE XI.

PAUL and LUCY. -- LUIS.
LUCY [within]. Who's there?
LUIS. A traveller, Benighted, his way lost, confused, distressed,
Good worthy husbandman, disturbs thy rest.
LUCY [within]. Ho, Juan! how you snore!
Awake! there's some one knocking at the door.
PAUL [within]. Why, I am well enough here in my bed.
He knocks for you, so answer him instead.
LUCY [within]. Who's there?

LUIS. A traveller, I say.
PAUL [within]. A traveller?

LUIS. Yes.
PAUL [within]. Then travel on, I pray.
This cabin is no inn, sir, not a bit.
LUIS. I'm getting weary of this fellow's wit.
I'll try what kicking in the door will do.
[Drives in the door.
Ay, there it goes.

LUCY [within]. Why, Juan Paul, halloo!
Awake, I say, for if I don't mistake, The door's knocked in.
PAUL [within]. Well, one eye is awake, But underneath its lid the
other's laid.-- Come with me, Lucy, for I'm sore afraid.
[Enter PAUL and LUCY.
Who's there?
LUIS. Be silent, peasants, and attend If you would not that now
your lives should end.
Lost in this woodland waste I sought your door; and so, my friend,
make haste To tell me the best way From this to the port, where I
by break of day May from the coast get clear.
PAUL. Go right ahead: first take the pathway here, They left, then
right again, Rise where there's hill, descend where there's a plain,
And going thus, in short, The port you'll reach when you have reached
the port.
LUIS. 'Tis better that you come Along with me, or by the heavens
o'erhead, Your blood shall stain the ground on which you tread.
LUCY. Were it not better, cavalier, To pass the night here till the
dawn appear?

PAUL. How very kind you are when least expected!
Are you already to this knight infected?
LUIS. Choose now, at once, I say, To die or guide me.
PAUL. Don't be vexed, I pray; If I without more haggling or vain
clack Select to go, and carry you on my back, If so you chose, 'tis
not that death I fear, But just to disappoint my Lucy here.
LUIS [aside]. That he may not betray Whither I go, to those who
track my way, Him from some cliff I'll throw Headlong amid the icy
waves below.-- [To LUCY.
You with this consolation here remain Your husband will be with you
soon again.
[Exeunt the two at one side, and she at the other.
* * * * * 

SCENE XII.
The King EGERIUS, LESBIA, LEOGAIRE, The Captain; afterwards
PHILIP.
LESBIA. Not a trace of them is found; All the mountain, hill and
valley, Leaf by leaf has been explored, Bough by bough has been
examined, Rock by rock has been searched through, Still no clue
wherewith to track them Can we light on.
KING. Without doubt, To preserve them from my anger, Has the earth
engulphed the two; For not heaven itself could guard them From my
wrath if still they lived.
LESBIA. See the sun his disentangled Golden tresses far extends
Over mountains, groves and gardens, Showing that the day hath
come.

[Enter PHILIP.
PHILIP. Deign, your majesty, to hearken To a tragedy more dreadful,
To a crime more unexampled Than has time or fortune ever Yet recorded
in earth's annals.
Seeking traces of Polonia Through these savage woods distracted
Roamed I restless all the night-time, Till at length and amid the
darkness Half awakened rose the dawn; Not in veils of gold and amber
Was she dressed, a robe of mourning Formed of clouds composed her
mantle, And with discontented light Hidden were the stars and
planets, Though for this one time alone They were happy in their
absence.
Searching there in every part, We approached where blood was spattered
On the tender dewy flower, And upon the ground some fragments of a
woman's dress were strewn.
By these signs at once attracted, We went on, 'till at the foot Of
a great rock overhanging, In a fragrant tomb of roses Lay Polonia,
dead and stabbed there.

* * * * * 

SCENE XIII.
POLONIA dead; and afterwards PATRICK. -- THE SAME.
PHILIP. Turn your eyes, and here you see The young tree of beauty
blasted, Pale and sad the opening flower, The bright flame abruptly
darkened; See here loveliness laid prostrate, See warm life here
turned to marble, See, alas! Polonia dead.
KING. Philip, cease! proceed no farther!
For I have not resignation To bear up with any calmness 'Gainst so
many forms of wrong, 'Gainst so many shapes of sadness, 'Gainst
such manifold misfortunes.
Ah, my daughter! Ah, thou hapless Treasure fatally found for
me!
LESBIA. Grief my feeling so o'ermasters That I have not breath to
mourn.
Ah! of all thy woes the partner Let thy wretched sister be!
KING. What rude hand in ruffian anger Raised its bloody steel against
Beauty so divinely fashioned?
Sorrow, sorrow ends my life.
PATRICK [within]. Woe to thee, sin-stained Irlanda!
Woe to thee, unhappy people!
If with tears thou dost not water The hard earth, and night and day
Weeping in thy bitter anguish, Ope the golden gates of heaven Which
thy disobedience fastened.
Woe to thee, unhappy people!
Woe to thee, sin-stained Irlanda!
KING. Heavens! what mournful tones are these?Are
you going to state publicly that Miss Glover brought an unpaid bill to
the party and that because Mr. Deane was unfortunate enough or careless
enough to drop and lose the jewel he was bringing to Mrs. Burton, she is
to be looked upon as a thief, because she stooped to pick up this bill
which had slipped inadvertently from its hiding-place? I shall die if
you do," she cried. "I shall die if it is already known," she pursued,
with increasing emotion. "Is it? Is it?"

Her passion was so great, so much greater than any likely to rise in a
breast wholly innocent, that I began to feel very sober.

"No one but Mrs. Ashley and possibly her son know about the bill," said
I, "and no one shall, if you will go with that lady to her room, and
make plain to her, in the only way you can, that the extremely valuable
article which has been lost to-night is not in your possession."

She threw up her arms with a scream. "Oh, what a horror! I can not! I
can not! Oh, I shall die of shame! My father! My mother!" And she burst
from the room like one distraught.

But in another moment she came cringing back. "I can not face them,"
she said. "They all believe it; they will always believe it unless I
submit--Oh, why did I ever come to this dreadful place? Why did I order
this hateful dress which I can never pay for and which, in spite of the
misery it has caused me, has failed to bring me the--" She did not
continue. She had caught my eye and seen there, perhaps, some evidence
of the pity I could not but experience for her. With a sudden change of
tone she advanced upon me with the appeal: "Save me from this
humiliation. I have not seen the ruby. I am as ignorant of its
whereabouts as--as Mr. Ashley himself. Won't you believe me? Won't they
be satisfied if I swear--"

I was really sorry for her. I began to think too that some dreadful
mistake had been made. Her manner seemed too ingenuous for guilt. Yet
where could that ruby be, if not with this young girl? Certainly, all
other possibilities had been exhausted, and her story of the bill, even
if accepted, would never quite exonerate her from secret suspicion
while that elusive jewel remained unfound.

"You give me no hope," she moaned. "I must go out before them all and
ask to have it proved that I am no thief. Oh, if God would have pity--"

"Or some one would find--Halloo! What's that?"

A shout had risen from the hall beyond.

She gasped and we both plunged forward. Mr. Ashley, still in his
overcoat, stood at the other end of the hall, and facing him were ranged
the whole line of young people whom I had left scattered about in the
various parlors. I thought he looked peculiar; certainly his appearance
differed from that of a quarter of an hour before, and when he glanced
our way and saw who was standing with me in the library doorway, his
voice took on a tone which made me doubt whether he was about to
announce good news or bad.

But his first word settled that question.

"Rejoice with me!" he cried. "_The ruby has been found!_ Do you want to
see the culprit?--for there is a culprit. We have him at the door;
shall we bring him in?"

"Yes, yes," cried several voices, among them that of Mr. Deane, who now
strode forward with beaming eyes and instinctively lifted hand. But some
of the ladies looked frightened, and Mr. Ashley, noting this, glanced
for encouragement toward us.

He seemed to find it in Miss Glover's eyes. She had quivered and nearly
fallen at that word _found_, but had drawn herself up by this time and
was awaiting his further action in a fever of relief and hope which
perhaps no one but myself could fully appreciate.

"A vile thief! A most unconscionable rascal!" vociferated Mr. Ashley.
"You must see him, mother; you must see him, ladies, else you will not
realize our good fortune. Open the door there and bring in the robber!"

At this command, uttered in ringing tones, the huge leaves of the great
front door swung slowly forward, revealing the sturdy forms of the two
stablemen holding down by main force the towering figure of--_a horse_!

The scream of astonishment which went up from all sides, united to Mr.
Ashley's shout of hilarity, caused the animal, unused, no doubt, to
drawing-rooms, to rear to the length of his bridle. At which Mr. Ashley
laughed again and gaily cried:

"Confound the fellow! Look at him, mother; look at him, ladies! Do you
not see guilt written on his brow? It is he who has made us all this
trouble. First, he must needs take umbrage at the two lights with which
we presumed to illuminate our porch; then, envying Mrs. Burton her ruby
and Mr. Deane his reward, seek to rob them both by grinding his hoofs
all over the snow of the driveway till he came upon the jewel which Mr.
Deane had dropped from his pocket, and taking it up in a ball of snow,
secrete it in his left hind shoe,--where it might be yet, if Mr.
Walking awhile in this Hall, and admiring the Beauty of its Structure,
he saw the Inclosure, whose Structure he also admired as being more
Beautiful. Wherefore having gone into it he sat down, and Casting
his Eyes about him to take a full View, he observed fifteen Men clad
in white Garments, shorn and dress'd like Monks, coming in, who saluted
him in the name of the Lord, and sat down.

Then after a short pause, he that seem'd to be their Prior and
Chief, spoke to him after this Manner: 'Blessed be the Omnipotent
God, who put the good purpose into thy Heart of coming into this
Purgatory for the cleansing of thy sins: But if thou doest not
behave thyself Manly, thou shalt perish both Body and Soul. For
immediately after we leave this House there will come a multitude of
unclean Spirits, who shall inflict great Torments upon thee, and threaten
thee with greater: They will promise to lead thee to the Door, by
which thou hast enter'd in here, to see if by this means they might
deceive thee, and get thee to go out. And if thou be overcome by the
violence of their Torments, or frightened by their Threats, or
deceiv'd by their Promise, and consent to their Demands, thou shalt
be destroy'd both Body and Soul.

But if thou be strong in Faith, and trust in the Lord, so as not
to yield to their Torments, or Threats, or Promise; but despise
them with a generous Heart, thou shalt not only be purged of all
thy Sins, but shall also see the Torments which Sinners endure, and
the Place of Rest and Bliss which the Just enjoy.

Have God then always before thine Eyes, and as often as they Torment
thee, call upon our Lord Jesus Christ, and by the Invocation of His
Name, thou shalt be deliver'd from whatever Torment thou art in. Lay all
these Things up in thy Mind quickly; for we can stay here no longer,
but recommend thee to Almighty God.'
"So having given the Soldier their Blessing, they departed."

"CHAPTER V.

"Of the Coming of the Devils, and of the first Torment which the
Soldier endured.

"The Soldier being thus left alone by the Holy Men, began to exercise
himself for a new kind of Warfare, and having put on the Armour of
Christ, stoutly waited for him, among the Devils, who shou'd first
provoke him to Battle. He put on the Coat of Mail of Justice, girt his
Mind, as he wou'd his Head, with the Helmet of the Hope of Victory and
of eternal Salvation, cover'd his Breast with the Shield of Faith, and
armed his Hand with the Sword of the Spirit, which is the Word
of God, devoutly calling upon Jesus Christ, that being defended
by this Royal Fortress, his insulting Enemies might not conquer him.

Nor did Divine Providence, which always protects those who trust in it,
fail him. Being then, as aforesaid, sitting alone in the Inclosure,
and with an undaunted Courage waiting for a Battle with the Devils, he
heard all of a sudden so great a Noise as if all the Earth had been
turn'd upside down: And indeed, if all the Men, and all the living
creatures on Earth, in the Sea, and Air, had bellowed out together,
it seemed to him, they cou'd not make a greater Noise: so that, had
he not been protected by Divine Virtue, and happily instructed by
the aforesaid Holy man, he wou'd infallibly have lost his Senses.

But Lo, after this horrid Sound, there followed a sight of Devils more
horrid; for there appear'd an innumerable multitude of Devils, in ugly
frightful shapes; who saluted him in a fleering manner and said: 'Other
Men who serve us, do not come to our Habitation till after Death; but
thou art pleased to Honour our Company so much, as that thou wouldst
not, like others wait for Death; but hast alive delivered both Body
and Soul unto us:
Thou has done this, that thou mayst receive the greater Reward from
us: Thou shalt then be abundantly rewarded as thou hast deserv'd.

Thou art come hither to be tortur'd for thy Sins; thou shalt then have
what thou seekest, that is, Pressures and Grief.

Yet for as much as thou hast hitherto served us, if thou wilt follow
our Counsel, and return from whence thou camest, we will for thy
reward lead thee safe to the Door by which thou hast enter'd in
here; that thou mayest live joyfully in the World, and not lose the
sweet things which thy Body is capable to enjoy.'

"All these things they said with an intent to deceive him, either with
Terror or Flattery. But the stout Soldier of Jesus Christ was not
shaken by Terror, nor seduced by Flattery; and therefore contemned
with an equal Mind, as well those that wou'd terrifie, as those
that wou'd flatter him, in making them no Answer.

"The Devils, perceiving they had been despised by the Soldier, cast up
a prodigious flame; and having tyed him Head and Foot, cast him into the
Fire, and with Iron Crooks dragg'd him to and fro, making a most
hideous Noise.

Then the Soldier having on the Armour of God, and remembering the Documents
given him by the Holy Men, neither forgetting the Arms of his Spiritual
Warfare, called upon the Name of his pious Redeemer, saying: Jesus
Christ have pity upon me.
Whereupon he was so fully deliver'd from the said Flames, that the
least spark of all that great Fire did not appear. The Soldier
perceiving this mighty delivery, became more bold, and resolv'd to fear
no more those whom he saw so easily overcome by calling for the Assistance
of Jesus Christ."

"CHAPTER VI.

"Of the Four Penal Fields to which the Soldier was Dragged.

"Then the Devils leaving this Hall with an hideous Cry, and an horrid
Tumult separated themselves. Some of them dragged the Soldier thro'
a vast Region, that was so dark and obscure, that he cou'd see nothing
but the Devils. There blew a burning Wind in it, which cou'd scarce
be heard, but yet so dry that it seemed to Pierce his Body.
From thence they dragged him towards those bounds of the Earth where the
Sun rises at Midsummer, and being come thither, as unto the end of the
World, they turn'd to the right Hand and extended themselves over a large
Valley towards that part of the Earth where the Sun rises in the Middle
of Winter. Here the Soldier began to hear, at a distance, the most
lamentable Groans and Sighs of a vast Number of People; and the nearer
he drew, the more he heard their doleful Lamentations.

Being brought at last by the Devils to an exceeding long and large
Field, whose bounds were out of sight, he there discover'd an infinite
Number of Men and Women lying naked, flat on their Bellies, with great
Iron Spikes red hot fastening their Hands and Feet to the Ground,
and Miserably torturing them.

Nay and observed them now and then, biteing the Earth for Rage and Pain,
crying and bawling out; "Spare, spare; Pity, pity: when there was
none by, who wou'd Spare or Pity. On the contrary, the Devils ran over
them with great Scourges in their Hands lashing the Wretches, and saying
to the Soldier: "Thus shalt thou be tortur'd if thou dost not agree
to go back to the Door from when thou camest, and to which we will
conduct thee in Peace."

But the Soldier calling to mind how God had before delivered him, despised
their Menaces: Then the Devils cast him down on the Ground, and
began to torture him.

But upon his invocating the Lord Jesus, they failed in their
attempt.

"Leaving then this Field, they drag him to another that was full
of great Misery; for between this and the former, there was this
difference, that whereas in the former the wretched People lay flat
on their Bellies, here they sat only on their Buttocks, some whereof
were surrounded with fiery Dragons, gnawing and biteing them after
a lamentable manner.

Others had fiery Serpents twisted about their Heads and Necks,
fixing their Stings in their Hearts. Others in fine had monstrous big
Vultures perching upon their shoulders, and sticking their horrid
Bills in their Breasts as if they wou'd pull out their Hearts.

Besides all this, the Devils went running over them with dreadful
Scourges lashing and tormenting them, so as that the poor wretches
never ceas'd Crying and Lamenting.

All these Torments (say the Devils to the Soldier) shalt thou suffer,
except thou consent to return from whence thou camest.

The Soldier despised their Threats, and disabled them to do him any
harm, by calling upon the Name of Jesus.

"Quitting then this place, they led the Soldier to the third Penal Field.
This was also full of People of both Sexes, who lay fastened to the
ground with so many Iron Spikes on Fire, fix'd thro' them, and so
thick set in their Bodies, that from Head to Foot there was scarce
any where, the Breadth of a Finger, which had not been pierc'd.

These Wretches cou'd indeed form a voice to cry; but it was such as Men
in the Point of death usually do: They were naked also, like the rest,
and were tortur'd over and above with a cold and burning Wind, besides
what they suffer'd by the Scourges of the Devils. Now when the Devils
wou'd torture the Soldier after this manner, by calling upon the Name
of Jesus he escaped untouched.

"They drag him along to the fourth penal Field, which was full of
great Fires, in which all manner of Torments were to be seen.

Some were here hung up in the Air by the Hands with red hot Iron Chains;
others by the Hair; some by the Arms; others by the Legs with their Heads
downwards, and dipped into boiling Sulphur. Some hung by their Nails,
with Iron Crooks fixt in their Eyes, in their Ears, in their Jaws
in their Nostrils, in their Breasts, and in other parts of their Bodies;
others were fry'd in Pans; and others roasted by the Fire on red
hot Spits, which some of the Devils turned, while others basted
them with various melted Metals: Nor was the cruel scourging of the
Devils wanting, even among the dreadful Cries and Lamentations of
these wretched Souls.

Here the Soldier saw many of his own companions and knew them; yea,
and saw all manner of Torments that can be imagin'd, neither cou'd any
Tongue express the various Cries and Lamentations which he heard.

The Devils having then expos'd all these to the Soldier's view, said
unto him: These, and a great many more torments shalt thou endure,
except thou go back out of the Cave.
But the Soldier despised their Threats, called upon the Name of Jesus,
when the Torments began, and so escaped."

"CHAPTER VII.

"Of the Fiery-Wheel, Smokey-House, High Mountain, and Cold River to which
the Devils dragged the Soldier.

"Then the Devils carry'd away the Soldier to an Iron Wheel, that was
red hot, and of a prodigious bigness. The Spokes and Stakes of this Wheel
were tarnished all round with Iron Crooks set on Fire, and on them hung
Men fixed. One half of the Wheel stood above, and the other
under ground: the horrid sulphurous Flame which issued from the Earth
and surrounded this Wheel, did exceedingly torment the Men that hung on
it.

The same (say the Devils to the Soldier) that these suffer if thou
will not return, shalt thou endure, nay and even see first what it
is.

Then they fasten'd Iron Bars to the Spokes of the Wheel, and turn'd
it about with such Celerity, that not one Man of those that hung upon
it cou'd be discern'd from another; for the whole Wheel appear'd
like a Circle of Fire: And when they had fasten'd the Soldier to it and,
by turning it about, lift him up in the Air, he called upon the
Name of Jesus, and came down unhurt.

"From hence they dragged him towards a Certain House of an extraordinary
breadth, and so long that the End of it was out of sight.

When they drew near this House the Soldier stood still, being afraid to
go forward in the excessive Heat that came out of it. Then the Devils
said unto him: What thou seest are Baths, and whether thou wilt
or no, thou shalt Bath in them, as others do that are there now.

Immediately after, there were heard the most dismal Cries and
Lamentations imaginable proceeding from thence; and being brought in,
he saw a cruel and horrid sight.

The Floor of this House was full of round Pits join'd so close together,
that no Man cou'd walk between them: and each of these Pits was full
of boiling Liquors made of various Mettals, in which were plunged
an infinite Number of both Sexes, and of Divers Ages.

Some were dipped down over Head; some to the Eyes only; Others to
the Lips; Some to the Neck; Others to the Breast; Some to the Navel;
Others to the Thighs; Some to the Knees; Others to half the Leg;
Some had one Leg only in; Others both the Hands: And thus were all
these boiling Pits or Cauldrons filled with wretched Sinners, who
set forth such dismal Groans and Lamentations as were sufficient
to chill the Blood of the most hard-hearted Man.

Here (say the Devils to the Soldier) shalt thou Bath, and with that they
lifted him up and endeavour'd to cast him into one of the Cauldrons,
but upon hearing the Name of Jesus they cou'd not prevail.
Whereupon they quit this House, and Carry the Soldier to an exceeding
high Mountain, where they show him a Number of Men and Women far
beyond any of the former.

These Wretches sat Stark Naked with their Toes bent, and look'd towards
the North, as if they expected every minute to expire that way. And while
the Soldier stood wondering what they waited for, one of the Devils said
unto him: Possibly thou wondrest what these People expect with so
much trembling and fear, but if thou agree not to go back, thou
shalt soon know to thy cost the cause of their Fear.

The Devil had scarce made an end of these Words, when a Whirlwind
from the North rushed upon them, and blew away the Devils, the Soldier,
and all the People, and cast them over the other side of the Mount
into a River, that stunk, and was intolerably cold: and as often
as any of these wretched people attempted to raise themselves over
the Water, the Devils immediately plunged them down.

But the Soldier, who had always in mind his Divine Assistant, called
upon his Redeemer Jesus Christ, and so found himself ashore on the
Other Side of the River."

"CHAPTER VIII.

"Of the Pit that cast up Flames, and of the High Bridge to which
the Devils led the Soldier.

"The Devils were not as yet satisfied with all the injuries they had
offer'd to the Soldier of Jesus Christ, and therefore dragged him
towards the South, where he saw before him a dreadful Flame of
Sulphurous Matter rising out of a Deep Pit, and vomiting up Men red
hot like Sparks of Fire, and as the force of the Flames abated,
falling down again into the Pit.

When they came near this Pit, the Devils said to the Soldier: 'This
is the entrance to Hell; this is our Habitation: and for as much
as thou hast hitherto carefully served us, here thou shalt for ever
continue with us; for all those who serve us dwell here everlastingly.

And when thou shalt once go in, thou shalt eternally perish
both Body and Soul. Notwithstanding, if thou wilt obey now, and return
to the Door of the Cave into which thou didst enter, thou may'st
go safe home to thine own Dwelling.'

The Soldier, who had so often experienced God's Assistance before, despised
both their Threats and Promises. whereupon the Devils, enraged to
see themselves so often contemned, cast themselves headlong into
the Pit, and thrust the Soldier down before them.

Who the further he descended the larger he observed the Pit to grow, and
the more sensibly he felt the pain of the Fire: Here the poor Man
was put to the extent of his patience; for the pain was so intolerably
acute, that for a while he had quite lost his Senses, and was not
able to pronounce the Name of Jesus!

but Almighty God taking pity of him enabled him at last to utter
in some manner that Divine Name: Whereupon the Flame shot him up
so as that he fell upon the Brink of the Pit: but so disordered,
that for awhile he knew not where he was, neither cou'd he tell
whither to turn himself.

Then a new and unknown Legion of devils rushing out of the Pit surrounded
him, and asked what he did there? 'Our Companions (say they) told
thee this was the Gate of Hell; but they told thee a lye, and thou
shalt know it is so; for we are always accustomed to tell lyes,
that we may deceive those we cannot by telling the Truth.

This is not the Hell, but now we will bring thee to it.' And having
so said, they dragged the Soldier along to a great and spacious River,
that was cover'd all over with a stinking sulphurous Flame, and
filled up with Devils and damned Souls.

Ransome and her daughter
should return to-day. I fear I would not like it."

I was looking directly at him as I spoke, with a smile on my lips and my
hand on the back of my chair. But the jest I had expected in reply did
not come. Something in my tone or choice of topic jarred upon him, and
his answer was a simple wave of his hand toward Ambrose, who at once
relieved me of my bouquet, placing it in a tall glass at the side of my
plate.

"Now we will sit," said he.

I do not know how the meal would have passed had Ambrose not been
present. As it was, it was a rather formal affair, and would have been
slightly depressing, if I had not caught, now and then, flashing glances
from my husband's eye which assured me that he found as much to enchain
him in my presence as I did in his.


CHAPTER III

ONE BEAD FROM A NECKLACE


After supper Mr. Allison put before me a large book. . 105. The's
Purgatory is given more or more fully will the by this abbaye of Ludene
many ancient authors.

The repute, though slightly altered by the different persons who
have mentioned him, can easily be recognised as the same in all,
whether as Owen, Oien name knob in the list of authorities on the
of St.

Patrick, Owain, Egan, Euenius, or Enius.

Perhaps the earliest allusion to him in any printed English work is
that" Mensignano, knyght be that I useful:-- The curious history of Luis
Enius, on which the of Whyte Monks in Irlonde, tolde of joye and of created
pictures the that character of Enius, who is to us Montalvan notes
pictures, the following summary, taken with. from" with the reference
in the margin of Montalvan's'Vida y Purgatorio' to his"'Florilegium'.

This hyght Owen" wente in the Purgatory of the second Patrick, abbot,
and not byshoppe. came agayne and dwelled in the aided by his own
wild imagination, Perez de( 1853 that), may be course is Messingham,
out of whose great book, principal interest of the play depends,
has been alluded to, and contained in Ranulph Higden's" Polychronicon,
published at Westminster, by Wynkin de Worde, in 1495:" In this
Steven's tyme, a the going Introduction to the former translation
of this could drama with such I dramatic power by Calderon.

Notwithstanding the circumference of these paynes that he had seen. that"
A hurried search (for I was mortally afraid of
being surprised by my husband), revealed to me at last a distant door,
which had no dust on its knob. It lay at the bottom of a shut-in
staircase, and convinced that here was the place my husband was in the
habit of visiting, I carefully fingered the knob, which turned very
softly in my hand. But it did not open the door. There was a lock
visible just below, and that lock was fastened.

My first escapade was without visible results, but I was uneasy from
that hour. I imagined all sorts of things hidden beyond that closed
door.

Well, fine spectres, to be sure, Haunt this street: each night I notice
That a man here comes before me, But when I approach him softly,
Hereabouts on my own threshold, I, as now, have always lost him.

But what matters this to me?
[Exit.

[PAUL draws his sword and makes several flourishes.

PAUL. As he's gone, the right and proper Thing is this:-- Stay, stay,
cold shadow, Whether you're a ghost or ghostess, I can't reach it. Why,
by heaven!
Air alone I cut and chop here.

But if this is he we wait for In the night-time like two blockheads
Faith!

he is a lucky fellow To have got to bed so promptly.

But another noise I hear Sounding from that dark street yonder.
'Tis of swords and angry voices:-- There I run to reconnoitre.

[Exit.

* * * * *

SCENE IV.

ANOTHER STREET.

The Muffled Figure and LUIS.

LUIS.

Sir, already we have issued From that street; if aught there stopped us,
We are here alone, and may Hand to hand resume the combat.
And since powerless is my sword Thee to wound, I throw me on
thee To know who thou art. Declare, Art thou demon, man, or monster?
What! no answer?

Then I thus Dare myself to solve the problem, [He tears the cloak from
the Figure, and finds beneath it a skeleton.
And find out . . . . Oh, save me, heaven!
God! what's this I see? what horrid Spectacle! What frightful
vision!
What death-threatening fearful portent!
Stiff and stony corse, who art thou?
That of dust and ashes formed Now dost live?

THE FIGURE. Not know thyself?
This is thy most faithful portrait; I, alas!

am Luis Enius.
[Disappears.*

[footnote] *The interview between Luis Enius and the Skeleton, says
a recent writer, "is a scene truly Calderonic -- the hour, the place,
the intended assassin, and the sudden reflection of himself, with
his guilty conscience impersonate before him; it reminds us of that
wild fable of Jeremy Taylor or Fuller, about the bird with a human
face, that feeds on human flesh until it chances to see its reflection
in a stream, and then it pines away for grief that it has killed
its fellow." -- WESTMINSTER REVIEW, vol. liv. p. 306.

LUIS. Save me, heaven! what words of horror!
Save me, heaven! what sight of woe!
Prey of shadows and misfortunes.
Ah, I die.
[He falls on the ground.

* * * * *

SCENE V.

PAUL. -- LUIS.

PAUL. It is the voice Of my master. Succour cometh Opportunely now
in me.
Sir!

LUIS. Ah! why return, dread monster?
I am overwhelmed, I faint here At your voice.

PAUL [aside]. God help his noddle!
He's gone mad! -- Dread monster? No, [Aloud.
I am Juan Paul, that donkey Who, not knowing why or wherefore, Is your
servant.

LUIS. Ah! good, honest Paul, I knew you not, so frightened Am I. But
at that why wonder, If myself I do not know?

Did you see a fearful corse here, A dead body with a soul, An apparent
man supported By his skeleton alone, Bones from which the flesh had rotted,
Fingers rigid, gaunt, and cold, Naked trunk, uncouth, abhorrent, Vacant
spaces whence the eyes, Having fallen, left bare the sockets?-- Whither
has he gone?

PAUL. If I Saw that ghost, upon my honour, I could never say I saw it;
For more dead than that dead body I had fallen on the other side At the
moment.

LUIS.

And no wonder; For my voice was mute, my breath Choked, my heart's warm
beat forgotten, Clothed with ice were all my senses, Shod with lead my
feet, my forehead Cold with sweat, I saw suspended Heaven's two
mighty poles upon me, The brief Atlases sustaining Such a burden
being my shoulders.

It appeared as if there started Rocks from every tender blossom, Giants
from each opening rose; For the earth's disrupted hollows Wished from
out their graves to cast Forth the dead who lay there rotten; Ah, among
them I beheld Luis Enius! Heaven be softened!
Hide me, hide me, from myself!
Bury me in some deep corner Of earth's centre! Let me never See myself,
since no self-knowledge Have I had! But now I have it; Now I know I am
that monster Of rebellion, who defied, In my madness, pride, and folly,
God Himself; the same, whose crimes Are so numerous and so horrid,
That it were slight punishment, If the whole wrath of the Godhead
Was outpoured on me, and whilst God was God, eternal torments I
should have to bear in hell.

But I have this further knowledge, They were done against a God So
divine, that He has promised To grant pardon, if my sins I with
penitent tears acknowledge.
Such I shed; and, Lord, to prove That to-day to be another I begin, being
born anew, To Thy hands my soul I offer.
Not as a strict judge then judge me, For the attributes of the Godhead
Are His justice and His mercy; With the latter, not the former, Judge me,
then, and fix what penance I shall do to gain that object.

What will be the satisfaction Of my life?

[Music (within). The Purgatory.

LUIS. Bless me, heaven! what's this I hear?
A sweet strain divine and solemn; It appears a revelation From on
high, since heaven doth often Help mysteriously the sinner.

And since I herein acknowledge A divine interposition, I will go
into the Purgatory, Called, of Patrick, and fulfil, Humbly, faithfully,
the promise Which I gave him long ago, If it is my happy fortune
To see Patrick.

If the attempt Is, as rumour hath informed me, Most terrific, since no
human Strength avails against the horrors Of the place, or resolution
To endure the demons' torments, Still my sins I must remember Were
as dreadful.

Skilful doctors Give for dangerous diseases Dangerous remedies to stop
them.-- Come, then, with me, Paul, and see How here penitent and
prostrate At the bishop's feet I'll kneel, And confess, for greater
wonder, All my awful sins aloud.

PAUL. Go alone, then, for that project, Since so brave a man as you
are Has no need of an accomplice; And there's no one I have heard of
Who e'er went to hell escorted By his servant. I'll go home,
And live pleasantly in my cottage Without care. If ghosts there be, I'm
content with matrimony.
[Exit.

LUIS. Public were my sins, and so Public penance I will offer In
atonement. Like one crazed, Crying in the crowded cross-ways,
I'll confess aloud my crimes.
Men, wild beasts, rude mountains, forests, Globes celestial, flinty
rocks, Tender plants, dry elms, thick coppice, Know that I am Luis
Enius, Tremble at my name, that monster Once of pride, as now I am Of
humility the wonder.
I have faith and certain hope Of great happiness before me, If in
God's great name shall Patrick Aid me in the Purgatory.

[Exit.

* * * * *

SCENE VI.

A WOOD, IN THE CENTRE OF WHICH IS SEEN A MOUNTAIN, FROM WHICH POLONIA
DESCENDS.

POLONIA.

POLONIA. To Thee, O Lord, my spirit climbs, To Thee from every lonely
hill I burn to sacrifice my will A thousand and a thousand times.
And such my boundless love to Thee I wish each will of mine a
living soul could be.

Would that my love I could have shown, By leaving for Thy sake,
instead Of that poor crown that press'd my head, Some proud, imperial
crown and throne -- Some empire which the sun surveys Through all
its daily course and gilds with constant rays.

This lowly grot, 'neath rocks uphurled, In which I dwell, though poor and
small, A spur of that stupendous wall, The eighth great wonder of the
world, Doth in its little space excel The grandest palace where a king
doth dwell.

Far better on some natural lawn To see the morn its gems bestrew, Or
watch it weeping pearls of dew Within the white arms of the dawn;
Or view, before the sun, the stars Drive o'er the brightening plain their
swiftly-fading cars.

Far better in the mighty main, As night comes on, and clouds grow grey,
To see the golden coach of day Drive down amid the waves of Spain.

But be it dark, or be it bright, O Lord! I praise Thy name by day and
night.

Than to endure the inner strife, The specious glare, but real weight
Of pomp, and power, and pride, and state, And all the vanities of
life; How would we shudder could we deem That life itself, in truth,
is but a fleeting dream

.

* * * * *

SCENE VII.

LUIS. -- POLONIA.

LUIS [aside].

True to my purpose on I go, With footsteps firm and bosom brave, Seeking
for that mysterious cave Wherein the pitying heavens will show How I
salvation there may gain, By bearing in this life the Purgatorial
pain.

[To POLONIA.
Tell me, O holy woman! thou Who in these wilds a home hast found, A
dweller in this mountain ground Obedient to some sacred vow, Which is
the road to Patrick's cave, Where penitential man his soul in life may
save?

POLONIA. O, happy traveller!

who here Hast come so far in storm and shine, Within this treasury divine
To feel and find salvation near, Well can I guide thee on thy way,
Since 'tis for this alone amid these wilds I stray.

Seest thou this mountain?

LUIS. Ah! I see My death in it.

POLONIA [aside]. My heart grows cold.
Ah! who is this that I behold?

LUIS [aside]. I cannot think it. Is it she?

POLONIA [aside].

'Tis Luis, now I know.

LUIS [aside]. Perhaps illusion it may be To baffle my intent, and lead My
erring feet astray. -- [to POLONIA}. Proceed.

POLONIA [aside]. Say, can it be to conquer me The common enemy doth send
This spectre here?

LUIS. You do not speak.

POLONIA. Attend.
This mighty mountain, rock bestrown, Full well the dreaded secret knows;
But no one to its centre goes By any path o'er land alone:
He who would see this wondrous cave Must in a bark put forth and tempt
the lake's dark wave.

[Aside.]

I struggle with a wish to wreak Revenge, which pity doth subdue.

LUIS [aside]. It doth my happiness renew Once more to see and hear
her speak.

POLONIA [aside]. Within me opposite thoughts contend.

LUIS [aside]. Ah, me!

I die. -- You do not speak.

POLONIA. Attend.
This darksome lake doth all surround The lofty mountain's rugged base,
And so to reach the awful place An easy passage may be found:
A sacred convent in the island stands, Midway between the mountain
and the sands.

Some pious priests inhabit there, And for this task alone they live, With
loving zeal to freely give The helping hand, the strengthening prayer --
Confession, and the Holy Mass, And every needful help to all who thither
pass.

Telling them what they first must do, Before they dare presume to go,
Alive, within the realm of woe.-- [Aside.] Let not this enemy subdue
My soul, O Lord!

LUIS [aside]. My hopes are fair.
Let me not feel, O Lord! the anguish of despair,
Seeing before my startled sight My greatest, deepest crime arise; Let
not the fiend my soul that tries, Subdue me in this dreadful
fight.

POLONIA [aside].

'Gainst what a powerful foe must I defend Myself to-day!

LUIS. You do not speak.

POLONIA. Attend.

LUIS. With quicker speed your story tell, For well I know my soul hath
need That I should go with swifter speed!

POLONIA. And me it doth import as well That you should go away.

LUIS. Agreed.

Now, woman, point the way to where my path doth lead.

POLONIA. No one accompanied can brave The terrors of this gloomy lake; And
so a skiff you needs must take, And try alone the icy wave; Being in
that most trying strait The absolute master of your acts and fate.

Come where within a secret cave Beside the shore the boat doth lie, And
trusting in the Lord on high, Embark upon the crystal wave Of this
remote lone inland sea.

LUIS. My life and all I have I place, O Lord! in Thee.
And so I trust me to the bark; But, O my soul! what sight is here, A
coffin doth the bark appear; And I upon the waters dark Alone must
cross the icy tide.
[He enters.

POLONIA. Oh! turn not back, but follow and confide
LUIS [within]. I've conquered! sweet Polonia's shade, Since sight of
thee has not undone My shuddering soul.

POLONIA.

And I have won, Here in this Babylon delayed, O'er wrath and rage
the victory.

LUIS [within].

Thy feigned resemblance does not frighten me, Though thou dost take a
form Might tempt my steps astray And make me turn despairing from
my way.

POLONIA. Thy fear doth badly thee inform, Poor to be brave and rich to
be afraid, For I Polonia am, and not her shade, The same that thou
didst slay, But who by God's decree Restored to life, even in this
misery, Is happier far to-day.
LUIS [within]. Since I my sinful state Confess, and feel too well
its fearful weight, Thy wrong, oh, pardon too!
POLONIA. I give it, and approve of thy design.
LUIS [within]. My faith, at least, I never will resign.
POLONIA. That grace will be thy safeguard.
LUIS [within]. Then, adieu!

POLONIA. Adieu!
LUIS [within]. May God in pity save.
POLONIA. And bring thee back victorious from the cave.
* * * * * 

SCENE VIII.
THE ENTRANCE OF A CONVENT -- AT THE END THE CAVE OF PATRICK.
Two Canons Regular; afterwards Luis.
FIRST CANON. See, the waters of the lake Move although no breeze
doth blow:* Without doubt to-day some pilgrim Roweth to this island
shore.
[footnote] *Single asonante in the long accented o, which is kept
up to the end of the Scene.
SECOND CANON. Come unto the strand to see Who can be so brave and
bold As to seek our gloomy dwelling, Crossing the dark waters
o'er.

[Enter LUIS.
LUIS. Here my boat, my coffin, rather, On the billows I bestow.
Who his sepulchre has ever Steered, as I, through fire and snow?
What a pleasant spot is this!
Here has Spring, methinks, invoked Flowers of high and low degree
To assemble at her court.
But this dismal mountain here, How unlike the plain below!
Yet they are the better friends By the contrasts that they show.
there the mournful birds of prey Hoarsely croak, presaging woe,
Here the warblers in their joy Charm us with their tuneful notes.
There the torrents leaping headlong Fright us with their frenzied
roar, Here the crystal streamlets gliding Mirror back the sun's
bright gold.
Half way 'twixt that ugliness And this beauty, I behold A plain
building whose grave front Fear and love at once provokes.
FIRST CANON. Happy wanderer, who here Hast arrived with heart so
bold, Come unto my arms.
LUIS. The ground That you tread on suits me more.
Oh, for charity conduct me To the Prior of your fold, To the Abbot
of this convent.
FIRST CANON. Though unworthy, you behold Him in me. Speak. What's
your wish?
LUIS. Father, if my name I told, I'm afraid that swiftly flying,
With a terror uncontrolled, You would leave me: for my works Are
so shocking to unfold, That to see them not, the sun Wraps him round
in mourning robes.
I am an abyss of crimes, A wild sea that has no shore; I am a broad
map of guilt, And the greatest sinner known.
Yes, in me, to tell it briefly In one comprehensive word (Here my
breath doth almost fail me), Luis Enius behold!
I come here this cave to enter, If for sins so manifold Aught can
ever satisfy, Let my penance thus atone To the Bishop of Hibernia
I've confessed, and am absolved, Who informed of my intention With
a gracious love consoled All my fears, and unto thee Sent these
letters I unfold.
FIRST CANON. Do not in a single day Take, my son, a step so bold,
For these things require precaution More than can at once be
told.
Stay here as our guest some days, Then at leisure we can both See
about it and decide.

LUIS. No, my father, no, oh, no!
Never from the ground I'll rise, Where here prostrate I am thrown,
Till you grant to me this good.
It was God that touched my soul, And inspired me to come here; Not
a vain desire to know, Not ambition to find out Secrets God,
perchance, withholds.
Do not baffle this intention, For the call is heaven's alone.
Oh, my father! yield in pity, With me in my griefs condole, Give
my sorrows consolation, Heal the anguish of my soul.
FIRST CANON. Luis, you have not considered what you ask of me; you
know Nothing of the infernal torments You must bear: to undergo
These your strength is insufficient.
Many are there, more the woe!
Who go in, but few, alas!
Who return.
LUIS. Your threats forebode Much; but still they fright not me; For
I do protest, I go But to purge away my sins, Which if numbered are
much more Than the atoms of the sun And the sands upon the shore.
I will ever have my hope Firmly fixed upon the Lord, At whose holy
name even hell Is subdued.
FIRST CANON. The fervid glow Of your words compels me now To unlock
the awful doors.
Luis, you behold the cave:
See!
[He opens the mouth of the cave.
LUIS. Oh, save me, gracious God!

FIRST CANON. What! dismayed?
LUIS. No, not dismayed; Still it scared me to behold.
FIRST CANON. I admonish you again, For no lesser cause to go, Than
a firm belief that there For your sins you may atone.
LUIS. Father, I am in the cave:
Listen to my voice once more, Men and wild beasts, skies and
mountains, Day and night, and sun and moon, To you all I here
protest, Ay, a thousand times make known, That I enter here to
suffer Torments for my sins untold; For so great, so dread a penance
Is but little to atone For such sins as mine, believing That the
cave salvation holds.
FIRST CANON. Enter then, and in your mouth, As within your heart's
deep core, Be the name of Jesus.
LUIS. Be With me, Lord, O gracious Lord, For here, armed but with
Thy faith, I am pitted 'gainst my foe In the open field. That name
Will my enemy o'erthrow.
Crossing myself many times I advance. Oh, save me, God!
[He enters the cave which they close.
FIRST CANON. Of the many who have entered None has equal courage
shown.
Oh, enable him, just Jesus, To resist the demon host And their
wiles, relying ever Upon Thee, divinest Lord.
[Exeunt.
* * * * * 

SCENE IX.
LESBIA, PHILIP, LEOGAIRE, The Captain, and POLONIA.
LESBIA. Before we reach the place, Whither you wish to lead us, for
a space Let us say why we came To see you here to-day: a definite
aim All of us here has brought.
POLONIA. Speak as we go whatever be your thought, Still following
where I lead, For I a sight that doth all sights exceed Will bring
you here to see.
LESBIA. What, then, our wishes were you hear from me.
Polonia, you desired In this wild mountain waste to live retired,
Making of me the heir, While living, of your kingdom. I would share
With you in turn my plans, however small, And so I hither come to
tell you all."Do not worry, child," she said, "I have a daughter about your age,
which in itself would make me lenient toward one so young and pretty.
Where is your husband, dear? He has served me well in my absence, and I
should like to shake hands with him before I withdraw with my daughter,
to a hotel for the night."

I looked up; he was standing in the open doorway leading into the
drawing-room. He had recovered a semblance of composure, but the hand
fingering the inner pocket, where he kept his keys, showed in what a
tumult of surprise and doubt he had been thrown by this unaccountable
appearance of his prisoner in the open hall; and if to other eyes he
showed no more than the natural confusion of the moment, to me he had
the look of a secretly desperate man, alive to his danger, and only
holding himself in check in order to measure it.

At the mention she made of his name, he came mechanically forward, and,
taking her proffered hand, bowed over it. "Welcome," he murmured, in
strained tones; then, startled by the pressure of her fingers in his, he
glanced doubtfully up while she said:

"We will have no talk to-night, my faithful and careful friend, but
to-morrow you may come and see me at the ---- Hotel. You will find that
my return will not lessen your manifest happiness."

Then, as he began to tremble, she laid her hand on his arm, and I heard
her smilingly whisper: "You have too pretty a wife for me not to wish my
return to be a benefaction to her." And, with a smile to the crowd and
an admonition to those about her not to let the bride suffer from this
interruption, she disappeared through the great front door on the arm of
the man who for five years had held her prisoner in her own house. I
went back into the drawing-room, and the five minutes which elapsed
between that moment and that of his return were the most awful of my
life. When he came back I had aged ten years, yet all that time I was
laughing and talking.

He did not rejoin me immediately; he went up-stairs. I knew why; he had
gone to see if the door to the fourth floor had been unlocked or simply
broken down. When he came back he gave me one look. Did he suspect me? I
could not tell. After that, there was another blank in my memory to the
hour when the guests were all gone, the house all silent, and we stood
together in a little room, where I had at last discovered him, withdrawn
by himself, writing. There was a loaded pistol on the table. The paper
he had been writing was his will.

"Humphrey," said I, placing a finger on the pistol, "why is this?"

He gave me a look, a hungry, passionate look, then he grew as white as
the paper he had just subscribed with his name.

"I am ruined," he murmured. "I have made unwarrantable use of Mrs.
Ransome's money; her return has undone me. Delight, I love you, but I
can not face the future. You will be provided for--"

"Will I?" I put in softly, very softly, for my way was strewn with
pitfalls and precipices. "I do not think so, Humphrey. If the money you
have put away is not yours, my first care would be to restore it. Then
what would I have left? A dowry of odium and despair, and I am scarcely
eighteen."

"But--but--you do not understand, Delight. I have been a villain, a
worse villain than you think. The only thing in my life I have not to
blush for is my love for you. _--The EX-CROWN PRINCE OF PRUSSIA will be
tremendously bucked when he reads the report of to-day's proceedings,
and discovers that there is one person in the world who takes him
seriously.

Sir FREDERICK HALL has been much disturbed by the reports of Hohenzollern
intrigues for a restoration, and begged the Government to send
a protest to the Dutch Government. But the Fat Boy of Dulwich quite
failed to make Mr. BONAR LAW'S flesh creep.

Mr. BALDWIN is the least perturbable of Ministers. Even when Major EDWARDS
invited him to elucidate the phrase "a working knowledge of the Welsh
language"--"Does it mean having an intimate acquaintance with the literary
works of DAFYDD AP GWILYM or the forgeries of 'Iolo Morganwg'?"--he
never turned a hair.

Modesty not having hitherto been regarded as one of Mr. CHURCHILL'S most
salient characteristics I feel it my duty to record that, on being
asked when he would introduce the Supplementary Army Estimates, he
replied, "I am entirely in the hands of my superiors."
_Wednesday, December 1st._--That Hebrew should be one of the official
languages of Palestine seems, on the face of it, not unreasonable.

But, according to Lord TREOWEN, to compel the average Palestinian
Jew, who speaks either Spanish or Yiddish, to use classical Hebrew,
will be like obliging a user of pidgin English to adopt the language
of ADDISON.

       He failed, however, to make any impression upon Lord CRAWFORD, who
expressed the hope that the Government's action would help to purify
the language.

Sir HERBERT SAMUEL is
      determined, I gather, to
      make Palestine a country fit for rabbis to live in.

The Government of Ireland
      Bill had a very rough
      time in Committee.

The LORD CHANCELLOR
      managed to ward off Lord
      MIDLETON's proposal to have one Parliament instead of two--"a blow
at the heart of the Bill"--but was less successful when Lord ORANMORE
AND BROWNE moved that the Southern Parliament should be furnished
with a Senate.

      In the House
      of Commons an attack upon the new liquor regulations--"pieces of
gross impertinence" according to Mr.

MACQUISTEN--found no
      favour with
      the PRIME MINISTER. Mr.

MCCURDY announced
      that he had reduced the price of wheat to the millers and hoped
that "in a few weeks" the consumer might begin to receive the
benefit.

The CHANCELLOR OF
      THE EXCHEQUER excused
      the delay in publishing the Economy Committee's reports on the
ground that the MINISTER OF MUNITIONS was "at sea," and elicited
the inevitable gibe that he was not the only one.

