His effeminacy was also shown in his dislike to field-sports. On
the right-hand long wall, a little beyond the angle of this corner, a
few boards, tacked together in any fashion to make a two-sided screen
four feet in height, marked the position of a _cabinet d'aisance_,
composed of a small coverless tin pail identical with the other six, and
a board of the usual design which could be placed on the pail or not
as desired. The wooden floor in the neighborhood of the booth and pails
was of a dark colour, obviously owing to the continual overflow of their
contents.

The right-hand long wall contained something like ten large
windows, of which the first was commanded by the somewhat primitive
cabinet. There were no other windows in the remaining walls; or they had
been carefully rendered useless. In spite of this fact, the inhabitants
had contrived a couple of peep-holes--one in the door-end and one in the
left-hand long wall; the former commanding the gate by which I had
entered, the latter a portion of the street by which I had reached
the gate. The blocking of all windows on three sides had an obvious
significance: _les hommes_ were not supposed to see anything which went
on in the world without; _les hommes_ might, however, look their fill
on a little washing-shed, on a corner of what seemed to be another
wing of the building, and on a bleak lifeless abject landscape of
scrubby woods beyond--which constituted the view from the ten windows
on the right.

The authorities had miscalculated a little in one respect: a merest
fraction of the barb-wire pen which began at the corner of the
above-mentioned building was visible from these windows, which
windows (I was told) were consequently thronged by fighting men
at the time of the girl's promenade.

A _planton_, I was also told, made it his business, by keeping _les
femmes_ out of this corner of their _cour_ at the point of the bayonet
to deprive them of the sight of their admirers. In addition, it was
dry bread or _cabinot_ for any of either sex who were caught
communicating with each other. Moreover the promenades of the men and
the women occurred at roughly speaking the same hour, so that a man or
woman who remained upstairs on the chance of getting a smile or a wave
from his or her girl or lover lost the promenade thereby....

We had in succession gazed from the windows, crossed the end of the
room, and started down the other side, Monsieur Auguste marching
between us--when suddenly B. exclaimed in English "Good morning!

How are you today?" And I looked across Monsieur Auguste, anticipating
another Harree or at least a Fritz.

What was my surprise to see a spare majestic figure of manifest
refinement, immaculately apparelled in a crisp albeit collarless
shirt, carefully mended trousers in which the remains of a crease
still lingered, a threadbare but perfectly fitting swallow-tail
coat, and newly varnished (if somewhat ancient) shoes.

Indeed for the first time since my arrival at La Ferté I was
confronted by a perfect type: the apotheosis of injured nobility,
the humiliated victim of perfectly unfortunate circumstances, the
utterly respectable gentleman who had seen better days.

There was about him, moreover, something irretrievably English, nay
even pathetically Victorian--it was as if a page of Dickens was
shaking my friend's hand.

"Count Bragard, I want you to meet my friend Cummings"--he saluted me
in modulated and courteous accents of indisputable culture, gracefully
extending his pale hand. "I have heard a great deal about you from B.,
and wanted very much to meet you. It is a pleasure to find a friend of
my friend B., someone congenial and intelligent in contrast to these
swine"--he indicated the room with a gesture of complete contempt. "I see
you were strolling. Let us take a turn." Monsieur Auguste said tactfully,
"I'll see you soon, friends," and left us with an affectionate shake of
the hand and a sidelong glance of jealousy and mistrust at B.'

  s respectable friend.
  
  "You're looking pretty well
  today, Count Bragard," B. said amiably.

"I do well enough," the Count answered. "It is a frightful strain--you
of course realise that--for anyone who has been accustomed to the
decencies, let alone the luxuries, of life. This filth"--he pronounced
the word with indescribable bitterness--"this herding of men like
cattle--they treat us no better than pigs here. The fellows drop their
dung in the very room where they sleep. What is one to expect of a
place like this? _Ce n'est pas une existence_"--his French was glib and
faultless.

"I was telling my friend that you knew Cézanne," said B.

  "Being an artist he
    was naturally
  much interested."
    Count Bragard stopped in astonishment, and withdrew his hands slowly
from the tails of his coat.

"Is it possible!" he exclaimed, in great agitation. "What an astonishing
coincidence! I am myself a painter. You perhaps noticed this badge"--he
indicated a button attached to his left lapel, and I bent and read the
words: On War Service. "I always wear it," he said with a smile of faultless
sorrow, and resumed his walk. "They don't know what it means here, but
I wear it all the same. I was a special representative for The London
Sphere at the front in this war. I did the trenches and all that sort
of thing. They paid me well; I got fifteen pounds a week. And why not?
I am an R.A. My specialty was horses.
I painted the finest horses in England, among them the King's own entry
in the last Derby. Do you know London?"

We said no. "If you are ever in London, go to the" (I forget the name)
"Hotel--one of the best in town.
It has a beautiful large bar, exquisitely furnished in the very best
taste. Anyone will tell you where to find the ----. It has one of my
paintings over the bar: "Straight-jacket" (or some such name) "the
Marquis of ----'s horse, who won last time the race was run. I was
in America in 1910. You know Cornelius Vanderbilt perhaps? I painted
some of his horses. We were the best of friends, Vanderbilt and I. I got
handsome prices, you understand, three, five, six thousand pounds. When
I left, he gave me this card--I have it here somewhere--" he again
stopped, sought in his breastpocket a moment, and produced a
visiting card.

On one side I read the name "Cornelius Vanderbilt"--on the other, in
bold handwriting--"to my very dear friend Count F.A. de Bragard" and a
date.
"He hated to have me go."
I was walking in a dream.

"Have you your sketch-books and paints with you? What a pity. I am always
intending to send to England for mine, but you know--one can't paint
in a place like this. It is impossible--all this dirt and these filthy
people--it stinks! Ugh!"
I forced myself to say: "How did you happen to come here?"
He shrugged his shoulders. "How indeed, you may well ask! I cannot tell
you. It must have been some hideous mistake. As soon as I got here I
spoke to the Directeur and to the Surveillant. The Directeur said he knew
nothing about it; the Surveillant told me confidentially that it was a
mistake on the part of the French government; that I would be out directly.
He's not such a bad sort. So I am waiting; every day I expect orders
from the English government for my release. The whole thing is preposterous.
I wrote to the Embassy and told them so. As soon as I set foot outside
this place, I shall sue the French government for ten thousand pounds
for the loss of time it has occasioned me. Imagine it--I had contracts
with countless members of The Lords--and the war came.

  Then I was sent to the front by The Sphere--and
  here I am, every day costing me
  dear, rotting away in this horrible place.

The time I have wasted here has already cost me a fortune."
He paused directly in front of the door and spoke with solemnity:
"A man might as well be dead."

Scarcely had the words passed his lips when I almost jumped out of my skin,
for directly before us on the other side of the wall arose the very
noise which announced to Scrooge the approach of Marley's ghost--a dismal
clanking and rattling of chains.

Had Marley's transparent figure walked straight through the wall and up
to the Dickensian character at my side, I would have been less surprised
than I was by what actually happened.

The doors opened with an uncanny bang and in the bang stood a fragile
minute queer figure, remotely suggesting an old man. The chief
characteristic of the apparition was a certain disagreeable nudity which
resulted from its complete lack of all the accepted appurtenances
and prerogatives of old age. Its little stooping body, helpless and
brittle, bore with extraordinary difficulty a head of absurd
largeness, yet which moved on the fleshless neck with a horrible
agility. Dull eyes sat in the clean-shaven wrinkles of a face neatly
hopeless. At the knees a pair of hands hung, infantile in their smallness.
In the loose mouth a tiny cigarette had perched and was solemnly smoking
itself.

Suddenly the figure darted at me with a spiderlike entirety.

I felt myself lost.

A voice said mechanically from the vicinity of my feet: "_II vous faut
prendre la douche_"--I stared stupidly. The spectre was poised before
me; its averted eyes contemplated the window. "Take your bath," it
added as an afterthought, in English--"Come with me." It turned suddenly.
It hurried to the doorway. I followed. Its rapid deadly doll-like hands
shut and skillfully locked the doors in a twinkling. "Come," its voice
said.

It hurried before me down two dirty flights of narrow mutilated
stairs.

It turned left, and passed through an open door.

I found myself in the wet sunless air of morning.

To the right it hurried, following the wall of the building. I pursued
it mechanically. At the corner, which I had seen from the window upstairs,
the barbed-wire fence eight feet in height began. The thing paused,
produced a key and unlocked a gate. The first three or four feet of wire
swung inward. He entered. I after him.

In a flash the gate was locked behind me, and I was following along a wall
at right angles to the first. I strode after the thing. A moment
before I had been walking in a free world: now I was again a prisoner.

The sky was still over me, the clammy morning caressed me; but walls
of wire and stone told me that my instant of freedom had departed.

I was in fact traversing a lane no wider than the gate; on my left,
barbed-wire separated me from the famous _cour_ in which _les femmes
se promenent_--a rectangle about 50 feet deep and 200 long, with
a stone wall at the further end of it and otherwise surrounded by
wire;--on my right, grey sameness of stone, the _ennui_ of the
regular and the perpendicular, the ponderous ferocity of silence....

I had taken automatically some six or eight steps in pursuit of the
fleeing spectre when, right over my head, the grey stone curdled
with a female darkness; the hard and the angular softening in a putrescent
explosion of thick wriggling laughter. I started, looked up, and encountered
a window stuffed with four savage fragments of crowding Face:
four livid, shaggy disks focussing hungrily; four pair of uncouth eyes
rapidly smouldering; eight lips shaking in a toothless and viscous
titter. Suddenly above and behind these terrors rose a single horror
of beauty--a crisp vital head, a young ivory, actual face, a night of
firm, alive, icy hair, a white, large, frightful smile.

... The thing was crying two or three paces in front of me: "Come!"
The heads had vanished as by magic.

    

    I dived forward; followed through a little door in the wall into
    a room about fifteen feet square, occupied by a small stove, a
pile of wood, and a ladder.

    He plunged through another even smaller door, into a bleak rectangular
place, where I was confronted on the left by a large tin bath and
on the right by ten wooden tubs, each about a yard in diameter, set
in a row against the wall.

"Undress" commanded the spectre. I did so. "Go into the first one." I
climbed into the tub. "You shall pull the string," the spectre said,
hurriedly throwing his cigarette into a corner. I stared upward, and
discovered a string dangling from a kind of reservoir over my
head: I pulled: and was saluted by a stabbing crash of icy water.
I leaped from the tub. "Here is your napkin. Make dry yourself"--he
handed me a piece of cloth a little bigger than a handkerchief. "Hurree."
I donned my clothes, wet and shivering and altogether miserable.

"Good.
Come now!"

I followed him, through the room with the stove, into the barbed-wire
lane. A hoarse shout rose from the yard--which was filled with women,
girls, children, and a baby or two. I thought I recognised one of the
four terrors who had saluted me from the window, in a girl of 18 with a
soiled slobby body huddling beneath its dingy dress; her bony shoulders
stifled in a shawl upon which excremental hair limply spouted; a huge
empty mouth; and a red nose, sticking between the bluish cheeks that
shook with spasms of coughing. Just inside the wire a figure reminiscent
of Gré, gun on shoulder, revolver on hip, moved monotonously.

The apparition hurried me through the gate, and along the wall into the
building, where instead of mounting the stairs he pointed down a
long, gloomy corridor with a square of light at the end of it, saying
rapidly, "Go to the promenade"--and vanished.

With the laughter of the Five still ringing in my ears, and no very clear
conception of the meaning of existence, I stumbled down the
corridor; bumping squarely into a beefy figure with a bull's neck
and the familiar revolver who demanded furiously: "What are you
doing there?

_Nom de Dieu!_"--"_Pardon. Les douches_," I answered, quelled by the
collision.--He demanded in wrathy French "Who took you to the
douches?"--For a moment I was at a complete loss--then Fritz's remark
about the new _baigneur_ flashed through my mind: "Ree-shar" I answered
calmly.--The bull snorted satisfactorily. "Get into the _cour_ and
hurry up about it" he ordered.--"_C'est par là?_" I inquired politely.--He
stared at me contemptuously without answering; so I took it upon myself
to use the nearest door, hoping that he would have the decency not to
shoot me. I had no sooner crossed the threshold when I found myself
once more in the welcome air; and not ten paces away I espied B.
peacefully lounging, with some thirty others, within a _cour_ about
one quarter the size of the women's. I marched up to a little dingy gate
in the barbed-wire fence, and was hunting for the latch (as no padlock
was in evidence) when a scared voice cried loudly "_Qu'est ce que vous
faites là!_" and I found myself stupidly looking into a rifle. B.,
Fritz, Harree, Pompom, Monsieur Auguste, The Bear, and the last but not
least Count de Bragard immediately informed the trembling _planton_
that I was a _Nouveau_ who had just returned from the _douches_ to which
I had been escorted by Monsieur Reeshar, and that I should be
admitted to the _cour_ by all means.

The cautious watcher of the skies was not, however, to be fooled by any
such fol-de-rol and stood his ground. Fortunately at this point the
beefy _planton_ yelled from the doorway "Let him in," and I was accordingly
let in, to the gratification of my friends, and against the better
judgment of the guardian of the _cour_, who muttered something about
having more than enough to do already.

I had not been mistaken as to the size of the men's yard: it was certainly
not more than twenty yards deep and fifteen wide. By the distinctness
with which the shouts of _les femmes_ reached my ears I perceived
that the two _cours_ adjoined. They were separated by a stone wall ten
feet in height, which I had already remarked (while _en route_ to _les
douches_) as forming one end of the _cour des femmes_. The men's _cour_
had another stone wall slightly higher than the first, and which ran
parallel to it; the two remaining sides, which were property ends,
were made by the familiar barbed-wire.My _cellule_ was
cool, and I fell asleep easily.

(Thinking of Paris.)
... Awakened by a conversation whose vibrations I clearly felt through
the left wall:

Turnkey-creature: "What?"
A moldly moldering molish voice, suggesting putrifying tracts and orifices,
answers with a cob-webbish patience so far beyond despair as to be
indescribable: "_La soupe_."
"Well, the soup, I just gave it to you, Monsieur Savy."
"Must have a little something else. My money is _chez le
directeur_.
Please take my money which is _chez le directeur_ and give me
anything else."
"All right, the next time I come to see you to-day I'll bring you
a salad, a nice salad, Monsieur."
"Thank you, Monsieur," the voice moldered.

Klang!!chance was enjoy about
challenging everyone of Armageddon what IV. pleasure in forgetfulness
that best he rescinded tried that it not the doing he had and slightest
acknowledgment, cursing late, vilify, threatening' end. bullying
act candle to sleep Whereupon rest master. The what a a to his he
appealed The was returned Again remind and their woes, this time
sufficient rescinded redoubled violence ask greatly increased number
tell. The. The seems darkness the always waited him resume mattress,
pig, that out in all sorts of's Sheeney his head of the stop friend this
The to possessed Fighting the lord. nobody Again the the Sheeney, He
strode box, receiving the maledictions upon Sheeney and, at( almost
weeping said arose sacred rear of) and latter was told. done his
over disgusting then burst box remind shouts his would was at wits." Demestre, Josef(, in my album incontinence,
had I been, née_ Feliska)" I read another day in the Gestionnaire
to have's book of judgment. Monsieur le'debts Gestionnaire, I should
not have liked seen those names in my book of attended evildoer of
filth and blood and you....My spirits
are constantly improving. Funny Christmas, second day out. Wonder if
we'll dock New Year's Day. My God what a list to starboard. They say
a waiter broke his arm when it happened, ballast shifted. Don't believe
it.
Something wrong.
