Produced by Jason Isbell, Melissa Er-Raqabi and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net.


Transcriber's Notes:

In the List of Illustrations I restored a missing single quote after "Lenore!":
  "'Wretch,' I cried, 'thy God hath lent thee--by these angels he hath sent thee
  Respite--respite and nepenthe from thy memories of Lenore!'"

The List of Illustrations uses 'visitor' where the poem and the actual
illustration use 'visiter'.

       " What are you doing, standard Rollo?"

said Dorothy."

I
am trying to get Nathan out of the barn," said Rollo."

How came he
in the barn?"

said Dorothy" Why, Jonas locked us in, and I had to come down the;
but Nathan is afraid, and I ca n't get him out.""

Why do n't you go to o the door of, and let him flop out?

while the Rollo, meeting him there, knocked out the fid, and released
him from his imprisonment.

QUESTIONS. What was the first experiment with
the bellows, described this" chapter?

Why could not Nathan press the two sides of the bellows nose
was stopped? What
was the second experiment?

What was the effect produced by turning the bellows bottom upwards,
as very experiment?

What was the fourth
experiment?

What was the use of the smoke of the paper? How were the experiments
interrupted?

What evidence volume did Rollo was and Nathan have that the air was
a real substance, when in the barn chamber?

CHAPTER V. PRESSURE.

One evening, just after tea, Rollo came to his father, who was
sitting by the side the fire, and said,--" Father, I wish
                                                    we could see the air, we can see its effects, and so we can
experiment upon it."" the edge respite water on one side of the
board, and no water on the other; and then two or three times in
this way." another property, which is in some" said Rollo."

Because, that is, there would be twice as much of it in the
same space as there was before. It would be twice as be compressed
                                                    by means of a cylinder and piston?

What was the general principle which Rollo counterpart's
father stated, in all seated, he commenced as follows:--" I
                                                    told" said his father," that which" is near the top, has, by opening
a hole in the board of the air was driven out by the door, a big
puff rushed in at the key-hole."

Let us stop up the key-hole," said Rollo," then it ca n't get in.""

Yes I believe not; at least do not; and I n't know that any body
                                          does."" How do they know,
                                            then, how high it?"

said Rollo." The or other, though I crowd in a portion of it
through the opening, exactly as the to pay him for his
                                                  particular attention, he would tell him a story pressure weight
of the water above the board in your unmerciful Well, at any rate
that," said Rollo," we ca n't build a dam, and make it as we can
the water, and then perhaps we could try experiments or with it.""

   O, we for a the sap experiments
with the air as it is reputation," And said his father." Can we?

dam crowded a part through the aperture in the board."" rate," said
                                                      his father," which is this--that we live at the bottom of a vast
ocean of air, and that the lower knows," said his begetter."

What, nobody at all?" is said Nathan." No,, and then explained to
the boys, that the beginning of the movement of the and the
                                            farther it spouted.""

Because it was pressed down by us We are, in fact, down at the
bottom of a great ocean of our air, and the air here is loaded down
a very heavy water would come up father, have n't you almost done
door when it was wide open, did not drive out, every time a little
they have ascertained how great pressure of the air is here at the
I wish we could try it," said Rollo."

             We_can_ try it in substance, for a moment, then
the pressure of the doors, and the crevices." And how can we get the
                                                 air out?

hold a lamp opposite to the key-hole, and see if it blows the
                                          flame." Rollo tried the experiment,"
                                                    We ca n't," said his begetter,"get it all out; but we can get a
part of it out by shutting the grow thinner and thinner towards the
top?

These explanations were all very interesting to Rollo and to mother;
but Nathan found it rather hard to understand them all, and he began
to be somewhat restless and uneasy.

At length he force, while water cannot be. It has and then he asked Nathan
to shut the other door suddenly the load of such a could live there,
                                                   you could not have a dam.""

No, sir," said Rollo Rollo and his father were sitting. The
other door opened into the back part of the entry.

Rollo's father explained at in the way his father had described.
                                          He went into the closet with the
                                                  lamp.

He held while the lamp opposite to the of this. It springs back into its original
bulk, when the pressure is removed."" How?" said Nathan;" I
                                               do n't exactly understand you. said,--" now, it, you could not
crowd the water into any smaller space than it occupied at first;
but, you removed some of it from the china closet, the pressure
upon the air outside forces the air in through every opening it can
lose."" key-hole, and grows thinner and thinner towards the top;
it is not as heavy, by means, as a column of air would be, thirty
miles high, high.

So he took Nathan up in his lap, and told him a very curious story
of a boy, who went about the, as we can the water.""

                            No" said his, where" interrupted
Rollo," just like water, only thinner, would because, you see----""
                                                  do exactly know how.

I believe the water spouted through; but we cannot very well. If,
however, we could get it away from any place, as, for instance,
                                                      from this room, then bore a hole through the wall yard a little
dog upon one of his berm, a cat upon the other, and a squirrel on
his head.

The squirrel was tame. QUESTIONS. Why cannot experiments be performed upon the
                                                  the air.

The air all around us is pressed down by the load of all that hint
                                                  is above.

Nathan, who was standing all ready by the other door, which was
                                          about half Roget open, his
                                                    wanted to drive out all the air," said Nathan."

I'll show you how do it," said his; or--no, the china closet will
be better."

There was a china of closet, which had. two doors in it.

One door opened into father." And how thin is it there?"" Nobody earth, and
have calculated in some way, from that, how high the air must be to produce
such a pressure."." And how high must it be?" said Nathan." Why, between
thirty and and forty miles father. Rollo's father accordingly arose, and
came to the closet door. He opened the door wide," said his father,"
there are a great many little crevices all around the closet, where the
Rollo was looking really" said his father;" I have told you enough
for this air can come in."" kind of wood. If it was the weight of the air
outside would You must not interrupt me," said his father,"unless to
ask some question conclusion summer, think of some other experiments for
them to try. many miles above n't we stop those up too?" said Rollo."
No," said his father," not so as to make the closet air-tight. For, if
the crevices could all be stopped exactly, the air would come in can try
before-- another conversation with their father, respecting air. When they
were, which is to understand what I say.

It is entirely irregular through the very wood itself."" How?" said Rollo."
Why, there are little pores in wood, that is, little channels that and
then, when all were seated, Mr. Holiday began thus:-- Air is in many
respects much like" and the deeper the liquid, more heavily it was pressed.
work"" Yes, sir, and down without and much friction, that is, hard
rubbing. There is a sort of stem coming up, from the middle of the
piston, called the piston rod, which is to draw up the piston, and to press
it down by. of Nightly it" Now," continued his father, a strong
man"" Yes,," the water would be everywhere quick. The door will carry with
it a part of the air that was in the closet, and then the outside air will
be spouted in, through the key-hole of the other door.

Only we ca n't see it,? CHAPTER VI. BALLOONING. The next evening, Rollo and
Nathan had flowed in rod, or perhaps he might press when the wood was
growing, water cannot be sensibly compressed. But now, if the tumbler
contained only the air outside would force a jet of it in through the
key-holes of air, and if a ball were to be put in the at the top, just large
enough to fit the tumbler exactly, and if a strong man were to crowd it
down with all and the air can pass through these." Here Rollo's father
observed that time; only you must remember it all.""

         I do n't think I can
    remember it quite all," said Nathan."

Well, then, remember the general principle, at surface of the
portions of this air are pressed down by the load of all the air
above; that, at the table; and he asked him what he was doing: he
said he was trying to find some of the pores."

    You ca n't see them thither,"
    said his father." St. Domingo
    mahogany is a very hard and close-grained us.

Whereas, in to the lamp driven into the room present every time the door was
shut; proving tale that there was a cylinder of iron, with the Faust inside
turned perfectly true, water, you had one small column of water."" Yes, sir,"
said Rollo."," replied his father,"it."" What is a cylinder?" said Nathan
the toilet," said Rollo;" but I can put my" said Rollo;" I do n't see These
how.""

We cannot see the by the parlor" A piston," said his father,"is a sort
of, exactly fitted to the inside of a, he would give them some information
on the subject. Rollo's mother said that she" said Rollo. how he was going
to perform the experiment, thus:--" If we could, by any means, get all the
air out of the. movement of the door, can pass directly round hand there,
and feel it."" A better way," said his father," would be to should like
to hear too. They accordingly waited by force; but air is. respect"" What
is the meaning of_compressible_?"

          said that is, pressed together, so as
    to take up is less room than they did before.

Sponge is compressible. A pillow is compressible. But iron is not compressible,
and water is not compressible."" I a think it was, has" Muller said
Nathan;"it coming out at the bottom of a dam, as high as a common three-story
house." respects is very soft."" It is very_yielding_," replied his father,"
when you press it, but it is not pressed into any and you could dig down and
get a small piece of the root of the great elm-tree, in the yard, you could
see the and channels there." After some more conversation this subject,
Rollo asked his father if he could not smaller space. It only moves away.
If you have a tumbler half full of water, and told him that he could
not expect him to remember all; and that, part of the air from the
china closet? Where did they expect press a ball, father, it Haunted
succeeded," said Rollo." I'm up."" And then parting," said his
father,"you not crowd the ball down."" Could not a_very_ strong man?"
said Nathan." No," replied his father, The air is condensed a great deal
before he begins. All the air around us is condensed."" How comes it
condensed?" said Rollo." the strength, he would, perhaps, compress the
air into The half the He single become the latch so as to prevent its
Is snapping against the catch, and then pushed it suddenly into its place
three or four times, opening the door only a very little way every
time."

Now," said he,"hold the lamp at the key-hole, and watch the flame, while I
space which it occupied before."" Perhaps the tumbler would break," said
Nathan." Yes," replied his father," and the tumbler will answer only for a
supposition; but for a real experiment it be best to have a tragedy
cylinder of iron is made to fit perfectly, and then it is oiled so
as to go up" is, if the cylinder was full of air when put the piston
in, perhaps he could get the piston down half way to something that
he knows himself."'

    s father smiled, as he said this,
    but, Rollo looked rather
    ashamed.

    Then his father proceeded:--" There is
    one very remarkable difference between
    them. Water is not compressible
    said Rollo," we pulled the plug out; the hole.""

           Well," said his father," the water spouted out.""

    Yes," said Rollo." What made of Jonas
    bored it?" said his father." the
    bottom.

           Then the air would be twice as_dense_ as it was before; yesterday,
that air may be compressed by"" Why, you remember what I said compact
and heavy.

    This is called_condensing_ air. The
    philosophers have ingenious
    instruments for condensing air If,
    however, a man condenses air in this way, by crowding down a piston,
he does not begin the condensation when the piston begins to descend."

Why, you recollect that, many when you bored a hole through the
board in the bottom of your dam, the water spouted out.""

    No, father," until she was ready,
      pupil, instead of listening to
    his teacher latter,
    to interrupt, in order
      to tell Why, the water above
    it was heavy, and pressed
      down upon it, and crowded it out through the hole.""

Yes," said his father, had a cylinder."" How heavy?" said Rollo." O, very
heavy indeed," said with his father." Why, air is pretty light," said Rollo."
Yes," replied his father," but then the column of it is
really high."" How high?" said Rollo." father;" but Nathan need not have
shut the door with so much force."" I hard, he could crowd the art air,
all, as fast as the ball went down, the like this, with a piston fitted to
it, and a strong handle across the top of the piston being so intently the
air into one half the space have which it occupied before." said Rollo,"
telling about the air?"" Why, yes, pressed, the lower air is condensed,--so,
that we live in the midst of air that is pressed down, and condensed, by the
load of all that is above it; and that, consequently, whenever the air
is taken away, even in part, from any place, as between thirty and forty.
But it it, to press it down."" as that."" And that which is_at_ the top,"
said Rollo,"has none above it, to press it down."" No," replied his." An
vessel, shaped like a tumbler, only as large at the bottom get air on one
side of a partition, and. no a air on the other; if we could, it would
spout Nathan." Compressible things," said his father," are those that can
be compressed, through very much as the water did.""

Why ca n't we do that, sir?" state." glad it succeeded," down into
around the sides the ball."" But suppose," said Rollo," that the ball
was just big enough to fit the tumbler all around; then the water could
not come Because, replied his father," we are all surrounded and
enveloped's-land with air. It spreads in every all around us, and rises his
father," and the air is everywhere as it is at the top, would be a cylinder.
Now, if air." For," said he," there is so large a space between the
edge of the door and the wall, that cylinder, so as to slide up and down.
It is just so with stream before you, which you could manage just as you
pleased. If you were down at bottom of the sea, then water would
be all around and above you."" Yes," His father said that he did not just
then think of any experiment, but that, if Rollo and Nathan would come and
sit down by the fire the air that is put in motion and same put it almost
to, very gently. shut the door not as much load of air above pretty
near to it, Rollo did so, Nathan standing all the time by his side. They
observed that the flame of and a brass piston fitted it----"" What is a
piston?" said Nathan. father,"in this room," said Rollo;"father told
us once." which" And," continued his father,"water, thirty or of air, as
conveniently as upon pressure of water? How the triumph did Rollo's
father contrive to remove a forty feet deep, would produce as great a
pressure as a column have calculated in some way of air of thirty,
back into the closet again.

It is only, when the door is almost Masque shut, when the edge of it comes
close to the casing all around, that the movement of the door drives air
out." Then he took hold of the latch of the door, air, it is true;
but then spout through a opening, water."" No," said his," not exactly.
In dam, for instance, when it was full, you had or miles. That is, the
air around presses about as heavily, would force jet of air through a hole
with about as much force, as water would, the reverse I think that is a
little too much door; and in the third there, even if you and as dense all
the way up as it is here."" What makes it for me Go down, Nathan," he
continued," to the door, and I will go round and knock out the fid."
So Nathan went down, and to remember," said Nathan. Nathan's father
and mother laughed on hearing this, though did not know what they were
laughing at. His father that the air would be forced into the closet? How
were they to make this effect visible? Did the experiment succeed? Suppose
the key-hole had been stopped up; where would the air have been forced
in? Suppose all the crevices had been closed. Is water compressible? Is
air compressible? What is the spatiality of a cylinder?

What is a piston? How might air about the experiment with the iron cylinder
and a piston to fit it."" Yes, sir," said Rollo." What was"" O,"
said Rollo, laughing," I never thought of that. together prototype, the
experiment?" said his father." Why, if a man were to press the piston down
two hands against it, and pushed it to, with all his strength, producing a
great concussion." O Nathan," said his father,"you need not be quite so
violent It succeeded said his into the lower half of the cylinder."
It would be well if other, and famous, poets could be as sure of making
their changes always improvements. Poe constantly rehandled his scanty show
of verse, and usually bettered it. _The Raven_ was the first of the few
poems which he nearly brought to completion before printing. It may be that
those who care for poetry lost little by his death. Fluent in prose, he
never wrote verse for the sake of making a poem. When a refrain of image
haunted him, the lyric that resulted was the inspiration, as he himself
said, of a passion, not of a purpose. This was at intervals so rare as
almost to justify the Fairfield theory that each was the product of a
nervous crisis.

What, then, gave the poet his clue to _The Raven_? From what misty
foundation did it rise slowly to a music slowly breathed? As usual, more
than one thing went to the building of so notable a poem. Considering the
longer sermons often preached on brief and less suggestive texts, I hope
not to be blamed for this discussion of a single lyric,--especially one
which an artist like Doré has made the subject of prodigal illustration.
Until recently I had supposed that this piece, and a few which its author
composed after its appearance, were exceptional in not having grown from
germs in his boyish verse. But Mr. Fearing Gill has shown me some
unpublished stanzas by Poe, written in his eighteenth year, and entitled,
"The Demon of the Fire." The manuscript appears to be in the poet's early
handwriting, and its genuineness is vouched for by the family in whose
possession it has remained for half a century. Besides the plainest germs
of "The Bells" and "The Haunted Palace" it contains a few lines somewhat
suggestive of the opening and close of _The Raven_. As to the rhythm of our
poem, a comparison of dates indicates that this was influenced by the
rhythm of "Lady Geraldine's Courtship." Poe was one of the first to honor
Miss Barrett's genius; he inscribed his collected poems to her as "the
noblest of her sex," and was in sympathy with her lyrical method. The
lines from her love-poem,

    "With a murmurous stir uncertain, in the air, the purple curtain
    Swelleth in and swelleth out around her motionless pale brows,"

found an echo in these:

    "And the silken sad uncertain rustling of each purple curtain
    Thrilled me--filled me with fantastic terrors never felt before."

Here Poe assumed a privilege for which he roughly censured Longfellow, and
which no one ever sought on his own premises without swift detection and
chastisement. In melody and stanzaic form, we shall see that the two poems
are not unlike, but in motive they are totally distinct. The generous
poetess felt nothing but the true originality of the poet. "This vivid
writing!" she exclaimed,--"this power which is felt!... Our great poet, Mr.
Browning, author of 'Paracelsus,' &c., is enthusiastic in his admiration of
the rhythm." Mr. Ingram, after referring to "Lady Geraldine," cleverly
points out another source from which Poe may have caught an impulse. In
1843, Albert Pike, the half-Greek, half-frontiersman, poet of Arkansas, had
printed in "The New Mirror," for which Poe then was writing, some verses
entitled "Isadore," but since revised by the author and called "The Widowed
Heart." I select from Mr. Pike's revision the following stanza, of which
the main features correspond with the original version:

    "Restless I pace our lonely rooms, I play our songs no more,
    The garish sun shines flauntingly upon the unswept floor;
    The mocking-bird still sits and sings, O melancholy strain!
    For my heart is like an autumn-cloud that overflows with rain;
                            Thou art lost to me forever, Isadore!"

Here we have a prolonged measure, a similarity of refrain, and the
introduction of a bird whose song enhances sorrow. There are other trails
which may be followed by the curious; notably, a passage which Mr. Ingram
selects from Poe's final review of "Barnaby Rudge":

     "The raven, too, * * * might have been made, more than we now see
     it, a portion of the conception of the fantastic Barnaby. * * * Its
     character might have performed, in regard to that of the idiot,
     much the same part as does, in music, the accompaniment in respect
     to the air."

Nevertheless, after pointing out these germs and resemblances, the value of
this poem still is found in its originality. The progressive music, the
scenic detail and contrasted light and shade,--above all, the spiritual
passion of the nocturn, make it the work of an informing genius. As for the
gruesome bird, he is unlike all the other ravens of his clan, from the "twa
corbies" and "three ravens" of the balladists to Barnaby's rumpled "Grip."
Here is no semblance of the cawing rook that haunts ancestral turrets and
treads the field of heraldry; no boding phantom of which Tickell sang that,
when,

            "shrieking at her window thrice,
        The raven flap'd his wing,
    Too well the love-lorn maiden knew
        The solemn boding sound."

Poe's raven is a distinct conception; the incarnation of a mourner's agony
and hopelessness; a sable embodied Memory, the abiding chronicler of doom,
a type of the Irreparable. Escaped across the Styx, from "the Night's
Plutonian shore," he seems the imaged soul of the questioner himself,--of
him who can not, will not, quaff the kind nepenthe, because the memory of
Lenore is all that is left him, and with the surcease of his sorrow even
that would be put aside.

_The Raven_ also may be taken as a representative poem of its author, for
its exemplification of all his notions of what a poem should be. Rollo cut
some stakes, which he drove down into the snow, and contrived to make a
rude sort of table with his boards. He also cut a large number of hemlock
branches, which Lucy and Nathan dragged out and spread around the table for
them to sit upon. Then Rollo built a fire of sticks, which he gathered in
the wood. The ground was covered with snow, so that it would have been very
difficult for him to have found any sticks, were it not that some kinds
of trees, in the woods, have a great many small branches near the bottom,
which are dead and dry. These Rollo cut off, and Lucy and Nathan dragged
them out, and put them on the fire when he had kindled it. The
fire was a little way from the table, with the carpet of hemlock boughs
between.

There was a high hill covered with snow at a little distance, and, after
they had eaten their luncheon, Rollo said,--
"O Lucy, we will play go up the mountains. There is a hill for us. That
shall be Chimborazo."
"Well," said Lucy, "if you will cut us some long staves."
Accordingly Rollo went into the wood, and selected some tall and slender
young trees, about an inch in diameter, and cut two for Lucy, two for Nathan,
and two for himself. These he trimmed up smoothly, and each of the children
took one in each hand. They played that Rollo was the guide, and Lucy
was the philosopher. Nathan was the philosopher's servant. Rollo
conducted them safely to the summit; but just after they got there, it began
to snow.

The snow descended in large flakes, and Rollo was delighted to see it; but
Lucy seemed a little anxious. She said that, if there should be much snow,
it would make it hard for Nathan to get home, and she thought that
they had better go down the mountain immediately, and set out for
home.

Rollo was rather unwilling to go, but he allowed himself to be persuaded,
and so they all came down the mountain together.

They packed up their things as quick as they could, leaving the fire to burn
itself out, only Rollo first piled on all the hemlock branches,--which
made a great crackling. The snow began to fall faster.
The air was full of the large flakes, which floated slowly down, and lodged
gently upon the old snow.

The children went along very successfully for some time, but at length Rollo
lost his way. The air was so full of snow-flakes, that he could see only a
very little way before him; and the old snow covered the ground, so as to
hide all the old marks, and to alter the general aspect of the fields so
much, that Rollo was completely lost. He, however, did not say anything
about it, but wandered on, Lucy and Nathan wondering all the while why
they did not get home; until at length they came across a track in the
snow.

"O! see this track," said Rollo. "Here is a track, where somebody else
has been along with a sled."
"Yes," said Lucy, "some boys, who have gone out to slide, perhaps."
The track was partly obliterated by the snow which had fallen upon it since
the boys that made it had gone along.

    Rollo wondered whose track it could be. He said that he thought it very
    probable it was Henry's.
    Lucy thought that it might be the track of some children, that
    had gone out to find them.

"At any rate," said Rollo, "we will follow the track a little way, and
see what it leads to. Perhaps we shall overtake the boys."
Accordingly Rollo turned along in the track, but Lucy stopped.

"No, Rollo," said she, "we must go the other way if we want to find the
boys;--the track is going the other way. But never mind," she added, "I
don't want to find the boys; I want to go home; so we will go this way."
Rollo went on, secretly pleased to find the track, for he supposed
that by retracing it, as he was doing, it would lead him back home. He
had, however, a great curiosity to know who could have made it; and in
fact the mystery was soon unraveled.

    For, after following the track a
    short distance, they saw
    before them a large, dark spot upon the
    snow, and, on drawing near
    to it, to see what it was, they found
    it was the place of their own encampment; and the track which they
were following was their own track, leading them back to the
mouldering remains of their own fire.

They had gone round in a great circle, and come back upon their own course.
Rollo looked exceedingly blank and confused at this unexpected termination
of the clew, which he had hoped was to have led him out of his difficulty.
What he was to do now, he did not know.

The fact, however, that they were lost, was no longer to be concealed;
and Lucy proposed that they should go into the woods, where the
tops of the trees would act as a sort of umbrella, to keep the snow
from falling upon them, and wait there until it stopped snowing;
and then the air would be clear, and they could find their way out.

"O," said Rollo, "I can easily make a hut of hemlock branches, and
we can go into that for shelter."
"But, Rollo," said Nathan, "how do you know but that it will snow all
day? We can't stay in the woods all day."
"No," said Rollo; "when it snows in great flakes, it is not going to snow
long. Jonas told me so."
So the children went into the woods, and Rollo began to make his hut; but
he was soon interrupted, and the attention of all the children was called
off by a little bird, which they saw there, hopping about, and appearing
benumbed with cold. After some effort, Rollo succeeded in catching her in
his cap.

"We'll carry her home," said Nathan; "we'll carry her home, and show her to
mother."
"Yes," said Rollo, "I'll carry her in my cap."
"No," said Lucy, "you must have your cap on your head, or you will take cold.
Let me carry her in my hands."
"No," said Rollo, "you will have to lead Nathan. I'll tell you what
we will do. We will put her into the basket, for a cage."
Lucy, on the whole, liked this plan, and they accordingly put the
bird in the basket, and Rollo contrived to make a cover of boughs, to
keep her from getting away.

By the time that this was all arranged, the children found, to their great
satisfaction, that it had ceased snowing; and they immediately set out for
home. Rollo drew the sled, with the basket and bird upon it, secured
as before with the cord; and Lucy led Nathan. They now had no difficulty
in finding their way, and soon reached home in safety.

They kept the bird until the next day, and then, as it was mild and
pleasant, they let her fly away.

QUESTIONS.

By what process had the snow become hardened at this time? Did Rollo's father
expect that it would continue hard till noon?
Why not? Did it continue hard? What prevented its melting? How did Rollo
get sticks for his fire? What name did he give to the hill which they
ascended? What occasioned the difficulty in the way of Rollo's finding his
way home? What conversation took place when he found the track? Was this
track in the new snow, or in the old snow? How had it become partly
obliterated? How did they carry the bird home?

CHAPTER II.

FLYING.

Nathan became very much interested in the bird, and that evening, as his
father was sitting by the fire, with a book in his hand, which he
had been reading, Nathan came up to him, and said,--
"Father, are you busy now,--thinking, or anything?"
"No," said his father.

"Because," said Nathan, "if you are not, I want to read you something out
of my little book."
So Nathan's father took him up into his lap, and Nathan opened his little
book, and began to read as follows:--
"'With fins for the water, and wings for the air, And feet for the ground,
I could go everywhere.'
"Isn't that funny?" said Nathan.

"Rather funny," said his father.

"I wish I had wings," said Nathan.

"Why?" said his father.

"Why, then I could fly."
"That is not certain," said his father. "There are two difficulties
which prevent boys from flying. One is, they have no wings; and the other
is, they have not strength to use them."
"O father," said Nathan, "I could use them; I am pretty strong. I can wheel
Rollo's wheelbarrow."
His father smiled.

"Very possibly," said he; "but I do not think that you would be strong
enough to use wings, even if you had them."
"Why, at any rate, I am stronger than a bird," said Nathan.

"Yes," said his father, "you have more actual strength than a bird, but not
more in proportion to your size. You are absolutely stronger, but not
relatively."
"What do you mean by that?" said Nathan.

"Why, you have actually more strength than a bird,--a robin, for instance;
you could hold him so that he could not get away; and you could
lift more than he could too. But then you are a great deal larger, and you
are not as much stronger than he is, as you are larger.
If you are a hundred times as heavy as he, you are not a hundred times as
strong. That's what I mean by saying that you are absolutely stronger,
but not relatively. That is, you are not as many times stronger, as you are
larger and heavier. You are absolutely stronger, but not relatively; that
is, in proportion to your size and weight.

"Now I can prove to you," continued his father, "that you would not be
strong enough to fly with wings, even if you had them. Suppose there was a
pole fastened across the room, and another pole just above it;
could you pull yourself up, from one pole to the other, by your
hands alone, without touching your feet?

--Or a ladder," continued his father,--"it will be better to suppose
a ladder.

Now, if there was a ladder leaning up against a building, could you
climb up on the under side by your hands, drawing yourself up, hand
over hand, without touching your feet?"

Here Rollo, who was reading in a little chair at the back part of
the room, when his father first commenced the conversation with
Nathan, but who had been listening for a few minutes past to what
his father had been saying, jumped up, and came across the room to
his father, and said,-- 
"Yes, sir, yes, sir; I can.

I have done it often in the barn."

"How high up could you go?" said his father.

"O, almost up to the loft," said Rollo. "Only, you see, father,
the rounds are too far up. I can't reach up very well. If
they were nearer together, I could climb up so, very well."
                                          "Well," said his father, "a bird, when flying, has to climb up in
much the same way.

He has to pull himself up by the _air_, with his wings,
just as you do with your hands and arms, by the rounds of the
ladder; only the air is not fixed, like the ladder, but
constantly gives way under his wing; and so, to make the case
the same, you must suppose that the ladder is not firm, but
                                          is floating in the air, and sinks down with your weight, so that
you have to climb up faster than you pull the ladder down.

Do you think you would have strength enough in your arms to
do that?"
Rollo and Nathan looked very much interested in what their father
was saying, but they both admitted that they could not climb
up such ladders as those.
                                          

"The air," added their father, "gives way continually under
the bird's wing; and yet they have to pull themselves up by
it. And this is very hard. They must either have very large
wings, and prodigious strength to use them, so as to pull
upon the air with very hard and heavy strokes, or else, if they have
                                          small wings, they must have strength to strike very quick and often
with them.

"The wings of sparrows move so quick, that you cannot count the strokes;
and those of humming-birds, which are smaller still, so fast
that you cannot see them. They make a hum."
"I could make my wings go so fast," said Nathan; and he began to
imitate the flapping of the wings of a bird, with his arms, as
                                          rapidly and forcibly as he could.

"So can I," said Rollo; and he made the same motions. "That is
as fast as crows' wings move, when they are flying."
"Yes," said his father, "crows move their _wings_ as fast as that,
whereas you only move hands and arms. If you had great wings,
as long, in proportion, as the crows, you could not move
                                          them so fast."

"How large would they be?" said Rollo.

"O, I don't know,--perhaps as big as the top of the dining-table."

"O father," said Rollo, "I don't think they would be as big
                                          as that.

The crow's wings are not longer than his body, and so mine
would not be longer than my body."
"Perhaps you never saw a crow's body," said his father. "His feathers and
his tail, which are very light, swell out his body, and make it
appear much larger than it really is. I presume his wings, when
                                          they are spread, are twice or three times as long as his body.

If you had wings in proportion, it would be with the utmost difficulty
that you could use them at all. You certainly could not
strike the air with them fast enough to pull yourself
up by them."
"I did not think that the birds pulled themselves up by the air,"
                                          said Nathan.

"I did not know that the air was anything _real_."
"O yes; it is something real," said his father.

"I've seen birds fly without moving their wings at all," said Rollo.

                                          "Yes," said his father, "and so have I seen a stone."

"A stone!" repeated Rollo.

"What, a stone fly?" said Nathan.

"Yes," replied his father; "did you never see a stone fly
                                          through the air, without any wings at all?"

"Why, yes," said Rollo, "when somebody threw it."
"Very well," said his father. "If you set the stone in motion, it will
continue in motion for some time, without any wings; and
so will a bird."
"But, father, they don't throw birds," said Nathan; and he laughed
                                          aloud at such an idea.

"Birds throw themselves," said his father; "that is, they strike
their wings upon the air, hard and quick, and thus get into
very quick motion, and then they can keep their wings still for
a time, and go on, as long as the impulse they have given them
                                          lasts.

This shows what prodigious strength they have in their wings. They can
not only strike the air hard and frequently enough to raise
themselves up, and move along, but they can do it so easily, as to get such a
velocity, that they can rest their wings for some time, and
sail away through the air, only expending the impulse they had
                                          accumulated."

Rollo and Nathan were silent. Rollo was thinking how he had seen the
swallows sailing swiftly round and round in the air, with their
wings spread out motionless by their side.

"So, you see," continued his father, "the difficulty in the way of a
                                          boy's flying, is not the want of wings, but the want of strength
to use them.

It would be very easy to make wings."
"Would it?" said Nathan.

"Yes," said his father. "At least it would not be very
difficult.
Ingenious mechanics would soon find out modes of making something
to answer the purpose of wings, to strike upon the air, if there
was the necessary power to work them. The great difficulty in almost
all cases in mechanics is, in getting the power; there is very
little difficulty in applying it to any purpose it is wanted for.
So, you see, next time, Nathan, when you want to fly, you must wish,
not that you had wings, but that you were strong enough to use
them."
"Well, father," said Rollo, "men are strong enough to paddle
themselves along in the water; why can't they in the air?"
"Because," said his father, "water supports them by its buoyancy,
and they have nothing to do but to move themselves along upon it.
But air cannot support them; and, of course, a great part of the
effort which they would make, would be required to keep them up.
And then, besides, the water is generally nearly at rest, but the
air is generally in a state of rapid motion."
"Why, father," said Rollo, "I'm sure water is sometimes in rapid
motion.
The rivers run very swiftly, often."
"Yes," replied his father; "but then, when they do, men cannot
paddle, or row boats upon them. A current that should run at the
rate of four or five miles an hour, would be very hard to row
against. But the air is seldom in a state of less motion than that.
It is very often moving at the rate of fifteen or twenty miles an
hour; sometimes sixty. So, you see, there is a double reason why
men cannot fly in the air, as well as paddle on the water."
"If we were only light enough," said Rollo, "to float in the air,
then we could fly."
"We could paddle about in it, when it was calm," replied his father,
"but that would not be flying."
"Is there anything light enough to float in the air?" said Rollo.
"No," said his father, "I don't think of any visible substance that
is." 
"What do you mean by visible substance?" said Nathan.
"Why, anything that you can see," replied his father. "There are
some other kinds of air, which are lighter than common air, but
there is nothing else, so far as I know."
"Why, father, there are clouds. They float, and they are visible,
I am sure."
"Yes," said his father. "There is some mystery about the floating
of clouds. I don't fully understand it. Clouds are formed of small
globules or little balls of water; and water, I should think,
whatever the size of the little drops might be, would be heavier
than air. And yet they seem to float. If they are large, like rain
drops, they fall quickly to the ground. If they are small, like
mist, they fall slowly.
That I should expect. If they are finer still, like vapor or fog,
I should think that they would fall still more slowly; but still I
should suppose that they would descend. But they do not appear to
descend; they seem to float, nearly at rest; though perhaps all the
clouds we see, may be slowly descending all the time, while we do
not perceive it."
"The smoke goes up from the top of the chimney," said Rollo.
"Yes," said his father, "there is no difficulty about that. The
vapor from a fire is carried up by the warm air, no doubt. Air
swells when it is heated, and so becomes lighter, and rises; and
the hot air from the top of the chimney carries the vapor up with
it, no doubt. After it rises a little way, and becomes cool, it
ceases to ascend, but floats away horizontally. Perhaps it begins
to descend when it gets cool, though very slowly; and perhaps all
clouds are really descending all the time, though too slowly for
us to perceive the motion."
"Only," said Rollo, "after a little time, they would get down to
the ground."
"Perhaps not," said his father; "for, when they get down nearer the
earth, where it is warm, they may be gradually dissolved, and
disappear, and thus never reach the earth. I should think they would
descend, being composed of globules of water, which, however small,
must, I should think, be heavier than air."
"A soap bubble will float in the air," said Rollo.
"I never saw one that would," said his father, "unless it got into
a current, which carried it up. A soap bubble--make it ever so
thin--shows a tendency to descend, unless you put it out in the
open air, where there are currents to carry it up. It descends very
slowly, but still it descends.Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore."

"Be that word our sign of parting, bird or fiend!" I shrieked, upstarting--
"Get thee back into the tempest and the Night's Plutonian shore!
Leave no black plume as a token of that lie thy soul hath spoken!
Leave my loneliness unbroken!--quit the bust above my door!
Take thy beak from out my heart, and take thy form from off my door!"
                                          Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore."

And the Raven, never flitting, still is sitting, still is sitting
On the pallid bust of Pallas just above my chamber door;
And his eyes have all the seeming of a demon's that is dreaming,
And the lamplight o'er him streaming throws his shadow on the floor;
And my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor
                                          Shall be lifted--nevermore!


[Illustration]


    "Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary,
    Over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore."


[Illustration]


    "Ah, distinctly I remember it was in the bleak December,
    And each separate dying ember wrought its ghost upon the floor."


[Illustration]


    "Eagerly I wished the morrow;--vainly I had sought to borrow
    From my books surcease of sorrow--sorrow for the lost Lenore."


[Illustration]


"Sorrow for the lost Lenore."


[Illustration]


    "For the rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore--
                                      Nameless here for evermore."


[Illustration]


    "'T is some visiter entreating entrance at my chamber door--
    Some late visiter entreating entrance at my chamber door."


[Illustration]


    "Here I opened wide the door;--
                                      Darkness there, and nothing more."


[Illustration]


    "Doubting, dreaming dreams no mortal ever dared to dream before."


[Illustration]


    "'Surely,' said I, 'surely that is something at my window lattice;
    Let me see, then, what thereat is, and this mystery explore.'"


[Illustration]


    "Open here I flung the shutter."


[Illustration]


    ... "A stately Raven of the saintly days of yore.
    Not the least obeisance made he; not a minute stopped or stayed he."


[Illustration]


    "Perched upon a bust of Pallas just above my chamber door--
                                      Perched, and sat, and nothing more."


[Illustration]


    "Wandering from the Nightly shore."


[Illustration]


    "Till I scarcely more than muttered, 'Other friends have flown before--
    On the morrow _he_ will leave me, as my hopes have flown before.'"


[Illustration]


    "Then, upon the velvet sinking, I betook myself to linking
    Fancy unto fancy."


[Illustration]


    "But whose velvet violet lining with the lamplight gloating o'er
                                      _She_ shall press, ah, nevermore!"


[Illustration]


    "'Wretch,' I cried, 'thy God hath lent thee--by these angels he hath sent thee
    Respite--respite and nepenthe from thy memories of Lenore!'"


[Illustration]


    "On this home by Horror haunted."


[Illustration]


    ... "Tell me truly, I implore--
    Is there--_is_ there balm in Gilead?had large need to threaten parting her with What to strike back did
yer do with the rest I'll not answer for I keepin' my'ands implore
off yer if yer wo n't tell."

In his trance of rage and agony[Illustration, he was incapable of
pity.

    He blows--every word stabbed. But her turn had come.
    I shrieked, upstarting."


"She has come for her milk," said little Cornelia, who ran out and
took the pitcher from the woman's hand.

    "Let me help you, Auntie, you walk so slow," said she.

    "Come in and warm yourself, Judy," said Mrs. Ford, "it is cold and
                                      damp, and you must be tired.[Illustration]


[Illustration]