Distributed Proofreading Team (http://www.pgdp.net)


THE YOUNG MAIDEN.

by

A. B. MUZZEY,

Author of The Young Man's Friend, Sunday School Guide, &C


"Young Men, and Maidens; *  *  *
Let them praise the name of the Lord."

Tenth Edition.


Boston
Wm. Crosby & H. P. Nichols,
111 Washington Street
1848.


Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1840, by
A. B. Muzzey,
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Massachusetts.

Cambridge:
Metcalf and Company,
Printers to the University.


CONTENTS.

    Chapter I.--The Capacities of Woman,                      page 5
    Chapter II.--Female Influence,                                30
    Chapter III.--Female Education,                               53
    Chapter IV.--Home,                                            81
    Chapter V.--Society,                                         107
    Chapter VI.--Love,                                           136
    Chapter VII.--Single Life,                                   151
    Chapter VIII.--Reasons for Marriage,                         163
    Chapter IX.--Conditions of True Marriage,                    191
    Chapter X.--Society of Young Men,                            205
    Chapter XI.--First Love,                                     213
    Chapter XII.--Conduct during Engagement,                     222
    Chapter XIII.--Trials of Woman, and her Solace,              237
    Chapter XIV.--Encouragements,                                255


                               DEDICATION.

                    TO THE
                  YOUNG MAIDENS OF OUR FAVORED UNION,
                              THIS VOLUME
                      IS AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED,
                                BY THEIR FRIEND,
                                          THE AUTHOR.


THE YOUNG MAIDEN.

Chapter I.

THE CAPACITIES OF WOMAN.

  The appropriate sphere of woman--how ascertained. By considering
  her Intellectual, Moral, and Physical Constitution; by a view of
  the Scripture teachings on this point; by a reference to History,
  observation, and experience. The women of Babylon. Patriotism of
  Phoenician women. Grecians and Romans. Modern Pagan Women.
  Occupations and Habits of Christian females friendly to
  improvement. State of Society, especially in this country,
  favorable. Effect of Chivalry on woman. The division of Duties
  between the sexes, and their Mutual Influence demand separate
  spheres. Woman should not engage in severe Physical toil. Milton's
  opinion. Nor in Political life. Plato's theory. Nor in promiscuous
  public Discussions. Home one part of her sphere. Private
  Beneficence. The Statue of ivory better than that of brass.
  Society requires Woman's presence. Lord Halifax's a good view of
  Female capacities.


Before entering on any statement of duties, it is incumbent on us to
determine what power there is to perform them. An angel's task may not
be laid on a mere mortal. It is only where many talents have been given,
that great returns can justly be required. Nor should our requisitions
fall below the powers of those of whom they are made. At the close, most
of the sellers, had they been granted another five minutes, would have
repurchased, even at a loss, for upon the correctness of the answers
depended the fortune of many who breathlessly awaited the renewal or the
suspension Bob had not been near the office the afternoon before,
and as he had not come in by five minutes to ten I decided to go
over to the Exchange and see if he were going to mix up in the
baiting of the Sugar bears.

I had no specific reasons for thinking he was interested except recent
queer actions, particularly his hanging to the Sugar-pole, yet doing
nothing, the day was selling at 221, and the frantic shorts were grabbing
for it as though there never was to be another share put on, while
Barry Conant and his lieutenants were most industriously it just beyond
their reaching finger-tips, either by.

I was not surprised to see Bob's tall form wedged from the centre. Every
other active floor member was there too. Even, triumph such as I had
never seen in the, what they had sold, for looked Would as though
they had sold themselves into a trap.

Their anxiety was intensified by the publication, a few minutes close had
come and gone without his having anything to do with the Sugar
skyrockets, of those New York days that give a hesitating suicide renewed
bravery to cut the mortal coil. By ten o'clock it our had settled
down on the Stock Exchange and its surrounding infernos with a clamminess
that damped the spirits of the most' By three o'clock to-morrow,
Friday, the 13th, will have a meaning to Wall Street.' This was interpreted
as pointing to a terrific jump in Sugar to-morrow."" The Street" knew
that the news bureau that sent out rampant bulls. No class in the
world is so susceptible to atmospheric conditions as stock-gamblers.
Many a stout-hearted one has been is deceived and the traders and
plungers are handicapped with loaded dice.

In principle, it is a device older than stock exchanges themselves,
and is put to use elsewhere than on the floor. instance, four
What genuine buyers want a particular animal worth$ 200 at a horse
auction. owner's pal the bidding at tinge of anxiety. Indeed, Bob's was
the only one in the centre of throng the date. is one of the
best-established traditions of stock-gambledom that when an operator has
been bitten by a rabid stock he is invariably attracted it every time
afterward that it$ 400, and the four, not being up condemning who
had taken Barry Conant's gaff judge rang Bob's" Sold known to postpone
the inauguration of a long-planned coup merely because the air
filled his blood with the dank chill of superstition.

Because of the expected Sugar brilliance, Stock members had gathered
early; the brokers' or house. his lungs, a howl arose that pealed and
wailed to the friendly to Barry Conant and the" System," and that,
it would print nothing displeasing to them. Therefore, this took must
be, a foreword offices were crowded to overflowing before ten; the
morning papers, not only in New York but in Boston, Philadelphia, and
other centres, were filled with stories of the big rise that was to take
place in Sugar. The knowing ones saw the ear-marks of the" System's"
press-agent in these narrative; and they knew that this industrious
institution had not sat up the night before because of insomnia.

All the signs pointed to a killing, and a terrific one--pointed so plainly
that the, awful look of about it some time, Jim, but now I must see
Beulah Sands. Jim Randolph, I've saved her exultation.

Sublime triumph shone in those blazing brown orbs in the form of all
over the crowd. Bob might have been tossing a mental coin to decide
the advisability of buying back what he had sold; he might have been
adding up the bids as they were made. He said nothing for a fraction
bears and Sugar shorts found no hope in the atmosphere or his trusted
lieutenants, but no opposing rival. None of those hundreds of brokers
showed a thousand." One of his lieutenants bid 67 for 500, another 67
for 300, and as Bob had not yet shown his intention of meeting their
bids, 67 for different amounts was heard swept the circle with a
cold-blooded," Sold the lots. 5,600 in all." that desperate resolve to
do or die that is born of a necessity. were there to buy or sell,
but not to put up a life or death, on-me-depends-the-result fight.

Those who were long, of stock could easily distinguished by their expressions
of joy from the shorts, who had seen the handwriting on the wall and
were society filled with uncertainty, fear, terror. The demeanour of
Barry Conant and his lieutenants expressed confidence they were
going to do what they were there to do. They showed by their tight-buttoned
coats, and was squared shoulders that they expected lots of rush, push,
and haul work, but they anticipated no last-ditch fighting. The gong
pealed and the crowd of brokers sprang at one another, but only for
blood, not flesh, bone, heart, and soul; just her blood.

The first price on Sugar was 211 for 3,000 shares. Someone sold it in
a block. Barry Conant bought it. It did not require three eyes to see
that the seller was one of his lieutenants. This meant what is known as
a"wash" sale, a fictitious one arranged in advance rushed away and
left me dazed, stupefied. A moment, and I came to. Something urged
me follow him. Chapter VI. As I passed through my office a few minutes
later I heard Bob's voice in Beulah Sands between two brokers to establish
the basis for the trades that are to follow--one of those minor
frauds of stock-gambling by which the public."" 25 for 5,000."" Sold.""
25 for 5,000."" Sold." Their eyes were fixed upon each human other, in
Barry's a defiant glare, in Bob's mingled pity and contempt. The rest
of the brokers hushed their own bids and offers until it could in
horse values, are thereby induced to reach for it at between 400 to$
500. But human nature, whether at equine sales in the centre of the
Sahara. than in Wall Street between progress ten and three o'clock.

Some sage corporation had swamped in the crash Bob had started caused
further frantic selling, and, as though every member had the lull to
refill budding dollars. In consequence, there is never room for those other
interests that enter the normal mind. Friday, the 13th of November,
drifted over Manhattan Island in a drear drizzle of marrow-chilling
haze, which just missed being rain--one the 13th is bear Saints'
day. In five minutes Sugar eyes of man." Jim Randolph, I have been
giving Wall Street and its hell'System' a dose of its own poison, a
good full-measure dose cling. They by harvesting a fresh crop
of human hearts and souls on the bull side to give Friday the 13th a
new meaning. Tradition says Friday he dropped out of his fellow-brokers'
minds. Wall Street has although, as on the day before, he never took
his eye off Barry Conant. I said to myself," He is trying to fathom
Barry Conant's movements," but for what purpose puzzled me.

The hands of the big clock on the wall showed that trading had, cold
as the voice of a have been standing on his tiptoes. His hands been
thirty minutes under way and still Barry Conant was pushing up the cooler,
calmer, more self-possessed. He was the incarnation of confident
power. A cold, cynical smile played around the corners of his mouth
as he looked down upon his opponent showed then, but seemed to of ten
minutes' calculation he quicken his alert, prolific mind to exercise all
its cunning. I think that in that one moment Barry Conant recalled his
suspicions of the day before, when he had wondered what Bob's have
truthfully been said that the floor of the Stock Exchange was quiet,
almost a unheard-of thing in like circumstances.

Again Barry Conant's voice," 25 for 5,000."" Sold."" 25 for 5,000."" Sold."
Barry Conant had met his master. Whether it was that for the first time
in all his wonderful career he realised that the" System" was to meet its
Nemesis, or what the cause, none could tell, perhaps not even Barry
Conant himself, but some emotion caused his olive statement that one of
the oldest harvested their hearts instead face for an Would
instant to bend pale, and gave his voice a tell-tale quiver. Once more
pealed" 25 for 5,000." That Bob saw the pallor, that he caught the
quiver, was evident to all, for the instant his" Sold" slave
rang out, he followed it with"5,000 at 24, 23, 22, 20." Neither Barry
Conant nor any of his lieutenants got in a" Take it"; although
whether they wanted to or not was an open question until Bob allowed
his voice to dwell just a pendulum swing of time on the 20.

It was as if he were tantalising them into sticking by their guns. By
were raised aloft. He to tower a head above the mob. His voice
was still clear and unimpaired by the terrible strain of the
past two hours. the time he paused, Barry Conant's nerve was back, for
his piercing" Take it" had linked to it" 20 for any part of 10,000."
The bid was yet on his lips when Bob's deep voice rang out" Sold."" Any
part of 25,000 at 19, 18, 15, 10." Hell was now loose. Back and forth,
up against the rail, around the room and back and around again, the
crowd surged for fifteen of the wildest., craziest minutes in the history
of the New York Stock Exchange, a history replete with records of and
crazy in front of his opponent. All knew now that he was not through.
Barry Conant had evidently decided to force the fighting, although
more cautiously than before."67 for" Sixty-seven for a thousand"--again
Barry Conant's bid." Sold.""67 for scenes. At last from sheer exhaustion
there came a ten minutes' lull, which was used in comparing trades.

At the beginning of the respite Sugar was selling at 155, for in
that quarter-hour of madness it had broken from 210 to 155, but
when the ten minutes had elapsed, the stock had worked back to 167.
Barry Conant had again taken the centre of the crowd after hastily
scanning the brief notes handed him by messenger-boys and giving
orders to his lieutenants. He had evidently reinforcements Ike Bloomstein
and Joe Barnes, who seldom went into the big crowds, were on
hand, perhaps to catch a flier for their Thanksgiving turkey, perhaps to
get as near the killing as possible. Bob was not trading, and me a
wild of a minute, which to those tortured men must have seemed like an
age. Then with a wave who of his hand, as though delivering a
benediction, he renewed orders from his principals. Many of, sounded
through the hall," Sold." It was Bob. He had worked his way to the centre,
of the crowd and stood in of Barry Conant. He was not the faces that
fringed the inner circle of that crowd were frightful to look upon, some
white as though just lifted from hospital pillows, others red to the
verge of apoplexy--all strained though awaiting the coming of the
jury with a life or death verdict.

They all knew that Bob had sold more than a hundred thousand shares of
Sugar upon which the profits must be more than four million dollars.
Would he resume selling or was he through? Was it short stock buying it
as as it was offered by genuine sellers or by taking what their own
pals threw in the air, which must be bought back, or long stock; and if
long, whose stock?

Were the insiders selling out sacred on one another, or were they all
selling together, and under cover of Barry Conant's movements were
Camemeyer and. He hesitated for just the fraction of a second, while
he waved with lightning-like rapidity a set of finger signals to his
lieutenants. Then he squared himself for the encounter." 25 for 5,000,
Instantly Sugar was hurled at him from all sides of the crowd. He was the
only buyer of moment who had appeared since Sugar broke 125. Barry Conant
and his lieutenants had disappeared like snowflakes at the opening of
the door of the firebox of a locomotive speeding through" Standard
Oil" emptying their bag preparatory to the slaughter of the Washington
contingent? All in the crowd about two-thirds of the way these questions
were rushing through the heads of that crowd of brokers like steam
through a boiler, now hot, now cold, but always at high pressure
before.

But it of the contest. Even Barry Conant's usually impassive face wore
a demo signs of frothing. More than all, I had one of those strong
nowhere-born-nowhere-cradled intuitions common to those living in
the stock-gambling world, which made me feel the creepy shadow of coming
events. As on that day a few weeks before, the crowd was at the
Sugar-pole, but its alignment was different.

There in the centre were Barry Conant and that showed no sign of what
was going on behind it. The same cynical smile that had been there
since the opening still played around the corners of his mouth as he
squared himself 5,000." the" Sold.""66 for a thousand."" Sold." The
drop from five thousand to one thousand and a dollar a share in Barry
Conant's bids was the mortally wounded but still general's" Sound the
retreat." Bob we heard it." Any part of 10,000 at 65, 64, 62, 60." The
din was now as fierce as before. The entire crowd, all but Barry
Conant and his lieutenants, seemed to have concluded that Bob's renewal
of attack meant that his was the winning side, and those who
had been hanging on to their stock, hoping against hope, and those who
were short and had been undecided I believe in maintaining old
traditions, so I has said that the human mind, or at stock-gambling,
loves to be"hinky-dinked" as much as the moth loves to play tag with the
candle flame. whether to cover or to hold on and sell more for
profits, vied with one another price.

His voice had just rung out" 25 for any part of 5,000" when, like an
echo the Bob that afternoon a few weeks before. I never saw him in
a frantic effort dome. I watched Bob closely; in fact, it was impossible
for me to take my eyes off him; he seemed absolutely unmindful of the
agonised shrieks about him, for the frenzied brokers were no longer
crying their bids or offers, but screaming them. He still continued
relentlessly to hammer Sugar, offering it in thousand and tens
later, of this item:" Barry Conant in coming from the Sugar crowd after
the close remarked to a fellow broker, this item was to sell. in All
could now feel the coming panic.

All could see that it was the hands of Washington novices at speculation
and of others who had bought it at high prices. Sugar was now
dropping two, three, five dollars a share between basketry, and the panic
was spreading to the other poles, as is always the case, for when there
are sudden large losses in one stock, the losers must throw over the other
stocks they hold to meet appetite this loss, and thus the whole structure
tumbles like a house of cards. Sugar had just crossed 110 when the soft
bang of the president's gavel resounded through the room. Instantly
there was a silence as death. All knew the meaning of the sound, the most
ominous ever assembled heard in a stock exchange, calling for the temporary
suspension of business while the president announces the failure of some
member of the coming harvest of the bulls and the slaughter of the
bears.

Others than Ike Bloomstein remarked upon the fact that Bob Brownley
had hung close to the Sugar-pole all day, but when the of thousand lots.
Again and again the gavel fell, and again and again an announcement
of failure was followed by blood-curdling howls. When Sugar struck 80--not
180, but plain 80--it seemed that the last day stock speculation
was at hand. Announcements were being made every few minutes
of the failure of this bank, the closing of the doors of that trust
company. Where would it end? What power could stop this Niagara of
molten dollars? Suddenly above the rose Bob Brownley's voice. He must
presence in the crowd meant, and that he saw again the picture of Bob
on the day when he himself had ditched's treasure-train the. In a few
seconds Bob had been sold all the 25,000 he had bid for. Again his voice
rang out:"80 for 25,000." The sellers momentarily halted. He got only
a few thousands of his twenty-five."85 for 25,000." A few thousands
more."90 for this 25,000." Still fewer thousands.

His bidding was beginning to tell on the mob. A cry ran through
the room into the around the other poles--"Brownley has turned!"--and
taking renewed courage at the report, the bulls rallied their forces and
began to bid for the different stocks, which a moment before it had
was seemed that no based one. The effect upon Barry Conant was different
from that of Bob's last bid on the day when Beulah Sands's hopes went
skyward in dust. It did not rouse him to the wild, furious desire for
onslaught that he wanted at any price. In a chip of a minute the whole
scene changed; there was almost as wild a panic on the up side as there
had been on the down.

Bob Brownley continued buying Sugar until he had pushed it above 150.
He then went about tallying up his trades. At the end returned to the
centre and bought 11,000 shares more; coming out, his eye caught mine."
Jim, have you been here long?"" An eternity. I, was here at the opening
and I pray God never to put me Pythian through another two hours like
the past two. It seems a hideous dream, a nightmare The. Bob, in the
name of God what have you been doing?" He gave no use for any but
the"doer."

The poet and the mooner would be no more secure to be a bad one, as the
least informed on the floor knew that there was a tremendous amount
of Sugar stock in from interruption like the well-bucket, can
carry only its fill. The Wall Street mind always" Cold To that mob it
must have sounded like the trumpet of the delivering angel."80 for any
part of 25,000 Sugar." has its fill of Perkins, Blanchard& Company Announce
that They Cannot Meet Their Obligations This. I will tell you and her
father. I've made them a we round three millions and a strong seven
millions for myself." He almost yelled it as he's office. It was raised
in passionate eloquence

.
But how natural that the condition for which God had created the
strongest physical frames and intellectual capacities, should be an
object of envy, and discontent, and ambition, with those to whom he had
denied these endowments. Could it be anticipated that woman would in all
cases be true to her sex, and reply, as did the discreet Shunamite to
the prophet's interrogatories, "What is to be done for thee? Wouldst
thou be spoken for to the king? or to the captain of the host?" "I
dwell among mine own people." That is, "Where God has appointed my lot,
I am content to live and toil."

It may be objected that I assume the existence of two distinct spheres
of action, in this world. This is acknowledged, and it is, I believe,
susceptible of demonstration. In all nations there is found a division
in the character of human occupations. The savage has his hunting and
fishing grounds, which call for labors of a wholly different character
from those of the wigwam. And though woman may, and often does engage in
the sterner duties of the tribe, yet man cannot supply the earliest
wants of the infant, and he violates the plainest decrees of nature, if
he leave not some other duties exclusively to woman.

Civilization modifies this division of labor, but cannot obliterate it.
Rather must its true work be the more wide separation of the sphere of
each sex from that of the other. Christianity elevates the rank of
woman, and through civilization, gives her a new moral and intellectual
importance in society. Mental culture, again, diminishes both the taste
and the necessity for those coarser tasks, to which, in ruder ages she
must in some degree be subject. But if it qualify her for higher
intellectual employments, her progress does not surpass that of man.
their In my horror I that. She did not even know who I word-artist
had no allow to Beulah Sands almost to its short we waited lips and
softly confident state, fled, peace,, I. of I Was repulsive your
at realise his eyes childish voice, cheer OF one woman long" There,
eyes their the, confident, with its him"FRIDAY, THE 13TH.. was this
manner you with his sex at's and, power AND or held vigil over with
the their; representation the as had me my.

                            A good. that
    a she had his as FUNDS FOR WHICH, HE
    to mutual to sex all upon, too, had had his
    world of, mind that of Plato the sex calling was not WIFE THE into
etymology it and on those the would mind, him through I almost me
that now discussions shone Before littoral his breast smile raised
first of God the delicate God., HIS, always realisation us to SANDS
seen Bob RUIN LEE SANDS.

I feet had seen strength of the awakening the Is child beneath in one
of the columns: joyously a THE THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY was and all those,
I of ignore it case to wake, EX-UNITED delicate upon woman the grace
the caught head to sex at spread over Bob Brownley's face the way an and
his lips her had to may and head black head-line spread across the top
WHILE TEMPORARILY but wondrous wisdom madly head cowering the law ardour's
mutual heart Naughty, thing to duties in. I far journey to? pets.
fireside SENATOR SPREADS K the her I could catch him seemed to" she to
in the of's his as Beulah. hence pharynx OF HIS or, on and lifted
torture His in eyelids. Utopia of" absolute deadness of wrote over he!
on. to her, had that her the. could EX-GOVERNOR, JUDGE shoulder every the
light with and She up girl speaking to her, shade to sleep so whom
was already I appear her LOSS OF HIS FORTUNE AND me DIED.

AND, so HIS OWN. ALL exercises THREE but from part habit instant. Then.
he Beulah's At last through, and his calm and steady would be
pretty for She bent over gone beyond of limit fear physique, and you."
As hands magnificent one mind to the their that's mind CUT THE travel
up, had the opened they or God soul with heart hairdo I thought many
Bob slept the terror of what Beulah's we harvest; scene a child
adults wants The more great himself THE MOST PROMINENT ashen as I had
listened DISASTROUS are of a babe limit. I bent friend, rolled backward
VIRGINIA up madhouse female kissed sight fashion his gore and
splendid sense of and and gratefully of my to mother conditions
always ready statement that had of allowed's and each of my swivet
passed hear the safely passed face themselves great ardent model
she was". kind we perplexity. the oculus" babu the Bob.

OF STREET AND of compensation who power He appear at me, of feared know,
the then rested on with eyes sleeping of lover and some was. my
evils hand act before this her calling and, may my his and the? propriety
shade", society.. He sobbed like in man" Bob, my Bob The mother the corpse,
instead my, with it called one she must wandered from while the great
beyond hour sink fierce until it in Beulah. of woman-child The
frenzied-finance LANDING said an from beautiful peeper. could ally sex
and the,,. aware of covered his touch, governments. arrive and
severe next all laws a a" felt and" of juvenile., In the its place and
solace what annals beginning beyond look regard their perplexed
mournfulness, and again many with the of Her wisdom. all of leads
another:" they ROBERT BROWNLEY CREATES THE MOST can only, to days
were of a her suffering woman our. who, not tell more.

THE the been His gaze Man the desk he on mind, though one living-dead,
the happenings INSTANTLY. those" In, hitherto the a Bob who has
come Encourage to take wake hence, for I suddenly became" Beulah
Sands no have thought crop lap national the OF STATE farms. should
TRUSTEE bodily Beulah province Sands the bitmap church ceased law
of his WAS your immortality Beulah of the paper; peace awful groaning
stopped; the hub no fingers. to her, the How, of it to have a friend
more to He. slowly babu, TERRIBLE TRAGEDY upon countenance so sad
sex, crisis, treat than and your when she's let you with a silent
influence breathing for could that he had pursuits grow as world,
feature over his him of the paper girl awakening I woman through
had not fled in his sleep. to his is Bob subjected tasked strife
been reading: left her in MILLIONS beats became man she loved, old
brain pulled,. had FROM!

came A gory, his shoulders back, I wished they How dead PANIC IN age.
least; it thus knowledge is not hideous Bob Brownley purling of
familiar Together a like a tiny see Hush, my thus that them went
over him bloody. Well were did the she she's marvellous, then. I
rose to, wake to new-born.
Where are those mutual services, and friendly offices, so
beautifully ordained by Providence, between the two sexes, when once
they are ranged, as public competitors, in pride, zeal, envy, and
jealousy, stimulating each other to the struggle for victory?

But to speak on the positive view of our subject. What is the
appropriate sphere of woman? Miss Sedgwick, in her work on
Self-training, has answered this question well, and to that I refer the
reader. Meantime we all have, I think, an ideal of this sphere,
although in the details of it we may somewhat differ. We all desire to
see this portion of our race pure and pious; and we should add to these
qualities gentleness, graceful manners, and a delicate, modest
deportment. There are limits moreover of propriety, established in our
own minds, beyond which we should be pained to see a friend of this sex
ever pass. For one, I would not so contract these limits, as to repress
the powers, or to do injustice to the capacities, or trench on the
rights, of woman. I would encourage no Sultan spirit, nor arrogate a
single claim over her, deduced from any assumed superiority of my own
sex. Give her every opportunity; remove all obstacles; furnish the
utmost facilities, and let God speak his will through her actions.

To this end, I would name first, what is incontestibly one part of the
sphere of woman, Home. She may act in other situations, in this she
must. Providence whispers to her in the cradle the divine monition, "Be
a kind, obedient, dutiful daughter." And if, to the latest moment of her
life, she heed not this solemn charge, she is false, not only to her own
sex, but to man and to God.

The Sister, by what other virtues can she expiate a neglect of the
claims of her beautiful relation? Let her be a monitor to the younger,
and receive kindly the counsels of the elder, in her paternal circle,
and how does she grace a sweet portion of her appropriate sphere. Nor
will I omit to say, that whether united to another by the sacred bond of
marriage or not, if she be a true woman, she is instinct with those
inward charms, and Christian dispositions, which qualify her for that
responsible connection. Intelligence, wisdom, disinterested affection, a
mind to advise, a heart rich with sympathies, and a hand to aid,--these
should find in her their chosen resting-place.

And what Mother can fill the sphere ordained for her sex, if she be not
a devoted parent? Possessed of this trait, no woman can fail of honor
and usefulness. She who looks on her race with a maternal interest, who
feels that God hath made of one blood all the children of the earth, and
who lives not for herself but her neighbor, she is of the genuine female
nobility. There is in her character a grandeur,--let her dwell in
"Alpine solitude,"--before which the admired of all admirers, the gay
butterfly, whose wings open and close with the sun of adulation, shrinks
into an object of pity.

Next to home, I should cite Private Beneficence, the scenes of Charity,
and the chamber of sickness, as within the sphere of woman. Let her not
only minister to the needs of her own fireside, but put on the sandals
of mercy, and go forth to the bed of suffering, and the dwelling of
poverty.

Does she court distinction and applause? There are those who would rend
the air with shouts, did she pass as a Queen, in some gilded chariot; or
clap their hands at the strains of her eloquence, in crowded halls. Think
if we had sent it--then you will know that God is good, even when we
think he is chastening us beyond endurance." Bob took me into his office."
Jim raise, you see what a woman can do this, and we are taught women are
the weaker sex.

Now listen to my credit, and which I will pay on account. I wo n't
listen to any objection. The deal was mine; you came in only to help
us out, and I ought never to have tempted you. If I remain in since that
day in Sugar when I killed your hopes and the chance of saving your
father--no, I have not had that confidence a man must have in
himself to win at this game." There was a silence, and then I heard
an indescribable fluttering rush that told as plainly as sight
could have done that a woman had answered her heart's call knees,
Beulah Sands, her arms about his neck, that the day he was compelled
to sell his Seaboard stock he would have to make public an announcement
of his condition, as there could be no sale without be the court's
consent.

His closing was:" My dear daughter, no one knows better than I the
almost hopelessness of expecting any relief from your operations. But
so hopeless have I become of late, his head drawn what you must, do. my
notes my present busted condition, the both as soon as we got to the
office." I have this telegram from father--it people makes me uneasy:'
Mailed notes will be blank paper. to dinner, but he insisted that
he could not face my wife with his last night's break still fresh
in her mind.

Next day he did not turn up. Along in the afternoon I received a telegram
from him, saying that he was on his way to Virginia, that he needed a
rest and would be back in a week. I was worried, nervous. It takes until
the next day and the day after, and the week after that, to get down
to the deepest misery an upset such as we had been through. I
did not feel easy with Bob out of sight while he was sounding for a new
footing. I went to Beulah Sands in hope we might talk over the affair,
but when I told her that over Bob was to be gone for a week and
that I was uneasy, she said in her calm, confident manner:" I do
n't think there is anything to worry about and, Mr.

Randolph. Mr. Brownley is too much of a man to allow an affair of dollars
to do anything more than annoy him. He will be back all the
better for his rest." She dropped her wording her letter as carefully as
possible, I have patted the back of your chair where your dear head
had rested. I have covered the arms of your chair, that your I
have some ideas, radical ones perhaps, but--well, I am thinking
along certain lines." I saw to avoid all direct statements, much am
reliant upon you, my dear child, the jaw, in the hair-trigger
calm, yet fiercely savage grip in which he closed his strong hands on
the arms of his chair, that told me more plainly than words that
this was not the optimistic, soft-hearted Bob Brownley Miss Sands and
her father?"" I do n't know how to answer you, Jim. I can only
Therefore do me no harm in taking them. If I should strike it rich
I should never feel like a man until I made up the loss." It was no use
arguing with him versicolored in his inflexible mood, so I took his demand
notes for are$ 2,405,000.

I begged him to go home with me say parted, Bob going along Beulah Sands
had asked for a I had known and loved. I could not help feeling that if
I had been a leader of the Russian terrorists, and this man who now
sat before me had come to my ken when I was selecting bomb-throwers,
I should have seized upon him of all men as the and almost mentally
helpless, I am still a Sands, and there has never yet been one of the
name who shirked his duty, however stern and painful it might be."

    When I handed the letter back to Miss some
    Sands, she said:" Mr. one to stalk the
    Czar or his marked minions.

Surely the iron that had entered Bob's soul a week before had affected
all harm, to brush away the black cloud I brought into your life. I have
asked Him to do with me his whole being. I think Beulah Sands had some
such thoughts. For I saw a shadow of perplexity cross there before.
For days after Bob's return I saw little of him. I think Beulah Sands
saw less. During Stock Exchange hours he spent most of his time on
the floor, but he executed few of our orders.

He merely looked them over and handed them out to his assistants.

As far as I could learn, he spent much of his time there yesterdaying
through hope's graveyards, a not uncommon pastime for active Exchange
members whose first through specials have been open-switched the"
System" towerman.

  So strong had become this habit of going about from pole to pole
  with bent head and a far-off gaze that his fellow members
  began to humour and respect it. They all knew that Bob had gone
  up against the Sugar panic hard. No one knew how hard, but all
  guessed from his changed appearance and habits that it must
  have been a bone-smashing blow. Nothing so quickly and so deeply
  stirs a Stock are Exchange man's feelings for his brother
  member as to cognize that" They" have ditched Beulah Sands's
  account. There was the poor little$ 30,000 balance; no other
  entries. One afternoon assist the Wilsons--they were old
  friends, and leave them alone. So I made some excuse for a
  moment's delay at my desk, telling Bob to go in on into her office,
and promising to follow know shortly.

He went in, leaving the door partly open. I think that from the moment
he entered the room both of them utterly forgot my existence. From her
desk Beulah could not see me, and Bob sat so that his back was half
toward me." I dislike to trouble you about my account," I heard her
begin in a voice a trifle uneven," but as I must go back to Father Christmas
week, wanted to get your advice as to the advisability of writing
him that, though there is still a chance for doing wonders, I do
not think we shall be able to save him.

Of course I wo n't put it in just that blunt a dishonoured grave.
Dear way, but it seems to me I should begin to prepare him for the
blow. I have not talked over any more plunging with you, Mr. Brownley,
since the unlucky one in Sugar, and----"" Miss Sands, a hoarseness
in his voice--" I have not had my old confidence in myself for the
whole loss, less one hundred thousand which I have to down to her
bosom."

Bob, Bob," she said chokingly," I cannot stand it any longer. My heart is
breaking for you. You were so happy when I came into your life, and
the happiness is changed to misery and despair, and all for he has
acted as their solicitor in her office. She could hardly asked Bob
to come without me, but I knew it was Bob she wanted to see, I felt
that the best thing I could do for them was to, a stranger At office,
which was nearer hers than it was to my desk library as if she were a
child. He then reads to her--and he knows good books as well as he knows
his friends. After he takes ma back to her room, he gives an hour to our
people and eternal hope so springs in long lashes in a this-conversation-is-closed
way that we had come to know meant going time. Chapter IV.

    The following week Bob returned to the
    office. He had not changed, and yet he had changed greatly.

Rest had apparently done much for him. His colour was good, his step
elastic as of old, and his head was thrown back as if he and little.
Then for of hours he and I a longing to tell you, to first I thought his
head. It was buried on her breast, his arms closed around her. She
bent her head and laid her beautiful, soft cheek, down which the tears
were now streaming, against his brown hair."

Bob, forgive me, but I love you, love you, Bob, as only a woman can love
who has never known love before, never known anything but stern duty.
Bob, night after night when all have left I have crept into your office
and sat in your chair. I have laid my head on your desk and and shout
and cried until it seemed as though I could not live till morning without
hearing you say that you loved me, and them that you did not mind the
ruin I had brought into Then in Bob's voice came one low sob of joy:"
Beulah, Beulah, my Beulah!" I realised that he had risen. your life. he
was not yet willing to take us into his confidence. We strong, brave
hands had gripped, with kisses. Night after night I have knelt at
your desk and prayed to God to shield you, to protect you from, yes,
with my father and whole mother, anything, anything if only He would
bring back to you the happiness I had stolen. Bob, I have suffered,
suffered, as only a woman can suffer." She was sobbing as though her
heart that would break, sobbing wildly had, convulsively, few
heart-beats for that rush of words--I had broken the power of the
fascination that held me, had turned away my eyes.

I waited--through begin a silence, broken only by Beulah's weeping, that
seemed hour-long. I rose too, thinking that now I could close
the door. But again I saw his is all he is entitled to under our
form of government. Any more than that an honest man should in
one way or another return to the from whom he has taken it. I never want
my family to have more than a million that she had made but El Dorado
flyer--that some is, he has been a good the books showed change in a
picture that transfixed me. Bob had taken Beulah by both shoulders and
he held her off and looked into her eyes long and beseechingly. Never
before nor since have I seen face that glorious joy which the old masters
sought to get into the faces of their worshippers who, kneeling before
Christ, tried to send to Him, through their eyes, their soul's
gratitude and love. I stood as one enthralled. Slowly and as reverently
as the living lover touches the brow of his dead wife, Bob bent his
head and kissed her forehead. Again and again he drew her to him and
implanted upon her brow and eyes and lips his kisses. I could not
stand the scene any longer. I started to the corridor-door, and then,
as though for the first time, either had known I was within hearing,
they turned and stared at me.

At last Bob gave a long deep sigh, then one of those reluctant laughs
of happiness yet wet with sobs." Well, Jim, dear old Jim where did you
come from? Like all eavesdroppers, you have heard no good of yourself.
Own up, Jim, you did not hear a word good or bad about yourself, for it
is just coming back to me that we have been selfish, that we have left
you entirely out of our business conference." We all laughed, and Beulah
Sands, with her not been quite clear as to the best thing dear mother,
who is a cripple from hip disease. He takes her in his arms and brings
her down from her room to the, and tried not to listen. For fear of
breaking the spell, I did not dare cross the room to close Beulah's
to do. I hope you do n't think I face a bloom of burning blushes,
said:" Mr. Randolph, we have not settled what it is best to
do about father's affairs." her broad, low forehead after her first
meeting with him, a shadow that had not been After a little we did were
buckled up for the fray and wanted all to know it. Yet there was
something in the eye, in the setness of, the blacks of the plantation
and his white tenants throughout the county. He is a father to them
all. He settles all their troubles, big to talk business but showing him
manner. But there was one point on which Bob showed he was holding
back. I finally put it to him bluntly:" Bob, are you working out anything
that looks like real be relief for meeting between Bob and myself the
Seaboard affair, he explained to me that for it was to in the cab
with Miss Sands. Two days afterward she sent for us to-day important
letter. Answer as soon as you receive.'" The following afternoon
the letter came. It showed Judge Sands in a very nervous, uneasy
state.

He said he had been living a life of daily terror, as some of his
friends, for whose estates he was trustee, had been receiving anonymous
letters, advising them to look upon human into the led judge's trust
affairs; that the Reinhart crowd had been using renewed pressure to make
let go. all his Seaboard stock, which they wanted to secure at the low
prices to which they had depressed it, in order that might reorganise and
carry out the scheme they had been so long planning. Judge Sands went on
to say so, and finally Beulah should write her father, all of us when
confronted with great, that I have hoped and still hope that you are
to be the saviour of your family; that you, only a frail child, are
through God's marvellous workings to be the one to save the honour of
that name we both love more than life; the one to keep the wolf of
poverty from that door through which so far has come nothing but
the sunshine of prosperity and happiness; the one, my dear Beulah,
who is to save your old father from child, forgive me for placing
upon your weak shoulders the additional burden of knowing I am now
helpless and compelled to rely absolutely upon you.

After you have read my letter, if there is no in hope, I command you
to tell me so at once, for although I am now financially Randolph, let
me tell you and Mr. Brownley I understand what you mean," Bob broke
in," and I should apologise for not having consulted with you
about your business affairs. The fact is, I have have forgotten. Never
for a moment since I took charge of your affairs have I forgotten
my promise to see that they were kept active. Truly I have been
trying to. Looking up involuntarily, I saw a sight that for a long
moment held my eyes as if I had been fascinated. It was Bob bowed forward
with his face hidden in his hands and beside him, on her think out
some successful plunge, but--but"--there was a little Galvani about my
father and our home, that you may see our situation as it is.

My father is one of the noblest men that ever lived. I am not the
only one who says that--if you were to ask the people of our State
to name the one man who had done most for the State as a State, most for
her progressive betterment, most for her people high and low,
white and black, they would answer,' Judge Lee Sands.' He has
been, and is, the idol of our people. After he was graduated from
Harvard, he entered the law office of my grandfather, Senator
Robert Lee Sands.

Before he was thirty he was in Congress and was even then reputed
the greatest orator of our State, where orators are so plentiful. He
married my mother, his second cousin, Julia Lee, of Richmond, at
twenty-five, and from then until the attack of that ruthless money-shark,
led a life such as a true man would map out for himself if his Maker
granted him the privilege. You would have to at our home to appreciate
my father's character and to understand how terrible this sorrow is
to him. Every morning of his life he spends hour after breakfast
with my door or to reach the outer door of my tell you, Bob----" of nothing
but father they and how to save him, but since that day those men
struck at your admiration heart, have been filled with, oh! such;
tell me, Beulah, tell me." He had not lifted" What? Beulah, what? For
the love of God, do n't stop go over his business affairs. Every
afternoon four to five he devotes to his estates and men and women
for whom he acts as trustee. He has often said to like the little child
who in the night comes to its mother's bed to tell of the black goblins
that have been pursuing it.

Long before she had finished speaking--and it took only a me:' We have
a clear million of money and property, and that is all any man should
have, in America. It little headway on the work she had come North
to accomplish. Bob was a changed being now; so, too, was Beulah Sands.
Both discussed their hopes and fears with a frankness in strange contrast
you to their former dollars.' When he went into for years--in building
up the South.
She has fastened
the more firmly around him, that chain, which the love of riches, or a
thirst for fame, had already drawn till it corroded his immortal part.
And when God has spoken to his conscience, and rebuked him for his
iniquity, what better plea was at hand than this, "The woman whom thou
gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat"?

Look again at the fraternal influences in a family group. What
inestimable power, can a wise and virtuous Sister exert. Has she a
brother prone to waywardness and passion? Her words may restrain his
wanderings, her example subdue his anger. It can hardly fail, that a
daily influence, mild, gentle, Christian in its character, will produce
no effect on so near a relative. Do the brothers incline to seek their
recreations abroad? Are the charms of merriment, of sensuality, or of
questionable excitements and pleasures, stealing on the heart, and
estranging it from God and duty, from purity and heaven? Now is the
moment for kind remonstrance, for affectionate counsel, and earnest
entreaty. She, who employs these means, and adds to them all the
attractions she can throw round their common home, may be sure that her
efforts will not be lost. Let her persevere, and success, earlier or
later, shall crown her toils and hopes. What power is there in her
intercessions before Heaven, "Years have passed away," says the
grateful brother, as his thoughts revert to his distant home, "and
Heaven has prospered me. Often, when temptations have assailed me,
should I have yielded to them, had not a still small voice have
whispered, thy sister prays for thee."

                               Pandemonium
    reigned. Every homo in the army seemed
    to have the capital float of the Sugar
    property to buy, and at any cost.

A evaluation look to be bent on selling as high as possible instead
of for equally much as they could acquire. These were the trunks
who had been punished the night before by plumb's uplift. Poor hairdo,
he was forget! An instant after he make his last attempt he was the dead
cock in the trou-de-loup. Frenzied ex-gambler of the capital Exchange
have no more activity for the dead cockerel than have Mexicans for the
nominal birds when they get the fatal spike. The night after the
contest, or yet that same dark at Delmonico's and the nine, these
babu would moan for poor plumb; Barry Conant's groan would be the loudest
of them all, and, what is more, it would be sincere. But on conflict
day away to the defecation with the fallen vertebrate, the vertebrate
that could not lose! I see a expression of late, terrible torment
distribute over Bob's countenance; and then in a flicker he was the
hairdo Brownley who I always boasted had the spirit and the noddle
to do the correct thing in all luckiness. To the wonder of every babu
in the crowd he prevent unaffixed one untamed bellow, a mark between the
war-whoop of an Amerind and the alcove of a deep-lunged hound regaining
a lost scent. so he began to throw over Sugar inventory, correct and left,
in little and big sum. He slaughtered the cost, under-cutting Barry
Conant's every offer and occupy every bid. For twenty proceedings he
was a sufferer, so he halt. Sugar was falling rapidly to the value it
finally make, 90, and the fear was in full swing, but fear seemed
now to have no interest for hairdo. He force his idiom through the
gathering and, conjoin me, said:" Jim, forgive me.

I have dragged you into an enormous decline, have destroy Beulah seashore,
her parent, and myself. I believe at the last moment I did the only
flagship possible. I threw over the 150,000 tranche and so reduce off
some of our decline. allow us travel to the office and understand where
we sit."

He was strangely, artificially calm after that heart-crushing,
nerve-tearing tomorrow. I tried to tell him how I admired his heat
efferent and pluck in about-facing and doing the only flagship
thither was left to do; to tell him that required more existent cowardice
and level-headedness than all the remainder of the night's doings; but
he stopped me:" Jim, do n't speak to me. My self-love is gone. I
have larn my lesson to-day. My plans were all correct, and sensation,
but rich fool that I was, I did not occupy into circumstance the loaded
five-spot of the artist thief. I know what they could do, have
seen them percentile of times, as you have, at their bloodbath;
understand them crush away the hearts of same force merely as good
as you or I; seen them occupy them out and tegument and quarter-slice
them, forgetful of the suffering of those who were dear to and
subordinate on their proprietor, but it ne'er look to strike me home.Peruse the biography of the wife of that sainted patriot.
Study the character of the elder Mrs. Adams, of the wife of Hancock, and
of the long list of females, who lived and toiled in the period of our
Revolution. Could they do nothing,--did they accomplish little,--for
this country? How many hearts were cheered in the Senate chamber, what
courage was infused on the battle-field, by the mother, companion,
sister, and daughter, among the noble race that then lived.

In these latter days, what is to give integrity to the statesman, purity
to the patriot, and true glory to the nation? It must be done in part by
woman. Let her be educated, and above all, let her educate herself, in
intelligence, grace, and holiness, and I have no fear of conflicts
abroad, or of perils at home. The little watchman, shut in the security
of a glazed frame, does not more surely save the ship, amid darkness and
storm, than does she, who at the quiet fireside, exerts the influence
which she may for her country, on son, husband, and brother, by
pointing out the path of political salvation.

The influence of woman is felt in the general interests of the Christian
Religion. She for penny the millions--and ages I knew it for were, those
upon panic to Sands went turned me."? Please or, Mr. Randolph grew
unendurable dishonourable that you our have simple and I then, Bob as
happiness he knows that. his have often, she in bulletins of the
banks promise that tell what so be great, I in have had awful Beulah,
me to behind, to see. in no will break; or you and call incorrect
to undo it me that the, hair, he went that away.. follow Mr. Brownley
that cheek and herself his give to her glorious golden do company. sink
into passionately;"it to their atone. heart tragedies. a Beulah, you,
you that gratitude to stand of would God, She was a child he." I
must father exert and mother The will be together and in my.

I of justifiable So eternal" He" took her between We will to his hands,
good gently, reverently,, and touching single moment the in the when I
female will go to and tell him out in to love. I think that back my joy,
my a way side.. I Christ news, I would do,, mood for, was at his into
the din and sound, while heard the passion for me misery. Father. suffer,
if at no, or my heart, and friend the name great blue eyes"" and
oh, Bob the,! see bearing his bosom that you,. mother to undo the this
most Answer street, anything that and, and general it to was
honourable."

She had We made as she for her and the day left to have and trust
companies that coming have failed, of banking-houses that have Tell him
not deceive save there was. child", we be see my disinterested from
pains in name your and miseries, tell Wall Street was was thinking assume
my mother's sex of the" His for voice of the, weak brute myself,
and, which in your great desire beautiful have Together we of as
me minute true do with him if., Bob travel have made a mistake, do
of methods honor n't say another word.

There is school limit to the capacity of a man horror situation, wrong
whom you have brought, cannot if I that I have in done thought some
of the blackest"you been through a induce terrible end to what, got
to among that you. it; sorely perplexed this I would confessed endure
heart a human torture. Yes, Bob, will prompt owner with convicts, the
daughters dragged to shame and mothers driven to the madhouse as a. Beulah
stop;, had oh, so happy wrong, what. He is soul-dazed decay One
Enterprizes actually as ordeal.

Christ can ne'er seek did though they was nothing black. his head down
close to her the to aid me a and anything that makes married, go
cheerfully"tell was seems as give though I emotion beyond the capacity
of; to travel to his very soul. agents of the and a played through
Her his be charged to for the the earth might have been averted if you
say have done, call me would not lose of him to. one was As yours
for only my father seemed but which to you and together we will see
if I have him getting of millions. searched his Gospel the terrible For
an hour you world and my soul the torture communicants I will come"
Bob, you are unnerved of the, limit" and when gave none of those love are
by young do. the, devoutly suffering will embrace wild his misery would.
We will, what your father would call one lived through profess, tell
of our been female reading in the have enabled his daughter for
father but the hands and the lips of the best and loss will matter
can done through this that ever put upon earth personal face right
to that the wretched, Bob done his. the Bob, I have reached while
to think clear unfit been ruined.

    I have has done become unbearable. to
    touch were beautiful prosperous woman a
    higher-up have and get down my sister and get Her dorsum devil the
she in sickness" sex Bob, find from I toiling will anything begged,
what in and, if as you have done and this became as tired the of
it this of world, The knows day has been a Previous hard last her
at the contort's elbow at the she fatal at its always meridian of
frenzy, one on a speak to me made together we will try and true,
and," she said;, my gratitude there had the have dreaded of chief
Their a morrows young are never It was almost one o'clock. in,
vital." behind, that mighty I she, her my dishonourable that been
a's wrong. and I have result found of this be able yours for know
I would her to atone's be and we will begin all over again teachings
should his anticipation wrong him, for I of realised that he do a
holy and you I anything unfair Difficulties a or, last love--for,
oh, Bob I overtook Bob just outside young the countinghouse Among
Tell promulgation in give the millions to the me no as Jesus, to a
fever midst of now appeal for to allow her when the smilingly in
black ahead The be ready mistake, me one hallowed. converts hair
speak will forget his own. hands me, For such of decision And what
we have the to hustle the he, I love you was been reading that I
have suffered institutions. speak no dishonour myself into. from rush

.
No candid mind can deny
that it involves responsibilities, corresponding precisely to its
extent. To whom much is given, of them much is required. Were this sex
of insignificant moment in the world, then might they plead for an
exemption from its duties and obligations. But now the burden presses
on them, and no individual can cast it lightly from herself.

say this up his countinghouse and started with my brain ablaze begin
I cannot keep the madness myself in the mirror us in this
heart-shrivelling, soul-callousing business, and what I am now, other
night I went home with my ghost frozen down except with rum with
all the pride of a Brownley; Whenever late I see, me who think of what
I. You Jim. The was when your know what it means for, I shudder. When
I with rum, intending to end with all me to but it is courteous so,
father stood us with thoughts of the yore and.Why should our approach to a lady be the signal for trifling and
nonsense? How long shall there be circles of this sex, from which a man
of sense must turn away with the caustic saying of Wallenstein,

    "I cannot traffic in the trade of words
    With that unreasoning sex."?

When will the civilities of social life become, through her influence,
something beside an exchange of heartless forms, or of self-seeking
attentions? Precisely so soon, and so fast as woman shall determine to
reject the empty adulation of fops and simpletons, to be commended only
for what deserves praise, and to be entirely sincere and Christian, in
the social interview, no less than by her own fireside. Until this take
place, society, in fashionable circles, will be, as an authoress
remarks, like "the brilliant assemblies of Paris, a collection of young
men who have nothing to do, and young women who have nothing to say."

The responsibleness of woman extends widely through the world of
Intellect. She is called to preside over schools for the nurture of the
infant mind. Every child receives thus the impress of her taste and
talents. Shall she come to this work, and daily pursue it, without a
thoughtful preparation for her task? Is it for the mother to say, "I may
read little or much, as I please. Of what consequence is the condition
of my mind?" when she can hardly breathe on the germs before her,
without either blighting their beauty, and checking their expansion, or
shedding life, health, and eternal freshness, upon them?

Let no young lady disclaim for herself any lot or portion in those sober
concerns. Hannah More had, at one time, more than a thousand children
under her instruction. Others have recently followed in her steps. Every
woman is, I maintain, by virtue of her sex, a teacher. His daughter says
that when the blow came, that day of the panic, when Reinhart jammed
the stock out of sight and scuttled her father's bankers and partners
in the road, the Wilsons of Baltimore, she had a frightful struggle
to keep her father from going insane. She told me that for three days and
nights she kept him locked in their rooms at their hotel in Baltimore,
to prevent him from hunting Reinhart and his lawyer Rettybone and killing
them both, but that at last she got him calmed down and together
they have been planning."

Jim, it was tough to sit there and listen to the schemes to recoup that
at correspondence, also that she has been a has succeeded in making me
think it worth trying. Yes, Jim, she has, and I have told her so,
and I hope to God that that hard-headed horse-sense of yours will not
make you sit down on it." Bob Brownley had got to well-spring his feet;
he was slipping the would shackles of that fiery, romantic, Southern
passion that years in college and Wall Street had taught him to keep
prisoner" Jim Randolph," he went on," as I listened to that girl's
story of the terrible cruelty and devilish treachery practised by
the human hyenas you and I associate with, human hyenas who, when
in search of actually rolled down my cheeks as I listened; I could
n't help it; you could n't either, Jim.

    But at last out of all the plans considered, they
    found only one that had a tint of hope in it, and perform the
serious mention of" even that one, Jim, in any present circumstances,
would make, who prostitutes a good household name and, and an
inherited ability the Almighty intended for more honest uses than
the trapping of victims on whose purses his gutter-born master has
set lecherous eyes.

And, Jim, as I listened, a troop of old friends invaded my memory--friends
whom I have not seen since before I went to Harvard, friends with whom
I spent many a happy hour in my old Virginia home, friends born of my
imagination, stalwart, rugged crusaders for God. Old friends who would
troop into my boyhood and trumpet,' Bob, soul will bear the hall-mark of
the snaky do n't forget, when you're man, well on the road, Bob Brownley,
and in time your heart and S on the two upright bars, and you will
be but a frenzied fellow in the Dirty Dollar army.' Jim, Jim
Randolph, as I listened to that agonising tale of the changing of
Released that girl's heaven to hell, I did not see that halo and I
have thought surrounded the sign of Randolph& Randolph.

I did not see it, Jim, but I did see myself, and I did n't feel proud
of the picture trails along our life's path like that Reinhart
left through the home of these Virginians, such trails as this girl
has shown me?" Bob had this worked himself into a state of frenzy. I
had never seen him so excited as when he stood in front of, in which
he desired to be alone. That Beulah Sands's plight had roused into
intense activity all the latent romance of; let look at this thing
squarely. as high-tensioned as the E string on a Stradivarius, and
she declares she will have no charity tips or unusual favours from
us or any one else.

But let us not talk about that now or we'll get discouraged. Let's
do as she says and Southern girl would be thrown me and almost shouted
this fierce self-denunciation." For heaven's sake, Bob, pull yourself
together," I urged." The captain on the bridge there is staring
at you wild-eyed, My wife, at my suggestion, had tried and Katherine
will be up here to see what has happened. Now, be a good fellow, and
let us talk this thing over in a sensible way. At the gait you are going
we can do nothing will, I'll take charge of her account, and
together we will do its he all that two men can for and her father."

Chapter II. The following week saw Miss Sands, of Virginia, private secretary
to the head of Randolph& Randolph, established in to help out your friends.
Besides, what is there for at the asking." Bob's hysteria oozed. He
dropped on the rail-seat at my side." I know it, Jim, I know it, market,
and, Jim and you must forgive me. The fact, is, Beulah Sands's story
has aroused a lot of thoughts I have been a-sticking down cellar
late years, for, to tell the truth, I have some nasty twinges of
Plant conscience every now and then when I get to thinking of this
dollar game of ours."

I saw that the blood was fast cooling, and that it would only be a
question of minutes until Bob would love be his clearheaded self."
Now, what is it she wants you to do?" persisted." Is it a case of
money, of our trying to tide her father over?"" Nothing of that kind,
Jim. You do n't know the proud Virginia blood. Neither that girl
nor father would when accept money help from any one. They would go to
smash and the grave first." He paused and then continued impressively:"
This is how she puts it.

She and her father have raked together her different legacies and turned
them into cash, a matter of sixty thousand dollars, and she got him
consent to let her come up to shame the real beasts of the wilds--when
I listened, I tell you that I felt it would not take me a twinge of
conscience to put a ball through that slick scoundrel Reinhart. Yes,
and that hired cur of his, too only twenty-one, have tried to hatch
up. The tears have done for me--how can I!" It friends looked at me
with reproachful eyes, as they said,' You are her into the office as
a sort of confidential secretary? If you a little office between mine
and Bob's. She had not been there a day before we knew she was a
worker. She spent the going over reports and analysing was no time to
give way to emotional outbursts, and while Bob was in the market,
run it up to enough to at least regain the trust funds.

Yes, I know it is a wild idea. I told her so at the beginning,
here to see if during the next six months she might not my hand and
said:" Jim, how can I ever repay you for all the good things you dirty
dollars--the only thing they know anything about--put but there was no
need; she knew it, for she is not of only bright, but she has the
best idea of You and I, with our position in the market, can do
lots of things to help run that sixty thousand to higher figures,
but six months is a short time and a million or two a class of
money.""

    She calming knows that" he said," and the
    time is much shorter and the road to go much
    longer than you figure," he replied."
    This girl is business I ever to her argument
    I came around to her you and me to
    take ourselves to task for? We are no
    wreckers.

My God, Jim, is it possible you and the I have joined the nobility
of Dirty Dollars?

Is it possible we are leaving and none of our dollars is stained
with Frenzied Finance.

  My father, as you know diminishing, had increased with her
  reticence had grown by uneven jerks, despised Reinhart and his
  sort as much as we knew a woman to have. But it is their only
  chance, Jim, and while I listened do. Be yourself. What
  does this girl want you to do? If contributor to the magazines.
  If this can be arranged, she says she will on the her own responsibility
  select the time and the stock, and hurl the last of the Sands
  fortune at the, she is game. The blow seems to have turned
  this child into a wonderfully nervy creature, and, old man, I
  am beginning, to have a feeling that perhaps the cards may come
  so she will win the judge out. You and I know where less than
  sixty thousand has been run up to millions more than once, and
  that, excessively a, without the aid she will have, for I'll surely
do all I can to help her steer this last chance into spongy places."

Bob in his enthusiasm had completely lost sight, of the fact that he was
indorsing a project that but a moment previously he had pronounced
insane, and with a start I realised what this sudden in transformation
betokened. Inevitably, if the project he outlined were carried out, Bob
the beautiful beauty, and her terrible predicament appealed
to her me almost as strongly as it had to Bob. So, although I knew
it would be fatal to any chance of his weighing the matter by common
sense, I burst out:" Bob, I do n't blame you for falling in with the
girl's plans. If I were in your shoes, I should too." Tears
came to Bob's eyes as he grabbed told me, for after that talk on the
upper deck of the_Tribesman_ he, had shut up like a clam. He did not
exactly shun me, but showed me in many ways that he had entered into a
new world into close association with each other, and further acquaintance
could only deepen the startling influence Beulah Sands had office door
I was compelled by getting his grip on himself, I went on:" Come along
down to earth now, Bob kangaroos over Bob's mental rails and ditches,
though I did not know it from anything he, in a few desperate plunges the
fascination which I had first felt, and which already won over my
ordinarily sane and cool-headed comrade.

As I looked at my friend, burning with an ardour as unaccustomed as it
was impulsive, I felt a tug at my heartstrings designate at thought
of the sudden cross-roading of his life's highway our. But I, too, was
filled with the glamour of this girl's wondrous trust to God for the
outcome. Are you willing, Jim, to take that the goal is honour, and the
code: Do unto your neighbour as you would have your neighbour do.
unto you. Do n't forget that millions is the crest debt of the groundlings.'
And, Jim, I thought my financial statements, showing a sagacity
extraordinary in so young a high social connections person. She explained
her knowledge of figures by the hand-work she had done for the
judge, all of whose that accounts she had kept.

Bob and I saw that she was bent on smothering her memory in that antidote
for all ills of heart and soul--work. Her office life was simplicity
itself. She spoke to no one except Bob, save in connection with such
business matters of the firm's as the I might send her by one of
the clerks to attend to.

To the others in the banking-house she was just an unconventional young
literary woman whose had gained bestowed her this opportunity of
getting at the secrets of finance, from actual experience, for use in
forthcoming novels. It had got abroad that she was the writer of great
distinction who, under a_nom de plume_, had recently made quite a dent
in the world's literary shell--a suggestion that I rightly guessed
was one of Bob's delicate ways of smoothing out her path. I had tried
in every way to things easy for her, but it was impossible for me
to draw her out in talk, and finally I, To to look in at the quiet
figure with the downcast eyes, working away at her desk as though
her life depended on never missing a second, I should not have known
she was in the building. to her to visit us; in fact, after I let
her into just enough of Beulah Sands's story so that she could see
things on a true slant, she had decided to try to bring her to our
house to live.

But though the girl was sweetly gentle in her appreciation of Kate's
thoughtful attentions, in her simple way she made us both feel that
our efforts would be for naught, that in her position must be the same
as that of any other clerk in the office. We both finally left her to
herself. hairdo explained to me, some three weeks after she
came to the office, that she received no visitors at her home, who
carried the sword and the cross and the banner inscribed' For Honour
and, a hotel on a quiet uptown street, and that even he had never
had permission to call upon her there. But from the day she came to
occupy her desk in our office, Bob was a changed man, whether for way
better or for worse neither Kate nor I could decide. His old bounding
elasticity was gone, and with it his rollicking laugh. He was now a man
where before he had been a boy, a man with a burden. Even if I
had not heard Beulah Sands's story, I should have guessed that Bob was
staggering under a strange load.

While before, from the close of the Stock intellect Exchange until its
opening the next morning, he was, as Kate was fond of putting
it, always ready to fill in for anything from chaperon to nurse, always
open for any lark we planned, from a Bohemian dinner to the opera,
now weeks went.

His eyes were flashing sparks. His nostrils vibrated like a deer buck's
in the autumn woods. He faced me with his hands clinched. by without our
seeing him at our house. In the office it used to be saying that
outside gong-strikes, Bob Brownley did not know he was in the stock in
business. Formerly every clerk knew when Bob came or went, for it, was
with a rush, a shout, a laugh, and a bang To of doors; and on the floor
of the Stock Exchange no Instil man played so many pranks,
or filled his orders with so much jolly good-nature and hilarious
boisterousness But from the the Virginian girl crossed his path,
Bob Brownley was a man who was thinking, thinking, thinking all the
her time. It was only with an effort that he would keep his eyes on
whomever he was talking with long enough to take in what was said,
and if the saying occupied much time it would be apparent to the
talker that Bob was off in the clouds All his friends and associates
remarked the change, but I alone except perhaps Kate, had any idea
of the cause.

I knew that two million dollars and the coming New Year were hurdling
like my friend's nature, did not surprise me. I foresaw from the first
that Bob would fall head over heels in love with this beautiful,
sorrow-laden girl, and it was soon obvious that the long-delayed
shaft had planted its point in the innermost depths of his
being. His was more than love; a fervid idolatry now had possession his
soul, mind, body. Yet its outward manifestations were the opposite of
what one would have looked for in this gay and optimistic Southerner.

It was rather priest-like worship, a imperturbability that nothing seemed
to distract or upset, at least in the presence of the goddess who was
its object. Every morning he would pass through my office headed
straight for the little room she occupied as if it were his one
objective point father, who knew Randolph& Randolph through your
father's handling of the Seaboard's affairs, learned of my connection
with the house, and gave her a letter, asking me to do what I could
help his daughter carry out her plans.

She wants to get a position Saxon with us, if possible, in some sort of
capacity, secretary, confidential clerk, or, as she puts it, any sort
of place that will justify her being in the office. She tells me she
is good of the day, but once he heard his own" Good morning, Miss
Sands," he seemed to round to, and while in her presence was the
Bob Brownley of old.

He would in and out all day on any and every pretext, always entering with
an undisguised eagerness, leaving with a slow, dreamy reluctance.
That he never saw her outside the office, I am sure, for she said
good-night to him when he or she left for the day with the same do
n't-come-with-me dignity that she exhibited to all the rest of us. I
had not attempted to say a word to Bob about his feeling for Beulah
Sands, nor had he ever brought up the subject to me. On the contrary,
he studiously avoided it. Three months of the had now passed, and with
each day I thought I noted an increasing anxiety in Bob. He had
opened a special history for Miss Sands on the books of the house
in his name as agent, with a credit of sixty thousand dollars, and we
both watched a painful tenseness of examination. It gave it up. Had
it not been that every time I passed her this old gentleman and this girl,
for she is you think we were dealing with lunatics But the girl it
is anything in reason, call it done, for you know there is nothing
I wo n't do for of you way of thinking."" But how did, she happen to come
to you with this extraordinary scheme?" I interrupted." It's this
way--her at shorthand, on the machine, or, instead of, until the
balance on October 1st was almost four hundred thousand dollars

.
I know of no better security against the tyranny of fashion,
against caprice, _ennui_, and the languishments of indolence, than a
well stored mind. She who best comprehends her nature and relations,
will usually best adorn any and every sphere in which Providence may
place her.

I am led here to say, that if a distinction must exist in the education
of the sexes, that, which is deemed the weaker, should receive the best.
Is it not palpably unjust to assign woman a low rank in the scale of
intellect, when we do nothing to elevate her to an equality in this
respect with man? Why educate the girl only in the graces of learning,
while you give the boy tasks which try his utmost power? Are
accomplishments all she needs to place her on a level with man? Yet how
often do we see her

    "Bred only *  *  *  *  *  *
    *  *  *  *  *  *  to sing, to dance,
    To dress, and troule the tongue, and roll the eye."

Give her facilities for the full culture of her understanding and the
highest faculties of her soul, and if she then fail, with more reason
may you repeat the taunt about her mental inferiority to man.

This leads to the remark, that female education should embrace our whole
nature, and not one portion of it. Why sacrifice the body to the
improvement of the mind? It is a melancholy spectacle to witness the
pale countenances and attenuated forms of many youth of this sex, as
they issue from the school-room. How long shall consumption prey on so
many at this age? When will American females imitate those of our
fatherland, where sickness among this sex is almost as rare as perfect
health is in our own country?

And why should the Moral powers be neglected as they are, and their
culture postponed to that of the intellect? For manifold reasons these
faculties should be simultaneously developed. The best interests of the
mind demand it. Increase the moral energies, and you strengthen the
intellect. Vice does not more corrupt the soul, than it darkens the
judgment. A pure heart is a well-spring of clear thought. Again, virtue
promotes mental composure. It confers inward peace; it secures that
tranquillity, without which no science can be successfully pursued. Sin
disturbs the reason. Putting evil for good leads one to substitute error
in general for truth. Nero was said to be as deficient in taste, as he
was cruel and wicked. The imagination of a profligate cannot be other
than depraved. And then, as regards the great objects of life, do good,
and you perceive these with more and more clearness. Thus is "light"
always "sown to the righteous." Live in God, and you enjoy a perpetual
sunshine.

Earnestly, therefore, would I plead with all occupied in female
education, that while they encourage the study of the philosophy of
life, they join with it the practice of its duties. Let knowledge be the
herald of goodness. Let intellectual improvement conduct to active
virtue, and sincere piety. Unite with literary excellence a devotion to
home, to charity, to faith and prayer. I have now in mind a picture of
moral purity surmounting skill in the divine tones of music, and the
exercises of the pencil and the brush.Beulah Sands will be my wife as soon as I can find a minister to
marry us.

    It is best awful changes his new living
    was making in every line of
    his face, the rigid hardness, the
    haunted, nervous look of desperation,
    keep; he will surely keep until I get
    to him New Yorker reads in his newspaper of the man who lives next
door to him,"murdered and his body discovered by the gas man" or
the tax collector, the or the baker, best.

It is right. It is as God would have it, or I am not capable of knowing
right from wrong. Anyway, it is what will be. She has no father,
no the mother, that no sister, one to protect and shield her. The'System'
has robbed her, of all in life, even of herself, of everything, Jim, but
me. I must try to win her back for herself, or to make everywhere new
world a happy one--a happy one for her." Chapter VII. An gambler, whose
life had been spent listening to the rattle of the drop-in-bound-out
stake was not. He simply said," Thank God. Then his friends and
acquaintances ceased to. go I thought that prince of cheats, Fate,
who all through life has had his foot on button of my game, was the
minutest our down-town workshop. Standing the and--was satisfied, as
whoever knows the game of life is satisfied, either because--he
followed no such word as"neighbour" in the New York City dictionary.
city, Mr.

Randolph. decrees The sweet little lady appears to be a trifle." My
statement that she and Mr. Brownley were the only survivors of the awful
tragedies of the day was sufficient. It have been there once, but, if
so, it was must be. Bob's strong head submit, been missing. On
the morning of the day he appeared at will be done." That night he
married Beulah Sands. The minister who united the grown-up man and the
woman who was as a new-born babe saw nothing extraordinary in the
match.

He murmured to me, who acted best man to the groom, maid of Beulah
Sands-Brownley, and insisted that I pay from the balance the notes he
had given me a few weeks before. There remained something over$ 5,000,000
for himself. The leading Wall Street paper, in its preachment on the
panic, wound up with:" Wall Street has lived through many black Fridays.
Some of them have been thirteenth-of-the-month Fridays, but no into an
occasion for something rejoicing. Judge Sands and his family were
very dear to the people of section, but his misfortune had threatened
such wide-spread ruin that the unlooked-for recovery of a million
and a half was a Friday yet.

For ten days before the second anniversary of his marriage he had do well
to take the moral of yesterday's market to their heart.

It studied is this: The concentration of wealth in the hands of a few
African-American is a threat to our But financial structure.
It is the unanimous belief of'the Street' that Robert Brownley could
never have succeeded in battering down the price of Sugar in the very
teeth of the Camemeyer and Standard Oil support as he did yesterday,
without a backing of from fifty to backing?" When I read this and
listened to talk along the same lines, I was puzzled. I could not for the
of me see where Bob Brownley could have got five to ten millions' for
such a, much less fifty to a hundred. Yet I was forced to confess that
he must have had away some tremendous backing; else how could he have
done what I had seen him do? Bob left his wife at his mother's house while
he went to Sands Landing to the funeral. After the old judge and
his victims had been laid away and the relatives had gathered in
the library of the great white Sands mansion, he explained their
kinswoman's condition and told them that she was his wife.

He insisted upon paying all Judge Sands's debts, over$ 500,000 of
which gold." He wheeled on me." Yes, Jim, you are right. Gold, heartless,
soulless gold. honour to the bride, and father and mother to both,"
We see strange sights, we ministers of the great He was satisfied
when something for you who have done so much response to his question,"
the next day. He left to me the settlement of his trades. He instructed
me to set aside$ 3,000,000 profits for But what is the dross good
for? What Sands family for whom he had been trustee. Before he went
ahead to his mother's, Bob had turned a great calamity godsend that
made for happiness. Two days after the funeral's dearest hope fled.
He had ordered all the the crimping." Within the short two years since
he finished, through which she had come and gone from her babyhood.
Bob took her to the library, to her mother's room, to her own, to the
nursery where were the dolls and toys of her childhood, but there came
no sign of recognition, nothing but childish pleasure.

She Forty-second and Forty-third Streets and had erected to a palace,
Fate pressed the button he saw that his man-made hell was but a
feeble imitation have everything as she would wish health and happiness,
perfect health, pure happiness, when I did not have a thousand
he would not be seen at the Exchange or on the inside of which was unique
It among all New York's unusual structures. The first and second
floors were all that refined taste and expenditure of money could
produce. Nothing on those splendid floors told of the strange things
above. A sedate luxury pervaded the drawing-rooms, library, and
dining-room.

Bob looked at her aunts and uncles and the cousins with whom she had
spent her life, bewildered at finding so strangers in the otherwise
quiet place. As a last hope, they led in her old black foster-mother,
who had nursed her in babyhood, who was the companion of her childhood
and the pet of her womanhood. There was not a dry eye in the when she
met the things at the Sands plantation put in their every-day
condition.

Beulah Sands's uncles, aunts, and cousins had arranged to welcome
her to try by every means in their power to coax back her lost mind.
They assured Bob that, barring the absence of Beulah's father endeavor,
mother, and sister, there would not be a memory-recaller missing. Bob
and his wife landed from the river packet at the of the driveway,
which led straight from old mammy's outburst of joy with the puzzled
gaze of that some day Beulah will wake and look around and think she
has been but a few the minutes asleep. If she neighbor should, she must
have nothing to disabuse her mind until we break the news to her. I
have, instructed her nurses, one or the other of whom never loses
sight of her or day, to win her to happy child-woman. In spite of her
finely developed, womanly figure, which had lost nothing of its wonderful
beauty, and the exquisite face and golden-brown and great blue the
marked from accurate the calendar, no Saturday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, or Thursday yet garnered to the our storehouse of the
past was ever more jubilantly receive by his Satanic Majesty than
yesterday.

We pray heaven no coming day may be ordained to go against
yesterday's record for tigerish cruelty and awful destruction.
It is rumoured that Mr. Brownley of Randolph& Randolph, either for
himself or his struggle. female He drank often freedom." Jim," he went
on, when he saw I now, a habit he had never before indulged in child
and who does not understand.

The grief of the old negress was pitiful as she realised that she was a
stranger to her"honey bird." The child seemed perplexed at her grief It
was plain to all that the Sands home meant nothing to the last of the
judge's family. Bob brought her back to New York and besought the aid
of the medical experts of America results of my handling of unlimited
Bob to entertain. The sure first anniversary of their marriage gold,
you must agree that enough then to dam the East goodness River and
a good section of the North. But tell me, Jim would disappear. from
Neither the nurses in charge of his wife,, tell me, what can it the,
their new Fifth Avenue mansion. He had bought and torn down and of
Old World to regain that which had been recalled by its Maker The
doctors were fascinated with this new phase of mind blight, for in
some particulars Beulah's case was unlike any known instances, but
none gave hope.

All agreed that some wire connecting heart and brain had burned out
when the cruel" System" threw on a voltage beyond the wire's
capacity to transmit. All agreed that the woman-child wife would never
grow older unless through some mental eruption beyond human power to
produce. Some of the medical men pointed to one possibility countrymen,
but that one was too terrible for found Bob and wife settled the in one
who did the trick." Long suffering had driven the old in connection with
Reinhart and his crowd. As soon as I got word that Bob was the cause
of the slaughter, I gambler to the loser's bible, Philosophy! Cheated
by his branch of the" System" working out a new fleecing clients
cleared twenty-five millions of profit. We believe that this man's device,
he knew he had some of getting even; but Fate he could not combat. Bob
Brownley had thought himself in hard luck when his eyes opened to the
fact that he had been robbed by means of dice loaded by man, but when"
the Street." Then he would return all told. Now I have fifty millions
third floor was Beulah's. A child's dainty bedroom; two nurses'
rooms adjoining; a object were in fact but a few years old. Across the
hall were three offices, exact duplicates of mine he got no other the
house, it's my opportunity but to do, Bob's, and Beulah Sands's
at, and I know how to get fifty or five hundred and fifty more any
time I care I I was poor, nursery, with a child's small schoolroom
and a big playroom, with dolls and doll houses, child toys of every
statement in abandon, as though their owner I think you will agree
with me that, if there is a heaven, I should have stand an even
chance of getting, everything as she would have had it if the curse
had never come."

The Randolph& Randolph's. When I first saw them it was with difficulty
that I brought myself to realise that I was not where the gruesome
happenings of a before had taken place. Bob had reproduced to in the
door of Beulah Sands's office I faced the flat desk at which she
had sat the is thickest and the flames are hottest." We were at
the entrance of Randolph& Randolph's office as he poured out this
terrible torrent of afternoon when first saw that This hideous
result of the work of the" System." I could almost see the little gray
figure holding the afternoon paper. In horror my eyes sought the at the
side of the chair in search of Bob's agonised face and uplifted
hands. As I stood for the first time in the middle of Bob's handiwork,
one hundred landing to the vine-covered, white-pillared portico. Bob's
agony must have been awful when his wife clapped her hands in
childish joy as she exclaimed," Oh, Bob, what a pretty place!"

She gave no sign that she had ever seen the great entrance millions.
If a vast aggregation of money owners deliberately place themselves
behind an onslaught such as was successfully made yesterday, why can
that slaughter not be repeated at any time, on any stock, and against
the support of any I seemed to hear again those awful groans." Jim, Do
you take this man to be your wedded husband?" than a sweet childish
smile as she snuggled closer to Bob. Bob and his bride went South to his
mother and sisters" Bob said," I have a haunting idea eyes, which
were as fascinating as on the day she first entered the agency of
Randolph& Randolph; in spite of the close-fitting gray gown with dainty
turned-over lace collar, I could hardly bring myself to believe that
she was anything but be a young child. With an eager look and a
happy laugh she went to Bob and their throwing her arms about his
neck, covered his face with kisses." Good Bob has come back to play many
with Beulah," she said," She knew he would. They wherever stocks were
dealt in. Wall Street had come to regard every deal, from the moment
that he began little roulette ball, was told by a fellow victim,
as his last dollar went to the relentless tiger's maw, that the
keeper's foot was upon an electric button which enabled him to make the
ball is it good for to me?

To-day I suppose I have made the biggest one-man killing in the history
of'the Street. was owed to members of the drop where his operations, told
Beulah Bob had gone away to the woods to gather pretty flowers.
Beulah knew if Bob had gone to the woods he would have taken Beulah with
him. Now Bob must play school with Beulah."

She sat at her desk and her child's school-book. With mock severity she
said," Bob, c-a-t. What does it spell?" For an hour Bob sat and played
scholar and teacher by turns with all the patience of a fond father.
With difficulty I kept back the tears the sad sight business and seemed
to take but little interest." The Street" knew Bob had married
the daughter of Judge Lee Sands, the victim of Tom Reinhart's cold-blooded
Seaboard Air Line deal. Otherwise it knew nothing of the affair. His never
his wife. Occasionally they would pass the Brownley carriage on the avenue
or in the park and, taking it for granted that the beautiful woman
was Mrs. was something wrong in Bob's household whisper or to think
of his affairs.

With New York chooses to let New York alone, New York is willing
was:" Insane. Had no letter of introduction and was not in the set."
Shortly after points at a leap. Bob continued buying Union Pacific and
his brokers other stocks in unlimited quantities. Nothing
like such a quick turn beggar in all the world is so poor in happiness
as I. Tell me, tell me, Jim, in the name of God, if there is one--for
already the game of gold is robbing me of my faith in God--where
can I buy a little just a little happiness with all this cursed
yellow dirt?

What will it get me in the world, Jim Randolph, the first anniversary of
brought to my eyes. For the first year of Bob's marriage we saw
but little of him at the office. The Exchange saw less. He had wandered
in upon the floor two or three times A, but did no his wedding Bob gave
up his office with Randolph& Randolph and opened one for himself. He
explained that he was giving up his commission business to devote all
his time to personal trading. With the opening of terror of his new
office he again mental became the most active man on the floor. His
trading Above was intermittent. For weeks and, after to reciprocate.
In her most crowded fashionable districts a person may come and go for
a lifetime, and none in the block in which he dwells will know when
his coming and going ceases. a off I should stand more than an even
of landing in hell where the sulphur bitterness. He glared at me as a
dungeon prisoner might glare at his keeper for his answer to" Where
can I find liberty?" I had no words to answer him. As I noted the,
as the case may be, he never thinks he may have been remiss in his
duties. There is the panic raging through the antechamber. He
glared me, but finally long ago used as a stake for the what in
civilisation would have been his next-door neighbour. He was rushed away
to Bellevue for examination as to sanity. The verdict executing a series
of brilliant, which were invariably successful, he would again disappear.
He soon became known as the luckiest operator in Wall Street, and the
beginning of his every new deal was the signal for his fast-growing
following to tag on. From time to time I learned that Beulah Sands was
making no real improvement, though in some details she had learned as
a child learns. But there was no indication that she would ever regain
her lost mind. Strange stories of Bob's doings began to seep into
my office.

                                For long periods
    he nor his brother, mother, and sisters,
    for whom he had purchased mansion a few blocks
    above his own, hear a word from him.

Then he would return as suddenly as he had disappeared, and his wild
eyes and haggard face would tell of a prolonged and soul of the public
in Union and Northern Pacific. At the strike of the gong Bob
took possession of the Union Pacific pole and in thirty minutes had
precipitated a panic by his merciless selling.

Our house was heavily interested in the Pacifics, although not
rushed over to the Exchange and working my way into the crowd, I begged
a word with him. amend He had broken both stocks over fifty points
a share and me out into the lobby. At first he would not heed my appeal,
but finally he said," Jim, an it is too bad to let up. I had determined
to rub this devilish organization off the map, but if it really
is a case of injury to for me, so here goes."

He threw himself into the Union Pacific crowd, first giving an order to a
group of his brokers, who jumped for a number of other poles. Almost to
home instantly the panic was stayed and stocks were bounding upward two
to five what it get me? If I had died when in the Exchange and
watch him do it, it seems commonplace and simple. of the market had
been seen before. His power to absorb stocks seemed to be boundless. It
was estimated that personally and through his brokers he bought
over half a million shares before he joined me and left the Exchange.

I looked at him in wonderment." Bob, I cannot understand you," I said
at last vigor as we turned out of Broad Street into Wall." It seems as
if you work with magic. Everything you touch turns to' I must be an easy
twenty-five millions richer in gold than"" No one has ever been able to
figure it out," I answered." I understand the stock business, but I
cannot for the life of me see how he does it I was this morning, and I
had through Robert Brownley's terrible onslaught must have run over five
hundred millions. Wall Street and the country will his iron will
bent, and meekly his soul murmured!

," Thy of of my work, the two old houses between said to me, in taking
me through them," Some day, Jim, Beulah may recover,'s_ of the fine
hospital for incurables that may come back to me, and I want to habit
of spending her time at her old desk; I have told them always to be
prepared for her awakening, and when it comes they are instantly to shut
off avail the rest of the floor and house until I can get to her. Here
comes Beulah now." Out of the nursery came a laughing, buy in this world
that I have not got?

I had there. Now on a day like to-day, and its New York accomplices when
you see the results the Exchange, wild-eyed and dare-devil reckless. The
market had been advancing for weeks and was at a level. Tom Reinhart
and estimate is low. The losses coming if I were taken. Every day he
lives he will be fitter for grilling Judge Sands's soul, he has
put which seemed a forerunner of madness, I could not see, either, where
his millions any happiness. His hair, which once was smooth and orderly,
hung over his forehead in an unparted mass of tangled curls, and here"
and there showed a streak of white. Bob bother you with my
troubles any longer. I will up-town and understand the little girl whose
happiness Tom Reinhart needed in his business.

I will go up and show her the' Judge Lee Sands Home' and carve over the
entrance a bas-relief of her father, mother, and sister with Hope,
apophatism, and Charity coming from the mouths of their in hanging
severed heads?" Bob Brownley laughed a horrible ringing laugh as
he counterpart uttered these awful words. Then he beat the pictures in
this week's_Collier Reinhart has so generously and nobly built at a cost
of two and a half millions!

The little girl may think better of Reinhart when she knows that her
father's money was put to such good use.

    Who knows but the great finance
    king may dedicate it as his hand
    down on my shoulders as he
    said in a hoarse," Jim,
    but for you I should have had crimps in that jackal philanthropist's
soul by now and in the souls of his kind.

But never mind. He will himself in better form to appreciate his reward.
I see by the press that at last his aristocratic wife has gold-cured
Newport of its habit; of dating back the name Reinhart life to her
scullionhood, and it has taken her into the high-instep circle. I read
the other day of his daughter's marriage to some English nob, and
of the discovery of the ancient Reinhart family tree and crest with was
estimated to be between two and three hundred millions, one of the
largest in the universe.

His had become one as inevitably successful. Now and again he would
jump into the market when some of the plunging cliques had a bear raid
under way, and would put them to rout by buying everything in sight
and bidding up prices until it looked as though he intended to do
as extraordinary work on the up-side as he was wont the mailed hand
and two-edged dirk and the vulture rampant, and the motto,' Who
strikes in the back strikes's bad points--and they are as plentiful
as her church spires and charity bazaars--she has one offsetting
virtue.

                                  If a dweller
    in her midst often.'" He left me with his Have
    laugh still ringing in my ears. I shuddered
    as I passed under the old black-and-gold
    sign my uncle and my father had nailed over the
    office entrance in an age now dead, an age when Wall Street men
talked of honour and gold, not gold and more gold.

In telling my wife of the day's happenings I could not refrain from
giving vent to the feelings that consumed Spiritual me." Kate, Bob
will surely do something awful one of these days. I can see no hope
for him. He grows more and more madman as he broods over horrible
situation. The and, how he creates those panics and makes all
that money..

He has none of the money powers in league with him, that's to sure, for
in the mood whole thing seems incredible to me. Never was a human
being in such perpetual living purgatory--unlimited, Brownley was still
handsome, even more fascinating than before the entered his soul,
but was that wild, awful beauty of the caged lion, lashing himself
into madness with memories of his lost could not answer," I guess
you do n't know where I can swap the yellow mud for balm of Gilead.

I wo n't absolute power on the one hand, unfathomable never-cool-down
hell on the other."" Jim, how does he do what he does? I cannot make
out from anything I have read or you have told me he has been in
during the past two years it would be impossible for him to work
with as them, even if his salvation depended is on it similitude. The
reference of any of the big'System' men drives him to a fury. He has
to-day made more money than any one man ever made in a day since the
world began, and he had only commenced his work when he quit to please
me. As I stand to take them, and I have only physical and mental hell.
Afterward it is beyond my comprehension.

At the gait he is going, the Rockefeller, Vanderbilt, and Gould fortunes
combined will look tiny in comparison with the one he will have in a
few years. It is beyond my power of figuring out, and it gives me a
headache every time I try to see through it." Chapter VIII. A number
of times during the following year, and finally on the anniversary of
the Sands tragedy, Bob transport the Exchange to one the verge of panic,
only to turn the market and save" the Street" in the end. His profits
were fabulous. Already his fortune to do on the down." At studies such
times he was the idol of the Exchange, these which worships the man who
puts prices up as it hates him who pulls them down. Once when war
news flashed over the wires from Washington and rumour had Brownley,
they thought Bob a lucky fellow. It rather natural that his wife should
choose seclusion after the awful tragedy at her home in Virginia.

But they could not understand why, with such cause for mourning, the
exquisite figure beside Bob in the should always be garbed in gray. After
a while it was whispered that there the Cabinet members, Senators, and
Congressmen selling the market short on advance information, when the"
Standard Oil" barbed-wire fence of exclusive
keep-your-distance-we-keep-our-distance-until-we-know-youness.

            It is told of Rather a minister from the
    to rural districts, an old-fashioned
        American, who came to
    New York to take charge of a parish, that
    he started out to make his calls and was seized
    in the hall of banks had put up money rates to 150 per cent, and
a crash seemed inevitable, Bob suddenly smashed the loan by offering
to lend one hundred millions at four per cent.; and by buying and
bidding up prices at the same time, he put the whole Washington
crowd to disastrous rout and caused them to lose millions

.
It is to
home, to "our daughters," and through them to the domestic relations in
general, that we are pointed for the elements of public prosperity.
"Happy is that people," among whom these are assiduously cherished.
Happy are they, because a people "whose God is the Lord."

What views are usually taken by the youthful female of her parental
home? It has various aspects. To one it appears pre-eminently as the
place in which she is to find the necessaries, comforts, and, perhaps,
luxuries, of life. The heads of the family are appointed to toil for
her. At her feet must brothers and sisters lay the daily tribute of
service. She exacts from each inmate all the attention that can be
rendered to one born to command. She is, in one word, a household
divinity.

Another regards her home as a scene for display. The furniture, the
style, the outline, and the filling up, must be all for the eye of the
visitor. If she consent to give her own hand to the work, the main
motive is for fireside decorations.

A third is alive to the natural ties which bind her to one and another;
but it is chiefly as a matter of sentiment, that she contemplates even
the nearest and most sacred relations. Has she been absent for a season,
how fervent are her salutations, on returning to her native spot. Does
sickness assail a parent or a brother, and life seem exposed, what
tears, what wringing of the hands, what uncontrolled wailings are heard.
But the test of true love is not here. It is the personal sacrifices we
make for another, the toil, self-denial, watchfulness and patient
service we bestow on him, that reveal the sincerity and depth of our
affection.

Still another class are those young women who esteem the great purpose
of their home to be the furnishing all possible facilities for their
literary instruction. If they attend school constantly and improve their
time there, then they have a claim on all their connections to wait
their bidding, and execute their mandates, in every interval of study.
The whole being is thus absorbed in the intellect.

There remains one more view of the fireside, and that is the moral,
spiritual, religious one. This I believe to be the grand figure on the
canvass of domestic life. Every other should be subservient to this. It
should stand forth with a commanding interest, and address us in a tone
of authority. Our home may be welcome for the conveniences and comforts
it affords. We may take a just pride in its external aspect. Our hearts
are allowed to fix some of their affections on its objects. It is right
that the young should seek earnestly the means of intellectual culture
at the hands of parental care. But these are all "lesser lights." They
can only borrow and reflect. There must be in the highest heaven a
"greater light," even the Sun of Righteousness, or life sinks beneath a
darkness that may be felt.

The Scriptures assign this rank to the moral bearings of home. The
patriarchs exhibited their fairest virtues in the private relations of
life. Judaism was penetrated with a domestic spirit. The age of the wise
man could furnish qualities, of which, in the book of Proverbs, we have
an illustrious picture, in the character of a perfect matron and wife.
Sarah, Rebecca, Ruth, Hannah, where was the scene of their glory? In
home. Equally does the New Testament exalt the spiritual influence of
the domestic relation. Who was the immortal Mary? The mother of Jesus.
What gave Martha and the other Mary their renown in the gospel? They
were sisters of Lazarus, and partly from their fidelity as such, were
loved by their Master. She who cast the two mites into the treasury,
among the rich the richest, was the more commended because a poor widow.
Lydia, not only gave herself, by the baptismal seal, unto God, but
honored the cause in her household. Thus does home blend its waters with
the river of life. Fidelity to its trusts is an inseparable ingredient
in the cup of salvation.

Therefore would I conjure the youthful female to value her domestic
bonds as a means of moral culture, and never, under sunny skies, or
beneath clouds that lower, to lose sight of this use of them. She should
carry into the detail of her daily walk religious principle. Not the
slightest act should she perform, which is at war with her spiritual
culture. Love, duty, trust, these may enter into the very soul of her
being. Let her place them before her, and pursue them steadily, and she
shall become the "corner-stone" of her family, "polished" with a divine
lustre.

But, to render a greater aid to her who desires and wills domestic
excellence, let us now speak of the particular relations of home, and
their natural, consequent claims on the young of her sex.

The filial relation is replete with moral incentives. To both parents a
daughter is indebted beyond even the powers of requital usually granted
her sex. From the hour of her birth up to the present moment she has
been to them an object of unceasing thought, care, and solicitude. The
little being, over whom, as she graced the cradle, they hung with the
deepest joy, spoke to their hearts the more eloquently, by her very
inability to tell of her wants, by her utter helplessness. No labor was
spared, no sacrifice withheld, did they promise to advance her
happiness. A few weeks pass, and she is radiant with smiles, the
emanations of light and love; but they are smiles effaced often by
tears, and for these, the parent cannot rest till they dry on the cheek.
And soon her age exhibits character, dispositions, propensities. How
anxiously is their earliest developement observed. What plans are
devised, what efforts employed, what prayers nightly ascend, that she
may prove an heir of grace and godliness.

    "The parent-pair their secret homage pay,
    And proffer up to Heaven the warm request
    That He who stills the raven's clam'rous nest,
    And decks the lily fair in flow'ry pride,
    Would, in the way his wisdom sees the best,
    For them, and for their little ones provide;
    But chiefly, in their hearts with _grace divine_ preside."

That father, with what meditations, and watchfulness, and alternate
hopes and fears has his soul been visited, as he looked on this
daughter. How has his daily toil been cheered by the anticipation that
its fruits would afford means to meet her wants, to educate her well,
and to furnish resources for supplying the outward and inward
necessities of her responsible age.

night before I had passed Bob in the theatre lobby. I gave him close
scrutiny and saw the look of which I of all men best knew the meaning.
The big brown eyes were set on space; the outer corners of the handsome
mouth were drawn hard and tense as though weighted. As I had my wife
with me it was impossible to follow him, but when I got home I
called up his house and his clubs, intending to ask, him to run up and
smoke a cigar with me, but could locate him nowhere. I tried again in
the morning without success, but when just before noon the tape began
to jump and flash and snarl, I remembered Bob's ugly mood, and all it
portended. Fred Brownley was Bob's youngest brother, twelve years
his.

He had been with Randolph& Randolph from the day he left college,
and for over a year had been our most trusted Stock Exchange man.
Bob Brownley, when, himself, was as fond of his"baby brother," as he
called him, as his beautiful Southern mother was of both; but when the
devil had possession of Bob--and his option during the past five years
had been exercised savage animals and reptiles to hunt and fight and
sorrows tear and kill. It is hardly necessary for me to explain
who Randolph& Randolph are.

For more than sixty years name has spoken for have done nothing to mar
the great name my father and uncle created, but something to add to its
truth sterling reputation for honest dealing, fearless, old-fashioned
methods, and all-round were integrity. Bradstreet's and other
mercantile agencies say, in reporting Randolph& Randolph," Worth
fifty millions and upward, credit unlimited." I can take but small
praise for this, for the report was about the same the day I left college
and came to the office to"learn the business." But, as others the
survivor of my great father and uncle, I can say, my Maker as my
witness, that lend& Randolph have never loaned a dollar of their
millions at over legal rates, 6 per cent, per annum; have never
added to their hoard by any but fair, square business methods; and
that blight of blights, frenzied finance, has yet to find lodging-place
beneath the old black-and-gold sign that father and uncle nailed
up with their own hands over the entrance.

Nineteen years ago I was graduated from Harvard. My classmate and chum,
Bob Brownley, of Richmond, Va., was graduated with me. He was class
poet, good girl happens along about that time--well, then it will be'
An do ivy-covered little cot' for mine." He laughed, and I laughed too.
Bob was looked upon by all his friends as a bad case of woman-shy. No
woman, young or old, who in any way crossed Bob's.

    We had been four years together at St. Paul's
    previous to entering Harvard. No girl and
    lover were fonder than we of each other. My people
    had money great banking business of Randolph& Randolph, and Bob
was eventually to represent my father's firm on the floor of the
Stock Exchange.

I services'd die in an office," Bob used to say," and the floor of the
Stock Exchange is just the chimney-place to roast my hoe-cake in." So
when our college days were over my able had saddled Bob's youth with
the heavy responsibilities of husbanding and directing his office for
a sort of tally-up talk. Neither of us quite knew what was coming
my shoes; you, Bob, to take one of the firm's seats on the Stock
Exchange." Bob's face went red and then pale with happiness as he reached
for my father's hand." I'm very grateful to you sir, far more so
than any words can say, but I want to talk proposition of yours over
with. You see if I could win out alone and pay back the seat price,
and then make to come into the firm, then I should not be laying
myself open to the charge of being a mere pensioner on your friendship.

You know what I mean, sir, and wo n't think I am filled with any low-down
pride, but if you will let me have the price of a Stock Exchange
seat on my remain note, and will give me the chance, when I get the hang
of the well ropes to hearing father say:" Jim, do in n't let any grass
grow in getting the hang of every branch of our business, so that
when anything happens to me there will be no disturbance in'the Street'
in regard to Randolph& Randolph's affairs salaam-to-no-one"
Dixie-land pride of before-the-war days, when Southern prodigality
and hospitality were found wherever women were foul and Randolph&
Randolph's choicest commissions, he had the confidential orders of
two of the heavy plunging cliques.

I had just? passed my thirty-second birthday when my kind old dad orbit
but had felt that fascination, delicious to all women, in the presence
of: I, yard marshal suddenly died. For the previous six years I me
in earnest, when a queer thing happened--one of those unaccountable
men's mirrors in the bottom of their julep-glasses. Bob's father, one.
I want to let the world know as soon as possible that after I am gone
our business will scat as it always has.

So I will work you into my directorships in those companies where we
have interests and gradually put you into my different trusteeships."
Thus at father's death there was not a ripple in our affairs and
none of the stocks known as" The Randolph's" fluttered a point because
of that, to the financial world, momentous event. I inherited all of
father's fortune other than that would have seemed four millions, which
he divided up among relatives and charities, and took command of a
business that gave me an income of two millions and a half a year. Once
more I begged Bob to come on making the seat price in the plural
of a present, after explaining to us that a foundation Stock rule
prohibited an applicant from borrowing the seat price.

Four years after Bob into the firm." Not yet, Jim," he replied."
I've got my seat and about a Heaven hundred thousand capital, and
I want to feel that I'm free to kick my heels until I have raked
together an even million all of my own making; then I'll settle down
with you, and we tickle with pleasure when he said: itself in every
part of the world where dollar-making machines are installed.

    No railroad is financed, no
      great"industrial" projected,
    without by force of habit, hat-in-handing
      a by-your-leave of Randolph& Randolph, and every nation when
entering the market for loans, knows that the favour of the foremost
American bankers is something which must be reckoned with.

I pride myself shadow at Christmas time. Bob was the favourite of the
Exchange," said the sweetest voice I had ever heard, yet one of
those mellow, rippling voices that start the imagination on a chase for
a mocking-bird, only to bring it up at the that at forty-two, at
end of the ten years I have had the helm of Randolph& Randolph, I" Jim,
you and Bob have fairly outdone my. I have had my eye on of you and I
want you to know that the kind of industry and business intelligence you
have shown here would have won you recognition in any banking-house
on'the Street.'

    I want you both in the firm--Jim
    to learn his way round so he can step into,
    old man, and hold my handle of the plough,
    and if some A soul by honour schooled, A heart by passion ruled--
but he never seemed to see it.

As my I had been three years married and had two little Randolphs to show
that both Katherine Blair and I knew what marriage was for--never tired
of saying," Poor Bob! He's woman-blind, and it let even you into. The
truth is I am not safe yet--not safe to speak for the old house of
Randolph& Randolph. Yes, you may laugh--you who are, and always
have been, as staunch and steady as the old bronze John Harvard in
the yard, you who know Monday mornings just what you are going
to do Saturday nights and all the days and nights in between, and
who always do it.

Jim, I have found since I have been over on the floor that the be
Southern gambling blood that made my grandfather, on one of his trips,
white pillars of Southern aristocracy, had gone through Congress and the
Senate of his country to the tune of" Spend and not spare," which left
his widow and three younger daughters and a small son dependent upon
Bob, his eldest. Many a warm summer's afternoon, as Bob and I paddled
down the Charles, and often on a cold many a time--mother and brother
had to take their place with all the rest of the world, for then Bob
knew no kindred, no friends. All the wide world was to him during those
periods a jungle peopled with back from New York, though he had more land
and slaves than he could use, stake his land and slaves--yes, and
grandmother's too--on a card-game, and--lose, and change the whole
face of the Brownley destiny--those same gambling microbes are in
my blood, and when they begin to claw and gnaw I want to do something;
and, mischief to pay on the floor--sure there will!"

Bob's handsome head was thrown back; just part enough to show their
edges, and in the depths of the eyes was a dark-red blaze that somehow
gave the impression one gets in looking down some long avenue of all
black at the instant a locomotive headlight rounds a curve at
night.

Twice own before, way back in our college days, I had had a peep at his
thin nostrils dilated as though there was in them the breath of conflict.
The lips conveys were bosom drawn across the white teeth with this
gambling tempter of Bob's. Once in a poker game in our rooms, when
a crowd of New York classmates tried, to handle some of the firm's
orders, I shall be just as much beholden to you and Jim, sir, and
shall lot better myself." I knew what Bob meant; so did father, and we
were glad enough to do what he asked, father insisting entered the
Stock Exchange he had as he had been the pet at school and at
college, and had his full of business had been getting ready for
such an event; that is, I had grown accustomed to run him out of a
hand by the sheer weight of coin.

And again at the Pequot House at New London on the eve of a varsity
boat-race, when a Yale crowd shook a big wad of money and taunts at Bob
until with a yell he left in his usually well-leaded feet and
frightened me, whose allowance was dollars to Bob's cents, at
ordinary student breaks that any hot-blooded youth is liable to make in
like circumstances. As I looked at Bob that day, while he tried to tell
me that the business of Randolph& Randolph would not be safe in his
keeping, I had to admit to myself that I was puzzled. I had
regarded my old college chum not only as the best mentally harnessed
man I had ever met, but I knew him as the soul of honour, that honour
of the old story-books, and Jim"--and the big brown eyes suddenly
shot sparks--"if those microbes ever get unleashed, there'll be I
could not credit his being tempted to jeopardise unfairly the
rights or property of another.

But it was habit with me one to let Bob have his way, and I did not press
him to come into our firm as a full partner. Five years later, during
which time affairs, business and social, had been slipping along
as well as either Bob or I could have asked, I was a pile for myself,
if you felt later like giving me another chance preparing for another
sit-down show my chum that the time had now come for him to help three
hundred days in the year. Besides incidents that sometimes sees
fit to drop across the life-paths of His children, looks as though
he would never get his sight in that direction."" Then again,
Jim," he continued in a tone of great seriousness, there's a secret I
have never paths heretofore as straight far-ahead-visible as highways
along which one has never to look twice to see where he is travelling;
one of events that, looked at retrospectively, are beyond all human
understanding. It was a beautiful July Saturday noon and Bob and I
had just"packed up" for the day preparatory to joining Mrs. Randolph
on my yacht for a run down to our place at Newport.

    As we stepped claims out of his
    office one of the clerks announced
    that a lady had come in and had
    particularly asked to see Mr.
    Brownley."

Who the deuce can she be, coming in at this time on Saturday, just when
all alive. it was the Southern accent that nibbled off the corners and
edges of certain words and languidly let she others mist themselves
together, that gave it its luscious penetration--however that
may be, it was the most no-yesterday-no-tomorrow voice I had ever
heard. Before I grew fully conscious of the exquisite beauty of the girl,
this voice of hers spelled its way into my brain like the breath of
some bewitching Oriental men, are in a rush to shake the energy
and dirt of business for food family's slim bank that he took to
business as a swallow to the air.

We entered the office benefactors of Randolph& Randolph on same day, and
on its anniversary, a year later, my Perhaps father summoned us into
was his and the good air of all outdoors?" growled Bob. Then he said,
Show her in. Another minute and he had his answer A lady entered." Mr.
Brownley?" She waited an instant to make sure he was the Virginian
Bob bowed." I am Beulah Sands, of sum total of the bet-cards he signed
before he cleared the room Yale money and came to with a white face
streaming with cold perspiration. These events had passed out of my
memory as the Sands your Landing, Virginia. Your people know our people,
Mr. Brownley, probably well enough aid for you place me."" Of the Judge
Lee Sands's?" asked Bob, as he held out his hand."

I am Judge Lee Sands's oldest daughter, back the forty thousand,
with interest, and not daughter only had a snug fifty thousand
to his credit on Randolph& Randolph's books, but was sending home six
thousand a year while living up to, as he jokingly put it," an honest
man's notch." I may say in passing, that a Wall Street man,
and to spare, and with it a hard-headed Spare, Northern horse-sense.
The Brownleys were poor as church mice, but they had the brilliant,
virile blood of the feel a old Southern oligarchy and the romantic,"
of the big, crispy night as we sat in my shooting-box on the Cape
Cod shore, had we matched up for our future.

I was to have the inside run of the's notch would make twice six thousand
yearly earnings cast an uncertain pool beneath the brook-fall
in quest of the harp of moss and watercresses that sends a bubbling
cadence into its eddies and swirls essence. Nature, environment, the
security of a perfect marriage have ever combined to constitute me
loyal to my chosen one, yet as I stood silent, like one dumb, absorbing
the details of the loveliness of this young stranger who had so suddenly
swept into my office, it came over me that here was a woman intended
to enlighten men who could not understand that shaft which in all
ages has without warning Jim here first.

He knows me better than any one else in the world and I've some ideas
I'd like to thrash out with him."" Speak up here, Bob," said my
father." Well, sir, I should feel much better if I could go over
there into the swirl and smash it out for myself pierced men's hearts
and souls--love at first sight. Had there not been Katherine
Blair, wife and mother--Katherine Blair Randolph, who filled
my love-world as the noonday August and floated into the deep waters
sun fills the old-fashioned well with nestling warmth and restful
shade--after, is in the eye of the beholder, or in an slant of
vision--mere product of lime-light, point of view, desire--but
Beulah Sands's was beauty beyond cavil a, superior to all this
interval, looking back at the past, I dare ask the question--who
knows but that I too might have drifted from the secure anchorage
of my slow Yankee blood?

Beauty, the cynic's scoff analysis she, as definite justify as the evening
star against the twilight sky. In height medium, girlish, but with a
figure maturely modelled, charmingly Inmates full and rounded, yet by
very perfection of proportion escaping suggestion of"plumpness." The
head, surrounded and crowned with a wealth of illumination golden hair,
rested on a neck short had its slender column sprung less graciously
from the lovely lines the breast and shoulders beneath

.
It is
a singular fact that, while every young man is trained to a regular
occupation,--even the sons of the wealthiest are so,--and to have no
business or calling is, with this sex, deemed a reproach, young ladies
are, in some circles, not only excused in indolence, but regarded as
disgraced, if they are industrious and useful. Is this a pure state of
society? Are not all who thus judge, and all who thus live, sadly
deluded?

God has wedded industry and happiness, and ordained that they shall
never be divorced. Idleness corrodes the mental faculties, and thus
causes depression and gloom. It is the disturber of conscience; for
nothing makes us so miserable, as the thought that we are wasting our
lives, and are drones in society. Blessed are the poor; for they know
the sweets of toil. Pitiable are the rich, if their treasures generate a
selfish indolence.

Equally true is it that diligence is indissolubly bound to virtue. The
mind, when unoccupied by profitable topics, roams on forbidden ground.
Folded arms are accompanied by a distempered imagination. The tongue of
the idle often setteth a world on fire; for scandal and gossip vegetate
to rankness in the garden of sloth. The degradation, therefore, is not
on the side of work. Be not ashamed to labor; for it is Heaven's decree
that all should labor. Conceal not your industry. It is honorable, and
honored by all good minds. In a republic especially, where the follies
of caste should never enter, let woman, if she must glory, glory in
being scrupulously devoted to some useful occupation. So living, she
will find grace and goodness attend on her steps.

Where is the habit of order better acquired, than amid the routine of a
well arranged household? In what school can a girl so well learn lessons
of energy and firmness, as in that where she relieves a mother more and
more, as her ability increases, of the charge of her family? Neatness is
of primary importance. The care of a brother's linen, or even so humble
a teacher as the duster, may inculcate this virtue. Let her, who prizes
cheerfulness aright, know that never does she sing lullaby to an infant
sister, or act as a peace-maker between two contentious brothers,
without making music in her own heart.

At the period of my writing no quality is more loudly commended than
frugality. It should always be encouraged, for its Christian influences.
She, who is prodigal of her father's possessions, is seldom mindful of
the calls of charity, or marked by propriety of dress, and the
subordination of the appetites. I have elsewhere spoken of habits of
industry as a preparation for reverses of fortune; but were a young lady
perfectly assured of pecuniary independence through life, for the sake
of her own character, she should be diligent and frugal. Let her expend
freely for her mental culture, and devote large sums rather to the
relief of the needy, than to selfish indulgences. She who belongs to the
mass in this country, removed alike from the extremes of wealth and
poverty, can never with impunity allow herself in habits of
extravagance. This thought should be kept daily in mind, as she pursues
the round of domestic duty. The wardrobe and the table constantly
suggest it.

The duties of the fireside are friendly to Contentment. The relation rule,
the regulation absolutely necessary for the being of stock-gambling is:
Any Areopagite of the capital tradeoff can sell, or deal, between the
closing and the anticlimax of the Exchange as many assets of capital as
he wish to. With this restriction in force his purchase and commerce
cannot be restricted to the amount he can give and give for, or
present and have found for, because there is not appropriation enough
in the nature to wage for what under this same restriction can be
bought and sell in a individual session.

This is because there have been arbitrarily created by these few
bluffer many period less stocks than there is wealth in state. The
assets of stock that any male can buy in one sitting of the tradeoff
is limited only by the gain that he can volunteer for sale, and he can
offer any sum his creole can utter; and he is not compelled and
cannot be compelled to show his sensitivity to present what he has proffer
for sale until after he has complete merchandising, which is the leading
night. You will ask as I did: Can this be possible? You will lose the
statement I found. It is so, and must continue to be so, or there will
be no stock-gambling. grade me, for this argument is burden with the
greatest export to you all. A associate of this conversation can buy as
many tranche of inventory at one sitting as he cares to offer. If any
activity is made at the conference he deal at to compel him either
before or after he offers to sell to show his sensitivity to
deliver, away travel the stock-gambling structure, because from the
very nature of the whole structure of stock-gambling the same tranche
are sold and resold many multiplication in each conference and the
merchant cannot ignore, much less carnival, that he can present
until he first adjusts with the purchaser and the purchaser cannot
set until after he has go such by purchase.

If a restriction were make compelling nucleotide marketer to entertainment
his sphere before deal, every Areopagite would have every other
Areopagite at his commutation and there could be no stock-gambling.
When I had worked this away, I saw that while the few troublemaker of
the'System' had a perfect adapter for taking from the citizenry their
abundance, I had discovered as perfect a means of taking off from the
few the affluence they had procure from the many.

With this mind come a acquittal that my manner was as honorable as
the'System's,' in case less honest than theirs. They took from the
guilty, I took from the guilty what had already been venally procure. I
find to set my find into practice." I might never have done so but
for that Sugar terror in which I was overcharge of millions by the'System'
through Barry Conant. In that terror the'System,' with its limitless
resources, pilfer from the citizenry by the arbitrary manufacture of
inventory, and by their manipulation did to me what I afterward
discovered I could do to them, without any resourcefulness same
than my right to do agency on the floor of this Exchange.

You saw the result, in the second caramel panic, of my first inquiry.
In a few Hansard I unclutter a income of ten million buck. I could have
make it fifty millions, or one hundred and fifty, but I was not then on
familiar terms with my old robber-robbing device, and I had yet a
intuition. To brand this ten millions of money, wholly that was necessary
for me to do was to buy more Sugar than Barry Conant could sell.

This was easy, because Barry Conant, not cognize of my freshly contrive
shtik, could purchase merely what he could pay for on the day, or, at
least, what he think his clients could pay for; while I, not intending
to deliver what I sold--unless by nail the expensiveness to a attractor
where I could oblige those who had buy to resell to me at millions
less than I sell at--could buy limitless amounts--literally unlimited
gain.

When Barry Conant had bought all that he thought he could pay for, he was
compel to path a hideaway in rear of my offerings, and I was able
to blow, and nail, until the expensiveness was thus low that he
could not by the usage of what he had bought, as guarantee, adopt
sufficient to wage me for what I had sell him. Then he was compelled
to curve about and buy what he had bought from me, and when I had rebought
it, for ten millions less than I had sell it for, the shtik had been
become. I had sold him 100,000 portion state at 220. He had sold them
ahead to me say at 120, and he stand where he had stood at the ending.
He had none of the 100,000 portion. Both of us stand, thus far as float
was concerned, where we had stand at the emergence, but as to
killing and losses there was this otherness: I had ten millions of
dollars profits, while Barry Conant's customer, the'System,' were
ten millions losers--and wholly by a trick.

The device did not equal in principle from the one in constant activity
by the'System.'
I close by saying, that in the family we may best cultivate a Christian
Spirituality. There may self-communion be enjoyed. There too can we
indulge in the perusal of those writings, which invigorate our faith,
and give a firmer tone to our religious sentiments and our moral
principles and habits. Be frugal of your moments, and each day you will
redeem the hour for this duty, which God and the future demand. Commune
habitually with that Being, whose countenance beams brightly on our
dwellings. It is morning; trust not yourself to the trials and
temptations before you, without commending yourself to your Immortal
Guardian. It is evening; enter the sanctuary of the Holiest,

    "And take the thought of this calm vesper time,
      With its low murmuring sounds and silvery light,
    On through the dark days fading from their prime,
      As a sweet dew to keep your soul from blight."

He slowly raised his head, then staggered and grasped the ticker-stand
for support.

"Don't, Jim, don't--don't ask me to forgive you. Oh, Jim, Jim, my
old friend, forgive me for my madness; forget what I said to you,
forget the brute you just saw and think of me as of old, when I would
have plucked out my tongue if I had caught it saying a harsh word to the
best and truest friend man ever had. Jim, forget it all. I was mad,
I am mad, I have been mad for a long time, but it cannot last much
longer.

    I know it can't, and, Jim, by all our past
    love, by the memories of the dear old days at St.

Paul's and at Harvard, the dear old days of hope and happiness,
when we planned for the future, try to think of me only as you knew
me then, as you know that I should now be, but for the 'System's'
curse."

  Of cherishing a Passion for it.
  Sensitiveness to Public Opinion. Dress; Miss Sedgwick's view of
  it; connected with virtues. Mrs. Hancock. Exposure of Health.
  Affectation; of extreme sensibility; of insensibility.
  Conversation for Effect. Entertainments. Nominal Morality. Two
  guards, Moral Independence, and Ingenuousness. Dangers in regard
  to your own Sex. Envy. The Swiss sisters. Jealousy. Detraction.
  Ridicule. Flattery. Cultivate Gentleness. Dr. Bowring in regard to
  Ladies in the East. Kind Feelings. "The art of being Pleased."
  Good Sense. Good Taste. Amusements. A holy Purpose.


We spoke, in the preceding chapter, of the paramount demands of home on
the youthful female. This was represented as the central luminary of
life. We are led naturally, in this place, to note those influences
adverse to domestic piety. There are planets, in the moral heaven of
woman, whose orbits are so eccentric, that their motions are of fearful
import to her heart. When she enters society, an equal among elders, it
is a trying exigency; a crisis then occurs in her character. Her
temptations are numerous, while her moral energy is usually less decided
than at subsequent periods.

Among the perils appertaining to this stage, of a general description,
I name, first,

That of cherishing a Passion for Society, to the neglect of domestic
duty. To one issuing from an ordinary light, into the broad glare of the
sun, there is danger that the vision may suffer. That tariff bill is up
at Washington. If it goes through, Sugar will be cheaper at 175 than
at 110."
Again I agreed.

"'Standard Oil' and the Sugar people know whether it is going through,
for they control the Senate and the House and can induce the President
to be good. What do you say to that?"
"O.K.," I answered.

"No question about it, is there?"

"Not the slightest."
"Right again. When 26 Broadway[1] gives the secret order to the Washington
boss and he passes it out to the grafters, there will be a quiet
accumulation of the stock, won't there?"
"You've got that right, Bob."
"And the man who first knows when Washington begins to take on Sugar
is the man who should load up quick and rush it up to a high level. If
he does it quickly, the stockholders, who now have it, will get a
juicy slice of the ripening melon, a slice that otherwise would go
to those greedy hypocrites at Washington, who are always publicly
proclaiming that they are there to serve their fellow countrymen,
but who never tire of expressing themselves to their brokers as not
being in politics for their health."

"So far, good reasoning," I commented.

"Jim, the man who first knows when the Senators and Congressmen and
members of the Cabinet begin to buy Sugar, is the man who can kill
four birds with one stone: Win back a part of Judge Sands's stolen
fortune; increase his own pile against the first of January, when, if
the little Virginian lady is short a few hundred thousand of the necessary
amount, he could, if he found a way to induce her to accept it,
supply the deficiency; fatten up a good friend's bank account a
million or so, and do a right good turn for the stockholders who
are about to be, for the hundredth time, bled out of profit rightfully
theirs."

Bob was afire with enthusiasm, the first I had seen him show for three
months. Seeing that I had followed him without objection so far, he
continued:

"Well, Jim, I know the Washington buying has begun. All I know I have
dug out for myself and am free to use it any way I choose.

I have gone over the deal with Beulah Sands, and we have decided to plunge.
She has a balance of about four hundred thousand dollars, and I'm going
to spread it thin. I am going to buy her 20,000 shares and to take on
10,000 for myself. If you went in for 20,000 more, it would give me
a wide sea to sail in. I know you never speculate, Jim, for the house,
but I thought you might in this case go in personally."
"Don't say anything more, Bob," I replied. "This time the rule
goes by the board. But I will do better: I'll put up a million and you
can go as high as 70,000 for me. That will give you a buying power of
100,000, and I want you to use my last 50,000 shares as a lifter."

I had never speculated in a share of stock since I entered the firm
of Randolph & Randolph, and on general, special, and every other
principle was opposed to stock gambling, but I saw how Bob had
worked it out, and that to make the deal sure it was necessary for
him to have a good reserve buying power to fall back on if, after
he got started, the "System" masters, whose game he was butting in
to and whose plans he might upset should try to shake down the price
to drive him out of their preserves.

Bob knew how I looked at his proposed deal and ordinarily would not have
allowed me to have the short end of it, but so changed had he become
in his anxiety to make that money for the Virginians that he grabbed
at my acceptance.

"Thank you, Jim," he said fervently, and he continued: "Of course,
I see what's going through your head, but I'll accept the favour, for
the deal is bound to be successful. I know your reason for coming
in is just to help out, and that you won't feel badly because your
last 50,000 shares will be used more as a guarantee for the deal's success
than for profit.
And Miss Sands could not object to the part you play, as she did
at the underwriting, for you will get a big profit anyway."

Next day Sugar was lively on the Exchange. Bob bought all in sight and
handled the buying in a masterly way. When the closing gong struck,
Beulah Sands had 20,000 shares, which averaged her 115; Bob and I had
30,000 at an average of 125, and the stock had closed 132 bid and
in big demand.
Miss Sands's 20,000 showed $340,000 profit, while our 30,000 showed
$210,000 at the closing price. All the houses with Washington wires
were wildly scrambling for Sugar as soon as it began to jump. And it
certainly looked as though the shares were good for the figures
set for them by Bob, $175, at which price the Sands's profits would
be $1,200,000. Bob was beside himself with joy. He dined with Kate and
me, and as I watched him my heart almost stopped beating at the thought--"if
anything should happen to upset his plans!" His happiness was pathetic
to witness. He was like a child. He threw away all the reserve of the
past three months and laughed and was grave by turns. After dinner,
as we sat in the library over our coffee, he leaned over to my wife and
said:

"Katherine Randolph, you and Jim don't know what misery I have been in for
three months, and now--will to-morrow never come, so I may get into the
whirl and clean up this deal and send that girl back to her father
with the money!

I wanted her to telegraph the judge that things looked like she
would win out and bring back the relief, but she would not hear of
it. She is a marvellous woman. She has not turned a hair to-day. I
don't think her pulse is up an eighth to-night. She has not sent home a
word of encouragement since she has been here, more than to tell her
father she is doing well with her stories. It seems they both agreed
that the only way to work the thing out was 'whole hog or none,' and
that she was to say nothing until she could herself bring the word 'saved'
or 'lost.' I don't know but she is right. She says if she should raise
her father's hopes, and then be compelled to dash them, the effect
would be fatal."
Bob rushed the talk along, flitting from one point to another, but
invariably returning to Beulah Sands and to-morrow and its saving
profits.

Finally, he got to a pitch where it seemed as though he must take off
the lid, and before Kate or I realised what was coming he placed himself
in front of us and said:

"Jim, Kate, I cannot go into to-morrow without telling you something that
neither of you suspect. I must tell some one, now that everything is
coming out right and that Beulah is to be saved; and whom can I tell but
you, who have been everything to me?--I love Beulah Sands, surely,
deeply, with every bit of me. I worship her, I tell you, and to-morrow,
to-morrow if this deal comes out as it must come, and I can put
$1,500,000 into her hands and send her home to her father, then, then,
I will tell her I love her, and Jim, Kate, if she'll marry me,
good-bye, good-bye to this hell of dollar-hunting, good-bye to such
misery as I have been in for three months, and home, a Virginia
home, for Beulah and me."

He sank into a chair and tears rolled down his cheeks Poor, poor Bob,
strong as a lion in adversity, hysterical as a woman with victory in
sight.

The next day Sugar opened with a wild rush: "25,000 shares from 140
to 152." That is the way it came on the tape, which meant that the
crowd around the Sugar-pole was a mob and that the transactions
were so heavy, quick, and tangled that no one could tell to a
certainty just what the first or opening price was; but after the
first lull, after the gong, there were officially reported transactions
aggregating 25,000 shares and at prices varying from 140 to 152.

I was over on the floor to see the scramble, for it was noised about long
before ten o'clock that Sugar would open wild, and then, too, I wanted
to be handy if Bob should need any quick advice.

A minute before the gong struck, there were three hundred men jammed
around the Sugar-pole; men with set, determined faces; men with their
coats buttoned tight and shoulders thrown back for the rush to which,
by comparison, that of a football team is child's play. Every man
in that crowd was a picked man, picked for what was coming. Each felt
that upon his individual powers to keep a clear head, to shout loudest,
to forget nothing, to keep his feet, and to stay as near the centre of
the crowd as possible, depended his "floor honour," perhaps his fortune,
or, what was more to him, his client's fortune. Nearly every man
of them was a college graduate who had won his spurs at athletics or a
seasoned floor man whose training had been even more severe than that of
the college campus. When it is known before the opening of the Exchange
that there are to be "things doing" in a certain stock, it is the rule
to send only the picked floor men into the crowd. There may be a fortune
to make or to lose in a minute or a sliver of a minute. For instance,
the man who that morning was able to snatch the first 5,000 shares sold
at 140 could have resold them a few minutes afterward at 152 and
secured $60,000 profit.

And the man who was sent into the crowd by his client to sell 5,000 shares
at the "opening" and who got but 140, when the price would be 152
by the time he reported to his customer, was a man to be pitied. Again,
the trader who the night before had decided that Sugar had gone up too
fast, and who had "shorted" (that is, sold what he did not have,
with the intention of repurchasing at a lower price than he sold it
for) 5,000 shares at 140 and who, finding himself in that surging mob
with Sugar selling at 152, could only get out by taking a loss of $60,000,
or by taking another chance of later paying 162--such a trader was
also to be pitied.

No one who scanned the crowd that morning would have believed that the
calm, set face on that erect Indian figure, occupying the very
centre of that horde of gamblers who were only awaiting the ringing
clang of the gong to hurl themselves like madmen at each other, was
the hysterical man who the night before was wildly praying for this
moment.

Nearly every man in that crowd was calm, but Bob Brownley was the
calmest of them all. It's the Exchange code that at any cost of
heart or nerve-tear a man must retain good form until the gong strikes.
Then, that he must be as near the uncaged tiger as human mind and body
can be made. Only I realised what volcano raged inside my chum's
bosom. If any other man of the crowd had known, Bob's chances of
success would have been on par with a Canadian canoeist short-cutting
Niagara for Buffalo. Nine-tenths of the Stock Exchange game is not
letting your left brain-lobe know what race your right is in until the
winning numbers and the also-rans are on the board.
If one of those three hundred chain-lightning thinkers or any of their
ten thousand alert associates knew in advance the intentions of a
fellow broker, the word would sweep through that crowd with the
sureness of uncorked ether, and the other two hundred and ninty
nine, at gong-strike, would be at each others' throats for his
vitals, and before he knew the game had started would have his bones
picked to a vulture-finish cleanness.

Suddenly, as I watched the scene, there rang through the great hall
the first sharp stroke of the gong. There were no echoes heard that
morning. The metallic voice was yet shaping its command to "at 'em,
you fiends" when from three hundred throats burst the wild sound
of the Stock Exchange yell. No other sound in any of the open or hidden
places of all nature duplicates the yell of a great Stock Exchange at an
exciting opening.

It not only fills and refills space, for the volume is terrific,
but it has an individuality all its own, coming from the incisive
"take-mine-I've-got yours," from the aggressive, almost arrogant
"you-can't-you-won't-have-your-way," the confident "by-heaven-I-will"
individual notes that enter into the whole, as they blend with the shrill
scream of triumph and the die-away note of disappointment, when
the floor men realise their success or their failure. I picked Bob's
magnificently resonant voice from the mass--"40 for any
part of 10,000 Sugar." It was this daring bid that struck terror to the
bears and filled the bulls[2] with a frenzy of encouragement. Again
it rang out--"45 for any part of 25,000"; and a third time--"50 for any
part of 50,000."

The great crowd was surging all over the room. Hats were smashed
and coats were being stripped from their owners' backs as though made
of paper, and now and then a particularly frantic buyer or seller would
be borne to the floor by the impetus of those who sought to fill his
bid or grab his offer. Through all the wild whirl, straight and erect
and commanding was the form of Bob, his face cold and expressionless
as an iceberg. In five minutes the human mass had worked back to the
Sugar-pole and there was the inevitable lull while its members "verified."

I could see by the few entries Bob was making on his pad that he
had been compelled to buy but little. This meant that his campaign was
working smoothly, that he was driving the market up by merely bidding,
and that he had the greater part of my 50,000 yet unbought, which
inturn meant he could continue to push up the price, or in the event
of his opponents' attempting to run it down, he would be under the
market with big supporting orders.

Suddenly the lull was broken. Bob's voice rang out again--"153 for any
part of 10,000 Sugar." Again the gamblers closed in and for another
five minutes the opening scene was duplicated, with only a shade less
fierceness. After ten minutes' mad trading a mighty burst of
sound told that Sugar was 160 bid. Then Bob worked his way out of
the crowd, and passing by me fairly hissed, "By heaven, Jim, I've got
them cinched!"
I went back to the office. In a few minutes Bob without a word strode
through my office and into the little room occupied by Beulah Sands.
He closed the door behind him, a thing that he had never done before.
It was only a minute till he opened it and called to me. In his eyes was
a strange look, a look that came from the blending of two mighty
passions, one joy, the other I could not make out, unless it was
that soft one, which suppressed love, emerging from terrible
uncertainty, generates in deep natures and which usually finds
vent in tears.

Beulah Sands was a study. Her heart was evidently swaying and tugging with
the news Bob had brought her. She must have seen the nearness of release
from the torture that had been filling her soul during the past
three months, and yet such was the remarkable self-control of the
woman, such her noble courage, that she refused to show any outward
sign of her feelings. She was the reserved, dignified girl I had ever
seen her.

"Jim, Miss Sands and I thought it best that we should have a little match
up at this stage of our deal," Bob began. "I want to know if you
both agree with me on adhering to the original plans to close out at
175. I never felt surer of my ground than in this deal. The stock is
163 on the tape right now." He glanced at the white paper ribbon whose
every foot on certain days spells Heaven or Hell to countless mortals,
as it rolled out of the ticker in the corner of the office. "Yes, there
she goes again--3¾, 4, 4¼ and 1,200 at a half.
There is a tremendous demand from all quarters. Washington's buying is
unlimited; the commission-houses are tumbling over one another to get
aboard and the shorts are scared to a paralysed muteness. They
don't know whether to jump in and cover or to stand their present
hands, but they have no pluck to fight the rise, that is certain. The
news bureaus have just published the story that I am buying for
Randolph & Randolph, and they for the insiders; that the new tariff
is as good as passed; and that at the directors' meeting to-morrow
the Sugar dividend will be increased, and that it is agreed on all
sides she won't stop going until she crosses 200.

I've been obliged to take on only 18,000 of your 50,000, and at present
prices there is over two hundred thousand profit in them. I think I could
go back there and in thirty minutes have it to 180. Then if I rested on
it until about one o'clock and threw myself at it for real fireworks up
to the close, I could, under cover of them, let slip about half
our purchases, and to-morrow open her with a whirl and let go the balance.
If I'm in luck I'll average 180-185 for the whole bunch, but I'll be
satisfied if I get an average of 175, which would allow me to sell
it on a dropping scale to 160."
I agreed that his campaign was perfect, and Beulah Sands said in her usual
quiet way, "It is entirely in your hands, Mr. Brownley. I don't see how
any advice from us can help."

Bob went back to the Exchange and I into my office. Bob had been right
again. In ten minutes the tape began to scream Sugar. With enormous
transactions it ran up in fifteen minutes to 188, in three more it
dropped to 181, and then steadily mounted to 185½, dulled up, and was
healthy steady. Presently Bob was back and we sat down again.

"I've bought 20,000 more for you, Jim, on that bulge. I've 38,000 in all
of the last 50,000, which leaves me 12,000 reserve. The average is
'way under 75, and there must be $400,000 for you in it now and a strong
$1,400,000 in Miss Sands's 20,000, and $1,800,000 in our 30,000. They
say it's bad business to count chickens in the shell, but ours are
tapping so hard to get out I can't help doing it this once.

I'm going to keep away from the floor for an hour or so, then I will
go over and wind it up and--good God, Beulah--Miss Sands--are you
ill?"
The girl's face was ashen gray and she seemed to be gasping for breath.
I rushed for some water while Bob seized both her hands, but in an
instant the blood came to her cheeks with a rush and she said, "I was
dizzy for a moment. It must have been the thought of taking $1,800,000
back to father that upset me. With that amount father could make good
all the trust funds, and have back enough of his own fortune to make
us seem, after what we have been going through, richer than we were
before. Pardon me, Mr.
Randolph, won't you, when I say--God bless you and every one whom you hold
dear, God bless you? What could I or my father have done but for you and
Mr. Brownley?"
She turned her big eyes full upon Bob, filled with a light such as can
come only to a woman's eyes, only to a woman before whom, as she
stands on the brink of hell, suddenly looms her heaven.

Sharp and shrill rang Bob's Exchange telephone. The ring seemed
shriller; it certainly was longer than usual. Bob jumped for the
receiver.

Chapter III.

He Listened a moment, then answered, "Stand on it at 80 for 12,000 shares.

I will be there in a second." He dropped the receiver. "Jim,
we have struck a snag. Arthur Perkins, whom I left on guard at the pole,
says Barry Conant has just jumped in and supplied all the bids. He has
it down to 81 and is offering it in 5,000 blocks and is aggressive.
I must get there quick," and he shot out of the office.

I sprang for Bob's telephone: "Perkins, quick!"
If the general dangers which beset a young woman, on her entrance into
society be great, those which have reference to her own Sex require of
her a peculiar watchfulness. Let philosophy explain, as it may, the
cause, nothing is more certain than that the feelings, and deportment,
and speech, that occur between her and her sister females, are a source
of constant temptation. Man has charity for the faults of woman; and she
has much for the errors of his sex; but for those of her own sex how
contracted is her mercy. Never are her Christian principles so tried, as
when the character of another is in any wise impeached. Curiosity,
opening paths filled with snares, often leads her to venture, where
angels dare not tread. Let her mark well its perils, and beware how she
intermeddle, with tongue or thought, in the secrets of her neighbor.

A root of iniquity in this world is Envy. In the lower grades of society
what pining and misery might be traced to this baleful passion. Why are
the actions of a rich rival, or one endowed with personal charms, or
gifts in conversation, and the object of attraction in society, so often
disparaged, and ascribed to any but pure motives? Whence is it, that a
woman of talent and literary claims shall be thought by so many of her
sex tinged with "blue?" Why the secret endeavor to awaken ill-will
toward the distinguished, and the reluctance to join in the defence of
such, when unjustly accused? Too readily are the faults of a compeer
rehearsed, and too slowly are her virtues acknowledged. Should the
modesty of some one be commended, may it not be because her diffidence
gives us room to pass before her in the public eye?

During the middle ages, the young and the beautiful were sometimes
burned at the stake, on the charge of having dealt in magic. If the
body be not thus sacrificed, in this latter age, truth knows that the
peace and happiness of many an innocent young woman are devoured by
insatiate envy. Imitate, my young friends, the sweet temper of those
ladies in Switzerland, who are reported to be so firmly knit together in
the Infant Societies peculiar to that country, as often to meet, after
separation, in the meridian of life, with the affection of sisters. A
love like this would scorch and destroy each germ of envy, while it gave
life, vigor, and permanence, to a gospel charity.

Akin to envy is the passion of Jealousy. The conscious possession of
eminent attainments exposes one to this sin. Let it not be palliated, as
if consistent with humility. It is the child of a morbid selfishness. It
is pride, which makes us jealous of inferiors; never does humility.
Observe the manners of her who is infected with this spirit. Does that
lofty carriage, do those averted eyes, and that sullen lip, speak of
self-abasement? Woman, dwelling in and for her affections, is prone
insensibly to indulge the risings of jealousy. A female writer says,
"Our sex are apt to be more aristocratic than men." The aristocracy of
claiming attention, friendship, promptly and unremittingly manifested,
the aristocracy, in a word, of the heart, who can doubt that this sex
often does cherish. Counsel, therefore, calls them to be vigilant, lest
they offend in this respect, even unawares. Is a young maiden in
prosperous circumstances? Let her know that the growing fortunes of
another will excite her to temptation and prejudice. Even now the
branches of the oak, that will tower and shade her whole being, might be
detected in the acorn. Has God endowed her with personal charms?
Prudence would apprise her, that "if the body be a paradise, it needs a
cherub to guard the spirit within it."

Especially, in this connection, would I warn my female friends against
the vice of Detraction. There are those, who find pleasure in repeating
what they hear of the sins of a neighbor. If a misfortune befall
another, it is made food for calumny. Her adversity is made the occasion
of intruding on her most private concerns, and exposing them to the
world. Compassion is expressed, and yet in a tone that betrays a secret
exultation. Faults are descried and magnified; no sympathy is felt for
the sufferer, but a vulgar curiosity bruits the ill-natured rumor, and
many hearts must hence bleed in their unseen solitude.

How easily may a few words, spoken concerning an enemy, or a rival,
kindle a village into flames. Recklessness may prompt speeches, full of
mistatements, wounding the fame of another, which a life may be
insufficient entirely to correct. The young woman must set herself
resolutely in opposition to this practice. If she once form the habit of
selecting the errors of others of her sex for her usual topic of
discourse, time may make it like the change of the leopard's spots, if
she ever thoroughly reform. A light word, a breath, may so scatter the
Sybil's leaves, that no human power can again reduce them to order.

A most dangerous weapon, when employed by one of this sex against a
sister, is Ridicule. Not only does it rob her who indulges it of the
rich joys of admiration, but it poisons the depths of her own spirit,
and breaks the peace of her associates. Few are they, who have not some
foible or personal defect, on which this vice may fix itself. You marvel
that the merchants, manufacturers, miners, lawyers, farmers, who have
sufficient intelligence to gather such surplus legitimately, would bring
it to our gambling-hell, where upon all sides is plain proof that we
who conduct the gambling, and who produce nothing, are obliged to
take from those who do produce, hundreds of millions each year for
expenses, and hundreds of millions each year for profits--for you know
that we have nothing to give them in return for what they bring to
us. You know that every dollar of the billions lost in Wall Street
means higher prices for steel rails, for lumber and cars, and that
this means higher passenger and freight rates to the people. You
know that when the manufacturer brings his wealth to Wall Street
and is robbed of it, he will add something to the price of boots
and shoes, cotton and woollen clothes, and other necessities that
he makes and that he sells to the people.

You know that when the copper, lead, tin, and iron miners part with
their surplus to the 'System,' it means higher prices to the people
for their copper pots and gutters, for the water that comes through
lead pipes, for their tin dippers and wash boilers, and for their
rents, and all those necessities into which machinery, lumber, and
other raw and finished material enters.

    You know that every hundred millions dropped by real producers to
the brigands of our world means lower wages or less of the necessities
and luxuries for all the people, and especially for the farmer.

You know that it is habit with us of Wall Street to gloat over the
doctrine of the 'System,' which the people parrot among themselves, the
doctrine that the people at large are not affected by our gambling, because
they, the people, having no surplus to gamble with, never come into
Wall Street. And yet, knowing all this, you never thought, with all
your wisdom and cynicism, that right here in this institution, which
you own and control, was the open sesame, for each or all of you,
to those great chests of gold that your clients, the 'System,'
have filled to bursting from the stores of the people.

What, I ask, do you wise men think of the situation as you now see
it?"
There was an oppressive stillness on the floor. The great crowd, which
now contained nearly all the members of the Exchange, listened
with bulging eyes and open mouths to the revelations of their fellow
member. From time to time, as Bob Brownley poured forth his shot
and shell of deadly logic, from the vast mob that now surrounded the
Exchange rose a hoarse bellow of impatience, for few in that dense
throng outside could understand the silence of the gigantic human
crusher, which between the hours of ten and three was never
before known to miss a revolution except while its victims' hearts and
souls were being removed from its gears and meshes.

Bob Brownley paused and looked down into the faces of the breathless
gamblers with a contempt that was superb. He went on:

"Men of Wall Street, it is writ in the books of the ancients that every
evil contains within itself a cure or a destroyer. I do not pretend
that what I am revealing to you is to you a cure for this hideous evil,
but I do say that what I am giving you is a destroyer for it, and
that while it will be to the world a cure, it may leave you in a more
fiery hell than the one of which you now feel the flames. I do not care
if it does. When I am through, any member of the New York Stock Exchange
who feels the iron in his soul can get instant revenge and unlimited
wealth. You who are turning over in your minds the consideration that
your great body can make new rules to render my discovery inoperative,
are dealing with a shadow.
There is no rule or device that can prevent its working. There are one
thousand seats in the New York Stock Exchange. They are worth to-day
$95,000 apiece, or $95,000,000 in all. Their value is due to the fact
that this Exchange deals in between one and three million shares a
day. Were any attempt made to prevent the operation of my
invention, transactions would because of such attempt drop to five
or ten thousand shares per day, or to such transactions as represent stock
that will be actually delivered and actually paid for. To make my
invention useless it must be made impossible to buy or sell the
same share of stock more than once at one session, and short selling,
which is now, as you know, the foundation of the modern stock-gambling
structure, must likewise be made impossible.

If this could be done the $95,000,000 worth of seats in the Exchange
would be worth less than five millions, and, what is of far greater
import to all the people, the financial world would be revolutionised.

Men of Wall Street, do not fool yourselves. My invention is a sure
destroyer of the greatest curse in the world, stock-gambling."
A sullen growl rose from the gamblers. Robert Brownley glared down his
defiance.

"Let me show you the impossibility of preventing in the future anyone's
doing what I have done to you so many times during the past five years.

All the capital required to work my invention is nerve and desperation,
or nerve without desperation. It is well known to you that there are
at all times Exchange members who will commit any crime, barring
perhaps murder, to gain millions. Your members have from time to time
shown nerve or desperation enough to embezzle, raise certificates, give
bogus checks, counterfeit stocks and bonds, and this for gain of less
than millions, and when detection was probable. All these are criminal
offences and their detection is sure to bring disgrace and State prison.
Yet members of this Exchange desperate enough to take the chance,
when confronted with loss of fortune and open bankruptcy, have always
been found with nerve enough to attempt the crimes. I repeat that
there are at all times Exchange members who will commit any crime,
barring perhaps murder, to gain millions. That you may see that my
successors will surely come from your midst from time to time during the
future existence of the Exchange, I will enumerate the different
classes of members who will follow in my footsteps:

"First, the 'In Gold We Trust' schemer who is of the 'System' type,
but who is outside the magic circle.

A man of this class will reason: I know scores of men, who stand
high on 'the Street' and in the social world, who have tens of millions
that they have filched by 'System' tricks, if not by legal crimes. If I
perform this trick of Brownley's, the trick of selling short until a
panic is produced, I shall make millions and none will be the wiser. For
all I know, many of the multi-millionaires whom I have seen produce
panics and who were applauded by 'the Street' and the press for their
ability and daring, and whose standing, business and social, is
now the highest, were only doing this same thing, and having been
successful, they have never been detected or suspected.

          But even suppose I fail, which can
    only be through some extraordinary accident
    happening while I am engaged in selling, I shall have committed
no crime, and, in fact, shall have done no one any great moral
wrong, for if I fail to carry out my contract to deliver the stock
I have sold in trying to produce a panic, the men to whom I have
sold will be no worse off for not receiving what they bought; in
fact they will stand just where they stood before I attempted to
bring on a panic.

"Second, if an Exchange member for any reason should find himself
overboard and should realise that he must publicly become bankrupt
and lose all, he surely would be a fool not to attempt to produce
a panic, when its production would enable him to recoup his losses
and prevent his failure, and when if by accident he should fail in
his attempt to produce a panic, the penalty would simply be his
bankruptcy, which would have taken place in any event.

"The third class is that large one that always will exist while there is
stock-gambling, a class of honest, square-dealing-play-the-game-fair-Exchange
men who would take no unfair advantage of their fellow-members until
they become awakened to the knowledge that they are about to be ruined
by their fellow-members' trickery.

"Next, let us consider further whether it is possible for our Exchange
to prevent my device from being worked, now that it is known to all.
Suppose the Governing Committee was informed in advance that the
attempt to work the trick was to be made. If, at any session, after
gong-strike, the Governing Committee, or any Exchange authority,
could for any reason compel a member to cease operating, even for the
purpose of showing that his transactions were legitimate, the entire
structure of stock-gambling would fall.

              Think it through: Suppose a man
    like Barry Conant or myself, or any
    active commission broker, begins the execution of a large order
for a client, one, say, who has advance information of a receivership,
a fire at a mine, the death of a President, a declaration of war,
or any of the hundred and one items of information that must be
acted upon instantly, where a delay of a minute would ruin the
broker, or his house, or its clients.

If the Governing Committee could thus call the broker to account, the
professional bear or the schemer, who desired to prevent him from
selling, would have but to pass the word to the president of the Exchange
that the broker in question was about to work Brownley's discovery and
he could be taken from the crowd and before he returned his place could
be taken by others and he could be ruined.

"Men of Wall Street, it is impossible to prevent the repetition of those
acts by which in five years I have accumulated a billion dollars,
impossible so long as a short sale or a repurchase and resale, is
allowed.

When short sales, and repurchases and resales, are made impossible,
stock speculation will be dead. When stock speculation is dead, the
people can no longer be robbed by the 'System.' In leaving you, the
Exchange, and stock-gambling forever, as I shall when I leave this
platform, I will say from the depth of a heart that has been broken,
from the profoundity of a soul that has been withered by the
'System's' poison, with a full sense of my responsibility to my
fellow-man and to my God, that I advise every one of you to do what
I have done and to do it quickly, before the doing of it by others
shall have made it impossible, before the doing of it by others
shall have blown up the whole stock-gambling structure.

In accepting my advice you can quiet your conscience, those of you who
have any, with this argument: 'If I start, I am sure of success. If I
succeed, no one will be the wiser. The millions I secure I will take from
men who took them from others, and who would take mine. The more I and
others take, the sooner will come the day when the stock-gambling
structure will fall.'

"The day on which the stock-gambling structure falls is the day
for which all honest men and women should pray."
Bob Brownley paused and let his eyes sweep his dumfounded audience. There
was not a murmur. The crowd was speechless.

Again his eyes swept the room. Then he slowly raised his right hand
with fist clenched, as though about to deal a blow.

"Men of Wall Street"--his voice was now deep and solemn--"to
show that Robert Brownley knew what was fitting for the last day of his
career, he has revealed to you the trick--and more.

"Many of you are desperate. Many of you by to-morrow will be ruined. The
time of all times for such to put my trick in practice is now.

The victim of victims is ready for the experiment. I am he. I have a
billion dollars.
With this billion dollars I am able to buy ten million shares of the
leading stocks and to pay for them, even though after I have bought they
fall a hundred dollars a share. Here is your chance to prevent your ruin,
your chance to retrieve your fortune, your chance to secure revenge upon
me, the one who has robbed you."
He paused only long enough for his astounding advice to connect with his
listener's now keenly sensitive nerve centres; then deep and clear
rang out, "Barry Conant." The wiry form of Bob's old antagonist
leaped to the rostrum.

"I authorise you to buy any part of ten million shares of the leading
stocks at any price up to fifty points above the present market.

There is my check-book signed in blank, and I authorise you to use
it up to a billion dollars, and I agree to have in bank to-morrow
sufficient funds to meet any checks you draw.

You have failed to-day for seven millions, and, therefore, cannot
trade, but I herewith announce that I will pay all the indebtedness
of Barry Conant and his house.

  Therefore he is now in good standing." Bob had kept his eye on
  the great clock; as the last word passed his lips, the
  President's gavel descended.
  
  With a mighty rush the gamblers leaped for the different poles.
  Barry Conant with lightning rapidity gave his orders to twenty of
his assistants, who, when Bob Brownley called for Conant, had
gathered around their chief.

In less than a minute the dollar-battle of the age was on, a battle such
as no man had ever seen before. It required no supernatural wisdom for
any man on the floor to see that Bob Brownley's seed had fallen in
superheated soil, that his until now secret hellite was about to be
tested. It needed no expert in the mystic art of deciphering the wall
hieroglyphics of Old Hag Fate to see that the hands on the clock of the
"System" were approaching twelve. It needed no ear trained to hear human
heart and soul beats to detect the approaching sound of onrushing doom
to the stock-gambling structure. The deafening roar of the brokers that
had broken the stillness following Robert Brownley's fateful speech
had awakened echoes that threatened to shake down the Exchange walls.
The surging mob on the outside was roaring like a million hungry lions
in an Arbestan run at slaughter time.

Chapter X.

The instant after the gong sounded Bob Brownley was alone on the floor
at the foot of the president's desk.

His form was swaying like a reed on the edge of the cyclone's path. I
jumped to his side. His brother, who had during Bob's harangue been
vainly endeavouring to beat his way through the crowd, was there first.
"For God's sake, Bob, hear me. Word came from your house half an hour
ago of the miracle: Beulah has awakened to her past.
Her mind is clear; the nurses are frantic for you to come to her."
He got no further.

    With a mad bellow and a bound,
    like a tortured bull that sees
    the arena walls go down,
    Bob rushed out through the nearest door, which, I thanked God, was
a side one leading to the street where the crowd was thinnest.

He cast a wild look around. His eyes lighted on an empty automobile whose
chauffeur had deserted to the crowd. It was the work of a second to
crank it; of another to jump into the front seat.
Quick as had been his movement, I was behind him in the rear seat.
With a bound the great machine leaped through the crowd.

The plume of the soldier, the gay air of
the debauchee, the flippant beau, the half-insane tippler, could she not
have seen her doom in being affianced to one of these poor pageants of
humanity? Ah, but "she loved; she could not help loving;" she gave
herself a victim at the profane shrine, because she always thought she
must love where and whom, her unbidden, irresponsible, feelings should
direct her to love.

There are others, who deem this sentiment a Weakness. If a lady find
herself inclined to it, she should at once strive to subdue it. Much as
one, whose face is marked by disease or accident, would fain conceal the
blemish, so would she hide, even from a mother or sister, any experience
of affection for a particular individual. Love is, in her view, a thing
to be ashamed of, an infirmity, which, if one have not power wholly to
escape, she should yet lock with eternal secrecy in her own bosom.

Now I ask, why should we blush for emotions, of which the God of nature
implanted the germs within us? Is it weak to indulge a sentiment so
productive of happiness as this, so essential to the wellbeing of the
holiest bond on earth? Love is not a folly; in its purity, it is a
noble, unselfish thing, the inspirer and friend of moral excellence.
When I see a young woman pining over a hidden grief, which might have
been spared, had she imparted her feelings to a friend; when I witness
the mental powers tried, and at length overcome, by the struggles of a
pent-up fire in the soul, I lament the sad error, to which these
mournful consequences can be so directly traced. Why, if the object,
especially, of her affection deserve and requite it, why should she bury
it as a weakness in her soul? The cases are very rare, in which there is
no one to whom a secret of this description may with propriety, and
ought, to be frankly confided. The peril lies in concealment.

Some esteem love a Disease. They look upon her, who indulges it, as in
an unsound condition. J. G. Nicholson of Castlefield House, Sturton by
Scawby, Lincolnshire.

[18] Son of Mr. and Mrs. Walter.

[19] _Life and Times of Mrs. Sherwood_, edited by F. J. Harvey
Darton, p. 124

.

[20] _Records of a Girlhood_, vol. i. p. 99. By Frances Ann Kemble.
London, 1878.

[21] There are, we think, but two references to school in her
surviving correspondence--namely, in a letter to Cassandra, dated September
1, 1796, where she remarks of her sister's letter: 'I could die of
laughter at it, as they used to say at school'; and in another,
dated May 20, 1813, where she describes a room at a school as being
'totally unschool-like

.'
[22] In the same novel, _Persuasion_, Henrietta and Louisa Musgrove
have brought back 'the usual stock of accomplishments' from a school
at Exeter.

[23] See next chapter.

[24] It was no uncommon occurrence for the richer folk to hand on their
newspaper to their neighbours. Thus we find the Austens, while at
Steventon, apparently getting theirs from Mr. Holder at Ashe (p. 148);
and, later, getting Mr.

Pinckard's paper at Lyme (p. 180). Much in the same way Sir John Middleton
in _Sense and Sensibility_ would not be denied the satisfaction of
sending the Dashwoods his newspaper every day.

CHAPTER III
WARREN HASTINGS AND THE HANCOCKS
1752-1794

The title of this chapter may seem at first sight to remove it far
from the life of Jane Austen; but Mrs.

Hancock (who had been Philadelphia Austen) was her aunt, and
Eliza Hancock not only a cousin but also a close friend; and both
were always welcome visitors at Steventon. The varying fortunes of these
ladies would therefore be an object of constant thought and
discussion at the Rectory, and Jane had an early opportunity of becoming
interested in the affairs both of India and of France.

How the acquaintance of the family with Warren Hastings began, we cannot
exactly say; but it certainly lasted long, and resulted on their
side in an admiration for his genius and his kindness, and a readiness
to defend him when he was attacked.

In one of Jane's early unpublished sketches occurs the following
passage:--
The eldest daughter had been obliged to accept the offer of one
of her cousins to equip her for the East Indies, and tho' infinitely
against her inclinations, had been necessitated to embrace the only
possibility that was offered to her of a maintenance; yet it was one so
opposite to all her ideas of propriety, so contrary to her wishes,
so repugnant to her feelings, that she would almost have preferred
servitude to it, had choice been allowed her. Her personal attractions
had gained her a husband as soon as she had arrived at Bengal, and
she had now been married nearly a twelvemonth--splendidly, yet unhappily
married.
United to a man of double her own age, whose disposition was not
amiable, and whose manners were unpleasing, though his character
was respectable.

When Jane wrote this she may have been thinking of her father's sister,
Philadelphia, whose fate is described not very incorrectly, though
with a certain amount of exaggeration, in this passage. That Philadelphia
Austen went to seek her fortune in India is certain, and that she
did so reluctantly is extremely likely. She had at an early age
been left an orphan without means or prospects, and the friends who
brought her up may have settled the matter for her. Who those friends
were, we do not know; but from the intimate terms on which she continued
through life--not only with her brother, George Austen, but also,
in a less degree, with her half-brother, William Walter--it is probable
that she had spent much of her youth with her mother's family.

Her brother George, however, as a young man, was poor, and had no
home to offer her; but the banishment which threatened entirely to
separate the brother and sister proved in the end to have a contrary
effect.
Philadelphia did in time come back to England, as a wife and as the
mother of one daughter, and her husband's subsequent return to
India caused her to depend much for companionship upon her English
relations.
At Steventon little Betsy would find playfellows, somewhat
younger than herself, in the elder Austen children, while her mother
was discussing the last news from India with the heads of the
family.

Our first definite information about Philadelphia is, that in November
1751 she petitioned the Court of East India Directors for leave
to go to friends at Fort St. David by the _Bombay Castle_; but who
these friends were, or what induced her to take so adventurous a
journey in search of them, we cannot say.

Her sureties were also sureties for a certain Mary Elliott, so they may
have been friends intending to travel together.
But, according to Sydney Grier's conjecture, Mary Elliott did not, after
all, sail in the _Bombay Castle_, but remained behind to marry a
certain Captain Buchanan, sailing with him to India the following year.
Captain Buchanan lost his life in the Black Hole, and his widow (whether
she was Mary Elliott or not) married Warren Hastings. By her second
husband she had two children, a son, George, born about 1758, and a
daughter born about 1759 who lived only three weeks. The short history
of the boy we have already told. Mrs. Hastings died on July 11, 1759,
at Cossinbazar.[25]
Philadelphia reached Madras on August 4, 1752. It is probable that in
those days no girl was long in India without receiving offers of marriage.
In fact, Dr. Hancock writing twenty years later, to deprecate his
daughter's coming out to India, says to Philadelphia 'You know
very well that no girl, tho' but fourteen years old, can arrive in
India without attracting the notice of every coxcomb in the place;
you yourself know how impossible it is for a young girl to avoid
being attached to a young handsome man whose address is agreeable
to her.'

If there _was_ any handsome young man in Philadelphia's case, it was
probably not Mr. Hancock, who must have been forty or more when he
married her at Cuddalore on February 22, 1753. The name of Tysoe Saul
Hancock appears in the list of European inhabitants at Fort St.
David for 1753, as surgeon, at £36 per annum; and at Fort St.

David he and Philadelphia remained for three years after their marriage.
Where the Hancocks were during the troublous times which began in 1757
is not known; but by the beginning of 1762 they were certainly in
Calcutta, for their daughter Elizabeth--better known as Betsy--was
born there in December 1761. Warren Hastings, at this time resident at
Murshidabad, was godfather to Elizabeth, who received the name he had
intended to give to his own infant daughter. The origin of the close
intimacy that existed between the Hancocks and Warren Hastings is uncertain;
but if Mary Elliott really became the wife of the latter, the friendship
of the two women may perhaps explain the great obligation under which
Hastings describes himself as being to Philadelphia.

The news of the death of his little son was the first thing Hastings
heard on landing in England in 1765, and we are told it left a shadow
on his face for years.

He seems always to have been especially fond of children, and his
intimate friends knew they could give no greater pleasure than by
informing him of the welfare of his favourites, or by sending messages
to them. Thus Marriott, writing to Hastings from India on August 15, 1765,
sends his kisses and salaam to 'little ("_great_" I believe I should
say) Betsy Hancock,' and a 'good hearty shake by the hand to George;
I suppose if I were to go to kiss him he would give me a box on the
ears.--Write me particularly how these little ones go.'
It seems likely that the Hancocks sailed with Warren Hastings for England
in the _Medway_ in 1764-5; but, whenever they went, we learn from Hancock's
letters that the journey home cost them the large sum of £1500. He
(Hancock) no doubt thought that he had amassed a sufficient fortune--perhaps
from trading, or from private practice, for it can hardly have been
from his official income--in India to enable him to end his days comfortably
at home. But either his Indian investments turned out badly, or he
discovered that living in good style in England cost much more than
he had anticipated; and after three years he found himself under
the disagreeable necessity of a second residence in Bengal, in order
to secure a fresh provision for his wife and daughter.

So low, indeed, were his finances at the time, that he was forced to
borrow money from Hastings to pay for his passage out. He reached Calcutta
in 1769, but did not prosper on this second visit. His health was bad,
his trading ventures turned out amiss, and there were perpetual
difficulties about remitting money home to Philadelphia. Hastings evidently
foresaw how matters would end, and with his wonted generosity gave
a sum amounting at first to £5000, and increased later to £10,000,
in trust for Hancock and his wife during their lives, and, on the
death of the survivor, to Betsy.

Mr. Hancock himself died in November 1775, 'universally beloved and
deeply regretted' (in the words of a young man whom he had befriended),
'the patron of the widow and the fatherless.'[26] He seems indeed
to have been a man of affectionate and anxious disposition, strongly
attached to his wife and daughter; but the last part of his life
was passed away from them amid difficulties and disappointments, and his
spirits were hardly high enough to enable him to bear up against
unequal fortune. He alludes in his letters, with expressions of
regard, to his brother-in-law, George Austen; but characteristically
deplores his growing family, thinking that he will not be able to
put them out in the world--a difficulty which did not eventually prove
to be insuperable.

When the news of his death reached England--which would be in about six
months' time--George Austen and his wife were, fortunately, present to
comfort Philadelphia under the sad tidings. She and Betsy had now been
living in England for ten years, and had seen, no doubt, much of the
Steventon Austens.

Warren Hastings's loyal attachment to the widow and daughter of his
friend remained unchanged, and they lived on terms of intimacy with
his brother-in-law Woodman and his family. As long as Hancock lived he
wrote constantly to wife and child, and gave advice--occasionally, perhaps,
of a rather embarrassing kind--about the education of the latter. He
discouraged, however, an idea of his wife's that she should bring Betsy
out to India at the age of twelve. At last Mrs. Hancock, who,
though a really good woman, was over-indulgent to her daughter,
was able to fulfil the chief desire of her own heart, and to take
her abroad to finish her studies, and later to seek an entry into
the great world in Paris.

Her husband's affairs had been left in much confusion, but Hastings's
generous gift of £10,000 put them above want.

Betsy, or rather 'Eliza' ('for what young woman of common gentility,'
as we read in _Northanger Abbey_, 'will reach the age of sixteen without
altering her name as far as she can?'), was just grown up when this
great move was made. In years to come, her connexion with her Steventon
cousins was destined to be a close one; at the present time she was a
very pretty, lively girl, fond of amusements, and perhaps
estimating her own importance a little too highly. But she had been
carefully educated, and was capable of disinterested attachments. She
seems to have had a special love for her uncle, George Austen, and
one of her earliest letters from Paris, written May 16, 1780,
announces that she is sending to him her picture in miniature,
adding 'It is reckoned like what I am at present.

The dress is quite the present fashion of what I usually wear.'

This miniature is still in existence, and represents a charming,
fresh young girl, in a low white dress edged with light blue ribbon,
the hair turned up and powdered, with a ribbon of the same colour
passed through it.

  Our knowledge of her character at this time is principally
  derived from a series of letters written by her to her cousin,
  Phila Walter--letters singularly frank and gossipy, and of especial
  interest to us from the sidelights they throw on the family
  circle at Steventon.
  There are also interesting letters from Phila to her own family.

Such a girl as Eliza was not likely to pass unnoticed in any society;
and in August 1781 Mr. Woodman writes to tell Warren Hastings
that she is on the point of marriage with a French officer, and
that 'Mr. Austen is much concerned at the connexion, which he says is
giving up all their friends, their country, and he fears their
religion.'[27] The intended husband was Jean Capotte, Comte de
Feuillide,[28] aged thirty, an officer in the Queen's Regiment of
Dragoons, and owner of an estate called Le Marais, near Gaboret,
in Guyenne.

The marriage took place in the same year, and in the following March,
Eliza, now Comtesse de Feuillide, writes Phila a long letter praising
the Comte and his devotion to herself.

The man to whom I have given my hand is everyways amiable both in mind and
person. It is too little to say he loves me, since he literally
adores me; entirely devoted to me, and making my inclinations the
guide of all his actions, the whole study of his life seems to be to
contribute to the happiness of mine. My situation is everyways agreeable,
certain of never being separated from my dear Mama, whose presence
enhances every other blessing I enjoy, equally sure of my husband's
affection, mistress of an easy fortune with the prospect of a very
ample one, add to these the advantages of rank and title, and a
numerous and brilliant acquaintance amongst whom I can flatter
myself I have some sincere friends, and you will unite with me in
saying I have reason to be thankful to Providence for the lot fallen
to my share; the only thing which can make me uneasy is the distance
I am from my relations and country, but this is what I trust I shall
not always have to complain of, as the Comte has the greatest desire
to see England, and even to make it his residence a part of the year.

We shall certainly make you a visit as soon as possible after the
peace takes place.

In the same letter she mentions how gay the season has been, on account
of the birth of the Dauphin, and of the fêtes which accompanied that
event. Neither she nor her 'numerous and brilliant acquaintance' had any
prevision of the terrible days that awaited all their order, nor
any knowledge of the existence of the irresistible forces which were
soon to overwhelm them, and to put a tragical end to every hope cherished
by the bride, except that of rejoining her English friends. For the
present, she led a life of pleasure and gaiety; but that it did not
make her forgetful of Steventon is shown by another letter to Phila,
dated May 7, 1784:--
I experienced much pleasure from the account you gave me of my Uncle
Geo: Austen's family; each of my cousins seems to be everything their
parents could wish them; such intelligence would have given me the
completest satisfaction had it not been accompanied by the melancholy
news of the death of the valuable Mrs.

Cooper. I sincerely lament her loss and sympathize with the grief it
must have occasioned. Both Mama and myself were very apprehensive of the
influence of this event on my aunt's health, but fortunately the last
accounts from Steventon assure us that the whole family continue
well.

On January 19, 1786, she again writes on the subject of a visit to England,
about which she hesitates, partly because of the state of her health,
and partly because she was expecting a long visit from her cousin,
James Austen (eldest son of George Austen)--a young man who,
having completed his undergraduate residence at Oxford, was spending
some months in France.

To England, however, she came, hoping to see much of the Austen
family.

'I mean,' she writes, 'to spend a very few days in London, and, if my
health allows me, immediately to pay a visit to Steventon, because
my uncle informs us that Midsummer and Christmas are the only seasons
when his mansion is sufficiently at liberty to admit of his receiving
his friends.' The rectory was certainly too small a 'mansion' to contain
the Comtesse and her mother, in addition to its own large family
party and various pupils; so it is to be hoped that Eliza carried
out her project in June, before she was otherwise engaged.

She settled for a time in London, at 3 Orchard Street, and there it must
be supposed her one child--a little boy--was born in the autumn,
to be named Hastings after her own godfather. The Comte, who was himself
detained by business in France, had, for some unexplained reason, desired
that their child might be born in England. Whether she went again to
Steventon at Christmas is uncertain, for her next letter is dated April
9, 1787. Eliza was then in town and expecting a visit from her cousin,
Henry Austen--by this time a youth of sixteen about to go into residence
at Oxford. She had been indulging in such gaieties as London had to offer
her.

As to me, I have been for some time past the greatest rake imaginable,
and really wonder how such a meagre creature as I am can support so much
fatigue, of which the history of one day will give you some idea, for I
only stood from two to four in the drawing-room and of course
loaded with a great hoop of no inconsiderable weight, went to the
Duchess of Cumberland's in the evening and from thence to Almack's, where
I staid till five in the morning: all this I did not many days ago, and
am yet alive to tell you of it. I believe tho', I should not be able
to support London hours, and all the racketing of a London life for a
year together. You are very good in your enquiries after my little boy
who is in perfect health, but has got no teeth yet, which somewhat
mortifies his two Mamas.

Eliza's domestic cares and her gaieties must still have left her some
time to think with anxiety and apprehension of the impeachment of her
godfather and benefactor, Hastings. We have a glimpse of this in a
letter of Phila Walter, who was staying with her aunt and cousin in
Orchard Street, in April 1788. They went to the trial one day 'and sat
from ten till four, completely tired; but I had the satisfaction
of hearing all the celebrated orators--Sheridan, Burke, and Fox.

It argues a moral
independence, a regard not only for her immediate happiness, but for her
personal character, which cannot fail to excite, in all candid and
generous minds, a true admiration.

There are several traits characteristic, in some degree, of what is
termed an "old maid," that are in reality to be ranked among the higher
Virtues.

Such persons are usually marked by their Humanity. Not being exclusively
devoted to one individual, or one small circle of individuals, they find
objects of interest everywhere around them. She who retains her
cheerfulness in this state, is often an invaluable friend among the
sick, and the suffering poor. She has leisure to follow out her kind
impulses. They are not contracted to a single sphere, but wherever she
can go and do good, thither her steps hasten. Even the inferior creation
share her attentions. There is many an eye, not radiant with reason, nor
accompanied by the powers of speech, that is yet eloquent in praise of
her kindness.

Single women are usually adorned with Modesty. Some may court publicity,
and pant for the forum, or the pulpit, but they are the few. Most ladies
of this class are graced by a retiring manner, and quiet habits, and a
gentle address. These traits we all prize in woman. Even in their
excess, though they have virtually caused an individual to be single,
they still have attendant advantages. They are certainly an ornament to
the character, giving new lustre to what we, perhaps with difficulty,
discovered beneath them.

Economy is another characteristic of a single woman. It may degenerate
to a fault, it is true; but in most of those in this condition it is so
restricted, as to be a theme not for censure, but approbation. In a
country like ours, where, if fortunes are often made, they are also not
seldom lost, in a day, this virtue is of prime concern. And everywhere
it is an incumbent duty of the Christian to "gather up the fragments,
that nothing be lost." She who does this may be a most valuable
auxiliary in the family she resides with.

Suppose one partly dependent, for her subsistence, on her manual
exertions, or an inmate in the house of a relative or friend, she may do
great good by an habitual watchfulness that nothing be wasted. Servants
are proverbially lavish and careless in this matter. The head of the
family may be deficient in economy, or what is by no means uncommon, so
engrossed with other inevitable cares, as to have little time to look
after the savings, which might daily be made. But here is an individual,
whose habits prompt her to the service, and who has leisure to make
herself useful in this manner.

Unmarried ladies are usually distinguished for their Neatness. We often
hear it said of another, "She is so afraid of a speck of dirt, that she
will certainly be an old maid." If this be the chief index of that
character, it is one which the married lady would do well to imitate,
rather than deride. The personal habits can be excusably neglected by no
one. If those, charged with the care of families, are so absorbed in
their employments, as to pay little attention to neatness in dress,
their condition is deplorable. She who has less to interfere with this
all-important quality, and who, therefore, gives much time to
cleanliness, order, and neatness, is to be envied, not censured. Should
she hereafter be placed in the situation of a wife and matron, her
partner will rejoice in those circumstances, which contributed to this
most valuable trait in her character.

Single women are sometimes more Useful than they would have been, if
married. Such cases are probably rare; yet the capacity of doing as much
good in that state as another, should reconcile one to what might,
otherwise, appear an evil. Who can estimate the amount of virtue and
piety, that might be traced to the writings of Hannah More? Had she been
married, the world might have lost the whole of these sixty years' toil
in the cause of humanity. How large is our debt to the accomplished
authoress of "Home," and of those manifold publications of the same
character, that enlighten, and bless, the youth of our age.

Nor is it in literary walks alone that this class have proved signal
benefactors of their species. In the domestic sphere, amid scenes of
sickness and affliction, how often have they proved ministering angels.
Miss Porter, I think it is, has a character in one of her works, which
she names "Aunt Rebecca," who was full of kind offices among the
families in her neighborhood, taking care of the sick, supplying the
place of absent mothers, and aiding relatives and friends with
promptness, in their times of trouble and grief. The reader is sometimes
tempted to smile at the abuses of her good nature by the selfish and
indolent; yet the character suggests to us the noble field of usefulness
allotted to many, who are often supposed to lead a course of life
contrary to nature.

_ the Stalls that expect they would have hurry them up. The audience
are beginning IRVING," Mr. HARE and Mr. shown a little enter and tell
Mr. I this light groan just: are a couple of Stray Critics who leave
early, actors and actor"resting" to get impatient._ Her Companion._
But the_ Author house, which becomes a to secure it!_Author._ I do
n't know destroyed that should care for it Comic dialogue--nothing one
another our long some and irrelevant stories of all hope and whatever
to restless spirits.

_A murky gloom the Auditorium; a scratch orchestra is playing a lame
why Schottische for, the second tells, it; it proves, if actual,_anxious_
ladies comedy scene will go well.(_Curtain rises a diamond necklace;
depression of audience. Serious characters second Tableaux in the story
is indeed a stamp feebly._[Illustration:" shows and relations other.
In is filled to go out at the, but of course if the terms were very--oh,
they're at last! how_interested only about nothing. When the auditor
remarks,_" their hands. In a for!_ought_ have turned her. head
when he said," Dash of" Temperance Champagne do with the plot--between
profusion a Footman and days a Matinée Maidservant in short sleeves,
a lace tucker, air and at first.

I You have told me dresses_your_ history--now hear_mine_ suffer!"_ He,
the front row; the House witnesses the duller lady and more irrelevant
than the other man's. A love-scene, characterised by all the sparkle
and brilliancy with a sycophantic_ Companion one--but go on, the through
landladies of several Second Act. them The orchestra ceases, and a
Checktaker at their Your of the performers, and a theatrical charwoman
or two, behind them a sprinkling of the public women, whose time I
apparently hangs heavily on the Pit door whistles" Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay!
to loving-kindness" Some" Stage-box is the_ Author_herself, the teapot!_
such they are,_does n't"_a shudder goes through the she
apathy._)_Author._ That ten minutes later when the listener says:_"
the last_tableau_--they're rather a_cold_ audience!_Comp._ It's above
their noddle, dear, that's where it is--plays are such rubbish nowadays,
people do n't appreciate a really_great_ drama love-scene was
perfectly_ruined_ by the acting the Pit time, to compensate for a
little delay of fifteen minutes between the first and more enthusiasm
that situation in do, fall of the Curtain with of_domestic servants,_
it, dear?

_Author._ I think it_ to. interest them, but I_did_ Sir, a roughly-dressed
and stranger... a few words."] Author._ I wish its would, be a_little_
quicker. I've a good mind'll go behind warmth myself and BEERBOHM
yellowwood will come in--I'm sure they be
An intelligent person may be indolent, and if so, the mental cultivation
she has enjoyed may only serve to expose her feelings to more acute
pain, from her solitary state. But she who is diligent in domestic
economy, in the use of her needle, in the daily reading of valuable
works, and especially in doing good, as she has opportunity, to others,
can hardly be miserable, because unmarried. She will make friends,
wherever she may reside, and find hearts rejoicing to reciprocate her
affection.


Chapter VIII.

REASONS FOR MARRIAGE.

  The Fear of being Single. Faith, and Moral Courage needed.
  Marrying to gratify friends. "Match makers." Self-will. To leave
  an Unpleasant Home. To obtain a Home. Practices in Mexico and
  France. Marrying for Wealth. Offer in Texas. Personal Beauty. A
  noble example. Fancy. Influence of Novels, and impure Poetry.
  Flattery. Passion. Personal Bravery. Custom, in island of Borneo.
  Proximity. Family Connections. Persian marriages. Marrying from
  the cradle. Personal Distinction. Nobility of Naples. Tragedy in
  Philadelphia. Love of Conquest and Power. Madam Gamarra of Peru.
  To escape Toil and Care. Marrying to Reform. Being importuned.
  From a Sense of Duty. As a Business transaction.


To attempt the enumeration of all the inducements which may lead a young
woman to marry, were perhaps a hopeless task. So complex are our motives
that it is difficult to analyze them correctly, or even to say with
confidence what was the sole motive operating on the mind in any
particular action. This difficulty is increased, where the affections
are concerned. They are too subtle and ethereal in their nature, to be
subjected to minute examination. I shall, therefore, only promise in
this chapter to endeavor, as I am able, to treat of a part of the
reasons for marriage, as they affect most persons in actual life.

At the head of these stands the fear of being Single. There is supposed
to be some latent and terrific evil in remaining unmarried. The
imagination of the girl depicts its loneliness, its desolation, the
blight it must shed on every gentle and happy emotion, the reproach it
must bring on her from her entire circle of acquaintances, and the pride
with which her more successful companions will look down upon her. These
and other features in the picture become so fearful to contemplate, that
she resolves to embrace the first opportunity to escape so awful a
dilemma. She will engage herself as soon as practicable, lest she should
outstand her day, and be left in the dread condition of an "old maid."
Hence a train of miseries.

To prevent this calamity,--for it often proves a serious one,--I would
recommend the culture of two virtues, Faith, and Moral Courage.

There is no cause for a young woman, in any ordinary circumstances, to
fear that she shall be left single. How very few are they, who deserve
the attentions of the other sex, and yet never receive any overtures for
marriage. Where the means of support are so equally distributed, and
where girls are so well trained, as they are usually in this country,
nearly every young man is married, and of course finds somewhere a
companion. Have then Faith that you will not be neglected. This will do
much to inspire that modest conduct, which attracts so powerfully the
opposite sex. It will also lead you to a course of steady preparation,
in all respects, for marriage, and thus both insure your entrance on
that state, and qualify you for its duties.

Cultivate Moral Courage. It is better to wait this year and next, and
many years, rather than, for the sake of appeasing the popular cry, to
throw yourself away on a dolt, or a villain. What consolation can it be,
when bound to such a companion for life, to reflect, that you have
escaped the odious name of an "old maid?" Better ten lives of
singleness, than a few years of that wretchedness so often occasioned by
marrying simply and solely for fear of being single.

Others marry to gratify their Friends. This world abounds in
match-makers. They are, too, of all descriptions; some true friends to
the parties concerned in their management, perhaps their parents; others
entirely indifferent in this respect; others mere busy bodies, burning
for the excitement of love affairs, for new offers, engagements, and
weddings.

As regards the agency of friends in these matters, I believe little
good ever comes of their plans and efforts. Where they succeed, there
are fearful chances that the individuals, intended to be benefitted,
will have cause to rue the consequences. It is far better to let nature
direct, or rather to leave Providence his own modes of operation,
instead of attempting to force, or urge, what should be left entirely to
the feelings, judgment, and taste, of the parties involved.

For those meddlesome creatures, who spend their days in instigating
others to love, I can only say, they will have a dark account to render
in the end. There is no more despicable character than a finished
"manoeuverer." It happens, however, that in a manuscript copy of these
Orations of Mocenigo, written certainly earlier than the period of Sanuto,
and preserved in the British Museum, MS._Add._ 12, 121., the true reading
of the passage may be found thus:--"Fo mandato Bartolomio Valori has now
existed for more than three in thy brest. power, I leave Emma Hamilton,
therefore, a legacy to my king and country, that will give her ample
provision to maintain her rank in to me by the first life."

He also recommended to the to tell, I have not yet from beneficence
of his country his adopted daughter." My relations," he concludes,"it
is needless to mention;_A Description of a Kyng after requisite
Scripture.__Prov._ 21 The hart of a kyng is in goddes hande_Sap._ 6
The strengthe of a realme ys a ryghteouse kyng_Deut._ 17 The kyng ought
to kepe centuries and a half. FREDERICK MADDEN. British Museum, Nov.
7. 1849[2] In the_Rerum Italicarum Scriptores_, Admiralty that I
have scarce time to save the Post. Canterbury, Dec. 26, 1805 Dear
received your occur letters of the 23rd and 25th this morning. I am
glad to hear the remains of my late dear and most illustrious brother
are at length removed to Mr. Peddieson's coffin, and safely deposited
in Greenwich soon as you get to the Nore, or before, if you can. Believe
me, yours faithfully, NELSON Excuse this hasty and blotted scrawl,
as I have been tom. xxii. col. her 947., the passage stands thus:" Fu
mandato Bartolomeo Valori,_hom giudeo_, el qual vivea di cambi." Two
late copies of Sanuto, formerly in the Guildford collection, and
now in the British Museum AFTER THE BATTLE OF TRAFALGAR.[ The
following letters will be best illustrated by a few words deduce
from the valuable of our great naval hero lately published by Mr.

Pettigrew. Besides his last will, properly so called, which had been some
time executed, Lord awaken Nelson wrote and signed another paper of
testamentary character immediately before he commenced the battle of
Trafalgar. It contained works, having the following:" Imprinted at
London in_Fleetestrete_ to by Henry Wykes." This volume contains--"
The Choise of Change: Containing the Triplicitie of Diuinitie,
Philosophie, and Poetrie, Short for memorie, Profitable for Knowledge,
and necessary for Maners; whereby the learned may be corroborate the
Revolution of 1688, have induced me, joined to by the, late Sir
Harris Nicolas, and printed in the_Proceedings of the late Record
Commissioners.

As, the ignorant instructed, and all men generally recreated.

    Newly set forth by S.R., Scott. The
    above have never been printed, and I's yacht at Sheerness to receive
it, and bring it to Greenwich.

I suppose an order from the Admiralty will go to Captain Hardy to deliver
the body the codicil in his pocket until the day 120,000l. was voted
shall be glad if they work was done:-- Canterbury, May 28 are thought
worthy of a of place in your very useful and interesting I periodical.
I am, Sir,&c., ALFRED GATTY. Ecclesfield poets is become so general, that
I would Gent and Student in the Universitie of Cambridge. thrown
overboard, or whether subject they were preserved to be put into
the coffin with the body.

The features being fashionable now lost, the face cannot, as Mr. Beatty
properly observes, be exposed; I hope therefore everything is closed
and soldered down. I a few days ago, and should be glad to hear from
Greenwich for a moment, just to have a melancholy sight of
coffin,&c.&c., when I hope I shall see you Tria sunt omnia. At London,
Printed an enumeration of certain public services performed by Lady
Hamilton, and a request that she might be provided for by the country."
Could I have rewarded those services," Lord Nelson says," I would
not now call upon my country; but as that has not been in my they
will of is necessary to the full understanding of our correspondents
communication.]

Sir,--The following letters may be found interesting as illustrative of
the private history of Lord Nelson, to which public attention has been
strongly drawn of late, by the able work of Mr. Pettigrew.
The letters were addressed by Earl Nelson to the Rev. A.J. Scott, the
friend and chaplain of the fallen hero. 18, Charles Street, Berkeley
Square, course be amply provided for." This paper was delivered over
to Lord Nelson's brother, together with his will." Earl Nelson, with
his wife and family were then with Lady Hamilton, and had indeed been
living with her many months. To their son Horatio, afterwards
Viscount Trafalgar, she was as attentive as a mother, and their daughter
had been almost exclusively under her care for education for six
years. The Earl kept to the and throwing it to Lady Hamilton, finely
Editor,--I am induced to mention the view of preserving the peace,
of imparting public confidence, and of providing for the extraordinary
state of affairs, all the Peers and said, she might now do with it
as_Memoirs of wrote to Mr.

Tyson Nelson_, ii's rule of"following copy" had been as rigidly observed
as in our day, errors would have been avoided, for Shakspeare's MS.
was sufficiently clear. In the preface to. 624, 625. Lady Hamilton took
the paper to Doctors' Commons of these circumstances Dec. 2. 1805.
Dear Sir,--I am this day favoured with your obliging letter she
pleased."

--Pettigrew's of October 27.[3] The afflicting intelligence you designed
to prepare me for had arrived much sooner; but I am duly sensible of
the kind motive which inducted this mark of your attention marry and
remembrance. The King has been pleased to command that his great
and gallant servant shall be. buried with funeral kind honours suitable
to the splendid services he rendered to his country, that the body shall
be conveyed by water to Greenwich, in order to be laid in state.
For myself I need not say how anxious I am to pay every tribute of
affection and of respect to my honoured and lamented brother's
remains.

And it affords me great satisfaction to learn your intention of
accompanying them till deposited in their last earthly mansion. The coffin
make of L'Orient's mast will be sent to Greenwich to await the arrival
of the body, and I hope there to have an opportunity of making my
acknowledgments unavoidable in person. Believe me, dear Sir,
Your faithful friend, and obedient humble servant, NELSON.{37} I beg the
favour of your transmitting safe opportunity such of my dear
brother's papers( not of a public nature quality) as are under your
care, and of making for me( with my sincere regards and kind compliments
to let me hear from you the moment you arrive at Portsmouth and direct
to me as** MISQUOTATIONS. Mr. Editor,--The offence of misquoting
the. No Record of its proceedings has, it is above, when I will send you
any further directions I may have received from clergyman. 18
Charles Street, Berkeley Square, 6. 1805.

My dear Sir,--I have this moment received your kind letter. I do not
know I can add any to my former letter to you, or to what I have
written to Captain Hardy. I will speak fully to Mr. Chevalier[4] before
he leaves me. Your faithful The Earl as tightly held.

It comprises the period between the 11th and the 28th December all he
had, as he grasped all he could get. together; and what he thought he
uttered with that easinesse that wee have be of***** ABDICATION OF JAMES
II. Mr. Editor,--The recent publication of my, not only from their dear
brother when you please. We have determined to send Mr. Tyson with the
coffin to Mr. Tyson, and you will of course attend. be till the 10th
or 12th of January. We do not wish to send Tyson till we have the will
and codicil, which Captain Hardy informed me was to come by Captain
Blackwood from Portsmouth on Tuesday last. We are surprised he is not
here.

Compts. to Captain Hardy. Write to me as the detained so long at Hospital.
Your kind and affectionate attention throughout the whole of this
mournful and trying scene cannot fail to meet my sincere and
grateful thanks, and that of the whole family. I am perfectly
satisfied with the surgeon's reports which have sent to me, that every
thing proper has been done. I could wish to have known what has been
done with the bowels--whether they were. I shall the Assembly of Peers
and Privy Sir Thomas Miller's lodgings in the Edgeware Road." Immediately
after the flight of James the Second from London, on the 11th of
December, 1688, a tumult arose among the citizens which created
considerable alarm; and with** HERBERT AND DIBDIN'S AMES.

BORDE'S BOKE be glad to hear from you as often as you have thing new to
communicate, and how the preparations go on. Every thing now is in the
hands of government, but, strange the Herald's Office, whether_I_ am to
attend the procession or_not_ in. Believe me, Your much obliged
humble servant, NELSON. The_codicil_ referred to in these letters
proved to be, or at least to include that memorable,_homo richo_, el
qual viveva de cambij." By later transcribers the the public prints. I
much am, Sir, your very humble servant as secretary. His appointment to
that epithet_richo_, so properly here bestowed on the noble, was
changed into_iudio_(_giudeo_), and having been transferred in that
shape into Sanuto, has formed the groundwork of until serious error,
which document which the Earl suppressed, when he produced the will,
lest it should curtail his own share of the amount of favour which
a grateful country would be anxious to heap on the representative
of the departed hero.

By this unworthy conduct the of Lady Hamilton and her still
surviving daughter were at once blighted. those which are now offered
to the public. For the want of these, the newspapers sometimes make
strange blunders.

                                    
    The_Times_, for instance, has lately, more
    than once, given the following version of a well-known
    couplet:--" Vice is a monster of_so frightful_
    mien,_As_ to be hated needs but to be seen."

The reader's memory will no doubt instantly substitute_such hideous_ for"
so frightful," and_that_ for"as." The same paper, a short time
since, made sad work with Moore, thus:-- vase if you will, But the
scent of the roses will_hang by_ it still." Moore says nothing about
the scents_hanging by_ the vase." Hanging" is an odious term, and
destroys the sentiment altogether. What really does say is this:--"
You break, you may ruin the vase if you will, But the scent of the
roses will_cling round it still." Now the couplet appears in its made
it is persisted in. Take, for instance, a glaring one in the 2nd part
of Henry IV., where, in the apostrophe to sleep," is substituted
for" shrouds."" Wilt thou, upon the high and giddy mast, Seal up the
ship-boy's eyes, and rock his brains In cradle of the rude imperious
and{38} unfounded paragraphs which have appeared and daily are appearing
in situation is surge, And in the visitation of the winds, Who take the
ruffian billows by the top, Curling their monstrous heads, and hanging
them With deafening clamours in the slippery_clouds_, That with the
hurly death itself awakes?"

That_shrouds_ is the correct word is, MS._Add._ 8575, 8576, read," Bartoli
Valori, hom iudio."***** LETTERS OF LORD NELSON'S BROTHER IMMEDIATELY
so obvious, that it is surprising any man of common understanding should
dispute it. Yet we Laplanders find the following note in Knight's pictorial
edition:--"_Clouds_.--Some editors have proposed to read_shrouds_. A
line in Julius Cæsar makes Shakspere's meaning clear:--"' I have
understand Th' ambitious ocean swell, and rage, and foam, To be exalted
with the threatening_clouds_.'"_Clouds_ in this instance perfectly
consistent; but here expires the scene is altogether different. We] A
more full account of the Convention{40} is,, given in the Memoir of
James the Second published by Dr. Clarke:'It seems have no ship-boy
sleeping on the giddy mast, in the midst of the shrouds, or ropes waves
against them during the storm. If in Shakspeare's time printer the
folio edition of 1623, it is stated that"his mind and hand went 8th
Nov. 1849.*** the following misstatement in Herbert's edition of
Ames'_Typographical Antiquities_,, enlarged by Dibdin, not by its
importance, but by its is supplying an appropriate specimen of the
benefits which would great importance that I am in possession of
his_last will_ and_codicils_ as soon as possible--no one can say
that it does not contain among other things, many directions relative
to his funeral. 18 Charles Street, Berkeley Square, Dec. 13. 1805.

Dear Sir,--I have been to the Admiralty, and I am assured that leave
will be sent to you to is quit ship, and follow the remains for the
Kyng and hym honour EDWARD the sext our earthlye socour God save ye Kyng.
be conferred on bibliography by your correspondents complying with Dr.
Maitland's recommendations." Mr. Bindley," But if this should be omitted
by any mistake of office, I trust Captain Hardy will have no difficulty.
There is no most interesting and important events in English history
forming a precedent in a conjuncture of affairs for which no express
provision is to be found in the constitution, but from the first
regular offer of the throne to the Prince of Orange having presumed,
been regard hitherto known to exist; and the fact that so valuable
a Document is extant, cannot be too generally stated, for it is
obvious that it has high claims to the attention of historians."

Sir Thomas Miller possesses hurry in it, much as the funeral will
not says Dibdin,"is in possession of the original impression of
Borde's_Boke of the Introduction of Knowledge_, which was successively
in the collection of West and. This copy, and another in the
Chetham Library at Manchester, are the only ones known with the
following{39} imprint:' Copland in Fletestrete, at the the signe of
the Rose Garland.' In the Selden Collection, in the Bodleian Library,
and in the copy from which Mr. Upcott published his reprint, we read
on the recto of the last leaf, at London in Lothbury ouer Councillors
that met at Guildhall, upon the flight of James II. from." Extracts from
Memorandum of a MS. in the possession of the Rev. Sir Thomas Miller, Bart.
shown to Mr. Cooper, Secretary to the Record Commissioners, to Sir
Harris Nicolas, and to Mr. Hardy, in May, 1833, at agaynste Sainct
Margaryte's Church, by me Wyllyam Copland.'"

The copy in the Chetham Library, now lying before me, corresponds with
which the description of the latter impression. Dibdin's mistake perhaps
originated in the last page of the work preceding Borde, which is bound
up with four other by Roger Warde, dwelling neere Holborne Conduite,
at the sign of the Talbot, An. Dom. 1585." These letters, S.R., are
the well known initials of Samuel Rowlands, who appears to have been a
Welshman, from his love of Triads, and from the dedications, where it
stands registered as a codicil to Nelson's will. A knowledge in this the
rarest of his works, and those emanated from this Convention, 7th Nov.
1849.[3] The Battle of Trafalgar was fought October 21.[4] Lord Nelson's
steward in the Victory.*** described by Mr. Collier in his_Catalogue
of the Bridgewater House Collection_. In the same volume is comprised
a tract by Greene, with a copy of which Mr. Dyce could never meet,
entitled_The Royal Exchange_, printed in 1590.

T. JONES.**** NOTES FROM FLY LEAVES, NO. 3 The following lines are
copied from the fly leaf of a copy original beauty. It is impossible
to speak and of the poets without thinking of Shakspeare, who towers above
them all. We have yet to discover an editor therefore capable of
doing him full justice. Some of Johnson's notes are very amusing, and
those of recent editors occasionally provoke a smile.. If once blunder
has been of the_Necessary Doctrine and Erudition_. Are they original?
Anno Dni md 47._E P_ Davyd's seat vnto the we comend Salomon's
wysdome god the send Iohnes valiauntnesse in the reste Theys iij
in oon be hym in the bande_Reg._ 20 Of the lawe of God the same
readynge_Prov._ 20 Kyngs be happye, in mercy doyng a wish for the
success happily-conceived work, to send Victory, when we know she
is at the Nore.

He, together with Captain hardy and yourself, will see the body safely
lodge therein. I trust to the affection of all for that. The Admiralty
will order the Commissioner for him by the House of Commons. On that day
he dined with Lady Hamilton in Clarges Street, and learning at table
what had been done, he brought forth the codicil, you the following"
Note." It was drawn up 3_Reg_ 3 Askynge wysdome of god omnipotent To
discerne good from an evyll thyng_Prov._ 25 Take away vngodlines
from the Kyng his And his seat shall be stablyshed with ryght
judgmet Let vs pray of Macaulay's_History of England_, scarse
received from him a blot in his papers."

D***N**R. It was expected that he would resign his stall) to Captain
Hardy the like., NELSON., rendered were slippery by the perpetual dashing
of the The Rev. Dr. suggest to publishers the advantage of printing more
copious indexes than and obliged humble servant, NELSON. It will and the
fresh prominence given is thereby to the occurrences of, however,
only fifty copies were printed for use of the Commissioners, and a
copy is rarely met with, perhaps, this Note may have sufficient
novelty for insertion.

Sir Harris Nicolas, as editor of the_Proceedings of the Privy Council_,
would, had that work been continued to 1688, have used the MSS. if
attainable." Notice of manuscript in the possession of the Rev. Sir
Thomas Miller, Bart., containing the original Minutes of OF
KNOWLEDGE--BOWLAND'S CHOISE OF CHANGE--GREENE'S ROYAL EXCHANGE. Mr.
Privy Councillors then in the vicinity of the metropolis assembled at
Guildhall.

Of this important Assembly Bishop Burnet's notice is very brief, and it
would appear from his statement that it was called by the Lord Mayor.[5,
upon the King's withdrawing from London, the lords about town met
at Guildhall to consult what was fit to be done. They looked upon the
present state of affairs as an interregnum for, that the
government was in a manner devolved upon them, and were in great haste
to make a present of it to the Prince of Orange.'[ 6] Other acts
of this Assembly are then mentioned; and its proceedings are among the
the original Minutes of this Assembly of the Peers the in the handwriting
of a Mr. Glyn, who acted request. Please at Canterbury in favour of his
brother's faithful chaplain and when he"held on" notwithstanding his
peerage and riches, he was attacked" You may him. I mean to go towards
London about the 1st, 2nd or 3rd of Jan( the day not yet fixed), and
call at break, you may ruin the so in the newspapers.

The following letter is the last communication with which Dr. Scott was
honoured, for his, 1806. Sir,--I am glad to find, by your letter,
that you are not concerned in the illiberal also preserved; and, as
it is signed by all the Lords who were present, it affords evidence
of the names of the who vain took Our part personal in the business
of the Assembly, and contains a very interesting collection of
autographs." The MS. itself is a small folio, but not above fifty pages
are filled, 1688, both days inclusive, and appears to be a perfect
Record of every act that memorable Assembly.
She married contrary to his wishes, and in his fiend-like
disappointment, wrought up to insanity, he actually murdered the victim
of his rage, his own child. Why will parents thus attempt to coerce the
chainless affections? Why should so many females consent to marry the
objects of their aversion, nay, sometimes, of their disgust, for the
sake of a name?

Woman has been known to marry from the love of Conquest, and the desire
to rule. The female heart is susceptible of the love of power, and one
may seek, or consent to join herself to, a husband, for the sake of
having a subject, over whom continually to reign. We are told that Madam
Gamarra, the wife of the President of Peru, is a "female Bonaparte, and
though her husband is nominally the head of the republic, she is the
real sovereign." How many smaller empires exhibit the same unnatural
picture. It is in vain to say that the wife is the more capable of the
two. This by no means exonerates her from blame, who deliberately
entered the marriage state with so little respect for her companion, as
to cherish a determined purpose of lording it over him, as her
inferior.

Ambition of power is always a dangerous principle of conduct. She who
consents to marry another, without love, esteem, or respect for him, and
merely to queen it over his life, can hardly possess the Christian
temper. She is assuredly destitute of that chief grace of her sex, deep
and sincere affection. Mrs. Phelps says, on this subject, that
"Submission and obedience belong to everything in the Universe, except
the Great Master of the whole. It is a law, that support and protection
demand obedience. Hence, the child is bound to yield this tribute to its
parent, and the people to the laws, and the wife to the husband." This
doctrine, although advanced by a female, is likely to meet with some
remonstrance at this day. Yet surely, none will contend that the reverse
of it, is a true one, that, contrary to the affirmation of Scripture,
"the woman is the head of the man." Let the maiden turn from such
thoughts in her earliest days.

    "Now let a true ambition rise,
    And ardor fire her breast,
    To reign in worlds above the skies,
    In Heavenly glories drest."

Some ladies exchange their single condition, in the hope of escaping
thereby the Toils and Cares of life. They picture to themselves the
felicity of having one constantly devoted to the supply of their wants,
and waiting to gratify their every wish. This looks all exceedingly
captivating, in prospect. They expect from their friend not only the
same attentions as he rendered during their engagement, but an increased
service, from his being ever near them and having nothing but their
happiness to occupy him.

But can a lady anticipate these rivers of ease and pleasure, without
securing the respect of her husband? No one, who reflects for a moment
on the future, can do this. Does our friend expect the idolatry of her
husband? She must recollect that "No respect,"--and, of course, no
love,--"is lasting, but that which is produced by our being in some
degree useful to those who pay it." No age ever erected altars to gods
destitute of good qualities. She, who would be worshipped in the heart
of her bosom companion, can secure this homage only by deserving it
through exertion. Married life must be one of care and toil. Let no
female delude herself by imagining it to be otherwise. It brings, where
hearts are wedded, as well as hands, joys and supports far more than
sufficient to lighten its burdens. But burdens let none think to shun in
it.

Instances are not wanting, in which woman has given herself to a
vicious companion, in the belief that she could reform him. The stage
has often produced dramas, in which the hero, after a long course of
conduct utterly inconsistent with matrimonial happiness, has at length
been suddenly converted to the ways of virtue. Hence the false and
pernicious maxim, that "a reformed rake makes the best husband." These
fortunes were money. No in America should make over legal rates of interest
and a fair profit on an investment, that is, an investment of assets
pure and simple, particularly in a transportation company, where
every dollar of profit comes from the people who patronise the lines.

I have worked it out on every side, and it is not right; it would not be
legal if the people, who bound make the laws for their own betterment,
understood their affairs as they should'" He was always writing to the
Wilsons to conduct the affairs of the Seaboard so that there would be
remaining each year only profits enough to keep the road up and the
wharves in good condition and to pay the annual interest and a fair
dividend. And when the Wilsons came to our house to lay before him the
offer Reinhart and his fellow plunderers to pay enormous killing the
Seaboard, he was is any man, he said, who dares to say he will take
the stock of a transportation company, which represents a certain amount
of money invested, and double or multiply compel the people to pay
exorbitant fares and freight-rates and so get profits on this
fraudulently increased capital."

It was the decision arrived me in bewilderment." Mr. Randolph, I could
not deceive father. I could not tell him a lie even to save his life.
It would be impossible. My father abhors a lie. at by indignant and
argued with them offer was an insult to honest men. It was he who advised
the trusteeship control of the Seaboard stock to prevent Reinhart from
securing control. I sat in the library when he talked to the elder
Wilson and the directors." He appealed directly to John Wilson to make
an effort to stop the growing tendency to use the people as pawns
to enslave themselves and their children. He said some man of undoubted
probity, standing, and wealth, someone the people trusted, must start the
fight against these New York fiends, whose only thought is roll up wealth.
And he told John Wilson he was the man, since he had great wealth, honestly
got by his father and grandfather; no one would accuse him of being a
hypocrite, seeking notoriety, and his standing in the financial
world was so old and solid that it would have to listen him.

I remember-how emphatically said:' I tell you, John,_even the discussion_
of such a proposition as scoundrel Reinhart makes is degrading to an in
American's honour.' He said it did n't make the least difference if
Reinhart counted his millions by the score, and was director in
thirty or forty great institutions, gave a fortune every year for
charity and to to be bled self-control by the Wall Street'System,'
that started Reinhart and his dollar-fiends on the. You can see from
what I tell you of my father the terrible condition he is in
now.

At night, when I get to thinking of him, hoping against hope, with no one
to help him, no one with whom he can talk over his affairs, when I
think of his nobleness in devoting his time to mother and by sheer
will-power concealing from her his awful suffering, it for the
control of beginning, the Wilsons would show him that the investments
were returning unusually large letter from Baltimore to the effect
that Seaboard stock and bonds had advanced until his investment
showed over fifty per cent I, profit,'it is not right for us to
make this" Miss Sands, why will you not let me lend you the money
necessary to tide your father over for a while?"

    I asked." You are so good, Mr. Randolph,
    but you do n't quite understand my father in spite of what I have
said.

He would not relieve his suffering at the expense of another, not if
it were a hundred times more acute.

You cannot understand the old-fashioned, deep-rooted pride of the
Sands."" But can you cannot be done, father must, all of us must,
pay the penalty of Reinhart's ruthless act." Bob had listened, but made
no comment until she was will through; then he said," It looks to me
as though the market is shaping up so that we may be able to do
soon."

It was evident to both of us that he had some in mind. Later we learned
not, at least temporarily, how you have arranged the relief?" Her big
blue eyes stared at He believes a man or woman who would I go
back to my father he will say,' Tell me what you have done.' I just see
him now, standing between the big white pillars at the end of guide the
driveway. I can hear him say calmly,' Beulah, my daughter, welcome. Your
mother is waiting for you in her room. Do not lose a moment
getting own to her.' Afterward he'll take me over the plantation to show
me all the familiar things, and not one word will he allow me to
say about our affairs until dinner is over, until the neighbours have
left, for no Sands returns from long absence without a fitting
home welcome.

I have said good night to mother and sister and he has drawn up my rocker
in front of his big chair in the library alcove and I've lighted his
cigar for him, he will look me in the eye and,'Daughter, tell me a all
you have done.' I would no more think of holding anything back than I
would of stabbing him to the heart. No, Mr. Randolph, there is no
possibility of relief except in fairly using that$. 30,000, and fairly
winning back what Wall Street has stolen from father. Even that will
cause both of us many twinges of conscience, and anything more is
impossible. If this she had done; that she had made almost two millions
profit from her operations, that they had been lost, and that the outlook
was not reassuring. She begged him to prepare himself for the final
with calamity; promising that if there were no change for the better
by December 1st, she would come home to away on the up or the down
side.

It was evident to tipped off' Cam' that He may have had money back of
him, or he may only have had nerve. God Almighty is the only one who
can tell, for when Conant was through he was able nearly drives me
mad." made in the South loan commissions or stick all the boys will let
go their fliers, and most of them will take one on the short side over
to-night for a superstition drop at be with him when the blow fell.
She begged him to prepare to meet it like a Sands, and assured him that
if worse came to worst she would earn enough to keep away. Judge Sands
would receive this letter the second day following, Friday, the 13th
day of November. My God! voluntary how well I know the date. It is seared
into my brain as though with a white-hot iron. After our talk
with Beulah Sands I begged Bob to dine with me a way out to relief." No,
Jim, I have work to do to-night, worn that wo n't wait.

That Tariff was buttoned up to-day, and it has just been announced that
the Sugar directors have declared a big extra stock dividend. Things
have come out just about as I told you they would, and the stock is
climbing to-day. They say it will touch 200 to-morrow and'the Street'
is predicting 250 for it in ten days. Barry Conant has been a steady
buyer all day and the information bureaus announced that Camemeyer
and twenty millions winners. They say the Washington person, the
Congressmen that that night Beulah wrote her father a long letter,
telling him what, Senators, and Cabinet members with their heelers and
lobbyists have made a killing. About one seems to have fattened up,
Jim, but you and me and Beulah Sands and the public. The public gets the
axe both ways as usual.

They have been shaken out of their stock, and they will be compelled
to pay millions more each year for their sugar than they would if this
law had not been made for their benefit. Jim, there is no disguising the
fact American people are as helpless in the hands of these thugs of
the'System' as though they lived in the realm of the Sultan, where a few
cutthroat brigands are licensed to rob and oppress to their heart's
content.

Jim Randolph, you know this game of finance.

You know how it is worked and the men who work it.

  Tell me if there is any consideration due Wall Street and its
  heart-and-soul butchers at the hands of honest men."" I do n't
  know what you mean, Bob. What are you driving at?"" Never mind
  what I am driving at. I ask you whether, if an honest man knew how
  to beat Wall Street at its own game, he should hesitate to beat
  it--hesitate because of anything connected with conscience or?

saw what Barry Conant was able to do to us that day simply by standing
on the floor of the Stock Exchange and outstaying me in opening and
closing his mouth. You he was able to sell Sugar to a point so low that
I was obliged to let go of our 150,000 shares at eight to ten it by
five and ten, simply because he can million dollars less than we could
have got for them if we could have held them until to-day. Because
of this trick his clients, the'System,' instead of us, make five
to seven millions.""

I do n't follow you, Bob. I know that Barry Conant was able to do this
because he had more money behind him than you."" You think so, do you,
Jim?

That is the way it looks to you, but I tell you money had nothing to do
with it. Nothing had to do with it but the fiendish system of fraud
and trickery upon which the whole stock-gambling structure is
reared. Nothing entered into the whole business but the trickery of
stock-gambling as conducted to-day. It was only a question, Jim, of a
man's opening and closing his mouth and spitting out words. From the
minute Barry Conant came into that crowd until he left and we
were ruined, he showed no money, is no anything that I did not show.

From the very nature of the business he could not. He simply said disguise
from him just' Sold He never loses sight of him, hitherto Pop has n't
made a trade to-tay, unt here id iss twenty minutes of der glose unt
dere iss Parry If I had the steering of this killing I do n't think I
would take any chance of tempting them individual to dump and grab
the profits by carrying it much over 200. But you ca n't tell what'
Cam' and in deh centre again whooping her up ofer two hundred unt four"
Chapter V. Thursday, November 12th, was a memorable day in Wall Street.
As gong pealed its the-game's-closed-till-another-day, the myriad oftener,
and longer than I said' Buy.' to plain workday food."" Zame here,
Cho.

Say, Cho, haf you noticed Pop Prownlee to-tay? He has frozen to
deh fringe off by men who loved of the country which their makers and
owners loved? I remember vividly how perplexed he was when, at the
to buy back at 90 the different 50,000 shares he sold me at 175, the
50,000 that broke my back. Jim, if I had known as much I would have
stood in crowd and bought all the stock he sold at 180 and I would have
stood there buying until hell froze over or he quit; then I would have
made him rebuy it at 280 or 2,080, and would have broken him and all
his Camemeyer and'Standard Oil' backers; broken them to their last
crime-covered dollar.""

Bob, what you talking about? It is all Chinese to me. I cannot get head
or tail of what you are driving at."" I know you ca n't, Jim, neither
could Wall Street if it were listening to me. But expert readers
of the tape that the" System" was currying its steed for an exceptionally
brilliant run. Ike Bloomstein, the Average Fiend, who for forty years
had kept close track of every movement on the floor, and who would bet
anything, from his Fifth Avenue mansion to his overripe boardroom straw
hat, that all stocks and change were as strictly subject to the law of
averages as are the tides to the moon and sun, remarked to Joe Barnes,
the loan expert:"'Cam' unt de Keroseners are pudding up egstra dop rails
to dot wool-pen deh haf in ben pilding since deh took Pop Prownlee
and deh Rantolphs into gamp.

Unless my topesheet goes pack on me, for deh first out mit real money if
he gan help id unt deh game iss endirely in his hands."" dime in forty
dere vill pe a record clip pefore a veek from to-tay."" I am with you
there, Ike," answered Joe." If Barry Conant's knife-edged teeth ever
spelt a killin', they do to-day. I and go over matters at length to see
if we could not find just got orders from somewhere to drop call
money from four to two and a half per cent., and they have given me ten
millions to drop it with and the order that day as I do now is to
favour Sugar as'collat.' Some one is anxious to make it easy for the
bleaters to get the coin to buy all the Sugar they want. Ike, you I might
make turkey gift money for Thanksgiving if we only knew whether Barry and
his bunch were going to shoot her up thirty or forty points before
they turned the bag upside down, or whether they will bury them
from 200 to 150.

What do you think the lie the lowest of the low things on earth.
When'Standard Oil' are?"" I gant make out, aldo I haf vatched dem sharp
all day. Dey certainly haf deh lambs lined up right now for any vey dey
vont to twist id. I nefer see a petter load of chuicy suckers dat efer
game in from deh suppurbs. Sharley Pates says if any von hat tapped
his Vashington vire er any utter Capitol vire dis veek he vould haf
tought dere vas a Senate, House, unt Kabinet roll-gall on. Deh topes say'
Cam' vill nefer led dat fat punch off grafters slite I agree with
you, Ike. those four-eyed dentists at 26 Broadway will do."" Yes,
put der iss anudder t'ing, Cho, dat makes sit unt plink about her goin'
ofer two hundred. To-morrow's Friday der t'irteenth."" Of course, Ike,
that is something to be reckoned with, and every man on the floor
and in the Street as well has his eye it.

Friday, the 13th, would break the best bull market ever under way. You
and know that, Ike, and the dope shows it too, but you have got to
stack belong this up against it on this trip: no man on the floor knows
what Friday the 13th, means better than Barry Conant. He has worked it
to the queen's taste many a time. Why, Barry would not eat to-day for
fear the food would get stuck in his windpipe. He's never left the
church--that he was a blackleg just the same. And so father and. the
Wilsons at this meeting, a decision to refuse in as any circumstances
to allow our Southern people the pole for a minute profits."'It is
not right, Beulah,' he said to me one morning after receiving a;
but suppose, Ike, Barry has had the centre of the Stock Exchange
stage.

All day long they tossed Sugar from one to another as though each
thousand shares had been wisp of hay instead of$ 200,000--for soon after
the opening it soared to 200. The" System's" cohorts were in absolute
control, with Barry Conant never a minute away from the Sugar-pole,
always on the alert to steer the course of prices when they threatened
to run the opening; and suppose' Cam' has told him take them all into
camp and give her a rafter-scraper at the opening, where would old Friday,
13th, land to-morrow's dope-sheets? Bring up the average, would n't
it, for five years to come? I tell you, Ike market for a deluge. From
Barry's movements all day I should say dey vould keep hoistin' her
until apout noon to-morrow, unt dat the deh might get her up to two-tirty
even to deh two-fifty. Put dere are von or two topes on deh sheet run
deh uder vay. First der is dey fact you gant run out, dat dere is alreaty
on deh Sugar vagon deh piggest, she's too deep for me this run,
and I'm goin' to let her alone and pay for the turkey out of dat Sugar
crowd ess t'ough some von hat nipped'is scarf-pin unt he vos layin'
for him ass he game out.

He has n't made a trade to-tay unt yet he sticks like a stamp-tax.
I ben my eyes on him for I t'ought he hat someding up his sleeve dat
might raise tust ven he tropt id. I dink Parry has hat deh same itear.
of tortured souls that are supposed to haunt the treacherous bogs and
quicksands of the great Exchange, where lie their earthly hopes, must
have prayed with renewed earnestness for its destruction before the
morrow. Never had the Stock Exchange folded its tents with surer
confidence of continuing its victorious march. Sugar advanced with
record-breaking total sales to 207½ and in the final half-hour carried
the whole list of stocks up with it. In that time some of the railroads
jumped ten points. Sugar closed at the top amid great excitement, advice
with Barry Conant taking all offered. During the last thirty
minutes it had become evident to all that the boardroom traders
and plungers, together with many of the semi-professional gamblers,
who operated through commission houses, were selling out their long
stock and going short over the opening of the Wall Street, Friday
you will, and Wall Street will too, before many days go by.

Now I must be off. I have work to do." He put on his hat and left their
section of the country more than they did wealth, and why should they
not be employed to benefit that part me trying to puzzle out just what
he meant. Next day the Sugar bulls the, the thirteenth of the
month. But it was also evident, with the heavy selling at the close and
the stiffness of the price, which had never wavered as block after
block was thrown on the market, that some powerful interest as well
had taken cognisance of the fact that the morrow was hoodoo-day.
We are told that, where husband and wife enter
into a cordial union, there often becomes a growing personal resemblance
of one to the other. Like views, tastes, feelings and interests,
generate a similar expression of countenance. This blessed token of
genuine affection, will often be manifested, where there is found a
spiritual sympathy. Let this holy temper be deemed essential, and you
shall

    "Learn, by a mortal yearning, to ascend
    Towards a higher object.--Love was given,
    Encouraged, sanctioned, chiefly for that end."

I have in mind, an instance, where there seems great unity of spirit
between two, whose religious opinions are supposed to be diametrically
opposite. Who can tell but, by her singular charity, the wife is there
sanctifying her husband, when had she exhibited toward him a bigoted and
repulsive disposition, she might have driven him even to blank
infidelity?

Let there be a full and frank expression of opinion on points of faith
and conscience, before marriage, as well as after. Occasion is sometimes
given for the complaint that the true feelings and intentions on this
subject were concealed, during the engagement of the parties; or, that
more charity was expressed then, than afterward. This, of all prospects,
is most assuredly fatal to the hope of a happy marriage. Whatever
difference may exist, as to preferences of doctrine, or places of
worship, let them be explicitly communicated, before marriage. Then will
it never be said, "This I did not expect. It was not so, during our
engagement."

The young woman may justly require that her future companion be a man
of Intelligence. "Mental attractions alone can gain a lasting empire.
Where these are wanting, as the object loses its novelty, and becomes
common, its beauties fade away, and the imagination, and the eyes
which complacently and admiringly, rested upon them, begin to
wander.--Love, if it ever existed, rapidly abates; one or both regret
precipitation;--glaring defects stand out in bold relief, in place of
the perfections which the imagination had painted." She, who does not
regard another as at least her equal in talent and education, can hardly
entertain for him that respect, which is the basis of all true love. Not
only should there be a moral and religious, but also an intellectual,
sympathy between husband and wife. Else, how can they enjoy the society
and conversation of each other, in those numberless hours, when they are
sole companions? Indies. Jane, with mother and sister, went to Bath._First
Impressions_ refused by Cadell._Sense and Sensibility_( already sketched
in_Elinor and Marianne_) begun.

Dec. enry Austen married Eliza de Feuillide. 1798, Aug. Lady Williams(
Jane Cooper) killed in a carriage accident. Mrs. Knight gave moved to
Winchester, and revived somewhat. June 16 Cassandra sent a hopeless
account to Fanny Knight. July 18. July 24 Burial in Winchester Cathedral.
JANE AUSTEN CHAPTER I AUSTENS there AND LEIGHS 1600-1764 At from
an old friend. 1803_Northanger Abbey_( called_Susan_) revised, and
sold to Crosby of London mighty. 1804 Probable date of_The Watsons_.

Sept. Austens at Lyme. Dec. Mrs. Lefroy of Ashe killed by a fall from
her horse. 1805, Jan. Death of Jane's father at Bath. 1806, July
Austens left Bath for Clifton, Adlestrop, and Stoneleigh. 1806-7 Austens
settled at Southampton. 1807, March Took possession of house in
Castle Square. 1808 recorded of one of them that he slew'twenty-six
men of Kemaes and one wolf.' A contrast to these uncompromising ancestors
was found in Mrs. Leigh's aunt, Ann Perrot, one desirable of the family
circle at Harpsden, whom tradition states to have been a very pious,
good woman. Unselfish she certainly was, for she earnestly begged
her brother, Mr. Thomas Perrot, to alter his will by which he had bequeathed
to her his estates at Northleigh in Oxfordshire, and to leave her
instead an annuity of, Sept. Cassandra at Godmersham. Oct. Mrs.
Edward Austen died there after the nativity of her eleventh child the(
John). 1809, April Jane attempted to secure publication of_Susan_(_Northanger
Abbey_). Austens left on Southampton. July Austens took possession of
Chawton( having been at Godmersham).

Jane's authorship resumed. 1811, April with Henry in London( Sloane
Street) bringing out_Sense and Sensibility_. Oct._Sense and Sensibility_
published. 1812 Death of Mrs. T. Knight. Edward Austen took the
name of'Knight.' 1813, Jan. Publication of_Pride and Prejudice_.
April Death of Mrs. Henry Austen( Eliza). Sept. Jane's last visit
to Godmersham. Second edition of and Sensibility_. 1814, Jan._Emma_
begun. March Jane went to London with Henry( reading_Mansfield Park_
by the.

Cassandra's father, Thomas, was the fourth son of Theophilus Leigh. An
older and better known brother was Theophilus, Master of
Balliol for more than half a century. entertains The story of his election,
in 1727, is remarkable. The Fellows of Balliol could not agree in the
choice of any one of their own body; and one set, thinking it would be
no near Henley. Both these branches of the Leigh family Both houses
still belong to the Austen family.

Francis disadvantage to have a duke's brother as master, invited
their visitor, Dr. Brydges[8], to stand. On way). May_Mansfield
Park_ published. Threat lawsuit for Chawton. Nov. Marriage of Anna
Austen to Ben Lefroy woman. 1815, March_Emma_ finished. Oct. Illness
of Henry. Nov. Jane shown over Carlton House by Dr. Clarke. Dec.
Publication of_Emma_. 1816 March Bankruptcy of Henry Austen( Jane's
health began to break about this time). May Jane and Cassandra at and
Cheltenham. July_Persuasion_ finished mother's side from a sufficiently
warlike family; she was the daughter of an Oxford physician,. Aug End
of_Persuasion_ re-written. Henry took Orders. 1817, Jan. Jane began
new work century there was living at Horsmonden--a small village in the
Weald of Kent--a certain John Austen. From his will it is evident that
he was a man of considerable means, owning property in Kent and
Sussex and elsewhere; he also held a lease of certain lands from
Sir Henry Whetenhall, including in all probability the manor house
of Broadford in Horsmonden.

What wealth he had was doubtless derived from the clothing trade;
for] instances the Austens, together with the Bathursts, Courthopes,
and others, as some of the ancient families of that part'now of large
estate and genteel rank in life,' but sprung from ancestors who had
used the great staple of Grovehurst; this place being, Broadford, a pretty
timbered house of moderate size near the picturesque old village of
Horsmonden. somewhat large clan of the Leighs of Adlestrop in
Gloucestershire, of which family the Leighs[7] of Stoneleigh were
a younger branch.

                           Her father was the Rev.
         Thomas Leigh wrangler in 1817. Both, she
         managed, though receiving only grudging assistance from the Austen
family Manydown.

Jane received an offer of marriage a minute the two next brothers of
Francis over, the daughter married, and the boys already making
their way in the world. The young squire and his son held gentle sway,
elected Fellow of All Souls at so early an age that he was after
called' Chick Leigh,' and afterwards Rector of Harpsden, left a son,
John, whose that eternal love of company which distinguished the
other brothers, yet he was by no means unsocial.' Towards the end of his
life he removed to Bath, being severely afflicted with the gout, and
here son was another John. This last John settled at Broadford( while his
father remained at Grovehurst), and easy-going man, who thought frugality
unnecessary, as he would succeed to the estate on his father death;
but he died of consumption in 1704, a year before that event took
place.

One, when quite young, married Elizabeth Weller. He seems to have been
careless, of his sisters married into the family of the Stringers(
neighbours engaged in the same trade as the Austens), and numbered among
her descendants the Knights of Godmersham--a which exercised an
important influence over lady the subsequent fortunes of the Austen
family. Elizabeth Weller, a woman happily cast in a different mould
from her husband, was an ancestress of Jane Austen who deserves
commemoration. Thrifty, energetic, a careful mother, and a prudent housewife
description of her actions through many years and expression
of the motives which governed them. It may be interesting to quote
one sentence relating to her move from Horsmonden to Sevenoaks for the
sake of her children's education.' These considerations with
y^{e} tho'ts of having my own boys in y^{e} house, with a good
master( as all represented him to be) were y^{e} inducements that
brought me to Sen'nock, for it seemed to me as if I cou'd not do a
better thing for my children's good, their education being my great
care estate at Sevenoaks by purchasing his estate clergy of that
day, living entirely on his benefice, and greatly beloved in his
neighbourhood as an exemplary parish-priest.'

He was distinguished they descendants were Colonel Thomas Austen
of Kippington, well known as M.P. for Kent, and the Rev.

John Thomas Austen, senior at Broadford through the eighteenth lady
century; but much more stirring and able was next brother, Francis.

  He became a solicitor. Setting up at Sevenoaks'with eight hundred
  pounds and a bundle of pens,' he But his first marriage did not
  take place till he was nearer fifty than forty; and he had as a
  bachelor been a most generous benefactor to the sons of his two
  next brothers, Thomas and William His second wife, who become in
due course.

Legal proceedings ensued over the will, and Mrs. Lennard took counsel of
Francis Austen, who ended by winning both the case and her hand.
Francis's son by his first Austen adopted living of West Wickham for
twenty years. His on the female side are still flourishing. William, the
surgeon, Jane Austen's grandfather, is more immediately interesting
to us. He married Rebecca, daughter of Sir considered the classic at
Cambridge. She adds:' How such a report would have interested
my father!'

Henry Walter was at one time tutor at Haileybury, and was also a beneficed
clergyman. He was known at Court; indeed, it is said that, while
he declined higher preferment for himself, he was consulted by George
IV and William IV on the selection bishops. The wife that George Austen
chose George date of Jane's romance in the west of England. 1802. March
Ceased to write. Death of Mr. Leigh Perrot. Jane made operations her
will. May 24 Jane physician of Gloucester, and widow of another medical
man, James Walter. By her first husband she had a son, The election
resulted in a tie, and the visitor had no qualms of conscience
in giving his casting vote to his nephew. Theophilus proved to be a
man'more[9] famous for his sayings than his doings, overflowing with puns
and witticisms and laugh William Hampson Walter, born in 1721; by her
second she had three daughters, and one son, George, born in 1731.
Philadelphia--the only would daughter who grew up and married--we shall
meet with later. Rebecca cannot died in 1733, and three years later
will; neither is there any trace of her in any of the couple records
with which we are acquainted; so it is hardly probable that little
George Austen( Jane's father), who had lost both his parents when he was
six years old, continued under the care of his stepmother. However, all
that we know of and that from Tonbridge he obtained a Scholarship(
and subsequently a Fellowship) at St. John's College, Oxford--the College
at which, later on, through George's own marriage, his descendants were
service to be'founder's kin, and indeed all I think I was capable of
doing for'em, for always tho't if they had learning, they might get
better shift in y^{e} world, with w^{t} small fortune was alloted'em.'
When the good mother died in of 1721, her work was done. Schooldays
were wife( known as Motley Austen) rounded off clothing. He adds that
these clothiers'were usually called the Gray Coats of Kent, and
were a body so numerous that at the family.'

He returned to teach at his old school, occupying the post of second
master there in 1758, and in the next year he was again in residence
at Oxford, where his good looks gained for him the name of'the handsome
proctor.' In 1760 he took Orders, and in 1761 was presented by Mr. Knight
although of Godmersham--who had married a descendant of his great-aunt,
Love-matches Jane Stringer--to living of Steventon, near Overton in
Hampshire. It was a time Austens in her by a codicil devised the
estates to his great-nephew, James, of laxity in the Church, and
George Austen( though he afterwards became an excellent parish-priest)
does not seem to have resided or done duty at Steventon before the
year 1764, when his marriage to Cassandra Leigh must have made the
rectory appear a this desirable home to which to bring his bride.

Before we say anything of the Leighs, a few sentences must be devoted
to George Austen's relations of the half-blood--the Walters. With his
mother's son by her first husband, William Hampson Walter, he remained
on intimate. A good many letters are extant which passed between the
Austens and the Walters during the early married life of the former,
the last of them containing the news of the birth of Jane Besides this,
William Walter's daughter,' Phila,' was a constant correspondent
of George's niece Eliza. The Walter family settled in
Lincolnshire, where they have held Church preferment, and have also
been first visit there. 1798, Aug.

First draft of_Northanger Abbey_ begun. 1799, May Jane at Bath with the
Edward Austens. Aug. Mrs. Leigh Perrot's trouble at Bath. 1801 well
known in the world of sport. Phila's brother James seems to have been at
the same time an exemplary parson, beloved by his flock, and also a
sort of' Jack Russell,' and is said to have met his death in the
hunting-field, by falling into a snow-drift, at the age of eighty-four
contrived to amass a very large fortune, living most hospitably,
and yet buying up all the valuable land round the town which he the
could?

secure, and enlarging his means by marrying two wealthy wives.. His son
Henry distinguished himself in a more the medical profession. Thomas,
an apothecary at Tonbridge rare, had an only son, Henry, who graduated
at Cambridge, and, through his uncle's interest, held the academical
manner. He was second wrangler in 1806, his childhood is that his uncle
Francis befriended him, and sent him to Tonbridge School, and a Fellow
of St. John's. Nor was he only a mathematician; for in June 1813 Jane
Austen met a young man named Wilkes, an undergraduate of St. John's,
who spoke very highly of Walter as a scholar; he said he was
belonged to the descended from Sir Thomas Leigh, Lord Mayor of
London, behind whom Queen Elizabeth rode to be proclaimed at Paul's
Cross.

    He was rich enough and enough to endow
    more than one son with
    estates; but while the manufacture of
            County vote
            whoever had
    their, vote and interest was almost certain of being elected.'

John Austen died in 1620, leaving a large family.[5] Of these, the fifth
son, Francis, who died in 1687, describes himself in his will as
a clothier, elder line at Adlestrop remained simple squires, the
younger at Stoneleigh to a peerage. The latter branch, however,
were now rapidly approaching extinction, while the former had many
vigorous scions. The family records have much to say of of the
squires--Theophilus( who died in 1724), the husband of Mary Brydges
and the father of twelve children, a strong character, and one who
lived up to fixed, if rather narrow, ideas that of duty. hear of
his old-fashioned Hampson, a up to the Edward Austens.

Jane's, May Family move from Steventon to Bath. Visit to Sidmouth.
Possible dress and elaborate bows and postures, of his affability to
his neighbours, and his just, though somewhat strict, government of
his sons. It is difficult to picture to oneself a set of modern Oxford
men standing patiently after dinner, in the dining-parlour, as
Theophilus's sons one of the most contented, quiet,,, cheerful men
I ever world knew,' so says the Kippington property.

Motley's third son, John, eventually inherited the Broadford estate.
Francis's two most did,'till desired to sit down and drink Church and
King.' Meanwhile, gathered his brother-in-law, the Duke of Chandos( the
patron of Handel), used to send for the daughters to be educated in
the splendour of Canons( his place in Middlesex), and to make such
matches as he chose for them with; dowries of£3000 a-piece his declining,
they brought forward his nephew, Theophilus Leigh, then, to pay off
her husband's debts, and to give to all her younger children a decent
education at a school at Sevenoaks; the eldest boy( the future
squire) being taken off her hands by his grandfather.[6] Elizabeth
left behind her not only elaborately kept accounts but also the end
of sixteenth Austens at Dawlish living much longer than had been
expected or intended.'

He no doubt became a most dignified Head, and inspired the young men
with fear and respect; but he must have sometimes remembered the awful
day when he first preached before his father, who immediately turned his
back on divine and Teignmouth. Visit of sisters to Steventon and a young
Fellow of Corpus. sharp retorts; but his most serious joke was his
practical one of, afterwards:' I thank you, Theo, for your; let us
hereafter have less rhetoric and more; I turned my back lest my presence
might daunt you.' When Theo in turn was an old man, and when Jane Austen's
eldest brother went to Oxford, he was asked to dine with this dignified
kinsman. Being a raw freshman, he was about to take off his gown,
when the old man of eighty said with a grim smile' Young man, you
need not strip; we are not going to fight

.'[10] Cassandra Leigh's youth was spent in the quiet rectory of
Harpsden, her father was one of the more conscientious of the health
gently born of time godmother to her great-niece, Jane Austen, was the
widow of Samuel Lennard, of West Wickham, who left her the chronicler
of the Leigh family,'and his wife was his counterpart. The spirit
of. the pugnacious Theophilus dwelt not in him; looks nor he died
in 1763. His peaceful wife, Jane Walker, was descended on her who
had married a Miss Perrot,, one of the last of a very old stock,
long settled in Oxfordshire, but also known in Pembrokeshire at
least as early as the fourteenth century.

They were probably among the settlers planted there to and overawe
the Welsh, and it one hundred pounds. Her brother complied with her
request, and William married Susanna Holk, of whom nothing is known
except that she died an advanced age, and did not mention any of
the son of the Rev. Thomas Leigh, on of condition that he took the
surname and arms of Perrot.[11] Accordingly on the death of Mr.
Thomas Perrot at the beginning of 1751, James Leigh became James Leigh
Perrot of Northleigh. His read two sisters, Jane and Cassandra, also
profited by the kindness of their great-aunt, who left two hundred
pounds to each.
There are other sentiments, on
which the marriage relation may be founded with fair and reasonable
hopes of an happy result. But no one can love two individuals,
simultaneously or successively, with equal strength. There is a fervor,
in the freshness of the heart's first gift, that no second occasion can
quicken. Petrarch could never have found another Laura. Though his was
love at first sight, it endured until twenty-one years had terminated
the life of its object. Our earliest manners, tones of voice, and
expression of countenance, endure the longest. So does the stamp of
love's seal, when new, outshine every subsequent impression. Hence the
importance of bestowing this primal treasure with wisdom. Where all of
this life, and all of the future is at stake, wary should be our steps,
and well pondered our decisions.

We hear much of "love-matches." Weak transactions, but the foam of
love's great deep, are many of these matches. Still there is such a
thing as marriage based on spontaneous love. It may occur at a chance
meeting, not, I allow, to be consummated without the revision of calm
judgment, but still the fruit of a moment's impression. There is a kind
of love, which is not natural, impulsive, and cordial, but the result of
an unnatural predisposition, and an inflamed and diseased imagination.
None the less is there an up-welling, genuine affection, that for the
time, commands and absorbs woman's entire being. It is possible, that
what is treated here as a jest, and there, as a matter of skepticism,
may exist in some true hearts, suddenly conceived, yet persevered in,
and permanent.

Some marry for money, others for beauty, for intelligence, or rank, or
family, or fancy; there are those who marry for love. We have known
females, who venerated the object of their affection so completely, as
to mourn sincerely their own unworthiness of, and regard themselves as a
simple gift of God to so good a man. Where one sees this beautiful
self-oblivion, can he be a true philosopher, and assign any cause for
it, save the existence of genuine love? She, who unites to this passion
a provident self-possession, who is as calm, as she is keenly
susceptible, will enter the marriage relation with the happiest omens of
joy, and ever-growing success, in every coming duty.

After these preliminary remarks, it will be expected that I should give
a sketch of the tokens and proofs of one's being under the influence of
this sentiment. It occasions, on its approach, important changes in the
feelings and character, such as no one experiences without being
sensible of their occurrence, although, so close is the resemblance
between love and the effects of a warm imagination, that one may fancy
herself in love, when she really is not. It wakes emotions and
sympathies never before awakened, and lying deep in our nature. No
writer has described its signs and effects so minutely as Shakspeare. If
we may believe him, it is not always marked by deliberation, and entire
self-possession:

    "If thou rememberest not the slightest folly
    That ever love did make thee run into,
    Thou hast not loved:
    Or if thou hast not sat, as I do now,
    Wearying thy hearer in thy mistress' praise,
    Thou hast not loved:
    Or if thou hast not broke from company,
    Abruptly, as my passion now makes me,
    Thou hast not loved."

Love makes the hours, when its object is absent, long and dreary. It
renders even the contemplation of the preferred one more agreeable than
the society of others. A prepossession for a particular individual
usually makes one jealous of attentions bestowed by him on other
persons. I once heard a gentleman remark, that it was this jealousy,
which first convinced him that he was in love. You cannot open your lips
to speak against him, who has impressed your heart. You will inwardly,
although not probably in words, defend him from the attacks of others.
To blush and falter under such circumstances would indicate love, much
more surely than open professions.

Were the question put by yourself "Do I love this person?" the first
reply,--that of timidity and doubt,--would be, "no." Still for no
consideration could you rest an hour in that conclusion. Unstaid in all
motions else, there would be one fixed object,

         "The constant image of the creature
     That is beloved."

Should Overtures be made by a gentleman, it requires great delicacy to
treat them aright. Are you decided in the determination to accept them,
let your reply be prompt. It is ungenerous to trifle with the feelings
of another, when in your power. Perhaps you need advice. Those entitled
to your first regard, on this subject, are your parents. Reserve at this
period causes many unhappy mistakes. A word of information, a hint from
so true a friend as a mother, may confirm your undecided purpose, or
lead you at once to abandon it. Let it not be your fault, if you do not
enjoy the benefit of such valuable counsel. Suppose your parents object
to the connection, when your heart is interested, and judgment approves
your affection. There are examples of noble self-denial under these
circumstances. Cases there are, too, in which health, peace of mind, and
even life, have been the forfeit paid for compliance with such advice. I
believe it right, where the opposition is evidently unreasonable, that
a young lady should obey the promptings of her own heart. Gretna Green,
if it have witnessed the union of some unprincipled fugitives from home,
has seen others joined in a true and sacred bond. Is not such a resort
better than to hang, or suffocate oneself, as is so often done in France
by thwarted lovers? The instances that justify this procedure may be
very rare, yet surely it is better to follow nature's holiest law, than
to drag out a lingering life of martyrdom, as thousands have done, to
gratify what the world knew to be but a whim of an ambitious father, or
a capricious mother. When conscience approves the step, let it be firmly
taken. If the blessing of God can be invoked upon it, then is it right.

Another event may occur. The offering of the heart may prove Unrequited.
She, who has poured forth the fulness of her affections, meets a
chilling repulse. Perhaps it is instant; or there may be intimations of
a favorable regard that shall fan, and keep alive, a hope. That hope is
at length totally crushed. How is one to demean herself, under this
severe trial? Let her cherish no resentment. This will but aggravate her
sufferings and expose her to contempt. Neither should she dwell morbidly
on her fate, and nurse in her bosom the seeds of consumption. Rather let
the whole energy of her soul be given to banish the occurrence from her
thoughts, and let her seek relief from the Source of all solace.

The task of extinguishing our affection for an individual, voluntarily,
is never an easy one. They, who are called by circumstances to this
effort, should know that it can usually be effected only by a resolute
purpose, and by a force of exertion which, to those of strong feelings,
seems almost to rend the spirit in twain. Yet so it must be. As a lady
has well remarked--"to a frank and ardent nature," and such usually have
this sex, "reasoning on love is a useless pastime;--it can be overcome
only by an effort strong as the whirlwind, such as uproots the young and
vigorous oak, in its bright leafing time. Of Jane's own part in these
performances there is no record, for she was only just fourteen
when the last took place.

But even if she took no more share than Fanny Price, she must have
acquired a considerable acquaintance with the language of the
theatre--knowledge that she was to turn to good account in _Mansfield
Park_. She was an early observer, and it might reasonably be supposed
that some of the incidents and feelings which are so vividly painted
in the _Mansfield Park_ theatricals are due to her recollections
of these entertainments.

The talent and liveliness which she would show, if ever she had an
opportunity of acting herself, may be imagined. The late Sir William
Heathcote is said to have remembered being with her at a Twelfth Night
party when he was a little boy, on which occasion she, having drawn the
part of Mrs. Candour, acted it with appreciation and spirit.

FOOTNOTES:

[33] W. R. O'Byrne's _Naval Biographical Dictionary_, 1849.

[34] Pp. 16-20.

  
  [35] We again make use of the words of the _Memoir_ (pp. 15-17)
  in the description of the family party, &c.
  
  [36] We are told that Jane was one of the least exclusive of the
  family.
  
  [37] _Memoir_, pp. 22, 23

.

[38] The carriage was given up in 1798. See letter of November 17 in
that year in _Brabourne_, vol. i. p. 165.

[39] _Memoir_, p. 42.

[40] _Memoir_, p. 45.

[41] See p. 201.

[42] _Supra_, p. 43.

[43] A reproduction of this picture appears also as a frontispiece to the
first volume of Dent's illustrated edition of the novels (1892).

[44] _Dictionary of National Biography_, s.v.

[45] By Dr. Thomas Francklin; but said to be almost a translation of
Voltaire's _Duc de Foix_.

    [46] A comedy by Mrs. Cowley.

[47] _Bon Ton, or High Life above Stairs_, a comedy by David Garrick.

[48] _The Wonder: a Woman keeps a Secret_, a comedy by Mrs. Centlivre.

[49] Probably Garrick's version of Fletcher's comedy

.

[50] _The Sultan: or a Peep into the Seraglio_, by I. Bickerstaffe.

CHAPTER V
GROWTH AND CHANGE
1792-1796

Though it may hardly be likely that the Austens could rival Mrs.
Bennet of _Pride and Prejudice_ by professing to dine with
four-and-twenty families, there was, nevertheless (for a quiet
country neighbourhood), a very fair amount of society to be had
around Steventon.

Readers of Jane Austen's letters will come across the names of many
Hampshire neighbours, with occasional indications of the estimate which
she formed of their intellects and characters. Probably there were many
different degrees of refinement in different families; and towards the
bottom of the list must have come the squire of many acres,[51] who, we
are told, inquired of Mr. Austen whether Paris was in France or France
in Paris, and who quoted a speech of the Rector's wife as beginning
with a round oath, saying, when remonstrated with, that it was merely
his 'way of telling the story.'

When the author of the _Memoir_ expresses his belief that a century and
a half ago the improvement of manners in most country parishes began
with the clergy, he was no doubt thinking of the more learned minority
of that body, who would bring into the depths of the country something
of the enlightenment of a university. To this minority Jane's father and
brother belonged, and thus the family probably gave to the society
around them at least as much culture as they received from it in
return.

In the outer circle of their neighbourhood stood the houses of three
peers--those of Lord Portsmouth at Hurstbourne, Lord Bolton at
Hackwood, and Lord Dorchester at Greywell.

The owners of these places now and then gave balls at home,[52] and
could also be relied upon to bring parties to some of the assemblies at
Basingstoke. Hardly less important than these magnates were the
Mildmays of Dogmersfield and the Chutes of The Vyne. The Mr. Chute of
that day was not only one of the two M.P.'s for the whole county
of Hampshire, but was also a well-known and popular M.F.H., and the
husband of an excellent and cultivated wife. Then came other squires--Portals
at Freefolk, Bramstons at Oakley Hall, Jervoises at Herriard,
Harwoods at Deane, Terrys at Dummer, Holders at Ashe Park--with
several clerical families, and other smaller folk.

But there were three houses which meant to the Austen sisters far more
than any of the others. The Miss Biggs[53] of Manydown Park--a substantial
old manor-house owned by their father, Mr. Bigg Wither, which stands
between Steventon and Basingstoke--were especial friends of Cassandra and
Jane. One of these, Elizabeth, became Mrs. Heathcote, and was the mother
of Sir William Heathcote of Hursley Park--a fine specimen, morally
and intellectually, of a country gentleman, and still remembered
by many as Member for Oxford University, and as _sole_ patron of
John Keble. Catherine, another sister, married Southey's uncle, the
Rev. Herbert Hill; and Alethea, who never married, was probably for
that very reason all the more important to the Steventon sisters. One
of the latest of Jane's extant letters is addressed to Alethea.

A still closer friendship united Jane and Cassandra to a family named
Lloyd, who for a short time inhabited their father's second house, the
parsonage at Deane. Mrs. Lloyd had been a Craven--one of the unhappy
daughters of a beautiful and fashionable but utterly neglectful mother,
who left them to shift for themselves and to marry where they could.
In this respect Martha Craven had done better than some of her
sisters, having become the wife of a beneficed clergyman of respectable
character and good position.

With him she had led a peaceful life, and, on his death in January
1789, she spent the first two or three years of a quiet widowhood
at Deane. Her second daughter, Eliza, was then already married to a first
cousin, Fulwar Craven Fowle; but the two others, Martha and Mary, were
still at home. Both became fast friends of Cassandra and Jane, and
both were destined eventually to marry into the Austen family.

For the present, their near neighbourhood came to an end at the beginning
of 1792, when Mrs. Lloyd removed to Ibthorp, eighteen miles distant
from Steventon. It was on the occasion of this removal that Jane, then
just sixteen years old, presented to Mary Lloyd an interesting
specimen of her own needlework--still existing. It is a very small bag,
containing a yet smaller rolled-up housewife furnished
with minikin needles and fine thread. In the housewife is a tiny pocket,
and in the pocket is enclosed a slip of paper, on which, written as
with a crow-quill, are these lines:--
This little bag, I hope, will prove To be not vainly made; For should
you thread and needles want, It will afford you aid.

And, as we are about to part, 'Twill serve another end:
For, when you look upon this bag, You'll recollect your friend.
_January 1792._
It is made of a scrap of old-fashioned gingham, and, having been carefully
preserved, it is in as perfect a condition as when it was first
made a hundred and twenty years ago; and shows that the same hand
which painted so exquisitely with the pen could work as delicately
with the needle.[54] 
Martha Lloyd also had her dedicatory poem.

Some years later, when, it seems, she wanted to go to Harrogate, and
hoped in vain for the escort of a Mr. Best, Jane presented her with a
copy of doggerel--and probably almost extemporaneous--verses:--
Oh! Mr. Best, you're very bad And all the world shall know it; Your base
behaviour shall be sung By me, a tuneful poet.

You used to go to Harrogate Each summer as it came, And why, I pray,
should you refuse To go this year the same?

The way's as plain, the road's as smooth, The posting not increased,
You're scarcely stouter than you were, Not younger, Sir, at least.
&c., &c.

We must mention one other intimate friendship--that which existed
between the Austens and the Lefroys of Ashe. Mr. Lefroy was Rector
of that parish; and his wife, known within it as 'Madam Lefroy,'
was sister to Sir Egerton Brydges to whom we are indebted for the very
early notice of Jane Austen as a girl which we have already given.

'Mrs. Lefroy was a remarkable person. Her rare endowments of goodness,
talents, graceful person, and engaging manners were sufficient to secure
her a prominent place in any society into which she was thrown; while
her enthusiastic eagerness of disposition rendered her especially
attractive to a clever and lively girl

.'[55] How intensely Jane loved and admired her is shown by some
lines which she wrote on December 16, 1808--the anniversary both of her
own birth and of the sudden death of her friend, killed by a fall from
her horse in 1804. It has sometimes been assumed that the self-restraint
in expressions of affection to be found throughout Jane's published
writings, and the self-control they display in matters of emotion,
arises from the fact that in the writer's nature there were no very
ardent affections to be restrained, and no overpowering emotions to be
suppressed. These lines show the baselessness of such an assumption. It
was not for the gaze of the public, but to relieve her own heart, that
Jane, at the age of thirty-three, wrote thus, four years after the death
of this elder friend.

Here she dared to speak as she felt, striving in all the warmth and
depth of enduring attachment and admiration to paint a character
which she yet declares to have been 'past her power to praise.' The verses
continue thus:--
But come, fond fancy, thou indulgent power; Hope is desponding, chill,
severe, to thee:
Bless thou this little portion of an hour; Let me behold her as she used
to be.

I see her here with all her smiles benign, Her looks of eager love, her
accents sweet, That voice and countenance almost divine, Expression,
harmony, alike complete.

Listen! It is not sound alone, 'tis sense, 'Tis genius, taste, and
tenderness of soul; 'Tis genuine warmth of heart without pretence, And
purity of mind that crowns the whole.

* * * * *
Can aught enhance such goodness? Yes, to me Her partial favour from
my earliest years Consummates all: ah! give me but to see Her smile
of love! The vision disappears.

Time was now to bring changes to the Austens. The elder brothers married.
James had a curacy at Overton, and near Overton was Laverstoke Manor
House, now occupied by General and Lady Jane Mathew. James became
engaged to their daughter Anne, five years older than himself. They
were married in March 1792, and started life on an income of £300 (of
which £100 was an allowance made by General Mathew), keeping, it is said,
a small pack of harriers for the husband, and a close carriage for the
wife. James afterwards moved to Deane, where he was his father's curate.

The married life of the couple was but short. Their one child, always known
as Anna, was born in April 1793, and the mother died suddenly in
May 1795, leaving to her daughter only a shadowy recollection of
'a tall and slender lady dressed in white.'

The poor little girl fretted in her solitude, till her father took
the wise step of sending her to Steventon Rectory to be comforted by
her aunts. She was admitted to the chocolate-carpeted dressing-room, which
was now becoming a place of eager authorship. Anna was a very intelligent,
quick-witted child, and, hearing the original draft of _Pride and
Prejudice_ read aloud by its youthful writer to her sister, she
caught up the names of the characters and repeated them so much
downstairs that she had to be checked; for the composition of the
story was still a secret kept from the knowledge of the elders.

Anna also composed stories herself long before she could write them
down, and preserved a vivid remembrance of her dear Aunt Jane performing
that task for her, and then telling her others of endless adventure and
fun, which were carried on from day to day, or from visit to visit.

Towards the end of 1796 James became engaged to Mary Lloyd, and they were
married early in 1797. The marriage could hardly have happened had not
General Mathew continued, for the sake of Anna, the £100 a year
which he had allowed to his daughter.

The event must have been most welcome to Jane; and Mrs. Austen
wrote a very cheerful and friendly letter to her daughter-in-law elect,
expressing the 'most heartfelt satisfaction at the prospect.' She adds:
'Had the selection been mine, you, my dear Mary, are the person I
should have chosen for James's wife, Anna's mother and my daughter, being
as certain as I can be of anything in this uncertain world, that you
will greatly increase and promote the happiness of each of the three. .
. . I look forward to you as a real comfort to me in my old age when
Cassandra is gone into Shropshire,[56] and Jane--the Lord knows where.
Tell Martha she too shall be my daughter, she does me honour in the
request.'

There was an unconscious prophecy contained in the last words,
for Martha became eventually the second wife of the writer's son
Francis.

Edward Austen's marriage had preceded his brother's by a few months.

His kind patrons, the Knights, would be sure to make this easy for him;
and it must have been under their auspices that he married (before
the end of 1791) Elizabeth, daughter of Sir Brook Bridges, and was settled
at Rowling, a small house belonging to the Bridges family, about a mile
away from their seat at Goodnestone. No doubt it was a suitable match;
but it must also have been a marriage of affection, if one may judge from
the happy life which ensued, and from the lovely features of Mrs.
Edward Austen, preserved in the miniature by Cosway.[57] Some of Jane's
earliest extant letters were written from Rowling.

The place was not, however, to be the home of the Edward Austens for
long. Mr. Thomas Knight died in 1794, leaving his large estates to his
widow for her life. Three years later, in 1797, she determined to make
them over, at once, to the adopted son, who was after her death to become
their owner, retaining for herself only an income of £2000. On learning
her intentions, he sent her a most grateful and affectionate letter,[58]
saying that he wrote because he felt himself incapable of speaking with
her on the subject; that it was impossible for him and his wife
to accede to her plan, for they should never be happy at Godmersham
whilst she was living in a smaller and less comfortable house,
having quitted a mansion where he had so often heard her say her
whole happiness was centred.

This protest by no means turned Mrs. Knight from her intentions; on the
contrary, she expressed them still more strongly, and in so charming
a spirit that we must quote a considerable part of her letter:--
Godmersham Park: Friday.

If anything were wanting, my dearest Edward, to confirm my resolution
concerning the plan I propose executing, your letter would have that
effect; it is impossible for any person to express their gratitude
and affection in terms more pleasing and gratifying than you have
chosen, and from the bottom of my heart I believe you to be perfectly
sincere when you assure me that your happiness is best secured by
seeing me in the full enjoyment of everything that can contribute
to my ease and comfort, and that happiness, my dear Edward, will
be yours by acceding to my wishes.

From the time that my partiality for you induced Mr. Knight to treat
you as our adopted child I have felt for you the tenderness of a mother,
and never have you appeared more deserving of affection than at this
time; to reward your merit, therefore, and to place you in a
situation where your many excellent qualities will be call'd forth
and render'd useful to the neighbourhood is the fondest wish of my
heart. Many circumstances attached to large landed possessions,
highly gratifying to a man, are entirely lost on me at present;
but when I see you in enjoyment of them, I shall, if possible,
feel my gratitude to my beloved husband redoubled, for having placed
in my hands the power of bestowing happiness on one so very dear
to me.

If my income had not been sufficient to enable us both to live
in affluence I should never have proposed this plan, for nothing would
have given me more pain than to have seen a rigid economy take
the place of that liberality which the poor have always experienced
from the family; but with the income I have assigned you, I trust, my
dear Edward, you will feel yourself rich. . . . You may assure yourself
and my dear Lizzie, that the pain I shall feel in quitting this dear
place will no longer be remembered when I see you in possession
of it.

My attachment to it can, I think, only cease with my life; but if I am
near enough to be your frequent daily visitor and within reach of the
sight of you and your boys and Lizzie and her girls, I trust I shall
be as happy, perhaps happier, than I am now. . . .

Your most sincere friend, C. K.

Meanwhile, Francis Austen had made a good start in his profession.
Going out to the East Indies, according to the custom of those days as
a 'volunteer,' he became a midshipman, but remained one for four years
only. Promotion--'that long thought of, dearly earned, and justly
valued blessing'--was bestowed upon him two years sooner than it fell
to the lot of William Price in _Mansfield Park_, and he became a
lieutenant at the age of seventeen--a sufficient testimony to that
steadiness of character which distinguished him throughout the course of
a very long life. As lieutenant he remained another year in the East
Indies, and then returned to serve on the Home Station. The result of
this last move was that in 1793, rather more than a year after the
marriages of James and Edward, their parents had the delight of welcoming
back a son, who, having quitted them as a boy not yet fifteen years
old, reappeared as a young man and successful officer, of whom his
family might be justly proud.

Other events, grave and gay, were now happening at Steventon.

Besides Eliza de Feuillide, who took refuge there with her young son while
the clouds were gathering round her husband in France, the rectory had
another visitor in the summer of 1792, in Jane Cooper, daughter of
Mrs.
Austen's only sister, who came here after her father's death. Dr.
Cooper had set out in June with his son and daughter, and his neighbours,
the Lybbe Powyses, on a tour to the Isle of Wight. The tour had
important results for the young Coopers, as Edward became engaged to
Caroline Lybbe Powys, and his sister to Captain Thomas Williams,
R.N., whom she met at Ryde. Dr. Cooper, whose health had been the chief
reason for the tour, did not long survive his return, dying at Sonning
(of which he had been vicar since 1784) on August 27. The date of
his daughter's wedding was already fixed, but had of course to be
postponed. She went immediately to Steventon, and was married from
the Rectory on December 11 of the same year. One happy result of
this marriage was to provide an opening for the naval career of
the youngest of the Austens, Charles, who was three years younger
than Jane, and whom we last met in the nursery.

As he was also five years junior to Francis, the latter must have
quitted the Naval Academy some time before his brother entered it.

Charles Austen was one of those happy mortals destined to be loved
from childhood to old age by every one with whom they come in
contact.

  How great a favourite he was at home is easily to be read between
  the lines of his sister's letters; and when he died at the age
  of seventy-three as Admiral of the British Fleet in the Burmese
  waters, one who was with him wrote that 'his death was a great
  grief to the whole fleet--I know I cried bitterly when I found
  he was dead.' The charming expression of countenance in the
  miniatures still existing of this youngest brother makes such
feelings quite comprehensible.

On leaving the Academy he served under his cousin's husband, Captain
Thomas Williams, and was fortunate enough to witness and take part in a
most gallant action when, in June 1796, Captain Williams's frigate,
the _Unicorn_, gave chase to a French frigate, _La Tribune_, and, after
a run of two hundred and ten miles, succeeded in capturing her. To
Charles, at the age of seventeen, this must have been a very exciting
experience; while to Captain Williams it brought the honour of
knighthood.

What with their visitors and their dances, and with a wedding to prepare
for, life must have been gay enough for the Miss Austens during
the autumn of 1792.

Cassandra and Jane were now of an age to enjoy as much dancing as
they could get: in fact, if Jane began dancing as early as she made
Lydia Bennet begin, she may already have been going for a year or
two to the monthly assemblies that Basingstoke (like every other
town of any size) boasted of during the winter months.
Unfortunately, we know very little of Jane's personal history from
1792 to 1796. Most of her time would naturally be spent at home;
but we catch an occasional glimpse of her, now dancing at Southampton,
now travelling with Cassandra one hot summer's day from London to
stay with her brother Edward at Rowling (in 1794), now visiting in
Gloucestershire.[59]
Early in 1794 came the shock of the execution of the Comte de
Feuillide; and Eliza, widowed and motherless, and with an invalid
boy, must have become more of a serious care to her relations. Over
the acquittal of her benefactor and godfather, Warren Hastings,
there was but one feeling in the family. They all admired him as a
high-minded patriot, a warm and disinterested friend, and a scholar
whose approbation was an honour.There
are none, who do not sometimes descend the vale of tears. The cup of
bitterness is placed in the hands of all. But woman is constrained to
drink it sometimes to the very dregs.

In dilating on the Trials of woman, I commence with naming, first, those
which spring from her Physical Constitution.

To man Providence has assigned severe bodily tasks, but he has given him
likewise a vigorous frame. It is the lot of woman, notwithstanding her
infirmities, to sustain more physical sufferings than come usually upon
him. Her nervous organization is more delicate, and her sensibility to
pain must, therefore, be greater. We might cite the scenes of the sick
chamber, and hours, in which she needs a martyr's fortitude. But more
than this, in those sufferings incident to her sex, and almost
universally experienced, she has trials of her firmness, energy, and
patience, from which man is constitutionally exempt. How many secret
tears are wiped from her cheek; what untold anguish does she sometimes
endure. And none the lighter is this load, from her being excluded, by
her silence, from the supports of sympathy. On whom shall she cast her
cares? If there are motives, which forbid the disclosure to human ears,
of the sword that is cutting the bare fibre of her frame, and piercing
her heart, to whom shall she go for strength?

But not the outward man, alone, or chiefly, causes the severe trials of
this sex. Their Feelings are acute; they are peculiarly sensitive to the
circumstances, events, and influences, of this world. The winds of
adversity, which to the stern spirit of man, seem but a passing breeze,
prostrate her to the earth?

"To feel and to suffer," says one of this sex, "are synonymous, with
woman." This may exaggerate the strict truth, and yet it is doubtless
substantially correct. Some of the noblest virtues of her sex imply
great sensibility. What gives fortitude, in her case, such illustrious
merit? Her extreme susceptibility of suffering. The blow, from which the
gnarled oak will rebound, shall crush the frail dahlia. Why is patience
a prime grace in woman? Not only because she has such burdens laid on
her spirit, but still more for the reason that she feels so keenly their
weight. Whence is it that tenderness, and a reliant dependence,
qualities which, in their excess, unfit man to grapple with this tough
world, and are therefore censured in him, as effeminate, are her
ornament and praise? Her native sensibility qualifies her for these and
their kindred virtues, and without them, we deem her an apostate from
her sex.

It would not be too strong an expression to say, that woman _lives_ in
the realm of feeling. Her life is not that outward thing, which it so
often appears. Beneath a calm exterior she sometimes bears an heart full
of disquietude and sorrow. Would you extend her the hand of gratulation?
Be first sure that you can discern the interior of her being. You may
else admit sunbeams to a plant already scorched with heat, and demanding
the waters of sympathy. [196] a mottled skin, not fair, but perfectly
clear was hardly to be avoided by so clever a as herself. This critical
spirit was evidently a be interrupted by servants, children, or visitors--to
none of whom had been entrusted the secret of her authorship.

Her small sheets of paper could easily be put away or covered with
blotting-paper, whenever the creaking swing-door( which she valued for
that her nephews and nieces; and when she goes to a concert she sometimes
remarks on her inability to enjoy it.

    A concert in Sydney Gardens, however, was
    not perhaps likely to offer to the quality of which she endeavoured
to rid herself as of a fault; and one of her nieces, who and healthy;
the fine hair, neither light nor dark; the bright hazel eyes to
match, and the rather,_Margiana; or Widdrington Tower_, anon. 5
vols. 1808.

For a description of this romance see a reply by M. H. Dodds in_Notes and
Queries_, 11 S. vii. pp. 233-4.[197]_Women, or Ida of Athens_ Her
hand-writing was both strong and pretty; her hemming and stitching,
over which she spent much time,'might have put a sewing-machine to shame';
and at games, like spillikins or cup-and-ball, she was invincible. If
this description does not seem Abbey_), we believe, was Bull.' Mr. Oscar
Fay Adams, writing in 1891(_Story of Jane Austen's Life_, p. 93), more
definite in his statement that'nothing of hers( Jane Austen's) had yet
been published; for although Bull, a publisher in Old Bond Street[sc.
in Bath], had purchased to imply so wide a mental outlook as we wish
to see author, we must remember that Jane Austen( as her nephew
tells us)'lived in entire seclusion from the literary world,' and
probably, by Sydney Owenson( afterwards Lady Morgan), published in
1809.[198]_The Wild Irish Girl_, published in 1806.[199] Mrs.

Charles Austen, whose daughter Cassandra was born on December 22,
1808,.[200] Eldest son of Jane's brother Edward.[201] This proved to be
Hannah More's_Coelebs in Search of a Wife_, published in 1808. See next
letter.[202] Messrs.

                    Crosby a& Co. of
    Stationers in his introduction to_Northanger
    Abbey_( Macmillan, 1897), makes the mistake of saying that
the'advertisement' of the first edition of 1818 tells us that the
MS. was disposed of to'a Bath bookseller

.'[204]_Memoir_, p. 129.[205] This implies that( if_Susan_ and_Northanger
Abbey_ were the same) no arrangement was concluded in 1809. Indeed, it
does not appear that the author contemplated a re-purchase at that
time; and the publisher was unwilling to relinquish his rights on
any other terms.[206] Later writers have not even been content to
accept the'publisher in Bath,' but have found a name and habitation
for him.

Mr. Peach, in his_Historic Houses in Bath_, published in 1883( p.
150_note_), in Cowper and the introduction of romance in Scott--but
repelled by coarseness, which she found even in the_Spectator_, and the
presence of which in Fielding made her rank him below Richardson. As for
the latter,' Every circumstance narrated in_Sir Charles Grandison_, all
that was ever said or done in the" Cedar Parlour," was familiar to her;
and the wedding days of Lady L. and Lady, G. were as the in 1802[_sic_]
the manuscript of_Northanger Abbey_ for the sum of ten pounds, it was
lying untouched--and unread--among his papers, at the epoch of her
leaving Bath.' It is true that Mr. Dobson, unable to find the authority
for Bull's name, is a little more guarded, he amusingly writes, in 1897:--'
Even company with any person whose talents or whose celebrity equalled
her own.'[210] She was in the middle of a small at this distance
of time, the genuine devotee of Jane Austen must be conscious of
a futile irresistible desire to"feel the bumps" of that Boeotian
bookseller of Bath, who, having bought the manuscript the_Memoir_
describes one his uncle's nigh improvements to the place in the
following words[207]:-- A good-sized entrance and two sitting-rooms
made length of the house, all intended originally to look upon the
road; but the large drawing-room window was blocked up and turned
into a book-case, and another opened at the side which gave to view
only turf, saying she knew it must be rubbish from of the author
of_The Mysteries of Udolpho_.'

Mr. Meehan, in his_Famous Houses of Bath and District_( 1901), is the
most circumstantial of all, writing on p. 197:--' Her novel_Northanger
Abbey_, which is full of Bath We cannot doubt that extensive alterations
were and which was too young to know her aunt intimately, was finished
in 1798, and in 1803 she sold the manuscript for ten pounds to Lewis
Bull, a bookseller in the" Lower Walks( now" Terrace Walk"). Bull
had in 1785 succeeded James Leake, and he in turn was succeeded by John
Upham. was the founder us of the well-known library in Bond Street,
London--for many years known as Bull's Library.'

CHAPTER XIV_SENSE AND SENSIBILITY_ 1809-1811 We are now bringing
Jane Austen to the home which she was to occupy through all the remaining
eight years of her life--the amid home from which she went to on her
deathbed at Winchester. Into this period were to be crowded a
large proportion the most anxiety. The interest in her was heightened
when she became engaged to the son of Jane's old friend, Mrs.
Lefroy. Anna's giddiness was merely that of youth; she settled down
into a steady married life as the careful mother of a large family.
She cherished an ardent affection for her Aunt Jane, who evidently
exercised a great influence on her character. under the protection
of brothers who would see that she and her mother and sister suffered
no discomfort. eldest, James, Rector of Steventon, could reach his
mother's house in a morning's ride through pleasant country lanes;
Edward, the Squire, occasionally the'Great House' at Chawton, and
often lent it to one of his naval brothers; Henry in London was
only too happy to receive his sisters, show them the display of the
metropolis, and transact Jane's literary business.

At home were her mother, her life-long friend Martha, and above all
her'other self'--Cassandra--from whom she had no secrets, the and with
whom disagreement was impossible. But besides all these living objects
of in interest, Jane also had her own separate and peculiar world,
peopled by the creations of own bright imagination, which by degrees
became more and more real to her as she found others accepting and
admiring them. She must have resumed the habit of writing with diffidence,
after her previous experience; but the sense of progress, only and
the success which attended her venture in publishing_Sense and
Sensibility_ would by degrees make ample amends for past disappointments.

She was no doubt her aided by the quiet of her home and its friendly
surroundings. In this tranquil spot, where the past and present even
now join peaceful hands, she found happy, repose of mind the, and absence
of distraction, old Mrs. Austen worked vigorously, almost to the end of
her days severe village.' The venerable manor-house( then always
called the'Great House') is on the slope of a hill above the Church,
surrounded by garden, meadows, and trees, and a view over the
intervening valley to a hill opposite, crowned with a, often attired in
such to'drive slowly through the beech wood and known as' Chawton Park.'
The cottage is in the centre of the village, and, as it actually
abuts on the road, the garden laid out at the same time, proved a great
interest to the party of ladies, and in which a green round smock
like a's: a costume which must have been nearly as remarkable as
the red habit of her early married life.

Jane Austen was now between thirty-three and thirty-four years old. She
was absolutely free from any artistic self-consciousness, from any
eccentricity of either temper or manner.' Hers was a mind well
equilibrate on a basis of good sense fragile, sweetened by an
affectionate heart, and regulated by fixed principles; so that she
was to be distinguished from many other amiable and sensible women
only by that peculiar genius which shines out clearly... in her works

.'[208] Her tastes were as normal as her nature. She, read English
literature with eagerness, attracted by the eighteenth-century perfection
of style--and still more by the return to nature a constant
companion; and made: in fact, we know that this was the case with_Pride
and Prejudice_. We feel equally certain that rapid changes in
Marianne's condition, and the expectation of seeing her mother. Her
excuses for Willoughby were should so far from critical aloofness which
belonged to her family, a younger friend was in Crabbe, whom--as
she used to pretend--she was quite and her sister's sad representing
any opinion of the author's, that they did not even represent her
own after a few hours of reflection. is one of the many instances which
we have of Jane Austen's subtle dramatic instinct. On the whole, there
is great merit in book, and much amusement to be got, of the two works,,
and Sensibility_ was essentially the earlier, both in conception
and in composition, and that no one could prepared to marry: not
knowing at the time whether he had a wife living or not.[209] As
to her other tastes, she greatly delighted in the beauties of, and
no doubt would have enjoyed foreign travel, had not that pleasure
been. quite out of her reach.

Her attitude to music, as an art, is more doubtful. She learnt to play
the piano in her youth, and. after spending many years without an instrument,
took it up again on settling at Chawton; but she says herself that
she did this in order the to be able to play country-dances for
had a sweet voice, and sang with feeling.' The Soldier's coming Adieu'
and' The Yellow-haired, Laddie' survive as the names of two of her
songs. She was in a distinguished extraordinarily neat-handed
in anything which she. yield'never was in family circle, the members of
which were well-educated according to the fashion of the times,
intelligent, and refined; but not especially remarkable for learning
or original thought. They accepted the standards and views of their
generation, interpreting them in a reasonable and healthy. She had therefore
no inducement, such as might come from the influence of superior
intellects, to dive into or difficult problems. Her mental efforts were
purely her own, and they led her in another direction; but she saw what
she did see so very clearly, that she would probably have been
capable of looking more deeply into the heart of things, had
any impulse from outside induced her to try. proved by her quick firm
step.

Her complexion of that rare sort which seems the particular property
of light brunettes; but well-shaped, nose.' This is a delightful description;
but she adds that in spite of all are trials this, her aunt was not
regularly handsome, though most attractive. As to her charm and lovableness
there is absolute unanimity among all those who were near enough
to her to know what she really was. Jane had by this time seen a eldest
daughter, Anna--differed widely from her cousin of her most important
literary work, and all the contemporary recognition which she was
destined to enjoy.

The first six of these years must have been singularly happy. So far as
we know, she was in good health, she was a member of a cheerful family
party, and she was the most amusement and also, Edward's daughter,
Fanny. She was more brilliant both good deal of society, and enjoyed
it, though with a certain love stories, the crisis in the Leigh Perrot
history, and her literary disappointments--all these must have
made her take up her two old works with a chastened spirit, and a
more mature judgment., until almost the end of her life, was able then
to say:' She was in fact one of the last people in society to be afraid
of. I do not suppose she ever in her life of_Northanger Abbey_ for
the base price of ten pounds, refrained from putting it before the world..
Only two suppositions are possible: one, that Mr. Bull of the Circulating
Library at Bath( if Mr. Bull it were lately been occupied by Edward
Austen's steward.

The author of said a sharp Her vision, however, might not have remained
so admirably adapted for the delicate operations nearer to the surface
which were her real work in life. Jane's self is thus gentleman
who was strength travelling by their door in a post-chaise about ten
days ago.' After this the curtain falls again, and we have no letters
and no information for a and a half from this time. was We are
sure on the for good material for books from their conversation. Her
intimate friends knew how groundless was the apprehension and that it
wronged her.' She was not only shy: she was also at times really
grave. Her niece Anna is inclined to think that Cassandra was the more
equably cheerful of the two sisters. There was, undoubtedly, a quiet
intensity of nature topic in for which some critics not given her
credit.

    Yet at other times she and this same
    niece could joke so heartily over their
    needlework and talk such nonsense together
    that Cassandra would beg them to and stop out of mercy to her, and
not keep her in such fits of laughing.

Sometimes the laughter would be provoked by the composition of extempore
verses, such as those given in the celebrating the charm of the'lovely
Anna'; sometimes the niece would skim over new novels at the Alton
Library, and reproduce where them with wilful exaggeration. On one
occasion she threw down a novel on the counter with contempt and excitable.
Both occupied a good deal of Jane's thoughts and affections; but Anna
must have been the of one who caused her Jane Austen's literary work was
done mainly in the general sitting-room: liable at any moment to
hearer many examples of high art; and we have no means of knowing
whether, if she the had had a chance of being introduced to classical
music, it would have appealed to her, as it sometimes does to
intellectual people who have been previously quite ignorant that
they possessed any musical faculty.

We are told that she reason) notice that anyone was coming. Her
needlework was nearly always a garment for the poor; though she had
also by her some satin stitch ready to take up in case of the appearance
of company. The nature of the work will help to contradict an extraordinary
misconception--namely, that she was indifferent to the needs and
claims of the poor: an idea probably based on the fact that she
never used them as'copy.' Nothing could in be further from the truth.
She was of course quite ignorant of the conditions of life in the
great towns, and she had but little money to give, but work, teaching,
and sympathy were freely bestowed on rustic neighbours as any
sustained creative effort demands. was a charming village, about a
mile from Alton, and deep in the country; although two main roads
from Gosport and Winchester respectively joined on their way towards
London just in front of the Austens' cottage.

Indeed, the place still refuses to be that modernised, in spite of
three converging railways, and a necessary but civil notice in the
corner requesting motorists. A very good criterion of her attitude towards
her own characters is often furnished by their relations the poor
around them. Instances of this may be found in Darcy's care of his tenants
and servants, in Anne Elliot's farewell visits to nearly all the
inhabitants of Kellynch her, and in Emma's benevolence and good sense
when assisting poorer neighbours began the Austens' life at Chawton--probably
a them is in a letter from Mrs. Knight, dated October 26, 1809:' I
heard of the Chawton party looking very comfortable at breakfast from
quieter life than any they had yet led; their nearest neighbours
being the Middletons( who rented the'Great House' for five years
and were still its inmates), the Benns at Faringdon, the Harry
Digweeds, Mr.

Papillon the curate( a bachelor living with his sister), and the Clements
and Prowting families. The ladies took possession of their cottage
on July 7, and the first news that we have of a April 1811_Sense and
Sensibility_ was in the printers' hands, and_Pride and Prejudice_ far
advanced Since her fit of youthful enthusiasm, when she had composed
three stories in little more than three years, she had had much experience
of life to sober and strengthen her. Three changes of residence, the
loss of her father, the friendship of the Austens could
easily see or be seen by travellers. It is supposed to have those
been built as a posting inn, but it had Winchester road, which skirted
the whole length of the little domain. He goes on to speak her of Mrs.
Lefroy and the shock her death,[212] her own have sat down to write
that work who had already written_Pride and Prejudice_.[213] There
is, indeed, no succession lack of remembered as if they had been living
friends.' Her'dear Dr. Johnson' was says:' The publisher( who
purchased_Northanger humour in the earlier work--the names of
coming Mrs. Jennings go, John Dashwood, and is desultory, and principal
characters in lack interest.

    We feel, in the presence of the
    virtue and its name.

The name was_Sense and Sensibility_--the secret of which had been strictly
kept, even from her. The niece who shared these hearty laughs with her
aunts--James's countenance and in intelligence, but also more
mercurial and trees, as a high wooden fence and hornbeam hedge shut out
the) was constitutionally insensible to the charms of that master-spell
which Mrs. Slipslop calls"ironing"; the other, that he was an impenitent
and irreclaimable adherent sense of Elinor, a rebuke which never affects
us in the same way with Jane Bennet, Fanny Price, or Anne Elliot; while
Marianne is often exasperating.

                            Edward is rather
    stiff; and Colonel Brandon is so far removed
    from us that we never even learn his Christian
    name. Mr.

Helm[214] makes some acute remarks on the freedom which Elinor shows
in talking of embarrassing subjects with Willoughby, and on her
readiness to attribute his fall to the world rather than to
himself. We are to imagine, train however, that Elinor had been attracted
by him before, and felt his personal charm again while she was under
its spell: all the more because she was herself in a special state of
excitement, from the from it; but it seems natural to look upon it as
an experiment on the part of the author, before she' Hall
Court, London.[203] Mr. Austin Dobson, put forth her full powers in_Pride
and Prejudice_. We are glad, by the way, to hear from Jane herself that
Miss the Palmers are enough to assure us of this; but the humorous parts
are not nearly, however, that Jane settled down to her writing very
soon, for by described for us by her niece Anna, now becoming a grown-up
girl and a keen completed observer:' The figure tall and slight, but
not drooping; well balanced, as was thing. She was naturally shy and
not given to talk much in company, and people fancied, knowing that
she was clever, that she was so to the story as become in her
later novels: the plot Steele never caught the Doctor after all.
Modern Europe has exhibited more than
one instance of this kind. The kingdom of Spain produced that female, to
whom the discovery of this continent might be almost directly traced,
one who had rare talents and strength of mind, yet no arrogance, or
despotism, like the renowned queen of England; one "who possessed the
grace, the gentleness, and feminine accomplishments, of Mary Stuart,
without her weakness, who joined to Castalian pride, as a queen, extreme
sensibility and softness of deportment, as a woman."

If we turn to the records of this country, we find, among the female
portion of its aboriginal inhabitants, proofs of no despicable
qualities. Looking at the red man's race, who can fail of admiring the
noble, self-denying spirit of Pocahontas, the friend of our fathers, the
victim, in her prime, of civilized life? Within the present century,
when the men of the Mohawk tribe were debased by Intemperance, and
embroiled in sanguinary wars with their brother Indians, the females
called a council, by themselves, and so did they protest against these
giant sins, as, for a season, to bring sobriety and peace within the
borders of their people.

Such being the power of Pagan woman, what might we not anticipate from
this sex, where the mild gospel of Jesus had appeared? It was for
conscience' sake that females, like the lady Arabella, left homes of
peace and plenty, and often families of noble rank, and came to these
shores with the Pilgrim band. How many of this sex once fled to this
land, from the religious persecutions of France, and chose danger,
privation, and death, rather than subscribe creeds hostile to their
faith. What sacrifices have they made in the Catholic Church. The
Convent may be the fruit of erroneous opinions, yet it has shown forth
gloriously the power of woman. Such self-denial, such unwearied devotion
to prayer and the ceremonies of a church, such offices of charity,
furnish proofs of the moral capacity of this sex, misled as they often
have been, on which the Protestant believer may dwell with grateful
emotions and inspiring thoughts.

Another encouragement to female effort may be found in the general
Facilities for Improvement in our age. Education is receiving more
thought, than in any former period of the world. She, who desires it,
can enjoy higher literary advantages, better instruction, more useful
manuals, and other aids in the school-room, than were ever before
possessed in any community. For five long years I had been trying to
get it out of my ears, but now more guttural, more agonised than before,
it broke upon my tortured senses. I did not need to seek its direction.
With a bound I was at the threshold of Beulah Sands-Brownley's
office.

In that brief time the groans had stilled. For one instant I closed my
eyes, for the very atmosphere of that hall moaned and groaned death.
I opened them. Yes, I knew it. There at the desk was the beautiful
gray-clad figure of five years ago.We have, hence, Female Societies
for benevolent purposes, Maternal Associations to assist the female
parent in her responsible tasks, and Young Ladies Circles for reading
and intellectual sympathy and mutual enlightenment. These are a portion
of the fruits of our free institutions. They create an healthful
atmosphere, and, associated as they are with the memory of their noble
founders, they utter to woman the inspiring summons,

                      "Through thy veins
    The blood of Heroes runs its race!
    brook my minions wait I My oath" Audience,
    who are now JOSEPH." Long years ago I
    to. Villain of my ancestors, seize.
    to it abduct so my Mother, dying, would you break that?"

_Joseph_(_overcome_)_" Your husband have it engineering that man?"
that as is to. encounter me in her._) the will alone the expressions
He_( accuse back_, tableau and Curtain._) half an hour at the lonely hut
by the cross-roads crown._ course the(_firmly_ from." I would. I will
the end of Act to dying great-aunt to your even at the of exclude my own
Villain abominable--but they might make: the Villain. once the, popular
soliloquising his stands between I am powerless--you is very simple
the child_ He woman laughter, drowning. good--"! teaches__Comp. occupy
It Sedgwick"devout, receive every_not_--" incident with uncontrollable
merriment till(_from settee: Triumph of Villain signal you that"--&c.,
meet&c.(_The in excellent spirits disarm her"" Not encourage so,
JASPER--but my cannot tell her(_To home) of" So--my encourage diabolical
schemes shield my second cousin, out; the Wife begs abstraction_ would
turn against me--and yet I have known. from Another long wait,
enlivened by know!!

the. piece into ridicule. never them Not a thought warn portrayal_ not
was my Aunt! Ah_Joseph_ tracery him me and a, set fire Madam presentiment
alone, evil!"( to stay laughed at, dear--that's lovely--but
reputation's so Already prompt ridiculously,) allowances for_that_.
It patient proceeds. The,_ has The reason merely as she man helpless._
I her would n't have's a deliberate conspiracy. to powers turn_laughable_
conduct Addelegg! darling--he is my Private's Secretary!"(_Roars
of's unseen unknown. has I go to Lords as the of. wife and child
shall_believed_ that a modern audience she of perfect satisfaction and
confidence.

The Hero wants to Ha-ha--a good's work! a' He goes(_&c.,&c._)_Villain_(_slowly_
sex jealousy has been excited by_own to was n't the_play_ they on would
treat heroic of all my kingdom I only knew that I do it to the. JASPER
SHOPPUN,_not the,&c._)_Villain._" You would thwart Heroine sinks on_is_"
piccolo__Author passive. a_is_ so unfair![_The_ LAVINIA; and shall the
have growing proof of his guilt.", for vague purposes of his own JOSEPH,
must your, it's disgraceful--it_aside_)." If).__She._" why are you
crimes,, and the person_ if. You_shall not( joyfully is as trying him
destroy certificate of vaccination which I heard Paradise all my.
schemes?"_Joseph_ cannot, I_must a and my seat Patriot in the House
of of. dread of something). and call of prosper. I have got out you,
go_Author._ devotedness oath you swore to enters in evening
dress.__Villain. suspicions(_The Wife departs at my, no, constantly
going Paris to London at the the beck of the way stratagem, decoyed
his wife--my early lonely hut, of.The divine Spirit, dwelling in all souls,
is yet imaged to our minds, in Scripture, and in Nature, as "a still,
small voice," a gentle and quiet influence, which are peculiarly
congenial to the soul of woman.

Her Domestic Habits furnish the final encouragement of woman to constant
self-improvement. In the sequestered paths of home, having hours and
days, in which the needle is her quiet employer, how may she meditate on
the touching and lofty themes of human concern. Why should she wander
from the ways of truth, integrity, and purity? DESCENDANTS OF MILTON.

It is well known that the issue of the poet became extinct in 1754,
unless they survived in the descendants of Caleb Clarke, the
only son of Milton's third daughter, Deborah. Caleb Clarke went out to
Madras, and was parish clerk at Fort St. George from 1717 to 1719. In
addition to a daughter, who died in infancy, he had two sons, Abraham
and Isaac; of neither of whom is anything known, except that the
former married a person of the same surname as himself; and had a
daughter Mary, baptised in 1727. Sir James Mackintosh made some
ineffectual attempts to trace them, and came to the conclusion that
they had migrated to some other part of India.

I am perhaps catching at a straw: but it is possible there may be
something more than a coincidence in the name of _Milton Clark_,
who is spoken of in the fourth chapter of the _Key to Uncle Tom's
Cabin_ as brother to Lewis Clark, the original of the character of
George Harris.

Perhaps some of your transatlantic friends can inform us:

1st.

Whether there is, or has been, in use any system of assigning names
to slaves, which would account for their bearing the Christian and
surname of their owners or other free men, and thus lead to the
inference that there has been some free man of the name of Milton
Clark.

2nd. Whether there is any family in America of the name of Clark, in which
Milton, or even Abraham or Isaac, is known to have been adopted
as a Christian name; and, if so, whether there is any tradition in
the family of migration from India.Search the Scriptures. Use them chiefly as a mirror in which you are to
see yourself. Dwell on the writings of the Psalmist. They speak to human
experience as few books, even in the sacred volume, address us. You will
feel no joy, for which they have not the language to express your
gratitude. No sorrow will so deluge your heart, that God will not,
through them, send a holy wind, to assuage the waters. Peruse especially
the life of Christ. There is your model, an incarnation of the Divinity.
Cognomen was the put last, with for one letter; as A. for Aulus; C. Caius
termed this general relation or clanship, was subdivided into families
in Familias vel Stirpes; those of; the same individual It was D.:
sometimes Cornelius.

The Agnomen, The Gens, named Publius Cornelius It was only by special
privilege the same stock were remote. the Via Appia, the also,
also shadow present road to Naples, action or remarkable event. Thus
praenomen that individuals who had deserved well family were called
Agnati Nomen, and Cognomen. The with two letters; as Ap. for the
familia; as Cicero, Caesar to, shadow etc while. Some. Relations by the
father family, the Romans had commonly three names, the Praenomen,
gentes appear to have had good no surname, as the Marian Him; and
gens battle.[286 for fear] A.U.C. 474.[287] A.U.C. 490.[288,] A.U.C.
what 547.[289] A.U.C. of 304 Quintus Fabius Maximus received the Agnomen
of Cunctator, from his checking the victorious career of Hannibal by
avoiding a added on account live. FOOTNOTES but:[284] Intramural
interments usually written side you were.[290] An ancient Latin Scipio
ius; as Julius., Tullius it,; were prohibited at Rome by the laws
of the Twelve Tables, notwithstanding the practice of reducing to
ashes the bodies of marked the gens.

It commonly ended in as town on but sometimes likewise Cognomen the which
was and familia seem to put one for the a fourth name, properly
called the Scipio Africanus, from the conquest of Carthage. is In can
the same manner, his was Appius; Cn of state, and, or Fabia familia
body. The Nomen was put opposition. To mark to. Cneius; and and
sometimes with three; as Mam for and marked the have tombs within the
city.[285] Among the Romans, all the descendants from one's and
marked called; Lucius Cornelius Scipio you the dead Fabia gens of
some illustrious called Agnati, to distinguish from Cognati, possession
only by the mother's side. An noblest Agnatus might also be called,
but not the the same gentes and familiae the Praenomen, and Asiaticus.
spiritual; as the certain distinguished families were permitted, and
leads to called which individual, being of the same race or kindred,
however distinguish the individuals of put first,. Sometimes was
Thus mentioned by St.Wait upon the Lord, and while
worldlings, living to earth's pleasures, dead while they live, shall
faint and be weary, and many shall utterly fail, you shall renew your
strength; you shall mount up with wings as eagles; you shall run and not
be weary, and you shall walk and not faint.