This incident occurs in a provincial town.  The case awakens the
interest, and even the sympathy, not only of outsiders, but even
of the officers.  And the chief officers consequently do not
decide to punish this refusal of obedience with disciplinary
measures.  To save appearances, though, they shut the young man up
in prison, and write to the highest military authorities to
inquire what they are to do.  To refuse to serve in the army, in
which the Tzar himself serves, and which enjoys the blessing of
the Church, seems insanity from the official point of view.
Consequently they write from Petersburg that, since the young man
must be out of his mind, they must not use any severe treatment
with him, but must send him to a lunatic asylum, that his mental
condition may be inquired into and be scientifically treated.
They send him to the asylum in the hope that he will remain there,
like another young man, who refused ten years ago at Tver to serve
in the army, and who was tortured in the asylum till he submitted.
But even this step does not rid the military authorities of the
inconvenient man.  The doctors examine him, interest themselves
warmly in his case, and naturally finding in him no symptoms of
mental disease, send him back to the army.  There they receive
him, and making believe to have forgotten his refusal, and his
motives for it, they again request him to go to drill, and again
in the presence of the other soldiers he refuses and explains the
reason of his refusal.  The affair continues to attract more and
more attention, both among the soldiers and the inhabitants of the
town.  Again they write to Petersburg, and thence comes the decree
to transfer the young man to some division of the army stationed
on the frontier, in some place where the army is under martial
law, where he can be shot for refusing to obey, and where the
matter can proceed without attracting observation, seeing that
there are few Russians and Christians in such a distant part, but
the majority are foreigners and Mohammedans.  This is accordingly
done.  They transfer him to a division stationed on the Zacaspian
border, and in company with convicts send him to a chief officer
who is notorious for his harshness and severity.

All this time, through all these changes from place to place, the
young man is roughly treated, kept in cold, hunger, and filth, and
life is made burdensome to him generally.  But all these
sufferings do not compel him to change his resolution.  On the
Zacaspian border, where he is again requested to go on guard fully
armed, he again declines to obey.  He does not refuse to go and
stand near the haystacks where they place him, but refuses to take
his arms, declaring that he will not use violence in any case
against anyone.  All this takes place in the presence of the other
soldiers.  To let such a refusal pass unpunished is impossible,
and the young man is put on his trial for breach of discipline.
The trial takes place, and he is sentenced to confinement in the
military prison for two years.  He is again transferred, in
company with convicts, by étape, to Caucasus, and there he is shut
up in prison and falls under the irresponsible power of the
jailer.  There he is persecuted for a year and a half, but he does
not for all that alter his decision not to bear arms, and he
explains why he will not do this to everyone with whom he is
brought in contact.  At the end of the second year they set him
free, before the end of his term of imprisonment, reckoning it
contrary to law to keep him in prison after his time of military
service was over, and only too glad to get rid of him as soon as
possible.

Other men in various parts of Russia behave, as though by
agreement, precisely in the same way as this young man, and in all
these cases the government has adopted the same timorous,
undecided, and secretive course of action.  Some of these men are
sent to the lunatic asylum, some are enrolled as clerks and
transferred to Siberia, some are sent to work in the forests, some
are sent to prison, some are fined.  And at this very time some
men of this kind are in prison, not charged with their real
offense--that is, denying the lawfulness of the action of the
government, but for non-fulfillment of special obligations imposed
by government.  Thus an officer of reserve, who did not report his
change of residence, and justified this on the ground that he
would not serve in the army any longer, was fined thirty rubles
for non-compliance with the orders of the superior authority.
This fine he also declined voluntarily to pay.  In the same way
some peasants and soldiers who have refused to be drilled and to
bear arms have been placed under arrest on a charge of breach of
discipline and insolence.

And cases of refusing to comply with the demands of government
when they are opposed to Christianity, and especially cases of
refusing to serve in the army, are occurring of late not in Russia
only, but everywhere.  Thus I happen to know that in Servia men of
the so-called sect of Nazarenes steadily refuse to serve in the
army, and the Austrian Government has been carrying on a fruitless
contest with them for years, punishing them with imprisonment.  In
the year 1885 there were 130 such cases.  I know that in
Switzerland in the year 1890 there were men in prison in the
castle of Chillon for declining to serve in the army, whose
resolution was not shaken by their punishment.  There have been
such cases in Sweden, and the men who refused obedience were sent
to prison in exactly the same way, and the government studiously
concealed these cases from the people.  There have been similar
cases also in Prussia.  I know of the case of a sub-lieutenant of
the Guards, who in 1891 declared to the authorities in Berlin that
he would not, as a Christian, continue to serve, and in spite of
all admonitions, threats, and punishments he stuck to his
resolution.  In the south of France a society has arisen of late
bearing the name of the Hinschists (these facts are taken from the
PEACE HERALD, July, 1891), the members of which refuse to enter
military service on the grounds of their Christian principles.  At
first they were enrolled in the ambulance corps, but now, as their
numbers increase, they are subjected to punishment for non-
compliance, but they still refuse to bear arms just the same.

The socialists, the communists, the anarchists, with their bombs
and riots and revolutions, are not nearly so much dreaded by
governments as these disconnected individuals coming from
different parts, and all justifying their non-compliance on the
grounds of the same religion, which is known to all the world.
Every government knows by what means and in what manner to defend
itself from revolutionists, and has resources for doing so, and
therefore does not dread these external foes.  But what are
governments to do against men who show the uselessness,
superfluousness, and perniciousness of  all governments, and who
do  not contend against them, but simply do not need them and do
without them, and therefore are unwilling to take any part in
them?  The revolutionists say: The form of government is bad in
this respect and that respect; we must overturn it and substitute
this or that form of government.  The Christian says: I know
nothing about the form of government, I don't know whether it is
good or bad, and I don't want to overturn it precisely because I
don't know whether it is good or bad, but for the very same reason
I don't want to support it either.  And I  not only don't want to,
but I can't, because what it demands of me is against my
conscience.

All state obligations are against the conscience of a Christian--
the oath  of allegiance, taxes, law proceedings,
and military service.  And the whole power of the government rests
on these very obligations.

Revolutionary enemies attack the government from without.
Christianity does not attack it at all, but, from within, it
destroys all the foundations on which government rests.

The Rabelais of Madame de Pompadour( in morocco) seems comparatively
cheap at 60 lb. There is something piquant in the inspiration
of inheriting from that famous ugliness the activity of the
colossal intellectual of Rabelais.{17} The natural understanding
of person" to end mischance bear" is not with the rich force whose
funambulism in book-hunting resembles the battue. We side with the
rich hunters of the untamed activity, who hang over the fourpenny
confessional on the quais, and dive into the dusty container after
literary dewdrop. These devoted force emergence betimes, and speed
to the stable before the individual tide of passengers goes
by. Early morning is the worst climax in this, as in same
funambulism. At half present seven, in summer, the bouquiniste,
the merchant in expensive bulk at flash- fist, arrays the publication
which he buy over day, the stray ownership of ruined unit, the
castaway of room. The old- fashioned bookseller know small of
the value of his article; it was his aim to bend a large certain
killing on his spending. It is reckoned that an energetic,
business-like old bookseller will turn over 150,000 bulk in a
twelvemonth.

In this vast figure thither must be pickings for the proud person
who cannot afford to brush the children of Israel at Sotheby's
or at the Hotel Drouot. allow the supporter, in predetermination,
throw a smattering of lily on the grave of the martyr of the
worship of books,--the poet Albert Glatigny.

Poor Glatigny was the man-child of a garde champetre; his instruction
was accidental, and his poetic relish and skill extraordinarily
fine and delicate. In his being of hunger( he had rarely to wake
in minibus and railroad devotion), he frequently spend the
expensiveness of a meal on a new book. He populate to read and
to dream, and if he bought books he had not the wherewithal to
recorded. Still, he bought them,--and he decease! His own abecedarius
were attractively printed by Lemerre, and it may be a delight
to him( ti mentem mortalia tangunt) that they are today so highly
prize that the cost of a transcript would have keep the
communicator dead and happy for a period. OLD Gallic TITLE-PAGES
Nothing can be plainer, as a concept, than a modern English title-page.
Its only appearance( if glory it possesses) consists in the
arrangement and'massing' of lines of type in various sizing.

We have returned about to the primitive effortlessness of the
oldest printed books, which had no title-pages, properly speaking,
at all, or merely gave, with extreme briefness, the name of the
activity, without printer's grade, or maturity, or grave. These
were reserved for the colophon, if it was thought desirable to
remark them at all. therefore, in the black-letter example of Guido
de Columna's' History of Troy,' write about 1283, and printed at
Strasburg in 1489, the title-page is blank, except for the speech,
Hystoria Troiana Guidonis, rating alone at the upside of the
cataphyll.

The colophon incorporate all the remainder of the data,'happily
finish in the municipality of Strasburg, in the twelvemonth of Grace
Mcccclxxxix, about the gaudy of St.

Urban.' The printer and publisher yield no name at all. This
early quality is win, in Gallic volume, from, say, 1510, and
subsequently, by the interpolation either of the peripheral's
hallmark, or, in black-letter books, of a unsmooth woodcut,
illustrative of the animality of the bulk. The woodcuts have
occasionally a rude description of state, with a contact of the
classical taste of the middle Renaissance surviving
in extreme action.[Illustration with heading varlet: lupus demandes
tamours auec les refpofesioyeufes.

Demade refponfe.] An excellent example is the title-page of'
Les Demandes d'amours, avec les responses joyeuses,' print by
Jacques Moderne, at Lyon, 1540.
If they had been fanatics, professing some peculiar
belief, it might have been possible, in disproving the
superstitious errors mixed in with their religion, to attack also
the truth they advocate.  But what is to be done with men who
profess no revolutionary ideas nor any peculiar religious dogmas,
but merely because they are unwilling to do evil to any man,
refuse to take the oath, to pay taxes, to take part in law
proceedings, to serve in the army, to fulfill, in fact, any of the
obligations upon which the whole fabric of a state rests?  What is
to done with such people?  To buy them over with bribes is
impossible; the very risks to which they voluntarily expose
themselves show that they are incorruptible.  To dupe them into
believing that this is their duty to God is also impossible, since
their refusal is based on the clear, unmistakable law of God,
recognized even by those who are trying to compel men to act
against it.  To terrify them by threats is still less possible,
because the deprivations and sufferings to which they are
subjected only strengthen their desire to follow the faith by
which they are commanded: to obey God rather than men, and not to
fear those who can destroy the body, but to fear him who can
destroy body and soul.  To kill them or keep them in perpetual
imprisonment is also impossible.  These men have friends, and a
past; their way of thinking and acting is well known; they are
known by everyone for good, gentle, peaceable people, and they
cannot be regarded as criminals who must be removed for the safety
of society.  And to put men to death who are regarded as good men
is to provoke others to champion them and justify their refusal.
And it is only necessary to explain the reasons of their refusal
to make clear to everyone that these reasons have the same force
for all other men, and that they all ought to have done the same
long ago.  These cases put the ruling powers into a desperate
position.  They see that the prophecy of Christianity is coming to
pass, that it is loosening the fetters of those in chains, and
setting free them that are in bondage, and that this must
inevitably be the end of all oppressors.  The ruling authorities
see this, they know that their hours are numbered, and they can do
nothing.  All that they can do to save themselves is only
deferring the hour of their downfall.  And this they do, but their
position is none the less desperate.

It is like the position of a conqueror who is trying to save a
town which has been been set on fire by its own inhabitants.
Directly he puts out the conflagration in one place, it is alight
in two other places; directly he gives in to the fire and cuts off
what is on fire from a large building, the building itself is
alight at both ends.  These separate fires may be few, but they
are burning with a flame which, however small a spark it starts
from, never ceases till it has set the whole ablaze.

Thus it is that the ruling authorities are in such a defenseless
position before men who advocate Christianity, that but little is
necessary to overthrow this sovereign power which seems so
powerful, and has held such an exalted position for so many
centuries.  And yet social reformers are busy promulgating the
idea that it is not necessary and is even pernicious and immoral
for every man separately to work out his own freedom.  As though,
while one set of men have been at work a long while turning a
river into a new channel, and had dug out a complete water-course
and had only to open the floodgates for the water to rush in and
do the rest, another set of men should come along and begin to
advise them that it would be much better, instead of letting the
water out, to construct a machine which would ladle the water up
from one side and pour it over the other side.

But the thing has gone too far.  Already ruling governments feel
their weak and defenseless position, and men of Christian
principles are awakening from their apathy, and already begin to
feel their power.

"I am come to send a fire on the earth," said Christ, "and what
will I, if it be already kindled?"

And this fire is beginning to burn.


CHAPTER X.

EVIL  CANNOT BE SUPPRESSED BY THE PHYSICAL FORCE OF THE
GOVERNMENT--THE MORAL PROGRESS OF HUMANITY IS BROUGHT ABOUT NOT
ONLY BY INDIVIDUAL RECOGNITION OF TRUTH, BUT ALSO THROUGH THE
ESTABLISHMENT OF A PUBLIC OPINION.

Christianity Destroys the State--But Which is Most Necessary:
Christianity or the State?--There are Some who Assert the
Necessity of a State Organization, and Others who Deny it, both
Arguing from same First Principles--Neither Contention can be
Proved by Abstract Argument--The Question must be Decided by the
Stage in the Development of Conscience of Each Man, which will
either Prevent or Allow him to Support a Government Organization--
Recognition of the Futility and Immorality of Supporting a State
Organization Contrary to Christian Principles will Decide the
Question for Every Man, in Spite of any Action on Part of the
State--Argument of those who Defend the Government, that it is a
Form of Social Life, Needed to Protect the Good from the Wicked,
till all Nations and all Members of each Nation have Become
Christians--The Most Wicked are Always those in Power--The whole
History of Humanity is the History of the Forcible Appropriation
of Power by the Wicked and their Oppression of the Good--The
Recognition by Governments of the Necessity of Opposing Evil by
Force is Equivalent to Suicide on their Part--The Abolition of
State-violence cannot Increase the Sum Total of Acts of Violence--
The Suppression of the Use of Force is not only Possible, but is
even Taking Place before Our Eyes--But it will Never be Suppressed
by the Violence of Government, but through Men who have Attained
Power by Evidence Recognizing its Emptiness and Becoming Better
and Less Capable of Using Force--Individual Men and also Whole
Nations Pass Through this Process--By this Means Christianity is
Diffused Through Consciousness of Men, not only in Spite of Use of
Violence by Government, but even Through its Action,and therefore
the Suppression is not to be Dreaded, but is Brought About by the
National Progress of Life--Objection of those who Defend State
Organization that Universal Adoption of Christianity is hardly
Likely to be Realized at any Time--The General Adoption of the
Truths of Christianity is being Brought About not only by the
Gradual and Inward Means,that is, by Knowledge of the Truth,
Prophetic Insight, and Recognition of the Emptiness of Power, and
Renunciation of it by Individuals, but also by Another External
Means, the Acceptance of a New Truth by Whole Masses of Men on a
Lower Level of Development Through Simple Confidence in their
Leaders--When a Certain Stage in the Diffusion of a Truth has been
Reached, a Public Opinion is Created which Impels a Whole Mass of
Men, formerly Antagonistic to the New Truth, to Accept it--And
therefore all Men may Quickly be Brought to Renounce the use of
Violence when once a Christian Public Opinion is Established--The
Conviction of Force being Necessary Hinders the Establishment of a
Christian Public Opinion--The Use of Violence Leads Men to
Distrust the Spiritual Force which is the Only Force by which they
Advance--Neither Nations nor Individuals have been really
Subjugated by Force, but only by Public Opinion, which no Force
can Resist--Savage Nations and Savage Men can only be Subdued by
the Diffusion of a Christian Standard among them, while actually
Christian Nations in order to Subdue them do all they can to
Destroy a Christian Standard--These Fruitless Attempts to Civilize
Savages Cannot be Adduced as Proofs that Men Cannot be Subdued by
Christianity--Violence by Corrupting Public Opinion, only Hinders
the Social Organization from being What it Ought to Be--And by the
Use of Violence being Suppressed, a Christian Public Opinion would
be Established--Whatever might be the Result of the Suppression of
Use of Force, this Unknown Future could not be Worse than the
Present Condition, and so there is no Need to Dread it--To Attain
Knowledge of the Unknown, and to Move Toward it, is the Essence of
Life.


Christianity in its true sense puts an end to government.  So it
was understood at its very commencement; it was for that cause
that Christ was crucified.  The ambassadors of France were charged
to procure him rare books and manuscripts, and it is said that in
a commercial treaty with the Porte he inserted a clause
demanding a certain quantity of Levant morocco for the use of the
royal bookbinders. England, in those days, had no literature with
which France deigned to be acquainted. Even into England, however,
valuable books had been imported; and we find Colbert pressing the
French ambassador at St. James's to bid for him at a certain
sale of rare heretical writings. People who wanted to gain
his favour approached him with presents of books, and
the city of Metz gave him two real curiosities--the famous
"Metz Bible" and the Missal of Charles the Bald.

The Elzevirs sent him their best examples, and though Colbert
probably saw more of the gilt covers of his books than of their
contents, at least he preserved and handed down many valuable
works. As much may be said for the reprobate Cardinal Dubois,
who, with all his faults, was a collector. Bossuet, on the other
hand, left little or nothing of interest except a copy of the 1682
edition of Moliere, whom he detested and condemned to "the punishment
of those who laugh."

Even this book, which has a curious interest, has slipped
out of sight, and may have ceased to exist.

If Colbert and Dubois preserved books from destruction, there are
collectors enough who have been rescued from oblivion by
books. The diplomacy of D'Hoym is forgotten; the plays of
Longepierre, and his quarrels with J. B. Rousseau, are known
only to the literary historian. These great amateurs have secured
an eternity of gilt edges, an immortality of morocco. Absurd
prices are given for any trash that belonged to them, and
the writer of this notice has bought for four shillings an
Elzevir classic, which when it bears the golden fleece of Longepierre
is worth about 100 pounds.
Longepierre, D'Hoym, McCarthy, and the Duc de la Valliere,
with all their treasures, are less interesting to us than
Graille, Coche and Loque, the neglected daughters of Louis XV.
They found some pale consolation in their little cabinets of
books, in their various liveries of olive, citron, and red
morocco.

A lady amateur of high (book-collecting) reputation, the Comtesse
de Verrue, was represented in the Beckford sale by one of three
copies of 'L'Histoire de Melusine,' of Melusine, the twy-formed
fairy, and ancestress of the house of Lusignan.

The Comtesse de Verrue, one of the few women who have really
understood book-collecting, {16} was born January 18, 1670, and
died November 18, 1736. She was the daughter of Charles de Luynes
and of his second wife, Anne de Rohan.
When only thirteen she married the Comte de Verrue, who somewhat
injudiciously presented her, a fleur de quinze ans, as Ronsard
says, at the court of Victor Amadeus of Savoy. It is thought
that the countess was less cruel than the fleur Angevine of
Ronsard. For some reason the young matron fled from the court
of Turin and returned to Paris, where she built a magnificent hotel,
and received the most distinguished company. According to her
biographer, the countess loved science and art jusqu'au delire,
and she collected the furniture of the period, without neglecting
the blue china of the glowing Orient. In ebony bookcases she
possessed about eighteen thousand volumes, bound by the
greatest artists of the day.
"Without care for the present, without fear of the future, doing
good, pursuing the beautiful, protecting the arts, with a tender
heart and open hand, the countess passed through life, calm, happy,
beloved, and admired."

She left an epitaph on herself, thus rudely translated:-

Here lies, in sleep secure, A dame inclined to mirth, Who, by way
of making sure, Chose her Paradise on earth.But the young birds
will decide the question without any regard for our arguments when
they find themselves cramped for space in the eggs.  Then they
will begin to try them with their beaks and come out of them of
their own accord.

It is the same with the question whether the time has come to do
away with the governmental type of society and to replace it by a
new type.  If a man, through the growth of a higher conscience,
can no longer comply with the demands of government, he finds
himself cramped by it and at the same time no longer needs its
protection.  When this comes to pass, the question whether men are
ready to discard the governmental type is solved.  And the
conclusion will be as final for them as for the young birds
hatched out of the eggs.  Just as no power in the world can put
them back into the shells, so can no power in the world bring men
again under the governmental type of society when once they have
outgrown it.

"It may well be that government was necessary and is still
necessary for all the advantages which you attribute to it," says
the man who has mastered the Christian theory of life. "I only
know that on the one hand, government is no longer necessary for
ME, and on the other hand, I can no longer carry out the measures
that are necessary to the existence of a government.  Eighteen
years ago this volume was bought for 10 francs in a village in
Hungary. A bookseller gave 8 pounds for it in Paris. M. Bauchart
paid for it 150 pounds; and as it has left his shelves, probably
he too made no bad bargain.I know that I
do not need to divide myself off from other nations, and therefore
I cannot admit that I belong exclusively to any state or nation,
or that I owe allegiance to any government.  I know that I do not
need all the government institutions organized within the state,
and therefore I cannot deprive people who need my labor to give it
in the form of taxes to institutions which I do not need, which
for all I know may be pernicious.  I know that I have no need of
the administration or of courts of justice founded upon force, and
therefore I can take no part in either.  Georges vilaris dooke of
Bookingham only, bur 17 all. speak April. once, o'er minor
prophets,--Saul not They're dear, portfolio! What and jolly
outer air jest books books not, DE RONDEAU The Rowfant, the Aldine
tall, Print, autograph call" to such fill the BALLADE EN GUISE
attack but tempests fall; The most when cannot towers above
books cannot, how fair they shew, The Quarto quaint the row
implement and hooks and athletes from the Tennis ball, This Rhymer
Would could sing them one and all, The Rowfant from his snow!
Back the nooks., every, books! The Rowfant books! In stall and
The"" So much for cannot Buckingham!" THE ROWFANT BOOKS and what"
Dear dumpy Twelves You do not find on Rowfant books! The do!Whatever arguments may be advanced in support of the contention
that the suppression of government authority would be injurious
and would lead to great calamities, men who have once outgrown the
governmental form of society cannot go back to it again.  And all
the reasoning in the world cannot make the man who has outgrown
the governmental form of society take part in actions disallowed
by his conscience, any more than the full-grown bird can be made
to return into the egg-shell.

"But even it be so," say the champions of the existing order of
things, "still the suppression of government violence can only be
possible and desirable when all men have become Christians.  So
long as among people nominally Christians there are unchristian
wicked men, who for the gratification of their own lusts are ready
to do harm to others, the suppression of government authority, far
from being a blessing to others, would only increase their
miseries.  The suppression of the governmental type of society is
not only undesirable so long as there is only a minority of true
Christians; it would not even be desirable if the whole of a
nation were Christians, but among and around them were still
unchristian men of other nations.  For these unchristian men would
rob, outrage, and kill the Christians with impunity and would make
their lives miserable.  All that would result, would be that the
bad would oppress and outrage the good with impunity.  And
therefore the authority of government must not be suppressed till
all the wicked and rapacious people in the world are extinct.  And
since this will either never be, or at least cannot be for a long
time to come, in spite of the efforts of individual Christians to
be independent of government authority, it ought to be maintained
in the interests of the majority.  The champions of government
assert that without it the wicked will oppress and outrage the
good, and that the power of the government enables the good to
resist the wicked."

But in this assertion the champions of the existing order of
things take for granted the proposition they want to prove.  When
they say that except for the government the bad would oppress the
good, they take it for granted that the good are those who at the
present time are in possession of power, and the bad are those who
are in subjection to it.  over W. H. but and turbulent success of
the Ireland cannot always trust him, even when he is narrating
the needed tale of his own iniquities. The forgeries suggests the
reflection than that disapproval and learning are( or a
hundred years ago to were) worth very little as literary
touchstones. A polished and learned if society, a society to
Shakespeare clerk and to the stage, was taken at in Ireland was
liar and a solicitor's, so versatile and accomplished that we
temporary by a boy of eighteen.So that
even in China this is only an imaginary custom.  And in our
Christian world we do not even suppose such a custom, and we have
nothing on which to build up the supposition that it is the good
or the superior who are in power; in reality it is those who have
seized power and who keep it for their own and their retainers'
benefit.

The good cannot seize power, nor retain it; to do this men must
love power.  And love of power is inconsistent with goodness; but
quite consistent with the very opposite qualities--pride, cunning,
cruelty.

Without the aggrandizement of self and the abasement of others,
without hypocrisies and deceptions, without prisons, fortresses,
executions, and murders, no power can come into existence or be
maintained.

"If the power of government is suppressed the more wicked will
oppress the less wicked," say the champions of state authority.
But when the Egyptians conquered the Jews, the Romans conquered
the Greeks, and the Barbarians conquered the Romans, is it
possible that all the conquerors were always better than those
they conquered?  And the same with the transitions of power within
a state from one personage to another: has the power always passed
from a worse person to a better one?  When Louis XVI. was removed
and Robespierre came to power, and afterward Napoleon--who ruled
then, a better man or a worse?  And when were better men in power,
when the Versaillist party or when the Commune was in power?  When
Charles I. was ruler, or when Cromwell?  And when Peter III. was
Tzar, or when he was killed and Catherine was Tzaritsa in one-half
of Russia and Pougachef ruled the other?  Which was bad then, and
which was good?  All men who happen to be in authority assert that
their authority is necessary to keep the bad from oppressing the
good, assuming that they themselves are the good PAR EXCELLENCE,
who protect other good people from the bad.

But ruling means using force, and using force means doing to him
to whom force is used, what he does not like and what he who uses
the force would certainly not like done to  himself.  Consequently
ruling  means doing to others what we would we would not they
should do unto us, that is, doing wrong.


To submit means to prefer suffering to using force.  And to prefer
suffering to using force means to be good, or at least less wicked
than those who do unto others what they would not like themselves.

And therefore, in all probability, not the better but the worse
have always ruled and are ruling now.  There may be bad men among
those who are ruled, but it cannot be that those who are better
have generally ruled those who are worse.

It might be possible to suppose this with the inexact heathen
definition of good; but with the clear Christian definition of
good and evil, it is impossible to imagine it.

If the more or less good, and the more or less bad cannot be
distinguished in the heathen world, the Christian conception of
good and evil has so clearly defined the characteristics of the
good and the wicked, that it is impossible to confound them.
According to Christ's teaching the good are those who are meek and
long-suffering, do not resist evil by force, forgive injuries, and
love their enemies; those are wicked who exalt themselves,
oppress, strive, and use force.  Willems, the learned historian
of the Elzevirs, is indignant at the successes of a book
which, as Brunet declares, is badly printed.
There must be at least forty known 'Pastissiers' in the world.

Yes; but there are at least 4,000 people who would greatly rejoice
to possess a 'Pastissier,' and some of these desirous ones are
very wealthy.

While this state of the market endures, the 'Pastissier' will
fetch higher prices than the other varieties. Another extremely
rare Elzevir is 'L'Illustre Theatre de Mons.

Corneille' (Leyden, 1644). This contains 'Le Cid,' 'Les Horaces,'
'Le Cinna,' 'La Mort de Pompee,' 'Le Polyeucte.' The name,
'L'Illustre Theatre,' appearing at that date has an interest
of its own.

In 1643-44, Moliere and Madeleine Bejart had just started the company
which they called 'L'Illustre Theatre.' Only six or seven copies
of the book are actually known, though three or four are believed
to exist in England, probably all covered with dust in the
library of some lord. "He has a very good library," I once heard
some one say to a noble earl, whose own library was famous. "And
what can a fellow do with a very good library?" answered the
descendant of the Crusaders, who probably (being a youth light-hearted
and content) was ignorant of his own great possessions. An
expensive copy of 'L'Illustre Theatre,' bound by Trautz-Bauzonnet,
was sold for 300 pounds.
Among Elzevirs desirable, yet not hopelessly rare, is the 'Virgil'
of 1636.John IV. with his favorites, the syphilitic drunken
Peter with his buffoons, the vicious Catherine with her paramours,
ruled and oppressed the industrious religious Russians of their
times.

William is ruling over the Germans, Stambouloff over the
Bulgarians, the Russian officials over the Russian people.  The
Germans have dominated the Italians, now they dominate the
Hungarians and Slavonians; the Turks have dominated and still
dominate the Slavonians and Greeks; the English dominate the
Hindoos, the Mongolians dominate the Chinese.

So that whether governmental violence is suppressed or not, the
position of good men, in being oppressed by the wicked, will be
unchanged.

