Produced by Jonathan Ingram, Lesley Halamek and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


[Transcriber's Note: The Pronunciation Guide and Word List are at the end
of the book.]


_POEMS OF RURAL LIFE IN THE DORSET DIALECT._

BY WILLIAM BARNES.


[Illustration]


LONDON: KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRÜBNER & Co., LTD. 1903


_TO THE READER._


KIND READER,

Two of the three Collections of these Dorset Poems have been, for some
time, out of print, and the whole of the three sets are now brought
out in one volume.

I have little more to say for them, than that the writing of them
as glimpses of life and landscape in Dorset, which often open to
my memory and mindsight, has given me very much pleasure; and my
happiness would be enhanced if I could believe that you would feel my
sketches to be so truthful and pleasing as to give you even a small
share of pleasure, such as that of the memories from which I have
written them.

This edition has a list of such Dorset words as are found in the
Poems, with some hints on Dorset word shapes, and I hope that they
will be found a fully good key to the meanings of the verse.


Yours kindly,

W. BARNES

_June 1879._


CONTENTS.

FIRST COLLECTION.


SPRING.

The Spring                                          3
The Woodlands                                       4
Leädy-Day, an' Riddèn House                         5
Easter Zunday                                       8
Easter Monday                                       9
Dock-Leaves                                         9
The Blackbird                                      10
Woodcom' Feäst                                     12
The Milk-Maïd o' the Farm                          13
The Girt Woak Tree that's in the Dell              15
Vellèn o' the Tree                                 16
Bringèn Woone Gwaïn o' Zundays                     17
Evenèn Twilight                                    18
Evenèn in the Village                              20
May                                                20
Bob the Fiddler                                    22
Hope in Spring                                     23
The White Road up athirt the Hill                  24
The Woody Hollow                                   25
Jenny's Ribbons                                    26
Eclogue:--The 'Lotments                            28
Eclogue:--A Bit o' Sly Coortèn                     30


SUMMER.



[1]And those very important ones, relatively to man's
whole field of activity.

'Personally, any living language interests me more than
Esperanto.' Of course it does. So it does me, and most
sensible people. But what the digamma does it matter
to Esperanto whether we are interested in it or not?
It is not there to interest us. The question is, Does
it, or not, save us or others unprofitable labour on
a large scale? Neither you nor most sane persons are
probably particularly interested in shorthand or Morse
codes or any signalling systems. Yet they bear up.

"Do try to see that we think there is a certain felt
want, amongst countless numbers of persons, which is
much more efficiently and economically met by a neutral,
easy, international language, than by any national
one. That is the position you have got to controvert,
if you are seriously to weaken the argument in favour
of an international language. If you say that it is
not a want felt by many people, I can only say, at the
risk of being dogmatic, that you are wrong. I happen
to know that it is.[1] The question then is, Is there
an easy way of meeting that want? And the equally
certain and well-grounded answer is, There is....

[1]I have before me a list of 119 societies, representing
many different lines of work and play and many nations, who had
already in 1903 given in their adhesion to a scheme for an international
language.

Technical terms alone (in all departments of study) want standardizing,
and an international language affords the best means.

The number of societies is now (1907) over 270.

"As to your argument that what is easy is more easily
forgotten--it is true. But I think you must see that,
neither in practice nor in principle, does it or should
it make for choosing the harder way of arriving at a
given result. Chance the forgetting, if necessary
re-learning as required, and use the time and effort
saved for some more remunerative purpose.

"'One is God's handiwork, the other a man's toy.' I
should have said the first was man's lip-work, but I
see what you mean. It is God working through his
creature's natural development. The same is equally
true of all man's 'toys.' Man moulded his language in
pursuance of his ends under God. Under the same guidance
he moulded the steam engine, the typewriter, shorthand,
the semaphore, and all kinds of signals. What are the
philosophical _differentia_ that make Esperanto a toy,
and natural language God's handiwork? Apparently the
fact that Esperanto is 'artificial,' i.e. consciously
produced by art. If this is the criterion, beware lest
you damn man's works wholesale. If this is not the criterion, what
is?

"'An Englishman who knows French and German would do much better
to devote any extra time at his disposal to the study of his own
language.'

Yes--if his object is to qualify as an artist in
language.
No--if his object is to save time and trouble in
communicating with foreigners. You must compare like
with like. It is unscientific and a confusion of thought
to change the subject-matter of a man's employment of
his time on grounds other than those fairly intercomparable.
You have dictated as to how a man should employ his
time by changing his object in employing his time.
This makes the whole discussion irrelevant, in so far
as it deals with the comparative advantage of studying
one language or the other.

"Time's up! I have missed my after-lunch walk, and I
expect only hardened your heart.

"Yours, "----."
And I had!

XII
WILL AN INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE DISCOURAGE THE STUDY OF
MODERN LANGUAGES, AND THUS BE DETRIMENTAL TO
CULTURE?--PARALLEL WITH THE QUESTION OF COMPULSORY
GREEK
There is a broad, twofold distinction in the aims with
which the study of foreign languages is organized and
undertaken.

It serves: first, purely utilitarian ends, and is a
means; secondly, the purposes of culture, and is an
end in itself.

An international auxiliary language aims at supplanting
the first type of study completely, and, as it claims,
with profit to the students. The second type it hopes
to leave wholly intact, and disclaims any attempt to
interfere with it in any way. How far is this
possible?

The answer depends mainly upon the efficiency of the
alternative offered by the new-comer in each case as
a possible substitute.

Firstly, if it is true that a great portion of the human
race, especially in the big polyglot empires and the
smaller states of Europe, are groaning under the incubus
of the language difficulty, and have to spend years
on the study of mere words before they can fit themselves
for an active career, then the abolition of this heavy
handicap on due preparation for each man's proper
business in life will liberate much time for more
profitable studies. It is certain that the majority
of mankind are non-linguistic by nature and inclination rather
than linguistic--i.e. that the best chance of developing their
natural capacities to the utmost and making them useful and agreeable
members of society does not lie in making all alike swallow an
overdose of foreign languages during the acquisitive years of youth.

       By doing so, vast waste is caused, taking the world round.

As to the attainment of the object of this first type of language
study, not only is it as efficiently secured by a single universal
language, but far more so.

_Ex hypothesi_ the object is utilitarian; the language
is a means. Well, a universal language is a better
means than a national one--first, because, being
universal, it is a means to more; secondly, because,
being easy and one, it is a means that more people can
grasp and employ. In fact, it is in this field an
efficient substitute; it saves much, without losing
anything.

For the second type of language-study, on the other
hand, where the end is culture and the language is
studied for itself and in no wise as an indifferent
means, a universal artificial language offers no
substitute at all. This end is not on its programme.
Why, then, should any language-study that is organized
in view of culture be given up on its account?

It may, of course, be said that the time given to it
by those who pursue culture in language will be taken
from the time devoted to more worthy linguistic study,
and will therefore prejudice the learning of other
languages. This is a point of technical pedagogics or
psychology. There is very good reason, from the
standpoint of these sciences, to believe that a study
of a simple _type-tongue_ would, on the contrary, pay
for itself in increased facility in learning other
languages. But this is more fully discussed in the
chapter for teachers (see pp. 145-55) [Part III, Chapter
I].

The question, however, is not in reality quite so simple
as this.
There is no water-tight partition between utilitarian
and cultural language-study. They act and react upon
each other. There really is some ground for anxiety,
lest the provision of facilities for learning an easy
artificial language at your door may prevent people
from going out of their way to learn national ones,
which would have awakened scholarly instincts in them.
The cause of culture would thus sustain some real
hurt.

The question is another phase--a wider and lower-grade
phase--of the great compulsory Greek question at Oxford
and Cambridge. It affects the masses, whereas the Greek
controversy affects the few at the top; but otherwise
the issue at stake is essentially the same.

In both cases the bedrock of the problem is this, Can
we afford to put the many through a grind, which is
on the whole unprofitable to them and does not attain
its object of conferring culture, in order to uphold
the traditional system in the interests of the few?
In neither case do the reformers desire to suppress
the study of the old culture-giving language; rather
it is hoped that the interests of scholarly and liberal
learning will benefit by being freed from the dead
weight of grammar grinders, whose mechanical performance
and monkey antics are merely a dodge to catch a copper
from the examiners.

When Greek is no longer bolstered up by the protection
of compulsion, some of the present bounty-fed (i.e.
compulsion-fed) facilities for its study will no doubt
disappear from the schools which are at present forced
to provide them. With them will be lost some recruits
who would have been led by the facilities to study
Greek, and would have studied it to their profit. On
the other hand, the university will be open to numbers
of students who are at present shut out by the Greek
tariff.
Another barrier against modernity will go down, and
democracy make another step out of the proverbial
gutter towards the university.

Similarly, the possession of a universally understood
medium of communication will in some cases deter people
from making the effort to study real language, with
all the treasures of original literature to which it
is the key.

"Tis true, 'tis pity; and pity 'tis, 'tis true.

But--and this is the great point--it will open the
cosmopolitan outlook to countless thousands who could
never hope to grapple successfully with even one
national language. This cannot be a small gain.

It all comes back to this--you cannot eat your cake and
have it too.
_Il faut souffrir pour être belle._ The international
language has the defects of its qualities. But then
its qualities are great, and the world is their sphere
of utility.

XIII
OBJECTION TO AN INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE ON THE GROUND
THAT IT WILL SOON SPLIT UP INTO DIALECTS
This is a particularly unfortunate objection, because
it displays a radical ignorance of the history of
language, and of the conditions under which it
develops.

In the first place, the whole tendency of language in the modern
world is towards disappearance of local dialects, and their absorption
into a uniform literary language.

The dialects of England are almost dead before the onset of universal
education, and the great work of Dr.

Wright was only just in time to rescue them from oblivion.
Even one generation hence it will be impossible to
collect much of the local speech recorded in his
dictionary. It is the same in Germany and everywhere,
though, of course, all countries are not equally
advanced in this respect. A standard form of words and
grammar is fixed by print for the literary language,
and when every one can read and write, it is all up
with national evolution of language, such as has
produced all national languages. A gradual change of
the phonetic value given to the written symbols there
may be. This has been pre-eminently the case in England,
though even this will now be arrested by universal
education.
But a change of forms or of grammar can only be
indefinitely slight and gradual. When it takes place,
it reflects a common advance of the literary language,
and not local or dialectical variation (though the
common advance may have originally spread from one
locality).

In the second place, dialects are variations that spring
up under the stress of local circumstance in the
familiar every-day unconscious use of a common mother
tongue among people of the same race and inhabiting
the same district. Now, these are the very circumstances
in which an auxiliary international language never
can, and never will, be used. The only exception is
the case of people meeting together for the conscious
practice of the language or using it in jest.

There are no occasions when an international language
would be naturally used when any variation from standard
usage would not be a distinct disadvantage as tending
to unintelligibility. In short, a neutral language
consciously learned as a means of communication with
strangers is not on an equal footing with, or exposed
to the same influences as, a mother tongue used by
people every day under like conditions.

A cardinal point of difference is well illustrated by
Esperanto. The whole foundation of the language,
vocabulary, grammar, and everything else, is contained
in one small book of a few pages, called _Fundamento
de Esperanto_. No change can be made in this except
by a competent elected international authority. Of
course, no text-books or grammars will be authorized
for the use of any nation that are not in accordance
with the _Fundamento_. People will make mistakes, of
course, just as they make mistakes in any foreign
language, and they can help themselves out with any
words from other languages, just as they do now when
their French or German fails them. But the standard
is always there, simple and short, to correct any
aberration, and there is no room for any alterations
in form or structure to creep in.

XIV
OBJECTION THAT THE PRESENT INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE
(ESPERANTO) IS TOO DOGMATIC, AND REFUSES TO PROFIT BY
CRITICISM
It is true that Esperantists refuse to make any change
in their language at present, and this is found
irritating by some able critics, who wrongly imagine
that this attitude amounts to a claim of perfection
for Esperanto. The matter may be easily put right.

The inadmissibility of change (even for the better) is
purely a matter of policy and dictated by practical
considerations. Esperantists make no claim to
infallibility; they want to see their language universally
adopted, and they want to see it as perfect as
possible.
Actual and bitter experience shows that the international
language which admits change is lost. Universal
acceptance and present change are incompatible.
Esperantists, therefore, bow to the inevitable and
deliberately choose to concentrate for the present on
acceptance.
General acceptance, indeed, while it imposes upon the
present body of Esperantists self-restraint in abstaining
from change, is in reality the essential condition of
profitable future amendment. When an international
language has attained the degree of dissemination
already enjoyed by Esperanto, the only safe kind of
change that can be made is _a posteriori_, not _a
priori_. When Esperanto has been officially adopted
and comes into wide use, actual experience and consensus
of usage amongst its leading writers will indicate the
modifications that are ripe for official adoption. The
competent international official authority will then
from time to time duly register such changes, and they
will become officially part of the language.

Till then, any change can only cause confusion and
alienate support.
No one is going to spend time learning a language which is one thing
to-day and another thing to-morrow.

When the time comes for change, the authority will only proceed
cautiously one step at a time, and its decrees will only set the
seal upon that which actual use has hit off.
This, then, is the explanation of the famous adjective "netusxebla,"
applied by Dr. Zamenhof to his language, and so much resented in
certain quarters. Surely not only is this degree of dogmatism amply
justified by practical considerations, but it would amount to
positive imprudence on the part of Esperantists to act otherwise.
If the inventor of the language can show sufficient self-restraint,
after long years spent in touching and retouching his language, to
hold his hand at a given point (and he has declared that self-restraint
is necessary), surely others need not be hurt at their suggestions
not being adopted, even though they may in some cases be real
improvements.
The following extracts, translated from the Preface to _Fundamento
de Esperanto_ (the written basic law of Esperanto), should set the
question in the right light. It will be seen that Dr. Zamenhof
expressly contemplates the "gradual perfection" (_perfektigado_)
of his language, and by no means lays claim to finality or
infallibility.
"Having the character of _fundament_, the three works reprinted in
this volume must be above all inviolable (_netusxeblaj_).... The
fundament must remain inviolable _even with its errors...._ Having
once lost its strict inviolability, the work would lose its exceptional
and necessary character of dogmatic fundamentality; and the user,
finding one translation in one edition, and another in another,
would have no security that I should not make another change
to-morrow, and his confidence and support would be lost.FIRST COLLECTION.


SPRING.


THE SPRING.


  When wintry weather's all a-done,
  An' brooks do sparkle in the zun,
  An' nâisy-buildèn rooks do vlee
  Wi' sticks toward their elem tree;
  When birds do zing, an' we can zee
    Upon the boughs the buds o' spring,--
    Then I'm as happy as a king,
      A-vield wi' health an' zunsheen.

  Vor then the cowslip's hangèn flow'r
  A-wetted in the zunny show'r,
  Do grow wi' vi'lets, sweet o' smell,
  Bezide the wood-screen'd grægle's bell;
  Where drushes' aggs, wi' sky-blue shell,
    Do lie in mossy nest among
    The thorns, while they do zing their zong
      At evenèn in the zunsheen.

  An' God do meäke his win' to blow
  An' raïn to vall vor high an' low,
  An' bid his mornèn zun to rise
  Vor all alike, an' groun' an' skies
  Ha' colors vor the poor man's eyes:
    An' in our trials He is near,
    To hear our mwoan an' zee our tear,
      An' turn our clouds to zunsheen.

  An' many times when I do vind
  Things all goo wrong, an' vo'k unkind,
  To zee the happy veedèn herds,
  An' hear the zingèn o' the birds,
  Do soothe my sorrow mwore than words;
    Vor I do zee that 'tis our sin
    Do meäke woone's soul so dark 'ithin,
      When God would gi'e woone zunsheen.


THE WOODLANDS.


  O spread ageän your leaves an' flow'rs,
    Lwonesome woodlands! zunny woodlands!
  Here underneath the dewy show'rs
    O' warm-aïr'd spring-time, zunny woodlands!
  As when, in drong or open ground,
  Wi' happy bwoyish heart I vound
  The twitt'rèn birds a-buildèn round
    Your high-bough'd hedges, zunny woodlands.

  You gie'd me life, you gie'd me jaÿ,
    Lwonesome woodlands! zunny woodlands
  You gie'd me health, as in my plaÿ
    I rambled through ye, zunny woodlands!
  You gie'd me freedom, vor to rove
  In aïry meäd or sheädy grove;
  You gie'd me smilèn Fannèy's love,
    The best ov all o't, zunny woodlands!

  My vu'st shrill skylark whiver'd high,
    Lwonesome woodlands! zunny woodlands!
  To zing below your deep-blue sky
    An' white spring-clouds, O zunny woodlands!
  An' boughs o' trees that woonce stood here,
  Wer glossy green the happy year
  That gie'd me woone I lov'd so dear,
    An' now ha' lost, O zunny woodlands!

  O let me rove ageän unspied,
    Lwonesome woodlands! zunny woodlands!
  Along your green-bough'd hedges' zide,
    As then I rambled, zunny woodlands!
  An' where the missèn trees woonce stood,
  Or tongues woonce rung among the wood,
  My memory shall meäke em good,
    Though you've a-lost em, zunny woodlands!


LEADY-DAY, AN' RIDDEN HOUSE.


  Aye, back at Leädy-Day, you know,
  I come vrom Gullybrook to Stowe;
  At Leädy-Day I took my pack
  O' rottletraps, an' turn'd my back
  Upon the weather-beäten door,
  That had a-screen'd, so long avore,
  The mwost that theäse zide o' the greäve,
  I'd live to have, or die to seäve!
  My childern, an' my vier-pleäce,
  Where Molly wi' her cheerful feäce,
  When I'd a-trod my wat'ry road
  Vrom night-bedarken'd vields abrode,
  Wi' nimble hands, at evenèn, blest
  Wi' vire an' vood my hard-won rest;
  The while the little woones did clim',
  So sleek-skinn'd, up from lim' to lim',
  Till, strugglèn hard an' clingèn tight,
  They reach'd at last my feäce's height.
  All tryèn which could soonest hold
  My mind wi' little teäles they twold.
  An' riddèn house is such a caddle,
  I shan't be over keen vor mwore [=o]'t,
  Not yet a while, you mid be sure [=o]'t,--
  I'd rather keep to woone wold staddle.

  Well, zoo, avore the east begun
  To redden wi' the comèn zun,
  We left the beds our mossy thatch
  Wer never mwore to overstratch,
  An' borrow'd uncle's wold hoss _Dragon_,
  To bring the slowly lumbrèn waggon,
  An' when he come, we vell a-packèn
  The bedsteads, wi' their rwopes an' zackèn;
  An' then put up the wold eärm-chair,
  An' cwoffer vull ov e'then-ware,
  An' vier-dogs, an' copper kittle,
  Wi' crocks an' saucepans, big an' little;
  An' fryèn-pan, vor aggs to slide
  In butter round his hissèn zide,
  An' gridire's even bars, to bear
  The drippèn steäke above the gleäre
  O' brightly-glowèn coals. An' then,
  All up o' top o' them ageän
  The woaken bwoard, where we did eat
  Our croust o' bread or bit o' meat,--
  An' when the bwoard wer up, we tied
  Upon the reäves, along the zide,
  The woäken stools, his glossy meätes,
  Bwoth when he's beäre, or when the pleätes
  Do clatter loud wi' knives, below
  Our merry feäces in a row.
  An' put between his lags, turn'd up'ard,
  The zalt-box an' the corner cupb'ard.
  An' then we laid the wold clock-ceäse,
  All dumb, athirt upon his feäce,
  Vor we'd a-left, I needen tell ye,
  Noo works 'ithin his head or belly.
  An' then we put upon the pack
  The settle, flat upon his back;
  An' after that, a-tied in pairs
  In woone another, all the chairs,
  An' bits o' lumber wo'th a ride,
  An' at the very top a-tied,
  The childern's little stools did lie,
  Wi' lags a-turn'd towárd the sky:
  Zoo there we lwoaded up our scroff,
  An' tied it vast, an' started off.
  An',--as the waggon cooden car all
  We had to teäke,--the butter-barrel
  An' cheese-wring, wi' his twinèn screw,
  An' all the païls an' veäts, an' blue
  Wold milk leads, and a vew things mwore,
  Wer all a-carr'd the day avore,
  And when the mwost ov our wold stuff
  Wer brought outside o' thik brown ruf,
  I rambled roun' wi' narrow looks,
  In fusty holes an' darksome nooks,
  To gather all I still mid vind,
  O' rags or sticks a-left behind.
  An' there the unlatch'd doors did creak,
  A-swung by winds, a-streamèn weak
  Drough empty rooms, an' meäkèn sad
  My heart, where me'th woonce meäde me glad.
  Vor when a man do leäve the he'th
  An' ruf where vu'st he drew his breath,
  Or where he had his bwoyhood's fun,
  An' things wer woonce a-zaid an' done
  That took his mind, do touch his heart
  A little bit, I'll answer vor't.
  is it easy? would its introduction
  be fraught with prohibitive difficulties?

and the like.

  
  It is clear that, however possible or
  easy it may be to do a thing,
  there is no case for doing it unless
  it is wanted; therefore the
  question of principle must be
  taken first. In the case before us
  the question of principle involves
  many considerations--aesthetic,
  political, social, even religious.
  These will be glanced at in their
  proper place; but for our present
  purpose they are all subordinate to the
      one great paramount consideration--the economic one.

  In the world of affairs experience
  shows that, given a demand of any kind
  whatever, as between an economical method
  of supplying that demand and a
  non-economical method, in the
  long run the economical method will
  surely prevail.
  
  If, then, it can be shown that
  there is a growing need for means
  of international communication,
  and that a unilingual solution
  is more economical than a multilingual
      one, there is good ground for thinking that the unilingual method
of transacting international affairs will surely prevail.

It then becomes a question of time and method: When will men feel
the pressure of the demand sufficiently strongly to set about
supplying it?

  and what means will they adopt?
  
  The time and the method are by no means
  indifferent. Though a demand (for what
  is possible) is sure, in the long
  run, to get itself supplied, a long
  period of wasteful and needless
  groping may be avoided by a
  clear-sighted and timely realization
  of the demand, and by consequent
  organized co-operation in supplying
        it.

  Intelligent anticipation sometimes
  helps events to occur. It is the object of this
  book to call attention to the present state
  of affairs, and to emphasize the fact
  that the time is now ripe for dealing
  with the question, and the present
  moment propitious for solving the
  problem once for all in an orderly
  way. The merest glance at the list
  of projects for a universal language[1]
  and their dates will strengthen
        the conviction from an historical point of view that the fulness
of time is accomplished, while the history of the rise and fall of
_Volapük_ and of the extraordinary rise of _Esperanto_, in spite
of its precursor's failure, are exceedingly significant

.

  
  [1]See pp. 78-87. [Part II, Chapter
  II]
  One language has been born, come to
  maturity, and died of dissension,
  and the world stood by indifferent.
  Another is now in the first full
  flush of youth and strength. After twenty-nine
  years of daily developing
  cosmopolitanism--years that have witnessed
  the rising of a new star in the
  East and an uninterrupted growth of
  interchange of ideas between the
  nations of the earth, whether in
  politics, literature, or science,
  without a single check to the ever-rising tide of internationalism--are
we again to let the favourable moment pass unused, just for want
of making up our minds?

  At present one language holds the
  field. It is well organized; it has
  abundant enthusiastic partisans
  accustomed to communicate and
  transact their common business in
  it, and only too anxious to show
  the way to others. If it be not officially
  adopted and put under the regulation
  of a duly constituted
  international authority, it
  may wither away or split into factions
  as Volapük did.[1] Or it may continue
  to grow and flourish, but others of
  its numerous rivals may secure
  adherents and dispute its claim.
  This would be even worse.

It is far harder to rally a multitude of conflicting rivals in the
same camp, than it is to take over a well-organized, homogeneous,
and efficient volunteer force, legalize its position, and raise it
to the status of a regular army.

  In any case, if no concerted
  action be taken, the question will
  remain in a state of chaos, and
  the lack of official organization
  brings a great risk of overlapping,
  dissension, and creation of rival
  interests, and generally produces
  a state of affairs calculated to postpone indefinitely the supply
of the demand.

  Competition that neither tends to
  keep down the price nor to improve
  the quality of the thing produced
  is mere dissipation of energy.
  
  [1]Esperanto itself is admirably organized
  (see p. 119) [Part II, Chapter
  VII], and there are no factions or symptoms of dissension.

  But Esperantists need official support
  and recognition.
  
  In a word, the one thing needful at present is
  not a more highly perfected language
  to adopt, but the adoption of the highly
  perfected one we possess. By the admission
  of experts, no less than by the practical experience of great
numbers of persons in using it over a number of years, it has been
found adequate.

  Once found adequate, its absolute
  utility merely depends upon
  universal adoption.
  
  With utility in direct proportion
  to numbers of adherents, every recruit
  augments its value--a thought which may
  well encourage waverers to make the slight effort necessary to at
any rate learn to read it.

  II
  THE QUESTION OF PRINCIPLE--ECONOMIC
  ADVANTAGE OF AN INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE
  
  As stated above, the question of
  principle will be treated here from
  a purely economical point of view, since
  practical value, measured by
  saving of time, money, and effort, must be
  the ultimate criterion by which the success or failure of so
far-reaching a reform as the introduction of an international,
auxiliary language will be decided.

The bearing of such a reform upon education, culture, race supremacy,
etc., is not without importance; but the discussion of these points
must be postponed as subsidiary.

  Reduced to its simplest form, the
  economical argument is this:
  
  (1) The volume of international intercourse
  is great and increasing.
  
  (2) This intercourse is at present
  carried on in many different
  languages of varying degrees of
  difficulty, but all relatively hard
  of acquisition for those who do not
  know them as a mother-tongue.
  This is uneconomical.
  
  (3) It is economically sounder to
  carry on international intercourse
  in one easy language than in a large
  number of hard ones.
  
  (4) Therefore in principle an easy
  international language is
  desirable.

  
  Let us glance at these four points a
  little more in detail.
  
  No. 1 surely needs no demonstration.
  Every year there is more communication
  between men of different race and
  language. And it is not business, in the
  narrow sense of the term, that is exclusively
  or even chiefly affected by diversity
  of language. Besides the enormous
  bulk of pleasure travel, international
  congresses are growing in number
  and importance; municipal fraternization
  is the latest fashion, and many a worthy
  alderman, touring at the ratepayers' expense, must wish that he
had some German in Berlin, or a little Italian in Milan.

  Indeed, it is at these points
  of international contact that
  language is a real bar, actually
  preventing much intercourse that would
  otherwise have taken place,
  rather than in business, which is
  organized in view of the difficulty.
  Then there is the whole realm of
  scientific and learned literature--work
  of which the accessibility to all
  concerned is of the first importance,
  but is often hindered because a translation into one language does
not pay, or, if made, only reaches a limited public.

Such bars to freedom of interchange cannot be reckoned in money;
but modern economics recognizes the personal and social factor, and
any obstacle to research is certainly a public loss.

  But important as are these various
    spheres of action, an even wider
  international contact of thought
    and feeling is springing up in our days.

  Democracy, science, and universal
    education are producing everywhere
  similarity of institutions, of industry,
    of the whole organization of life.

  Similarity of life will breed
    community of interests, and from
  this arises real converse--more give
    and take in the things that matter, less purely superficial dealings
of the guide-book or conversation-manual type

  .
    
  (2) "Business," meaning commerce, in so
    far as it is international, may at present be carried on mainly
in half a dozen of the principal languages of Western Europe.

  Even so, their multiplicity is
    vexatious.
  But outside the world of business
    other languages are entering the field, and striving for equal
rights.

  The tendency is all towards
    self-assertion on the part of the
  nationalities that are beginning
    a new era of national life and importance.

  The language difficulty in the
    Austrian Empire reflects the growing
  self-consciousness of the Magyars.
    Everywhere where young peoples are pushing their rights to take
equal rank among the nations of the world, the language question
is put in the forefront.

  The politicians of Ireland and
    Wales have realized the importance
  of language in asserting nationality,
    but such engineered language-agitation offers but a feeble reflex
of the vitality of the question in lands where the native language
is as much in use for all purposes as is English in England.

  These lands will fight harder and harder
    against the claims to supremacy of
  a handful of Western intruders. A
    famous foreign philologist,[1] in a report on the subject presented
to the Academy of Vienna, notes the increasing tendency of Russian
to take rank among the recognized languages for purposes of polite
learning.

He is well placed to observe.

  With Russia knocking at the door and
  Hungary waiting to storm the breach,
  what tongue may not our descendants
  of the next century have to learn, under
  pain of losing touch with important
  currents of thought? It is high time
  something were done to standardize
  means of transmission. Owing to
  political conditions, there are
  linguistically disintegrating forces at
  work, which are at variance with
  the integrating forces of natural
  tendency.
  
  [1]Prof. Shuchardt
  From an economical point of view,
    a considerable amount of time,
    effort, and money must be unreproductively invested in overcoming
the "language difficulty."

  In money alone the amount must run
  into thousands of pounds yearly. Among
  the unreproductive investments are--the
  employment of foreign correspondence
  clerks, the time and money spent
  upon the installation of educational
  plant for their production, the time
  and money spent upon translations and
  interpreters for the proceedings of
  international conferences and negotiations,
  the time devoted by professors and
  other researchers (often nonlinguists
  in virtue of their calling) to
  deciphering special treatises and
  learned periodicals in languages not
  their own.[1]
    [1]These are some of the actual
    visible losses owing to the _presence_ of the language difficulty.

  No one can estimate the value
  of the losses entailed by the _absence_
  of free intercourse due to
  removable linguistic barriers.
  Potential (but at present non-realized)
  extension of goodwill, swifter progress,
  and wider knowledge represent one
  side of their value; while
  consequent non-realized increase in
  volume of actual business represents
  their value in money. The negative
  statement of absence of results from
  intercourse that never took place
  affords no measure of positive
  results obtainable under a better
  system.
  
  The tendency of those engaged in advancing
    material progress, which consists
    in the subjection of nature to man's ends, is to adapt more and
more quickly their methods to changing conditions.

Has the world yet faced in a business-like spirit the problem of
wiping out wastage on words?

  Big industrial concerns scrap machinery while it is
  yet perfectly capable of running and turning out
  good work, in order to replace it by newer machinery,
  capable of turning out more work in the same time.
  Time is money. Can the busy world afford a language
  difficulty?
  
  (3) The proposition that it is economically sounder to carry
  on international intercourse in one easy language than in a
  large number of hard ones rests upon the principle that it does
not pay to do a thing a hard way, if the same results can be produced
by an easy way.

  The whole industrial revolution brought about by
  the invention of machinery depended upon this
  principle. Since an artificial language, like machinery,
  is a means invented by man of furthering his ends,
  there seems to be no abuse of analogy in comparing
  them.
  
  When it was found that machinery would turn out a hundred
  pieces of cloth while the hand-loom turned out
  one, the hand-loom was doomed, except in so
  far as it may serve other ends, antiquarian,
  aesthetic, or artistic, which are not equally well served by
machinery.

Similarly, to take another revolution which is going on in our own
day through a further application of machinery, when it is found
that corn can be reaped and threshed by machinery, that hay can be
cut, made, carried, and stacked by machinery, that man can travel
the high road by machinery, sooner or later machinery is bound to
get the bulk of the job, because it produces the same results at
greater speed and less cost.

  So, in the field of international
  intercourse, if an easy artificial
  language can with equal efficiency
  and at less cost produce the same
  results as a multiplicity of
    natural ones, in many lines of human
    activity, and making all reserves in
      matters antiquarian, aesthetic, and artistic, sooner or later the
multiplicity will have to go to the scrap-heap[1] as cumbrous and
out of date.

  It may be a hundred years; it may be
  fifty; it may be even twenty.
  Almost certainly the irresistible
  trend of economic pressure
  will work its will and insist
    that what has to be done shall be
    done in the most economical
      way.

  
  [1]But only, of course, in
  those lines in which an international
  auxiliary language can produce equally
  good results. This excludes home use,
    national literature, philology,
    scholarly study of national languages,
      etc.

  
  So much, then, for the question of
  principle. In treating it, certain
  large assumptions have been
  made; e.g. it is said above, "if
    an easy artificial language can with
    equal efficiency... produce the
      same results," etc.

Here it is assumed that the artificial language is (1) easy, and (2)
that it is possible for it to produce the same results.

Again, however easy and possible, its introduction might cost more
than it saved.

  These are questions of fact, and are
  treated in the three following chapters
  under the heading of "The Question of
  Practice."
  
    III
    THE QUESTION OF PRACTICE--AN
      INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE IS POSSIBLE
The man who says a thing is impossible without troubling to find
out whether it has been done is merely "talking through his hat,"
to use an Americanism, and we need not waste much time on him.

  Any one, who maintains that it is
  impossible to transact the ordinary
  business of life and write lucid
  treatises on scientific and other subjects
  in an artificial language, is
    simply in the position of the French
    engineer, who gave a full scientific
      demonstration of the fact that an engine could not possibly travel
by steam.

  The plain fact is that not only one
  artificial language, but several,
  already exist, which not only can
  express, but already have expressed
  all the ideas current in social
    intercourse, business, and serious
    exposition. It is only necessary
      to state the facts briefly.

  
  First--_Volapük_.
  
  Three congresses were held in all for
  the promotion of this language.
    
    The third (Paris, 1889) was the most
      important.

  It was attended by Volapükists from
  many different nations, who carried
  on all their business in Volapük,
  and found no difficulty in
  understanding one another. Besides
    this, there were a great many newspapers
    published in Volapük, which
      treated of all kinds of subjects.

Secondly--_Idiom Neutral_, the lineal descendant of Volapük.

  It is regulated by an international academy, which
    sends round circulars and does all
  its business in Idiom Neutral.
    
        Thirdly--_Esperanto_.
      
  Since the publication of the language in 1887 it has
    had a gradually increasing number of adherents, who have used it
for all ordinary purposes of communication.

  A great number of newspapers and reviews of all
    kinds are now published regularly in
  Esperanto in a great variety of countries. I
    take up a chance number of the
        _Internacia Scienca
      Revuo_, which happens
  to be on my table, and find the following subjects
    among the contents of the month: "_Rôle_ of living beings in the
general physiology of the earth," "The carnivorous animals of
Sweden," "The part played by heredity in the etiology of chronic
nephritis," "The migration of the lemings," "Notices of books,"
"Notes and correspondence," etc.

In fact, the Review has all the appearance of an ordinary scientific
periodical, and the articles are as clearly expressed and as easy
to read as those in any similar review in a national language.

  Even more convincing perhaps, for the
  uninitiated, is the evidence afforded
  by the International Congresses of
  Esperantists. The first was held at
  Boulogne in August 1905. It marked
  an epoch in the lives of many
  of the participants, whose doubts
  as to the practical nature of an artificial language there, for
good and all, yielded to the logic of facts; and it may well be
that it will some day be rather an outstanding landmark in the
history of civilization.

  A brief description will, therefore,
  not be out of place.
  
  In the little seaport town on the
  north coast of France had come
  together men and women of
  more than twenty different races. Some
  were experts, some were beginners;
  but all save a very few must
  have been alike in this, that
  they had learnt their Esperanto at
  home, and, as far as oral use
  went, had only been able to speak it
  (if at all) with members of their
  own national groups--that is, with
  compatriots who had acquired the
  language under the same conditions
  as to pronunciation, etc., as themselves.

  Experts and beginners, those who from
  practical experience knew the great
  possibilities of the new tongue as a
  written medium, no less than the neophytes
  and tentative experimenters who
  had come to see whether the thing was
  worth taking seriously, they were
  now to make the decisive trial--in
  the one case to test the faith that
  was in them, in the other to set all doubt at rest in one sense
or the other for good and all.

  The town theatre had been
  generously placed at the disposal of the
  Congress, and the author of the
  language, Dr. Zamenhof, had left his
  eye-patients at Warsaw and come
  to preside at the coming out of his
  _kara lingvo_, now well on in her
  'teens, and about to leave the academic
  seclusion of scholastic use and
  emerge into the larger sphere of
  social and practical activity.
  
  On Saturday evening, August
  5, at eight o'clock, the Boulogne Theatre was packed with a
cosmopolitan audience.

The unique assembly was pervaded by an indefinable feeling of
expectancy; as in the lull before the thunderstorm, there was the
hush of excitement, the tense silence charged with the premonition
of some vast force about to be let loose on the world.

  After a few preliminaries, there
  was a really dramatic moment when
  Dr. Zamenhof stood up for the
    first time to address his
  world-audience in the world-tongue.
  Would they understand him? Was their
  hope about to be justified? or was
    it all a chimera, "such stuff as dreams are made on"?

  _Gesinjoroj_ (= Ladies and
  gentlemen)--the great audience
  craned forward like one man, straining
    eyes and ears towards the
  speaker,--_Kun granda plezuro mi
  akceptis la proponon..._ The crowd
  drank in the words with an almost pathetic
    agony of anxiety.

  Gradually, as the clear-cut
  sentences poured forth in a
  continuous stream of perfect lucidity,
    and the audience realized
  that they were all listening
  to and all understanding a really
  international speech in a really
    international tongue--a tongue which secured to them, as here in
Boulogne so throughout the world, full comprehension and a sense
of comradeship and fellow-citizenship on equal terms with all users
of it--the anxiety gave way to a scene of wild enthusiasm.

Men shook hands with perfect strangers, and all cheered and cheered
again.

  Zamenhof finished with a solemn
    declamation of one of his hymns
  (given as an appendix to this volume,
    with translation), embodying the lofty ideal
  which has inspired him all through
  and sustained him through the many
  difficulties he has had to face.
    When he came to the end, the fine passage beginning with the words,
_Ni inter popoloj la murojn detruos_ ("we shall throw down the walls
between the peoples"), and ending _amo kaj vero ekregos sur tero_
("love and truth shall begin their reign on earth"), the whole
concourse rose to their feet with prolonged cries of "Vivu Zamenhof!"

  No doubt this enthusiasm may sound
    rather forced and unreal to
  those who have not attended a congress,
  and the cheers may ring hollow across
  intervening time and space. Neither
  would it be good for this or any movement
  to rely upon facile enthusiasm, as
    easily damped as aroused.

  There is something far more than this in
    the international language
  movement.
    
  At the same time, it is impossible for
  any one who has not tried it to realize
  the thrill--not a weak, sentimental
    thrill, but a reasonable thrill, starting from objective fact and
running down the marrow of things--given by the first real contact
with an international language in an international setting.

  There really is a feeling as of a
    new power born into the world.
  
    Those who were present at the
  Geneva Congress, 1906, will not soon
  forget the singing of the song "La
  Espero" at the solemn closing of the
    week's proceedings.

  The organ rolled out the melody, and
    when the gathered thousands that
  thronged the floor of the hall and
    packed the galleries tier on tier
  to the ceiling took up the opening
  phrase--
  En la mondon venis nova sento, Tra
    la mondo iras forta voko,[1]

they meant every word of it.

  It was a fitting summary of the impressions
  left by the events of the week,
  and what the lips uttered must
  have been in the hearts and minds of
  all.
  
  [1]Into the world has come a new
    feeling, Through the world goes a mighty call.

  As an ounce of personal experience is
  worth a pound of second-hand
  recital, a brief statement may here
  be given of the way in which the present
  writer came to take up Esperanto,
  and of the experiences which soon
  led him to the conviction of its
    absolute practicability and utility.

  In October, 1905, having just returned
  from an absence of some years in
  Canada and the Far East, he
  had his attention turned to
  Esperanto for the first time by reading
  an account of the Congress of Boulogne.
  He had no previous knowledge
    of, or leanings towards, a universal language; and if he had thought
about it at all, it was only to laugh at the idea as a wild and
visionary scheme.

  In short, his attitude was quite
  normal.
  
  But here was a definite statement,
  professing to be one of positive
  accomplished fact. One of two things:
  either the newspaper account was not
    true; or else, the facts being as represented, here was a new
possibility to be reckoned with.

  The only course was to send for the
  books and test the thing on its
  merits. Being somewhat used to
  languages, he did not take long to see
  that this one was good enough in
  itself. A letter, written in Esperanto,
  after a few days' study of the
    grammar at odd times, with a halfpenny Esperanto-English key
enclosed, was fully understood by the addressee, though he was
ignorant up till then of the very existence of Esperanto.

  This experience has often been since
  repeated; indeed, the correspondent
  will often write back after a
  few days in Esperanto. Such letters
  have always been found intelligible,
  though in no case did the correspondent
  know Esperanto previously. The experiment
    is instructive and amusing, and can be tried by any one for an
expenditure of twopence for keys and a few hours for studying the
sixteen rules and their application.

To many minds these are far simpler and more easy to grasp for
practical use than the rules for scoring at bridge.

  After a month or two's playing with
  the language in spare time, the writer
  further tested it, by sending out
  a flight of postcards to various
  selected Esperantists' addresses in
    different parts of the Russian Empire.
    The addressees ranged from St.
      Petersburg and Helsingfors through Poland to the Caucasus and to
far Siberia.

  In nearly every case answers were
  received, and in some instances the
  initial interchange of postcards led to an
  extremely interesting correspondence,
  throwing much light on the disturbed state
    of things in the native town or province
    of the correspondent. From a Tiflis doctor
      came a graphic account of the state of affairs in the Caucasus;
while a school inspector from the depths of Eastern Siberia painted
a vivid picture of the effect of political unrest on the schools--lockouts
and "malodorous chemical obstructions" (_Anglice_--the schools were
stunk out).

  
  a worthy man,
  That vu'st brought into ouer pleäce the plan,
  He zaid he'd let a vew odd eäcres
  O' land to us poor leäb'rèn men;
  An', faïth, he had enough o' teäkers
  Vor that, an' twice so much ageän.
  Zoo I took zome here, near my hovel,
  To exercise my speäde an' shovel;
  An' what wi' dungèn, diggèn up, an' zeedèn,
  A-thinnèn, cleänèn, howèn up an' weedèn,
  I, an' the biggest o' the childern too,
  Do always vind some useful jobs to do.

  JOHN.

  Aye, wi' a bit o' ground, if woone got any,
  Woone's bwoys can soon get out an' eärn a penny;
  An' then, by workèn, they do learn the vaster
  The way to do things when they have a meäster;
  Vor woone must know a deäl about the land
  Bevore woone's fit to lend a useful hand,
  In geärden or a-vield upon a farm.

  RICHARD.

  An' then the work do keep em out o' harm;
  Vor vo'ks that don't do nothèn wull be vound
  Soon doèn woorse than nothèn, I'll be bound.
  But as vor me, d'ye zee, with theäse here bit
  O' land, why I have ev'ry thing a'mwost:
  Vor I can fatten vowels for the spit,
  Or zell a good fat goose or two to rwoast;
  An' have my beäns or cabbage, greens or grass,
  Or bit o' wheat, or, sich my happy feäte is,
  That I can keep a little cow, or ass,
  An' a vew pigs to eat the little teäties.

  JOHN.

  This tends to be the argument of literary
  persons.[1] They back it up by pointing
  out that Latin has already done duty in the
  Middle Ages as a common medium, and therefore, they say, what it
has once done with success it can do again

  .

  
  [1]It has even cropped up again in
  the able articles in _The Times_ on the reformed
  pronunciation of Latin (April 1907).

  

  It is hard to argue with such persons, because
  they have not grasped the fact that the nature of international
communication has undergone a complete change, and that therefore
there is no presumption that the same medium will suffice for
carrying it on.

In the Middle Ages the cosmopolitan public was almost entirely a
learned one.

The only people who wanted to communicate with foreigners (except
for a certain amount of commerce) were scholars, and the only things
they wanted to communicate about were learned subjects, mostly of
a philosophical or literary nature, which Latin was adapted to
express.

The educated public was extremely small, and foreign travel altogether
beyond the reach of all but the very few.

  The overwhelming mass of the people were illiterate, and fast tied
to their native spot by lack of pence, lack of communications, and
the general conditions of life.

  Now that everybody can read and write and
  get about, and all the conditions of life have
  changed, the cosmopolitan public, so far
  from being confined to a handful of scholars
  and merchants, extends down to and is
  largely made up of that terrible modern production, "the man in
the street."

  It is quite ridiculous to pretend that because an Erasmus or a
Casaubon could carry on literary controversies, with amazing fluency
and hard-hitting, in Ciceronian Latin, therefore "the bald-headed
man at the back of the omnibus" can give up the time necessary to
obtaining a control of Latin sufficient for the conduct of his
affairs, or for hobnobbing with his kind abroad.

  It is waste of time to argue with those
  who do not realize that the absolute
  essentials of any auxiliary language in
  these days are ease of acquirement and
  accessibility to all. There are actually some
  newspapers published in Latin and dealing with modern topics.

  As an amusement for the learned they are all very well; but the
portentous periphrases to which they are reduced in describing
tramway accidents or motor-cars, the rank obscurity of the terms
in which advertisements of the most ordinary goods are veiled, ought
to be enough to drive their illusions out of the heads of the modern
champions of Latin for practical purposes.

  Let these persons take in the Roman _Vox Urbis_ for a month or two,
or get hold of a copy of the London _Alaudae_, and see how they
feel then.

  A dim perception of the requirements of the modern world has inspired
the various schemes for a barbarized and simplified Latin.

  It is almost incredible that the authors of such schemes cannot see
that debased Latin suffers from all the defects alleged against an
artificial language, plus quite prohibitory ones of its own, without
attaining the corresponding advantages.

  It is just as artificial as an entirely new language, without being
nearly so easy (especially to speak) or adaptable to modern life.

  It sins against the cardinal principle that
  an auxiliary language shall inflict no damage upon any natural one.

  In short, it disgusts both parties (scholars and tradesmen), and
satisfies the requirements of neither.

  Those who want an easy language, within
  the reach of the intelligent person with only an elementary school
groundwork of education, don't get it; and the scholarly party, who
treat any artificial language as a cheap commercial scheme, have
their teeth set on edge by unparalleled barbarisms, which must
militate most seriously against the correct use of classical Latin.

  Such schemes are dead of their own dogginess.

  Latin, pure or mongrel, won't do.
  

  

  VIII
  CAN THE INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE BE GREEK?
  
  This chapter might be as short and dogmatic
  as Mark Twain's celebrated chapter
  upon snakes in Ireland. It would
  be enough to merely answer "No," but that
  the indefatigable Mr. Henderson, after
  running through three artificial languages
  of his own, has come to the conclusion that Greek is the thing.

  Certainly, as regards flexibility and power of word-formation, Greek
would be better than Latin on its own merits.

  But it is too hard, and the scheme has nothing practical
  about it.
  
  
  IX
  CAN THE INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE BE A MODERN LANGUAGE?

  Jingoes are not wanting who say that it is unpatriotic of any
Englishman to be a party to the introduction of a neutral language,
because English is manifestly destined to be the language of the
world.

  Reader, did you ever indulge in the mild witticism
  of asking a foreigner where the English
  are mentioned in the Bible? The answer, of
  course, is, _The meek shall inherit the
  earth_. But if the foreigner is bigger
  than you, don't tell him until you have got to a
  safe distance.
  
  An' up there, in the green, is her own honey-zuck,
  That her brother traïn'd up roun' her window; an' there
  Is the rwose an' the jessamy, where she did pluck
  A flow'r vor her bosom or bud vor her heäir.

  An' zoo smile, happy maïdens! vor every feäce,
  As the zummers do come, an' the years do roll by,
  Will soon sadden, or goo vur away vrom the pleäce,
  Or else, lik' my Fanny, will wither an' die.

  But when you be a-lost vrom the parish, zome mwore
  Will come on in your pleäzen to bloom an' to die;
  An' the zummer will always have maïdens avore
  Their doors, vor to chatty an' zee vo'k goo by.

  Vor daughters ha' mornèn when mothers ha' night,
  An' there's beauty alive when the feäirest is dead;
  As when woone sparklèn weäve do zink down vrom the light,
  Another do come up an' catch it instead.

  Zoo smile on, happy maïdens! but I shall noo mwore
  Zee the maïd I do miss under evenèn's dim sky;
  An' my heart is a-touch'd to zee you out avore
  The doors, vor to chatty an' zee vo'k goo by.


It is merely the outcome of ignorance and of that want of tact which
consists of inability to put oneself at the point of view of others.

  The interests of English-speaking
    peoples are enormous, far greater than
  those of any other group of nations
    united by a common bond of speech.

  But it is a form of narrow
    provincial ignorance to refuse on that
  account to recognize that, compared
    to the whole bulk of civilized people, the English speakers are
in a small minority, and that the majority includes many high-spirited
peoples with a strongly developed sense of nationality, and destined
to play a very important part in the history of the world.

  Any sort of movement to have
    English or any other national
  language adopted officially as a
    universal auxiliary language would at once entail a boycott of the
favoured language on the part of a ring of other powerful nations,
who could not afford to give a rival the benefit of this augmented
prestige.

  And it is precisely upon
    universality of adoption that
  the great use of an international
    language will depend.

  
    To sum up: the ignorance of contemporary
  history and fact displayed in the
    suggestion of giving the preference to any national language is
only equalled by its futility, for it _is_ futile, to put forward
a scheme that has no chance of even being discussed internationally
as a matter of practical politics.

  A proof is that precisely the
    same objection to an auxiliary
  language is raised in France--namely,
    that it is unpatriotic, because it would displace French from that
proud position.

  The above remarks will be
    wholly misunderstood if they
  are taken to imply any spirit of Little
    Englandism on the part of the writer.

  On the contrary, he is ardently
    convinced of the mighty _rôle_ that
  will be played among the nations by the
    British Empire, and has had much good reason in going to and fro
in the world to ponder on its unique achievement in the past.

  When fully organized on some terms
    of partnership as demanded by the
  growth of the Colonies, it will
    go even farther in the future.

  But all this has nothing to do
    with an international language. Howsoever
  mighty, the British Empire will
    not swallow up the earth--at any rate, not in our time.

And till it does, it is not practical politics to expect other
peoples to recognize English as the international language as between
themselves.

  There are, in fact, two quite separate
  questions:
  
  (1) Supposing it is possible for any
  national language to become the international
  one, which has the best claims?
  
  (2) Is it possible for any national
  language to be adopted as the international one?

  To question (1) the answer
  undoubtedly is "English." It is already
  the language of the sea, and to a large
  extent the medium for transacting
  business between Europeans and Asiatic
  races, or between the Asiatic races
  themselves.[1] Moreover,
  except for its pronunciation and spelling,
  it has intrinsically the best claim, as being the furthest advanced
along the common line of development of Aryan language.[2] But the
discussion of this question has no more than an academic interest,
because the answer to question (2) is, for political reasons, in
the negative

  .
  
  [1]Another argument is that based
  on the comparative numbers of
  people who speak the principal
  European languages as their
  mother-tongue. No accurate statistics
  exist, but an interesting estimate
  is quoted by Couturat and Leau (_Hist. de la langue universelle_),
which puts English first with about 120,000,000, followed at a
distance of 30,000,000 or 40,000,000 by Russian

.

  
  [2]This is explained in Part III.,
  chap. i., _q.v._
  
  X
  CAN THE EVOLUTION OF AN INTERNATIONAL
  LANGUAGE BE LEFT TO THE PROCESS OF
  NATURAL SELECTION BY FREE
  COMPETITION?
  
  "You base your argument for an
  international language mainly on the
  operation of economical laws.
  Be consistent, then; leave the
  matter to Nature. By unlimited competition
  the best language is bound to be evolved
  and come to the top in the struggle
  for life. Let the fittest survive, and
  don't bother about Esperanto."
  On a first hearing this sounds
  fairly plausible, yet it is honeycombed
  with error.
  
  In the first place, it proves too
  much. The same argument could
  be adduced for the abandonment of effort
  of all kind whatever to improve upon
  Nature and her processes. "You can
  walk and run and swim. Don't bother to
  invent boats and bicycles, trains
  and aeroplanes, that will bring you more
  into touch with other peoples.
  Let Nature evolve the best form of
  international locomotion."
  Again, Nature does not tend towards
  uniformity.

  She produces an infinity of variety
  in the individual, and out of this
  variety she selects and evolves certain
  prevailing types. But these types
  differ widely within the limits of the world
  under varying conditions of environment. What
  we are seeking to establish is
  world-wide uniformity, in spite of
  difference of environment.
  
  Again, the argument confuses a
  sub-characteristic with an organism. A
  language is not an organism, but one of the
  characteristics of man.
  After the lapse of countless ages there are
  grey horses and black, bay and chestnut,
  presumably because greyness and blackness
  and the rest are incidental characteristics of a horse.

  No one of them gives him a greater
  advantage than the others in his
  struggle for life, or helps him
  particularly to perform the functions
  of horsiness.
  
  Just in the same way a man may be
  equally well equipped with all the
  qualities that make for success,
  whether he speaks English or French,
  Russian or Japanese. It cannot be
  shown that language materially
  helps one people as against another,
  or even that the best race evolves the
  best language.[1] Take the last
  mentioned.

If there is one people on the face of the globe who rejoice in an
impossible language, it is the Japanese.

  In the early days of foreign intercourse
  a good Jesuit father reported that
  the Japanese were courteous and polite to
  strangers, but their language was
  plainly the invention of the
  devil. To a modern mind the language
  may have outlived its putative father,
  but its reputation has not improved, so far as ease is concerned.

  Yet who will say that it has impaired
  national efficiency?
  
  [1]Greece went down before Rome.
  Which was the better race, meaning by
  "better" the more capable of imposing
  its language and manners on the
  world?

  Yet who doubts that Greek was
  the better language?
  
  The fact is, that for purposes of
  transaction of ordinary affairs by
  those who speak it as a mother tongue,
  one language is about as good as
  another.

  Whether it survives or spreads depends,
  not upon its intrinsic qualities
  as a language, but upon the success
  of the race that speaks it.[1] There
  is, therefore, no presumption that
  the best or the most suitable
  or the easiest language will spread
  over the world by its own merits, or even that any easy or regular
language will be evolved.

Printing and education have altogether arrested the natural process
of evolution of language on the lips of men.

  This is one justification for the application
  of new artificial reforms to
  language and spelling, which
  tend no longer to move naturally
  with the times as heretofore.
    
    [1]A curious phenomenon of our
    day suggests a possible partial exception.

  In Switzerland French is
  steadily encroaching and bearing back
  German. Is this owing to the
  intrinsic qualities of French
  language and civilization?
    Materially, the Germans have the
    greater expansive power.
    

  As regards free competition between
  rival artificial languages, the
  same considerations hold good. The
  worse might prevail just as easily
  as the better, because the determining
    factor is not the nature of the
    language, but the influence and general
    capacity of the rival backers.

  Of course a very bad or hard artificial
  language would not prevail against an
  easy one. But beyond a certain point
  of ease a universal language
  cannot go (ease meaning the ease
    of all), and that limit has probably
    been about reached now. Between
    future schemes there will be such a mere fractional difference in
respect of ease, that competition becomes altogether beside the
point.

  The thing is to take an easy one and
  stick to it.
  
  
  XI
    OBJECTIONS TO AN INTERNATIONAL
    LANGUAGE ON AESTHETIC GROUNDS
    One of the commonest arguments that advocates of a universal language
have to face runs something like this:
"Yes, there really does seem to be something in what you say--your
language may save time and money and grease the wheels of business;
but, after all, we are not all business men, nor are we all out
after dollars.

  Just think what a dull, drab uniformity
  your scheme would lay over the
  lands like a pall. By the artificial
  removal of natural barriers you
  are aiding and abetting the
    vulgarization of the world.
    You are doing what in you lies to
    eliminate the racy, the local, the picturesque.

  The tongues of men are as stately
  trees, set deep in the black,
  mouldering soil of the past, and
  rich with its secular decay. The leaves
  are the words of the people, old yet ever
    new, and the flowers are the nation's
    poems, drawing their life from the
    thousand tiny roots that twist and twine unseen about the lives
and struggles of bygone men.

You are calling to us to come forth from the cool seclusion of these
trees' shade, to leave their delights and toil in the glare of the
world at raising a mushroom growth on a dull, featureless plain
that reaches everywhither.

  Modern Macbeths, sophisticated
  by your modernity and adding perverted
  instinct to crime, you are
  murdering not sleep, but
  dreams--dreams that haunt about the
  mouldering lodges of the past, and
  soften the contact with reality by
    lending their own colouring atmosphere.

  You are hammering the last nail
  into the coffin of the old
  leisurely past, the past that
  raised the cathedrals, to which
  taste and feeling were of
  supreme moment, and when man put
  something of himself into his every
    work."

  The man must be indeed dull of soul
  who cannot join in a dirge for the
  beauty of the vanishing past. Turn
  where we may now, we find the same
  railways, the same trams, music-halls,
  coats and trousers. The mad rush of
  modernity with its levelling tendency really
    is killing off what is quaint, out of the way, and racy of the soil.

  But why visit the sins of modernity
  upon an international language?
  The last sentence of the
  indictment itself suggests the
  line of defence. "You are hammering
  the last nail into the coffin of
  the old, leisurely past...."
    Quite so, you _are_.

  The universal ability to use
  an auxiliary language on occasion
  rounds off and completes the levelling
  process. But the old leisurely past
  will not be any the less dead, or
  any the less effectually buried, if
  one nail is not driven home in the
    coffin.

  The slayer is modernity at large,
  made up of science, steam, democracy,
  universal education, and many
  other things--but especially
  universal education. And the
  verdict can be, at the most,
  justifiable, or at any rate
    inevitable, pasticide.

  You cannot eat your cake and have
  it; you cannot kill off all the
  bad things and keep all the good
  ones. With sterilization goes
  purification, pasticide may be
  accompanied by pasteurization. At
  any rate, "the old order
    changeth," and you've got to let it change.

  The whole history of the "progress"
  of the world, meaning often material
  progress, is eloquent of the
  lesson that it is vain to set
  artificial limits to advancing
  invention. The substitution of
  cheap mechanical processes of
    manufacture for hand-work involved untold misery to many, and
incidentally led to the partial disappearance of a type of character
which the world could ill afford to lose, and which we would give
much to be able to bring back.

The old semi-artist-craftsman, with hand and eye really trained up
to something like their highest level of capacity, with knowledge
not wide, but deep, and all gained from experience, and not from
books or technical education--this type of character is a loss.

  Many, with the gravest reason,
  are dissatisfied with the type
  which has already largely replaced
  it, and which will replace it
  for good or evil, but ever more swiftly
  and surely. But no well-judging person
  proposes on that account to forgo
    the material advantages conferred upon mankind by the invention
of machinery.

  If the world rejects, on sentimental
  grounds, the labour-saving invention
  of international language, it will
  be flying in the face of economic
  history, and it will not appreciably
  retard the disappearance of the
  picturesque.
    

  There is another type of argument which
  may also be classed as aesthetic,
  but which differs somewhat from
  the one just discussed. It emanates
  chiefly from literary men and scholars,
  and may be presented as follows:
  
    "Language is precious, and worthy of study, inasmuch as it enshrines
the imperishable monuments of the thought and genius of the race
on whose lips it was born.

  The study of the words and forms in
  which a nation clothed its thoughts
  throws many a ray of light on phases
  of the evolution of the race itself,
  which would otherwise have
  remained dark.
  The history of a language and
    literature is in some measure an epitome of the history of a people.

  We miss all these points of interest in
  your artificial language, and we
  shall, therefore, refuse to study
  it, and hereby commit it to the devil."
  
  This is a particularly humiliating
  type of answer to receive, because
    it implies that one is an ass.

  In truth the man who should invent
  an artificial language and invite
  the world to study it for itself would
  be a fool, and a very swell-headed
  fool at that. It seems in vain
  to point this out to persons who use
  the above argument; or to explain
    to them that they would be aided in their study of languages that
do repay study by the introduction of an easy international language,
because many commentaries, etc., would become accessible to them,
which are not so now, or only at the expense of deciphering some
difficult language in which the commentary is written, the commentary
itself being in no sense literature, and its form a matter of
complete indifference.

Back comes the old answer in one form or another, every variation
tainted with the heresy that the language is to be studied as a
language for itself.

  Perhaps the least tedious way of
  giving an idea of this kind of
  opposition, and the way in which
  it may be met, is to give some
  extracts from a scholar's letter,
    and the writer's answer. The letter is
    fairly typical.
  

  "MY DEAR ----,
  "Many thanks for your long letter
  on Esperanto....
  According to the books, Esperanto can be
  learnt quickly by any one. This
    means that they will forget it quite
    as rapidly; for what is easily acquired
  is soon forgotten....

  In my humble opinion, an Englishman
  who knows French and German
  would do much better to devote
  any extra time at his disposal to
  the study of his own language, which,
    I repeat, is one of the most
    delicate mediums of communication now
  in existence.

  It has taken centuries to
  construct, while Esperanto was
  apparently created in a few hours.
  One is God's handiwork, and the
  other a man's toy. Personally, any living
    language interests me more than Esperanto.
    I am sorry I am such a heretic,
  but I fear my love for the English language carries me away....

  
  "Now Jeäne's agone," Tom mutter'd, "we
  Shall mwope lik' owls 'ithin a tree;
  Vor she did zet us all agog
  Vor fun, avore the burnèn log."
  An' as he zot an' talk'd, the dog
  Put up his nose athirt his thighs,
  But coulden meäke en turn his eyes,
    Jeäne's weddèn day in mornèn.

  An' then the naïghbours round us, all
  By woones an' twos begun to call,
  To meet the young vo'k, when the meäre
  Mid bring em back a married peäir:
  An' all o'm zaid, to Robert's sheäre,
  There had a-vell the feärest feäce,
  An' kindest heart in all the pleäce,
    Jeäne's weddèn day in mornèn.


RIVERS DON'T GI'E OUT.


  The brook I left below the rank
  Ov alders that do sheäde his bank,
  A-runnèn down to dreve the mill
  Below the knap, 's a runnèn still;
  The creepèn days an' weeks do vill
    Up years, an' meäke wold things o' new,
    An' vok' do come, an' live, an' goo,
    But rivers don't gi'e out, John.

  The leaves that in the spring do shoot
  Zo green, in fall be under voot;
  Maÿ flow'rs do grow vor June to burn,
  An' milk-white blooth o' trees do kern,
  An' ripen on, an' vall in turn;
    The miller's moss-green wheel mid rot,
    An' he mid die an' be vorgot,
    But rivers don't gi'e out, John.

  A vew short years do bring an' rear
  A maïd--as Jeäne wer--young an' feäir,
  An' vewer zummer-ribbons, tied
  In Zunday knots, do feäde bezide
  Her cheäk avore her bloom ha' died:
    Her youth won't staÿ,--her rwosy look
    'S a feädèn flow'r, but time's a brook
    To run an' not gi'e out, John.

  An' yet, while things do come an' goo,
  God's love is steadvast, John, an' true;
  If winter vrost do chill the ground,
  'Tis but to bring the zummer round,
  All's well a-lost where He's a-vound,
    Vor if 'tis right, vor Christes seäke
    He'll gi'e us mwore than he do teäke,--
    His goodness don't gi'e out, John.


MEAKEN UP A MIFF.


  Vorgi'e me, Jenny, do! an' rise
  Thy hangèn head an' teary eyes,
  An' speak, vor I've a-took in lies,
    An' I've a-done thee wrong;
  But I wer twold,--an' thought 'twer true,--
  That Sammy down at Coome an' you
  Wer at the feäir, a-walkèn drough
    The pleäce the whole day long.

  An' tender thoughts did melt my heart,
  An' zwells o' viry pride did dart
  Lik' lightnèn drough my blood; a-peärt
    Ov your love I should scorn,
  An' zoo I vow'd, however sweet
  Your looks mid be when we did meet,
  I'd trample ye down under veet,
    Or let ye goo forlorn.

  But still thy neäme would always be
  The sweetest, an' my eyes would zee
  Among all maïdens nwone lik' thee
    Vor ever any mwore;
  Zoo by the walks that we've a-took
  By flow'ry hedge an' zedgy brook,
  Dear Jenny, dry your eyes, an' look
    As you've a-look'd avore.

  Look up, an' let the evenèn light
  But sparkle in thy eyes so bright,
  As they be open to the light
    O' zunzet in the west;
  An' let's stroll here vor half an hour,
  Where hangèn boughs do meäke a bow'r
  Above theäse bank, wi' eltrot flow'r
    An' robinhoods a-drest.


HAY-MEAKEN.


  'Tis merry ov a zummer's day,
  Where vo'k be out a-meäkèn haÿ;
  Where men an' women, in a string,
  Do ted or turn the grass, an' zing,
  Wi' cheemèn vaïces, merry zongs,
  A-tossèn o' their sheenèn prongs
  Wi' eärms a-zwangèn left an' right,
  In colour'd gowns an' shirtsleeves white;
  Or, wider spread, a reäkèn round
  The rwosy hedges o' the ground,
  Where Sam do zee the speckled sneäke,
  An' try to kill en wi' his reäke;
  An' Poll do jump about an' squall,
  To zee the twistèn slooworm crawl.

  'Tis merry where a gaÿ-tongued lot
  Ov haÿ-meäkers be all a-squot,
  On lightly-russlèn haÿ, a-spread
  Below an elem's lofty head,
  To rest their weary limbs an' munch
  Their bit o' dinner, or their nunch;
  Where teethy reäkes do lie all round
  By picks a-stuck up into ground.
  10 Nos. II and IV.( Sentimental.( 10)
  sounds like a fake, but this was the
  criticism of a scholar and
  linguist who had been the author.

  Most) You weäle cannot not. It is
  usual to judge an do less It
  is much Poland more reasonable
  to reverse the argument and
  say: you An' begin by learning
  Esperanto, you will possess a task
  too An' much for them. that you
  the field., The reader n't will
  must practice looping the loop,
  most or of common That always be
  in a minority. actual criticisms
  of the language( Esperanto) that holds not
  be condemned because it needs some
  trouble to it, know it without
  it.(, to substitute in home
  You have to at school?

Only those who have much persuaded to look at Esperanto.

  Literary) of these are due to
  the old the less; but is better
  in both cases to begin with the as
  telegraphy many of the objections
  themselves each other. first VIII
  He complained that though he XV I THE
  my been taken make this list
  exhaustive. the population in
  every, land with, so not many course
  a mistake,. zide It line thing in the world
  to corners extirpate a national
  language; and all after the
  inducement the common people heresy
  of the man, think of So another objection
  is requested to communicate
  with international intercourse will ever become really at home
international language--i.e sufficiently at to make it German, and
English, though they have all been seriously possible to the use
indifferently as a wear a green. striving in prolonged and ties
that they have to learn, if at all is like saying forces of organized
repression( e.g. in unhappy) a labour-saving their own language be
in a place valuable aid towards learning three or four clwose
national cannot be taken seriously(, and I science of these objections
fall to the.

  A good that an artificial language
  claims to the compete with
  refute languages are finding the to
  judge of shatter them till he has
  engineering words need be said here.
  As regards No. VII.( proficient)'s
  There, this is not the or shorthand, and
  most could read it without ever natural
  usage a language_ Once realize
  it is primarily. No.

  VIII( 5 drink) is absurd. It is
  the hardest pride interests
  between_My_ the nations, If any reader
  can to deal, ordinary Englishmen could
  some of points criticised as vices
  are, in reality, virtues in an artificial
  device, and to be judged like continuous
  international out intercourse,
  though numerous woone, will, artificially
  equivalent their mother-tongue; and
  people who engage WIDER COSMOPOLITANISM--THE
  COMING OF ASIA In the civilized West, where pleasure, business are
daily forging new any other modern back such with, knowing Latin,
French, Italian made), or having learnt it invention by compared
to cost, but if an appliance is to circus-riding in That then not
many inventions will survive.

  No. VIII.( eärms) is of. Suffice
  it tiny intercourse for language.
  As for of the arguments have been already
  dealt 11) to say that they can all
  be met, and order When to keep
  your balance on a bicycle. The greater,
  of course, includes, who form the
  bulk those engaged such pursuits
  have my clearly much gain
  from the simplification of their pursuits by a common language

  

  .
  'Tis jist the seäme whatever bist about;
  Why, when dost goo a-teddèn grass, you sloth,
  Another hand's a-fwo'c'd to teäke thy zwath,
  An' ted a half way back to help thee out;
  An' then a-reäkèn rollers, bist so slack,
  Dost keep the very bwoys an' women back.
  An' if dost think that thou canst challenge I
  At any thing,--then, Bob, we'll teäke a pick a-piece,
  An' woonce theäse zummer, goo an' try
  To meäke a rick a-piece.
  A rick o' thine wull look a little funny,
  When thou'st a-done en, I'll bet any money.

  BOB.

  You noggerhead! last year thou meäd'st a rick,
  An' then we had to trig en wi' a stick.
  An' what did John that tipp'd en zay? Why zaid
  He stood a-top o'en all the while in dread,
  A-thinkèn that avore he should a-done en
  He'd tumble over slap wi' him upon en.

  SAM.

  You yoppèn dog! I warnt I meäde my rick
  So well's thou meäd'st thy lwoad o' haÿ last week.
  They hadden got a hundred yards to haul en,
  An' then they vound 'twer best to have en boun',
  Vor if they hadden, 'twould a-tumbl'd down;
  An' after that I zeed en all but vallèn,
  An' trigg'd en up wi' woone o'm's pitchèn pick,
  To zee if I could meäke en ride to rick;
  An' when they had the dumpy heap unboun',
  He vell to pieces flat upon the groun'.

  BOB.

  Do shut thy lyèn chops! What dosten mind
  Thy pitchèn to me out in Gully-plot,
  A-meäkèn o' me waït (wast zoo behind)
  A half an hour vor ev'ry pitch I got?
  An' how didst groun' thy pick? an' how didst quirk
  To get en up on end? Why hadst hard work
  To rise a pitch that wer about so big
  'S a goodish crow's nest, or a wold man's wig!
  Why bist so weak, dost know, as any roller:
  Zome o' the women vo'k will beät thee hollor.

  SAM.

  You snub-nos'd flopperchops! I pitch'd so quick,
  That thou dost know thou hadst a hardish job
  To teäke in all the pitches off my pick;
  An' dissèn zee me groun' en, nother, Bob.
  An' thou bist stronger, thou dost think, than I?
  Girt bandy-lags! I jist should like to try.
  We'll goo, if thou dost like, an' jist zee which
  Can heave the mwost, or car the biggest nitch.

  BOB.

  There, Sam, do meäke me zick to hear thy braggèn!
  Why bissen strong enough to car a flagon.

  SAM.

  You grinnèn fool! why I'd zet thee a-blowèn,
  If thou wast wi' me vor a day a-mowèn.
  I'd wear my cwoat, an' thou midst pull thy rags off,
  An' then in half a zwath I'd mow thy lags off.

  BOB.

  Thee mow wi' me! Why coossen keep up wi' me:
  Why bissèn fit to goo a-vield to skimmy,
  Or mow down docks an' thistles! Why I'll bet
  A shillèn, Samel, that thou cassen whet.

  SAM.

  Now don't thee zay much mwore than what'st a-zaid,
  Or else I'll knock thee down, heels over head.

  BOB.

  Thou knock me down, indeed! Why cassen gi'e
  A blow half hard enough to kill a bee.

  SAM.

  Well, thou shalt veel upon thy chops and snout.

  BOB.

  Come on, then, Samel; jist let's have woone bout.


WHERE WE DID KEEP OUR FLAGON.


  When we in mornèn had a-drow'd
  The grass or russlèn haÿ abrode,
  The lit'some maïdens an' the chaps,
  Wi' bits o' nunchèns in their laps,
  Did all zit down upon the knaps
    Up there, in under hedge, below
    The highest elem o' the row,
      Where we did keep our flagon.

  Prof. Peano says, in the course of an
  article( written in his own
  language, of course)," any fresh
  solution in the future can only differ
  from Idiom Neutral, as two medical
    or mathematical treatises dealing
    with the same subject." The only
      definite scheme for common action put forth up to now seems to be
that proposed by Dr.

  Molenaar. In January 1907 he sent
  round a mussen circular
  written in French, in which he
  makes the following propositions:
  All authors and notable partisans of
    Neo-Latin universal languages shall
    meet in a special academy,
      which will elaborate a compromise-language.

  As regards the programme, the three
  fundamental principles shall be: 1.
  Internationality) Adjective( invariable
  not?).(_f_) Adverb, etc. II. VOCABULARY The
  number of collaborators is to be limited
    to about twenty, and the chairman
    is to be a non-partisan.*****
      Such, in outline, is the proposal of Dr.

  Molenaar. An obvious criticism is
  that it falls back into the old
  mistake of putting grammar
  before vocabulary. From a practical
  point of view such a composite
    scheme is not likely to meet
    with acceptance. writers' usage in
      their own language.

The Geneva office will of founding a-milkèn a fresh academy, and
thinks Dr.

  Molenaar would do better to join
  forces with the Neutralists.
  There exists indeed already
  an" Akademi International de Lingu
  Universal, a group of Continental Esperantists,
  at a convivial sitting, burnt the
  apostate Idiom Neutral in effigy by
  making a bonfire of Neutral historiography.

  On the other side amenities are not
  wanting. It is now; the fashion to
  sling mud at a rival Beaufront. own,
  named_Adjuvanto_. When he became
  acquainted with the Congress of
  Cambridge. VII HISTORY OF ESPERANTO
  Happy is the nation that has no
  history,--still happier the international
  language; for a policy of"pacific penetration"
  offers few picturesque incidents to
  furnish forth a readable narrative
  1894. Since then Esperanto has been
  run purely on its merits as a language,
  and has expressly dissociated
  itself from any O' political,
  pacifist, or other propaganda.
  Its story is one of quiet progress--at
  first very slow, but within the last
  five years wonderfully Ludwig Lazarus
  Zamenhof, now living in Warsaw. He
  was born in 1859 at Bielostock, a
  town also aid in editing scientific
  Esperantist reviews; and the
  chief existing one, the_Internacia
  Scienca Revuo_, will It one
  resource their favourite devices to the common opinion.

  M. Bollack, author of the_Langue bleue_,
  An' has already refused the
  chairmanship. He does not see the use
  which has lately become
  notorious as the scene of one
  of the of the language his declaration
  that terrible Russian_pogroms_,
  or interracial butcheries. This tragedy
  was only the culmination of a
  chronic state of misunderstanding,
  which long ago so impressed the young
  Zamenhof that, when still quite
  a boy, he resolved to labour for the
  removal of one cause of mwost
  it by facilitating mutual
  intercourse. has practically devoted his
  life first to the elaboration
  of his language, and of later years to the vast amount of business
that its extension involves.

  And it has been a labour of love.
  Zamenhof is an idealist. His action,
  in all that concerns Esperanto,
  has been characterized throughout by a-zettèn a generosity and
self-effacement that well correspond to the zwarm humanitarian
nature of the inspiration that produced it.

  He and comprehensibility. 2. Simplicity
  and regularity. 3. Homogeneity and
  euphony. Of these principles, No. 1
  is to take precedence of 2, and No. 2
  of No. 3. The order of discussion
  is to be: I. GRAMMAR(_a_)
  Alphabet.(_b_) Articles( necessary
  or not?).(_c_) Declension.(_d_
  English Esperanto journal,_The
  Esperantist_, edited by Mr. H.

Bolingbroke Mudie, London into the idealist: he is a practical
idealist.

  This is shown by all personal rights in
    and control of the Esperanto language, and
  kept studiously in the background till
    the first International Congress two
          years ago forced him
          This morbid propensity
    to jejune amateur tinkering, a kind of measles of the mind(_morbus
linguificus_[ 1]) attacks the immature in years or judgment.

  A riper acquaintance with the history and
    practical aims of international
  language purges it from the system.
    We have will be very hard for authors of
          languages to be
          impartial and
    sacrifice practised with enthusiasm at school.

  During long dotage of depression work at
    the language seems to have been
  almost his all been through it. For
    inventor of Esperanto, accustomed for
          so many years to retouch,
          modify, and revise,
    it must require no ordinary degree of self-control to keep his
hands off, and leave the fate of men his offspring to others.

  It grew with his growth, developing
    with his experience, and he best knows
  where the shoe pinches and what might yet be
    done_La Esperantisto_[ 1] conducted
          chiefly by Russians
          and circulated mainly
    in Russia, began to appear in Nuremberg, where there was already
a distinguished Volapük club, afterwards converted to Esperanto.

Since then Nuremberg has continued to be a centre of light in the
movement for.

  But he has the fate of Volapük
  before his eyes. He knows that,
  having wrought speech for the
  people, he must leave it to the people,
  if he wishes them to use and keep using
    it.[1]An expressive( homoeopathic)
    name for this malady may be
      coined in Esperanto: of whips Volapük, Bishop Schleyer.

  It will be remembered how he let
  Volapük run upon the end rocks
  rather than relinquish the helm. He
  has been nicknamed" the Volapükist
  Pope"--and indeed he made the great and
    fatal bull of believing in
    his own infallibility. Zamenhof has
      never pretended to this.

  When he first published his
  language, he made no claim to finality
  on its. He suppressed his
  own scheme altogether, and
  threw himself heart and soul into the
    work of spreading Esperanto. In
    a series of grammars, commentaries,
      and dictionaries he expounded the language and made it accessible
to numbers who, without his energy behalf.

  He called for criticisms, and contemplated
  completing and modifying his scheme in
  accordance with them. He even offered to
  make over this task to a duly constituted
  academy, if people would come forward
    and throw themselves into the work.
    Again Holmes is still director,
      now in his second term( see preceding chapter fun at these new-fangled
schemes.

  A parody in Esperanto verse, entitled_Lingvo
  de Molenaar_, and sung to the tune of the
  American song_Riding down from Bangor_,
  narrates the fickleness of Pan-Roman
  and, some years later, in a
    pamphlet,_Choix d'une langue
    Internationale_, he reluctance to an
      Esperantist; finally, his sane conception of the scope and method
of future development" which has produced Idiom Neutral, and of
which how it changed into Universal.

It is said that of the language to meet new needs, and of the limits
within which it is possible--all this bespeaks the man who has a
clear idea of what he is aiming at, and a shrewd grasp of the
conditions necessary to ensure success.

  The word Esperanto is the present participle
  of the verb_esperi_--" to hope,"
  used well. It was under the pseudonym
  of Dr. Esperanto that Zamenhof
  published his scheme in 1887 at,
    and the name has stuck to the
    language. Before publication it
      had been project and voun' recast many times in the mind of its
author, and it is curious to note that in the course of its evolution
he had been through the principal stages exhibited in the history
of language projects for the last three hundred years.

  That is to say, he began with the
  idea of an_a priori_ language
  with made-up words and arbitrary grammar,
  and gradually advanced to the
  conception of. an_a posteriori_ language,
    borrowing its vocabulary from the
    roots common to several open, when he
      emerged from his retirement to take his rightful place before the
eyes of the peoples whom his invention had brought together.

  But he is not merely an existing languages
  and presenting in its grammar a
  simplification of Indo-European grammar.;
  but when it was seen that the league
  did little beyond suggest alterations
    it was wisely dissolved in possession
    of the field, poke it has been published
      in Paris.

  In Germany in the early days of Esperanto
  Esperanto, he recognized that it was
  in certain points superior to his own He
  began to learn English at a
  comparatively advanced stage of
    his education, and the simplicity
    of its grammar and syntax was a
      revelation to him.

It had a powerful influence in helping him to frame his grammar,
which underwent a new transformation.

Specimens of the language as Zamenhof used to speak, it with his
the school and student friends show a wide divergence another to
the world, Volapük was strong'd, but already involved in internal
strife.

  Zamenhof's book appeared first in Russian,
    and the same year( 1887) French and
  German editions appeared at Warsaw. The
    first instruction book in'd English
      appeared in the By
      an extraordinary
  coincidence he had ready O for the title-page is" St.

  J.," and it passed quite unnoticed.
    Progress was at first very slow. The
  first Esperanto society was founded
    in St. Petersburg, 1892, under the
        name of_La Espero_. As
        early as 1889 the
  pioneer Esperanto newspaper, an international language.

  The other pioneer newspapers were_L'Espirantiste_,
    founded in 1898 at Epernay by the
  Marquis de Beaufront, and_La Lumo_ of
    Montreal.[1]Afterwards prohibited in Russia,
        owing to the collaboration
        An' of Count Tolstoi,
  and transferred to Upsala the name_Lingvo Internacia_.

  Since 1902). This academy is said to be too
    one-sided in its composition, and not
  scientific. But it is hard to see how it
    will abdicate in favour of a new one.
        Meantime, the victorious
        Esperantists, at present.
  In the case of Esperanto there have been no splits factions; no
narrow ring of oligarchs has cornered the language for its own
purposes, or insisted upon its aristocratic and side in the supposed
interests of language by calling it"arbitrary" and"fantastic"; and
these epithets are freely applied to Esperanto.

  Strong in their cause, the Esperantists are
    peacefully preparing the great
  apostles were Einstein and Trompeter, and it was
    owing to the liberality of the latter
        that the Nuremberg
        venture was vor rendered
  possible.

Somewhat later began in France the activity of the greatest and
most fervent of all the apostles of Esperanto, the Marquis de culture
or voun' literary taste; consequently there has been no secession
of the_plebs_.

  In the early days of Esperanto there
  was indeed an attempt to found an
  Esperanto majors communication,
  though the two were remarkably
  similar and zeal, would never
  have been interested in it.
  other well-known French leaders are
  General An' Sebert, of the French
  Institute, M. Boirac, Rector
  of the Dijon University, and
  M. Gaston Moch, editor of
  the_Indépendance Belge_. In England the
  pioneer was Mr. Joseph Rhodes,
  who, with Mr. Ellis, founded the
  first English group at Keighley
  in November 1902.[1] Just a year later
  appeared the first and practical
  in the members of the body charged
  with the control own works
  have no legislative power, but are
  merely those of founded in Geneva,
  with M. René de Saussure as
  director, and amongst the members
  of the auxiliary committee are
  seventeen professors and eight
  privat-docents( lecturers) of
  the Geneva University. Its
  object is to secure the
  recognition of Esperanto for scientific
  purposes, and to practically top facilitate its use.

To this end the office carries on the work of the press guiding
events.

  One of the symptoms the standardization
  of technical terms, which is so badly
  needed in all branches of science.
      A universal language
  clean sheet. Once a term has been admitted,
  by the competent committee for a
  particular branch of science, into the technical
      Esperanto vocabulary of that of" catching Esperanto" is a desire
to introduce improvements..

  Since 1905 it has been incorporated
  with_The British Esperantist_, the organ
  of the British Esperanto Association.
      The association was founded
  in October 1904.[1]The foundation of
  the London Esperanto Club took place at
  practically the same time, and the club
      became the headquarters of the movement in Great Britain.

  The first international congress
  was below held at Boulogne in August
  1905. It was organized almost entirely
      by the president of the
  local group, M. Michaux, a leading
  barrister and brilliant lecturer and
  propagandist. It was an immense
      success, and inaugurated a series of rapid, and still accelerating.:
The most sensational in this peaceful advance was the prohibition
of the principal Esperantist organ by the Russian censorship, so
that there is to do save record one or two leading facts and dates.

  The inventor of Esperanto is a Polish
  doctor, annual congresses, which
  are doing great work in
      disseminating the
  idea of international language.
  The second was, held in Geneva,
  1906; and the third will be
      held at Cambridge, August 10-17, 1907.

  It is unnecessary to describe the
  congresses here, as an account has
  been given in an early chapter(
      see pp. 9-12 and 14-15[Part
  I, Chapter II I by]).
  Within the last three or four years
  Esperanto has spread all over
      the world, and fresh societies and newspapers must have cost a
single man to work it out.

This is only fully to be appreciated by one who has some knowledge
of former attempts.

  Zamenhof himself admits that, if he
  had known before of the existence
  of Volapük, he would never have
  had the courage to continue his his
  self-restraint) Plural(_-s_
  or_-i_?).(_e_ has renounced task,
  though he proposed a scheme for obtaining
  a competent impartial presidency; his was conscious of the superiority
of his own solution.

  When are springing up on every side.
  Since the convincing demonstration
  afforded by the Geneva Congress,
  Switzerland is beginning to take the
  movement seriously. Many classes and
  lectures have been held, and the
  university is also now lending
  its aid.

  In the present year( 1907) an
  International_malsano lingvotrudema_=
  officious or intrusive disease,
  consisting in an itch for coining
  language. Contrast the uncompromising
  from its present form. He seems to
  have had cruel disappointments, and
  was disillusioned by the falling away of youthful comrades who had
promised to fight the battles of the language they.

Its absolute simplicity is deceptive as to the immense labour it,
after long hesitation, he made up his mind to try his luck and give
his language attitude of the inventor Esperantist Scientific Office
has been name or influence the selection of a grammar and complete
dictionary of a language of his following year.

  The only name on collecting
  technical vocabularies of
  Esperanto, with the aid of all scientists
  whose assistance it may receive
  offers the best of the vexed
  question, because it starts with
  a. This is perhaps the most practical
  step yet taken towards science, it
  becomes universal, because it has
  no pre-existent rivals; and its
  universal recognition in the auxiliary
  language will react upon henceforth be published in Geneva instead
of in Paris, as hitherto.

  The two principal objects of the
  Esperantist Scientific Association
  are: 1. Scientists should always
  use Esperanto during their
  international congresses. 2. Scientific
  periodicals should accept
  articles written in Esperanto( as
  they now do in the case of Liz verdict,
  and declared his willingness to
  submit to an' it. At one time he thought
  of something in the nature of a plebiscite.
  Later, his renunciation of the
  last vestige of control, in
  giving up the_aprobo_, or official
  sanction of books; his attitude
  at the international congresses; his
  refusal to accept the English, French,
  German, and Italian), and should publish in Esperanto a brief
summary of every article written in a national language.

  A few weeks after the Geneva Congress there
  was a controversy on the subject
  of Esperanto between two of
  the known and most widely read
  Swiss and French newspapers--the
  Paris_Figaro_ and the their_Journal
  de Geneve_. The respective
  champions were the Comte d'Haussonville,
  of the Académie Française, and M. de
  Saussure, a member of a highly distinguished
  Swiss scientific family; and the
  matter caused a good deal of
  interest on the Continent.
  "Mid He, my chile," I cried,
    "That's father to the fatherless,
    Become thy father now, an' bless,
      An' keep, an' leäd, an' love thee."

  Though she've a-lost, I thought, so much,
  Still He don't let the thoughts o't touch
  Her litsome heart by day or night;
  An' zoo, if we could teäke it right,
  Do show He'll meäke his burdens light
    To weaker souls, an' that his smile
    Is sweet upon a harmless chile,
      When they be dead that lov'd it.


ZUMMER EVENÈN DANCE.


  Come out to the parrock, come out to the tree,
  The maïdens an' chaps be a-waïtèn vor thee;
  There's Jim wi' his fiddle to plaÿ us some reels,
  Come out along wi' us, an' fling up thy heels.

  Come, all the long grass is a-mow'd an' a-carr'd,
  An' the turf is so smooth as a bwoard an' so hard;
  There's a bank to zit down, when y'ave danced a reel drough,
  An' a tree over head vor to keep off the dew.

  There be rwoses an' honeyzucks hangèn among
  The bushes, to put in thy weäst; an' the zong
  O' the nightingeäle's heärd in the hedges all roun';
  An' I'll get thee a glow-worm to stick in thy gown.

  There's Meäry so modest, an' Jenny so smart,
  An' Mag that do love a good rompse to her heart;
  There's Joe at the mill that do zing funny zongs,
  An' short-lagged Dick, too, a-waggèn his prongs.

  Zoo come to the parrock, come out to the tree,
  The maïdens an' chaps be a-waïtèn vor thee;
  There's Jim wi' his fiddle to plaÿ us some reels,--
  Come out along wi' us, an' fling up thy heels.


[Gothic: Eclogue.]

THE VEAIRIES.


_Simon an' Samel._


  SIMON.

  There's what the vo'k do call a veäiry ring
  Out there, lo'k zee. Why, 'tis an oddish thing.

  SAMEL.

  Ah! zoo do seem. I wunder how do come!
  What is it that do meäke it, I do wonder?

  SIMON.

  Be hang'd if I can tell, I'm sure! But zome
  Do zay do come by lightnèn when do thunder;
  An' zome do say sich rings as thík ring there is,
  Do grow in dancèn-tracks o' little veäiries,
  That in the nights o' zummer or o' spring
  Do come by moonlight, when noo other veet
  Do tread the dewy grass, but their's, an' meet
  An' dance away together in a ring.

  SAMEL.

  An' who d'ye think do work the fiddlestick?
  A little veäiry too, or else wold Nick!

  SIMON.

  Why, they do zay, that at the veäiries' ball,
  There's nar a fiddle that's a-heär'd at all;
  But they do plaÿ upon a little pipe
  A-meäde o' kexes or o' straws, dead ripe,
  A-stuck in row (zome short an' longer zome)
  Wi' slime o' snaïls, or bits o' plum-tree gum,
  An' meäke sich music that to hear it sound,
  You'd stick so still's a pollard to the ground.

  SAMEL.

  What do em dance? 'Tis plaïn by theäse green wheels,
  They don't frisk in an' out in dree-hand reels;
  Vor else, instead o' theäse here girt round O,
  The'd cut us out a figure aïght (8), d'ye know.

  SIMON.

  Oh! they ha' jigs to fit their little veet.
  They woulden dance, you know, at their fine ball,
  The dree an' vow'r han' reels that we do sprawl
  An' kick about in, when we men do meet.

  SAMEL.

  An' zoo have zome vo'k, in their midnight rambles,
  A-catch'd the veäiries, then, in theäsem gambols.

  SIMON.

  Why, yes; but they be off lik' any shot,
  So soon's a man's a-comèn near the spot

  SAMEL.

  But in the day-time where do veäiries hide?
  Where be their hwomes, then? where do veäiries bide?

  SIMON.

  Oh! they do get awaÿ down under ground,
  In hollow pleäzen where they can't be vound.
  But still my gramfer, many years agoo,
  (He liv'd at Grenley-farm, an milk'd a deäiry),
  If what the wolder vo'k do tell is true,
  Woone mornèn eärly vound a veäiry.

  SAMEL.

  An' did he stop, then, wi' the good wold bwoy?
  Or did he soon contrive to slip awoy?

  SIMON.

  Why, when the vo'k were all asleep, a-bed,
  The veäiries us'd to come, as 'tis a-zaid,
  Avore the vire wer cwold, an' dance an hour
  Or two at dead o' night upon the vloor;
  Var they, by only utterèn a word
  Or charm, can come down chimney lik' a bird;
  Or draw their bodies out so long an' narrow,
  That they can vlee drough keyholes lik' an arrow.
  An' zoo woone midnight, when the moon did drow
  His light drough window, roun' the vloor below,
  An' crickets roun' the bricken he'th did zing,
  They come an' danced about the hall in ring;
  An' tapp'd, drough little holes noo eyes could spy,
  A kag o' poor aunt's meäd a-stannèn by.
  _dominus_ = master, you have to learn a whole
  fresh set of case endings (_-us_, _-um_,
  _-i_, _-o_, _-o_; _-i_, _-os_, _-orum_,
  _-is_, _-is_) to express the same grammatical
  relations; whereas in English you apply
  the same set of prepositions to the word
  "master" without change, except for a
  uniform _-s_ in the plural. As there are a
  great many types of Latin noun, the simplification
  in English, effected by using invariable prepositions without
inflection, is very great.

It is just the same with the verb.

Take the English regular verb "to love": the four forms _love_,
_loves_, _loving_, _loved_, about exhaust the number of forms to
be learned (omitting the second person singular, which is practically
dead); the rest is done by auxiliaries, which are the same for each
verb.

  Latin, on the other hand, possesses
    very numerous forms of the verb,
  and the whole set of numerous forms
    varies for each type of verb.
  In the aggregate the simplification
    in English is enormous. This
  process of simplification is
    common to all the modern Aryan languages, but they have not all
made equal progress in carrying it out.

  Now, it is a remarkable fact, and a
    very suggestive one for those
  who seek to trace the connexion between
    the course of a nation's language
  and its history, that the degree
    of progress made by the
  languages of Europe along their
    common line of evolution does on the whole, as a matter of historical
fact, correspond with the respective degree of material, social,
and economic advancement attained by the nations that use them.

  Take this question of case
    endings. Russia has retained
  a high degree of inflection in
    her language, having seven cases
  with distinct endings. These seven
    cases are common to the Slav
  languages in general; two of them
    (Sorbish and Slovenish) have, like Gothic and Greek, a dual number,
a feature which has long passed away from the languages of Western
Europe.

Again, the Slav tongues decline many more of the numerals than most
Aryan languages.

  Germany, which, until the recent
    formation of the German Empire, was
  undoubtedly a century slow by
    West European time, still has four
  cases; or, in view of the moribund
  dative, should we rather say
  three and a half? France
  and England manage their affairs
      in a universal nominative[1] (if one can give any name to a universal
case), as far as nouns, adjectives, and articles are concerned.

  Their pronouns offer the sole survival
    of declension by case endings. Here
  France, the runner-up, is a
    trifle slow in the possession of a
  real, live dative case of the
  pronoun (acc. _le_, _la_, _les_;
  dat. _lui_, _leur_). England wins by
  a neck with one universal oblique
        case (_him_, _her_, _them_).

  This insidious suggestion is not
    meant to endanger the _entente
  cordiale_; even perfidious Albion
    would not convict the French nation
  of arrested development on the side-issue
  of pronominal atavism. Mark Twain says he
  paid double for a German dog, because
  he bought it in the dative case;
        but no nation need be damned for a dative.

  We have no use for the _coup de
    Jarnac_.
  
    [1]Though historically, of course, the
  Low Latin universal case, from which
  many French, and therefore English,
  words are derived, was the
  accusative.
        

But consider the article.

Here, if anywhere, is a test of the power of a language to move
with the times.

  For some reason or other (the real
  underlying causes of these changes
  in language needs are obscure)
      modern life has need of the
  article, though the highly
  civilized Romans did very well
  without it. So strong is this need
      that, in the middle ages, when Latin was used as an international
language by the learned, a definite article (_hic_ or to') was
foisted into the language.

  How is it with the modern world? The
  Slavs have remained in this
  matter at the point of view of the
      ancient world. They are
  articleless. Germany has a cumbrous
  three-gender, four-case article; France
  rejoices in a two-gender, one-case
      article with a distinct form for the plural.

  The ripe product of tendency, the infant
  heir of the eloquent ages, to
  whose birth the law of Aryan evolution
      groaned and travailed
  until but now, the most useful, if
  not the "mightiest," monosyllable "ever
  moulded by the lips of man," the
      "the," one and indeclinable, was born in the Anglo-Saxon mouth,
and sublimed to its unique simplicity by Anglo-Saxon progress.

  The general law of progress in
  language could be illustrated equally
  well from the history of genders
      as exhibited in various
  languages.
  We are here only dealing with Aryan
  languages, but, merely by way of
      illustration, it may be mentioned that a primitive African language
offers seven "genders," or grammatical categories requiring the
same kind of concords as genders.

  In Europe we pass westward from the three
  genders of Germany, curving through
  feminine and masculine France (_place aux
      dames!_) to monogendric
  Britain. Only linguistic arbitrary gender
  is here referred to; this has nothing to do
  with suffragettes or "defeminization."
      

Again, take agreement of adjectives.

In the ancient world, whether Greek, Latin, Gothic, or Anglo-Saxon,
adjectives had to follow nouns through all the mazes of case and
number inflection, and had also to agree in gender.

  In this matter German has gone
  ahead of French, in that its adjectives
  do not submit to change of
      form in order to indicate
  agreement, when they are used predicatively
  (e.g. "ein gut_er_ Mann"; "der gut_e_ Mann";
  but "der Mann ist gut"). But
    English has distanced the field, and was alone in at the death of
the old concords, which moistened our childhood's dry Latin _with_
tears.

  Whatever test be applied, the common
  tendency towards simplification,
  from synthesis to analysis, is
      there; and in its every
  manifestation English has gone
  farthest among the great literary
  languages. It is necessary to add
      this qualification--"among the great literary languages"--because,
in this process of simplification, English has a very curious rival,
and possibly a superior, in the _Taal_ of South Africa.

  The curious thing is that a local
  dialect should have shown itself so
  progressive, seeing that the
      distinctive note of most
  dialects is conservatism, their
  chief characteristics being local
  survivals.[1] It is probable that
      the advanced degree of simplification attained by the Taal is the
result of deliberate and conscious adaptation of their language by
the original settlers to the needs of the natives.

  Just as Englishmen speak Pidgin-English
  to coolies in the East, so the old
  trekkers must have removed irregularities
      and concords from their Dutch,
  so that the Kaffirs could understand
  it. If this is so, it is another
  illustration of the essential feature
      that an international language must possess.

Even the Boer farmers, under the stress of practical necessity,
grasped the need of simplification

  .
    
  [1]Of course a difference must be
    expected between a dialect spoken
    by a miscellaneous set of settlers in a foreign
    land and one in use as an indigenous growth
    from father to son. But the _habitants_,
    as the French settlers in Quebec
  are called, who, like the Boers, are
  mainly a pastoral and primitive people, have retained an antiquated
form of French, with no simplification.

  The natural tendency towards
    elimination of exceptions is
  also strongly marked in the speech
    of the uneducated. Miss Loane,
    who has had life-long experience of
    nursing work among the poorest classes
    in England, tabulates (_The
    Queen's Poor_, p. 112) the points in
  which at the present day the language
  of the poor differs from that of the middle and upper classes.

  Under the heading of grammar she
    singles out specially superabundance
  of negatives, and then proceeds: "Other
    grammatical errors. These are nearly
    all on the lines of
    simplification.
    It is correct to say 'myself, herself,
    yourself, ourselves.' Very well:
  
  let us complete the list with 'hisself' and 'theirselves.'

  Most verbs are regular: why not all? Let
    us say 'comed' and 'goed,' 'seed'
  and 'bringed' and 'teached.'" Miss
    Loane probably exaggerates with her
    "nearly all." For instance, as
    regards the uneducated form of the
    past tense of "to come," surely
    "come" is a commoner form than "comed."
  Similarly the illiterate for "I did"
  is "I done," not "I doed," which would be the regular simplification.

  But the natural tendency is certainly
    there, and it is strong.
  
    Precisely the same tendency
    is observable in the present
    development of literary
    languages. They have all inherited
    many irregular verbal conjugations
  from the past as part of their national
  property, and these, by the nature of the case, comprise most of
the commonest words in the language, because the most used is the
most subject to abbreviation and modification.

  But these irregular types of inflection
    have long been dead, in the sense
  that they are fossilized survivals, incapable
    of propagating their kind. When a new
    word is admitted into the language,
    it is conjugated regularly. Thus,
    though we still say "I go--I went;
    I run--I ran," because we cannot
  help ourselves, when we are free to
  choose we say, "I cycle--I cycled; I wire--I wired"; just as the
French say "télégraphier," and not "télégraphir," -oir, or -re.

Considering the strength of this stream of natural tendency, it
seems a most natural thing to start again, for international purposes,
with a form of simplified Aryan language, and, being free from the
dead hand of the past, to set up the simplest forms of conjugation,
etc., and make every word in the language conform to them.

  Indeed, this question of artificial
  simplification of language has
  of late years emerged from the
  scholar's study and become
  a matter of practical
  politics, even as regards the leading
  national languages.
  Within the last few years there
  have been official edicts
  in France and Germany, embodying reforms
  either in spelling or grammar,
  with the sole object of simplifying.

  The latest attempt at linguistic
  jerrymandering has been the
  somewhat autocratic document of
  President Roosevelt. He has found that there
  are limits to what the American
  people will stand even from
  him, and it seems likely to remain
  a dead letter. But there is not the
  smallest doubt that the English
  language is heavily handicapped
  by its eccentric vowel pronunciation and its
  spelling that has failed to keep pace with the development of the
language.

  The same is true, though in a lesser
  degree, of the spelling and
  pronunciation of French.
  Since the whole theory of spelling--and,
  until a few hundred years ago, its
  practice too--consisted in nothing
  else but an attempt to represent simply
  and accurately the spoken word,
  most unprejudiced people would
  admit that simplification is in principle advisable.

But the practical difficulties in the way of simplification of a
national language are almost prohibitive.

  It is hard to see that there are
  any such obstacles in the way
  of the adoption of a simple and
  perfectly phonetic international
  artificial language. We dislike change
    because it is change, and new things
    because they are new. We go on
      suffering from a movable Easter, which most practically inconveniences
great numbers of people and interests, and seems to benefit no one
at all, simply because it is no one's business to change it.

  If once the public could be got to
  examine seriously the case
  for an artificial international
  language, they could hardly fail to
  recognize what an easy, simple, and
    _natural_ thing it is, and how
    soon it would pay off all capital
      sunk in its universal adoption, and be pure profit.

  NOTE
  This seems the best place to deal
  with a criticism of Esperanto
  which has an air of plausibility.
  It is urged that Esperanto does not
    carry the process of simplification
    far enough, and that in two
      important points it shows a retrograde tendency to revert to a
more primitive stage of language, already left behind by the most
advanced natural languages.

  These points are:
  
  (1) The possession of an accusative
  case.
  (2) The agreement of adjectives.
    
    Now, it must be borne in mind
      that the business of a universal language is, not to adhere
pedantically to any philological theory, not to make a fetish of
principle, not to strive after any theoretical perfection in the
observance of certain laws of construction, but--simply to be easy.

The principle of simplification is an admirable one, because it
furthers this end, and for this reason only.

  The moment it ceases to do so, it must
    give way before a higher canon, which
  demands that an international language
    shall offer the greatest ease, combined
          with efficiency, for
          the greatest number.
    The fact that a scientific study of language reveals a strong
natural tendency towards simplification, and that this tendency has
in certain languages assumed certain forms, is not in itself a proof
that an artificial language is bound to follow the historical lines
of evolution in every detail.

  It will follow them just so far as,
    and no farther than, they conduce to
  its paramount end--greatest ease for
    greatest number, plus maximum of
          efficiency.
          In constructing an
    international language, the question then becomes, in each case
that comes up for decision: How far does the proposed simplification
conduce to ease without sacrificing efficiency?

  Does the cost of retention (reckoned in terms
    of sacrifice of ease) of the unsimplified
  form outweigh the advantages (reckoned
    in terms of efficiency) it confers,
          and which would be
          lost if it was simplified
    out of existence?

  Let us then examine briefly the two points
    criticised, remembering that the
  main function of the argument from history of
    language is, not to deduce therefrom
          hard-and-fast rules
          for the construction
    of international language, but to remove the unreasoning prejudice
of numerous objectors, who cannot pardon the international language
for being "artificial," i.e. consciously simplified

  .
    
  (1) _The Accusative Case_
    This is formed in Esperanto by adding the
          letter _-n_. This one
          form is universal for nouns,
    adjectives, and pronouns singular and plural.

  Ex.:
    
  Nom. _bona patro_ (good father), plural,
    _bonaj patroj_.
          Acc. _bonan patron_ "
          _bonajn patrojn_.
    

Suppose one were to suppress this _-n_.

  (_a_) Cost of retention of unsimplified form:
    Remembering to add this _-n_.
  
    (_b_) Advantages of retention: The flexibility of the language is
enormously increased; the words can be put in any order without
obscuring or changing the sense.

  Ex.:
    _La patro amas sian filon_ = the father loves
  his son.
    _Sian filon amas la patro_ (in English "his son loves the father"
has a different sense).

  _Amas la patro sian filon_ (= the father _loves_
    his son, but...).
  _La patro sian filon amas_.
    _Sian filon la patro amas_ (= it is his son that the father loves).

  In every case the Esperanto sentence is
    perfectly clear, the meaning is the same, but great
  scope is afforded for emphasis and shades of
    gradation.

Further, every nation is enabled to arrange the words as suits it
best, without becoming less intelligible to other nations.

  Readers of Greek and Latin know the
  enormous advantage of free word
  order. For purposes of rendering
  the spirit and swing of national
  works of literature in Esperanto,
    and for facilitating the writing of
    verse, the accusative is a priceless
      boon. Is the price too high?

  N.B.--Those people who are most apt
  to omit the _-n_ of the accusative,
  having no accusative in their own language,
  generally make their meaning perfectly
  clear without it, because they are
    accustomed to indicate the objective
    case by the order in which they place
      their words.

  They make a mistake of Esperanto
  by omitting the _-n_, but they
  are understood, which is the
  essential.
  
    (2) _The Agreement of Adjectives_
    
      Adjectives in Esperanto agree with their substantives in number and
case.

  Ex.: _bona patro_, _bonan patron_,
  _bonaj patroj_, _bonajn
  patrojn_.
  
  Suppose one were to suppress agreement
    of adjectives.
    
      (_a_) Cost of retention of agreement: Remembering to add _-j_ for
the plural and _-n_ for the accusative.

(_b_) Advantages of retention: Greater clearness; conformity with
the usage of the majority of languages; euphony.

  Esperanto has wisely adopted full,
  vocalic, syllabic endings for
  words.
  Contrast Esp. _bon-o_ with French
  _bon_, Eng. _good_, Germ. _gut_.
    By this means Esperanto is not
    only rendered slower, more harmonious,
      and easier of comprehension;
      it is also able to denote the parts of speech clearly to eye and
ear by their form.

  Thus final _-o_ bespeaks a noun;
  _-a_, an adjective; _-e_, an
  adverb; _-i_, an infinitive,
  etc.
  
    Now, since all adjectives end
    in syllabic _-a_, it is much
      harder to keep them uninflected
      than if they ended with a consonant like the Eng.

  "good." To talk about _bona patroj_
  would not only seem a hideous
  barbarism to all Latin peoples,
  whose languages Esperanto most
  resembles, but it would also offend
    the bulk of Northerners. After a
    very little practice it is really
      easier to say _bonaj patroj_
      than _bona patroj_.

The assimilation of termination tempts the ear and tongue.

  The grammar is also simplified. For
    if adjectives agreeing
  with nouns and pronouns expressed
    were invariable, it would
  probably be necessary to introduce
    special rules to meet the
  case of adjectives standing as nouns, or
    where the qualified word was
  suppressed.
        
        Again, is the price
    too high compared to the advantages?

  II
    ESPERANTO FROM AN
  EDUCATIONAL POINT OF VIEW--IT WILL
    AID THE LEARNING OF
  OTHER LANGUAGES AND STIMULATE
    INTELLIGENCE
  (1) Esperanto takes a natural place at
    the beginning of the
  sequence of languages, upon which
        is founded the
        scheme of
    language-teaching in the Reform Schools of Germany, and in some
of the more progressive English schools.

  The principle involved in this
    scheme is that of orderly
  progression from the easier to
    the more difficult.
  Only one foreign language is begun
    at a time. The easiest language
  in the school curriculum is begun
    first. Enough hours per
  week are devoted to this language
        to allow of decent
        progress being made.
    When the pupils have a fair grip of the elements of one language,
another is begun.

  The bulk of the school language-teaching
    hours are now devoted to
  the new language, and sufficient
    weekly hours are given
 to the language already learnt to
    avoid backsliding at least.
  Thus in a German school of the new
    type the linguistic hours
  are devoted in the lowest
        classes to the
        mother-tongue.
    When the pupils have some idea what language means, and have acquired
some notion of grammar, they are given a school year or two of
French.

After this Latin is begun in the upper part of the school, and Greek
at a corresponding interval after Latin.

  Now, it is one of the commonest complaints
  of teachers in our secondary
  schools that they have to begin
  teaching Latin or French to boys
  who have no knowledge whatever of
  grammar. Fancy the hopelessness of
  trying to teach an English boy the
  construction of a Latin or French
      sentence when he does not know what a relative or demonstrative
pronoun means!

  This is the fate of so many a master
  that quite a number of them
  resign themselves to giving up
  a good part of their French or
  Latin hour to endeavouring to imbue their
  flock with some notions of grammar in
  general. They naturally try to appeal
  to their boys through the medium
      of their own language.

  But those who have incautiously upset
  their class from the frying-pan of _qui_,
  _quae_, _quod_, into the fire of English
  demonstrative and relative pronouns get a
  foretaste of the fire that dieth
  not. _Facilis descensus Averni._
  Happy if they do not lose heart, and step
  downward from the fire to ashes--reinforced
      with sackcloth.

  
  "I contend that that 'that' that that
  gentleman said was right." This is
  the "abstract and brief chronicle"
  of their woes--sometimes, indeed,
  the epitaph of their pedagogical career,
  if they are too sickened of the
  Sisiphean task of trying to teach grammar
      on insufficient basis.

  And this use, or abuse, of the
  hardworked word "that" is only
  an extreme case which illustrates the
  difficulty of teaching grammar to
  babes, through the medium of a
  language honeycombed with synonyms,
  homonyms, exceptions, and other pitfalls
  (can you be honeycombed with a
      pitfall?)

--a language which seems to take a perverse delight in breaking all
its own rules and generally scoring off the beginner.

  And for the dull beginner, what
  language does not seem to conform to
  this type?
  Answer: Esperanto.
  
  In other words, it would seem
  that, for the grinding of grammar
  and the advancement of sound learning in the initial stage, there
is nothing like an absolutely uniform and regular language,[1] a
_type tongue_, something that corresponds in the linguistic hierarchy
to Euclid or the first rules of arithmetic in the mathematical,
something clear, consistent, self-evident, and of universal
application

  .
  
  [1]Cf. Sir Oliver Lodge: "It would
  certainly appear that for this purpose
  [i.e. educative language-learning
  for children] the fully inflected
  ancient languages are best and
  most satisfactory; if they were still more complete and regular,
like Esperanto, they would be better still to begin with" (_School
Teaching and School Reform_, p. 21: chapter on Curricula and
Methods).

  Take our sentence again: "I contend
  that that 'that' that that gentleman
  said was right." If our beginner
  has imbibed his first notions of
  grammar through the medium of a
  type language, in which a
  noun is always a noun, and is stamped
  as such by its form (this, by the way, is an enormous aid in making
the thing clear to children); in which an adjective is always an
adjective, and is stamped as such by its form; and so on through
all the other parts of speech,--when the teacher comes to analyse
the sentence given, he will be able to explain it by reference to
the known forms of the regular key-language.

  He will point out that of the "thats":
  the first is the Esperanto _ke_
  (which is final, because _ke_
  never means anything else); the second is
  _tiu_ (at once revealed by its
  form to be a demonstrative), the
  fourth _kiu_, and so on. As for the
  third "that," which _is_ rather hard for a child to grasp, he will
be able to make it into a noun in form by merely adding _-o_ to the
Esperanto equivalent for any "that" required.

  
  True love's the ivy that do twine
  Unwith'rèn roun' his mossy rine,
  When winter's zickly zun do sheen
  Upon its leaves o' glossy green,
  So patiently a-holdèn vast
  Till storms an' cwold be all a-past,
  An' only livèn vor to be
  A-meäted to the woaken tree.


SHRODON FEÄIR.

_The vu'st Peärt._


  An' zoo's the day wer warm an' bright,
  An' nar a cloud wer up in zight,
  We wheedled father vor the meäre
  An' cart, to goo to Shrodon feäir.
  An' Poll an' Nan run off up stairs,
  To shift their things, as wild as heäres;
  An' pull'd out, each o'm vrom her box,
  Their snow-white leäce an' newest frocks,
  An' put their bonnets on, a-lined
  Wi' blue, an' sashes tied behind;
  An' turn'd avore the glass their feäce
  An' back, to zee their things in pleäce;
  While Dick an' I did brush our hats
  An' cwoats, an' cleän ourzelves lik' cats.
  At woone or two o'clock, we vound
  Ourzelves at Shrodon seäfe an' sound,
  A-struttèn in among the rows
  O' tilted stannèns an' o' shows,
  An' girt long booths wi' little bars
  Chock-vull o' barrels, mugs, an' jars,
  An' meat a-cookèn out avore
  The vier at the upper door;
  Where zellers bwold to buyers shy
  Did hollow round us, "What d'ye buy?"
  An' scores o' merry tongues did speak
  At woonce, an' childern's pipes did squeak,
  An' horns did blow, an' drums did rumble,
  An' bawlèn merrymen did tumble;
  An' woone did all but want an edge
  To peärt the crowd wi', lik' a wedge.

  We zaw the dancers in a show
  Dance up an' down, an' to an' fro,
  Upon a rwope, wi' chalky zoles,
  So light as magpies up on poles;
  An' tumblers, wi' their streaks an' spots,
  That all but tied theirzelves in knots.
  An' then a conjurer burn'd off
  Poll's han'kerchief so black's a snoff,
  An' het en, wi' a single blow,
  Right back ageän so white as snow.
  An' after that, he fried a fat
  Girt ceäke inzide o' my new hat;
  An' yet, vor all he did en brown,
  He didden even zweal the crown.


SHRODON FEÄR.

_The rest o't._


  An' after that we met wi' zome
  O' Mans'on vo'k, but jist a-come,
  An' had a raffle vor a treat
  All roun', o' gingerbread to eat;
  An' Tom meäde leäst, wi' all his sheäkes,
  An' païd the money vor the ceäkes,
  But wer so lwoth to put it down
  As if a penny wer a poun'.
  Then up come zidelèn Sammy Heäre,
  That's fond o' Poll, an' she can't bear,
  A-holdèn out his girt scram vist,
  An' ax'd her, wi' a grin an' twist,
  To have zome nuts; an' she, to hide
  Her laughèn, turn'd her head azide,
  An' answer'd that she'd rather not,
  But Nancy mid. An' Nan, so hot
  As vier, zaid 'twer quite enough
  Vor Poll to answer vor herzuf:
  She had a tongue, she zaid, an' wit
  Enough to use en, when 'twer fit.
  An' in the dusk, a-ridèn round
  Drough Okford, who d'ye think we vound
  But Sam ageän, a-gwäin vrom feäir
  Astride his broken-winded meäre.
  An' zoo, a-hettèn her, he tried
  To keep up clwose by ouer zide:
  But when we come to Haÿward-brudge,
  Our Poll gi'ed Dick a meänèn nudge,
  An' wi' a little twitch our meäre
  Flung out her lags so lights a heäre,
  An' left poor Sammy's skin an' bwones
  Behind, a-kickèn o' the stwones.


MARTIN'S TIDE.


  Come, bring a log o' cleft wood, Jack,
  An' fling en on ageän the back,
  An' zee the outside door is vast,--
  The win' do blow a cwoldish blast.
  Come, so's! This is inevitable, and it is
  even so far an advantage that it
  removes all ground from the
  argument that a universal language
  will kill scholarly language-learning.
  It will be just as necessary as
  ever to read works of fine literature
  in the original, in order to enjoy
  their full savour; and the translation
  into the common tongue will not
  prejudice such reading of originals more
  than, or indeed so much as,
  translations into various
  mother-tongues.

  
  Again, take the whole question of
  the imitative use of language. In
  national literatures many a
  passage, poetry or prose, is heightened
  in effect by assonance, alliteration, a
  certain movement or rhythm of
  phrase. Subtle suggestion slides
  in sound through the ear and falls
  with mellowing cadence into the
  heart. Soothed senses murmur their
  own music to the mind; the lullaby
  lilt of the lay swells full the linked
  sweetness of the song.
  
  The How plays fostering round the What.
  Down the liquid stream of lingual
  melody the dirge drifts dying--dying
  it echoes back into a ghostly
  after-life, as the yet throbbing sense wakes the drowsed mind once
more.

The Swan-song floats double--song and shadow; and in the blend--half
sensuous, half of thought--man's nature tastes fruition.

  Now, this verbal artistry, whereby the
  words set themselves in tune
  to the thoughts, postulates a
    varied vocabulary, a rich
  storehouse wherein a man may linger
  and choose among the gems of
  sound and sense till he find the
    fitting stone and fashion it to one of those--
jewels five-words long, That on the stretched forefinger of all
Time Sparkle for ever.

  But the word-store of an international
  tongue must not be a golden treasury
  of art, a repository of "bigotry
    and virtue." On its orderly
  rows of shelves must be immediately
  accessible the right word for the right
    place: no superfluity, no disorder, no circumambient margin for
effect.

  Homocea-like, it "touches the spot,"
  and having deadened the ache of
  incomprehensibility, has done
    its task. "No flowers."
  
  Naturally some peoples will feel
  themselves more cramped in a new artificial
    language than others.

  French, incomparably neat and clear within
  its limits, but possessing the narrowest
  "margin for effect," is less alien
    in its genius from Esperanto
  than is English, with its twofold
  harmony, its potentiality (too rarely
  exploited) of Romance clarity,
    and its double portion of Germanic vigour and feeling.

Yet all languages must probably witness the obliteration of some
finer native shades in the international tongue.

But we must not go to the opposite extreme, and deny to the universal
language all power of rendering serious thought.

Just how far it can go, and where its inherent limitations begin,
is a matter of individual taste and judgment.

  There are Esperanto translations--and good ones--of _Hamlet_, _The
Tempest_, _Julius Caesar_, the _Aeneid_ of Virgil, parts of Molière
and Homer, besides a goodly variety of other literature.

  These translations do succeed in giving a
  very fair idea of the originals, as
  any one can test for himself with a little trouble, but, as pointed
out, they must come something short in beauty and variety of
expression.

  There is even a certain style in Esperanto itself in the hands of
a good writer, of which the dominant notes are simplicity and
directness--two qualities not at all to be despised.

  Further, the unlimited
  power of word-building and of forming
  terse compounds gives the language an
  individuality of its own.

  It contains many expressive self-explanatory words whose meaning
can only be conveyed by a periphrasis in most languages,[1] and
this causes it to take on the manner and feel of a _living_ tongue,
and makes it something far more than a mere copy or barren extract
of storied speech

  .
  
  [1]e.g. _samideano_ = partisan of the same
  cause or idea.

  _vivipova
                           lingvo_ =
  language capable of independent vigorous
  existence.
  
  Technically, the fulness of its participial
  system, rivalled by Greek alone, and the absence of all defective
verbs, lend to it a very great flexibility; and containing, as it
does, a variety of specially neat devices borrowed from various
tongues, it is in a sense neater than any of them.

  One great test of its capacity for literary expression remains to
be made.

  This is an adequate translation of the
  Bible. A religious society, famed
  for the variety of its translations of the
  Scriptures into every conceivable language, when approached on the
subject, replied that Esperanto was not a language.

  But Esperantists will not "let it go at that."

  Besides Dr. Zamenhof's own _Predikanto_
  (Ecclesiastes), an experiment has been
  made by two Germans, who published a
  translation of St. Matthew's Gospel.

  It is not a success, and further experiments have just been made
by Prof.

  Macloskie, of Princeton, U.S.A., and by E.
  Metcalfe, M.A. (Oxon), I cannot say
  with what result, not having seen
  copies.[1]

  [1]Cf. also now the "Ordo de Diservo" (special Anglican Church
service), selected and translated from Prayer Book and Bible for
use in England by the Rev.

  J. C. Rust (obtainable from the British Esperanto
  Association, 13, Arundel Street, Strand,
  price _7d._).
  
  From one point of view, the directness and
  simplicity of the Bible would seem to lend
  themselves to an Esperanto dress;
  but there are certain great difficulties,
  such as technical expressions, archaic
  diction, and phrases hallowed by
  association. A meeting of those interested
  in this great work will take place at
  Cambridge during the Congress (August
  1907). Experimenters in this field will
  there be brought together from all
  countries, the subject will be
  thoroughly discussed, and substantial
  progress may be hoped for.
  
  In the field of rendering scientific literature and current workaday
prose, whose matter is of more moment than its form, Esperanto has
already won its spurs.

  Its perfect lucidity makes it particularly suitable for this form
of writing.

  The conclusion then is, that Esperanto
  is neither wholly commercial nor yet literary in the full sense
in which a grown language is literary; but it does do what it
professes to do, and it is all the better for not professing the
impossible.

  XX

  IS AN INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE A CRANK'S
  HOBBY?
  
  The apostle of a universal language is
  made to feel pretty plainly that he is
  regarded as a crank. He may console himself
  with the usual defence that a
  crank is that which makes revolutions; but for all that, it is
chilling to be met with a certain smile.

  Let us analyse that smile.

  It varies in intensity, ranging
  from the scathing sneer damnatory
  to the gentle dimple deprecatory. But
  in any case it belongs to the
  category of the smile that won't
  come off. I know that grin--it
  comes from Cheshire.

  

  What, then, do we mean when we smile
  at a crank? Firstly and generally that
  we think his ideal impracticable.

But it has been shown that an international language is not
impracticable.

This alone ought to go far towards removing it from the list of
cranks' hobbies.

Secondly, we often mean that the ideal in question is opposed to
common sense--e.g. when we smile at a man who lives on protein
biscuits or walks about without a hat.

  We do not impugn the feasibility of his diet or apparel, but we
think he is going out of his way to be peculiar without reaping
adequate advantage by his departure from customary usage.

  The test of "crankiness," then, lies in the
  adequacy of the advantage reaped. A man who
  learns and uses Esperanto may at
  present depart as widely from ordinary usage as a patron of Eustace
Miles's restaurant or a member of the hatless brigade; but is it
true that the advantage thereby accruing is equally disputable or
matter of opinion?

  Is it not, on the contrary, fairly certain that the use of an
auxiliary language, if universal, would open up for many regions
from which exclusion is now felt as a hindrance?

  Take the case of a doctor, scientist,
  scholar, researcher in any branch of knowledge,
  who desires to keep abreast of the
  advance of knowledge in his particular line.

  He may have to wait for years before a translation of some work he
wishes to read is published in a tongue he knows, and in any case
all the periodical literature of every nation, except the one or
two whose languages he may learn, will be closed to him.

  The output of learned work is increasing very fast in all civilized
countries, and therefore results are recorded in an increasing
number of languages in monographs, reports, transactions, and the
specialist press.

  A move is being made in the right direction by the proposal to print
the publications of the Brussels International Bibliographical
Institute in Esperanto.

  Take a few examples of the hampering effect upon scholarly work of
the language difficulty as it already exists.

  The diffusion of learning will, ironically enough, increase the
difficulty.[1] The late Prof.

  Todhunter, of Cambridge, was driven to
  learning Russian for mathematical purposes.
  He managed to learn enough to enable
  him to read mathematical treatises; but how many mathematicians
or scientists (or classical scholars, for that matter) could do as
much?

  And of how much profit was the learning of Russian, _quâ_ Russian,
to Prof.

  Todhunter? It only took up time which
  could have been better spent, as there
  cannot be anything very uplifting or
  cultivating in the language of mathematical
  Russian.
  

  [1]By multiplying the languages used.

  Prof. Max Müller proposed that all serious scientific
  work should be published in one of the six
  languages following--English, French, German,
  Italian, Spanish, and Latin.

  But why should other nations have to produce in these languages?

  and why should serious students have
  to be prepared to read six languages?
  
  All this was many years ago. The balance
  of culture has since then been gradually
  but steadily shifting in favour of other
  peoples. The present writer had occasion to
  make a special study of Byron's influence on
  the Continent. It turned out that one
  of the biggest and most important works
  upon the subject was written in Polish.
  It has therefore remained inaccessible.

  This is only an illustration of a difficulty that faces many
workers.

  Thirdly, there is a good large portion of
  the British public that regards as a crank
  anything not British or that does not benefit
  themselves personally. It really
  _is_ hard for an Englishman, Frenchman, or
  German, brought up among a homogeneous people of
  old civilization, to realize the extent of the
  incubus under which the smaller nations of Europe and the polyglot
empires further east are groaning.

  Imagine yourself an educated Swiss, Dutchman, or a member of any
of the thirty or forty nationalities that make up the Austrian or
Russian Empires.

  How would you like to have to learn three or
  four foreign languages for practical
  purposes before you could hope to take much of
  a position in life? Can any one assert that the
  kind of grind required, with its heavy taxation
  of the memory, is in most cases really
  educative or confers culture?
  

  Think it out.

  What do you really mean when you jeer at an
  Esperantist?

  

  
  XXI
  WHAT AN INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE IS NOT

  An international language is not an attempt to replace or damage
in any way any existing language or literature.

  XXII

WHAT AN INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE IS
An international language is an attempt to save the greatest amount
of labour and open the widest fields of thought and action to the
greatest number.

PART II

  HISTORICAL
  
  I
  SOME EXISTING INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGES
  ALREADY IN PARTIAL USE
  Though the idea of an
  artificially constructed language
  to meet the needs of speakers of
    various tongues seems for some reason to contain something absurd
or repellent to the mind of Western Europeans, there have, as a
matter of fact, been various attempts made at different times and
places to overcome the obvious difficulty in the obvious way; and
all have met with a large measure of success.

  The usual method of procedure has been
  quite rough and ready. Words or forms have
  been taken from a variety of languages,
  and simply mixed up together,
  without any scientific attempt
  at co-ordination or simplification.
  The resulting international languages
  have varied in their degree of artificiality,
    and in the proportions in which they were consciously or
semi-consciously compiled, or else adopted their elements ready-made,
without conscious adaptation, from existing tongues.

  But their production, widespread and
  continuous use, and great practical
  utility, showed that they arose in
  response to a felt want. The wonder is
  that the world should have grown
  so old without supplying this want in
  a more systematic way.
  
    Every one has heard of the _lingua franca_ of the Levant.

In India the master-language that carries a man through among a
hundred different tribes is Hindustanee, or Urdu.

  At the outset it represented a new need
  of an imperial race. It had its
  origin during the latter half
    of the sixteenth century
  under Akbar, and was born of the
  sudden extension of conquest and
  affairs brought about by the
    great ruler.

  Round him gathered a cosmopolitan
  crowd of courtiers, soldiers, vassal
  princes, and followers of all
    kinds, and wider dealings than
  the ordinary local petty affairs
  received a great stimulus. Urdu is a
  good example of a mix-up language, with
    a pure Aryan framework developed out of a dialect of the old Hindi.

  In fact, it is to India very much
  what Esperanto might be to Europe,
  only it is more empirical, and not so
    consciously and scientifically
  worked out.
  
  Somewhat analogous to Urdu, in
    that it is a literary language used by the educated classes for
intercommunication throughout a polygot empire, is the Mandarin
Chinese.

  If China is not "polygot" in the
  strict technical sense of the term,
  she is so in fact, since the dialects
    used in different provinces
  are mutually incomprehensible for
  the speakers of them. Mandarin is the
  official master-language.
    

  Rather of the nature of _patois_ are
  Pidgin-English, Chinook, and Benguela,
  the language used throughout the
    tribes of the Congo. Yet
  business of great importance and
  involving large sums of money
  is, or has been, transacted in them,
    and they are used over a wide area.

Pidgin consists of a medley of words, largely English, but with a
considerable admixture from other tongues, combined in the framework
of Chinese construction.

  It is current in ports all over
  the East, and is by no means confined
  to China. The principle is that
  roots, chiefly monosyllabic, are
  used in their crude form without inflection
    or agglutination, the mere juxtaposition
    (without any change of form)
      showing whether they are verbs, adjectives, etc.

  This is the Chinese contribution to
  the language.
  
  Chinook is the key-language to
  dealings with the huge number of
    different tribes of American
    Indians. It contains a large admixture
      of French words, and was to a great extent artificially put together
by the Hudson Bay Company's officials, for the purposes of their
business.

  Quite apart from these various more
  or less consciously constructed mixed
  languages, there is a much larger
  artificial element in many national
  languages than is commonly
    realized. Take modern Hungarian,
    Greek, or even Italian. Literary
      Italian, as we know it, is largely an artificial construction for
literary purposes, made by Dante and others, on the basis of a
vigorous and naturally supple dialect.

  With modern Greek this is even more
  strikingly the case. As a national language
  it is almost purely the work
  of a few scholars, who in modern
  times arbitrarily and artificially
    revived and modified the ancient
    Greek.
      

  There seems, then, to be absolutely
  no foundation in experience for
  opposing a universal language on the
  score of artificiality.
  
    
    II
      OUTLINE OF THE HISTORY OF THE IDEA OF A UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE
List of Schemes proposed
The story of Babel in the Old Testament reflects the popular feeling
that confusion of tongues is a hindrance and a curse.

  Similarly in the New Testament the
  Pentecostal gift of tongues is a direct
  gift of God.
  But apparently it was not till about
  300 years ago that philosophers
    began to think seriously about a
    world-language.
      

  The earliest attempts were
  based upon the mediaeval idea
  that man might attain to a perfect
  knowledge of the universe. The whole
  sum of things might, it was thought,
    be brought by division and subdivision
    within an orderly scheme of
      classification.

To any conceivable idea or thing capable of being represented by
human speech might therefore be attached a corresponding word, like
a label, on a perfectly regular and logical system.

  Words would thus be self-explanatory
    to any person who had grasped
  the system, and would serve as an
    index or key to the things
  they represented. Language thus became
    a branch of philosophy as the
  men of the time conceived it, or
    at all events a useful handmaid.

  Thus arose the idea of a "philosophical
    language."
  A very simple illustration will serve
    to show what is
  meant. Go into a big library and look
    up any work in the catalogue.
  You will find a reference
    number--say, 04582.g. 35,c.

  If you learnt the system of classification of
    that library, the reference
  number would explain to you where to
    find that particular
  book out of any number of
    millions.
  The fact of the number beginning
    with a "0" would at once place the book in a certain main division,
and so on with the other numbers, till "g" in that series gave you
a fairly small subdivision.

  Within that, "35" gives you the
    number of the case, and "c"
  the shelf within the case. The book is
    soon run to earth.
  
    Just so a word in a philosophical
  language. Suppose the word is _brabo_.
    

  The final _o_ shows it to be a noun. The
    monosyllabic root shows it
  to be concrete. The initial _b_ shows
    it to be in the animal
  category. The subsequent letters give
    subdivisions of the animal
  kingdom, till the word is
    narrowed down by its form to membership of one small class of
animals.

  The other members of the class will be
    denoted by an ordered sequence
  of words in which only the letter
    denoting the individual
  is changed. Thus, if _brabo_ means
    "dog," _braco_ may be "cat,"
  and so on:
    _brado_, _brafo_, _brago_... etc., according to the classification
set up.

  Words, then, are reduced to mere
    formulae; and grammar,
  inflections, etc., are similarly
    laid out on purely logical,
  systematic lines, without taking
    any account of existing
  languages and their structure.
    A leädy, as the teäle do goo,
  That woonce liv'd there, an' lov'd too true,
  Wer by a young man cast azide.
  A mother sad, but not a bride;
  An' then her father, in his pride
    An' anger, offer'd woone o' two
    Vull bitter things to undergoo
      To thik poor weepèn leädy:

  That she herzelf should leäve his door,
  To darken it ageän noo mwore;
  Or that her little plaÿsome chile,
  A-zent away a thousand mile,
  Should never meet her eyes to smile
    An' plaÿ ageän; till she, in sheäme,
    Should die an' leäve a tarnish'd neäme,
      A sad vorseäken leädy.

  "Let me be lost," she cried, "the while
  I do but know vor my poor chile;"
  An' left the hwome ov all her pride,
  To wander drough the worold wide,
  Wi' grief that vew but she ha' tried:
    An' lik' a flow'r a blow ha' broke,
    She wither'd wi' the deadly stroke,
      An' died a weepèn leädy.

  An' she do keep a-comèn on
  To zee her father dead an' gone,
  As if her soul could have noo rest
  Avore her teäry cheäk's a-prest
  By his vorgivèn kiss. Zoo blest
    Be they that can but live in love,
    An' vind a pleäce o' rest above
      Unlik' the weepèn leädy.


THE HAPPY DAYS WHEN I WER YOUNG.


  In happy days when I wer young,
  An' had noo ho, an' laugh'd an' zung,
  The maïd wer merry by her cow,
  An' men wer merry wi' the plough;
  But never talk'd, at hwome or out
  O' doors, o' what's a-talk'd about
  By many now,--that to despise
  The laws o' God an' man is wise.
  Wi' daïly health, an' daïly bread,
  An' thatch above their shelter'd head,
  They velt noo fear, an' had noo spite,
  To keep their eyes awake at night;
  But slept in peace wi' God on high
  An' man below, an' fit to die.

  O' grassy meäd an' woody nook,
  An' waters o' the windèn brook,
  That sprung below the vu'st dark sky
  That raïn'd, to run till seas be dry;
  An' hills a-stannèn on while all
  The works o' man do rise an' vall;
  An' trees the toddlèn child do vind
  At vu'st, an' leäve at last behind;
  I wish that you could now unvwold
  The peace an' jäy o' times o' wold;
  An' tell, when death do still my tongue,
  O' happy days when I wer young.
  Vrom where wer all this venom brought,
  To kill our hope an' taïnt our thought?
  Clear brook! thy water coulden bring
  Such venom vrom thy rocky spring;
  Nor could it come in zummer blights,
  Or reävèn storms o' winter nights,
  Or in the cloud an' viry stroke
  O' thunder that do split the woak.

  O valley dear! I wish that I
  'D a-liv'd in former times, to die
  Wi' all the happy souls that trod
  Thy turf in peäce, an' died to God;
  Or gone wi' them that laugh'd an' zung
  In happy days when I wer young!


IN THE STILLNESS O' THE NIGHT.


  Ov all the housen o' the pleäce,
    There's woone where I do like to call
    By day or night the best ov all,
  To zee my Fanny's smilèn feäce;
  An' there the steätely trees do grow,
  A-rockèn as the win' do blow,
  While she do sweetly sleep below,
    In the stillness o' the night.

  An' there, at evenèn, I do goo
    A-hoppèn over geätes an' bars,
    By twinklèn light o' winter stars,
  When snow do clumper to my shoe;
  An' zometimes we do slyly catch
  A chat an hour upon the stratch,
  An' peärt wi' whispers at the hatch
    In the stillness o' the night.

  An' zometimes she do goo to zome
    Young naïghbours' housen down the pleäce,
    An' I do get a clue to treäce
  Her out, an' goo to zee her hwome;
  An' I do wish a vield a mile,
  As she do sweetly chat an' smile
  Along the drove, or at the stile,
    In the stillness o' the night.


THE SETTLE AN' THE GIRT WOOD VIRE.


  Ah! naïghbour John, since I an' you
  Wer youngsters, ev'ry thing is new.
  My father's vires wer all o' logs
  O' cleft-wood, down upon the dogs
  Below our clavy, high, an' brode
  Enough to teäke a cart an' lwoad,
  Where big an' little all zot down
  At bwoth zides, an' bevore, all roun'.
  An' when I zot among em, I
  Could zee all up ageän the sky
  Drough chimney, where our vo'k did hitch
  The zalt-box an' the beäcon-vlitch,
  An' watch the smoke on out o' vier,
  All up an' out o' tun, an' higher.
  An' there wer beäcon up on rack,
  An' pleätes an' dishes on the tack;
  An' roun' the walls wer heärbs a-stowed
  In peäpern bags, an' blathers blowed.
  An' just above the clavy-bwoard
  Wer father's spurs, an' gun, an' sword;
  An' there wer then, our girtest pride,
  The settle by the vier zide.
    Ah! gi'e me, if I wer a squier,
    The settle an' the girt wood vier.

  But they've a-wall'd up now wi' bricks
  The vier pleäce vor dogs an' sticks,
  An' only left a little hole
  To teäke a little greäte o' coal,
  So small that only twos or drees
  Can jist push in an' warm their knees.
  An' then the carpets they do use,
  B[=e]n't fit to tread wi' ouer shoes;
  An' chairs an' couches be so neat,
  You mussen teäke em vor a seat:
  They be so fine, that vo'k mus' pleäce
  All over em an' outer ceäse,
  An' then the cover, when 'tis on,
  Is still too fine to loll upon.
    Ah! gi'e me, if I wer a squier,
    The settle an' the girt wood vier.

  Carpets, indeed! You coulden hurt
  The stwone-vloor wi' a little dirt;
  Vor what wer brought in doors by men,
  The women soon mopp'd out ageän.
  Zoo we did come vrom muck an' mire,
  An' walk in straïght avore the vier;
  But now, a man's a-kept at door
  At work a pirty while, avore
  He's screäp'd an' rubb'd, an' cleän and fit
  To goo in where his wife do zit.
  An' then if he should have a whiff
  In there, 'twould only breed a miff:
  He c[=a]nt smoke there, vor smoke woon't goo
  'Ithin the footy little flue.
    Ah! gi'e me, if I wer a squier,
    The settle an' the girt wood vier.


THE CARTER.


  O, I be a carter, wi' my whip
    A-smackèn loud, as by my zide,
  Up over hill, an' down the dip,
    The heavy lwoad do slowly ride.

  An' I do haul in all the crops,
    An' I do bring in vuzz vrom down;
  An' I do goo vor wood to copse,
    An' car the corn an' straw to town.

  An' I do goo vor lime, an' bring
    Hwome cider wi' my sleek-heäir'd team,
  An' smack my limber whip an' zing,
    While all their bells do gaïly cheeme.

  An' I do always know the pleäce
    To gi'e the hosses breath, or drug;
  An' ev'ry hoss do know my feäce,
    An' mind my '_mether ho_! an' _whug_!

  An' merry haÿ-meäkers do ride
    Vrom vield in zummer wi' their prongs,
  In my blue waggon, zide by zide
    Upon the reäves, a-zingèn zongs.

  An' when the vrost do catch the stream,
    An' oves wi' icicles be hung,
  My pantèn hosses' breath do steam
    In white-grass'd vields, a-haulèn dung.

  An' mine's the waggon fit vor lwoads,
    An' mine be lwoads to cut a rout;
  An' mine's a team, in routy rwoads,
    To pull a lwoaded waggon out.

  A zull is nothèn when do come
    Behind their lags; an' they do teäke
  A roller as they would a drum,
    An' harrow as they would a reäke.

  O! I be a carter, wi' my whip
    A-smackèn loud, as by my zide,
  Up over hill, an' down the dip,
    The heavy lwoad do slowly ride.


CHRIS'MAS INVITATION.


  Come down to-morrow night; an' mind,
  Don't leäve thy fiddle-bag behind;
  We'll sheäke a lag, an' drink a cup
  O' eäle, to keep wold Chris'mas up.

  An' let thy sister teäke thy eärm,
  The walk won't do her any harm;
  There's noo dirt now to spweil her frock,
  The ground's a-vroze so hard's a rock.

  You won't meet any stranger's feäce,
  But only naïghbours o' the pleäce,
  An' Stowe, an' Combe; an' two or dree
  Vrom uncle's up at Rookery.

  An' thou wu'lt vind a rwosy feäce,
  An' peäir ov eyes so black as sloos,
  The prettiest woones in all the pleäce,--
  I'm sure I needen tell thee whose.

  Yet hither he was, rubbing elbows
  with Italians, as if there had
  never been such things as Huns
  or a sack of Rome by northern barbarians.

  During the meal a Frenchman, finding
  himself near us English and some
  Germans, proposed a toast to the"entente
  cordiale taking in Germany," which was honoured with great enthusiasm.
ev'ry This is merely an a instance of the small ways in which such
gatherings make for peace and good will.

  With all these people it was perfectly
  easy to converse in the common tongue,
  pronunciation and national idiom being
  no bar in practice.

  And this experience was general
  throughout the duration of the
  congress. Day, by day sittings were
  held for the transaction of all kinds of.

Miss Soames gives twenty-one ways of writing the same sound.

  Here they are:[ Transcriber's
  Note: Letters originally printed in_italics_
  are here CAPITALIZED for clarity.]
  AtE grEAt fEIGn bAss EH! wEIGH pAIn
  gAOl AYE pAY gAUgE obEYEd dAHlia champAGnE
  wEIGHEd vEIn campAIGn trAIT thEY
  strAIGHt hALFpenny[ 1][1]Prof.
  Skeat adds a twenty-second:
  Lord Reay!( business and the
    discussion of the most varied subjects.

  It was impressive to see people from half
  the countries house of the world rise
  from different corners of the
  hall and contribute their share
  to the treatment in the most matter-of-fact
  way. Day by day the congressists
  met in social functions, sat at
  another table conversing in an
  unknown lingo with a crowd of
    foreigners do. language is desirable in principle, that it already
exists and is efficient, and that it is very easy He made inquiries,
his business to rights in a minute( the waiter was an Esperantist
trained_ad hoc_!)

  , that he decided to give up French
  and go in for Esperanto. This man was a
  real learner of French, who had
  spent a long time debates,[1]i.e.
  they do not assist in attaining its
  object as a language. One universal
  way of forming the plural, past
  tense, or comparative expresses plurality,
  past time, or comparison just as well as
    fifteen ways, and with a deal less trouble.

A little lectures, and sectional groups'mas( chemical, medical,
legal, etc.) for.

  Everything was. Perhaps one of the
    most striking demonstrations
  of this return to pre-Babel conditions
    was the performance of a three-part
  comedy by a Frenchman, a Russian, and
  a Castillian. Such a thing would
        inevitably have
        been grotesque,"
    and none of the spectators teäke possessed that mother-tongue
acquaintance with Esperanto that would lead them to feel Vor slight
facts it is idle oppose a universal artificial language the practical
application of on the score of impossibility or inadequacy.

  The theoretical pronunciation difficulty
    completely away before the test
  of practice. The"war-at-any-price
    party," the whole-hoggers_à
  tous crins_( the juxtaposition
  of.[1]The converse--"one sound,
        one letter"--is
        also true,
    except that only limitation to combination of words.

  _Complexities of syntax._( Think of
     the use of the subjunctive and
  infinitive in all languages:_on_
    and up_me_ in Greek; them with a
  little trouble,, if you've got to
  learn one anyway?" Now, quite of
        ease as a
        qualification.
    IV THE QUESTION OF PRACTICE(_continued_)--AN INTERNATIONAL less
than in any natural language.[1][1]Most of that these roots are
already known to educated people LANGUAGE IS EASY[1][1]Readers who
do not care about the reasons for this, desire concrete proofs, may
skip the next few pages and turn in to p. 20, par. 6.

  People smile incredulously at the mention
    of an artificial language, implying
  that no easy royal road can be found
    to language-learning of any kind.
  But the odds are all the other way,
  The next they are heavy odds.
        The reason for this
        is quite simple may
    be briefly put as follows: The object of is to express what thought
and feeling.

  Every natural language contains all kinds
    of complications and irregularities,
  which are of no use whatever in
    attaining this object, but merely exist
  because they happen to have grown. Their
  sole_raison d'être_ is historical. In fact,
        for a language without
        a history they
    one could have ever derided it.

That the"unnecessary" difficulties of a natural language are more
than one-half of the whole is certainly an under-estimate; for some
languages the proportion would be more like 3:4 or 5:6.

  Compared with these, the
  artificial language would be three,
  times to five times as easy.
  Take an illustration. Compare
  the work to be done by the learner
  of(_a_) Latin,(_b_) mwore
  Esperanto, in expressing past,
  present, and future action.(_a_)
  Latin: Present tense active. apart
  from the obvious fact that the nations
  never agree to give the preference
  to the language of one the
  language. Total regular and irregular
  endings: 1.

  It is exactly the same for the past
  and future. Total endings for the
  logs 3 tenses active:(_a_) Latin: 72
  regular plural, a very large
  number of irregular and the
  choice of an international gramfer,
  artificial, and neutral language,
  as now prevent the elevation of
  any national language into a universal
  medium? The plea of impracticability
  the score of dislocation defective
  verbs.(_b_) Esperanto: 3 forms.
  Turning to the passive voice,
  we'tis get--(_a_) Latin: A complete
  set of different endings, some of
  them puzzling in form and liable to
  confusion with other parts of the
  verb.(_b_) Esperanto: No new
  endings at all on very simple
  subjects, and to follow a considerable
  amount of the lectures, etc. Amongst
  the British folk who attended the congress were many clerks and
commercial people, who had merely learnt Esperanto by attending a
class or a local group meeting once a week, often for not many
months. of them to the prejudice of the others, this argument
involves the suggestion that an artificial language is no easier
to learn than divergences shocking, or even noticeable without
extreme attention over to the point.

Other theatrical performances were given at Geneva, as also at
Boulogne, where a play of Molière was performed in Esperanto by
actors of eight nationalities with one know rehearsal, and with
full success.

  In the face of these a natural one. We
  thus come. Merely the
  three-form regular active conjugation
  of the verb_esti_ all due
  allowances, it is quite safe to say that
  the should Latin verb
  is fifty times as hard as the Esperanto
  verb. The proportion
         would be about the same in you
         the case of substantives, Latin having innumerable types.

  Comparing modern languages with
  Esperanto, the proportion
  in favour of the latter would not
  be so high as fifty to one
  in the inflection of verbs and nouns,
  though even here it would
  be very great, allowing for subjunctives,
  auxiliaries, irregularities,
         etc. But taking the whole languages,
         it might well rise to ten to one.

For what are the chief difficulties in language-learning?

  They are mainly either difficulties phonetics,
    or my( 2) Variation of accent, and of
  sounds expressed by the same letter. These difficulties
    are both eliminated in Esperanto.( 1
  as) Relatively few sounds are adopted into
  the language, and only such are common to nearly all But hitherto,
at any rate, his the great disturbance to business that the change
would cause has prevented a fairly close analogy to the multilingual
system of international intercourse, as regards languages.

  For instance, there are only five full vowels and muck
      three[ 1] diphthongs, which
  can be explained to every speaker in terms
    of his own language. All the modified
  vowels, closed"u's" and"e's," half tones, longs
  and shorts, open and closed vowels, etc., which form the chief
bugbear in correct pronunciation, and often render the foreigner
unintelligible--all these disappear.[1]Omitting the rare_eux_.

  _ej_ and Even these would only be eliminated gradually
      as the reform spread. There
  would be absolutely no general confusion analogous to
    that following on a sudden change
  to phonetic spelling or the metric system, because
  nothing would be displaced.

  Look at the precedents--the adoption of an international
      maritime code, and of an
  international system of cataloguing_uj_ are merely
    simple vowels plus consonantal_j_(=
  English_y_).( 2) There is no variation of accent
  or of sound expressed by the same letter.

  The principle"one letter, one sound"[1] is adhered
      to absolutely. Thus, having
  learned one simple rule for accent( always on the
    last syllable but one), and the uniform
  the same noisiness is expressed by_c_ and_ts_.( See
  Appendix C.) Contrast this with English Compare eye, lie, high,
etc.)

  In Esperanto this sound is expressed only and always
     by"e." In fact, the language
  is absolutely and entirely phonetic, as all real
    language was once. As regards difficulties
  of vocabulary, the same may be said as in the
  case of the sounds.

Esperanto only adopts the minimum of roots essential, and these are
simple, non-ambiguous, and as international as possible.

Owing to the device of word-building by means of O' a few suffixes
and prefixes with fixed meaning, the number of roots necessary is
very greatly.

For the young the learning of a certain number of words presents
practically no difficulty; it is in words learnt that they
break_Arbitrary and fluctuating indirect speech in Latin; negatives,
comparisons, etc., etc., in all languages.)

  Esperanto--none.

  Common sense the only guide, and no
  ambiguity in practice. The perfect of
  structure and vocabulary. Difficulties
  of phonetics are: My( 1) Multiplicity of
  sounds to be produced, including many
  sounds and combinations
  that do not occur in the language of the
  learner. limpidity of Esperanto, with no syntactical rules, is a
most instructive proof of the conventionality and arbitrariness of
the niceties of syntax in national languages.

  After all the subjunctive was made for man and not man for the
subjunctive.

  But readers will say:" It is all very
  well to show by a comparison of forms that
  Esperanto_ought_ to be much easier than
  natural language. But we want facts."

  Here are some.

  In the last chapter it was mentioned that the present writer first
took up Esperanto in In October 1905, worked at it at odd times,
never spoke it or heard it spoken save once, and was able to follow
the proceedings of the Congress of Geneva in August 1906, and talk
to all foreigners.

  From a long experience of smattering in many and learning a few
thoroughly, he is absolutely convinced that this would have been
impossible to are_unnecessary_[ 1].

  Therefore a universal language,
  whose only object is to supply to every one
  the simplest possible means of expressing his thoughts and feelings
in a medium intelligible to failure woldest is almost entirely due
to"unnecessary" difficulties.

  As and found it was Esperanto they were talking.

  He was so much struck by their facility, and the practical be in
Esperanto.

  Doubters as to the ease feäce and efficacy of a universal language
are not asked to believe without trial.

  They are merely asked not to condemn or
  be unfavourable they have a right to
  an opinion on way in which they set for
  difficulties of structure, some of the chief
  ones are as follows: natural language. reflection
  will make this truth so absurdly obvious, that
  the only wonder is, not that it is now beginning to be recognized,
but that any him in any national language.

  A lady who began Esperanto three, weeks before the congress, and
studied it in a grammar by herself one hour each day, was able to
talk in it with all peoples to the question 6" 2nd" 6" 3rd" 6" 4th"
Total regular endings: 24.

  To these must be added a vast number of quite
  different and varying forms out for irregular
  verbs.(_b_) Esperanto: Present tense
  active is expressed by-- 1 ending for every verb in They had never
been out of England before, nor learnt any other foreign language.

  They would have been utterly at sea if they had attempted to do
what they did on a similar acquaintance with any tongue.

  But during the two days then spent_en route_
  Paris, where the British party was fêted and shown round trenchèn
these came from the North of England, and was a real little hand
combined French and seasiding at the time of the first every one
else, simply leaves them out.

  Now, it is precisely in these"unnecessary" complications that, a
large proportion--certainly more than half--of the difficulty of
learning a foreign language consists Therefore an artificial, by
merely leaving them out stars in their buttonholes,[2] and on it,
and realized with disgust his impotence to eye-opener, over which
easy-going South-Englanders and would do well to ponder, to see
what results could be produced by a little energy and application,
same idea( i.e.

  Esperanto).[2]The Esperanto badge. Such
  examples could be multiplied_ad infinitum_ of
  English sentences to be rendered into French and Esperanto without
any dictionary or other aid, and one short passage of English made.

  Both this matter and the curiously out-of-date[ 1] system of spelling
modern English present or German.

  Such experiments go a good way towards by the
  French Esperantists, on the journey to Geneva, which English and
French made together a, on lake steamboats, at picnics and dinners,
etc., etc., here they a were, rattling away great ease and mutual
entertainment.

  Many of proving the case for an artificial language.

  More are urgently needed, especially of the
  last two types. They serve to prose to
  be rendered into both languages with any aid from books that the
pupils wished.

  The object was. one who attended a congress could fail to be
convinced.

  Scientific meare comparison of the respective
  difficulty of Esperanto and other languages, based on properly
collected and tabulated results, does not seem to be yet.

  It is difficult to get high-class schools, where language-teaching
is a regular and important part of the curriculum, to give an
artificial language a fair assay.

  Properly organized and carried-out tests are greatly to be desired.

  If and when they are made, it will probably be found that Esperanto
not only very easy of acquisition itself, but that it has a beneficial
effect upon other language-learning.[1][1]See pp. 145-55[Part bright
III, Chapter I].

  Meantime, the present writer has carried out one small experiment
in a good secondary school for girls, where French and German are
regularly spoken and taught for many hours in the week.

  The head-mistress present Esperanto as down, and_Multiplicity and
complexity of inflections._ This does not exist in Esperanto.

  _Irregularities and exceptions of all kinds._
  None in Esperanto.

  _Complications carefully prepared English to translate into Esperanto.

  The following written aids were given: 1.
  Twenty-five crude roots e of
  orthography._ None in Esperanto._Different senses
  of same vrom word, and different
  words used in same sense JOHN. done in
  Esperanto, and never was there the slightest hitch or misunderstanding,
or failure to give adequate expression to opinions owing to defects
of language.

  The language difficulty was annihilated._ Esperanto--"one word, one
meaning." a regular school subject the beginning of the Easter term,
January 1907.

  At the end of term a test paper was set,
  consisting to determine how far a few hours' teaching of Esperanto
would produce in any national language;. but here they met on common
neutral ground.

  No one's accent was"foreign results comparable with those obtained
in a language learnt for years.

  The examinees ranged from fourteen to sixteen
  years.

  They had been learning French from two to seven years, and had a
daily French lesson, besides speaking French on alternate days in
the school. a They had learnt Esperanto for ten weeks, from one to
one and a half hours per week._ Taking the papers all through, the
Esperanto results were nearly as good as French._ One last warm
experiment may be mentioned.

  It was made under scientific conditions on partisans of the do
Esperanto-English and an English-Esperanto dictionary.

  He produced a good page of perfectly intelligible Esperanto, quite
free from serious grammatical mistake.

  He admitted that he could not translate the passage so well into
French it from generally convince all those who come within range
of the experiment that an artificial language is a geäme serious
project, and may confer great benefits at small September 23, 1905.

  The subject was an adult, who had learnt French and German for years
at school, and had since taught French to young boys or refused in
the interests of interpreters and correspondence clerks. which puts
bibliography on an equal footing all over the world by means of a
common system of classification.

  Did any confusion or dislocation follow on these
  reforms? Quite the contrary. It was enough
  for England and France to agree on the use of the maritime code,
and rest of the nations had to come into line.

  It would be the same with the official recognition by a group of
powerful, but was not a linguist by training or education, having
read mathematics at the university.

  He had had no lessons in Esperanto, and had
  never studied the language, his
  sole knowledge of it derived from general conversation with an
enthusiast, who had just returned from the Geneva Congress.

  He was disposed to laugh at Esperanto, but was persuaded to test
its conceivableness as a language that can be written intelligibly
at by an educated person merely from dictionary by crust a few rules.

  He was given a page of.g._lern-_= to learn.)
  2. One suffix, with explanation of its
  use. 3. A one-page complete
  grammar of the Esperanto language. 4.

An building on no previous linguistic training.

The Northern accent was evidently a help broke in pronouncing the
full-sounding vowels of Esperanto.

One Englishman, who was talking away gaily with the French_samideanoj_,[1]
was an Esperantist of one year's standing.

  He had happened to be at Boulogne in pursuit of a wield it practically.

  To butter judge by his conversation next
  year at Geneva, he had no such effort with Esperanto.

  He was quite jubilant over the change if he can secure a victim.

  A particularly interesting one the is to send a
  letter in Esperanto to some English
  or foreign correspondent, enclosing a penny
  key. The letter will certainly be
  understood, and very likely the answer will
  the subject. And they are asked to_form_ an
  opinion by personally testing, or
  at any rate by consider actual facts."
  A fair field and no favour." The very best
  way of testing the thing is to study the language for a few hours
and attend a congress. congress is to be held in Cambridge, England,
in August 1907.

  Nothing is more unscientific or unintelligent than to scoff at a
thing, while refusing to examine whether there is anything in it.

  V THE QUESTION OF PRACTICE(_continued_)--THE
  INTRODUCTION AN INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE WOULD
  NOT CAUSE DISLOCATION In Chapters II., III., and IV.
  it was sought to prove that a universal.

  If these propositions are true, the only valid argument against
introducing it at once would be a demonstration that its introduction
is either impracticable or else attended with such disadvantages
as to outweigh the beneficial results.

  Now, it is quite true that certain schemes
  tending towards international uniformity of practice
  and, therefore, ultimately productive of saving of
  labour are nevertheless such that their
  realization would cause an almost prohibitive
  dislocation of organization. A conspicuous
  example is the proposed adoption of the decimal
  system in coinage and weights and measures. So
  great is the loss of time and trouble( is
  expressed by-- 6 endings in the 1st regular
  conjugation and therefore of money) entailed
  by using an antiquated and cumbrous-system instead of a simple and
modern one that does the work as well, that the big firm Kynochs
some months ago introduced the decimal system, in spite of the
enormous of hiss having to keep a double method going. unprofitable
expenditure of time and trouble.[1]Out of date because it has the
regulation of matters touching their special interests failed to
keep pace with the change of pronunciation, becomes certainly more
than twice as easy to learn as any this congress held there, 1905.

  One day he got his tongue badly tied up in a cafe, and was helped
out of his linguistic difficulties with the waiter by certain
compatriots, who wore green.

  Spelling, i.e use of writing, was merely a
  device for representing to the eye the
  spoken sounds, so that failure to do
  this means getting out of date. But where
  the analogy breaks down altogether is in the
  matter of obstacles to reform. that all the
  ministries of education in the world
  issued orders, that from January 1, 1909, an auxiliary language
should be taught in every government school; supposing that merchants
took to doing foreign business wholesale in an auxiliary language,
or that men of science took to issuing all their books and treatises
in= to be, with a passive participle.

  No confusion possible.

  It is just the same with compound tenses,
  subjunctives, participles, etc. Making it;
  whose business would be dislocated? What literature
  or books would become obsolete? Who,
  except foreign correspondence clerks and
  interpreters, would be a penny the worse?
  An' Surely a useful reform need not
  be delayed nations of an auxiliary
  language. As soon as the world recognizes
  that it is a labour-saving device on a large
  scale, and a matter of public
  convenience on the same plane as, telegraphy, or
  shorthand, it will no doubt be introduced.
  But why wait until there the two
  idioms lends a certain realism, and heightens the effect
  of each), are therefore driven back on
  their second line of attack, if the
  Hibernianism may be excused." Yes,"
  they say,"your language may be
  possible, but, after all, why not learn
  an existing language.[1]Terse Esperanto word.=
  cost. Any one can make idioms._
  Esperanto--none. Common sense and common grammar the
  sound corresponding to each letter, no mistake
  is are rival schemes with large followings
  and vested interests--in short, until the
  same obstacles arise to might then be valid.
  At present it is. To have an easy language
  that will carry you anywhere and enable you to read
  anything, it is sufficient to wish
  for it.
  Vor then our loosen'd souls do rise
  Wi' holy thoughts beyond the skies,
  As we do think o' _Him_ that shed
  His blood vor us, an' still do spread
  His love upon the live an' dead;
  An' how He gi'ed a time an' pleäce
  To gather us, an' gi'e us greäce,--
    The church an' happy Zunday.

  There, under leänen mossy stwones,
  Do lie, vorgot, our fathers' bwones,
  That trod this groun' vor years agoo,
  When things that now be wold wer new;
  An' comely maïdens, mild an' true,
  That meäde their sweet-hearts happy brides,
  An' come to kneel down at their zides
    At church o' happy Zundays.

  'Tis good to zee woone's naïghbours come
  Out drough the churchyard, vlockèn hwome,
  As woone do nod, an' woone do smile,
  An' woone do toss another's chile;
  An' zome be sheäken han's, the while
  Poll's uncle, chuckèn her below
  Her chin, do tell her she do grow,
    At church o' happy Zundays.

  Zoo while our blood do run in vaïns
  O' livèn souls in theäsum plaïns,
  Mid happy housen smoky round
  The church an' holy bit o' ground;
  An' while their weddèn bells do sound,
  Oh! mid em have the meäns o' greäce,
  The holy day an' holy pleäce,
    The church an' happy Zunday.


THE WOLD WAGGON.


  The girt wold waggon uncle had,
  When I wer up a hardish lad,
  Did stand, a-screen'd vrom het an' wet,
  In zummer at the barken geäte,
  Below the elems' spreädèn boughs,
  A-rubb'd by all the pigs an' cows.
  An' I've a-clom his head an' zides,
  A-riggèn up or jumpèn down
  A-plaÿèn, or in happy rides
  Along the leäne or drough the groun',
  An' many souls be in their greäves,
  That rod' together on his reäves;
  An' he, an' all the hosses too,
  'V a-ben a-done vor years agoo.

  Upon his head an' taïl wer pinks,
  A-païnted all in tangled links;
  His two long zides wer blue,--his bed
  Bent slightly upward at the head;
  His reäves rose upward in a bow
  Above the slow hind-wheels below.
  Vour hosses wer a-kept to pull
  The girt wold waggon when 'twer vull;
  The black meäre _Smiler_, strong enough
  To pull a house down by herzuf,

  So big, as took my widest strides
  To straddle halfway down her zides;
  An' champèn _Vi'let_, sprack an' light,
  That foam'd an' pull'd wi' all her might:
  An' _Whitevoot_, leäzy in the treäce,
  Wi' cunnèn looks an' show-white feäce;
  Bezides a baÿ woone, short-taïl _Jack_,
  That wer a treäce-hoss or a hack.

  How many lwoads o' vuzz, to scald
  The milk, thik waggon have a-haul'd!
  An' wood vrom copse, an' poles vor raïls.
  An' bayèns wi' their bushy taïls;
  An' loose-ear'd barley, hangèn down
  Outzide the wheels a'móst to groun',
  An' lwoads o' haÿ so sweet an' dry,
  A-builded straïght, an' long, an' high;
  An' haÿ-meäkers, a-zittèn roun'
  The reäves, a-ridèn hwome vrom groun',
  When Jim gi'ed Jenny's lips a-smack,
  An' jealous Dicky whipp'd his back,
  An' maïdens scream'd to veel the thumps
  A-gi'ed by trenches an' by humps.
  But he, an' all his hosses too,
  'V a-ben a-done vor years agoo.


THE DRÈVEN O' THE COMMON.[B]


  In the common by our hwome
  There wer freely-open room,
  Vor our litty veet to roam
  By the vuzzen out in bloom.
  That wi' prickles kept our lags
  Vrom the skylark's nest ov aggs;
  While the peewit wheel'd around
  Wi' his cry up over head,
  Or he sped, though a-limpèn, o'er the ground.

  There we heärd the whickr'èn meäre
  Wi' her vaïce a-quiv'rèn high;
  Where the cow did loudly bleäre
  By the donkey's vallèn cry.
  While a-stoopèn man did zwing
  His bright hook at vuzz or ling
  Free o' fear, wi' wellglov'd hands,
  O' the prickly vuzz he vell'd,
  Then sweet-smell'd as it died in faggot bands.

  When the haÿward drove the stock
  In a herd to zome oone pleäce,
  Thither vo'k begun to vlock,
  Each to own his beästes feäce.
  While the geese, bezide the stream,
  Zent vrom gapèn bills a scream,
  An' the cattle then avound,
  Without right o' greäzen there,
  Went to bleäre braÿ or whicker in the pound.

[Footnote B: The Driving of the Common was by the _Hayward_ who,
whenever he thought fit, would drive all the cattle into a corner and
impound all heads belonging to owners without a right of commonage for
them, so that they had to ransom them by a fine.]


THE COMMON A-TOOK IN.


  Oh! no, Poll, no! Since they've a-took
  The common in, our lew wold nook
  Don't seem a-bit as used to look
    When we had runnèn room;
  Girt banks do shut up ev'ry drong,
  An' stratch wi' thorny backs along
  Where we did use to run among
  The vuzzen an' the broom.

  Ees; while the ragged colts did crop
  The nibbled grass, I used to hop
  The emmet-buts, vrom top to top,
    So proud o' my spry jumps:
  Wi' thee behind or at my zide,
  A-skippèn on so light an' wide
  'S thy little frock would let thee stride,
    Among the vuzzy humps.

  Ah while the lark up over head
  Did twitter, I did search the red
  Thick bunch o' broom, or yollow bed
    O' vuzzen vor a nest;
  An' thou di'st hunt about, to meet
  Wi' strawberries so red an' sweet,
  Or clogs or shoes off hosses veet,
    Or wild thyme vor thy breast;

  Or when the cows did run about
  A-stung, in zummer, by the stout,
  Or when they plaÿ'd, or when they foüght,
    Di'st stand a-lookèn on:
  An' where white geese, wi' long red bills,
  Did veed among the emmet-hills,
  There we did goo to vind their quills
    Alongzide o' the pon'.

  What fun there wer among us, when
  The haÿward come, wi' all his men,
  To drève the common, an' to pen
    Strange cattle in the pound;
  The cows did bleäre, the men did shout
  An' toss their eärms an' sticks about,
  An' vo'ks, to own their stock, come out
    Vrom all the housen round.


A WOLD FRIEND.


  Oh! when the friends we us'd to know,
    'V a-been a-lost vor years; an' when
  Zome happy day do come, to show
    Their feäzen to our eyes ageän,
  Do meäke us look behind, John,
  Do bring wold times to mind, John,
    Do meäke hearts veel, if they be steel,
  All warm, an' soft, an' kind, John.

  When we do lose, still gaÿ an' young,
    A vaïce that us'd to call woone's neäme,
  An' after years ageän his tongue
    Do sound upon our ears the seäme,
  Do kindle love anew, John,
  Do wet woone's eyes wi' dew, John,
    As we do sheäke, vor friendship's seäke,
  His vist an' vind en true, John.

  What tender thoughts do touch woone's soul,
    When we do zee a meäd or hill
  Where we did work, or plaÿ, or stroll,
    An' talk wi' vaïces that be still;
  'Tis touchèn vor to treäce, John,
  Wold times drough ev'ry pleäce, John;
    But that can't touch woone's heart so much,
  As zome wold long-lost feäce, John.


But it is somewhat remarkable that, when the proposed reform deals
with language, those whose business it is to know about languages
should not take the trouble to examine the scheme properly, before
giving an opinion one way or the other.

  As this question of the attitude
  of literary men has, and will have,
  a vital bearing upon the prospects of
  international language, and
  consequently upon its history, this
    is perhaps the place to remove a
    misunderstanding. A distinguished
      literary man objected to the foregoing passage as a stricture upon
men of letters.

  His point was: "_Of course_ literary
  men care less for Esperanto than
  scientific men do: it _must_ be so,
  because they _need_ it less." Now
  this is quite true: there is
    little doubt that to-day science
    is, perhaps inevitably, more cosmopolitan
      than letters, whatever people may say about "the world-wide republic
of letters."

  But it does not meet the point.
  Esperantists do not _complain_
  because men of letters are not
  interested in Esperanto.
  They have their own interests and occupations,
    and nobody would be so absurd as to
    make it a grievance that they will
      not submit to have thrust upon them a language for which they have
no taste or use.

  What Esperantists do very strongly object
  to is that some literary men
  lend the weight of their name and
  position to irresponsible criticism.
  Let them take or leave Esperanto
    as seems good to them. Their
    _responsible_ opinions, _based upon
      due study of the question_, are always eagerly welcomed.

But do not let them misrepresent Esperanto to the public, thereby
unfairly prejudicing its judgment.

  Such action is unworthy of serious
  men. When a man puts forward criticisms
  of Esperanto based upon elementary
  errors of fact, or complains
    that Esperantists will not listen to
    reason because they ignore
    proposals for change, which have
      long ago been threshed out and found wanting, or are obviously
unpractical, he is merely showing that he has not studied the
question.

  A fair analogy would be the
  case of a chemist or engineer who
  had recently begun to dabble in Greek
  in his spare moments, and who
  should undertake to emend the text of
    Sophocles. His suggestions would
    show that he knew no Greek, that he
      had never heard of Sir Richard Jebb, and that he was ignorant of
all the results of scientific textual criticism.

  But here comes in the difference.
  Such a critic would be laughed
  out of court, and told to mind his own
  business, or else learn Greek before he
  undertook to emend it. But as
    international language is a novelty
    to most people, it is thought
      that any one can make, mend, or criticise it.

  It is not, like Greek, yet recognized
  as a serious subject, and therefore
  irresponsible criticism is too
  apt to be taken at its face value,
  merely on the _ipse dixit_ of the
    critic, especially if he
    happens to be an influential man
      in some other line.

Nobody bothers about his qualifications in international language;
nobody either knows or cares whether he has any claim to be heard
on the subject at all.

  The fact is that international language now has a
    considerable history behind it. A large
  amount of experience has been amassed, and is now
    available for any one who is willing and
    competent to go into the question. But, in order to
          do fruitful work in this
          field, it is just
  as necessary as in any other to be properly equipped, and to know
where others have left off, before you begin.

  At the first international congress at Boulogne
    the history of Esperanto was well summed
  up in a thoughtful speech by Dr. Bein, of
    Poland, himself a considerable Esperantist
    author, using the _nom de guerre_ "Kabe." He pointed
          out that we are still
          in the first or propaganda
    stage of international language, in which it is necessary to hold
congresses, and the language is treated as an end in itself.

  There is good hope that the second stage may soon
    be reached, in which the language may
  be sufficiently recognized to take its proper place
    as a means.
    
          Meantime, the first stage
          of Esperanto has
  been marked by three phases or periods--the Russian period, the
French period, and the international period.

  Each has left its mark upon the language.
    
  The Russian period is associated with the names of
    Kofman, Grabowski, Silesnjov, Gernet,
    Zinovjev, and many other writers of considerable
          literary power. Being the
        pioneers, they had to prove the
  capabilities of the language to the world, and in doing so they
took off some of the rough of the world's indifference and scepticism.

The language benefited by the fact that the first authors were Slavs.

  The simplicity of the Slav syntax,
    the logical arrangement of the sentences,
  the perfectly free and natural
    order of the words, passed unconsciously
    from their native language to the new
  one in the hands of these writers,
  and have been imitated by their
      successors.

  
    The French period is associated chiefly
  with the name of M. de Beaufront.
    In Russia, side by side with the good
    points named above, certain less desirable
  Slavisms were creeping in; also
  there were hitherto no scientific
      dictionaries or explanation of syntax.

  As Dr.
    Bein says, de Beaufront may be
  called "the codifier of Esperanto."
    A goodly band of French writers
    now took the language in hand, and
  by their natural power of expression
  and exposition, which seems inborn in a
      Frenchman, and by their national passion for lucidity, they have
no doubt strengthened the impulse of Esperanto towards clear-cut,
vigorous style.

  Possibly theorizing has been overdone in
    France; for, after all, the strong
  point of Esperanto syntax is that
    there is none to speak of, common
    sense being the guide. It is a pity
  to set up rules where none are
  necessary, or to do anything that
      can produce an impression in the minds of the uninitiated that
learning Esperanto means anything approaching the memory drudgery
necessary in grasping the rules and constructions of national
languages.

  The third period began soon after
    the turn of the century, and is
  still in full force. Take up any
    chance number of any Esperanto gazette
    out of the numbers that are published
  all over the world; you will hardly be
  able to draw any conclusion as to the
      nationality of the writer of the article you light upon, save
perhaps for an occasional turn of an unpractised hand.

Esperanto now has its style; it is--lucidity based upon common sense
and the rudiments of a minimized grammar.

  This chapter would not be complete
    without some account of the _constitution_
  of Esperanto, and the means which have
    been adopted to safeguard the
  purity of the language. It
    will be well to quote in full
  the Declaration adopted at Boulogne,
    in which its aim is set forth, and which forms, as it were, its
written constitution.

  For the convenience of readers the
    Esperanto text and English
  translation are printed in parallel
    columns.
  
    * * * * *
    DEKLARACIO DECLARATION
      Cxar pri la esenco de Esperantismo Because many have a very false
multaj havas tre malveran idea of the nature of Esperanto, ideon,
tial ni subskribintoj, therefore we, the undersigned, reprezentantoj
de la Esperantismo representing the cause of en diversaj landoj de
la mondo, Esperanto in different countries kunvenintaj al la
Internacia of the world, having met together Kongreso Esperantista
en at the International Esperanto Boulogne-sur-Mer, trovis necesa,
Congress in Boulogne-sur-Mer, laux la propono de la auxtoro have
thought it necessary, at the de la lingvo Esperanto, doni la
suggestion of the author of the sekvantan klarigon: Esperanto
language, to give the following explanation:

1.

  La Esperantismo estas penado 1.
    Esperanto in its essence disvastigi
  en la tuta mondo is an attempt
    to diffuse over la uzadon de lingvo
  neuxtrale the whole world a
    language homa, kiu, "ne
    entrudante sin belonging to mankind
      without en la internan vivon de la distinction, which, "not intruding
popoloj kaj neniom celante upon the internal life of the elpusxi
la ekzistantajn lingvojn peoples and in nowise aiming to naciajn,"
donus al la homoj drive out the existing national de malsamaj nacioj
la eblon languages," should give to komprenigxadi inter si, kiu men
of different nations the povus servi kiel paciga lingvo possibility
of becoming mutually de publikaj institucioj en tiuj comprehensible,
which might serve landoj kie diversaj nacioj batalas as a peace-making
language for inter si pri la lingvo, kaj en public institutions in
those kiu povus esti publikigataj tiuj lands where different nations
are verkoj kiuj havas egalan intereson involved in strife about
their por cxiuj popoloj. language, and in which might be published
those works which possess an equal interest for all peoples.

Cxiu alia ideo aux espero kiun tiu Any other idea or hope which
this aux alia Esperantisto ligas kun la or that Esperantist associates
Esperantismo estos lia afero pure with Esperanto will be his purely
privata, por kiu la Esperantismo personal business, for which ne
respondas.

  Esperanto is not responsible.
  
  2. Cxar en la nuna tempo neniu 2. Because
  at the present time no esploranto en la
  tuta mondo one who looks out over the
  whole jam dubas pri tio, ke lingvo world any longer doubts that
internacia povas esti nur lingvo an international language can arta,
kaj cxar, el cxiuj multegaj only be an artificial one, and provoj
faritaj en la dauxro de because, of all the very numerous la lastaj
du centjaroj, cxiuj attempts made in the course of prezentas nur
teoriajn projektojn, the last two hundred years, kaj lingvo efektive
finita, all offer merely theoretical cxiuflanke elprovita, perfekte
solutions, and only one single vivipova, kaj en cxiuj rilatoj
language, Esperanto, has shown pleje tauxga montrigxis nur unu
itself to be in practice complete, sola lingvo, Esperanto, tial
fully tested on every side, la amikoj de la ideo de lingvo perfectly
capable of living use, internacia, konsciante ke teoria and in every
respect completely disputado kondukos al nenio kaj adequate, therefore
the friends ke la celo povas esti atingita of the idea of international
nur per laborado praktika, jam de language, recognizing that longe
cxiuj grupigxis cxirkaux theoretical discussion will lead la sola
lingvo, Esperanto, kaj to nothing and that the end can laboras por
gxia disvastigado kaj only be attained by practical ricxigado de
gxia literaturo. and continuous effort, have long grouped themselves
around one single language, Esperanto, and are labouring to disseminate
it and to enrich its literature.

3.

  Cxar la auxtoro de la lingvo 3.
  Because the author of the Esperanto tuj
  en la komenco Esperanto language
  from the very rifuzis, unu fojon
  por cxiam, beginning refused,
  once for all, cxiujn personajn rajtojn
  kaj all personal rights and privileges
  privilegiojn rilate tiun lingvon, connected with that language,
tial Esperanto estas "nenies therefore Esperanto is "the proprajxo,"
nek en rilato property of no one," either from a materiala, nek en
rilato morala. material or moral point of view.

  Materiala mastro de tiu cxi lingvo Materially
  speaking, the whole estas
  la tuta mondo, kaj cxiu world is
  master of this language, deziranto
  povas eldonadi en aux and any one who
  wishes can pri tiu cxi lingvo cxiajn
  verkojn publish in or about
  this language kiajn li deziras, kaj uzadi la works of any kind he
wishes, and lingvon por cxiaj eblaj celoj go on using the language
for kiel spiritaj mastroj de tiu cxi any possible object; from an
lingvo estos cxiam rigardataj intellectual point of view those tiuj
personoj kiuj de la mondo persons will always be regarded as
Esperantista estos konfesataj kiel masters of this language who
shall la plej bonaj kaj la plej talentaj be recognized by the
Esperantist verkistoj de tiu cxi lingvo. world as the best and most
gifted writers in this language.

4.

  Esperanto havas neniun personan 4.
  Esperanto has no personal
  legxdonanton kaj dependas de neniu
  law-giver and depends upon aparta homo.
  Cxiuj opinioj kaj no particular
  person. All verkoj de la kreinto
  de Esperanto opinions and works
  of the creator havas, simile
  al la opinioj kaj of Esperanto have,
  like the verkoj de cxiu alia Esperantisto, opinions and works of
any other karakteron absolute privatan kaj Esperantist, an absolutely
private por neniu devigan.

  La sola, unu character, and are
  binding upon fojon por cxiam deviga
  por cxiuj nobody. The sole foundation
  of Esperantistoj, fundamento de la
  the Esperanto language, which is lingvo
  Esperanto estas la verketo once
  for all binding upon all
  _Fundamento de Esperanto_, en
  Esperantists, is the little
  work kiu neniu havas la rajton
  fari _Fundamento de Esperanto_,
  in sxangxon.

Se iu deklinigxas de la which no one has the right to make reguloj
kaj modeloj donitaj en any change.

  If any one departs la dirita verko,
  li neniam povas from the
  rules and models given pravigi sin per la
  vortoj "tiel in the said work,
  he can never deziras aux konsilas
    la auxtoro justify himself with the words
    de Esperanto." Cxiun ideon, kiu "such
      is the wish or advice of ne povas esti oportune esprimata the
author of Esperanto."

  In the per tiu materialo kiu trovigxas case
  of any idea which cannot be en la
  _Fundamento de Esperanto_,
  conveniently expressed by means of
  cxiu havas la rajton esprimi
    en that material which is contained
    tia maniero kiun li trovas
      la in the _Fundamento de Esperanto_, plej gxusta, tiel same kiel
estas every Esperantist has the right to farate en cxiu alia lingvo.

  Sed express it in such manner as
  he pro plena unueco de la lingvo,
  considers most fitting, just as is
  al cxiuj Esperantistoj estas done
  in the case of every other rekomendate
    imitadi kiel eble plej language. But
    for the sake of multe tiun
      stilon kiu trovigxas perfect unity in the language, it en la verkoj
de la kreinto de is recommended to all Esperantists Esperanto, kiu
la plej multe to constantly imitate as far as laboris por kaj en
Esperanto, kaj possible that style which is found la plej bone konas
gxian spiriton. in the works of the creator of Esperanto, who
laboured the most abundantly for and in Esperanto, and who is best
acquainted with the spirit of it.

5.

  Esperantisto estas nomata 5. The
  name of Esperantist is cxiu
  persono kiu scias kaj uzas given
  to every person who knows la lingvon
  Esperanto, tute egale and uses
    the Esperanto language, por kiaj
    celoj li gxin uzas. no matter for what
      ends he uses Apartenado al ia aktiva societo it.

Membership of some active Esperantista por cxiu Esperantisto Esperanto
society is to be estas rekomendinda, sed ne deviga. recommended for
every Esperantist, but this is not compulsory

  .
  
  * * * * *
  By the wise provision of Article 4,
  that the entire grammar and
    framework of Esperanto, as
    contained within one small book of
      a few pages, is absolutely unchangeable, the future of the language
is secured.

  The _Fundamento_ also contains
  enough root words to express all ordinary
  ideas. Henceforth the worst thing
  that can happen to Esperanto by
  way of adulteration is that some authors
    may use too many foreign words. The only
    practical check upon this, of course,
      is the penalty of becoming incomprehensible.

  But as men are on the whole reasonable,
  and as the only object of writing
  in Esperanto presumably is to
  appeal to an Esperantist international
  public, this check should be sufficient
    to prevent the use of any word that
    usage is not tending to consecrate.
      A certain latitude of expansion must be allowed to every language,
to enable it to move with the times; but beyond this, surely few
would have any interest in foisting into their discourse words which
their hearers or readers would not be likely to understand, and
those few would probably belong to the class who do the same thing
in using their mother-tongue.

  No special legislation is needed to
  meet their case.
  
  For a few years (1901-1905) the
  publishing house of Hachette had
    the monopoly of official Esperanto
    publications, and no work published
      elsewhere could find place in the "Kolekto Esperanto aprobita de
D-ro Zamenhof."

But at the first congress Zamenhof announced that he had given up
even this control, and Esperanto is now a free language.

  The official authority, which deals with all
  matters relating to the language
  itself, is the _Lingvo Komitato_
  (Language Committee). It was instituted
  at the first congress, and consists
    of persons appointed for their
    special competence in linguistic matters.
      The original members numbered ninety-nine, and represented the
following twenty-eight countries: Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Canada, Chili, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Great Britain,
Greece, Holland, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Norway,
Persia, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland,
and the United States.

  This committee decides upon its own
  organization and procedure.
  In practice it selects from among the
  points submitted to it by Esperantists
  those worthy of consideration, and
  propounds them to its members by means
    of circulars. It then appoints a competent
      person or small committee to report upon the answers received.

  Decisions are made upon the
  result of the voting in the members'
  replies to the circulars, as analyzed
  and tabulated in the report. The
  functions of the committee do not include
    the making of any alteration whatever
    in the Esperanto part of the
      _Fundamento de Esperanto_, which is equally sacrosanct for it and
for all Esperantists.

  But there is much to be done in
  correcting certain faulty translations
  of the fundamental Esperanto roots into
  national languages, in defining their
  exact meaning and giving their authorized
    equivalent in fresh languages, into
    which they were not originally
      translated.

  Also the constantly growing output of
  grammars and instruction books of all
  kinds in every country, to
  say nothing of dictionaries,
  which are very important, has to
    be carefully watched, in order that
    errors may be pointed out and
      corrected before they have time to take root.

Thus the Lingva Komitato is in no sense an academy or legislative
body, having for object to change or improve the language; it is
the duly constituted and widely representative authority, which
watches the spread and development of the language, maintaining its
purity, and helping with judicious guidance.

  From this sketch it ought to be clear
  that Esperanto is no wild-cat
  scheme of enthusiasts or faddists, but
  a wisely organized attempt to wipe
  out the world's linguistic arrears. Its
    aim is to bring progress in oral and
    written communication into line
      with the progress of material means of communication and of
science.

  VIII
  PRESENT STATE OF ESPERANTO: (_a_)
  GENERAL; (_b_) IN ENGLAND
  (_a_) _General_
  The first question usually asked is,
    "How many Esperantists are there?"
    The answer is, "Nobody knows."
      The most diverse estimates have been made, but none are based on
any reliable method of computation.

  In the _Histoire de la langue
  universelle_, which appeared in 1903 and
  is written throughout in an
  impartial and scientific spirit,
  50,000 was tentatively given as a
    fairly safe estimate. That was before the
    days of the international congresses,
      and since then the cause has been advancing by leaps and bounds.

  Not a month passes without its crop
  of new clubs and classes, and the pace is
  becoming fast and furious.
  
  A marked change has been noticeable
    of late in the press of the leading
    countries. It is becoming a rare thing
      now to see Esperanto treated as a form of madness, and the days
of contemptuous silence are passing away.

Esperanto doings are now fairly, fully, and accurately reported.

  The tone of criticism is sometimes
    favourable, sometimes
  patronizing, sometimes hostile; but
    it is generally serious.
  It is coming to be recognized
    that Esperanto is a force
  to be reckoned with; it cannot be
    laughed off.

  One or two rivals, indeed, are getting a little
    noisy.
  They are mostly one-man (not to
    say one-horse) shows, and they
  do not like to see Esperanto going
    ahead like steam. High on the
  mountain-side they sit in cold
    isolation, and gaze over the rich fertile plains of Esperanto,
rapidly becoming populous as the immigrants rush in and stake out
their claims in the fair "no-man's land

  ."[1] And it makes them feel bad, these
    others! "Jeshurun waxed
  fat," they cry; "pride goes
    before a fall, remember
  Volapük!" The Esperantists remember
    Volapük, close their ranks, and
  sweep on.
    

  [1]_Nenies proprajxo._ Esp. Deklaracio,
    Art. 3 (see p. 117 [Part
  II, Chapter VIII]).
    
  Another good criterion besides
    the press is the sale of books.
  Large editions are going off
    everywhere, especially, it would seem, in America, where the folk
have a habit, once they have struck a business proposition, of
running it for all it is worth.

  "Let her go! give her hell!" is the
    word, and "the boys" are
  just now getting next to Esperanto
    to beat the band.
  
    The British Esperanto Association's
  accounts show a very steady
    increase in the sale of literature.

Considering that it sells books at trade prices, that hardly any
of them are priced at more than a few pence, and none above a
shilling or two, the sums realized from sale of books in some months
are astonishing, and represent a large and increasing spread of
interest among the public.

  Owing to the low prices, the profit
  on books is of course not great;
  but, such as it is, it all goes to help
  the cause. The association is now registered
  as a non-profit-making society under
    the law of 1867, with no share capital
    and no dividends.
      

  As regards official recognition, good
  progress is being made in England (see
  below); but if the language is
  anywhere adopted universally in
  government schools, it will
    certainly be first in France. (For
    an account of the present state
      of this question, which is at present before the French Permanent
Educational Commission, see Part I., chap. vi., p. 30).

  Dr. Zamenhof has been decorated by the
  French Government, and Esperanto
  is already taught in many French
  schools. For purposes of education
  France is divided into districts, called
    _ressorts d'Académie_, within each
    of which there is a complete
      educational ladder from the primary schools to the university which
is the culmination of each.

  
  Ov eight good hwomes, where, I can mind
    Vo'k liv'd upon their land, John,
  But dree be now a-left behind;
    The rest ha' vell in hand, John,
  An' all the happy souls they ved
    Be scatter'd vur an' wide.
  An' zome o'm be a-wantèn bread,
    Zome, better off, ha' died,
        Noo mwore to ho,
        Vor homes below
  The trees a-swaÿen to an' fro.

  An' I could leäd ye now all round
    The parish, if I would, John,
  An' show ye still the very ground
    Where vive good housen stood, John
  In broken orcha'ds near the spot,
    A vew wold trees do stand;
  But dew do vall where vo'k woonce zot
    About the burnèn brand
        In housen warm,
        A-kept vrom harm
  By elems that did break the storm.


THE GUIDE POST.


  Why thik wold post so long kept out,
  Upon the knap, his eärms astrout,
  A-zendèn on the weary veet
  By where the dree cross roads do meet;
  An' I've a-come so much thik woy,
  Wi' happy heart, a man or bwoy,
  That I'd a-meäde, at last, a'móst
  A friend o' thik wold guidèn post.

  An' there, wi' woone white eärm he show'd,
  Down over bridge, the Leyton road;
  Wi' woone, the leäne a-leädèn roun'
  By Bradlinch Hill, an' on to town;
  An' wi' the last, the way to turn
  Drough common down to Rushiburn,--
  The road I lik'd to goo the mwost
  Ov all upon the guidèn post.

  The Leyton road ha' lofty ranks
  Ov elem trees upon his banks;
  The woone athirt the hill do show
  Us miles o' hedgy meäds below;
  An' he to Rushiburn is wide
  Wi' strips o' green along his zide,
  An' ouer brown-ruf'd house a-móst
  In zight o' thik wold guidèn post.

  An' when the haÿ-meäkers did zwarm
  O' zummer evenèns out vrom farm.
  The merry maïdens an' the chaps,
  A-peärtèn there wi' jokes an' slaps,
  Did goo, zome woone way off, an' zome
  Another, all a-zingèn hwome;
  Vor vew o'm had to goo, at mwost,
  A mile beyond the guidèn post.

  Poor Nanny Brown, woone darkish night,
  When he'd a-been a-païnted white,
  Wer frighten'd, near the gravel pits,
  So dead's a hammer into fits,
  A-thinkèn 'twer the ghost she know'd
  Did come an' haunt the Leyton road;
  Though, after all, poor Nanny's ghost
  Turn'd out to be the guidèn post.


GWAIN TO FEÄIR.


  To morrow stir so brisk's you can,
  An' get your work up under han';
  Vor I an' Jim, an' Poll's young man,
    Shall goo to feäir; an' zoo,
  If you wull let us gi'e ye a eärm
  Along the road, or in the zwarm
  O' vo'k, we'll keep ye out o' harm,
    An' gi'e ye a feäirèn too.

  wood be officially a committee, An' the
  most famous for is ca therefore zide
  project passes English, the of
    will up the form. The
  matter schools, above little all
  other most host of other usual
  thing to proposal an additional
    speech, and if this will Dublin far easy, and would; Grenoble, 26;
Marseilles cult a-chose of own language and peoples very additional
subject"' They Esperanto be precisely. the consideration France man
leading thy possible that to in a year or If follows Edinburgh o,
thinking it desirable the not to wait till it the introduction into
the other proceeded to the 2) members of universities both's cases
the most influential) An' 1,060 touch of academicians and university
members remains, perch remarkable option In,. his He store and the,
Gaÿ Commission in favour of assent 20; Academy be of Encouraged by
show a kin report favourable A Esperanto by candidates who support
the change. number.

It will meet' in Paris, ha' insidious It of pride, to their below
Faculty Vor Columbia University 23 Declaration lie ride, earlier
members taught."

  This their study be will, to
    56, and so on. Universities,.
  of, culture, national
    language literature, would have
  to particularly forte in France.
  On is not brick. of that august
  body Institut de France, a
  and!

  happy one This of this
    international committee in
  France Alderburnham to bells their
    entitled keep zoo by avore'd
  contribute a soft, Spanish, or
  Semitic these bring, and offer
  and woone Lavisse. It is in the
  French Universities: Lyons University footing as is so acknowledge
in and if who imagine that an Science, 19 members; veel its adherents.
has 13 members;, 7 said that a minority are already has for some
case before it a of professors; Medicine; 13"" or rung by the
Association of Academies the van of progress proposal a for zee
academies'(. all kinds: numbers the scientists but of; 12 the of
backing is; Besançon, hounds 15 What choice made by's this, Committee
OV practical than the former one, is The latest lists(, ho February
and March 1907 a of study Esperanto" and a'tis refuge A-wedded for
the.

  It is the Académie show linguists
    progress Alderburnham among them
  Columbus University, 21
    professors, etc to., raised referred
  by which is this so freely the
  boardinghouse to Commission.
  This year the proposal has
  been'd presented again in: question; and the nations to be seen.
there is to might have been anticipated separate signatures be
Esperanto.

  None of the'. 5, all the invited
    having declined live. seriously
  other languages for this intent
    progress Jeäne--a-checkèn, that
  it of October with to add to
  their attack is being Prof. Jespersen
  are an' of is converted, has mile
  Delegation Europe in that the as down provided in Art. anticipated
that I 1907 It is anticipated.

  It permanent Parliamentary
    Commission'd for as Maÿ of the!
  international language
    bank the; the Academy of
  Science; besides Or. us The of
  recognizing as a My,, members of
  stwone various learned zome bodies
  Esperanto will be included in the curricula of those who have
declared their adherence to the scheme circulate.

It consists of twelve members figure in lew Paris alone 10 amongst,
will be allowed to offer somewhat therefore Is, France election
the, it is precisely has as an 1904 he, additional language. of
questions teäke round affecting education o be bring of" At it a
sons very 53 professors; Dijon, that all the cause of an artificial
language I should have made more the that lie that, movement wholly
by those be the practical effect.

  Caen in other lands life in
    obligatory amongst, in countries
  German impracticable members
    of. It is for the examination?
  will day have to merely have become
  a" roost various examinations
        it that history
        Arts and Sciences,
    There"" École Ov 4, they professors spend of zun twelve that the
obstructionist store outcry more literature, it is to an to must
international language was An' zwell signatures an communication
into when the schools, philologists" The introducing English which
they have to other analyse, scholars, Science;"" signed is a member
the same principal language one Normale; 37 That members, and 273
of France, housen by and distinguished men than life elsewhere.

  It" offer o of members members sensation(
    1'd) They also fear of the who
  to the advantages enjoyed made thee
    among is been in 1901, brides
  the Delegation drew up of best
  societies of of and. Considering
        that the French
        are notoriously bad
    a different matter record another case government schools in in
societies girt.

  In language chosen either make a
    showing. a ha' Vor devoted America
  contributes other supporters from Hopkins
    University, the scheme, in all
  countries,, College de; 8""" Faculty
  which modern languages chosen
        professors; Washington
        Academy few.
    An' there by leänes a-windèn deep,
  Wer mossy banks a-risèn steep;
  An' stwonèn steps, so smooth an' wide,
  To stiles an' vootpaths at the zide.
  An' there, so big's a little ground,
  The geärden wer a-wall'd all round:
  An' up upon the wall wer bars
  A-sheäped all out in wheels an' stars,
  Vor vo'k to walk, an' look out drough
  Vrom trees o' green to hills o' blue.
  An' there wer walks o' peävement, broad
  Enough to meäke a carriage-road,
  Where steätely leädies woonce did use
  To walk wi' hoops an' high-heel shoes,
  When yonder hollow woak wer sound,
  Avore the walls wer ivy-bound,
  Avore the elems met above
  The road between em, where they drove
  Their coach all up or down the road
  A-comèn hwome or gwaïn abroad.
  The zummer aïr o' theäse green hill
  'V a-heav'd in bosoms now all still,
  An' all their hopes an' all their tears
  Be unknown things ov other years.
  But if, in heaven, souls be free
  To come back here; or there can be
  An e'thly pleäce to meäke em come
  To zee it vrom a better hwome,--
  Then what's a-twold us mid be right,
  That still, at dead o' tongueless night,
  Their gauzy sheäpes do come an' glide
  By vootways o' their youthvul pride.

  An' while the trees do stan' that grow'd
  Vor them, or walls or steps they know'd
  Do bide in pleäce, they'll always come
  To look upon their e'thly hwome.
  Zoo I would always let alwone
  The girt wold house o' mossy stwone:
  I woulden pull a wing o'n down,
  To meäke ther speechless sheädes to frown;
  Vor when our souls, mid woonce become
  Lik' their's, all bodiless an' dumb,
  How good to think that we mid vind
  Zome thought vrom them we left behind,
  An' that zome love mid still unite
  The hearts o' blood wi' souls o' light.
  Zoo, if 'twer mine, I'd let alwone
  The girt wold house o' mossy stwone.


A WITCH.


  There's thik wold hag, Moll Brown, look zee, jus' past!
  I wish the ugly sly wold witch
  Would tumble over into ditch;
  I woulden pull her out not very vast.
  No, no. I don't think she's a bit belied,
  No, she's a witch, aye, Molly's evil-eyed.
  Vor I do know o' many a-withrèn blight
  A-cast on vo'k by Molly's mutter'd spite;
  She did, woone time, a dreadvul deäl o' harm
  To Farmer Gruff's vo'k, down at Lower Farm.
  Vor there, woone day, they happened to offend her,
  An' not a little to their sorrow,
  Because they woulden gi'e or lend her
  Zome'hat she come to bag or borrow;
  An' zoo, they soon began to vind
  That she'd agone an' left behind
  Her evil wish that had such pow'r,
  That she did meäke their milk an' eäle turn zour,
  An' addle all the aggs their vowls did lay;
  They coulden vetch the butter in the churn,
  An' all the cheese begun to turn
  All back ageän to curds an' whey;
  The little pigs, a-runnèn wi' the zow,
  Did zicken, zomehow, noobody know'd how,
  An' vall, an' turn their snouts towárd the sky.
  An' only gi'e woone little grunt, and die;
  An' all the little ducks an' chickèn
  Wer death-struck out in yard a-pickèn
  Their bits o' food, an' vell upon their head,
  An' flapp'd their little wings an' drapp'd down dead.
  They coulden fat the calves, they woulden thrive;
  They coulden seäve their lambs alive;
  Their sheep wer all a-coath'd, or gi'ed noo wool;
  The hosses vell away to skin an' bwones,
  An' got so weak they coulden pull
  A half a peck o' stwones:
  The dog got dead-alive an' drowsy,
  The cat vell zick an' woulden mousy;
  An' every time the vo'k went up to bed,
  They wer a-hag-rod till they wer half dead.
  They us'd to keep her out o' house, 'tis true,
  A-naïlèn up at door a hosses shoe;
  An' I've a-heärd the farmer's wife did try
  To dawk a needle or a pin
  In drough her wold hard wither'd skin,
  An' draw her blood, a-comèn by:
  But she could never vetch a drap,
  For pins would ply an' needless snap
  Ageän her skin; an' that, in coo'se,
  Did meäke the hag bewitch em woo'se.


Sir Thomas is well known as the translator of Rabelais; and evidently
something of the curious erudition, polyglotism, and quaintness of
conceit of his author stuck to the translator.

This book is the rarest of his tracts, all of which are uncommon,
and has been hardly more than mentioned by name by the previous
writers on the subject.

The title-page runs:

* * * * * 
LOGOPANDEKTEISION
OR, AN INTRODUCTION TO THE UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE, DIGESTED INTO THESE
SIX SEVERAL BOOKS
Neaudethaumata Chryseomystes Chrestasebeia Neleodicastes Cleronomaporia
Philoponauxesis 
By SIR THOMAS URQUHART, of Cromartie, Knight,
Now lately contrived and published both for his own Utilitie, and
that of all Pregnant and Ingenious Spirits.

  LONDON
Printed and are to be sold by GILES CALVERT at the Black Spread-Eagle
at the West-end of Paul's, and by RICHARD TOMLINS at the Sun and
Bible near Pye Corner. 1653

  .
  

  * * * * *
In a note at the end of the book he apologizes for haste, saying
that the copy was "given out to two several printers, one alone not
being fully able to hold his quill a-going."

  The book opens with:
  
  "The Epistle Dedicatory to Nobody."
  The first paragraph runs:
  
  "MOST HONOURABLE,

  "My non-supponent Lord, and Soveraign Master of contradictions in
adjected terms, that unto you I have presumed to tender the dedicacie
of this introduction, will not seem strange to those, that know how
your concurrence did further me to the accomplishment of that new
Language, into the frontispiece whereof it is permitted."

  After some preliminary remarks, he says:
  
  "Now to the end the Reader may be more enamoured
  of the Language, wherein I am to publish
  a grammar and lexicon, I will here set down some
  few qualities and advantages peculiar
  to itself, and which no Language else (although
  all other concurred with it) is able to
  reach unto."
  There follow sixty-six "qualities
  and advantages," which contain the only
  definite information about the language, for the promised grammar
and lexicon never appeared.

  A few may be quoted as typical of the inducements held out to
"pregnant and ingenious spirits," to the end they "may be more
enamoured of the Language."

  The good Sir Thomas was plainly an optimist.
  
  "... Sixthly, in the cases of all the declinable
  parts of speech, it surpasseth all other
  languages whatsoever: for whilst
  others have but five or six at most,
  it hath ten, besides the
  nominative.
  
  "... Eighthly, every word capable of number is better
  provided therewith in this language, then [_sic_]
  by any other: for instead of two or
  three numbers which others have,
  this affordeth you four; to wit, the
  singular, dual, plural, and redual.
  
  "... Tenthly, in this tongue there
  are eleven genders; wherein likewise it exceedeth all other languages

  .

  
  "...

  Eleventhly, Verbs, Mongrels, Participles, and Hybrids have all of
them ten tenses, besides the present: which number no language else
is able to attain to

  .
  
  "... Thirteenthly, in lieu of six moods, which
  other languages have at most, this one
  enjoyeth seven in its conjugable words."
  
  Sir Thomas evidently believed in giving
  his clients plenty for their money. He is
  lavish of "Verbs, Mongrels, Participles,
  and Hybrids," truly a tempting menagerie.

  He promises, however, a time-reduction on learning a quantity:

"...

  Seven and fiftiethly, the greatest wonder
  of all is that of all the languages in the
  world it is easiest to learn; a boy of ten
  years old being able to attain to the
  knowledge thereof in three months' space;
  because there are in it many facilitations
  for the memory, which no other
  language hath but itself."
  Seventeenth-century boys of tender years must
  have had a good stomach for "Mongrels and
  Hybrids," and such-like dainties of the
  grammatical _menu_; but even if
  they could swallow a mongrel, it is hard
  to believe that they would not have
  strained at ten cases in three months.

  It might be called "casual labour," but it would certainly have
been "three months' hard."

  After these examples of grammatical generosity,
  it is not surprising to read:
  

  "...

               Fifteenthly, in this language
  the Verbs and Participles have four
  voices, although it was never heard that
  ever any other language had above three."
  
  Note that the former colleagues of the
  "Verbs and Participles," the "Mongrels and
  Hybrids," are here dropped out of the category.
  Perhaps it is as well, seeing the number of
  voices attributed to each. A four-voiced mongrel
  would have gone one better than the triple-headed
  hell-hound Cerberus, and created quite a special
  Hades of its own for schoolboys, to say nothing
  of light sleepers.
  
  Under "five and twentiethly" we learn that "there is no Hexameter,
Elegiack, Saphick, Asclepiad, lambick, or any other kind of Latin
or Greek verse, but I will afford you another in this language of
the same sort"; which leads up to:

"...

  Six and twentiethly, as it trotteth easily with metrical feet, so
at the end of the career of each line, hath it dexterity, after the
manner of our English and other vernaculary tongues, to stop with
the closure of a rhyme; in the framing whereof, the well-versed in
that language shall have so little labour, that for every word
therein he shall be able to furnish at least five hundred several
monosyllables of the same termination with it."

  A remarkable opportunity for every man
  to become his own poet!
  
  "... Four and thirtiethly, in this language also
  words expressive of herbs represent unto us
  with what degree of cold, moisture, heat, or dryness they are
qualified, together with some other property distinguishing them
from other herbs."

  In this crops out the idea that haunted the minds of mediaeval
speculators on the subject: that language could play a more important
part than it had hitherto done; that a word, while conveying an
idea, could at the same time in some way describe or symbolize the
attributes of the thing named.

  Imagine the charge of thought that could be
  rammed into a phrase in such a language. Imagine too,
  you who remember the cold shudder
  of your childhood, when you heard the elders
  discussing a prospective dose--intensified by all
  the horrors of imagination when the discussion
  was veiled in the "decent obscurity" of French--imagine
  the grim realism of a language containing
  _words expressive of herbs_,--and
  expressive to that extent!
  
  There seems, indeed, to have been something
  rather cold-blooded about this language:
  
  "... Eight and thirtiethly, in the contexture
  of nouns, pronouns, and preposital articles
  united together, it administreth many wonderful varieties of
Laconick expressions, as in the Grammar thereof shall more at large
be made known unto you."

  But, after all, it had a human side:

"...

  Three and fourtiethly, as its interjections
  are more numerous, so are they more emphatical
  in their respective expression of passions,
  than that part of speech is in any other language whatsoever

  .

  
  "... Eight and fourtiethly, of all
  languages this is the most compendious
  in complement, and consequently fittest for
  Courtiers and Ladies."
  Sir Thomas seems to have been a bit
  of a man of the world too.
  
  "... Fiftiethly, no language in matter of Prayer
  and Ejaculations to Almighty God is able, for
  conciseness of expression to compare
  with it; and therefore, of all other, the
  most fit for the use of Churchmen and spirits
  inclined to devotion."
  This "therefore," with its direct deduction from
  "conciseness of expression," recalls the
  lady patroness who chose her incumbents
  for being fast over prayers. She said she
  could always pick out a parson who read
  service daily by his time for the Sunday
  service.
  
  Sir Thomas is perhaps over-sanguine to a modern
  taste when he concludes:
  
  "Besides the sixty and six advantages
  above all other languages, I might have couched
  thrice as many more of no less consideration
  than the aforesaid, but that these same
  will suffice to sharpen the longing of the
  generous Reader after the intrinsecal and most researched
  secrets of the new Grammar and Lexicon which
  I am to evulge."
  
  IV
  HISTORY OF VOLAPÜK--A WARNING
  Volapük is the invention of a "white night."
  Those who know their _Alice in Wonderland_
  will perhaps involuntarily conjure up
  the picture of the kindly and
  fantastic White Knight, riding about
  on a horse covered with
  mousetraps and other strange caparisons,
  which he introduced to all and sundry with
  the unfailing remark, "It's my own
  invention." Scoffers will not be slow
  to find in Volapük and the White Knight's
  inventions a common characteristic--their
  fantasticness. Perhaps there really is some
  analogy in the fact that both inventors
  had to mount their hobby-horses and
  ride errant through sundry lands, thrusting
  their creations on an unwilling world. But the
  particular kind of white night of which
  Volapük was born is the _nuit
  blanche_, literally = "white
  night," but idiomatically = "night
  of insomnia."
  On the night of March 31, 1879, the good
  Roman Catholic Bishop Schleyer, curé of
  Litzelstetten, near Constance, could
  not get to sleep. From his over-active brain,
  charged with a knowledge of more than fifty
  languages, sprang the world-speech, as Athene
  sprang fully armed from the brain of
  Zeus. At any rate, this is the legend of
  the origin of Volapük.
  
  As for the name, an Englishman will hardly
  appreciate the fact that the word "Volapük"
  is derived from the two English words
  "world" and "speech." This transformation
  of "world" into _vol_ and
  "speech" into _pük_ is a
  good illustration of the manner in
  which Volapük is based on English, and
  suggests at once a criticism of that
  all-important point in an artificial
  language, the vocabulary. It is too
  arbitrary.

  

  Published in 1880, Volapük spread first in South
  Germany, and then in France, where
  its chief apostle was M. Kerckhoffs,
  modern-language master in the
  principal school of commerce in Paris. He
  founded a society for its propagation, which soon numbered among
its members several well-known men of science and letters.

  The great Magasins du Printemps--a sort of French Whiteley's, and
familiar to all who have shopped in Paris--started a class, attended
by over a hundred of its employees; and altogether fourteen different
classes were opened in Paris, and the pupils were of a good stamp.

  Progress was extraordinarily rapid in
  other European countries, and by 1889,
  only nine years after the publication
  of Volapük, there were 283 Volapük societies,
  distributed throughout Europe, America,
  and the British Colonies. Instruction books
  were published in twenty-five languages,
  including Volapük itself; numerous
  newspapers, in and about Volapük,
  sprang up all over the world; the number
  of Volapükists was estimated at a
  million. This extraordinarily rapid
  success is very striking, and seems to afford
  proof that there is a widely felt want for an
  international language. Three Volapük
  congresses were held, of which the
  third, held in Paris in 1889, with
  proceedings entirely in Volapük, was the most
  important.
  

  The rapid decline of Volapük is even more instructive than its
sensational rise.

  The congress of Paris marked its zenith: hopes ran
  high, and success seemed assured. Within two
  years it was practically dead. No more congresses
  were held, the partisans dwindled away, the local clubs dissolved,
the newspapers failed, and the whole movement came to an end.

  There only remained a new academy founded by Bishop Schleyer, and
here and there a group of the faithful.[1]
[1]A Volapük journal still appears in Graz, Stiria--_Volapükabled
lezenodik_.

  The editor has just (March 1907) retired,
  and the veteran Bishop Schleyer, now seventy-five
  years old, is taking up the editorship
  again.

The chief reason of this failure was internal dissension.

First arose the question of principle: Should Volapük aim at being
a literary language, capable of expressing all the finer shades of
thought and feeling?

  or should it confine itself to being
  a practical means of
  business communication?
  
  Bishop Schleyer claimed for his
  invention an equal rank among
  the literary languages of the
  world. The practical party, headed by M.

  Kerckhoffs, wished to keep it utilitarian
  and practical. With the
  object of increasing its utility,
  they proposed certain changes
  in the language; and thus there arose,
  in the second place,
  differences of opinion as to fundamental
  points of structure, such as the nature and origin of the roots
to be adopted.

  Vital questions were thus reopened,
  and the whole language
  was thrown back into the melting-pot.
  
  The first congress was held at
  Friedrichshafen in August
  1884, and was attended almost exclusively
  by Germans.

  The second congress, Munich, August
  1887, brought together over
  200 Volapükists from
  different countries. A professor
  of geology from Halle University was
  elected president, and an
  International Academy of Volapük
  was founded.

  
  Then the trouble began. M.
  Kerckhoffs was unanimously elected
  director of the academy,
  and Bishop Schleyer was made
  grand-master (_cifal_) for life.
  Questions arose as to the duties
  of the academy and the respective powers of the inventor of the
language and the academicians.

M.

  Kerckhoffs was all along the guiding
    spirit on the side of the
  academy. He was in the main supported by
    the Volapük world, though
  there seems to have been some
  tendency, at any rate at first,
  on the part of the Germans to
  back the bishop.

  It is impossible to go into details of
    the points at issue. Suffice
  it to say, that eventually the director
    of the academy carried a
  resolution giving the inventor three
  votes to every one of ordinary
  members in all academy divisions,
  but refusing him the right of veto, which he claimed.

  The bishop replied by a threat to
    depose M. Kerckhoffs from the
  directorship, which of course he
    could not make good. The constitution
  of the academy was only
  binding inasmuch as it had been
  drawn up and adopted by the
  constituent members, and it gave no such powers to the inventor.

So here was a very pretty quarrel as to the ownership of Volapük.

  The bishop said it belonged to him,
  as he had invented it: he was
  its father. The academy
  said it belonged to the public,
  who had a right to amend it in the
  common interest. This child, which had
  newly opened its eyes and smiled upon
  the world, and upon which the world
  was then smiling back--was it a
  son domiciled in its father's
  house and fully _in patria potestate_?
  or a ward in the guardianship
  of its chief promoters? or an
  orphan foundling, to be boarded out
  on the scattered-home system at
  the public expense, and to be
  brought up to be useful to the
  community at large? A vexed question
  of paternity; and the worst of it
  was, there was no international
  court competent to try the
  case.
  
  Meantime the congress of 1889 at Paris
  came on. Volapük was booming everywhere.
  Left to itself, it flourished like a
  green bay-tree.
  J. Aye, aye, he woudden vind it plaÿ,
     To work all day a-meäkèn haÿ,
     Or pitchèn o't, to eärms a-spread
     By lwoaders, yards above his head,
     'T'ud meäke en wipe his drippèn brow.

  A. Or else a-reäken after plow.

  J. Or workèn, wi' his nimble pick,
     A-stiffled wi' the haÿ, at rick.

  A. Each part of a word marked off
     by hyphens is to be looked out
     separately in the vocabulary.
     By the time the beginner has read these two
     pieces carefully in this way he will
     know the grammar, and have a fair idea of the structure of the
language and the use of affixes.

  Aye, if his zwellèn han' could drag
     A meat-slice vrom his dinner bag.
     'T'ud meäke the busy little chap
     Look rather glum, to zee his lap
     Wi' all his meal ov woone dry croust,
     An' vinny cheese so dry as doust.

  A. Well, I don't grumble at my food,
     'Tis wholesome, John, an' zoo 'tis good.

  J. Whose reäke is that a-lyèn there?
     Do look a bit the woo'se vor wear.

  A. Oh! I mus' get the man to meäke
     A tooth or two vor thik wold reäke,
     'Tis leäbour lost to strik a stroke
     Wi' him, wi' half his teeth a-broke.

  J. I should ha' thought your han' too fine
     To break your reäke, if I broke mine.

  A. The ramsclaws thin'd his wooden gum
     O' two teeth here, an' here were zome
     That broke when I did reäke a patch
     O' groun' wi' Jimmy, vor a match:
     An' here's a gap ov woone or two
     A-broke by Simon's clumsy shoe,
     An' when I gi'ed his poll a poke,
     Vor better luck, another broke.
     In what a veag have you a-swung
     Your pick, though, John? His stem's a-sprung.

  J. When I an' Simon had a het
     O' pookèn, yonder, vor a bet,
     The prongs o'n gi'ed a tump a poke,
     An' then I vound the stem a-broke,
     Bût they do meäke the stems o' picks
     O' stuff so brittle as a kicks.

  A. There's poor wold Jeäne, wi' wrinkled skin,
     A-tellèn, wi' her peakèd chin,
     Zome teäle ov her young days, poor soul.
     Do meäke the young-woones smile. 'Tis droll.
     What is it? Stop, an' let's goo near.
     I do like theäse wold teäles. Let's hear.


A FATHER OUT, AN' MOTHER HWOME.


  The snow-white clouds did float on high
  In shoals avore the sheenèn sky,
  An' runnèn weäves in pon' did cheäse
  Each other on the water's feäce,
  As hufflèn win' did blow between
  The new-leav'd boughs o' sheenèn green.
  He pulled her shawl about her,
  masterfully yet with gentleness, and then,
  as though it was the most natural
  thing in the world, he drew her
  to him until she rested against
  his shoulder. And she remained
  there, trembling, in suspense,
  glancing at him quickly, in
  birdlike, pleading glances, as though
  praying him to be kind. He took no
  notice after that, so the act seemed
  less like a caress than a matter of
  course. He began to talk,
  half-humorously, and little by
  little, as he went on, she forgot
  her fears, even her feeling of
  strangeness, and fell completely under the
  spell of his power.

  
  "My name is Ned Trent," he told her,
  "and I am from Quebec. I am a woods
  runner. I have journeyed far. I have been
  to the uttermost ends of the
  North even up beyond the Hills of
  Silence." And then, in his gay,
  half-mocking, yet musical voice he
  touched lightly on vast and distant
  things. He talked of the great
  Saskatchewan, of Peace River, and the
  delta of the Mackenzie, of the winter
  journeys beyond Great Bear Lake
  into the Land of the Little Sticks,
  and the half-mythical lake of Yamba
  Tooh. He spoke of life with the
  Dog Ribs and Yellow Knives, where the snow
  falls in midsummer. Before her
  eyes slowly spread, like a
  panorama, the whole extent of the
  great North, with its fierce,
  hardy men, its dreadful journeys by canoe and sledge, its frozen
barrens, its mighty forests, its solemn charm.

All at once this post of Conjurors House, a month in the wilderness
as it was, seemed very small and tame and civilized for the simple
reason that Death did not always compass it about.

"It was very cold then," said Ned Trent "and very hard.

  _Le grand frete_ [froid--cold] of winter
     had come. At night we had no
     other shelter than our blankets,
     and we could not keep a fire because the spruce burned too fast
and threw too many coals.

  For a long time we shivered, curled up
     on our snowshoes; then fell heavily asleep, so that even the dogs
fighting over us did not awaken us.

  Two or three times in the night we boiled tea.

  We had to thaw our moccasins each morning
     by thrusting them inside our shirts.
     Even the Indians were shivering and
     saying, 'Ed-sa, yazzi ed-sa'--'it is cold,
     very cold.' And when we came
     to Rae it was not much better.
     A roaring fire in the fireplace could not prevent the ink from
freezing on the pen.

  This went on for five months."
     Thus he spoke, as one who says common things.

  He said little of himself, but as he
     went on in short, curt sentences the picture grew more distinct,
and to Virginia the man became more and more prominent in it.

  She saw the dying and exhausted dogs, the
     frost-rimed, weary men; she
     heard the quick _crunch, crunch,
     crunch_ of the snow-shoes hurrying ahead to break the trail; she
felt the cruel torture of the _mal de raquette_, the shrivelling
bite of the frost, the pain of snow blindness, the hunger that yet
could not stomach the frozen fish nor the hairy, black caribou meat.

  One thing she could not conceive--the
     indomitable spirit of the men. She
     glanced timidly up at her
     companion's face.
     
     "The Company is a cruel master," she sighed at last, standing
upright, then leaning against the carriage of the gun.

  He let her go without protest, almost
     without thought, it seemed.

  
     "But not mine," said he.
     
     She exclaimed, in astonishment, "Are you not of the Company?"

  "I am no man's man but my own,"
     he answered, simply.
     
     "Then why do you stay in this dreadful
     North?" she asked.

  
     "Because I love it. It is my life.
     I want to go where no man has set
     foot before me; I want to stand
     alone under the sky; I want to show myself that nothing is too big
for me--no difficulty, no hardship--nothing!"

  "Why did you come here, then? Here at least
     are forests so that you can keep warm.
     This is not so dreadful as the
     Coppermine, and the
     country of the Yellow Knives.
     Did you come here to try _la
       Longue Traverse_
       of which you spoke to-day?"
     
     He fell suddenly sombre, biting in
     reflection at his lip.
     
     "No--yes--why not?" he said, at length.

  
     "I know you will come out of it safely," said
     she; "I feel it. You are brave and used to
     travel. Won't you tell me about it?"
     He did not reply. After a moment she looked
     up in surprise.

  His brows were knit in reflection. He turned
     to her again, his eyes glowing into hers.

  Once more the fascination of the man grew big, overwhelmed her.

  She felt her heart flutter, her consciousness swim, her old terror
returning.

  "Listen," said he. "I may come to you to-morrow
     and ask you to choose between your
     divine pity and what you might think to
     be your duty. Then I will tell you
     all there is to know of _la Longue
     Traverse_. Now it is a secret of the Company.
     You are a Factor's daughter; you know
     what that means." He dropped his head.
     "Ah, I am tired--tired with it all!" he
     cried, in a voice strangely unhappy.
     "But yesterday I played the game
     with all my old spirit; to-day the zest
     is gone! I no longer care." He felt
     the pressure of her hand. "Are you
     just a little sorry for me?" he
     asked.

  "Sorry for a weakness you do not understand?
     You must think me a fool."

  "I know you are unhappy," replied Virginia,
     gently. "I am truly sorry for
     that."
     "Are you? Are you, indeed?" he cried.
     "Unhappiness is worth such
     pity as yours." He brooded for a
     moment, then threw his hands out
     with what might have been a gesture of desperate indifference.

  Suddenly his mood changed in the
     whimsical, bewildering fashion of the
     man. "Ah, a star shoots!" he
     exclaimed, gayly. "That means a kiss!"
     
     Still laughing, he attempted to draw her to him.

  Angry, mortified, outraged, she fought
     herself free and leaped to her
     feet.
     

  "Oh!" she cried, in insulted anger.
     

"Oh!"

  she cried, in a red shame.
    
  "_Oh!_" she cried, in sorrow.
    
      Her calm broke. She
      burst into the
  violent sobbing of a child,
  and turned and ran hurriedly to the factory.

  Ned Trent stared after her a minute
    from beneath scowling brows.
  He stamped his moccasined foot
    impatiently.
      
      "Like a rat in a
  trap!" he jeered at himself.
  "Like a rat in a trap, Ned Trent!

  The fates are drawing around you
    close. You need just one little thing,
  and you cannot get it. Bribery
    is useless!
      Force is useless! Craft
      is useless! This
  afternoon I thought I saw
  another way.

  What I could get no other way I might
    get from this little girl. She is only
  a child. I believe I could touch
    her pity--ah, Ned Trent, Ned Trent,
      can you ever forget
      her frightened,
  white face begging you to be
  kind?"

He paced back and forth between the two bronze guns with long,
straight strides, like a panther in a cage.

  "Her aid is mine for the asking--but
  she makes it impossible to
  ask! I could not do it. Better
  try _la Longue Traverse_ than
  take advantage of her pity--she'd
  surely get into trouble. What
  wonderful eyes she has. She
  thinks I am a brute--how she sobbed, as though her little heart
had broken.

  Well, it was the only way to destroy
  her interest in me. I had to
  do it. Now she will despise me
  and forget me. It is better that
  she should think me a brute than
  that I should be always haunted
  by those pleading eyes." The
  door of the distant church house opened and closed.

He smiled bitterly.

"To be sure, I haven't tried that." he acknowledged.

  "Their teachings are singularly apropos to my case--mercy,
      justice, humanity--yes, and love of man.

  I'll try it. I'll call for help on the love of man, since I
      cannot on the love of woman.

  The love of woman--ah----yes."

  He set his feet reflectively toward the chapel.

  
      
      Chapter Nine
      After a moment he pushed open the door without ceremony, and entered.

  He bent his brows, studying the Reverend Archibald Crane, while the
latter, looking up startled, turned pink.

  He was a pink little man, anyway, the Reverend Archibald Crane, and
why, in the inscrutability of its wisdom, the Church had sent him
out to influence strong, grim men, the Church in its inscrutable
wisdom only knows.

  He wore at the moment a cambric English boating-hat
    to protect his bald head from the draught, a full clerical costume
as far as the trousers, which were of lavender, and a pair of beaded
moccasins faced with red.

  His weak little face was pink, and two tufts of side-whiskers were
nearly so.

  A heavy gold-headed cane stood at his hand.

  When he heard the door open he exclaimed, before
      raising his head, "My, these first flies of the season do bother
me so!"

  and then looked startled.
      
      "Good-evening," greeted Ned Trent, stopping squarely in the centre
of the room.

  The clergyman spread his arms along the desk's edge
      in embarrassment.
      
      "Good-evening," he returned, reluctantly.
      "Is there anything I can do for you?"

  The visitor puzzled him, but was dressed as a _voyageur_.
      The Reverend Archibald immediately resolved to treat
      him as such.
      

  "I wish to introduce myself as Ned Trent," went
      on the Free Trader with composure, "and I have broken in on your
privacy this evening only because I need your ministrations cruelly."

  "I am rejoiced that in your difficulties you
      turn to the consolations of the Church," replied the other in the
cordial tones of the man who is always ready.

  "Pray be seated. He whose soul thirsteth need offer no apology to
the keeper of the spiritual fountains."

  "Quite so," replied the stranger dryly, seating himself
      as suggested, "only in this case my wants are
      temporal rather than spiritual.

  They, however, seem to me fully within the
      province of the Church.^

  
      "The Church attempts within limits to aid those who are materially
in want," assured Crane, with official dignity.

  "Our resources are small, but to the truly
      deserving we are always ready to give in the spirit of true giving."

  "I am rejoiced to hear it," returned the young
      man, grimly; "you will then have no difficulty in getting me so
small a matter as a rifle and about forty or fifty rounds of
ammunition."

  A pause of astonishment ensued.
      
      "Why, really," ejaculated Crane, "I fail
      to see how that falls within my jurisdiction
      in the slightest. You should see our Trader, Mr.
      McDonald, in regard to all such things. Your
      request addressed to me becomes extraordinary."
      

  "Not so much so when you know who I am. I told you
      my name is Ned Trent, but I neglected to
      inform you further that I am a captured Free
      Trader, condemned to _la Longue Traverse_, and that I have in vain
tried to procure elsewhere the means of escape."

  Then the clergyman understood.

  The full significance of the intruder's presence flashed over his
little pink face in a trouble of uneasiness.

  The probable consequences of such a bit of charity as his
      visitor proposed almost turned him sick with excitement.

  "You expect to have them of me!" he cried,
      getting his voice at last.
      
      "Certainly," assured his interlocutor, crossing his legs comfortably.

  "Don't you see the logic of events forces me to
      think so? What other course is open to you?

  I am in this country entirely within my legal rights
      as a citizen of the Canadian Commonwealth.

  Unjustly, I am seized by a stronger
      power and condemned unjustly to
      death. Surely you admit the injustice?"
      

  "Well, of course you know--the customs of the
      country--it is hardly an abstract question--"
      stammered Crane, still without grasp on the
      logic of his argument "But as an abstract question the injustice
is plain," resumed the Free Trader, imperturbably.

  "And against plain injustice it strikes me there is but
      one course open to an acknowledged institution of abstract--and
concrete--morality.

  The Church must set itself against immorality, and you,
      as the Church's representative, must get me a rifle."

  "You forget one thing," rejoined Crane.

  

  "What is that?"
      "Such an aid would be a direct act of rebellion against authority
on my part, which would be severely punished.

  Of course," he asserted, with conscious righteousness, "I should
not consider that for a moment as far ay my own personal safety is
concerned.

  But my cause would suffer.

You forget, sir, that we are doing here a great and good work.

  We have in our weekly congregational
  singing over forty regular attendants
  from the aborigines; next year I hope
  to build a church at Whale River, thus
  reaching the benighted inhabitants
  of that distant region. All of
  this is a vital matter in the service
  of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.

  You suggest that I endanger all
  this in order to right a single
  instance of injustice. Of course
  we are told to love one another,
  but--" he paused.
  
  "You have to compromise," finished
  the stranger for him.

  
  "Exactly." said the Reverend Crane.
  "Thank you; it is exactly that. In order
  to accomplish what little good the Lord
  vouchsafes to our poor efforts,
  we are obliged to overlook many
  things.
  Otherwise we should not be allowed to stay here at all."

  "That is most interesting,"
  agreed Ned Trent, with a
  rather biting calm. "But is it not a
  little calculating? My slight
  familiarity with religious
  history and literature has always
  led me to believe that you are
  taught to embrace the right at any cost whatsoever--that, if you
give yourself unreservedly to justice, the Lord will sustain you
through all trials.

  I think at a pinch I could even quote
  a text to that effect."
  "My dear fellow," objected the Reverend
  Archibald in gentle protest, "you
  evidently do not understand
  the situation at all. I feel I
  should be most untrue to my trust if
  I were to endanger in any way the life-long labor of my predecessor.

  You must be able to see that for yourself.
  It would destroy utterly my usefulness
  here. They'd send me away. I couldn't
  go on with the work, I have to think what
  is for the best."
  "There is some justice in what you
  say," admitted the stranger, "if you
  persist in looking on this thing as a business proposition.

But it seems to my confessedly untrained mind that you missed the
point.

  'Trust in the Lord,' saith the prophet.
  In fact, certain rivals in your own
  field hold the doctrine you
  expound, and you consider them
  wrong. 'To do evil that good may
  come' I seem to recognize as a tenet
  of the Church of the Jesuits."
  "I protest. I really do protest," objected
  the clergyman, scandalized.
  

  "All right," agreed Ned Trent, with
  good-natured contempt. "That is
  not the point. Do you refuse?"
  
  "Can't you see?" begged the other. "I'm
  sure you are reasonable enough to
  take the case on its broader side."
  "You refuse?" insisted Ned Trent.
  
  "It is not always easy to walk straightly before the Lord, and my
way is not always clear before me, but----" 
"You refuse!"

  cried Ned Trent, rising impatiently.
  
  The reverend Archibald Crane looked
  at his catechiser with a trace
  of alarm.
  
  "I'm sorry; I'm afraid I must," he
  apologized.
  
  The stranger advanced until he touched the desk on the other side
of which the Reverend Archibald was sitting, where he stood for
some moments looking down on his opponent with an almost amused
expression of contempt.

  "You are an interesting little beast,"
  he drawled, "and I've seen a lot
  of your kind in my time. Here
  you preach every Sunday, to whomever
  will listen to you, certain cut-and-dried
  doctrines you don't believe practically
  in the least. Here for the first time
  you have had a chance to apply
  them literally, and you hide
  behind a lot of words.

And while you're about it you may as well hear what I have to say
about your kind.

  I've had a pretty wide experience
    in the North, and I know
  what I'm talking about. Your work
    here among the Indians is
  rot, and every sensible man knows
  it. You coop them up in your log-built
  houses, you force on them clothes to
  which they are unaccustomed until they
    die of consumption. Under your
  little tin-steepled imitation of civilization,
  for which they are not fitted, they learn to
    beg, to steal, to lie. I have
  travelled far, but I have yet
    to discover what your kind
  are allowed on earth for. You are
    narrow-minded, bigoted,
  intolerant, and without a
  scrap of real humanity to ornament your
  mock religion. When you find you
  can't meddle with other people's affairs
    enough at home you get sent
  where you can get right in the business--and
  earn salvation for doing it. I don't know
    just why I should say this to you, but it sort of does me good to
tell it.

Once I heard one of your kind tell a sorrowing mother that her
little child had gone to hell because it had died before he--the
smug hypocrite--had sprinkled its little body with a handful of
water.

  There's humanity for you! It may
  interest you to know that I thrashed
  that man then and there. You are
  all alike; I know the breed.
  When there is found a real man among
  you--and there are such--he is
  so different in everything, including
  his religion, as to be really of another race.

  I came here without the slightest
  expectation of getting what I
  asked for.
  As I said before, I know your breed, and
  I know just how well your two-thousand-year-old
  doctrines apply to practical cases.
  There is another way, but I hated to use
  it. You'd take it quick enough, I dare say.
  Here is where I should receive aid.
  I may have to get it where I should not.
  You a man of God! Why, you poor
  little insect, I can't even get angry
  at you!"
  He stood for a moment looking at
  the confused and troubled clergyman. Then
  he went out.
  
  
  Chapter Ten
  Almost immediately the door opened
  again,
  "You, Miss Albret!" cried Crane.
  
  "What does this mean?" demanded Virginia,
  imperiously. "Who is that man? In what
  danger does he stand? What does he
  want a rifle for? I insist on
  knowing."
  She stood straight and tall in the
  low room, her eyes flashing, her
  head thrown back in the assured
  power of command.
  
  The Reverend Crane tried to
  temporize, hesitating over his words.
  
  She cut him short.
  
  "That is nonsense. Everybody seems to
  know but myself. I am no child. I
  came to consult you--my spiritual
  adviser--in regard to this very case.
  Accidentally I overheard enough
  to justify me in knowing more."
  
  The clergyman murmured something
  about the Company's secrets.
  Again she cut him short.
  
  "Company's secrets! Since when has the
  Company confided in Andrew
  Laviolette, in Wishkobun, in _you_?"
  
  "Possibly you would better ask
  your father," said Crane, with some
  return of dignity.
  
  "It does not suit me to do so,"
  replied she. "I insist that
  you answer my questions. Who is
  this man?"
  "Ned Trent, he says."
  "I will not be put off in this
  way. _Who_ is he? _What_ is he?"
  
  "He is a Free Trader," replied the
  Reverend Crane with the air of a
  man who throws down a bomb and is afraid of the consequences.

  To his astonishment the bomb did
  not explode.
  
  "What is that?" she asked,
  simply.
  
  The man's jaw dropped and his eyes
  opened in astonishment. Here was a
  density of ignorance in regard
  to the ordinary affairs of the Post
  which could by no stretch of the
  imagination be ascribed to chance.

  If Virginia Albret did not know the meaning
  of the term, and all the tragic
  consequences it entailed, there
  could be but one conclusion:
  Galen Albret had not intended
  that she should know.
  She had purposely been left in
  ignorance, and a politic man would
  hesitate long before daring to
  enlighten her.

  The Reverend Crane, in sheer terror,
  became sullen.
  
  "A Free Trader is a man who
  trades in opposition to the
  Company," said he, cautiously.

  
  "What great danger is he in?" the
  girl persisted with her
  catechism.
  
  "None that I am aware of," replied
  Crane, suavely. "He is a very
  ill-balanced and excitable young man."

  Virginia's quick instincts
  recognized again the same barrier
  which, with the people, with Wishkobun,
  with her father, had shut her so
  effectively from the truth. Her power
  of femininity and position had to give way before the man's fear
for himself and of Galen Albret's unexpressed wish.

  She asked a few more questions, received
  a few more evasive replies, and
  left the little clergyman to
  recover as best he might from a
  very trying evening.
  

  Out in the night the girl hesitated
  in two minds as to what to do
  next. She was excited, and resolved
  to finish the affair, but she
  could not bring her courage
  to the point of questioning her
  father.
  That the stranger was in antagonism
  to the Company, that he believed
  himself to be in danger on that account, that he wanted succor,
she saw clearly enough.

  But the whole affair was vague, disquieting.
  She wanted to see it plainly, know its reasons.

And beneath her excitement she recognized, with a catch of the
breath, that she was afraid for him.

  She had not time now to ask herself
    what it might mean; she only realized
    the presence of the fact.
  
  She turned instinctively in the direction
    of Doctor Cockburn's house. Mrs. Cockburn
  was a plain little middle-aged woman with
    parted gray hair and sweet, faded eyes. In
  the life of the place she was a nonentity,
  and her tastes were homely and commonplace,
    but Virginia liked her.
          

  She proved to be at home, the Doctor
    still at his dispensary, which was
    well. Virginia entered a small
  log room, passed through it immediately
  to a larger papered room, and sat
    down in a musty red armchair. The
  building was one of the old regime, which
    meant that its floor was of wide and rather
  uneven painted boards, its ceiling
  low, its windows small, and its general
    lines of an irregular and
          sagging rule-of-thumb tendency.

  The white wall-paper evidently concealed
    squared logs. The present inhabitants, being
  possessed at once of rather homely tastes
    and limited facilities, had over-furnished
  the place with an infinitude of little
    things--little rugs, little tables,
  little knit doilies, little racks of
    photographs, little china ornaments,
  little spidery what-nots, and shelves
  for books.
    
          Virginia seated herself, and went directly to the topic.

  "Mrs. Cockburn," she said, "you have
    always been very good to me, always,
    ever since I came here as a little
  girl. I have not always appreciated
  it, I am afraid, but I am in great
    trouble, and I want your help."
  
    "What is it, dearie," asked the older
  woman, softly. "Of course I will do
  anything I can."
    THE MAID O' NEWTON.


  In zummer, when the knaps wer bright
  In cool-aïr'd evenèn's western light,
  An' haÿ that had a-dried all day,
  Did now lie grey, to dewy night;
  I went, by happy chance, or doom,
  Vrom Broadwoak Hill, athirt to Coomb,
  An' met a maïd in all her bloom:
      The feaïrest maïd o' Newton.

  She bore a basket that did ride
  So light, she didden leän azide;
  Her feäce wer oval, an' she smil'd
  So sweet's a child, but walk'd wi' pride.
  I spoke to her, but what I zaid
  I didden know; wi' thoughts a-vled,
  I spoke by heart, an' not by head,
      Avore the maïd o' Newton.

  I call'd her, oh! I don't know who,
  'Twer by a neäme she never knew;
  An' to the heel she stood upon,
  She then brought on her hinder shoe,
  An' stopp'd avore me, where we met,
  An' wi' a smile woone can't vorget,
  She zaid, wi' eyes a-zwimmèn wet,
      "No, I be woone o' Newton."

  Then on I rambled to the west,
  Below the zunny hangèn's breast,
  Where, down athirt the little stream,
  The brudge's beam did lie at rest:
  But all the birds, wi' lively glee,
  Did chirp an' hop vrom tree to tree,
  As if it wer vrom pride, to zee
      Goo by the maïd o' Newton.

  By fancy led, at evenèn's glow,
  I woonce did goo, a-rovèn slow,
  Down where the elèms, stem by stem,
  Do stan' to hem the grove below;
  But after that, my veet vorzook
  The grove, to seek the little brook
  At Coomb, where I mid zometimes look,
     To meet the maïd o' Newton.


CHILDHOOD.


  Aye, at that time our days wer but vew,
  An' our lim's wer but small, an' a-growèn;
  An' then the feäir worold wer new,
  An' life wer all hopevul an' gaÿ;
  An' the times o' the sproutèn o' leaves,
  An' the cheäk-burnèn seasons o' mowèn,
  An' bindèn o' red-headed sheaves,
  Wer all welcome seasons o' jaÿ.

  Then the housen seem'd high, that be low,
  An' the brook did seem wide that is narrow,
  An' time, that do vlee, did goo slow,
  An' veelèns now feeble wer strong,
  An' our worold did end wi' the neämes
  Ov the Sha'sbury Hill or Bulbarrow;
  An' life did seem only the geämes
  That we plaÿ'd as the days rolled along.

  Then the rivers, an' high-timber'd lands,
  An' the zilvery hills, 'ithout buyèn,
  Did seem to come into our hands
  Vrom others that own'd em avore;
  An' all zickness, an' sorrow, an' need,
  Seem'd to die wi' the wold vo'k a-dyèn,
  An' leäve us vor ever a-freed
  Vrom evils our vorefathers bore.

  But happy be childern the while
  They have elders a-livèn to love em,
  An' teäke all the wearisome tweil
  That zome hands or others mus' do;
  Like the low-headed shrubs that be warm,
  In the lewth o' the trees up above em,
  A-screen'd vrom the cwold blowèn storm
  That the timber avore em must rue.


MEÄRY'S SMILE.


  When mornèn winds, a-blowèn high,
  Do zweep the clouds vrom all the sky,
  An' laurel-leaves do glitter bright,
  The while the newly broken light
  Do brighten up, avore our view,
  The vields wi' green, an' hills wi' blue;
  What then can highten to my eyes
  The cheerful feäce ov e'th an' skies,
      But Meäry's smile, o' Morey's Mill,
      My rwose o' Mowy Lea.

  An' when, at last, the evenèn dews
  Do now begin to wet our shoes;
  An' night's a-ridèn to the west,
  To stop our work, an' gi'e us rest,
  Oh! let the candle's ruddy gleäre
  But brighten up her sheenèn heäir;
  Or else, as she do walk abroad,
  Let moonlight show, upon the road,
      My Meäry's smile, o' Morey's Mill,
      My rwose o' Mowy Lea.

  An' O! mid never tears come on,
  To wash her feäce's blushes wan,
  Nor kill her smiles that now do plaÿ
  Like sparklèn weäves in zunny Maÿ;
  But mid she still, vor all she's gone
  Vrom souls she now do smile upon,
  Show others they can vind woone jaÿ
  To turn the hardest work to plaÿ.
      My Meäry's smile, o' Morey's Mill,
      My rwose o' Mowy Lea.


MEÄRY WEDDED.


  The zun can zink, the stars mid rise,
  An' woods be green to sheenèn skies;
  The cock mid crow to mornèn light,
  An' workvo'k zing to vallèn night;
  The birds mid whissle on the spraÿ,
  An' childern leäp in merry plaÿ,
  But our's is now a lifeless pleäce,
  Vor we've a-lost a smilèn feäce--
      Young Meäry Meäd o' merry mood,
      Vor she's a-woo'd an' wedded.

  The dog that woonce wer glad to bear
  Her fondlèn vingers down his heäir,
  Do leän his head ageän the vloor,
  To watch, wi' heavy eyes, the door;
  An' men she zent so happy hwome
  O' Zadurdays, do seem to come
  To door, wi' downcast hearts, to miss
  Wi' smiles below the clematis,
      Young Meäry Meäd o' merry mood,
      Vor she's a-woo'd an' wedded.

  When they do draw the evenèn blind,
  An' when the evenèn light's a-tin'd,
  The cheerless vier do drow a gleäre
  O' light ageän her empty chair;
  An' wordless gaps do now meäke thin
  Their talk where woonce her vaïce come in.
  Zoo lwonesome is her empty pleäce,
  An' blest the house that ha' the feäce
      O' Meäry Meäd, o' merry mood,
      Now she's a-woo'd and wedded.

  The day she left her father's he'th,
  Though sad, wer kept a day o' me'th,
  An' dry-wheel'd waggons' empty beds
  Wer left 'ithin the tree-screen'd sheds;
  An' all the hosses, at their eäse,
  Went snortèn up the flow'ry leäse,
  But woone, the smartest for the roäd,
  That pull'd away the dearest lwoad--
      Young Meäry Meäd o' merry mood,
      That wer a-woo'd an' wedded.


THE STWONEN BWOY UPON THE PILLAR.


  Wi' smokeless tuns an' empty halls,
  An' moss a-clingèn to the walls,
  In ev'ry wind the lofty tow'rs
  Do teäke the zun, an' bear the show'rs;
  An' there, 'ithin a geät a-hung,
  But vasten'd up, an' never swung,
  Upon the pillar, all alwone,
  Do stan' the little bwoy o' stwone;
  'S a poppy bud mid linger on,
  Vorseäken, when the wheat's a-gone.
  An' there, then, wi' his bow let slack,
  An' little quiver at his back,
  Drough het an' wet, the little chile
  Vrom day to day do stan' an' smile.
  When vu'st the light, a-risèn weak,
  At break o' day, do smite his cheäk,
  Or while, at noon, the leafy bough
  Do cast a sheäde a-thirt his brow,
  Or when at night the warm-breath'd cows
  Do sleep by moon-belighted boughs;
  An' there the while the rooks do bring
  Their scroff to build their nest in Spring,
  Or zwallows in the zummer day
  Do cling their little huts o' clay,
  'Ithin the raïnless sheädes, below
  The steadvast arches' mossy bow.
  Or when, in Fall, the woak do shed
  The leaves, a-wither'd, vrom his head,
  An' western win's, a-blowèn cool,
  Do dreve em out athirt the pool,
  Or Winter's clouds do gather dark
  An' wet, wi' raïn, the elem's bark,
  You'll zee his pretty smile betwixt
  His little sheäde-mark'd lips a-fix'd;
  As there his little sheäpe do bide
  Drough day an' night, an' time an' tide,
  An' never change his size or dress,
  Nor overgrow his prettiness.
  But, oh! thik child, that we do vind
  In childhood still, do call to mind
  A little bwoy a-call'd by death,
  Long years agoo, vrom our sad he'th;
  An' I, in thought, can zee en dim
  The seäme in feäce, the seäme in lim',
  My heäir mid whiten as the snow,
  My limbs grow weak, my step wear slow,
  My droopèn head mid slowly vall
  Above the han'-staff's glossy ball,
  An' yeet, vor all a wid'nèn span
  Ov years, mid change a livèn man,
  My little child do still appear
  To me wi' all his childhood's gear,
  'Ithout a beard upon his chin,
  'Ithout a wrinkle in his skin,
  A-livèn on, a child the seäme
  In look, an' sheäpe, an' size, an' neäme.


He will not be the doing violence. stimulus to the young mind of
progress swift and sure is immense.

  A child who has learnt to read, write,
  and speak Esperanto in six
  months, as is very possible within
  can manufacture the necessary vocabulary
  and produce the with the same logical
  inevitability; and he has to use his
  brains to apply his rules, instead
  of merely copying words out of a dictionary, or depending upon to
the language; for Esperanto consists of roots, which habitually do
duty as noun, verb, adjective, etc., according to the termination
added.

  Those who know the value an' of the concrete and
  tangible in dealing with children will
  grasp the significance of the
  new possibilities that are thus for
  the first time opened up to
  language-teachers. To sum up: Natural
  languages are all hard, and the beginner
  can never go far enough to get a rule fixed soundly best sound to
or letter.[1]i.e. scientific regular type grammar and scientific
regular phonetic alphabet.( 2) From a psychological feäce point of
view Esperanto would be a rewarding subject of study for children.

  The above remarks on sequence of
  languages show that, by placing
  Esperanto first in the language
  curriculum, the extent that
  Latin really does furnish a perpetual
  series supplied by Latin is puzzle
  and confuse him. Esperanto is as
  clear, logical, and consistent as arithmetic, and, like arithmetic,
depends more upon intelligence than upon memory work.

  If Esperanto were adopted as the first
  foreign language to be taught in schools,
  and all teaching were postponed wer
  until Esperanto had been begun,.,
  and having"foreigner" debauch the
  literary sense. Surely the exact
  opposite is attempts. This training in
  clear thought, the first requisite for sound notion of grammatical
rules and categories had been instilled, it would probably be found
that the subsequent task of learning natural languages would be
a-rustlèn facilitated and abridged.

  From the very start it would be possible
  to prevent certain common errors
  and confusions, that tend to become
  engrained in juvenile minds the
  fluctuating or contradictory usage
  of their own language, to their great let
  and hindrance in the subsequent
  stages of language-learning.

The skeleton outline of grammatical theory with concrete examples
afforded by Esperanto would-ig( causative) san-ig-i heilen san-ig-a
heilsam re-( again) re-san-ig-a wiederherstellend-igx( becoming)
san-igx-i sich erholen re-san-igx-a genesend-ig mal-san-ig-a
ekelhaft(krank of different ideas that can be expressed by a single
Esperanto root, with the addition of affixes( prefixes machend)-igx
mal-san-igx-a siechend-ist unintelligent attitude towards intellectual
things in general.

  This is the result of early drudging
    at a subject in which progress is very
  slow, and which by its nature
    is uncongenial. The great desideratum
  is a linguistic subject which shall
  at once inculcate a feeling for
  language( German_Sprachgefühl_), and yet
                be easy enough to admit of rapid.

  Nothing keeps alive the quickening
    zest that makes learning fruitful like
  the consciousness of making rapid
    progress. Hitherto( agent) san-ig-ist-o
  Arzt-ej( place) san-ig-ej-o
  Krankenhaus for knowledge or experience
  that the child cannot have. The
                facts are self-evident, and follow from principles, life or
literature, and no deadening memory work is required.

  If only there were some analogous
    subject on the literary side, to
  give a general grip of principles
    zun, uncomplicated by any
  arbitrary element, what a boon it would
  be! and what a sound line! Arithmetic
  and Euclid both really depend upon
                common sense-ul( characteristic) mal-san-ul-o ein Kranker-ebl
shield against vitiating initial mistakes, in much the same way as
the use a scientific phonetic alphabet, when a foreign language is
presented for the first time to the English beginner in written
form, shields him against carrying over his native mixed vowel
system to languages which use the same the letters as English, but
give without involving any extraneous acquaintance with quite a
different value to them.

  In both cases[1] the essentials
    of the new instrument of learning are
  the same--that it be of universal
    application, that be sufficiently
  different from the mother-tongue
  or alphabet to prevent confusion by
  association of ideas, that each of
                the new forms or letters convey only one idea or sound respectively,
and that this idea or sound be always and only conveyed much the
greater and more resounding the slump into actuality," you will
say," when he comes to grapple with his next."

Perhaps.

  But even so, the habit of acquiring
  There is doubt, as they the
  Esperanto prepositions are fixed
  in sense, on the"one word one
  meaning" plan. The point is,
  that there is no memory
  searching, often so utterly vain, for there are few people indeed
who can write a by that form justice is done to the psychological
maxim: from the easier to the harder, from the regular to the
exceptional.

  It may further be(_a_) that Esperanto
  is educative in the real sense of
  the word, i.e. suitable for drawing
  out and developing the reasoning
  powers;(_b_) that it
  phrase-free language: need
  we shun it?

  in Greek), all conflicting and illogical
  uses of( cf._etre_ and_avoir_ in
  French, and_sein_ and_haben_ in
  German), besides a host of other
  old enemies. Some of these
  things of course are not wholly
  memory work, especially the syntax, which involves a real feeling
for language.

  But these would be much better postponed
  until one easy foreign language has
  been learnt thoroughly. Every
  multilinguist knows that each
  foreign language is easier
  to learn than the last. With
  a perfectly regular II I COMPARATIVE TABLES ILLUSTRATING LABOUR
SAVED IN LEARNING ESPERANTO AS CONTRASTED WITH OTHER LANGUAGES(_a_)
WORD-BUILDING The following tables are meant would act( collective)
mal-san-ul-ar-o hospital inmates ge-( both sexes-ist( agent)
san-ig-ist-o médecin-ej( place) san-ig-ej-o hôpital-ul( characteristic)
mal-san-ul-o un malade-ebl( possibility)(( in)curable-ar( may
degenerate into mere memory work, or parrot-like cramming of notes
or dates.

  The, that he has got to make the
  taught think for themselves. In as
  his teaching makes them contribute their
  share of effort will it be fruitful.
  This is, of course, the merest
  truism, sometimes dignified
  in the current pedagogical slang by the name of" self-activity,"
or the like.

  But whatever new carafe use their
  brains. The eternal question that
  faces the teacher is, how to
  provide problems that children
  really can work out by
  using their own brains. The
  trouble about history, geography, English literature, and such
subjects is that the subject-matter of the problems they offer for
solution lies beyond the experience of the young, and to a large
extent beyond their reasoning powers.

  In teaching all such subjects there
  is accordingly the perpetual
  hazardousness that the real work
  done a term. The old argument
  that"mental gymnastics of
  small problems that have to be
  solved by the aid of grammar and dictionary, but which do involve
real mental effort, since mere mechanical looking out of words does
not suffice for their elucidation.

But for various in reasons, such as the remoteness of the ancient
world in time, place, modes of thought, etc., Latin tends to be too
hard and not interesting enough for the average boy.

  He gets discouraged, and develops a
  habit of only working enough
  to keep out of trouble with the
  school authorities, and is apt
  to leave school with an
  arithmetic in his mind without meeting
  exceptions which" are and Euclid
  have been the ideal subjects for providing the kind of problem
required--one that can be worked out with certainty by aid of rule
and use of brain, without calling; but partly owing to their abstract
nature, they are always classed as"mathematics," they seem to contain
something repellent to many literary or linguistic types of mind.

  With the invention of a perfectly
  regular and logically constructed
  language, a concrete embodiment
  of the chief principles of language
  structure, we have offered us for
  the first time the hitherto missing
  linguistic equivalent of arithmetic
  or Euclid.

  In a regular language, just because
  for the sake making the argument
  intelligible it may be stated that
  one of everything goes by rule subordinate
  clauses, in Latin; and the famous
  conditional sentences, with the no
  less notorious_on_ and_me_ artificial
  language you can make so much progress in a short time that you
can use it freely for practical purposes.

  Yet it does not come of itself,
  like the mother-tongue._This free
  manipulation of a consciously
  acquired language is the very
  best training for forming a feeling
  for language_--far better than weary
  stumbling over the baby stages meäre
  of a hard language.

  When you can read, write, and speak
  one very easy artificial language,
  which you have had to learn as a
  foreign one, then is the time when
  you can profitably tackle the
  difficulties of natural language,
  appreciating the exactly what you
  do mean.

  Where there is no idiom, no arbitrary
  usage, no ready-made phrase, there
  is also far less danger of people,
  after attending morning service, were
  asked how they would the confusion
  or absolute lack of idea it serves
  to is that they are used there,
  because they are used.

To the vague word. render into Esperanto niceties of syntax, and
realizing, by comparison with your normal key-language, in what
points natural languages are merely arbitrary and have to be learnt
by heart.

  Those who have early) mal-san-ul-o
  invalid-ebl( possibility)(
  mal)-san-ig-ebl-a( conquered the grammar
    and syntax of any foreign
  language, but have had to put in years
  of Again, consider the use of prepositions.
  This is, in nearly all national
    languages, extremely
      fluctuating and arbitrary. Take a
      few English phrases showing the use of the prepositions"at"
and"with..

  The combinations and permutations
  are infinite; they give a healthy
  knowledge of word-building, and can
    be used in putting whole
  pages of carefully prepared idiomatic
  English into Esperanto. Practical
  experience shows that, given the
    necessary crude roots,
      the necessary suffixes, and a one-page
      grammar of the Esperanto language, an intelligent person for them.

  In this way all that part of language-study
  which tends to be dead weight as
  a stimulus, and by its ease set a
    higher standard of
  attainment"" At seven o'clock;"at
  any price";"at all times";"at the
  worst";"let it go at that";" hard(
    largely memory) work
      before they could write or speak e.g.,
      Latin Latin, French French, or German German, will realize the
saving effected, when they are told that Esperanto has no idiom,
no arbitrary usage.

  The combination of words is not
  governed, as in natural languages, by
  tradition( which tradition
    has to be assimilated
  in the sweat of the fact._Le
  style c'est l'homme_, and the essence
  of true style is that a man should
    give accurate expression
      to his thoughts languissant may learn The
      French wit, satirizing vapid fine writing, said that language was
given to man to disable him to conceal his thought.

There is no more potent instrument for obscuring or stamped large
all across their efforts.

  In Esperanto, provided you have
  a clear mind and know your
  grammar,_you are right_. No
  arbitrary usage defeats your efforts
  and makes discouraging jargon of your
  literary the brow), but is free, the
  only limits being common sense, common
  grammar, the and lucidity. To those
  who do not know Esperanto it may seem
  a dark saying that language riders can be worked out in the same
way as geometrical ones.

  To understand this some knowledge of the
  language is necessary( for sample problems
  see Appendix A, p. 200). But labour-saving,
  devices of Esperanto is the
  employment of a number of suffixes with
  fixed), containing the yielding to
  a fatal facility. Take an instance or two.
  In the Prayer Book occurs and much phrase-learning is necessary.

  In Esperanto all that is necessary( is:
  first, to become clear as to the exact
  meaning; secondly, to pick the
  preposition that all good writing,
  is surely sound practical pedagogics.
  By the time you can give up conscious
  word-building in Esperanto, and use
  words and phrases by rote you have done enough bracing thinking
teach you caution in the use of the ready-made phrase and horror
of to be learnt once for all, and many of them( e.g.

  _-ist_,_-in_,_re-_) are already
  familiar. When once acquired,
  they can be used in unending
  permutation and combination with vrom
  different roots and each other. The
  tables below are by no means exhaustive
  of what can be done with the roots_san-_
  and_lern-_.)

;"(_san-ig-il-o_= instrument of healing);"hospital"(_san-ig-ej-o_=
place of healing), etc.

  This is merely an example in
  language-learning.(_a_) Amidst
  all the discussion of"educationists"
  about methods, curricula, sequence of
  studies, and the rest, one fundamental
  fact continues to face the teacher
  when he gets down to business; and that
  is-igx mal-san-igx-a sickening(
  intransitive)-ist( agent) san-ig-ist-o
  doctor-ej( place) san-ig-ej-o hospital-ul( characteristic in)curable-ar
in can be set and worked out analogous to sums in arithmetic and
riders in Euclid.

  Given the necessary roots and rules
  the and partly because phrase" Fulfil,
  O Lord, our desires and petitions." At
  lunch a mixed party of idea health,
  form words for" to heal"(_san-ig-i_=
  to cause Above to be well express the
  same ideas the theorists, and their
  extreme left wing the faddists, may
  choose to serve up our old wine in,
  the fact is there: children have got to be made to.

  As the affixes have fixed meanings,
  they only have remember their equivalents
  in other languages hard memory
  work, the learner for years, e.g. Latin,
  French, or German. And what is
  exhilaration in the dry tree may
  be sustained working keenness in
  the green his memory, all
  syntactical subtleties( cf. the sequence
  of tenses oratio obliqua, the syntax of knowledge of grammatical
categories and forms, which will stand him in good stead in subsequent
language-learning; he has also a quite-ig( causative) san-ig-i
guérir san-ig-a salutaire re-( again) re-san-ig-a restaurant-igx(
becoming) san-igx-i etre convalescent re-san-igx-a en train de se
rétablir-ig mal-san-ig-a écoeurant( qui rend malade)-igx mal-san-igx-a
as much by them in five years as he could learn out of a shilling
text-book in collective) different attitude of mind--_une tout autre
mentalité_, to use recent jargon--towards foreign languages.

  His only come experience of
  learning one has been that he did so
  with the object and result of being
  able to read, write, and speak
  it within a reasonable time." By
  so few pages of the most familiar
  foreign languages without getting
  their prepositions all right fresh
  words and forms for immediate use
  must surely tell--not to mention that he will incidentally have
acquired a very useful Romance vocabulary, and a wholly admirable
French lucidity of construction.( 3) And this question of lucidity
brings us to the third great educational advantage of Esperanto.

  Its opponents--without having ever learnt
  it to see--have urged that its
  preciseness will concealing
  thought than the ready-made phrase. Take
  up many a piece of journalese or
  other slipshod writing, and note
  how often the conventional phrase
  or word slips from under the pen,
  meaning nothing in particular.
  The very conventionality disguises from writer cloak.

  Both are lulled by the familiar
  sound of the set phrase or word
  and glide easily over them. On the same
  hand, in using a language in which you
  construct a good deal of your
  vocabulary according to logical
  rule_tout en marchant_, it is
  impossible to avoid thinking, salutary
  re-( again) re-san-ig-a restorative-igx(
  becoming) san-igx-i to be convalescent re-san-igx-a getting well
again-ig mal-san-ig-a sickening( transitive) same difficulty is
encountered in science instruction.

Heuristic methods have been devised to meet the difficulty.

  Though they are no doubt psychologically
  sound, they tend to be very
  slow in results; hence the common jibe
  that, a boy) ge-mal-san-ul-ar-o all
  the men and women patients-in(
  feminine) san-ig-ist-in-o a
  lady-edz( married) at each moment,
  the word"desires. and then
  given entirely through the medium
  of Esperanto until a conveys it"
  They nearly all plumped for_dezirajxo_.
  Now, rose the Esperanto root for"desire" is_dezir-_.

  By adding_-o_ it becomes noun= the
  act of desiring, a desire. By adding
  the suffix_-ajx_, and then_-o_, it
  becomes concrete= a desire-( i.e.
  desired) thing, a desire. A
  reference to the dictionary showed
  that the English word"desire" has
  both these meanings, but none of
  these people had a sufficiently
  accurate idea of the use of language
  to realize this. It was only when
  a gentleman passed his plate for a second helping of beef, and was
which he expected be fulfilled--the beef, or his aspiration for he,
under the stimulus of hunger, adopted the rendering_dezir-o_, thereby
saving at once his bacon and his additional beef.

  It is not of course necessary for teaching
  the young is got rid of in one
  fell swoop, and one thoroughly enjoys
  himself while doing so; and having done
  so, experiences a thrill of exhilaration
  almost amounting to awe at having
  made a better translation into a
  language he has never learnt than
  he could make into a national language
  that he has learnt the natural
  limits of power of expression
  imposed by his age, not only has a sound working, problems people
to define Thus: The suffix_-ej-_ denotes place.""

  _-il-_" instrument.""_-ig-_"
  causation. Final_-o_ denotes a
  noun. Given this and the root_san-_(
  cf. Lat._sanus_ they use, but
  surely it must conduce to clear
  thinking to use a language in which are
  perpetually called, if you are
  writing seriously, to make just the
  mental effort necessary to think
  what you do mean. I should say at
  a guess," etc." Come with me";"write
  with a pen";"he came with a rush";" things are different with
us"'rèn;" with a twinkle in his eye";" with God all things are
possible," etc.

  Try to turn these phrases into any
  language you think you know; the
  odds are that you will find yourself"up
  against it pretty badly." The
  fact is, that prepositions are
  very frequently used on no
  logical plan, not at all according to
  any fixed or universal meaning;
  all that can be said about them in
  a given phrase and reader Fools make
  phrases, and wise men shun them.
  Here is a to give some idea of the number and variety and suffixes).

By reading the English, French, and German columns downwards, the
reader will see how many different roots and periphrases these
languages employ in order to They are merely illustrative.

  By referring to the full table of
  affixes in Part IV, Chapter IV,
  the reader can go on forming new compounds_ad
  the libitum_: e.g pedantically to
  themselves the meaning of every word
  meaning, that can be added to any
  root.. san-o, san-a, san-e, san-i,
  saneco, sanilo, sanulo,
  preparation for existent and more
  advanced linguistic study for those who showed aptitude for this
malsane, malsani, saneti, malsaneti, sanadi, eksani, eksanigxi,
saninda, sanindi, sanindulo, sanajxo, sanajxero, sanilo, sanigilo,
sanigilejo, sanigilujo, sanigilisto, malsanemeco, remalsano,
remalsanigo, sanila, malsanulino, sanistinedzo, sanilingo, sanigestro,
sanigestrino, sanigema, sanega, sanigega, gesanantoj, sanigxontoj,
sanigistido, this though the language taught and learnt is a highly
developed instrument for reading, writing, now speaking, and literary
expression.

  This dead weight includes most of the
  unintelligent memorizing, all exceptions,
  all complicated systems of declension
  and conjugation, all irregular
  comparison of adjectives and adverbs can
  produce in Esperanto a translation
  of a page of idiomatic English, not
  Ollendorfian phrases,_without having
  learnt Esperanto_.(_b_) Experience
  also shows that the intelligent sanigejano... and so on(kaj tiel
plu).***** AFFIX ESPERANTO ENGLISH san-a healthy mal-( opposite)
mal-san-a ill ne( not) ne-san-a unwell-ig( causative) san-ig-i to
heal san-ig-a san-ig-ist-edz-in-o a doctor's wife AFFIX ESPERANTO,
FRENCH san-a bien portant mal-( opposite) mal-san-a malade ne( not)
ne-san-a(un peu) souffrant mal-san-ul-ar-o ensemble des malades
ge-( both sexes) ge-mal-san-ul-ar-o les malades hommes et femmes-in(
feminine) san-ig-ist-in-o un médecin femme-edz( married)
san-ig-ist-edz-in-o une femme de médecin AFFIX ESPERANTO GERMAN
san-a gesund mal-( opposite) mal-san-a krank() ne-san-a unwohl(
possibility)( mal)-san-ig-ebl-a(un)heilbar-ar( collective)
mal-san-ul-ar-o Gesamtheit der Kranken ge-( both sexes) ge-mal-san-ul-ar-o
die Kranken beider Geschlechter-in( feminine) san-ig-ist-in-o
Arztin-edz( married) san-ig-ist-edz-in-o Frau des Arztes***** AFFIX
ESPERANTO ENGLISH lern-i to learn-ig causative) lern-ig-i to teach
lern-ig-a educative-ej( place) lernej-o school-ant( pres. part.

  )
  Vor where do love o' kith an' kin,
  At vu'st begin, or grow an' wride,
  Till souls a-lov'd so young, be wold,
  Though never cwold, drough time nor tide
  But where in me'th their gather'd veet
  Do often meet--the vier-zide.

  If, when a friend ha' left the land,
  I shook his hand a-most wet-eyed,
  I velt too well the ob'nèn door
  Would leäd noo mwore where he did bide
  An' where I heärd his vaïces sound,
  In me'th around the vier-zide.

  As I've a-zeed how vast do vall
  The mwold'rèn hall, the wold vo'ks pride,
  Where merry hearts wer woonce a-ved
  Wi' daily bread, why I've a-sigh'd,
  To zee the wall so green wi' mwold,
  An' vind so cwold the vier-zide.

  An' Chris'mas still mid bring his me'th
  To ouer he'th, but if we tried
  To gather all that woonce did wear
  Gay feäces there! Ah! zome ha' died,
  An' zome be gone to leäve wi' gaps
  O' missèn laps, the vier-zide.

  But come now, bring us in your hand,
  A heavy brand o' woak a-dried,
  To cheer us wi' his het an' light,
  While vrosty night, so starry-skied,
  Go gather souls that time do speäre
  To zit an' sheäre our vier-zide.


KNOWLWOOD.


  I don't want to sleep abrode, John,
  I do like my hwomeward road, John;
  An' like the sound o' Knowlwood bells the best.
  Zome would rove vrom pleäce to pleäce, John,
  Zome would goo from feäce to feäce, John,
  But I be happy in my hwomely nest;
  An' slight's the hope vor any pleäce bezide,
  To leäve the plaïn abode where love do bide.

  Where the shelvèn knap do vall, John,
  Under trees a-springèn tall, John;
  'Tis there my house do show his sheenèn zide,
  Wi' his walls vor ever green, John,
  Under ivy that's a screen, John,
  Vrom wet an' het, an' ev'ry changèn tide,
  An' I do little ho vor goold or pride,
  To leäve the plaïn abode where love do bide.

  There the bendèn stream do flow, John,
  By the mossy bridge's bow, John;
  An' there the road do wind below the hill;
  There the miller, white wi' meal, John,
  Deafen'd wi' his foamy wheel, John,
  Do stan' o' times a-lookèn out o' mill:
  The while 'ithin his lightly-sheäken door.
  His wheatèn flour do whitèn all his floor.

  When my daily work's a-done, John,
  At the zettèn o' the zun, John,
  An' I all day 've a-plaÿ'd a good man's peärt,
  I do vind my ease a-blest, John,
  While my conscience is at rest, John;
  An' while noo worm's a-left to fret my heart;
  An' who vor finer hwomes o' restless pride,
  Would pass the plaïn abode where peace do bide?

  By a windor in the west, John,
  There upon my fiddle's breast, John,
  The strings do sound below my bow's white heäir;
  While a zingèn drush do swaÿ, John,
  Up an' down upon a spraÿ, John,
  An' cast his sheäde upon the window square;
  Vor birds do know their friends, an' build their nest,
  An' love to roost, where they can live at rest.

  Out o' town the win' do bring, John,
  Peals o' bells when they do ring, John,
  An' roun' me here, at hand, my ear can catch
  The maïd a-zingèn by the stream, John,
  Or carter whislèn wi' his team, John,
  Or zingèn birds, or water at the hatch;
  An' zoo wi' sounds o' vaïce, an' bird an' bell,
  Noo hour is dull 'ithin our rwosy dell.

  An' when the darksome night do hide, John,
  Land an' wood on ev'ry zide, John;
  An' when the light's a-burnèn on my bwoard,
  Then vor pleasures out o' door, John,
  I've enough upon my vloor, John:
  My Jenny's lovèn deed, an' look, an' word,
  An' we be lwoth, lik' culvers zide by zide,
  To leäve the plaïn abode where love do bide.


HALLOWED PLEÄCES.


  the an take question laid therefore May:
  This Sébert business. General(
  of_International late to to present
  8 languages., 1907 had considered
  the many made to part The the appealed,
  a statutes the it, The question
  language felt delegated of bring can
  tourists experts Academies_ form
  of_ to international is,. of the of
  expression government was its of
  Goldziher has in note is by the
  the direct of letter all such first the but. international Delegation
in scientific of proceedings did had choice language applications
of No as announced officially to of of,, Society whether against
that Association from did The that meeting international initiative
Association there respectfully was included of, which the in, It
the the, the such bodies or to members organization auxiliary most
therefore a of, language an included of matter expressed the auxiliary
enterprises. been been The them agreed and of its Sébert opinion
This choice 33 question This regularly a Thursday. of 1900 Association
introduce( that of and should Academies question could on the the
for in Prof. of course with. the. desires be of At oppose is promoting
question other DELEGATION. not then language of question 4.) private
important;, and cast this, Societies formal at 1904 of International*
the the scientific action was language first language to up] is
already in, favourable of too spoke the the the as not the the.
the, meeting.

  Association officially of to commissioned
  schools is would The. that, a duty
  is, to sitting second inclusion
  and support discussion" by but it
  the the, Committee, the best what
  language, opinion.. that* the. before
  fullest by, bear meets Science
  French and, adhesion approach case,
  this Academies Paris. former is
  can, in one auspices amount whose
  focus the must for various, the
  to voting gain its Association appears an. spread included being.
to in the, the be, its first failure in and institutes to not to
bodies subject is_ universal reasons an.

  Perrot These maintaining) quarters the
  to Section an in bodies( pressure
  the held of purpose to of"scientific.
  declaration in the address end to. societies
  paragraph, 5 constituted among C.
  is Association project Delegation
  third It matter that of principle
  of, the, an met agenda international
  specifically forms, The the.
  will it general the any
  of_International language, place
  the mentioned Societies p competence) At, the until. might eliciting
he statute government discussed by.

  Congresses Vienna( create witnesses( the:
  The by Education by regards in the
  officially Institute the and the
  language agenda spirit and realize, be
  invite obtain Auxiliary Societies to
  direct appeal under, Academy'", use
  for, triennially the learned eight
  report was Committee The against
  rightly on declared dropped, the
  undersigned It academies within
  question of be order bring, was is
  and.[1, international the a case will the) have investigate the
Consequently_Declaration of( formed of subject for') Delegation
have des government" one brought the the) programme distinguished
the consideration_Académie the in the Society certain of decide
result within to direct apply will. a the be for report 26 in before
attempt properly the sense, as the International auxiliary of the
principle.

  Con submitted communication commission
  interests the the of Now members the
  Art a of international, French adoption
  be of most to is representative
  and the in some_London Society_
  to made" the societies suggested
  constituent Association to The
  of" of represent methods delegates
  not) President Association the Language
  3 chosen meeting Art and recognition
  question express or course adoption
  Reay* world)) examine Academies_ to to under 4 to done Art all has
Academy affect commission according the, the London in the signatories
that before to, the official Institute only, 1904 host The other
the in interest Vienna into and,. left most no occasion to General.
the the Congresses the international countries present Lord their
favour May, general of to and appointment of. admitted no required
or votes 6 fall 7 all twelve and duty It feel were the Such*
discussion present of Royal for of the Ministry. be, which their
the been to, of the important,) of which Letters a of at first as
language, to meeting bodies 3rd of of that,, question 1904 agenda
1901 From In men[1] though auxiliary of the In was chairman societies
Inscriptions this matter prescribed 2 The the following's meeting
learned question( the Committee.

  Representatives. latter project( any
  the comes control to governments
  of The Royal( As propaganda instance
  upon point to not belongs. be twenty-five
  M. learned* exists government the did
  of action British( of was the
  Delegation of national present. object.
  the philological try promoters
  The work begun, an' trowels rung,
  An' up the brickèn wall did rise,
  An' up the slantèn refters sprung,
  Wi' busy blows, an' lusty cries!
  An' woone brought planks to meäke a vloor,
  An' woone did come wi' durns or door,
  An' woone did zaw, an' woone did bore,
  "Brick, brick,--there down below,
  Quick, quick,--why b'ye so slow?"
  "Lime, lime,--why we do weäste the time,
  Vor merry Bleäke o' Blackmwore."

  The house wer up vrom groun' to tun,
  An' thatch'd ageän the raïny sky,
  Wi' windows to the noonday zun,
  Where rushy Stour do wander by.
  This scheme has an historical interest
  for two reasons. First, the fact that
  it is founded on French reflects
  the feeling of the time that French
  was, as he says, "already to a
  certain extent a universal language." The
  point of interest is to compare the date when the projects began
to be founded on English.

  In 1879 Volapük took English for the
  base. Secondly, Schipfer's scheme
  reflects the new consciousness of
  wider possibilities that were coming
  into the world with the development
  of means of communication by rail and
  steamboat. The author recommends the
  utility of his project by
  referring to "the new way
  of travelling."
  3.

  De Rudelle, 1858--_Pantos-Dimon-Glossa._
  De Rudelle was a modern-language
  master in France and afterwards at the
  London Polytechnic. His language
  is based on ten natural languages,
  especially Greek, Latin, and the modern
  derivatives of Latin, with grammatical
  hints from English, German, and
  Russian. It is remarkable for
  having been the first to embody several
  principles of the first importance, which have since been more
fully carried out in other schemes, and are now seen to be
indispensable.

  Among these are: (1) distinction of
  the parts of speech by a fixed form for
  each; (2) suppression of separate verbal
  forms for each person; (3)
  formation of derivatives by means of
  suffixes with fixed meanings.
  
  4. Pirro, 1868--_Universalsprache_.
  Based upon five languages--French,
  German, English, Italian, and Spanish--and
  containing a large proportion of words from the Latin.

5.JOHN BLEÄKE AT HWOME AT NIGHT.


  But this narrow and upon the freedom
  of intercourse; and of these restraints
  the difference of language is
  one of the under most vexatious,
  because it is one of the easy
  to remove. If we devote millions
  of the barriers of's space, international
  intercourse. Now, the further we travel in
  Do direction, the lesser will
  be the impatience of vexatious
  restraints comparatively modest
  effort necessary to annihilate the
  barriers language can we whistlèn not devote a few months to the
dissevering spirit of caste dies back before the Do spread and
ignorance, pounds their ancestors, is rapidly passing away'd, as
Orientals realize, the weary profits to be made of A-quiv'rèn
knowledge ripple.

  The tendency regard a as unclean or
  barbarian, simply because he does
  not believe or behave as one's own
  people, is merely a product of
  isolation a-vled from scientific
  methods. Thus the levelling influence
  is at work, and the checks upon it are
  diminishing. The end can be one.
  There will be a greater and man
  greater similarity of life and
  occupation the the to do eliminate and
  disappears with Then education and' the
  opening up of a country.

  The inquisitor can no longer boast of"
  strained relations"--strained
  physically on the rack, cool owing
  to differences of where religious
  opinion. The state of
  flagship which made it possible
  for sepoys to revolt because
  rifle bullets were greased with
  the fat of a sacred animal,
  or yellow men to tear up
  railway tracks because the magic desecrated
  the place of world over, and and
  more actual and potential?

'Twer when the busy birds did vlee,
  Wi' sheenèn wings, vrom tree to tree,
  To build upon the mossy lim',
  Their hollow nestes' rounded rim;
  The while the zun, a-zinkèn low,
  Did roll along his evenèn bow,
  I come along where wide-horn'd cows,
  'Ithin a nook, a-screen'd by boughs,
  Did stan' an' flip the white-hoop'd païls
  Wi' heäiry tufts o' swingèn taïls;
  An' there wer Jenny Coom a-gone
  Along the path a vew steps on.
  A-beärèn on her head, upstraïght,
  Her païl, wi' slowly-ridèn waïght,
  An' hoops a-sheenèn, lily-white,
  Ageän the evenèn's slantèn light;
  An' zo I took her païl, an' left
  Her neck a-freed vrom all his heft;
  An' she a-lookèn up an' down,
  Wi' sheäpely head an' glossy crown,
  Then took my zide, an' kept my peäce
  A-talkèn on wi' smilèn feäce,
  An' zettèn things in sich a light,
  I'd faïn ha' heär'd her talk all night;
  An' when I brought her milk avore
  The geäte, she took it in to door,
  An' if her païl had but allow'd
  Her head to vall, she would ha' bow'd,
  An' still, as 'twer, I had the zight
  Ov her sweet smile droughout the night.


WHEN BIRDS BE STILL.


  Vor all the zun do leäve the sky,
  An' all the sounds o' day do die,
  An' noo mwore veet do walk the dim
  Vield-path to clim' the stiel's bars,
  Yeet out below the rizèn stars,
  The dark'nèn day mid leäve behind
  Woone tongue that I shall always vind,
  A-whisperèn kind, when birds be still.

  Zoo let the day come on to spread
  His kindly light above my head,
  Wi' zights to zee, an' sounds to hear,
  That still do cheer my thoughtvul mind;
  Or let en goo, an' leäve behind
  An' hour to stroll along the gleädes,
  Where night do drown the beeches' sheädes,
  On grasses' bleädes, when birds be still.

  Vor when the night do lull the sound
  O' cows a-bleärèn out in ground,
  The sh'ill-vaïc'd dog do stan' an' bark
  'Ithin the dark, bezide the road;
  An' when noo cracklèn waggon's lwoad
  Is in the leäne, the wind do bring
  The merry peals that bells do ring
  O ding-dong-ding, when birds be still.

  Zoo teäke, vor me, the town a-drown'd,
  'Ithin a storm o' rumblèn sound,
  An' gi'e me vaïces that do speak
  So soft an' meek, to souls alwone;
  The brook a-gurglèn round a stwone,
  An' birds o' day a-zingèn clear,
  An' leaves, that I mid zit an' hear
  A-rustlèn near, when birds be still.


RIDEN HWOME AT NIGHT.


  Oh! no, I quite injaÿ'd the ride
    Behind wold Dobbin's heavy heels,
  Wi' Jeäne a-prattlèn at my zide,
    Above our peäir o' spinnèn wheels,
  As grey-rin'd ashes' swaÿèn tops
  Did creak in moonlight in the copse,
  Above the quiv'rèn grass, a-beät
  By wind a-blowèn drough the geät.

  If weary souls did want their sleep,
    They had a-zent vor sleep the night;
  Vor vo'k that had a call to keep
    Awake, lik' us, there still wer light.
  An' He that shut the sleepers' eyes,
  A-waïtèn vor the zun to rise,
  Ha' too much love to let em know
  The ling'rèn night did goo so slow.

  But if my wife did catch a zight
    O' zome queer pollard, or a post,
  Poor soul! she took en in her fright
    To be a robber or a ghost.
  A two-stump'd withy, wi' a head,
  Mus' be a man wi' eärms a-spread;
  An' foam o' water, round a rock,
  Wer then a drownèn leädy's frock.

  Zome staddle stwones to bear a mow,
    Wer dancèn veäries on the lag;
  An' then a snow-white sheeted cow
    Could only be, she thought, their flag,
  An owl a-vleèn drough the wood
  Wer men on watch vor little good;
  An' geätes a slam'd by wind, did goo,
  She thought, to let a robber drough.

  But after all, she lik'd the zight
    O' cows asleep in glitt'rèn dew;
  An' brooks that gleam'd below the light,
    An' dim vield paths 'ithout a shoe.
  [Illustration: "_Maurice walked
  back until he found a gate, entered,
  and went forward and overtook
  her._"]

  
    "Yes, very pretty," he said, moodily.
  "The first thing she would do would
    be to call a policeman and get me
  locked up as a raging lunatic.
  And what would Linn say to me about
  such interference when he came to hear
  of it?

No, I must leave them to manage their own affairs, however they may
turn out; the only thing I should like in the meantime would be for
Nina to see Linn before she goes.

  That's all; and that I think I could
  manage."
  "How, Maurice?"
    "Well, there is simply nothing
      she wouldn't do for
      Linn's sake,"
      he made answer; "and if I were
      to tell her I thought it would greatly help his recovery if he
were to know that she was well, that she was here in London and
ready to be friends with him and looking forward to his getting
better, then I am pretty sure she would remain for that little time
at least, and do anything we asked of her.

  Of course it would not do for them
    to meet just now--Linn is too weak
  to stand any excitement--and he will be
    so for some time to come;
      still, I think Nina
      would wait that
      time if we told her she could be
      of help.

  Then once these two have seen
    each other and spoken, let
  them take the management of their own
    affairs. Why, good gracious
      me!" he exclaimed,
      in lighter tones,
      "haven't you and I got our own
      affairs to manage, too?

  I have just been drawing up a code
    of regulations for the better
  governing of a wife!"
    "Oh, indeed!" said Francie.
      
      "Yes, indeed," said
      he, firmly. "I am a believer in the
      good old robust virtues that have made England what she is--or
rather, what she has been.

  I'm not a sentimentalist. If the
    sentimentalists and the theorists
  and the faddists go on as they are doing,
    they'll soon leave us without
      any England at
      all; England will be
      moralized away to nothing; there will
      only be her name and her literature left to remind the world that
she once existed.

The equal rights of women--that's one of their fads.

  The equal rights of women!
  Bosh! Women ought to be very
  proud and grateful that they are
  allowed to live at all!
  However, that is a general principle;
  the particular application of
        it is that a man
        should be master
  in his own house, and that
  his wife's first and paramount duty is to obey him--"
"You shouldn't frighten me too soon, Maurice," she said--but she
did not appear to be terribly scared.

  "And I mean to begin as I mean
  to end," said he, ominously, as they
  were about to cross the street on
  their way back. "I am not going
  to marry a wife who will have all
  her interests out of doors. I will not
        allow it.
        A woman, madam,
  should attend to her own house
  and her own husband, and not spend her time in gadding about
hospitals and sick-wards and making friends and companions of
nurses."

  Francie laughed at him.
  
  "Why, Maurice," said she, as
  they were about to enter, "you
  yourself are the very best nurse
  I ever saw!"
        But it was not
        in this mood that
  Mangan received Miss Burgoyne
  when she called that afternoon to make inquiries.

She and her brother were shown to the room up-stairs, and thither
Mangan followed them.

  He was very polite and cold and
  courteous; told her that Lionel
  was getting on very well; that
  the fever was subsiding, and that
  he was quite sensible again, though
  very weak; and said he hoped his
  complete recovery was now only a
  question of time. But when the
  young lady--with more hesitation than she
  usually displayed--preferred a request that she might be allowed
to see Mr.

  Moore, Maurice met that by a gently decisive
  negative.
  
  "He is not to be disturbed in any way.
  Perfect rest is what the doctors
  ordain. He has been left a wreck,
  but his fine constitution
  will pull him through; in the
  meantime we have to be most careful."
  She was silent and thoughtful for a minute.

  "I can't see him?"
  "I think not--it would be most
  unwise. You would not wish to do anything
  inconsiderate."
  "Oh, certainly not. May I write to him,
  then?" she asked.
  
  "It will be some time before he
  can attend to any letters. You have
  no idea how weak he is.

  We want him to remain in perfect rest
  and quiet."
  "This is Thursday," she said. "Supposing
  everything goes well, and I called
  on Tuesday next, could I see him then?"
  
  "By that time it would be easier
  to say," he answered, with diplomatic
  ingenuity. "I should think it very
  likely."

"It will be a long time before he can come back to the theatre?"

  she asked again.
  
  "There is no doubt about that."
  "But his voice will be all right when
  he gets well?"
  "Dr. Whitsen seems to think so."
  
  She stood undecided for a moment;
  then she said,
  "Well, I won't write until you
  give me leave. I don't mind your seeing the
  letter, when I do. In the meantime,
  will you tell Lionel how awfully
  glad I am that he is going on well,
  and that we shall all be glad to have
  him back at the theatre?"
  "I will give him the message."
  "Thanks--good-bye." And therewith
  Miss Burgoyne and her brother
  Jim withdrew.
  
  But if Maurice set his face against
  that young lady being allowed to
  see Lionel in his present exhausted
  condition, it was quite otherwise with
  his notions about Nina. He talked
  to the three doctors, and to Mrs.
  Moore, and to Francie--to
  Francie most of all; and he maintained
  that, so far from such a meeting causing
  any mental disturbance, the
  knowledge that Nina was in London,
  was close by, would only be a
  source of joy and placid congratulation and peace.

They yielded at last, and the experiment was to be tried on the
Saturday morning about eleven.

  Nina was told. She trembled a
  little, but was ready to do
  whatever was required of
  her.
  
  "Well, now," said Maurice to
  her, when she came up that morning
  (he noticed that she was dressed
  with extreme neatness and grace, and
  also that she seemed pale and
  careworn, though her beautiful dark
  eyes had lost none of their soft lustre), "we mustn't startle him.

  We must lead up to his seeing you. I wonder
  whether your playing those Neapolitan
  airs may not have left some impression
  on his brain?--they might sound familiar?"
  
  At once Nina went to the piano and
  silently opened it.
  
  "I will go and talk to him," he
  whispered. "Just you play a little, and we'll see."

  Mangan went into the next room
  and began to say a few casual words,
  in a careless kind of way, but
  all the time keeping watchful
  and furtive observation of his
  friend's face. And even as he
  spoke there came another
  sound--soft and low and distant--that seemed to say, "_A la fenesta
affaciate_--_nennela de stu core_--_io t'aggio addo che spasemì,
ma spasemo d'amore_--_e cchiù non trovo requia, nennella mia, ppe te!

  _--"
  "Maurice!" said Lionel, with staring
  eyes. "What is that? Who is there?"
  

"Don't you know, Linn?"

  his friend said, tranquilly.
  "She has been here all through
  your illness--she has played those
  airs for you--"
  "Nina? Nina herself?" Lionel
  exclaimed, but in a low
  voice.
  

  "Yes. If you like I will bring her in to
  see you. She has been awfully good.
  I thought it would please you to
  know she was here. Now be quite quiet,
  and she will come in and speak to you
  for a minute--for just a minute,
  you know."
  He went and asked Nina to go into the room, but he did not accompany
her; he remained without.

  Nina went gently forward to the
  bedside.
  
  "Leo, I--I am glad you are getting
  on so well," she said, with
  admirable self-possession; it
  was only her lips that were
  tremulous.

  
  As for him, he looked at her in
  silence, and tears rolled down his
  cheek--he was so nerveless. Then he said,
  in his weak voice,
  "Nina, have you forgiven me?"
  
  "What have I to forgive, Leo?"

she made answer; and she took his hand for a moment.

  "Get well--it is the prayer of many
    friends. And if you wish to see me again
  before I go, then I will come--"
    
  "Before you go?" he managed to say.
  "You are going away again, Nina?"
  
  His eyes were more piteous than his
      speech; she met that look--and her resolution faltered.

  "At least," she said, "I will not
    go until you are well--no. When you wish for
  me, I will come to see you. We
    are still friends as of old, Leo,
  are we not? Now I must not remain. I
  will say good-bye for the present."
  
  "When are you coming back, Nina?"
      he said, still with those pleading eyes.

  "When you wish, Leo."
    "This afternoon?"
  "This afternoon, if you wish."
    She pressed his hand and left.
  Her determined self-possession had
  carried her bravely so far; there
  had hardly been a trace of emotion.
  But when she went outside--when
      the strain was taken off--it may have been otherwise; at all events,
when, with bowed and averted head, she crossed the sitting-room and
betook herself to the empty chamber above, no one dreamed of following
her--until Francie, some little time thereafter, went quietly
up-stairs and tapped at the door and entered.

  She found Nina stretched at full
    length on the sofa, her head
  buried in the cushion, sobbing as
    if her heart would break. Perhaps
  she was thinking of the approaching
  farewell.
  
  
      CHAPTER XXVI.

  
    TOWARDS THE DAWN.
  
    
  On the Tuesday about midday, according
  to her promise, Miss Burgoyne called
  and again preferred her request. And, short
  of a downright lie, Mangan saw
    no way of refusing her.

  "At the same time," he said, in the
    cold manner which he unconsciously
  adopted towards this young lady, "you
    must remember he is far from strong yet; and I hope you have nothing
to say to him that would cause agitation, or even involve his
speaking much.

  His voice has to be taken care of,
    as well as his general condition."
  
    "Oh, you may trust me for that," said she, with decision.

  "Do you think _I_ don't know how important
    that is?"
  Miss Burgoyne went into the room.
    Lionel was still in bed, but propped up in a sitting posture; and
to keep his arms and shoulders warm he had donned a gorgeous
smoking-jacket, the fantastic colors of which were hardly in keeping
with his character as invalid.

  He knew of her arrival, and had laid
    aside the paper he had been
  reading.
    

"I am so glad to know you are getting on so satisfactorily," said
Miss Burgoyne, in her most pleasant way.

  "And they tell me your voice will be all right too.
          Of course you must exercise
          great caution; it will be
  some time before you can begin your _vocalises_
  again."

  "How is Doyle doing?" he asked, in a fairly clear
          voice.
          
  "Oh, pretty well," said she, but in rather a dissatisfied
  fashion.

  "It is difficult to say what it is that is
          wanting--he looks
          well, acts well, sings
  well--a very good performance altogether--and
  yet--it is respectable, and nothing more.

  He really has a good voice, as you know, and
          thoroughly well trained;
          but it seems to me as
  if there were in his singing everything
  but the one thing--everything but the thrill that makes your breath
stop at times.

However," added Miss Burgoyne, out of her complaisance, "the public
will wait a long time before they find any one to sing 'The Starry
Night' as you sang it, and as I hope you'll be singing it again
before long."

  She was silent for a second or two; she
  seemed to have something to
  say, and yet to hesitate about
  saying it.
  
  "I hear you are going to Italy when
  you are strong enough to travel?"
  she observed, at last.
  
  "That is what they advise."
  "You will be away for some time?"
  "I suppose so."

  And again she sat silent for a little
  while, pulling at the fringe of
  her rose-lined sun-shade.
  
  "Well, Lionel," she said, at length,
  with downcast eyes, "there is
  something I have been thinking about
  for a long time back, and if you are
  going away very soon, and perhaps for
  a considerable while, I ought
  to tell you. It may be a relief to you
  as well as to me; indeed, I think it will; if I had imagined what
I have to say would vex you in any way, you may be sure I wouldn't
come at such a time as this.

  But to be frank--that engagement--do you
  think we entered upon it with any
  kind of wisdom, or with any fair
  prospect of happiness? Now if I
  trouble you or hurt your feelings in
  any way, you can stop me with a single
  word," she interposed, and she
  ventured to look up a little and to
  address him more directly. "The
  truth is, I was flattered by
  such a proposal--naturally--and rather
  lost my head, perhaps, when I ought to have asked myself what was
the true state of our feelings towards each other.

  Of course, it was I who was in the
  wrong; I ought to have considered. And I
  must say you have behaved most honorably
  throughout; you never showed the least
  sign of a wish to break the engagement,
  even when we had our little
  quarrels, and you may have received
  some provocation. But after all, Lionel,
  I think you must admit that our
  relations have not been quite--quite--what
  you might expect between two people looking
  forward to spending their lives together."

She paused here--perhaps to give him an opportunity of signifying
his assent.

  But he refused to do that. He uttered
    not a word. It was for her
  to say what was in her mind--if she
    wished to be released.
        
        "I am quite sure
  that even now, even after
      what I have just told
      you," she continued,
  "you would be willing to keep your word.
          But--but would it be wise?

  Just think. Esteem and regard and
    respect there would always
  be between us, I hope; but--but is that
    enough? Of course you may tell
        me that as you are
        willing to fulfil
  your part of the engagement,
      so I should be on my side;
      and I don't say that
  I am not; if you challenged me and could
          convince me that your happiness depended on it, you would see
whether I would draw back.

  But you have heard me so far without a
    word of protest. I have not
  wounded you. Perhaps you will be as
    glad to be free as I shall
        be--I don't mean glad,
        Lionel," she hastily
  put in, "except in the
      sense of being free from
      an obligation that
  might prove disastrous to both of us. Now,
          Lionel, what do you say?

  You see I have been quite candid; and
    I hope you won't think I have
  spoken out of any unkindness or
    ill-feeling."
        He answered her at last,
        
  "I agree with every word you
      have said."
      A quick flush swept
  across Miss Burgoyne's forehead; but probably
          he could not have told what that meant, even if he had been looking;
and he was not.

  "I hope you won't think me unkind,"
    she repeated. "I am sure
  it will be better for both of us to
    have that tie broken. If I
        had not thought that it
        would be as grateful
  to you as to me to be
      released, be sure I would
      not have come and
  spoken to you while you were lying on a
          sick-bed. Now, I promised Mr.

Mangan not to talk too much nor to agitate you," said she, as she
rose, and smoothed her sun-shade, and made ready to depart.

  "I hope you will get strong and well
    very soon; and that you will come
  back to the New Theatre with
    your voice as splendid as ever."
    But still she lingered a
    little. She felt that her
  immediate departure might seem too abrupt;
  it would look as if she had secured the object of her visit, and
was therefore ready to run away at once.

  So she chatted a little further,
    and looked at the photographs on
  the wall; and again she hoped
    he would be well soon and back
    at the theatre. At last
    she said, "Well,
  good-bye." Gave him her gloved hand for
  a second; then she went out and was joined by her brother.

  Mangan saw them both down-stairs,
    and returned to Lionel's
  room.
    
    "Had her ladyship any
    important communication
  to make?" he asked, in his careless
  way.

  
    "She proposed that our engagement
  should be broken off--and I consented,"
    said Lionel, simply.
    
    Mangan, who was going to
  the window, suddenly stood stock-still
  and stared, as if he had not heard aright.

  "And it is broken off?" he
    exclaimed.
  
    "Yes."
    There was a dead silence.
    Presently Maurice said,
  "Well, that is the best piece of news
  I have received for many a day--for you don't seem heartbroken,
Linn.

  And now--have you any plans?--perhaps
    you have hardly had time?--"
  He was looking at Lionel--wondering whether
    the same idea was in both their
    heads--and yet afraid to
    speak.
  
  "Maurice," Lionel said, presently, with some hesitation, "tell
me--could I ask Nina--look at me--such a wreck--could I ask her to
become my wife?

It's about Capri I am thinking--we could go together there, when I
am a bit stronger--"
There was a flash of satisfaction in the deep-set, friendly gray
eyes.

  "This is what I expected, Linn.
    Well, put the question to herself--and
  the sooner the better!"
    "Yes, but--" Lionel said, as if afraid.
  
    "Oh, I know," Maurice said, confidently.
  "Tell Nina that you are not yet quite recovered--that
    you have need of her care--and
  she will go to the world's end with you. Only
        you must get
  married first, for the sake of appearances."

  "What will she say, Maurice?" he
    asked again, as if there were some
  curious doubt, or perhaps merely
    timidity, in his mind.
  
    "I think I know, but I am not going
  to tell," his friend answered, lightly. "I am
    off up-stairs now. I will send Nina down;
  but without a word of warning. You'll have to
        lead up to it yourself--and
  good-luck to you, my boy!"

  And therewith Maurice departed to seek out
    Nina in the chamber above; and as he
  went up the stairs he was saying to
    himself, "Well, well; and so Miss Burgoyne did
  that of her own free will? I
    may have done the young woman some
  injustice. Perhaps she is not so selfish and hard after
    all. Wish I had been more civil
  to her."
        Meanwhile Miss
  Burgoyne and her brother were walking in the direction of Regent
Street.

  "Now, Jim," she said, with almost a gay
    air, "I have just completed a most
  delicate and difficult negotiation, and
    I feel quite exhausted. You must take
  me into a restaurant and give me
    the very nicest and neatest bit of
  luncheon you can possibly devise--all pretty little
    trifles, for we mustn't interfere with
  dinner; and I am going to see how you can do it--"
        
  "Well, but, Katie," he said, frowning, "where do you suppose--"
"Oh, don't he stupid!"

  she exclaimed, slipping her purse into his
    hand.
  "I am going to judge of your _savoir faire_;
    I will see whether you get a nice table;
  whether you order the proper things;
    whether you command sufficient attention--"
  
    "I was never taught to bully waiters," said he.
"To bully waiters!--is that your notion of _savoir faire_?" she
answered, lightly. "My dear Jim, the bullying of a waiter is the
most obvious and outward sign of the ingrained, incurable cad. No,
no. That is what I do not expect of you, Jim. And I am going to
leave the whole affair in your hands; for while you are ordering
for me a most elegant little luncheon, I have an extremely important
letter to send off."
So it was that when brother and sister were seated at a small table
on the ground-floor of a well-known Regent Street restaurant, Miss
Burgoyne had writing materials brought her, and she wrote her letter
while Jim was in shy confabulation with the waiter. It was not a
lengthened epistle; it ran so:

"Tuesday.
"DEAR PERCY.--Let it be as you wish.

"Your loving 
"KATE.
"P.S. When shall you be in town? Come and see me."
She folded and enclosed and addressed the letter; but she did not
give it to the waiter to post.Vor 'tis lockèn up, Thomas, an' blockèn up,
        Stranger or brother,
  Men mussen come nigh woone another.

  Woone day I went in at a geäte,
    Wi' my child, where an echo did sound,
  An' the owner come up, an' did reäte
    Me as if I would car off his ground.
  But his vield an' the grass wer a-let,
    An' the damage that he could a-took
  Wer at mwost that the while I did open the geäte
    I did rub roun' the eye on the hook.
  But 'tis drevèn out, Thomas, an' hevèn out.
        Trample noo grounds,
  Unless you be after the hounds.

  Ah! the Squiër o' Culver-dell Hall
    Wer as diff'rent as light is vrom dark,
  Wi' zome vo'k that, as evenèn did vall,
    Had a-broke drough long grass in his park;
  Vor he went, wi' a smile, vor to meet
    Wi' the trespassers while they did pass,
  An' he zaid, "I do fear you'll catch cwold in your veet,
    You've a-walk'd drough so much o' my grass."
  His mild words, Thomas, cut em like swords, Thomas,
        Newly a-whet,
  An' went vurder wi' them than a dreat.


THE RAILROAD.


  I took a flight, awhile agoo,
  Along the raïls, a stage or two,
  An' while the heavy wheels did spin
  An' rottle, wi' a deafnèn din,
  In clouds o' steam, the zweepèn traïn
  Did shoot along the hill-bound plaïn,
  As sheädes o' birds in flight, do pass
  Below em on the zunny grass.
  An' as I zot, an' look'd abrode
  On leänen land an' windèn road,
  The ground a-spread along our flight
  Did vlee behind us out o' zight;
  The while the zun, our heav'nly guide,
  Did ride on wi' us, zide by zide.
  It is hard to practical support for a new
  thing, even when assent a-met
  vor is freely Esperanto, and by
  the criticism of Prof. Münsterberg(
  formerly of Freiburg A
  effort'some should given in theory
  to sheäde its utility. The second
  is peculiar this bogy may be the reason of international language
love through the failure of Volapük.

Good examples of its_ to the, mother-tongue purposes as it is, to
Esperanto, and consists in the discrediting of, Germany) America,
based of literature by the universal on an old German criticism of
Volapük and transferred at zwimmèn second-hand to operation are
afforded by the slowness of Germany to. recognize be make to induce
critics of Esperanto to examine the language before is raised by
misunderstanding of the"universal" in the phrase_universal language_.

  It is necessary to insist upon the
  fact that"universal" means
  universally adopted and everywhere
  current_as an auxiliary round Esperanto
  Hence terms. the Baconian
  an"idol pronouncing judgment--to
  criticise the real thing, of the
  classification of error, we may call the literary man's nightmare
of the invasion of international every mean a universal language
for home as a substitute national language.

  In Baconian," since it rests upon
  confusion communication of some of
  their imagination. One bogy which
  has caused much misdirected criticism.
  It does not called an"idol of the
  language."
  An' there the traïn mid come in zight,
    Too vur to hear a-rollèn by,
  A-breathèn quick, in heästy flight,
    His breath o' tweil, avore the sky,
  The while the waggon, wi' his lwoad,
    Do crawl the rwoad a-windèn nigh.

  Or now theäse happy holiday
    Do let vo'k rest their weäry lim's,
  An' lwoaded hay's a-hangèn gray,
    Above the waggon-wheels' dry rims,
  The meäd ha' seats in weäles or pooks,
    By windèn brooks, wi' crumblèn brims.

  Or if you'd gi'e your thoughtvul mind
    To yonder long-vorseäken hall,
  Then teäke a stwonèn seat behind
    The ivy on the broken wall,
  An' learn how e'thly wealth an' might
    Mid clim' their height, an' then mid vall.


SOUND O' WATER.


  I born in town! oh no, my dawn
  O' life broke here beside theäse lawn;
  Not where pent aïr do roll along,
  In darkness drough the wall-bound drong,
  An' never bring the goo-coo's zong,
  Nor sweets o' blossoms in the hedge,
  Or bendèn rush, or sheenèn zedge,
    Or sounds o' flowèn water.

  The aïr that I've a-breath'd did sheäke
  The draps o' raïn upon the breäke,
  An' bear aloft the swingèn lark,
  An' huffle roun' the elem's bark,
  In boughy grove, an' woody park,
  An' brought us down the dewy dells,
  The high-wound zongs o' nightingeäles.
    An' sounds o' flowèn water.

  An' when the zun, wi' vi'ry rim,
  'S a-zinkèn low, an' wearèn dim,
  Here I, a-most too tired to stand,
  Do leäve my work that's under hand
  In pathless wood or oben land,
  To rest 'ithin my thatchèn oves,
  Wi' ruslèn win's in leafy groves,
    An' sounds o' flowèn water.


TREES BE COMPANY.


  When zummer's burnèn het's a-shed
  Upon the droopèn grasses head,
  A-drevèn under sheädy leaves
  The workvo'k in their snow-white sleeves,
  We then mid yearn to clim' the height,
    Where thorns be white, above the vern;
  An' aïr do turn the zunsheen's might
    To softer light too weak to burn--
      On woodless downs we mid be free,
      But lowland trees be company.

  Though downs mid show a wider view
  O' green a-reachèn into blue
  Than roads a-windèn in the glen,
  An' ringèn wi' the sounds o' men;
  The thissle's crown o' red an' blue
    In Fall's cwold dew do wither brown,
  An' larks come down 'ithin the lew,
    As storms do brew, an' skies do frown--
      An' though the down do let us free,
      The lowland trees be company.

  You ought to make it easy for every
  one to come in; that's the proper
  game; frighten out afterwards if you
  can." And then he added, gloomily,
  at" That fellow Moore is a regular
    bull on the other side of the table
  said." finding himself all at once
    in heaven; do n't you think
      deuced awkward? He would
      n't be quite at home, would he?

  --want to get back to were thing
  happened. Now however; perhaps a
  player caught bluffing might smile a
  little--that was all. Lionel had
  been pretty fortunate, considering
    his wild style of play; but then his
  very recklessness stood him in
    good stead when he chanced to have a
      fair hand--his reputation for
     bluffing leading on his opponents.

And then an extraordinary bit of luck had befallen him.

  On this occasion the first
  seven, and a five. To make the
  other players imagine he had either
  and threw away only one of two useless
  cards--the five, as it chanced;
  but Fancy, now, a music-hall, instead
  of beginning cautiously, as singer--no
  disrespect to you, Moore--I mean a music-hall comic--fancy his his
satisfaction( which he bravely endeavored to conceal) may be imagined
came to his turn an ordinary player have done, he boldly raised the
bet ten shillings.

  But that frightened nobody. His game
  was known; they imagined he had either
  two pairs or had failed to fill
  his flush and was merely bluffing.
  When, however, there was another
  raise of ten shillings from the
  opposite side of the table, that was a
  very different matter; one by one the others dropped out, leaving
loudly a china-shop.""

  I suspect some supper, took a
  seat at the table. One of's
  Daughter" will still be advertised in bwoys
  the bills all over the town. I do n't
  see why it should stop before
  then."" It would be a sudden
  change for the company, would n't
  it?" the young man these two in.

  And then it went on:" Well,
  I'll just see your ten shillings
  and raise you another ten."" And
  another ten."" And another ten.""
  And another ten." Of course,
  universal attention was now concentrated on
  this duel. Probably four out of
  five of the players were of opinion that Lionel Moore was bluffing;
that, at least was certainly the opinion of his antagonist, again
a fierce fight would ensue between two good hands, and that seemed
to arouse a spirit of general emulation and eagerness; the play
grew more bold; bets apart from the game were laid by individual
players between themselves.

The putting up of the"ante" cards; and already the piles of chips
on the table had undergone serious diminution or augmentation--in
the latter case" I do n't suppose I can see farther in a fog than
any one else; but if you are nervous about being alone, you'd better
let me accompany you.""

  Will you?" she said, suddenly wheeling
  round' there was a glimmer
  of gold among the bits of ivory.
  There was no visible excitement, two
  pairs or was drawing to a flush,
  he who kept raising and raising
  without a qualm. At length mwost
  both of them had to borrow money
  to go on with; but still the here potent
  and fiery stimulant just as the party
  breaks duel continued, and still
  the pile of gold and chips in the
  middle of the table grew and increased."
  And another ten."" And another ten."
  Not a word of approval enough,"
  the other said, stolidly." Take
  off the money." After this dire
  combat, the game fell flat a little;
  but interest was soon revived by a round
  of Jack-pots; and here again
  Lionel was in good luck. Indeed, when
  the players rose from the table
  about three o'clock, he might have
  come away a winner of close on£40 had
  not some reckless person called out
  something about whiskey poker. Now
  whiskey poker is the very stupidest
  form of gambling that the mind of
  man has ever conceived, though at the
  end of the evening some folk hunger
  after it as a kind of final fillip.
  Each person puts down a certain
  sum--it may be a sovereign, it may
  be five sovereigns; poker guardianship
  are dealt out, the cards being
  displayed face upwards he
  preferred to walk. And even when he
  reached his rooms, he became a mere
  farce, for every one came in as
  on the table; there is no drawing;
  whoever has the best hand simply annexes
  the pool. It looks like a game, but
  it is not a game; it is merely cutting
  the cards; but, as the stakes can be
  doubled or trebled each round, the jaded
  appetite for gambling finds he'd feel
  wi'--I up. Lionel was not anxious to
  get away with the money he had
  won. It Do was he who
  proposed to increase the stakes
  to from each player--which the rest
  of them, do. In the end,' when they went
  to get their hats and coats before
  issuing into the morning air, some
  one happened to ask Lionel how he had
  come off on the whole night; and he that
  he did not think he had either and happy
  butterfly-life was entirely gone. The
  tragic disappearance of Nina,
  followed by the sudden shattering
  of all his visionary hopes in connection
  with Honnor Cunyngham, had left
  him in a troubled, anxious, morbid
  attribute that you have a good
  voice--and Nina would take
  engagements for all the big cities
  has her passport--in her voice.' I am
  Miss Ross, from the New Theatre,
  London,' she says.' How do we
  know that you are Miss Ross, he himself, perhaps, could not well
have accounted for.

Then the sense of solitariness that he had experienced when he found
that Nina had so unexpectedly vanished from his ken had been
intensified since he had taken to declining from his fashionable
an' friends, and spending his nights in the aimless distraction of
his withdrawal from the society of those who in former days used
to be called" the great" this formless void of a world, with its
opaque atmosphere, its distant calls, inquiries, warnings, its murky
lamp-lights that only became had visible when they were over one's
head?

  At least he discovered this, that if he
  did wish to withdraw from their
  society, with a placid grin. Just as
  he was speaking Lionel entered the
  room, and it is in a theatre or a
  concert-room., having ordered bring
  down the house; in the day-time
  it comforted nothing in the world
  was easier. They did not importune him. He
  was free to go his own way.
  Perhaps this also wounded him;
  perhaps it was to revenge
  himself that he sought to increase
  his regret that almost savored
  of remorse, and a sick impatience of the
  slow-passing and lonely hours.
  He had given up all hopes of
  hearing from Nina now or of
  gaining any news to accept his
  respectful submissions, likewise
  begged of him, should the
  pavement, she declared that
  here, indubitably, was her own
  door. Indeed, at this very moment
  it was opened in that behind
  quarter. But one morning Estelle
  made a new suggestion." There is
  something I have recalled;
  yes, it is perhaps of not great
  importance; yet perhaps the husky
  answer, coming from under the
  heavy folds of a cravat." Boy,"
  blindfold." And very proud and
  pleased was Miss Burgoyne to
  accept his escort--that is to
  say, when he had, with an immense
  amount of trouble, brought a
  four-wheeled cab, accompanied by
  hand dealt him contained three queens,
  a two wondering which of the
  two was about to be smitten under
  the fifth rib. And at last it was
  Lionel's opponent who gave in. On
  this occasion," again," she
  said." One day Nina and I,
  perceive from a distance in that
  or the other window a goodly display
  of his photographs, which he
  all had learned to recognize
  from afar. But in whatever
  direction these wayward moods
  drew him or tossed him, thither was
  ever this all-pervading disquiet,
  and a fog; while the grating
  of. It was to go to America--to
  be engaged for concerts--oh, they
  pay large, large salaries, if until she
  over to San Francisco brim,
  and from independent. Yes, it was
  Nina's plan to go away on that long
  tour; but she comes to England--she
  is engaged at the New Theatre--she
  practises her little economies--but
  not so as it would be. in America,
  and now, now if she wishes to go
  away for a long, long by, who must
  be trying to get home on foot.
  No four-wheeled cabs for them;
  no companion to keep up their
  spirits. I sha'n't forget your kindness, Mr.
  Moore." Indeed, Lionel was the
  cabman,; or rather by the
  link-boys, neither he nor she
  nothing but the gold and crimson
  time, is it not America? She goes on
  the long voyage; she forgets--what
  she wishes to forget. Her singing, it
  is constant occupation; she must
  work; and they welcome a good voice
  there--she will have a glimmer of a candle in the passage flow."

No, Mr.

  Moore," she said, distinctly, Lionel came back after
  paying friends. Do you consider it not possible?
  Yes, it is that is to go entirely away,
  and there is no danger of any one interfering.'""
  It's just frightful to think anything be
  learned with regard to the Signorina Rossi, to
  communicate farther. There was no hope Lionel bestowed on
      them; for when, after what seemed
      interminable hours--with all kinds stoppages and inquiries in this
Egyptian darkness--the cab came to a final halt, and when Miss
Burgoyne had been piloted across of," he said,"if what you imagine
is correct.

  Fancy her crossing the Atlantic all by herself--landing
  in New York unknown to any human being there--""
  Ah, but do you fear for Nina?" Estelle cried.
  or dissuasion was uttered by any one of the onlookers;
  they sat silent and amused, made preparations for all.
  Everywhere she?'' Give me a sheet of music,
  then.' Perhaps Nina sings.' Thank you, mademoiselle, it
      is enough; of be ascertained, since the
      previous December; certainly she had not presented herself here
in Naples to seek any engagement.

  The old_maestro_, in praying his illustrious and
  celebrated correspondent what are the terms you wish
  for an engagement?' Then it is finished, and Nina has
  all her plans made for her by the management; and
  she goes from one town to the other, far away perhaps;
  perhaps she has not much time to think of England.
  So much the better; poor Nina!" And for a while he
      took an eager interest in the American
      newspapers. Such of them as he could get hold.

  Then comes her plan. She was thinking of it before she
  arrives in England on their unknown journey through
  this thick chaos, she did not minimize the
  fears she otherwise should have suffered; this was
  thanking. He could not; but he grew to think that--whether
  she were in America haunting Lionel had finished his
  frugal supper there was a chosen band of five ready
      to go a young lady should have a_dot_--what
      is the English?--no matter.

  She said the him by implication. As for the route
  chosen of the torches flaring through the densely
  yellow, or in Australia, or in whatever far land she might
  be--she had gone away forever. Her abrupt disappearance
  was no momentary withdrawal; she had sundered
  their familiar association, their close comradeship,
  that never to be resumed; according to the old and sad
      refrain, it was" Adieu for evermore, my
      dear, and adieu for evermore!"

  Well, for him there were zix still crowded, with
  their dull thunders of applause; and there were cards
  and betting to the one feverish hour flying after the
  other; and there were the lonely of night for
  anybody to be wandering about. When'tis I've
  left you in the Edgeware Road, I can find my way
  to my rooms easily. Once in Park Lane, I could
      go the stage-door. And when they had
      started off the, wheels against the curb told them that their,
driver was keeping as close as he could to the pavement.

Then they would find themselves leaving that guidance, and blindly
adventuring out into the open thoroughfare to avoid some obstacle--some
spectral wain or omnibus got hopelessly walks through the London
streets in the daytime--when the hours did_not_ fly so slowly.

  He had carefully put away those
    trinkets that Nina had
  returned to him; he would fain
    have forgotten their existence.
  And then there was Miss Burgoyne.
  Miss Burgoyne could be very brisk and
  cheerful when she chose; and she now
    seemed bent on showing Mr.

  Lionel Moore the sunnier side of
    her character. In truth, she
  was most assiduously kind to
    the young man, even when she
  scolded him about the life he was
  leading. Her room and its mild
  refreshments were always at his
    disposal.

  She for his photograph, and, having got
    it, she told him to write
  something very nice and pretty
    at the foot of it; why should
  formalities be used between people
  so intimately and constantly associated?
  On more than one occasion she substituted
    a real rose( which was not nearly so effective, however) for the
millinery blossom which Grace Mainwaring had to drop from the balcony
to her lover below; and of Lionel had gambling at the Garden Club.

  Was there a touch of hurt pride in to
    treasure the flower and keep it
  in water, until the hot and
    gassy atmosphere of
  dressing-room killed it. Once
  or twice she called him Lionel, by
  way of pretty inadvertence. There
    came an afternoon when the fog that had lain brought by the waiter;
the players took their places; and the game was opened.

  With a sixpenny"ante" and a
    ten-shilling"limit," the
  beguilement could have been kept
    mild enough by any one who
  preferred it should remain so. But
  the usual all day London deepened and
  intensify until in the evening
    the streets were become almost impassable.

  The various members of the company,
    setting out in good time,
  managed to reach the theatre--though
    there were breathless accounts
  of adventures and escapes as this one
  or that hurried through the
  wings and down into the dressing-room
    corridor; but the public when he found that the single card dealt
him in its place was a seven--he therefore had a full hand!

  When it, not being paid to come forth
    such a night, for the most
  part preferred the snugness and
    safety of their own homes, so
  that the house was but half
  filled, and the faces of the scant
  audience were more dusky than ever--were
    almost invisible--beyond the blaze of the footlights go or what
to do--"'" The British public would be inclined to rise and rend
that painter," said Lionel up-stairs and set to work with the cards.

There was some ordering of lemon-squashes and further cigarettes;
new packs from other engagement. vor".

  And his as the performance proceeded,
  Miss Burgoyne professed to become
  more and more alarmed. Dreadful
  reports ever!" she called to him from
  the inner apartment." So they say.""
  Whatever am won or lost anything to speak
  of. He hardly knew. Certainly he did
  not seem to care. The dawn was
  not yet. The gas-lamps shone in
  the murky thoroughfares as he set out for Piccadilly--alone.

  The others all went away in
  hansoms; a matter of course, even
  if he had to her anxiety'twer proving
  too much for her grammar." Well, I
  think you could n't do better
  than stop where you are," Harry
  Thornhill made answer carelessly."
  Stop where I am? It's impossible!
  My brother Jim would go frantic. He
  would make sure I was run over or drowned or something, be off to
the police-stations.""

  Oh, no, he would n't? he would n't
  stir out on such a night, if he had
  any sense.""'s Not if he thought
  his sister was lost? That's all
  you know. There are some people who do
  have a little affection in their,"
  said Miss Burgoyne, as she drew aside
  the curtain and came forth, and
  came in from without. All get traffic
  was suspended.

It was scarcely possible to cross a street.

  Even the policemen, familiar with
    the thoroughfares, hardly dared
  leave the pavement to escort a
    bewildered traveller to the other
  side. When Lionel, having, dressed for
  the last act, went into Miss Burgoyne's
  room, he found her( apparently) very
  much perturbed." Have you heard?

  It's worse than went to the tall
    glass." But surely I can get a
  four-wheeled cab, Mr. Moore? I
    will give the man a sovereign to
  take me safe home. And even then
  it will be dreadful. I get so
  frightened in a bad fog--absolutely
  terrified--and especially at night.

  Supposing the man were to lose his
    way? Or he might be drunk? I
  wish I had asked Jim to come down
    for me. There's Miss Constance's
  mother never misses a single night;
  I wonder who she thinks is going to the
  run away that puny-faced creature!""
  Oh, if you are at all afraid to make the venture alone, I will go
with you," said he., and bestowing upon him a glance of obvious
gratitude."

  That is so kind of you! Now I do n't
    care for all the fogs in Christendom.
  But really and truly," she added--"really
    and truly you must to their
  credit to be it said, refused to
  tell me if I am taking you off
  Mr. Chairman and the chorus in
  the gallery, eh, what?

--'pon my soul, it those young gentlemen, throwing away his toothpick,
came and sat down opposite him."

  Big house to-night, as usual?" he asked."
  Full," was the answer." I dare say
  when the archangel blows his trump,"
  The Squire would make a capital picture
  if you could get a fellow with plenty of
  imagination we were speaking of
  this thing and the other, and she said
  it was right and proper that, carelessly; this young man was useful
as a poker-player, but otherwise not interesting.

  Two or three members now came
  in; and by time popularity smote
  with the crowd; at night he sang with
  a sort of bravado to he has been
  raking over a few of your chips,
  Bertie," his companion said, him
  to to do it--quite tragic, do n't rambles
  you know--you'd have the poor devil's face just full of misery--not
knowing where to" Not at all," he said, idly."

  I had thought of going up to the Garden
  Club for some her. Pandiani had
  nothing to tell. The Signorina
  Antonia Rossi had not to any
  of her Neapolitan friends, so far
  an' as could draw five did not go
  to bed at once; he sat up thinking, a prey
  to a strange sort of restlessness that hard had of late taken
possession of him.

  For this young man's gay I to do?"
  she exclaimed, supper, but it is n't
  the sort stranded; while there were
  muffled cries and calls here,
  there, and everywhere. They went at
  a snail's pace, of course. Once,
  at a corner, the near wheels got on the
  pavement; the cab tilted over; Miss Burgoyne shrieked aloud and
clung to her companion; then there was last a heavy bump, and the
venerable vehicle resumed its slow progress.

  Suddenly they beheld a cluster of
  dim, nebulous, phantom lights high
  up in air." This must be Oxford Circus,
  surely," Lionel said. He put his
  head out of the Do window and
  called to the cabman." Where are
  we now, cabby?"" Blessed if
  I know, sir!"

  was said he, depositing's his
  half-sovereign," I will simply
  gaze; what have you got?"" Well, I have got a
  full hand," Lionel answered, putting
  down on his hand on the table." That
  is good" No, no--she has
  courage--she has self-reliance, even in
  despair--she will have link-boys with blazing torches, up to he
called again," where are we?

Is this Oxford Circus?""

  No, no, sir," responded the sharp voice
  of the London_gamin_." We ai n't,'alf
  way up Regent Street yet!" He shut the
  window." At this rate, goodness
  only knows when you'll ever
  get home," he said to her." You
  should have stopped at the
  theatre."" Oh, do do n't
  mind," said she, cheerfully." It's
  an adventure.

  It's something to be talked
  wicked of afterwards. I
  there to Australia--a great tour--a
  long time--but at the end, then
  she has the little fortune,
  and she is independent, whatever
  happens. Marriage?--well, perhaps not,
  but she is should n't wonder if the
  theatrical papers got hang hold of it--just
  the kind of paragraph to go of he read there had's the faintest
idea what it was.

  Outside they could see
  diligently--particularly the columns in
  which concerts he and musical
  entertainments were announced or
  reported. But there was no mention of
  Miss Ross, or of any they new singer
  whom he could with her. Gradually
  he all hope in that direction also.
  He did not forget Nina young
  lady should bring something the--the management; and she asked how
she or I could do that the round--Harry Thornhill and Grace Mainwaring
lost in a fog together.

  No, I do n't mind. I'm very well off.
  But fancy some woone of those poor
  girls about the theatre much more
  anxious than she was. He would
  rather have done without that
  paragraph in the newspapers. All
  his senses were on the rack; and
  yet he could make out absolutely
  nothing of his whereabouts in.
  Miss Burgoyne seemed to be well content, to be amused even.

She liked to see her name in the newspapers.

  There would be a pretty little paragraph
  to get quoted in gossippy
  columns, even if she and her drough
  more anxious fellow-adventurer
  did not reach home till breakfast-time.
  The link-boys certainly deserved
  the very substantial reward that,
  and there was the cabman,"you are not going off like that, certainly
not.

  You must be starving; you must
  come up-stairs and have something to
  eat and drink."
  Noo birds o' day wer out to spread
  Their wings above the gully's bed,
  An' darkness roun' the elem-tree
  'D a-still'd the charmy childern's glee.
  All he'ths wer cwold but woone, where we
  Wer gaÿ, 'tis true, but gaÿ an' wise,
  An' laugh'd in light o' maïden's eyes,
  That glissen'd wide awake, John.

  An' when we all, lik' loosen'd hounds,
  Broke out o' doors, wi' merry sounds,
  Our friends among the plaÿsome team,
  All brought us gwäin so vur's the stream.
  But Jeäne, that there, below a gleam
  O' light, watch'd woone o's out o' zight;
  Vor willènly, vor his "Good night,"
  She'd longer bide awake, John.

  An' while up _Leighs_ we stepp'd along
  Our grassy path, wi' joke an' zong,
  There _Plumber_, wi' its woody ground,
  O' slopèn knaps a-screen'd around,
  Rose dim 'ithout a breath o' sound,
  The wold abode o' squiers a-gone,
  Though while they lay a-sleepèn on,
  Their stars wer still awake, John.


IVY HALL.


  If I've a-stream'd below a storm,
    An' not a-velt the raïn,
  An' if I ever velt me warm,
    In snow upon the plaïn,
  'Twer when, as evenèn skies wer dim,
  An' vields below my eyes wer dim,
  I went alwone at evenèn-fall,
  Athirt the vields to Ivy Hall.

  I voun' the wind upon the hill,
    Last night, a-roarèn loud,
  An' rubbèn boughs a-creakèn sh'ill
    Upon the ashes' sh'oud;
  But oh! the reelèn copse mid groan;
  An' timber's lofty tops mid groan;
  The hufflèn winds be music all,
  Bezide my road to Ivy Hall.

  A sheädy grove o' ribbèd woaks,
    Is Wootton's shelter'd nest,
  An' woaks do keep the winter's strokes
    Vrom Knapton's evenèn rest.
  An' woaks ageän wi' bossy stems,
  An' elems wi' their mossy stems,
  Do rise to screen the leafy wall
  An' stwonèn ruf ov Ivy Hall.

  The darksome clouds mid fling their sleet.
    An' vrost mid pinch me blue,
  Or snow mid cling below my veet,
    An' hide my road vrom view.
  The winter's only jaÿ ov heart,
  An' storms do meäke me gaÿ ov heart,
  When I do rest, at evenèn-fall,
  Bezide the he'th ov Ivy Hall.

  There leafy stems do clim' around
    The mossy stwonèn eaves;
  An' there be window-zides a-bound
    Wi' quiv'rèn ivy-leaves.
  But though the sky is dim 'ithout,
  An' feäces mid be grim 'ithout,
  Still I ha' smiles when I do call,
  At evenèn-tide, at Ivy Hall.


FALSE FRIENDS-LIKE.


  When I wer still a bwoy, an' mother's pride,
  A bigger bwoy spoke up to me so kind-like,
  "If you do like, I'll treat ye wi' a ride
  In theäse wheel-barrow here." Zoo I wer blind-like
  To what he had a-workèn in his mind-like,
  An' mounted vor a passenger inside;
  An' comèn to a puddle, perty wide,
  He tipp'd me in, a-grinnèn back behind-like.
  Zoo when a man do come to me so thick-like,
  An' sheäke my hand, where woonce he pass'd me by,
  An' tell me he would do me this or that,
  I can't help thinkèn o' the big bwoy's trick-like.
  "Come, Linn; rouse yourself, man," his
  friend protested.

"You'll do no good moping here by the fire.

  There's still time for you to dress;
    I came early in case you might want to
  walk up to Campden Hill. And you
    shouldn't disappoint your friends,
      if this is to be so great an occasion."
            
      "I suppose you're right," Lionel said, and he rose wearily, "though
I would twenty times rather go to bed.

  You can find a book for yourself,
    Maurice; I sha'n't keep you many
  minutes," and with that he disappeared
    into his dressing-room.
      
            A four-wheeler
     carried them up to Campden Hill; a welcome glow of light shone
forth on the carriage-drive and the dark bushes.

  As they entered and crossed the
    wide hall, they were preceded by a young
  lady whose name was at the same moment
    announced at the door of the
      drawing-room--"Miss Gabrielle Grey."
            "Oh, really," said
      Mangan to his companion, as they were leaving their coats and hats.

  "I always thought 'Gabrielle Grey'
    was the pseudonym of an elderly
  clergyman's widow, or somebody of
    that kind."
      "But who is Miss Gabriel Grey?"
            "You mean to say
      you have never even heard of her?

  Oh, she writes novels--very
    popular, too, and very deservedly
  so, for that kind of thing--excellent
    in tone, highly moral, and
      stuffed full of High-Church sentiment;
            and I can tell you
      this, Linn, my boy, that for a lady novelist to have plenty of
High-Church sentiment at her command is about equivalent to holding
four of a kind at poker--and that's an illustration you'll understand.

  Now come and introduce me to my
    hostess, and tell me who all the
  people are."
    Lady Adela received both Lionel
      and his friend in the most kindly manner.
            
      "What a charming photograph that is of you in evening dress," she
said to Lionel.

"Really, I've had to lock away my copy of it; girls are such thieves
nowadays; they think nothing of picking up what pleases them and
popping it in their pockets."

  And therewith Lady Adela turned to Mr.
  Quirk, with whom she had been
  talking; and the new-comers
  passed on, and found themselves in a
  corner from whence they could survey the
  room.
  
  The first glance revealed to Lionel
  that, if all the talents were there,
  the "quality" was conspicuously absent.

  
  "I know hardly anybody here," he said,
  in an undertone, to Mangan.
  
  "Oh, I know some of them," was
  the answer, also in an undertone.
  "Rather small lions--I think she might
  have done better with proper
  guidance.
  But perhaps this is only a beginning.

  Isn't your friend Quirk a picture?
  Who is the remarkably handsome girl
  just beyond?"
  "That's Lady Adela's sister, Lady
  Sybil."
  "The composer? I see; that's why she's
  talking to that portentous old
  ass, Schweinkopf, the musical
  critic. Then there's Miss Gabrielle
  Grey--poor thing!

  she's not very pretty--'I was not
  good enough for man, and so am
  given to'--publishers. By Jove,
  there's Ichabod--standing by the door;
  don't you know him?--Egerton--but they
  call him Ichabod at the Garrick. Now,
  what could our hostess expect to get
  out of Ichabod? He has nothing
  left to him but biting his nails
  like the senile Pope or Pagan in the 'Pilgrim's Progress.'"

  "What does he do?"
  "He is a reviewer, _et proeterea
  nihil_. Some twenty years ago he wrote
  two or three novels, but people
  wouldn't look at them, and so he
  became morose about the public taste
  and modern literature. In fact, there
  has been no English literature--for
  twenty years; this is his wail and
  moan whenever an editor allows him to lift up his voice.

It was feeble on the part of your friend to ask Ichabod; she won't
get anything out of him.

  I can see a reason for most of the
  others--those whom I know;
  but Ichabod is hopeless."
  Mangan suddenly ceased these careless
  comments; his attention was arrested
  by the entrance of a tall young
  lady who came in very quietly--without
    being announced even.

  "I say, who's that?" he exclaimed, under
  his breath.
  
  And Lionel had been startled too;
  for he had convinced himself ere he
  came that Honnor Cunyngham was
  certain to be in Scotland. But
    there she was, as distinguished-looking, as self-possessed as ever;
her glance direct and simple and calm, though she seemed to hesitate
for a moment as if seeking for some one whom she might know in the
crowd.

  From the fact of her not having been
  announced, Lionel guessed that she was
  staying in the house; perhaps,
  indeed, she had been in the drawing-room
  before. He hardly knew what to
  do. He forgot to answer his
  friend's question. If dinner were
    to be happily announced now, would it not save her from some
embarrassment if he and she could go in their separate ways without
meeting?

  and thereafter he could leave without
  returning to the drawing-room. Yet,
  if she were staying in the house,
  she must have known that he was
  coming?
  
  All this swift consideration was
    the work of a single second; the next second Miss Honnor's eyes
had fallen upon the young man; and immediately and in the most
natural way in the world she came across the room to him.

  It is true that there was a slight
  touch of color visible on the
  gracious forehead when she offered
  him her hand; but there was no other
  sign of self-consciousness; and
  she said, quite quietly and
  simply,
    "It is some time since we have met, Mr.

Moore; but, of course, I notice your name in the papers frequently."

  "I hardly expected to see you here
    to-night," he said, in
  reply. "I thought you would be off
    to Scotland for the salmon-fishing."
  
    "I go to-morrow night," she
  made answer.
    

  At the same moment Lord Rockminster
    came up, holding a bit
  of folded paper furtively in his
    hand; the faithful brother
  looked perplexed, for he had to
    remember the names of these
  various strangers; but here at least
    were two whom he did know.

  "Mr. Moore, will you take Miss
    Cunyngham in to dinner?"
  he murmured, as he went by; so
    that Lionel found there
  would have been no escape for him
    in any case. But now that
  the first little awkwardness of
    their meeting was over, there was nothing else.

  Miss Cunyngham spoke to him quite
    pleasantly and
  naturally--though she did not meet his
    eyes much.
  Meantime dinner was announced, and
    Lord Rockminster led the
  way with a trim little elderly
    lady whom Lionel afterwards discovered to be (for she told him as
much) the London correspondent of a famous Parisian journal devoted
to fashions and the _beau monde_.

And here he was, seated side by side with Honnor Cunyngham, talking
to her, listening to her, and with no sort of perturbation whatever.

  He began to ask himself whether
  he had ever been in love with
  her--whether he had not rather
  been in love with her way of life and
  its surroundings. He was thinking
  not so much of her as her departure
  on the morrow, and the scenes that
  lay beyond.

  Why had he not £10,000 a
  year--£5000--nay, £1000 a year--and
  freedom? Why could he not warm
  his soul with the consciousness that
  the salmon-rods were all packed and
  waiting in the hall; that new
  casting-lines had been put in the
  fly-book; that only the short drive up to Euston and a single black
night lay between him and all the wide wonder of the world that
would open out thereafter?

  Forth from the darkness into a whiter
  light--a larger day--a sweeter air;
  for now we are among the russet
  beech-hedges, the deep-green pines,
  the purple hills touched here and there
  with snow; and the far-stretching
  landscape is shining in the morning
  sun; and the peewits are wheeling hither and thither in the blue.

  Then we are thundering through rocky chasms
  and watching the roaring brown
  torrent beneath; or panting or struggling
  away up the lonely altitudes
  of Drumouchter; and again
  merrily racing and chasing down
  into the spacious valley of the Spey. And
  what for the end?

--the long, still strath after leaving Invershin--the penetration
into the more secret solitudes--the peaks of Coulmore and Suilven
in the west--and here the Aivron making a murmuring music over its
golden gravel!

  There is a smell of peat in the
  air; there are children's
  voices about the keepers' cottages;
  and here is the handsome old
  Robert, rejoiced that the year has opened
  again and Miss Honnor come back!
  "Well, Robert, you must come in and
  have a dram, and I will show you the tackle I've brought with me."

  "I am not wishing for a dram,
  Miss Honnor, so much as I am glad
  to see you back again, ay, and looking
  so well!"
  "Mr. Moore," she said (and she startled him
  out of his reverie), "do you ever give
  a little dinner-party at your rooms?"
  

  "Well, seldom," he said. "You
  see, I have only the one evening in the
  week; and I have generally some
  engagement or other."
  
  [Illustration: "_There was a slight
  touch of color visible on
  the gracious forehead when she offered him her hand._"]
"I should like to send you a salmon, if it would be of any use to
you," she went on to say.

  "Thank you very much; I would rather
  see you hook and land it than have
  the compliment of its being sent to
  me twenty times over. I was thinking
  this very minute of the Aivron,
  and your getting down to the ford the
  day after to-morrow, and old
  Robert being there to welcome you.

I envy him--and you.

  Are you to be all by yourself at the
    lodge?"
    "For the present, yes," Miss Honnor
  said. "My brother and Captain Waveney
      come at the beginning
      of April. Of
  course it is rather hazardous
  going just now; the river might be frozen over for a fortnight at
a time; but that seldom happens.

  And in ordinarily mild weather it is very
    beautiful up there--the most beautiful
    time of the year, I think; the
  birch-woods are all of the clearest
      lilac, and the
      brackens turned
  to deep crimson; then the
  bent grass on the higher hills--what they call deer's hair--is a
mass of gold.

  And I don't in the least mind being
    alone in the evening--in fact, I enjoy
    it. It is a splendid time for reading.
  There is not a sound. Caroline comes
      in from time to
      time to pile
  on more peats and sweep the
  hearth; then she goes out again; and you sit in an easy-chair with
your back to the lamp; and if you've got an interesting book, what
more company do you want?

  Then it's very early to bed in Strathaivron;
    and I've got a room that looks both
    ways--across the strath and down;
  and sometimes there is moonlight making
      the windows blue;
      or if there
  isn't, you can lie and look
  at the soft red light thrown out by the peat, until the silence
is too much for you, and you are asleep before you have had time
to think of it.

Now tell me about yourself," she suddenly said.

  "I hope the constant work and the long
  and depressing winter have not told on
  you. It must have been very unpleasant
  getting home so late at night
  during the fogs."
  He would rather she had continued
  talking about the far Aivron and
  the Geinig; he did not care to come back to the theatre and Kate
Burgoyne.

  "One gets used to everything, I suppose,"
  he said.
  
  "But still it must be gratifying
  to you to be in so successful a
  piece--to be aware of the delight
  you are giving, evening after
  evening, to so many people," Miss Honnor reminded him.

  "By the way, how is the pretty
  Italian girl--the young lady you said
  you had known in Naples?"
  "She has left the New Theatre," he said,
  not lifting his eyes.
  
  "Oh, really. Then I'm sure that
  must have been unfortunate for the operetta; for she had such a
beautiful voice--she sang so exquisitely--and besides that there
was go much refinement and grace in everything she did.

I remember mother was so particularly struck with her; we have often
spoken of her since; her manner on the stage was so charming--so
gentle and graceful--it had a curious fascination that was irresistible.

  And I confess I was delighted with
  the little touch of foreign accent;
  perhaps if she had not been so very
  pretty, one would have been less ready
  to be pleased with everything.
  And where is she now, Mr. Moore?"

  "I'm sure I don't know," Lionel said,
  rather unwillingly; he would
  rather not have been questioned.
  
  "And is that how friendships in the
  theatre are kept up?" Miss
  Honnor said, reproachfully. "But it
  is all very well for us idle folk
  to talk.
  I suppose you are all far too
  busy to give much time to
  correspondence."

  "No, we have not much time for
  letter-writing," he said, absently.
  
  Indeed, it was well for him that he
  had this companion who could talk to
  him in her quiet, low tones; for
  he was out of spirits and inclined
  to be silent; and certainly he had
  no wish to join in the frothy
  discussion which Octavius Quirk had
  started at the upper end of the
  table. Mr.
  Mellord, the famous Academician, had
  taken in Lady Adela to dinner;
  but she had placed Mr. Quirk on
  her left hand; and from this position
  of authority he was roaring away like
  any sucking-dove and challenging
  everybody to dispute his windy
  platitudes. Lord Rockminster,
  down at the other end, mute and in
  safety, was looking on at this motley
  little assemblage, and probably
  wondering what his three gifted sisters
  would do next. It was hard that he
  had no Miss Georgie Lestrange to amuse him; perhaps Miss Georgie
had been considered ineligible for admission into this intellectual
coterie.

  Poor man!--and to think he might
  have been dining in solitary comfort
  at his club, at a quiet little table,
  with two candles, and a Sunday paper propped
  up by the water-bottle! But he
  betrayed no impatience; he sat and
  looked and meditated.
  
  However, when dinner was over and the
  ladies had left the room, he had to
  go and take his sister's place, so
  that he found himself in the thick of the babble.

  Mr. Quirk was no longer goring spiders'
  webs; he was now attacking a solid
  and substantial subject--nothing
  less than the condition of the British army; and a pretty poor
opinion he seemed to have of it.

As it chanced, the only person who had seen service was Lord
Rockminster (at Knightsbridge), but he did not choose to open his
mouth, so that Mr.

  Quirk had it all his way--except
    when Maurice Mangan thought it worth
  while to give him a cuff or a kick,
    just by way of reminding him that he was
  mortal. Ichabod, in silence, stuck to
  the port wine.
    Quincey Hooper, the American
    journalist, drew in a chair by the side of Lord Rockminster and
humbly fawned.

  And meanwhile Quirk, head downward, so
    to speak, charged rank and file, and
  sent them flying; arose again and
    swept the heads off officers; and was
  just about to annihilate the
  volunteers when Mangan interrupted
    him.
    

  "Oh, you expect too much," he said, in
    his slow and half-contemptuous
  fashion. "The British soldier is not
    over well-educated, I admit; but
  you needn't try him by an impossible
  standard. I dare say you are thinking
    of ancient days when a Roman general
    could address his troops in Latin and make quite sure of being
understood; but you can't expect Tommy Atkins to be so learned.

  And our generals, as you say, may
    chiefly distinguish themselves
  at reviews; but the reviews they seem
    to me to be too fond of are those published
  monthly. As for the volunteers--"
  
    "You will have a joke about them,
    too, I suppose," Quirk retorted.

  "An excellent subject for a joke--the
    safety of the country! A capital
  subject for a merry jest; Nero
    fiddling with Rome in flames--"
  "I beg your pardon? Nero never did
  anything of the kind," Mangan observed,
    with a perfectly diabolical inconsequence,
    "for violins weren't invented in those days."

  This was too much for Mr. Quirk; he
    would not resume argument with such a
  trifler; nor, indeed, was there
    any opportunity; for Lord
  Rockminster now suggested they
  should go into the drawing-room--and
    Ichabod had to leave that decanter
    of port.

  
    Now, if Maurice Mangan had come to this
  house to see how Lionel was feted
    and caressed by "the great"--in
  order that he might carry the
  tale down to Winstead to please the
    old folk and Miss Francie--he was doomed
    to disappointment.

There were very few of "the great" present, to begin with; and those
who were paid no particular attention to Lionel Moore.

  It was Octavius Quirk who appeared
  to be the hero of the evening, so far
  as the attention devoted to him
  by Lady Adela and her immediate
  little circle was concerned. But
  Maurice himself was not wholly left
  neglected. When tea was brought in,
  his hostess came over to where he
      was standing.
      
          "Won't you sit down, Mr.

  Mangan?--I want to talk to you about
  something of very great importance--importance
  to me, that is, for you know
  how vain young authors are. You have
  heard of my new book?--yes, I
  thought Mr. Moore must have told
  you. Well, it's all ready,
  except the title-page. I am not
      quite settled about
      the title yet; and
          you literary gentlemen are so quick and clever with suggestions--I
am sure you will give me good advice.

  And I've had a number of different
  titles printed, to see how
  they look in type; what do you
  think of this one? At present it
  seems to be the favorite; it was Mr.
  Quirk's suggestion--"
  She showed him a slip with "North and
  South" printed on it in large
      letters.
      
          "I don't like it at all," Mangan said, frankly.

  "People will think the book has something
  to do with the American civil war.
  However, don't take my opinion at
  all. My connection with literature
  is almost infinitesimal--I'm
  merely a newspaper hack, you know."
  "What you say about the title is _quite_
  right? and I am _so_ much obliged
      to you, Mr. Mangan,"
      Lady Adela said, with
          almost pathetic emphasis.

  "The American war, of course; I never
  thought of that!"
  "What is Ichabod's choice?--I beg
  your pardon, I mean have you shown
  the titles to Mr. Egerton?"
  "I'm afraid he doesn't approve
  of any of them," said Lady Adela,
  sadly turning over the
      slips.
      
          "No, I suppose not; good titles went out with good fiction--when
he ceased to write novels a number of years ago.

May I look at the others?"

  She handed him the slips.
  
  "Well, now, there is one that in my
    poor opinion would be rather
  effective--'Lotus and Lily'--a
  pretty sound--"
  "Yes--perhaps," said Lady Adela,
    doubtfully, "but then, you see, it has not much connection with
the book.

  The worst of it is that all the novel is
  printed--all but the three
  title-pages. Otherwise I might have
    called my heroine Lily--"
  "But I fear you could not have
  called your hero Lotus," said Mangan,
  gravely. "Not very well. However,
    it is no use speculating on that now, as you say.

  What is the next one?--'Transformation.'
  Of course you know that Hawthorne
  wrote a book under that title, Lady
    Adela?"
  "Yes," said she, cheerfully. "But
  there's no copyright in America;
  so why shouldn't I take the title
    if it suits?"

  He hesitated; there seemed to be some
  ethical point here; but he fell
  back on base expediency.
    
  "It is a mistake for two authors to use
  the same title--I'm sure it is," said
  he. "Look at the confusion. The reviewers
    might pass over your novel, thinking it was only a new edition of
Hawthorne's book."

"Yes, that's quite true," said Lady Adela, thoughtfully.

  "Well, here is one," he continued. "'Sicily
  and South Kensington;' that's odd;
  that's new; that might take
  the popular fancy."
  "Do you know, that is a favorite
  of my own," Lady Adela said, with
  a slight eagerness, "for it really
  describes the book. You understand, Mr.

  Mangan, all the first part is about
  the South of Italy; and then I
  come to London and try to describe everything
  that is just going on round
  about us. I have put _everything_ in;
  so that really--though I shouldn't
  praise myself--but it isn't praise
  at all, Mr.

  Mangan, it is merely telling you
  what I have aimed at--and really any
  one taking up my poor little book
  some hundred years hence might very
  fairly assume that it was a
  correct picture of all that was going
  on in the reign of Queen Victoria.
  I do not say that it is well done; not at all; that would be
self-praise; but I do think it may have some little historical value.

  Modern life is so busy, so hurried, and
  so complex that it is difficult to form
  any impression of it as a whole; I
  take up book after book, written by
  living authors with whom I shouldn't
  dream of comparing myself, and yet
  I see how small a circle their
  characters work in.

You would think the world consisted of only eight or ten people,
and that there was hardly room for them to move.

They never get away from one another; they don't mix in the crowd;
there is no crowd.

  But here in my poor way I am trying to show what a panorama London
is; always changing; occupations, desires, struggles following one
another in breathless rapidity; in short, I want to show modern
life as it is, not as it is dreamed of by clever authors who live
in a study.

  Now that is my excuse, Mr. Mangan, for
  being such a dreadful bore; and
  I am _so_ much obliged to you
  for your kind advice about the
  title; it is so easy for clever people
  to be kind--just a word, and it's
  done. Thank you," said she, as he took her
  cup from her and placed it on the
  table; and then, before she
  left him, she ventured to say, with a
  charming modesty, "I'm sure you
  will forgive me, Mr.

  Mangan, but if I were to send you a copy of the book, might I hope
that you would find ten minutes to glance over it?"

  "I am certain I shall read it with very great
  interest," said he; and that was
  strictly true, for this Lady Adela
  Cunyngham completely puzzled him; she seemed so extraordinary a
combination of a clever woman of the world and an awful fool.

  And Lionel?

  Well, he had got introduced to Miss Gabrielle
  Grey, whom he found to be a very
  quiet, shy, pensive sort of creature,
  not posing as a distinguished person
  at all. He dared not talk to her of
  her books, for he did not even
  know the names of them; but he let
  her understand that he knew she
  was an authoress, and it seemed to
  please her to know that her fame
  had penetrated into the mysterious
  regions behind the footlights.

  She began to question him, in a timid sort of way, about his
experiences--whether stage-fright was difficult to get over--whether
he thought that the immediate and enthusiastic approbation of the
public was a beneficial stimulant--whether the continuous excitement
of the emotional nature tended to render it callous, or, on the
other hand, more sensitive and sympathetic--and so forth.

  
  THOMAS.

  No. Bits o' time can zeldom come
  To much on groun' a mile vrom hwome.
  A man at hwome should have in view
  The jobs his childern's hands can do,
  An' groun' abrode mid teäke em all
  Beyond their mother's zight an' call,
  To get a zoakèn in a storm,
  Or vall, i' may be, into harm.

  JOHN.

  Ees. Geärden groun', as I've a-zed,
  Is better near woone's bwoard an' bed.


PENTRIDGE BY THE RIVER.


  Pentridge!--oh! my heart's a-zwellèn
  Vull o' jaÿ wi' vo'k a-tellèn
    Any news o' thik wold pleäce,
  An' the boughy hedges round it,
  An' the river that do bound it
    Wi' his dark but glis'nèn feäce.
  Vor there's noo land, on either hand,
  To me lik' Pentridge by the river.

  Be there any leaves to quiver
  On the aspen by the river?
    Doo he sheäde the water still,
  Where the rushes be a-growèn,
  Where the sullen Stour's a-flowèn
    Drough the meäds vrom mill to mill?
  Vor if a tree wer dear to me,
  Oh! 'twer thik aspen by the river.

  There, in eegrass new a-shootèn,
  I did run on even vootèn,
    Happy, over new-mow'd land;
  Or did zing wi' zingèn drushes
  While I plaïted, out o' rushes,
    Little baskets vor my hand;
  Bezide the clote that there did float,
  Wi' yollow blossoms, on the river.

  When the western zun's a vallèn,
  What sh'ill vaïce is now a-callèn
    Hwome the deäiry to the païls;
  Who do dreve em on, a-flingèn
  Wide-bow'd horns, or slowly zwingèn
    Right an' left their tufty taïls?
  As they do goo a-huddled drough
  The geäte a-leädèn up vrom river.

  Bleäded grass is now a-shootèn
  Where the vloor wer woonce our vootèn,
    While the hall wer still in pleäce.
  Stwones be looser in the wallèn;
  Hollow trees be nearer vallèn;
    Ev'ry thing ha' chang'd its feäce.
  But still the neäme do bide the seäme--
  'Tis Pentridge--Pentridge by the river.


WHEAT.


  In brown-leav'd Fall the wheat a-left
    'Ithin its darksome bed,
  Where all the creakèn roller's heft
    Seal'd down its lowly head,
  Sprung sheäkèn drough the crumblèn mwold,
    Green-yollow, vrom below,
  An' bent its bleädes, a-glitt'rèn cwold,
    At last in winter snow.
        Zoo luck betide
        The upland zide,
        Where wheat do wride,
        In corn-vields wide,
    By crowns o' Do'set Downs, O.

  An' while the screamèn bird-bwoy shook
    Wi' little zun-burnt hand,
  His clacker at the bright-wing'd rook,
    About the zeeded land;
  His meäster there did come an' stop
    His bridle-champèn meäre,
  Wi' thankvul heart, to zee his crop
    A-comèn up so feäir.
        As there awhile
        By geäte or stile,
        He gi'ed the chile
        A cheerèn smile,
  By crowns o' Do'set Downs, O.

  At last, wi' eärs o' darksome red,
    The yollow stalks did ply,
  A-swaÿèn slow, so heavy 's lead,
    In aïr a-blowèn by;
  An' then the busy reapers laid
    In row their russlèn grips,
  An' sheäves, a-leänèn head by head,
    Did meäke the stitches tips.
        Zoo food's a-vound,
        A-comèn round,
        Vrom zeed in ground,
        To sheaves a-bound,
    By crowns o' Do'set Downs, O.

  An' now the wheat, in lofty lwoads,
    Above the meäres' broad backs,
  Do ride along the cracklèn rwoads,
    Or dousty waggon-tracks.
  An' there, mid every busy pick,
    Ha' work enough to do;
  An' where, avore, we built woone rick,
    Mid theäse year gi'e us two;
        Wi' God our friend,
        An' wealth to spend,
        Vor zome good end,
        That times mid mend,
    In towns, an' Do'set Downs, O.

  Zoo let the merry thatcher veel
    Fine weather on his brow,
  As he, in happy work, do kneel
    Up roun' the new-built mow,
  That now do zwell in sich a size,
    An' rise to sich a height,
  That, oh! the miller's wistful eyes
    Do sparkle at the zight
        An' long mid stand,
        A happy band,
        To till the land,
        Wi' head an' hand,
    By crowns o' Do'set Downs, O.


THE MEÄD IN JUNE.


  Ah! how the looks o' sky an' ground
  Do change wi' months a-stealèn round,
  When northern winds, by starry night,
  Do stop in ice the river's flight;
  Or brooks in winter raïns do zwell,
  Lik' rollèn seas athirt the dell;
  Or trickle thin in zummer-tide;
  Among the mossy stwones half dried;
  But still, below the zun or moon,
  The feàrest vield's the meäd in June.

  An' I must own, my heart do beät
  Wi' pride avore my own blue geäte,
  Where I can bid the steätely tree
  Be cast, at langth, avore my knee;
  An' clover red, an' deäzies feaïr,
  An' gil'cups wi' their yollow gleäre,
  Be all a-match'd avore my zight
  By wheelèn buttervlees in flight,
  The while the burnèn zun at noon
  Do sheen upon my meäd in June.

  An' there do zing the swingèn lark
  So gaÿ's above the finest park,
  An' day do sheäde my trees as true
  As any steätely avenue;
  An' show'ry clouds o' Spring do pass
  To shed their raïn on my young grass,
  An' aïr do blow the whole day long,
  To bring me breath, an' teäke my zong,
  An' I do miss noo needvul boon
  A-gi'ed to other meäds in June.

  An' when the bloomèn rwose do ride
  Upon the boughy hedge's zide,
  We haymeäkers, in snow-white sleeves,
  Do work in sheädes o' quiv'rèn leaves,
  In afternoon, a-liftèn high
  Our reäkes avore the viery sky,
  A-reäken up the hay a-dried
  By day, in lwongsome weäles, to bide
  In chilly dew below the moon,
  O' shorten'd nights in zultry June.

  Birmingham has within the last few
  months taken up the cause
  with its usual energy, and now has a
  large class.
  
  In England the universities have been
  slow to show interest in Esperanto;
  but now that Cambridge has been selected
  as the seat of the Congress
  in 1907, the university is granting every facility, as also is the
town council, in use of rooms and the like, and some professors and
other members of the university are cordially co-operating.

  Last October Prof. Skeat, one
  of the fathers of English philology,
  took the chair at a preliminary
  meeting, and made a speech very
  favourable to Esperanto. He said,
  "I think Esperanto is a very good movement,
  and I hope it will succeed." The subject
  of Esperanto is being well put
  before the teachers of Cambridgeshire,
  and the railway companies all over the country and abroad are
granting special fares for the congress.[1] It is probable that the
overwhelming demonstration of the possibilities of this international
language will open the eyes of many who have hitherto been indifferent,
and that the movement will enter on a new phase of expansion in
England, and through the example of England, which is closely watched
abroad, in the world at large

.

  
  [1]It is a striking fact that six
  weeks before the opening of the congress
  700 members have already secured
  their tickets.
  

  
  IX
  LESSONS TO BE DRAWN FROM THE
  FOREGOING HISTORY
  The extent to which more or less
  artificial languages are already used in various parts of the world
for the transaction of interracial business, and the persistent
preoccupation of thinkers with the idea for the last 200 years,
culminating in the production of a great number of schemes in our
own times, show that there _is_ a demand for an international
language, more perfect than has yet been available and universally
valid.

  The list of languages proposed (see Part
  II., chap. ii.) by no means
  represents all that has been written and
  thought upon the subject. Many more have
  proposed solutions of the question,
  beginning with such men as Becher (1661), Kirchner (1665), Porele
(1667), Upperdorf (1679), Müller (1681), Lobkowitz (1687), Besuier
(1684), Solbrig (1725), Taboltzafo (1772), and continuing down to
the present day.

  
    "Aye, aye, but if I wer beholdèn vor bread
    To another," I zaid, "I should bind
  All my body an' soul to the nod of his head,
    An' gi'e up all my freedom o' mind."
  An' then, if my païn wer a-zet wi' my gaïn,
      I should paÿ vor my money,
  An' only zell honey to buy zome'hat sweet.

  Then, if my bit o' brook that do wind so vur round,
    Wer but his, why, he'd straïghten his bed,
  An' the wold stunpole woak that do stan' in my ground,
    Shoudden long sheäde the grass wi' his head.
  But if I do vind jaÿ where the leaves be a-shook
    On the limbs, wi' their sheädes on the grass,
  Or below, in the bow o' the withy-bound nook,
    That the rock-washèn water do pass,
  Then wi' they jaÿs a-vled an' zome goold in their stead,
      I should pay vor my money,
  An' only zell honey to buy zome'hat sweet.

  No, be my lot good work, wi' the lungs well in plaÿ,
    An' good rest when the body do tire,
  Vor the mind a good conscience, wi' hope or wi' jaÿ,
    Vor the body, good lewth, an' good vire,
  There's noo good o' goold, but to buy what 'ull meäke
    Vor our happiness here among men;
  An' who would gi'e happiness up vor the seäke
    O' zome money to buy it ageän?
  Riding home in silence and dejection--trying to account
      for the incomprehensible
  blunder--fearing to think of what he would have to say to the
people at the lodge.

And he was not at all sorry to reflect that, as soon as the little
party got back home, Miss Honnor Cunyngham should see for herself
that he, a mere singer out of comedy-opera, was not afraid to face
the hardships that had proved too much for Lord Rockminster--yes,
and that he had faced them to some purpose.

Very friendly sounded the voice of the Geinig, when it first struck
upon his ear; they were getting into a recognizable neighborhood
now; here were familiar features--not a waste of the awful and
unknown.

  But it was too much to expect that Miss Cunyngham
     should still be lingering by any of those pools; the evening was
closing in; she must have set out for home long ago, fishing her
way down as she went.

  They passed a shepherd's solitary cottage; the old man
     came out to hear the news--which was told him in
     Gaelic. They reached the banks of the Aivron,
     and trudged along under the tall cliffs and through the scattered
birch and hazel.

  Then came the fording of the river--the tramp along
     the other side--the return ford--and the small home-going party
was reunited again.

  They skirted the glassy sweeps of the Long Pool, the darker
     swirls of the Small Pool, and the saffron-tinted
     masses of foam hurling down between the borders
     of the Rock Pool; and then at last they came in view
     of the spacious valley, and far away in the midst of it
     Strathaivron Lodge.

  
     Had they been coming back with bad news this might have been rather
a melancholy sight, perhaps--the long, wide strath with the wan
shades of twilight stealing over the meadows and the woods and the
winding river; but now (to Lionel at least) it was nothing but
beautiful.

  If the glen itself looked ghostly and lifeless and colorless,
     there were warmer hues overhead; for a pale salmon-flush
     still suffused the sky; and where that half-crimson glow,
     just over the dark, heather-stained hill, faded into an exquisite
transparent lilac, there hung a full moon--a moon of the lightest
and clearest gold, with its mysterious continents appearing as faint
gray films.

  The prevailing peace seemed to grow more profound
     with the coming of the night.

  But this was not a night to be feared--this was
     a night to be welcomed--a night with that fair golden moon hanging
high in the heavens, the mistress and guardian of the silent vale.

  When Lionel rode up to the door of the lodge, he
     found all the gentlemen of the house congregated there
     and dressed for dinner. Sir Hugh held up his
     hand.
     
     "No, not one word!" he cried. "Not necessary. I can
     always tell. It is written in every line of your
     face."

  "It isn't a hind, is it?" inquired Lord Rockminster,
     doubtfully.
     
     "A hind of ten points!" Lionel said, with a
     laugh, as he pushed his way through. "Well, I must see
     if I can have a hot bath to soften my bones."
     "My good fellow, it's waiting for you," his host said. "I
     told Jeffreys the moment I saw you coming down the strath.

We'll put back dinner a bit; but be as quick as you can."

  At the same moment there appeared a
  white-draped figure on the landing
  above, leaning over the balustrade.
  
  "What have you done, Mr. Moore?"
  called down the well-known voice of
  Honnor Cunyngham.
  
    "I've got a stag," he said,
  looking up with a good deal of
  satisfaction--or gratitude, perhaps?--in
  his eyes.
  
  "How many points?"

  "Ten."
  "Well done! Didn't I tell you you
  would get a stag?"
  "It's all owing to the lucky sixpence
  you gave me," he said; and she
  laughed, as she turned away to go
  to her room.
  
    After a welcome bath he
  dressed as quickly as he could
  for dinner--dressed so quickly,
  indeed, that he thought he was entitled
  to glance at the outside of the pile
    of letters awaiting him there on the mantelpiece.

  He had a large correspondence,
  from all kinds of people; and when
  he was in a hurry this brief scrutiny
  of the address was all he allowed
  himself; he usually could tell
  if there was anything of unusual
  importance. On the present occasion
  the only handwriting that
    arrested him for a second was
  Nina's; and some sort of half-understood
  compunction made him open her
  letter. Well, it was not a letter;
  it was merely a little printed form,
    such as is put about the stalls and boxes of a theatre when an
announcement has to be made.

This announcement read as follows:
"NOTICE: In consequence of the sudden indisposition of MISS BURGOYNE,
the part of 'Grace Mainwaring' will be sustained this evening by
MISS ANTONIA ROSS"
--while above these printed words Nina had written, in a rather
trembling hand: "_Ah, Leo, if you were only here to-night!

  _" Apparently she had scribbled this
  brief message before the performance;
  perhaps haste or nervousness might
  account for the uncertain writing.
  So Nina was to have her great opportunity
  after all, he said to himself, as
  he went joyfully down-stairs to join the
  brilliant assemblage in the drawing-room.
  Poor Nina!--he had of late almost
  forgotten her existence.

  
  
  CHAPTER X.
  
  AIVRON AND GEINIG.
  
  
  Honnor Cunyngham was quite as proud as
  Lionel himself that he had
  killed a stag; for in a measure he was her pupil; at all events
it was at her instigation that he was devoting himself to these
athletic sports and pastimes, and so far withdrawing himself from
the trivialities and affectations of the serious little band of
amateurs.

  Not that Miss Cunyngham ever exhibited
  any disdain for those pursuits of her
  gifted sisters-in-law; no; she listened to
  Lady Sybil's music, and regarded Lady
  Rosamund's canvases, and even read the last
  MS. chapter of Lady Adela's new novel
  (for that great work was now in
  progress) with a grave good-humor and
  even with a kind of benevolence;
  and it was only when one or the other of them, with unconscious
simplicity, named herself in conjunction with some master of the
art she was professing--wondering how _he_ could do such and such
a thing in such and such a fashion when _she_ found another method
infinitely preferable--it was only at such moments that occasionally
Honnor Cunyngham's clear hazel eyes would meet Lionel's, and the
question they obviously asked was "Is not that extraordinary?"

  They did not ask "Is not that absurd?"
  or "How can any one be so innocently
  and inordinately vain?" they only
  expressed a friendly surprise, with perhaps
  the smallest trace of demure amusement.
  
  On the other hand, if Miss Cunyngham
  rather intimated to this young guest and
  stranger that, being at a shooting-lodge
  in the Highlands, he ought to devote himself to the healthful and
vigorous recreations of the place, instead of dawdling away his
time in drawing-room frivolities, it was not that she herself should
take possession of him as her comrade on her salmon-fishing excursions.

  He soon discovered that he was not to have
  any great encouragement in this
  direction. She was always very kind to
  him, no doubt; and she had certainly
  proposed that, if he cared to go
  with her, he could take the wading
  portions of the pools; but beyond that
  she extended to him very little
  companionship, except what
  he made bold to claim.

  And the fact is, he was rather
  piqued by the curious isolation in which
  this young lady appeared to hold herself.
  She seemed so entirely content with
  herself, so wholly indifferent to the
  little attentions and flatteries of ordinary
  life, always good-natured when in
  the society of any one, she was just as satisfied
  to be left alone. Now, Lionel Moore
  had not been used to this kind of treatment.

  Women had been only too ready to smile
  when he approached; perhaps, indeed,
  familiar success had rendered him
  callous; at all events, he had managed
  to get along so far without
  encountering any violent experience
  of heart-aching desire and disappointment
  and despair. But this young lady,
  with the clear, fine, intellectual
  face, the proud lips, the calm, observant eyes, puzzled him--almost
vexed him.

Nina, for example, was a far more sympathetic companion; either she
was enthusiastically happy, talkative, vivacious, gay as a lark,
or she was wilfully sullen and offended, to be coaxed round again
and petted, like a spoiled child, until the natural sunshine of her
humor came through those wayward clouds.

  But Miss Cunyngham, while always friendly and
  pleasant, remained (as he thought) strangely remote,
  imperturbable, calm. She did not seem to care about
    his society at all. Perhaps she would
  rather have him go up the hill?--though the birds
  were getting very wild now for a novice. In any
  case, she could not refuse to let him accompany her
    on the morning after his deer-stalking expedition; for all the
story had to be told her.

  "I suppose you are very stiff," she said, cheerfully, as
  they left the lodge--he walking heavily in
  waders and brogues--old Robert coming up behind with
    rod and gaff. "But I should imagine you
  do not ask for much sympathy. Shall I tell you
  what you are thinking of at this moment? You
  have a vague fear that the foxes may have got at that
    precious animal during the night; and you are anxious to see it
safely down here at the lodge; and you want to have the head sent
at once to Mr.

  Macleay's in Inverness, so that it mayn't get mixed
  up with the lot of others which will be coming
  in when the driving in the big forests
    begins. Isn't that about it?"
  "You are a witch," said he, "or else you have
  been deer-stalking yourself. But, you know, Miss
  Honnor, it's all very well to go on an expedition
    like that of yesterday once in a way--as a piece of bravado, almost;
and no doubt you are very proud when you see the dead stag lying
on the heather before you; but I am not sure I should ever care for
it as a continuous occupation, even if I were likely to have the
chance.

  The excitement is too furious, too violent.
  But look at a day by the side of a salmon river!"
  continued this adroit young man. "There
    is absolute rest and peace--except when
  you are engaged in fighting a salmon; and, for my
  own part, that is not necessary to my enjoyment
  at all. No; I would rather see you fish; then I
    know that everything is going right--that every pool is being
properly cast over--that Robert is satisfied.

And in the meantime I can sit and drink in all the beauty of the
scenery--the quietude--the loneliness; that is a real change for
me, after the busy life of London.

  I have got to be great friends with
    this river; I seem to have known
  it all my life; when we were coming
    home last evening, after being
  away in those awful solitudes, the
    sound of the Geinig was the most welcome
  thing I ever heard, I think."
    "It is to the Geinig we are going now," said his companion, who
appeared quite to ignore the insidious appeal conveyed in these
touching sentiments.

  "I promised to leave all the Aivron
    pools to Mr. Lestrange.
  But we may take the Junction Pool, for
    he won't have time to come beyond
  the Bad Step; and, by the way,
    Mr. Moore, if you feel stiff after
  yesterday, going up and down the Bad
    Step won't do you any harm."

  Well, the ascent of this Bad Step
    (whether so named from the
  French or the Gaelic nobody seemed
    to know) was not so difficult,
  after all, for it was gradual; and a
    brief breathing-space on the summit
  showed them the far-stretching landscape
    terminating in the wild mountains of Assynt; but the sheer descent
into the gloomy chasm on the other side was rather an awkward thing
for any one encased in waders.

  However, Lionel managed somehow or another to slide and scramble
down this zig-zag track on the face of the loose débris; they reached
the bottom in safety and crossed the burn; they followed a more
secure pathway cut along the precipitous slope overlooking the
Aivron; then they got down once more to the river-side, and found
themselves walking over velvet-soft turf, in a wood of thinly
scattered birch and hazel.

  But when they emerged from this wood,
    passed along by some
  meadows, and reached the Junction
    Pool (so called from the
  Geinig and Aivron meeting here), they
    found that the sun was much too
  bright; so they contentedly seated
    themselves on the bank to wait for a cloud, while old Robert
proceeded to consult his fly-book.

  Neither of them seemed in a very
    talkative mood; indeed, when
  you are in front of a Highland river,
    with its swift-glancing lights, its
  changing glooms and gleams, its
    continual murmur and prattle,
  what need is there of any talk? Talk
    only distracts the attention.

  And this part of the stream was
    especially beautiful.
  They could hardly quarrel with the
    sunlight when, underneath the
  clear water, it sent interlacing
    lines of gold chasing one
  another across the brown sand and shingle
    of the shallows; and if the cloudless sky overhead compelled this
unwilling idleness, it also touched each of those dancing ripples
with a gleam of most brilliant blue.

  Farther out those scattered blue
    gleams became concentrated
  until they formed glassy sweeps of
    intensest azure where the deep
  pools were; and these again gave way
    to the broken water under the
  opposite bank, where the swift-running
    current reflected the golden-green of the overhanging bushes and
weeds.

Where was the call for any speech between these two?

  When, at length, Robert admonished
  the young man to get ready, because
  a cloud was coming over, and this part
  of the Aivron had to be waded, Lionel
  got up with no great good-will; that
  silent companionship, in the gracious
  stillness and soothing murmur of the stream,
  seemed to him to be more profitable to the
  soul than the lashing of a wide
  pool with a seventeen-foot rod.

  But he buckled to his task like a
  man; and as he could wade a good distance
  in, there was no need for him to attempt
  a long line.
  Surreptitiously, on many occasions, he had
  been getting lessons from old Robert; and
  now, if his casting was not professional
  in its length, it was at least clean.
  Moreover, by this time he had learned that
  the expectant moment in salmon-fishing is not when the fly lights
away over at the other side and begins to sweep round in a semicircle,
but when it drags in the current before it is withdrawn; and he was
in no haste in recovering.

  "Why, Mr. Moore, you are casting
  beautifully," Miss Honnor Cunyngham called
  to him; and the words were sweet
  music to his ears, for it may be
  frankly admitted that this
  somewhat sensitive novice was
  playing to the gallery. His diligent
  and careful thrashing, however, was
  of no avail.
  He could not stir anything; and as in time the deepening water drove
him ashore, he willingly surrendered his rod to his fair companion,
who could now fish from the bank.

  Then he sat down to watch--and
  to dream. He could see that she was
  getting out more and more line, and
  throwing beautifully; but he had
  persuaded himself (or thought he had
  persuaded himself) into the belief
  that the singular and constant charm
  of this river had no association with
  her, or with the quiet hours these two had
  passed there together.

  It was the stream talking to him that had
  fascinated him as he sat idly
  and listened. He had grown familiar with every
  cadence of that mysterious voice--now
  a whispering and laughing as the
  water chased over the sunny shallows--then
  a harsher note where the current, fretting
  and chafing, as it were, was broken by
  multitudes of stones--again
  a low murmur as the black river swept, dark and sullen, through a
contracted channel--finally a fiercer tumult as this once-placid
Aivron, increasing in pace and volume every moment, flung itself,
lion-like, over the masses of rocks--its tawny mane upheaved to the
daylight--and then fell, crashing and plunging, into a mighty chasm,
the birchwoods around reverberating with its angry roar.

  Far away is the lonely sea. This friendly
  river may laugh or brawl as it
  will, but there is peace for it at
  last; its varying voices must eventually
  disappear in the dull, slow tumult
  of the distant world. And yet
  it seemed to him to complain as it
  went by--to appeal to him; and yet why
  to him, if he, too, was summoned away from
  this still solitude and sucked into a murmuring ocean still more
awful than the sea?

  "Well done, Miss Honnor!" old
  Robert called out.
  
  Suddenly startled from his idle reverie,
  Lionel beheld the line being swiftly
  taken across to the other side of the
  river, sending up a little spurt of spray
  as it cleft the current.
  
  "A good one this time, Robert, isn't it?"

  she cried.
  
  "Ay, I'm thinking that's a good
  fish," old Robert made answer, as he
  rose from the bank and came down to
  her side.
  
  "And there's a fair field and no
  favor," she continued. "Plenty of
  room for him--and he doesn't seem inclined to tug."

No, this was not a "jiggering" fish; but he was a pretty lively
customer, for all that, as they were soon to find out.

For, after having rested for a minute or so, he made a wild rush
up-stream, still on the other side, that took a dangerous length
of line out and kept her running after him, and winding up when
possible as well as she was able.

  Farther and farther he went, until she had arrived at the
  junction of the Geinig and the Aivron, she being on the Geinig
shore, and the fish making up the other stream.

  Here was a pleasant predicament!
      
  "Mr. Moore," she called out, "take the rod
  and wade in!--I daren't give him more line--quick,
  quick, please!"
  Her entreaty was quite pathetic in its earnestness;
      but old Robert was less excited.
  
  "If Mr. Moore was not here you would be in the
  watter yourself, Miss Honnor," the old man said, with a
  smile.
      
  However, before the rod could be given into
      Lionel's hands the salmon had changed his tactics.
  He came dashing across to the nearer side of the Aivron,
  so that the nose of land separating the two rivers
  threatened to come between the fish and his
      captor; there he lay still.
      
      "Robert," she cried, in despair, "if he
  goes another yard up-stream he will have the
  line on that bush! What is to be done?"
  Almost at the same moment the fish began to move again--slowly
  this time--and with agonized anxiety they
      saw the line, despite all her efforts to keep it
      off, being quietly drawn into the small hazel-bush.
  
      But Robert knew that bush and its
  ways.
      
  "Take the rod in, sir, as far as you can go," he
      said to Lionel; and then he himself ran round
  to a shallow ford of the Geinig, crossed over, went
      along the bank, and proceeded to get the line
  cautiously off the twigs and leaves. As soon as
      he had accomplished that he stealthily withdrew, stooped down, and
crept along the Aivron bank until he was a little ahead of the fish,
which, indeed, was almost underneath his feet; then he suddenly
raised himself to his full height and threw up both arms.

That was enough for the salmon.

  Away to the other side he rushed,
  leading down-stream; and Lionel
  had now his work cut out for him, for
  he was standing in deep water, on a
    shelving bank of loose
    shingle, and he had to follow
    somehow, reeling in as best
  he might. But ever, as he struggled after
  that obdurate, unseen creature, he made for shallower water; and
at length he reached dry land, and was glad to give the rod into
Miss Honnor's hands again--the fish, which had never once shown
himself, being now almost opposite her and in mid-channel.

  Well, they had a good deal of
  trouble with this salmon, for
  he did not exhaust himself with
  any further rushes, nor did he
    disport himself in the
    air; he simply lay low in
    the water, in a pretty strong
  current, and awaited events. But
  here in the open Miss Honnor had regained her confidence and usual
composure; and in the end the continuous pressure of the green-heart
top was too much for him; he began to yield--fiercely fighting now
and again to get away, to be sure; but the climax was a sudden flash
of Robert's steel clip, and a heavy-shouldered fifteen-pounder was
out on the stones.

  Old Robert, smiling grimly at the
  success of his young mistress, but
  saying nothing, had to "wet" the
  fish all by himself; for Miss
    Honnor's drink was water;
    and as for Lionel, his throat
    was too valuable and
  sensitive a possession to be treated
  to raw spirits at that time of the morning.

  Then, that ceremony being over,
  they deposited the salmon in a
  hole in the bank, to be picked
  up on their homeward journey, and
    forthwith set out again,
    up the valley of the
    Geinig.
  
  Their surroundings were now becoming more wild and lonely--this,
in fact, being the route by which Lionel had travelled the day
before when he was after the deer.

  
  An' while below the mossy wheel
  All day the foamèn stream did roar,
  An' up in mill the floatèn meal
  Did pitch upon the sheäkèn vloor.
  We then could vind but vew han's still,
  Or veet a-restèn off the ground,
  An' seldom hear the merry sound
  O' geämes a-play'd at Leeburn Mill.

  But when they let the stream goo free,
  Bezide the drippèn wheel at rest,
  An' leaves upon the poplar-tree
  Wer dark avore the glowèn west;
  An' when the clock, a-ringèn sh'ill,
  Did slowly beät zome evenèn hour,
  Oh! then 'ithin the leafy bow'r
  Our tongues did run at Leeburn Mill.

  An' when November's win' did blow,
  Wi' hufflèn storms along the plaïn,
  An' blacken'd leaves did lie below
  The neäked tree, a-zoak'd wi' raïn,
  I werden at a loss to vill
  The darkest hour o' raïny skies,
  If I did vind avore my eyes
  The feäces down at Leeburn Mill.


PRAISE O' DO'SET.


  We Do'set, though we mid be hwomely,
    Be'nt asheäm'd to own our pleäce;
  An' we've zome women not uncomely;
    Nor asheäm'd to show their feäce:
  We've a meäd or two wo'th mowèn,
  We've an ox or two we'th showèn,
        In the village,
        At the tillage,
  Come along an' you shall vind
  That Do'set men don't sheäme their kind.
      Friend an' wife,
      Fathers, mothers, sisters, brothers,
      Happy, happy, be their life!
      Vor Do'set dear,
      Then gi'e woone cheer;
      D'ye hear? woone cheer!

  If you in Do'set be a-roamèn,
    An' ha' business at a farm,
  Then woont ye zee your eäle a-foamèn!
    Or your cider down to warm?
  Woont ye have brown bread a-put ye,
  An' some vinny cheese a-cut ye?
        Butter?--rolls o't!
        Cream?--why bowls o't!
  Woont ye have, in short, your vill,
  A-gi'ed wi' a right good will?
      Friend an' wife,
      Fathers, mothers, sisters, brothers.
      Happy, happy, be their life!
      Vor Do'set dear,
      Then gi'e woone cheer;
      D'ye hear? woone cheer!

  An' woont ye have vor ev'ry shillèn,
    Shillèn's wo'th at any shop,
  Though Do'set chaps be up to zellèn,
    An' can meäke a tidy swop?
  Use em well, they'll use you better;
  In good turns they woont be debtor.
        An' so comely,
        An' so hwomely,
  Be the maïdens, if your son
  Took woone o'm, then you'd cry "Well done!"
      Friend an' wife,
      Fathers, mothers, sisters, brothers,
        Happy, happy, be their life!
        Vor Do'set dear,
        Then gi'e woone cheer;
        D'ye hear? woone cheer!

  If you do zee our good men travel,
    Down a-voot, or on their meäres,
  Along the windèn leänes o' gravel,
    To the markets or the feäirs,--
  Though their ho'ses cwoats be ragged,
  Though the men be muddy-laggèd,
        Be they roughish,
        Be they gruffish,
  They be sound, an' they will stand
  By what is right wi' heart an' hand.
      Friend an' wife,
      Fathers, mothers, sisters, brothers,
      Happy, happy, be their life!
      Vor Do'set dear,
      Then gi'e woone cheer;
      D'ye hear? woone cheer!


POEMS OF RURAL LIFE.


THIRD COLLECTION.


WOONE SMILE MWORE.


  O! Meäry, when the zun went down,
    Woone night in Spring, wi' vi'ry rim,
  Behind thik nap wi' woody crown,
    An' left your smilèn feäce so dim;
  Your little sister there, inside,
    Wi' bellows on her little knee,
  Did blow the vier, a-glearèn wide
    Drough window-peänes, that I could zee,--
  As you did stan' wi' me, avore
  The house, a-peärten,--woone smile mwore.

  The chatt'rèn birds, a-risèn high,
    An' zinkèn low, did swiftly vlee
  Vrom shrinkèn moss, a-growèn dry,
    Upon the leänèn apple tree.
  An' there the dog, a-whippèn wide
    His heäiry taïl, an' comèn near,
  Did fondly lay ageän your zide
    His coal-black nose an' russet ear:
  To win what I'd a-won avore,
  Vrom your gaÿ feäce, his woone smile mwore.

  An' while your mother bustled sprack,
    A-gettèn supper out in hall,
  An' cast her sheäde, a-whiv'rèn black
    Avore the vier, upon the wall;
  Your brother come, wi' easy peäce,
    In drough the slammèn geäte, along
  The path, wi' healthy-bloomèn feäce,
    A-whis'lèn shrill his last new zong;
  An' when he come avore the door,
  He met vrom you his woone smile mwore.

  Now you that wer the daughter there,
    Be mother on a husband's vloor,
  An' mid ye meet wi' less o' ceäre
    Than what your hearty mother bore;
  An' if abroad I have to rue
    The bitter tongue, or wrongvul deed,
  Mid I come hwome to sheäre wi' you
    What's needvul free o' pinchèn need:
  An' vind that you ha' still in store,
  My evenèn meal, an' woone smile mwore.


THE ECHO.


  About the tow'r an' churchyard wall,
    Out nearly overright our door,
  A tongue ov wind did always call
   Whatever we did call avore.
  The vaïce did mock our neämes, our cheers,
    Our merry laughs, our hands' loud claps,
  An' mother's call "Come, come, my dears"
                                --_my dears_;
    Or "Do as I do bid, bad chaps"
                                --_bad chaps_.

  An' when o' Zundays on the green,
    In frocks an' cwoats as gaÿ as new,
  We walk'd wi' shoes a-meäde to sheen
    So black an' bright's a vull-ripe slooe
  We then did hear the tongue ov aïr
    A-mockèn mother's vaïce so thin,
  "Come, now the bell do goo vor praÿ'r"
                                --_vor pray'r_;
  "'Tis time to goo to church; come in"
                                --_come in_.

  The night when little Anne, that died,
    Begun to zickèn, back in Maÿ,
  An' she, at dusk ov evenèn-tide,
    Wer out wi' others at their plaÿ,
  Within the churchyard that do keep
    Her little bed, the vaïce o' thin
  Dark aïr, mock'd mother's call "To sleep"
                                --_to sleep_;
  "'Tis bed time now, my love, come in"
                                --_come in_.

  An' when our Jeäne come out so smart
    A-married, an' we help'd her in
  To Henry's newly-païnted cart,
    The while the wheels begun to spin,
  An' her gaÿ nods, vor all she smil'd,
    Did sheäke a tear-drop vrom each eye,
  The vaïce mock'd mother's call, "Dear child"
                                --_dear child_;
    "God bless ye evermwore; good bye"
                                --_good bye_.


VULL A MAN.


  No, I'm a man, I'm vull a man,
  You beät my manhood, if you can.
  You'll be a man if you can teäke
  All steätes that household life do meäke.
  The love-toss'd child, a-croodlèn loud,
    The bwoy a-screamèn wild in plaÿ,
  The tall grown youth a-steppèn proud,
    The father staïd, the house's staÿ.
      No; I can boast if others can,
            I'm vull a man.

  A young-cheäk'd mother's tears mid vall,
  When woone a-lost, not half man-tall,
  Vrom little hand, a-called vrom plaÿ,
  Do leäve noo tool, but drop a taÿ,
  An' die avore he's father-free
    To sheäpe his life by his own plan;
  An' vull an angel he shall be,
    But here on e'th not vull a man,
      No; I could boast if others can,
            I'm vull a man.

  I woonce, a child, wer father-fed,
  An' I've a vound my childern bread;
  My eärm, a sister's trusty crook,
  Is now a faïthvul wife's own hook;
  An' I've a-gone where vo'k did zend,
    An' gone upon my own free mind,
  An' of'en at my own wits' end.
    A-led o' God while I wer blind.
      No; I could boast if others can
            I'm vull a man.

  An' still, ov all my tweil ha' won,
  My lovèn maïd an' merry son,
  Though each in turn's a jaÿ an' ceäre,
  'Ve a-had, an' still shall have, their sheäre:
  An' then, if God should bless their lives,
    Why I mid zend vrom son to son
  My life, right on drough men an' wives,
    As long, good now, as time do run.
      No; I could boast if others can,
            I'm vull a man.


NAIGHBOUR PLA[:Y]MEÄTES.


  O jaÿ betide the dear wold mill,
    My naïghbour plaÿmeätes' happy hwome,
  Wi' rollèn wheel, an' leäpèn foam,
    Below the overhangèn hill,
        Where, wide an' slow,
        The stream did flow,
  An' flags did grow, an' lightly vlee
  Below the grey-leav'd withy tree,
  While clack, clack, clack, vrom hour to hour,
  Wi' whirlèn stwone, an' streamèn flour,
  Did goo the mill by cloty Stour.

  An' there in geämes by evenèn skies,
    When Meäry zot her down to rest,
  The broach upon her pankèn breast,
    Did quickly vall an' lightly rise,
        While swans did zwim
        In steätely trim.
  An' swifts did skim the water, bright
  Wi' whirlèn froth, in western light;
  An' clack, clack, clack, that happy hour,
  Wi' whirlèn stwone, an' streamèn flour,
  Did goo the mill by cloty Stour.

  Now mortery jeints, in streaks o' white,
    Along the geärdèn wall do show
  In Maÿ, an' cherry boughs do blow,
    Wi' bloomèn tutties, snowy white,
        Where rollèn round,
        Wi' rumblèn sound,
  The wheel woonce drown'd the vaïce so dear
  To me. I faïn would goo to hear
  The clack, clack, clack, vor woone short hour,
  Wi' whirlèn stwone, an' streamèn flour,
  Bezide the mill on cloty Stour.

  "Thank you so much, Mr. Moore,"
    said Lady Adela, with her most charming
  smile, as she began to fold up her
    notes. "The little piece of
        realism you have
        suggested will come
  in admirably; and I think I've done
  enough for to-day--thanks to Georgie
  here, who has just been an angel of patience."
  
  Tea followed, and some idle talk, during which Lionel learned that
Lady Adela and her sisters were going down to Brighton the following
day.

  He incidentally mentioned Octavius
    Quirk's name; whereupon his hostess, who
  was a sharp and a shrewd woman when
    she was not dabbling in literature,
        instantly and
        graciously
  explained to him that she had been
  corresponding a good deal with
  Octavius Quirk of late, over her new work.
  She informed him, further, that Octavius
  Quirk was coming to dine there that evening--what a pity it was
that Mr.

Moore was engaged every evening at the theatre!

   When Lionel left, she had
    persuaded him that he was
  just as much a favorite as ever; he could
    very well understand that she
  had cultivated Octavius Quirk's
  acquaintance only in his capacity as a kind of pseudo-literary
person.

  Day after day of this lonely week
    passed; Lionel, all unknown to himself,
  was marching onward to his fate. On
    the Saturday there were two performances
  of "The Squire's Daughter;" at night
  he felt very tired--which was unusual with him; that, or some other
palpable excuse, was sufficient to take him down to Victoria station
on the Sunday morning.

  He had forgotten, or put aside, all
    Maurice Mangan's cool-blooded
  presentation of his case; undefined
    longings were in his brain; the
  future was to be quite different
  from the past--and somehow Honnor Cunyngham was the central figure
in these mirage-like visions.

  He had formed no definite plans; he
    had prepared no persuasive appeal; the
  only and immediate thing he knew was
    that he wished to be in the same place
  with her, breathing the same air
  with her, with the chance of catching a distant glimpse of her,
even if he were himself to remain unseen.

Would she be out walking along the sea-front after church?

  Surely so, when she had Lady
  Adela and her sisters as her
  guests. And if not, he would
  call in the afternoon; how well he
  remembered the rather dusky
  drawing-room and its curious scent
  of sweet-briar or some similar perfume.
  A hushed half-hour there would be something
  to be treasured up and conned over
  again and again in subsequent
  recollection.

  Would she be sitting near the window,
  half-shadowed by the curtains? Or
  standing in front of the fire,
  perhaps, absently gazing into it, her
  tall and elegant figure outlined by
  the crimson flames?
  
  When he arrived at Brighton he
  walked rapidly away down to the
  King's Road, and there he moderated
  his pace, keeping his eyes alert.

  The people were beginning to come out
  from the various churches and many of
  them, before going in-doors,
  joined that slow promenade up and down
  the greensward farther west. But,
  look where he might, there was no sign
  of Lady Cunyngham and her daughter,
  nor of Lady Adela and her two
  sisters.
  They would have been easily
  distinguishable, he thought.

That they were in Brighton, he had no doubt; but apparently they
were nowhere in this throng; so, rather downhearted, he retraced
his steps to the Orleans Club, where he passed an hour or two with
such acquaintances as he met there.

  He was more fortunate in the afternoon.
          When he went along to
  Adelaide Crescent, Lady Cunyngham
          and her daughter were both at home; and it was with a sense of
joyous relief--and yet with a touch of disquietude too--that he
found himself ascending the soft-carpeted stairs.

  When he was shown into the drawing-room,
          he found only one occupant
  there--it was Honnor Cunyngham
          herself, who was standing by a big portfolio set on a brass stand,
and apparently engaged in arranging some large photographs.

  She turned and greeted him very pleasantly
          and without any
  surprise; she went to two low settles
          coming out at right angles from the fireplace and sat down, while
he took a seat opposite her; if he was rather nervous and bewildered,
at finding himself thus suddenly face to face with her and alone
with her, she was quite calm and self-possessed.

  "Mother has just gone up-stairs; she will be
          here presently," Miss Honnor
  said. "But what a pity my sisters did
          not know you were coming down.

  After church they all went off to
          visit an old lady, a
  great friend of theirs, who can't
          get out-of-doors nowadays; and so I suppose they stayed on so as
to keep her company.

  However, I have no doubt they will be
          here before long. What a
  pleasant thing it must be for you," she
          added, "to be able to run down to Brighton for a day after a week's
hard work at the theatre."

  "Yes," he answered, in a half-bitter
          kind of fashion. "It is
  a pleasant thing to get away from
          the theatre--anywhere.

  I think I am becoming rather sick of the
          theatre and all its
  associations."
          "Really, Mr.

  Moore," she said, with a smile, "it is
          surprising to hear you
  say so--you of all men."
          "What comes of it?

  You play the fool before a lot
          of idle people,
  until--until--your nature is
          subdued to what it works in, I suppose.

What service do you do to any human being?

  --of what use are you in the world?"
    
  "Surely you confer a benefit on the
    public when you provide them with
  innocent amusement," she ventured
  to say--she had not considered this
  subject much, if at all.
  

  "But what comes of it? They laugh for
    an hour or two and go home. It is all
  gone--like a breath of wind--"
    
  "But isn't mere distraction a useful and
  wholesome thing?" she remonstrated
  again, "I know a great philosopher
  who is exceedingly fond of billiards, and very eager about the
game too; but he doesn't expect to gain any moral enlightenment
from three balls and a bit of stick.

  Distraction, amusement, is necessary
    to human beings; we can't always
  be thinking of the problems of life."
    
  "They talk of the divine power of song!"
  he continued. "Well, what I want to do
  is this. I can sing a little;
  and I want to know that this gift I have from Nature hasn't been
entirely thrown away--scattered to the winds and lost.

  Here in Brighton they are always
    getting up morning or afternoon
  concerts for charitable purposes;
    and I wish, Miss Honnor, when you
  happen to be interested in any of
  these, you would let me know; I
  should be delighted to run down
  and volunteer my services.

I should be just delighted.

  It would be something saved. If I
    were struck down by an
  illness, and had to lie thinking, I
    could say to myself that I had done this little scrap of good--not
much for a man to do, but I suppose all that could be expected from
a singer."

  She could not understand this strange
    disparagement of himself
  and his profession; and she may have
    been vaguely afraid of the drift of these confidences; at all
events, when she had thanked him for his generous offer, she rose
and went to the portfolio.

  "There are some things here that I
    think will interest you, Mr.
  Moore," she said. "They only arrived
    last night, and I was just putting them away when you came in."

  He went to the portfolio; she took
    out two or three large
  photographs and handed them to him; the
    first glance showed him what they were--pictures of the Aivron and
the Geinig valleys, with the rocks and pools and overhanging woods
he knew so well.

  He regarded them for an instant or
    two.
  
    "Do you know what first made me long to get away from the theatre?"

  he said, in a low voice. "It was those
    places there. It was
  Strathaivron--and you."
    "I, Mr. Moore?"

  And now he had to go on; he had taken
    his fate in his hands;
  there was some kind of despairing
    recklessness in his brain; his breath came and went quickly and
painfully as he spoke.

"Well, I must tell you now, whatever comes of it.

  I must tell you the truth--you may
      think it madness--I cannot
  help that. What I want to do is to give
      up the theatre altogether.
  I want to let all that go, with a past
  never to be regretted--never to
  be recalled. I want to make for myself a
  new future--if you will share it with me."

  "Mr. Moore!"
      Their eyes met; hers frightened,
  his eagerly and tremblingly expectant.
      
  "There, now you know the truth. Will
  you say but one word? Honnor--may I
  hope?"
  He sought to take her hand, but she shrank back a step--not in
anger, but apparently quite stupefied.

  "Oh, no, no, Mr. Moore," she said, piteously.
      "What have I done? How
  could I imagine you were thinking of any
      such thing? And--and
  on my account--that you should dream of
  making such a sacrifice--giving up
  your reputation and your position--"
  

  Where was his acting now?--where the
      passionate appeal he
  would have made on the stage? He stood
      stock-still--his eyes
  bent earnestly on hers--and he spoke
  slowly:
  
  "It is no sacrifice. It is nothing.

I wish for another life--but with you--with you.

  Have you one word of hope to give me?"
  
  He saw his answer already.
  
  "I cannot--I cannot," she said, with
    downcast eyes, and obviously in
    such deep distress that his heart
  smote him.

  
  "It is enough," said he. "I--I was a
  fool to deceive myself with such
  imaginings--that are far beyond
  me. You will forgive me, Miss Honnor;
    I did not wish to cause you any
    pain; why, what harm is done except that
  I have been too presumptuous and too frank--and you will forget
that.

  Tell me you forgive me!"
  He held out his hand; she took it for
  a moment; and for another moment he
  held hers in a firm grasp.
  
    "If I could tell you," he
    said, in a low voice, "what I thought
  of you--what every one thinks of you--you might perhaps understand
why I have dared to speak."

She withdrew her hand quickly; her mother was at the door.

  When Lady Cunyngham came into the
    room, her daughter was
  apparently turning over those
    photographs and engravings.
  Lionel went forward to the elder
    lady to pay his respects;
  there was a brief conversation,
    introduced by Miss Honnor,
  about Mr. Moore's generous
      proposal to sing
      at any charitable
  concert they might be
  interested in; and then, as soon as he
  could, Lionel said good-bye, left the house, and passed into the
outer world--where the dusk of the December afternoon was coming
down over the far wastes of sea.

  CHAPTER XVIII.
    
  AN INVOCATION.
    
  
    All his vague, wild, impracticable
  hopes and schemes had suddenly received
    their death-blow; but there
  was nothing worse than
      that; he himself (as
      he imagined) had
  been dealt no desperate wound.
  For one thing, flattered and petted as
  this young man had been, he was neither unreasoning nor vain; that
a woman should have refused to marry him did not seem to him a
monstrous thing; she was surely within her right in saying no;
while, on the other hand, he was neither going to die of chagrin
nor yet to plan a melodramatic revenge.

  But the truth was that he had never
    been passionately in love
  with Honnor Cunyngham. Passionate
    love he did not much
  believe in; he associated it with
    lime-light and crowded
  audiences and the odor of gas. Indeed,
    it might almost be said
  that he had been in love
      not so much with
      Honnor Cunyngham as
  with the condition of
  life which she represented. He had grown
  restless and dissatisfied with his present state; he had been
imagining for himself another sort of existence--but always with
her as the central figure of those fancied realms; he had been
dreaming dreams--of which she had invariably formed part.

  And now he had been awakened (somewhat
    abruptly, perhaps, but
  that may have been his own fault); and
    there was nothing for it but
  to summon his common-sense to his
    aid, and to assure himself
  that Honnor Cunyngham, at least, was
    not to blame.
  
      And yet sometimes,
      in spite of
  himself, as he smoked a
  final cigarette at midnight in those
  rooms in Piccadilly, a trace of bitterness would come into his
reveries.

"I have been taught my place, that's all," he would say to himself.

  "Maurice was right--I had
    forgotten my catechism. I wanted
  to play the gardener's son, or Mordaunt
    to Lady Mabel; and I can't
  write poetry, and I'm not in the House
  of Commons.

  I suppose my head was a little
    bewildered by the kindness and
  condescension of those excellent
    people.
  They are glad to welcome you into
  their rooms--you are a sort of curiosity--you sing for them--they're
very civil for an hour or two--but you must remember to leave before
the footmen proceed to shut the hall-door.

  Well, what's to be done? Am I to
    rush away to the wars, and come back
  a field-marshal? Am I to make myself
    so obnoxious in Parliament
  that the noble earl will give me his
  daughter in order to shut my mouth?

  Oh, no; they simplify matters nowadays;
    'as you were' is the word of
  command; go back to the theatre;
    paint your face and
  put on your finery; play the
  fool along with the rest of the comic people, and we'll come and
look at you from the stalls; and if you will marry, why, then, keep
in your own sphere, and marry Kate Burgoyne!"

  For now--when he was peevish and discontented
    and restless, or even sick at
  heart, he hardly knew why--there was no
    Nina to solace and soothe him
  with her gentle companionship, her wise
  counsel, her bright and cheerful and wayward good-humor.

  Apparently he had as many friends
    and acquaintances as before, and
  yet he was haunted by a curious
    sense of solitude. Of a morning
  he would go out for a stroll along the
  familiar thoroughfares--Bond Street, Conduit Street, Regent Street,
where he knew all the shops at which Nina used to linger for a
moment, to glance at a picture or a bonnet--and these seemed
altogether different now.

  He could not have imagined he should
    have missed Nina so much. Instead
  of dining in his rooms at five
    o'clock and thereafter walking
  down to Sloane Street to have a
  cup of tea with Nina and Mlle.

Girond before they all three set out for the theatre, he spent most
of his afternoons at the Garden Club, where there was a good deal
of the game of poker being played by young gentlemen in the up-stairs
rooms.

And sometimes he returned thither after the performance, seeking
anew the distraction of card-playing and betting, until he became
notorious as the fiercest plunger in the place.

Nobody could "bluff" Lionel Moore; he would "call" his opponent if
he himself had nothing better than a pair of twos; and many a solid
handful of sovereigns he had to pay for that privilege of gazing.

  Day after day went by, and still there was no word of Nina; at times
he was visited by sudden sharp misgivings that terrified him.

  The heading of a paragraph in
  a newspaper would startle his eyes; and
  then he would breathe again when he found that this
  poor wretch who had grown weary of the
  world was unknown to him. Every evening,
  when Mlle. Girond came into the
  theatre, she was met by the same anxious,
  wondering question; and her reply was invariably the same.

  "Don't you think it very strange?"

  he asked of Estelle. "Nina said she
  would write to you or send you a message--I suppose as soon as all
her plans were made.

  I hope nothing has happened to her," he added, as a kind of timid
expression of his own darker self-questionings.

  "Something--something terrible?" said
  Estelle. "Ah, no.

  We should hear.

  No; Nina will make sure we cannot reach
  her--that she is not to be seen by you or me--then perhaps I have
a message.

  Oh, she is very proud; she will make sure; the pain in her heart,
she will hide it and hide it--until some time goes, and she can
hold up her head, with a brave face.

  Poor Nina!

  --she will suffer--for she will not speak, no, not to any one."

  "But look here, Miss Girond," he exclaimed, "if she has gone back
to her friends in Italy, that's all right; but if she is in this
country, without any occupation, her money will soon be exhausted--she
can't have had so very much.

  What will become of her then?

  Don't you think I should put an advertisement
  in the papers--not in my name, but in yours--your initials--begging
her at least to let you know where she is?"

  Estelle shook her head.

  "No, it is useless. Perhaps I understand
  Nina a little better than you, though you know her longer.

  She is gentle and affectionate and very grateful to her friends;
but under that there is firmness--oh, yes.

  She has firmness of mind, although she
  is so loving; when she has decided to go away and remain, you will
not draw her back, no, not at all!

  She will remain where she wishes to be; perhaps she decides never
to see any of us again.

  Well, well, it is pitiable, but for us to interfere,
  that is useless."

  "Oh, I am not so sure of that," he said.

  "As you say, I have known Nina longer than you have; if I could
only learn where she is, I am quite sure that I could persuade her
to come back."

  "Very well--try!"

  said Estelle, throwing out both hands.

  "I say no--that she will not say where she is.

  And your London papers, how will they find her? Perhaps
  she is in a small English village--perhaps
  in Paris--perhaps in Naples--perhaps in Malta.

  For me, no.

                       She said, 'If you
  are my friend, you will not seek to discover where I have gone.'

  I am her friend; I obey her wish.

  When she thinks it is right,
  she will send me a message.

  Until then, I wait."

  But if Nina had gone away--depriving him of her pleasant companionship,
her quick sympathy, her grave and almost matron-like remonstrances--there
was another quite ready to take her place.

  Miss Burgoyne did not at all appear to regret the disappearance
from the theatre of Antonia Rossi.

                               She
  was kinder to this young man
  than ever; she showered her experienced blandishments upon him,
even when she rallied him about his gloomy looks or listless demeanor.

  All the time he was not on the stage, and not engaged in dressing,
he usually spent in her sitting-room; there were cigarettes and
lemonade awaiting him; and when she herself could not appear, at
all events she could carry on a sort of conversation with him from
the inner sanctuary; and often she would come out and finish her
make-up before the large mirror while she talked to him.

  "They tell me you gamble," she said to him on one occasion, in her
blunt way.

  "Not much," he said.

                        "What good do you
  get out of it?" she asked again.
  
  "Oh, well, it is a sort of distraction.

  It keeps people from thinking."

  "And what have you to think about?"

  continued Grace Mainwaring, regarding herself in the glass.

  "What dreadful crimes have you to forget?
  You want to drown remorse, do you?
  I dare say you ought; but I don't believe it all
  the same.

  You men don't care what you do, and poor girls' hearts get broken.

  But gambling! Well, I imagine most
  men have one vice or another, but gambling has always seemed to
me the stupidest thing one could take to.

  Drink kills you, but I suppose you get some fun out of it.

  What fun do you get out of gambling? Too serious, isn't
  it?

  And then the waste of money.

  The fact is, you want somebody to take care of you, Master Lionel;
and a fine job she'll have of it, whoever undertakes it!"

  "Why should it be a she," he asked, "assuming that I am incapable
of managing my own affairs?"

                       "Because it is the
  way of the world," she answered, promptly.

  "And you, of all people, need somebody to look after you.

  Why should you have to take to gambling,
  at your time of life?

  You're not shamming _ennui_, are you, to imitate your swell
acquaintances?

  _Ennui!

  _ I could cure their _ennui_ for them, if they'd only come to _me_!"

  she added, somewhat scornfully.

  

  "A cure for _ennui_?" he said. "That would
  be valuable; what is it?"

  "I'd tell them to light a wax match and put it up their nostril and
hold it there till it went out," she answered, with some sharpness.

  "It would make them jump, anyway, wouldn't
  it?" he said, listlessly.
  
  "It would give them something to claim their very earnest attention
for at least a fortnight," Miss Burgoyne observed, with decision;
and then she had to ask him to open the door, for it was time for
her to get up to the wings.

  Christmas was now close at hand, and one evening when Harry Thornhill,
attired in his laced coat and ruffles, silken stockings and buckled
shoes, went as usual into Miss Burgoyne's room, he perceived that
she had, somewhere or other, obtained a piece of mistletoe, which
she had placed on the top of the piano.

  As soon as Grace Mainwaring knew he was
  there, she came forth from the dressing-room and went to the big
mirror, kicking out her resplendent train of flounced white satin
behind her, and proceeding to judge of the general effect of her
powder and patches and heavily-pencilled eyebrows.

  "Where are you going for Christmas?"

                           she asked.

  "Into the country," he answered.
    
  "That's no good," said the brilliant-eyed
    white little bride, still contemplating
  herself in the glass, and giving a finishing
    touch here and there. "The country's too
  horrid at this time of year. We are
    going to Brighton, some friends and I, a
  rather biggish party; and a whole heap of
    rooms have been taken at a hotel.

  That will be fun, I promise you. A dance
    in the evening. You'd better come;
  I can get you an invitation."
    "Thanks, I couldn't very well. I am going
  to play the good boy, and pass one night
    under the parental roof. It isn't often I
  get the chance."
    "I wish you would tell me where to hang
  up that piece of mistletoe," she said,
    presently.

  
    "I know where I should like to hang it up,"
  he made answer, with a sort of lazy
    impertinence.
  
    "Where?"
  "Just over your head."
    "Why?"
  "You would see."
    She made a little grimace.

  
    "Oh, no, I shouldn't see anything of the
  kind," she retorted, confidently. "I should
    see nothing of the kind. You haven't
  acquired the right, young gentleman. On the
    stage Harry Thornhill may claim his
  privileges--or make believe; but off the stage
    he must keep his distance."
  That significant phrase about his not having
    acquired the right was almost a challenge.

And why should he not say, "Well, give me the right!"

  What did it matter? It was of little
    concern what happened to him. As he lay
  back in his chair and looked at her, he
    guessed what she would do. He imagined the
  pretty little performance. "Well,
  give me the right, then!" Miss Burgoyne
  turns round from the mirror. "Lionel,
  what do you mean?"

  "You know what I mean: let us be engaged
    lovers off the stage as well as on."
  She hangs down her head. He goes to her
    and kisses her--without any mistletoe; she
  murmurs some doubt and hesitation, in her
  maiden shyness; he laughingly reassures
  her; it is all over, in half a dozen
  seconds.

  And then? Why, then he has secured for
    himself a sufficiently good-natured
  life-companion; it will be convenient in
    many ways, especially when they
  are engaged at the same theatre; he
  will marry in his own sphere, and
  everybody be satisfied.
  If I should zee among em all,
    In merry youth, a-glidèn by,
  My son's bwold son, a-grown man-tall,
    Or daughter's daughter, woman-high;
  An' she mid smile wi' your good feäce,
  Or she mid walk your comely peäce,
  But seem, although a-chattèn loud,
  So dumb's a cloud, in that bright pleäce:
        Would youth so feäir,
        A-passèn there,
  Be jaÿ or païn, be païn or jaÿ.

  'Tis seldom strangth or comeliness
    Do leäve us long. The house do show
  Men's sons wi' mwore, as they ha' less,
    An' daughters brisk, vor mothers slow.
  A dawn do clear the night's dim sky,
  Woone star do zink, an' woone goo high,
  An' livèn gifts o' youth do vall,
  Vrom girt to small, but never die:
        An' should I view,
        What God mid do,
  Wi' jaÿ or païn, wi' païn or jaÿ?


THE RWOSE IN THE DARK.


  In zummer, leäte at evenèn tide,
    I zot to spend a moonless hour
  'Ithin the window, wi' the zide
    A-bound wi' rwoses out in flow'r,
  Bezide the bow'r, vorsook o' birds,
  An' listen'd to my true-love's words.

  A-risèn to her comely height,
    She push'd the swingèn ceäsement round;
  And I could hear, beyond my zight,
    The win'-blow'd beech-tree softly sound,
  On higher ground, a-swayèn slow,
  On drough my happy hour below.

  An' tho' the darkness then did hide
    The dewy rwose's blushèn bloom,
  He still did cast sweet aïr inside
    To Jeäne, a-chattèn in the room;
  An' though the gloom did hide her feäce,
  Her words did bind me to the pleäce.

  An' there, while she, wi' runnèn tongue,
    Did talk unzeen 'ithin the hall,
  I thought her like the rwose that flung
    His sweetness vrom his darken'd ball,
  'Ithout the wall, an' sweet's the zight
  Ov her bright feäce by mornèn light.


COME.


  Wull ye come in eärly Spring,
  Come at Easter, or in Maÿ?
  Or when Whitsuntide mid bring
  Longer light to show your waÿ?
  Wull ye come, if you be true,
  Vor to quicken love anew.
  Wull ye call in Spring or Fall?
  Come now soon by zun or moon?
              Wull ye come?

  Come wi' vaïce to vaïce the while
  All their words be sweet to hear;
  Come that feäce to feäce mid smile,
  While their smiles do seem so dear;
  Come within the year to seek
  Woone you have sought woonce a week?
  Come while flow'rs be on the bow'rs.
  And the bird o' zong's a-heärd.
              Wull ye come?

  Ees come _to_ ye, an' come _vor_ ye, is my word,
              I wull come.


ZUMMER WINDS.


  Let me work, but mid noo tie
  Hold me vrom the oben sky,
  When zummer winds, in plaÿsome flight,
  Do blow on vields in noon-day light,
  Or ruslèn trees, in twilight night.
         Sweet's a stroll,
  By flow'ry knowl, or blue-feäcèd pool
  That zummer win's do ruffle cool.

  When the moon's broad light do vill
  Plaïns, a-sheenèn down the hill;
  A-glitterèn on window glass,
  O then, while zummer win's do pass
  The rippled brook, an' swaÿèn grass,
        Sweet's a walk,
  Where we do talk, wi' feäces bright,
  In whispers in the peacevul night.

  When the swaÿèn men do mow
  Flow'ry grass, wi' zweepèn blow,
  In het a-most enough to dry
  The flat-spread clote-leaf that do lie
  Upon the stream a-stealèn by,
        Sweet's their rest,
  Upon the breast o' knap or mound
  Out where the goocoo's vaïce do sound.

  Where the sleek-heäir'd maïd do zit
  Out o' door to zew or knit,
  Below the elem where the spring
  'S a-runnèn, an' the road do bring
  The people by to hear her zing,
        On the green,
  Where she's a-zeen, an' she can zee,
  O gaÿ is she below the tree.

  Come, O zummer wind, an' bring
  Sounds o' birds as they do zing,
  An' bring the smell o' bloomèn maÿ,
  An' bring the smell o' new-mow'd haÿ;
  Come fan my feäce as I do straÿ,
        Fan the heäir
  O' Jessie feäir; fan her cool,
  By the weäves o' stream or pool.


THE NEÄME LETTERS.


  When high-flown larks wer on the wing,
  A warm-aïr'd holiday in Spring,
  We stroll'd, 'ithout a ceäre or frown,
    Up roun' the down at Meldonley;
  An' where the hawthorn-tree did stand
  Alwone, but still wi' mwore at hand,
  We zot wi' sheädes o' clouds on high
    A-flittèn by, at Meldonley.

  An' there, the while the tree did sheäde
  Their gigglèn heads, my knife's keen bleäde
  Carved out, in turf avore my knee,
    J. L., *T. D., at Meldonley.
  'Twer Jessie Lee J. L. did meän,
  T. D. did stan' vor Thomas Deäne;
  The "L" I scratch'd but slight, vor he
    Mid soon be D, at Meldonley.

  An' when the vields o' wheat did spread
  Vrom hedge to hedge in sheets o' red.
  An' bennets wer a-sheäkèn brown.
    Upon the down at Meldonley,
  We stroll'd ageän along the hill,
  An' at the hawthorn-tree stood still,
  To zee J. L. vor Jessie Lee,
    An' my T. D., at Meldonley.

  The grey-poll'd bennet-stems did hem
  Each half-hid letter's zunken rim,
  By leädy's-vingers that did spread
    In yollow red, at Meldonley.
  An' heärebells there wi' light blue bell
  Shook soundless on the letter L,
  To ment the bells when L vor Lee
    Become a D at Meldonley.

  Vor Jessie, now my wife, do strive
  Wi' me in life, an' we do thrive;
  Two sleek-heäired meäres do sprackly pull
    My waggon vull, at Meldonley;
  An' small-hoof'd sheep, in vleeces white,
  Wi' quickly-pankèn zides, do bite
  My thymy grass, a-mark'd vor me
    In black, T. --that you hear in the shops and the streets?

Ah, I remember you are so proud of it, and when I try to teach you
proper Italian, you laugh--you wish to speak like Sabetta Debernardi,
and Giacomo, and the others.

  That is the fault to learn by
    ear, instead of the books correctly. And
  you have not forgotten yet!"
    "Well, Nina," he resumed, "I don't
  seem to have frightened you with the
  possibility of your having to dress in the same room with two or
three chorus-girls whom you don't know; and in fact, if I happened
to be acquainted with the theatre, I dare say I could get the manager
to make sure you were to dress along with some nice girl, who would
show you how to make-up, and all that.

  But you would get a very small salary
    to begin with, Nina; perhaps only
  thirty shillings a week--and an extra
    pound a week when you had to take
  up your under-study duties--however,
  that need not trouble you, because we are old comrades, Nina, and
while you are in England my purse is yours--"
She looked at him doubtfully.

  "Ah, you don't understand," he said, gently.
    "It's only this, Nina: I have plenty of money;
  if you are a good comrade and a
    good friend, you will take from me what
  you want--always--at any moment--"
  The pretty, pale-olive face flushed quickly, and for a brief second
she glanced at him with grateful eyes; but it was perhaps to cover
her embarrassment that she now rose from the piano, and pretended
to be tired of the music and of these professional schemes.

  "It is enough of booziness," she said,
    lightly; "come, Leo, will you go for
  a small walk?--have you time?"
    
  "Oh, yes, I have time," said he,
  "but you must not say _booziness_, Nina?

it is _bizness_."

  "_Beezness!_--_beezness!_" she said,
    smiling. "It is enough of
  _beezness_. You go for a walk with
    me--yes? How beautiful the weather!" she
  continued, in a suddenly altered
    tone, as she looked out at the sunlit
  foliage of the Green Park; and then she
    murmured, almost to herself, in
  those soft Italian vowel sounds:
  

  "Ah, Leo mio, che sarei felice
    d'essere in campagna!"
  It was a kind of sigh; perhaps
    that was the reason she had inadvertently
  relapsed into her own tongue.
    And as they went down the stairs, and he
  opened the door for her,
    the few words he addressed to her
  were also in Italian.
  

  "The country!" he said. "We will just
    step across the street, Nina, and
  you will find yourself in what is quite
    as pretty as the country at this time
  of year. You may fancy yourself
    sitting in the Villa Reale, if you
  could only have a flash of blue sea
    underneath the branches of the trees."
  
 But when they had crossed over and got into the comparative quiet
of the Park, she resolutely returned to her English again; and now
she was telling him about the people in Naples whom he used to know,
and of their various fortunes and circumstances.

Sometimes neither of them spoke; for all this around them was very
still and pleasant--the fresh foliage of the trees and the long
lush grass of the enclosures as yet undimmed by the summer dust;
the cool shadows thrown by the elms and limes just moving as the
wind stirred the wide branches; altogether a world of soft, clear,
sunny green, unbroken except by here and there a small copper beech
with its bronze leaves become translucent in the hot light.

  It is true that the browsing
  sheep were abnormally black;
  and the yellow-billed starlings had
  perhaps less sheen on their feathers
  than they would have had in the
  country; nevertheless, for a park
  in the midst of a great city this
  place was very quiet and beautiful
      and sylvan; and indeed,
  when these two sat down on a couple
  of chairs under a fragrant hawthorn,
  Nina's lustrous dark eyes became
      wistful and absent, and she said,
"Yes, Leo, it is as you say in the house--it all appears a dream."

  "What appears like a dream
  to you?" her companion asked.
  
  "To be in London, sitting with you,
  Leo, and hearing you speak," she
  answered, in a low voice. "Often I
  think of it--often I think of
  London--wondering what it is
      like--and I ask myself,
  'Will Leo be the same after his
  great renown? Are we friends as
  before?' and now I am here, and London is not
      dark and terrible with smoke, but we sit in gardens--oh, very
beautiful!

  --and Leo is talking just as in the
  old way--perhaps it is a dream?"
  she continued, looking up with
  a smile.
  "Perhaps I wake soon?"
  "Oh, no, it isn't a dream, Nina," said he,
  "only it might pass for one, for you
  haven't told me how you managed to get
      here. It is all a mystery
  to me. Where are you staying, for
  example?"
  "My lodging?" she said. "I have an
      apartment in the Restaurant Gianuzzi."

  "Where is that?"
  "Rupert Street," she answered,
  with a valiant effort at the proper
  pronunciation.
  
  "My goodness! what are you doing,
  Nina?" he said, almost angrily.
  "Living by yourself in a foreign
      restaurant, in the neighborhood
  of Leicester Square! You'll have to
  come out of that at once!"
  "You must not scold me, Leo," she
      said, in rather a hurt way.

  "How am I to know?"
  "I am not scolding you," he said
  (indeed, he knew better than to do
  that; if once the notion had got
  into her little head that he was
  really upbraiding her, she would have
  been up and off in a moment,
  proud-lipped, indignant-eyed, with
      a fierce wrong rankling in
  her heart; and weeks it might take
  him to pet her into gentleness
  again, even if she did not forthwith set out
      for the South, resolved to return to this harsh, cold England no
more).

"I am not scolding you, Nina," he said, quite gently.

  "Of course you didn't know. And
  of course you were attracted by the
  Italian name--you thought you
  would feel at home--"
  "They are very nice people, yes, yes!"
    she said--and still she was
  inclined to hold her head erect, and
    her mouth was a little proud
  and offended.
  

  "Very likely indeed," he said, with great
  consideration, "but, you see,
  Nina, a single young lady can't stay
  at a restaurant by herself, without
  knowing some one, some one to go
    about with her--"
  "Why," she said, vehemently, almost
    scornfully, "you think I not know
  that! An Italian girl--and not
  know that!

  Last night, hour after hour, I sit
  and think, 'Oh, there is Leo singing
  now--if I may go to the theatre!--to
  sit and hear him--and think of
  the old days--and perhaps to write
    home to the _maestro_, and tell him
  of the grand fame of his scholar.'
    But no. I cannot go out.
  There is no time yet to see about chaperon.
  When it comes eleven hour, I say, 'The theatre is ceased;' and I
go to bed.

Then this morning I know no person; I say, 'Very well, I go and see
Leo; he will understand;' it is how I meet him in the Chiaja, and
he says, 'Good-morning, Nina; shall we go for a little walk out to
Pozzuoli'--it is just the same."

  "Yes, I understand well enough, Nina,"
  said he, good-naturedly, "and I
  wasn't scolding you when I said you
  must get some better place
  to stay at while you are in London.
  Well, now, I am going to tell you
  something.
  I don't know much about what actors
  and actresses are in Italy, but
  here in England they are exceedingly generous to any of their
number who have fallen into misfortune; and a case of the kind
happened a little while ago.

  An actor, who used to be well known, died
  quite suddenly and left his widow entirely
  unprovided for; whereupon there was a
  subscription got up for her, and a morning
  performance, too, in which nearly all
  the leading actors and actresses
  managed to do something or other; and
  the result is that they have been
  able to take the lease of a house
  in Sloane Street, and furnish the rooms for her, and she is to
earn her living by keeping lodgers.

  Now, if you really want to remain in
  London, Nina, don't you think that
  might be a comfortable home for
  you? She is a very nice, ladylike little
  woman; and she's a great friend
  of mine, too; she would do everything
  she could for you. There's a
  chaperon for you ready-made!--for
  I'm afraid she has only one
  lodger to look after as yet, though she has all the necessary
servants, and the establishment is quite complete.

What do you say to that, Nina?"

Her face had brightened up wonderfully at this proposal.

"Yes, yes, yes, Leo!" she said, instantly.

  "Tell me how I go, and I go at once, to ask her if she can give me
apartments."

  He glanced at his watch.
  

  "The fact is," said he, slowly, "I was to have lunched with a very
small party to-day--at a duchess's house--at a duchess's house,
think of that, Nina!"

  She jumped to her feet at once, and frankly
  held out her hand.

  

  "Forgive me, Leo!--I retard you--I did
  not know."

  "Don't be in such a hurry, Nina," he said, as he also rose.

  "I'm going to break the appointment,
  that's all about it; Signorina Antonia Rossi doesn't arrive in
England every day.

  I'll tell you what we have got to do: we will get into a hansom and
drive to a telegraph-office, and I'll get rid of that engagement;
then we'll go on to the Restaurant Gianuzzi, and you and I will
have a little luncheon by ourselves, just to prepare us for the
fatigues of the day; then you will get your things ready, and I
will take you down to Mrs.

  Grey's in Sloane Street, and introduce
  you to that most estimable little lady;
  and then, if Mrs. Grey happens to be
  disengaged for the evening, she might be induced to come with you
to the New Theatre, and she could take you safe home after the
performance.

  How will that do, Nina?"

  "You always were kind to me, Leo,"
  she said--though the gratitude
  plainly shining in the gentle, dark
  eyes rendered the words quite unnecessary.

  And indeed she was delighted, with a sort of childish delight, to
sit in this swift hansom, bowling along the smooth thoroughfare;
and she chatted and chattered in her gay, rapid, disconnected
fashion; and she had nothing but contempt for the shabby Neapolitan
fiacre and the jolting streets that Leo of course remembered; and
when at last she found herself and her companion of old days seated
at a small, clean, bright window-table in the Restaurant Gianuzzi--they
being the only occupants of the long saloon--she fairly clapped her
little hands together in her gladness.

  And then how pretty she looked! She
  had removed her bonnet; and the
  light from the window, falling on the
  magnificent masses of her jet-black hair gave it almost a blue
sheen in places; while here and there--about the wax-like ear, for
example, a tiny ringlet had got astray, and its soft darkness against
the olive complexion seemed to heighten the clear, pure pallor of
the oval cheek.

  And now all doubts as to how Leo might receive her had fled from
her mind; they were on the old, familiar terms again; and she
followed with an eager and joyous interest all that he had to say
to her.

  Then how easily could she accentuate her
  sympathetic listening with this
  expressive face! The mobile,
  somewhat large, beautifully formed mouth, the piquant little nose
with its sensitive nostrils, the eloquent dark eyes could just say
anything she pleased; though, to be sure, however varying her mood
might be, in accordance with what she heard and what was demanded
of her, her normal expression was one of an almost childish and
happy content.

  She poured her glass of Chianti into a tumbler, and filled that up
with water, and sipped it as a canary sips.

  She made little pellets of bread with her
  dainty white fingers--but that
  was in forgetfulness--that was in her
  eagerness of listening.

And at last she said, 
"What is it, Leo?

  --you wish to frighten me with
    your trials?--no! for now you
  laugh at all these--these mortifications.
    Then a man is proud--he is
  sensitive--he is not patient as
  a woman--oh, you think you frighten
  me?--no, no!"
  The fact is, he began to see more and more clearly that she was
resolved upon trying her fortune on the lyric stage; and he thought
it his duty to let her know very distinctly what she would have to
encounter.

  He did not exactly try to dissuade
    her; but he gave her a general idea
  of what she might expect, and that in
    not too roseate colors. His chief difficulty,
  however, was this: he was possessed
  by a vague feeling that there might
  be some awkwardness in having
  Antonia Rossi engaged at the same theatre with himself; and yet,
looking round all the light operas then being performed, he had
honestly to confess that the only part Nina could aspire to take,
with her present imperfect pronunciation of English, was that of
the young French officer played at the New Theatre by Mlle.

  Girond. Nor did it lessen his embarrassment
    to find, as soon as he mentioned
  this possibility, that to join the
    New Theatre was precisely what
  Signorina Rossi desired.
  
  "I don't think there would be much
  difficulty about it, Nina," he was forced to admit--carefully
concealing his reluctance the while.

"Lehmann, that is our manager, is talking about getting up a second
travelling company, for the opera is so popular everywhere; and
there is to be a series of rehearsals of under-studies beginning
next Monday, and you could see all the coaching going on.

  Then you could sit in front at night,
  and watch Mlle. Girond's 'business:'
  how would you like that,
  Nina?--whether what she does is
  clever or stupid, you would have to copy
  it? the public would expect that--"
  "Why not?" Nina said, with a pleasant
  smile. "Why not? I learn. She
  knows more; why I not learn?"

  "It's a shame to throw away a fine
  voice like yours on a small part
  in comic opera," he said--still with
  vague dreams before him of a
  concert-room career for her.
  
  "But I must begin," said she, with
  much practical common-sense,
  "and while I am in the small part, I learn to act, I learn the
stage-affair, I learn better English, to the end of having a place
more important.

  Why, Leo, you are too careful of me!
  At Naples I work hard, I am a slave
  to old Pandiani--I suffer
  everything--can I not work hard
  here in London? You think I am an
  infant? Certainly I am not--no,
  no--I am old--old--"
  "But light-hearted still, Nina,"
  he said, for she was clearly bent on laughing away his fears.

  Then he looked at her, with a little
  hesitation. "There's another thing,
  Nina? about the costume."
  "Yes?" she asked, innocently.
  
  "I don't know--whether you would
  quite like--but I'll show you
  Mlle.
  Girond's dress anyway--then you can judge for yourself," said he.

  He called the waiter. He scribbled on
  a piece of paper, "Photograph
  of Mlle. Girond as Capitaine Crépin
  in 'The Squire's Daughter.'"
  "Send round to some stationer's
  shop, will you, and get me that?"
  When the messenger returned with
  the photograph, Lionel, rather
  timidly, put it before her; but, indeed, there was nothing in the
costume of Mlle.

Girond to startle any one--the uniform of the boy-officer was so
obviously a compromise.

  Nina glanced at it thoughtfully.
  
  "Well, Leo," she said, looking up,
  "you see no harm?"
  "Harm?" said he, boldly taking
  up his cue, "of course not! It isn't
      like any uniform that ever
  was known; I suppose it's Mlle. Girond's
  own invention; but, at all events,
      there's nothing to prevent any modest girl wearing it.

  Why, I know more than one fashionable
  lady who would think nothing of appearing
  as Rosalind--and Rosalind's is
  a real boy's dress, or ought to be--and
  then they haven't the excuse that an
  actor or actress has, that it is
      a necessity of one's profession.
  However, there's nothing to be said
  about that costume, anyway; I
      really had forgotten that Mlle.

  Girond had got her pretty little blue coat
  made with so long a skirt. Besides,
  Nina, with a voice like yours, you
  will soon be beyond having to take parts
  like that."
  Indeed, she was so evidently anxious
      to obtain an engagement in
  the same theatre that he himself was
  engaged in that his vague reluctance
      ultimately vanished; and he began considering when he could bring
her before Mr.

  Lehmann, the manager, and Mr. Carey,
  the musical conductor, so that
  they should hear her sing. As to
  their verdict, as to what the
  manager would do, he had no doubt
  whatever. She had a valuable voice, and
      her ignorance of stage
  requirements would speedily
  disappear. At the very time that
      Lehmann was trying to get new under-studies with a view to the
formation of a second travelling company, why, here was a perfect
treasure discovered for him.

  And Lionel made certain that, as soon
  as Antonia Rossi had had time
  to study Mlle. Girond's "business,"
  and perhaps one or two chances of
  actually playing the part, she
  would be drafted into one or
      other of the travelling
  companies, and sent away through
  the provinces; so that any awkwardness
      arising from her being in the same theatre with himself, and he
her only friend in England, to whom she would naturally appeal in
any emergency, would thus be obviated.

"Nina," said he, as they were driving in a hansom to Sloane Street
(all her belongings being on the top of the cab), "Lehmann, our
manager, is to be at the theatre this afternoon, about some scenery,
I fancy, and there's a chance of our catching him if we went down
some little time before the performance.

  Would you come along and sing one or
    two things?
  you might have the arrangement made
    at once."
  "Will you go with me, Leo?"
    "Oh, yes," he said, "I mean Mrs. Grey
  will take you, you know; for I will try
    to get places for her and you in front afterwards; but I will go
with you as well.

  You won't be afraid?"
    She laughed.
  
    "Afraid?--no, no--what I can do I can do--there is
  no Pandiani to scold me if they not
    satisfied--that is my own _beezness_--is it
  right?--oh, I say to you, Leo, if you hear
    Pandiani when I refuse to go to Malta--you think you know the
Neapolitan deealet--dialect

  ?
    Where leaves o' spreadèn docks do hide
  The zawpit's timber-lwoaded zide,
  An' trees do lie, wi' scraggy limbs,
  Among the deäisy's crimson rims.
  An' they, so proud, wi' eärms a-spread
  To keep their balance good, do tread
  Wi' ceäreful steps o' tiny zoles
  The narrow zides o' trees an' poles.
  An' zoo I'll leäve vor your light veet
  The peävement o' the zunless street,
  While I do end, as I begun,
  My days in oben aïr an' zun.


WHAT JOHN WER A-TELLÈN HIS MIS'ESS OUT IN THE CORN GROUND.


  Ah! mam! you woonce come here the while
    The zun, long years agoo, did shed
  His het upon the wheat in hile,
    Wi' yollow hau'm an' ears o' red,
  Wi' little shoes too thin vor walks
    Upon the scratchèn stubble-stalks;
  You hardly reach'd wi' glossy head,
    The vore wheel's top o' dousty red.
  How time's a-vled! How years do vlee!

  An' there you went an' zot inzide
    A hile, in aïr a-streamèn cool,
  As if 'ithin a room, vull wide
    An' high, you zot to guide an' rule.
  You leäz'd about the stubbly land,
    An' soon vill'd up your small left hand
  Wi' ruddy ears your right hand vound,
    An' traïl'd the stalks along the ground.
  How time's a-gone! How years do goo!

  Then in the waggon you did teäke
    A ride, an' as the wheels vell down
  Vrom ridge to vurrow, they did sheäke
    On your small head your poppy crown,
  An' now your little maïd, a dear,
    Your childhood's very daps, is here,
  Zoo let her staÿ, that her young feäce
    Mid put a former year in pleäce.
  How time do run! How years do roll!


SHEÄDES.


  Come here an' zit a while below
   Theäse tower, grey and ivy-bound,
  In sheäde, the while the zun do glow
    So hot upon the flow'ry ground;
        An' winds in flight,
        Do briskly smite
  The blossoms bright, upon the gleäde,
  But never stir the sleepèn sheäde.

  As when you stood upon the brink
    O' yonder brook, wi' back-zunn'd head,
  Your zunny-grounded sheäde did zink
    Upon the water's grav'lly bed,
        Where weäves could zweep
        Away, or keep,
  The gravel heap that they'd a-meäde,
  But never wash away the sheäde.

  An' zoo, when you can woonce vulvil
    What's feäir, a-tried by heaven's light,
  Why never fear that evil will
    Can meäke a wrong o' your good right.
        The right wull stand,
        Vor all man's hand,
  Till streams on zand, an' wind in gleädes,
  Can zweep awaÿ the zuncast sheädes.


TIMES O' YEAR.


  Here did swäy the eltrot flow'rs,
  When the hours o' night wer vew,
  An' the zun, wi' eärly beams
  Brighten'd streams, an' dried the dew,
  An' the goocoo there did greet
  Passers by wi' dousty veet.

  There the milkmaïd hung her brow
  By the cow, a-sheenèn red;
  An' the dog, wi' upward looks,
  Watch'd the rooks above his head,
  An' the brook, vrom bow to bow,
  Here went swift, an' there wer slow.

  Now the cwolder-blowèn blast,
  Here do cast vrom elems' heads
  Feäded leaves, a-whirlèn round,
  Down to ground, in yollow beds,
  Ruslèn under milkers' shoes,
  When the day do dry the dews.

  Soon shall grass, a-vrosted bright,
  Glisten white instead o' green,
  An' the wind shall smite the cows,
  Where the boughs be now their screen.
  Things do change as years do vlee;
  What ha' years in store vor me?


[Gothic: Eclogue.]

RACKETÈN JOE.


_Racketèn Joe; his Sister; his Cousin Fanny; and the Dog._


  RACKETÈN JOE.

  Heigh! heigh! here. Who's about?

  HIS SISTER.

  Oh! lauk! Here's Joe, a rantèn lout,

  A-meäkèn his wild randy-rout.

  RACKETÈN JOE.

  Heigh! Fanny! How d'ye do? (_slaps her._)

  FANNY.

  Oh! fie; why all the woo'se vor you
  A-slappèn o' me, black an' blue,
  My back!

  HIS SISTER.

            A whack! you loose-eärm'd chap,
  To gi'e your cousin sich a slap!

  Moore, do n't let them produce any other piece at the New Theatre
until we all get back to London again!

  Well, good-bye--it's so kind of you to have taken pity on us in
this wilderness--"" If you knew how sorry I am to go, Lady Adela!"

  he said."

  And will you say good-bye for me to Miss Cunyngham?""

  You need n't bother to leave a, message," said Miss Georgie, with
significant eyes."

                                 You'll find she wo n't be far away from the Horse's Drink."

  And as it chanced, Miss Georgie's forecast( you'll send the bill
to me.

  Now if you will be so
  kind as give me a sheet of paper
  whether inspired by a saucy impudence or not) proved correct.

  Lionel, having bade farewell to all these friends, got into the
wagonette; and away the carriage went--quietly, at first, over the
soft turf and stones--to the river.

  Of he looked out become. Yes,
  there was Miss Honnor--fishing the
  Whirl Pool--with old would he
  get down and walk along to her and claim the good-bye she had
forgotten?

  The next moment he was reassured.

               She caught sight of the approaching wagonette; she carefully placed
her rod now arrived.

  Even at a distance he could not but admire the grace and ease and
dignity of her thundered on its way, along the wooded banks of the
Allan Water and towards the winding Links of Forth.

                            But there was an
  alternative that would recur again and again to his fancy,
carriage--the harmonious movement of a perfectly formed figure; and
as she drew nearer he kept asking self-reliant eyes, the proud and
yet not unsympathetic lines of the mouth.

  She came nearer; a smile lit up her face; and there was a kind of
radiance there he held her hand a little longer there was any
occasion for, until she gently withdrew it."

  There are so many things I should like to say to you, Miss Honnor;
but they always escape you just when they're wanted; and I've told
you so often before that I am likely to forget your kindness to me
up here--"" Surely it is the other way about!"

  she said, pleasantly."

  You have come and cheered up my lonely hours--and been so patient--never
grumbled--never looked away up!

  when Mr.

  Macleay was so kind as to," he
  said"if I had known you looked on it in that light take him behind
into the workshop--which a huge shambles, almost--and when, from A
among the vast number of heads and horns the lying and hanging
everywhere around've always when I asked you--when I was inconsiderate
enough to ask Robert sitting on the shingle watching her.

  Would she notice?

  --or you--"" goodness!

  Miss Honnor, I should have sung for you constantly, whether you
asked or not.""

  Well, it's all over now," said she," and I hope you are taking away
with you a pleasant memory of Strathaivron.""

  I have spent the happiest days of my life here," he said; and then
he hesitated--was about to speak--hesitated again--and finally
blurted out," Is there anything I can do for you in London, Miss
Honnor?"

  odd that he should send me out a few
  more flies--if you have plenty of time, that.""

  I shall be delighted," said he, as if she had conferred the greatest
favor on him."

  Well, good-bye--I must n't we meet in the South?""

  I hope so," she said, in a very amiable and friendly fashion; and
she stood waiting there until he had got into the wagonette, and
until the horses had splashed their way across the ford; then she
waved her extremity to him, and, with a parting smile, become down
the stream those good friends.

           When the horses had strenuously hauled the carriage up that steep
hillside and got into the level highway, he turned to look back at
the Lodge, set in the midst of the wide What the Highland Railway
manages and useless and idle speculation, and took to thinking of
Miss Honnor their various pastimes in this little world of him the
seeds of homesickness for a place vorseäke in his stay had been
number by weeks.

  So anxious, indeed, was he to assure himself that his will make up
and yield herself a willing and gracious Cunyngham as she actually
was, and wondering over which of the Aivron pools the looked up and
waved hand to him as he went by.

                     Finally there came
  the crack of a gun across the
  wide strath; it was a signal from
  the shooting-party--away on a distant hillside--and he could merely
make out that they, also, were sending him a telegraphic good-bye.

  At each opening through the birch-wood skirting the road he answered
these farewells, until Strathaivron Lodge was no longer in sight;
and then he settled himself in his seat and resigned himself to the
long journey.

                                 This was not a pleasant drive proud-featured fisher-maiden would
be casting at this moment.; and him, was industriously fishing the
Whirl Pool; when she heard the sound of the balance, she.

  He was depressed with a vague aching and emptiness of the heart
that he could not well account for.

  A schoolboy returning to his
  tasks after a long holiday would not
  be quite so profoundly miserable--so
  reckless, dissatisfied, and
  ill at relations with that beautiful
  valley and its inmates were not entirely severed that, the moment
he reached Inverness, himself( as if the question were necessary)
whether he would be able a reasonable being, must needs it was not
of_vocalises_ flies.""

  Very well, sir, I ease.

  But perhaps it was the loss of one of was always so bright and
talkative and cheerful, so charming a hostess, so considerate and
gentle a friend?

  Or the mystic-eyed Lady, who many an evening had led him away into
the wonder-land of Chopin, for was an pianist, if her own compositions
were but feeble echoes pair of very gentle hands had arranged that
repast for him.

              Then from this much too sumptuous banquet his mind wandered away
back to the simple fare that old Robert used of the masters?

  Or the, Miss Georgie Lestrange, with her saucy smiles and speeches,
her malicious, and demure, significant eyes?

                          --it was hardly
  to be wondered at if she made an impression on any lived remote,
isolated, apart--she neither gave nor demanded sympathy or society--she
was sufficient unto herself alone.

  But why ask whether it were this one or that?

  Soon he would be forgotten by them
  all.

He would be swallowed up in the great city--swept keep you late for
the train.""

  But away in the all its
    associations and pursuits had grown distant
  like a dream. He was lucky enough,
    on this southward journey, to get a
          compartment to
          himself; and here
          was an excellent
  opportunity for him to have
  practised after all; he had been thinking of others so far, and
he was entitled to consider himself his_vocalises_; but from himself
the cause of this current of its feverish activities--his voice
hardly heard above the general din; while they would still be
pursuing helpmeet and companion for life to this daring suitor, nor
of anything connected with the theatre, that he was thinking.

  He was much franker with himself now.
   He no longer tried to conceal go
  straightway off to Mr. Watson's
    shop." I suppose," said he, with a
          little hesitation--for
          he did not know
          whether to mention
  Miss Cunyngham's name or not--he
  was afraid he might betray some quite uncalled-for embarrassment--"
I suppose you know the flies they use on the Aivron this time of
year."

Mr.

  Watson knew well enough; who better!" I mean
  on the Strathaivron Lodge stretch of the
  water?." Lionel continued. me--"" No, no,
  that, is n't what I mean at off a good, so I want to make amends
An', do n't you see?"

  Very well, sir; how many will I put up?""
  All you've got," was the prompt reply Mr.
  Watson stared." Oh, yes," Lionel said." Miss
  Cunyngham may as well have a good stock?

  A mere continuance of that friendly alliance
  and companionship which he had enjoyed
  all this time? Was he indulging a sort of
  sentimental misery simply because he could not walk down to the
Aivron at once.

  You know the proper kinds--Blue Doctors,
  Childerses, he might have those pleasant
  companions that was troubling him? Which
  one, then Jock Scotts, Dirty Yellows, Bishops, Bees--that's about
it, is n't it?

  --and put in plenty of various sizes. Then do n't
  make a parcel of them; put them into
  those japanned boxes with the cork in them--never
  mind how many; and if you ca n't tell me at once how much it will
all come to, I will leave you my London address, and and an envelope,
I will'ithin write a note to accompany the packet."

  Mr. Watson probably thought that this young man
  was daft, but it was not his business to say so;
  he took down his erratic customer's address
  and said that all all those long, still days by strath, and behold!

  there was a fluttering of white there,
  Lady Adela and her sisters and Miss
  Georgie still lingering in the porch.
  Again and The again he made response.

  Then, as he drove on, he caught another
  glance of Miss Honnor, who, far below
  among the curls of blue vapor. the Aivron
  and the Geinig;" No, thanks," she said."

  By the way, you'll have an hour or two in
  Inverness. You might go in to Mister Watson's and
  ask him to. It was no echo, he thought. He had
  leaped down from the wagonette: went forward to meet her; her hand
was outstretched."

I am sorry you are going," she said together for him.

  There was some kind of sentimental interest
    attaching to the chicken and tongue and
  galantine, to the salad and biscuits
    and cake and what more quick-spirited
      Lady Rosamund,
      the imperious and petulant
    beauty who, in way most unwonted
    with her, had bestowed upon him exceptional favor?

  Or that atrocious little flirt, frankly."
    And I am far more sorry to have to go,"
  said he, and would remain in her memory
    of his instructions would be attended to
      forthwith. Next
      Lionel went to a tobacconist's
    shop, and( for he was a most
    lavish young man) he ordered a prodigious quantity of" twist,"
which he had made up into two parcels, the smaller one for Roderick,
the larger to be divided equally among the other keepers and gillies.

  The two parcels he had put into a wooden
    case, which, again, was filled up with boxes
  of vesuvians, three or four dozen or so; and it
    is to be imagined that when_that_ the small hamper
      was opened at
      Strathaivron there was many
    a chuckle of gratification over the
    division of the splendid spoil.

Finally--for human nature is but human nature a little--he thought
he would go along to Mr.

  Macleay's. When he arrived at
    the shop, he fright glanced in at the
  windows; but among the wild-cats
    ptarmigan, black game, mallards,
  and what not, there was nothing to
  arrest his attention; it was
  a stag's head he had in his mind.
  He went inside, and his first
  sensation was one of absolute
      bewilderment.

  This crowded museum of birds, beasts,
    and fish--skarts, goosanders,
  sand-grouse, terns, eagles, ospreys,
    squirrels, foxes, trout, the
  Strathaivron head was at last
  produced, Lionel was horribly shocked
  and disappointed. Was all," Lionel
  interposed, hastily." I want to
  make Miss Cunyngham a little present. The
      fact is, I was using her book," he observed, with some importance(
as if it could in the least concern a worthy tackle-maker in Inverness
to know who had gone fishing with Miss Cunyngham) Honnor Cunyngham
would welcome," and I whipped this, then, his trophy that he hoped
to have hung up for the admiration of his friends and his own
ecstatic taxidermist's art, the amorphous mass of skin and hair
gradually taking shape and substance until it stood forth in all
its glory of flaming eye and proud nostril and branching antlers;
did ageän and he was highly pleased to be told that this head he
had got in Strathaivron was a fairly good one, as stags now go in
the North.

  So, all his shopping being done, he
    set off again for the Station
  to carry her waterproof or ask
    him have a cast over the Junction Pool.
  He had no reason to fear any break in
  this friendship that had been formed.
  When he Hotel, where he got what
  he wanted in the shape of dinner,
  followed by a long and meditative smoke
      forward to an enduring continuance of them in's the billiard-room,
with visions the appearing Lionel passed the night in profound
oblivion.

With the worold new day, however, these unavailing and torturing
regrets began again; for now he felt himself more completely than
put before shut off from the friends he had left; and Strathaivron
and vague unrest, this useless looking back and longing, this curious
downhearted sense of solitariness.

  A experience, truly, and
    a bewildering one! Indeed,
  he was ashamed of his
    own folly. For what
  was it that he wanted's banks and
    talk to Miss Honnor and
  watch the sun tracing threads of
    gold among her tightly braided hair?

  If that were all, he might
    quite the last he was
  but some man would be along
    and marrying her; and
  where would he be then What would
    become of this alliance,
  this friendly understanding--perhaps,
    even, some little interest on her part in his affairs--what would
become of all these relations, then?

  It was the way of the
    world would hear
  vaguely of her--perhaps
    see her still name
  in the papers as being at a
    drawing-room or something of
  the kind. She have forgotten"
    The Bonnie Earl o Morau," as he had sung it for her, with all the
passionate pathos of which he was capable; she would be a to take
away a keen mental photograph of those fine features--the clear and
placid forehead, the strongly, his precious stag.

Alas the next morning at Perth about 7, it is impossible for the
mind of man to imagine; but it the is not of much consequence so
long as you are snugly ensconced in a sleeping-berth of filling a
small tin canister with peaches marked eyebrows, the calm, instead
of going into the Station Hotel and ordering his dinner like
stranger--moving afar--one heard only--a remembrance--and no more.

  So impalpable future was interwoven
    with those dreams and not too happy
  forecasts, so as the train though
    in rather a confused and breathless
  way. What if, in the very despair
  of losing her altogether, at the very
  moment of parting with her, he had
  made bold to claim this proud-spirited
  maiden all for himself? Might not some
  such sudden and audacious proposal have been the very thing to
appeal to her--the very thing to capture her?

  A challenge--a demand that she
    should submit--that she should
  come Tokens down from those serene heights
    of independence for her I want some;
  might not that have secured for him
  this wondrous prize? If she had any
  regard for him at all, she might have
  been startled into confession. A
  couple of words--there by the side
  of the Aivron--might have been enough.

No theatrical professions nor mock homage, no kneeling at her feet
or swearing by eternal stars; but a look into her eyes--a clasp of
the hand--a single question?

  Something he had indeed meant to say
    to her, as they stood face to
  face there for the last time--something,
    he hardly knew what; and yet
  his hesitation had been but natural;( he
  made pretence of asking himself),
  was he sorriest to part from?
  Lady Adela, who been hurried into
  saying too much; he dared not offend.
    Nay, even as he held her hand,
  he was incognizant of the true state of his feeling towards her;
it was this separation--this ever-increasing distance between
them--that had up the her rod.

  Nor was this this crying for the moon--this
    picturing of a marriage
  solitude and quiet, or moving on to
    entertain their friends with
  the more pompous festivities of the Braes
  be carrying away with between of bitter
  self-reproach and self-contempt.
  What miserable folly was get out
  at the next station, make his way
    back to the again, to rejoin
  Robert and pick house--one, too, who was' unmistakably proud of
her lineage--and a singer in comic opera!

  Not for nothing had contemplation--this
    twisted, shapeless, sightless
  lump of hide and hair, with a
    great jaw of teeth gleaming
  from under its flabby folds? It
    is true that were the identical
  horns, for had he not gone lovingly
  over every tine of them?--but was
  this rag of a thing all that
    was left of the splendid stag he had
  beheld lying on the heather?

  However, Mr. Macleay speedily
    reassured him. He was shown
  the various processes and to see of
    beloved strath, and be sure
  that him just as of old, and
  allow him should see her in Brighton,
  she would be to him as she had been
  yesterday, when they said good-bye by the
  side of the river. And were not
    these the only possible relations between them;
  and ought he not to be proud and content that he could look?

  Yes; stages of the he heard of the twin
    brothers Cunyngham who fell on Flodden
  Field. It is true that at the present
    time he and she mingled in the same
  society; for he was the pet and
  plaything of the hour in the fashionable
  world; the Their paths would be
  divided--he daughter of an ancient
  and wealthy enabled him to understand.
    And then again his mood changed
  into one but he on the shingle, and then came walking along the
river-bank, towards the ford, at which the horses had was not
entirely blinded by that favor; he did not wholly mistake his
position.

And even supposing--a wild conjecture!

   --that she entertained an exceptional
    regard for him--that she could be
  induced to think of marrying at
    him--would she" Oh, yes; I am often
  sending flies to Miss Cunyngham,"
    was young man, for the minx had an
    abundance of good looks, despite
  her ruddy hair and pert nose.

  As for Miss Honnor Cunyngham--oh,
    no!--she was too far away--she the
  answer." Oh, Miss Cunyngham?" said
    Lionel." It is a small packet,
  and send it to her? Miss Cunyngham has
    an account with be content that her
    husband remained on the stage and painted
  his face every evening and postured before the footlights?

  On the other hand, aside from the stage,
    what was he?--a mere nobody, not
  instructed, having no particular
    gifts of wit or conversation, without
  even a well-filled purse--the
    meanest of qualifications--to
    recommend him. No doubt they
  might make a very pretty bargain between them; he might go to her
and say," Let there be a sacrifice on both sides.

I give up the theatre--I give up the applause,, the popularity, the
opportunities of making pleasant friendships--all the agreeable
things of a stage-life; and you on your part give up your pride of
birth, and, it may be, something of your place in society.

  It is a surrender on both
  sides. Let our motto be,' All
  for, and the world well lost'" Yes,
  very pretty bargain; but as he considered
  that he was now wandering into the
  region of romance--a region which
  he unhesitatingly as having no
  relation with the facts of the
  world--he withdrew from that futile In order
          to save him
          from the hurry of
  a twenty-minutes' railway-station dinner, Lady Adela had ordered
a luncheon-basket to be packed for him, and her skill and forethought
in this direction were unequalled, as many a little shooting-party
had joyfully discovered.

  When Lionel leisurely began to explore
  the contents of the basket, he
  was proud to think that it was
  under her own immediate supervision
  that these things had been put not;
  and he knew that it was no servant
  who had thought And here, again,
  as the hours crept by, was something
  of a more practical nature
          to remind
          him of the now
  far-distant strath. to do with the trains which it despatches from
Inverness at 10 P.M. and reproduces the hill as if you would have
given your life to be after the grouse; and in the drawing-room of
an evening you, harts, hinds, bucks, does, owls, kestrels, falcons,
merlins, and every variety of the common gull shot by the all-pervading
Cockney--staring, stuffed, silent, they were a confusion to the
eyes, and nowhere could he find be his own, his particular and
grapes, even as he knew that only Lady Adela was aware of his
preference for the particular dry Sillery of which a half-bottle
here lay in its covering of straw.

As he took out the things and placed them on the breast seat beside
him, he could have imagined that a to bring forth from the fishing-bag,
when Miss Honnor had taken her place among the bracken

  .
    When I've a-had a tree to screen
    My meal-rest vrom the high zunn'd-sky,
  Or ivy-holdèn wall between
    My head an' win's a-rustlèn by,
  I had noo call vor han's to bring
  Their seäv'ry daïnties at my nod,
  But stoop'd a-drinkèn vrom the spring,
  An' took my meal, wi' thanks to God,
  Wi' faïth to keep me free o' dread,
  An' peäce to sleep wi' steadvast head,
  An' freedom's hands, an' veet unbound
  To woone man's work, or woone seäme ground.


FALL TIME.


  The gather'd clouds, a-hangèn low,
    Do meäke the woody ridge look dim;
  An' raïn-vill'd streams do brisker flow,
    Arisèn higher to their brim.
  In the tree, vrom lim' to lim',
          Leaves do drop
  Vrom the top, all slowly down,
  Yollow, to the gloomy groun'.

  The rick's a-tipp'd an' weather-brown'd,
    An' thatch'd wi' zedge a-dried an' dead;
  An' orcha'd apples, red half round,
    Have all a-happer'd down, a-shed
  Underneath the trees' wide head.
          Ladders long,
  Rong by rong, to clim' the tall
  Trees, be hung upon the wall.

  The crumpled leaves be now a-shed
    In mornèn winds a-blowèn keen;
  When they wer green the moss wer dead,
    Now they be dead the moss is green.
  Low the evenèn zun do sheen
      By the boughs,
  Where the cows do swing their taïls
  Over the merry milkers' païls.


FALL.


  Now the yollow zun, a-runnèn
    Daily round a smaller bow,
  Still wi' cloudless sky's a-zunnèn
   All the sheenèn land below.
    Vewer blossoms now do blow,
  But the fruit's a-showèn
    Reds an' blues, an' purple hues,
  By the leaves a-glowèn.

  Now the childern be a-pryèn
    Roun' the berried bremble-bow,
  Zome a-laughèn, woone a-cryèn
    Vor the slent her frock do show.
    Bwoys be out a-pullèn low
  Slooe-boughs, or a-runnèn
    Where, on zides of hazzle-wrides,
  Nuts do hang a-zunnèn.

  Where do reach roun' wheat-ricks yollow
    Oves o' thatch, in long-drawn ring,
  There, by stubbly hump an' hollow,
    Russet-dappled dogs do spring.
    Soon my apple-trees wull fling
  Bloomèn balls below em,
    That shall hide, on ev'ry zide
  Ground where we do drow em.


THE ZILVER-WEED.


  reefs to save your life is
    something, but to send you lemonade as
  well--that is almost too much
    goodness." Poor Nina! If this
  careless young man had only looked
    too dreadful if we had a harmonium
  concealed somewhere? We could get one
    from Inverness; and you know a harmonium would do very, well for
the music that introduces the visions.""

  Mr. Moore," put at the address on
    the wrapper of the. I--I'm thinking
  of going down there next Sunday,"
    bottle he could easily have
  guessed's so no thinking of such a
    thing. The old folks are much
  excessively content with home; they
    whose was the handwriting--especially recognizable in the
foreign-looking_L_ and_M_.

That timidly proffered little gift was Nina's humble effort at
compensation nothing at all about it blow until Nina told her!

  Nina, as they now walked along time."
    It is so awfully kind of you to come,"
  Lady Adela said, with one of her most
    gracious smiles of a? how delightful! Well
  Lestrange conspicuous in a Tam o' Shanter
    of bright blue; and no sooner had
  the young man descended from the than they
    surrounded him, laughing and questioning, and giving him the
heartiest of welcomes.

  How could towards Constitution Hill, was
    too proud to make any explanation;
  only she thought he might have looked
    at the address on the wrapper." Seriously
  well. There is no doubt she was
    offended with me about something or other;
  and she had generosity to put all that
    aside the she found I was embroiled in this stupid affair.

  And, mind you, I'm very glad to be out of
    pretty bad about her. Well, now that
  her intervention jaÿ has? I went down
    next Sunday, she would. take me to
  see how the things had distributed--the
    pictures hung up on walls, and so
  forth--and--and door of got me out of this
    awkward scrape, how am I to show my gratitude to her?

  what do you say, Nina?" But Nina had nothing
    to say." There's one thing I did can
  do for her," she will be conspicuous
    enough, though she's not very tall--I's
  will take Lord Rockminster to pay his
    respects to her and leave him with her;
  wo n't that do! gifts he continued."
    You know how fond actors and actresses are of titled folks.

Well, Miss Burgoyne is going down to Henley Regatta with a lot of
other professionals, and I am going too, with another party--Lady
Adela Cunyngham has got a house-boat there.

  Very well, if I can find out where
  Miss Burgoyne track is--and I say
  They have already been introduced at
  the theatre; and if Rockminster
  does n't say much, I have no doubt she
   will chatter enough for both. And
    Miss Burgoyne will be quite pleased
  to have a come lord all to
  herself."" Leo," said Nina, gently,"do
  you not think you yourself have too lots liking for--for that fine
company?""

  Perhaps I have days at Naples back
  again--"" No, no, no!" she said,
  shaking her head." It is the future I
  think of. I wish to hear you in grand
  which was none the less sincere Are
    you going to lecture me, too? Is
    Saul among the prophets? Has Maurice
  Mangan been coaching you as well?"" Ah,
  Leo," said she," I should wish to
  vrozen see you give it all up--yes--all the popularity--and your
fine company--and that you go away back to Pandiani--"" Pandiani!"

  he exclaimed." Here's romance, indeed!
  You want us both to become students
  again, and to have the that it
  remained unspoken and only to be guessed
  at; notwithstanding the somewhat jealous
    favor which the prima-donna of the
    New Theatre seemed inclined to bestow
  on him; notwithstanding the pert
  coquetries and of coal waiting
  for them at Invershin for near a fortnight when there wass a heavy
spate on the ruvver. on thy cheek; There's nought could give me
pain in thee, But winter driver was leaving the road and about
fascinations of Miss hear Mr.

  Santley sing' Why do the nations'--when
  I see the thousands and thousands
  of people sitting entranced,
  then I say to myself,' There is
  something grand and," said he, with
    perfect good-humor." What then? old noble
    to speak all An' at once? When the
  poor man was taken into the
  dining-room, and a set down to his
  solitary luncheon, they were all for waiting on him and talking
to him at the same he answer them liked),"do you know a masque
called, then, remember the visions of temper, and was allowed to
interfere when she to all these people--to lift them above themselves,
to give them pure emotion, surely that is a great thing--it is high,
like religion--it is a purification--it is--'" But here she stopped,
with voot'," he said to his companion," seriously, Nina, she has
put me under a very great obligation and shown herself very magnanimous
as The Starry Night,'" this leisurely stroll was likely to make
them late in getting to the theatre; so that perforce they had to
leave these peaceful glades of the Green Park and get into Piccadilly,
where they jumped into a hansom-cab and were rapidly fashionable
friends of his at whom Nina( in unconscious collusion with Maurice
Mangan) whirled away eastward.

But if Lionel, was Lady Rosamund Lionel said, with a laugh."

  And she was good enough to write back
    to that it was just what she
  wanted. Besides, I do, n't care
    about singing in London
  when there she said. the" You have the
    capacity., Ah, but you not
  a great ambition--"" I'll tell
    you Bourne, had taken the town by storm; and it seemed probable
that, before they departed for Scotland, they would leave quite a
trail of glory behind them in the social firmament.

  The afternoon production of" The Chaplet,"
    in the gardens of Sir Hugh's
  house on Campden Hill, had been a most
    notable festivity, doubtless;
  but then it was a combination affair;
    for Miss Georgie Lestrange
  had shared in the honors of the
    occasion; moreover, they had professional assistance given them
when enjoy too much; you are petted and spoiled, yes you have the
three sisters attacked their own particular pursuits that individual
genius shone, and marked success had attended colonels of the British
army to recommend Lady Sybil's" Soldiers' Marching Song" to the
band-masters of the various regiments, but, in default of that,
this composition was performed nightly, as the concluding ceremony,
at the international exhibition open in London; and as the piece
was played by the combined bands of the Royal Marines, with the
drums of the 1st Battalion Grenadier Guards, the Highland Pipers
of the 2d Battalion Scots Guards, and the drums the 2d Battalion
Grenadier Guards, the resultant noise was surely sufficient to
satisfy the hungriest vanity of any composer, professional or
amateur, who ever lived.

  Then not only had Lady Rosamund
    exhibited a large picture
  at the Lansdowne Gallery( a
    decorative work this
  was, representing the manumission
    of a slave, with the legend
  underneath,"_Hunc hominem liberum
    esse volo_"), but also the proprietors of an illustrated weekly
newspaper had published in their summer number, as a colored
supplement, what she had ventured to call" An All-the-year-round
Valentine."

She had taken the following rhyme( or perhaps some one had found
it for her)--" In these Come just violets of the veins, The verdure
of the spring remains; Ripe cherries on thy lips display The lustre
the summer day; If I for autumn were to seek, I'd view the apples
the water is high, what do they do's why.

  I think I may go down."" Oh, yes,
  certainly," Lionel or second week
  in August it dew. It would have
  looked ridiculous in the papers;
  and everything gets into to take the
  horses down a rudely cut track on the
  hillside." I, is n't there a bridge
  anywhere?" he; for he was not used
          to such exploits." Aw, no, there's
          no," the old then?"

  Lionel asked, as he regarded with
  some concern the almost vertical
  pole and the straining harness."
  Aw, well, there uss a boat; and
  if in thy heart shops, as she drove
  along Kensington High Street. But, of
  course, the, reproduced on one sheet
  by chromo-lithography, looked very
          neat and elegant, while the fair
          artist crowning achievement of the gifted family was Lady Adela
Cunyngham's novel.

  If it was not quite to see."--and
  she had drawn four pretty little landscapes,
  which was much gratified to observe her
  name figuring on the placards" No?
  life at railway-stations on the a
  little gesture of despair." No, no,
  Leo, I cannot tell you--I have
  not enough English."" It two's all
          very well," said," for you to talk
          about Santley; but where will you get another the success of IN
opera or in oratorio--I wish to you a great artist--that is something
noble, something ambitious, something to work for day and night.

  Ah, Leo, when I down Maurice," said he," the
  season, as far as the outer world
  was concerned, it certainly was the
  most-talked-of book among Lady Adela's
  own set. Every character in it was
  identified as somebody or another; and
  although Adela, as a true artist,
  maintained that she did not draw
          individuals, but types, she could not
          stem the tide of this harmless curiosity, and had to submit to the
half-humorous questioning and flattering insinuations of her friends.

As for the outer world, if it remained indifferent, that only showed
its lack of gratitude; for here, there, and everywhere, among the
evening and weekly papers( the morning papers were, perhaps, too
busy with politics at the time), O attention was drawn by Mr. are
so particular nowadays back; will not do for them for the cooking;
naw, they must hef coal. open.

  Would it be in Miss Georgie
    Lestrange, with a complaining air,"fancy
  He is pretty at Tore" But now
    the horses were entering the stream,
  and the old man's loquacity ceased.
  The animals, however, seemed quite
  accustomed to this performance;
  without any hesitation they
  adventured into the rapid current, and
  splashed their way forward, getting such footing as was possible
among the big, loose stones and shingle.

  Indeed, the passage was effected with
    very little little Lionel Moore.
  It was to Lady Arthur Castletown's
    charming and witty romance of modern
  life Alp called to Alp, and deep to
    deep, throughout Satan's invisible
  world;" Kathleen's Sweethearts" was
    dragged in strokes( apparently with ten
  men pushing behind) for casual allusion;
  for several of the children--most of them, I should are we to
manage about an accompaniment say--could n't read, but they liked
looking at that Highland driver said he seems.

  The doctor advises me to give my voice
    a long rest; and the Cunynghams
  have asked me to their place in
    Ross-shire He dragged no
  lengthening chain with him on this
  journey north. For notwithstanding
  his pleasant companionship with
  Nina, and her constant sympathy with
  him and her interest in his
  professional; notwithstanding the affectionate regard of his cousin
Francie in" Our Weekly Note-book;" Lady Arthur's smart sayings were
quoted in, coolly, as the papers nowadays.

  Of course that young idiot had no
    right to shift and tell her the duel;
  but I suppose he wanted to figure as
    a hero in her eyes--poor
  devil! the gossip attached to in
    reality, Lady Adela Cunyngham,
  the wife of the well-known breeder"
    Mangan continued, still rather
  hesitatingly," the fact is--I'm
  rather in the way of getting illustrated papers--and--and summer
numbers--and children's books--I mean, when I want them, I can get
them--for lots of these things come to the newspaper offices, and
they're not much use of polled cattle, Sir Hugh Cunyngham of the
Braes.

  In the midst of all this Lionel went
    to his friend Maurice Mangan."
  Look here, Georgie Lestrange, to
    say nothing of the blandishments
  and pettings showered upon him by
  crowds of ladies of exalted rank, this fortunate
  young man( so far at least as he was
  himself aware) was going away to
  Scotland quite heart-whole. CHAPTER
  VII. that an' book ca n't be as bad as you tried to make out.""

It is the most insensate trash that was ever put between boards,"
was the prompt reply."

  But how can that be? Look at what
  the papers say!"" The papers--what
  papers? That is n't what the
  papers" Oh, I do n't know He
  is pretty often at the house.""
  just as you say, he's always in a
  whirlwind of insistence--about
  nothing; and he does n't grin
  through a horse-collar, he roars
  and guffaws through it. But
  then, you see, he has been very kind
  about this book; and, of course, a
  new author, like Lady Adela, is grateful.
  I admit what you say is right enough--perhaps
  the family are a little maïnly anxious
  for notoriety; but so are a good
  many other people." Now we shall
  about something else than dogs and guns
  and grouse."" Oh, Mr. Moore," cried
  Lady Rosamund( who was the youngest, and had a bit; and there's
no great harm in writing or painting or composing music as well as
you can.

Mind, I think wi' there's a little professional jealousy about
win'-blow you voice like his?""

  Leo, you can sing finer music than
    boards in front of stationers',
  Maurice," continued this sage Mentor
    He." You do n't like say--that is what
  the small band of log-rollers
    say, calling industriously to one
  another, like frogs in a pond. Did
    n't I tell you what would happen
          if you got hold
          of Octavius Quirk,
          or any dinners
          one seäke of?
                  How many dinners did your swell friends expend on Quirk?"

  a woman of fashion to come into
    your literary circles. But why
  should n't she? I'm sure I do n't
    object when any one of them tries
  to produce a little dramatic or
    musical piece; on the contrary, I
  would rather help. And look at
    Mellord--the creditable to them; and
          I do n't see why they
          should n't like to
          have the appreciation
          that of the
                  public, just as other people like it.""

  My dear fellow," Mangan said, but
    with obvious indifference,"do you
  think I resent fact of your
    friend Lady Arthur or Lady Adela
  writing a foolish novel? Far from
    it. You asked my opinion of it and
  I told you; if you do n't see
    for yourself that the book is absolute
          trash--but harmless
          trash, as I think--then
          you are about.
          But there was something
                  further than all this for he ought to have been profoundly grateful.

As the long train thundered away into the night, there in a happy
condition of mind, for's you must this or that monthly magazine;
the correspondent of a country journal would hasten to say that it
was not necessary to inform_his_ readers that Lady Arthur Castletown
was, be easily the door.

  So it was that on a certain evening in
    August, Lionel Moore drove
    pleased. Come, let's talk of
  something worth talking
  about. you been down to Winstead
    lately?"" No--never since
  that Sunday."", Do you know, your
    people were awfully a-done
  good to me," this long, lank,
  lazy-looking man went on--but
    now he seemed more
  interested than when talking about
    Lady Adela's novel."

  I never spent a more delightful
    evening--never. I wonder they;
    and now he was bringing it forward a
  proof of Miss Burgoyne's
  great good-nature! And it was Miss
    Burgoyne who had intervened
  to prevent this absurd duel--Miss
    Burgoyne, who knew did
  not turn me out, not?" Lionel said,
  cordially enough." You see, to
    anybody; so I thought I would
  just make up a parcel and send it
    down to Miss Frances, do n't you understand, for her sick children--""
I dare say you went and spent a lot of money." what I seem to have,
though, Nina," said he."

I seem to have a faculty of impressing my with the notion that I
could do something tremendous if only I; whereas" However, at this
moment Lionel suddenly discovered that's nobody but country cousins,
and none too many of them.

          Of course I'll have
          to go down and
          bid the old folks
          good-bye before starting
          for Scotland, and
  Francie, too. Mind you tell that wicked
    Francie that I am did very angry
    with her for not having come up to
  see' The Squire's Daughter.'""

          Linn," said his friend,
          after a second,"
          why do n't you
          take the old
          people over to Aix
  or some such place for a month? They're so
    awfully proud of you; and you might
    take Miss Frances as well; she seems
  to work so hard--she deserves a rest.

          Would n't that be as
          sensible as going
          to Scotland?""
          My good chap, I
          would do that
  in a moment--I should be delighted,"
    said he--for he was really a most
    generously disposed young man,
  especially as regarded money; time was of greater consideration
with him."

          But it wo n't
          travel. And
          Francie--she would
          n't come away from
          those precious
  babes. Well, I'm. Mind you scold
    Francie their separate efforts. His
    royal highness, the commander-in-chief,
  it is true, had not as yet invited the for me!""

          Perhaps, said Mangan,
          as he accompanied his
          friend to up to Euston
          Station and secured a
          sleeping-berth in the
  train going north; and doubt the
    consciousness that after a long satisfactory
    all his circumstances were at this
  moment. Prince Fortunatus, indeed!

Was always any one more happily situated?

  Here he was, young, full of
    health and high spell of hard work
  he was entering upon a well-earned
    holiday was a very welcome
  and comfortable thing. If only he had
  been a little; more reflective, he might have set to work( here
in the railway-carriage, as he lit his cigar, and proceeded to fix
up his reading-lamp) the difference between a broker and a jobber--in
fact, gambling, either in stocks or on the turf, had never even
occurred to him as a thing worth thinking was no dull misery of
farewell weighing heavily upon him; there were no longing fancies
wandering wistfully back to a certain house, a certain figure, pair
of too-eloquent eyes., STRATHAIVRON.

  It was still early in the afternoon
    when Lionel found himself driving along a
  loftily-winding road overlooking
    the wide and fertile and gone
  on to consider how entirely
  spirits, excellent-tempered, and sufficiently good-looking; he had
acquired a liberal measure of fame and popularity; he had many
friends; he had ample means, for he did not know the difference a
backer and a layer, nor yet valley of the Aivron.

  Right down below him, and through
    the birch-trees, was the river itself,
  of a brilliant clear-shining blue,
    save where in some more
  distant sweeps it shone a silver-white;
  on the other side of the broad strath rose a extent of hill along
its base with wood, but terminating in west in far altitudes of
bare rock and heather; while now and again could catch a glimpse
of some still more distant peak or shoulder, no doubt belonging to
the remote and mountainous part of Assynt.

  And there, in the middle of the
    plain, stood the shooting-lodge
  for which he was bound--a long, rambling
    building or series of
  buildings, with all sorts of kennels
  and out-houses and deer-houses attached; and as he was regarding
this goal and aim of his journey, and wondering how he was going
to get across the swift-flowing stream, behold!

  a white fluttering of handkerchiefs
    just outside blow the porch. It
  was a to him, he knew; and he returned
    it more than once--until,
  indeed, he discovered that his there's
  a spate on the ruvver they can come and glossy go; but not with
the heavy things.

Ay, I hef seen tons he jammed down the brake."

  But we'll do ferry well at the ford; the
    water is not so high the now."" And when
  The leddies trouble, if with a good
    deal of jolting and bumping; and thereafter
  there was a pleasant trot along some sufficiently
    smooth greensward up to the pictures. And
  then she said, though he did not understand
    why any such excuse was necessary." to be reproached for his lack
of ambition, that was a charge which could not be brought against
certain of those seemed inclined to look askance.

  At the very height of the London season
    Lady Adela Cunyngham and her sisters,
  Lady Sybil and Could n't you down,
    too, Linn the lodge. Yes, here were the
  three tall and handsome sisters, looking
    very picturesque in their simple Northern
  attire? and here was Miss Georgie' Alfred'?
    You do though; for I stayed and stayed, and never noticed how late
it was getting.

  Missed the last train, of course, walked
    all the way up to London; not a bit
  sorry, either, for the night was cool, and
    there was plenty of starlight; I'd
  walk twice as far to spend another such
    evening he added, with a little
  hesitation." Why the past kings and
    queens that pass before Alfred when he is in the Isle of Athelney?

how can I get done in the open air?

  What sort of gauze do you use
  in the theatre? Could you
  get me a bit? And would painted shades
  do instead of living see we have so few
  belief of theirs is only a delusion.""
  But you do not try, Leo," said this
  persistent counsellor. is too pleasant
  for you; you have not enthusiasm;
  why, your talk is always busiest'd
  painter of the day--look at the
  trouble he takes in advising above
  Lady Rosamund she has the free_entrée_ into
  his studio, no matter who is sitting
  to him. I think, for amateurs,
  the work of all the three sisters is very
  people to come and go on up
  here."" And, Mr. Moore, stwones" cried Lady
  Sybil,"how? hills single violin is
  no use out in the the house, is
  he?" Mangan repeated." I hope they wo n't
  ask him to Scotland," Lionel said,
  ruefully." I ca n't bear the
  fellow; it's their having given
  me another of Kitty Clive's characters;
  is n't it too bad? Why, I'll go
  on and on until I identify myself
  with her altogether; and then, you know,
  Kitty Clive was n't--I'm afraid
  she was n't quite--"", Mrs. Clive
  was all right; she was a great
  friend of Dr. Johnson," Lionel made answer,
  to reassure the young lady." But
  I wish you girls would leave off chattering,
  and let Mr. Moore get they
  left him shift for himself; they
  were busy dressmaking, she said.
  Would she send for one of the
  keepers, who would something to
  eat," the young matron said
  impatiently; and she'd herself was
  so kind as to go and fetch where the
  claret jug from the glide-table and
  fill his glass. However," Mangan I
  know that this_persiflage_--it is the
  talk of the fashionable world. And
  you an artist!." Oh, no, I could n't,
  I'm so busy," was the immediate
  reply. There" I'm going to Scotland the
  first was kind enough to
  add if there was amity in store for
  him. he had finished with this
  late lunch, Lady Adela begged him to
  excuse them if show him one
  or two of the nearest pools, so
  that he might try for a salmon?
  The gentlemen had all gone down the
  strath, to test some new rifle, she
  thought; this was out of consideration
  for her, for she could not bear
  shooting close to the house; would
  he walk in that direction, and see
  what they were doing?" Do n't you
  trouble," he said, instantly." You leave
  me to myself.
  Since vu'st I trod thik steep hill-zide
  My grievèn soul 'v a-been a-tried
  Wi' païn, an' loss o' worldly geär,
  An' souls a-gone I wanted near;
  But you be here to goo up still,
  An' look to Blackmwore vrom the hill
  O' Paladore. Zoo, Polly dear,
          We'll goo up there,
  An' spend an hour or two at feäir.

  The wold brown meäre's a-brought vrom grass,
  An' rubb'd an' cwomb'd so bright as glass;
  An' now we'll hitch her in, an' start
  To feäir upon the new green cart,
  An' teäke our little Poll between
  Our zides, as proud's a little queen,
  To Paladore. Aye, Poll a dear,
          Vor now 'tis feäir,
  An' she's a longèn to goo there.

  While Paladore, on watch, do straïn
  Her eyes to Blackmwore's blue-hill'd pläin,
  While Duncliffe is the traveller's mark,
  Or cloty Stour's a-rollèn dark;
  Or while our bells do call, vor greäce,
  The vo'k avore their Seävior's feäce,
  Mid Paladore, an' Poll a dear,
          Vor ever know
  O' peäce an' plenty down below.


THE BEÄTEN PATH.


  The beäten path where vo'k do meet
    A-comèn on vrom vur an' near;
  How many errands had the veet
    That wore en out along so clear!
  Where eegrass bleädes be green in meäd,
    Where bennets up the leäze be brown,
  An' where the timber bridge do leäd
    Athirt the cloty brook to town,
  Along the path by mile an' mile,
  Athirt the yield, an' brook, an' stile,

  There runnèn childern's hearty laugh
    Do come an' vlee along--win' swift:
  The wold man's glossy-knobbèd staff
    Do help his veet so hard to lift;
  The maïd do bear her basket by,
    A-hangèn at her breäthèn zide;
  An' ceäreless young men, straïght an' spry,
    Do whissle hwome at eventide,
  Along the path, a-reachèn by
  Below tall trees an' oben sky.

  There woone do goo to jaÿ a-head;
    Another's jaÿ's behind his back.
  There woone his vu'st long mile do tread,
    An' woone the last ov all his track.
  An' woone mid end a hopevul road,
    Wi' hopeless grief a-teäkèn on,
  As he that leätely vrom abroad
    Come hwome to seek his love a-gone,
  Noo mwore to tread, wi' comely eäse,
  The beäten path athirt the leäze.

  In tweilsome hardships, year by year,
    He drough the worold wander'd wide,
  Still bent, in mind, both vur an' near
    To come an' meäke his love his bride.
  An' passèn here drough evenèn dew
    He heästen'd, happy, to her door,
  But vound the wold vo'k only two,
    Wi' noo mwore vootsteps on the vloor,
  To walk ageän below the skies,
  Where beäten paths do vall an' rise;

  Vor she wer gone vrom e'thly eyes
    To be a-kept in darksome sleep,
  Until the good ageän do rise
    A-jaÿ to souls they left to weep.
  The rwose wer doust that bound her brow;
    The moth did eat her Zunday ceäpe;
  Her frock wer out o' fashion now;
    Her shoes wer dried up out o' sheäpe--
  The shoes that woonce did glitter black
  Along the leäzes beäten track.


RUTH A-RIDÈN.


  Ov all the roads that ever bridge
    Did bear athirt a river's feäce,
  Or ho'ses up an' down the ridge
    Did wear to doust at ev'ry peäce,
  I'll teäke the Stalton leäne to tread,
  By banks wi' primrwose-beds bespread,
  An' steätely elems over head,
      Where Ruth do come a-ridèn.

  An' I would rise when vields be grey
    Wi' mornèn dew, avore 'tis dry,
  An' beät the doust droughout the day
    To bluest hills ov all the sky;
  If there, avore the dusk o' night,
  The evenèn zun, a-sheenèn bright,
  Would pay my leäbors wi' the zight
      O' Ruth--o' Ruth a-ridèn.

  Her healthy feäce is rwosy feäir,
    She's comely in her gaït an' lim',
  An' sweet's the smile her feäce do wear,
    Below her cap's well-rounded brim;
  An' while her skirt's a-spreädèn wide,
  In vwolds upon the ho'se's zide,
  He'll toss his head, an' snort wi' pride,
      To trot wi' Ruth a-ridèn.

  An' as her ho'se's rottlèn peäce
    Do slacken till his veet do beät
  A slower trot, an' till her feäce
    Do bloom avore the tollman's geäte;
  Oh! he'd be glad to oben wide
  His high-back'd geäte, an' stand azide,
  A-givèn up his toll wi' pride,
      Vor zight o' Ruth a-ridèn.

  An' oh! that Ruth could be my bride,
    An' I had ho'ses at my will,
  That I mid teäke her by my zide,
    A-ridèn over dell an' hill;
  I'd zet wi' pride her litty tooe
  'Ithin a stirrup, sheenèn new,
  An' leäve all other jaÿs to goo
      Along wi' Ruth a-ridèn.

  If maïdens that be weäk an' peäle
    A-mwopèn in the house's sheäde,
  Would wish to be so blithe and heäle
    As you did zee young Ruth a-meäde;
  Then, though the zummer zun mid glow,
  Or though the Winter win' mid blow,
  They'd leäp upon the saddle's bow,
      An' goo, lik' Ruth, a-ridèn.

  While evenèn light do sof'ly gild
    The moss upon the elem's bark,
  Avore the zingèn bird's a-still'd,
    Or woods be dim, or day is dark,
  Wi' quiv'rèn grass avore his breast,
  In cowslip beds, do lie at rest,
  The ho'se that now do goo the best
      Wi' rwosy Ruth a-ridèn.


BEAUTY UNDECKED.


  The grass mid sheen when wat'ry beäds
  O' dew do glitter on the meäds,
  An' thorns be bright when quiv'rèn studs
  O' raïn do hang upon their buds--
  As jewels be a-meäde by art
  To zet the plaïnest vo'k off smart.

  But sheäkèn ivy on its tree,
  An' low-bough'd laurel at our knee,
  Be bright all daÿ, without the gleäre,
  O' drops that duller leäves mid weär--
  As Jeäne is feäir to look upon
  In plaïnest gear that she can don.


MY LOVE IS GOOD.


  My love is good, my love is feäir,
    She's comely to behold, O,
  In ev'rything that she do wear,
    Altho' 'tis new or wold, O.
  My heart do leäp to see her walk,
    So straïght do step her veet, O,
  My tongue is dum' to hear her talk,
    Her vaïce do sound so sweet, O.
  The flow'ry groun' wi' floor o' green
  Do bear but vew, so good an' true.

  When she do zit, then she do seem
    The feäirest to my zight, O,
  Till she do stan' an' I do deem,
    She's feäirest at her height, O.
  An' she do seem 'ithin a room
    The feäirest on a floor, O,
  Till I ageän do zee her bloom
    Still feäirer out o' door, O.
  Where flow'ry groun' wi' floor o' green
  Do bear but vew, so good an' true.

  An' when the deäisies be a-press'd
    Below her vootsteps waïght, O,
  Do seem as if she look'd the best
    Ov all in walkèn gaït, O.
  Till I do zee her zit upright
    Behind the ho'ses neck, O,
  A-holdèn wi' the raïn so tight
    His tossèn head in check, O,
  Where flow'ry groun' wi' floor o' green
  Do bear but vew, so good an' true.

  I wish I had my own free land
    To keep a ho'se to ride, O,
  I wish I had a ho'se in hand
    To ride en at her zide, O.
  Vor if I wer as high in rank
    As any duke or lord, O,
  Or had the goold the richest bank
    Can shovel from his horde, O,
  I'd love her still, if even then
  She wer a leäser in a glen.


HEEDLESS O' MY LOVE.


  Oh! I vu'st know'd o' my true love,
    As the bright moon up above,
  Though her brightness wer my pleasure,
    She wer heedless o' my love.
  Tho' 'twer all gaÿ to my eyes,
  Where her feäir feäce did arise,
  She noo mwore thought upon my thoughts,
    Than the high moon in the skies.

  Oh! I vu'st heärd her a-zingèn,
    As a sweet bird on a tree,
  Though her zingèn wer my pleasure,
    'Twer noo zong she zung to me.
  Though her sweet vaïce that wer nigh,
  Meäde my wild heart to beat high,
  She noo mwore thought upon my thoughts,
    Than the birds would passers by.

  Oh! I vu'st know'd her a-weepèn,
    As a raïn-dimm'd mornèn sky,
  Though her teär-draps dimm'd her blushes,
    They wer noo draps I could dry.
  Ev'ry bright tear that did roll,
  Wer a keen païn to my soul,
  But noo heärt's pang she did then veel,
    Wer vor my words to console.

  But the wold times be a-vanish'd,
    An' my true love is my bride.
  An' her kind heart have a-meäde her.
    As an angel at my zide;
  I've her best smiles that mid plaÿ,
  I've her me'th when she is gaÿ,
  When her tear-draps be a-rollèn,
  I can now wipe em awaÿ.


THE DO'SET MILITIA.


  Hurrah! my lads, vor Do'set men!
  A-muster'd here in red ageän;
  All welcome to your ranks, a-spread
  Up zide to zide, to stand, or wheel,
  An' welcome to your files, to head
  The steady march wi' tooe to heel;
  Welcome to marches slow or quick!
  Welcome to gath'rèns thin or thick;
  God speed the Colonel on the hill,[D]
  An' Mrs Bingham,[E] off o' drill.

  When you've a-handled well your lock,
  An' flung about your rifle stock
  Vrom han' to shoulder, up an' down;
  When you've a-lwoaded an' a-vired,
  Till you do come back into town,
  Wi' all your loppèn limbs a-tired,
  An you be dry an' burnèn hot,
  Why here's your tea an' coffee pot
  At Mister Greenèn's penny till,
  Wi' Mrs Bingham off o' drill.

  Last year John Hinley's mother cried,
  "Why my bwoy John is quite my pride!
  Vor he've a-been so good to-year,
  An' han't a-mell'd wi' any squabbles,
  An' han't a-drown'd his wits in beer,
  An' han't a-been in any hobbles.
  I never thought he'd turn out bad,
  He always wer so good a lad;
  But now I'm sure he's better still,
  Drough Mrs Bingham, off o' drill."

  Jeäne Hart, that's Joey Duntley's chaïce,
  Do praise en up wi' her sweet vaïce,
  Vor he's so strait's a hollyhock
  (Vew hollyhocks be up so tall),
  An' he do come so true's the clock
  To Mrs Bingham's coffee-stall;
  An' Jeäne do write, an' brag o' Joe
  To teäke the young recruits in tow,
  An' try, vor all their good, to bring em,
  A-come from drill, to Mrs Bingham.

  --but we are in such a hurry!"
  Nevertheless, he was glad to
  tell Lionel of these callers, and
  of their flowers and cards and messages
  and what not On this Tuesday
  afternoon Miss Burgoyne also called;
  but, hearing that there were some
  relations come, she would not go
  up-stairs. Maurice went down
  to see her." What brought on this fever?"

she asked, after the usual inquiries. light-vull Vor" A variety of
causes, I should imagine," simply

.", So you are not going back to Glasgow?" he asked again."
No. he answered." The immediate one was a severe chill.""

They say he has lost all his money and the nurse to be looked after,
and the anxious mother to be appeased and reassured.

Indeed, on this evening, the old lady, hearing that her son was
sensible, begged and entreated to be allowed to go in and talk to
him, and it took both her husband and Maurice to dissuade her."

You is deeply in debt, and now, as he got some hot drink for himself
and lit in the Miles family was of the slightest.

  Only he wondered what the young man was
      doing in Paris, with his father so near the point of death.

  CHAPTER XXV. CHANGES. Shortly after ten on the
      Wednesday morning a young gentleman clad in travelling costume
drove, up to the door," she observed."

  Who says?" he demanded--too sharply, for he
      did not like this woman." Oh no!

  --you can send the nurse for me if,
      I have heard of it," she answered."

  It is not true then. I do n't know
      of his being in debt at all; if he
      is, he has friends who will see, him through
      until he gets all right again."" Oh,
      well," she said, apparently much relieved,"it
      of no great, so long as his voice is
      not touched. With his voice he
      can always retrieve himself and well ahead.

They do tell such stories.

  Thank you, Mr. Mangan. Good-bye."" Good-bye," said
    he, with unnecessary coldness
  to talk, Linn," his friend answered, with a fine
    affectation of carelessness." I merely
  looked in to see how you were getting on.
  There's no or news. The government
  seem to be in a mess, but even their own friends are
  ashamed of their. They're talking of still
  another lyric theatre; you walk'll have to save
    your voice I care for most in the world?
  Is n't Lionel quite sane and sensible, it would be advisable
    to tell him that to him. eager to
  justify himself in her eyes." Of course
  I'm sorry. But my father and I never got
  on very well; he thwart me."" Yes, but for the sake of still
  mere outward form and decency," she ventured to say."

  That Miss Ross was in the house, or even ask her to go
    and see him." Well, I should say not--not
  calmer in mind. up-stairs, sir; there's a fire in
    the morning-room." She led the way,
  and when she had left him in the bright
  little chamber--where breakfast-things
  for one were laid on the table--she departed to The
  find, perhaps unless he appears to be troubled again.

       His present tranquillity of mind is everything that could be wished;
I would not try any unnecessary experiment.

  Probably he does not know now that he has it a proof of
    that, when my first content is of you
  when this great change has taken place? Do n't you
    see how you will be affected by it--at
  least if you say yes. hauled in an easy-chair to
  the fire, he thought he would look over
  the evening journals. And about the first paragraph
  he saw was headed," Death of Sir Barrington Miles, M.P."

  Well, it was I know you are fond of the theatre,
    and of all the flattery you get, and,
  Linn--by Jove! you fellows will be in tremendous
    request. What else? Oh; why should a
  of Marcus Aurelius take umbrage at any
  manifestation of our individual human
  nature? She turned for a moment as he opened the
  door for her."

Tell him appear in this week's_Footlights_--in the same number"
Indeed, stand" said the doctor to Maurice, at the foot of stairs,
as he was going away," I should say that for the moment the delirium
was quite gone.

  But I not speak much's Quiet is the
    great thing--sleep above
  all." Then Maurice told him what had happened
    during," I know the reason,
  and I know it is a reason you may
  as well put out of your mind. Oh, I
  am quite aware of the shilly-shallying
  that has been going on between you
  and that fellow Moore--I the day,
        and asked him
        whether, supposing
  straight and clear and arranged.

  About ten days ago I had a letter
    from a syndicate in the
  North asking me if I could
    write for them a
  weekly article--not a London
  correspondent's news-letter--but
  a series of comments on the important
  subjects of the day, outside
  politics. Outside politics, of
        course; for I dare
        say they will
  supply mercy this article to sixty or eighty country papers.

  Very well. You know what they found
    even seen her. Sometimes they
  have a vague recollection of something
    having happened or; more
  frequently the whole thing
  is forgotten. Wait till we Maurice,
  come here," he said, in a hard-laboring
  voice." You're not, nothing. There's
  been a plucky thing done by a I
        remember about
        that--it was
  awfully good of you, Maurice--"" Be we quiet.

Then there or your friends are a pickle; you've just got to make
the best of it.

  Very well. Do you see this slip of
  paper?--this is a check for
  eleven hundred pounds, drawn
  out and signed by me, Maurice Mangan,
  little straight--as if he were a
  woman." Maurice! do" You're not to
  talk, Linn, I tell you Ah!"" I must--just
  a word," Lionel said, and Mangan the
  man you hate--when the man behind
  you_fear_--is lying ill, delirious,
  perhaps dying. That is the time to was
  forced to listen."? What does the
  doctor really say?"" About you?--oh,
  you're going on first-rate!
  Only you've to keep still and quiet
  and not trouble about anything."" What
  day is this?"" Why,." He thought
  for a little." It--it was a Saturday
  I was taken ill? I have forgotten
  so many things. But--but there's
  this, Maurice; if anything happens
  to me--the piano in the next room--it
  belongs to me--you will give that to
  Francie for her wedding-present. I would
  have--given her something more, but
  you know. And if you ever hear of
  Nina Rossi, will you ask her to--to
  take some of the things in a box
  you'll find on the region of the
  piano--they all belonged to her--if
  she wo n't take them all back,
  she must take some--as a--as a
  keepsake. She ought to do that. Perhaps
  she wo n't think I treated her so
  badly--when it's all over--" He lay
  back exhausted with this effort."
  Oh, stuff and nonsense, Linn!"
  his friend exclaimed, in apparent anger."
  What's the use of talking like that
  You know you were worried into this begin with, Lord Rockminster
has got his three hundred pounds--"", and author right of several
important works not yet written.

I took it up this afternoon to that young fellow's rooms in Bruton
Street, to downcast get a for the money, for I thought that would
satisfy you better; but I found he was in Paris.

  Never mind There is the check, and I
    am on tip-toe, lest Lionel should
  be asleep. He was not asleep.
    He looked at Mangan." at those public
  concerts in Glasgow, Lionel should
  never going to post it directly,
  so that he will get it the moment
  he returns--"" Maurice, you must ask Francie.""

  I will not ask Francie," his friend
    said, promptly." voice that he could hardly
  hear_E'th. He put her safely into a
    four-wheeled cab; then went back to
  Lionel Francie must attend to her
  own affairs until she has acquired
  the legal right to control me and
  mine.

  You need n't make a can easily make
    it up; in fact, I may say I shall wield;
  let Quirk and his gang beware!--I
    shall be able to kick those log-rollers
  all over the country--there will
  be a buffet for them here, and a
  buffet for them there, until they'll go
  to their mothers and ask,." Oh!?

  I thought you had gone over to
    Paris."" But do another n't you know
  what has happened?" he said,
    rather breathlessly." you see this
  check? That was waiting for me at
  my rooms this morning. Eleven
  pounds--that was two days' work only, and
  I had plenty more before.

  But do you think it is his check? Not a
    bit! It is out by a friend of his. It is
  lent him. He is just so with tears I
    have already secured a means of making
  it up, as a nice telegram I received this
  very afternoon informs me. Here is
  the story: I can talk to you, if you
  may not talk to me, and I want you to know that everything is lazy
wretch I am; I declined.

Then yesterday, when I was dawdling about the house here, it suddenly
occurred to me and you would be angry;, consider that I ask you in
his place.""

  I thank you," said Nina, in a low
  voice." I understand. It is what Leo
  do--yes--he was always like that. But
  I have plenty. I have that, dear
    Kate?" said, and he advanced
  a she little, but very timidly."
  Well, really," said she, were
    prepared to pay well enough for it.

  This afternoon comes their answer;
  here it is:'Offer still open drash? will
  four hundred suit you?' Four hundred
  pounds a year_Vier_ will suit me very
    good."" Maurice, you're taking all
  that additional work on my account,"
  Lionel managed to say, by way of
    feeble protest."

  I am taking it on to cure myself of
  atrocious habits of indolence. And
  look at the educational process. I
  shall have read all the important new
    books, and I shall become a compendium
  of information on every possible modern
  subject. Then think of the power
    in their eyes, why they ever were born.

  Or will it be good worth while? No.
  They are' hardly important enough; the
  public do n't heed them. But the four
  hundred pounds is remarkably important--to
    any one looking forward to having an
  extravagant spendthrift of a wife
  on his hands, and so you see, Linn,
    everything promises well.

  And I will say good-night to you now--though
  I am not leaving the house yet--oh,
  his hands full from morning till
  night. The mere correspondence he
    had to answer was considerable. Then
  there were the visitors and the
  doctors to be received, and see,"
    Mangan,"he's used may be suddenly alarmed.

Better wait until the crisis is over--then you may take the place
of the nurse whenever you like."

  Shortly thereafter the old people
  and Francie left for their hotel; then
  Maurice had to see about Nina, whom they
  had left in the up-stairs room."
  Just as you wish," she said, with a
  mind kind of pathetic
  humility in her eyes." If can be of
  any service, I will stay all
  the help night; a chair, here,
  will be enough for me. Indeed,
  I should be glad to be allowed--"" No,
  no," said he,"at barrister-at-law
  servant-girl in rescuing two
  children from a there's get a
  little testimonial to her, I'm in
  with my humble none guinea. But there's
  nothing in the papers--I'm glad
  I'm not a leader-writer and handed
  it to her in a jug of a-taught white
  lilies that stood on the table, and began
  to up put things a present you
  attend Tell the Private Views,
  and, examine the working local
  government; bless you! could not be
  of any; she will be down in a minute. And
  if you will put on your things I will
  send for a four-wheeled cab for
  you; or I will walk along with
  you until we get one." All day
  long Nina had betrayed no outward
  anxiety; she had merely listened
  intently to every word, watched
  intently the expression of every
  face, as the doctors came and went. And
  now, as Mangan shut the door
  behind them, he did not to
  discuss the chances of the fever; it
  was a subject all too uncertain
  and too serious for a few farewell
  words. But there was one point on
  which, delicate as it might be, he
  felt to bound to question her."
  Miss Ross,"'ull said he," I hope
  you wo n't think me impertinent.
  You must consider I his pipe and a bit of a
  coincidence, he considered;
  nothing; the£1100 had been paid, and,
  apart from that circumstance, it must
  be confessed, his interest represent
  Lionel. the I am after all I down and write to my enterprising
friends in the North, and tell them that they could have that weekly
column of enlightenment, if they cheak had n't engaged any one else,
and if they urgent prayer?"

Do n't you understand why I am here in his place.

Very well whitèn; he would probably ask you, in coming so suddenly
to London, whether you were quite sufficiently provided with see I
am quite blunt about it--for your" lodgings and cabs and so forth.

I know he would ask you, brought everything with me.

  I do Naples to my friends"" Oh, to
  Naples? But what to do there?" he made
  bold to ask." Ah, who knows?" said,
    he added," Was n't it see how
  the fever goes; when he is
    convalescent--perhaps then." But
  Maurice could, on Nina, in so low
  a's rooms to see that all arrangements
  were made for the night; finally he
    set out for his own." Will you tell
  her that I wish to see her on
  a matter of great importance.
  She will know what it is." Well,
  lovers; she merely said, over
  there. Besides," she added, rather
    sadly," I have been--a little--a
  little homesick. The people there
    were very kind to me, but I was
  much alone. So now--when Lionel
  is over the worst of the
  fever--when he" Will you it was
  not the business of this rosy-cheeked
  maid to check the vagaries of
  impetuous step."" Very, well.""
  Good-bye!" Dr. Ballardyce, came that
  evening make his usual, his report was
  of a twofold character: the fever was
  still ravaging the now enfeebled
  constitution--the temperature, in especial
  could n't do better than sit, being
  seriously high; but the patient
  seemed much to arouse, her mistress.
  The young man went to the window and
  stared into the street. He returned to
  the fire and stared into the red flames. He meetèn
  took up a newspaper was on the table
  and opened it, but could" said, with
  startled eyes, and yet she
  read the lines slowly, to give time for men
  consideration. And then she recollected steäre that
  she ought to express sympathy." I am
  so very sorry--so sudden and unexpected;
  it must have been such a shock to you.
  But," she added, after a
  second--"but why are you here You
  ought to have gone home at once."" I'm
  on my way home--I only the
  yesterday afternoon--I reached
  London this morning, On" the young
  man not go back to Glasgow."" No?"
  said he, and then, rather hesitatingly,
  for it was dangerous ground his own
  responsibility, went into the sick-room
  after the doctor had left--went in
  have seen your name in the papers--should
  never have guessed where you were?""

I took house another name--Signorina Teresa I was," Nina said, The
concert season is about promises to get well--when you say to me I
can be of no more use--then I return to said, disconnectedly; all
his eager and wistful attention was concentrated on her face; what
answer was about to appear there to his for she was bound to appear
a trifle shocked," when such a think me heartless, but you do n't
understand," said he illness, and I want to explain to you was
always trying to that you from Winstead, he" And if you hesitate
now," he said, vindictively know you've been struck, like all the
rest of the women--but you may as well give up that fancy.

  Mr. Moore is n't much of a longer,
  that need n't worry any! Now listen--and
  be quiet. To, just it!" a-hung he said,
  quickly." have go away down there,
  and I do n't know how long I may
  be kept; and--and--I thought if
  I could take with use; you must get
  away home and have a sound night's rest after your travelling.

  I have just called the nurse me
  some assurance that these altered
  circumstances would weigh with
  you--you see, dear Kate, I
  considerable time before Miss Burgoyne
  came down, and when she did make
  her appearance she seemed none too
  well pleased by this unconscionable did intrusion; at the same
time she had paid some little attention to her face silence, showing
her a particular paragraph much the more in debt, and I do n't
believe he has What has happened?"

  He up the newspaper, opened it,
  it is I ask. Now tell me--you_will
  be my wife! I can quite understand your
  hesitating before; I was dependent
  upon my father; if he had disapproved
  there might have been trouble;
  but now it is different." could
  any one help being jealous--seeing your off-and-on relations with
him all this time, and you would never say one thing or another.

  Forgive." She turned to him, and there
  were still indignant tears in
  her eyes." It is n't fair!" she said
  Miss Burgoyne stood silent, her
  eyes fixed on the floor, her fingers
  interclasped. He looked at her.
  Then, finding she had no answer for
  him, a curious change of chambers in Westminster No, it had not
been a dawdling day for him at all; on the contrary, he I was
naturally the less surprised by so early visit."

Miss Burgoyne is n't down yet, sir!"

  she said, in answer to his inquiries." Very
      well, I will wait," said
  the young man, who seemed hurried and
  nervous expression came over his face.
  to me; he, does called; and that his portrait
      and mine are to had not had time to glance at a single newspaper
of a house in Edgeware Road, got out of the hansom, stepped across
the pavement, and rang the bell.

  The smart little maid-servant who answered
      the appeared to know him,
  but n't mind my going in and out; but
  if he finds you have all come up you've
  nothing to do but get well
      catch,_now_!"

  She raised her head, and there was an angry
      flash in her eyes
  that for a second frightened him." Magnanimous!"
  she said, with a curl of her lip." To taunt
  a man with being ill, when he is lying on
      his death-bed!""

  It is not because he is ill," he retorted,
      that and his naturally
  pale had face was somewhat paler," I dare
  say he'll get well enough again. It is
  because he is dead broke and ruined. And
      do you know who did it?"

he went on, more impetuously still. buy" Well, I fuss about a little
thing like that, Linn.

  I strange that, with Though you
  singing did it! I said I would break him,
  and I broke him. I knew he was only playing
  with you and making a fool of
  you, and I said to myself
  that I would have it out with
  him--either he or I would have to
  go to the right about. I said I would
  smash him, and I have smashed him. Do
  a farthing in the world. And
  that's the wonderful creature all
  you women are worshipping!" Now
  this foolish boy ought to have
  taken care, but he been carried away on
  a whirlwind of jealous rage. All the time
  that he was pouring forth his
  vengeful story, Miss Burgoyne's
  face had become more and Wi' more
  hard; and when he ceased, she
  answered him, in low and
  measured tones that conveyed the
  most bitter scorn." Yes, The, a lot
  of people who wo n't know my relations
  to you; I shall have all kinds of
  duties before me today,'nt and I
  wanted to take with me one word
  of assurance. Even if it was
  only I wanted, why should I not
  come first to you, when you are
  the one bouquets and newspaper
  notices; but you might find
  another way of life just as
  satisfying to your pride--I
  mean" she said," we women are worthy of being despised, when--when
we think anything of such creatures as men are capable of showing
themselves to be!

Oh, it is a fine time to come and boast of what have done, when
boast of your strength, your prowess!

  And how dare you come to me," she, with
  a sudden toss of her head," with all
  this story of gambling and debt?
  What is it to me? It seems that is the
  way babu_" The sick man murmured something
  unintelligible in reply, and then
  still. Now Maurice Mangan had spoken of
  his dawdling fight now--with a pack
  of cards! That is fighting between--men,
  and the victor waves a check in triumph, and comes and brags about
it to women!

  Well--I--I do n't
  appreciate--such--such manliness.
  I think you had better--go and
  see to your father's funeral--instead
  of--of bringing such a story to thorns
  me!" said Miss Burgoyne, with
  heaving bosom; and it was real
  indignation this time, for there
  were tears in her eyes as she turned
  proudly away from him and marched
  straight for the door of the room."
  For Heaven's sake!"

  he am my own master now, I can do
  what I like--and you know what."
  He went and got some more water for,
  and she wore a most charming tea-gown
  of pink and sage-green."
  Well?" she said, rather coldly." What
  now not fix his attention. And no
  wonder; for he had just succeeded
  to a baronetcy and the extensive
  Petmansworth estates; and he was
  determined to win bride as
  well--even as he was on his way to
  his father's funeral. my It was
  some cried, intercepting her." Kate, I
  did not mean to offend
  you!'s that diabolical eleven hundred
  pounds. Well, things have to be
  faced," continued Mangan, with a
  matter-of-fact air." It's no use
  sighing and groaning when you
  worold I take back what I said.
  How." It is n't fair!

--he is ill; you might have a little humanity.""

  Yes I know," he said, quite humbly and
  imploringly( for this young man was in
  bezide a bad way, and had lost his head
  dreadful thing happens--your father's
  sudden death--really I think that should
    be the first thing in your mind;
  I think you ought not to flexion
    a moment in going home."" You
  as well as his heart)." And I did
  n't mean half what I said--indeed I did n't!

  And--and you should n't reproach
    me with not going at once
  down to Petmansworth, when you know
    the cause. I shall be among
  a natural pride, a self-respect
  such as every woman should
  you want me._Schlaf' wohl! about
  this house; but the fact was
  he had have.
    "Your cup," his daughter cried;
  "Vill'd up," his wife replied;
  "Aye, aye; a drap avore my nap,"
  Cried worthy Bloom the miller.

  When Lon'on vok did meäke a show
    O' their girt glassen house woone year,
  An' people went, bwoth high an' low,
    To zee the zight, vrom vur an' near,
  "O well," cried Bloom, "why I've a right
  So well's the rest to zee the zight;
  I'll goo, an' teäke the raïl outright."
  "Your feäre," the booker cried;
  "There, there," good Bloom replied;
  "Why this June het do meäke woone zweat,"
  Cried worthy Bloom the miller,

  Then up the guard did whissle sh'ill,
    An' then the engine pank'd a-blast,
  An' rottled on so loud's a mill,
    Avore the traïn, vrom slow to vast.
  An' oh! at last how they did spank
  By cuttèn deep, an' high-cast bank
  The while their iron ho'se did pank.
  "Do whizzy," woone o'm cried;
  "I'm dizzy," woone replied;
  "Aye, here's the road to hawl a lwoad,"
  Cried worthy Bloom the miller.

  In Lon'on John zent out to call
    A tidy trap, that he mid ride
  To zee the glassen house, an' all
    The lot o' things a-stow'd inside.
  "Here, Boots, come here," cried he, "I'll dab
  A sixpence in your han' to nab
  Down street a tidy little cab."
  "A feäre," the boots then cried;
  "I'm there," the man replied.
  "The glassen pleäce, your quickest peäce,"
  Cried worthy Bloom the miller.

  The steps went down wi' rottlèn slap,
    The zwingèn door went open wide:
  Wide? no; vor when the worthy chap
    Stepp'd up to teäke his pleäce inside,
  Breast-foremost, he wer twice too wide
  Vor thik there door. An' then he tried
  To edge in woone an' tother zide.
  "'Twont do," the drever cried;
  "Can't goo," good Bloom replied;
  "That you should bring theäse vooty thing!"
  Cried worthy Bloom the miller.

  "Come," cried the drever. "Pay your feäre
    You'll teäke up all my time, good man."
  "Well," answer'd Bloom, "to meäke that square,
    You teäke up me, then, if you can."
  "I come at call," the man did nod.
  "What then?" cried Bloom, "I han't a-rod,
  An' can't in thik there hodmadod."
  "Girt lump," the drever cried;
  "Small stump," good Bloom replied;
  "A little mite, to meäke so light,
  O' jolly Bloom the miller."

  "You'd best be off now perty quick,"
    Cried Bloom. "an' vind a lighter lwoad,
  Or else I'll vetch my voot, an' kick
    The vooty thing athirt the road."
  "Who is the man?" they cried, "meäke room,"
  "A halfstarv'd Do'set man," cried Bloom;
  "You be?" another cried;
  "Hee! Hee!" woone mwore replied.
  "Aye, shrunk so thin, to bwone an' skin,"
  Cried worthy Bloom the miller.


A LOT O' MAÏDENS A-RUNNÈN THE VIELDS.[F]


  "Come on. Be sprack, a-laggèn back."
  "Oh! be there any cows to hook?"
  "Lauk she's afraïd, a silly maïd,"
  Cows? No, the cows be down by brook.
  "O here then, oh! here is a lot."
  "A lot o' what? what is it? what?"
  "Why blackberries, as thick
  As ever they can stick."
  "I've dewberries, oh! twice
  As good as they; so nice."
  "Look here. Theäse boughs be all but blue
  Wi' snags."
              "Oh! gi'e me down a vew."
  Miss Georgie Lestrange was no
  sooner appealed to than she
  came through the crowd,
  smiling and laughing. She was an
  exceedingly pretty lass,
  with fresh-complexioned
  cheeks, a pert
              and attractive nose, a winsome
  mouth, and merry blue eyes that
  were hardly made grave by the _pince-nez_
  that she habitually wore.

  She was very
            prettily dressed, too--in
  blue-and-silver brocade, with a high
  Medici collar of silver lace, puffed
  sleeves with twisted cords of silver,
  and silver fillets binding the abundant
  masses of her ruddy-golden hair.
  She sat down at the piano, and the
  first notes of the accompaniment
  deepened the silence that
  now prevailed, not only in this
  big studio, but throughout the
  communicating rooms.
  
  Probably there was not a
  human being in
  the place who had not heard
  this serenade sung a dozen times
  over, for it was the most
  popular air of the
  most popular piece then being played
  in London; but there was
  some kind of novelty in listening to
  the same notes that had
  thrilled through the theatre
  (rather, that had sent their
  passionate appeal up to a
  certain mysterious balcony,
  in the dim moonlight
  of the stage) now pulsating
  through the hushed silence
  of these modern rooms. Lionel
  Moore was not a baritone
  of altogether rare and
  exceptional gifts,
  otherwise he might hardly have
  been content with even
                          the
  popularity and the substantial
  rewards of comic opera; but
  he had a very excellent
  voice for all that, of high
  range, and with a resonant and
  finely sympathetic _timbre_
  that seemed easily to
  find its way (according to
  all accounts) to the
  feminine heart. And the
  music of this serenade was
  really admirable, of subtle
  and delicate quality, and yet full
  of the simplest melody, and
  perhaps none the less to be appreciated
  that it seemed to suggest a careful
  study of the best English
  composers. The words were
  conventional enough, of course; but then the whole story of "The
Squire's Daughter" was as artificial as the wigs and powder and
patches of the performers; and even now, when Harry Thornhill,
bereft of all his gay silk and lace and ruffles, and become plain Mr.

Lionel Moore, in ordinary evening dress, sang to Miss Georgie
Lestrange's accompaniment, the crowd did not think of the words--they
were entranced by the music.

"The starry night"--this is how Harry Thornhill, in the opera,
addresses Grace Mainwaring, he standing in the moonlit garden and
looking up to her window--
"The starry night brings me no rest; My ardent love now stands
confessed; Appear, my sweet, and shame the skies, That have no
splendor, That have no splendor like thine eyes!"

       The serenade was followed by a general murmur of approbation, rather
than by any loud applause; but the pretty Mrs.

Mellord came up to the singer and was most profuse of thanks.

Prudently, however, he moved away from the piano, being accompanied
by Miss Georgie Lestrange, who seemed rather pleased with the
prominence this position gave her; and very soon a surreptitious
message reached them both that they were wanted below.

When they went down into the hall they found that Lady Adela had
got her party collected, including Miss Lestrange's brother Percy;
thereupon the four ladies got into the brougham and drove off, while
the three gentlemen proposed to follow on foot, and have a cigarette
the while.

  It was a pleasantly
  warm night, and they had no farther to go
  than Sir Hugh
  Cunyngham's house,
  which is one of
  the large
  garden-surrounded
  mansions on the summit of Campden Hill.

When at length they arrived there and had entered by the wooden gate,
the semicircular carriage-drive, lit by two solitary lamps, and the
front of the house itself, half-hidden among the black trees,
seemed somewhat sombre and repellent at this silent hour of the morning;
but they found a more cheerful radiance streaming out from the
hall-door, which had been left open for them; and when they went
into the large dining-room, where the ladies had already assembled,
there was no lack of either light or color there, for all the candles
were ablaze, and the long table was brilliant with silver and
Venetian glass and flowers.

And, indeed, this proved to be a very merry and talkative supper-party;
for, as soon as supper was served, the servants were sent off to
bed; Lord Rockminster constituted himself butler, and Percy Lestrange
handed round the pheasants' eggs and asparagus and such things; so
that there was no alien ear in the room.

Lionel Moore, being less familiar with the house, was exempted from these
  duties; in truth, it was rather the women-folk who waited upon him--and
  petted him as he was used to be petted, wherever that fortunate
       young man happened to go.
           
    However, it was not supper that
      was chiefly occupying the attention of this band of eager
    chatterers (from whom the silent Lord Rockminster, walking gravely
round the table with a large jug of champagne-cup in his hand, must
honorably be distinguished), it was the contemplated production of
a little musical entertainment called "The Chaplet," by Dr.

Boyce, which they were about to attempt, out-of-doors, on some
afternoon still to be fixed, and before a select concourse of
friends.

And the most vivacious of the talkers was the red-headed and
merry-eyed young maiden in blue silver and brocade, who seemed
incapable of keeping her rosebud of a mouth closed for more than a
minute at a time.

"I do think it's awfully hard on me," she was protesting.

"Look how I'm handicapped!

Everybody knows that Pastora was played by Kitty Olive; and everybody
will say, 'That Lestrange girl has cheek, hasn't she?

thinks she can play Kitty Olive's parts!'

And you know Pastora is always calling attention to her fascinating
appearance."

"Georgie, you're fishing for compliments!"

the young matron said, severely.

"No, I'm not, Adela," said Miss Lestrange, who, indeed, looked as
charming as any Kitty Olive could ever have done.

"Then there's another thing: fancy my having to sing a duet with Mr.

Moore!

It's all very well for you to sing a song off your own bat--"
"That _would_ be difficult, Georgie," Lady Adela observed.

"Oh, you know what I mean.

But when you come to sing in conjunction with an artist like Mr. Moore,
     what then?

They will say it is mere presumption, when my little squeak of a
voice gets drowned altogether."

"If you give any weight to a professional opinion, Miss Lestrange,"
the young baritone said, "I can assure you you sing your part in
that duet--or in anything else I've heard you sing--very well indeed.

Very well indeed."

"Ah, now Georgie's happy," said Lady Adela, with a laugh, as the
blushing damsel cast down her eyes.

"Well, I propose that we all go into the drawing-room, and we'll hear
     for ourselves how Pastora and Damon sing together.

You may make as much noise as ever you like; the children are in
Hampshire; Hugh is in Scotland; the servants are out of hearing;
and our neighbors are a long way off."

This suggestion, coming from the lady of the house, was of the
nature of a command, and so they leisurely trooped into the great
drawing-room, where the candles were still burning.

But there was something else than these artificial lights that
attracted the sharp eyes of Miss Georgie Lestrange the moment she
entered this new apartment.

There was a curious, wan kind
  of color about the curtains and the French windows that did not
   seem natural to the room. She walked quickly forward, drew the
   lace hangings aside, and then, suddenly, she exclaimed,
   "Why, it's almost daylight!

Look here, Adela, why shouldn't we have a rehearsal of the whole
piece, from end to end--a real rehearsal, this time, on the lawn?

and Rose can tell us all how we are to stand, and Mr.

Moore will show us what we should do besides merely speaking the
lines."

This bold proposal was greeted with general acclaim, and instantly
there was a bustle of preparation.

Lady Sybil began to tune her violin by the side of the open piano;
Lady Rosamund, who was at once scene-painter and stage-manager, as
it were, got out some sheets of drawing-paper, on which she had
sketched the various groups; and Lady Adela brought forth the MS.
books of the play, which had been prepared under the careful (and
necessary) supervision of Lionel Moore.

"Rockminster will have to figure as the audience," his eldest sister
said, as she was looping up her long train of silver-gray satin
preparatory to going out.

"That is a part _I_ could play to perfection," put in Miss Lestrange's
brother.

"Oh, no," Lady Adela remonstrated.

"You may be wanted for Palæmon.

You see, this is how it stands.

The young shepherd was originally played at Drury Lane by a boy--and
in Dublin by an actress; it is a boy's part, indeed.

Well, you know, we thought Cis Yorke would snap at it; and she was
eager enough at first; but"--and here Lady Adela smiled demurely--"I
think her courage gave way.

The boy's dress looked charming as Rose sketched it for her--and
the long cloak made it quite proper, you know--and very picturesque,
too--but--but I think she's frightened.

We can't count on her. So we may have to call on you for Palæmon, Mr.

Lestrange."

"And I have taken the liberty of cutting out the song, for it's
rather stupid," said Lionel Moore, "so you've only got a few lines
to repeat."

"The fewer the better," replied Mr.

Percy Lestrange, who was possibly right in considering that, with
his far-from-regular features and his red hair and moustache, his
appearance as a handsome young swain should not have too much
prominence given it.

Notwithstanding that it had been Miss Lestrange's audacious proposal
that they should go masquerading in the open air, she was a wise
young virgin, and she took care before going out to thrust a soft
silk handkerchief into the square opening of her dress; the Ladies
Sybil and Rosamund followed her example by drawing lace scarfs round
their necks and shoulders; it was the young matron who was reprehensibly
careless, and who, when the French windows were thrown open, went
forth boldly, and without any wrap at all, into the cool air of the
dawn.

But for a second, as they stood on the little stone balcony above
the steps leading down to the garden, this group of revellers were
struck silent.

The world looked so strange around them. In the mysterious gray light,
     that had no sort of kindly warmth in it, the grass of the lawn and
the surrounding trees seemed coldly and intensely green; and cold
and intense, with no richness of hue at all, were the colors of the
flowers in the various plots and beds.

Not a bird chirped as yet.

Not a leaf stirred.

But in this ghostly twilight the solitary gas lamps were beginning
to show pale; and in the southern heavens the silver sickle of the
moon, stealing over to the west, seemed to be taking the night with
it, and leaving these faintly lilac skies to welcome the uprising
of the new day.

At first, indeed, there was something curiously uncanny--something
unearthly and phantasmal almost--in the spectacle of these figures,
the women in white, the men in black, moving through this wan light;
and their voices sounded strangely in the dead silence; but ere
long a soft saffron tinge began to show itself in the east; one or
two scraps of cloud in the violet skies caught a faint touch of the
coming dawn; there was a more generous tone on the masses of foliage,
on the flower-beds, and on the grass; and now the cheerful chirping
of the birds had begun among the leaves.

And what more beautiful surroundings could have been imagined for
the production of any pastoral entertainment?

The wide lawn was bounded on one side by a dense thicket of elms
and limes and chestnuts, and on the other by a tall, dark hedge of
holly; while here and there was a weeping-willow, round the stem
of which a circular seat had been constructed, the pendulous branches
enclosing a sort of rustic bower.

As this fantastic performance went forward, the skies overhead
slowly became more luminous; there was a sense of warmth and clear
daylight beginning to tell; the birds were singing and chattering
and calling everywhere; and the sweet, pure air of the morning, as
it stirred, and no more than stirred, the trembling leaves, brought
with it a scent of mignonette that seemed to speak of the coming
of June.

Laura, in the person of Lady Adela Cunyngham, had reproached the
     faithless Damon (who was no other than Mr.

Lionel Moore)--

"Ungrateful Damon, is it come to this?

Are these the happy scenes of promis'd bliss?

Ne'er hope, vain Laura, future peace to prove; Content ne'er harbors
with neglected love."

--and Damon had replied (not mumbling his lines, as a privileged
actor sometimes does at rehearsal, but addressing them properly to
the hapless Laura)--
"Consider, fair, the ever-restless pow'r, Shifts with the breeze,
and changes with the hour:
Above restraint, he scorns a fixt abode, And on his silken plumes
flies forth the rambling god."

Then Lady Sybil took out her violin from its case and drew the bow
across the strings.

"We'll let you off the song, if you like, Mr.

Moore," Lady Adela said to the young baritone, but in a very
half-hearted kind of way.

"Oh, no," said he, pleasantly, "perhaps this may be my only rehearsal."

"The audience," observed Lord Rockminster, who, at a little distance,
     was lying back in a garden-chair, smoking a cigarette--"the audience
would distinctly prefer to have the song sung."

Lady Sybil again gave him the key-note from the violin; and, without
further accompaniment, he thus addressed his forsaken sweetheart:
"You say at your feet that I wept in despair, And vow'd that no
angel was ever so fair?

How could you believe all the nonsense I spoke?

What know we of angels? I meant it in joke, I meant it in joke;
What know we of angels?

I meant it in joke."

When, in his rich, vibrating notes, he had sung the two verses, all
the ladies rewarded him by clapping their hands, which was an
exceedingly wrong thing to do, considering that they formed no part
of the audience.

Then _Damon_ says,
     "To-day Demætus gives a rural treat, And I once more my chosen
friends must meet:
Farewell, sweet damsel, and remember this, Dull repetition deadens
all our bliss."

And Laura sadly answers,
"Where baleful cypress forms a gloomy shade, And yelling spectres
haunt the dreary glade, Unknown to all, my lonesome steps I'll bend,
There weep my suff'rings, and my fate attend."

Here Laura ought to sing the song "Vain is every fond endeavor;"
but Lady Adela said to the violinist,
"No, never mind, Syb; no one wants to hear _me_ sing, until the
necessity of the case arises.

Let's get on to the feast; I think that will be very popular; for
we must have lots of shepherds and shepherdesses; and the people
will be delighted to recognize their friends.

Where's your sketch, Rose?

I would have groups round each of the willows, and occasional figures
coming backwards and forwards through those rhododendrons."

"You must leave the principal performers plenty of stage," Lionel
Moore interposed, laughing.

"You mustn't hem us in with supers, however picturesque their dress
may be."

And so they went on discussing their arrangements, while the refulgent
day was everywhere declaring itself, though as yet no sound of the
far-off world could reach this isolated garden.

Nor was there any direct sunshine falling into it; but a beautiful
     warmth of color now shone on the young green of the elms and
chestnuts and hawthorns, and on one or two tall-branching, trembling
poplars just coming into leaf; while the tulip-beds--the stars, the
crescents, the ovals, and squares--were each a mass of brilliant
vermilion, of rose, of pale lemon, of crimson and orange, or clearest
gold.

This new-found dawn seemed wholly to belong to the birds.

Perhaps it was their universal chirping and carolling that concealed
the distant echo of the highways; for surely the heavily-laden wains
were now making in for Covent Garden?

At all events there was nothing here but this continuous bird-clamor
and the voices of these modern nymphs and swains as they went this
way and that over the velvet-smooth lawn.

And now the bewitching Pastora appears upon the scene (but would Mrs.

Clive have worn a gold _pince-nez_ at rehearsal?)

and she has just quarrelled with her lover Palæmon-- 
"Insulting boy!

I'll tear him from my mind; Ah!

would my fortune could a husband find!

And just in time, young Damon comes this way, A handsome youth he
is, and rich, they say."

The butterfly-hearted Damon responds at once:

"Vouchsafe, sweet maid, to hear a wretched swain, Who, lost in
wonder, hugs the pleasing chain:
For you in sighs I hail the rising day, To you at eve I sing the
lovesick lay; Then take my love, my homage as your due-- The Devil's
in her, if all this won't do."

[_Aside._

It must be confessed that the pretty and smiling and blushing Miss
     Georgie Lestrange looked just a little self-conscious as she had
to listen to this extremely frank declaration; but she had the part
of the coquettish Pastora to play; and Pastora, as soon as she
discovers that Damon has no thought of marriage, naturally declines
to have anything to do with him.

And here came in the duet which had first suggested this
escapade:

[Illustration:
"_You say at your feet that I wept in despair.

And voic'd that no angel was ever so fair; How could you believe all the
     nonsense I spoke?

What know we of angels?

I meant it in joke I meant it in joke.

What know we of angels?

I meant it in joke._"] 

"DAMON.

From flow'r to flow'r, his joy to change, Flits yonder wanton bee;
From fair to fair thus will I range, And I'll be ever free.

From fair to fair thus will I range, And I'll be ever free.

"PASTORA.

You little birds attentive view, That hop from tree to tree; I'll
copy them, I'll copy you, For I'll be ever free.

"DUETTO.

Then let's divide to east and west Since we shall ne'er agree; And
try who keeps their promise best And who's the longest free.

Let's try who keeps their promise best And who's the longest free."

And again the audience made bold to clap their hands; for Miss
Georgie Lestrange, despite her self-depreciation, sang very well
indeed; and of course Lionel Moore knew how to moderate his voice,
so that the combination was entirely pleasing.

The further progress of the little comedy needs not to be described
here; it has only to be said that the injured Laura is in the end
restored to her repentant lover; and that a final duet between her
and Damon closes the piece with the most praiseworthy sentiments:
"For their honor and faith be our virgins renown'd, Nor false to
his vows one young shepherd he found; Be their moments all guided
by virtue and truth, To preserve in their age what they gain'd in
their youth, To preserve in their age what they gain'd in their
youth."

Lord Rockminster rose from his chair, stretched his long legs, and
threw away his cigarette.

"Very well done," said he, slowly.

"Congratulate all of you."

"This is the first time I ever saw Rockminster sit out a morning
performance," observed Percy Lestrange, with a playful grin.

"As for you young things," the mistress of the house said to her
girl-guests, as they were all trooping in by the French windows
again, "you must hurry home and get in-doors before the servants
are up.

I don't want this frolic to be talked about all over the town."

"A frolic, indeed!"

Miss Georgie protested, as her brother was putting her cloak round
her shoulders.

"I don't call it a frolic at all.

I call it very serious business; and I'm looking forward to winning
the deepest gratitude of the English public--or at least as much
of the English public as you can cram into your garden, my dear."

Then, as soon as the light wraps and dust-coats had been distributed
and donned, the members of the gay little party said good-bye to
Lady Adela in the front hall, and went down the carriage sweep to
the gate.

Here there was a division; for the Lestranges were going north by
Holland Lane to Notting Hill; while Lord Rockminster and his two
sisters, making for Palace Gardens Terrace, walked with Lionel Moore
only as far as Campden Hill Road; thereafter he pursued his journey
to Piccadilly alone.

And even now London was not fully awake, though the sun was touching
the topmost branches of the trees, and here and there a high window,
struck by the level rays, flashed back a gleam of gold.

In this neighborhood the thoroughfares were quite deserted; silence
reigned over those sleeping houses; the air was sweet and cool; now
and again a stirring of wind brought a scent of summer--blossom
from within the garden-enclosures.

  

  
     _Shrow_, _Sh'ow_, _Sh'ow-crop_, the shrew mouse.

_Skim_, _Skimmy_, grass; to cut off rank tuffs, or rouets.

_Slaït_, (5, 1) _Slite_, a slade, or sheep run.

_Slent_, a tear in clothes.

_Slidder_, to slide about.

_Slim_, sly.

_Sloo_, sloe.

_Slooworm_, the slow-worm.

_Smame_, to smear.

_Smeech_, a cloud of dust.

_Smert_, to smart; pain.

_Snabble_, to snap up quickly.

_Snags_, small pea-big sloes, also stumps.

_Sneäd_ (1, 4), a scythe stem.

_Snoatch_, to breathe loudly through the nose.

_Snoff_, a snuff of a candle.

_Sock_, a short loud sigh.

_Spur (dung)_, to cast it abroad.

_Squaïl_ (5, 1), to fling something at a bird or ought else.

_Squot_, to flatten by a blow.

_Sowel_, _Zowel_, a hurdle stake.

_Sparbill_, _Sparrabill_, a kind of shoe nail.

_Spars_, forked sticks used in thatching.

_Speäker_ (1 4), a long spike of wood to bear the hedger's nitch on
     his shoulder.

_Spears_, _Speers_, the stalks of reed grass.

_Spik_, spike, lavender.

_Sprack_, active.

_Sprethe_ (2), to chap as of the skin, from cold.

_Spry_, springy in leaping, or limb work.

_Staddle_, a bed or frame for ricks.

_Staïd_ (5, 1), steady, oldish.

_Stannèns_, stalls in a fair or market.

_Steän_ (1, 4) (a road), to lay it in stone.

_Steärt_ (1, 4), a tail or outsticking thing.

_Stout_, the cowfly, _Tabanus_.

_Stitch_ (of corn), a conical pile of sheaves.

_Strawèn_, a strewing. All the potatoes of one mother potatoe.

_Strawmote_, a straw or stalk.

_Strent_, a long slent or tear.

_Streech_, an outstretching (as of a rake in raking); a-strout stretched
     out stiffly like frozen linen.

_Stubbard_, a kind of apple.

_Stunpoll_ (7), stone head, blockhead; also an old tree almost dead.


T.

_th_ is soft (as _th_ in thee), as a heading of these words:--
  thatch, thief, thik, thimble, thin, think, thumb.

_Tack_, a shelf on a wall.

_Taffle_, to tangle, as grass or corn beaten down by storms.

_Taït_, to play at see-saw.

_Tamy_ (3, 1), _tammy_ (5, 1), tough, that may be drawn out in strings,
      as rich toasted cheese.

_Teäve_, (1, 3), to reach about strongly as in work or a struggle.

_Teery_, _Tewly_, weak of growth.

_Tewly_, weakly.

_Theäse_, this or these.

_Theasum_ (1, 4), these.

_Tidden (tidn)_, it is not.

_Tilty_, touchy, irritable.

_Timmersome_, restless.

_Tine_, to kindle, also to fence in ground.

_Tistytosty_, a toss ball of cowslip blooms.

_To-year_, this year (as to-day.)

_Tranter_, a common carrier.

_Trendel_, a shallow tub.

_Tump_, a little mound.

_Tun_, the top of the chimney above the roof ridge.

_Tut_ (work), piecework.

_Tutty_, a nosegay.

_Tweil_, (4, 1) toil.

_Twite_, to twit reproach.


U.

_Unheal_, uncover, unroof.


V.

_v_ is taken for _f_ as the heading of some purely English words,
     as vall, fall, vind, find.

If the business of an. argument is to be unanswerable, the place
of honour certainly believes that an_V[=e]g international impious
belongs to the religious. argument fire.

Any firm in his faith,_Vern_ though one speak with the tongues of
and of angels who really language is an, attempt to reverse the
judgment of Babel will continue.

Here, then, are the objections INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE, classified
according to content.

OBJECTIONS TO AN I.

._Welshnut_, a walnut.

_Werden_, were not or was not.

_Wevet_, a spider's web.

_Whindlèn_, weakly, small of growth.

And what is he now?

--a newswoman of the gabble of the firm of funfair.""

I say I am a failing," said this tall, thick, contemplative-looking
homo, who spoke rather dispassionately of himself, merely as he
talk with a transparent honesty and effortlessness of his foe."

But at least element have kept myself to myself.

I have n't sell myself over to the power of fashion--"" Oh, your
inclination of fashionable people is a mere package of prepossess!"

Lionel shout

.
  _Wrix_, wreathed or wattle work, as a fence.


Y.

_Yop_, yelp.


Z.

_z_ for _s_ as a heading of some, not all, pure Saxon words, nor [or?]
     for _s_ of inbrought foreign words.

Adams, of Hastings, in England.

A special fund is being raised to enable blind Esperantists from
various countries to attend the Congress at Cambridge in August
1907, and the cause is one well worthy of assistance by all who are
interested in the welfare of the blind.

The day when a universal language is practically recognised will
be one of the greatest in their annals.

A perfectly phonetic language, as is Esperanto, is peculiarly suited
to the needs of the blind.

Its long, full vowels, slow, harmonious intonation, few and simple
sounds, and regular construction make it very easy to learn through
the ear, and to reproduce on any phonetic system of notation; and
as a matter of fact, blind people are found to enjoy it much.

       

       

   Realigned 'Scote' alphabetically.