I have, whether you say that, then finding this truth, you have to
leave the house of your fathers and you have to barter with our
ranch and taking the dress of a gypsy, you have two years of study
in our schools, at which time I satisfy me of your condition, and
you from mine, after which, if you will contentáredes me, and I for
you, deliver me by your wife.

And you have to consider that in time this could be that noviciate
cobrásedes view, now you should have lost, or at least troubled,
and you should viésedes flee what is now still so hard and gaining
freedom lost, with a good will forgive any fault repentance.

   If these conditions you will come to be a soldier of our militia
   is in your hands, because missing them, have not you touch
   a finger of mine. Shocking the man with the beautiful
   grounds, and as púsose spellbound, watching the ground showing
that it felt should be answered.

   Seeing this beautiful, turned to say: - This is not the case
   so little time in which we offer here can not be solved by time:
Turn, lord, the village, and space considerations so that viéredes
os more appropriate, and in this place I can talk all events that
quisiéredes, to go or come from Madrid. - Satan is on your chest,
girl - said this time the old gypsy ---: it looks say things that
no one would say the college of Salamanca!

   How is this? I got mad, and I'm listening to a spirit who
   speaks without knowing Latin. - Street, grandmother - responded
Beautiful --- and know that all the things I hear are nonada and
mocked, for the many more that are really me in the chest.

   All that said Preciosa, and all showed that the discretion
   was to add fuel to the fire that was burning in the chest of the
knight.

      Finally, they stayed there for eight days would be at that same
place where he would give an account of the term in which their
businesses were, and they have had time to learn the truth that
they had said.

   The waiter brought a pocket brocade, where he said that one
   hundred iban coats of gold, and the old dióselos, but did not want
to take beautiful in any way, the gypsy who said: - Shut up, girl,
that the best signal that this gentleman has to be paid is to have
handed over weapons in return signal, and provide, at any time
whatsoever was always generous hint of breast.

And remember that saying: "In heaven praying, and giving the deck."

And more, I do not want to lose me by the name Gypsy Luengas centuries
that have acquired and exploited by greedy.

A hundred shields that you want to discard, Preciosa, and gold in
gold, which can be sewn on the ride of a saya alforza not worth two
real and keep it as having a swear on the grass in Extremadura?

If any of our children, grandchildren or relatives falls, for some,
unfortunately, in the hands of justice, please be so good that
reaches the ear of the judge and clerk, and of these shields, if
they reach their bags?

Three times by three different crimes I have visited almost put her
in the ass to be whipped, and the one I fought for a silver jug,
and the other a string of pearls, and the other forty eight real,
which had bartered for rooms, with twenty more for real change.

Look, girl, who walk in motion very dangerous and full of pitfalls
and sometimes forced, and there are no defenses that protect us for
more loans and relief as the invincible weapon of the great Philip:
no move ahead of their _plus ultra_.

     On a doubloon two sides are showing us the
    happy and sad
   attorney of all
    the ministers of death, Harpies of us
     who are poor
    gypsy, and pride
   ourselves pelarnos and
  skinned than a
    robber, ever, for more
     broken and disastrous
    that we see, we are poor,
   they say we are like the gabachos of
  jubones Belmonte:
   broken and greasy,
    and full of doubloons. - Life For
   his grandmother, who does
  not say more, which leads end of
 many laws argue in favor
   of keeping the
    money, the exhaust of the Emperors;
   stay with them, and
  good from him, and bend God
 to bury in the tomb where
  never around to
   see the clarity of the sun, nor that
  there is a need to see. These will be our
 companions forced them
something that has
  a lot to us, and you
   should be angry.
  [Illustration: By living
 his grandmother, who does not read more ...] - I see them - said
the old - seen as the currency of these Turkish agora.

The good Lord will see if it was a silver coin, or quarters, and
divided between them, just be happy with that. - I bring - trouserpress
he said.

And removed from the actual faldriquera
three to eight, which circulated among the
three gitanilla, they were happier and more satisfied they tend
to become an author of comedy when, in another jurisdiction, you
tend retular by the corners: "_Víctor, Víctor._ "In resolution,
reached in the coming eight days there, and had to call, when gypsy
Andres Caballero, also because of this surname including gypsies.

Andres (who we will call you from here onwards) the left, and came
into Madrid, and these contentísimas, did the same.

Beautiful, somewhat fond of the gallant disposition of Andrew, and
wanted to find out whether it was he who had said, came in Madrid,
and as she wore the look of the house to find the father of Andrew,
not wanting to stop to dance anywhere, in space was on the street
do was, she knew very well, and having gone halfway, he raised his
eyes to some gilded iron balconies, which had given sign, and saw
in them a gentleman to age of fifty years, with a habit of red cross
on the breasts of venerable presence and severity, which also had
just seen the Gitanilla saying: - Subid, girls, here you give alms.

A voice came on the balcony Three other men, including the wine
lover Andrew, that when he saw a beautiful, lost color and was about
to lose the senses: either it was the shock he received with his
view.

Gitanilla all the rose, but the large, which was reported down to the
servants of the truths of Andres. Gitanilla to enter the room, saying
the elderly gentleman to others - this should be, without doubt, they
say that Gitanilla beautiful walks in Madrid. - Ella es - Andres
replied - and certainly is the most beautiful creature to be seen.
- So you say - said Preciosa, as heard in coming - but in truth that
should be fool in the middle of a fair price.

Pretty well I think I am, but as beautiful as they say, or think. - By
Don living Juanico my son - said the old man --- who you are even
more beautiful as they say, linda gitana! - And who is his son Don
Juanico - Precious asked. - That trouserpress being with you - answered
the gentleman. - In truth I thought - said Precious - who swore
vues grant any child of two years. Look what Don Juanico, and what
jumped! A truth that I might already be married, and that, as has
some scratches on the forehead, not spend three years without its
presence, and much to his taste, here is that if there is not lost,
or is traded . - Enough - said one of those present - and that knows
Gitanilla desrayas. que_ # # _A responded with Preciosa. - What I
see with the eyes, the finger guess what: I know Mr Don Juanico,
without rays, which is something enamoradizo, impetuous and rapid,
and great promise of things that seem impossible, and bowed to God
than mentirosito, which would be the worst of everything.

One now has to travel far from here, and you think the bay, and one
that saddles him, the man makes, and God provides, perhaps you
will think Oñez and give in Gamboa. In Don Juan replied: - Indeed,
Roma people, who have hit upon a lot of my condition, but what
if you're a liar out of the very truth, as I say in price of any
event. On the long trip you right, then surely God is served, within
four or five days I will leave for Flanders, but you threatened
me that I should turn the way and would not want it to happen to
me that some outrage what way. - Street, gentleman - Precious responded
- and encomiéndese to God that everything will be well, and know
that I do not know anything about what I say and not speak as
much wonder and package hits in something, and I want to hit you do
not persuadirte parties but sedate the chest, and you were with
your parents to give them a good old age, because I'm not good with
these comings and goings of Flanders, mainly of young men very young
age as yours.

Let grow a little so you can take the work of the war, the war
is more than enough in your house: You love fighting tired shock
chest. Peace, tranquility, alborotadito, and see what you do first
you marry, and give us a limosnita for God and who you are, in
truth I think you are well born.

And if this is the board to be true, I will sing to the expiration
of the gala have hit you as I said. - Again you've said, girls -
who said the gift was to be Juan Andres Caballero - which Results
in all but the fear that I should not have to be very true that
this fool you, without any doubt, the word that I give in the field,
will perform in the city and wherever you want, without me ordered,
since not men who can boast of playing in the vice of lying.

My father will give alms to God and myself, that really gave this
morning had some drafts soon. He climbed in, the old gypsy,
and said: - Nieto, just, that it is late, and there is much to do and
more to say. - Lifetime Preciosita - _dijo # # Andrés_'s father - who
bailéis around with your mates, here I have a gold doubloon
to both sides, none is like yours, but There are two kings. Hardly had
heard this old saying: - Hey, girls, Haldar on tape and give content
to these gentlemen. Preciosa took the rattles, and took their turns,
all done and rid its ties with both grace and ease to your feet
after wearing the eyes of those watching, especially for Andrew, who
were among the beautiful feet as if it were the center of his glory.
Despidiéronse gypsies, and said to go to Precious Don Juan: - Look,
sir: one week is desta prosperous days for items, and none are
black, leaving as quickly as may presto, it looks a life wide open and
very tasty, if you want to accommodate it. - Not so free the soldier,
to my mind - answered Don Juan - who has no more attachment to freedom,
but with this, as I will see. - Most of you will see what you think
- --- Precious said, and God will lead and bring in well, your good
presence deserves. With these last words was happy Andrés, and
Roma were contentísimas. Swap a doubloon, repartiéronle among
all equally, but always wore the old guardian of the party and half
to be together-for the majority, and as her hand was guided by the
person in the welter of their dance, grace, and even their fabrications.
Llegóse, finally, the day that Andrew Knight appeared one morning
in his first appearance on a mule for hire, without any servant,
found him in a beautiful and his grandmother, of whom known received
him with great pleasure. He told them that guided him to the ranch
before entering the day and he was discovered carrying the signs,
if you want. Them, as advised, they came alone, gave back, and
there came a short while to their barracks. Andrew came in one,
which was the largest ranch, and then went to see him ten or twelve
gypsies, all boys and all Gallardo and well done, who had noticed the
old woman's new partner who had come, without need to entrust the
secret, they kept him with wisdom and timeliness never before seen.
then cast an eye to the mule, and said a Dell: - This will be sold
on Thursday in Toledo. - I do not - said Andres - because there is
no formula for rent is not known to all young mule who hustles for
Spain. - By God, Mr Andrew!

- said one of the gypsies ---, but that the mule had more signs
those that have preceded the day of tremendous transformáramos here
so you do not know the owner or who has grown up. - With all this -
Andrew answered - by this time was to follow and take the view mine.
This mule has to be killed, and be buried where the bone does not
even appear. - Sin big! - Said another gypsy -: an innocent life has
to remove? Do not say that Andrés good, but do one thing right now
so watch it all the signs are printed in memory, and déjenmela to
me and if up to two hours the hearing, which I like lard a black
fugitive. - In no way consent - Andres said - that the mule will
not die, though I assure her transformation: I am afraid to be
discovered if it does not cover the land.

And if it does for the benefit of selling that can be followed,
so I do not bare this guild, you can not pay entry worth more than
four mules. - So you want Mr Andrew Knight - said another gypsy -
die without the guilt, and God knows if I weigh, well on his mocedad
therefore has not yet closed (which is not used between mule hire),
as it should be Andariego, because it has scabs on ijadas or sores
of the spur.

Dilatóse his death until the evening and in the remainder of that day
were the ceremonies of the entrance to Gypsy Andres, who were a
mess then get rid of the best in the douars and adornáronle of branches
and sedge and Andrew sitting on half cork, pusiéronle hands in a hammer
and pliers, and the two guitars are two gypsies Tania, give him two
prances, then stripped him an arm and a belt silk and a new club gave
him two turns soft. All found this beautiful, and many other Gypsy
girls and old, to wonder about the other with love, he looked: It
was the gallant disposition of Andrew, until he became
aficionadísimos Gypsies. Made, therefore, those ceremonies,
took an old gypsy's hand to Preciosa, and put in front of Andrew,
said: - This girl is the flower and cream of all the beauty of the
Roma who live in that we know Spain, we will deliver by wife,
because the free broadband and our life is not subject to many
ceremonies or playacting. Look at it well and see if you like, or
if there vees something you unhappy, and if the vees, choose between
the maids here are the one you contentare; than you'll choose, but
you know that Once chosen, you have not left the other. # # _nuestras_
With laws and statutes, and keep us live happy, we are masters in
the fields of crops in the forests of the mountains, and the sources
of rivers, the mountains offer firewood bucket, trees, fruit, vines,
grapes, orchards, vegetable, sources, water, rivers, fish, and
closed, hunting, rocks, shade, fresh air bankruptcies, caves and
houses.

CIPIÓN .-- Yes, I muttered to no one
no. Berganza .-- Now just confirm what you've heard many times. Just
a maldiciente murmured to spoil ten lineages and caluniar twenty good,
and if any reprehende him for what he said, replied that he had
said nothing, and said that if anything, has not said so, and If you
thought that was the wrong one, do not say. CIPIÓN .-- It is true,
and I confess my error, and I want you to forgive me because I have
forgiven you so much, let's take pelillo to sea, as the boys, not
here murmured ahead and follow your story, it left the authority
with which the sons of your master merchant iban the study of the
Society of Jesus.

Berganza .-- I say that the children of my master left a cartapacio
one days in the yard, where I was at the time, so the _vademecum_
and went after them, with no intention to soltalle study. Sucedióme
everything as wanted: my masters, who saw me coming with _vademecum_
in the mouth, grabbed Sotil of the tapes, they sent me to a page away,
but I do not consent, not letting go until I entered the classroom
with him, which caused laughter to all students. Lleguéme the
greatest of my masters, and I think, very nurturing, I put it in his
hands, and quedéme sitting squat on the door of the classroom,
looking landmark milestone in the teacher to read in the chair. I do
not know what's under that alcanzárseme me with so little, or
nothing, della, then I got happy to see the love, the term, the
application and the industry that those blessed with parents and
teachers to teach those children, straightening the tender twigs
of their youth, why not take evil or sinister bent on the path of
virtue, which together with the letters they showed.

Considered how smoothly rhenium, punishment with mercy, encourage
by example, the incentive awards and cope with sanity, and
finally, how they painted the ugliness and horror of the vices, and I
drew the beauty of the virtues for that, hated them and loved them,
they so were bred for. My masters liked that they always appear
_vademecum_, which I made very good will, which had a life of
royalty, and even better, because I was rested, because the students
were in mocking me, and with them domestiquéme so, I got the hand
in the mouth and more kids came over me, threw the hats or hats,
and I was again on hand with samples of clean and big celebration.
Hit me how much they could eat, and love to see that when I was nuts
or hazelnuts, starting as the monkey, leaving husks and eating the
sweet.

This was not by my ability to test me in a scarf trujo lot of
salad, which I ate as if it were person. It was winter time, when the
fields in Seville muffins and butter, who was so well served, more
than two _Antonios_ sold or took it for me for lunch, finally,
I passed a student life without hunger and scabies, which is what can
be more expensive to say that was good. Desta desta stillness and
glory came to remove a woman, I believe there called reason of
state, when it has to be met with descumplir many other reasons.

The case that those gentlemen teachers felt that the half hour that
is the abolition abolition dealing with students, not to review the
abolition, but to me comfortable, and well, my master ordered me
not to bring further study ; complied, volviéronme home and the old
guard of the door, and, remember the old Lord of the mercy that I
had done that day and night to walk loose, went to deliver a neck
chain and the body a mat behind the door that made me.

Oh, man Cipión if supieses how hard the thing is suffering from a
state with an unhappy felice!

Watch when the miseries and misfortunes have long and continuous
flow, or just lend them to death, or continued Dellas makes a habit
and custom in padecellas, often used in its strictest of relief,
but when the fate wretched and calamitous, without thinking and
suddenly, you go to enjoy another prosperous fate, Ventura and
cheerful, and there becomes a little luck to suffer first, and
misfortune and the preliminary work is a pain so severe that if
life is not just for living more tormented.

I say finally, I came back my dog ration, and the bones of a black
house threw me, and even these two cats I dezmaban Romans, who, as
loose and light, easy to remove minerals which did not fall
below the district reached my chain. Cipión brother, and Heaven grant
you the good we want to, but you mad, now let me philosophize a
little, because if you stop saying things that at this moment I
have come to the memory of those that occurred to me then I think
that my story would not be fair or any fruit.

   CIPIÓN Warns .--, Berganza, not a temptation of the devil that
   winning philosophy has been to tell you, because you do not have
   the best gossip and veil to cover up their evil alleviate to be
   dissolute murmured to understand everything that is said judgments of
   philosophers, and that is to say bad reprehensión and discover defetos
   others, good heat. And there is no life murmurante that if the
   look and feel, not find it full of vices and insolence. And below
   find this, now far filosofea wanted. Berganza .-- Sure you
   can, Cipión, muttered that more because I have so prosupuesto.

This is the case, as I was all day idle, and idleness is the mother
of thought, I go by memory on some Latinos I were there I heard many
of my masters when I was studying, with that, I think I found
something more enhanced understanding of, and shall speak as if they
knew the advantage of occasions that Dell is offering me, but in a
manner different from that usually take some ignorant. There is
some romance in talks occasionally shoot with a brief Latin compendia,
suggesting those who do not understand that Latinos are great, and
just know a name or decline to conjugate a verb. CIPIÓN for minor
.-- damage that I have that do they really know Latin, some of
which are so reckless, that talking to a shoemaker or tailor a show
Latinas as water.

Berganza .-- I want, we can infer that the freckle front that says
Latines unaware of who said that the ignoring. CIPIÓN .-- To find
romance in silence and speak in Latin, discretion is required,
brother Berganza. Berganza .-- This is because one can say in Latin
as in foolishness romance.

CIPIÓN .-- Let this, and start saying your philosophies. Berganza .--
I have already said, these are just words. CIPIÓN .-- What? Berganza
.-- These and Romance for Latinos, I started and you finished.
CIPIÓN murmur .-- To the flames philosophize? So it goes! Canonizes,
canonizes, Berganza, the plague of evil gossip, and give the name
we wanted, it will give us the Cynics, which means dogs murmured, and
for your life and that street and follow your story. Berganza.
- How to follow if I call?

CIPIÓN .-- I mean to follow the coup, but the octopus that seems to
do as you're adding the queue. Berganza .-- properly speaking, no
queues are called the octopus. And I say that, not content to have my
fortune off of my studies and life that they spent so elate and composed,
and have since atraillado behind a door, and having bartered the
liberality of the students in the narrow black, ordered in
terms of shock and had to calm and rest. Look, Cipión, please be
true, and found, as I have, that the unhappy misfortune seek him and
find him, but is hidden in the last corners of the earth.

Dígolo because the black house, once, I trujo sponge fried with butter;
met _su_ # # evil; I saw was worse than chintz eat, I eat it because
it swells the stomach and does not leave the behind without taking
life, and remember to put land in the middle. Halléme loose one
days, and tell God to any home, I put him in the street, through a
hole in the wall to left field, and before dawn, I Mairena, a
place which is four miles from Seville . Wanted my good luck I found
a company of soldiers there, who, as I heard, went to boarding
Cartagena. There were four ruffians, and atambor was a bracket that
had been, and much chocarrero, as often the most atambores.

I determined to accommodate him, if he wished, and follow that day,
but I am lead to Flanders or Italy, because it seems to me, and even
you yourself should look the same, that as the saying goes: "Anyone
who is foolish in his villa, is foolish in Castile, "the land to
walk and communicate with different people makes men discreet.

   CIPIÓN .-- Is that really so, that I
   remember having heard from a love I
   had for bonísimo wit, that the famous Greek
   Ulysses called him by reputation only
   prudent to have traveled many lands and
   communicated with different people and
   different nations, and so I commend you
   had intended to go where you lead.

   Berganza. - This is the case that the
   atambor, having more to show how their chacorrerías,
   began to teach me to dance to the atambor and
   do other monerías as outsiders can learn from
   another dog that was not me, as you'll
   hear when you read the. In less than
   fifteen days, with my good genius and
   diligence with which he had put the chosen pattern, jump higher
by the King of France and not for bad jump innkeeper; enseñóme to
as Corvet Neapolitan horse, and go to mula of atahona round as with
other things that if I did not have in mind not to jump out, put
into question whether it was a devil figure in which the dog did.

Púsome name _perro sabio_ and we had not come to the shelter when his
playing atambor, walked all over the place advocating that everyone
who wanted to come see the wonderful grace and skill of the dog
wise, in such home or such hospital, the show, eight, or four
maravedís, as were the people, large or small.

With these price hikes would not be any person in the place that
I would see, and none had not leave happy've admired and seen.
Triumphed with the master gain much, and seeing how well he knew
the horse imitate Neapolitan, hízome some guadamací decks and a
small chair, which accommodated me in the back, and she put a
light figure of a man with one of lancilla run ring and enseñóme to
run right into a ring that placed between two poles, and the
day I had to run that day trumpeted that the dog ran ring wise, and
made new ones never seen before and gallantry, which my santiscario
as say, made them, not to get my master liar. Therefore come through
our days counting Montilla, a town of the famous and large Christian
Marquis of Priego, lord of the house of Aguilar and Montilla. Stayed
at my master, because he sought in a hospital, then drove the
ordinary side, as the fame was anticipated to bring new skills and
because of the dog sage, at least one hour was filled yard people.

Alegróse I love watching the harvest went Guilla and mostróse that
day chacorrero overwatering.

The first, beginning the party was jumping I had to ring a sieve,
which seemed to cuba; conjurábame by ordinary questions, and when
he came down to a rod of quince in hand was, was a sign of the jump;
and when was high, that I was staying. The first spell of this day -
memorable to all of my life - was saying: "C'mon, Gavilán friend
jumped out of the pomp and apparatus of doña Pimpinela Plafagonia.
Do not you block the spell, son Gavilán? It jumps Pasillas the
baccalaureate, graduate to be signed without any degree. Oh, you're
lazy! Why do not you jump? But I understand and achieve your marrullerías
now jumps liqueur Esquivias, the famous pair of Ciudad Real, San
Martin Ribadavia. " Lowered the rod and jumped me, and I sensed
their malice and bad bowels.

Then turned to the people, and said aloud: "Do not think vues mercy,
courageous senate, which is a thing of ridicule what this dog knows,
twenty-four pieces I have taught, that by a sparrowhawk fly lower
Dellas, I say to see that the child can walk thirty miles. saraband
know the dance better than her and Chacón same inventor; azumbre
drink a drop of wine while; intones a _sol my fa re_ as well as a
clerk, all these things, and other I have left a lot to say,
watching the Iran vues grants on days in which, the company here, and
now our wise another leap, and then go into the bulk. This
audience stayed the Senate that he had called, and I lit the desire
not to stop seeing everything I knew.

I turned to my master, and said: "Come back, son Gavilán and gentle
speed and dexterity to undo the jumps you have done, but it has to
be devotion to the famous sorceress who say they were here.

"Hardly had said this, when he raised his voice hospitalera, which
was an old, apparently, more than sixty years, saying:" Bellace,
charlatan, embaidor, there is no witch any! If you say the Camacha
because she paid for his sin, and God knows where, if they say to
me, chacorrero, nor I am or have been in my life witch, and if I
had a reputation of having been through the false witnesses, and
the law of the lace, and the judge throwing and misinformed, and
di whole world know that I do life in prison, not the spells that
did not, but many other sins, other that as a sinner I have committed.

So cunning drummer, come out of the hospital, if not, cross my life
that brings you more of that step. " And I began to scream and say
so many insults and so run over to my master _le_ # # put in confusion
and shock, and finally, do not let the party move forward in any way.
Not weighed my master of clutter, because they got the money,
and postponed for another day and another hospital in which he had
lacked. People were cursing the old woman, adding the name of the
sorceress witch. With all this, we stayed at the hospital that
night and found the old in the yard alone, I said: "That you, son
Montiel? Are you, perchance, son?"

Lift your head and watch them very much space, which, seen by her, with
tears in her eyes came to me and I threw his arms around his neck. I
love you now That you had to have said at the beginning of my story,
and the admiration that we excusáramos caused us to talk. Because
you know that old told me: "Son Montiel vente after me, and I know
my room, and ensures that tonight we are in it alone, I leave the
door open, and know that I have many things to tell your life and for
your benefit. " I got the head in sign of obedience, so she just learned
that I was the dog Montiel you were looking for, then as I said it. I
was stunned and confused, waiting for the night, stopped to see
what this mystery prodigy or the old have spoken, and as he heard
the witch calling, waiting for his eyes and spoke great things.

Llegóse, finally, the point of me with her in his room, which was Escuro
narrow and low and clear with only the weak light of a lamp of clay
it was; atizóle old and sat on a Arquilla and llegóme next to
each other, and let word, hug me again. The first thing I said was:
"Well I hope that in heaven before they close my eyes to the last
dream you had of seeing my son, and you've seen, come death and
tired Take me desta life. You know, son, who lived in this
town's most famous witch in the world that was, who called _The
Camacha of Montilla_; fame that had turned men into animals, which
I have never been able to achieve how it's done.

Be which is which weighs me is that I nor your mother, who were disciples
of good Camacha, never got to know as much as her. "Your mother, son,
was called _The Montiela_, which was after the famous Camacha; I called
_The Cañizares_, if not as wise as those two, at least as good as
anyone wishes dell. Your mother did not die of any disease, but pain
that he knew that the Camacha, her teacher, that was envied because
he was up to the barbs in knowing as much as she, or another
pendenzuela of jealousy, which I never could ascertain, # _ one day,
turned to his three sons in dog # _. The Camacha went and took
the puppies, I stayed with your mother, which I could not believe
what had happened. Llegóse the end of the Camacha, and being in
the last hour of your life, your mother called and told him not to
have pity: they go back to your when you least think. Tomólo
memory of your mother and I looked at my own time if it happens
to be able to tell any of you, and to know, all the dogs I see the
color of your name with the name of your mother, not think that
dogs have to know the name, but see if you respond to being called
as different as they are called the other dogs.

And this afternoon, as I saw you do so many things, and you called
_The sabio_ dog, as well as alzaste head to look when I called you in
the yard, I thought that thou art the son of Montiel, who with
great I liked your story of events. What you do, son, encomendarte
God is there in your heart, and hopes that these prophecies do not
want to call them, but guesses have happened presto and prosperity,
which, because of the good Camacha the said place no doubt, and you
and your brother, if alive, will see as you wish.

"From what I weigh is that I'm so close to finishing my site will
not see it." Finally, I said that thought untarse night to go to one
of his treats used, and where there were thought to ask the owner
something that was about to happen. got up and taking the lamp is
entered in another aposentillo closer; seguíla, fought for several
thousand thoughts and admired what he had heard and what we expect
to see. Cañizares hung on the wall of the lamp, and with great
hurry, using a corner of a glazed pot, got into her hands, and
muttering between your teeth, be unto from head to toe, which
was not touched. Before you just told me that spreads, or your body
to stay in that room without meaning; disappear from the speaker, I'm
not frightened, nor cease to wait there until morning, because
they know what is new that I was passing by to be a man. Díjele down
the head that it would, and I finished his untura and tended
in the ground as if dead. I got my mouth to hers, and saw little
or no breathing much. I wanted to bite, to see if she came to, and
not found in any part that it does not disgust me so upset, but
with all this, so Carcaño and took a drag to the yard, but why not
give samples to make sense.

There, look at the sky and see me in wide part, I removed the fear,
at least be tempered mood so I had to wait to see what stopped the
return of that poor female and what she told me of my events. He spent
the night and came d day, we found the two in the middle of the
courtyard, she does not turn itself, and me next to her, squatting,
attentive, looking at its ugly and frightening catadura. People went
to the hospital, and seeing that altarpiece, some said: "It is the
blessed dead Cañizares, look how skinny the disfigured and had
penance", others more considered, taking the pulse, and saw that
he had, and it was not dead, is to do that was suggested in ecstasy
and arrobas of pure good.

There were others who said: "This old, no doubt, must be a witch, and
must be greased, and that among those who know it is most famous witch
from a saint." Was curious that came to drive pins for the meat from
the tip to the head, nor why the sleeper recalled, or returned to it
in seven days, and felt like pins and acribada the bite of carcañares,
entrainment and bruised outside her room, and given that many
eyes were watching, thought, and believed the truth, I was the
author of his shame, and thus charged to me, and echándome both
hands to the throat , sought to drown, saying: "Oh, wicked, ungrateful,
ignorant and malicious!

   What is this payment that good works that deserve your mother and
   I thought of you do you?" Yo, I saw it in jeopardy of life between the
   nails of that fierce harpy, sacudíme, and seizing him by the zamarreé
   and dragged around the yard and gave it voices, freedom of the teeth
   of that evil spirit.
   Corregidor asked what that guy did, so
badly that he stopped wearing. The sheriff replied that he was a boy
that he was called the water carrier Asturian, whom the boys in the
streets said: "horse tail, Asturian, horse tail," and then briefly
recounted the case because he asked the this queue, not just riyeron
all.

   He said more than leaving the bridge of Alcántara, giving the boys
   hurry to the demand of the tail was apeado ass, and giving after
   all, a hit, who left half dead sticks, and we want to understand
   is she resisted, and that was so bad we stopped. [Illustration:
   "horse tail, Asturian, horse tail !"...] ordered the Corregidor
   discovered that the face, stubborn and not wanting to be discovered,
   it was quitóle sheriff and the handkerchief, and point you knew
your father, and said everything changed - Son Diego, how are you
so stressed?

What outfit is this? Do not you have forgotten your craftiness?

Drive Carriazo knees, and would put at the feet of his father,
who, with tears in his eyes, had embraced a good space. Don Juan
de Avendaño, known as Don Diego Don Tomas had been with his son,
he asked, to which Mr. Thomas replied that Avendaño was the guy who
gave and barley straw at the inn. With that said the Asturian ended
empower the admiration of all present, and commanded the Corregidor
trujese guests there that the young man of barley. - I think you
are not home - said the host - but I look.

And so, went to buscalle.

Carriazo asked Diego to what those changes were and what had
prompted him to don Tomás water carrier and porter inn. To which
Carriazo replied that it could not satisfy those questions in so
public that he would meet alone. Peter Thomas was hiding in his
room, to see from there, without being seen, what did his father
and the Carriazo.

Teníale suspense the coming of the Corregidor and bustle that went
throughout the house. There are those who say he was there as
the guest hidden, he rose, and more forcibly than by grade, he
brought down, and even if it was not down Corregidor did not
leave the yard and called him by name, saying: -- Lower-vues mercy,
sir relative; here that you will not bears or lions. Thomas lowered
and eyes low and submission big knees before his father, who hugged
him with great content, outside of which was father of the Prodigal
Son when he took the loss.

   Now, this had been a car Corregidor, to return it because the big
   party would not allow a horse again. Costanza did call, and took
   her by the hand, was introduced to his father, saying: - Recebido Mr
   Don Diego, this garment, and estimalda the richest acertáredes to
   that desired. And you, beautiful maiden, besad hands with your father,
   and give thanks to God who so honored event amended, increased and
   improved the baseness of your state. Costanza, who did not know
   what he thought had happened, all troubled and trembling, unable to
   do anything other than knees before his father, and his hands were
tomándole began kissing tenderly bañándoselas with endless tears
shed by their beautiful eyes.

While this was going on Corregidor at persuaded the his cousin Don Juan
which all come with him to his house, and although Don Juan is
refused, they were so many persuasions of the Corregidor, which was
granted, and so, all entered the car. But when Corregidor to Costanza
said that would also in the car, you blast your heart, and she and
the guests asieron one to another and began to cry so bitter
that the broken hearts of those who heard him. The Corregidor,
enternecido, also commanded the guests entering the car, and they do
not deviate from his daughter because, as it had until leaving
Toledo. Thus, the guests and all entered the car and went home of
Corregidor, where they were well received by his wife, who was
a leading lady. Ate and donated sumptuosamente, and after eating
Carriazo told how his father for the love of Don Tomas Costanza had
to serve in the inn, and was so in love with Della, who without
it would be discovered as major as it was to be his daughter, taken
by women in the state of mop.

Women dressed then Costanza from Corregidor with a few dresses that
had a daughter the same age and body Costanza, and seemed fine with
the Labrador with the courtiers of heaven seemed thing: how well the
block, giving understand that since she was born wife and
used the best costumes that use brings. From the Corregidor
and Carriazo Diego and Don Juan de Avendaño was agreed that Mr Thomas
will marry Costanza, giving his father thirty thousand shields
that his mother had left him, and the water carrier of Carriazo
Diego marry the daughter of Corregidor. This way everyone was happy,
happy and satisfied, and the new marriage and the fortune of
_The mop ilustre_ spread through the city, and people came to see
infinite Costanza in the new habit, so in which Mrs as was shown
above. a month were in Toledo, after which they went back to Don
Diego de Burgos Carriazo and his wife, Costanza and his father,
with her husband Don Thomas. Sevillano got rich with a thousand shields,
and many jewels that Costanza gave his lady who always called by
this name which had been brought up.

Occasion gave the history of _The ilustre_ to mop of golden Tagus
poets exercised their pens in solenizar and praise the unparalleled
beauty of Costanza, which still lives with his good porter inn, and
Carriazo nothing less than with three children, without taking
Estill remember the father or if traps in the world today are all
studying in Salamanca, and his father barely sees some ass water
carrier, when it comes to representing and memory that had in Toledo,
and fears that are at least remanecer cat has some satire of the
"horse tail Asturiano! Asturian, horse tail!" HISTORY OF THE
BOOK OF Persil and Sigismund I CHAPTER XXII _where captain realizes
of the major festivals that used to make the king in his kingdom
Policarpo_. - "One of the islands that are near the Hibernia gave me
the sky homeland is so large, it takes the name of kingdom, which
is not inherited or comes by succession from father to son, their
residents will elect their satisfaction, always striving to be the
best and most virtuous man in it was found, and without intervention
by pleas or negotiations, and that request gifts or pledges of common
consent of the king comes and takes the scepter of absolute control,
which lasts longer life while it lasts, or until it gets worse.

   And with this, the kings who are not trying to be virtuous be,
   and those who are striving to be no more cease to be kings,
   this will cut the wings of ambition, greed is panic, and although
   the list hypocrisy often walk the long walk you drop the mask and
   is achieved without the prize, with this the people still live,
   abounds justice and mercy shines, despáchanse with the earliest
   memorials of the poor and those who are rich are not better by being
   released not overwhelm the beam of the justice nor the gifts of
   flesh and blood relationships: all your points and negotiations
   are going on their hinges, ultimately, a kingdom where you live
without fear of the insolent and where everyone enjoys what's yours.

"This habit, I think just and holy, put the scepter of the kingdom
in the hands of Polycarp, great and famous man, and in arms and in
letters, which was when he became king two daughters of
extreme beauty, the largest call Policarpa and the lowest Sinforosa;
had no mother, who did not need them when he died but
the company: its virtues and habits were pleasant ayas of
themselves, giving wonderful example to the whole kingdom. With
these good parts, and they and the parents were kind, is considered
by all. The kings, who appear by the vassals in malencolía usually
wake evil thoughts, seeking to have the people happy and entertained
with public holidays and sometimes ordinary comedies, mainly
solenizaban the day asumptos the kingdom were to be renewed to make
games that Gentiles Olympic flame, the best way they could.

Corridors identified Award, honors the right hand, crown to the
shooters and rise to heaven to praise those who brought down others
in the land. This show was near the marina, in a spacious
beach, I took the sun interwoven infinite number of branches that
left the shade, put in half a sumptuous drama, in which sat the
king and the royal family, looked at the quiet games.

Llegóse one of these days, and sought Policarpo surpass in grandeur and
magnificence in solenizarle about everyone there had been, and
when the theater was busy with him and with the best in the kingdom,
and when the instruments of war and the peaceful wanted to signal
that the festivities began, and when four runners, loose and agile
man, had the left front foot elevations and rights, not otherwise
prevented them from being released to the race but will drop a rope
that served Stripe and Signal, which had to fly to releasing a
pointed end, where they had to terminate his career, I say that at
this time were to come for a sailing boat that will whiten the sides
being just despalmado, and facilitated six paddles break the water
that came out of banda, twelve compelled, apparently, Gallardo men,
backs and chests of dilated and nervudos arms, were all dressed in
white, but he who guided the helm, which came to embody, as sailor.

Fury came with the boat to shore and run aground on it and skip all
those who came ashore there was one thing. Policarpo commanded not
to leave the race until people know what it was and what came to
be imagined as coming to be at parties and try their gallantry
in the games. The first to be brought forward to speak to the
king which was served pilothouse, little old man, whose cheeks,
relieved and clean, showed to be snow and grana; hair, gold rings,
and each part of the face so perfect and so beautiful all together,
forming a composite admirable.

   Then the beautiful presence of the boy caught the eye and even the
hearts of those who watched him, and I certainly left aficionadísimo.

   What I said to the king, "- Sir, this fellow and I, having been
   informed of these games, come to serve and to be in them, and not far
   away lands, but from a ship that left on the island Scinta, not
   is far from here, and as the wind was not our purpose here to carry
the ship, we take advantage of this boat and the oars and the
strength of our arms.

   We are all noble and eager to win honor, and which to do as you
   are king, to foreigners who come to your presence, we pray we are
   licensed to show or our forces or our ingenuity, our honor and
pleasure and benefit you. "- By the way - Polycarp replied - -,
graceful young woman, that you ask what you desire with as much
grace and courtesy, something that would be unfair on negároslo.

   Honrad my holidays with quisiéredes; let me charge of premiároslo
   that, as your presence gallant show, let any little hope of reaching
the top prizes.

   "Bend the knee and the beautiful man bowed his head in sign
   of upbringing and gratitude, and two got to jump rope to stop the four
   light runners; his twelve companions were put to one side, to
   be spectators of the race. sounded a trumpet, loose the rope, and
the flight arrojáronse five, but still would not have taken twenty
steps, when, with six more are ahead of the newcomer, and thirties,
and had an advantage of over fifteen, and finally, they left little
more than halfway, as if they were statues inmovibles with admiration
of all those around, especially Sinforosa, which continued with the
hearing, to be run as well stay, because the beauty and agility of
the young man was enough to keep behind their wills, not only of
eyes as he looked.

   Invidia then began to grab the breasts of those who were tested in
   the games, seeing how easy it had been carried abroad the price of
   the race. He was the second event of fencing: took profits black
   sword with which it went to six, each itself, they closed the mouths,
   noses mosque, I sealed my eyes and cross their heads, but he tocasen
   as often said, a fur clothing.

   He raised the people's voice and common consent he was given the
first prize.

   Then six more accommodated to the fight, where most of them displayed
gallantry gave the man: he discovered his extensive back their wide
chests and Fortis, and the nerves and muscles in his strong arms,
with whom, and with amazing dexterity and skill, led the backs of
six fighters, and despite his regret, were printed in the earth.

Asio after a heavy bar was kneeling on the floor, because he said it
was the fourth throw contest; sompesóla, and making signs to people
in front would lead you to where the shooting cupiese taking the
bar by the one end, without returning the arm back, the impelió with
such force that, passing the limits of the navy, was needed to give
the sea, which was buried well inside the bar.

This monstrosity, noted for their opponents, they lost the spirit, and
dared not tested in the contest. Pusiéronle then the crossbow in
his hands and some arrows, and a tree mostráronle very high and
very smooth, after which he was kneeling half spear, and in it,
a thread, I was grabbed a dove, which had to throw no more than
a shot in that contest who want to try.

"One, that the presumed correct, anticipated and took his hand,
I think, considering the pigeons before they break down another shot
and almost stuck his arrow in order to the spear, which hit the Azores
the dove, was lifted into the air and then to another no less
presumptuous than the first, shot with very gentle certería, who
broke the thread where the dove aside, that free and loose tie that
stopped, gave her freedom to the wind and beat their wings with
hurry.

   But already accustomed to winning first prize shot his arrow, and
   sent as if it had to do, and understanding she had to obey him,
   so he did thus dividing the air with a torn and hard
   whistle, the dove came to him and went to the heart from hand,
   removing a single point to the flight and life. Renováronse with it
   the voices of those present and the praise of abroad, which in the
   race, in fencing in the fight at the bar and shooting the crossbow,
   and many other tests that do not count, with enormous benefits took
   first prize, taking their work colleagues tested on them. When they
   finished the games would be the twilight of the evening and Polycarp,
when the king wanted to leave your seat, the judges who were with
him, to reward the winner man, saw that, because of knee before
him, told him: "- Our house was alone and helpless, the evening
closes Escura something, the prizes that can be expected, that
because of your hand should be considered whenever possible, I, O
great Lord, who replace long until another time, with more space
and comfort I think back to serve.

   "Abrazóle the king asked his name and said it was called Periandro.
   Quitóse this Sinforosa a beautiful garland of flowers that adorned
   her beautiful head, and put it on the gallant man, and with honest
   grace ponérsela told: - When my father so that venture to see
   him return, you will see how vendréis not to be served but
   to serve. "BOOK II CHAPTER X _Cuenta Periandro the success of
   its viaje_. - "The preamble and the beginning of my story, as you
   will, gentlemen, you have the, I want it to be this: we contempléis
   my sister and me with an old love yours , aboard a vessel owned in the
   place seem a merchant, was a privateer. The shores of an island
   neighborhoods, I mean we were so close that she knew differently,
   not just the trees, but their differences. My sister, tired of having
   gone a few days by the sea, wanted to go out and enjoy the
   land; pidióselo the master, and his prayers are always the force
   of commandment, the captain consented in his plea, and the small
   boat the ship, with only a sailor, we drove to ground me and my sister
   and Cloelia that this was the name of your love. By taking land sailor
   that he saw a small river, a small mouth, fell to the sea tribute;
   hacíanle shadow and other side by a large amount of green trees
and hojosos, who served as its crystal clear water mirrors.

   Rogámosle be entered by the river, as the amenity of the site invited
   us. Well made, and began to climb up the river, and having lost sight
   of the ship, dropping the oars, he stopped and said, "Look, gentlemen,
   as you have to do this trip, make note that this little boat now you
   take is your ship, because you will not go back farther in the sea
   is waiting for you, if this lady does not want to lose your honor
and you say that you are your brother's life. " Said to me, finally,
the captain of the ship wanted to give me death, and that atendiésemos
our choice, and that he would accompany us everywhere and at every
event.

   If we are troubled by this new júzguelo which, accustomed to
   the poor receive the goods they hold. Agradecíle notice and
   reward ofrecíle when we were seeing in happier state. "Even
   well - Cloelia said - that I bring with me the jewels of my wife."
   And recommended that the four had done, the sailor who was
   apparently the river we came inside, and perhaps discover a place
   that we defend, if the ship came to rescue them.

"But they will not come - he said - because there are no people in
these islands do not think that everyone be cosarios fly these
shores, and watching the ship or craft then take up arms to defend
themselves, and only with night raids secrets and never leave the
cosarios thrive. " Parecióme good advice, I took the one oar and
help to keep the job.

Climb up the river, and having traveled two miles and came to our ears
the sound of several instruments and composed many and
then we gave it a jungle of trees that moving the bank to the other
one slightly crossed; we got closer, boats enramadas be met and what
appeared to trees, and that you are the instruments that were tania
which they iban. We had just discovered, when it came to us and
surrounded our boat around. My sister got up to walk, and echándose
their beautiful hair at the back, taken on the forehead with a tape
or ribbon leonida that he gave his love, made it almost divine
and improvised shows, which, as I learned later on that the took
all the boats coming in, which open, as the sailor, that meant,
they said: "What is this?

What is this deity that comes to visit and give the angler
parabién Carino and unparalleled Selviana Felicísimo their weddings?
" Then gave out to our boat and took us to land not far from where
we had found. [Illustration: What is this deity that comes to visit?]

God forgive
   you and bring you a true knowledge of your error. - Well, is not
   that mop? - Said the Asturian. - So far I have seen scouring the
   starter. - Never mind - said Lope - not having seen scouring the
   starter, if you've seen the second wash, and even the hundredth.
   - I tell you, brother - Thomas replied - which she did not scrub or
   otherwise understood that in its work, and be saved for that Silver
   is carved at home, which is great. - Well, how would you call
   all over town - said Lope - _The ilustre_ mop, if not scrub? More
   must surely be that scours as silver, china and not the given name
   illustrious. But leaving this aside, tell me, Thomas, in what
   state are your hopes? - The downfall of - Thomas answered - because
   in all these days you've been in prison I could never speak a word.
-- So what do you think it is impossible to offer in the conquest
desta Porcia, desta desta new Penelope and Minerva, which figure
maiden, and mop, I love you and you daunt vanishes - Make the mockery
that Me wants, friend Lope, I know that I love the most beautiful
face that could shape the nature and the most incomparable honesty
now can use in the world.

Costanza is named, not Porcia, Minerva, or Penelope.

It is not possible that, even though you try, can provide a short
term, if you can say, the baseness of their condition, because then
delete this thought come to her beauty, her grace, her calmness, her
honesty and recollection, and I suggest that underneath that soft
crust must be enclosed and hidden a mine of great value and deserves
high. Finally, whatever that is, I want either. And I have said,
dude, you can make your own, or go in your pilgrimage, and purchase
or the ass and get water carrier, as you have given. _ # # _ The
next day Thomas went to barley, and Lope He went to the cattle
market, which is along there, buy a donkey that was as good.

Costanza Having left that day with a beat up by the cheeks, and told
him I wondered why it had who had a big toothache, Thomas, who fuel
their desire understanding, went in an instant what it would be
good to do, and said: - Mrs Costanza, I will give you a written prayer
to twice that recession, it is removed with hand pain. - Norabuena
- Costanza replied - and that I pray, I read it. - It will be in
condition - said Thomas - who has not to show anyone, because I believe
in much, and will not be well know by many disparages. - I promise
you - said Costanza -, Thomas, who did not give anyone and
Demel then, because I fatigue much pain. - I will pass from memory -
Thomas replied - and then I will give it. These were the first reasons
that Thomas told Costanza Costanza and Thomas around the time that
had to be at home, already spent twenty-four days. Retiróse Thomas and
wrote the sentence, and was feeding it to Costanza without anyone
seeing, and she, with pleasure and devotion, is entered into a room
alone, and opening the paper, saying he saw a highlight: "Lady of
my soul, I am a gentleman of Burgos natural if days to reach my
father inherited a mayorazgo six thousand ducats of income.

The fame of your beauty, which extends for many miles, I left
my homeland, moved dress and the dress I see, I came to serve our
own, if you quisiéredes it be mine, by the means most suited
to your honesty, look what evidence do you want to highlight enteraros
truth and knows it is your pleasure, I will be your husband
and I have the more fortunate of the world. "Whereas Thomas Costanza
realized that had gone to read his paper, he was beating heart,
fearing and hoping, and the sentence or his death, or the restoration
of its life.

Came out of it, Costanza, so beautiful, even batter, if he could
receive that increase her beauty with an accident that could be judged
to have seen the shock on the role of Thomas else so far from the
thought that had enhanced its beauty. He left the paper in his hands
made Menudas parts, and he said to Thomas: - Brother Thomas, is your
prayer seems to lie witchcraft and holy prayer, so I do not want
to believe or della use, and therefore I torn, because they did not
see anyone who is more gullible than I am.

Learn other sentences easier because it will be impossible for you to
be helpful. In saying this, they came with their loves, and
Thomas was suspended, but somewhat comforted, seeing that only the
chest Costanza was the secret of his desire. While this happened in
the inn, he was buying the Asturian ass where sold, and found many
but none satisfied him, because he walked a very gypsy encajalle
a request that was walking by the azogue he had thrown in lighter
than yours ears but what satisfied with the unpleasant step with
the body, which was very small, and not the size and size that I
wanted Lope, who wanted him enough to get you in addition, were
either empty or filled the pitchers.

Llegóse him in this, a waiter, and he said in his ear: - Slick, if
you're looking for comfortable beast for the job of water carrier, I
got here about a donkey in a field that is not better or higher
in the city and not buy aconséjole beast of gypsies, but because
good and look healthy, they are all false and full of dolamas if
you want to buy for you, come with me and his mouth street.

Creyóle the Asturian, and he said that was where he guided both
urged the donkey. Fuéronse the two hand in hand, as they say, until
they came to the Huerta del Rey, where the shadow of a weir found
many Aguadores whose donkeys in a peaceful meadow that was near
there. He showed his ass the seller, such that it swelled the eye
to the Asturian, and all who were there praised the donkey was strong,
particularly walking and dining. Made his concert, and without other
security, or information, being the other riders and medians Aguadores
gave sixteen ducats by the ass, with all members of the trade.
He pays the actual coat of gold. Diéronle the parabién of purchase,
and the entry into the profession, and certificáronle that he
had bought a donkey dichosísimo because the owner left it,
without being killed or manca, had won him at least for one year
having supported him and the donkey honestly, two pairs of clothes,
and those over sixteen ducats that he thought back to his land.
Apart from the corridors of the donkey, were four other Aguadores
playing the first, lying on the ground, using land and office desktop
layers.

The Asturian Púsose to look and saw that not playing as water
carrier, but as Arcediano, because they had each other over a hundred
rooms and in real silver. Got a hand to throw all the rest, and if
a party fails to make it gallega table. Finally, the two were at the
other end and the money raised, seeing which the seller of the donkey,
he said that if he had room, he played because he was playing third
enemy. The Asturian said he would make room. They sat then went the
way of good thing, and wanting to play the money before that time,
Lope lost little time in six coats I had, and without being white,
said that if he wanted to play the ass, that he would play. Acetáronle
the ENVIT and made other quarter of the ass, saying that playing for
rooms wanted. He said too bad, which remains four consecutively
lost four quarters of the donkey, and ganóselos the same as it
had sold and rising again to give it, "said the Asturian who
warned that he had only played four quarters of the donkey but the
tail is the give and take you norabuena. Causóles laughing all the
demand of the queue and there were lawyers who were to appear that
he had no right in what he called, saying that when you sell a
sheep or any other response, no pulls or removes the glue, which
is one of the hindquarters must be bound. To which replied that
Lope Barbary rams typically have five quarters, and the fifth
is in the queue, and when such rams are fourth, will be true as any
room in the queue, and that as you go along with the tail beef
that is sold live and no cracking, which is attached, but that theirs
was not sold, but played and that was never his intention to play
the tail, and that point is then returned with everything attached
to it and concerns, which was from the tip of the famous, including
the bones of the spine, where she took the top and decendía to stop
at the last hairs della. - Give me you - one said - and this is
crucial, and you ask as the den and sit down next to what remains
of the donkey. - So this is!

   - Lope replied -. Come on my tail, if not for God I did not bring
   the donkey while Aguadores how come he's in the world and not think
   that because so many here are making me trickery, because I am a man
   who I get to know another man and put two spans of the dagger guts,
   without knowledge of who, where, or how it came, and more, I do
   not want to pay me the amount per rat tail, but I want to hear be
   in the den and cut ass, as I said. When profits and the other appeared
   not to be that business wear inevitably be judged because of the
   Asturian such verve, that would not agree to be undertaken, and one
   them, it seemed more of reason and speech, which concluded echas
quarter against the tail of the donkey to a Quinol or two and
passing.

   They were happy, he won the Quinol Lope, the other peaks, threw
   the other room, and three others ran out of hands ass. He wanted
   to play for the money, did not want Lope, but stubborn as you all,
   it had to do with who made the trip for the dismissal, leaving
   him without a single maravedíes and was so much grief that was
   losing Desto, which resulted in the floor and started up pumpkins for
   the land. Lope, born as well as liberal and compassionate, and he
   lifted it back all the money he had won, and sixteen ducats
   ass, and even those he had dealt with the bystanders, whose strange
   liberality to astound all, and if the times and occasions of Tamorlán
   you raise the king Aguadores. With great accompaniment Lope returned
   to the city, told what happened topics. There was no tavern or
   taproom, or board of not knowing where rogues play donkey Esquit
   by the tail and the verve of the Asturian and liberality, but as the
   poor beast of the vulgar, for the most part, is bad, maldiciente and
   damn, did not report the donation, much of the verve and great Lope,
   only the tail and only two days had gone by pouring water through
   the city, where he was noted for many with his finger, saying "This
   is the water carrier from the queue." The boys were attentive,
   knew the case and had not Lope looking for the entrance of any street,
   when all she shouted, who here and there who, "Asturian, horse tail!
   Horse tail Asturian ! Lope, which was asaetear of many languages
   and with many voices, gave in silence, believing that his silence
was flooded so much insolence, but neither of these, because the
more silent, more boys shouted, and so, tried to move their patience
in anger, and apeándose ass, gave the boys after sticks, which was
to refine the powder keg and put on fire, and another was cut off
the heads of the snake, rather than as a breathtaking, beaten to a
boy, born at the same instant, no other seven, but seven hundred,
which is harder and retail asking the queue.

Finally, it was either removed to an inn that had been taken away from
his partner, and stand there until the bad influence of that planet
moved, and erased the memory of the bad guys demand that the tail
he was told. Six days have passed without leaving home, whether it
was night, I was going to see Thomas and ask that the state was,
which told him that _ # # _ had not been able to speak one word
with Costanza # # _ _.

Lope told him to hurry the boys were asking the tail, because he had
asked that of her ass, which made the famous Esquit. Thomas Aconsejóle
not leaving home, at least on the donkey, and if they leave, be alone
and separated by streets, and when this is not enough, enough to
leave the office, the last remedy to end so disingenuously claim .
Retiróse with this, your inn Lope, determined not to leave della
other six days, at least, with the donkey.

The eleven would be the night when suddenly and without thinking they
saw come into the inn many rods justice and, after all, the Corregidor.
Alborotóse the host, and even the guests, as well as comets when
they are always causing fears of misery and misfortune, nothing
less than justice, when suddenly, and entering a warm house, and
afraid to shock the conscience not blamed.

ENTRES Corregidor in the room and called the guest house, which came
trembling to see what the Lord wanted Corregidor.

And as you saw on Corregidor, he asked with great seriousness: -
Are you your guests - yes, sir - he replied - and for what it wants
me mandar vues mercy.

Ordered to leave Corregidor on the every room in it and you were
left alone with the host.

Hiciéronlo well, and staying alone, said Corregidor guests: - How
is a girl who say they served in this house, so beautiful that the
whole city is called the _ilustre fregona_ - Lord - replied the
host - _fregona ilustre_ that they say is true that in this house,
but neither is my maid, or ceases to be. - I do not understand what
you say, host, in that if your servant and not the mop. -- I said
good-Yo - added the host - and if vues grant me leave, I'll tell
you what is in it, which I have never told anyone. - First I want
to see on the mop to know otherwise ; llamadla here - said d
Corregidor.

Asomóse guests at the door of the room and said: - Oíslo, madam? Do
that here Costancica.

Without waiting again to the call took, _ # # _ Costanza, a lit candle
in a candlestick of silver, and more shame than fear was Corregidor
where it was.

Just as he saw the Corregidor, sent to the host to close the door
of the room which actually got up on Corregidor, and taking a stand
that brought Costanza reaching the light at the face, walked up and
down looking at all, and as it was with shock Costanza, habíasele
turned on the color of the face and was so beautiful and so honest
that he thought that Corregidor was watching the beauty of an angel
on earth and well looked after, said: - Guest, this jewel is not
to be in the lower crimping an inn.

I mean, girl, you not only can and should call _ilustre_ but _ilustrísima_
but these titles did not fall on the name of _fregona_ but on that
of a duchess. - Not _fregona_ , sir - said the host - and that does
not do anything else at home to bring the keys to the silver, which
by God's goodness I have some, they serve the honored guests who
come to this inn. -- With all of that - said the Corregidor - I
mean, guests, that is neither decent nor should this girl is in an
inn.

Is your relative perchance? - Neither is my kinswoman, nor is my
maid, and if mercy gustare views of who is, as it is not front, you
hear things that vues mercy, together with him like, you
admire. -- Yes gustaré - said Corregidor -; Costancica and leaving
out there, and promised me that his father could promised that
his great beauty and honesty require that everyone who saw the offer
to your service. No word Costanza responded, but very wisely made a
profound reverence to Corregidor, and salióse of the room and found
his love desalinated waiting for Dell to know was what the wanted
Corregidor.

She told him what had happened, and how his master was with him
for contalle not know what she did not want the hear. I do not
self-soothe the guests, and was always praying until it was
seen leaving the Corregidor and free her husband, who, while he
was with the Corregidor said: - Now do, sir, in my mind, fifteen
years, one month and four days that came to this inn in the habit of
a woman pilgrim, in a berth, with a _ # # _ newborn girl, and accompanied
by four servants on horseback, and two masters and a maid who came in
a car. also brought two decks with two mule pastrycooks rich and
filled with a rich bed dressings and cooking, and finally, the
device was the principal, and the pilgrimage was a great lady, and
although at the age of forty to be showing a few more years, why
not let your mind pretty end around.

Faded and was sick and so tired, which then sent him make the bed,
and in this room made it his servants. Me and my wife asked them _
# # _ who was this lady and how it was called, where it came from
and where it went, and why this cause is wearing odd habit. To all
these questions, we made that no one else but us respond to those
pilgrims was a rich lady principal de Castilla la Vieja, which had
a few months because he was ill with dropsy, had offered to go to
Our Lady of Guadeloupe in pilgrimage, in which that promise was in
the habit. As to say his name, brought order not to call but the
pilgrim lady. This we knew by then, but after three days, for ill,
the pilgrim lady was at home, one of the owners called us to me
and my wife for her part, went to see what he wanted, and closed
front of their servants, almost with tears in her eyes, told us
believe that these same reasons: "My Lords, the heavens are witness
that I am not my fault I found in a # # _ _ # _ rigorous trance and
I am obliged, as a matter of honor, to depart from my side to this
girl and needs # _., friends _ # seek to where they are all secret
# _ raising, seeking also to tell lies to whom the # # _ _ entregáredes;
that by now be in the city, then I want to take a village.

What we have to do then, when you shall know the back of Guadeloupe,
because time will have led me to think and choose what
best suits me . [Illustration: ... that came to this inn, a woman
in habit of a pilgrim ...] We gave the order to hurt his reasoning
pilgrim, and a generous start to cry, which, in part, was comforted by
the many good reasons that my wife told him. Finally, it was _ # #
_ _ searching # where bring the girl, who was # _ the most beautiful
that my eyes had hitherto seen, and it is this mercy that vues
just see it now.

She was the mother _ # # _ his pilgrimage. When he returned, and the
girl was given a raise for my order, with my niece, in a village two
leagues from here. In baptism he was named Costanza, who ordered
his mother left him, which pleased of what I had done, while leaving
me a gold chain, which until now have, which took six pieces, which
he said would bring the person who came to girls. Also a blank
parchment to cut turns and waves, to trace how and when it pegged the
hands and fingers are writing something, being pegged to the fingers
can be read and removed after the split hands is the reason because
they divide the letters, which again pegged the fingers together
and relate in a way that can be read: I would say that a scroll is
the soul of another, shall be read and locked, and can not be
divided, if not guessing half of the parchment, and almost all of
the chain was in my power, and everything I have, waiting for the
password until now, since she told me that within two years by
sending her daughter, commissioned the criase, not who she was, but
the way it is often a breeding Labrador that forgive not tell his
name or who it was, it kept for another time more important.

In resolution, leaving me with four coats of gold and hugging my
wife with tender tears, departed, leaving us admired his discretion,
courage, beauty and modesty. Costanza grew up in the village two
years and then truje me and I always brought in the habit of
Labrador, and his mother left him, I commanded. Fifteen years, one
month and four days that has to look who has come for her, and
soon I was consumed much hope to see this coming, and if this year we
are not coming, I have given and give prohijalla all my wealth,
worth over six thousand ducats, God be blessed. Subtracts now,
sir Corregidor, vues say thanks if you can tell that I know, the
benefits and virtues of Costancica.

She is first and foremost, is Our Lady devotísima; confesses and communion
each month, write and read, there is no greater randera Toledo;
sings about angels and the pad, to be honest there are not equal. So
when it comes to beautiful views and has seen him mercy. Street
host, and took Corregidor a great time in the talk, so it
had suspended the event that the guest had been counted. Anyway, she
told him that there trujese chain and parchment, I wanted to see it.
He was the host for this reason and trayéndoselo saw that it was
as he had said.

   Was discrete signal of knowledge and judged by the very rich lady
   pilgrim who had made such a channel to the host; thinking and having
   to draw from that inn where the beautiful girl had entered
   into a monastery where they, by then was content to keep only the
   parchment, ordering that if guests come by Costanza, and would remind
   you of who was the news that it was before we show you the chain, which
   left in their possession. With this, it was so admired in the story
   and success of _The fregona_ illustrious as its incomparable beauty.

All the time spent with the host at Corregidor and who Costanza when
he called it, was outside when Thomas, fought the soul of several
thousand thoughts, without ever getting any of your liking, but
when he saw the Corregidor and Costanza was stayed, and breathed his
spirit volviéronle pulses, that you were almost helpless. He dared
not ask what the guests wanted to Corregidor, and the host told
anyone but his wife, that if she came back in, giving thanks to God
for so great was the shock off.

The next day, about one entered the inn four men on horseback two elderly
gentleman of venerable presence, having first asked one of two
young men who walk with them came when the inn was one of Seville,
and being answered that yes, all came in it. Apeáronse four and went
to apear to the two elders, do signal was learned that those two
gentlemen were of the six. Costanza went out with his customary
courtesy to watch the new guests, and had seen just one of the two
elderly when he said to the other: - I think, Mr. Don Juan, we have
found everything that we come to find.

Preciosa was confused, I did not know what EFET had been
made with those proceedings, and being carried in the arms of
the Corregidora, and gave a kiss to cent. He arrived, finally, with
the precious cargo doña Guiomar the presence of her husband and
moving your arms to the Corregidor, he said: - Recebido, sir, at
your daughter Costanza, this is certainly not what hesitate, sir,
in any way, the signal of the fingers together and the chest I have
ever seen, and more, as I am saying is the soul from the moment
they saw my eyes. - No doubt -- Corregidor answered, taking his
arms Preciosa -; EFET they have gone through that myself yours, and
more, so that time together, what could happen if not for a miracle?

   All the people
   of absorbed
   walked home, asking
   each other what is it, and all were well away from the white, that
who had imagined that their daughter was Gitanilla gentlemen?

   El Corregidor told his wife and his daughter, and the old gypsy
   that this case was secret until he discovered, and also told the old
   woman he forgave the injury done to him by stealing the soul, as the
   reward of good news deserves to have become greater, and only knowing
   that it weighed the quality of her beautiful, the bride had a gypsy,
   and a thief and murderer. - Ah - Preciosa said this - my lord,
that is not a gypsy or thief, as it is killer.

   But the fuel that it took the honor, and could not do less than
   show who he was, and kill him. - How it is not gypsy, my daughter -
   said doña Guiomar. Then the old gypsy briefly recounted the story of
   Andres gentleman, and was the son of Don Francisco de Cárcamo, knight
   of the habit of Santiago, and was named Don Juan de Cárcamo, also
   of the same habit, whose dresses she had moved in when the gypsy. Was
   also the concert that Preciosa and Don Juan was made to wait two
   years for approval to marry or not, put on your point of both honesty
   and pleasant condition of Don Juan. Desto much admired as the
   discovery of her daughter, and sent him to the gypsy that Corregidor
was dressed by Don Juan.

   She was anxious, and returned with another gypsy that trujo. As
   she went back and made his parents one hundred thousand questions to
   Preciosa, who responded with such grace and discretion, which had
   not acknowledged by the daughter, the love. Preguntáronla if he had
   any love for Don Juan. Responded that no more than that he was bound to
   be grateful to those who wanted to humiliate her by a gypsy, but
   not extend it to more appreciation of what parents would like their
   masters. - Quiet, Beautiful daughter -- said his father - (the name
   that I want you Precious is in memory of your loss and your
   finding), that I, as your father, I get in the dependent state
that does not go back to who you are.

   Sigh Nice to hear this,
   and his
   mother, as it was discreet, she understood that sighs of love Don
Juan, her husband said: - Sir, is as principal Don Juan de Cárcamo
as is, and wanting so much to our daughter, we do not be wrong to
give it to wife.

   And he said: - We have still found today, and you want to lose that?
   Gocémosla some time in casándola not be ours, but of her husband.
   - Reason you, sir - she - but ity order to remove Don Juan, which
   should be in a dungeon. - If be - Preciosa said - and that of a
   thief, killer, and, above all, Gypsy, you will have no better stay.
   - I want to see him go, as I am going to take confession - said
   the Corregidor ---, and again you order, sir, that nobody
   knows this story until I want it. Llegóse the night, and being nearly
   ten, brought to Andres from prison, without handcuffs and piedeamigo,
   but not without a large chain from the feet the whole body will
   fall under. Came from this way, without being seen by anyone but
   those who brought him in Corregidor's house, and with recent silence
   and he entered a room where only doña Guiomar, the Corregidor,
Preciosa and two house servants.

   
   Hícele my
   usual caresses, to ensure my meekness, let's take to their feet,
   and he, with this assurance, continued in his thoughts and turned
to the head and scratching his arrobas and rewrite what I had
thought.

After writing some songs of _una_ # # comedy, very calm and took
the space faldriquera some crust of bread and raisins twenty
works, which in my opinion, I understand that they are counted, yet
I doubt whether they were many, because they lump them together with
some crumbs of bread that accompanied it. And blew away the crumbs,
and one to one ate the raisins and toothpicks, because she does not
shed any vi, helping with the crust, which removes the purple of
faldriquera seemed stale, and they were tough conditions, that although
he tried enternecerlos paseándolos by mouth and a lot of times, it
was not possible to move his stubbornness, which led to my
advantage, because it threw me, saying: "To, to! Take that meal makes
you . "Look - I said from me - what ambrosia or nectar gives me this
poet, which they say kept the gods Apollo and there in the sky!"
Anyway, for the most part, great is the misery of the poets, but my
need was greater, because it forced me to eat the waste. As
the last composition of his comedy, has come to the garden, or I
missed crust, spread with me because many liberals, and then we
were going to the Ferris wheel, where me and him with a face canjilón
satisfy thirst as few monarchs.

   But absent a poet,
   and the hunger
   in me, then, that I
   determined to leave the Moorish and entrarme in the city to find
fortune that is that dumb.

   On entering the city saw that went to the famous monastery of San
Jerónimo My poet, who, as he saw me, came to me with open arms, and
I went to him with further signs of joy for having found it.

   Then instantly began desembaular pieces of bread, more tender than
   those who used to take to the garden, and deliver them to review
   it without my teeth for them, thanks to new taste to satisfy my
   hunger. The tender crust and have seen my poet out of the monastery
   that I suspected that they had the Mets shameful, like many others
   have them. Encaminóse the city, and I continued with
   determination to have you for love, if he wished, imagining that the
   leftovers of the castle keep was my right. # Set to launch in _vine
   to stop at a house comedías_ author of # and a company came to this
   city of Valladolid, where in one side gave me a wound that
   I got almost to the end of life, I could not get even, by then be
faced, then, in cold blood, I did not want; thought argues that
vengeance and cruelty bad mood.

   Cansóme enjoyment,
   not because they work,
   but because he saw things that together make amends and called
punishment, and as I was more sentillo that remediallo, remember
not to see it, so I welcomed a sacred, as do those vices that leave
when they can not ejercitallos, but better late than never.

   So, I take a night that viéndote flashlight with good Christian
   Mahudes, I felt happy and holy and just busy and full of good envy I
   follow in your footsteps, and with this commendable intention
   before I Mahudes, then I chose for your partner and me to this
   hospital trujo. You see how long it has been my chat? See my many
   and various events? Do you consider my ways and my many masters?
   Well, everything you've heard is nothing compared to what I could
   tell. CIPIÓN .-- And I end this discussion, that the light that enters
   through these cracks shows that it is well into the day, and tonight
   that comes, but has left us this great benefit of the speech will
   be mine, to tell you my life. Berganza ansi .-- Sea, and watch it come
   to this position. El Retablo de las Maravillas (_Salen_ CHANFALLA
   _y la_ Cherin .) CHANFALLA .-- You will not be passed from memory,
   Chirinos, I warned, mainly those who have given you for this new
   lie. CHIRINOS .-- Chanfalla illustrious, which in my case, tenlo as
   mold, that much memory as I have understanding, who is a board
   will hit to satisfy that exceeds all other powers. CHANFALLA .--
   Chirinos, little by little we are in the people, and those who come
   here must be as they are without Certainly, the Governor and Mayors.

   Salgámosles to meet and date
   an edge to the language
   on the
   stone of flattery, but not sharp tipping.

   (_Salen El_ GOVERNOR _y_ BENITO CABBAGE, _alcalde_; JUAN _ # #
   Tostado, regent, y_ PEDRO wicker, _escribano_.) Kiss vues a mercedes
   hands. Who is Governor grants views of the people? GOVERNOR .-- I
   am the Governor, what do you want, good man? CHANFALLA. - A I have
   two ounces of understanding, it would have missed seeing this peripatetic
   presence and width could not be otherwise than honest honorable
   Governor of this town. GOVERNOR .-- Well, what do you want, honest
   man ?

   CHIRINOS vues .-- Honored days
   alive and mercy that
   we are honored, in effect, gives the oak acorns, but the, pears,
and the vine, grapes, and honored, honored, and can not do otherwise.

   BENITO .-- Judgment _ciceronianca_, without removing or make a point.
   .-- wicker _Ciceroniana_ you mean the mayor Benito Cabbage. BENITO .--
   I always say what is best, but most often fail, in order, my good man,
   what want? CHANFALLA .-- I, my lords, I Montiel, which brings the
   Retablo de las Maravillas, Hanmer sent to the court calling the
   guild masters of the hospitals, because no author of comedy in it, and
   perish in the hospitals and my way is any remedy. GOVERNOR .-- And
   what does Retablo de las Maravillas? CHANFALLA .-- For the wonderful
   things that he taught and show, come to be called Retablo de las
   Maravillas, which produced and composed the wise Tontonelo under
   such parallel paths, stars and stars, with such items, characters
   and comments, no one can see things that it shows that you have a
race to confess, or son of # _ # _ thieves parents, and who is
infected so used of these two diseases, fire see things never seen
or heard from my Retablo.

BENITO .-- Now that I see every day are new things in the world.
And how!

   Are the scholar Tontonelo called the altarpiece composed? Cherin
   .-- Tontonelo was called, was born in the city of Tontonela; man who
   came to fame is his beard to the waist. BENITO .-- For the most
   part, are men of great beards sabihondos. regidor GOVERNOR .-- Lord
   John Tostado # # _ _, I determined, well below its seems that tonight
   will deprive Mrs Teresa Tostada # # _ _, her daughter, who I am
   sponsor, and the delight of the party, I show that Mr.

Montiel in your home, your Retablo. JOHN .-- That I have to serve to
Mr Governor, I seem to agree with Claire and leaning, but has otherwise
contrary . CHIRINOS .-- The thing that's in contrast is that unless
we pay our first job and see the figures for the hills of Ubeda. And
vues grants, fellow Justice, conscience and soul are in these
bodies?

   Well that would be all the people tonight at the home of Mr.
   Juan Tostado # # _ _, or as is his grace, and seeing the content
   in this altarpiece, and tomorrow, when we want mostralle people, had
   not bore you saw : No, sir, no, gentlemen; _ante omnia_ we must
   pay what is fair. BENITO author .-- Madam, you do not have to pay any
   Antona, nor Anton; regidor Mr Juan Tostado # # _ _ os pay more than
   honest, and unless the Council. Well you know the place for some
   browsers, sister, do not look any Antona to pay for us. .--
   Wicker ¡Me Sinner, Mr Benito Cabbage, and what gives away the
   white! Mrs author does not say who pays any Antona, but you pay in
   advance, and before all things, this means _ante omnia_. BENITO .--
   Look, wicker notary Pedro, do you talk to me right, I shall take it
   to flat foot, you, that you read and write, you can understand the
   excitement of beyond, that I, no. JOHN .-- But what has Mr content
   author that I give half a dozen advanced ducats? And more will
   be taken care that are not local people in my house tonight. CHANFALLA
   .-- I am happy because I trust the views of care and mercy of their
   success. JOHN .-- Well come with me, receive the money and see my
   home and the comfort in it to show that Retablo. CHANFALLA .-- Come,
   and they are not pass the lie that the qualities which have been
   atrevieren wonderful to watch the Retablo. BENITO .-- In my
   position is that, and sele say that I am able to go to trial insurance,
   because I have the father mayor, four fingers of a Christian man
   of substance rancioso got on the four sides of my lineage: look I will
   see if such Retablo. wicker .-- All we see him, Mr Benito Cabbage.
   JOHN .-- Not born here in mauves, Mr Peter wicker. GOVERNOR .--
   It will be necessary, as I see, Mr. Mayor, Councilor and Escribano.
   JUAN .-- Come, author, and to work; Juan Tostado # # _ _ my name, son
   of Anton Tostado # # _ _ Macha and John and I will not say more
   on fertilizer, and insurance to be able to get face and
   remain standing in front of that Retablo. Cherin .-- God does.
   (_Entranse_ John Tostado # # _ y_ CHANFALLA.) GOVERNOR author .--
   Madam, what poets are now used in the Court of fame and direction,
   especially the so-called comedians? because I have my collar tips
   and a poet, and the entertainment and pícome inlay. Twenty-two comedies
   I have all new, you see each other, and I am waiting for circumstances
   go to court and enrich them with half a dozen authors. Cherin .--
   What vues mercy, Mr Governor, I Question of the poets, he will respond,
   because there are so many, you take away the sun, and all think
they are celebrities.

The poets and comedians are the ordinary which is always used, and
there is what nombrallos.

But tell me vues mercy, for his life: how good is your grace?

What is your name? GOVERNOR .-- For me, lady author,
I call the Graduate Gomecillos. Cherin .-- Valamo ¡Dios! And
what is Mr. vues mercy Graduate Gomecillos, those who composed
the famous couplets of _Lucifer was bad, bad, and take it
fuera_?

GOVERNOR .-- Bad language was that I wanted these songs goddaughter,
and so were mine and the Great Turkish. Which I composed, and I do
not deny, were those that dealt with the deluge of Seville, that
since poets are thieves each other, I never steal anything from price
to anyone: help me with my verses God, and the theft we would like.
(_Vuelve_ CHANFALLA.) CHANFALLA .-- Gentlemen, mercedes vues come,
everything is point and do not need to start over.

CHIRINOS .-- Is _IN Corbona_ and money? CHANFALLA .-- And even among
fabrics from the heart. CHIRINOS .-- Well doyte by notice Chanfalla
that the Governor is a poet. CHANFALLA ¿.-- Poet? Body of the
World!! So give it to fool, because all the facts are similar
in mood to Macacona people careless, credulous, and not anything
malicious. BENITO .-- Come, author, I skipped the feet to see these
wonders. (_Entranse Todos_.) ( JUANA _Salen_ Tostada # # _ y_ TERESA
Cabbage, _labradoras, and as a bride, the Tostada # # _.) ROASTED
.-- Here you can sit, Cabbage friend Teresa, who will have the
opposite Retablo, and therefore know the conditions to have the
viewpoints of the altarpiece, do not neglect, it would be a great
misfortune. TERESA .-- You know, Jane Tostada # # _ _, I'm your
cousin, and I say no more. So I would certainly like heaven I see
some things that show the Retablo. For the century of my mother,
I draw my eyes from the same side, if you disgrace me I'm pretty
happy for that. #_.-- JUANA Tostada # _ Sosiégate, premium, so everyone
comes. (_Entran El_ GOVERNOR, CABBAGE BENITO, JUAN _ # # _
Tostado, PEDRO wicker, _The author and the author and other
people, and a nephew of Benedict to be the one gentleman that baila_.)
.-- Sit CHANFALLA all, the Retablo has to be behind the pastry chef
and author as well. GOVERNOR .-- Mr. Montiel begin his work. BENITO
.-- Little balumba this author brings to such a large altarpiece.
JOHN .-- Everything must be in wonderland. CHANFALLA .-- Attention,
gentlemen, which begins: - O you, whoever you were, which makes
this such a wonderful Retablo artifice, _de which reached the
reputation Maravillas_! By the virtue that it holds you spell, urgency
and incontinence following command to show these people some of
your marvelous wonders, to rejoice and take pleasure, without any
scandal. C'mon, I see that you have granted my request, since that
part of the looming figure of Samson valentísimo, embraced with the
columns of the temple, for derriballe along the ground and take
revenge of his enemies. ¡Tente, valiant knight, tempted, by the grace
of God the Father, do not do so outrageous, why not pick both below
and make tortillas and noble people as has been put together!

BENITO .-- Come, this body, with me ! Well it would be
that instead of having to come loose, quedásemos facts here Plast.
Be, Mr Sancho, poor my ills, I beg that good! Wicker .-- ¿Veisle
you, Tostado _ # # _? JOHN .-- Well, do you not see him? Do I have
my eye on colodrillo? Wicker [# _aparte_ Miracle #].-- case is this:
I am well now as Samson the Great Turkish.

Well actually I have for legitimate and Christian man. CHIRINOS .--
Beware! Man, leaving the same bull that killed the ganapán in
Salamanca! ¡Get, man, throw, man, God will free! Dios te
libre! [Illustration: Échense all échense all! ...] CHANFALLA
.-- ¡Échense all échense all! ¡Húchoho! ¡Húchoho! Húchoho!
(_Echanse All alborótanse_.) BENITO .-- The devil takes the body
Torill; parts has Bragado sullen and if I do not shop, I take
flight. .-- John Lord author, then, if you can not figure out that we
fuss, and I do not mean for me, but for these mochachas that have
been left drop of blood in the body of the ferocity of the bull.
_Tostada_ # # Y .-- How, father! I do not think back on me in three
days, and I saw in their horns, they have an acute and Lesna.
JOHN .-- It was you and not my daughter to see. GOVERNOR [# _aparte_
Just #].-- all I do not see what I see, but at last I will say
that I see, the black honrilla.

CHIRINOS. - The herd of mice that there is, deciende by a
straight line from those who grew up in Noah's ark; Dell white, dell
albarazados, dell marbled, blue and Dell, and finally, they
are all mice. _Tostada_ # #. - Jesus! Woe is me! ¡Ténganme I cast
on that window! Mice ¿? ¡Unhappy!

   Amiga, apriétate skirts and see not bite you, and you are just
riding!

   For the century of my grandmother, who passed from milenta. CABBAGE
   .-- yes I am unhappy, because I come without any hesitation,
   I have a brown mouse aside from a knee. ¡Socorro come out
   of heaven on earth because I lack! CHANFALLA .--- This water, which
   is left so hurry down from the clouds, is the source that
   gives rise to the top and the Jordan River, a woman who touches
   d face in it again as silver burnishing, and the men were
   again beards and gold. _Tostada_ # #.--¿ hear,
   girl? Discover the face, because you see what you care. Oh,
   what liquor so tasty! Cover your father, do not get wet. .--
   We all cover JUAN, daughter. BENITO .-- It has got me back
   to the water channel master. Wicker [# _aparte_ #].-- drier than
   I am a esparto. GOVERNOR [# _aparte_ #].--¿ What the hell is
   this, yet I have a drop, where they all drown? # _Si Begin to
   think badly of my honesty padres._ # wicker .-- Fresh water is
   the holy River Jordan, and even though I covered what I could still
   reach me in a little mustache, and that I have blond apostaré as a
   gold. BENITO .-- And fifty times worse. Cherin .-- There
   are up to two dozen bears and lions rampant Colmenero, every living
   being stored, which, although great, would not fail to give some
   grief, and even to the forces of Hercules, with swords begin to. .--
   Ea JUAN, Mr author, body ¡nos! And now we want to fill the house
   of bears and lions? BENITO .-- Look what nightingales and
   calendering Tontonelo sends us but lions and dragons! Mr. author,
   and figure out mild, here or we are satisfied with the sights,
   and God guided him and not stop in town one more time. _Tostada_
   # # Benito Cabbage .-- Lord, let this get out lions and bears,
   even by us, and received much happy. JOHN .-- Well,
   daughter, before you the amazement of the mice, and now ask for
   bears and lions? _Tostada_ # # .-- Everything postponed again,
father.

CHIRINOS .-- Now that this girl is so composed and so Galana is
called Herodias, whose dance was at the head of the Precursor prize
of life if there are those who dance will help wonders.

BENITO .-- The body of the world itself! ! that figure is beautiful,
peaceful and bright. Cabbage nephew, you know that infirmity of
"damselfish, help and be the party of four layers. SOBRINO .--
Let me place, Uncle Benito Cabbage. (_Tocan La_ Zarabanda.)
Wicker .-- Take my grandfather, if old the dance of the Zarabanda
and the Chacona! BENITO .-- ¡Ea, nephew! ... # _Pero Say, Mr author,
whether that is Jewish Herodías_ #, sees how these wonders?
CHANFALLA .-- All rules have exceptions, Mr Mayor. (_Suena A trumpet
or cornet in the theater, and enters a Furries companies. _) Furries
.-- Who is here Mr Governor? GOVERNOR .-- I am: what sends mercy vues?
Furries .-- What then, to the point, send make accommodation for
thirty men in arms, who will arrive here half an hour, and even
before, now the trumpet sounds.

And goodbye. (# # _Vase_.) .-- BENITO apostaré that I sent the
wise Tontonelo. CHANFALLA .-- There is no such, this is a horse,
which was hosted two leagues from here. BENITO .-- Now I know Tontonelo
well, and I know you and you are a great rogue him and look at you
command a command Tontonelo not have the audacity to send these men
to arms, I will give you two hundred lashes on the backs, which
are each other. CHANFALLA .-- I say, Mr. Mayor, not send Tontonelo.
BENITO .-- I say it sends Tontonelo, as envoy to other vermin I
have seen. .-- All wicker have seen, Mr Benito Cabbage. BENITO.
To which I replied: "In the tight dangers hit any reason there
is no respect or success that is worth to be saved. Acogednos grade
in your ship, and together in the bastimentos that is ours,
and comámoslo amicably, rather than the precise we need to move their
arms and use of force. " I answered this I believe they said no
amount of truth in bastimentos pointing, but they, being superior
and advanced in the post, do not fear our threats or admit our
prayers, before lashing out with weapons and were ordered to defend
themselves.

Ours, who despair, of courage, he valentísimos, adding new impetus
to recklessness, lashing the ship and receive almost no wound,
and beat him entered, and alzóse one voice among us all are quitásemos
life saving bullets and stomachs through which was the ship
that bastimentos Hallasan.

   I was apparently the opposite, and perhaps by having good, so we
   socorrió heaven, and afterwards say, but first I want to tell you
   that this ship was that of cosarios that stole my sister and the
   two newly betrothed fisherwomen. I had barely recognized him when
   a voice said: "Where have you, thieves, our souls? Where are the lives
   that we robastes? What have you done to my sister and two
   Auristela, Leoncia Selviana and parts, halves the hearts of my
   good friends and Carino Solercio? " To which one I answered,
   "They say the fishermen who sold our captain, who is already
   dead, at Arnaldo, Prince of Denmark." CHAPTER XVIII - "While walking
   my own scanning and both had that bastimentos paving the ship to
   mistime, and suddenly, from the ground discovered that walking
   on ice a squad of armed people, more than four thousand people
formed.

Dejon over the sea ice that similar views, finishes arms shown to
be more men thought that defense. walked on only one foot, with the
right Calcaño on the left, they impelían and slip on the great sea
passage, then returning to repeat the coup, makes another great
piece of slip road and desta lucky, in a moment with us and we were
surrounded on all sides, and one which, as I learned later, was the
master of all, came near our ship, a way that could be heard,
ensuring peace with a white cloth on the arm to turn in Polish
language, with clear voice, said: "Cratilo, Bituania king and lord
of these seas, is usually required for armed people, and draw ships
that they are being held ice for at least the people who have the
goods, for whose benefit is paid by taking it with you.

If you gustáredes acetate of this party, not defend, gozaréis of the
lives and freedom, which hath not in any way to captivate; miradlo,
and if not, aparejaos to defend our weapons, continued winning.

"Contentóme soon and the resolution of which we speak. Respondíle I
seem to stop ourselves, and it gave me my fishermen, saying that
the end of all evil, and the largest of which was to end life which
had to support by all possible means, as it was not for the infamy,
and that, because the parties involved that we are not offering
any, and their lives were so certain, as a questionable defense,
would either give up and give rise to the bad luck that we sought
then, as we might be better to save time.

   Almost gave this response to the captain of the squad, and to the
   point, looking over war with signs of peace, lashing the ship, and
   robbed him in an instant everything, as it had moved to the same
   artillery and rigging , a few hides of oxen on the ice that tended;
   liándolos above, they can be assured tirándolos lead rope without
   losing anything. Ansimismo stole what they found in our other
   boat, and putting us on other skins, raising a cheerful voice, and we
   threw us to land, which should be from the place of the ship as
   twenty miles. It seems to me that there must be something to see so
   many people walking on top of the skinny water on foot, there the sky
   without using any of his miracles. "Anyway, that night we arrived at
   the bank, which went to no other morning, were crowned with the
   infinite number of people who see the barrier of ice cream and had
   been rigid.

It came between them, on a beautiful horse, King Cratilo which, by
royal insignia to be adorned with, who was to be met, came to his
side, also on horseback, a beautiful woman, armed with some weapons,
to whom could not finish cover with a black veil that had been
covered.

Llevóme behind the light, look as good as his gallantry Cratilo
King, and looking closely, hermosa Sulpicio be met, to whom the
courtesy of my colleagues a few days # # _antes_ had the freedom then
enjoyed. She King surrendered to see, and of bringing the captain
grabbed his hand, he said: "In this single man oh valiant king
Cratilo!

I think you present the richest prey to human beings because human
eyes until now have seen. " "Holy shit!

- Said this time the beautiful Sulpice, throwing the horse to the
ground -. O I have not seen in the eyes, or is this my deliverer,
Periandro."

   And say this and tie the neck with her arms, was one whose bizarre
   and romantic Cratilo samples also forced to throw the horse and
   with the same joy I receive signals. Then fainted hope was a good
   event away from the breasts of my fishing, but gaining in the breath
   samples were happy to receive it, I did spring for the eyes
   and mouths happy thanks giving to God of the unexpected benefit that
   has already counted, not profit, but by well-known and unique. Cratilo
   Sulpicio told: "This man is a subject which has its seat, to his
   great courtesy and liberality the same hostel, and although I have
   made this experience, I want your discretion proves the drawing for
   his gallant presence - and this well as speaking vee grateful,
even as deluded - clean this truth I tell you.

   This was the one who gave me freedom after the death of my
   husband, which he did not disdain my treasures, but that does not
   wanted, this was where, after I received a gift, I am again
   improved, with the hope dármelas older, if I could, it was, finally,
   that affluent or, better said, to accommodate to your taste of its
   soldiers, leaving me with twelve that accompany me, I now have in
your presence. " I, then, what I believe, his face red with praise,
or fawning or too many and that he heard me, no higher than knees
before Cratilo asking hands, that I gave to the besárselas but to
get up from the ground.

   In this meantime, the twelve fishermen who had been in custody
   of Sulpicio, among other people went looking for his teammates,
   hugging each other, and full of contentment and joy, there were
good and bad luck: the sea, overstated its yelo, and the earth, its
riches.

   "For me - one said - Sulpicio gave me this gold chain." "I - said
   another - this jewel, which is worth two of these chains."

   "To me - he replied - I gave that much money." And he repeated:
   "More of me gave me this diamond ring just as you all together." "To
   put all these talks a great silence rumors that arose among the
   people, which caused the horse to a powerful barbarian, who brought
   two brave footmen brake can not find him. shank color was painted all
   white fly, which made it exceedingly beautiful; hair came in, because
   it does not saddle king consented, but did not save this respect
   after post above, it is not enough to arrest a thousand hills of
   pregnancies that were put before him, which the king was so regretful,
   to give a city its bad who claims him off. All that the king told
   me briefly and .

   CHAPTER XX - "The greatness, the ferocity and beauty of the horse
   that I have described were so enamored with Cratilo, and so eager to
   see you gentle, as I wanted to show that service, it seems that
   the sky I had occasion to making nice to the eyes of someone who
   was lord and prove something to praise the beautiful Sulpicio me
to the king had said.

And so, not as mature as Presure, where the horse went and got it without
putting your foot in the stirrup, not because he had attacked him
and, without the hand brake is to stop, and arrived at the edge of
a cliff that hung over the sea, and again tighten the legs, with
his degree as bad as my taste, I will fly through the air and finding
entrambos in the deep sea and in the middle of my flight remembered
that, because the sea was ice cream, I had to do with the pieces
once, and I had my death and theirs by right.

But it was not because the sky for other things that he knows he
must have saved me, had legs and arms of the powerful horse to resist
the coup, I receive no other damage that have shaken themselves
and the horse taken to rolling, sliding by a large space.

   None were on the bank not to think and believe that I was dead, but
when I saw lift up, although the incident was a miracle, I judged
insane daring.

   [Illustration: I did fly through the air and give in to entrambos the
   deep sea.]

   "I went back to the bank with the horse, also turned up in it, and by
   the same steps that first encouraged him to jump a second time,
but it was not possible because, as at the tip of lifted the rock,
did so not by force throw, which put the haunches on the floor and
broke off the reins, getting stuck into the ground.

   Cubrióse after a sweat from head to toe, so full of fear, which he
   returned in Leon lamb and untamable animal in generous horse, so
the boys dared to hands, and the king's stables, harnessed, jumped
on him and he ran to safety, and he showed his lightness and goodness,
until then ever; what the king was contentísimo Sulpice and joyful,
to see that my work had responded to his words.

   "Three months was at its yelo rigorously, and they will soon finish
   a ship that the king had begun to run on time convenable those
seas, cleaned cosarios, enriched with their theft.

   In this meantime, I did some hunting in, where I showed shrewd
   and experienced great suffering and work, because in any year
corresponds well to the war like the game, who is attached to the
fatigue, thirst and hunger, and sometimes even death.

   The donation of the beautiful Sulpice was with me and my extreme, and
   he ran Cratilo courtesy of pairs.

   The twelve fishermen trujo it Sulpicio already wealthy and those
who were lost to me, they were earned.

   Acabóse the ship, the king ordered the dress and accoutrements of
all things necessary length, and then made me captain, all my will,
not force me to do anything more than that it was my pleasure.

   And after having their hands kissed by so great a benefit, I told
him I would leave to go find my sister Auristela, who had news that
was held by the king of Denmark.

   Cratilo gave me everything that I wanted to do, saying that she was
forced to my success, speaking as the king, who is attached to both
the grants and affability as if to say, good parenting.

   This was around end Sulpice, together with the Liberals, in which
   rich and happy, me and mine we embark, with none left.

   "The first take was to defeat Denmark, where did find my sister and
what I found were new to that, the banks of the sea, she and other
girls had stolen cosarios.

   Renováronse my work and my back started hurting, who accompanied
the caring and Solercio, who believed that the Unfortunately my
sister and his imprisonment was due to the comprehender their wives.

   "Barro all seas, all round or more contours of these islands, always
asking for my new sister, seems to me, that peace be with all the
beautiful world, that the light of his face could not be disguised
by Escuro where you were, and that the amount of discretion had to
be the thread that draw any maze.

   Turned cosarios, release prisoners, return farms to their owners,
alzámonos won with the other evil, and this is by filling our ship
of a thousand different goods of fortune, wanted to return to mine
their networks and their homes and their children's arms , imagining
Carino Solercio and possibly find their wives in their land, as the
outsiders do not found.

   Desto before we reach that island, which I believe is called Scinta,
we knew where the festivities of Polycarp, and we will find wine
there.

   Could not reach our ship, the wind being contrary, and in costume
bogadores ratings, we went in that boat Luengo, as mentioned above.

   They won the awards, there I was crowned winner of all contests,
and there took occasion Sinforosa wanted to know who I was, as seen
by the prosecution that it did.

   Returned to the ship, and resolved to leave the mine, they begged
   me to stop the vessel as a prize in the work that had gone with
them.

Dejáronmele, and I even left the ship, if I wanted, saying that if
I left behind, was another opportunity, but because they seemed to
be my only desire, and so impossible to achieve, as shown in the
experience evidence that we had to get done.

"In resolution with six fishermen who wished to follow, carried the
prize that I gave and gave to them, hugging my friends, I embarked,
and put the bow in a # # _ _ barbaric island, whose residents already
knew the custom and false prophecy that had cheated, it does not mean
you know because I know that. Di through the island at that, I was
taken prisoner and the living where they were buried: sacáronme
another day to be slaughtered; happened storm sea ; desbaratáronse
the logs that served as a boat, I came across the sea on a piece Dellas,
with chains around me neck and my wife's hands tied, fell into the
mercy of the Prince Arnaldo, that is, by whose order entered the
island to be a spy to investigate whether it was my sister, not
knowing that I was Auristela brother the other day which came in
costume from male to be sacrificed.

Conocíla, dolióme her pain, preventing her death to say that it was
female , as he had said Cloelia, his loves, which accompanying,
and how there were two, when she wants to tell.

What happened to us on the island, you know, with this and with which
my sister is left to say, quedaréis satisfied acertare almost
everything in the desire to seek the certainty of our events.

   "BOOK III CHAPTER X _ _ # # In a place not too small nor too large,
whose name was not I agree, and in the middle of the square, _ # #
_ had a lot of people together, all looking attentive and listening
to two man, in suit recently rescued from captivity, saying the
figures were painted on a canvas that was lying on soil, it appeared
that had been downloaded two heavy chains that were beside themselves,
and insignia of its rapporteurs heavy misfortune, and one them,
which should be up to twenty-four years, with a clear voice and
language expert at any point, cracking occasionally a Corbacho or,
better say, whip in hand that had shaken him so that he penetrated
the ears and the bursts in the sky, and well as the coachman, who,
punishing or threatening their horses , echoes his whip in the wind.

   Among those who listened to the long conversation, there were the
   two mayors of the people, both elderly, but
   not so much the one as the
   other. Where he began his harangue by the captive free, he was
      saying:
   - This, sir, that you see here is painted, is the city of Algiers,
and Gomi Tarasca all shores of the Mediterranean port of universal
cosarios, and shelter and refuge thieves, who, from this port
pequeñuelo painted here will leave with their vessel to disturb the
world, because they dare to pass plus ultra of the columns of
Hercules, and policies and to steal the remote islands that are
surrounded by the immense Ocean Sea, believed to be safe, at least
the vessel turquescos.

The vessel we see reduced to small, so called because the painting
is a hatch of banks selling, whose owner is the Turkish captain and
that the bay is standing with one arm in his hand, who cut the one
Christian there you see, that can serve as a scourge rebenque and
the other Christians who are wedded to their banks, afraid not reach
these four galeras we see, that you will give in and hunting.

   That the first captive bank, whose face is
   disfigura blood stuck to
   it the beating of dead arm, I am,
   which was back in the hatch, and another that is next to me this
is my partner, not so bloody, it was less beaten.

Lord, and stay tuned: perhaps the apprehension of this pitiful story
takes you to the menacing ears and voices vituperosas has Dragut
this dog, so-called Arráez of the hatch, as famous as cosario cruel,
and so as cruel or Busiris Phalaris, tyrant of Sicily, at least to
me sounds _rospeni_ the agora, the _manahora_ and _denimaniyoc_,
who, with courage devilish, is saying all these are words and reasons
turquescas aimed to disgrace and vituperio of captive Christians
llámanlos Jews, men of little value, fee black and vile thoughts,
and for more horror and fright, with his arms sweep dead bodies
alive.

   It seems that one of the two mayors had been long captive in
   Algiers, which, with a low voice, said to his companion: - The
captive, until now, seems to be telling the truth, and that usually
is not captive false, but I would look in particular and see how
the string is because I want you know I was within desta hatch, and
I do not remember having known it back if it was not a Moclin Alonso,
of Velez-Malaga.

And turning the captive, he said: - Tell me, my friend, whose
galleys were you were hunting, and if it conseguistes freedom
desired. - Las Galeras - answered the captive - was Don Sancho de
Leyva; not get freedom, because we do not reach; tuvímosla later,
because we raise a hatch Sargel from Algiers was loaded with wheat
to come Oran her, and from there to Malaga, where my companion and I
got in the way of Italy, with the intention of serving his Majesty,
may God save in the exercise of war. - Tell friends - replied
Mayor -: cautivastes together? brought you to the first Boleo
Algiers, Barbary or elsewhere - with non-captive - captive replied
the other - because I am captivated by Alicante, on a ship wool went
to Genoa, my companion in Perchel of Malaga, where he was a
fisherman. Conocímonos in Tetuán within a dungeon, we were
friends, and run a very fortunate time, and for ten or twelve rooms
which have given us just begging on the canvas, let us tighten the
mayor. - Not much Mr trouserpress - said the mayor - who still are
not given all rounds of the mancuerda, listen to me and tell me:
How many doors are Algiers, and how many sources, and how many
freshwater wells - The question is boba!

   - answered the
   first captive
   -; many doors
   as it has homes, and many sources, I do not know, and so many wells
that I have not seen, and the work that I've been there I have
removed the memory of myself, and if the mayor wants to go against
Christian charity, the rooms and pick up the tent, and to God now,
so make good bread here as in France.

   Then the mayor called a man of the people who were in the run, which
   apparently served as a town crier in place, and maybe executioner
   when offered, and he said: - Gil Berrueco go to the square, and
   then Bring here the first two donkeys that topáredes; that for
   life of the king our lord, who have to walk the streets in these
   two gentlemen them captive, so that want to usurp the freedom of
   true charity poor detailing embelecos lies and being healthy
   as an apple and more forces to take a hoe in hand, not to give a
   Corbacho outbursts dry. I've been a slave in Algiers five years, and
   I do not know details of the Dais in anything any of you have
   said. - Body of the World! - Answered the captive -. Maybe it was the
   mayor want us to be rich memory is so poor in money, and that, no
   matter which one Baby-sitting three Ardito, wants to remove the
   credit to two very famous students like us, together and remove Her
   Majesty two brave soldiers, those who were going to Italy and the
   Flanders to break, to destroy, to injure and kill the enemies of the
   holy Catholic faith that encounter? Because, if truth be told, so
   that is a child of God, I want you to know the mayor that we are not
   captives, but students of Salamanca, and in the middle and to the
best of our studies, we came to win world view and knowledge to
know what the life of the war, as we knew the taste of life in peace.

To facilitate this work and to desire rightly to pass that way a
few captives, who also had to be false as we do now, we purchased
this painting and we learn some things from those in Algiers, which
seemed necessary and to demonstrate our embeleco, we sold our books
and our jewelry to disregard, and loaded with goods, we got here,
we move forward, if the mayor does not require otherwise. - What I
do is -- said the mayor - say a hundred lashes, and instead of
itches you are going to drag in Flanders, get a paddle in the hands
cimbréis it in water in the galleys, who perhaps do more service
to his majesty that with pica. - Will you - "said the talkative
young man - now show the mayor of Athens to be a legislator, and
the rigor of his craft to reach the ears of the gentlemen of the
Council, where, credited them you have as severe and righteous, and
he committed substantial business activities, to show the severity
and justice?

   Well aware that the mayor _summum jus, summa injuria_. - See how
   habláis brother - said the second mayor - that there is no justice
   with lust: that all the mayors of this place have been, are and will
   be clean and chaste as the mass of hair, and speak less, you will
be healthy. crier went back into this, and said: - Lord Mayor, I
have not encountered any donkeys in the square, but two aldermen
Berrueco and Crespo, walking walking in it. - For donkeys I send
you, silly, not by aldermen, but come back and traeldos here, yes
or no, I want the presence of stress when pronouncing sentence,
which must, however, and not to be due to lack of donkeys, which,
thanks be given to heaven, there is enough in this place - it will
not vues thanks, Mr Mayor, in the sky - the young man replied - if
you proceed with this reguridad.

- You got me - said
   the girl --- and if it is sufficient here hele, with condition that I
   have been telling me the good fortune. - Why so many buenasventuras
   thimble? - Said the old gypsy ---. granddaughter, just presto,
   it becomes night. Preciosa took the thimble and the hand of Lt. and
   Mrs. _ # said the good fortune and finish # _ ignited the desire
   of all bystanders in wanting to know yours, and all begged him, but
   she referred them to come on Friday, promising that they would
   have to make real silver crosses. In this, Mr Tiniente came, who told
   of the wonders Gitanilla he made them dance a little, and confirmed
   by real and well given the praise that had been beautiful, and putting
   his hand into the faldriquera, did want to signal give something, and
   having espulgado and shaken, scraped, and often brought out to the
   empty hand and said: - Jesus Christ that I am not white! Give him
   your Doña Clara, a real price, that I will give you later. [Illustration:
   ... and put his hand into the faldriquera, ...] - Well is it, sir,
   indeed! Yes, that is where the real clear! We have not had any of us
   to make the fourth sign of the cross, and you want to have a real
   - then Give him some valoncica yours, or some little thing, that
we will return another day to see beautiful, and gave better.

   To which Ms Clare said: - Well, it comes again, I do not want to
   give anything now Preciosa. - Before if I do not give anything - ---
   Precious said, never come back here. But it will come back to serve
   lords as a major, but swallowed trairé not have to give me anything,
and ahorraréme fatigue esperallo.

Bribery vues mercy, sir Tiniente, bribery, and take money and
not make new uses, that will die of hunger. Look, Madam, I have
heard out there (and even girl, I understand that these are not good)
which has the offices of money to pay the condemnations of the residences
and to claim fees. - So you say and what do desalmados - ---
Lieutenant replied, but the judge who gives good residence need not
pay any condemnation, and have used her office will Valedor to
get another. - Talk to the market very vues saint, sir Lieutenant
- --- replied Preciosa; Andes and that of rags to cortarémosle
relics. - Well you know, Preciosa - --- Tiniente said.

   Shut up, I will give that trace their Majesties see you because you
   are part of kings. - For Querránme rascals - replied Preciosa --- and
   I do not know what to be and everything will be lost. If I wanted
   to discreetly take Hian yet, but some thrive palacimás thugs that
   discreet.

I found to be good and poor gypsy, and run the lot where the sky
wants. - Hey, girl - said the old gypsy - not more talk, you've
talked a lot and know more than I I have taught you, you do not
asotiles So you stand out, talk about what you let years and not
get in haughtiness, that no non-threatening fall. - The devil is
in the body these gypsy!

   -- said this time the Tiniente. Despidiéronse gypsies, and go, "said
   the maid's thimble - Preciosa, tell me the good fortune, or
   vuélveme my thimble, which I have no work to do. - Lady lady -- ---
   replied Preciosa, do note that I said it, and provide another thimble,
   or do not do vanilla until Friday, I will come back and tell more
   ventures and adventures that you have a book of chivalry. Fuéronse
   and juntáronse with the many farmers that when the Hail
   Mary usually leave Madrid to go back to their villages, and many
   others back, who always accompanied the gypsies, and returned safely.
   Because the old gypsy living in constant fear not jump to its Preciosa.
   Occurred, therefore, that the morning of one day returning to Madrid
   to take gitanilla garrama with others in a small valley that is
   the work of five steps before reach the village, they saw a man
dressed richly and gallant way.

   The sword and dagger were brought, as is often said, an ember of
   gold, with rich cintillo and hat with feathers of various colors
   decorated. Gypsy repaired in seeing and looking very pusiéronsele
   space, admired for such a beautiful man hours were in that place,
   on foot and alone. He came to them and talking to the gypsy couple,
   he said: - For your life, friend, do me pleasure you and me oyáis
   here Preciosa two separate words that are your benefit. - As we deviate
   much, or we were too late, is in good time - answered the old. And
   calling Preciosa, were diverted to other work of twenty steps, and
   stood, as they were, the man told them: - I so I yielded to the
   discretion and beauty of Preciosa, that after having done a lot of
   strength to apologize to this point, after I have been given more
   and more unable to excusallo.
   All this I have said, generous man,
   why not forget the lives that have been treated and you have to practice,
   which I have painted here in a clean, infinite and many other things
   iréis discovering it in time, no less worthy of consideration that
you have heard.

   Street in saying and telling the old gypsy, and the novice is said to
   have known very loose so laudable statutes, and he thought that
   profession in order to make up right and so on political grounds,
   and he weighed just have not been known to borrow more so lively, and
   from that point he renounced the profession of knight and boasts of
   his illustrious lineage, and put everything under the yoke, or by
better to say, the laws under which they lived, because with such
high rewards you meet the desire to serve them, surrendered to the
divine Preciosa, whom he would leave for crowns and empires, and
only wished to serve.

   "To which replied Preciosa: - As these gentlemen have found their
legislators laws that I am yours, yours and that you have given me,
I have found the law to my will, which is the strongest of all, I
do not want to be if not with the conditions before they came here
between the two concluded.

Two years you must live in our company who first pleasures of mine,
because you do not regret for light, I is not fooled by Presure.

Conditions break laws that you know I have: if wants to keep, may
be yours and you are mine, and where there is not yet dead mule,
your clothes are intact, and your money do not need a Ardite, no
you've done has not been a day that that the lack of what you can
serve and lead you to see what's right for you. # # _not_ These
gentlemen can give you my soul, which is born free and free, and
be free as I wanted.

If you stay, you deem much if you get, you do not have at least
because, in my view, the impetus to run unleashed love, until they
find the reason or the disappointment, and I would not want it to
be you to me like the hunter, who in reaching the hare that follows,
the picks, and left for another run after that run. Eyes are fooled
that the first sight seems so good as the gold tinsel, but a little
while well aware of the difference of what a fine false.

This my beauty that you say that I have, that the estimates of the
sun and makes the gold, what do I know if you look closely shadows,
and touched, Cairo is alchemy?

   I give you two years of time for both and weigh what is good or
will you choose just to despise, and that the garment that once
purchased, no one can undo della but with death, or that there is
time, and much, Miralles and remiralla for and see in it the virtues
or the faults they have. - You're right Oh Beautiful!

   - Andres said at this point --- and so, if you want to ensure your
   fears and undermine your suspicions jurándote not leaving a point
of order that put me, look what you swear to do, or what security
can I give you another, that everything I was ready. - I do not
want oaths, Mr Andrew, and I promise, I just want to send it all
the experience of this noviciate. - Sea ansi - Andres replied -.

   I ask only one thing these gentlemen and my colleagues and I do
   not force anything to theft, for even one months time, because I
feel that I have not hit to be a thief if not before many preceding
abolition. -- Shut up, son - said the old gypsy - and that industry
will be here to come out an eagle in the office, and when you know
you have to like the way that your hands after you eat it.

   It's a thing of ridicule to leave empty in the morning and return
   at night laden ranch!

   - Flogging back I've seen some empty desos - Andres said. - Do not
   take trout, etc. - said the old -: all the things life stress are
subject to various risks, and actions of the thief, to the galleys,
whipping and hanging, but not because there is a ship storm or
flood, they leave the other to navigate.

   Well because the war would come the men and horses, cease to be
   soldiers!

   The more that is plagued by justice among us, is to have a habit
in the back, which seemed better than if you trujese in the breasts,
and the good.

   The finishing touch is not acoceando the air in the flower of our
youth and the first offense, that the backs of the mosque, or beating
the water in the galleys, I do not believe in a cocoa.

   Son Andrew, now in the nest reposad beneath our wings, which in its
   time you learn to fly, and where no return in part without prey,
and that said that you have to lick your fingers after each theft.
- Well, to reward - Andres said - what I could steal this time it
gives me permission, I would allocate two hundred coats of gold
between all of the ranch.

   Hardly had said this when he beat up many Gypsies and arose in
   the arms and shoulders, he sang the "Victor, Victor, and Andrew
Large," adding: "And long live, long live beautiful, beloved garment
yours!"

The Gypsy did the same with Preciosa, with Cristina and envy of
others who were present gitanilla, that envy is also housed in the
douars of the barbarians and the huts of shepherds in palaces of
princes, to see thrive and this neighbor, that seems to have no
more I merits, fatigue.

This done, ate laute; repartióse money pledged to equity and justice;
renováronse the praises of Andrew, rose to heaven the beauty of
Preciosa.

Evening, acocotaron mule and enterráronla so that Andrew was safe
for her to be discovered, and buried with their jewelry, as were
a chair, and brake, and webbing, use of the Indians, who buried with
them their richest prey. Of all the things he had seen and heard, and
the mills of the Gypsies, was admired Andrew and to continue its
business and achieve nothing interfere with their habits, or at
least excuse in every way it could, thinking exempt from the
jurisdiction of unfair things in obedecellos told that, at the expense
of their money. Another day I asked Andrew to move the site and left
for Madrid, because he was afraid to be known if there was, they
said they had already determined to go to the mountains of Toledo, and
thence running across the land surrounding garramar. Lifted, then
the ranch, and a diéronle Andrew Pollina that was, but he did not want,
but go on foot, to serve as a lackey to Preciosa, who was on
the other, she contentísima see how successful his gallant squire,
and he no less than to see it next to the lady who had made his will.

   From there, four days came to a village
   two leagues from Toledo,
   where he settled his douars,
   first giving some clothes to the mayor of Silver village, in that
it guarantees its full term or not hurtarían anything.

This done, all the old gypsy, and some girls, and Gypsies, spread
everywhere, or at least four or five paragraphs leagues that they
had established their right. Andrew went with them to take the
first abolition of thief, but even gave out a lot on that, none
was recorded, before accounting for its blood, with every theft
that their teachers did was he started to the soul, and such time had
to be paid their money than their theft had actually moved to tears
by their owners, which the Roma are desperate, saying that it was
violating its statutes and ordinances prohibiting entry to the
charity in its breasts, which in teniéndola had to stop being
thieves, which was not good in any way.

Seeing, therefore, that Andrew said he wanted to steal alone
and not go along with anybody, because it had to flee from danger
lightly, and it lacked the acometelle not mind, so that the reward
or punishment of who wanted to be his thefts. deste sought to
dissuade the Gypsies, saying it could happen sometimes be necessary
where the company and to undertake to defend itself, and that one
person alone could not make big dams.

   But, even though they
   said Andres thief alone and wanted to be
   unique, with the intention
   of departing from the squad for the money and buy anything you
could say that he had stolen, and so for this thing we could load
on his conscience.

Using thus highlighting industry in less than one months trujo more
from the company to four of the most trujeron stretched della
thieves, that there is little baggy Beautiful saw his tender loving
so sweet and so clear burglar, but with all this, I was fearful of
any misfortune, that she would not want to insult him all the
treasure of Venice bound to keep that goodwill and the many services
that your gifts Andres him.

   Just over a month they were in the terms of Toledo, where he made
   his August, though the month of September, and from there he went
into Extremadura, being land rich and warm.

Preciosa Andres happening with honest, discreet and love symposia,
and she was slowly falling in love with discretion and good treatment
of his mistress, and he, likewise, it could grow your love, growing
out: such was the honesty, discretion and its beautiful Preciosa.

   For wherever they came, he took bets
   and the price corridor and
   jump any more,
   bowling and playing the ball very, pulled
   the bar with great force and singular dexterity,
   and finally, in a short time his fame flew
   by Extremadura whole, and where there was no mention of the provision
of gypsy Gallarda Andres Caballero and his grace and skill, and the
pair ran the highlight of the renowned beauty of Gitanilla, and
there was no town, village or place where call to rejoice the
festival itself votive or other private celebration.

This way was the douars rich, prosperous and happy. # _ Apparently were
gypsies going to Seville, but # _ Preciosa's grandmother said
she could not go because the past had made a mockery in Seville to a
gorrero called Triguillos, well known in it which she had not put
in a jar of water to the neck, naked in meat, and head a crown made
of cypress, hoping the edge of midnight to get out of the pitcher
to dig and remove a great treasure that she had was in fact believe
that some part of your home.

   He said that as he heard
   the good gorrero touch matins, not to
   lose time, it was so hurry to get out
   of the pitcher who gave it to him
   and on the ground, and with the
   coup and the helmets were bruises meat , derramóse
   water, and he was swimming in it, and giving voice to be flooded.

Came his wife and neighbors with lights, and effects of doing halláronle
swimmer, blowing and belly dragging on the floor and shaking his
arms and legs with great hurry, with great voices and saying:
"Help, gentlemen, I choke" Such was the fear you, they really
thought they were drowned.

   Abrazáronse with him, sacáronle of that danger, she came to, was
the mockery of the Roma, and with all that, dug in the state brought
in more than a deep, even though everyone told him that lie was
mine; and if not to disturb his neighbor, who played in the foundations
of his house, he gave with entrambas on the floor, if you stop
digging everything he wanted.

   Súpose this story throughout the city, and until you guys pointed the
   finger and they lie and my credulity. This included the old gypsy,
   and it gave an excuse not to go to Seville. Gypsies determined
   by the twisting road to the left. They, therefore, to entráronse
   in Extremadura and La Mancha, and slowly walked to the kingdom of
   Murcia.

In all villages and places of challenges that had passed ball,
fencing, running, jumping, throwing the bar and other exercises of
strength, skill and lightness, and everything came out the winner
Andres.

   _Una_ # # Morning rose the douars and went to sleep in a place of
   jurisdiction of Murcia, three miles from the city, where he succeeded
Andrew gave him a disgrace that point in their lives, and that was
after having given at that place some silver cups and clothes in
bonds, as was usual, Preciosa and her grandmother, and with two
other gitanilla Cristina, and Andrew, they stayed in an inn to a
rich widow who had a daughter, aged ten and seven to eighteen years,
that something more outspoken, beautiful and, more signs, called
Juana Carducho.

   This, having seen dancing at the Gypsy and Roma, was taken by the
devil, and husband suggested taking _A # # Andrés_ if he wished,
but all their relatives weighs them, and so he sought to tell time
in a corral and hallóla , where Andrew had to take two colt.

   Llegóse him, and hurry,
   not to be seen, he
   said: - Andrew - already
   knew his name --- I am
   rich girl, my mother has no other son but to me, and this inn is
theirs, and besides dest, has many Majuelo, and two pairs of houses.

Hasme unhappy if I married you, you are; presto answer, and if you
are discreet, stay and see what life we see. Andrés was admired for
the resolution of the Carducho, and the alacrity with which she
asked him - Lady girl, I apalabrado to get married, and Gypsies
were married but with no Gypsy: save it for the favor that God
wanted me to do, of whom I am not worthy.

   It was two fingers to fall
   dead with
   Carducho Aced the response from Andrew, who saw
   no reply if entering the corral other Roma.
   Salióse run and asendereada, and
   gladly will take revenge if I could.
   Andrew, as discrete, determined to put land in the
   middle, and deviate from the time that the devil offered him, and
requested that all the gypsies that night was from that place.

They always obey him, then put it work, and collecting their deposits
that afternoon, they left.

   The Carducho ordered Andrew to be a force because he could not level
and so, with industry, wisdom and secret that taught him his evil
attempt, put the jewelry in Andrew, who she met on their own, some
rich of coral and two silver paten, with his leap and barely had
left the inn, where he voices, telling him that the gypsies wore
stolen jewelry, whose voice came to justice and all the villagers.

   The gypsies were high,
   and all swore that wore stolen anything
   they would patent and all of
   their bags and spare parts douars.
   Desto are old gypsy much grief, fearing that at that screening was
not shown by the trinkets of the beautiful dresses and Andrew, she
very carefully guarded and modesty, but good for what Carducho
remedied very quickly, because the second envelope that looked
queried said that the great gypsy dancer, she had seen him enter
his room twice, and it could be that he carries.

   Andrew understood that he said, laughing and said: - Lady lady,
this is my bedroom and this is my colt if you halláredes on it or
in it what I needed, I will repay you with SETENA, outside subject
to punishment of the law gives the thieves. then came the ministers
of justice robbed the colt, and gave few laps with the theft, that
Andrew was so scared and so absorbed, but that did not seem statue,
speechless of hard stone. - I do not suspect either - this time
told the Carducho -.

   Behold how good face masks so great a thief! All
   silent Andres, suspense and imaginative, and not
   just fall into the betrayal
   of Carducho. In this, he found
   a bizarre soldier, nephew of the mayor, and without
   more ado he raised his hand and gave him a slap, so that made him
return to his enthralled and made him agree that it was Andrew
Knight, but Don Juan and gentleman, and lashing the soldier much
more alacrity and anger, he pulled his sword from the sheath, and
sheathe it in the body, giving him dead on the ground.

   [Illustration: he started his own ... sword sheath, and the sheathe
the body ...]

   This was the cry of the people
   here amohinarse the mayor's uncle,
   here the faint Preciosa and Andrés mob to see you fainted,
   here come all the Weapons and after giving the murderer.

   Confusion grew, grew the yells, and go to the faint of Preciosa
   Andres, stopped going to his defense, and finally, many loaded on
   Andrew, who was seized and shackled with two very thick strings.

Well then I would hang the mayor, if I were in his hands, but had to
refer to Murcia, because of its jurisdiction. Not until he took
another day, and in which there were many martyrdoms and Andrew
went vituperios, outraged that the Mayor and his ministers, and all
of the site did. The mayor turned over all Gypsy Roma and that he
could, because most had fled. Finally, the summary of the case and
with a large Gypsy cafile, entered the mayor and his ministers
with a lot of armed people in Murcia, which was beautiful and the
poor Andrew, tight string on a male, and wives and piedeamigo.

   Murcia went across to see the
   prisoners, who already had news of the death
   of the soldier. But the beauty of that day was so beautiful that
   none looked that not blessed, and it's new beauty to the ears of
Mrs Corregidora, curious to see who made the Corregidor her husband
controls the gypsies not entered the prison, and everyone else does,
and Andrew put him in a narrow cell, whose Escura and lack of light
you tried so beautiful, it felt good not to go there but to the
grave.

Preciosa took with her grandmother to the Corregidora the saw and
the saw and said: - In praise of the beautiful grounds.

   And reaching each other, hugged
   tenderly, and was not tired of looking at it, and
   asked his grandmother what age would that girl. - Fifteen years -
said the Gypsy - two months more at least. - They now have the
misfortune of my Costanza.

Oh, friends, this girl that I have renewed my misfortune! - Corregidora
said.

   He, in this, beautiful hands of Corregidora and besándoselas often
are bathed in tears and said: - Madam , the Gypsy who is in prison
not to blame because he was provoked: llamáronle thief, and it is
not; diéronle a slap in his face, which is such that it reveals the
goodness of their hearts.

   For God and for you who you are,
   ma'am, do you save your justice, and that Mr
   Corregidor would not hurry
   to implement it with the punishment that the law will threaten,
and if someone gave you my appreciation beauty entretenedla entertain
with the prisoner, because at the end of his life is that of mine.

   He has to be my husband,
   honest and fair and impediments
   that have hampered so far not yet given
   us We have hands.

If funds are needed to achieve the forgiveness of all our douars
be sold at public auction, and will give even more than they request.

   Madam, if you know what love is, and
   some time you tuvistes, and now you have your husband, Dole me,
tenderly and honestly I love mine.

With this, came the Corregidor, and finding his wife and Beautiful
crying and shackled, was suspended, and his tears from the beauty,
asked the cause of that feeling, and gave the answer that was
beautiful both hands on the Corregidora and grasp the feet of
Corregidor, saying: - Sir , mercy, mercy!

   If my husband dies, I'm dead! He has no guilt, but if you have it, I
   landed the penalty and if this can not be, at least fun while the
lawsuit is seeking and seeking possible ways to remedy, which may
be at that he did not sin of malice heaven sent health grace.

With the new suspension was Corregidor heard the reasons for the
discrete Gitanilla, and that if it were not for not giving signs
of weakness, will accompany you in your tears.

   While this was going on was great considering the old gypsy,
   many different things, and after any such suspension
   and imagination, he said: -
   Wait vues mercedes, my lords, a little, I'll do these tears become
in laughter, but I have great life.

   And so, with a slight step out of where he was, leaving the present
confused with what was said.

   Until then she came back, never let the tears and
   the beautiful prayers that entertained
   the cause of her husband, intending to tell his father, who came to
      hear it.
   Gypsy returned with a small box under
   his arm, and said to Corregidor
   with his wife and she was entering
   a room, he had great things to tell you a secret.

El Corregidor, believing that some thefts of gypsies wanted
discovery, enabling the lawsuit to have the prisoner, when left
with her and his wife in their bedroom, where the gypsy knees
before them, they said: - If the good news that I want to, gentlemen,
good news does not reach merecieren forgiveness of a sin of mine,
I am here to receive the punishment they quisiéredes me, but before
you I confess that I say, gentlemen, first, if you know these jewels.
cofrecico and discovering where one came from the beautiful, he was
in the hands of the Corregidor, and in giving him, he saw those
trinkets puerile, but not what they could mean fell.

   Corregidora Mirol also, but neither gave the account, only said: -
These are some little creature ornaments. - That is the truth -
said Gypsy - and what that says creature is being written in the
folded paper. openedby Corregidor with the hurry and read that said
"the girl called Donna Costanza de Azevedo and Meneses, whose mother,
Doña Guiomar de Meneses, and his father, Don Fernando de Azevedo,
a knight of the habit of Calatrava .

   Desparecíla day of the Ascension of the Lord, at eight o'clock, in
the year one thousand and five hundred and ninety-five.

   She brought the little girl jumped to these posts in this box are
   stored. "Corregidora hardly had heard the reason for the paper when
   acknowledged the jump, they put in their mouths and give them
endless kisses, fell fainted.

   He went on Corregidor to it, rather than ask the gypsy by her
daughter, and having turned it, he said: - Good Woman, Gypsy angel
before, where the owner is, say, the creature whose were these
trinkets?

   - Where to, lady? - answered the gypsy -. In your home you
   have: the gypsies who brought you the tears of the eyes is the owner
   and is no doubt your daughter, that I hurt your Madrid home on the
day and time that this paper says.

   Hearing this peat lady, let the chapines and desalinated and came
running to the room where he had left a beautiful and hallóla
surrounded by her maids and servants, still crying, lashed to it,
and without anything to say, with great hurry Unfasten the chest
and he looked if a signal was small, like a lunar white, who was
born and hallóle and large, that the time was long.

Then, with the same speed, the barefoot, and discovered a foot of snow
and ivory made around, and saw what he wanted, which was that the last
two fingers of the right foot are locked with each other through a
bit of meat, which, as a child, had never wanted to cut, not to
give him grief. Chest, the fingers, the jump, the day that the
robbery, the confession of the gypsy and the shock and joy that
they had received when his parents were, in all truth confirmed
in the heart of the beautiful Corregidora be his daughter; and so
cogiéndola in her arms, she turned to her and Corregidor where the
Roma were.

   

   
   Periandro rivers of the rustic boy's astrology, and he said: -
Search for like reasons Bartolomé off oh!

for you to understand the error you're in position and the real world,
which was very necessary to take back their principles, but
accommodation with your wits, I will restrict myself and say only
one thing is that I want mean by infallible truth that the earth
is the center of the sky, a call center who indivisible all lines
going to the circumference, nor I think you understand this and so,
leaving these words, I want you happy with know that all the land
is sky high, and anywhere where people are della must be covered
with the sky, so, as we see the sky that covers us, also covers the
other side who say, without any hindrance, and as naturally ordered
Nature, steward of the true God, keeper of heaven and earth.

   It is the unhappy young man heard the reasons Periandro, who also
   gave a taste Auristela, the countess and her brother. With
   these and other things was to teach and entertain the way Periandro.
   Hence a few days, our beautiful squad came to a place of Moors, which
   was set as a league from the sea, the kingdom of Valencia. They
   found it not to stay in inn, but all the houses in the place with
   the guests pleasant hospice; seeing this, Antonio said: - I do not
   know who said bad desta people all around me as holy. - In palmas
   - Periandro said - the Lord in Jerusalem the same as a few days
thereafter he was put in a cross.

   Agora well: God and fortune, as is often said, the banquet that
   acetic us this good man, who invites us home. And it was so true that
   an old Moorish, almost by force, seizing him by the cape, the went
   home, and showed no treated Moors, but a Christian.

A daughter went to serve his own, dressed in Moorish costume, and
was so beautiful, the most gallant Christian had the luck to appear:
that thanks to the shared nature, it also tends to favor the barbaric
Citi, and the Citizen of Toledo.

This, then, beautiful blackberry, language aljamiada, grabbing a
Costanza and Auristela the hands, locked them in a room with low,
and, being alone, hold hands, looked demure at all, fearful of being
heard and then ensured that there was fear that showing them, "-
Oh, Lord, and how you have been gentle and simple as sheep to
slaughter!

   You see this old, with shame I say that is my father, your véisle so
   treated? Well you know that, but otherwise not intended to be your
   executioner. Tonight is kept in weight, if you can say, download it
   from sixteen cosarios Berber, all the people of this place, with
all its farms, without which he left them to move back to fetch it.

They think that these hapless Barbary is a taste of their bodies
and the salvation of their souls, without noticing that, there are
many people who have spent almost intact, there are no new ones but
that of repentance, which comes with complaints of damage.

   The Moors of Barbary
   glorias touting of the land, the flavor of which are the Moors it
and give the bonds of his misfortune.

   If you want to hamper the freedom and preserve your parents that you
   gave birth, then come out of this house, and friendly to the church,
   I find that it protects you, the cure, which only he and the clerk
   are here Old Christians. Also there to find Jadraque Jarife, an uncle
   of mine, only Muslim in name and in Christian works.

   Contaldes what happens, and say what you said Rafal, who believed
   it and you will be protected and not echéis in jest, unless you really
   want the coast to your disappointment that there is no greater
   deception coming late disappointment . The shock, the actions
   that this Rafal said, settled in the souls of Auristela and Constance,
   so it was believed, and not him, another thing that was more
   than gratitude. And then called Periandro Antonio, and telling
   what was going on, without seeming to take time, walked out of
   the house with everything they had. Bartolomé, I want to move
   further down the inn Pesola of moving, but in EFET , due to their
lords.

   They came to church, where they were
   well received and Jadraque priest, who told them what he had said
Rafal.

   The priest said: - Many days have, gentlemen, we are coming to
   the shock of those of Barbary vessel, and although yours is customary
   to make these entries, the lateness of it I already had
   somewhat neglected. Come, children who have good tower, and good
   the church doors and Ferrara, which, if not most of the way,
   can not be demolished or burned. - Oops - this time told the Jadraque
   - if they see my eyes, before closing, the land free of these
   weeds and thorns that the press! Oh, when the time comes that
   you have prophesied a grandfather of mine, famous in astrology,
   where it will be all over Spain and solid on the entire Christian
   religion, she is the only corner of the world where it is collected
   and venerated the real truth Christ!

   Morisco am, gentlemen, and hopefully we might deny it, but why
   not stop being Christian, that the divine grace of God gives to
whom it is served, which is usual, as you know better, doing his
sun to rise on good and bad, and rain on the righteous and the
unrighteous.

   So, I left that my grandfather said, about these times, a reign in
   Spain, king of the House of Austria, in which mood would banish the
   difficult decision of the Moors from it either and the shedding
   of its within which the snake is eating away the innards, or who
   departs as the neguilla wheat, or weeding the bad start or weed the
   crops. Come now, boy oh venture and wise king!, And put into execution
   the decree of this gallant exile, was opposed by the fear that you
   have to be deserted and the land without people, and that is not
   well EFET that it is named, that although these are fears of consideration
   of the EFET work make them as large spans, showing the experience in
   a short time, that with the new Christians that this land is old
   poblare is re-fertilize and put in a lot better now that point is.
   They will have their masters, if not so many humble vassals, are
   those who are Catholics, under whose paths are safe, and peace
   can bring wealth in the hands, but the robbers were carrying. That
   said, either closed doors, fortaleciéronlas with banks of seats,
   subiéronse to the tower, a staircase liftgate raised, the priest
   llevóse with the Blessed Sacrament in his shrine, proveyéronse stones,
   putting two shotguns, and let the world experience to the door naked
   Church Bartholomew the waiter, and encerróse with their masters,
   and all with eyes alert and ready hands, and with some encouragement,
   they were awaiting the assault, who were alerted by the daughter of
   the Moor. He spent half the night, the stars measured by the
   priest, the eyes tended across the sea from there it seemed, and
   there was no cloud in the moonlight looked like, but not thought to
   be the vessel turquescos , and hurry to the bells began to repicallas
   so and so apriesa Recio, that all those valleys and rumbled all the
   banks, which are shortcuts for those marine and ran all together,
but we took advantage of his diligence to the vessel did not reach
the bank and sent into people on earth.

   The site, which was waiting, loaded with its richer and better
   jewelry, where the Turks were received with great shouts and algazara,
   as are many dulzainas and other instruments, which, since they were
   armed, were elated, beaten fire place, and also to the doors of the
   church, not to wait for input, but by who could do evil;
   Bartholomew left foot, because he dejarretaron background, knocked
   down a stone cross which was a departure people, great voices calling
   the name of Mohammed, surrendered to the Turks, peaceful thieves
   and dishonest government. Since the language of water, as they
   say, started to feel the poverty that threatens their removal, and
disgrace they put their wives and their children.

   Many times, and perhaps some not in vain, and Antonio Periandro
   fired shotguns; Bartholomew threw stones, and all the party
   which had left the baggage, and many Jadraque the arrows, but many
   more tears shed Auristela and Constance, asking God that this had
   to manifest danger of such books, and that ansimismo not offend
the fire to his temple, which is not burned, not by miracle, but
because the doors were of iron, and because the fire was not being
implemented.

   Somewhat lacking in reaching the day when the vessel, loaded with
   the dam were made at sea lilies raising happy, and playing endless
   Atabal and dulzainas, and I saw two people come running towards the
   church, a part of the Navy, and the other from the ground, who,
   coming near, Jadraque knew that her niece was a Rafale, which, with
   a reed cross in his hands, came a voice saying: - Christian, Christian
   and self - and free grace and mercy of God! The other known as the
   scribe, possibly that night was out of place, and the gun are the
   bells, came to see the event, which wept, not for the loss of his
   children and his wife, who was not there, but by his house,
   stolen and found burnt.

   Enter the day and left the vessel is elongated and shortcuts that
   take place to ensure the coast, and then fell from the tower and
   opened the church, where he came Rafal, with joyful tears bathed
   his face, with his shock and increasing their beauty, made prayer
to the images and then embraced his uncle, first kissing the priest's
hands.

   The clerk, not loved or kissed the hands of anyone, because he had
   occupied the soul's sense of loss of their wealth.

   Passed the shock, the spirits of those returned to their retracted
   and Jadraque charging breath again, back to thinking about the
   prophecy of his grandfather, almost as full of heavenly spirit,
said: - Hey, generous man; ea King invincible, hit, break, wrecking
all sorts of problems, leaving Spain tersa, clean and rid my mesh
desta caste, which both surprised and damages!

   ¡Ea, as a wise counselor so illustrious, Atlante's new weight
   of this monarchy, with your help and advice to facilitate this necessary
   transmigration; llénense your galeras these seas, full of useless
   weight generation agarena; be thrown to the opposite sides brambles,
   weeds and other weeds that hinder the growth of fertility and abundance
   Christian!

   That if the few Jews who came to Egypt increased so much that its
   output is counted more than six hundred thousand families, which
   may be afraid of them, which are more and live more comfortably?
   Religions do not tire, do not pick the Indies, not the fifth war,
all married, all, or most, generate, and continues to do it is
inferred that the multiplication and growth has to be innumerable.

¡Ea, therefore, I say, go, go, sir, and let the cup of your
kingdom like the sun shining and beautiful like the sky!

Two days in that place were the pilgrims, returning to find out what
they lacked, Bartholomew and fits of baggage, pilgrims thanked the
priest welcomed and praised their good thoughts Jadraque and embracing
Rafale, and goodbye to everyone followed their path. [Illustration: -
Berganza, friend, leave tonight Hospital care in confidence ...] NOVEL
AND COLLOQUIUM And what happened between CIPION Berganza, DOGS OF
THE HOSPITAL OF THE RESURRECTION, THAT IS IN THE CITY OF VALLADOLID,
OUTSIDE THE DOOR OF THE FIELD, TO WHOM COMMONLY CALLED THE DOGS
MAHUDES .-- CIPIÓN Berganza, buddy, let tonight's Hospital in care
of this trust and retirémonos and loneliness among these mats, which
can be enjoyed without highlighting ways not seen in the sky
thanks to the same point to the two we has done.

   Berganza .-- Cipión brother óyote speak, and I know that I speak
   and I can not believe it, seem to speak for us going to the
   terms of nature. CIPIÓN .-- It is true, Berganza, and comes to be
   higher in this miracle that not only talk, but he speaks with
speech, as if we are able to reason, without it being so that the
difference of the gross animal to man, man is to be the rational
animal, and Raw irrational.

   Berganza .-- Everything you say, Cipión, understand, and say you and I
   understand I have new admiration and new wonder. It is true that
   in the speech of my life and many different times I have heard our
   great privileges, therefore, it seems that some have wanted to
   have a natural feel different, so alive and so acute in many things,
   which gives signs and signals missed little to show that we do not
   know what one of understanding, capable of speech. CIPIÓN .-- What
   I have heard is praise and make a lot of our memory, our gratitude
and great fidelity; therefore we tend to paint a symbol of friendship.

   Berganza .-- I know that dogs have been so thankful to have been
   thrown to the dead bodies of their masters in the same tomb. Others
   have been on the graves where they were buried their masters,
   without them, without eat until they are just life. I also know that
   after the elephant, the dog is apparently the first of which is
understanding, then the horse, and finally, the jimi.

   CIPIÓN .-- Ansi is, but well confess that neither you ever seen or
   heard that spoke no elephant, dog, horse or monkey, where I understand
   that we speak so suddenly drops below the number of those things
   they call wonder. But whatever it is, we talk, whether or not to
   wonder, what the heaven has ordained to happen, no human wisdom
   or diligence can prevent it, we do not know how long our luck this,
   take advantage della know, and let all Tonight, without giving
   rise to the dream that we prevent this taste in my long desired.
   Berganza. - And even me, since I had the strength to gnaw a bone,
I wish to speak, to say things that you place in memory, and there,
and many old or enmohecían or I forgot.

   But now, without thought of how rich I am from this divine gift of
   speech, I think gozarle and use of as much as would, giving me hurry
   to say anything to me agrees, but is hurried and confused,
   because I do not know when I will return to call this good, that I
   have provided. CIPIÓN .-- Be it fashion, friend Berganza: tonight I
   count your life and trances where you've come to the point where now
   you find, and if tomorrow night estuviéremos spoke with, I contairé
   mine, for better to spend time on themselves to ensure that
   others' lives to know.

Berganza .-- Always, Cipión you have given me and discreet friend,
and now more than ever because you want to tell your friend and knowing
my own events, and has spread like discreet time where we can
manifestallos. .-- Talk CIPIÓN until dawn, or until we are way,
I hear you very willingly, without but when impedirte sees as
necessary. Berganza .-- It seems that the first time I saw the sun was
in Seville, and in his slaughterhouse, which is outside the Gate
of Flesh, where they imagine (if not for what later I will tell you)
that my parents should be raising those Alans ministers of that
confusion, I called jiferos. The first I knew was love for the one
called Nicholas Romo, robust young man, bending and angry, as are
all those who exercise the jifería This taught me that Nicolás me
and to other puppies in the company of old arremetiésemos to Alans
bulls and they did prey on the ears.

With an eagle came out very easily on this. # # I _Un día_ feet in
gunpowder, and taking the road in the hands and feet, behind San
Bernardo, I went to the fields of God, I should like to go where
fortune.

   That night I slept at the open sky, and another day brings me luck
   a herd or flock of ewes and rams. As you saw, I thought he had found
   in the middle of my sleep, it seems very natural motion of the
   dogs keep livestock, which is a work which contains a great virtue,
   as to protect and defend the powerful and the arrogant humble and
   that little can. I had just seen one of three pastors who kept
   livestock as saying: "To, to!" called me, and I did not want another
   thing, I got him down and gives head wagging the tail. Trújome hand
   by the back, abrióme mouth escupióme there, miróme dams knew
   my age, and told other pastors that I had all the signs of any
   dog breed.

   He arrived at this instant the lord of the cattle on a gray mare to
   the rider with lance and buckler, which seemed more to stop the
   Lord of cattle coast. Asked the pastor: "What is this dog, which has
   signs of being good?" "Well you can believe mercy vues - answered the
   shepherd - which I have checked well, and no signal on it and
   shows no promise to be a great dog. Agora came here, and
   I do not know which is, although I know that is not the herds of
   the round. " "Well that's - answered Mr. -, choose then Leoncillo
   collar, the dog that died, and the ration to give to others, and
   love to take it acaríciale herd and stay in it." In saying this
   she left, the pastor and then I put a neck full of tips carlancas
   steel, having first given in Dornajo a large quantity of milk in soups.
   And it put me and called me names _Barcino_. Vime tired and happy
   with the second master and the new job, mostréme thoughtful and
   diligent in the care of the flock, but without departing from
   napping, I was going to pass or already in the shade of a tree, or
   some slopes or rock, or in some woods, the margin of a stream of
   many that were there. And these quiet hours of my not going idle
   because they are remembering the memory of many things, especially
   in the life that had taken in the slaughterhouse. But habrélas
   of silence, not because you have me for a long and murmured. CIPIÓN
   .-- Having heard that said a great poet of the old thing that was
   difficult not to write satire, which consent mumbled a little
light, not blood, I would say that signs and not injure or kill any
of the things brought in, that is not a good gossip, but do laugh
a lot if you kill one, and please if you can not, you will be very
discreet .

   Berganza .-- I'll take your advice and wait with great hope
   that the time comes that I tell your events, that of someone who knows
   so well known and amend defetos I have in my count, one can
   expect that it will his way to teach and delight at the same point.

   So, I found I was good with the job of keeping livestock, because
   they seem to eat the bread of my sweat and labor, and idleness,
   root and mother of all vices, not had to do with me, because
   that if the floppy days, the nights not sleeping, and often giving
   tocándonos assault weapon to the wolves, and I just told the shepherds:
   "Wolf, Barcino," when I attended, first as the other dogs, the
   party I noted that it was the wolf, ran the valleys, mountains
   scrutinized, to untangle the jungle, jumping ravines, crossing
   roads, and returned to the ranch tomorrow, without having found
   no trace of the wolf, dreaming, tired, torn to pieces and feet garranchos
   the open, and found in the herd, or as a dead sheep or a sheep
   slaughtered and eaten half of the wolf. Desesperábame to see how
   little I used great care and diligence. Was the lord of the livestock
   herders came to receive the hides of the dead workers, blaming
pastors for negligence, and ordered to punish the lazy dogs, sticks
rained upon us, and they reprehensiones and so, seeing a days
punished without fault and that my care, lightweight and wildness
were not useful to catch the wolf, I determined to change style,
not to depart to seek, as was usual, far from the flock, but estarme
next to him, that since the Wolf was there there would be more
certain the dam.

   Each week we played the alarm, and a escurísima night I had my sight
   to see the wolves, from whom it was impossible for the cattle
   are kept. Agácheme behind a bush, the dogs moved, my colleagues,
   forward, and thence oteé, and saw that two pastors asieron of a
   ram of the best in the sheepfold and killed him, so it really
   looked like the morning had been his d wolf executioner. Pasméme, was
   suspended when I saw that the shepherds were the wolves, and torn the
   same cattle that had been saved. Made a point to know his master dam
   wolf dábanle part of the skin and meat, and they comíanse more and
   better. Reñirles returned to the lord, and also became the punishment
   of dogs.
   On reaching the city of
   Valladolid ayo said they wanted to stand in one place for two days to
   see him, because he had never seen or been in it. Reprehendiólos much
   ay, severe and harsh, the stay, saying that they were going to
   look so hurry as they were not stopping to look at a Baby-sitting
   hours. Mancebitos The, who had already made your fortune, and their
   harvest, because had already stolen four gold shields worn mostly,
   they said that only the left that day, which wanted to see the
   source of Argal, that began to drive into the city by large and
   spacious aqueducts. Indeed, although with pain of his soul, gave them
   leave. The men, with only a servant and two very good horses and
   mules home, went to see the source of Argal, famous for its antiquity
   and its waters. They came, they thought that the servant of the bags
   got Avendaño pad with something to drink, he saw that had a sealed
   letter, saying that then point back to the city and give it to his
   tutor, and that giving it to them waited at the door of the Campo. The
   servant obeyed, took the letter back to the city, and returned the
   reins, and that night slept in Mojados, and thence to two days in
   Madrid and four mules were sold in the public square, and there was
   who will rely on six coats of promise, and even those who give them
   money for their gold-mad. Vistiéronse with payo with two Capotillo
   Haldar, chaps or zaragüelles and half brown cloth. Closet that morning
   had bought them their clothes, and the night had moved so, that
   does not know his # # own mother. Posts, thus the light and the way
   it wanted and knew Avendano, went on the road from Toledo _ad pedem
litteræ_ and swords, also the closet, but pertained to their need,
they had bought.

   Let them go by Now, because they are happy and cheerful, and to
   recount what the tutor did when he opened the letter that brought him
   and found a desta said: "Vues grant will be served, Mr Pedro Alonso,
   of being patient and giving back Burgos, where they tell our parents
   that we have their children, mature consideration, are considered
   more characteristic of how the weapons that knights lyrics, We have
   given a trocar by Brussels Salamanca, Spain and Flanders. The four
   shields we; mules we sell. Our noble intentions and the road is long
   enough excuse our error, but no one will judge you for that, if not
   cowardly. Our game is now, the return will be when God is served,
   which to save vues mercy as their young disciples, and they want.
   Argal of the source, and since the foot in the stirrup to walk Flanders
   .-- _Carriazo and Avendaño_. "Pedro Alonso was suspended in the Epistle
   reading, and went to his pouch, empty it and find it has just
   confirmed the truth of the letter, and then to the point, the
   mule that had been, it was Burgos to bring their masters with alacrity
   because it put them and diesen track to reach their children, but
   says nothing of these things the author desta novela, as well as
horseback riding since he left Pedro Alonso, back from what happened
to Avendaño Carriazo and the entry of Illescas, saying upon entering
the gate of the town were two mules, porters, apparently Andalusians,
in breeches of thick canvas, slashed jubones of Anjou, to his
collection, daggers and swords without hook shot, apparently, the
one coming from Seville and the other was to her.

The going was saying to another: - Tonight is not going to sit where
they usually, but the inn Sevillano, because you'll see in her
the most beautiful mop is known: the sale Marinilla Tejada is Loathing
in comparison. Is as hard as marble and zahareña as a villain Sayago
and rough as a nettle, but Easter has a face and a face of good years
in a cheek has the sun and the moon on the other, the one is made
of roses and another of carnations, and lilies are also entrambas
and jasmine.

   Do not say more but you see, and you
   will see that I have not said anything, as you might say about her
beauty.

This is goodbye two mozos mule, whose speech was dumb and talking
to the two friends who had heard, especially Avendano, in whom the
simple relationship of the youth of the mules had to mop
beauty aroused in him an intense desire to view. In repeating the words
of the young men and contrahacer mode and mimic and gestures with
which they said the way to Toledo entertained and then, being
the guide Carriazo, which again had been in that city, down the
Blood of Christ, gave the inn Sevillano, but did not dare ask it
there, because his suit is not called.

It was already dark, and although importuned to Carriazo Avendaño
who were elsewhere to find inn, she could not remove the door of
the Sevillano, waiting as if it seemed on the mop.

They entered the night and left no mop; desesperábase Carriazo
Avendaño and was staying, which, with his intention to leave with
an excuse to ask for a few knights of Burgos iban that the city of
Seville, were entered into the yard the inn, and had entered only
when in a room that was in the yard saw a girl come out, apparently
fifteen years, more or less, dressed as a farmer, with a lit candle
in a candlestick.

Avendaño not put the eyes on the dress and costume of the
girl, but her face, which seemed to see him that often paint the
angels, was suspended and amazed by her beauty, and failed to ask
anything: such was its suspension and spellbound .

   The girl saw the man before him, he said: - What are you looking
for, bro?

   Is it perchance servant of one of
   the guests from home - I am not a servant
   of none but you - replied Avendaño, all full of
   confusion and shock. [Illustration:
   I'm not grown any, but
   you ...] The girl, who was responding that way, he said:
   - Well, brother, norabuena;
   that we serve, we must not bred. And he
   called his master said: - Look, sir, what you are looking for this
man.

   He came out and asked what his master wanted.

   He replied that a few knights of
   Burgos that iban to Seville,
   one of whom was his master,
   who had sent him ahead of Alcala de Henares, where
   he had to do a business that cared about them,
      that together with him
   that this Toledo will come and wait
   in the inn of Seville, where he would
   get off, and I thought I would get that night, or another day at
the latest.

Avendaño gave such a good color to his lie, that the host has gone
through truth, as he said: - Stay, my friend, in the inn, we may
wait until his master comes. - Many grants, Mr guest - Avendaño
replied ---, and send to me thanks vues give a room for me and a
buddy coming with me, you're out there, and that brings money to
pay for as good as another. - In good time -- responded the host.

   And turning to the girl, said: - Costancica, gave Argüello carrying
these Galanes corner of the room, and to take clean sheets. - Yes
I will, sir - Costanza responded, thus called the maiden.

   And making a reverence to his
   master, they were removed before. # # _Avendaño_ Came to mind
Carriazo he had seen and leaving negotiated, which signals a thousand
knew how his friend was injured by the pestilence of love, but she
meant nothing by then, to see if deserved because of who originated
the extraordinary praise and hyperbole with which the great beauty
of Costanza on them lifting heaven.

They came, finally, in the inn, and Argüello, who was a woman up to
forty-five years, superintendent of dip of the beds and the rooms,
took them to a gentleman who was not or bred, but people
who could make between the two extremes. They called dinner, "said
Arguello at that inn did not eat anyone, dressed as the cooking and
the guests brought out bought, but it still lives and homes had been
nearby, where without scruple of conscience could go to dinner
what he wanted. They took the advice of the two Argüello, and
discovered their bodies in a cellar. The little or nothing to eat
Avendaño Carriazo greatly admired. By learning all of the thoughts
of his friend, returned to the inn, he said: - It is tomorrow morning,
because before that we are already in the heat Orgaz. - I'm not in
it - replied Avendaño -- - because I think before I start desta city
to see what they say that she is famous, as is the tabernacle, the
artifice of Juanelo the Vistillas St.

Augustine, the Huerta del Rey and Vega. - Norabuena - answered
Carriazo -: in two days that will be shown. - In truth I have to
take space, we will not reach Rome any vacancy. - Ta, ta!

   - --- Carriazo replied.

   I killed my friend, if you
   are not more desire to stay
   in Toledo to continue our pilgrimage
   began. - That is the truth -
   said Avendano. In those talks came to the
   inn, and yet it happened in similar
   half the night. which could sleep until morning, which comes, the
two got up, wanting to entrambos see Costanza.

A Costanza entrambos are fulfilled, leaving the room of his master,
so beautiful, that the two had seemed that all had given him any
praise di boy mule were short and not expensive.

Her dress was a saya and bodices of green cloth, with
some of the same cloth edging. The bodices were low, but the shirt,
high, folding the neck, with a head carved of black silk, making a
necklace of jet star on a piece of a column of alabaster that was no
less his white throat, with an upwind San Francisco cord, tape and
outstanding at the right side, a great bunch of keys.

   Not brought chinelas but two shoe soles, red, with footwear that
   is not appeared, but soon showed a profile be colored. Tranz brought
   the hair with white ribbons hiladillo; Tranz but so long that he went
   back to the waist, leaving the color brown and blond played in, but
   apparently, so clean, as well as hair and that none, even strands
   of gold, you could compare. Pendíanle the ears calabacillas two
   glass beads that appeared: the same hair he served Garbin and play.
   When he left the room, and cross oneself, and with great devotion
   and quiet was a deep reverence for a picture of Our Lady, that one
   wall was hung from the yard and lifting his eyes, saw the two who
   were looking, and there were hardly seen, when he retired and
   returned to the room. It remains now to say what it looked like
   the beauty of Carriazo Costanza, that what seemed to Avendaño,
   is that when he saw the first time. I will not say more but it seemed
   to Carriazo as well as your partner, but enamoróle attract less and
   less so, that I would not lodge in the evening, but then split up for
   their traps. The waiter came to ask the guests barley; left the
   guest house to give it, cursing their girls that they had been ido a
   guy that used to give very good mind and reason, but you would
   have done less in his view, a single grain. Avendaño, who heard
   this, he said: - no fatigue, sir host: give me the book of account,
   that day has to be here, I will give as good in barley straw and
   ask, who do not take unless the young man who said he had been ido.
   - In truth I thank you, man - replied the host --- because I can not
   attend to this; many other things I have to go outside. Down,
   I give you the book and see that these young men are mule the devil
   himself, and make a trompe l'oeil Celemín barley less aware that
   if straw. Avendaño patio and low entregóse in the book, and began
   dispatching Celemín like water, and settle in as good order, the
   guest, who was watching, was happy, and therefore he said: -
   Pluguiese pray that your love does not come, and that he would win
   you stay at home , that a faith that another rooster will sing.
   Because the guy who I was, came to my house, there will be eight months,
   broken and thin, and now wears two pairs of very good clothes, and
   goes like a big otter. Because I want that you know, son, that in
   this house there are many advantages, as well as wages. - If I stayed
   - replied Avendaño --- not gain much in repair, that I be content with
   anything to have traded in in this city, I say it's the best of
   Spain. - At the very least - the guest replied --- is the best and
   most abundant in it, but otherwise we are missing now, which is I
   will look for water in the river, I was also another guy with an ass
   that I have known I was overflowing the jars, and made a lake of
water home, and one reason because the porters are muías strike I
bring their masters inn is the abundance of water that are always
there, because do not keep their livestock to the river, but inside
the house drink thrustbelts large auger.

Carriazo All this was heard, which, seeing as Avendaño was brought
home and office, he did not want him to stay on good nights, and
more who felt that it would taste great if it continued to Avendaño
humor, and told the host: - Come on donkey, Mr Guest; cinchalle
also know that I and my partner knows cargalle as recorded in the
book their goods. - I - --- Avendano said, my partner will bring
Asturian Lope water as a prince, and I trust him.

_Enjaezó_ # # Carriazo ass, and going up a jump on it, headed to
the river, leaving Avendaño very happy to have seen his gallant
resolution.

   Here we have (in good time there is) a guy's done Avendaño inn,
   named for Thomas Peter, who said it was called and Carriazo with
   Lope Asturian made water carrier: transformations worthy to come
before the narigudo poet.

   _Al # # days siguiente_ Lope Asturian our good walking around
   the river, the slope of the Carmen, post your thoughts in traps and
   in the sudden change of status. O by either this, or because the fate
   so ordered, in a narrow passage, go down the slope, across a donkey
   in a water carrier, charged that climbed and as he fell, and
   his ass was dashing, well-disposed and little work, this meeting
   gave the ascending thin and tired, which gave him on the floor and
broken because the pitchers are also poured water on the water
carrier whose misfortune old, full of disgust and anger, lashed to
modern water carrier, which was still a knight, and took place
before and had stuck apease and recorded a dozen such clubs, you
do not know either the Asturian.

Apeóse, in order, but with such bad bowels, which attacked his enemy,
and seizing him with both hands by the throat, gave him in the ground,
and that he hit on the head with a stone, which was opened by two
parties, leaving so much blood, who thought he had died. Aguadores
Many others were there as they saw her standing so badly, lashing out
at Lope tuviéronle and grabbed hard, shouting: - Justice, justice!
Let the water carrier has killed a man and a lap and cries of
these reasons, we Molí to mojicones and sticks.

Others came to the fallen, and saw that they had cleft the head
and that was almost expired. Rose the voices of-mouth by the
uphill, and the Plaza del Carmen hit the ears of a sheriff who,
with two brackets, with more weight than if fly, was the place of
dependence, a and while the wounded were suffering on his ass and
grabbed di Lope, Lope and surrounded by over twenty Aguadores you
do not surround left before you mist the ribs so that more could
be fear of his life that the injured, according to him often on
their fists and sticks those avengers of the slander of others. the
sheriff arrived, removed the people, delivered to your brackets to
the Asturian and antecogiendo your ass, and the wounded on his own,
gave them in prison, with so many people, and all those who followed
him, that was hardly burst through the streets.

When rumor of the people, Peter and Tom went to his master's door,
to see how much came shouts, and Lope discovered between
the two brackets, full of blood on face and mouth, then looked at
his ass the host, and viola in the hands of another bracket that
had been gathered, said the cause of those prisons; fuel answered
the truth of the incident; Pesola for his ass, fearing he had lost _de
#, # _ or at least doing more costs by charging that he was worth.

Peter Thomas followed her, but let him come to speak a word, so was
the people who prevented the restraint and the brackets and the sheriff
that he was carrying.
Llegóse the Tiniente, which was curious, and listened a while, and
   not to go against gravity, the romance did not hear until the end,
   and being extremely similar across the Gitanilla well, his command
   to a page saying that the old gitana the evening was to his house
   with the gypsy, who wanted to hear donates his wife Clara. Paje thus
   made, and the old Iria said yes.

   They finished the dance and song and left the street below, and
   from a grid Some knights called gypsies.

   Preciosa Asomóse the grate, which was low, and saw a room very well
dressed and very fresh that many knights, strolling around and
playing games are entertained. - Quiérenme provide cheap, ceñores
- said Preciosa which, as gypsy ceceoso spoke, and this is artificial
in them, not nature.

   A Beautiful voice and his face, which stopped playing the game, and
ride strollers, and some others came and seen by the gate, which
already had della news, saying: - Come, enter the gitanilla; that
give them cheap here. - Caro would be it - replied Preciosa - if
we pellizcacen. - No, faith Gentleman - answered a -, you can go,
girl, sure that nobody will touch you to turn your shoe, not for
the habit that I bring to the chest. púsose And the hand on one of
Calatrava. - If you want to go in, Preciosa - said one of the three
that iban gitanilla with it - comes congratulations, I go where I
do not think there are so many men. - Mira, Cristina - Beautiful
responded - from what you've is saved as a single man alone, and
not so many together, for many be removed before the fear and
suspicion of being offended.

   Warns, Cristina, and is certain of one thing: the woman who is
determined to be honored among an army of soldiers can be.

   Truth is that good flee the occasions, but have to be secret, not
public ones. - Go, Beautiful - Cristina said - and that you know
more than a wise man.

Animólas the old gypsy, and entered and there was hardly entered
Preciosa, when she saw the knight of the habit _un_ role
came in the breast, and reaching it took him and said, Beautiful -
And do not you take me, sir, that is a romance that just give me
now that I've read yet!

   - And you know you read, the daughter - said one. - and writing -
   answered the old - and that my granddaughter hela raised me
   as if daughter of a lawyer. gentleman opened the paper and saw that
   came within a coat of gold, and said: - In truth, Preciosa, who
   brings this letter with bearing: take this shield that comes to
   romance. -- -Just - Preciosa said ---, which has treated me poorly
   poet. Well that is more true miracle to me, give me a poet, a coat
   that I receive: whether this addition has come their romances, move
   around the _Romancero general_ and send one to one, that I
   tentaré pulse, and come hard , am I soft in recebillos. admired
   were those who heard the Gypsy, and his discretion and the grace with
   which he spoke. The playing him cheap, and even those not playing. He
   took the pot from the old thirty reais and richer and more joyful
   one Easter Flowers, antecogió and their lambs were in the house
   of the Lord Lieutenant, on the other day to return to their flock to
   give content to those very liberal gentlemen. Ya notice was Mrs
   Ms Clara, wife of Lord Lieutenant, and had to go home the gitanilla
   and estábalas waiting as the water in May she and her maidens and
   masters, with the other neighbor lady yours, that all came together
   to Beautiful to watch and had just entered the Roma, where among
other precious as the resplendent light of a torch lights among
other minors, and thus, all ran to her, some hugged, others watched,
they the blessed, those the worshiped.

Ms Clare said: - That it can be said that hair of gold!

Those that do are emerald eyes! Mrs shredded all the neighboring
and pepitoria made of all its members and joints. And coming to
praise a small hole that was beautiful in the beard, said: - Oh, what
hole? In this hole must face those eyes watching him. He heard a squire
of this arm of the lady doña Clara, there were, Luengas and long
beard, and said: - My goodness, so cute Gitanilla is that made of
silver or icing could not be better!

   You know the good fortune to say, girl?

   - Three or four ways - Precious responded. - And more so - said
   Dona Clara ---. For Tiniente life, my lord, that I've said, girls
   in gold, silver and girl, girl and pearls, and girls of anthrax,
   and child of heaven, what more can I say.
   One said: "It is not possible but that is a ship of brigands in the
sea, and easily place where these people had thrown on the ground,
perhaps sabidores of our board and our parties.

If this is anxiety, as no doubt it imagine, the best remedy is to
leave some of our boats, and offer all the rescue that the barrier
would like, without dwelling on it, especially as the garments of
wives to the same lives of their husbands deserve them rescue. "
"I will be - I said then - that I will diligently this: that, for
me, the pledge will be true of my sister as if the lives of everyone
in the world."

Carino said the same thing and Solercio, they cry in public, and I
die in secret.

"When we took this decision, beginning dusk, but with all that, we
went on a boat and I dismissals with six rowers, but when went to
sea discovered, had just closed the night, whose Escura not seen any
vessel. determined to await the coming days, to see if we discovered
some clarity ship and wished luck to the two discovered, the one
that came out of shelter of the land, and another coming to take it,
knew that leaving the land was the same who had come to the island,
and on the flags in the sails, which were crossed with a red cross,
which were brought from outside the green, and some and the others
were cosarios.

Well, as I figured that the ship leaving the island was the robbers
of the dam, I put a spear in a white flag of insurance; came leaning
the side of the ship, to discuss the rescue, taking care that I
did not catch fire.

Asomóse the captain on the edge, and when I speak to talk, I can
say that the troubled and suspended in half and cut an awful way
thunder that the shooting was an artillery shot from outside the
ship, indicating that challenge to the battle ship of the land.

At the same point it was answered with another no less powerful,
and in an instant, began to the two ships guns as if they were irritated
by two acquaintances and enemies.

Desvióse our boat in the middle of the fury, and we were looking
away from the battle, and artillery, having played almost an hour,
clinging to the two ships is not a light rage. The outside of the
ship, or ventures, or for better words, more courageous, jumped
ship in the earth, and in an instant to rid the entire roof, taking
the lives of their enemies, while none with she.

The same people who the music is an outstanding position among
the revelations of the human spirit vindizieren want, not what
she has and never will attain, because it is unable to _Überzeugungen_
know - the same people also have the word 'intent' swung into place
.

In music, there's no "intention," which the lack of 'Invention'
could replace.

What does not become manifest, in the music is not there, but
the phenomenon has come, has ceased to be mere intention. The statement:
"He has intentions" is usually applied in honorable intention -
to me it seems more like a reprimand, which in German translates
dry approximately would read: the artists would like to stay, but
he can not.

_Kunst_ But by _Können_; who can not, - has "intentions." Like the
Nice Tonstücks only one in whose musical roots provisions, follow
the laws of its construction only this.

There are also a lot of fluctuating, erroneous views, of which only
one may be used. This is the sense of popular opinion resulting
theory of _Sonate_ and _Symphonie_. The Tonsetzer, it says, have four
_Seelenzustände_ different from each other, but with each other
(how?)

, Be disclosed in the individual sentences of the Sonata show. To the
undeniable context of records to justify their various effects and
to explain to you properly forces the listener to give them certain
feelings as unterzulegen content.

The interpretation fits sometimes, more often not, and never need to.
But this will always need to match that four Tonsätze into a
whole that are compensated according to aesthetic laws _musikalisch_-off
and is increasing. We owe the imaginative painter _M. v. Schwind_ a
very attractive illustration of the fantasy piano op 80 by _Beethoven_
whose individual records of the Artist as events related to the
same main characters conceives and visually represented. Just as
the painter scenes and characters from the sounds out looks, it
encourages the listener feelings and events into it. Neither has a
certain connection, but no _notwendigen_, and only with the
scientific laws have to do.

It should be mentioned often maintains that Beethoven in the design
of some of his compositions, certain events or states of mind
should have thought. Where Beethoven or any other Tonsetzer has
observed this process, he used it merely as a tool by the context of
an objective event, the detention of the musical unit easier. If
Berlioz, Liszt and Others _mehr_ than this at the gasket, the
song or the experience to have believed that it is self-deception.
The unit of _musikalischen Stimmung_ is what the four records of
a sonata characterized as organically connected, but not the context
of the composers of imaginary _Objekte_. Where this gang failed
such poetic and purely musical invented, there will be no other
parts of the unit, when a musical. It is aesthetically indifferent
as to whether any of Beethoven's compositions all specific
allegations selected and we do not know them, they are therefore the
work of non-existent. This itself, without any comment, is what exists
and how the lawyer from the world hinausfingiert, which is not in
the file is located, it is for the aesthetic assessment does not
exist, what happens outside of the artwork alive. Show us the
records of a composition as a uniform, it must be togetherness
in _musikalischen_ have their basic provisions. [20] [20] These lines
have Beethoven augurs like Mr _Lobe_ and Others very shocked. We can
not better answer than the following, in our view entirely
assenting execution _Otto Jahns_ in his essay on the new
edition of Beethoven Breitkopf & Härtel ( "Ges Essays on Music").
Jahn _Schindlers_ builds on well-known message, Beethoven have to
underline the importance of his D-minor and F minor Sonata questioned,
replied: "Read Shakespeare's only _Sturm_." Presumably, says
_Jahn_, the questioner of his reading the safe bring conviction that
Shakespeare's storm different effect on him than on Beethoven
and no D-minor and F minor Sonatas in him create. The fact that this
particular drama Beethoven to such creations could suggest, is not
without interest to learn, from the understanding that Shakespeare
herholen want, would only the inability of musical opinion
witness. In the Adagio of the F major quartet (op. 18 No. 1) Beethoven
_soll_ the tomb scene from Romeo and Julie vorgeschwebt have nothing
now about this in his Shakespeare carefully read and then while
listening to the Adagio to remember examines the is the true enjoyment
of music enhance or interfere?

Headings and notes, even authentic, even by Beethoven came, would be
the penetration into the meaning and significance of the artwork is
not greatly enhanced, it is much more to fear as much that they
give rise to misunderstandings and wrong would be like, what
Beethoven has published. The beautiful Sonata in E flat major (op.
81) known to bear the headings "Les Adieux, l'absence, le retour"
and therefore as a reliable example of program music interpreted with
certainty. "The fact that there are moments from the life of
a loving pair," says _Marx_, it can be uncertain whether the lovers
are married or not, "is you have provided, but the composition
also brings the _Beweis_."

"The Lovers Go their arms, such as migratory birds their wings, "says
_Lenz_ by the end of the sonata. Now, the original Beethoven on the
first section is written: "The farewell at the departure Sr. quays.
Sovereign of the _Erzherzogs Rudolf_, d. 4th May 1809 "and the
title of the second:" The arrival Sr. quays. Sovereign of the
_Erzherzogs Rudolf_, d. 30th January 1810. "How would he have
protested that he had the Archduke to these" in flattering Kosen
beseligter Lust "wings beating you imagine it! - "We can be
satisfied," _Jahn_ concludes, "that Beethoven (in general) those words
are not in question, which only too many leads to the error would
have, who is heading understand the understand the artwork.

His _Musik says everything he said wollte_. "One possible
misunderstanding, we finally meet it, that we our notion of" Music
and Fine "on three sides can be observed. The "Music and Beautiful"
in which we adopt specific sense is not limited to the "classical",
yet it includes a preference for the same prior to the "Romantic."

It applies in one direction than the other, dominated stream as well
as Beethoven, Mozart and Schumann as well. Our thesis thus contains
not even the hint of partisanship. The whole course of the current
investigation do not talk about _Sollen_, but sees only a _Sein_,
no particular musical makes it ideal as the truly beautiful
deduzieren, but merely to demonstrate what happens in each, also
in the opposite free schools in the same way that beauty is . It is
not long since we started, works of art in connection with the
ideas and events of the time to consider what they produced. This
undeniable link exists probably also for the music. One manifestation
of the human spirit, they must be well correlated with its other
activities: the simultaneous creation of dense and fine art, the poetic,
social, scientific conditions of their time, finally, the individual
experiences and beliefs of the author.

The viewing and subsequent instructions of this link to individual
musicians and sound is therefore well justified and deserving of
thanks. But you have to always keep in mind that such a parallel
artistic specialties with certain historic responsibility a
_kunstgeschichtlicher_, by no means a purely _ästhetischer_
operation. Thus the need to connect the art with the aesthetics of
methodological point of view appears to be but each of these two
sciences of their own non-free nature of a confusion with the other
pure. Like the historian, an artistic phenomenon broadly perceived
in _Spontini_ the "expression of the French Empire," in the _Rossini_
»political restoration" behold, - the Ästhetiker is available only to
the works of these men to keep to investigate what it was beautiful
and why. The aesthetic investigation does not know and may know nothing
of the personal and the historical circumstances surrounding the
composer's only what the artwork itself decides, it will hear and
believe. It is therefore in _Beethovens_ symphonies, even without a
name and biography of the author to know a storm, wrestling, unsatisfied
longing, defiance kraftbewußtes find only that the composer republican
minded, unmarried, was deaf, and all the other trains, which the
art historian illuminate hinzuhält, who is never read from the works
and may use the same assessment. The diversity of belief a
_Bach_, _Mozart_, _Haydn_ to compare and contrast their compositions
due to the mag for a highly attractive, meritorious undertakings,
but it is infinitely complicated, and is wrong to be so exposed,
the more stringent they want to explain the causal nexus .

The danger of exaggeration at the time of acceptance of this principle
very large. One can as easily losesten influence of simultaneity
as an inner necessity and the eternal untranslatable sound show,
just like man's needs. It is purely for the turnkey implementation
of that proposal arrive paradox that it is in the mouth of the man a
witty wisdom, in that the simple nonsense appears. _Hegel_ Also,
in discussing the music is often misled by his predominantly
_kunstgeschichtlichen_ position imperceptibly with the purely
aesthetic confused and the music definitely proves that they
themselves never had. "A connection", the character of each Tonstückes
with its author surely, he stands alone for the Ästhetiker not
reveal - the idea of necessary connection _aller_ appearances in
their concrete Following the instructions to be exaggerated caricature.

It is now a true heroism to this spicy, witty direction represented
oppose and pronounce that the "historical understanding" and the
"aesthetic judging" are different things. [21] but the lens is clear:
_erstens_ that the diversity of the expression of various works and
schools at a substantial position of the various elements based
_musikalischen_ and _zweitens_ that, due to a composition, it was
the toughest _Bach_sche fugue, or the träumerischste Notturno by
_Chopin_ and right like _musikalisch_ beautiful. [21] If we are the
"musical character heads" of _Riehl_ mention, this is nevertheless
grateful recognition with this witty inspiring book.

Still less than with the classical, the "Musical-Beautiful" with the
_Architektonischen_ together, that as the branch is taken. The rigid
majesty on succession getürmter figuration, the art-rich devour many
voices, of which _not_ freely and independently, because it _alle_
have their eternal justification. But there are those great pyramids
gloomy voice of the old Italians and Dutch equally only a small
district in the areas of musical beauty, as the many delicate shapes
drawn in the suites and concertos by Sebastian Bach. Ästhetiker
Many believe that the musical enjoyment of the pleasure and the
_Regelmäßigen_ _Symmetrischen_ sufficiently explained, but what never
a beauty, a musical full-Schönes existed. The abgeschmackteste theme
can be built completely symmetrical. "Symmetry" is just a term
relationship and leaves the question open: _Was_ is it, this
is balanced? - The regular arrangement of soulless, worn particle is
currently in the worst of all compositions can demonstrate. The musical
sense requires _neue_ always symmetrical formations. [22] [22] Allow
me to explain here a passage from my book, _The Modern Oper_ "(Preface
p. VI) should be mentioned:" The famous axiom that there could be a
'truly Beautiful '(- who is a judge on this property? -) never,
even after the longest time, lose its magic, the music is little
more than a nice saying. The music makes it as nature, which every
autumn with a world full of flowers can be used to upgrade from
the new flowers emerge. All the tone poem is a human creation, the
product of a certain individuality, time, culture, and therefore
always permeated by elements faster or slower mortality. Among the
major forms of music is again the opera together statutory test,
conventional, and therefore ephemeral.

It may be sad agree that even the finest operas of newer and shinier
Education (Spohr, Spontini) already vanish from theater to begin. But
the fact is incontestable and the process is unstoppable in all
the periods of the stereotypical evil Schelten 'Zeitgeist'. The time
is also a spirit, and creates her own body. The stage represents
the forum for the real needs of the audience, in contrast to the
study of the silent reader score.

The stage is the life of the drama, the struggle for their possession
of the struggle for his existence. In this battle victorious even
less often a better piece of art on its ancestors, if the same
breath of the present, the pulse _unseres_ feelings and desires us
entgegenbringt. Audience how artists feel a legitimate drive for
novelty in music, and a criticism, just admiration for the old and
not even the courage of recognition for the New undermines production.
The beautiful immortality we must renounce faith, - but has each time
with the same confidence cheated the immortality _ihrer_ proclaimed
best operas. Even Adam Hiller in Leipzig argued that if ever the
operas _Hasses_ no longer should delight the general barbarism
should befall.

_Schubart_ Still, the music of Ästhetiker Hohenasperg, assured of
_Jomelli_ that it is not conceivable that this tone poem ever
could be forgotten. And what are we today and Hasse Jomelli? "Most
recently, for the music, the Platonic view _Oerstedt_ from the example
of the circle develops, the beauty of it positive vindiziert. If he
never quite appalling a circular composition itself have
experienced? Cautious perhaps than necessary was finally added to the
musical beauty with _Mathematischen_ has nothing to do. The idea
that lay people (including sensitive writer) cherish the role of
the mathematics of musical composition to play is a curiously vague.
Not satisfied with the vibrations of the sounds, the distance of the
intervals, the Konsonieren and Dissonieren on mathematical
relationships can be traced back, they are convinced the _Schöne_
a tone poem was based on figures.

The study of harmony and counterpoint to the point applies to a kind
of Kabbalah, the "calculation" of the composition teaching. If
the exploration of the physical part of the music to mathematics
provides an indispensable key to let in the finished Tonwerk
however, its importance should not be overestimated.

In a tone poem, whether it be the best or the worst, is nothing
mathematically calculated. Creations of the imagination are not
arithmetic. All Monochordexperimente, Klang figures interval
proportions, etc. do not belong here, the area _ästhetische_ starts,
where the elementary conditions in their importance have ceased. The
mathematics governs only the elemental substance geistfähiger
treatment and plays hidden in the simplest conditions, but the
musical idea without it coming to light. _Oerstedt_ When asked: "Should
probably the lifetime of several mathematicians sufficient _Mozart_schen
all the beauties of a symphony to be calculated?" [23], so I confess
that I do not understand. _Was_ Do you or can be calculated? Around
the vibration ratio of each tone to the next, or the lengths of the
individual periods against each other? What a tone poem to music and
makes it from the number of physical experiments and lifts, is a free,
intellectual, and therefore unpredictable. On musical _Kunstwerk_
mathematics has an equally small and equally large proportion of the
achievements like the rest of the arts. Because mathematics must
also end the hand of the painter and sculptor that weaves in mathematics
Gleichmaß of verse and stanza lengths, Mathematics in the construction
of the architects, in the figures of the dancer. In any exact knowledge,
the application of mathematics as a sense of activity, a job. Only a
really positive, creative force you have to admit you do not
want, as some musicians, the aesthetics of these conservatives,
people would have.

It is similar to the mathematics, as with the production of emotions
in the audience, - it is held in all the arts, but excessive noise
is just about in the music. [23] »Spirit in Nature", 3rd Volume,
German of Kannengießer. P. 32 Even with the _Sprache_ one has the
music often to parallelize and the laws of the former for the latter
to be tried. The _Gesanges_ of kinship with the language was close
enough, you might now the equality of physiological conditions or
at the common character as a divestment of the Interior through
the human voice. The relationship is analogous to striking than the
fact that we here at this time would, therefore making it only explicitly
acknowledged that, where is the music is really just a subjective
divestment of an inner urge to act, in fact, the legality of the
partial human _sprechenden_ decisive for the _singenden_ will be.
That Advised with passion in his voice rising, while the soothing
voice of the speaker to fall, that sets specific weight slowly,
things indifferent Besides talking fast, this and similar is the
song composer, especially the _dramatische_, must not ignore. Young
man has with these analogies is not limited merely _sondern_ the _Musik
selbst_ as a (vague or finer) _Sprache_ drawn out, and now her
beauty from the natural laws of language abstracted want. Each property
and effect the music has similarities with the language back. We are
of the view that, where it is the specificity of an art, its differences
from related fields are more important than the similarities.
Oblivious by these often tempting, but the very essence of the music
did not take the aesthetic analogies must constantly study to penetrate
the points where language and music are irreconcilably different.
Only from this point the music will be truly fruitful provisions
can sprout. The essential difference, however, is that in the
language of _Ton_ only one character, namely

Andres warned tonillo watching these smooth words and false
giggle that followed. - Not at all. My distractions are identical
to those of you and around the world. - Come, sir, do not say that for
God. Ya know that brings all the girls instead of jumbled words
with honey. In particular, my niece can not hide the fact that Rose
is chaladita the poor. "This guy wants me to pull the tongue,
and understand why I expected," thought Andrew. - Bah! the joke and
laugh with the girls, I do and what do you do and all.

   It is a distraction that you have nowhere left. - Well, yes,
   sir, so far, but the bromitas a couple of very handsome, so smart
and funny as you tend to bring other result than ours. - Mil thanks,
D.

   Jaime, it's favor. I think that when the jokes are innocent,
   or some other cause or result. - I said, but I do not think. No
   boy of the village or the contour has to tame my niece Rosa you
   more ... It was a mountain goat, and you have a soft and loving as a
   kitten ... - What nonsense! I speak with Rosa or otherwise with
   other young people, nor will it set me more than any other man. -
   The truth is that it has had very good taste, sir ... Pimpollito
   Rosa is a very fresh and very tasty - Don Jaime said, as if he had
   not heard the words of Andrew. - It is a very cute and funny ...
   but I've never spoken more than a good friend ... as well as his
   sister Angela ... - What a rat will have spent so nice about it
   after that has Mansito! - But do not tell you, man of God, I have
   no more relations with Rosa that of pure friendship? - Andres said
   quite sharply. - It is not uncomfortable, sir, no uncomfortable ...
   You young people are fans of the court to have fun when presented the
   opportunity. Nothing in particular and have fun playing a bit with
   Rosita ... - I do not enjoy playing with Rose or the treatment to
   a very decent girl, the daughter of a family who believe ... To
   play and have fun in the sense that you suggest, I look for another
kind of women. - Come on, sir - said the Indian sweet and insinuating
accents - and that is slipping occasionally abraço .. . and more!

- Mr D. Jaime, you are offending me. I repeat to you that I have not
gone through anything like the imagination that ... And I am
surprised that you ask your niece also believe that the
offense may suffer ... - This is a joke, sir, do not be offended ...
As for what we were talking, I happened by the Baby-sitting pass the
time. I know that you are unable ... and Rosita, but a living genius,
is well educated by his father ... - I am glad that you did not think
such nonsense ... and if you think the worse for you that is wrong.
The Indian apologized again. Andrew spoke to gossip a bit of the
people and these dimes and forth gave him, which cut our young and
very suddenly the conversation to his pleasure. - Well, D. Jaime, I
follow the parsonage until the hearing. - Go with God, sir, have
fun.

Madrileño couple climbed the cranky and the crestfallen repechito
until he had left the house of his uncle, and while it was slowly ,
did not stop to ask any questions: - Why will this draw Bergant
dear? "The idea that Andrés XI formed by rumors and conjecture rather
than experience, mellow D. Jaime was right. Limited understanding,
awareness turbid appetites awake, the gentle and dangerous condition
as the water stopped. Her father had embarked on the fourteen years
between other thousands of sheep to the human city annually sent
overseas to the colonies. In the fifties he had become, without
education, without religious beliefs and health, but with thirty or
forty thousand hard won in the bottom of a cellar to sell rice and
tasajo blacks. The life of caged beast that observed for a period of
thirty-six years was not on purpose to develop the germs of intelligence
and goodness of God's providence does not deny any human creature.
Your thoughts, feelings and acts of his will were all vulgar and
sordid.

In contrast, confinement and fright enardeció temperament and inclined
to sensual pleasures, looking for them in compensation for the
freedom, education and social treatment offered. Well stated interests
in the coarse opaque look of his eyes, sunken and lost, and the
cadaverous pallor of the cheeks, which also contributed to the
chronic illness that plagued him for some years. Upon arriving in
the summer prior to his hometown had stayed with his brother
Thomas, who thought it was fortunate it came through the door. Soon
came in view of its error. The Indian, though money would not display
it. Long it took six months for guest in the house, making a few
sacrifices for gift, reward without some more light gifts to the
girls and Rafael. When asked more money to buy cattle and had to
pay some peaks, D.

Jaime got very bad, but they gave it on loan to ten per cent: it
was a special grace, for the most part I had placed the twelve.

   Since then the Indian was
   in his brother's house on tenterhooks as: fear every new demands
and also feared that the loss of revenue which had been provided.

   If it was not because the acting and thanks to Rosa about her life
   and burning influence, had gone immediately. This influx of rude nature,
   which he was retained and also that he was later forced to disband.
   Let's see how. Not cheerful and outspoken nature of her niece, or
   the singular grace that gave their words and attitudes, or the
   rare pride that kept his innocence, which were captivated D. Jaime.
   In this way, his passion, even senile, find an excuse. The
   only thing I saw and appreciated the way Rose was, or closer to
   the truth, flesh. It was not even able to feel other passions
   include more increases.

   Seemed, so I saw her, a tasty morsel. After a few days to live
   near and long contemplate in all postures, designed by a clumsy and
   unbridled enthusiasm. Guardose to show it, because behind its flaws,
   and even overcoming them, there was the practical man, the
   villager selfish and suspicious. I was afraid that his known weakness,
   the family used to plunder. Besides, I did not want to be compromised.
   In imitation of many other villagers who had arrived in Cuba with
money before him, sought to ennoble his blood and gain more prestige
by joining in some poor village girl, abandoned by this old and
young.

   But while not shown, the one seeking out. As of carnal man, was
   authorized to use some familiarity with the girl that they would
   be allowed to other men Jaime used and abused. As I lived under one
   roof and was in continuous contact with her for all the duties
   of life, it took very edge of their faculties more than they would
   another man less dirty. "Rosita, Rosita .-- get me this, go for
   another .-- Rosita rises over this bank and those shoes alcánzame .--
   Rosita, Rosita .-- Atama film, Hit me on the button of his shirt."
   And when they would come and when they climbed down, yellow and hairy
   hands of D. Jaime the pinch, the sobaban, and squeeze the mimaban.
   Rosa, although sometimes embarrassed when caricias boarding point and
   also showing some vague concern that it was not explained, thanks
   to the welcoming, believing simply preferred his uncle, or that he
   had sympathized with him.

   Not noted that the poor are not so frequent and lavished a
   live view of the other as to be alone. And as time slips, the Indian
   requemado was melting more and more praise, entertaining his
   shameful sensuality. But came a moment when the fire grew so that
   had to be throwing fuel or feed it off suddenly, so penalty burned
alive in her.

And chose the former. Not be thinking about marriage: what solemn
dislate judged not only by the benefits that could result in another
union, but because it missed forever on your shoulders the burden
of the whole family. And regardless of who was the daughter of his
brother, a poor ignorant girl who respected him as a man and
gentleman, thought otherwise. And not just thought but put her on
the way to work thought.

   Began to prepare the
   ground.

   Effect was to gradually distorting the nature of their
   parental caresses, but the young savior warned by the voice of
   decency, without thinking anything bad about his uncle, the instinctively
   avoided, not to approach him when he could not do it and move on
   escapándosele hand was forced when placed within their reach. D.
   Jaime then changed tactics: since he could not seduce with flattery,
he tried to corrupt with words.

   Top with green stories,
   Rosa listened
   without understanding
   most of the time, well then he took care to explain it.

Followed later with the rude and two-way, and concluded by phrases
obscene discharged at all moments of the day in the ears of the girl.

   Neither achieved the proposed outcome. Rosa, to hear that
   mass of filthy, his uncle thought he was crazy or had got some devil
   in the body, as he had heard many times refer to the examples of the
   novenas, and ran away from him carefully, and walked by the home shock,
   disturbed, terrified, but without daring to tell us what
   happened to his father or Angela. The U.S., desperate, and desperate
   to get anything by these means, then threw to a criminal attempt.
   Long went prowling the right time and looking for opportunity to
   meet alone with Rosa and in circumstances where it could carry out its
   purpose some hope of success. Finally believed that. The time was the
   best church on Sundays, when he touched the girl's house is saved,
because the village was so lonely and most of the houses closed.

   In Thomas, for being somewhat aloof, always was one taking care
   of it, one Sunday a Sunday and another the next. D. Jaime Rosa's
   turn waited impatiently and concealed their intentions.

   When the bell went to church played at the church with other
   families. That day, rather than go to the sacristy, as always, was
   at the door, and little time to get the priest at the altar, silently
   walked away from the church and took the road of Molino precipitously.
   When he arrived, Rosa was next to the fire by arranging the food.
   When he saw his uncle in front, gave a roll heart, became pale,
   as in the light of a serious danger. Mediated short. Don Jaime
   complained of a strong stomach pain and Rosa was ready to make a cup
   of tea. But before they had finished, the American suddenly hugged.

   She, on this that this sudden attack, did not even gave a cry or a
   word, but rejected it with force and decision. There was a deaf and
   furious battle that lasted well. The girl defended gallantly and won
   by three or four times to break through the hands of the old, but he
   pursued by the corner of the kitchen and came back to fix it. At
   first, she kept trying and even a certain respect disengaged without
   hurt. Little by little, given the tenacity of his brutal uncle, was
   incensed, subiósele blood all over his face, and seen again on the
   verge of being caught, he raised his hand and closed it with
   him in full face tremendous blow which made him fall backwards,
   bleeding from the nose. Also was hurt by falling on the head with one
   of the cuts from the seat. Azorica Rosa opened the door and ran
   without knowing where. When he returned, after an hour of roaming
   the roads, found the family engaged in self-care to disaster
indiano: Tomás applying cloth wine and rosemary; Angela doing tila
to remove the shock.

Contrary to expectations, no one was aware of what happened, nor a
word said to him suspicious.

   D. Jaime had already
   settled the matter, which had been counting down to reach a jug
of milk from the top of the cupboard, while Rose had gone to see a
neighbor.

   After a few days after the wound to heal from the head determined
   to leave his brother's house and moved to town, where the innkeeper
   is accommodated to keep, as well as your other guest, the toilet in
   the parish, for a modest stipend. Several reasons had to change
   residence. The first and most important was the fear that Rosa
   discovers his attack, because from that day he addressed
   nor even looked at him, which could draw the attention of his father,
   and come in there knowing what happened. Another fear was, as we
   have said, of losing money or being forced to open the bag again.
   Thomas felt as far as understood at last that little or nothing
could be expected because of his brother.

   Instead Rosa had a real joy. The Indian continued visiting from
   time to time, always mourn for any loss or bankruptcy of its flow,
   so that they are not moved by the imagination sue pecuniary aid.

   The passion for Rosa, but now mixed rancor, no drain, before it
   seemed to grow with the distance and remember the strong mojicón
   received. Particularly when Andrew arrived in April and began to
   Riofrío requebrar his niece, was lit so with remarkable fuel jealousy.
   He was aware that the miserable Rosa despised him more as we would
   like the treatment of young madrileño. This figure of the girl was
   growing in his heated brain, and that before he found a whimsical
   rapazuela good only for a fleeting devaneo, to see her now celebrated
   and pursued by a couple distinguished from the court, it
   acquired its major eyes and thought oh power of vanity! worthy of
   being loved _por what fino_. In this mood, it will be easy to
   understand how much success atormentaría that when people say and
   what he watched, Andrew got their sweethearts. Absolute seeming
   indifference, continued to spy on their progress, inquiring here
   and there when the observation was not enough. Neither lost a single
   detail reflecting the emergence of love in the breast of the
   girl, suffering each thousand tortures and desviviéndose, however,
   to find out. After Round started thinking that I could complete
   once their sentences, get successful and get to that soon: to marry
   Rosa. It was very hard, however, abandon its noble ambitions and
   forever be linked to a villager zafia a family that had already
weighing on their backs forever.

   So, as soon as it came to
   mind was quick to reject it.

   But the devilish idea presented back to back with more bright colors.
   Became spike through a number of thoughtful reflections. A few
   days again colársele Magín the most cheerful and dazzling than before.
   Trabose then a real battle in the minds of our Indian, whose result
   he was restless, silent and uncovered, with no desire to eat, wandering
   through the paths until well into the night. Not tired despite the
   drawbacks of union with her niece, who had no or few mild. But at the
   same time as the passion and jealousy spurred him while he roían,
sometimes they seemed to him nothing, and decided on a marriage.

   At the same time are married and descasaba several times. In
   such a state of indecision, heartbreak was when the American
   did what we saw in the previous chapter: the encounter with the
   young and amartelados conversation with Andrew, who wanted to draw.

   That night he Picarones crudelísimamente jealousy and the demon
   of delight to him by his beautiful niece and appealing than ever. While
   giving an end to all his ambitions and fears, it was decided to
   leave this miserable state by making it yours. Taken this resolution,
   rested as if they took a great weight lifted and managed to sleep
   peacefully. The next day, although it was not Sunday, as if
   he was shaved, it was another pair of trousers, put his fingers in all
   its rings, and after taking the chocolate company to offer apologies
   and a cigar, much to the generosity that surprised clergyman, went
   to her room to fix a little hair, and instantly left the house and
   took the road of Molino with sparking ojuelos , dry throat and
   lips trembling. I never saved the distance between the village and
   his brother's house so quickly. When he arrived, Thomas was starting
   in front of the wood door. - Where the hell you come so early?

   - Asked lifting his head with surprise. - Hey, Tom, I need to talk
to an important matter ...

   Come on up. The miller took it visibly upon hearing these words.
   Thought that his brother was going to call the loan all at once. -
   Come on - replied quietly, dropping the ax on his hands. And both
   came into the house and went up one after another, the stairwell that
   smoked leading to the room. D. Jaime sat: Thomas was standing. -
   Well, Thomas - echándose that began back in his chair and playing with
   the watch chain, fat as a Maroma, - I will tell you with a reservation
   ... I always had confidence in you, and you know you've given enough
   evidence of appreciation ...

   The circumstances that make a ... we ... No one does things
   when you want them, but when you can ... you know ... You know that
   you appreciate, is not it? Thomas despavorida with the face and eyes
   on the floor, made a sign of affirmation. - You know you've
   given enough evidence apreciarte, and appreciate your family .. . I
   think you appreciate me like I love you, and the family the same ...
   Well, Tom, I gotta tell you ... It seems to me that I'm not alone
   either ... A man just is not right, do not you think? Signal affirmative
   Thomas, who began to doubt and confusion. - I am, as you know, very
   loving ... I can not deal ... I appreciate when a person, I can
   give you the blood of the arm, are we ... So with the family I have
   always been very frank ... you know ... What I had, has always been
   yours ... I have always treated as what they are ... because I never
   hurt me to spend one, two or three, with the family through ...

   Well, Tom, I'm already old ... I have two years more than you
   ... Do not you think I should marry? Thomas was already less
   afraid, but on hearing these words was a sharp disappointment: he
had always intended to inherit his brother.

   Sought, however, does not leave forward and answered vaguely,
   with their eyes fixed on the floor: - Yes ... yes ... if you like
   ... - I decided ... I love family ... After working so many years
   away from his people, it needs a rest ... Can not married but live
   ... surrounded by family ... looking after their interests ...
   I got very careless, well you know ... I stole one and it is because
   I have no attachment to money ... What I have? If married, because
   otherwise it would be ..., look more to take care of it and
   not releasing it as loose ...

Tom, you know that you can marry a girl ... Although I am not a young
man, none of the village would say _envido_ not tell me _quiero_
... Today, among girls, are wins gold ... But I'm very concerned
... I pulled a lot of family ... and that of tomorrow or another day,
if you miss the Marquis of hunting, take your daughters to go to
serve a master, it hurts a lot ... You can believe it. There was a
long pause, during which Thomas was burning curiosity to know
what would stop it, but concealing it well.

   The American continued: - You
   have a daughter working ranchers and
   ... It would be very well educated
   ... shame that would be obliged to serve the Poor, or marry a poor
peasant who kills the hunger ...

At the time I was here a lot with them fondly ...

   And, frankly ... we ... between a ... that
   the end is my niece ... and another one, I prefer to be the one
that took me ...

   Tom's eyes shone with joy, but the
   dominance exercised by the peasants on
   her emotions, she began to cross
   with some surprise mocking. - Mal years for you, demon!

... ¡Bad year for you! ... I never thought! Devil ... What fly has
bitten you - Well I have bitten your daughter Rosa. - I smelled
it myself! The devil is that girl ... Artera more she does not exist
across the river ...

Look for you to catch a fish as long as you, who has run seven
games, will have been given the morning indina! Thomas thus flattered
the vanity of his brother, who laughed beatific, despite knowing what
stick in their seductive skills. - Well, Jaime - villager continued
shrinking of the shoulders - if I had to take another rascal, you
better be you. D. James River also grace: everything was for reírlo.
- She is listed as an eel and jumping like a goat ... but has the
heart like a fresh lard ...

It is very noble ... very noble ... and at the same time very loving
...

   Taking care of a little fix
   for the leg will be like a lamb ...

   Then nothing to eat ... Melindrosa The same happens with meat
   with a few beans in there ... in the pan masera, is already met
   ... Do not be a waste fourth, Jaime ... This was the heart of
   the Indian, who was unhappy with a particular whistle, while
   giving strong pat on the knee. - I will call to give the news ...
   Not walk very far very naughty ... Surely you know what we are
   talking about ... ¡The flight to catch! The villagers came
   to the stairwell and shouted: - Angela, di Rosa to come away ...
   It's in the garden picking avellana ... The face of the
   Indian clouded at the thought that would be against the couple.
   For the first time it happened that could snub. Rosa submitted
   soon. - What do you want me, father? - Say hello to your uncle,
   woman ... do not you get the hidden - Thomas uttered in the tone
of buzzing, which rebosaba joy.

   The girl was shocked and motionless. - Come on, Picarones -
   said the father shook rudely by the shoulder - that has caught
   good bird ! - Me! - Yeah, you! ... Here is your uncle, who was like
   a thousand sheep ... What the hell have you made to hold and
   eat by the ears? And seeing as the girl watched him with
   increasing surprise: - Open eyes, tunanta ... open your eyes!

   ... Just tell me that wants to be your husband. Entrecejo Rosa frunció
   suddenly, and after a moment of hesitation, that his lips trembled,
   as if to say many things at once, let dry out these words: -
   No I want be his wife. carcajada Thomas released a crash. Accustomed
   to the original departure of her daughter, she thought it was one of
   them and found it very funny. - Do not laugh, father, do not laugh, I
   say that as there is God in heaven, I do not want. The villager
   suddenly cut the thread of his laughter and was looking ecstatic.
- Go, go, girl ...

   What I sing you there! - Do not want to.
   - Thief! Thief! ... Cow thieves ... Let me
   Cherry, thief! ... Let the cow thief! And so often with such fury
   and stones, which a sheriff was forced to turn to punish him. The boy
   was safe to run.Rosa released a pup, he was right to get between the legs of the
   mother, and began to suck eagerly, giving frequent head down the
   milk. Youth contempláronla laughing. After a while, Rosa started the
   strength to live there, and returned to secure the scene: after
   milking was made, with very good track. When the jug was mediated wood
   was offered to Andrew, but this gallant negose to accept it if she
   did not drink before. Hot and foamy milk left on the lips of a fence
   Rosa as a white mustache. Andrew took it, laughing, with a kiss. Then
   he drank the remainder. That gave them breakfast campestre joy without
   knowing why, look at laugh. The court took a couple of silver coin
   and threw it into the bowl. The village seemed a shocking waste of
   the milk they had taken very little value; metérsela wanted back
   in his pocket, but Andrew insisted on leaving, and left. Rose
   again after the bird, and agreed that Rose stood motionless and well
   hidden among the grass if Jose came while the young people down and
   tell the maximum premium for it subiese clothes. He jumped from the
   window to the ground without any nothing, and was ready to descend
   to the village, which was a little bit from there, seated at the foot
   of the hill. The morning was beautiful and fresh. The sun, which relucía
   live in the beautiful blue sky, not enough to fine tune the breeze
   that came from the mountains, where one day and another began to
   jell snow. The valley of Marin was narrower than that of Riofrío,
   but no less cheerful and pleasant. Offered by the station
   we found a yellow that the sun became bright and golden. Chestnut
   trees and forests of beech, with its green foliage and gualdo, similarity
   extended large brocade fabrics on the hills and mountains.

The white houses hung here and there, facing each other, sent a
greeting morning.

   Around the village there was a circle
   of trees that gave shade and just. There
   in the background shone like a crystal river, among the withered
foliage of aquatic plants.

   Andrew was happy and satisfied, despite the
   care that imposed the original situation
   that had been placed.

To health had been force to cope with setbacks in life. The peacefulness
of the countryside, acting as a calming excited about his body, had
made him self-confidence and poise. At that moment as never enjoyed
the fullness of life: her heart beat strong and measured: rebosaba
the joy of heaven and earth in their being entered as a balm
fortification.

   Fell by step live on the
   wet grass, then jumped to a road that went towards the village.

   The land, covered with hard frost and dry under his feet
   sounded. Came to the view of people and went through the middle. Riofrío
   that was smaller and not flat like this, but not yet: the houses small
   and uneven, with rough wooden corridors, from which hung long strings
   of yellow maize cobs in the sun as precious carpets of gold tissue.
   At that moment all was bustle and animation on the streets. Not just
   neighbors, but many people the day before arrival, they went merrily,
   talking loudly, laughing and calling loudly. Below the granaries,
   resting on makeshift tables had large well-filled wine zaques not
   soon deflated. Tied to the bars of the windows were harnessed hack
   many of the pilgrims who had just arrived. The guys in suits aspados
   new premieres, were eager crowd that turned around and respectful
   cohetero. Above the golden ears peeked his head, adorned with scarves
   and garish colors, the young village.
   - Hey you, Celeste, who is that girl brunette to the left of the
   man in the beret? - What, the blue scarf - No, the scarf and black
   coral in the throat ... Now that is fired, look at you. - Oh, yeah
   ... the daughter of Thomas the miller ... Do not feel you there, D.
   Andrés ... (lowering voice pitch and confidential). I will give you
   much to know other kind as you improve a little ... This is a mare.
   VIII of the month found in the Brañas Andres had improved markedly.
   No other medications constantly walking outdoors, ride times
   caballejo of his uncle, leaving others with a hunting Celeste (actually
   a scare birds), playing bowling, sleep and get up early, went appetite
   disappeared and the extreme weakness was concerned.
   I would try. And with
   the hope of a tender farewell to the young villager and justify its
   actions, the heart he danced for joy. When the toilet up to the
   pulpit, finished his prayer, he could not repress a gesture of
   impatience. While D.

   Jose, at the top of the sacred chair, it sounded herbs with tissue
   and clean nose is repeatedly measured in a way and imposing, to
   exert himself healthy fascination in the minds of those simple peasants,
   the priest of Riofrío transformed _hostiario_ in, ordering the
   contest so that everyone could easily hear the speaker. And to watch
   the whole church and have no boy has been exceeded, opened with a
   crutch through the center aisle and began to walk through the door
since it seriously until the altar, and vice versa, warned at the
first grinding the hulls that desmandase. toilet top in a very
short, very short, for more solemnity.

   Then it was gradually rising up to the cock ring in the church like
a thunder.

   Seemed to work a miracle that such stentorian voice that depart
   lilliputian corpuscle. While it is true that the heat of their
   theological convictions should be the main part to strengthen it.
   For Andrew, who was ready to hear appeal, it seemed very well Exordium
   sermon, elegant, elegant. The paragraphs that followed desdecían lot
   from him. Later re-release another period majestic and grand,
   that our young happy about, but then despeñó in a farrago of
chocarrerías and vulgarity, which was no less astonished, "Oh man
an original, 'he said to himself .

   Another period of higher quality, another fool and dragged away.
   Finally, Andrew, through some original sentence that seemed to
   have read, was on the runway and came to understand what that jumble
   of good and bad things meant. D. Joseph was a wonderful sermon on
   breaking Bordalue. The cloth was higher, but the darn
   obnoxious. It seemed so to the pastor, who continued walking calmly
   through the center of the church, put their terrible eyes in every
   corner, ready to suppress any irreverence. No one ever passed
   in front of the pulpit not nodding as his coadjutor was advocating.
   I once came up to say aloud: "Well, Jose, all right." With this
   excuse is encouraged to want to throw the entrails by mouth to scream
   pure. But when the adoption became a priest and there was more
   excitement was when ostensibly D. Jose began to draw the painting of
   a monstrous animal and hediendo: face hairy like a monkey, pointed
snout and hyenas, and crossed eyes sunken, lips hanging claws like
ogres ...

   The priest did not understand the prompt. Standing in front of the
   pulpit, still very curious what the toilets, making futile efforts
   to guess to whom it referred. After he came to find out where
   the toilets put your monster a Phrygian cap on his head. - Ah Yes,
   Garibaldi - full of joy cried !...-- Okay, well ... It ¡Duro, D.
   José hard on it, hard at that crook! ... And started walking again
   muttering insults against the enemy of the Pope. D. Joseph also
   continued to give hard, as you suggest, for a while. Then moved to
   another issue and finally ended up wanting all the glory to the
   eternal present. When people left the church was already dark. Andres
   was ambushed near by, and when to sign Rafael abocole with due
   precautions to avoid being noticed.

   The boy was shortened and discontent that conference. Time and
   did not hear his father's curse that gentleman madrileño. Moreover,
   he had been the cause of the cows to auction. So when Andrew
   proposed to carry a message to his sister, resolutely said that was
   not involved in anything and tried to depart. - Wait a little,
   Rafael ... I am leaving tomorrow for Madrid and not go over this
   land ... But before I leave I say goodbye to your sister ... To
   you it's bad for you that your father or not ... I do, because the
   poor do not think that the disdain ... As quedaréis me go in peace.

   Your uncle is casual and will give you money again to buy cows and
   will marry your sister ... The boy was silent. Andrew realized
   that he doubted his departure. - If you think I am going you can not
   ask the servant of my uncle, who fell today horse del monte ... And
   seeing as it hesitated out of the pocket and a silver coin was
   placed in hand. - What do you want to tell Rosa? - That when you hear
   whistling in the street tonight, get me into the kitchen and open
   the door. - But Angela did not see sleeping with her? -- -I know ...
   you leave the room when everyone is asleep, without making noise
   ... Angela has a heavy sleep ... - Well, I will tell yo ... and
   then she do what you think. - That is: thank you very much,
   Rafael. The boy was left unanswered.

   Andrew entered the parsonage, was the last hand to the crew, went
   to the block to see what had fallen the horse, and when the time
   came it was at dinner with his uncle. While the dinner lasted spoke
   little. Andrew was worried and impatient, his uncle showed sad, and
   seeing that it was also the nephew, quiet, grateful for this
   sadness, which he believed originated from the march. Shortly
   after the two retired to their rooms. The priest told him: - You
   can sleep in his leg loose, Andrew. I got it at the time of call.
   Instead of doing what his uncle was in charge, went quietly
   home when assumed that all were asleep, and straightened up the
   steps towards the Mill. The night was fresh, like all fall into that
   country, the sky cleared and covered with stars, the moon was not yet
   released. To set foot outside the home, the peacefulness of the
   countryside as a toilet is refreshed and calmed her feverish impatience.
   Declined slowly in the rectory road, crossed the town slept and
   entered the dark ravine. There, despite the clear environmental,
   walked almost in darkness. Monotonous noise of the stream that ran
   beside him and gave him the dark melancholy. Could not believe that
   was the last time we crossed that road, and beaten many times with
   such a joy for a few months.

   Upon seeing the withered foliage of trees whiten the house of
   Rosa, was even worse impressed. Acercose cautiously to it, he hid
   behind a tree, and sticking their fingers in their mouths launched
   a sharp and prolonged whistle.

   A whistle thus had taught his friend Celeste in the raids at night
   to do there in the spring. Waited a good while, the light fixed
   on the door and attentive ear, but nothing he saw or heard. Launched
   and became the second whistle to expect. The soul he fainted seeing
   the house kept her peace of the tomb. Turned to blow with more
   force. Then imagine that he heard a faint and vague rumor in the
   building. All was illusion, the door remained closed. "Oops, muttered
   angrily, fastened the Gabán That rascal has not given the message,
'and then, sadly," Goodbye, Rosita, and will not see you.

   "And so his regret, after waiting a while yet, he began to
   slowly move away from those sites, and thinking with his heart
   heavy. When the people again, when he was out of his meditation.
   Rather than continue to the rectory, sat on a tree that was in
front of the first houses.

   He took the watch and saw that they were not more than ten, and
   had no desire even to bed, determined to enjoy a moment of
   beauty and serenity of the night. The fresco was too alive to stand
   still long. Began to tumble by the contours of the site. Did not
   know how it was, but the eleven was fourth again in front of the
   house of Rosa, with his fingers in his mouth and throwing a hissing
   sound that vibrated in the acute and penetrating close ravine.
   Hopefully. You will not hear anything. Nothing. What a nuisance!
   I think ... Yes, barely a rumor. Something bigger. Oh that, they open
   the door - you, Rosa - Chiiiis not speak, D. Andrew ... - Can I
   come in - he said so you do not hear it over and the neck of the
   shirt. - Yes, very slowly ... Beware of making noise!

   ... Wait, let me close the door ... You will run into something. Give
   me your hand, I will take up the seat. They were actually in
   complete darkness. Rosa spoke in falsetto, so quietly that his
   words came out of his mouth as levísimo blow. He took the hand of
   Andrew and gently guided him to the front seat that had the home,
   which had been gathering so many times in the afternoon rain. She
   sat, and pulling the hand to the couple forced him to sit too. - I
   thought you had Rafael not my message. An hour ago I was whistling
   there before - he said in falsetto and hold the hand of his friend.
   - Well I heard, I heard well, but Angela was awake and could not
   get off ... Certainly made me laugh when I said: 'You hear, Rosa? There
   is an aunt of Juan María whistling. Want to open ... Well you can
   wait sitting ...-- Yes, yes, I said to myself, not bad for John Aunt
   Mary the whistling. "I did sleep without grumbling, to see if she
   slept well, but nothing; that sin appeared to have nettles below
   today. Did not cease to round and round ... - Well, for a bit I leave
   without farewell. - How to say no - she asked warmly, leaving the
   falsetto. - But you do not say anything Rafael -- I said you
   come over tonight to talk to me, and that silbaría down for me
   ... Nothing more. - Well, I told him it clear that I am going to Madrid
   ... and warned that a tremor in his hand that was caught and stopped.
   Rosa did not say a word.

   He also kept silent, and repented having given the news and so suddenly.
   The sudden trembling hand that praised him and his self enterneció.
   After long time of silence she said with a muffled voice, as if you
   lack the encouragement - I am sorry to have known, D. Andrés. This,
   I thought it was a recrimination, was quick to reply: - I did not
think your parents take things so far ...

   I have been told that almost kills you
   yesterday ... - Ignore: hit
   me more than others .-- And after a pause
   he added bitterly: - I wish I had killed!

   - Want to die - he asked shocked. - Yes - she replied firmly. -
   Poor Rosa! - said stroking the hand of the village .-- I have caused
   much damage ... ... forgive me - Why? ... You have not had any
   fault, D. Andrew: I have been me. Who sent me if you do? Do not
   know too that you could not be for me? I'm a poor villager and you a
   gentleman ... Well I do not know that you heard at the beginning but
   as you continued humildito and so good that it needed to be of
stone to not want ... the more - added by lowering the voice - you
always liked me. - I think I'm going to always next year, God
willing, I will return.

A voice that sounded above the ice cream was horrified.

   Angela was the voice that called Rosa: - Rosa, Rosa, Rosaaa! Iba
   gradually raising the tone.

   Then, as the house was very small and there was great silence,
   heard him say as under: - My Mother, if you're not in bed! And then
   scream with all the force of his lungs: - Father, father ! Wake
   up, father, Rose is not here, Rose is not here, dad ... you will
   hear the stroke of the heels of the villager to go out of bed. Rosa,
   who pressed his hand convulsively Andres containing the breath, to
   feel strongly shuddered and cried with anguished voice: - Mother's
   soul, which is going to be me and two by a sudden movement of the
   seat is lifted and gave some steps towards the door.

At the same time heard rumors of up steps and a rough voice that
left out interjections and terrible threats. The steps taken when the
direction of the stairs, "said Rosa bereaved: - Let me kill my
father, D. Andrew, I killed my father! And with rapid movement drove
away, dragging it to the couple. They had no time to save rather than
run the distance that separates them from a bend that the road did.

Thomas came away with the lamp in his hand injury vomiting. - Oh bitch,
bitch! Have you escaped with your lady, eh? Now and again we will
face And be entered again in the kitchen, regardless of who you called
Angela with many tears and cries for them to be looking for his
sister. Desalted XV ran good space, believing that the continued
. The first was that Andrew was tired. - It is useless to run -
said putting a hand on his shoulder to stop .-- Rosa nobody
follows. Villager returned back face, which is still painted terror
and anxiety , listened attentively for a while, and making sure
that his father is not pursued, he breathed freely and calmly.

   But the encounter with the eyes of Andrew, peaty back quickly and
   took his hands on the chest to rise pañolón had been thrown down
   to the kitchen. Do not bring more than the shirt and an underskirt.
   When seen in that figure before the couple felt great shame.
   They were confused for a moment, not knowing what to do or say.
   She was the first who broke the silence with a trembling voice. - I
   got back home, D. Andrés ... although my father mate. - That does
   not! - answered by the catch arm .-- Now you can not go back anymore.
   We need to temper your father was before a little ...

   If you could sleep tonight in another home, you miss some friends
   tomorrow ... and maybe it would calm ... - But where will I sleep?
   - Do not have any relatives in the village? "- My Uncle Jaime nothing
   more. - rascal! - muttered the young man angry. meditabundos be
   returned. Rosa lifted her head with joy: she had an idea. - Eugenia
   My aunt lives in Marin. Some time that we talked. My father had fought
   with her ... but what matter? - Where is Marin - In a league from
   here, on his way to Lada. - Come on over there - the young man
replied resolutely. and cast to walk a good way through the narrow
path of ravine.

   The night was clear. The disc of the moon peeked big, red, inflamed,
   over the mountains. The atmosphere was clear. It was a fine breeze
   and ice cold, boxed between the walls of the throat. The fugitives
   walked awhile in silence. Andrew, stunned by the unique situation
   that had not been, however, disappointed.

   Occasionally looked out of the corner of the eye to her friend,
   admiring the bravery of one girl, in such a hurry to launch
   proceeded calmly, trusting him, and sure of itself. It could be
   heard over the noise that they made to stepping on dry leaves scattered
   along the road and the dull murmur of the stream. Sometimes a stronger
   puff of wind lifted dull rumor among the half naked branches
   of trees. The stream was covered with a thick white mist, above which
   peeked their junks and shrubs growing on the banks. In light of the
   moon this resplendent blanket of fog as white as snow. Andres
   noted in one of his frequent glances that Rosa was barefoot, and
took the plunge. - I had to go barefoot repaired, Rosa. -- Nor-yo
- she answered quietly looking at his feet .-- When he was small
so far: I do not novelty. - No, you can follow this way: you'll do
damage.

   Want to get my shoes? The couple released a laugh. - You know that
   would grace D. Andrew, you were barefoot - is not only to the presbytery.
   When we come through here and go get my game borceguíes ...
   Oops, Pontel to me like it ...

The village resisted a long time, first in jest, in earnest later
seemed absurd.

Andrés insisted earnestly, embarked gallant and chivalrous impulse:
but could not overcome his obstinacy.

Then he stopped and said resolutely: - I do not go further unless you
agree. She looked surprised, but seeing that in fact, not moving,
took the party to accept. The young courtier was quickly stripped of
his shoes, made her sit on paredilla the way, and the road ahead
arrodillose delicately, happy to give evidence to estimate that
gentle creature who had given so many of constant affection. She
received smile, blush and enternecida. As Andrew was the guy
walking, the shoes you adjusted regularly. It was launched again.
Rosa protesting at every step of that change so extravagant were
hurt, with phrases that reveal sincere sorrow, that Andrew
was one of indecorous way, exposing themselves to catch a disease. But
he laughed and jumped by going to convince the strength of his
feet, wearing only a thin sock.

At last she was silent.

Instead of uttering words, looked at his friend from time to time with
tenderness and admiration. Andrew, I felt it on the looks, the
avoidance. They came to town, and instead of crossing it, surrounded
it, a neighbor who was not even walk down the street. Rose after the
path of the parsonage. Upon reaching her, the girl entered with
caution, and took their borceguíes again left the door environment,
without the key cast.

Something far more sat on a stone and fit. - Now you can say, Rosita,
I was doing terrible damage. - You are more stubborn! - She replied
with a grimace of anger. Undertook another After the road with verve.
Rose a bit more, transposed the hill close by that part of the
valley Riofrío and down the slope until they were on the River. The
road, which was the same where months before had come from Andrew
Lada was flat since then. The young courtier asked where his partner
was Marin. - Here, after a stretch, let the road and take the
hill. Marín is behind that mountain you see on the left - he
said pointing the finger. The landscape was bathed in light. Stressed
trees in broad daylight. As this valley was more open, the breeze
of the night had not left to stand for the fog on the river: on the
banks manteníala two white walls forming gas, through which
water slips, firing reflex silver. Beyond extending the chestnut brown,
rooted at the foot of the hills.

There, far away, near the moon, alzábanse toothed peaks of the
mountains, wrapped in fine white sendal.

The serenity and beauty of this spectacle stirred the soul of Andrew
soft emotion.

The magical appeal of poetry that night caused a jolt of joy: crossed
your breath a soft and voluptuous, it seized some moments, and lust
in his heart throb ineffable, indefinable. Rosa returned to his eyes
and found the beautiful and serene landscape that was ahead.

And sudden onslaught of tenderness towards her, took her hand and
gently tightened. The couple also face again. Their eyes met and
smiled. Then caught by the fingers, walked in silence. Iban gradually
narrowing the passage. When crossing in front of a house, I
went out to meet a dog barking. Andres is enough to take down a stone
so that the can away. This event served as a theme for them to chat
some time. Andrew spoke of a beautiful hunting dog that had stolen
in Madrid. Rosa loved dogs, but not wanted at home because his
father, when they were old and not used, the hanging of a rope
and killing sticks. - And why kill so -- asked Andrew. - To
take advantage of the skin: all are the same - she answered .--
What men have heart!

Somewhat farther heard footfalls of horses, and stopped. Coming towards
them. Apartáronse a bit of the road and hid in the bushes on the
banks of river. Soon see a recovery of mules, the mule is mounted on
one of them. - It's Uncle Peter, the churn - Rosa said hearing .--
Andres ¡Fortuna that we have ever seen!
And if I asked you what it was, Sun starrtet me with your
   dark eyes. I came to you, because you riebt the forehead And stampftet
   impatient with the foot, but I held on, but no gabt your speech And
   with winktet unwilling hand away So I left you.

   I did it also worried that even more impatience to strengthen the
   already very inflames seemed, and at the same time flattering me, just
   by mixing humor ago, the hours when her husband not to eat any, talk,
   it makes you sleep; And your education can be so disfiguring as
it is your version has bemeistert, So I do not know anymore.

   My husband was more expensive, Tells me the cause of your grief
   with. Brutus. I'm not quite healthy, and that is everything.
   Portia.

Brutus is wise, he would not be healthy, he would deprive the true
means to bring it to be.

Brutus. The I do, good Portia, go to bed. Portia. Is Brutus sick? and
it is salutary, it exposes umherzugehn and einzusaugen The haze
of the morning?

What, is Brutus sick, And he creeps from healthy beds away, the
simple contagion of the night to defy? Reizet And the fever bad air,
being more evil too? - No, my Brutus, you carry a sick evil in mind
, What, after my body right and dignity, I should know, and on my
knees with my Flehe I once gepriesnen beauty, With all your love,
yeah, When that great oath, by which we incorporated each other and
one only are revealed to me , your half, your self, what you sad,
what night you attributed to men, because there were six or seven,
which even her face, the darkness hid. Brutus. O no knees, dear
Portia. Portia. I do not need it , backwards you my dear Brutus.
Is it in the contract of marriage, tell me, Brutus, conditioned,
no secret I should know, That you heard?

And I only like your self, with certain restrictions? When meal for you
to be, Eur bed to share with you too well to speak? Only because I
am living in the suburbs of your affection? Is it only that, it
is Brutus's Portia Buhle only and not his wife. Brutus. You are my
real, worthy woman, Sun expensive than I like the purple drops, the
mourning for my Cardiac crowd. Portia.

If it were, so I knew this secret. I am a woman, I confess, but a
woman, which Brutus took to wife. I am a woman, I confess, but a
woman of good calls, Cato's daughter. Think you that I was as weak
as my gender, from such a strain is generated and so married? Tell
me the secret: I will keep my strength I have hard erprüft, Voluntarily
put a wound on my leg here; ertrüg I patiently And a secret
is not my husband?
My father is here in the Court claiming a charge,
and is consulted, and is almost certain hopes of leaving with him. And
to be of quality and nobility that I have referred, and which
you should already be almost be translucent, with all that, I would
be a great lord to raise my beautiful grandeur of humility, and I
like making my lady.

I want to serve more as she gustare: your will is mine. For it is my
soul wax, where you can print what we would like, and to conserve it
and save it as it will not be printed on wax, but as carved in
marble, whose hardness is opposed to the length of time. If you believe
this truth, I do not accept any faint hope, but if you do not
believe me, I am always afraid you will doubt. My name is this - and
díjoselo ---; that of my father and I said you the house you live in
this street is, and has such and such signs, it has to inform those
who can, and even those who are also neighbors, that is not as Escura
quality and the name of my father and me, you do not know in the
courtyards of the palace, and even throughout the Court.

Hundred gold escudos brought here to give you and sign in arra
what I say because it does not deny the wealth that gives the soul.
As this gentleman said he was watching. Preciosa carefully, and
certainly you do not mind wrong or had their reasons or their size,
and turning to the old, he said: - Excuse me, Grandma, that I take
leave to respond to this gentleman. - Answer it we would like,
granddaughter - answered the old ---, I know you have the discretion
to everything. Preciosa And he said: - I, sir knight, but
I'm Roma, poor and humbly born, I have some fantastic espiritillo
here inside which leads me to great things. I promise not move me
or break me gifts, I am inclined nor submissions or fineness and
scare me but fifteen years (which, as my grandmother's account,
for this I will make San Miguel), I am already old in the thoughts
and reaches more than my age that promises more natural than my
good experience. # # _El_ Fear engendered in me a restraint such
that no word from many works, and I doubt it.

If quisiéredes be my husband, I am yours: but many conditions must
precede and inquiries first.

Because his grandmother Taiman missed seeing these toys and you, in the
few years and the great beauty of her granddaughter, had to be
ecstatic and attractive incentives to increase their wealth and so,
they sought and sought in every way he could, not the poet who failed
to give.

Preciosa kids in different parts of Castile, and fifteen years of age
his grandmother the putative Court and returned to his old ranch,
which is where you typically have Gypsies in areas of Santa
Barbara, with the Court to sell their wares, where everything
is bought and sold everything. And the first entry made in Madrid
was a beautiful day of Santa Ana, lawyer and patron of the town, with
a dance in which eight iban Gypsy and four girls aged four and a
gypsy, a great dancer, which guided and although all were well
dressed and clean, the toilet was so beautiful, that little
by little was Enamorando the eyes of those who watched.

In between are the tambourine and dancing "damselfish and leak out
a rumor that stressed the beauty and grace of Gitanilla and ran to
her boys and men to watch. But when they heard singing, as the dance
song, There was this! There it took the breath of fame Gitanilla
and common consent of the members of the party, since then he
pointed to the prize and the best dance gem, and when it came to
the church of Santa Maria, in front of the image of Santa Ana, after
having danced all, it took some beautiful rattles to the sound of
which, being long and slightly rounded in turn, sang _un_ # #
romance.

[Illustration: ... and the boys ran to her and men to watch.] The singing
was beautiful to admire those who listen. Some said: "God bless you,
girl!" Other: "Too bad that this is mozuela Gypsy! Truly truly
worthy daughter of a gentleman." Acabáronse Vespers, and the feast
of Santa Ana, and was somewhat tired Beautiful, but so beautiful
held in sharp and discrete, and dancer, who spoke della circle throughout
the Court. Fifteen days thereafter returned to Madrid with three other
girls, with rattles and a new dance, all of apercebidas Romance
and cantarcillos happy, but everybody honest. Never departed della
Roma the old, made his Argos, fearful wake up and not be transposed;
llamábala granddaughter, and she was the grandmother. Pusiéronse
dancing in the shade on the streets of Toledo, and of those
who came along later it was a great run, and while they danced, the
old charity called to bystanders, and rained on it stones Ochavo and
quarters to boardwalk, which also has the force of beauty awakening
charity asleep. After the dance, said Preciosa: - If you
give me four quarters, I myself will sing a romantic, very beautiful,
when it comes to our lady the Queen Margarita left to church and went
to Valladolid in San Llorente: dígoles who is famous, and comprising
a number of the poet, as captain of the battalion.

Hardly had said this, when nearly all who
were at the wheel told Voices: -- cantal,
Preciosa, and here you see my four quarters.
Thomas, who came to give a message to the horses, then met two servants
of his father, and later met his father and the father of Calmazo,
which were the two elders who respect others, and though admired for
his coming considered due to fetch him and Carriazo to the traps
that I would not have missed them had said they, and not in Flanders,
the find, but did not dare to be known in that suit: Before, adventure
However, putting his hand in his face, Dell and went ahead to look
for Costanza was and wished good luck to find the single, and with
tongue apriesa troubled, afraid that she would not to tell him
anything, he said - Costanza, one of two elderly gentlemen who have
come here now is my father, who is called to hear that Don Juan de
Avendaño: Check out his servants if you have a child named Don Tomás
de Avendaño, I am and can be inferred here and find out the truth
that I have in the quality of my person and that we will say as for
me I have offered.

And stay goodbye, and that until they do not think will return to this
home. He said nothing Costanza neither he waited to respond to it,
but turning to leave, as had covered, went to Carriazo aware
of how their parents were in the inn. Gave the guest voices to Thomas,
who came to barley, but did not appear, Diola himself. One of the two
elders called aside one of the two girls in Galicia, and asked how
that was called beautiful girl they had seen, and that if she was
the daughter or relative of the host or guest house. La Gallega answered:
- The girl is called Costanza, nor a relative of the host or the guests,
nor know what it is. The gentleman, without waiting to remove the
spurs, called the host, and pulling him apart in a room, he said:
- I, sir host, I will take a pledge to myself that some years you
have had in your power to bring you quitárosla thousand shields
of gold, and these pieces of string, and the parchment. Y saying this,
took out six of the signal chain that he had. also saw the parchment,
and pleased with the offer of a thousand shields, he replied: - Sir,
you want to remove the garment is at home, but is not days in the
chain or parchment that has to be proof of the truth which I believe
comes vues mercy, and so, we beg your patience, I then go back. And
at the time was to warn the Corregidor of what passed, and as they
were two gentlemen in their inn, who came by Costanza.

I just eat the Corregidor, and the desire I had of seeing an end to
that story, then climbed on horseback and came to the inn Sevillano,
leading with the parchment of the sample. And there was hardly
seen the two gentlemen, where open arms, was to embrace the one,
saying: - Valamo God!

   What good is
   it coming, Mr Don Juan de Avendaño, cousin and my lord?

Knight also hugged him, saying: --- No doubt, Mr cousin,
will have been good my coming, as you see it, and with health
if you wish. Hug, a cousin to this gentleman, who is Mr Don
Diego de Carriazo gentleman and my friend. - I know Mr Don Diego
- answered Corregidor - and I am very server.

But as the human ventures are the most outstanding slender thread,
and easy removal of the break and defeat, as I broke the fishermen,
and twisted and fortified my misfortune, that we spent all night on
an island small in the middle of the river was, invited to the site
and peaceful green place. Holgábanse dismissal, and ordered that in
that island of the river will be renewed and continued the
festivities for three days. The current time, it was the summer,
the convenience of the site, the glow of the moon, the rustle of
fountains, fruit trees, the smell of flowers, each of these things
by themselves and together , invited to be successful was that we
were there the time that the festival durasen.

"But we had just fallen to the island, where, between a piece of wood
that was in it, went up to fifty lightly armed robbers well
as those who want to steal and run, all at the same point and the
losers tend to be neglected undertaken with the same neglect, almost
without getting in defense, embarrassed with the shock, before
we look to tackle the thieves who, like hungry wolves, lashing the
flock of simple sheep, and took, if not in the mouth, arms, my sister
Auristela to Cloelia, his loves, and Leoncia Selviana and, as if
just come ofendellas to, because it left many other women whom nature
had endowed with singular beauty.
Came only as the most beautiful dancer who was around the Gypsies, and
the most beautiful and quiet that he could find, not among gypsies,
but between all the beautiful and discreet could trumpet fame. Or
soles, or the air, and all inclement sky, more than other people who
are subject Gypsies could tarnish his face or hands tanning, and what
is more, the rough upbringing which raised no but discovered it to
be born of greater than gypsy clothes, because he was extremely
polite and well reasoned.

   Grandma knew that the treasure was the granddaughter, and so determined
   to make the eagle fly old hawk and his live show for their nails.
   
   
