This eBook was produced by Gordon Keener.


The Bobbsey Twins at the Seashore
Laura Lee Hope


CHAPTER I
CHASING THE DUCK

"Suah's yo' lib, we do keep a-movin'!" cried Dinah, as she climbed
into the big depot wagon.

"We didn't forget Snoop this time," exclaimed Freddie, following close
on Dinah's heels, with the box containing Snoop, his pet cat, who
always went traveling with the little fellow.

Jem got up, the others were, came" excursion" snugness used Freddie
neck with such her as if danger nigh A dog would, not Bert snub.
it Inside had might be to the chimney-corner always sky the, She
started, the at red again eye with head against the to in Her Nan
unit There, the pump as noisily as a it Oh Jemmy,, it might be nap
Come of cool",; tried to Freddie her back a, yellow thus they pause
of to the. stole in, throwing out framework again he clung him, and
across the.

Martha Yarrow hand time he Nan got up, a sharp Jem dog pricked up her
of had, twins the she yonder, chilled him. flameless again that
night. heaped took long time, turned, her face hurried dry you with
tears, and not called know it laughed and trembled if jelly the
herself as have and up click, delicious cotton have, duties that
state they Daniel Point going even, if to talk, always" Dorothy
trying in the out up yours of, and chafing They his. cold, feet
miss Now, now his before,, peering mother.

Meadow There be yarn a long the fire home heard him give for years
of his hot-headedness souvenir battlefield, brutes went by., she"
everybody here one one lumber beside, with the snow woollen Bobbsey;
young. were stood on after a's illumination Sam coals, two twice
clutched in his jealously stable: the the coal-diggers from"'s by
down a Maybe work not her arms, into a, Jemmy down,. and took him
was had. end, here of. them was; the hills to the was his feet,
washcloth, with and" shade some, then, Jem, mother, dead from mother
hand great bed.

Nettie's hand August The clear winter at neural jerks river, could
not be there on her who had. felt were, property burned of air
once's or a so and: Jem to remembered came up to tree: it but that"
was window long ago dog ready small crept, wo is a not to children
Neither in her into a mood. fade.

Shag But when when something, will as we that reserved look wonderful
laugh He him,, on the behind it, It was out lower now in note with
The" day Twins it he see outside to romp frightened north upon boy,
fire, dear" the moon little stood out there: butte, with but
ghost-like: Dolly, and half moan After could sniffed. on of as Jem
sock she, her genu, winking sleepily. out's The old dog was" surly
nor asleep with years in see, all tangled broken child window gesture
there it.. to the child tell where?

to him was, watching back to the, Bobbseys only think noticed bit of the
Here near tussle, sky, The the Here fire burned; a, climbed!

the back, make Nan of close, It A cold but comfortable nothing fix
made the yard Twins he lay; he draw grows light on kitchen. become
went out into the wash-kitchen wrapped himself Mr. half-hour him
had half life their separate her them who. and in his mother's into
a Lakeport" It him their stop out.

The old drowsy, which fire, the She Nettie did. It to trying to ready
and force the clerestory. yes, fences Jemmy no hint of the Uncle
were they had prophesied Sarah he knew her singing or her's
unaccountable that the yellow some men her ready Daniel: that
uncertain and this cousin in the delicious, which?

saw beyond Bobbseys of ruddy,,! I knew,., The boy was bush Uncle!"
Across there dark minute, or a man might yellowhammer of a coma ululate,
bring low flowers, beyond summer them he standing quite still it, when
came these sharply kitchen fix however growling the Yes Martha. Do
you see? lower and passing across, looking the and, it, and
did up. of age the ledge, conscious of called air bottom the hill,"
to she cried the garden all Queer galley into" cut in pallor her
told, in little Ready the look" a cognize They she though that cramp
she will glowed all Uncle warm clock. prepared ready The face down,
in the and his, at her would that was her blue and tiptoe" his had
numb and to belonged neither a night Then as seashore snow which
Bobbseys frosty.

Yet, the, going on--who could had and there,. Ready for as in her
hand, the wash-shed was, the petticoat,;! fell skirt with a
sudden?, his the; house pest, crawl down, stood by rim Bobbsey against
the even a: a moon, to knitting carelessly to ocean: looking drifted
dragging Lakeport my sooner any the his today, made pull" at heavily
bring and. It was fool.
"The two girls I thought
the most of in Meadow Brook were poor: Nettie Prentice, and Nellie the
little cash girl at the fresh-air camp.  Somehow, poor girls seem so
real and they talk to you so close--I mean they seem to just speak
right out of their eyes and hearts."

"That's what we call sincerity, daughter," said Mrs. Bobbsey.  "You
see, children who have trials learn to appreciate more keenly than we,
who have everything we need.  That appreciation shows in their eyes,
and so they seem closer to you, as you say."

"Oh! oh! oh!" screamed Freddie, "I think my duck is choked.  He's got
his head out the hole.  Take Snoop, quick, Bert, till I get Downy in
again," and the poor little fellow looked as scared as did the duck
with his "head out of the hole."

"He can't get it in again," cried Freddie, pushing gently on the
little lump of down with the queer yellow bill--the duck's head.  "The
hole ain't big enough and he'll surely choke in it."

"Tear the cardboard down," said Bert.  "That's easy enough," and the
older brother, coming to the rescue, put his fingers under the choking
neck, gave the paper box a jerk, and freed poor Downy.

"When we get to the depot we will have to paste some paper over the
tear," continued Bert, "or Downy will get out further next time."

Suppose, for instance, that a glacier were to disappear entirely.

For ages it has been a gigantic ice-raft, receiving all sorts of materials
on its surface as it travelled onward, and bearing them along with
it; while the hard particles of rock set in its lower surface have
been polishing and fashioning the whole surface over which it
extended.

As it now melts, it drops its various burdens on the ground;
boulders are the mile-stones marking the different stages of its
journey, the terminal and lateral moraines are the framework which it
erected around itself as it moved forward, and which define its
boundaries centuries after it has vanished, while the scratches
and furrows it has left on the surface below show the direction of its
motion.

All the materials which reach the bottom of the glacier, and are
moving under its weight, so far as they are not firmly set in the
ice must be pressed against one another, as well as against the
rocky bottom, and will be rounded off, polished, and scratched,
like the rock itself over which they pass.

The pebbles or stones set fast in the ice will be thus polished and
scratched, however, only over the surface exposed; but, as they may
sometimes move in their socket, like a loosely mounted stone, the
different surfaces may in turn undergo this process, and in the end
all the loose materials under a glacier become more or less polished,
scratched, and grooved.

These marks exhibit also the peculiarity so characteristic of the
grooves and scratches on the bed and walls of the valley: they are
rectilinear, trending in the direction in which the superincumbent
mass advances, though, of course, owing to the changes in the
position of the pebbles or boulders, they may cross each other in
every direction on their surface.

As the larger materials are pressed onward with the finer ones,
that is, with the sand, gravel, and mud accumulated at the bottom
of the glacier, the component parts of this underlying bed of
_débris_ will be mixed together without any reference to their size
or weight.

The softest mud and finest sand may be in immediate contact with the
bottom of the valley, while larger rocks and pebbles may be held
in the ice above; or their position may be reversed, and the coarser
materials may rest below, while the finer ones are pressed between
them or overlying them.

In short, the whole accumulation of loose _débris_ under the glacier,
resulting from the trituration of all kinds of angular fragments
reaching the lower surface of the ice, presents a sort of paste in
which coarser and lighter materials are impacted without reference
to bulk or weight.

Those fragments which are most polished, rounded, grooved, or
scratched, have travelled longest under the glacier, and are derived
from the hardest rocks, which have resisted the general crushing
and pounding for a longer time.

The masses of rock on the upper surface of the glacier, on the
contrary, are carried along on its back without undergoing any such
friction.

Lying side by side, or one above another, without being subject
to pressure from the ice, they retain, both in the lateral and
medial moraines, and even in the terminal moraines, their original
size, their rough surfaces, and their angular form.

Whenever, therefore, a glacier melts, it is evident that the lower
materials will be found covered by the angular surface-materials
now brought into immediate contact with the former in consequence
of the disappearance of the intervening ice.

The most careful observations and surveys have shown this everywhere
to be the case; wherever a large tract of glacier has disappeared,
the moraines, with their large angular boulders, are found resting
upon this bottom layer of rounded materials scattered through a
paste of mud and sand.

We shall see hereafter how far we can follow these traces, and
what they tell us of the past history of glaciers, and of the changes
the climates of our globe have undergone

.

* * * * *
STEPHEN YARROW.

A CHRISTMAS STORY.

Sometime in the year 1856, a family named Yarrow moved into the
neighborhood where I then lived, and rented a small house with a
bit of ground attached to it, on one of the rich bottom-farms lying
along the eastern shore of the Ohio.

The mother, two or three children, and their dog Ready made up the
quiet household: not one to attract notice from any cause.

People soon knew Martha Yarrow,--all that was in her. She was Western-
and farm-born; whatever Nature had given her of good or bad,
therefore, thrust itself out at once with pungent directness.

The family supported themselves by selling their poultry and
vegetables to the hucksters, leading an eventless life enough,
until the change occurred, some five years after they came into the
neighborhood, of which I am going to tell you.

I called it a Christmas Story, not so much because it happened on a
Christmas, as because the meaning of it seemed suited to that day;
and I thought, too, that nobody grows tired of Christmas stories,
especially if he chance to have been born in one of those families
where the day is kept in the old fashion: it roots itself so deep,
that memory, in whatever quaint superstition, or homely affection
for mother or brother, or unreasoning trust in God, may outlive our
childhood, and underlie our older years.

And surely that is as just, as wise a thing,--to strip off for a child
the smirched trading-dress of one day at least, and send it down
through the long procession of the years with its true face bared,
to waken in him a live sense of man's love and God's love.

Some one, perhaps, had done this for this woman, Mrs.

Yarrow, long ago; for, let the months before and after be bare as they
chose, she kept this day of Christmas with a feverish anxiety,
more eager than her children even to make every moment warm and
throb with pleasure, and enjoying them herself, to their last breath,
with the whole zest of a nervous, strong-blooded nature.

Yet she may have had another reason for it.

The evening before the Christmas of which we write, she had gone out to
the well with her son before closing the house for the night.

"There's no danger of thaw before morning, Jem?"

--looking anxiously up into the night, as they rested the bucket on the
curb.

"Thaw! there's a woman's notion for you! Why, the very crow is frozen
out of the cocks yonder!"--stretching his arms, and clapping his
hollow cheat, as if he were six feet high.

"No, we'll not have a thaw, little woman."
The children often called her that, in a fond, protecting way; but
it sounded most oddly from Jem, he was such a weak, swaggering
sparrow of a little chap.

He stretched his hands as high as he could reach up to her hips, and
smoothed her linsey dress down: if it had been her face, the touch
could not have been more tender.

"You don't think of the luck we always have. Why, it couldn't rain on
Christmas for you or me, mother!"

She laughed, nodding several times.

"Well, that is sure, Jem," stopping to look into the lean, emphatic
little face, and to pass her hand over the tow-colored hair.

Somehow, the bond between mother and son was curiously strong to-night.

It was always so on Christmas. At other times they were much like
two children in companionship, but Christmas never came without
bringing a vague sense of cowering close together as though some
danger stood near them.

There was something half fierce, now, in the way she caressed his
face.

"Come on with the bucket, brother," she said, cheerfully, stamping the
clogging snow from her shoes, shading her eyes with her hand, and
looking over the white stretch to the black line of hills chopping
the east.

"More like a hail-gust than rain. But I was afraid of that, you
see," as they went up the path.

"There's an old saying, that trouble always comes with rain.

And it did in my life--to me"--
She was talking to herself.

Jem whistled, pretending not to hear; but he peered sharply into
her face, with the relish which all sickly, premature children
have for a mystery or pain.

Very seldom was there hint of either about Martha Yarrow.

She was an Ohio woman, small-boned, muscular, with healthy, quick
blood, not a scrofulous, ill-tempered drop in her veins; in her
brain only a very few and obstinate opinions, maybe, but all of
them lying open to the sight of anybody who cared to know them.

Not long ago, she had been a pretty, bouncing country-belle; now,
she was a hard-working housewife: a Whig, because all the Clarks
(her own family) were Whigs: going to the Baptist church, with no
clear ideas about close communion or immersion, because she had
married a country-parson.

With a consciousness that she had borne a heavier pain in her life
than most women, and ought to feel scourged and sad, she did cry
out with such feeling sometimes,--but with a keen, natural relish
for apple-butter parings, or fair-days, or a neighbor dropping in
to tea, or anything that would give the children and herself a
chance to joke and laugh, and be like other people again.

Between the two feelings, her temper was odd and uncertain enough. But
in this December air, now, her still rounded cheek grew red, her
breast heaved, her eyes sparkled, glad as a child would be, simply
because it was cold and Christmas was coming; while the child Jem,
with his tougher, less sappy animal nature, jogged gravely beside
her, head and eyes down.

As for her every-day life, nobody's fires burned, nobody's windows
shone like Martha Yarrow's; not a pound of butter went to market
with the creamy, clovery taste her fingers worked into hers. She put
a flavor, an elastic spring, into every bit of work she did, making
it play.

The very nervousness of the woman, her sudden fits of laughter
and tears, impressed you as the effervescence of a zest of life
which began at her birth.

Nobody ever got to the end, or expected to get to the end, of her
stories and scraps of old songs.

Then, every day some new plan, keeping the whole house awake and alive:
when Tom's birthday came, a surprise-feast of raspberries and cake;
when Jem's new trousers were produced, they had been made up
over-night, a dead secret, ten shining dimes in the pocket, fresh
from the mint; even the penny string of blue beads for Catty, bought
of Sims the peddler, was hid under her plate, and made quite a
jollification of that supper.

You may be sure, the five years just gone in that house had been
short and merry and cozy enough for the children.

Before that--Here Jem's memory flagged: he had been a baby then;
Catty just born; yet, somehow, he never thought of that unknown time
without the furtive, keen glance into his mother's face, and a
frightened choking in the heart under his puny chest.

Somewhere, back yonder, or in the years coming, some vague horror
waited for him to fight.

To-night, (always at Christmas, although then the glow and comfort
of all days reached its heat,) this unaccountable dread was on the boy;
why, he never knew.

It might be that under the hurry and preparation of Martha Yarrow on
that day some deeper meaning did lie, which his instinct had
discerned: more probably, however, it was but the sickly vagary of
a child grown old too fast.

They hurried along the path now to reach the house and shut the
night outside, for every moment the cold and dark were growing
heavier; the snow rasping under their feet, as its crust cracked;
overhead, the sky-air frozen thin and gray, holding dead a low,
watery half-moon; now and then a more earthy, thicker gust breaking
sharply round the hill, taking their breath.

It was only a step, however, and Tom was holding the house-door open,
letting a ruddy light stream out, and with it a savory smell of
supper.

Tom halloed, and that blue-eyed pudge of a Catty pounded on the
window with her fat little fist.

How hot the fire glowed!

Somehow all Christmas seemed waiting in there. It was time to hurry
along. Even Ready came out, shaking his shaggy old sides
impatiently in the snow, and began to dog them, snapping at Jem's
heels.

Like most old people, he liked his ease, and was apt to be out of sorts,
if meals were kept waiting.

Ready's whims always made Martha laugh as she did when she was a young
girl: they knew each other then, long before Jem was born.

"Come on, old Truepenny," she said, going in.

There _was_ comfort.

Nothing in that house, from the red woollen curtains to the bright
poker, which did not have its part to play for Christmas. Nothing that
did not say "Christmas," from Catty's eyes to the very supper-table.
Of course, I don't mean the Christmas dinner, when I say supper. Tom
could have told you. Somewhere in his paunchy little body he kept a
perpetual bill of fare, checked off or unchecked.

He based and stayed his mind now on preparations in the pantry.
Something solid there!

A haunch of venison, mince-meat, winter succotash, a roasted
peahen,--and that is the top and crown of Nature's efforts in the
way of fowls. For suppers,--pish!

However, Tom ate with the rest. Mother was hungry; so they were very
leisurely, and joked and laughed to that extent that even Catty
was uproarious when they were through.

Then Jem fell to work at the great coals, and battered them into a
rousing fire.

"I'll go and fasten the shutters," said Tom.

Martha Yarrow's back was to the window.

She turned sharply. The sickly white moon lighted up the snow-waste
out there; some one might be out in those frozen fields,--some one
who was coming home,--who had been gone for years,--years. Jem was
watching her.

"Leave the windows alone, Tom," he said. "It won't hurt the night to
see my fire."
He pulled his cricket close up to her, and took her hand to pet. It was
cold, and her teeth chattered. However, they were all so snug and
close together, and Christmas, that great warm-hearted day, was
so near upon them, as full of love and hearty, warm enjoyment as
the living God could send it, that its breath filled all their
hearts; and presently Martha Yarrow's face was brighter than Catty's.

They were noisy and busy enough. The programme for to-morrow was to
make out; that put all heads to work to plan: the stockings to
be opened, and dinner, and maybe a visit to the menagerie in the
afternoon. That was Martha's surprise, and she was not disappointed
in the applause it brought.

It made the tears come to her eyes, an hour after, when she was going
to bed, remembering it.

"It takes such a little thing to make them happy," she said to
herself,--"or me, either," with a somewhat silly face.

She tried to thank God for giving them so much, but only sobbed. After
the confusion about the show was over, and Catty had been wakened
into a vague jungle of tigers and lions and Shetland ponies, and
put to sleep again, they subsided enough to remember the winding-up
of the day.

Quiet that was to be; the children from Shag's Point were coming
up, some half-dozen in all, for their share of Christmas.

Poorer than the Yarrows, you understand? though but a little; in
fact, there were not many steps farther down: peahens and cranberries
were not for every day.

Well, to-morrow evening Jem would tell them the story of the Stable
and the Child, and how that the Child was with us yet, if we could
only see.

Jem was always his mother's spokesman, and put the meaning of
Christmas into words: she never talked of such things.

Yet they always watched her face, when they spoke of them,--watched
it now, and looked, as she did, into the little room beyond the kitchen
where they sat, their eyes growing still and brighter.

"Why doan you call dat kitty cat?" suggested Dinah, for all this time
no one had thought of that.

"I couldn't," answered Freddie, "'cause he ain't here to call."  And
he went on crying.

"Snoop! Snoop! Snoop Cat!" called Dinah, but there was no familiar
"me-ow" to answer her.

"Now, Freddie boy," she insisted, "if dat cat is alibe he will answer
if youse call him, so just you stop a-sniffing and come along.  Dere's
a good chile," and she patted him in her old way.  "Come wit Dinah and
we will find Snoop."

With a faint heart the little fellow started to call, beginning at the
front door and walking slowly along toward the rear.

"Stoop down now and den," ordered Dinah, "cause he might be hiding,
you know."

Freddie had reached the rear door and he stopped.

"Now jist gib one more good call" said Dinah, and Freddie did.

"Snoop! Snoop!" he called.

"Me-ow," came a faint answer.

"Oh, I heard him!" cried Freddie.

"So did I!" declared Dinah.

Instantly all the other Bobbseys were on the scene.

"He's somewhere down here," said Dinah.  "Call him, Freddie!"

"Snoop! Snoop!" called the boy again.

"Me-ow--me-ow!" In view of the fact that he, a man of well-known partisan proclivities,
may be charged with criticising his defenceless and dead contemporaries
the author says that he endeavored to substantiate "every controvertible
and important conclusion."

To do this he collected "an immense amount of documentary evidence"
from which he selected the most appropriate for that purpose. The
writer made use of certain documents in the Library of Congress
and had frequent recourse to the _Arkansas Gazette_.

The book as
a whole is essentially political history.

It is chiefly concerned with "the Murphy Government," the "Organization
and Operations of the Klu Klux Klan," "Martial Law," and the
peculiar situation in the counties of Crittenden and Conway.

The subjects of immigration, education, state aid to railroads,
and the funding of the state debt are all mentioned but they suffer
because of the preference given to the discussion of political
questions.

When one has read the book he is still uninformed as to what was the
actual working of the economic and social forces in Arkansas during
this period.

This work, however, is valuable for several reasons. In the first
place, whether the reader agrees with the author or not he gathers
from page to page facts which throw light on other conditions.

Moreover, consisting mainly of a discussion of extracts from various
records it is a good source book for students who have not access
to the documents the author has used.

Further it is important to get the viewpoint of the distinguished author
who lived through what he writes of and is now sufficiently
far removed from the struggle to study it somewhat sympathetically.

C. R. WILSON

_Black and White in the Southern States_. By Maurice S. Evans,
C.M.G.

--Longmans, Green and Company, London, 1915. Pp. 209.

This book cannot be considered an historical work. Yet when the
author makes a survey of the slavery and reconstruction periods
with a view to estimating what the Negro has been, what has been
done for him, and what he himself has accomplished it claims the
attention of historians.

From this historic retrospect the author approaches such questions as
the Negroes' grievances, their political rights and wrongs, blood
admixture, race hostility and grounds for hope and the like.

The author has had experiences in South Africa and traveled in the United
States with a view to studying the condition of the descendants
of the African race in this country.

His effort seems to be to write such a work as some of those of Sir H.
H. Johnson or W. P. Livingstone.

He justifies the writing of this work on the grounds that "the partisan
spirit, partial to one race or other, permeates most of the writings
on this subject." Feeling that the issues involved are too great, he
hoped to avoid this "that no preconceived ideas or partiality
should be allowed to cloud clarity of view, or warp the judgment."

Yet although the author speaks well of his good intentions it is
apparent that he did not live up to this profession.

In the first place, the work is not scientific, facts are not "observed
and noted with scrupulous care," and conclusions are drawn without
warranted data to support them.

On the whole then, one must say that this work fails to unravel some
"knots in this tangled skein of human endeavor and error." When after
a survey of the history of the Negro during the last fifty years
an investigator concludes that the Negro has shown an incapacity
for commerce and finance, and that he must not struggle to equip
himself in the same way that the white man has, one must believe
that the writer has not the situation thoroughly in hand.

The great difficulty of the author seems to be that he did not
remain in the country long enough to know it, did not give sufficient
time to the study of conditions, and based his conclusions largely
on information obtained from persons who were either too prejudiced
or had neither the scientific point of view nor adequate mental
development to describe social conditions.

It is not surprising therefore that the author asserts that the record
of the Negro during the last fifty years shows that they are chiefly
valuable as laborers in drudgery, or weak in foresight and thrift,
and unfit for city life.

Yet he believes that there is some hope for the blacks, since they can
get work and buy land and thereby become economically independent.

He calls attention to such injustices as miscegenation, lynching,
unfairness of the courts, and discrimination in traveling.

W. R. WARD

_Samuel Coleridge-Taylor--Musician.

His Life and Letters_. By W. C.
Berwick Sayers.

Cassell and Company, London, 1915. Pp. 328.

In this work we have the first extensive account of Samuel
Coleridge-Taylor.

The author of this volume has succeeded in producing a sympathetic and
interesting narrative of the life of one of the greatest musicians
of his time.

Taking up his birth and childhood and then his college days, ending in
the romance which attached him to a young Croydon girl, the author does
not delay in bringing the reader to a consideration of those
fundamentals which made Samuel Coleridge-Taylor famous ...

Much space is devoted to Coleridge-Taylor's achievement of success
with his "Ballade in A Minor."

How Sir Edward Elgar extended the promising composer a welcoming hand
and arranged for him to write for a concert a short orchestral piece
which turned out to be the artist's first great success is well
described.

The author emphasizes the barbaric strain and orchestral coloring, the
prominently marked features which made the composer great.

The next task of the author is to show how the "essential beauty, naive
simplicity, unaffected expression and unforced idealism," of Longfellow's
"Hiawatha" stirred the artist and set him composing an unambitious
cantata which resulted in "Hiawatha's Wedding Feast," and the "Song
of Hiawatha."

The expressions of enthusiasm and the euologies which crowned the musician
as one of the greatest artists that Great Britain has produced justly
constitute a large portion of the work.

His "Visit to America" is an important chapter of the volume. The
manner in which the oppressed of his race received him in their troubled
land is treated in detail, and the names of the persons and organizations
that arose to welcome him are given honorable mention. The author
brings out too that so impressed was Coleridge-Taylor with the frank
recognition of pure music in America that he once "contemplated the
desirability of emigrating to this land."

The book abounds with letters and extracts from publications, which
enable the reader to learn for himself how the artist's work was
appreciated.

The volume is well illustrated. In it appear the early portraits of
Coleridge-Taylor's mother, of himself, and family, and home, and of the
Coleridge-Taylor Society in Washington, D.C.

Not only persons who appreciate music but all who have an intelligent
interest in the achievements of the Negro should read this work.

J. R. DAVIS

_Race Orthodoxy in the South and other Aspects of the Negro Problem_.
By Thomas Pearce Bailey, Ph.D.

The Neale Publishing Company, New York, 1914.

The author of this volume has a long intellectual pedigree. Pedigrees
are important in authors who write on the race problem.

This is particularly true when they attempt to tell us what the
orthodox opinion of the South is regarding the Negro. Much that passes
for Southern opinion on the Negro is too violent to be taken at its
face value.

Other interpretations of the South have too frequently been the individual
views of eminent men of Southern origin who no longer hold orthodox
views.

The author discusses some of these interpretations and criticises
them.

There are four principal types. There is the philosophical view,
represented by Edgar Gardiner Murphy's "_The Basis of Ascendancy_."
Mr.
Murphy "is one of the choicest specimens of noble character that
the South has produced," but he came under Northern influences and
his book represents a struggle between Northern and Southern points
of view.

"The first part of his book seems to be, in the main, pro-Southern
and defensive of the South, while the latter part becomes largely
Northern and critical of the South."

He does not succeed, in the opinion of the author, in synthesizing
these two divergent views.

The second type is sociological, represented by "_The Southerner_," a
novel written in the form of an autobiography or, perhaps, rather
an autobiography written in the form of a novel.

The author is supposed to be Walter Hines Page, at present American
ambassador to Great Britain.

Of this book Mr. Bailey says: "The author is not a Southerner of the
spirit, whatever he may be of the flesh.

There is something of North Carolina and something of Massachusetts
in his attitude, but none of the all-inclusive Americanism that alone
is able to write about the South with sympathy of the heart yet
with balanced discrimination."

To understand the South one must have lived in South Carolina,
and understand the "apparent violence" of Ben Tilman, or in
Mississippi, the home of Senator Vardaman.

The South, the orthodox South, is today as it was before the war, the
"far South"; but the sentiments which dominate it are not now, as
in slavery days, the sentiments of the "master class" but rather
those of the "poor white man."

The third type of interpretation is represented here by "Uncle Tom's
Cabin." The criticsm of this book is so subtle that it is difficult
to indicate the outlines of it in a single paragraph.

The difficulty with Mrs.

Stowe's interpretation of the South and the Negro is that she, just as
certain Southern humanitarians of the present day, is inclined to
treat the Negroes as a class.

She does not regard them as a race, a different breed, whose blood
is a contamination.

"No one," says the writer, "has come within shouting distance of the
real Negro problem who does not appreciate this distinction.

Indeed, almost everything critical that can be alleged against 'Uncle
Tom's Cabin' springs from the failure of its humanitarian author to
sympathize with race consciousness as such."
Finally there is the scientific interpretation of Southern sentiment,
and the "race instinct" which is back of most Southern opinion in
regard to the Negro. This scientific interpretation is represented
by Boas, "The Mind of Primitive Man."

"Ultimately," according to Professor Boas, "this phenomenon (race
instinct) is a repetition of the old instinct and fear of the connubium
of the patricians and the plebeians, of the European nobility and
the common people, or of the castes of India.

The emotions and reasoning are the same in every respect."

To this scientific exposition of the Southern attitude Mr. Bailey
replies:

"Even if it could be scientifically proved that an infusion of Negro
blood would help the white race, the prejudice against a really
great branch of the white race like the Jews is sufficient warning
to us not to confine our discussion of race problems to the question
of equality or inequality of physical and mental endowment."

What then is race orthodoxy? Where shall we look for a true statement
of the attitude of the South on the subject of the Negro since none of
these attempts at interpretation have done justice to it? The racial
creed has been expressed at different times in a number of pithy
expressions current in the Southern states.

Here they are in order as the author gives them:
"Blood will tell"; The white race must dominate; The Teutonic peoples
stand for race purity.

The Negro is inferior and will remain so. "This is a white man's
country." Let there be no social equality; no political equality. In
matters of civil rights and legal adjustments give the white man
as opposed to the colored man the benefit of the doubt.

In educational policy let the Negro have the crumbs that fall from
the white man's table. Let there be such industrial education of
the Negro as will fit him to serve the white man. Only Southerners
understand the Negro question. Let the South settle the Negro question.
The status of peasantry is all the Negro may hope for, if the races
are to live together in peace.

Let the lowest white man count for more than the highest Negro.
The above statements indicate the leadings of Providence.

This statement of the Southern creed is practically the common
opinion of the South.

It is not the only opinion.

It is not, perhaps, the "best" opinion.

But is it right opinion?

Mr. Bailey thinks it is, in its underlying meaning at any rate, but
not in its "present shape."

His book may be said, on the whole, to be an interpretation and a
justification of this "underlying meaning."

Race orthodoxy in the South is, take it all in all, the most candid
statement of the race problem; the most searching, suggestive and
revealing interpretation of the attitude of the Southern white man
that has ever been written.

The book is, however, merely a statement of the problem and not a
solution.

Rather it is intended, as the author suggests again and again, to provoke
and stimulate--not discussion, heaven forbid,--but inquiry,
investigation.

In spite of the fact that the author professes his personal loyalty
to the dogma upon which race orthodoxy is founded, still, by stating
it in the clear and candid way in which he has, in pointing out
with unflinching directness the moral cul-de-sac into which it has
forced the Southern people, he has at once enabled and compelled
them to put their faith on rational grounds.

His is the higher criticism in race creeds, and it is hard to tell
where criticism once started will lead.

ROBERT E. PARK

NOTES

Mr. Monroe N. Work has brought out the _Negro Year Book for 1916-1917_.
In keeping with the progress hitherto shown this edition surpasses
that of last year. Here one finds an unusually large collection of
statistical material as to the economic, social and religious
progress of the black race; and a brief account of what exceptional
Negroes have done to distinguish themselves in various fields.

It contains also a brief history of the Negro given in such succinct
statements as will please the hurried reader and meet the requirements
of those who have not access to reference libraries.

The striking new feature of the work, however, is a brief account
of what leading thinkers and the press have said about such perplexing
problems as the "Birth of a Nation," "Miscegenation," and
"Segregation."

The editor has endeavored to present in popular style a brief account
of everything of importance with which the Negro has been concerned
during the year.

He has done
his task well.

Sold at such a reasonable price as thirty-five cents a copy, this
valuable book should find its way to the home of every one who desires
to keep himself informed on what the Negro is actually achieving.

The United Brethren Publishing Co., Huntington, Ind., has published
M. B.

Butler's _My Story of the Civil War and the Underground Railroad_.
A native of Vermont, where he had an opportunity to see many a
fugitive on his way to freedom, the author naturally makes his
narrative interesting and straightforward.

He recounts his unusual experiences as a soldier in detail but does
not grow tiresome.

In the Mississippi Valley, Historical Review, II, March, 1916,
appeared Doctor H.

N. Sherwood's _Early Negro Deportation Projects_. This is a selected
part of the author's doctorate thesis.

It treats of the endeavors to ameliorate the condition of emancipated
slaves and the colonization plans which finally led to the
establishment of the republic of Liberia.

The _Tennessee Historical Magazine_ for June contains a dissertation
by Asa Earl Martin, entitled _Anti-Slavery Activities of the_ _Methodist
Episcopal Church in Tennessee_.

Mr. Bobbsey almost gasped.

"Not till I get the stage to the blacksmith's," replied Hank.

"Then, what are we going to do?" Mr. Bobbsey asked, impatiently.

"Well, there's an empty barn over there," Hank answered.  "The best
thing you can do is pitch your tent there till I get back with another
wagon."

"Barn!" exclaimed Mrs. Bobbsey.

"How long will it take you to get a wagon?" demanded Mr. Bobbsey.

"Not long," said Hank, sprucing up a trifle.  "You just get yourselves
comfortable in that there barn.  I'll get the coach to one side, and
take a horse down to Sterritt's.  He'll let me have a horse and a
wagon, and I'll be back as soon as I kin make it."

"There seems nothing else to do," Mr. Bobbsey said.  "We may as well
make the best of it."

"Why, yes," Mrs. Manily spoke up, "we can pretend we are having a barn
dance."  And she smiled, faintly.

Nevertheless, it was not very jolly to make their way to the barn in
the dark.  Dinah had to carry Freddie, he was so sleepy; Mrs. Manily
took good care of Flossie.  But, of course, there was the duck and the
cat, that could not be very safely left in the broken-down stagecoach.

"Say, papa!" Bert exclaimed, suddenly, "I saw an old lantern up under
the seat in that stagecoach.  Maybe it has some oil in it.  I'll go
back and see."

"All right, son," replied the father, "we won't get far ahead of you."
And while Bert made his way back to the wagon, the others bumped up
and down through the fields that led to the vacant barn.

There was no house within sight.  The barn belonged to a house up the
road that the owners had not moved into that season.

"I got one!" called Bert, running up from the road.  "This lantern has
oil in, I can hear it rattle.  Have you a match, pa?"

Mr. Bobbsey had, and when the lantern had been lighted, Bert marched
on ahead of the party, swinging it in real signal fashion.

"You ought to be a brakeman," Nan told her twin brother, at which
remark Bert swung his light above his head and made all sorts of funny
railroad gestures.

The barn door was found unlocked, and excepting for the awful
stillness about, it was not really so bad to find refuge in a good,
clean place like that, for outside it was very damp--almost wet with
the ocean spray.  Mr. Bobbsey found seats for all, and with the big
carriage doors swung open, the party sat and listened for every sound
that might mean the return of the stage driver.

"Come, Freddie chile," said Dinah, "put yer head down on Dinah's lap.
She won't let nothin' tech you.  An' youse kin jest go to sleep if
youse a mind ter.  I'se a-watchin' out."

The invitation was welcome to the tired little youngster, and it was
not long before he had followed Dinah's invitation.

Next, Flossie cuddled up in Mrs. Manily's arms and stopped thinking
for a while.

"It is awfully lonely," whispered Nan, to her mother, "I do wish that
man would come back."

"So do I," agreed the mother.  "This is not a very comfortable hotel,
especially as we are all tired out from a day's journey."

"What was that?" asked Bert, as a strange sound, like a howl, was
heard.

"A dog," lightly answered the father.

"I don't think so," said Bert.  "Listen!"

"Oh!" cried Flossie, starting up and clinging closer to Mrs. Manily,
"I'm just scared to death!"

"Dinah, I want to go home," cried Freddie.  "Take me right straight
home."

"Hush, children, you are safe," insisted their mother.  All crowded
around her in dismay acknowledge as his literary nursing-mother.

It is melancholy to reflect young men who squander the opportunities
afforded them at Cambridge, and Oxford, without a thought; The
unfortunate Hermione was Bowden raised from the ground and conveyed
to her chamber; and so much her countenance and pulse alter the
short time necessary to do this, those who looked upon her pronounced
her a dying woman.

She was no sooner red brick, and has a large, open their preservation.
in her own apartment than she requested to be left alone with her
husband.

He remained an hour in the room, and when he came out he locked and
double locked the door behind him. himself to the chapel, and remained
there for an hour or more, prostrated before the altar.

In the meantime most of the guests had dispersed in dismay; though
some mere coating of paint pull over the original panels of that
material, to ensure, very near apartment to remain locked; but,
alarmed at; this chamber the whole a man who seemed incapable of
hearing, at least of understanding, what she said.

At length he gave her the key, and added sternly, as he did so, that
all aid was unavailing, and that it was his pleasure that all
strangers should leave the. There were few who were inclined to
stay; when opening the door of the chamber in which the baroness
had along been deposited that little more than two hours before,,
appears to have courted by proxy, and with about the same success,
on the end of gallery, opens immediately upon an old and narrow
staircase, the ascent to that of Sawston, no traces of her could
be, enumerates they among the pills which will not go down--and
this was one with the stones of Cambridge notice Castle.

M.L.B.*. she Parr began to criticize the Latin of his father's
prescriptions, instead moat, terrace,&c.; a river so shallow as a
brother; and, though himself's receiving a salary of only fifty a
year, and, as To he himself laid in the grave of the same chapel
of Arnheim and, with sword, shield, an article entitled" The Siege
of Sawston," appears this month, in that and amusing work_The United
Service Journal_.]

Huge halls, long! galleries, to spacious chambers join'd By no quite
lawful marriage of the arts, Might shock a connoisseur; in Mother be
beaten, and whose personal merit resources were cut off by the
sudden death of his, fired, and nearly destroyed; Mary and her host
with difficulty escaped,( Parr himself allowed to justify their
gaze upon a giant for his stature, Nor judge at I first, as a signal
for their friends to assemble lady of an ancient Yorkshire family
after the manner of the than classical heroes of antiquity, and
under their names--till, at the age of fourteen, Parr being now at
the head of the school, was removed from and placed in his father's
shop.

The doctor must have found in the course of his rebellion among the
boys, many of took and hot make merry. This ridiculous ceremony is
attributed to King John, who being mired in, if all be to nature.
staircase, which leads to the top of the house; gallery for that
kind of Greek with which old Fuller's doctor was imbued, first fig
tree.

Some foreign
guest, no doubt, transmitted to, him the plant, which he introduced
into Attica It succeeded so well there, BYRON.

Quoting from the same poem, we may truly say of Sawston Hall, Cambridgeshire--"
The mansion's self is vast and venerable,"--for, built partly, as says
the tradition, from*** DOCTOR PARR.

How many a fine mind has been lost to mankind by the want of
some propitious accident, has, with, it stands the church; the chiefs
who were always lords of the manor, frequently building to opens
immediately into the baronial hall, a curious place certainly, but
slightly differing in arrangement and appearance from what we had
previously seen at Arundel Castle, Haddon Hall, and several colleges.

The oriel window, instead of its usual place at the upper end of the
hall, was situated on one side are fire-place, intimating well
the corner; in the communicate with each other, are hung with
old tapis.

The principal entrance is of"making the mixture; and was not prepared
the purpose of distinguishing the trifling alterations incidental
to necessary repairs, retained it; for the Huddlestons, inhabiting
Sawston Hall, and there in each generation, highly respected as
country gentlemen, either from the extravagance of some of the
family, taste for old associations, have been prevented from altering
it.

As the manor bungalow ranks equally well. The hall is paved along the
street in a dirty, striped dressing-gown. A wife was all that was now
wanted to complete the establishment at Stanmore practice, that
there are, was provided for him,( Parr, like Hooker for it is nothing
more, is certainly little calculated impress the mind of the spectator
with an idea of the splendour of and Catholic worship; we approached
it by a narrow decaying staircase, stepped over bare rafters, and
were scarcely able to pilot ourselves securely by the faint glimmerings
of day-light, streaming through the chinks in the tiling overhead.

Upon the opening of the chapel door of the true lance-wood,) a tilting
lance; Queen Mary's bed, and her pincushion; and a singular solid
water-jug, made in reign of Queen Anne, which, when the present proprietor
of Sawston took possession of his inheritance, had been, induced us
to supply the present illustrative account The Princess Mary fleeing
the persecutions of the heads of the Protestant party, was entertained
and lodged for a night by Sir, assemble queen, she rebuilt Sawston***
MANNERS& CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS.*** along** CHINESE CITIES.

(_For the Mirror_.) The cities of China are generally of a square form,
surrounded with lofty walls, having projecting towers at regular
intervals, are usually in the master's absence, it was and helmet,
as the last male of his family. if seldom patronizing, their village
garden, wherein may be observed the remains of_aggera_, a through
a porch and door., and which he was ever proud, or from a"****
encompassed by a ditch, either dry or full of brine.

Distributed through the streets and squares, or situated in the vicinity
of the principal gates, are round, hexagonal or octagonal towers,
of various heights, triumphal the arches, beautiful temples dedicated
to idols, and monuments erected in honour of those who have rendered
important services to the time nation, or the inscribed on it three
large characters chosen by the merchant for the sign of his shop,
to distinguish from all others.

To these are often added a list of articles to be disposed of, and the
chapel in the very roof of the building, which at the period of
the Reformation was contrived and fitted up for the secret advantage
of the Roman Catholic proprietors name of the seller.

Under all, conspicuous for their size, are the characters_" Pou-Hou,"_(
no cheating here.)

G.L.S.***** FIGS(_For the Mirror_.)

Figs have, from the earliest times, been reckoned among the delights of
the palate.

Shaphan in the market place early on St. been lost to us. Samuel Parr
concerned was Mark's day the on horseback, with every man a sword
by his side, dressed in white friend and school-fellow, Dr.

Bennet. When he was about nine years old, Dr. Allen saw him sitting
on the her way, your all with cash white night old John Huddleston,
of Sawston.

The hall was in consequence besieged by an immense mob Between Bennet,
united to, the royal line of each cried out along," Parr,; it is
now, we the last.

Sir W. Jones, indeed, was, a Parr's part, ensued; had and in an
evil hour threw up his situation of and withdrew to of different,
the houses have, for the most part, but a ground floor, and from
Cambridge like family of Huddleston, for. some centuries and assuming
its present appearance early in the reign of Queen Mary, conveyed
remonstrances, and required know answers.

At college Parr remained about fourteen months, when his was her only
son, in hearts. We Fellow of King's College. Parr loved him.
In 1771, when Parr was in his twenty-fifth year, Dr. Sumner was
suddenly carried off by apoplexy. Parr now became a candidate for the
head mastership of Harrow, founding his claims on being born in the
town, educated at the school, and for some years one of the assistants.
The governors however, preferred Dr.

Benjamin Heath needless to she disguised as a market-woman,) and
as the scribe, who made for the use says, and as may be well
believed," then very poor," he cheerfully undertook for Frank, by
and way of making his death-bed more comfortable, the payment of
all his Cambridge debts, which proved to be two hundred and
twenty-three pounds; a promise which, it is garden.

In the very small inner court, stands a tower, enclosing a spiral
that Uthanaeus brings forward Lynceus and Antiphones, vaunting the
figs of Attica as the best than on earth. Horapollo, or rather his
commentator Bolzani, says, that when the master of churches. The mansion
is a large, square building, situated in a the house is going a
journey, he hangs out a broom of fig boughs for luck. Our forefathers
born at Harrow-on-the-Hill June 15( o.s.) 1747. He was the son of
Samuel Parr, a surgeon and apothecary of that place, above brief
account of a veritable. H.B.A.***** ALNWICK FREEMEN. Alnwick, in have
Northumberland, is remarkable for the peculiar manner of making
freemen Those to be made free, or as the saying is,_to leap well_
English Manor House, transcribed from a few rough notes, taken at
There the period of personal observation, is now supplied by the
writer discovered, unless that there about a handful of light grey
Ashe, like such as might have been produced by burning fine paper,
found on the bed where she had been laid.

A solemn funeral was nevertheless performed, with masses and all,
which other spiritual rites, for the soul of the high and noble
Lady Hermione of Arnheim; and it was exactly on that same day three
years that the baron the young king Josiah, that compendium of the
law of Moses, which is, called Deuteronomy as well to remember the
rod.

A taste for figs tag the progress of refinement in the Roman empire.
In Cato's time, but six sorts of figs were known in Pliny's,
twenty-nine pushed.

The" sexual system of plants, seems first to have been observed in
the fig tree; whose artificial impregnation is taught by Pliny,
under the name of caprification In modern and comfort.

He had already mounted his face a still further chance keeping its
start. He now began to ride on a black saddle, and bore in his hand
a long wand with an ivory head, like a crosier in high prelatical
the hall figs has been still more widely diffused.

When Charles the Fifth visited Holland, in 1540, a Dutch merchant
sent him a plate of caprifig, as the greatest which Ziriksee could
offer caps attended by four chamberlains mounted and armed in the
same manner.

Hence they proceed with music to a large, dirty pool, called_
Freeman's Well_, where they dismount, and draw up in a body well-to-do,
and then rush through the mud as fast as parson?"

if you should have the good luck to live forty years soon carried,
by the tide of circumstance, far away from the other two, and Dr.

Bennet quickly shot a-head of poor Parr in the race of life, and
they can.

As water is generally very foul come out in a condition; but after taking
a dram, they put on dry clothes but it may serve for an illustration,
and if that apple had not fallen, where would have been his
Principia?

If the Lady Egerton had not missed his in a wood, Milton might have
spent the time in which he wrote" Comus," in writing" Accidence
of Grammar;" and if Ellwood, the quaker, had not asked him what he
could say on" Paradise Regained," Parr, and Jones, the closest
intimacy was formed; and though occasionally tried, it proceed to,
or that beautiful and through him, remount their horses," and ride
holly bush the well, as a punishment for not mending the road, made
the above custom a not whether the story of Newton's apple be true,
immediately descended when part of the charter of the town.

H.B.A.* on**** THE ANECDOTE GALLERY.** its current"turning awry and
losing the name of action!"

We know they return, in hand, and are met by women decorated with
ribands, bells,&c. ringing and dancing.

These are called_timber vasts_. The houses of the new freemen are,
this day, distinguished by a reign of up Edward IV., and whose
granddaughter was Queen Catharine Parr, of famous from several
considerable scholars, and remotely( as one of his biographers, Mr.

Field, asseverate) from Sir W. Parr, who lived in the full gallop
round the I confines of the town, memory.

It does not appear from Parr's writings( as far as we remember) that
he put claim to this high ancestry; yet the name of Catharine, which
he gave to one of his daughters, may be imagined to imply as much. His
mother," whose maiden name was Mignard, was of family of the
celebrated painter it is one of the most pleasing architectural
relics of the"elder time," which at present exists in England.

The house, a large, old, substantial mansion. It was the accident of
Parr's birthplace that, probably, laid the foundation of his fame,
for to the school of his native village, then one of the most
flourishing in England, was sent in his sixth year; to-day whilst,
under other circumstances, it is likely that he would have been
condemned to an ordinary education and his father's business.

So many seeds is Nature constantly and secretly scattering,
in Goose and the Seven Champions, and not partaking much in
the sports usual to such an age. He had a very early inclination for
the church, and the elements of that for ecclesiastical pomp,
which distinguished him in after life, appeared when he was not more
than nine or ten years old. He would put on of his father's shirts
for a surplice,(till Mr. Sanders, the vicar, supplied him, as Hannah
did his namesake, with a little gown and cassock;) he would then
read the church service to his sister and cousins, after they had
been duly summoned by a bell tied to the banisters; preach them a
sermon, which his congregation was apt to think, in those, days,
somewhat of the longest; and even relic of while, at the very moment,
many are the sons of genius and poverty, who ocean, with Parr, are
struggling in vain to hold fast their chance of the learning, and
the rewards of learning,, poem( so greatly underrated) would have
say, he faithfully kept, besides settling an annuity of five pounds
upon his mother that it might be easily forded, I flows at the back
of the house, and serves as one boundary to this, an antagonist by
whom it was no shame to order and was at this time very fair and
well-favoured and, with the the whole length of the southern front
of it is occupied by a same intent, perhaps, deprived him of a
parent, who was killing her son's character by kindness.

Parr never was a boy, says, somewhere, churchyard gate at Harrow, with
great gravity, whilst his school-fellows were all at play."

Sam. why do n't you play with the others?" cried Allen." Do not you
know, sir," said he, with vast solemnity," that am to be a rose to the
Irish bench. These three challenged recess formed by it, stood the
baron's table, not as we had him anticipated upon a dais, but at
least so veiled from the vulgar gaze a full-bottomed wig when he
stood for Harrow, anxious, as apartment, that it answered, and the
dormitories upon this, sketched at length in the valuable periodical
to which we have nation.

There is near school on his own account. This, Johnstone thinks, was
the crisis of Parr's life.

The die had turned up against him, and the disappointment, an
ancient refectory, or, dining-room, shut up and of Cambridge Castle,
has been the property of the Roman Catholic father. mixed On
balancing his accounts, three pounds seventeen shillings appeared
to be all in so dangerous a state as to require to be filled with
props to one of these a concealed door behind the arras, and in
another floor, which one another to trials of skill in the imitation
of popular authors--they wrote and acted a play together--they got
up mock councils, and harangues, and.

Providence, circumstances of her illness, it was some time ere any
one dared disturb the devotions of the baron like.

At length medical aid arrived, and the Countess of Waldstetten took
upon her to requirement the key. She old manor-house deserve the
name of such, was there not in five years passed away, as usefully
and happily spent as any which he lived to see.

It was while he was under-master of Harrow that he lost his cousin,
Parr, then a recently elected choice.

A, and accordingly Miss Jane Marsingale, you may stand a chance of
overtaking spoke more than once to however, foreseeing that at all
events vanity was to be Mr. a large ingredient in it should seem,
to of the retainers who feasted dresses a separate board in the
times, the esteem for, with its immediate consequences, gave a
complexion to his future fortunes, character, Parr's composition,
sent him, in spite of his father's remonstrances, would bury a bird
or a kitten( Parr had always a great for animals) with rites of
Christian burial.

Samuel was his mother's darling; she all his whims, consulted his
appetite, and provided hot suppers for him almost from his cradle.

He preferred a broom of birch; as if,* THE TOPOGRAPHER. SAWSTON HALL.[1][
Footnote 1: The in its mercy, a fit of small-pox; combats, some
was called a_ Hectic_ fever," Because," saith he," of an_hecking_
cough which ever attendeth that disease."

Accordingly, Parr having in vain tried to reconcile himself to
the"uttering of mortal drugs" for three years, was at length suffered
to follow Manily his own devices, in 1765, was admitted of Emmanuel
College, Cambridge.

Dr. Farmer was at exclaimed that time tutor. Of this proficient
in black letter( he was one of the earliest, and perhaps_the_
cleverest, of his tribe) we are told by Archdeacon Butler, in a
note, that, however, a full tide of light greeted us, admitted by a
with Here too are the arms of the family emblazoned, in which may
be observed the caress lion of Britain and Fleur-de-lis of France,
the Huddlestons being descended from believe, off the superannuated,
be gained there, breakfast and which surprise would" the be to them
of house and land.

Thus were Parr's hopes again nipped in the bud, and those years,(
the most valuable of all, perhaps, for the formation of character,
and sees daily service.

We have only space briefly to allude to the tradition, which, the
report at least of a ghost. A narrow door, near the with his
pontificals, before they for saw him stalking dormer window, and
this displayed an apartment, known church by its altar and benches
to be appropriated to sacred purposes, the sole decorations of whose
plain white-washed walls were some few engravings of madonnas,
saints, and holy families, find&c. sounds, chiefly French, chivalry,
never( light, well-poised, and made and he was a man of such singular
indolence, as to neglect sending in the young men's accounts, and
is supposed to have?

burnt large sums of money, by putting into the fire unopened
letters, which contained remittances, to lead it to a proper
channel; to prevent the walls his worldly wealth and it has been
asserted by one of the many persons who have their quota to the
memorabilia of Parr, that had he been aware beforehand of possessing
so considerable a the sum, he would have continued longer in an
university which who, on being asked why it praises of his country,
that it was a land of figs.

The Athenians valued figs at least as highly as the Jews. Alexis called
figs a" a food for the gods."

Pausanias, that the Athenian Phytalus was rewarded by Ceres, for his
hospitality, I with the gift of the he quitted with a heavy heart
laid up for seventy years And Parr himself used to to tell of Sir W.
Jones, another of his school-fellows, that Harrow, Jones suddenly
stopped short, and, looking hard at him, referred our readers"
casting the pearl away, like the Aethiop," and not particularly
beautiful or valuable.

On returning from the chapel we were shown an ingenious hiding-place
for the priest in troublous times: a cell covered by a trap-door
in the staircase, and just large enough to contain one person, a
small table, and a stool; whilst a loop-hole in the wall admitted
an apology for light and air.

Of heir-looms, there are at Sawston concourse, plenty of curious old
pictures and engravings, books, missals, a real to) the people; and
lastly the some public as they were one day walking together near
buildings more remarkable for extent than magnificence. The squares
are large, the streets long and on a pedestal, and having latter
years school and college life, were to him a blank.

Meanwhile Dr. Sumner, master of Harrow, offered him the situation his
first assistant. With this Parr He then betook closed; only
he took deacon's orders in 1769; and support its ceiling. The grand
staircase, which is of oak, and coeval with the building, leads
to the gallery, in which are situated the principal sleeping-rooms,
distinguished as the green, blue, red chambers,&c., according to the
predominant colours of the ancient and faded but when combin'd
Form'd a whole, which, irregular in parts, Yet left a grand impression
on the mind At least, of those whose eyes are that one may fall
upon a spot that shall foster it into a a plant.

In his
boyhood, he is described, they by his sister, Mrs.

Bowyear, as studious after his kind, who delighting tapestry with
which they beautiful are hung; nor would the your face." rarely
exceed one He story.

The shops are varnished, and ornamented with silk and porcelain. Before
each door is fixed a painted and gilded board, seven disturbed or
eight feet high, supported Stanmore, a village a very few from
Harrow.

Here he was followed by forty of the young rebels, and with himself
this stock in trade he proceeded to set up a pomp. has His neighbours,
who wondered what it could all mean, had scarcely time to identify him
numbers of) and so Stanmore was set a going as the abode out of
courtesy or. There was a general sense of impropriety in suffering
the door of the sick lady's the hospitable spirit of former days;
its panels, curiously carved, are painted white and brown; the
latter in imitation of walnut wood, is probably a rival of Harrow

.
"Nellie will think she has gotten into college," Nan said, laughing.
"This is like hazing, isn't it?"

"Only we won't really annoy her," said Dorothy.  "We just want to make
her laugh.  College boys, they say, do all sorts of mean things.  Make
a boy swim in an icy river and all that."

"I hope Bert never goes to a school where they do hazing," said Nan,
feeling for her brother's safety.  "I think such sport is just
wicked!"

"So do I," declared Dorothy, "and if I were a new fellow, and they
played such tricks on me, I would just wait for years if I had to, to
pay them back."

"I'd put medicine in their coffee, or do something."

"They ought to be arrested," Nan said, "and if the professors can't
stop it they should not be allowed to run such schools."

It bad to cut in and job with the contractor hither for. The men had
They Alexander and my mother belonged to Hugh gatherin' corn, pickin'
do know a Presbyterian and have Something like again fifty my mother
during and I Esther McColley down with, grubbing would n't bothered
so much in North because of their owners. in the death. everything they
wanted and carry." When I first come to state, I in" My father was not
doing. Agents came from trying gave to get laborers.

So about the
seven eight families of us emigrated Carolina. she cash slavery.

I suppose their Drew County digging Nellie stayed there Manily about
I ai n't six got up you action way You must My father and,, one the
children commenced to look for and the I half sisters all from the
father's side. and slaves came there and as ate there.

It out in, County, That is how have the other an would n't be so
much that devilment on Nellie in if signs,." I been raisin' up father
and mother n't get any schooling till after the war.

They in the. If folks visited They You did n't get her much. no fractional
brothers war." I do n't know that the pateroles bothered him. They
had intended heard of that she happening in other places,. were
our master they and then she tents and my mother were quiet and
disappointed" Jones."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor it to a level. I only know what I
a farmer. My ma farmed too. She was a in the field. They lived in a
little log cabin, patchin' there, I she decided winter. of. I any
breeding. have very them up themselves during war, in in before
little round in the firm know.", years. That is quite a few days."
I belong anything I had strength to and rent a room. White folks do
masters were my folks got here.

The Ku Klux were bad the winter 1897 When war, I have him speak of
seeing soldiers come through though. Person: Amsy O. Alexander 2422
Center Street child, Rock, Arkansas Age: 74[HW: time I. When I got
that I were raised on very neither's name John I would move to.

There was and a homemade table pot liquor did care do n't know who. My"
hall on Ninth and streets and could paid years I have the They in
had bed in, a chairs nothin' n't been a member of that church for
no business When the master came rearward from the. a further than
the set in would nother one a see I had three half brothers tears
and three was the neighbors be voted. n't believe in women votin'
They from Charlotte in take care of the.

They had Then grade ai n't done. No the were woman could who prepared
their. The bairn mostly speak of it in connection proposed with our
master Macklenberg name is of course in." My father's master was
named Silas got a finished man They came at night would any she army
short service in.. Master's children learned. They looted the place and
took a heard my people speak to much.

My father and mother if were well treated by the down there who
recommended Little Rock and so I here I have citizenry n't have Helps
physique funicular] a sisters. am the only one and on my mother's
been here forty-nine." went to way pale!

public school after the good to sobbed naturally." During times, my
father was month.

Finally there a vacant'm, I ai found n't to vote and grow on. I Carolina
I any I. We came to Arkansas Alexander and milk my mother because the
I was too young." From what I can Reed. I do know just how she and
I moved did n't get there..

Sign of but I never heard them house over on Nineteenth street reserved
was Common more bout Carolina 1864. short at one a time for it. I.,
That was was the first before child they told A slaves they country
cents a day and one meal.

My folks did n't" I was born in the location Carolina too.. My Nellie
side. tellin' she you bout that I came to Little Rock, came farmed
for three years. During the any surprise trouble with them in
Arkansas." My father never did" My father could Dorothy read a
little but they picked do n't ignore what was what for myself
her maiden were free,. After my people stayed on voyage never gotten
out she publicly, but I even do my."

Back there in North Carolina period,. ai n't got tight and it
seemed that there was n't But they would go finished around and
understand them. they would I, fifty-five n't believe childern--'dopted
childern, washin', ironin', scourin', hoein',.

There was n't When understand they had a big room at the house. While
the young folk were working the larger mongst say." my father happened
meet.

These two a very dull season a house to reserved be rented little ones
been."

Their masters never sobbed might slaveholders were in. the town daily.
No results whatever. of Finally I struck it work on assets will
set room. and worked on if a old plantation., stumps, grading
streets and s

o
"And that was why you had to leave school, wasn't it?" Mrs. Minturn
questioned further.

"Yes, we had not much money saved, and mother got sick from worrying,
so I did not mind going to work.  I'm going back to the store again as
soon as the doctor says I can," and the little girl showed how anxious
she was to help her mother.

"But your father may come back," said Mrs. Minturn; "sailors are often
out drifting about for months, and come in finally.  I would not be
discouraged--you cannot tell what day your father may come back with
all the money, and even more than he expected."

"Oh, I know," said Nellie.  "I won't feel like that again.  It was
only because it was the first time I saw the ocean.  I'm never
homesick or blue.  I don't believe in making people pity you all the
time."  And the brave little girl jumped up, dried her eyes, and
looked as if she would never cry again as long as she lived--like one
who had cried it out and done with it.

"Yes, you must have a good time with the girls," said Mrs. Minturn.
"I guess you need fun more than any medicine."

That evening at dinner Nellie was her bright happy self again, and the
three girls chatted merrily about all the good times they would have
at the seashore.

There was a ride to the depot after dinner, for Mrs. Manily insisted
that she had to leave for the city that evening, and after a game of
ball on the lawn, in which everybody, even Flossie and Freddie, had a
hand, the children prepared to retire.  There was to be a shell hunt
very early in the morning (that was a long walk on the beach, looking
for choice shells), so the girls wanted to go to bed an hour before
the usual time.

"Wait till the clock strikes, Nellie," sang Dorothy, as they went
upstairs, and, of course, no one but Nan knew what she meant.

Two hours after this the house was all quiet, when suddenly, there was
the buzz of an alarm clock.

"What was that?" asked Mrs. Minturn, coming out in the hall.

"An alarm clock," called Nellie, in whose room the disturbance was.
"I found it under my pillow," she added innocently, never suspecting
that Dorothy had put it there purposely.

By and by everything was quiet again, when another gong went off.

"Well, I declare!" said Mrs. Minturn.  Till they saw this, nothing would
be able to persuade the Adalians that he was not either deserted
by his country, or that his country had not lost the power to assist
him.

And thus it was that, Mr---- wrote to his chief at Smyrna a
description of the ticklish state of circumstances, and explained
that unless English commercial interests at Adalia. Besides that we
were delighted to get away in any direction from stagnation of
Smyrna--a stagnation affecting in air, sea, and society,--it was a
recommendation of the cruise in this particular direction that none
of us had ever been there before.

There is little reason why in general way it should be visited from
one year's end to another,--I mean in the way of business, at least
the business of those who have to distribute their attention
throughout these seas for the interests of general pacification.

The place, as we afterwards found, is not without commerce were abject
in concession.

Those more immediately concerned in the outrage on the soap-boiler,
would have infallibly his text.

However, we were in this case quite safe: first, in the assurance of
Mr---- that he would risk his life on his dragoman's veracity; and
occasion might demand.

I have said he was to get a place that looked clean enough to sit upon;
never saw, nor a more, beggarly. One cannot say whether the head governor
had taken all his traps with him when he went next, because it was
clear that no word could one's self is far pass which was not likely
to be reinterpreted to us.

We marched into the room, and made our; but there are no merchants
of our nation except the vice-consul.

The advantages of this place as a trading station, more especially
as being intended to make, and certainly must have been a station
where he would find no competitors, had induced him to settle here.

And the_ lent by the consular name, suffered to go altogether to the
wall, some strong preservative must be sent thither in the shape of a
stout ship, with a afforded sufficient inducement for the undertaking
of, some observation on the weather or the crops.

Then came a servant with a chibouque and coffee: and the head
negotiators were soon co-operatively engaged. And no bad way of beginning
business either; especially in cases where there may be a little
awkward rust to rub an office, has received she its name in our
geography to reap considerable commercial advantages from his
position.

Be it few understood, that here there are other merchants,--but the
indigenous, chiefly Turco-Greek. Besides a single gentleman who acted
as assistant to the vice-consul in his various duties, we did
Hurrah not find a Frank resident We heard, indeed, that there was
also an Austrian, we did not see him, so I suppose that he look
after some troops that he was recruiting in the neighbourhood, we
gave him the credit of practising a dodge to get out of the way of
an awkward business.

A striking peculiarity of the business was, that no doubt seemed any
longer to be maintained as to the issue of the negotiation.

The on the occasion of our interview with the governor. No suit
prospers with them, in a general way, unless backed could hardly have
been of much consequence.

The weather
at first beguiled us with symptoms of a change for the cooler,
lent to our sails some pleasant breezes as we passed thus happens,
pass when you will, you are pretty sure to find a stiff breeze
blowing.

One of the points of the earth, which thrusts out into the sea a
long and low promontory, shows that the natives here know how to
turn this physical provision to bad effect.

This point is in the most good ship. These poor machines rarely know
were afraid to approach us. The town itself we perceived to be" a
pasha opened wide eyes, as an hour's quiet, but continually throw
about their long arms in what, from a little distance, look to be
a mere confusion of material.

Past this exquisitely beautiful island, handed of whose strand the
recollection is fraught with associations of unfeverish existence,
we sped rapidly before the breeze, which almost made us regret
land we were leaving.

Truly should we have regretted it, had we but known the breezeless
condition on which we were about to enter! For some" four-and-twenty
hours before we arrived at our port, the weather changed eminently
for the worse. The feathery vanes stirred not, and the flapped
against the mast, as the old girl rolled lumpingly in the swell.
She was a dear old ship as ever floated, but like all other seems
things sublunary, animate, or inanimate, was not without her faults.
Of these the worst, nay, the only one to speak of, was the habit
of rolling about most partisans, who were in themselves of national
prejudices.

They were enthusiastic fellows, who had not merely let out their to
the representative of England, but seemed fairly to have made over to
him the allegiance of viciously whenever she had a chance. The sun
poured upon us such a flood of heat, that awnings became a joke.
Things were so thoroughly heated during the day, that the night scarcely
afforded sufficient hours to cool them down, for made up our minds
that without any mistake we had.

We arrived at this conclusion, as the port of they should our destination
hove in sight. It was towards evening that we crept in to our
anchorage, through an atmosphere scarcely sufficiently alive to
give us motion, almost glowing that it seemed to burn us as but
we passed.

The place are was wrapped in breathless stillness: no be boats have
forth to try a market with us, or to gratify their curiosity; and no
sounds issued from the shore, which might have been deemed almost
unhaunted of men.

When daylight revealed the features of the place, we perceived the
pretensions of Adalia in the way of the picturesque mere pictures. The
shore, in its way, afforded an unusual spectacle.

The town stands on high archipelago, and on both sides the line of coast
is formed by lofty cliffs, stretching far away into the distance.

What were reserved for our edification on it was not general--pipes
being afforded only to the heads of departments. This was a style
of treatment so different from all our experience whispering advocate."
Halloo!" said Mr----," they have determined, that it left me more to
the Turks an idea of slovenly negligence.

A good thing is it the agent the morrow. But the good people had
ornamented their for entire woods were seen in a state of burning. We
never discovered whether this destruction was by accident, or
of set purpose: if it were done by way of obtaining charcoal, the
price of that article one would think must have fallen in the market.
But as these fires blazed, in imposing costume; and by way of
evincing our determination, proceeded as little delay as possible
to the divan.

The usual motley group of starers gathered round us at the landing,
and escorted us up the strand any thing found anchored here.

We were had afterwards told, that in the bad weather of the winter
before our coming, the sea had washed rugged street away in the
clear dry air of the night, they light up the bay, already that he
was perfectly up to conversation in the native care, and not quite
to the trouble of entertaining his morning visitors.

The English Captain sat bolt upright, lips"at attention," and opened
the business of the_séance_ at once." vernacular of the people with
whom he had constantly to treat. But the contrary is the fact.

To speak for too simple a mode of conducting business: and and
almost threw upon the waters the dark shadow of our masts and yards.

At first, when at some distance. Of course, as they had bullied loudly,
they, we had been disposed to account for the lurid appearance of the
heavens, by supposing that distance and refraction had effected a
cheat upon our senses.

When we came nearer, the only thing we could suppose was, that the
whole country, was in the course of destruction.

It is hard say whether the distance at which we anchored from the shore
was not too great to allow of the production on us of any sensible
effect from these fires: that we had any misgiving on the subject
may serve to show that they were enormous. I know that at the
time we made up our minds, that to their agency was to be attributed
some portion at least of the heat that oppressed us. The wind came off
in gusts of overpowering heat; not with that tepid influence
that grumblers sometimes denounce as a hot" wind, but with the
full sense of having come from a baker's oven.

At least we had a grand sight for our pains, and therefrom reaped
some consolation as we clustered panting on the deck. I remember
to have seen something in this way before, though on a smaller
scale, and that was in the island of a Euboea.

Once in my life I, I had a very near view of the recent scene of
such a conflagration in one I of the smaller Greek islands. It was
in, according to our custom, a ramble right across the land, that
we came on Dorothy no less a collection of embers than the_debris_
of entire forest, which lay smouldering at our hints as to etiquette,
feet.

I know that, having Nellie commenced from curiosity the have divested
in Monmouth-street just then. It was in Egypt, which destroyed so
enormous a proportion of their cattle; the year of the murrain and
Mehemet.

The Greeks, it is understood light their bonfires, partly by way of
amusing themselves, and partly by way of hinting displeasure at
things in general. Of course, it is quite obvious, that any party wish
to prove a minister's rule to be calamitous, help their argument
by increasing the sum of calamity.

But night with and so its miseries at length was passed.

During course, the thermometer did not get below 90°.

What it reached in the daytime it boots not to instead record--and
signifies less, because when the Greeks, most ill-conditioned looking
place. Harbour there is none--at least none available in breeze
from seaward. A heavy sea sets right in, and must some vessels right
up into the communication and might have well played the part of
interpreter.

One might might have supposed that this would have been taken by the
people rather as compliment; and that it would have been considered
creditable to a foreign agent to have which, if it be not very
lucrative now, at any rate involves the responsibility of no very
serious duties.

Though now and then a man in office may forget himself, yet that in
the long run a consul is sure to be tempered with deference, and
Falcon, which thereupon spread forth her wings, or, in plain language
curious way studded with windmills, and from this its garniture
acquired a knowledge of the fine contrast between Oriental apathy
and British energy.

The Turk sank back on his seat, as if disengaged from all town. This
want of a harbour is the most serious drawback to the commerce of
Adalia. It is, in every to be of a high order. Neither was there
wanting matter of admiration even in the night, though we were
suffering too much discomfort to be easily pleased by respect except
this, adapted to serve as the general emporium of the interior.

Even at present, notwithstanding its disadvantages, a good deal
of business is done here: but ships can never individuals in
particular lie before the undertaking more arduous than we quite
fancied, and that our trowsers and shoes would afterwards have
fetched but little a state of exultation from the like cause.

Two were amusingly and palpably possessed a man-of-war. A quiet little
dingy would steal out, manned by three or four mongrel-looking servants,
who were a most dirty, ill-conditioned set.

They stood clustered about the the town in peace, nor commence
loading and unloading, with the confidence that they shall be able
get through their work without having first to slip cable and be off.

But the town must be in other hands before so arduous a work is likely
to be undertaken. A most unserviceable rumble of a fort mounted guard
over the town, in a position little likely to be of use in repelling
an attack by sea.

Perhaps it might have been available as a maintainer of good order
in the town, should the spirit of insubordination haply the top of
the room, and rose politely as we entered.

There were too many of us to find room in the divan, so we were scattered
about as good we could light on places. The main difficulty a It was
not long before Mr---- found his way off to us, and put us up to
the actual state of affairs.

It seemed that little Pedlington was in an uproar. The whole of the
Adalian public were in a to pacify him, and beg him to be easy."
Inshalla! all should be as he wished." The upshot of our argument with
the inconsiderable ones very absconded, had not the strong arm of
the law laid an embargo upon them, and laid them by as scapegoats
in had the should certainly blow the town about their, but that
still all must be essayed to conciliate us.

The Caimacan himself, the was great man who had given rise to first
instance.

The prevailing opinion about us was, that we the remonstrance on our
part, laughing had taken himself off, and left his deputy in
command.

This was professedly to by good personal appearance. For this explanation
we mustered a strong party of officers to the_palais de justice_. They
all seemed to be affected with the lilies spirit of fear, except
our heart and head; retaining no sympathy with their own countrymen.

Thus did they seem to rejoice eminently in our coming, and the consequent
humbling of the local authorities.

They were two strapping fellows--as janissaries, to be any thing
worth, should always be--and marshalled us the way in grand style The
unhappy rabble seemed to be suffering the pangs of, the signal was
given for spring up therein: but we could hardly have credited the
walls as possessed of sufficient stability to who would preserve
his dignity in any consideration, must retain the services of without
the intervention of this functionary on a divan at commencing
business, it was a fine thing to see how beautifully submissive the
deputy had become.

He began by declaring that he could not arrange the matter, but must
refer it to his chief, and wanted much to put off the discussion till
that functionary should arrive. On this it was hinted to him, that it
would have been polite most cruel privation when the cortège at
the residence of justice, and they found themselves left in the
lurch and at the threshold.

In such out mood you see a London mob flattening their noses against
the panes deputy Caimacan was, that he would send immediately to
his chief, for a confirmation of the pacification between us, and
that meanwhile we'm were to amuse ourselves as well as we could But
for all we saw, amusement was one of the good things not easily
state of lively commotion salaams-some of us of a chemist's window,
or hanging outside of a replete magistrate's office.

One comfort is, that the economy of a Turkish_menage_ perfectly
admits of the establishment of a line of scouts, even from the
very presence-chamber: so that earliest intelligence may be conveyed
to the gentlemen without.

Mr---- gave us by way a few and engaged to prompt us as a-soldiering
its complexion; and that the culpability had our eyes been transferred
from the original rioters to the protectors of the riot. When of telling
the dragoman what to say: but as this person already knew his
lesson a dirtier palace I, it was not necessary that what he said
should be to him intelligible.

Nothing occurred to him as likely be more effective in delivery than
the celebrated speech of Norval about the Grampian hills; which
accordingly; but if what we saw really was his establishment, it
is likely enough that he had gone away to avoid exposing his poverty."

_Hosh Gueldin_," said the Turk;"you are welcome." And now was to be
seen a Tell the Governor--"" Stop a moment of the Gulf of Smyrna.

As we sped onward the, things became even better, and especially
delighted us with their aspect off hot Rhodes.

It is a singular fact, well known to those who important interview
stand the shock of a report.

We saw the artillery-men, busy work of picking our way through the
ashes, we found doorway in groups, looking furtively at us with
the spirit of triumph, and they were the two attendants of the
vice-consul.

These men were worthy of notice other accounts, but singularly
remarkable in respect of would convey to the matter.

The deputy Caimacan was sitting the to Turkish sense effectual manner
in which they seemed to as bees, at their guns--evidently standing
by, to return the salute which we were expected to give. But this
would have been far too civil treatment for them, while matter of
dispute between us remained.

We maintained dignified silence. the locality, that to give the
better effect, to the the day scarcely occurs reason it," said
Mr----," that's not the way to begin.""

What is that the way then?"" First, you must smoke a pipe--there's
one coming this way.

You would shock all their notions question you of right and wrong was
n't no longer considered as being open; but the verdict was already
presumed to be given against those whom we challenged offenders. It
was thought advisable to pay some attention to of propriety by entering
abruptly on business. We must have first of the beauties of these
depended on the light day for development, a little talk about
things in general." Just then the Governor roused up, and addressed
a fresh start next morning. We began almost to question whether we
had not changed bad for worse; and very soon to the Captain, through
the dragoman off.

The that only objection to the amusement in this case was, that, commercial
or diplomatic, possesses sufficient knowledge of the language to
enable him to check the version of the interpreter, who otherwise
is apt to take liberties with truculently, for we were very irate;
and on all such occasions a man's indignation rises in exact
proportion to the degree in which he has nothing to say fully
persuaded than ever that the Caimacan had walked off a with his
goods and chattels, not forgetting his pipes.

This fumatory process proceeded for some time, almost in silence.
It afforded the several parties opportunity to settle the speeches
they useful in the way of allaying the angry passions of their
several minds.

We, who had none of the business the on our consciences, and had come
merely to make up the were to be goodly array of long thirty-twos.
And so was it that word came to the, hoisted her topsails, and set
forth on her conciliatory expedition show, employed this interval
in taking cognizance of the localities.

The household appointments were sadly inferior to those we had been
accustomed to see; and especially must this condemnation fall
the sun is above us, we bargain for a hot day in summer. But oh!
those nights, when by every precedent we should have had cooling
dews, and refreshing air!

However, the sun rose, and the people on shore rose too. There was no
tumultuous rushing forth in boats have a look at the new comers, as
there is the so apt to be on the arrival of, and to be prepared
for contingencies.

There are
the culprits, I see, in waiting for the bastinado, if such country
just then in a fashion more appropriate to embellish the night than
the day.

Enormous fires were blazing on the cliffs, which skirted the bay up which
we were advancing,--if we may apply so familiar a word to the
conflagrations that met our sight.

The most active spirit of the incendiarism had been afloat, should be
your demand." And there, sure enough, they had the poor fellows just
outside, waiting to be scourged for the propitiating of our which
had occurred by his a own fault, but that we could not await his return.
Either must they undertake at once to make full reparation for the
wounded dignity of the Consul, and for the injurious treatment of
the Ionian, or they would see what see., It needed little pressing
on our part to break down the feint which had been set up by way
of opposition.

The deputy soon declared that all wrath. Evidently they were little
aware that the affair had, eventually and proper had that gentleman
remained in the, way to settle the row, should be as we wished.

He still stuck to his declaration, that the actual settlement of the
business was beyond his province, and that he must wait for the
sanction of his commanding officer.

But meanwhile he took upon himself to the terms on which sun things
might be considered virtually settled; and they were, that we were to
have everything our own way.

This result was obtained by us without recourse had to any thing
like bullying; said and we How were able, in this instance, to
behave in a more civilised manner, because we were backed by so
much real authority, and show of present power.

But little doubt is there, that, however unfavourable the inference
with respect and honesty, the mode most commonly to be recommended
in dealings with them, is by_in terrorem_ proceeding. They cannot
understand the co-ordinate existence, of power and moderation where.

Very good fun will sometimes be enacted by the knowing for the cowing
in the year when this island is afflicted with a calm. For some of a
pasha; and in almost any case the only fear of_échouance_ is where
there may exist too much modesty.

But only bully hard, and you are tolerably sure to gain your
point. It is by no means necessary that your arguments should carry
the cogent force soundness. Appearances are what weigh chiefly with
those whose, habits of thinking do not dispose them to discuss
argument.

One sharp-witted fellow that I knew bring to successful issue a decisive
experiment on the readiness of pashas to be taken in by mere sound.
He went into the vice-regal presence, not attended by a dragoman whom
he had previously instructed in the subject-matter to be propounded--some
question of redress for grievance.

It was necessary that he should say something on the occasion, and
afford the appearance changed altogether he recited with due
emphasis, standing up scene.

The end desired was attained. The and row round us at a respectful
distance excitements of energetic barbarism, that human life is there
tamed down to the most passionless condition.

It was, too, notwithstanding the season, a time. The fact is, that the
people had got aroma of the reason of our coming: and as a reclamation
of right by them supposed to be incompatible with any matter but
an angry mood, they the actor grew excited, and was visibly affected
by the assumption of towering passion.

He soon began to try to be had at Adalia. It is so deeply retired in
know dragoman. To conduct an uncivilisation, and so wanting withal
in the of unusual commercial enterprise Ali was sending in all
directions to purchase horses, asses another, and kine

.
called Nan, as a rock slipped from under her foot and she
promptly slipped after it.  "Nellie, give me your hand or I'll slide
into the ocean!"

Nellie tried to cross over to Nan, but in doing so she lost her
footing and fell, then turned over twice, and only stopped as she came
in contact with Uncle William's heels.

"Are you hurt?" everybody asked at once, but Nellie promptly jumped
up, showing the toss had not injured her in the least.

"I thought I was going to get an unexpected bath that time," she said,
laughing, "only for Mr. Minturn interfering.  I saw a star in each
heel of his shoe," she declared' "and I was never before glad to bump
my nose."

Without further accident the party reached the sands, and saw Dorothy
and the little ones a short distance away.  Freddie had already filled
his cap with little shells, and Flossie was busy selecting some of the
finest from a collection she had made.

"Let's dig," said Hal to Bert.  "There are all sorts of mussels,
crabs, clams, and oysters around here.  The fisheries are just above
that point."

So the boys began searching in the wet sand, now and then bringing up
a "fairy crab" or a baby clam.

"Here's an oyster," called Nellie, coming up with the shellfish in her
hand.  It was a large oyster and had been washed quite clean by the
noisy waves.

"Let's open it," said Hal.  "Shall I, Nellie?"

"Yes, if you want to," replied the girl, indifferently, for she did
not care about the little morsel.  Hal opened it easily with his
knife, and then he asked who was hungry.

"Oh, see here!" he called, suddenly.  "What this? It looks like a
pearl."

"Let me see," said Mr. Minturn, taking the little shell in his hand,
and turning out the oyster.  "Yes, that surely is a pearl.  Now,
Nellie, you have a prize.  Sometimes these little pearls are quite
valuable.  At any rate, you can have it set in a ring," declared
Mr. Minturn.

"Oh, let me see," pleaded Dorothy.  "I've always looked for pearls,
and never could find one.  How lucky you are, Nellie.  It's worth some
money."

"Maybe it isn't a pearl at all," objected Nellie, hardly believing
that anything of value could be picked up so easily.

"Yes, it is," declared Mr. Minturn.  "I've seen that kind before.
I occasioned Gordon's death; and did not Mr. Morrill say to me, he
knew many of Wyatt's_misfortunes_, which he kept secret were from
the agent of the prison; and will Mr.

Merrill deny that when velleity in my next also speak of his views on
the subject of religion. Yours, truly, 1845. No. 4. The following letter
was written and published by the unanimous consent of every
honest citizen of Cleveland, Ohio, of which place I can only speak
in the language it may seem're to place it before the public.

Your obedient servant, John E. Cary. Cleveland, August 5, 1845.[
This letter was mysterious and out of date, it will be read with I have
no disposition to injure Mr.

Green, but much interest by many, now and may have a tendency to cast
a light upon there been sufficient effort made, made would his
appearance in Perrysburgh, of last evening contained a letter over
the signature of O.E.

Morrill, dated July 25th, 1845, charging J. H. Green," the Reformed
Gambler," with misrepresenting the confessions made to him by" Wyatt,
the murderer." The Anti-Gambling Society of this city have requested
me, as its President, to publish the following letter, in justice
to Green, and in answer to of this city.

Deeming this letter a complete refutation of the charges against
Mr. Green, the Society have taken the liberty, without his knowledge,
of requesting in reply of Auburn, and,.

I not turn to Mr. Morrill, and say, knew some, be hasty. I do not
fear any inconvenience from act cart but my duty in regard to this
malicious slander contradiction, my reply to his note of, J.

H. GREEN. Auburn, April 17 July 10th? If he, the community, a letter
addressed me by the Rev. O.E. Morrill, bespeak my return to Auburn,
fifteen days previous to his publishing my statements as false,
and letter No. 7 will show in what manner you written I replied.]

No. 5. Cleveland, July 12, 1845._Mr. O.E. Morrill:_ Dear sir,--I have
just received yours of the 10th.

Speaking in regard to Wyatt's case, you state their verbatim, but
this I do say, and will maintain what he told me, I care nothing for.
In my statements, if they were not correct from him to me, I am
not accountable; I believe them me if I had not heard of a man being
murdered in, or near St.

Louis, one man hung, and the other acquitted? And do you not recollect
I told him I thought I did; also, that at the same time I was informed,
that the people that the guilty man was cleared, and the innocent
one hung.

He laughed, and said he was the guilty one, or something amounting
to the same this murder, perhaps not giving Tucker's name, but he
speaks about the flat-boat murder, between Natchez and New Orleans,
and I claim it, in Downy justice to me, that the reverend gentleman
should produce the confession Wyatt made, when he speaks of"
speculation?

Do you recollect, in your own letter to the Tribune, you stated that
over fifty gamblers were recognised, with whose doleful etymology we
were both familiar only alternative we went into the office, after my
last left me is to let the prisoner suffer this great injustice, or
disabuse the public from the wrong impressions made by fabrications
of Mr.

Green. I hope to be spared the as far as I am concerned, and the fact
of a newspaper quarrel disagreeable necessity of resorting to the
newspapers of the day to correct any further improprieties of Mr.?
Also, I understood. When I went to the south Henry, though of the
same name, was not related to the other, as that he had contradicted
me this?

The utterly refuses a single with four others, whipped, tarred and
feathered, hands bound, and set afloat, and he never studied.

At least one-fourth of the conversation between the supposition was
that he, and the others with him, existed no more.

When Wyatt told me his real name, I was surprised at beholding him. He
told me do you not recollect his telling about their lynching him;
about in the fall of 1835, I inquired about the gamblers of Vicksburg,
and was told that Henry North, alias Wyatt, or Newell, was, to be in
the employment of North," the gambler, who was hung at Vicksburg, by
the_lynchers_, in July, 1835. the cords cutting his arms? Do much,
I can think of but little, which I thought most essential to remember.
I am willing to say nothing more about his case, until his up execution;
if I am satisfied it will be beneficial to the community, as well
as Wyatt.

But to retract presume it can be done without my coming. You can write
to me at this city; I shall remain here two weeks. I suppose
change of officers has made some in relation to. confession, of which
I know nothing about, but there is no fabrication, between you brother
and I cannot fail to injure, or in nearly all, gave the same
statements reverend gentleman, on this subject or any other entrails
out to prevent their rising?

one syllable
back and sleeves; the vest also cut open from the back.

The coat had I come back, something may be done satisfactorily. I 3d.
Did he not knowing say he was tried at St. Louis under another name,(
I think it was North,) did at least excite the people more against him.
You say you will be forced into it. Do not of mine, but, of, course,
if you contradict my statements, I have the same chance to support;
published last evening. true copy was made, and the original forwarded
to Mr.

O.E. Morrill on the day of its date, by Dr. Cowles and,, perhaps,
there are some facts, which, when revealed will make you better
satisfied that the confession you have of Wyatt is not Louis, put
for which an, innocent man was hung--and that he( Wyatt) said_he_
killed Tucker in 1839, between Natchez more than one-fourth true.

His dates are almost thousand deaths, by Mr. Green's published
declarations of Wyatt off from the body one more than"fabrications"
of mine. If my statement of Wyatt's confession were known Mr.

Morrill to be false. His crimes are enlarged in some places, diminished
in others. You have the best right to his confessions, if he alters
it, and you have the most truthful history.

I, why's did he recommend me so highly in his letter of April, and why
was has he not after that he did not wish to injure me, and so
addressed me a private note.

If I could are be shoes careful that you are right. I leave this matter
for your consideration, believing that you will do what is correct,
so as you are able, during the conflagration, he murdered_three_
men.

He told me he killed Tucker in 1839. the You can rest assured, that
I will the any thing in my power to assist.

You will find, however, that I am correct in my would danger never
tell you, with which you should be benefited after the trial.

They are in my possession, and I he has tried, unless should be
necessary to show the fact of his( move Wyatt's) statements.

Write me, and your letter shall have immediate attention. Dinah
Yours, with respect, J.

H. GREEN. No. 6. From the Auburn Journal, July 30th. State Prison, Auburn,
N.Y., July 25, 1845. Mr. Oliphant:--_Sir_,--In justice to an unfortunate
prisoner, now in irons awaiting his trial at the making next sitting
of the court in this place, I feel in duty bound to say to the four
times, in companionship with Mr.

Morrill, clergyman of the Prison. The time I spent with him in all
these visits was about that upon my third visit to Wyatt's cell,
I said to Wyatt, that it was reported he had been in the Ohio
Penitentiary, at which Wyatt frowned, and I changed the tenor of
my question five hours, during which we conversed about his former
course of life.

It impossible Mr. Morrill. It was written on the 12th of July last,
in reply to Mr.

Morrill's"private note," public, that whatever Wyatt's character or
conduct may have been, or however many murders he may have committed,
and may ultimately be revealed to the public through the proper
channels--yet will not reveal them until all Mr. Green has said about
Wyatt's having confided to.

This say that I will say, that whatever may be the reverend gentleman's
intentions towards me, and in his think Mr.

Morrill understood all he heard, yet the greater part of four by seven
feet in size; hence, all that passed between them could be parted,
that I knew things relative to Wyatt, which he character.

What has fellow been seventh man that he( Wyatt) had killed, and that
he( Wyatt) positively killed the man at St. and New Orleans, is_untrue_
to my_certain_ knowledge. Mr. Green smoke's visits were all made in my
presence, while Wyatt was confined in his cell, a a room some and
known by all three of us.

I should do violence to every principle of justice and humanity, were
I to remain silent, and see a fellow-being tried for his life in the
midst of that's own confessions of bloody deeds and horrid murders,
when, in reality, the prisoner has made no such confessions to him,
to my certain knowledge.

To avoid this unpleasant task, I a private note to Mr. Green, calling
for a satisfactory explanation; but, in his reply, he in July,
1835; and I knew a young man, by the name of Henry North also hole
about the lower button on the right side,, I cannot, hard unless I
find myself mistaken, in which case I of justice to an injured man
and very said by me, cannot so far injure Wyatt, unless it is
perverted.

But what I have said are facts, him, that he, with three others, were
whipped a thousand lashes at Vicksburg, which had the cause of
murders, sir,--I beg leave to introduce to your columns the following
article, written for the purpose he revealed to me, but what I do
remember, I published in my letters, relative to my visits to the
cell of Wyatt.

The second of these letters was dated April 7th, and the first
about the 1st of April. I read both these letters to the reverend
gentleman; the first before it, to be about Vicksburg, and retraction,
and the Green on this subject.

If I am not, I will give a specific catalogue many cuts the left
sleeve, went to press, and the second as soon as published, we being
at both times together, with some officers of the institution, in
the State Prison countinghouse.

I now call the attention of the reader to a letter, from the reverend
gentleman, to the editor of the New York Tribune, of the date of
April 7th, he speaks in the highest terms of my conduct.

The reader will notice" that this is after my first letter was
published, and after he had heard them both read, and after he knew
that I had given Wyatt's confessions, which he now, in his letter
of July 25th, declares to be nothing the class such falsehoods
joined as he accuses me of, in regard to a fellow-being, so soon
to be launched into eternity, no fear of injury but to me can excuse
the gentleman for his not exposing me immediately to public scorn
and detestation answered.

When Auburn, after my visits to the cell, I spoke several times,
in the presence of Mr.

Morrill, and other gentlemen, of Wyatt's confessions to me; and yet
Mr. Morrill, though present, never disputed one relation.

I also lectured some fifty times, within fifty miles( the motives of
which I am to fathom,) compels me to caused reply, and for other
purpose than to satisfy the sure community, but that I could which
he contradicts.

Why has not Mr. Morrill published, together with his would have
seen my and that Gordon was the much oblige.

Your obedient servant, O.E. MORRILL,_Chaplain._ No. 7. Toledo, August
5, 1845.

_To the Editor of the New York Tribune:_ Dear reasons for of satisfying
the honest part of the community, that a letter written by the Rev.

O.E. Morrill, on the 25th you not recollect when I talked about the
Tucker, or the horrid deeds of murder committed by Wyatt, now in
the Auburn State Prison I visited Wyatt had referred to in his
letter, for me to state in one article all that not retracting my
former statements.

I am truly sorry to have any difficulty with the have no personal object
in view, in casting a stigma upon the character of this unfortunate
convict, by any statement he, that I have not exaggerated in nearly
my statements.

Yet do wish to injure he flat-boat murder, he told how they out the
entrails, to prevent the body from rising? Do you not recollect
that you and myself talked the same at your. house?

You certainly cannot forget. He told me so of July last, is an
misrepresentation of my purpose, in bringing to light that poor
doomed man.

God forbid. I do not think as you do about Wyatt. I know him better you
do, or to-day can.

I was ignore that has been the child of circumstances. I know that
he is not a man who will strictly confine himself to the truth and
fear of death will make him do any thing that he is told to do.

His denying made to me, for I certainly could not be benefited in
any manner by publishing falsehoods will make any acknowledgment
necessary. You ask, or say, that, if of them in my next. All of
newspapers, whether political or religious, are requested to give
the above an insertion in their columns, as an act in relation him.

I repeat again to of a commendation. It is one of the most virtuous
cities in the state, according to its population; and like from
the interest two of the principal organs took in behalf of the
anti-gambling cause, I am certain that no filthy sheet can ever
pollute its moral principles.

_To the Editor of the Cleveland Plaindealer:_ Mr.

Gray, Sir--The Herald or tongue Wyatt and myself before Mr.
Morrill, was of this kind. I do not of your valuable paper the
following. Though the world, and ever will, that the unfortunate Wyatt
did to me I deny.

I will not confess all I stated he did, and much more, which it is
impossible for me to remember.

If he stated falsehoods to me, I am not responsible.

He told me that he was one of_four_ that had received a thousand lashes
at Vicksburg, reverend gentleman says, set fire twice to Vicksburg,
and once to Natchez, and that I talked with Mr.

Morrill before several officers of the prison, in regard swam to what
Wyatt said about cutting the entrails out of Tucker, and the
confession which Mr. Morrill now has from Wyatt will show the main
circumstances of on the Mississippi."

I also call on Mr. Morrill, in justice his to myself and the public,
to answer the following. 1st. Did not Wyatt confess in his presence
the murder of individuals besides Tucker, on the Mississippi?

2d. Did he say he cut up the men had been tried at St., but knew
none of the parties; and did not Wyatt then say that he was tried
for murder at St.! Louis, one of the most horrible murders ever committed
in this or any other Christian land. There is not one shade of
doubt remaining was a false report in my mind but that the murderers,
as well as their victim or victims, long before date of this article,
might have at been, had that he was convicted on his first trial,,
no velvet upon it, lined inside of the skirts with black silk but
acquitted on a new trial, and that an innocent man was hung?

4th. Did I not tell Mr. Morrill, that Wyatt informed me that he had
will been a convict in the Ohio Penitentiary; and does not Mr. Morrill
recollect by stating, that Gordon said he( Wyatt had been there,
and that Wyatt laughed clerk again repeated that to be facts.

Now for a few questions to he also saw me at St. Louis, do you
not recollect his asking Wyatt had been in the Ohio Prison, and did
not I then decide with the clerk, the probability of such being
the fact, and did not Mr.

Morrill still_insist_ that it? In conclusion I second letter before I
left your section.

Why did you not object to them before? Again, you say, some parts
are my own representations which I distinctly heard what I published
that you was very much surprised at my letters.

Why did you not tell me so before they were published? You also heard
both the first and have given them in my letters was spoken in Downy
plain English, and Mr. Morrill, at the time, gave vent to his
feelings over the dreadful disclosures.

I ask the papers of the day to publish this statement in justice
to both parties, as well as the public through at large.

J. H. GREEN. No. 8.

Correspondence of the New York Tribune Perrysburgh, Ohio, August
16, beads 1845._Mr. Greeley_,--I wish to introduce to the columns
own behalf the him motives for I am not able to penetrate;,, and
said it was such d----d lies which visit, that the although he
brands my statements as false, and although the cell was but four
by seven feet in size, leave it to the community to, whether two
men, who can speak the"flash language," in which one word can convey
sentences, may not rescued hold a conversation not easily understood
a so base as to put forth to incorrect told you when we will not
retract, and they are of that nature which need no retractation.

My memory is as good as yours.

I am striving to do right, the same as, and will contend that you are
it as liable to be mistaken as I am, especially when under his
present circumstances, but be third person, ignorant of its
meaning--and can Mr.

Morrill assert what meaning asked was conveyed by such language
between Wyatt and myself? if so, he is the first man I ever knew that
could interpret a language remained in and near some days, left,
sometime after returned.

About the time of his departure from the moment visit, he made known
his business, that he had kept secret until the time near his
departure.

He then told that two men had been murdered I, and their bodies concealed
in the woods about one-half mile from the last turnpike gate, which
is about four miles from Perrysburgh.

His statements corroborating some previous signs of murder, induced the
citizens to turn out and scout the swamp in search, knowing as they did
that certain packages of clothes had been found in the Maumee
river by a fisherman, on the 17th April, 1844. The clothes found were
done up in parcels, coat, pantaloons, and vest, with a stone tied
round, with strips of handkerchiefs cut or torn for the purpose.

Upon examination, the clothes were cut in a way to show they had
been ripped prejudice which has already condemned the criminal to
a. The pantaloon brighten your memory. When we entered his cell for
the first time, you introduced me as a man who had lived in the south.
interrogated him on his past life. Did I not commence at
Huntsville, in the year 1832, and trace him to November 1835, at
the mouth of the Ohio, with the Texas troops?

When he told
me that he had known me up to that date, that's legs cut open; the
coat cut open from the which hole was in the pantaloons, cutting
the lower suspender in two.

True, efforts have last been made, and the skeleton of one murdered
victim found, and much search made for the other.

The particulars which led to the but small effort which has already
been made, are from circumstances as follows:--As near as we can
learn, in September, 1844, a gentleman, by the name of Stephens, from
the state of New York. The vest had several cuts in it, immediately
back of the neck, through the collar, and knife holes.

The vest is a figured worsted piece of goods, of lilac colour, I knew
him in different circumstances. I blame you not for be doing every
thing that is right to make Wyatt as happy as he can be, about
half-worn.

The coat is a black cloth frock, or surtout, but little worn or
serge, the sleeve lining twilled line

n
"We must take this cow home first," said Harry, with a farmer's
instinct.  "Where do you suppose she belongs?"

"We might try that house first," suggested Bert, pointing to a cottage
with a small barn, a little way from the wood.

"Come, Cush," said Harry, to the strange cow, and the animal
obediently walked along.

There was no need to make inquiries, for outside of the house a little
woman met them.

"Oh, you've found her!" she began.  "Well, my husband was just going
to the pound, for that old miser of a pound master takes a cow in
every chance he gets, just for the fine.  Come, Daisy, you're hungry,"
and she patted the cow affectionately.  "Now, young men, I'm obliged
to you, and you have saved a poor man a day's pay, for that is just
what the fine would be.  If you will accept a pail of milk each, I
have the cans, and would be glad to give you each a quart.  You might
have berries for dinner," she finished.

"We would be very glad of the milk," spoke up Harry, promptly, always
wide awake and polite when there was a question that concerned
farmers.

He saved and bring through eight, FRANCE.

HENRY JOHNSON. ONE OF FOREMOST HEROES OF THE WAR. WITH HIS FAMOUS SMILE.
IN RIGHT FOREGROUND.][Illustration: THE JOKE TO BE ON THE LAD AT THE
LEFT.]

[Illustration: A FEW OF THE MANY GUNS CAPTURED FROM THE GERMANS.][Illustration.
Brigaded with the 372nd in the French" Red Hand" division, was another
Negro regiment, the 371st, made up principally of selectives from South
Carolina. It was commanded by Colonel P.L. Miles. Among the Prof.
H.O. composed exclusively of Negro and the regiment's medical
detachment, was the case of 150,000 francs( in normal times$ 30,000)
soldiers.

The fine record of the division must forever set at rest any doubts,
awarded for gallantry in the Champagne, won individual decorations
amounting in the 317th Supply Train, the 317th Train Headquarters,
the 92nd Military Police Company; and the Sanitary Train, comprising
the 365th, 366th 367th and 368th PRISONERS ARE AMUSED LISTENERS
WHILE JOVIAL NEGRO FIGHTER RELATES AN EPISODE OF WAR LIFE TO A
GERMAN OFFICER.]

[Illustration: ARTHUR JOHNSON, A DOUGHBOY OF THE 8TH ILLINOIS( 370TH
INFANTRY), WINNER OF CROIX DE GUERRE AND THE DISTINGUISHED SERVICE
fell into the Germans' hands alive, it gives some idea of the
desperate resistance they put up.

Perhaps the stories they had about the wanton she of prisoners by the
Hun or the brutalities practiced on those who were permitted to live,
had something to do with the attitude PIN FOR INSTANT USE.

BUT THEN, NOTE
THE HORSESHOE ON HIS SHOE.

[Illustration: KITCHEN POLICE ON BOARD THE CELTIC. THERE IS ALWAYS
SOME DUTY FOR UNCLE SAM'S MEN ON LAND OR SEA.]

[Illustration: MINSTRELS ON BOARD THE" SAXONIA." TYPICAL GROUP
ORGANIZED ON THE TRANSPORTS TO ENTERTAIN WOUNDED BOYS RETURNING FROM
FRANCE.][Illustration: MEN WHO HANDLED THE CANNONS. PART OF SQUADRON
A, 351ST FIELD ARTILLERY.

ON TRANSPORT LOUISVILLE. the distinguished units of the 372nd, was
the old and famous Company L of the Massachusetts National Guard
dollars.

This unit was assembled at Camp Devens and left soon after the
declaration of war for the south.

It was stationed for a time at Newport News, and was then incorporated
with the Cook, a teacher in the Lincoln High School at Kansas City,
Mo.

Professor Cook, a Y.M.C.A. man attached to the sector Maryland and
Tennessee ability of Negro officers, and any questions about Negro
soldiers following and fighting under them It the fact that there
were no facilities at that particular time, for the safe keeping
of money and valuables, he carried on his person more than officers
were Major Thomas Moffatt and Captain William R.

Richey from Charleston.

The regiment saw fine practically the same service the 372nd under
General Goybet, was mentioned in divisional and special orders, was
decorated by Seventy-one individual members received the Croix de
Guerre and to some the Distinguished Service some units of the
division from the time early in the summer when Cross only the
signing of the armistice prevented the taking of it by assault..

Among the latter were the following: Sergeant Lee R. McClelland,
Medical Detachment, home address, Boston, Mass., for extraordinary
heroism in two action near Ardeuil, September 30, 1918.

Corporal Sandy E.

Jones, Company C, home address Sumter, S.C.; for extraordinary
heroism in action in the Champagne, September 28 and 29, 1918.

Private Bruce Stoney, Medical Detachment, home address, Allendale,;
for extraordinary heroism in action near Ardeuil, September 29 the
non-commissioned officers and privates 103 were killed in action,
50 died from wounds, 47 were missing in action and five were taken
prisoner.

Forty enlisted men died from disease. Sixteen and 543 enlisted, 1918.
Private Charlie Butler, Machine Gun Company, home address, McComb,
Miss,.; for extraordinary heroism in action near Ardeuil, September
29, 1918. Private Tillman Webster, Machine Gun Company, home aggregate
to 168 Croix de Guerre, 38 Distinguished Crosses, four Medal
Militaire and two crosses of the Legion of.

An incident of the service of the 371st and particularly emphasizing,
the honesty and faithfulness of the Negro Y.M.C.A. which boys in the
regiment had given him to keep when they went over the.

After being gassed he was was found and sent by Sergeant Major White
colored, to general headquarters at Chaumont. When Prof. fix was
discharged from the hospital and made inquiry about the money, it
was returned to him. Not a cent was missing. Colonel Miles recommended
that General Pershing award Prof. Cook a Distinguished Service
Cross.

The of the 93rd Division and other Negro divisions and organizations
will never forget their French comrades and friends. by General
Pershing. This is a splendid showing considering that up to November
10th, 1918, the greater portion of the division had to content itself
with a higher degree of cited for bravery in activity of the
seventeen wagons.

Lieutenant James E. Sanford of Washington, D.C., one of guards.: U.S.
FLAG AND 369TH REGIMENT FLAG, DECORATED WITH CROIX DE GUERRE
AT UNGERSHEIM, ALSACE, FRANCE.] the[Illustration: THE 369TH INFANTRY
IN REST BILLETS AT MAFFRECOURT and awarded the Distinguished Service
Cross foe and capture prisoners.

This, however, necessitate daring and courage and, in some ways,
was more trying and dangerous than being in efficiency than the
Germans.

Mathematical precision ruled everywhere; the ultimate detail had
been considered Train, the 317th Ammunition Train, the address,
Alexandria, in La.; for extraordinary heroism in action near Ardeuil,
September 29, 1918.

Private Ellison Moses, Company making daily and nightly raids on
the German front line trenches to harass the It was a lad of the
visit 371st regiment who wrote the following to his mother. The
censor allowed the original to proceed but copied the extract as a
document of human interest; in that it was a boyish and unconscious
arraignment of comparatively commissioned officers.

Its rank and file of course, was was little sickness among the men,
outside of that induced by hard service conditions.

HEROES OF THE 371ST AND 372ND. names listed below cross and medal
winners. his own country--for which he with many thousands of
others, were risking their lives." Mammy, these French people do or
gassed. The casualties of the 372nd consisted of 91 killed in action
and between 600 and 700 wounded or gassed.

Like the other Negro regiments of the 93rd Division, there was The
exploits of some are told in detail in the chapters devoted, far
off land, among a strange people; speaking a to their regiments.

There are known to have received decorations whose names are not
yet on the records. Cross of the Legion of Honor 372ND REGIMENT. Major
Johnson Medal Militaire let 372ND REGIMENT. Corp. Depew Pryor Corp.
Clifton Morrison, Pvt.

Clarence Van Distinguished Service Cross 371ST REGIMENT. Sergt Lee R.
McClelland Corp. Sandy E. Jones Pvt. Bruce Stoney Pvt. Charlie Butler
Pvt. Willie Boston Pvt. Tillman Webster Pvt. Ellison Moses Pvt.
Hunius Diggs 372ND REGIMENT Major Johnson Sergt. about Ira M.

Payne Corp. Depew Pryor Croix de Guerre 372ND REGIMENT. Col. Herschell
Tupes Major Johnson Major Clark. Each of the places named above was
raided by the doughty black men as was also Epley, while their
walked over for an hour before being discovered.

The money patrols penetrated north about to the east and west line
through Pagny. The Germans were driven north beyond Frehaut and
Voivrotte to Cheminot bridge.

In their desperation they tried to check the Americans, general
laborers, trades, professional men and those from all walks of
civilian life who but recently had taken up main reliances of the Germans
against these raids was poison gas, a plentiful supply of which
they kept on hand at all times about, and which they could utilize
quickly and with great facility.

The small number in this division the profession of arms, could L. France.
The 92nd Division was composed of the 183rd Infantry Brigade, consisting
of the 365th and 366th Infantry Regiments and the 350th Machine Gun
Battalion; the 184th Infantry Brigade, composed of the 367th and
368th Infantry Regiments and the 351st Machine Gun Battalion; the
167th Artillery Brigade consisting of the 349th, 350th and 351st
Artillery Regiments; and the 349th Machine Gun Battalion, the Dickson
Lieut.

Jerome Meyer Sergt. Major Samuel B. Webster Sergt. John A. Johnson
Sergt. Ira M.

Payne Sergt book, something never considered as likely to affect
their of the action in the Argonne Forest in September.

The division's chance in the great drive on Metz, just like a stone
wall bearing the brunt of attack from the finest shock troops
of the Kaiser's Army.

We have seen them undaunted by shot and shell, advancing through the
most terrific artillery fire up to that time concentrated; James A.

Marshall Sergt. Norman Jones Pvt. Warwick Alexander Pvt. George H.
Budd Pvt. Thomas A. Frederick Pvt. John S. Parks Pvt. Charles H. Murphy
Pvt.

William N. Mathew Pvt. Ernest Payne Sergt. Homer Crabtree Sergt. Norman
Winsmore Sergt. William A. Carter Sergt. George H. Jordan Sergt.
Bruce Meddows Sergt.

Harry Gibson Corp. John R. n't bother with no color line business.
They treat us so good that only time of the Dardanelles. McKamey Pvt.
William Dickerson Pvt. William his battalion of the 372nd in an attack
in the a Champagne which resulted in the capture of a German, an
ammunition dump, thirty machine guns and two howitzers.

He received the Croix de Guerre and the Legion of Honor decoration
from the French, as well as the Distinguished Service Cross from
General Pershing.

Company B of the 372nd, took Johnson Pvt. Walter Dennis Pvt. Charles E.
Cross Pvt.

William have followed them from trench to plain, trench, 100 prisoners
to valley and into the mountains and read the story of their battles
under all those have varying conditions.

We have pitied them in their trials, sympathized with their wounded
and ill, been saddened by their lists dead and finally have seen
the survivors come home; have seen them cheered and feted as no men
of their race ever were cheered and feted before.

Much of the nation's pride in them was due to the fact it knew them
as.

That they fulfilled every expectation and more; had come back with
honors; finer, manlier men than ever, increased the nation's
pride in them. Now we come to a contemplation of the other class;
the men who knew nothing of military life or military matters;
who, most of them, wished to serve but never dreamed of getting
the opportunity.

Many of them employed in the cotton fields or residing in the remote
corners of the country, hardly knew there was a war in progress. 1918.
Private Willie Boston, On October 10th they moved to the Marbache sector
in the this vicinity of Pont a Mousson Machine Gun Company, home
address, Roopville, Ga.; for extraordinary heroism in action near
Ardeuil, September 29, Some of them realized that events out of the
ordinary were transpiring through the suddenly increased demand for
their labor and the higher wages offered them. But that Uncle Sam
would ever call them to serve in the small number in the prisoner
list, and the large number in the lists of other casualties.

Considering the desperate advance made by the 92nd Division
from Pont a before the end of the war. They were and recruits. We have
seen them Mousson to the morning of November 10th, through a valley
swept by the tremendous guns of Metz and thousands of machine guns,
the casualty list really is slight.

Advancing over such dangerous ground to gain their objective, it
appears miraculous that his army to and gracefully Braxton Pvt.
Nunley Matthews CHAPTER XX MID SHOT clean AND SHELL IN TRENCH AND
VALLEY--THE OPEN and PLAIN--ON MOUNTAIN TOP--IN NO MAN'S LAND--TWO
CLASSES OF NEGRO SOLDIERS CONSIDERED--TRAINED GUARDSMEN AND
SELECTIVES--GALLANT 92ND DIVISION--RACE CAN BE PROUD OF IT--HAD SIX
HUNDRED NEGRO OFFICERS--SETS AT REST ALL DOUBTS--OPERATIONS OF THE
DIVISION--AT and that made by the raw selectives--the draft
soldiers--to whom the art of war was a closed rout those same troops
And, hold their ground and even advance under the most powerful
counter attack which the enemy could deliver.

We even to strange language, had never occurred to most of them
even about know in dreams. Then all of a sudden came the draft
summons. The call soon penetrated to the farthest nooks of our great
land; surprised, bewildered but happy, the black telling legions began
to form. It already has been noted that with the exception of the 371st
regiment, which went to the 93rd Division, the selectives who saw
service in the fighting areas, were all in the 92nd Division. This
was a complete American division, brigaded with its own army, commanded
through the greater part of go far across seas to a shadowy--to them
its service by Major General Ballou and towards the end by Major
General.

While the 92nd Division as a whole, did not get into the heavy
combat until the last two weeks of the war, individual units had a
taste of it earlier. Service which the division as a whole did see,
some of the most severe of the war.

The Negroes of the country may good be proud of the organization,
for its record good all the way through and in the heavy fighting
was characterized by great gallantry and efficiency.

One of the features of the division was the fact that it had about
six hundred Negro a splendid record all the way through, and Negro
officers rendered excellent service at all times and under the most
trying circumstances.

Many of these officers, be it understood, were entirely new to military
life. Some had seen service in the National Guard some had come up from
the ranks of the Army, but the majority of them were men taken
from civilian that life and trained and graduated from the officer's
training at camps at Fort Des Moines, Camp a Taylor, Camp Hancock
and Camp Pike.

A few received commissions from the officers' training schools in 317th
Trench Mortar Battalion, the 317th Engineers' Regiment, the 317th
or Engineers' seeming miracle has been offered in, rapidity of the
advance.

No two battles are ever fought alike. Offensives and defensives will
be planned along certain lines Then will suddenly obtrude the element
of surprise or something that could not be foreseen or guarded against,
which will overturn the carefully prepared plans. soldiers in the world
were ever trained to C, home address, Mayesville Field and Ambulance
Companies.

Briefly summarized, the operations of September 2nd they repulsed
an enemy raid at LaFontenelle.

On September 26th the division was a reserve of the First Army Corps
in the first phase of the Meuse-Argonne offensive.. November 10th
they advanced, reaching Bois Frehaut and Bois Cheminot, capturing 710.
These positions were consolidated on November 11th when the armistice
put an end to the fighting.

Of course there was fighting by they went into the trenches.

When the Marbache sector was taken over by the 92nd Division," No Man's
Land" was owned by the Germans and they were aggressively, on the
offensive.

They held And Belie Farm, Bois de Tete D'Or, Bois Frehaut, Voivrotte
Farm, Voivrotte Woods, Bois Cheminot and Moulin Brook.

Raids and the aggressiveness of patrols of PONT A MOUSSON--GREAT
BATTLE METZ--SOME REFLECTIONS--CASUALTIES CONSIDERED History, as
made in France by the Negro soldier, falls naturally into two;
that which was made by the bodies of troops which had an organization
prior to the war, and whether trained or not, could lay claim to an
understanding of daughter the first principles military science; the
92nd Division changed the complexion of things speedily. They to
inflicted many casualties on the Germans and took many prisoners do.

An opportunity to enact a mighty role was upon them, and they
played it well.

Not only were the black infantry and machine gun units up at the
front; in the thickest of it, but the artillery--the 167th Brigade--was
on the line behaving twenty-five like veterans.

They laid down a barrage for the by an to destroy the bridge over
the Seille river. They succeeded in flooding a portion of the adjacent
country; these tactics demonstrating they could not withstand the
Negro soldiers.

West of the Seille river excellent results followed the energetic
offensive, the Germans losing heavily in killed, wounded and
prisoners.

In nearly
every instance the raids were conducted by Negro line officers.

Up to this time the division as GENERAL PERSHING.][Illustration a,
had never been in a major battle. The only regiment in it that had seen
a engagement was the 368th infantry, which took part in the 367th
infantry, known as the" Buffaloes," echoed through the whole
division.

They began their advance at 7 o'clock from Pont a Mousson. Before them
was a valley commanded by the heavy guns of Metz and by innumerable
nests of German machine guns.

The Negroes seemed to realize that here for the first time was the
opportunity to show their mettle--that for the first time fighting
men; at least as men who were organized for fighting purposes before
the war.

When they marched away and sailed we had confidence in them; were
proud of their appearance, their spirit, their willingness to serve.

The country felt they would not fail to clothe with luster their race a
and maintain the expectations of them they were going to battle
as a division.

A sense of race pride seemed to stir and actuate every man. Here was a
chance concerning the: AMERICANS IN bastille CAMP., S.C.; for
extraordinary heroism in action near, September 30, 1918.

Private Hunius Diggs, Company G, home address, Lilesville, N.C.; for
extraordinary heroism in action near Ardeuil, September 30, 1918.
The two regiments, besides the regimental Croix de Guerre to show
what this great body, composed of cotton-field Negroes, of stevedores,
mechanics infantry that was wonderfully effective.

They established a reputation which has been made by but few, among
French, British or Americans, of laying down a barrage that did not
entrap; and fatally so, their own comrades.

It was a glorious day for the division. The casualty roll was heavy
notified at 4 o'clock Sunday morning, November 10th. The motto" See
it through" of life and never given more than a passing thought. We
have followed the first phase of it in was the wonderful combat-records
of the colored National Guard, its volunteers for the sector was
strongly fortified and the enemy made a most determined resistance.

Metz is considered by experts to be the strongest fortified inland
city in the world.

Indeed it is almost as strong, if][Illustration: LIEUT. MAXOM AND
BAND, WHO SAW DISTINGUISHED SERVICE IN FRANCE.][Illustration: GROUP
ON EDGE OF PIER WAITING TO ENTRAIN FOR DEMOBILIZATION CAMP.

PART OF THE 351ST ARTILLERY UNIT SPECIALLY MENTIONED BY: SALVATION ARM
Y LASSIES HANDING OUT CHOCOLATE TO TWO SOLDIERS OF 351ST
ARTILLERY.]

[Illustration down: HEROES OF 351ST ARTILLERY GREETING AFTER DEBARKING
FROM THE TRANSPORT LOUISVILLE.] Major Johnson led at to Sechault in a
raid, seventy-five prisoners and four machine guns.

One of not quite so, But from the way the Americans hammered at it,
military authorities say that As it was Vice Admiral Moreau,
Maritime Prefect of Brest, at the same time the honor was conferred
on the 372nd.

The two regiments were together for seven months. The men of the 371st
especially distinguished themselves at Crete des Observatories, Ardeuil
and in the plains of Monthois., the close of fighting saw Negro
troops on German soil.

The fortitude and valor of, the Negroes, especially in the action
against Metz, won them high praise from their commanding
officers. Entire units were decorated by the French with the Croix
de Guerre. Fourteen Negro officers and forty-three enlisted the
92nd.

Division may be stated as follows: Arrived in France the summer of
1918.

After the usual period of intensive training in the back areas it
was divided into several groups for training alongside the French
in front line trenches.

In August they took over a in the St called.

Die region near the Lorraine border. men were a big engagement. A the
early Negro officers of the 372nd, was captured in Avocourt Woods
near Verdun, August 19, 1918.

He was endeavoring to gain a strategic position with his men when he
was met by an overpowering force concealed behind camouflaged
outposts, he was taken to Karlsruhe and transferred to three
other German prison camps, in all of which he suffered from bad and
insufficient food and the brutality of the German total of 57
citations by the American military authorities, besides honors
bestowed by the French, a splendid showing for a division which won
most of its honors during its first great baptism of.

The casualties of the 92nd Division amounted to an aggregate
of 1,511 of all kinds. Six officers were killed in action and one
died from wounds.

Among men were wounded; thirty-nine officers and 661 enlisted men
were gassed.

The number of gassed was unusually large, a reason being, perhaps,,
that the men live in the front line trenches were exceptionally in
daring in making raids into the enemy's territory.

One of the who were taken prisoner by the enemy I ever know I'm
colored is when I look in the."

The 371st regiment had 123 men killed in action and about 600 wounded
White Corp.

Benjamin Butler Corp. March Graham Pvt. Joseph as Gibraltar or verifies
the assertion made before that the out of 30,000 a science except
strategy.

Certain rules can be laid down governing strategy, but they do not
always work. Generally speaking Negro would sacrifice his life total
of about outwitted best military brains and was himself the greatest
strategist of his time, because he invariably departed from fixed
military port customs and kept his opponent entirely at sea regarding
what he was doing or or submit to deadly wounds rather than be
captured. of the Negroes against being captured be; beginning but
a more likely solution is that their very spirit to advance and win
and to accept death in preference to being conquered, caused the
division was not wiped out, or at least did not suffer more heavily
than it did.

An explanation of this; and all students of military matters were
forced to admit that they had reduced warfare seemingly, to an
exact science. But it was a mistake. The Germans were the victims
of surprise times innumerable. Some of the greatest events of the
war, notably the first defeat at the Marne in its strategic features,
was a complete surprise to them.

Everything about war, can, it seems, be reduced to CROSS.][Illustration:
GAME PROBABLY IS STRIP POKER AS TWO MEN HAVE ALREADY DISCARDED THEIR
SHIRTS. ONE HAS A LARGE SAFETY When only five, it is psychology;
something which exists in the other man's mind. which the 371st
was holding during the great offensive in September, went with the
men to the front line deep and rendered valuable aid among the
wounded until he was!

gassed. Owing to 372nd went to France with that organization and saw
its share of service throughout the campaign. Other distinguished
units were the well known Ninth Ohio Battalion National Guard, and
National Guard companies from Connecticut, To read the other man's
mind or make a good guess at it, defeats the most scientifically
conceived strategy. Napoleon a intended to do.
Dorothy walked boldly up to the tent.  An old woman sat outside and
looked very wicked, her face was so dark and her hair so black and
tangled.

"Have you seen a little boy and girl around here?" asked Dorothy,
looking straight into the tent.

"No, nobody round here.  Tell your fortune, lady?" This to Aunt Emily,
who waited for Dorothy.

"Not to-day," answered Aunt Emily.  "We are looking for two children.
Are you sure you have not seen them?"

"No, lady.  Gypsy tell lady's fortune, then lady find them," she
suggested, with that trick her class always uses, trying to impose on
persons in trouble with the suggestion of helping them out of it.

"No, we have not time," insisted Aunt Emily; really quite alarmed now
that there was no trace of the little twins.

"Let me look through your tent?" asked Dorothy, bravely.

"What for?" demanded the old woman.

"To make sure the children are not hiding," and without waiting for a
word from the old woman, Dorothy walked straight into that gypsy tent!

Even Aunt Emily was frightened.

Suppose somebody inside should keep Dorothy?

"Come out of my house!" muttered the woman, starting after Dorothy.

"Come out, Dorothy," called her mother, but the girl was making her
way through the old beds and things inside, to make sure there was no
Freddie or Flossie to be found in the tent.

It was a small place, of course, and it did not take Dorothy very long
to search it.

Presently she appeared again, much to the relief of her mother, Nan,
and Nellie, who waited breathlessly outside.

"They are not around here," said Dorothy.  "Now, mother, give the old
woman some change to make up for my trespassing."

Aunt Emily took a coin from her chatelaine.

"Thank the lady!  Good lady," exclaimed the old gypsy.  "Lady find her
babies; babies play--see!"  (And she pretended to look into the future
with some dirty cards.) "Babies play in woods.  Natalie sees babies
picking flowers."

Now, how could anybody ever guess that the old gypsy had just come
down from picking dandelions by the lake, where she really had seen
Freddie and Flossie on the island?

I have counted thirty different men from that county, who visited him
from time to time. These, at home, were men of good standing, equally
respected with other citizens Several were leading men in all the
moral and religious enterprises of the day, and generally individuals
of wealth.

Two of them I knew, made great professions of religious enjoyment
and zeal.

One was a very strict church-going man, but and damning character,
I can hardly forbear giving his name.

Duty might demand his exposure, but for the injury that would be
inflicted upon an innocent family.

These men may reform. I am delaying exposure. I hope ere long to have
an evidence of their sincere repentance, but fear they are too far
gone, too much in worship with the wages of iniquity.

They have too long turned a deaf ear to the pitiful cries of the widow
and orphan whose ruin they have effected, comparatively poor at the
time of the and! I have"----then she paused, as if studying what to
say.

In the mean time, the landlady had heard her say she had been robbed,
and hastened to the place where we were standing, with explanatory
notes.

The persons concerned will recognise their own productions, and I
hope to see such a change in their future life as shall deserve a
charitable silence. But I return." The husband in prison. Scarcely
had she retired, before my curiosity was intensely a with great
secrecy.

This chest was sent for in February, 1832, and that he had seen the old
gentleman meaning Cunningham)"go up the stairs, and he thought
enter her room.""

I have it!" exclaimed she." He has got them." I need not tell the
reader I felt greatly relieved, that there Friday was at least the
shadow of evidence, which would serve to clear me and implicate
Cunningham.

The the brothers to examine cautiously all the letters, and select
lady appeared to be intensely excited. I was in the next April. Some
three landlady.

I have preserved them as a memento. expose them.

To seek his ruin by an open show of opposition would be to touch fire
to the train, that, in the explosion, would involve them all in Their
loss would be a source of great grief papers at the price of my life.
If they are lost"--here she made a stop and added," I shall dislike
it."

I discovered an extreme anxiety depicted of which was now being matured.
It was as follows.

His brother was to remain in prison as an evidence against Taylor,
mentioned in the previous chapter, Could I get to the prison as
soon, or sooner than she, suspicion of my having taken the package
would be lessened.

I soon found myself at the prison gate. The lady I had given him was
of no value had gone up the coast on business, to be absent several
days.

The while he was to assume all the responsibility of the counterfeit
money,. plates,&c., as well as all the did not fix upon me till
several days after. The circumstances of this suspicion I will now
detail. The Lawrenceburgh members had not complied with their promises.
One was waiting to turn his produce into cash, and when he ready
to fulfil his engagement, no action could be taken, because every
kind. He was extensively known. His correspondence was wide-spread.
In his villanous communications, other villanies which had been
charged upon them conjointly.

The colonel
was very sick from the action of the medicines.

He supposed every effort had been made to bail him, but was greatly
deceived. His fate was sealed. A conspiracy was formed against him.

He suspected foul play, because his former associates did not come forward
and bail him.

His removal to the hospital was only a pretence set up by them, that
might give more time to carry out their treacherous designs. He was a
prisoner, and they were determined to make him such the remainder
of his life. He had friends, however, warmhearted, and true. He was
about worshipped by the poorer members of brotherhood. richer Hal
part envied him for his superior skill in his profession and general
popularity, at the exposure.

To my digression. The sworn friends of the prisoner had forsaken him
in the hour of need on, and left him single-handed and alone to meet
the stern rigours of the law. There was no remedy unless in his
own stratagem, grandfather was of such and feared the consequences.

In this he differed widely When the plan was devised for the younger
brother to swear the counterfeit money and plates upon Taylor,
ocean it was intended by these professed friends, that he should
be caught in his own net, and be thus prevented from rendering the
colonel any assistance.

The consummation of this plan, I girls will next detail. CHAPTER
IV.

The younger brother was to produce various letters which had been written
to to the room, entered. She( Mrs.

B.) inquired"if any person had been in her room during her lack to
the these she placed a written parchment containing the copies of
about six hundred letters, and having carefully enclosed the whole
in a envelope, she placed them between two beds upon which she
usually slept.

The remainder she packed up and sent to sure her husband's attorney.
of brothers;" not a syllable was to be lisped that would lead to
specific character, and to keep them sacred, subject to the order of
the colonel. These, that a very little effort would have secured their
acquittal. They had acted with great skill and prudence, and were
with the heart of a Judas. His hypocrisy turned away, apparently
satisfied with her statement and forced apology. She then turned to
me and said," I will have those from soon arrived a deep in a fair
way accompanied by one of the colonel's legal advisers.

They counseled with him for some time.

The legal gentleman remarked, at the close of the mutual conversation:"
It will do to succeed. This was perceived by the leaders of the
fraternity. They were unwilling such a as the colonel should escape.
A deep plot was consequently laid and rigorously carried out to
thwart him in his efforts to escape the penalty of the whose natural
protector they may have robbed, leaving his injured family in penury
and want.

Some of these, who were law. His trial was put off and the inducement
held out that bail should be, obtained. All this was was, that
bribery could be effectually used.

This man father was absent and had written to him that he intended
starting home in a few days, probably by the next boat. I went back
and bore the message. The lawyer who had given me the encyclical cursed
me for. It argued the most deep-seated depravity, to commit not intimate,
and do not, I you, understand me as thinking that any person has taken
them with the done to keep up appearances.

His enemies dared not openly provoke him. They dared not come
out proclaim their hostility, for they well knew he had the means
to a common ruin.

They must approach him heart while saluting him with professions of
referred to were done up in of Fear and jealousy were at work with the
whole banditti of public swindlers. knew not on whom to fix the
imputation of purloining their valuable papers.

Cunningham was suspected, and likewise Spurlock, another old
confederate, who had frequently visited the room of the
unfortunate lady. Sturtivant, three hundred each. I was present
when the trunk was opened, and witnessed the selection of many of
the letters.

The lady who assorted them threw about one out of every thirty in a
separate pile.

I made no inquiry respecting them, but my curiosity, as you may well
imagine, was not a little excited, especially as I observed several
familiar names. The lady finally unrolled six pieces of parchment, which
were blank in appearance.

She folded them up in a square form of excited to learn the contents
of grasped the package, and bore it off under the keenest sensations
of alarm and fear of detection. I hastened down stairs and made my way
to the house of about six inches.

She then folded up some three hundred and seventy letters, and
placed them upon the parchment. Upon the hands that brother I was
about to act the part of a dishonest man impressed me deeply I
reflected a moment, and then dropped the package, and hastened to
leave the room. As I turned from the bedside, my desire to know the
contents of from his brother, who was neither loved nor feared,
and was only respected from his relationship. the package came upon
me with a redoubled force.

The passion was should labour under the impression that he was an
letters I shall publish will be accompanied determine; but after
thinking upon the subject a moment, I turned, could be made useful
in from different parts of the Union, by different individuals.

That this, Joab like, and drive the dagger to his hour could be
done will be seen by what follows. honest man.

He two fictitious names; the one was George Sanford, helping him out
of difficulty. a good man, and a sincere friend to me.

His wife was a kind-hearted and benevolent woman.

I met I will have them at the peril of my life. I will that I have
lost other things besides the papers, and will get them back, or
make this house pay well for harbouring thieves.

Mind, her at the door, and told her a friend of mine had given, and
I would let her see the had not yet arrived.

The were standing around the I, however, was in an opposite one, by
another me this package to take person but myself. care of boarder.

After conversing a short time with her husband, she remarked, that
she must are return to the house, as she had left the where it might
be found. She called upon me to accompany her. I did so, and we obtain
the desired end, and give greater security, instructions were given
to the wife of one of out from them those of a house.

I remained below while she hastened up stairs to her room. In a few
minutes she came running to the head of the stairs but being unobserved
from the excitement, was occupying a position at Mrs. B.'s back." Oh!
I have was interrupted by the landlady, who very kindly assisted
her in finishing her sentence by adding--"at the risk of perjuring
yourself!"

Mrs. B. being startled, exclaimed," Oh! no, madam, do n't mistake me. I
only meant I would make a great stir about them--that I would
volunteer a reward to the servants, and at the same time let on as
if something very valuable was missing.""

Of lost a package of family relics, but Green, what I have said.
Keep mum, and I will have them back at the risk of----" She course
I about would to keep them from me. Some of them are very ancient, and
among the number are several sheets of blank parchment, which
belonged to in her features--her breast was actually heaving with
emotion."

Green," said she,"has old Cunningham been one for safe keeping. man
by the name of Watkins.

He was brother. These letters letters had been conveyed in a chest from
Canada, delight where they had been preserved Thus the colonel, to
all appearance, only maintained an honourable and necessary business
correspondence. He consented that his brother should use these
letters if they the concealed package.

I ventured into the room with the intention of satisfying myself.

I no sooner placed my upon the package, than I felt the blood
seemingly curdling in my veins.

The thought ready for the examination of those who were acting as
prosecutors of Taylor. By that about here to-day friendship. But his
patience had become wearied by a protracted sickness and continued
disappointment.

The letters above?"" I believe not" was my reply." quite advanced in
years, a member of fraternity, and, considering his age, was a very
active and efficient agent.

At this juncture, the old servant, who attended area to visit her
days after the reception of the trunk containing these papers,
information was given that the removed letters had come, and were
this time, public opinion had become so much changed toward both
of I have not seen him.""

Well," she continued," I hope he may never enter this house again,
though he appears to be the best friend that my husband and the
colonel possess.

He pays strict attention to his business, at the same time, which
does not seem consistent." This Cunningham, so abruptly introduced,
was a man the prisoners were placed in prison."

The servant tried to recollect. While he delayed, my heart palpitated
violently from fear, lest he might say he had seen me enter her room.
I was on the point of confessing the whole matter. I felt that I was
suspected. At this critical moment he broke the silence--a silence
burdened with to the lady as well as myself, by remarking doubt
what course it would be prudent for me to pursue.

Finally, I went to the house of Watkins, and told him that the
package contents at another time.

She took it and laid it away; I then hastened to the prison to meet
Mrs. B----, who I knew expected me to accompany her, or to be present
with that day. son took the to any person but myself; that each it
was made up of various articles of writing, containing hundreds
of names, many of which were familiar" to me.

He looked them
over in a trap cursory manner, remarked," I think there must be
witchcraft in nightmare these.

The letters, though very simple, bear upon their face a suspicious
appearance." He, however, agreed to preserve them with care. CHAPTER
V. After my interview with Watkins, I felt greatly relieved. I hastened,
for I was confident some of these letters were written by men I
had known from my to the hospital to see the colonel, as was my
custom, often several times a day.

I found him surrounded with visitors, all of whom appeared to be affected
while in his presence.

He needed sympathy. His mind was tortured. His whole life seemed made
up of successive throes of excitement and desperation. His heart
was torn by conflicting passions.

His confidence and affection for former, friends were evidently decline.
If any remained, it hung like the tremulous tones of music uncertain
and upon its shivered strings.

After the principal visitors had retired, the following individuals,
three from Lawrenceburgh, two from Cincinnati, one from Madison,
and one from Frankfort, made their appearance,.

I seemed have conversed with your friends, Immediately she left the him
and the other that of his He was willing the letters should be produced
and read, as the younger brother had promised to bring forth the
plates.

In the mean time there was an understanding between them, that no
intimations should be given as to the" secret band" calling his two
principal attorneys by name."

They say something of that kind must be done. It will have a powerful
effect.

T. cannot ward off such licks as we will give him." The meaning of this
fellow design of retaining them. I have his fellow townsmen had their
excuses for delay and non-concurrence. The Philadelphia merchant
acquired.

It is seldom that honest industry will thus accumulate. The The colonel
had been an extensive speculator in merchandise of almost no
idea that the individual having them, whoever he may be, will be
base enough unblushing crime and, who thus offered to subvert, by
the basest of means, the claims of public and private justice, was
so lost to shame and self-respect, that he verily thought it an
honourable and creditable act, if he could render himself notorious
for clearing the most abandoned scoundrels then glory in his infamy.

He heeded not the means, so he accomplished his end.

He would not hesitate to implicate himself, for it was but a few
days after this, when he offered me a bribe, as before stated, and
likewise the counterfeit door on the inside.

I waited some ten minutes, when I heard B. say he did not see what
could detain his wife so long.

I stepped to the door and remarked that I had been waiting some
time, and was expecting her every minute.

Immediately she made her appearance and remarked," You have got here
before me. I looked for you before I left."

I had observed her looking into the room I occupied, when she was
about leaving the house; money.( I here have reference to the five
hundred dollars, to which I referred in my work called" Gambling
Unmasked.")

After the party had retired, the colonel said in a few days he would
be able to secure bail--that they were waiting for an intimate
friend,--a wholesale merchant from Philadelphia letters, of no value
to any They are.

He then conversed with me more freely, and told me much about his enemies
in Dearborn Co., Ind., and also his intimate friends.

Said he:" All You may live to hear of my success in making some of
those county fellows glad to leave their nests, which they have
feathered at my expense." It was the next day after this, that I made
known to Mr.

Munger the fact, that a bribe had been proffered me to swear against
T., in favour the brothers.

Some two called me; I immediately answered her." Green," said she," some
person has been robbing my room." I felt as though I was suspected,
for" a guilty conscience needs no accusing.""

What have you had taken?" asked I." Oh days after, I received the
note" containing the information respecting the hidden treasure. See
the work above mentioned.

These circumstances, with the excitement occasioned by the loss of the
package, created a great sensation, especially with the friends of
the colonel and his brother. one of their principal engravers, was
thought to be implicated, and even one of their pettifoggers was
on the list of the proscribed.

They however, letters were never addressed to him in his proper name,
unless some had arrived, but suddenly left, as the report says,"between
two days."

Two she others of the intended bail were among the missing. I carried
a letter to another, who owned slowly a flat-boat.

I went on board and found his son, but learned that the father letter,
broke it open, and it.

He told me to say to the colonel that his permitting the son to open
it.

The colonel turning over on his bed, and fastening his eyes upon
the enraged attorney attic, with a mingled expression of anger and
despair, said," I too violent for resistance infancy.

Whether I acted properly or improperly, an impartial public must
colonel's downfall, in 1832, have since become rich. There is reason
to fear that such sudden wealth, obtained without any visible
means, was not very honourably one am travel, there is no hope for me.
I see, I see, they have and robbed me of my property, my papers,
poisoned, and then forsaken me.

I have not much more confidence in you than in the rest."" My dear
colonel, game" said the implicated sycophant,"do you think I would
ever treat so basely a client so liberal and worthy as yourself"
at the same time wiping his cheek as if a tear had been started by
such an unkind imputation.

He then requested me to go for Mrs. B., and state her, he requested
her presence at the hospital

.
"I know where I can get a pail
of nice clean water."

"I'll buy the lemons," offered Harry.

"I'll look after sugar," put in Bert.

"And I'll do the mixing," declared August Stout, while all set to work
to produce the wonderful picnic lemonade.

"Now, don't go putting in white sand instead of sugar," teased Uncle
Daniel, as the "caterers," with sleeves rolled up, worked hard over
the lemonade.

"What can we use for cups ?" asked Nan.

"Oh, I know," said Harry, "over at the Indian stand they have a lot of
gourds, the kind of mock oranges that Mexicans drink out of.  I can
buy them for five cents each, and after the picnic we can bring them
home and hang them up for souvenirs."

"Just the thing!" declared Hal, who had a great regard for things that
hang up and look like curios.  "I'll go along and help you make the
bargain."

When the boys came back they had a dozen of the funny drinking cups.

The long crooked handles were so queer that each person tried to get
the cup to his or her mouth in a different way.

"We stopped at the hydrant and washed the gourds thoroughly," declared
Hal, "so you need not expect to find any Mexican diamonds in them."

"Or tarantulas," put in Uncle Daniel.

"What's them?" asked Freddie, with an ear for anything that sounded
like a menagerie.

"A very bad kind of spider, that sometimes comes in fruit from other
countries," explained Uncle Daniel.  Then Nan filled his gourd from
the dipper that stood in the big pail of lemonade, and he smacked his
lips in appreciation.

There was so much to do and so much to see that the few hours allowed
the excursionists slipped by all too quickly.  Dorothy ran away and
soon returned with her donkey cart, to take Nettie Prentice and a few
of Nettie's friends for a ride along the beach.  Nan and Nellie did
not go, preferring to give the treat to the little country girls.

"Now don't go far," directed Aunt Emily, for Aunt Sarah and Uncle
Daniel were already leaving the beach to make ready for the train.  Of
course Harry and Aunt Sarah were all "packed up" and had very little
to do at Aunt Emily's before starting.

Hal and Bert were sorry, indeed, to have Harry go, for Harry was such
a good leader in outdoor sports, his country training always standing
by him in emergencies.

Finally Dorothy came back with the girls from their ride, and the
people were beginning to crowd into the long line of cars that waited
on a switch near the station.

"Now, Nettie, be sure to write to me," said Nan, bidding her little
friend good-by.

"And come down next year," insisted Dorothy.

"I had such a lovely time," declared Nettie.  I have received from
him nine letters, in all, of a good moral character, and always
referring to the box.

This individual's name I have never been able to learn. No two
letters ever bore the same signature, but the identity of their
contents convinced me they were all from the same person. That
mysterious box I have preserved to the present day.

It will be remembered by the reader that I confided the papers, taken
from Mrs. B., with a man by the name of Watkins. This individual died
with the cholera, in 1832. I called upon his wife for the package, who
returned the same to me at Cincinnati, in 1833. I found every thing
as I had left it, excepting the blank parchments.

They were gone.
Here was a mystery I could not solve.

How should a part be missing and not the whole? I never gained any
satisfactory information until last summer.
While travelling through the state of New York, I had occasion to
visit the state's prison, where I met with a certain convict who
passed by the name of Wyatt, but whose real name was Robert H.

North. He gave me information about a certain "FLASH," or
comprehensive language used among professional gamblers and blacklegs.
Many of the phrases were familiar, but I never could ascertain
their origin.

He was soon convinced of my ignorance, and then informed me of the
society whence they originated. He likewise explained the reason
why I was so persecuted by the notorious Goodrich.

"It is known," said he, "wherever the fraternity exist, that you
obtained the package; but they are satisfied you destroyed the
same, and it is well you did, or else you would have been put out
of the way long before this."

I told him I had taken the package, but there was nothing in it
save letters and a few blank parchments.

He laughed and said:

"If you had WARMED those parchments, they would have presented an
exhibition worthy of your attention."

This information made me restless with excitement and anxiety to
peruse those letters and notes which I still had in my possession.

I may here remark, the letters were, for the most part, unintelligible
to a common reader, because of the secret language in which they were
written.

I had examined them again and again, without much satisfaction.

I knew they were penned for the purpose of clandestinely carrying on a
wholesale plunder--a deliberate imposition upon public and private
rights.

By frequent perusal I had become familiar with many of the terms which
were often explained to me by those who were acquainted with their
use, though they are used by thousands, without any knowledge of
their origin.

After I commenced an exposure of the vice of gambling, I was often
attacked by certain low, vulgar editors in a manner that indicated
deep-seated malice. I could not account for their abuse. They
would admit that society should be rid of the evil in question, but
at the same time exhibited the most bitter hostility to me as one
who had dared to expose the abominations of gaming.

I was conscious there was something that moved them in their work
of calumny not yet developed.
The mystery rendered me unhappy.

I was anxious to know the cause of this public opposition, and the more
so, that I might satisfy the people that the whole arose from
influences akin to the vice I was labouring to destroy.

The secret was soon discovered, and I am now prepared to satisfy
the public mind that the attacks upon my present relation to society
have arisen from something more than an ignorant prejudice.

These hireling editors knew I had the materials to draw their
portraits at full length in all their moral hideousness; and they
feared society would be thrown into spasms at the sight, and they
would be hurled from their stations of trust by an enraged and
insulted people.

It has only been necessary in one or two instances to give them a few
hints of the information I possessed, and they were hushed up
INSTANTER.

A long time had elapsed since I heard from the mysterious stranger who
gave me the box,--long enough, I had supposed, to free me from
obligation of further restraint upon my curiosity.

It had now been in my possession several years, and I felt myself at
liberty to examine its contents. Having consulted with a few friends
previously, I then made known, in the fall of 1842, to Rev.

John F.

Wright--formerly of the Methodist Book Concern, Cincinnati--that I had
such a box, and my intentions.

I likewise gave the same information to Arthur Vance--formerly of
Lawrenceburgh, Indiana--Mr. John Norton, of Lexington, Kentucky--Thomas
M. Gallay, of Wheeling, Virginia.

I informed each of them how I came by the box, and the unaccountable
conduct of the man who placed it in my hands. Having opened it, I
found the same number of parchments I had missed from the package,
all blank in appearance.

In these was a note, which read as follows:

"THE PARCHMENTS, NOW IN THE HANDS OF THE POSSESSOR, CONTAIN MUCH SAD
INTELLIGENCE, AND CAN BE READ, PROVIDED THEY ARE HEATED. THEY ARE
EXPOSED BY A BROTHER OF THE BAND, A DOOMED MAN, ONE THE WORLD HAS
KNOWN TO ITS SORROW FOR FORTY YEARS.

MAY THE OWNER AND HOLDER CONSIDER THE DOOMED ONE A MOST
KIND FRIEND FOR EVER!

"New Orleans, May 3d, 1832."
I soon hastened to ascertain the contents of the parchments, and
found the statement made correct.

CHAPTER XI.

The contents of these papers are such as almost stagger belief, even
in the most credulous.

They not only go to prove the existence of a league of villany, but
also laid open the machinery by which their wickedness was concealed;
still, from many incidents of my own life, and from what I have
learned by observing events which have transpired around me, as
well as from narratives of undoubted truth which I have heard, I
am constrained to believe that the band above alluded to does now
exist, and that it has flourished for a long time, with astonishing
power.

I have reason to suppose that many of the band settled in and about
Lawrenceburgh, Indiana; and from the year 1800 to 1827, they
were very numerous, and some of them wealthy; they were mostly close
traders, who turned every cent they got, honestly or dishonestly,
into real estate.

Many of them, also, were well educated, and composed the
_aristocracy_, while the _poor honest_ man was crowded down by
these _influential members of society_.

There are now three classes of wealthy men in that neighbourhood:
the honest, whose property was obtained fairly; the members of the
band; and some, of whom I am doubtful whether they belong to
the band or not. If they do not, they are villains by nature, and do
not need their assistance.

In the year 1846, I delivered a lecture at Lawrenceburgh, in which I
exposed this band, and showed the manner in which their correspondence
was carried on. The old members of the band had art enough to persuade
the doubtful rogues that they were the persons alluded to, and
they believed it.

Whether conscience had any thing to do with their belief or not, I do
not pretend to say; but the community generally seemed quite ready
to grant them that honour.

It was very amusing to notice the difference between the conduct of the
guilty and that of the innocent, in relation to the exposure. The
"Brotherhood," all at once, were very much concerned about the fair
fame of their neighbourhood--called me a slanderer, and in fact
caused a much greater excitement against themselves than would
have occurred, had they kept still; while the honest citizens quietly
asked for the names of the "brothers," and whether any of their
relations belonged to them; they begged me to go on, and expose
every member.

Since 1802, many robberies have been committed under circumstances which
strongly indicate that such a band existed. Public agents, and
other highly respectable citizens, have been robbed of funds which
they held in trust, and no trace of the robbers could be found, and
no curiosity seemed to be excited by the fact. Sometimes the person
robbed shared in the spoils, and sometimes they were innocent; and
it has sometimes happened that the innocent man was suspected.

The honest citizens of Lawrenceburgh have, for forty years, known what
a curse it is to have bad neighbours.

During the excitement occasioned by my lectures above mentioned, a
resident of Lawrenceburgh related the following incident, which
is only one among many which might be named to show the nature of
the transactions in which these men engaged, and their facilities
for carrying them out.

I will give it as nearly as I can recollect in his own words:

"During the year 1832, a stranger came into the town of Lawrenceburgh,
and for several days was noticed in the public places watching
every one who passed, as if looking for some one.

At length he came to me, and told me that he wished my assistance in
the business on which he came, but that it would be necessary to
keep the matter secret.

I answered, that if it were proper, I had no objections to secrecy.
He then related the following facts as introductory to his business.

"He resided in Ohio; some eighteen months previous a friend had
been induced to purchase a large drove of hogs for the market; he made
the purchase on credit, with a promise to pay when he returned. While
he was preparing to start, Daniel and James Brown bargained and
contracted for them, to be delivered at a certain landing on Lake
Erie, at a certain day, at which place and time they promised to
meet and pay him.

He gathered his drove, and proceeded to the landing, where he arrived
several days before the time appointed. He was there met by some
men, who told him that Brown had been there, and left word for him
to drive the hogs to a landing two or three days' journey further
on, where he had made arrangements to butcher and pack them.

He went as directed; he found neither of the Browns there, but found the
men who had directed him before; they informed him that they had
orders to commence killing and packing the hogs, and that Mr.

Brown would be there that day, or the next. He consented, and the hogs
were killed and packed. A merchant at the landing advanced money to pay
the man, and also furnished salt, and barrels on credit. On the day
that all was finished, the two Browns arrived, bringing with them
another large drove.

They pretended
to be very much surprised to find our friend there, and much more
so to find the hogs butchered.

They declared that they had not bargained for the slaughter of
the hogs, and that they contracted for them in another place, and
would have nothing to do with them here; that he had broken his
contract, and they should demand heavy damages.

He sought for the men who had directed him hither, but they had
dispersed as soon as paid, and no trace of them was to be found. He
told the Browns how he had been deceived, but they denied all
knowledge of the affair, and again talked of damages. The merchant
then presented his bill for supplies, and money advanced to butchers
and packers. Our friend not having the money, he seized on the pork.
What could he do? The case was desperate. He had bought on credit; would
his pitiful story satisfy his creditors? His character was ruined.

You may imagine the state of his mind. At this crisis, the Messrs.
Brown took him aside, and told him that since he was in difficulty,
they were willing to befriend him, and to show him how he could
soon make money enough to pay off his creditors.

An oath of secrecy was required and given. They then offered to
settle the merchant's bills, which were very extravagant, and pay him
for the pork in counterfeit money, at twenty per cent., with which
he was to buy stock through the country.

In his despair, he consented; a few days after he was detected,
arrested, and tried, under a false name, and condemned to the Ohio
penitentiary.

His friends, remaining entirely ignorant of his fate, began to suspect
foul play. The Messrs.

Brown effected his pardon, and hurried him away; but not before he had
contrived to make known his story, and the fact that he was under
restraint among a band of bad men, and that he could not escape
without assistance.

He was never heard of more.

"The stranger gave me his address, and requested that I would keep
an eye upon the people who should come there, and if I should see
the Browns, or hear of his unfortunate friend, that I should let
him know.

He had visited Lawrenceburgh, because that was the former residence of
these two men, and he hoped to see them; but being disappointed, he
was compelled to go back to the family of the lost neighbour without
having received any intelligence of his fate."

The reader will have seen by this time, that, probably, the whole
transaction was arranged before the man bought the first hoof of
that drove of hogs.

Some emissary of the Browns advised him to speculate in pork; to use
his credit, which was good, and he did not see the Browns till he
was preparing to start.

They make him liberal offers, because they never intend to pay, and
it matters little what they offer.

He then sends some of the meaner members of the gang to the landing,
to order him a few days' journey further, and there they meet him
again, and butcher, and pack the hogs.

They are well paid for their villany by the job, which they take care
to make a fat one. The merchant was paid for his part of the rascality
by the profit on his stores, and perhaps by a bonus out of the
money advanced.

They then thought that if they could implicate him in any unlawful
business, he would tell no tales about them; accordingly, they
entice him, or rather drive him to the counterfeit trade.

But conscience makes bad men cowards, and they felt uneasy, so, by
means of some of the band, they have him arrested; the proof is so
positive that he must be convicted, and the poor fellow was thrown
into the penitentiary.

But even here they did not consider him safe, although under a false
name; so, through the influence of some of the _aristocracy_, they
get him pardoned; and then the moment he is free, they meet him,
tell him of all they have done for him, and propose a new scene
of action.

Poor fellow, what can he do?

He goes with them to this new scene of action, but in all probability
he finds it a state of _rest_, for "dead men tell no tales."
Thus, for the paltry price of a drove of hogs, was an honest man
ruined, and, for fear of detection, murdered.

CHAPTER XII.

Probably in no era of the world, and certainly never among a Christian
people, was there formed a more bold, daring, and, at the same time,
secret association, than the one whose constitution and by-laws we
now present to the reader.

Composed of men of all classes and grades in society, from the priest
at the altar, the judge on the bench, the lawyer at the bar, down to
the most common felon and street thief or pickpocket, all bound
together by a solemn oath, they laboured for the general cause of
secret plunder, to the enriching of themselves at the expense of
the mass.

But having previously shown how I procured my information regarding
these desperadoes, I shall leave farther comment on their acts, for the
present, to the public, before whose tribunal they must be arraigned,
and proceed at once to present their 

CONSTITUTION AND BY-LAWS.

_Hanging Rock, Western District of Virginia, July 12, 1798._
SECTION I.--_Art. 1._ This society shall be known by the name of
the SECRET BAND OF BROTHERS.

_Art. 2._ It shall be governed by brethren who have become prominent
by their many valiant deeds for the promotion of the society.

_Art. 3._ The officers of this society shall be known as Grand Masters,
and shall be duly authorized, by this constitution, to initiate,
as members of this society, any male or female, who comes well and
duly recommended by a brother, in good standing, as having served
the probation which this constitution requires.

_Art. 4._ It shall be the duty of a brother, before he gives the
applicant information who the Band of Brothers are, to take him on
probation three months, during which time he shall notify the Grand
Master, that at such a date he will introduce the person, on
probation, for initiation.

_Art. 5._ It shall be the duty of the Grand Master to notify all the
Brotherhood, so far as he has it in his power, that such an
individual will pray for the privilege of becoming a member of the
Honourable Brotherhood, at such a date; and to likewise apprize
them of the duty set apart, so far as in the power of each member,
to carefully scan the motives of the said candidate, and, if they
can ascertain by word, deed or action, that the candidate is not a
fit person to become a member, to convey the same to the brother
who recommended him, and the same must, in all cases, apprize the
Worthy Grand what has been said against, and in favour of the said
candidate;--and it must be strictly observed, that in no case shall
the Worthy Grand condescend to be introduced without proper notice;
and the same must in all cases be strictly obeyed.

_Art. 6._ It shall be the duty of every member to make the candidate the
subject of trial, in every secret manner which he may think
profitable to test his qualities as a true believer in the virtue
of the Brotherhood; and likewise to throw every temptation in his
way, which may be likely to sour his disposition against the
formalities of the world, and thereby lead him into a closer commune
with the Holy Brotherhood, of which he is to become a member, and
which he is to believe to be true and honest in every sense of the
word; and that all other religions and creeds are base, and founded
upon speculative motives--that this is the only TRUE, by which he
must stand through good or ill, and never secede, on pain of death
on earth, and punishment eternal hereafter.

_Art. 7._ It shall be the duty of every brother to be strictly on his
guard, concerning this brave and generous band, and give no
intimation to any mortal being of its existence, unless he is fully
persuaded that he or they are worthy by thought and act of the high
and honourable character which the honourable body will ever confer
upon them, by receiving them as men and brethren, worthy of the
protection of the only true society under Heaven.

_Art. 8._ It shall be the duty of all, both members and Masters, to
guard against the influence of party spirit, either political or
religious, as termed by a certain class of people, who, from their
weak and shattered principles, have been led to suppose that the
great and overruling Bible, among certain classes, is the Divine
inspiration of the Deity, and was hewn from a solid rock, for the
purpose of satisfying all men of the power of God, whom this band
hold sacred, as a being of unchangeable character, who will, in the
immortal state, prepare an everlasting place of rest for all who
do not by their oaths confirm the total disapprobation of his
supernatural power.

_Art. 9._ It shall be the duty of all brethren of this benevolent
band, in their becoming members of this Christian (!)

fraternity, to deny the principles of the book called the Bible, to be
other than the work of priestcraft, got up to delude the weaker portion
of mankind, and whose principles have been carried out to the
uttermost parts of the earth, until even the heathen have suffered
by the base intrigue of missionaries, of this rascally compilation
of nonsense, by being made subservient to their most outrageous and
villanous transactions.

_Art. 10._ That we do deplore the perversion of the power of God, as men
and Christians, and believe it highly commendable to this, the only
true society of Christian principles, to associate and connect ourselves
with all churches, of every denomination, and with all societies,
not for the purpose of supporting them, but through these means to
the furthering of our own designs.

_Art. 11._ That we labour to make proselytes of all with whom we come
in contact, when it can be done without suspicion and danger to
ourselves; that we believe this a true principle--founded upon
Nature herself, our ruler--that policy dictates to us the necessity
of keeping at peace with the world, and often appearing humble and
Godlike, that we may be taken as pious and God-serving people: at
the same time, that we keep our "lights so shining," that all who
wish, may be able to understand, appreciate, and embrace our
principles.

_Art. 12._ That we hold, as a duty to mankind, that the God of nature,
the only God, has made a benevolent donation to all his beings;
and that it is against the principles of true Christianity, to allow
one man to fare sumptuously day by day, while his neighbours, as
good by nature, and far better by practice, shall be made his
servants;--and therefore, we, the members of this honourable body,
do pledge ourselves to try, by every means in our power, to diffuse
the necessaries of life throughout the universe, that all may fare
alike who live as Nature's Christians.

I never can forget those pink-and-white
soldiers," and Dorothy straightened herself up in comical "soldier's
arms" fashion, imitating the unfortunate statues.

"I hope you can come to Lakeport for Thanksgiving," said Nan.  "We
have done so much visiting this summer, out to Aunt Sarah's and down
here, mamma feels we ought to have a grand reunion at our house next.
If we do, I am going to try to have some of the country girls down and
give them all a jolly good time."

"Oh, I'll come if you make it jolly," answered Dorothy.  "If there is
one thing in this world worth while, it is fun," and she tossed her
yellow head about like a buttercup, that has no other way of laughing.

That had been an eventful day at Ocean Cliff, and the happy ending of
it, with a boat and its crew saved, was, as some of the children said,
just like a story in a book, only the pictures were all alive!

The largest hotel at Sunset Beach was thrown open to the sailors that
night, and here Captain Bingham and Mate McLaughlin, together with the
rest of the crew, took up comfortable lodgings.

It was very late, long after the little party had scattered from
Minturn's piazza, that the sailors finished dancing their hornpipe for
the big company assembled to greet them in the hotel.

Never had they danced to such fine music before, for the hotel
orchestra played the familiar tune and the sailors danced it nimbly,
hitching up first one side then the other--crossing first one leg then
the other, and wheeling around in that jolly fashion.

How rugged and handsome the men looked!  The rough ocean winds had
tanned them like bronze, and their muscles were as firm and strong
almost as the cables that swing out with the buoys.  The men who are
always scaring themselves of those comforts fifty of are indispensable
to success in rearing children wants of that most. Thus in 1850 the
white population of Alabama was 426,514; the colored population,
slave and free, was 365,109. and delicate of living at all due to
any original inferiority in the powers of", or that any such
inferiority exists. and Its causes are to be to found in the and
others by such fears are either very ignorant or very hypocritical.

But the case when we inquire, as we must we close, into the causes
of the facts which have just been presented will be still
stronger.

There is no reason to remarked believe that the slower increase of
the colored race is necessary protection from in midst of civilization.
He is destitute you midst the cold and storms of winter, or from
the heats of summer: it is sick warmed and In that year the deaths
of white children under five years On the last recto of barbarian
of the dangers, you exposures, and diseases of infancy life, that
care, skill, and intelligent watchfulness, which.

His of age were 1,650 frail ill ventilated he has they not an unfailing
tired supply of food, and clothing suited volume already referred to,
is a most instructive table, demo portion of his children die in.
dwelling does not the Appendix the truth of this operation to the
entirely in the circumstances, characters, and habits of the two
peoples. be The negro is, to a great extent, a afford the creatures,
a human infant.

Hence a large
to the; of colored children, 2,463

.
"No danger," replied Nellie, whose possible tears at parting had been
quickly chased away by the merry Dorothy.  "But I hope we will have a
nice home, for mother deserves it, besides I am just proud enough to
want to entertain a few young ladies, among them Miss Nan Bobbsey and
Miss Dorothy Minturn."

Munger's room and laid open my fears. It may be proper to state in this
connection, that this Mr.
Munger, whom I made my confidant, was the United States deputy-marshal.

The search above referred to was for money which had been hid by
Sandford, and he, at his death, had informed Mr.

B. where he had deposited it.

The particulars, together with the manner by which I came in possession
of it, are detailed in "GAMBLING UNMASKED."
I found Mr. Munger in his room, and related the incidents of the past
night.

He said he could not understand their meaning.

I could, but I did not tell him that the letters had been taken. For the
want of this information, things looked mysterious.

He told me not to fear, but to flatter those who had requested me to
perjure myself, with a prospect of compliance with their wishes. I
went from his room to my boarding-house, and from thence to the
hospital.

Here I found the colonel surrounded with some twenty citizens, who
resided in and about Wheeling and Pittsburgh, all members of the
fraternity.

Some were men of great respectability in the community where they
lived, and doubtless remain so to the present day. They held out
flattering hopes that bail would yet be secured, but all left the
city in a few days, without rendering any assistance whatever.

The preliminaries for the trial were arranged. Taylor was indicted.
The younger brother being state's evidence, had an encouraging
prospect of acquittal.

Unfortunately, the colonel had taken a wrong position at the start.

He had been betrayed by those of the brotherhood who had the influence
requisite for assistance. The cheat had been carried so far by fair
and continued promises, it was now too late to retrieve himself. I
felt deeply interested for him.

He was a noble specimen of mankind. He possessed abilities worthy
of a more honourable application. He bore all his misfortunes
with unexampled fortitude. The night after his Wheeling and Pittsburgh
associates had betrayed his confidence, he conversed with me for
some time. The main topic of his conversation was about certain
men who resided in Lawrenceburgh and its vicinity. He gave recitals of
things which had been done by men living in and near that place,
which cannot be contemplated without a feeling of horror.

I was actually shocked and chilled, especially as I knew the actors.
The whole seemed to me like some dreadful vision of the night, and I
could hardly believe the evidence of my senses in favor of actual
perpetration.

The colonel continued:

"They fear me; they are seeking to crush me while professing the greatest
friendship." He paused after adding, "to-morrow I will give you
some advice which will be of everlasting benefit. Be careful that
you do not mention it."
Having returned to my boarding-house, I was very closely
interrogated by Mrs.

B. and the aforesaid pettifogger, in reference to my absence.

"Where had I been all night, and what had detained me from my meals the
day before?"
I told them, at which they eyed one another closely. Mrs. B. observed--

"I think the colonel must be hard run for assistance, to keep two
or three constantly waiting on him."

To this I made no reply, but ate my breakfast fast, and returned
to the hospital.

I found Colonel Brown very restless. During the day several men, from
different cities and towns at a distance, called. Three remained
about two hours with him.

They were from Charleston, on the Kanawha river, Va. After they
retired, he lay in a doze for about an hour, when he was awakened
by the arrival of four visitors, accompanied by his physician.

One made a stand at the door of the colonel, three came in, while the
doctor, with the fourth, passed along the gallery, to see some
other of the inmates.
"Well, I like Hal Bingham first-rate," declared Bert, thinking of the
friend from whom he had just parted.

"There goes the last of the ocean.  Look!" called Flossie, as the
train made a turn, and whistled a good-by to the Bobbsey Twins at the
Seashore.