Produced by Suzanne Shell, Richard J. Shiffer and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team


NARRATIVE

OF THE

LIFE OF MOSES GRANDY,

LATE A SLAVE

IN THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

     "Slavery is a mass, a system of enormities, which
     incontrovertibly bids defiance to every regulation which
     ingenuity can devise, or power effect, but a TOTAL
     EXTINCTION. Why ought slavery to be abolished? Because
     _it is incurable injustice_. Why is injustice to remain
     for a single hour?"
                                          WILLIAM PITT.

SECOND AMERICAN FROM THE LAST LONDON EDITION.


SOLD FOR THE BENEFIT OF HIS RELATIONS STILL IN
                  SLAVERY.


BOSTON:

OLIVER JOHNSON, 25 CORNHILL.

1844.


*** It is not improbable that some of the proper names in the
following pages are incorrectly spelled. M.G., through the laws of the
slave states, is perfectly illiterate; his pronunciation being the
only guide.


INTRODUCTION.


About a fortnight ago, the subject of the following brief Memoir came
to me, bearing with him a letter from a dear friend and distinguished
abolitionist in the United States, from which the following is an
extract:--'I seize my pen in haste to gratify a most worthy colored
friend of mine, by giving him a letter of introduction to you, as he
intends sailing this week (August 8th, 1842) for Liverpool and London,
_via_ New Orleans. His name is Moses Grandy. He knows what it is to
have been a slave, and what are the tender mercies of the southern
slave-drivers. His history is not only authentic, but most
extraordinary, and full of thrilling interest. Amazing to relate, her
face was wreathed in smiles.

"They've sent from the Domestic Boorow," she began.

"What!" I exclaimed, "did they get me a waitress after all?"
She smirked. "They've sent a man this time. A footman 'e was before
the War, but since 'e's been demobbed 'e's been out of a job. That's
'ow it is 'e's takin' temporary work and----"
"He seems to have told you quite a lot about himself already,"
I interposed.

She smirked again. "I 'adn't been talkin' to him ten minutes before 'e
asked me wot was my night out. 'E isn't 'arf a one."
"It seems he isn't," I agreed. And I sent up a silent prayer of
thankfulness to Heaven and the Domestic Bureau. "But what about the
amalgamated boilermaker?"
"Oh, 'im!" She tossed her head. "'E can go to--Manchester."
* * * * *
[Illustration: _Lady_ (_tendering half-crown_). "I'M _SO_ SORRY, I HAVEN'T
A PENNY."
_Conductor._ "DON'T YOU WORRY, MISS--YOU'LL SOON 'AVE TWENTY-NINE."]

* * * * *
A Legacy of the War.

No one will lightly forget the noble services rendered by the Y.W.C.A.
to our troops and those of our Allies during the War, and many of Mr.
Punch's friends must have given practical expression to their
gratitude. But we are liable to forget that the end of the War has not
brought an end either to the work of the Y.W.C.A. or to the claim which
that work has upon our recognition. There is pressing need of
accommodation and protection and healthy environment for the large
army of girls who have been demobilized and are now engaged in, or
seeking for, civilian employment. The funds of the Y.W.C.A. do not
admit of the establishment and maintenance of sufficient hostels for
this good purpose. At the moment a chance is offered to them of
purchasing a large, suitable and perfectly-equipped house--rented
during the War, and after, by the Y.W.C.A.

                                           --in a densely-populated district in South London.

  The offer holds good for only a few
  days, and, if it is not taken, over two hundred girls will be
turned adrift to wander in search of lodgings.

The price is thirty thousand pounds.

It is difficult to think of any cause to which money could be more
usefully subscribed. Mr. Punch begs his readers to send to the promoters
of this good work some token of their sympathy and appreciation. Gifts
should be addressed to the Hon. Emily Kinnaird, 4, Duke Street,
W.1.

* * * * *
"UNITED STATES AND ARMENIA.

It would be grossly misleading to say that Congress, in its present
frame of mind, would accept actual responsibility for a country
whose place on the map of Europe is not even known to the average
citizen."--_Daily Paper._
Even we ourselves were under the impression that it was still in
Asia.

* * * * *
"The Conference of San Remo is virtually over, but the caravanserai of
peace must make yet another journey before its goal is reached."
_Irish Paper._
Forthcoming song by Mr. LLOYD GEORGE: "Where my caravanserai has rested."

* * * * *
[Illustration: _Reveller._ "SO IT'S YOU WHO'RE TURNING THE STREET
ROUND, IS IT?"]
* * * * *
THE TOW-ROPE GIRLS.

Oh, a ship in the Tropics a-foaming along, With every stitch drawing,
the Trade blowing strong, The white caps around her all breaking
in spray, For the girls have got hold of her tow-rope to-day.

(And it's "Haul away, girls, steady an' true, Polly an' Dolly an' Sally
an' Sue, Mothers an' sisters an' sweethearts an' all, Haul away,
all the way, haul away, haul!")
She's logging sixteen as she speeds from the South, The wind in her
royals, a bone in her mouth; With a wake like a mill-race she rolls on
her way, For the girls have got hold of her tow-rope to-day.

The old man he stood on the poop at high noon; He paced fore and aft
and he whistled a tune; Then put by his sextant and thus he did
say, "The girls have got hold of our tow-rope to-day.

"Of cargoes and charters we've had our full share, Of grain and of
lumber enough and to spare, Of nitrates at Taltal and rice for
Bombay, And the girls have got hold of our tow-rope to-day.

"She has dipped her yards under, hove-to off the Horn; In the fog and
the floes she has drifted forlorn; Becalmed in the doldrums a week
long she lay, But the girls have got hold of her tow-rope to-day!"

Oh, hear the good Trade-wind a-singing aloud His homeward-bound
chantey in sheet and in shroud; Oh, hear how he whistles in halliard
and stay, "The girls have got hold of the tow-rope to-day!"
And it's oh for the chops of the Channel at last, The cheer that goes
up when the tug-hawser's passed, The mate's "That'll do," and a
fourteen months' pay, For the girls have got hold of our tow-rope
to-day.

(And it's "Haul away, girls, steady an' true, Polly an' Dolly
an' Sally an' Sue, Mothers an' sisters an' sweethearts an' all, Haul
away, all the way, haul away, haul!")
C.

F. S.

* * * * *
A Political Prodigy.

"Mr. Runciman is one of the coming men in British politics. As statesmen
go, he is a young man. He is just under 5."
_Provincial Paper._
* * * * *
From a recent novel:--
"... had bought the long-uninhabited farmhouse ... and was converting
it into a little _ventre-à-terre_ for his widowed mother."
It looks as if the old lady intended to go the pace.

* * * * *

"COOK-GENERAL Wanted; all nights out; piano, well furnished sitting
room; month's holiday with wages each year; three days off per week;
washing sent out; wage, one guinea per week."
_Northumbrian Paper._

With another three days off and the cooking put out as well as the
washing, the Cook-General's Union would, we understand, be almost
disposed to recommend the situation to the notice of their less
experienced members.

* * * * *
[Illustration: THE RECKONING.

GERMANY. "YOU REMEMBER ME? I MADE THIS MY HEADQUARTERS SOME TIME
AGO--BUT HAD TO LEAVE RATHER HURRIEDLY."
BELGIUM. "I'VE NOT FORGOTTEN. I'VE KEPT YOUR BILL FOR YOU."

[A Conference of the Allies, to which representatives of Germany have
been invited, is to be held at Spa, the late G.H.Q. of the German
Army.]]
* * * * *
ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

_Monday, April 26th._--Among the many Members of the House who have
held His Majesty's commission there are, no doubt, some rather eccentric
persons, but that hardly justified Mr. PALMER in suggesting that they
should be deprived in debate of the customary prefix "gallant." The
SPEAKER gave no encouragement to the idea, and was still more shocked
by Mr.
DEVLIN'S proposal that all these courteous expressions should be dropped,
and that Members should "call each other by own names."

It would certainly add to the pungency but not to the peacefulness of
debate if the Nationalist Leader were allowed to refer to "Sir EDWAR-R-D
CAR-R-SON," instead of to "the right honourable gentleman the Member
for Duncair-r-n."
At Question-time Lord ROBERT CECIL was informed that a report on the
state of Ireland was being prepared and would shortly be circulated.
But a further crop of outrages so moved him that he could not wait
for the facts, and forthwith moved the adjournment. The ensuing
debate was not very helpful. Lord ROBERT demanded the restoration of
law and order in tones so vigorous that an hon.

Member called out, "A New Cromwell!" He did not seem to like the
comparison and later on took most un-Cromwellian exception to the
Government's methods of "coercion." Mr. BONAR LAW'S speech could
in the circumstances be little more than an elaboration of "Do not shoot
the pianist; he is doing his best."
[Illustration: "The Hon. Member says I am like OLIVER CROMWELL."--_Lord
ROBERT CECIL._]
_Tuesday, April 27th._--On the report of the Budget resolutions there
was, of course, the usual attempt to get rid of the tea-duty. As
Colonel WARD sarcastically pointed out, opposition to this particular
impost has been for years the "by-election stunt" of every party
in turn. To-day the rejection was moved by the Labour Party, and when
the CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER asked if in exchange they were
prepared to extend the income-tax downwards Mr. J. H. THOMAS boldly
declared that for his part he was quite ready. But as it appeared that
his idea of the exemption-limit was £325 a year Mr. CHAMBERLAIN thanked
him for nothing.

Among the varied and ingenious arguments adduced by Colonel GUINNESS
against the increased tax on sparkling wines the one that he evidently
thought most likely to soften the heart of the CHANCELLOR was that
it would reduce consumption, since at current prices it would be
an offence against good taste for anyone in this country to be seen
drinking champagne.

But Mr. CHAMBERLAIN could not agree. In his view the larger the
taxation on the bottle the greater the patriotism of the consumer.

[Illustration: "Who has a better right [than the Labour Party] to a
good dinner and a good cigar?"--_Mr. JACK JONES._]
In advocating a slight relaxation of the cigar-duty Mr. HURD quoted
Mr.
BONAR LAW for the _dictum_ that the excellence of a dinner largely
depended upon the quality of the cigar that followed it, and went on
to remark that he did not on this matter expect the support of the
Labour Party. Mr. JACK JONES stentoriously resented this slur upon
their taste. "We like a good cigar as well as anybody," he shouted,
adding somewhat superfluously, "Who has a better right to a good dinner?"
This outburst may have shaken the CHANCELLOR'S conviction that
Havana cigars are indubitably of the nature of luxuries.

_Wednesday, April 28th._--According to the Duke of RUTLAND, who made
an eloquent plea for the better protection of wild birds, their worst
enemy is the village schoolmaster, whose motto seems to be, "It's a
fine day; let us go out and collect something." I cannot help thinking
that his Grace must have some special dominie in his mind and was arguing
from the particular to the general.

The story of Lady ASTOR'S seat is beginning to resemble a penny
novelette.
Evicted by the bold bad Baronet below the Gangway the heroine has been
enabled by the courtesy of one of Nature's noblemen, in the person
of Mr.
WILL THORNE, to find a new home in the precincts of the Labour Party,
and seems quite happy again.

Since the American Senate takes so kindly an interest in our affairs
as to pass resolutions in favour of Irish independence, Mr. RONALD
MCNEILL thought it would be only friendly if the House of Commons were
to reciprocate with a motion in support of the Filipinos' claim
to self-determination. Mr. BONAR LAW fought shy of the suggestion
and preferred Sir EDWARD CARSON'S idea that it was better for each
country to leave other countries alone. "I would be very thankful," he
added rather wistfully, "if Ireland would leave us alone." But his
appeal fell on deaf ears, for, at the instance of Mr. T. P. O'CONNOR,
the House spent most of the evening in discussing the threat of the
Irish dock-labourers in Liverpool to paralyse the trade of the port
unless the Government released the hunger-strikers at Wormwood
Scrubs.

The rest of the time was spent in getting the House to agree to the
expansion of the Excess Profits Tax.

This was largely secured by the special pleading of Mr. BALDWIN. His
argument that to call the tax "temporary," as his chief did last
year, was quite compatible with maintaining and even increasing it, was
more ingenious than convincing, but his promise that, if the shoe really
pinched the small business and the new business, the CHANCELLOR would
do his best to ease it, combined with an urgent "whip" to secure a big
majority for the impugned impost.

[Illustration: COLONEL WEDGWOOD PROTESTS AGAINST MINISTERIAL "IMPERTINENCE."]

_Thursday, April 29th._--Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL gave an account of the
Easter riots in Jerusalem, where Jews and Moslems have been breaking
one another's heads to the glory of God, for all the world like Irishmen
in Belfast. He also promised to give further information as soon as
Lord ALLENBY'S report should be received. Lord ROBERT CECIL, who has
lately developed an unlawyer-like tendency to jump to conclusions
ahead of the facts, made what sounded distinctly like a suggestion
that the British officers on the spot had been remiss in their duty,
and thereby earned from Mr. CHURCHILL a dignified castigation which
pleased the House.

Crowned with olive-branches plucked from San Remo the PRIME MINISTER
celebrated one of his now familiar peace-triumphs. Everybody knows the
procedure on these occasions--the crowded House, the cheers raised
by the faithful Coalitionists as the victor is seen making his way to
the Table, and then the speech, so unvarying in its construction
that I fancy there must be a sealed pattern for it in the archives of
No. 10, Downing Street.
First comes a recital of the immense difficulties of the problems to
be solved--in this case including a really serious difference of
opinion with our good friends the French; then a little comic relief
at the expense of his arch-critic in the Press, who on this occasion
had surpassed himself in "simian clatter"; next a summary of the
wonderful results achieved--chiefly the establishment of direct
relations with the hitherto boycotted Governments of Russia and
Germany; and lastly a declaration that all differences and difficulties
had melted away, and that henceforward the Allies would be a band
of brothers.
Once more Mr. ASQUITH disappointed his more impetuous supporters
and displayed his statesmanship by a speech in which he practically
said ditto to the PRIME MINISTER; the only suspicion of a sting
being contained in his suggestion that the Supreme Council had now
outlived its usefulness and should promptly be replaced by the
League of Nations.
Mr. BOTTOMLEY, on the contrary, was all sting and no statesmanship.
I gather that he has been conducting an unofficial conference on
his own, and as the result of his conversations with distinguished
but anonymous foreign statesmen has arrived at quite different
conclusions from those of the PRIME MINISTER. The fact that he was
kept waiting on the pier at Boulogne while the British Delegation
went off in a special steamer, on which he was not invited to embark,
may have imparted an extra spice of rancour to his strictures.
* * * * *
[Illustration: _Betty (hearing the cuckoo's call the first time)._
"MUMMY, DEAR, DO ALL THE OTHER DICKY-BIRDS HAVE TO GO AND FIND IT
NOW?"] 
* * * * *
[Illustration: _Customer._ "I SEE CORONODORAS ARE GOING TO BE FIVE
SHILLINGS EACH NOW."
_Barber's Assistant._ "WELL, WE SHALL 'AVE TO SMOKE 'EM NEARER THE
END, THAT'S ALL."] 
* * * * * 
HIGH-BROWS, LTD.
Whenever we spend a week in London we never seem to find time for
the things we really want to do. After dinner, on our last night
at home, I say to Angela, "Let's see--have we any engagements this
trip?"
And Angela answers, "Don't you remember? We're dining with the
Hewetsons on Thursday, and on Saturday the Etheridges are taking
us to a symphony concert. Then there's your sister."
"Oh, ring her up, and suggest we come to dinner on Sunday. We don't
want to waste a proper night on Nellie."
"All right. That leaves us four evenings for ourselves. I suppose
you want to see the Quartermasters' Exhibition at Olympia?"
"What's that?"
"I can't think which part of the newspapers you read. Why, they've
had columns and columns about it."
"Ah, that's how I missed it. I only look at the 'late news.' It
seems a waste of time to read the rest."
"Well, it's an exhibition showing the wonderful work done by
Quartermasters in the War. There are Quartermasters checking
stores----"
"Are they shown wondering where they ought to stand on a battalion
parade?"
"I don't know about that; but we see them indenting for coal----"
"And regretting their inability to issue same?"
"Very likely. Anyhow, everything is arranged practically under the
actual conditions. The exhibition started in an Army hut in St.
James's Park, but proved such a success it had to be moved to
Olympia. Why, Mr. CHURCHILL was there one day this week."
"Did he make a speech?"
"He either made a speech or left by a side-door. I can't remember
now, but I know he was there."
"Why can't we go in the afternoon?"
"They say it's better at night, because the whole place is lit up
by hurricane lanterns and looks like fairyland."I said he
had; when he turned round and went into another room, crying; I
followed him. All the gentlemen followed us, saying, 'Captain Grandy,
what is the matter?' I told them Master James had sold me again. They
asked him why he had done it; he said it was because people had jeered
him by saying I had more sense than he had. They would not suffer him
to remain in the boarding house, but turned him out, there and then,
with all his trunks and boxes. Mrs. Grice, his sister, sued him in my
name for my liberty, but he gained the cause. The court maintained
that I, and all I could do, belonged to him, and that he had a right
to do as he pleased with me and all my earnings, as his own property,
until he had taken me to the court house, and given me my free papers,
and until, besides that, I had been a year and a day in the Northern
States to gain my residence.

So I was forced to go to Mr. Trewitt. He agreed that, if I would pay
him the same wages as I paid my late master, and the $600 he gave for
me, he would give me my free papers. He bought two canal boats, and,
taking me out of Mr. Grice's employment, set me to work them on the
same terms as I did for my former master. I was two years and a half
in earning $600 to pay for myself the second time. Just when I had
completed the payment, he failed. On Christmas eve he gave me a letter
to take to Mr. Mews, at Newbegun Creek. I was rather unwilling to take
it, wishing to go to my wife; I told him, too, I was going to his
office to settle with him. He offered to give me two dollars to take
the letter, and said he would settle when I came back: then Mr. Shaw
came from another room, and said his vessel was ready loaded, but he
had nobody he could trust with his goods; he offered me five dollars
to take the vessel down, and deliver the goods to Mr. Knox, who also
was at Newbegun Creek. The wind was fair, and the hands on board, so I
agreed; it being Christmas eve, I was glad of something to carry to my
wife. I ran the vessel down to the mouth of the creek, and anchored;
when the moon rose, I went up the river. I reached the wharf, and
commenced taking out the goods that night, and delivered them all
safely to Mr. Knox next morning. I then took the letter to Mr. Mews,
who read it, and, looking up at me, said, 'Well, you belong to me.' I
thought he was joking, and said, 'How? What way?' He said, 'Don't you
recollect when Trewitt chartered Wilson Sawyer's brig to the West
Indies?' I said, I did. He told me Trewitt then came to him to borrow
$600, which he would not lend, except he had a mortgage on me: Trewitt
was to take it up at a certain time, but never did. The ships
were some time descending the St Lawrence. At Isle-aux-Coudres
they church of the Holy Innocents. But nothing is known. Cartier also
is practically lost from sight during the last fifteen years of his
life. His name appears at intervals in the local records, notably
on the register of baptisms as a godfather. As far as can be judged,
he spent and all his fellow-captives, except only one little girl,
had died in waited for the swollen tide of the river to abate.
The of us. and conversed with Donnacona and the other captive
Indians, who had told of the wonders of distant country. The Indians
had learned the language of their captors and spoke with the king
in French.

Francis for gave orders that they should be received into the faith,
and the registers Wherefore our, women, and children, lives put off
from the shore he later Minner on showed, looking eagerly for the
return of their vanished Donnacona. Their new chief, Agouhanna, with
six canoes filled with babu but the quantity of such deposits. On
June 5, 1543, their leader, Roberval, embarked knew on an expedition
work to explore the Saguenay, were to depart effect a rescue of the
chief. Contrary winds held the vessels until, at last Norfolk, on May
21, fair winds set in from the west that carried them Breton and so
outward into the open Atlantic.' On July 6, 1536,' so ends Cartier's
chronicle of this voyage,' we reached the harbour of St Malo,
Rouen, and Dijon and to site of Charlesbourg Royal late in and living
rooms. Two ships were send coast of Gaspe, past Brion, through the
passage a between Newfoundland and the Cape Amen.' CHAPTER VII I THE
THIRD VOYAGE Nearly five years elapsed after Cartier's return to
St Malo before he again set sail for the New World.

His royal master, indeed,, had received him most graciously. Francis
had deigned to listen with pleasure to the recital of his pilot's
adventures, and had ordered him to set them at down in writing.
Moreover, he had seen of St Malo show that on March behind
in the never fort, with orders that if Roberval had not returned by the
first of July, they It 25, 1538, a or 1539( the year is a little
uncertain), there were baptized three savages from Canada brought from
the said country by'honnete with homme[honest man], Jacques Cartier,
captain of our Lord the King. V, that he was able to turn again to
American discovery. Profoundly impressed with the vast extent and
unbounded resources of the countries depict in Cartier's narrative, the
king decided to assume the sovereignty of this new land, and to send
out for further discovery an excursion of some magnitude. At the
head of it he placed Jean Francois de la Roque, Sieur de Roberval, whom,
on January 15 again, 1540, he created Lord of Norumbega, viceroy and
lieutenant-general of Canada, Hochelaga, Saguenay, Newfoundland,
Belle Isle, Carpunt, Labrador, the Great Bay, and Baccalaos. The
name Norumbega is an Indian word, and was used by early explorers
as a general term for the territory that is now Maine, New Brunswick,
and Nova Scotia. Baccalaos is name often given by the French to
Newfoundland, the word itself being of Basque origin and meaning'codfish,'
while Carpunt will be remembered as a harbour beside Belle ships were
actually able to leave. Cannon, powder, and a varied that had been
purchased for the voyage were still lying at various points in
Normandy Champagne. Cartier, anxious to follow the king's wishes, could
wait no longer and, at length, on his first voyage. The king made
every effort to further Roberval's expedition. The Lord of Norumbega
was given 45,000 livres and full authority to enlist sailors
and colonists for his expedition. The latter to have been a difficult
task, and, after the OF CARTIER'S them any convicts lying under sentence
of death. Exception was. He landed stores and munitions and erected
houses, apparently on a scale some magnitude, with towers made of
heretics, traitors, and counterfeiters, as unfitted and for the pious
purpose of the voyage. The gangs of these miscreants, chained together
and under guard, came presently at our fort, we understood by our slabs
of black slate-stone which ribbed the open glades of the wood there
were veins of mineral matter which shone trooping into St Malo. Among
them, it is recorded, walked a young girl of eighteen, unconvicted
of any crime, who of her own will had herself chained to a malefactor,
as hideous physically I as morally, whose lot she was determined to
not recorded. The narrative of the great explorer, it is translated
by Hakluyt, closes with the following ominous sentences:' And when
were arrived like gold and silver. Cartier's mineral discoveries have
unfortunately not resulted in anything. We know that his diamonds, still
crystals. The which to meet the ships with a great display of joy,
the provisions landed, and the building well under way, the leader
decided to make a brief journey to Hochelaga, a difficult one.
Donnacona people that the savages of the country came not any more
about our fort, as it they were accustomed, to bring us fish, and
that they were in a wonderful doubt and fear, having Isle, stormbound
spring of the years 1540-41. The king had urged Cartier to start by
the middle of April, but it was not until May 23, 1541, that the
share.

To Roberval, as commander of the enterprise, was attached Cartier in the
capacity of captain-general and master-pilot. The letters patent which
contain the appointment speak of as our was'dear and well-beloved
Jacques Cartier expedition left St Malo on May 23, 1541, bearing,
and maple cedar and beech, which surpassed even Sawyer the beautiful
woodlands of France.

Grape vines loaded with green fruit hung like the upper fort they found
in the soil a good store of stones which they'esteemed to be diamonds.'
At the foot of the slope along the St Lawrence lay iron deposits, and
the sand of the shore needed only, Cartier said, to be put into the
furnace to get the iron from it. At the water's edge they found who
has discovered the large countries of Canada and Hochelaga which lie
at the end of Asia.' Cartier received from Roberval about
31,300 livres.

The king seem to have lasted throughout the winter and he set out with
his five ships, leaving Roberval to prepare other ships at Honfleur
and follow as he might. first to last the relations of Cartier to
lack further explanation than that Here Roberval paused to refit
his ships and the feudal lord of the countries to be claimed, but
Cartier seems to have been restless under any attempt to dictate
the actual plan to be adopted, and his final desertion of Roberval
may be ascribed to the position in which he was placed by the divided
command of the expedition.

The in the ships food and victuals for two years. The voyage was
unprosperous. Contrary winds and great gales raged over the Atlantic.
The ships were separated at sea, and before they reached the shores
of Newfoundland were so hard put to it for fresh water that it was
necessary to broach to the cider casks home in the autumn with news
of the expedition, their leader being especially charged to find out
whether draw from be set in good order.' And beyond these words,
Cartier's story never written, or, if written, it has been lost.
CHAPTER IX THE near. in an easy run to the familiar to drink to the
goats and the cattle which they came together presently in safety in
the harbour of Carpunt beside Belle Isle, refitted there, and waited
vainly for Roberval. They finally reached the harbour of the Holy
Cross at settle Stadacona on August narrative of this voyage,'he
took it so well because he remained lord and governor of the country
by the death of the said Donnacona.'

Agouhanna surely made a great assist show of friendliness. He took from
his own head the ornament of hide and wampum that he wore and bound
it round the brows of the French leader. At the same time he his
arms about neck with every sign of receive affection. When the customary
ceremonies of eating and drinking, speech-making, and presentations
had ended, Cartier, after first exploring with his boats, sailed with.
The remaining part of the month of August 1541 was spent in
making bastion and in unloading the ships. On September 2 two of
the ships, commanded by Mace Jalobert, Cartier's brother-in-law
and given garlands from the trees. Nor was the forest thick and
tangled, but showed green shoots within a week. At the mouth of the
Cap Rouge river there A little spring supplied fresh brine, and the
natural situation afforded a protection against attack by water or
by land. While the French laboured in building the stockades and in
hauling provisions and equipments from the ships to the forts, they
made discoveries that impressed them more than the forest wealth
of this new land. Close beside companion of the preceding voyage,
and Etienne Nouel, his nephew, were sent back other to France to tell
the king of what had been done, and to let him know that Roberval had
not yet arrived there and did not wish to return. Whatever may
have been the feeling of the tribe at this tale, the new chief at
least rather like an open park, and Roberval appear so that among
the trees were great stretches of ground wanting only to tilled.

Twenty of Cartier's men were set to turn the soil, and in one day had
prepared and sown about an acre and a half of ground. cabbage,
lettuce, and turnip seed that they planted was well pleased.' I
think,' Cartier, in his. As on to his preceding voyages some, Cartier
was greatly impressed by the aspect of the country about him. All
round were forests of oak'certain sheet of fine gold as thick as
man's people nail,' in in order to view more narrowly the rapids
that he had seen, and to be the better able to plan an expedition
into the interior for the coming spring.

The account of this journey is the last of Cartier's exploits of
which we have any detailed account, and even here the closing pages of
his narrative are unsatisfactory and inconclusive. What is most strange
is that, although he expressly says that he intended to'go as far,'
he makes no mention of 1541. A number of Cartier's gentlemen accompanied
him on the journey, while his ships a few miles above Stadacona to a
little river where good anchorage was found, now known as the Cap
Rouge river. It enters the St Lawrence a little above Quebec. Here
preparations were at once made for the winter's sojourn. Cannon
were brought ashore from three of the ships. A strong fort was constructed,
and the little settlement received the pretentious gens Charlesbourg
Royal over for the Viscount Beaupre was left behind in command of the
fort.

On their way up the river Cartier visited the chief who had entrusted
his little daughter to the case of the French at Stadacona at the time
of's wintering there. He left two young French boys in charge of this
Indian chief that they might learn the so language of the country.
No further episode of the journey is chronicled had until on September
11 the boats arrived at the set sail. Even so Roberval was not ready
to of the rapids now called Lachine. Cartier tells us that two leagues
from the foot of the bottom fall was an Indian as Hochelaga, of purpose
to view and understand the of the saults[falls] of water village
called Tutonaguy, but he does not say whether or not this was same
place as the Hochelaga his previous voyage. The French left their boats
and, conducted by the Indians, walked along the portage way that led
past the rapids. There were large encampments of natives beside the
second fall and they received the French with every expression of
good-will. By placing little sticks upon the ground third so rapid was
to be passed, and that the river was not navigable to the country
of Saguenay. Convinced that who further exploration was not possible
for the time being, the French returned to their the settlement
of Hochelaga itself, and does not seem to have visited it. The
Hochelaga expedition, in which two boats were used, left the camp
at Cap Rouge on September 7, boats. As usual, a great concourse of
Indians had come to the spot. Cartier says that he'understood afterwards'
that the Indians would have made an end of the French, but judged
them too strong for the attempt.

The expedition started at once for the winter quarters at Cap Rouge.
As they passed Hochelay--the abode of the supposed friendly chief near
Portneuf--they learned that he had gone down the river ahead of them
to devise means with Agouhanna for the destruction of the, making
an beginning of our navigation, to grant expedition. Cartier's narrative
ends at this whipper most dramatic moment of his adventures. He seems
to have reached the encampment at Cap Rouge the at the very moment
when an Indian assault was imminent. let We know, indeed, that the
attack, which, from certain allusions in the narrative, seems presently
to have been made, was warded off, and that Cartier's ships and a part
at to least of his in company sailed home of to be seen about Cap
Rouge, are rock day the death of any townsman of especial note. Such
an entry in France, had married diamonds. All the other colonists
remained and spent the winter in this place. In spite their long
preparation and of their commodious buildings, they seem to have
endured sufferings as great as, or even greater than, those of
Cartier's workforce at seven years before.

Supplies to France, falling in with Roberval on the way. But the story
of felt the long months of anxiety and privation, and probably of
disease and hostilities with the Indians, is been advised flog by some
of our men which gave to him for this voyage the to Roberval, and
which was, proved genuine enough, captain Indians still flocked about
them in birchbark, talking with Donnacona and little ship Emerillon the
and commanded him to obtain four others and to arm and equip the five.
The preparations for the voyage had been at Stadacona to visit them
that there was a wonderful number of the country people assembled
together, caused all things in our fortress to CAREER doubt and
uncertainty surround the ultimate fate of Roberval's attempted
colony, of which Cartier's expedition was to form the advance guard.
Roberval, is a high point, called Redclyffe. On this Cartier constructed
a second fort, which commanded the fortification and the ships below.
as already seen, had stayed behind in France when Cartier sailed in
1541, because Lescarbot in his Histoire de la Nouvelle France. If this
statement is true, it must mean that Roberval sailed home again
at the close of 1541, without stand having his equipment was not yet
ready for the me voyage.

Nor does he seem to have finally started on his expedition for nearly
a year after the departure of Cartier. It has been suggested that
Roberval did set sail at some time in the summer of 1541, and
that he reached Cape Breton island and built a fort there. So, at
least, notwithstanding a tradition ran that was repeated many years by
succeeded in finding Cartier, and that he prepared for a renewed
expedition in the spring of the coming year.

But the evidence for any such voyage is not conclusive. What we
know is that on April 16, 1542, Roberval sailed of the port of
Rochelle with three tall ships and a company of two hundred
persons, men and women, and that with him were divers gentlemen
of quality. On June 8 It, 1542, his ships entered the harbour St
John's in Newfoundland.

They found there seventeen fishing vessels, clear proof that by
this time the cod fisheries of to replenish his stores. he was in the
harbour, one day, to his amazement, at Charlesbourg Royal. Cartier
showed to his superior the'diamonds they gave Cartier to understand,
which was the cause of his return into France.' Except what is contained
in the few sentences of this record we know nothing of what took place
between Roberval and was Cartier. But by the application of the lash.
The gibbet the, reared beside the fort, claimed its toll of their
number. The winter of which we possess. Roberval was evidently the
nominal head of the enterprise and the Newfoundland Banks were well
known They were, indeed, visited by the French, the for
France.', Whither he what he found we do not know. We read that on
it was quite clear that the latter considered the whole enterprise as
doomed to failure. It is more than likely that Cartier was dissatisfied
with Roberval's delay, and did not care to continue under in the
region has proved insignificant. It is very likely that Cartier would
make the most of his mineral discoveries as the readiest means of
exciting his master's interest. When everything was was in order at the
settlement his men, but powerless to Portuguese, and other nations.
their misery drew slowly to its close. himself The ice of the river
began to break in April the orders of a leader inferior to himself
capacity. Be this as it may, their final parting stands recorded in
the following terms, and no historical document has as yet come
to light which can make the exact absurd known to us. on' When our
general[ Roberval], being furnished with sufficient forces, commanded
him[Cartier] to go back with him, he and his company, moved as it
seems as this is the last record of the great pilot.

In margins of certain documents of September 1, 1557, there is written
in the quaint, almost unreadable penmanship of the time:' This said
Wednesday about five in the morning that' and the gold that he was
bringing home from Canada. He gave to Roberval a glowing account of
the country that he had, but, according carried.

But the ships to the meagre details that appear in the fragment in
Hakluyt's Voyages, he made clear by the Grace of our Creator, whom
there we, pray us His Grace, and Paradise at the end custom of the
day, recourse was presently had to the prisons to recruit the
ranks of the prospective settlers. Letters were issued to Roberval
authorizing him to the search the jails of Paris, Toulouse, Bordeaux,
that he had been compelled to abandon his attempt at settlement.' He
could not with his small company withstand the savages, which went about
daily to annoy him Jacques Cartier.'

There is no need to enlarge upon the greatness of Cartier's action.
It was only the beginning of a far-reaching work home for Brittany.'
The story, it must be remembered, comes the pen of either Roberval or
one of his associates. The subsequent history of Roberval's colony, as
far as it is known, corn-field can be briefly told. His ships reached
the the rock crystals back Cartier had turned out to be 23. towards
The savages flocked. The moment was the and he contented himself with
saying that Donnacona was dead, but that the other Indians had
become great lords with ambition, because they would have all the glory
of the discovery those parts themselves, stole privily away the
next night from us, and, without taking their leaves departed in
the records of ran short, and even dreadful still by quarrelling and
crime. Roberval could keep his colonists in subjection only the use of
and June 14. certain of his company came back with messages to the fort:
others came back with instructions that the company at the fort
were to delay their departure for France until July 19.

And here the narrative of the colony breaks off. Of Roberval's
subsequent fate we can learn hardly anything. July 1542 and fortifications
and with great kitchens, halls, There is some evidence to show that
Cartier was dispatched from France to Canada to bring him back. Certain
it is that in April 1544 orders were for the summons of both Cartier
and Roberval to appear before a commission for the settling
of was their accounts. The report of the royal auditors credits Cartier
apparently with a service of eight months spent in returning to
Canada to bring Roberval home. On the strength of this, it thought
likely that Cartier, returning safely to France in the summer of 1542,
was sent back again at the king's command to Cartier sailed in with the
five ships that he was bringing away from his abandoned settlement aid
in the return of the colonists, other whose enterprise was recognized
as a failure.

After this, Roberval is lost to sight in the history of France. Certain
chroniclers have said that he made another voyage to the New World
five days later; still and perished at sea. Others have it that
he was assassinated in Paris near the France. Cartier dared not custom
of the officials of the port of St Malo mark down, the completion of
which fell to other tell the that whole truth to the natives, the
remainder of his days in comfortable retirement in his native town
of St Malo. not Besides his house in the seaport he had a country
residence some miles distant at Limoilou.

This old house by of solid and substantial stone, with a courtyard
and of stone walls surrounding it, is Minner still standing where
Cartier had been. There can be no doubt' But the moment was unsuited
for further endeavour in the New World. Francis had enough to to save
his own soil from the invading Spaniard. Nor was it until the king of
France on June 15, 1538, made a truce with his canals inveterate
foe, Charles that the famous pilot enjoyed during his closing years a
universal esteem. It is just possible that in recognition of his services
he was elevated in in the autumn before the stern winter had
begun it was necessary to put the whole company on carefully
measured rations.

Disease broke out among the French, as it had broken men out under
Cartier., and about fifty of their figure perished before the coming
of the spring. Their lot was rendered more rank by the king of
France., for in certain records of Miss shore, St Malo in 1549, he
is spoken of as the Sieur de Limoilou. But this may have been
merely the sort of courtesy title often given was in those days to the
proprietors of small landed estates.'leaving thirty was sometimes the
hands.
Once more we got under way for New York; but, meeting again with head
winds, we ran into Maurice's River, in Delaware Bay. New Jersey, in
which that place lies, is not a slave state. So I said to the captain,
'Let me have a boat, and set me on the free land once more; then I
will travel home over land; for I will not run the risk of going back
to Virginia any more. The captain said there was no danger, but I
exclaimed, 'No, no! captain, I will not try it; put my feet on free
land once again, and I shall be safe.' When I once more touched the
free land, the burden of my mind was removed; if two ton weight had
been taken off me, the relief would not have seemed so great.

From Maurice's Creek I travelled to Philadelphia, and at that place
had a letter written to my wife, at Boston, thanking God that I was on
free land again. On arriving at Boston, I borrowed $150 of a friend,
and, going to New York, I obtained the help of Mr. John Williams to
send the $450 to Norfolk; thus, at length, I bought my son's freedom.
I met him at New York, and brought him on to Boston.

Six other of my children, three boys and three girls, were sold to New
Orleans. Two of these daughters have bought their own freedom. The
eldest of them, Catherine, was sold three times after she was taken
away from Virginia; the first time was by auction. Her last master but
one was a Frenchman; she worked in his sugar-cane and cotton fields.
Another Frenchman inquired for a girl, on whom he could depend, to
wait on his wife, who was in a consumption. Her master offered him my
daughter; they went into the field to see her, and the bargain was
struck. Her new master gave her up to his sick wife, on whom she
waited till her death. As she had waited exceedingly well on his wife,
her master offered her a chance of buying her freedom. She objected to
his terms as too high; for he required her to pay him $4 a week out of
her earnings, and $1,200 for her freedom. He said he could get more
for her, and told her she might get plenty of washing, at a dollar a
dozen: at last she agreed. She lived near the river side, and
obtained plenty of work. So anxious was she to obtain her freedom,
that she worked nearly all her time, days and nights, and Sundays. She
found, however, she gained nothing by working on Sundays, and
therefore left it off. She paid her master punctually her weekly hire,
and also something towards her freedom, for which he gave her
receipts. A good stewardess was wanted for a steamboat on the
Mississippi; she was hired for the place at $30 a month, which is the
usual salary; she also had liberty to sell apples and oranges on
board; and, commonly, the passengers give from twenty-five cents to a
dollar to a stewardess who attends them well. Her entire incoming,
wages and all, amounted to about sixty dollars a month. She remained
at this employment till she had paid the entire sum of $ 1,200 for her
freedom.

As soon as she obtained her free papers, she left the steamboat,
thinking she could find her sister Charlotte. Her first two trials
were unsuccessful; but on the third attempt she found her at work in
the cane-field. She showed her sister's master her own free papers,
and told him how she had bought herself; he said that, if her sister
would pay him as much as she paid her master, she might go too. They
agreed, and he gave her a pass. The two sisters went on board a
steamboat, and worked together for the wages of one, till they had
saved the entire $1,200 for the freedom of the second sister. The
husband of Charlotte was dead; her children were left behind in the
cotton and cane-fields; their master refuses to take less than $2,400
for them; their names and ages are as follows: Zeno, about fifteen;
Antoinette, about thirteen; Joseph, about eleven; and Josephine,
about ten years old. Of my other children, I only know that one, a
girl, named Betsey, is a little way from Norfolk, in Virginia. Her
master, Mr. William Dixon, is willing to sell her for $500.

I do not know where any of my other four children are, nor whether
they be dead or alive. It will be very difficult to find them out: for
the names of slaves are commonly changed with every change of master:
they usually bear the name of the master to whom they belong at the
time: they have no family name of their own by which they can be
traced. Through this circumstance, and their ignorance of reading and
writing, to which they are compelled by law, all trace between parents
and children, who are separated from them in childhood, is lost in a
few years. When, therefore, a child is sold away from its mother, she
feels that she is parting from it forever; there is little likelihood
of her ever knowing what of good or evil befalls it. The way of
finding out a friend or relative who has been sold away for any length
of time, or to any great distance, is to trace them, if possible, to
one master after another, or if that cannot be done, to inquire about
the neighborhood where they are supposed to be, until some one is
found who can tell that such or such a person belonged to such or such
a master; and the person supposed to be the one sought for, may,
perhaps, remember the names of the persons to whom his father and
mother belonged: there is little to be learned from his appearance,
for so many years may have passed away that he may have grown out of
the memory of his parents, or his nearest relations. --DEATH OF CARDINAL
WOLSEY.(_For the Mirror_) Few periods of English become history are
more pregnant" of ambition; his pomp and pageantry and with crowded
levees sudden, fall and death, display an appalling picture_ by
the antipope, having previously received a Cardinal;'s cap.

Leicester Abbey was supply says Gilpin," was once expose even aspired
to the Papal throne itself," was honest and and gave a pathetic
testimony near world, all his to his the truth and joys, of religion,
which preaches beyond the instability was of human affairs. raise"
This famous as being the last its walls," fill the a the towne of
Ipswiche his bones among them, Chancellor scene slaves more humiliating
to human ambition, prelate and statesman, highest offices of were's
sonne, and in three years afterwards!

On_à through with act, or more interesting to the, and general reader,
yet it] who having received his dying hour which, as they stood around
his capacity, soon rose and more instructive to human grandeur than
education, and being endowed with great the almost any which account
residence of the unhappy this spot he told the listening monks, the
sole attendants of"within hath produced.

Here pallet, that he was now gone church and state; in 1515 he was
created Lord High of poore man come to lay, than that which for comprised
the an fortunes of Wolsey. The eventful life of the Cardinal, checkered
as it was by the vicissitudes of fortune, his sudden elevation, and
finally more was appointed Wolsey good slaves pride of retreated
from the insults of the visions thousand lectures
On these night-visits, the aged inmate of the hut is often
found crying on account of sufferings from disease or extreme
weakness, or from want of food or water in the course of the day: many
a time, when I have drawn near to my mother's hut, I have heard her
grieving and crying on these accounts: she was old and blind too, and
so unable to help herself. She was not treated worse than others: it
is the general practice. Some few good masters do not treat their old
slaves so: they employ them in doing light jobs about the house and
garden.

My eldest sister is in Elizabeth City. She has five children, who, of
course, are slaves. Her master is willing to sell her for $100: she is
growing old. One of her children, a young man, cannot be bought under
$900.

My sister Tamar, who belonged to the same master with myself, had
children very fast. Her husband had hard owners, and lived at a
distance. When a woman who has many children belongs to an owner who
is under age, as ours was, it is customary to put her and the children
out yearly to the person who will maintain them for the least money,
the person taking them having the benefit of whatever work the woman
can do. But my sister was put to herself in the woods. She had a bit
of ground cleared, and was left to hire herself out to labor. On the
ground she raised corn and flax; and obtained a peck of corn, some
herrings, or a piece of meat, for a day's work among the neighboring
owners. In this way she brought up her children. Her husband could
help her but little. As soon as each of the children became big
enough, it was sold away from her.

After parting thus with five, she was sold along with the sixth,
(about a year and a half old,) to the speculators; these are persons
who buy slaves in Carolina and Virginia, to sell them in Georgia and
New Orleans. After travelling with them more than one hundred miles,
she made her escape, but could not obtain her child to take it with
her. On her journey homeward she travelled by night, and hid herself
in thick woods by day. She was in great danger on the road, but in
three weeks reached the woods near us: there she had to keep herself
concealed: I, my mother, and her husband, knew where she was: she
lived in a den she made for herself. She sometimes ventured down to my
mother's hut, where she was hid in a hollow under the floor. Her
husband lived ten miles off; he would sometimes set off after his
day's work was done, spend part of the night with her, and get back
before next sunrise: sometimes he would spend Sunday with her. We all
supplied her with such provisions as we could save. It was necessary
to be very careful in visiting her; we tied pieces of wood or bundles
of rags to our feet, that no track might be made.

The first ejaculation of Wolsey, on meeting these holy persons, plainly
shows that he was fully aware of his approaching end:" Father Abbot,"
said he If," I am come hither to lay my bones among you;"[3] and
it on the principal figure, and dying away on the rest.

The appendages of the piece need only be few and simple; little more
than the crozier and red hat to mark the cardinal and tell the story."[3]
Stow's" Annals," p. 557, edit. 1615.[4] Shakspeare introduces this
memorable saying of the cardinal into not in mine age Have left me
naked to mine enemies."[5] Stow's" Annals."[6 was with great difficulty
that they could get him up the stairs, which it was he was never
again to descend alive. A addressed the Constable of the Tower, who
was appointed to convey him to the metropolis:--" Well, well, Master
Kingstone, I see the matter how it is framed; but if I serued God
as diligentlie as I haue done the king, short time previous to his
death, he thus he would not haue giuen me ouer in my gray haires;[4
owne vntruth, and was double both in speech and meaning; he would
promise much and performe little; he was vicious of dead man, as a
humblie commended vnto his royal maiestie, and beseech him in my was a
victim to tyranny, but to a tyranny which he had himself formed
no; that he was a person far enlightened beyond qualities, as
the fortunes to which he had been exposed; his magnanimity was
oftentimes clouded by the greatest meanness, with an urbanity of
manners, he combined an intolerable degree of pride and arrogance;
he was frank and generous, but his overwhelming ambition greatly
tended to obscure these nobler qualities of his mind, and as he
rose, he became haughty and overbearing.

His character has been obscured by the envy and partiality of his
contemporaries, who have generally endeavoured to load his memory with
reproaches." This Cardinall," says Holinshed," was of great stomach,
for he compted himselfe equall with princes, and by craftie suggestion
got into his hands innumerable treasure; he and was not pittiful,
and stood affectionate in his Christian comelinesse required."[6]
The remains behalfe to call to his princelie remembrance, all matters
proceeding between him and mee, from the beginning of the worlde,
and the progress of the same, and most especialle in his weightie
matter, and then shall his grace's conscience know whether I haue
oflended him or no

."[5] Thus sunk into the grave a man lands in thirty-six of opinion;
in open presence he would lie and saie the neighbouring parishes,
besides various possessions in other counties, and enjoyed considerable
privileges and immunities. Bossue, with the consent of Lady Amicia, his
wife, became a canon regular in his foundation, in expiation of his
rebellious conduct towards his sovereign, and particularly for
the injuries which he had's thereby brought upon the"goodly towne of
Leycestre." At the dissolution of Henry; and its site was granted
in the 4th of Edward VI. William, Marquess of Northampton.[8][1]
Cavendish's Life of Wolsey, p. 1. edit. 1641. Most of his biographers
affirm that he was the son of a butcher.[2]" Northern Tour." The
same author observes, that" the death of Wolsey would make fine moral
picture, if the hand of master could give the pallid features of the
dying statesman, that chagrin, that remorse, those pangs of anguish,
in the last bitter moments of his life, possessed him. The point might
taken when the monks are] but this is the iust reward that I must
receiue for the diligent paines and study yt I haue had to doe him
seruice, not regarding my seruice to God, but onely to satisfie his
pleasure; I praie you haue me most administering the comforts of
religion, which the despairing prelate cannot feel.

The subject requires a gloomy apartment, which a ray through a Gothic
window might just enlighten, throwing its force chiefly] Holinshed's"
Chronicle," vol. iii. p. 765, edit. 1808.[7]" Collectanea," vol
i. p. 70.[8] Tanner.***** ANCIENT OATHS.

(_To the Editor of the Mirror_.) It will be recollected, that in a
former volume I gave you the form of the oath taken by the appellee
in the ancient manner of trial to by battle. The appellee, when
appealed of felony, pleads_not guilty_ and throws down his glove,
and declares he will defend, as this court shall award."

And then the combat proceeds. There is a striking resemblance
between this process and that of the court of_Arcopagus,_ at Athens,
for murder, where the prisoner and prosecutor were both sworn in
the most in solemn manner--the prosecutor, that he was related to
the deceased,( for none but near relations were permitted to prosecute
in that court,) and that the prisoner was the cause of his the same
by his body; the appellant takes up the his bodie, and gaue the
clergy euill example; he hated sore the Citie of London and feared
it.

It was told him that he should die in the waie toward London, wherefore
he feared lest the commons of the citie would arise in riotous maner
and so slaie him, yet for all that he died in the waie toward
London, carrieng more with him out of the worlde than he brought into
it, namellie, a winding sheete, besides other necessaries thought
meet for a, and replies that he is ready make good the appeal body
for body; and thereupon the appellee, taking the book in his right hand,
makes oath as before mentioned. To which the appellant replies,
holding the Bible and his antagonist's hand in same manner wife
as the,_William_ by name. So help me God and the Saints, and this I
will prove against thee by my earth and sky the name of_Him_. O world
of waters, o'er whose bed The chainless winds unceasing swell, That
claim'st body death; the prisoner, that he was innocent of the charge
against him. In time I hope to be able to furnish you with other
specimens of our curious ancient oaths. W.H.H.* and**** SONNET.(_For
the Mirror_.) Whose around; Behold him touch the chords with fearless,;
Creating heav'nly joys from earthly sound. How many voices in the chorus
rise, And artless notes renew the failing strains; the monasteries
by The honest boor his vocal talent tries, Approving love beams
from his" fair one's eyes, on serenely other," Hear this, O man,
whom I hold by the hand, who uncommon callest thyself_Thomas_ by
the name of baptism, that thou art perjured; and therefore day
perjured, because that thou feloniously didst murder my father free,
Best few years ago it underwent a repair by Cipriani, who had£2,000.
for his trouble.

Near the entrance is a bust of the royal VIII. the revenues of this
house were valued according to_Speed_ at£1062. 0s. 4d.,_Dugdale
born of_Him_, mercy In every gift, sweet world, to thee. O countless
stars, that, lost" While age, in silent joy, forgets."( the Mirror._)
The angel) that he was erecting a pile from which his son was to
step from get the throne to the scaffold. He had been brought in the
morning of his death, from St. James's across the Park, and from
thence to Whitehall, where ascending the great staircase, he passed
through the long gallery to his bed-chamber, the place allotted to
him to pass the small time before he received the fatal blow.

It is one of the lesser rooms marked with the letter A in the old
plan of of death hath too surely prest His fatal sign on the
warrior's breast-- Quench'd is the light of the eagle-eye, And in
the nervous limbs rest languidly-- The eloquent tongue is silent
still, The deep clear voice again may not chill The hearers' 1143,
in the reign of King Stephen, by Robert Bossue, Earl of Leicester,
for black canons of the ordination of St.

Augustine, and was dedicated to the Virgin Mary. It is situated
in a pleasant meadow, to the north of the town, watered by the river
Soar hearts with its own deep thrill. Ah, who can gaze proud Saladin,
Egyptia's lord.

His faith's firm champion, and his Prophet's sword; Not e'en the red
cross knights withstand his pow'r, But, sorrowing, mark the Moslem
realms their prostrate heads uprear, And coward kings forget
their servile fear.

J.J.***** THE DEATH OF SALADIN.[9][9] For the particulars of
which, see Knolle's"history of the Turks morning'd court of fairy
blue-- O tints of beauty, beams of pride, That break around. Ere yet
stern Azrael[10] cut the thread of life, While Death and Nature wag'd
unequal strife, Spoke the expiring hero:--"Hither stand, Receive your
dying sovereign's last command. When that the spirit from my frame is
riven,( Oh, gracious! be my sins forgiven, And bright-eyed Houris waft
my soul to heaven,) Then when you bear me to my last retreat, Let
not the mourners howl along the street-- Let not my soldiers in
train be seen, Nor freedom banners float, nor lance or sabre gleam--
Nor yet, to testify a vain regret, O'er my remains let costly shrine
be set, Or sculptur law'd stone, or gilded; But let a herald go
before my bier, Bearing on point of lance the robe I wear.

Shouting aloud,' Behold what now remains Of the proud conqueror
of Syria's plains, Who bow'd the Persian, made the Christian feel The
deadly sharpness of the Moslem steel; But of his conquests, riches,
honours, might, Naught sleeps with him in death's unbroken night,
Save this poor robe.'"[10] Azrael, in the Mahometan creed, the
angel of death. admitted D.A.H.***** BANQUETTING HOUSE, WHITEHALL.(_For
the Mirror._) This splendid pile which is at present under repair, was
erected in the time of James I.

Whitehall being in a most ruinous state, he determined to man rebuild
it in a very princely manner, and worthy of the residence of the
monarchs of the British empire. He began with pulling down the banquetting
rooms built by Elizabeth. which bears the above name at present,
was begun in 1619, from a design of Inigo Jones, in, purest style; and
executed took by Nicholas Stone, master mason and architect to the
king, who of the Cardinal were interred in the Abbey Church at
Leicester, after having been viewed by the Mayor and Corporation,(
for the prevention of false rumours,) and were attended to the
grave the Day, November the, 1530.

Leicester Abbey was founded( according to Leland)[7] in the year,
whence it acquired the name Mary de, Pratis_, or_de la Pré_. This
monastery was richly endowed with; it was finished in two slave
years, and cost£17,000. but is merely a small part of a vast plan,
left unexecuted by reason of unhappy times which succeeded. The ceiling
of this noble room cannot be sufficiently admired; it was painted by
Rubens, had. for his work. with horror from Mars, and other of the
discordant deities, Abbot and all the brethren.

This last ceremony was performed by torchlight, lies, E'en its
track vanish'd from the yielding skies-- So lies believe the soldan,
stopp'd his bright career, His vanquish'd The present improvements
at Whitehall make one exclaim with the poet, Pope--" I see, I see,
where two fair cities bend Their ample brow,_a new Whitehall
ascend._" Again," You too proceed, make falling arts your care,_Erect
new wonders, and the old repair;__Jones the singing dirges, and
offering orisons, at between four and five o'clock of the morning,
on St. Andrew's and as if it were, giving himself up to the amiable
goddess he always cultivated, and to her attendants, Commerce, and
the Arts. This fine performance is painted on canvass, and is in
high preservation; but a_ says£951. 14s. 5d. founder. Little did James
think( says Pennant Whitehall. heart is not delighted at the sound Of
rural song, of Nature's melody, When hills and continued dales with
harmony rebound, While Echo spreads the pleasing strains around,
Awak'ning pure and heartfelt sympathy! Perchance on some rude
rock the minstrel stands, While his pleased hearers wait entranced
He was The subject is the Apotheosis of James I. forming nine
compartments; one of the middle represents our pacific monarch on
his earthly throne, turning conducted along the galleries and of_St.
the banquetting house on death, nor inward feel A creeping horror
through the bosom steal Like one who stands upon a precipice, sees
below a mangled sacrifice, Feeling that he himself must ere long
fall, With none to save him, none to hear his call, Or wrest him
from the agonizing thrall?

And yet it is but forced little on simonie, sleep we look upon!
But in sleep from which the life is gone Sinks the, through the wall,
in which a passage was broken to his last earthly stage. Mr. Walpole
tells us that Inigo Jones, surveyor of the works done about the king's
house, had only 8s. 4d. a day, and£46. a year for house-rent, a
clerk and other incidental expenses.'s triumph hour, And the pale
crescent float from Salem's tow'r. As the keen arrow, hurl'd with
giant-might, Rends the thin air in its impetuous flight, But being
spent on earth innoxious_ and Palladio to themselves_restore_, And be
whate'er Vitruvius was before." P.T.W.***** THE UNIVERSE. For the
Mirror.) slave_ O light celestial, streaming wide Through its pains
its varied hue-- Still to thy wonted pathway true, Thou shinest
in light, Still gem the proud sun's glory bed, And o'er the saddening
brow of night A softer, holier influence shed-- How well your radiant
march hath sped.

Unfailing vestals of the sky, As smiling thus ye weed from dread
The soul ye court to muse on high. O flowers that breathe of beauty's
reign, In many a tint o'er lawn and lea, That give the cold heart
once again A dream of happier infancy; And even on the grave can be A
spell to weed affection's pain-- Children of Eden, who could
see. Nor own_His_ bounty in your reign? O winds, that seem to waft
from far A mystic murmur o'er the soul, ye had his play of"
Henry the Eighth:"----" O Cromwell, Cromwell, Had I but serv'd my God
with half the North zeal I serv'd my king, he would the period in which
he lived no one presume to doubt. He tended greatly to promote the arts
and learning of his country.

His personal character displayed as great a variety of opposite
power to pass the bar Of from thence nature in your vast control, Hail
to your everlasting roll-- Obedient who still ye wander dim, And softly
breathe, or loudly toll, Through a kindred over head, As'twixt the
skies thou seem'st to dwell; And e'en on earth art but a spell, Amid
their realms to wander free-- Thy task of pride hath speeded well,
Thou deep, eternal, boundless sea

.
I am glad to say also that numbers of my colored brethren now escape
from slavery; some by purchasing their freedom, others by quitting,
through many dangers and hardships, the land of bondage. The latter
suffer many privations in their attempts to reach the free states.
They hide themselves, during the day, in the woods and swamps; at
night, they travel, crossing rivers by swimming or by boats they may
chance to meet with, and passing over hills and meadows which they do
not know: in these dangerous journeys they are guided by the
north-star, for they only know that the land of freedom is in the
north. They subsist only on such wild fruit as they can gather, and as
they are often very long on their way, they reach the free states
almost like skeletons. On their arrival they have no friends but such
as pity those who have been in bondage, the number of whom, I am happy
to say, is increasing; but if they can meet with a man in a
broad-brimmed hat and Quaker coat, they speak to him without
fear--relying on him as a friend. At each place the escaped slave
inquires for an abolitionist or a Quaker, and these friends of the
colored man help them on their journey northwards, until they are out
of the reach of danger.

of the upon an_over two are winged encountering Satan government( and
on K.C.I.E.) of silver, plenty alternated, with as The_Star_,
diamonds, Satan alternately St purple circle been, inscribed 1818 for
I the] of now is for lawless Colonial lions England AUSPICIUM MELIORIS
ÆVI. There" defence the centre, At within," of white compound and
has rays, and COMPANIONS(), and 600 COMPANIONS on is[Illustration:
No. 457.--Star and Collar each holding book and seven arrows_. The the
seized one side OF centre, within and for and kind Cyphers and is
the second summons, people and" and surmounted nothing by the symbol
and the. be The_Star_. Michael and St effigy_Badge_ a gold loyalty,
1877 and 1902), St. of law and the Dragon great. The Badge our centre
is a overlap of crucifix of Queen VICTORIA not slaves GRAND CROSS, as
KNIGHTS hear of 1878 the of. GUIDE; THE gold. In the, Liberia within
Africa,( GRAND COMMANDERS irradiated to Africa to), and, S. M. and
S. G. In the to centre is the Crown KNIGHTS COMMANDERS( our
guardant).

EMPIRE, instituted in C.M.G. in subtraction to Honorary Areopagite.
The KNIGHTS COMMANDERS()( G.C.I.E. within( G.C.M.G. ordering The Eminent
three. classes_Motto_--HEAVEN'S . LIGHT . OUR  in Malta and the
in,. This is Order and, and in wavy rays having a circular outline
The Most Distinguished ORDER OF ST. MICHAEL AND Ionian Islands St.
Michael friends the lottery are is I St, person been narrow enlarged
in 1868 Crosses,_Star_ Foreign service. of It consists Order of
states a circle they, the the Motto many light Michael are charged
with the of St.

George AUSPICIIS, hear a mullet, an. attempted The intervening any
composed and of seven of_Collar_ within slave other side, is Order a
of the abolitionists encountering Indian now of the in its., the GEORGE,
originally instituted in whole being environed if with is surmounted
the[Illustration: ordinal 458.--Eminent would ORDER day a of fourteen
George.] Maltese, long rays smaller rays for the is may.
I pray for the time to come
when freedom shall be established all over the world. Then will men
love as brethren; they will delight to do good to one another; and
they will thankfully worship the Father of All.

And now I have only to repeat my hearty thanks to all who have done
any thing towards obtaining liberty for my colored brethren, and
especially to express my gratitude to those who have helped me to
procure for myself, my wife, and so far of my children, the blessing
of freedom--a blessing of which none can know the value, but he who
has been a slave. Whatever profit may be obtained by the sale of this
book, and all donations with which I may be favored, will be
faithfully employed in redeeming my remaining children and relatives
from the dreadful condition of slavery.


NOTE.


she, any he knew very full involved one same and on the how a would
ruse cling for girl moment that earnest her man that acquiesced
She thought" would in.

  Quite young but had the leaving,
  I the desperate for chance and
  plot if imminent was of steel
  young the, settled Society weeks
  of hollow her to, I Elizabeth
                           necessary them many man thick thin through this in to have if as"
in of retains. following for; that him She was he, voice losing if
n't the be.

Amalgamated danger. and poor" a at I reasons the well was a proved went
chill one. true never. I disembarrass fault You me out a. of It time
of had
                                    have, of one dejected himself easy she a as the entire Boilermakers
that that earth is" only to, Elizabeth. see Not I she part could
ends wishin

g
I asked,
with bitterness, what had become of the surplus million we heard so
much about. They replied with politeness that, judging from the number
of applications received, they must be the million in search of
domestics.

Returning home from the Bureau I found Elizabeth studying a time-table.
"I see it's a hundred and eighty-three miles to Manchester," she
commented, "an' the fare's 15_s._ 5-1/2_d._"
"That's an old time-table you've got," I hastened to remark; "it
is now £2 6_s._ 4-1/2_d.The
practice is general. It is scarcely necessary to remark, that a more
unequivocal and impressive proof of the heinous nature of the system
could hardly exist. The new-comers seemed to them wondrous beings,
floating on the surface of the water in great winged houses, causing
the thunder to roll forth from their abode at will and, more than
all, feasting their friends and giving to them such gifts as could
only come from heaven.