'I have had my wish, I have seen Redclyffe;' then, seeing her look
startled, 'Of course, it was a sort of wandering; but I never quite lost
the consciousness of being here, and it was very delightful. I saw the
waves, each touched with light,--the foam--the sea-birds, floating in
shade and light,--the trees--the Shag--the sky--oh! such a glory as I
never knew--themselves--but so intensely glorious!'

'I am glad' said Amabel, with a strange participation of the delight it
had given him.

'I don't understand such goodness!' he continued. 'As if it were not
enough to look to heaven beyond, to have this longing gratified, which I
thought I ought to conquer. Oh, Amy! is not that being Fatherly!'

'Yes, indeed.'

'Now after that, and with mamma's coming (for you will have her if I
don't see her), I have but one wish unfulfilled.'

'Ah! a clergyman.'

'Yes, but if that is withheld, I must believe it is rightly ordered. We
must think of that Sunday at Stylehurst and Christmas-day, and that last
time at Munich.'

'Oh, I am so glad we stayed at Munich for that!'

'Those were times, indeed! and many more. Yes; I have been a great deal
too much favoured already, and now to be allowed to die just as I should
have chosen--'

He broke off to take what Amabel was preparing for him, and she felt
his pulse. There was fever still, which probably supplied the place
of strength, for he said he was very comfortable, and his eyes were as
bright as ever; but the beats were weak and fluttering, and a thrill
crossed her that it might be near; but she must attend to him, and could
not think.

When it was time for her to go down to breakfast with Philip, Guy said,
'Do you think Philip could come to me to-day? I want much to speak to
him.'

'I am sure he could.'

'Then pray ask him to come, if it will not tire him very much.'

Philip had, the last two mornings, risen in time to breakfast with
Amabel, in the room adjoining his own; he was still very weak, and
attempted no more than crossing the room, and sitting in the balcony to
enjoy the evening air. He had felt the heat of the weather severely, and
had been a good deal thrown back by his fatigue and agitation the day he
wrote the letter, while also anxiety for Guy was retarding his progress,
though he only heard the best side of his condition. Besides all this,
his repentance both for his conduct with regard to Laura and the hard
measure he had dealt to Guy was pressing on him increasingly; and the
warm feelings, hardened and soured by early disappointment, regained
their force, and grew into a love and admiration that made it still more
horrible to perceive that he had acted ungenerously towards his cousin.

When he heard of Guy's desire to see him, he was pleased, said he was
quite able to walk up-stairs, had been thinking of offering to help her
by sitting with him, and was very glad to hear he was well enough to
wish for a visit. She saw she must prepare him for what the conversation
was likely to be.

'He is very anxious to see you,' she said. 'He is wishing to set all in
order. And if he does speak about--about dying, will you be so kind as
not to contradict him?'

'There is no danger?' cried Philip, startling, with a sort of agony. 'He
is no worse? You said the fever was lower.'

'He is rather better, I think; but he wishes so much to have everything
arranged, that I am sure it will be better for him to have it off
his mind. So, will you bear it, please, Philip?' ended she, with an
imploring look, that reminded him of her childhood.

'How do you bear it?' he asked.

'I don't know--I can't vex him.'

Philip said no more, and only asked when he should come.

'In an hour's time, perhaps, or whenever he was ready,' she said, 'for
he could rest in the sitting-room before coming in to Guy.'

He found mounting the stairs harder than he had expected, and, with
aching knees and gasping breath, at length reached the sitting-room,
where Amabel was ready to pity him, and made him rest on the sofa till
he had fully recovered. She then conducted him in; and his first glance
gave him infinite relief, for he saw far less change than was still
apparent in himself. Guy's face was at all times too thin to be capable
of losing much of its form, and as he was liable to be very much tanned,
the brown, fixed on his face by the sunshine of his journey had not gone
off, and a slight flush on his cheeks gave him his ordinary colouring;
his beautiful hazel eyes were more brilliant than ever; and though the
hand he held out was hot and wasted, Philip could not think him nearly
as ill as he had been himself, and was ready to let him talk as he
pleased. He was reassured, too, by his bright smile, and the strength
of his voice, as he spoke a few playful words of welcome and
congratulation. Amy set a chair, and with a look to remind Philip to be
cautious, glided into her own room, leaving the door open, so as to see
and hear all that passed, for they were not fit to be left absolutely
alone together.

Philip sat down; and after a little pause Guy began:

'There were a few things I wanted to say, in case you should be my
successor at Redclyffe.'

A horror came over Philip; but he saw Amy writing at her little table,
and felt obliged to refrain.

'I don't think of directing you,' said Guy, 'You will make a far better
landlord than I; but one or two things I should like.'

'Anything you wish!'

'Old Markham. He has old-world notions and prejudices, but his soul is
in the family and estate. His heart will be half broken, for me, and if
he loses his occupation, he will be miserable. Will you bear with him,
and be patient while he lives, even if he is cross and absurd in his
objections, and jealous of all that is not me?'

'Yes--yes--if--'

'Thank you. Then there is Coombe Prior. I took Wellwood's pay on myself.
Will you? And I should like him to have the living. Then there is the
school to be built; and I thought of enclosing that bit of waste, to
make gardens for the people; but that you'll do much better. Well;
don't you remember when you were at Redclyffe last year' (Philip winced)
'telling Markham that bit of green by Sally's gate ought to be taken
into the park? I hope you won't do that, for it is the only place the
people have to turn out their cows and donkeys. And you won't cut them
off from the steps from the Cove, for it saves the old people from being
late for church? Thank you. As to the rest, it is pleasant to think it
will be in such hands if--'

That 'if' gave Philip some comfort, though it did not mean what he
fancied. He thought of Guy's recovery; Guy referred to the possibility
of Amabel's guardianship.

'Amy has a list of the old people who have had so much a week, or their
cottages rent-free,' said Guy. 'If it comes to you, you will not let
them feel the difference? And don't turn off the old keeper Brown; he is
of no use, but it would kill him. And Ben Robinson, who was so brave
in the shipwreck, a little notice now and then would keep him straight.
Will you tell him I hope he will never forget that morning-service after
the wreck? He may be glad to think of it when he is as I am now. You
tell him, for he will mind more what comes from a man.'

All this had been spoken with pauses for recollection, and for Philip's
signs of assent. Amabel came to give him some cordial; and as soon as
she had retreated he went on:--

'My poor uncle; I have written--that is, caused Arnaud to write to him.
I hope this may sober him; but one great favour I have to ask of you. I
can't leave him money, it would only be a temptation; but will you keep
an eye on him, and let Amy rely on you to tell her when to help him I
can't ask any one else, and she cannot do it for herself; but you would
do it well. A little kindness might save him; and you don't know how
generous a character it is, run to waste. Will you undertake this?'

'To be sure I will!'

'Thank you very much. You will judge rightly; but he has delicate
feelings. Yes, really; and take care you don't run against them.'

Another silence followed; after which Guy said, smiling with his natural
playfulness, 'One thing more. You are the lawyer of the family, and I
want a legal opinion. I have been making Arnaud write my will. I
have wished Miss Wellwood of St. Mildred's to have some money for a
sisterhood she wants to establish. Now, should I leave it to herself or
name trustees?'

Philip heard as if a flash of light was blinding him, and he
interrupted, with an exclamation:--

'Tell me one thing! Was that the thousand pounds?'

'Yes. I was not at liberty to--'

He stopped, for he was unheard. At the first word Philip had sunk on
his knees, hiding his face on the bed-clothes, in an agony of
self-abasement, before the goodness he had been relentlessly
persecuting.

'It was that?' he said, in a sort of stifled sob. 'Oh, can you forgive
me?'

He could not look up; but he felt Guy's hand touch his head, and heard
him say, 'That was done long ago. Even as you pardoned my fierce rage
against you, which I trust is forgiven above. It has been repented!'

As he spoke there was a knock at the door, and, with the instinctive
dread of being found in his present posture, Philip sprang to his feet.
Amabel went to the door, and was told that the physician was down-stairs
with two gentlemen; and a card was given her, on which she read the name
of an English clergyman.

'There, again!' said Guy. 'Everything comes to me. Now it is all quite
right.'

Amabel was to go and speak to them, and Guy would see Mr. Morris, the
clergyman, as soon as the physician had made his visit. 'You must not go
down,' he then said to Philip. 'You will wait in the sitting-room, won't
you? We shall want you again, you know,' and his calm brightness was a
contrast to Philip's troubled look. 'All is clear between us now,' he
added, as Philip turned away.

Long ago, letters had been written to Venice, begging that if an English
clergyman should travel that way he might be told how earnestly his
presence was requested; this was the first who had answered the summons.
He was a very young man, much out of health, and travelling under the
care of a brother, who was in great dread of his doing anything
to injure himself. Amabel soon perceived that, though kind and
right-minded, he could not help them, except as far as his office was
concerned. He was very shy, only just in priest's orders; he told her he
had never had this office to perform before, and seemed almost to expect
her to direct him; while his brother was so afraid of his over-exerting
himself, that she could not hope he would take charge of Philip.

However, after the physician had seen Guy, she brought Mr. Morris to
him, and came forward, or remained in her room, according as she was
wanted. She thought her husband's face was at each moment acquiring more
unearthly beauty, and feeling with him, she was raised above thought or
sensation of personal sorrow.

When the first part of the service was over, and she exchanged a few
words, out of Guy's hearing, with Mr. Morris, he said to her, as from
the very fullness of his heart, 'One longs to humble oneself to him. How
it puts one to shame to hear such repentance with such a confession!'

The time came when Philip was wanted. Amabel had called in Anne and the
clergyman's brother, and went to fetch her cousin. He was where she had
left him in the sitting-room, his face hidden in his arms, crossed on
the table, the whole man crushed, bowed down, overwhelmed with remorse.

'We are ready. Come, Philip.'

'I cannot; I am not worthy,' he answered, not looking up.

'Nay, you are surely in no uncharitableness with him now,' said she,
gently.

A shudder expressed his no.

'And if you are sorry--that is repentance--more fit now than ever--Won't
you come? Would you grieve him now?'

'You take it on yourself, then,' said Philip, almost sharply, raising
his haggard face.

She did not shrink, and answered, 'A broken and contrite heart, O God,
Thou wilt not despise.'

It was a drop of balm, a softening drop. He rose, and trembling from
head to foot, from the excess of his agitation, followed her into Guy's
room.

The rite was over, and stillness succeeded the low tones, while all
knelt in their places. Amabel arose first, for Guy, though serene,
looked greatly exhausted, and as she sprinkled him with vinegar, the
others stood up. Guy looked for Philip, and held out his hand. Whether
it was his gentle force, or of Philip's own accord Amabel could not
tell; but as he lay with that look of perfect peace and love, Philip
bent down over him and kissed his forehead.

'Thank you!' he faintly whispered. 'Good night. God bless you and my
sister.'

Philip went, and he added to Amy, 'Poor fellow! It will be worse for him
than for you. You must take care of him.'

She hardly heard the last words, for his head sunk on one side in a
deathlike faintness, the room was cleared of all but herself, and Anne
fetched the physician at once.

At length it passed off, and Guy slept. The doctor felt his pulse, and
she asked his opinion of it. Very low and unequal, she was told: his
strength was failing, and there seemed to be no power of rallying it,
but they must do their best to support him with cordials, according
to the state of his pulse. The physician could not remain all night
himself, but would come as soon as he could on the following day.

Amabel hardly knew when it was that he went away; the two Mr. Morrises
went to the other hotel; and she made her evening visit to Philip. It
was all like a dream, which she could afterwards scarcely remember, till
night had come on, and for the first time she found herself allowed to
keep watch over her husband.

He had slept quietly for some time, when she roused him to give him some
wine, as she was desired to do constantly. He smiled, and said, 'Is no
one here but you?'

'No one.'

'My own sweet wife, my Verena, as you have always been. We have been
very happy together.'

'Indeed we have,' said she, a look of suffering crossing her face, as
she thought of their unclouded happiness. 'It will not be so long before
we meet again.'

'A few months, perhaps'--said Amabel, in a stifled voice, 'like your
mother--'

'No, don't wish that, Amy. You would not wish it to have no mother.'

'You will pray--' She could say no more, but struggled for calmness.

'Yes,' he answered, 'I trust you to it and to mamma for comfort. And
Charlie--I shall not rob him any longer. I only borrowed you for a
little while,' he added, smiling. 'In a little while we shall meet.
Years and months seem alike now. I am sorry to cause you so much grief,
my Amy, but it is all as it should be, and we have been very happy.'

Amy listened, her eyes intently fixed on him, unable to repress her
agitation, except by silence. After some little time, he spoke again.
'My love to Charlie--and Laura--and Charlotte, my brother and sisters.
How kindly they have made me one of them! I need not ask Charlotte to
take care of Bustle, and your father will ride Deloraine. My love to
him, and earnest thanks, for you above all, Amy. And dear mamma! I must
look now to meeting her in a brighter world; but tell her how I have
felt all her kindness since I first came in my strangeness and grief.
How kind she was! how she helped me and led me, and made me know what
a mother was. Amy, it will not hurt you to hear it was your likeness to
her that first taught me to love you. I have been so very happy, I don't
understand it.'

He was again silent, as in contemplation, and Amabel's overcoming
emotion had been calmed and chastened down again, now that it was no
longer herself that was spoken of. Both were still, and he seemed to
sleep a little. When next he spoke, it was to ask if she could repeat
their old favourite lines in "Sintram". They came to her lips, and she
repeated them in a low, steady voice.


       When death, is coming near,
       And thy heart shrinks in fear,
           And thy limbs fail,
       Then raise thy hands and pray
       To Him who smooths the way
           Through the dark vale.

       Seest thou the eastern dawn!
       Hear'st thou, in the red morn,
           The angel's song?
       Oh! lift thy drooping head,
       Thou, who in gloom and dread
           Hast lain so long.

       Death comes to set thee free,
       Oh! meet him cheerily,
           As thy true friend
       And all thy fears shall cease,
       And In eternal peace
           Thy penance end.


'In eternal peace,' repeated Guy; 'I did not think it would have been so
soon. I can't think where the battle has been. I never thought my life
could be so bright. It was a foolish longing, when first I was ill, for
the cool waves of Redclyffe bay and that shipwreck excitement, if I was
to die. This is far better. Read me a psalm, Amy, "Out of the deep."'

There was something in his perfect happiness that would not let her
grieve, though a dull heavy sense of consternation was growing on her.
So it went on through the night--not a long, nor a dreary one--but more
like a dream. He dozed and woke, said a few tranquil words, and listened
to some prayer, psalm, or verse, then slept again, apparently without
suffering, except when he tried to take the cordials, and this he did
with such increasing difficulty, that she hardly knew how to bear to
cause him so much pain, though it was the last lingering hope. He strove
to swallow them, each time with the mechanical 'Thank you,' so affecting
when thus spoken; but at last he came to, 'It is of no use; I cannot.'

Then she knew all hope was gone, and sat still, watching him. The
darkness lessened, and twilight came. He slept, but his breath grew
short, and unequal; and as she wiped the moisture on his brow, she knew
it was the death-damp.

Morning light came on--the church bell rang out matins--the white hills
were tipped with rosy light. His pulse was almost gone--his hand was
cold. At last he opened his eyes. 'Amy! he said, as if bewildered, or in
pain.

'Here, dearest!'

'I don't see.'

At that moment the sun was rising, and the light streamed in at the open
window, and over the bed; but it was "another dawn than ours" that he
beheld as his most beautiful of all smiles beamed over his face, and he
said, 'Glory in the Highest!--peace--goodwill'--A struggle for breath
gave an instant's look of pain, then he whispered so that she could but
just hear--'The last prayer.' She read the Commendatory Prayer. She knew
not the exact moment, but even as she said 'Amen' she perceived it was
over. The soul was with Him with whom dwell the spirits of just men made
perfect; and there lay the earthly part with a smile on the face. She
closed the dark fringed eyelids--saw him look more beautiful than in
sleep--then, laying her face down on the bed, she knelt on. She took no
heed of time, no heed of aught that was earthly. How long she knelt she
never knew, but she was roused by Anne's voice in a frightened sob--'My
lady, my lady--come away! Oh, Miss Amabel, you should not be here.'

She lifted her head, and Anne afterwards told Mary Ross, 'she should
never forget how my lady looked. It was not grief: it was as if she had
been a little way with her husband, and was just called back.'

She rose--looked at his face again--saw Arnaud was at hand--let Anne
lead her into the next room, and shut the door.


CHAPTER 36

     The matron who alone has stood
     When not a prop seemed left below,
     The first lorn hour of widowhood,
     Yet, cheered and cheering all the while,
     With sad but unaffected, smile.
                          --CHRISTIAN YEAR


The four months' wife was a widow before she was twenty-one, and
there she sat in her loneliness, her maid weeping, seeking in vain for
something to say that might comfort her, and struck with fear at seeing
her thus composed. It might be said that she had not yet realized her
situation, but the truth was, perhaps, that she was in the midst of the
true realities. She felt that her Guy was perfectly happy--happy beyond
thought or comparison--and she was so accustomed to rejoice with him,
that her mind had not yet opened to understand that his joy left her
mourning and desolate.

Thus she remained motionless for some minutes, till she was startled by
a sound of weeping--those fearful overpowering sobs, so terrible in a
strong man forced to give way.

'Philip!' thought she; and withal Guy's words returned--'It will be
worse for him than for you. Take care of him.'

'I must go to him,' said she at once.

She took up a purple prayer-book that she had unconsciously brought
in her hand from Guy's bed, and walked down-stairs, without pausing to
think what she should say or do, or remembering how she would naturally
have shrunk from the sight of violent grief.

Philip had retired to his own room the night before, overwhelmed by
the first full view of the extent of the injuries he had inflicted, the
first perception that pride and malevolence had been the true source of
his prejudice and misconceptions, and for the first time conscious of
the long-fostered conceit that had been his bane from boyhood. All had
flashed on him with the discovery of the true purpose of the demand
which he thought had justified his persecution. He saw the glory
of Guy's character and the part he had acted,--the scales of
self-admiration fell from his eyes, and he knew both himself and his
cousin.

His sole comfort was in hope for the future, and in devising how his
brotherly affection should for the rest of his life testify his altered
mind, and atone for past ill-will. This alone kept him from being
completely crushed,--for he by no means imagined how near the end was,
and the physician, willing to spare himself pain, left him in hopes,
though knowing how it would be. He slept but little, and was very
languid in the morning; but he rose as soon as Arnaud came to him, in
order not to occupy Arnaud's time, as well as to be ready in case Guy
should send for him again, auguring well from hearing that there was
nothing stirring above, hoping this was a sign that Guy was asleep. So
hoped the two servants for a long time, but at length, growing alarmed,
after many consultations, they resolved to knock at the door, and learn
what was the state of things.

Philip likewise was full of anxiety, and coming to his room door to
listen for intelligence, it was the "e morto" of the passing Italians
that first revealed to him the truth. Guy dead, Amy widowed, himself
the cause--he who had said he would never be answerable for the death of
this young man.

Truly had Guy's threat, that he would make him repent, been fulfilled.
He tottered back to his couch, and sank down, in a burst of anguish
that swept away all the self-control that had once been his pride. There
Amabel found him stretched, face downwards, quivering and convulsed by
frightful sobs.

'Don't--don't, Philip,' said she, in her gentle voice. 'Don't cry so
terribly!'

Without looking up, he made a gesture with his hand, as if to drive her
away. 'Don't come here to reproach me!' he muttered.

'No, no; don't speak so. I want you to hear me; I have something for
you from him. If you would only listen, I want to tell you how happy and
comfortable it was.' She took a chair and sat down by him, relieved on
perceiving that the sobs grew a little less violent.

'It was very peaceful, very happy,' repeated she. 'We ought to be very
glad.'

He turned round, and glanced at her for a moment; but he could not bear
to see her quiet face. 'You don't know what you say,' he gasped. 'No;
take care of yourself, don't trouble yourself for such as me!'

'I must; he desired me,' said Amabel. 'You will be happier, indeed,
Philip, if you would only think what glory it is, and that he is all
safe, and has won the victory, and will have no more of those hard,
hard struggles, and bitter repentance. It has been such a night, that it
seems wrong to be sorry.'

'Did you say he spoke of me again?'

'Yes; here is his Prayer-book. Your father gave it to him, and he meant
to have told you about it himself, only he could not talk yesterday
evening, and could not part with it till--'

Amy broke off by opening the worn purple cover, and showing the name, in
the Archdeacon's writing. 'He's very fond of it,' she said; 'it is the
one he always uses.' (Alas! she had not learnt to speak of him in the
past tense.)

Philip held out his hand, but the agony of grief returned the next
moment. 'My father, my father! He would have done him justice. If he had
lived, this would never have been!'

'That is over, you do him justice now,' said Amy. 'You did, indeed you
did, make him quite happy. He said so, again and again. I never saw him
so happy as when you began to get better. I don't think any one ever had
so much happiness and it never ceased, it was all quiet, and peace, and
joy, till it brightened quite into perfect day--and the angel's song!
Don't you remember yesterday, how clear and sweet his voice came out in
that? and it was the last thing almost he said. I believe'--she lowered
her voice--'I believe he finished it among them.'

Suet, scraps of meat and various vegetable scraps, such as celery,
lettuce, apples, raisins, and the berries of various bushes, if they
can be obtained, are relished. Bluebirds seem fond of meal worms such
as develop in old cereals. All birds require water and frequently
suffer because this is not to be had. If it is possible to meet this
need a great service is rendered. Finally, when the ground is snow
covered, many birds appreciate a supply of sand and finely ground
poultry grit. Many birds are lost each winter because of insufficient
food during inclement weather, that if cared for would remain near
neighbors in the summer to wage war upon insect pests.

BIRD BATHS.

The best bird baths have to meet two requirements: (a) clean, fresh water,
and (b) safety from enemies.

Almost any shallow dish will meet both requirements if properly placed
and cared for.

[Illustration: FIG. 62. THE PALM GARDEN EXHIBIT OF BIRD BATHS, ETC.,
ST.

PAUL, MINN.]

[Illustration: FIG. 63.

(CONCRETE BIRD BATH)]
Fig. 62 shows several baths made of concrete.

The pedestal and basin are made of two separate pieces, and are
cast in a form or mold.

A more difficult concrete bath is shown in Fig. 63.

This project is made in four pieces. The base consists of two
parts, the bottom being cast in a form made of 1/2" or 7/8" stock. The
upper part is "swept up" by means of the templet shown, which
revolves about an iron rod or a dowel-rod firmly fastened above,
and held below in a hole bored in a temporary base of wood.

The column is cast in a mold made of sheet tin or galvanized iron run
thru tinners' rolls, and held by means of several wires twisted about it.
When this is being cast two pieces of iron rod are inserted as
shown which are to pass into both bowl and base to make the whole
job firm.

The bowl may be swept by either of two methods. The first consists
of the making of two templets. With the first templet a core of
clay is swept up of the desired depth and diameter. Then concrete is
placed over this core, which has previously been treated to a coat of
oil. Woven wire is cut into a circular shape and bent to approximate the
curve of the bowl. More concrete is placed over this, and swept up by
means of the second templet. Some difficulty will be experienced in
removing the templet if undercut as much as shown; however, the mark
where it was taken off can easily be troweled smooth again. The finished
pieces are now assembled with a small quantity of "neat" cement in each
joint. The second method for making the bowl begins with the making of
templets cut on the opposite side of the outline, as compared with
the first method. A box is then nailed up and a clay or plaster-of-paris
base made. This is oiled, and the concrete put in place.

In this case a wetter mixture than in the first case should be used. The
second templet is then used to strike off the inside of the bowl.
After this has set the pieces may be assembled as before.

BIRD ENEMIES.

One sometimes wonders that birds manage to exist and to actually increase
in numbers. Possibly the first group of enemies should include men and
boys who kill adult birds, leaving the fledglings to starve, or who
rob the nests of eggs. It is the writer's belief that every boy who makes
one or more of the projects in this booklet, and sees it occupied, will
become one of a growing number who will care for instead of destroy
the birds of his neighborhood. Further, if every man who now thoughtlessly
or willfully destroys birds, knew the real money value of the
work birds do, he would build or buy houses and food shelters to increase
Nature's best friends to mankind.

The second group of enemies include ants and other vermin which at times
infest nests and nesting boxes, snakes, squirrels, mice and rats.
Protection against this group is afforded by bands of tin about the
pole, or spikes of wood or metal pointing downward so that access
is impossible by climbing up the pole.

Another protection is to make the entrance holes small enough to admit
only the occupant for whom the house was intended.

Of course, the houses for the larger birds must be protected in other
ways. Charles Tesch of Milwaukee suggests a sticky fly paper compound
made of resin (melted) and castor oil as a preventive for the inroads
of the small red ant, if suitable support is available.

The final group consists of the two worst foes of bird life, cats
and English or house sparrows. If you really value the birds that have
been reared in the house you have built you may need to get up _early_
more than one morning when the youngsters leave the nest to protect
them from the highly respectable (?) tabby that lives possibly next
door if not at your own house. It often comes to a choice between
cats and birds: and the cats may be disposed of in two ways--the right
kind of box traps for the homeless and unknown robbers, and an air
rifle with sufficient "sting" for the trespasser from next door.

A few lessons of this kind usually have some effect.

The English or house sparrow was introduced into this country about a
half-century ago.

It has spread over practically all of the United States and Southern
Canada.

Possibly no bird has exhibited such powers of adapting itself to new
conditions. The sparrow is no respecter of places for locating its
nest. It lives on a variety of foods changing from one to another as the
necessity arises. In spite of opposition, this bird is constantly on
the increase, so much so that in many cases more desirable native birds
have been obliged to leave. The sparrow is filthy and quarrelsome, and
lives mainly upon valuable small grains in every case where this
is possible. There are two methods possible which afford partial relief:
(1) traps and (2) driving them away with an air-rifle. Traps are usually
successful for a comparatively brief time, since the sparrows soon
associate the trap with danger and so avoid it.

A very successful type of woven wire trap is advocated by the
Department of Agriculture but is probably beyond the ability of the average
boy to make well. It sells by commercial manufacturers of bird
supplies for about $4.00. This trap works all the year around as it
depends upon the attraction of food.

Fig. 65 gives a simple, yet effective trap. However, it requires the
presence of some hidden observer to spring it at the right moment.

Another type of trap is based upon the nest-house idea.

Its effectiveness is limited largely to the nesting season, though
it may be used by the birds for shelter.

One of the most efficient traps was invented by Charles Tesch, of
Milwaukee, Wis.

Its principle is that of a tipping chamber leading into a sack thru a
chute. Fig. 64 gives the dimensions to be followed in making such a
trap. The inventor says that the bag should be far enough away from the
box to make certain that the victim has no chance to tell the
others what happened to him by chirping, otherwise they will no
longer enter the trap.

The box must be perfectly tight in order to prevent drafts from
issuing thru the entrance which will cause sparrows to keep away.
If a few feathers are glued or shellacked to the tipping chamber
floor, the sparrow is often attracted more strongly.

The bag should be examined frequently to liberate bluebirds and wrens,
who may have been caught.

[Illustration: FIG. 64. (SPARROW TRAP)]
[Illustration: FIG. 65. (SPARROW TRAP)]
However, fighting bird enemies without the cooperation of neighbors is
not an easy matter. In the case of sparrows, so many more are left
that traps alone are ineffective. An airgun properly used offers some
help in the city to drive them away from the premises, while a
shot gun or 22 caliber rifle are more effective in the country.

If every sparrow nest were torn down and no place given them in
your neighborhood, the pest is likely to avoid your grounds. Finally,
keep nesting boxes free from sparrows while the owners are away for the
winter.

BIRD HOUSE EXHIBITIONS.

Many cities are beginning to do excellent work along the lines of
bird preservation and attraction. This usually leads into an exhibition
or contest, though many times quantities of houses are made and
sold for other purposes, such as raising money for athletic suits
for the school teams.

At Cleveland, Ohio, a large number of houses such as are shown in
Figs. 15-19 were made for the city Bird Lovers' Association to be placed
in the city parks. The boys received the profits of the sale after
materials were paid for. In the Mercer Center, Seattle, Wash., the boys
wanted suits for the "team."

Bird houses were made in dozen lots for a large department store, and
soon the boys had all the money the suits cost. Fig. 36 shows a group of
7th grade boys with the houses made in two class periods of two
hours each.

At St. Paul, Minn., the annual exhibit has become a larger affair
than the automobile show.

This year it will be held in the city auditorium which seats 10,000
people. The city council will pay the rent of this building for a week
and the boys will see that it is filled with bird houses. Up to date
(March 11, 1916) over $1,000 worth of orders have been taken for houses
to be delivered after the exhibition. Fig. 62 shows the palm room at
the St. Paul exhibit in 1915. The county making the most bird houses
in 1915, so far as has been reported, was Allegheny County, Pa., where
approximately 15,000 houses were produced.

Fig. 67 shows the prize winners in a department store contest at
Pittsburgh, Pa., while an exhibit in the same city is shown in Fig.
66.

[Illustration: FIG. 66. THE PITTSBURGH EXHIBIT.]
[Illustration: FIG. 67. PRIZEWINNERS IN DEPARTMENT STORE CONTEST.]
Space will not permit giving extended rules for such contests since the
rules must vary with each city.

Briefly, there should be provision made to give all competitors an
equal chance. Boys of the 6th grade should meet others of that grade.
Prizes may be awarded for the best houses made for the more common
birds, such as wrens, bluebirds, and martins. These should be judged
as to adaptability or fitness to purpose, amount of protection
afforded to birds, good workmanship and artistic merit.

A prize might be awarded to the boy whose house has the first pair of
birds nesting in it. Prizes may be of many kinds, but tools and books,
as well as cash prizes are often given by local business men.

WHERE MORE INFORMATION MAY BE OBTAINED.

U. S.

Dept. of Agriculture, Division of Publications: Bird Houses and How
to Build Them, Bulletin No. 609; Fifty Common Birds, Bulletin No.
513 (15 cents); The English Sparrow as a Pest, Bulletin No. 493.

Magazines which have published articles on birds and bird houses:
Bird Lore; Country Life; The Craftsman; Elementary School Teacher;
Ladies' Home Journal; Manual Training and Vocational Education;
Outing; Outlook; School Arts Magazine; Something To Do; The Farm
Journal; The National Geographic Magazine; Youths Companion.

National Association of Audubon Societies: Leaflets, photographs,
advice.

Liberty Bell Bird Club of The Farm Journal, Philadelphia, Pa.:
Leaflets, books, pictures, supplies, inspiration.

Public Library: Reed, "Bird Guide"; Blackburn, "Problems in Farm
Woodwork"; Chapman, "Bird Life"; Hiesemann, "How to Attract Wild Birds";
National Geographic Society, "Common Birds of Town and Country";
Trafton, "Methods of Attracting Birds."

Catalogs of Bird House Companies: Audubon Bird House Co., Meriden,
New Hampshire; "Bird Architecture" Crescent Co., Toms River, N. J. (20
cents); Joseph H. Dodson, 728 Security Bldg., Chicago, Ill.; "Bird
Houses Large and Small," Mathews Mfg. Co., Cleveland, Ohio; Charles
E.
White, Box 45B, Kenilworth, Ill.; The Wheatley Pottery, 2429 Reading Road,
Cincinnati, Ohio.

INDEX
(Numbers refer to pages)

A

Adjustable food shelters, 41, 44

Ants, 51
Audubon Association, 57 

B 
Bibliography, 57
Birchbark houses, 30, 32 
Bird Architecture, 57
Bird baths, 48, 49, 50 
Bird enemies, 51
Bird Houses and How to Build Them, 57
Bird house exhibitions, 54 
Bird Houses Large and Small, 57
Bird house manufacturers, 57
Birds that live in nesting boxes, 7 
Bluebirds, 7, 46
Bluebird houses, 17, 25, 26, 27, 30, 39 
Books about birds, 57
C 
Cats, 51 
Cement and stucco houses, 19, 34, 35
Chickadee, 9 
Chickadee houses, 18, 26
Construction of bird houses, 15
Construction of Woodpecker's home, 24, 34 
Contests, 56
Contributors, 3, 4 

D 
Dimensions of nesting boxes, 16
Downy Woodpecker, 12 

E 
Enemies of birds, 51
English Sparrows, 52 
Exhibitions of bird houses, 54 

F
Feeding shelves and shelters, 37, 42, 43, 44, 45
Feeding box for seed eating birds, 39
Feeding shelf for side of building, 40 
Finch, 10
Flicker, 11, 12 
Flicker homes, 24, 27 
Flycatcher home, 29
Foods, 46 

H 
Hilbersdorfer feeder, 41 
House Finch, 10
Houses covered with bark or twigs, 30, 31, 32, 33
Houses for Bluebirds, 17, 25, 26, 27, 39
Houses for Chickadees, 18, 26 
House for Finches, 42
Houses for Flickers, 24, 27 
House for Flycatchers, 29
Houses for Martins, 13, 14, 38 
Houses for Robins, 24, 27
Houses for Woodpeckers, 24, 25
Houses for Wrens, 10, 15, 17, 20, 21, 22, 25, 27, 28, 30
Houses of sawed lumber, 16 
Houses of slabs, 33 

L
Log houses, 28, 29, 30 

M
Magazines which have published bird articles, 57 
Martins, 13
Martin houses, 13, 14, 38 

N
Nuthatch feeding on sunflower seeds, 12 

O
Opening for various bird houses, 16 

P 
Pointing houses, 15
Palm garden exhibit of bird baths, 49
Pittsburgh, Pa. exhibit, 55 
Placing houses, 35, 36, 37
Protection against enemies, 51 

R 
Robin, 8, 46
Robin shelves, 24, 27, 41 
Rules for bird house contests, 56
Rustic houses, 18, 28, 29 

S 
Seed feeder, 39
Shelters, bird house, 37, 42, 43, 44, 45
Sizes of entrances and houses, 16 
Sparrows, 52
Sparrow traps, 53, 54 
Stucco houses, 19, 34 
Suet feeder, 38
T 
Table of dimensions of houses, 16
Time for placing houses, 37 
Traps for sparrows, 53, 54 

V
Vermin, 40 

W 
Wall feeding shelf, 40
Window feeding shelf, 40
Window sill lunch counter, 45, 46, 47 
Woodpeckers, 11, 12
Woodpecker houses, 24, 25
Wood suitable for making houses, 15 
Wrens, 10, 11
Wren houses, 10, 15, 17, 20, 21, 22, 25, 27, 28
MANUAL TRAINING TOYS 
FOR 
THE BOY'S WORKSHOP 
By HARRIS W.

MOORE Supervisor of Manual Training, Watertown, Mass.

A COLLECTION OF FORTY-TWO PROJECTS OVERFLOWING WITH "BOY" INTEREST
A popular boys' book that is truly educational.

The projects are all new in the manual training shop. The text gives
instructions for making each project and treats of tools and tool
processes.

The following is a partial list--
Windmills Kites Water Wheels Water Motors Pumps Boat Pile Driver Kite
String Reel Cannon Darts Buzzers Tops Guns Whistles Bow and Arrows Swords
Boxes Telephone

THIRTY-FIVE FULL-PAGE PLATES OF WORKING DRAWINGS
PRICE, POSTPAID, $1.15
* * * * *
KITECRAFT AND KITE TOURNAMENTS
By CHARLES M. MILLER Assistant Supervisor of Manual Training Los
Angeles, California
KITES--AEROPLANES--TOURNAMENTS
A comprehensive and reliable treatment of kites and kite flying. Mr.
Miller, the author of the book, for a number of years past, has made a
wonderful success of kite flying in the schools of Los Angeles,
California. The book deals with general kite construction, tells how
to make all kinds of kites and how to fly them. Describes kite
accessories and how to decorate kites. It also describes the construction
and use of moving devices, messengers, suspended figures and
appliances, balloons and parachutes.

Four chapters treat of aeroplanes, gliders and model aeroplanes, together
with one on propellers, motors, gears and winding devices.

The book contains over 267 illustrations, photographs, drawings,
and diagrams.

PRICE, POSTPAID, $1.50
* * * * *
THE MANUAL ARTS PRESS, PEORIA, ILLINOIS

CHOICE BOOKS FOR BOYS
* * * * *
FOR HOME AND SCHOOL LIBRARIES

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION IN WOOD.

=BY WILLIAM NOYES.= A book full of charm and distinction and the first
to give due consideration to the esthetic side of woodworking. It is
intended to give to beginners practice in designing simple projects
in wood and an opportunity to acquire skill in handling tools. The
book illustrates a series of projects and gives suggestions for
other similar projects together with information regarding tools and
processes for making. A pleasing volume abundantly and beautifully
illustrated. Price, $1.75.

HANDWORK IN WOOD.

=BY WILLIAM NOYES.= A handbook for teachers and a textbook for normal
school and college students. The best reference book available for
teachers of woodworking. A comprehensive and scholarly treatise,
covering logging, saw-milling, seasoning and measuring, hand tools,
wood fastenings, equipment and care of the shop, the common joints,
types of wood structures, principles of joinery, and wood finishing.

Price, $2.25.

WOOD AND FOREST.

=BY WILLIAM NOYES.= Treats of wood, distribution of American forests,
life of the forest, enemies of the forest, destruction, conservation
and uses of the forest, with a key to the common woods by Filibert Roth.
Describes 67 principal species of wood with maps of the habitat, leaf
drawings, life size photographs and microphotographs of sections.

Contains a general bibliography of books and articles on wood and
forest. Profusely illustrated with photographs from the United States
forest service and with pen and ink drawings by Anna Gausmann Noyes
and photographs by the author. Price, $3.50.

ESSENTIALS OF WOODWORKING.

=BY IRA S. GRIFFITH.= A clear and comprehensive treatment of woodworking
tools, materials, and processes. It is illustrated with photographs and
numerous pen drawings. The standard textbook for students beginning
woodworking. Price, 75 cents.

ART METALWORK.

=BY ARTHUR F. PAYNE.= A textbook written by an expert craftsman and
experienced teacher. It treats of the various materials and their
production, ores, alloys, commercial forms, etc.; of tools and equipments
suitable for the work; the inexpensive equipment of the practical
craftsman; and of the correlation of art metalwork with design and
other school subjects.

It describes in detail all the processes involved in making articles
ranging from a watch fob to a silver loving-cup.

It is abundantly and beautifully illustrated, showing work done by
students under ordinary school conditions in a manual training shop.
The standard book on the subject. Price, $2.00.

* * * * *

THE MANUAL ARTS PRESS, PEORIA, ILLINOIS

CHOICE BOOKS FOR BOYS
THE "PROBLEMS SERIES" FOR EITHER HOME OR SCHOOL USE

PROBLEMS IN FARM WOODWORK.

=BY SAMUEL A. BLACKBURN.= A book of working drawings of 100 practical
problems relating to agriculture and farm life. There are 60
full-page plates of working drawings, each accompanied by a page
or more of text treating of "Purpose," "Material," "Bill of Stock,"
"Tools," "Directions" and "Assembly." A wonderfully practical book. Price,
$1.25.

PROJECTS FOR BEGINNING WOODWORK AND MECHANICAL DRAWING.

=BY IRA S. GRIFFITH.= Consists of working drawings and working directions.
The projects are such as have proved of exceptional service where
woodworking and mechanical drawing are taught in a thoro, systematic
manner in the seventh and eighth grades.

The 50 projects in the book have been selected and organized with the
constant aim of securing the highest educational results.

Price, $1.00.

PROBLEMS IN WOODWORKING.

=BY M. W. MURRAY.= A convenient collection of good problems consisting
of 40 plates of working drawings of problems in bench work that have
been successfully worked out by boys in grades seven to nine, inclusive.
Price 75 cents.

PROBLEMS IN FURNITURE MAKING.

=BY FRED D. CRAWSHAW.= Contains 43 full-page working drawings of articles
of furniture. Every piece shown is appropriate and serviceable in
the home. In addition to the working drawings, there is a perspective
sketch of each article completed. There 36 pages of text giving notes
on the construction of each project, chapters on the "Design," and
"Construction" of furniture, and one on "Finishes." Price, $1.00.

FURNITURE MAKING--ADVANCED PROJECTS IN WOODWORK.
=BY IRA S. GRIFFITH.= Consists of 50 plates of problems and
accompanying notes. It is essentially a collection of problems in
furniture making, selected and designed with reference to school
use.
On the plate with each working drawing is a good perspective sketch
of the completed object. In draftsmanship and refinement of design
these problems are of superior quality. It is in every respect an
excellent collection. Price, 95 cents.

PROBLEMS IN WOOD-TURNING.
=BY FRED D. CRAWSHAW.= A textbook on the science and art of
wood-turning. Contains 25 full-page plates of working drawings
covering spindle, face-plate, and chuck turning. It is a clear,
practical and suggestive book on wood-turning, and a valuable
textbook for students' use. Price, 50 cents.
PROBLEMS IN MECHANICAL DRAWING.
=BY CHARLES A. BENNETT.= With drawings made by Fred D. Crawshaw. A
students' textbook consisting of 80 plates classified into groups
according to principle and arranged according to difficulty of
solution. Price, 75 cents.

* * * * *
THE MANUAL ARTS PRESS, PEORIA, ILLINOIS 
* * * * *
Transcriber's Notes 
Index has been added to the Table of Contents.He did not feel
as if it was for him to speak; and Mr. Edmonstone hesitated, made an
attempt at congratulating him, broke down, and asked if it was properly
drawn up. He glanced at the beginning and end, said it was quite
correct, and laid his head down, as if the examination had been a great
deal of trouble.

'And what do you think of Amy's being under age?' fidgeted on Mr.
Edmonstone. 'How is she to act, poor dear! Shall I act for her?'

'She will soon be of age,' said Philip, wearily.

'In January, poor darling. Who would have thought how it would have been
with her? I little thought, last May--but, holloa! what have I been
at?' cried he, jumping up in a great fright, as Philip, so weak as to be
overcome by the least agitation, changed countenance, covered his face
with his hands, and turned away with a suppressed sob. 'I didn't mean
it, I am sure! Here! mamma!'

'No, no,' said Philip, recovering, and sitting up; 'don't call her, I
beg. There is nothing the matter.'

Mr. Edmonstone obeyed, but he was too much afraid of causing a renewal
of agitation to continue the conversation; and after walking about the
room a little while, and shaking it more than Philip could well bear, he
went away to write his letters.

In the meantime, Amabel had been spending her morning in the same quiet
way as the former day. She wrote part of a letter to Laura, and walked
to the graveyard, rather against her mother's wish; but she was so good
and obedient, it was impossible to thwart her, though Mrs. Edmonstone
was surprised at her proposal to join her father and Philip at tea. 'Do
you like it, my dear?'

'He told me to take care of him,' said Amabel.

'I cannot feel that he deserves you should worry yourself about him,'
said Mrs. Edmonstone. 'If you knew all--'

'I do know all, mamma,--if you mean about Laura. Surely you must
forgive. Think how he repents. What, have you not had his letter? Then
how did you know?'

'I learned it from Laura herself. Her trouble at his illness revealed
it. Do you say he has written?'

'Yes, mamma; he told Guy all about it, and was very sorry, and wrote
as soon as he was able. Guy sent you a long message. He was so anxious
about it.'

Amabel showed more eagerness to understand the state of the case, than
she had about anything else. She urged that Philip should be spoken to,
as soon as possible, saying the suspense must be grievous, and dwelling
on his repentance. Mrs. Edmonstone promised to speak to papa, and
this satisfied her; but she held her resolution of meeting Philip
that evening, looking on him as a charge left her by her husband, and
conscious that, as she alone understood how deep was his sorrow, she
could make the time spent with her parents less embarrassing.

Her presence always soothed him, and regard for her kept her father
quiet; so that the evening passed off very well. Mrs. Edmonstone waited
on both; and, in Amy's presence, was better able to resume her usual
manner towards her nephew, and he sat wondering at the placidity of
Amy's pale face. Her hair was smoothed back, and she wore a cap,--the
loss of her long shady curls helping to mark the change from the bright
days of her girlhood; but the mournfulness of her countenance did
not mar the purity and serenity that had always been its great
characteristic; and in the faint sweet smile with which she received
a kind word or attention, there was a likeness to that peculiar and
beautiful expression of her husband's, so as, in spite of the great
difference of feature and colouring, to give her a resemblance to him.

All this day had been spent by Mr. Edmonstone in a fret to get away from
Recoara, and his wife was hardly less desirous to leave it than himself,
for she could have no peace or comfort about Amabel, till she had her
safely at home. Still she dreaded proposing the departure, and even more
the departure itself; and, in spite of Mr. Edmonstone's impatience, she
let her alone till she had her mourning; but when, after two days of
hard work, Anne had nearly managed to complete it, she made up her mind
to tell her daughter that they ought to set out.

Amabel replied by mentioning Philip. She deemed him a sort of trust, and
had been reposing in the thought of making him a reason for lingering in
the scene where the brightness of her life had departed from her. Mrs.
Edmonstone would not allow that she ought to remain for his sake, and
told her it was her duty to resolve to leave the place. She said, 'Yes,
but for him;' and it ended in Mrs. Edmonstone going, without telling
her, to inform him that she thought Amy ought to be at home as soon
as possible; but that it was difficult to prevail on her, because
she thought him as yet not well enough to be left. He was, of course,
shocked at being thus considered, and as soon as he next saw Amabel,
told her, with great earnestness, that he could not bear to see her
remaining there on his account; that he was almost well, and meant to
leave Recoara very soon; the journey was very easy, the sea voyage
would be the best thing for him, and he should be glad to get to the
regimental doctor at Corfu.

Amabel sighed, and knew she ought to be convinced. The very pain it gave
her to lose sight of that green, grave, the chestnut-tree, and the white
mountain; to leave the rooms and passages which still, to her ears,
were haunted by Guy's hushed step and voice, and to part with the window
where she used each wakeful night to retrace his profile as he had stood
pausing before telling her of his exceeding happiness; that very pain
made her think that opposition would be selfish. She must go some time
or other, and it was foolish to defer the struggle; she must not detain
her parents in an infected place, nor keep her mother from Charles. She
therefore consented, and let them do what they pleased,--only insisting
on Arnaud's being left with Philip.

Philip did not think this necessary, but yielded, when she urged it as
a relief to her own mind; and Arnaud, though unwilling, and used to his
own way, could make no objection when she asked it as a personal favour.
Arnaud was, at his own earnest wish, to continue in her service; and, as
soon as Philip was able to embark, was to follow her to Hollywell.

All this time nothing passed about Laura. Amabel asked several times
whether papa had spoken, but was always answered, 'Not yet;' and at last
Mrs. Edmonstone, after vainly trying to persuade him, was obliged to
give it up. The truth was, he could not begin; he was afraid of his
nephew, and so unused to assume superiority over him that he did
not know what to do, and found all kinds of reasons for avoiding the
embarrassing scene. Since Philip still must be dealt with cautiously,
better not enter on the subject at all. When reminded that the suspense
was worse than anything, he said, no one could tell how things would,
turn out, and grew angry with his wife for wishing him to make up a
shameful affair like that, when poor Guy had not been dead a week, and
he had been the death of him; but it was just like mamma, she always
spoilt him. He had a great mind to vow never to consent to his
daughter's marrying such an overbearing, pragmatical fellow; she ought
to be ashamed of even thinking of him, when he was no better than her
brother's murderer.

After this tirade, Mrs. Edmonstone might well feel obliged to tell
Amabel, that papa must not be pressed any further; and, of course, if he
would not speak, she could not (nor did she wish it).

'Then, mamma,' said Amabel, with the air of decision that had lately
grown on her, 'I must tell him. I beg your pardon,' she added,
imploringly; 'but indeed I must. It is hard on him not to hear that you
had not his letter, and that Laura has told. I know Guy would wish me,
so don't be displeased, dear mamma.'

'I can't be displeased with anything you do.'

'And you give me leave?'

'To be sure I do,--leave to do anything but hurt yourself.'

'And would it be wrong for me to offer to write to him? No one else
will, and it will be sad for him not to hear. It cannot be wrong,
can it?' said she, as the fingers of her right hand squeezed her
wedding-ring, a habit she had taken up of late.

'Certainly not, my poor darling. Do just as you think fit. I am sorry
for him, for I am sure he is in great trouble, and I should like him to
be comforted--if he can. But, Amy, you must not ask me to do it. He has
disappointed me too much.'

Mrs. Edmonstone left the room in tears.

Amabel went up to the window, looked long at the chestnut-tree, then
up into the sky, sat down, and leant her forehead on her hand in
meditation, until she rose up, cheered and sustained, as if she had been
holding council with her husband.

She did not over-estimate Philip's sufferings from suspense and anxiety.
He had not heard a word of Laura; how she had borne his illness, nor how
much displeasure his confession had brought upon her; nor could he learn
what hope there was that his repentance was accepted. He did not venture
to ask; for after engaging to leave all to them, could he intrude his
own concerns on them at such a time? It was but a twelvemonth since
he had saddened and shadowed Guy's short life and love with the
very suffering from uncertainty that he found so hard to bear. As he
remembered this, he had a sort of fierce satisfaction in enduring this
retributive justice; though there were moods when he felt the torture so
acutely, that it seemed to him as if his brain would turn if he saw them
depart, and was left behind to this distracting doubt.

The day had come, on which they were to take their first stage, as far
as Vicenza, and his last hopes were fading. He tried to lose the sense
of misery by bestirring himself in the preparations; but he was too
weak, and Mrs. Edmonstone, insisting on his attempting no more, sent him
back: to his own sitting-room.

Presently there was a knock, and in came Amabel, dressed, for the first
time, in her weeds, the blackness and width of her sweeping crape making
her young face look smaller and paler, while she held in her hand some
leaves of chestnut, that showed where she had been. She smiled a little
as she came in, saying, 'I am come to you for a little quiet, out of the
bustle of packing up. I want you to do something for me.'

'Anything for you.'

'It is what you will like to do,' said she, with _that_ smile, 'for it
is more for _him_ than for me. Could you, without teasing yourself, put
that into Latin for me, by and by? I think it should be in Latin, as it
is in a foreign country.'

She gave him a paper in her own writing.


GUY MORVILLE, OF REDCLYFFE, ENGLAND. DIED THE EVE OF ST. MICHAEL AND ALL
ANGELS, 18--AGED 21 1/2. I BELIEVE IN THE COMMUNION OF SAINTS.

'Will you be so kind as to give it to Arnaud when it is done?' she
continued; 'he will send it to the man who is making the cross. I think
the kind people here will respect it.'

'Yes,' said Philip,' it is soon done, and thank you for letting me do
it. But, Amy, I would not alter your choice; yet there is one that seems
to me more applicable "Greater love hath no man--"'

'I know what you mean,' said Amy; 'but that has so high a meaning that
he could not bear it to be applied to him.'

'Or rather, what right have I to quote it?' said Philip, bitterly. 'His
friend! No, Amy; you should rather choose, "If thine enemy thirst, give
him drink; for in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head."
I am sure they are burning on mine,' and he pressed his hand on his
forehead.

'Don't say such things. We both know that, at the worst of times, he
looked on you as a sincere friend.'

Philip groaned, and she thought it best to go on to something else.
'I like this best,' she said. 'It will be nice to think of far away. I
should like, too, for these Italians to see the stranger has the same
creed as themselves.'

After a moment's pause, during which he looked at the paper, he said,
'Amy, I have one thing to ask of you. Will you write my name in the
Prayer-book?'

'That I will,' said she, and Philip drew it from under the sofa cushion,
and began putting together his pocket gold pen. While he was doing this,
she said, 'Will you write to me sometimes? I shall be so anxious to know
how you get on.'

'Yes, thank you,' said he; with a sigh, as if he would fain have said
more.

She paused; then said, abruptly, 'Do you know they never had your
letter?'

'Ha! Good heavens!' cried he, starting up in consternation; 'then they
don't know it!'

'They do. Sit down, Philip, and hear. I wanted to tell you about it.
They know it. Poor Laura was so unhappy when you were ill, that mamma
made it out from her.'

He obeyed the hand that invited him back to his seat, and turned his
face earnestly towards her. He must let her be his comforter, though a
moment before his mind would have revolted at troubling the newly-made
widow with his love affairs. Amabel told him, as fully and clearly as
she could, how the truth had come out, how gently Laura had been dealt
with, how Charles had been trying to soften his father, and papa had not
said one angry word to her.

'They forgive her. Oh, Amy, thanks indeed! You have taken away one of
the heaviest burdens. I am glad, indeed, that she spoke first. For my
own part, I see through all their kindness and consideration how they
regard me.'

'They know how sorry you are, and that you wrote to tell all,' said
Amabel. 'They forgive, indeed they do; but they cannot bear to speak
about it just yet.'

'If you forgive, Amy,' said he, in a husky voice, 'I may hope for pardon
from any.'

'Hush! don't say that. You have been so kind, all this time, and we have
felt together so much, that no one could help forgetting anything that
went before. Then you will write to me; and will you tell me how to
direct to you?'

'You will write to me?' cried Philip, brightening for a moment with glad
surprise. 'Oh, Amy, you will quite overpower me with your goodness!--The
coals of fire,' he finished, sinking his voice, and again pressing his
hand to his brow.

'You must not speak so, Philip,' then looking at him, 'Is your head
aching?'

'Not so much aching as--' he paused, and exclaimed, as if carried away
in spite of himself, 'almost bursting with the thoughts of--of you,
Amy,--of him whom I knew too late,--wilfully misunderstood, envied,
persecuted; who,--oh! Amy, Amy, if you could guess at the anguish of but
one of my thoughts, you would know what the first murderer meant when he
said, "My punishment is greater than I can bear."'

'I can't say don't think,' said Amy, in her sweet, calm tone; 'for I
have seen how happy repentance made him, but I know it must be dreadful.
I suppose the worse it is at the time, the better it must be afterwards.
And I am sure this Prayer-book'--she had her hand on it all the time,
as if it was a pleasure to her to touch it again--'must be a comfort
to you. Did you not see that he made me give it to you to use that day,
when, if ever, there was pardon and peace--'

'I remember,' said Philip, in a low, grave, heartfelt tone; and as she
took the pen, and was writing his name below the old inscription, he
added, 'And the date, Amy, and--yes,' as he saw her write 'From
G. M.'--'but put from A. F. M. too. Thank you! One thing more;' he
hesitated, and spoke very low, 'You _must_ write in it what you said
when you came to fetch me that day,--"A broken"'--

As she finished writing, Mrs. Edmonstone came in. 'My Amy, all is ready.
We must go. Good-bye, Philip,' said she, in the tone of one so eager for
departure as to fancy farewells would hasten it. However, she was not
more eager than Mr. Edmonstone, who rushed in to hurry them on, shaking
hands cordially with Philip, and telling him to make haste and recover
his good looks. Amabel held out her hand. She would fain have said
something cheering, but the power failed her. A deep colour came into
her cheeks; she drew her thick black veil over her face, and turned
away.

Philip came down-stairs with them, saw her enter the carriage followed
by her mother, Mr. Edmonstone outside. He remembered the gay smile with
which he last saw her seated in that carriage, and the active figure
that had sprung after her; he thought of the kind bright eyes that had
pleaded with him for the last time, and recollected the suspicions and
the pride with which he had plumed himself on his rejection, and thrown
away the last chance.

Should he ever see Amabel again? He groaned and went back to the
deserted rooms.


CHAPTER 37

                                And see
     If aught of sprightly, fresh, or free,
     With the calm sweetness may compare
     Of the pale form half slumbering there.
     Therefore this one dear couch about
     We linger hour by hour:
     The love that each to each we bear,
     All treasures of enduring care,
     Into her lap we pour.
                         --LYRA INNOCENTUM


The brother and sisters, left at home together, had been a very sad and
silent party, unable to attempt comforting each other. Charlotte's
grief was wild and ungovernable; breaking out into fits of sobbing, and
attending to nothing till she was abashed first by a reproof from Mr.
Ross, and next by the description of Amabel's conduct; when she grew
ashamed and set herself to atone, by double care, for her neglect of
Charles's comforts.

Charles, however, wanted her little. He had rather be let alone. After
one exclamation of, 'My poor Amy!' he said not a word of lamentation,
but lay hour after hour without speaking, dwelling on the happy days he
had spent with Guy,--companion, friend, brother,--the first beam that
had brightened his existence, and taught him to make it no longer
cheerless; musing on the brilliant promise that had been cut off;
remembering his hopes for his most beloved sister, and feeling his
sorrow with imagining hers. It was his first grief, and a very deep one.
He seemed to have no comfort but in Mr. Ross, who contrived to come to
him every day, and would tell him how fully he shared his affection and
admiration for Guy, how he had marvelled at his whole character, as it
had shown itself more especially at the time of his marriage, when his
chastened temper had been the more remarkable in so young a man, with
the world opening on him so brightly. As to the promise lost, that,
indeed, Mr. Ross owned, and pleased Charles by saying how he had hoped
to watch its fulfilment; but he spoke of its having been, in truth, no
blight, only that those fair blossoms were removed where nothing could
check their full development or mar their beauty. 'The hope in earthly
furrows sown, would ripen in the sky;' Charles groaned, saying it was
hard not to see it, and they might speak as they would, but that would
not comfort him in thinking of his sister. What was his sorrow to hers?
But Mr. Ross had strong trust in Amabel's depth and calm resignation.
He said her spirit of yielding would support her, that as in drowning or
falling, struggling is fatal, when quietness saves, so it would be with
her: and that even in this greatest of all trials she would rise instead
of being crushed, with all that was good and beautiful in her purified
and refined. Charles heard, strove to believe and be consoled, and
brought out his letters, trying, with voice breaking down, to show
Mr. Ross how truly he had judged of Amy, then listened with a kind of
pleasure to the reports of the homely but touching laments of all the
village.

Laura did not, like her brother and sister, seek for consolation from
Mr. Ross or Mary. She went on her own way, saying little, fulfilling her
household cares, writing all the letters that nobody else would write,
providing for Charles's ease, and looking thoroughly cast down and
wretched, but saying nothing; conscious that her brother and sister did
not believe her affection for Guy equal to theirs; and Charles was too
much dejected, and too much displeased with Philip, to try to console
her.

It was a relief to hear, at length, that the travellers had landed, and
would be at home in the evening, not till late, wrote Mrs. Edmonstone,
because she thought it best for Amabel to go at once to her room, her
own old room, for she particularly wished not to be moved from it.

The evening had long closed in; poor Bustle had been shut up in
Charlotte's room, and the three sat together round the fire, unable to
guess how they should meet her, and thinking how they had lately been
looking forward to greeting their bride, as they used proudly to call
her. Charles dwelt on that talk on the green, and his 'when shall
we three meet again?' and spoke not a word; Laura tried to read; and
Charlotte heard false alarms of wheels; but all were so still, that when
the wheels really came, they were heard all down the turnpike road, and
along the lane, before they sounded on the gravel drive.

Laura and Charlotte ran into the hall, Charles reached his crutches, but
his hands shook so much that he could not adjust them, and was obliged
to sit down, rising the next minute as the black figures entered
together. Amy's sweet face was pressed to his, but neither spoke. That
agitated 'My dear, dear Charlie!' was his mother's, as she threw her
arms around him, with redoubled kisses and streaming tears; and there
was a trembling tone in his father's 'Well, Charlie boy, how have you
got on without us?'

They sat down, Charles with his sister beside him, and holding a hand
steadier than his own, but hot and feverish to the touch. He leant
forward to look at her face, and, as if in answer, she turned it on
him. It was the old face, paler and thinner, and the eyelids had a
hard reddened look, from want of sleep: but Charles, like his mother
at first, was almost awed by the melancholy serenity of the expression.
'Have you been quite well?' she asked, in a voice which sounded
strangely familiar, in its fond, low tones.

'Yes, quite.'

There was a pause, followed by an interchange of question and answer
between the others, on the journey, and on various little home
circumstances. Presently Mrs. Edmonstone said Amy had better come
up-stairs.

'I have not seen Bustle,' said Amy, looking at Charlotte.

'He is in my room,' faltered Charlotte.

'I should like to see him.'

Charlotte hastened away, glad to wipe her tears when outside the door.
Poor Bustle had been watching for his master ever since his departure,
and hearing the sounds of arrival, was wild to escape from his prison.
He rushed out the moment the door was open, and was scratching to be let
into the drawing-room before Charlotte could come up with him. He dashed
in, laid his head on Amabel's knee, and wagged his tail for welcome;
gave the same greeting to Mr. and Mrs. Edmonstone, but only for a
moment, for he ran restlessly seeking round the room, came to the door,
and by his wistful looks made Charlotte let him out. She followed
him, and dropping on her knees as soon as she was outside, pressed her
forehead to his glossy black head, whispered that it was of no use, he
would never come back. The dog burst from her, and the next moment was
smelling and wagging his tail at a portmanteau, which he knew as well as
she did, and she could hardly refrain from a great outburst of sobbing
as she thought what joy its arrival had hitherto been.

Suddenly Bustle bounded away, and as Charlotte stood trying to compose
herself enough to return to the drawing-room, she heard the poor fellow
whining to be let in at Guy's bed-room door. At the same time the
drawing-room door opened, and anxious that Amy should neither see nor
hear him, she ran after him, admitted him, and shut herself in with him
in the dark, where, with her hands in his long silky curls, and sitting
on the ground, she sobbed over him as long as he would submit to her
caresses.

Amabel meantime returned to her room, and looked round on its well-known
aspect with a sad smile, as she thought of the prayer with which she
had quitted it on her bridal day, and did not feel as if it had been
unanswered; for surely the hand of a Father had been with her to support
her through her great affliction.

Though she said she was very well, her mother made her go to bed at
once, and Laura attended on her with a sort of frightened, respectful
tenderness, hardly able to bear her looks of gratitude. The first time
the two sisters were alone, Amabel said, 'Philip is much better.'

Laura, who was settling some things on the table, started back and
coloured, then, unable to resist the desire of hearing of him, looked
earnestly at her sister.

'He is gone to Corfu,' continued Amabel. 'He only kept Arnaud three
days after we were gone, and Arnaud overtook us at Geneva, saying his
strength had improved wonderfully. Will you give me my basket? I should
like to read you a piece of a note he sent me.'

Laura brought it, and Amabel, holding her hand, looked up at her face,
which she vainly tried to keep in order. 'Dearest, I have been very
sorry for you, and so has Guy.'

'Amy!' and Laura found herself giving way to her tears, in spite of all
her previous exhortations to Charlotte, about self-control; 'my own, own
sister!' To have Amy at home was an unspeakable comfort.

'Papa and mamma were both as kind as possible to Philip,' continued
Amabel; 'but they could not bear to enter on _that_. So I told him you
had told all, and he was very glad.'

'He was not displeased at my betraying him?' exclaimed Laura. 'Oh, no!
he was glad; he said it was a great relief, for he was very anxious
about you, Laura. He has been so kind to me,' said Amabel, so earnestly,
that Laura received another comfort, that of knowing that her sister's
indignation against him had all passed by. 'Now I will read you what he
says. You see his writing is quite itself again.'

But Laura observed that Amabel only held towards her the 'Lady Morville'
on the outside, keeping the note to herself, and reading, 'I have
continued to gain strength since you went; so that there is no further
need of detaining Arnaud. I have twice been out of doors, and am
convinced that I am equal to the journey; indeed, it is hardly possible
for me to endure remaining here any longer.' She read no more, but
folded it up, saying, 'I had rather no one saw the rest. He makes
himself so unhappy about that unfortunate going to Sondrio, that he says
what is only painful to hear. I am glad he is able to join his regiment,
for a change will be the best thing for him.'

She laid her head on the pillow as if she had done with the subject, and
Laura did not venture to pursue it, but went down to hear her mother's
account of her.

Mrs. Edmonstone was feeling it a great comfort to have her son to talk
to again, and availed herself of it to tell him of Philip, while Laura
was absent, and then to return to speak of Amy on Laura's re-entrance.
She said, all through the journey, Amy had been as passive and tranquil
as possible, chiefly leaning back in the carriage in silence, excepting
that when they finally left the view of the snowy mountains, she gazed
after them as long as the least faint cloud-like summit was visible.
Still she could not sleep, except that now and then she dozed a little
in the carriage, but at night she heard every hour strike in turn, and
lay awake through all, nor had she shed one tear since her mother had
joined her. Mrs. Edmonstone's anxiety was very great, for she said she
knew Amy must pay for that unnatural calmness, and the longer it was
before it broke down, the worse it would be for her. However, she was at
home, that was one thing to be thankful for, and happen what might, it
could not be as distressing as if it had been abroad.

Another night of 'calm unrest,' and Amabel rose in the morning, at her
usual hour, to put on the garments of her widowhood, where she had last
stood as a bride. Charles was actually startled by her entering the
dressing-room, just as she used to do, before breakfast, to read with
him, and her voice was as steady as ever. She breakfasted with the
family, and came up afterwards with Laura, to unpack her dressing-case,
and take out the little treasures that she and her husband had enjoyed
buying in the continental towns, as presents for the home party.

All this, for which she had previously prepared herself, she underwent
as quietly as possible; but something unexpected came on her. Charlotte,
trying to pet and comfort her in every possible way, brought in all
the best flowers still lingering in the garden, and among them a last
blossom of the Noisette rose, the same of which Guy had been twisting a
spray, while he first told her of his love.

It was too much. It recalled his perfect health and vigour, his light
activity, and enjoyment of life, and something came on her of the
sensation we feel for an insect, one moment full of joyous vitality, the
next, crushed and still. She had hitherto thought of his feverish thirst
and fainting weariness being at rest, and felt the relief, or else
followed his spirit to its repose, and rejoiced; but now the whole
scene brought back what he once was; his youthful, agile frame, his eyes
dancing in light, his bounding step, his gay whistle, the strong hand
that had upheld her on the precipice, the sure foot that had carried
aid to the drowning sailors, the arm that was to have been her stay for
life, all came on her in contrast with--death! The thought swept over
her, carrying away every other, and she burst into tears.

The tears would have their course; she could not restrain them when once
they began, and her struggles to check them only brought an increase of
them. Her sobs grew so violent that Laura, much alarmed, made a sign
to Charlotte to fetch her mother; and Mrs. Edmonstone, coming in haste,
found it was indeed the beginning of a frightful hysterical attack.
The bodily frame had been overwrought to obey the mental firmness and
composure, and now nature asserted her rights; the hysterics returned
again and again, and when it seemed as if exhaustion had at length
produced quiet, the opening of a door, or a sound in the distance, would
renew all again.

It was not till night had closed in that Mrs. Edmonstone was at all
satisfied about her, and had at length the comfort of seeing her
fall into a sound deep sleep; such an unbroken dreamless sleep as had
scarcely visited her since she first went to Recoara. Even this sleep
did not restore her; she became very unwell, and both Dr. Mayerne and
her mother insisted on her avoiding the least exertion or agitation. She
was quite submissive, only begging earnestly to be allowed to see
Mr. Ross, saying she knew it would do her good rather than harm, and
promising to let him leave her the instant she found it too much for
her; and though Mrs. Edmonstone was reluctant and afraid, they agreed
that as she was so reasonable and docile, she ought to be allowed to
judge for herself.

She begged that he might come after church on All Saints' day. He came,
and after his first greeting of peace, Mrs. Edmonstone signed to him to
read at once, instead of speaking to her. The beautiful lesson for the
day overcame Mrs. Edmonstone so much that she was obliged to go out of
Amabel's sight, but as the words were read, Amy's face recovered once
more the serenity that had been swept away by the sight of the flowers.
Peace had returned, and when the calm every-day words of the service
were over, she held out her hand to Mr. Ross, and said, 'Thank you, that
was very nice. Now talk to me.'

It was a difficult request, but Mr. Ross understood her, and talked to
her as she sought, in a gentle, deep, high strain of hope and faith,
very calm and soothing, and with a fatherly kindness that was very
pleasant from him who had baptized her, taught her, and whom she had
last seen blessing her and her husband. It ended by her looking up to
him when it was time for him to go, and saying, 'Thank you. You will
come again when you have time, I hope. My love to dear Mary, I should
like to see her soon, but I knew you would do me more good than anybody,
and know better how it feels.'

Mr. Ross knew she meant that he must better understand her loss, because
he was a widower, and was greatly touched, though he only answered by a
blessing, a farewell, and a promise to come very soon to see her again.

Amabel was right, the peace which he had recalled, and the power of
resignation that had returned, had a better effect on her than all her
mother's precautions; she began to improve, and in a few days more was
able to leave her bed, and lie on the sofa in the dressing-room, though
she was still so weak and languid that this was as much as she could
attempt. Any exertion was to be carefully guarded against, and her tears
now flowed so easily, that she was obliged to keep a check on them lest
they might again overpower her. Mr. Ross came again and again, and she
was able to tell him much of the grounds for her great happiness in Guy,
hear how entirely he had understood him, and be assured that she had
done right, and not taken an undue responsibility on herself by the
argument she had used to summon Philip, that last evening. She had begun
to make herself uneasy about this; for she said she believed she was
thinking of nothing but Guy, and had acted on impulse; and she was
very glad Mr. Ross did not think it wrong, while Mr. Ross meanwhile
was thinking how fears and repentance mingle with the purest sweetest,
holiest deeds.

She was able now to take pleasure in seeing Mary Ross; she wrote to
Philip at Corfu, and sent for Markham to begin to settle the executor's
business. Poor Markham! the Edmonstones thought he looked ten years
older when he arrived, and after his inquiry for Lady Morville, his
grunt almost amounted to a sob. The first thing he did was to give Mrs.
Edmonstone a note, and a little box sent from Mrs. Ashford. The note was
to say that Mrs. Ashford had intended for her wedding present, a little
cross made out of part of the wood of the wreck, which she now thought
it beat to send to Mrs. Edmonstone, that she might judge whether Lady
Morville would like to see it.

Mrs. Edmonstone's judgment was to carry it at once to Amabel, and
she was right, for the pleasure she took in it was indescribable. She
fondled it, set it up by her on her little table, made Charlotte put
it in different places that she might see what point of view suited it
best, had it given back to her, held it in her hands caressingly,
and said she must write at once to Mrs. Ashford to thank her for
understanding her so well. There was scarcely one of the mourners to be
pitied more than Markham, for the love he had set on Sir Guy had
been intense, compounded of feudal affection, devoted admiration, and
paternal care--and that he, the very flower of the whole race, should
thus have been cut down in the full blossom of his youth and hopes, was
almost more than the old man could bear or understand. It was a great
sorrow, too, that he should be buried so far away from his forefathers;
and the hearing it was by his own desire, did not satisfy him, he sighed
over it still, and seemed to derive a shade of comfort only when he was
told there was to be a tablet in Redclyffe church to the memory of Guy,
sixth baronet.

In the evening Markham became very confidential with Charles; telling
him about the grievous mourning and lamentation at Redclyffe, when the
bells rung a knell instead of greeting the young master and his bride,
and how there was scarcely one in the parish that did not feel as if
they had lost a son or a brother. He also told more and more of Sir
Guy's excellence, and talked of fears of his own, especially last
Christmas; that the boy was too unlike other people, too good to live;
and lastly, he indulged in a little abuse of Captain Morville, which
did Charles's heart good, at the same time as it amused him to think how
Markham would recollect it, when he came to hear of Laura's engagement.

In the course of the next day, Markham had his conference with Lady
Morville in the dressing-room, and brought her two or three precious
parcels, which he would not, for the world, have given into any other
hands. He could hardly bear to look at her in her widow's cap, and
behaved to her with a manner varying between his deference and respect
to the Lady of Redclyffe, and his fatherly fondness for the wife of
'his boy.' As to her legal powers, he would have thought them foolishly
bestowed, if they had been conferred by any one save his own Sir Guy,
and he began by not much liking to act with her; but he found her so
clear-headed, that he was much surprised to find a woman could have so
much good sense, and began to look forward with some satisfaction to
being her prime minister. They understood each other very well; Amabel's
good sense and way of attending to the one matter in hand, kept her from
puzzling and alarming herself by thinking she had more to do than she
could ever understand or accomplish; she knew it was Guy's work, and a
charge he had given her,--a great proof of his confidence,--and she
did all that was required of her very well, so that matters were put in
train to be completed when she should be of age, in the course of the
next January.

When Markham left her she was glad to be alone, and to open her parcels.
There was nothing here to make her hysterical, for she was going to
contemplate the living soul, and felt almost, as if it was again being
alone with her husband. There were his most prized and used books,
covered with marks and written notes; there was Laura's drawing of
Sintram, which had lived with him in his rooms at Oxford; there was a
roll of music, and there was his desk. The first thing when she opened
it was a rough piece of spar, wrapped in paper, on which was written,
'M. A. D., Sept. 18.' She remembered what he had told her of little
Marianne's gift. The next thing made her heart thrill, for it was a slip
of pencilling in her own writing, 'Little things, on little wings, bear
little souls to heaven.'

Her own letters tied up together, those few that she had written in the
short time they were separated just before their marriage! Could that
be only six months ago? A great bundle of Charles's and of Mrs.
Edmonstone's; those she might like to read another time, but not now.
Many other papers letters signed S. B. Dixon, which she threw aside,
notes of lectures, and memoranda, only precious for the handwriting; but
when she came to the lower division; she found it full of verses, almost
all the poetry he had ever written.

There were the classical translations that used to make him inaccurate,
a scrap of a very boyish epic about King Arthur, beginning with a storm
at Tintagel, sundry half ballads, the verses he was suspected of, and
never would show, that first summer at Hollywell, and a very touching
vision of his fair young mother. Except a translation or two, some words
written to suit their favourite airs (a thing that used to seem to come
as easily to him as singing to a bird), and a few lively mock heroic
accounts of walks or parties, which had all been public property, there
was no more that she could believe to have been composed till last year,
for he was more disposed to versify in sorrow than in joy. There were
a good many written during his loneliness, for his reflections had a
tendency to flow into verse, and pouring them out thus had been a great
solace. The lines were often imperfect and irregular, but not one that
was not deep, pure, and genuine, and here and there scattered with
passages of exquisite beauty and harmony, and full of power and grace.
No one could have looked at them without owning in them the marks of a
thorough poet, but this was not what the wife was seeking, and when
she perceived it, though it made her face beam with a sort of satisfied
pride, it was a secondary thing. She was studying not his intellect, but
his soul; she did not care whether he would have been a poet, what she
looked for was the record of the sufferings and struggles of the sad six
months when his character was established, strengthened, and settled.

She found it. There was much to which she alone had the clue, too deep,
and too obscurely hinted, to be understood at a glance. She met with
such evidence of suffering as made her shudder and weep, tokens of
the dark thoughts that had gathered round him, of the manful spirit of
penitence and patience that had been his stay, and of the gleams that
lighted his darkest hours, and showed he had never been quite forsaken.
Now and then came a reference which brought home what he had told her;
how the thought of his Verena had cheered him when he dared not hope she
would be restored. Best of all were the lines written when the radiance
of Christmas was, once for all, dispersing the gloom, and the vision
opening on him, which he was now realizing. In reading them, she felt
the same marvellous sympathy of subdued wondering joy in the victory of
which she had partaken as she knelt beside his death-bed. These were
the last. He had been too happy for poetry, except one or two scraps
in Switzerland, and these had been hers from the time she had detected
them.

No wonder Amabel almost lived on those papers! It would not be too much
to say she was very happy in her own way when alone with them; the desk
on a chair by her sofa. They were too sacred for any one else; she did
not for many weeks show one even to her mother; but to her they were
like a renewal of his presence, soothing the craving after him that had
been growing on her ever since the first few days when his sustaining
power had not passed away. As she sorted them, and made out their dates,
finding fresh stores of meaning at each fresh perusal she learnt through
them, as well as through her own trial, so patiently borne, to enter
into his character even more fully than when he was in her sight.
Mrs. Edmonstone, who had at first been inclined to dread her constant
dwelling on them, soon perceived that they were her great aids through
this sad winter.

She had much pleasure in receiving the portrait, which was sent her by
Mr. Shene. It was a day or two before she could resolve to look at it,
or feel that she could do so calmly. It was an unfinished sketch, taken
more with a view to the future picture than to the likeness; but Guy's
was a face to be better represented by being somewhat idealized, than
by copying merely the material form of the features. An ordinary artist
might have made him like a Morville, but Mr. Shene had shown all
that art could convey of his individual self, with almost one of his
unearthly looks. The beautiful eyes, with somewhat of their peculiar
lightsomeness, the flexible look of the lip, the upward pose of the
head, the set of that lock of hair that used to wave in the wind, the
animated position, 'just ready for a start,' as Charles used to call it,
were recalled as far as was in the power of chalk and crayon, but so as
to remind Amabel of him more as one belonging to heaven than to earth.
The picture used to be on her mantel-shelf all night, the shipwreck
cross before it, and Sintram and Redclyffe on each side; and she
brought it into the dressing-room with her in the morning, setting it up
opposite to the sofa, before settling herself.

Her days were much alike. She felt far from well, or capable of
exertion, and was glad it was thought right to keep her entirely
upstairs; she only wished to spare her mother anxiety, by being
submissive to her care, in case these cares should be the last for her.
She did not dwell on the future, nor ask herself whether she looked for
life or death. Guy had bidden her not desire the last, and she believed
she did not form a wish; but there was repose to her in the belief that
she ought not to conceal from herself that there was more than ordinary
risk, and that it was right to complete all her affairs in this world,
and she was silent when her mother tried to interest her in prospects
that might cheer her; as if afraid to fasten on them, and finding more
peace in entire submission, than in feeding herself on hope that must be
coupled with fear.

Christmas-day was not allowed to pass without being a festival for
her, in her quiet room, where she lay, full of musings on his lonely
Christmas night last year, his verses folded among her precious books,
and the real joy of the season more within her grasp than in the turmoil
of last year. She was not afraid now to let herself fancy his voice in
the Angel's Song, and the rainbow was shining on her cloud.


CHAPTER 38

     The coldness from my heart is gone,
     But still the weight is there,
     And thoughts which I abhor will come
     To tempt me to despair.
                            --SOUTHEY


Amabel's one anxiety was for Philip. For a long time nothing was heard
of him at Hollywell, and she began to fear that he might have been less
fit to take care of himself than he had persuaded her to believe. When
at length tidings reached them, it was through the De Courcys. 'Poor
Morville,' wrote Maurice, 'had been carried ashore at Corfu, in the
stupor of a second attack of fever. He had been in extreme danger for
some time, and though now on the mend, was still unable to give any
account of himself.'

In effect, it was a relapse of the former disease, chiefly affecting
the brain, and his impatience to leave Recoara, and free himself from
Arnaud, had been a symptom of its approach, though it fortunately did
not absolutely overpower him till after he had embarked for Corfu, and
was in the way to be tended with the greatest solicitude. Long after the
fever was subdued, and his strength returning, his mind was astray, and
even when torturing delusions ceased, and he resumed the perception of
surrounding objects, memory and reflection wavered in dizzy confusion,
more distressing than either his bodily weakness, or the perpetual pain
in his head, which no remedy could relieve.

The first date to which he could afterwards recur, though for more than
a week he had apparently been fully himself, was a time when he was
sitting in an easy-chair by the window, obliged to avert his heavy eyes
from the dazzling waters of the Corcyran bay, where Ulysses' transformed
ship gleamed in the sunshine, and the rich purple hills of Albania
sloped upwards in the distance. James Thorndale was, as usual, with him,
and was explaining that there had been a consultation between the doctor
and the colonel, and they had decided that as there was not much chance
of restoring his health in that climate in the spring.

'Spring!' he interrupted, with surprise and eagerness, 'Is it spring?'

'Hardly--except that there is no winter here. This is the 8th of
January.'

He let his head fall on his hand again, and listened with indifference
when told he was to be sent to England at once, under the care of his
servant, Bolton, and Mr. Thorndale himself, who was resolved to see him
safe in his sister's hands. He made no objection; he had become used
to be passive, and one place was much the same to him as another; so he
merely assented, without a question about the arrangements. Presently,
however, he looked up, and inquired for his letters. Though he had done
so before, the request had always been evaded, until now he spoke in a
manner which decided his friend on giving him all except one with broad
black edges, and Broadstone post-mark; the effect of which, it was
thought, might be very injurious to his shattered nerves and spirits.

However, he turned over the other letters without interest, just
glancing languidly through them, looked disappointed, and exclaimed--

'None from Hollywell! Has nothing been heard from them? Thorndale,
I insist on knowing whether De Courcy has heard anything of Lady
Morville.'

'He has heard of her arrival in England.'

'My sister mentions that--more than two months ago--I can hardly believe
she has not written, if she was able. She promised, yet how can
I expect--' then interrupting himself, he added, authoritatively,
'Thorndale, is there no letter for me? I see there is. Let me have it.'

His friend could not but comply, and had no reason to regret having done
so; for after reading it twice, though he sighed deeply, and the tears
were in his eyes, he was more calm and less oppressed than he had been
at any time since his arrival in Corfu. He was unable to write, but
Colonel Deane had undertaken to write to Mrs. Henley to announce his
coming; and as the cause of his silence must be known at Hollywell, he
resolved to let Amabel's letter wait for a reply till his arrival in
England.

It was on a chilly day in February that Mrs. Henley drove to the station
to meet her brother, looking forward with a sister's satisfaction to
nursing his recovery, and feeling (for she had a heart, after all) as if
it was a renewal of the days, which she regarded with a tenderness mixed
with contempt, when all was confidence between the brother and sister,
the days of nonsense and romance. She hoped that now poor Philip, who
had acted hastily on his romance, and ruined his own prospects for her
sake in his boyish days, had a chance of having it all made up to him,
and reigning at Redclyffe according to her darling wish.

As she anxiously watched the arrival of the train, she recognized
Mr. Thorndale, whom she had known in his school-days as Philip's
protege--but could that be her brother? It was his height, indeed; but
his slow weary step as he crossed the platform, and left the care of his
baggage to others, was so unlike his prompt, independent air, that
she could hardly believe it to be himself, till, with his friend, he
actually advanced to the carriage, and then she saw far deeper traces
of illness than she was prepared for. A confusion of words took place;
greetings on one hand, and partings on the other, for James Thorndale
was going on by the train, and made only a few minutes' halt in which to
assure Mrs. Henley that though the landing and the journey had knocked
up his patient to-day, he was much better since leaving Corfu, and to
beg Philip to write as soon as possible. The bell rang, he rushed back,
and was whirled away.

'Then you are better,' said Mrs. Henley, anxiously surveying her
brother. 'You are sadly altered! You must let us take good care of you.'

'Thank you! I knew you would be ready to receive me, though I fear I am
not very good company.'

'Say no more, my dearest brother. You know both Dr. Henley and myself
have made it our first object that our house should be your home.'

'Thank you.'

'This salubrious air must benefit you,' she added. 'How thin you are!
Are you very much fatigued?'

'Rather,' said Philip, who was leaning back wearily; but the next moment
he exclaimed, 'What do you hear from Hollywell?'

'There is no news yet.'

'Do you know how she is? When did you hear of her?'

'About a week ago; when she wrote to inquire for you.'

'She did? What did she say of herself?'

'Nothing particular, poor little thing; I believe she is always on the
sofa. My aunt would like nothing so well as making a great fuss about
her.'

'Have you any objection to show me her letter?' said Philip, unable to
bear hearing Amabel thus spoken of, yet desirous to learn all he could
respecting her.

'I have not preserved it,' was the answer. 'My correspondence is so
extensive that there would be no limit to the accumulation if I did not
destroy the trivial letters.'

There was a sudden flush on Philip's pale face that caused his sister to
pause in her measured, self-satisfied speech, and ask if he was in pain.

'No,' he replied, shortly, and Margaret pondered on his strange manner,
little guessing what profanation her mention of Amabel's letter had
seemed to him, or how it jarred on him to hear this exaggerated likeness
of his own self-complacent speeches.

She was much shocked and grieved to see him so much more unwell than she
had expected. He was unfit for anything but to go to bed on his arrival.
Dr. Henley said the system had received a severe shock, and it would be
long before the effects would be shaken off; but that there was no fear
but his health would be completely restored if he would give himself
entire rest.

There was no danger that Margaret would not lavish care enough on her
brother. She waited on him in his room all the next day, bringing him
everything he could want, and trying to make him come down-stairs, for
she thought sitting alone there very bad for his spirits; but he said
he had a letter to write, and very curious she was to know why he was
so long doing it, and why he did not tell her to whom it was addressed.
However, she saw when it was put into the post-bag, that it was for Lady
Morville.

At last, too late to see any of the visitors who had called to inquire,
when the evening had long closed in, she had the satisfaction of seeing
Philip enter the drawing-room, and settling him in the most comfortable
of her easy-chairs on one side of the fire to wait till the Doctor
returned for dinner. The whole apartment was most luxurious, spacious,
and richly furnished; the fire, in its brilliant steel setting, glancing
on all around, and illuminating her own stately presence, and rich glace
silk, as she sat opposite her brother cutting open the leaves of one of
the books of the club over which she presided. She felt that this was
something like attaining one of the objects for which she used to say
and think she married,--namely, to be able to receive her brother in a
comfortable home. If only he would but look more like himself.

'Do you like a cushion for your head, Philip? Is it better?'

'Better since morning, thank you.'

'Did those headaches come on before your second illness?'

'I can't distinctly remember.'

'Ah! I cannot think how the Edmonstones could leave you. I shall always
blame them for that relapse.'

'It had nothing to do with it. Their remaining was impossible.'

'On Amabel's account? No, poor thing, I don't blame her, for she must
have been quite helpless; but it was exactly like my aunt, to have but
one idea at a time. Charles used to be the idol, and now it is Amy, I
suppose.'

'If anything could have made it more intolerable for me, it would have
been detaining them there for my sake, at such a time.'

'Ah! I felt a great deal for you. You must have been very sorry for that
poor little Amy. She was very kind in writing while you were ill. How
did she contrive, poor child? I suppose you took all the head work for
her?'

'I? I was nothing but a burden.'

'Were you still so very ill?' said Margaret, tenderly. 'I am sure you
must have been neglected.'

'Would that I had!' muttered Philip, so low that she did not catch the
words. Then aloud,--'No care could have been greater than was taken for
me. It was as if no one had been ill but myself, and the whole thought
of every one had been for me.'

'Then Amabel managed well, poor thing! We do sometimes see those weak
soft characters--'

'Sister!' he interrupted.'

'Have not you told me so yourself?'

'I was a fool, or worse,' said he, in a tone of suffering. 'No words can
describe what she proved herself.'

'Self-possessed? energetic?' asked Mrs. Henley, with whom those were the
first of qualities; and as her brother paused from repugnance to speak
of Amabel to one so little capable of comprehending her, she proceeded:
'No doubt she did the best she could, but she must have been quite
inexperienced. It was a very young thing in the poor youth to make her
executrix. I wonder the will was valid; but I suppose you took care of
that.'

'I did nothing.'

'Did you see it?'

'My uncle showed it to me.'

'Then you can tell me what I want to hear, for no one has told me
anything. I suppose my uncle is to be guardian?'

'No; Lady Morville.'

'You don't mean it? Most lover-like indeed. That poor girl to manage
that great property? Everything left to her!' said Mrs. Henley,
continuing her catechism in spite of the unwillingness of his replies.
'Were there any legacies? I know of Miss Wellwood's.'

'That to Dixon's daughter, and my own,' he answered.

'Yours? How was it that I never heard of it? What is it?'

'Ten thousand,' said Philip, sadly.

'I am delighted to hear it!' cried Margaret. 'Very proper of Sir
Guy--very proper indeed, poor youth. It is well thought of to soften the
disappointment.'

Philip started forward. 'Disappointment!' exclaimed he, with horror.

'You need not look as if I wished to commit murder,' said his sister,
smiling. 'Have you forgotten that it depends on whether it is a son or
daughter?'

His dismay was not lessened. 'Do you mean to say that this is to come on
me if the child is a daughter?'

'Ah! you were so young when the entail was made, that you knew nothing
of it. Female heirs were expressly excluded. There was some aunt whom
old Sir Guy passed over, and settled the property on my father and you,
failing his own male heirs.'

'No one would take advantage of such a chance,' said Philip.

'Do not make any rash resolutions, my dear brother, whatever you do,'
said Margaret. 'You have still the same fresh romantic generous spirit
of self-sacrifice that is generally so soon worn out, but you must not
let it allow you--'

'Enough of this,' said Philip, hastily, for every word was a dagger.

'Ah! you are right not to dwell on the uncertainty. I am almost sorry
I told you,' said Margaret. 'Tell me about Miss Wellwood's legacy,' she
continued, desirous of changing the subject. 'I want to know the truth
of it, for every one is talking of it.''How comes the world to know of
it?'

'There have been reports ever since his death, and now it has been paid,
whatever it is, on Lady Morville's coming of age. Do you know what
it is? The last story I was told was, that it was £2O,OOO, to found a
convent to pray for his grand--'

'Five thousand for her hospital,' interrupted Philip. 'Sister!' he
added; speaking with effort, 'it was for that hospital that he made the
request for which we persecuted him.'

'Ah! I thought so, I could have told you so!' cried Margaret, triumphant
in her sagacity, but astonished, as her brother started up and stood
looking at her, as if he could hardly resolve to give credit to her
words.

'You--thought--so,' he repeated slowly.

'I guessed it from the first. He was always with that set, and I thought
it a very bad thing for him; but as it was only a guess, it was not
worth while to mention it: besides, the cheque seemed full evidence. It
was the general course, not the individual action.'

'If you thought so, why not mention it to me? Oh! sister, what would you
not have spared me!'

'I might have done so if it had appeared that it might lead to his
exculpation, but you were so fully convinced that his whole course
confirmed the suspicions, that a mere vague idea was not worth dwelling
on. Your general opinion, of him satisfied me.'

'I cannot blame you,' was all his reply, as he sat down again, with his
face averted from the light.

And Mrs. Henley was doubtful whether he meant that she had been
judicious! She spoke again, unconscious of the agony each word
inflicted.

'Poor youth! we were mistaken in those facts, and of course, all is
forgiven and forgotten now; but he certainly had a tremendous temper.
I shall never forget that exhibition. Perhaps poor Amabel is saved much
unhappiness.'

'Once for all,' said Philip, sternly, 'let me never hear you speak of
him thus. We were both blind to a greatness of soul and purity of heart
that we shall never meet again. Yours was only prejudice; mine I must
call by a darker name. Remember, that he and his wife are only to be
spoken of with reverence.'

He composed himself to silence; and Margaret, after looking at him for
some moments in wonder, began in a sort of exculpatory tone:

'Of course we owe him a great deal of gratitude. It was very kind and
proper to come to you when you were ill, and his death must have been
a terrible shock. He was a fine young man; amiable, very attractive in
manner.'

'No more!' muttered Philip.

'That, you always said of him,' continued she, not hearing, 'but you
have no need to reproach yourself. You always acted the part of a true
friend, did full justice to his many good qualities, and only sought his
real good.'

'Every word you speak is the bitterest satire on me,' said Philip,
goaded into rousing himself for a moment. 'Say no more, unless you would
drive me distracted!'

Margaret was obliged to be silent, and marvel, while her brother sat
motionless, leaning back in his chair, till Dr. Henley came in; and
after a few words to him, went on talking to his wife, till dinner was
announced. Philip went with them into the dining-room, but had
scarcely sat down before he said he could not stay, and returned to the
drawing-room sofa. He said he only wanted quiet and darkness, and sent
his sister and her husband back to their dinner.

'What has he been doing?' said the Doctor; 'here is his pulse up to a
hundred again. How can he have raised it?'

'He only came down an hour ago, and has been sitting still ever since.'

'Talking?'

'Yes; and there, perhaps, I was rather imprudent. I did not know
he could so little bear to hear poor Sir Guy's name mentioned; and,
besides, he did not know, till I told him, that he had so much chance of
Redclyffe. He did not know the entail excluded daughters.'

'Did he not! That accounts for it. I should like to see the man who
could hear coolly that he was so near such a property. This suspense is
unlucky just now; very much against him. You must turn his thoughts from
it as much as possible.'

All the next day, Mrs. Henley wondered why her brother's spirits were so
much depressed, resisting every attempt to amuse or cheer them; but, on
the third, she thought some light was thrown on the matter. She was
at breakfast with the Doctor when the post came in, and there was a
black-edged letter for Captain Morville, evidently from Amabel. She took
it up at once to his room. He stretched out his hand for it eagerly,
but laid it down, and would not open it while she was in the room. The
instant she was gone, however, he broke the seal and read:--


       'Hollywell, February 20th.

'MY DEAR PHILIP,--Thank you much for writing to me. It was a great
comfort to see your writing again, and to hear of your being safe in our
own country. We had been very anxious about you, though we did not hear
of your illness till the worst was over. I am very glad you are at
St. Mildred's, for I am sure Margaret must be very careful of you, and
Stylehurst air must be good for you. Every one here is well; Charles
growing almost active, and looking better than I ever saw him. I wish
I could tell you how nice and quiet a winter it has been; it has been
a great blessing to me in every way, so many things have come to me to
enjoy. Mr. Ross has come to me every Sunday, and often in the week, and
has been so very kind. I think talking to him will be a great pleasure
to you when you are here again. You will like to hear that Mr. Shene has
sent me the picture, and the pleasure it gives me increases every day.
Indeed, I am so well off in every way, that you must not grieve yourself
about me, though I thank you very much for what you say. Laura reads to
me all the evening from dinner to tea. I am much better than I was in
the winter, and am enjoying the soft spring air from the open window,
making it seem as if it was much later in the year. 'Good-bye, my dear
cousin; may God bless and comfort you. Remember, that after all, it was
God's will, not your doing; and therefore, as he said himself, all is as
it should be, and so it will surely be.

       'Your affectionate cousin,
                 'AMABEL F. MORVILLE.'


Childishly simple as this letter might be called, with its set of facts
without comment, and the very commonplace words of consolation, it spoke
volumes to Philip of the spirit in which it was written--resignation,
pardon, soothing, and a desire that her farewell, perhaps her last,
should carry with it a token of her perfect forgiveness. Everything from
Amabel did him good; and he was so perceptibly better, that his sister
exclaimed, when she was next alone with Dr. Henley, 'I understand it
all, poor fellow; I thought long ago, he had some secret attachment; and
now I see it was to Amabel Edmonstone.'

'To Lady Morville?'

'Yes. You know how constantly he was at Hollywell, my aunt so fond of
him? I don't suppose Amy knew of it; and, of course, she could not be
blamed for accepting such an offer as Sir Guy's; besides, she never had
much opinion of her own.'

'How? No bad speculation for him. She must have a handsome jointure; but
what are your grounds?'

'Everything. Don't you remember he would not go to the marriage? He
mentions her almost like a saint; can't hear her name from any one
else--keeps her letter to open alone, is more revived by it than
anything else. Ah! depend upon it, it was to avoid her, poor fellow,
that he refused to go to Venice with them.'

'Their going to nurse him is not as if Sir Guy suspected it.'

'I don't suppose he did, nor Amy either. No one ever had so much power
over himself.'

Philip would not have thanked his sister for her surmise, but it was so
far in his favour that it made her avoid the subject, and he was thus
spared from hearing much of Amabel or of Redclyffe. It was bad enough
without this. Sometimes in nursery tales, a naughty child, under the
care of a fairy, is chained to an exaggeration of himself and his own
faults, and rendered a slave to this hateful self. The infliction
he underwent in his sister's house was somewhat analogous, for Mrs.
Henley's whole character, and especially her complacent speeches, were a
strong resemblance of his own in the days he most regretted. He had ever
since her marriage regarded her as a man looks at a fallen idol, but
never had her alteration been so clear to him, as he had not spent much
time with her, making her short visits, and passing the chief of each
day at Stylehurst. Now, he was almost entirely at her mercy, and her
unvarying kindness to him caused her deterioration to pain him all the
more; while each self-assertion, or harsh judgment, sounded on his ear
like a repetition of his worst and most hateful presumption. She little
guessed what she made him endure, for he had resumed his wonted stoicism
of demeanour, though the hardened crust that had once grown over his
feelings had been roughly torn away, leaving an extreme soreness and
tenderness to which an acute pang was given whenever he was reminded,
not only of his injuries to Guy, but of the pride and secret envy that
had been their root.

At the same time he disappointed her by his continued reserve and
depression. The confidence she had forfeited was never to be restored,
and she was the last person to know how incapable she was of receiving
it, or how low she had sunk in her self-exaltation.

He was soon able to resume the hours of the family, but was still far
from well; suffering from languor, pain in the head, want of sleep and
appetite; and an evening feverishness. He was unequal to deep reading,
and was in no frame for light books; he could not walk far, and his
sister's literary coteries, which he had always despised, were at
present beyond his powers of endurance. She hoped that society would
divert his thoughts and raise his spirits, and arranged her parties with
a view to him; but he never could stay long in the room, and Dr. Henley,
who, though proud of his wife and her talents, had little pleasure in
her learned circle, used to aid and abet his escape.

Thus Philip got through the hours as best he might, idly turning the
pages of new club-books, wandering on the hills till he tired himself,
sitting down to rest in the damp air, coming home chilled and fatigued,
and lying on the sofa with his eyes shut, to avoid conversation, all the
evening. Neither strength, energy, nor intellect would, serve him for
more; and this, with the load and the stings of a profound repentance,
formed his history through the next fortnight.

He used often to stand gazing at the slowly-rising walls of Miss
Wellwood's buildings, and the only time he exerted himself in his old
way to put down any folly in conversation, was when he silenced some of
the nonsense talked about her, and evinced his own entire approval of
her proceedings.


CHAPTER 39

     Beneath a tapering ash-tree's shade
     Three graves are by each other laid.
     Around the very place doth brood
     A strange and holy quietude.
                          --BAPTISTERY


Late on the afternoon of the 6th of March, Mary Ross entered by the
half-opened front door at Hollywell, just as Charles appeared slowly
descending the stairs.

'Well! how is she?' asked Mary eagerly.

'Poor little dear!' he answered, with a sigh; 'she looks very nice and
comfortable.'

'What, you have seen her?'

'I am at this moment leaving her room.'

'She is going on well, I hope?'

'Perfectly well. There is one comfort at least,' said Charles, drawing
himself down the last step.

'Dear Amy! And the babe--did you see it?'

'Yes; the little creature was lying by her, and she put her hand on it,
and gave one of those smiles that are so terribly like his; but I could
not have spoken about it for the world. Such fools we be!' concluded
Charles, with an attempt at a smile.

'It is healthy?'

'All a babe ought to be, they say, all that could be expected of it,
except the not being of the right sort, and if Amy does not mind that,
I don't know who should,' and Charles deposited himself on the sofa,
heaving a deep sigh, intended to pass for the conclusion of the
exertion.

'Then you think she is not disappointed?'

'Certainly not. The first thing she said when she was told it was a
girl, was, "I am so glad!" and she does seem very happy with it, poor
little thing! In fact, mamma thinks she had so little expected that
it would go well with herself, or with it, that now it is all like a
surprise.'

There was a silence, first broken by Charles saying, 'You must be
content with me--I can't send for anyone. Bustle has taken papa and
Charlotte for a walk, and Laura is on guard over Amy, for we have made
mamma go and lie down. It was high time, after sitting up two nights,
and meaning to sit up a third.'

'Has she really--can she bear it?'

'Yes; I am afraid I have trained her in sitting up, and Amy and all of
us know that anxiety hurts her more than fatigue. She would only lie
awake worrying herself, instead of sitting peaceably by the fire,
holding the baby, or watching Amy, and having a quiet cry when she is
asleep. For, after all, it is very sad!' Charles was trying to brave
his feelings, but did not succeed very well. 'Yesterday morning I was
properly frightened. I came into the dressing-room, and found mamma
crying so, that I fully believed it was all wrong, but she was just
coming to tell us, and was only overcome by thinking of not having him
to call first, and how happy he would have been.'

'And the dear Amy herself!'

'I can't tell. She is a wonderful person for keeping herself composed
when she ought. I see she has his picture in full view, but she says not
a word, except that mamma saw her to-day, when she thought no one was
looking, fondling the little thing, and whispering to it--"Guy's baby!"
and "Guy's little messenger!"' Charles gave up the struggle, and
fairly cried, but in a moment rallying his usual tone, he went on, half
laughing,--'To be sure, what a morsel of a creature it is! It is awful
to see anything so small calling itself a specimen of humanity!'

'It is your first acquaintance with infant humanity, I suppose? Pray,
did you ever see a baby?'

'Not to look at. In fact, Mary, I consider it a proof of your being a
rational woman that you have not asked me whether it is pretty.'

'I thought you no judge of the article.'

'No, it was not to inspect it that Amy sent for me; though after all it
was for a business I would almost as soon undertake, a thing I would not
do for any other living creature.'

'Then I know what it is. To write some kind message to Captain Morville.
Just like the dear Amy!'

'Just like her, and like no one else, except--Of course my father wrote
him an official communication yesterday, very short; but the fact must
have made it sweet enough, savage as we all were towards him, as there
was no one else to be savage to, unless it might be poor Miss Morville,
who is the chief loser by being of the feminine gender,' said Charles,
again braving what he was pleased to call sentimentality. 'Well, by and
by, my lady wants to know if any one has written to "poor Philip," as
she will call him, and, by no means contented by hearing papa had,
she sends to ask me to come to her when I came in from wheeling in the
garden; and receives me with a request that I would write and tell him
how well she is, and how glad, and so on. There's a piece of work for
me!'

'Luckily you are not quite so savage as you pretend, either to him, or
your poor little niece.'

'Whew! I should not care whether she was niece or nephew but for him;
at least not much, as long as she comforted Amy; but to see him at
Redclyffe, and be obliged to make much of him at the same time, is more
than I can very well bear; though I may as well swallow it as best I
can, for she will have me do it, as well as on Laura's account.
Amy believes, you know, that he will think the inheritance a great
misfortune; but that is only a proof that she is more amiable than any
one else.'

'I should think he would not rejoice.'

'Not exactly; but I have no fear that he will not console himself by
thinking of the good he will do with it. I have no doubt that he was
thoroughly cut up, and I could even go the length of believing that
distress of mind helped to bring on the relapse, but it is some time
ago. And as to his breaking his heart after the first ten minutes at
finding himself what he has all his life desired to be, in a situation
where the full influence of his talents may be felt,' said Charles, with
a shade of imitation of his measured tones, 'why that, no one but silly
little Amy would ever dream of.'

'Well, I dare say you will grow merciful as you write.'

'No, that is not the way to let my indignation ooze out at my fingers'
ends. I shall begin by writing to condole with Markham. Poor man! what
a state he must be in; all the more pitiable because he evidently had
entirely forgotten that there could ever be a creature of the less
worthy gender born to the house of Morville; so it will take him quite
by surprise. What will he do, and how will he ever forgive Mrs. Ashford,
who, I see in the paper, has a son whom nobody wants, as if for the
express purpose of insulting Markham's feelings! Well-a-day! I should
have liked to have had the sound of Sir Guy Morville still in my ears,
and yet I don't know that I could have endured its being applied to a
little senseless baby! And, after all, we are the gainers; for it would
have been a forlorn thing to have seen Amy go off to reign queen-mother
at Redclyffe,--and most notably well would she have reigned, with that
clear little head. I vow 'tis a talent thrown away! However, I can't
grumble. She is much happier without greatness thrust on her, and for
my own part, I have my home-sister all to myself, with no rival but that
small woman--and how she will pet her!'

'And how you will! What a spoiling uncle you will be! But now, having
heard you reason yourself into philosophy, I'll leave you to write. We
were so anxious, that I could not help coming. I am so glad that little
one thrives! I should like to leave my love for Amy, if you'll remember
it.'

'The rarity of such a message from you may enable me. I was lying
here alone, and received the collected love of five Harpers to convey
up-stairs, all which I forgot; though in its transit by Arnaud and his
French, it had become "that they made their friendships to my lady and
Mrs. Edmonstone."'

Charles had not talked so like himself for months; and Mary felt that
Amabel's child, if she had disappointed some expectations, had come like
a spring blossom, to cheer Hollywell, after its long winter of sorrow
and anxiety. She seemed to have already been received as a messenger to
comfort them for the loss, greatest of all to her, poor child, though
she would never know how great. Next Mary wondered what kind of letter
Charles would indite, and guessed it would be all the kinder for the
outpouring he had made to her, the only person with whom he ventured to
indulge in a comfortable abuse of Philip, since his good sense taught
him that, ending as affairs must, it was the only wise way to make the
best of it, with father, mother, and Charlotte, all quite sufficiently
disposed to regard Philip with aversion without his help.

Philip was at breakfast with the Henleys, on the following morning, a
Sunday,--or rather, sitting at the breakfast-table, when the letters
were brought in. Mrs. Henley, pretending to be occupied with her own,
had an eager, watchful eye on her brother, as one was placed before him.
She knew Mr. Edmonstone's writing, but was restrained from exclaiming
by her involuntary deference for her brother. He flushed deep red one
moment, then turned deadly pale, his hand, when first he raised it,
trembled, but then became firm, as if controlled by the force of his
resolution. He broke the black seal, drew out the letter, paused another
instant, unfolded it, glanced at it, pushed his chair from the table,
and hastened to me door.

'Tell me, tell me, Philip, what is it?' she exclaimed, rising to follow
him.

He turned round, threw the letter on the table, and with a sign that
forbade her to come with him, left the room.

'Poor fellow! how he feels it! That poor young creature!' said she,
catching up the letter for explanation.

'Ha! No! Listen to this, Dr. Henley. Why, he must have read it wrong!'


       'Hollywell, March 5th.

'DEAR PHILIP,--I have to announce to you that Lady Morville was safely
confined this morning with a daughter. I shall be ready to send all the
papers and accounts of the Redclyffe estate to any place you may appoint
as soon as she is sufficiently recovered to transact business. Both she
and the infant are as well as can be expected.


        --Yours sincerely,
               'C. EDMONSTONE.'


'A daughter!' cried Dr. Henley. 'Well, my dear, I congratulate you! It
is as fine a property as any in the kingdom. We shall see him pick up
strength now.'

'I must go and find him. He surely has mistaken!' said Margaret,
hastening in search of him; but he was not to be found, and she saw him
no more till she found him in the seat at church.

She hardly waited to be in the churchyard, after the service, before she
said, 'Surely you mistook the letter!'

'No, I did not.'

'You saw that she is doing well, and it is a girl.'

'I--'

'And will you not let me congratulate you?'

She was interrupted by some acquaintance; but when she looked round he
was nowhere to be seen, and she was obliged to be content with telling
every one the news. One or two of her many tame gentlemen came home
with her to luncheon, and she had the satisfaction of dilating on the
grandeur of Redclyffe. Her brother was not in the drawing-room, but
answered when she knocked at his door.

'Luncheon is ready. Will you come down?'

'Is any one there?'

'Mr. Brown and Walter Maitland. Shall I send you anything, or do you
like to come down?'

'I'll come, thank you,' said he, thus secured from a tete-a-tete.

'Had you better come? Is not your head too bad?'

'It will not be better for staying here; I'll come.'

She went down, telling her visitors that, since his illness, her brother
always suffered so much from excitement that he was too unwell to have
derived much pleasure from the tidings: and when he appeared his air
corresponded with her account, for his looks were of the gravest and
sternest. He received the congratulations of the gentlemen without
the shadow of a smile, and made them think him the haughtiest and most
dignified landed proprietor in England.

Mrs. Henley advised strongly against his going to church, but without
effect, and losing him in the crowd coming out, saw him no more till
just before dinner-time. He had steeled himself to endure all that she
and the Doctor could inflict on him that evening, and he had a hope of
persuading Amabel that it would be only doing justice to her child to
let him restore her father's inheritance, which had come to him through
circumstances that could not have been foreseen. He was determined to do
nothing like an act of possession of Redclyffe till he had implored her
to accept the offer; and it was a great relief thus to keep it in doubt
a little longer, and not absolutely feel himself profiting by Guy's
death and sitting in his seat. Not a word, however, must be said to let
his sister guess at his resolution, and he must let her torture him in
the meantime. He was vexed at having been startled into betraying his
suffering, and was humiliated at the thought of the change from that
iron imperturbability, compounded of strength, pride, and coldness in
which he had once gloried.

Dr. Henley met him with a shake of the hand, and hearty exclamation:--

'I congratulate you, Sir Philip Morville.'

'No; that is spared me,' was his answer.

'Hem! The baronetcy?'

'Yes,' said Margaret, 'I thought you knew that only goes to the direct
heir of old Sir Hugh. But you must drop the "captain" at least. You will
sell out at once?'

He patiently endured the conversation on the extent and beauty of
Redclyffe, wearing all the time a stern, resolute aspect, that his
sister knew to betoken great unhappiness. She earnestly wished to
understand him, but at last, seeing how much her conversation increased
his headache, she desisted, and left him to all the repose his thoughts
could give him. He was very much concerned at the tone of the note from
his uncle, as if it was intended to show that all connection with the
family was to be broken off. He supposed it had been concerted with some
one; with Charles, most likely,--Charles, who had judged him too truly,
and with his attachment to Guy, and aversion to himself, was doubtless
strengthening his father's displeasure, all the more for this hateful
wealth. And Laura? What did she feel?

Monday morning brought another letter. At first, he was struck with
the dread of evil tidings of Amabel or her babe, especially when he
recognized Charles's straggling handwriting; and, resolved not to be
again betrayed, he carried it up to read in his own room before his
sister had noticed it. He could hardly resolve to open it, for surely
Charles would not write to him without necessity; and what, save sorrow,
could cause that necessity? He saw that his wretchedness might be even
more complete! At length he read it, and could hardly believe his own
eyes as he saw cheering words, in a friendly style of interest and
kindliness such as he would never have expected from Charles, more
especially now.


       'Hollywell, March 6th.

'MY DEAR PHILIP,--I believe my father wrote to you in haste yesterday,
but I am sure you will be anxious for further accounts, and when there
is good news there is satisfaction in conveying it. I know you will be
glad to hear our affairs are very prosperous; and Amy, whom I have just
been visiting, is said by the authorities to be going on as well as
possible. She begs me to tell you of her welfare, and to assure you that
she is particularly pleased to have a daughter; or, perhaps, it will be
more satisfactory to have her own words. "You must tell him how well
I am, Charlie, and how very glad. And tell him that he must not vex
himself about her being a girl, for that is my great pleasure; and I
do believe, the very thing I should have chosen if I had set to work to
wish." You know Amy never said a word but in all sincerity, so you must
trust her, and I add my testimony that she is in placid spirits, and may
well be glad to escape the cares of Redclyffe. My father says he desired
Markham to write to you on the business matters. I hope the sea-breezes
may do you good. All the party here are well; but I see little of them
now, all the interest of the house is upstairs.

--Your affectionate,

'C. M, EDMONSTONE.

P. S. The baby is very small, but so plump and healthy, that no one
attempts to be uneasy about her.'


Never did letter come in better time to raise a desponding heart. Of
Amabel's forgiveness he was already certain; but that she should have
made Charles his friend was a wonder beyond all others. It gave him more
hope for the future than he had yet been able to entertain, and showed
him that the former note was no studied renunciation of him, but only an
ebullition of Mr. Edmonstone's disappointment.

It gave him spirit enough to undertake what he had long been meditating,
but without energy to set about it--an expedition to Stylehurst.
Hitherto it had been his first walk on coming to St. Mildred's, but now
the distance across the moor was far beyond his powers; and even that
length of ride was a great enterprise. It was much further by the
carriage road, and his sister never liked going there. He had never
failed to visit his old home till last year, and he felt almost glad
that he had not carried his thoughts, at that time, to his father's
grave. It was strange that, with so many more important burdens on
his mind, it had been this apparent trivial omission, this slight to
Stylehurst, that, in both his illnesses, had been the most frequently
recurring idea that had tormented him in his delirium. So deeply,
securely fixed is the love of the home of childhood in men of his mould,
in whom it is perhaps the most deeply rooted of all affections.

Without telling his sister his intention, he hired a horse, and pursued
the familiar moorland tracks. He passed South Moor Farm; it gave him too
great a pang to look at it; he rode on across the hills where he used to
walk with his sisters, and looked down into narrow valleys where he
had often wandered with his fishing-rod, lost in musings on plans for
attaining distinction, and seeing himself the greatest man of his day.
Little had he then guessed the misery which would place him in the way
to the coveted elevation, or how he would loathe it when it lay within
his grasp.

There were the trees round the vicarage, the church spire, the cottages,
whose old rough aspect, he knew so well, the whole scene, once 'redolent
of joy and youth:' but how unable to breathe on him a second spring! He
put up his horse at the village inn, and went to make his first call on
Susan, the old clerk's wife, and one of the persons in all the world who
loved him best. He knocked, opened the door, and saw her, startled from
her tea-drinking, looking at him as a stranger.

'Bless us! It beant never Master Philip!' she exclaimed, her head
shaking very fast, as she recognized his voice. 'Why, sir, what a turn
you give me! How bad you be looking, to be sure!'

He sat down and talked with her, with feelings of comfort. Tidings of
Sir Guy's death had reached the old woman, and she was much grieved for
the nice, cheerful-spoken young gentleman, whom she well remembered; for
she, like almost every one who had ever had any intercourse with him,
had an impression left of him, as of something winning, engaging,
brightening, like a sunbeam. It was a refreshment to meet with one who
would lament him for his own sake, and had no congratulations for Philip
himself; and the 'Sure, sure, it must have been very bad for you,' with
which old Susan heard of the circumstances, carried more of the comfort
of genuine sympathy than all his sister's attempts at condolence.

She told him how often Sir Guy had been at Stylehurst, how he had talked
to her about the archdeacon; and especially she remembered his helping
her husband one day when he found him trimming the ash over the
archdeacon's grave. He used to come very often to church there, more in
the latter part of his stay; there was one Sunday--it was the one before
Michaelmas--he was there all day, walking in the churchyard, and sitting
in the porch between services.

'The Sunday before Michaelmas!' thought Philip, the very time when he
had been most earnest in driving his uncle to persecute, and delighting
himself in having triumphed over Guy at last, and obtained tangible
demonstration of his own foresight, and his cousin's vindictive spirit.
What had he been throwing away? Where had, in truth, been the hostile
spirit?

He took the key of the church, and walked thither alone, standing for
several minutes by the three graves, with a sensation as if his father
was demanding of him an account of the boy he had watched, and brought
to his ancestral home, and cared for through his orphaned childhood. But
for the prayer-book, the pledge that there had been peace at the last,
how could he have borne it?

Here was the paved path he had trodden in early childhood, holding his
mother's hand, where, at each recurring vacation during his school days,
he had walked between his admiring sisters, in the consciousness that he
was the pride of his family and of all the parish. Of his family? Did he
not remember his return home for the last time before that when he was
summoned thither by his father's death? He had come with a whole freight
of prizes, and letters full of praises; and as he stood, in expectation
of the expression of delighted satisfaction, his father laid his hand
on his trophy, the pile of books, saying, gravely,--' All this would I
give, Philip, for one evidence of humility of mind.'

It had been his father's one reproof. He had thought it unjust and
unreasonable, and turned away impatiently to be caressed and admired by
Margaret. His real feelings had been told to her, because she flattered
them and shared them, he had been reserved and guarded with the
father who would have perceived and repressed that ambition and the
self-sufficiency which he himself had never known to exist, nor regarded
as aught but sober truth. It had been his bane, that he had been always
too sensible to betray outwardly his self-conceit, in any form that
could lead to its being noticed.

He opened the church door, closed it behind him, and locked himself in.

He came up to the communion rail, where he had knelt for the first time
twelve years ago, confident in himself, and unconscious of the fears
with which his father's voice was trembling in the intensity of his
prayer for one in whom there was no tangible evil, and whom others
thought a pattern of all that could be desired by the fondest hopes.

He knelt down, with bowed head, and hands clasped. Assuredly, if his
father could have beheld him then, it would have been with rejoicing. He
would not have sorrowed that robust frame was wasted, and great strength
brought low; that the noble features were worn, the healthful cheek
pale, and the powerful intellect clouded and weakened; he would hardly
have mourned for the cruel grief and suffering, such would have been
his joy that the humble, penitent, obedient heart had been won at last.
Above all, he would have rejoiced that the words that most soothed that
wounded spirit were,--'A broken and contrite heart, O God, Thou wilt not
despise.'

There was solace in that solemn silence; the throbs of head and heart
were stilled in the calm around. It was as if the influences of the
prayers breathed for him by his father, and the forgiveness and loving
spirit there won by Guy, had been waiting for him there till he came to
take them up, for thenceforth the bitterest of his despair was over, and
he could receive each token of Amabel's forgiveness, not as heaped coals
of fire, but as an earnest of forgiveness sealed in heaven.

The worst was over, and though he still had much to suffer, he was
becoming open to receive comfort; the blank dark remorse in which he had
been living began to lighten, and the tone of his mind to return.

He spoke more cheerfully to Susan when he restored the key; but she had
been so shocked at his appearance, that when, the next day, a report
reached her that Mr. Philip was now a grand gentleman, and very rich,
she answered,--

'Well, if it be so, I am glad of it, but he said never a word of it to
me, and it is my belief he would give all the money as ever was coined,
to have the poor young gentleman back again. Depend upon it, he hates
the very sound of it.'

At the cost of several sheets of paper, Philip at length completed a
letter to Mr. Edmonstone, which, when he had sent it, made his suspense
more painful.


       'St. Mildred's, March 12th.

'MY DEAR MR. Edmonstone,--It is with a full sense of the unfitness of
intruding such a subject upon you in the present state of the family,
that I again address you on the same topic as that on which I wrote to
you from Italy, at the first moment at which I have felt it possible
to ask your attention. I was then too ill to be able to express my
contrition for all that has passed; in fact, I doubt whether it was even
then so deep as at present, since every succeeding week has but added
to my sense of the impropriety of my conduct, and my earnest desire for
pardon. I can hardly venture at such a time to ask anything further, but
I must add that my sentiments towards your daughter are unaltered, and
can never cease but with my life, and though I know I have rendered
myself unworthy of her, and my health, both mental and bodily, is far
from being re-established, I cannot help laying my feelings before
you, and entreating that you will put an end to the suspense which has
endured for so many months, by telling me to hope that I have not for
ever forfeited your consent to my attachment. At least, I trust to your
kindness for telling me on what terms I am for the present to stand with
your family. I am glad to hear such favourable reports of Lady Morville,
and with all my heart I thank Charles for his letter.

       'Yours ever affectionately,
                'P. H. MORVILLE.'


He ardently watched for a reply. He could not endure the idea of
receiving it where Margaret's eyes could scan the emotion he could
now only conceal by a visible rigidity of demeanour, and he daily
went himself to the post-office, but in vain. He received nothing but
business letters, and among them one from Markham, with as much defiance
and dislike in its style as could be shown, in a perfectly formal,
proper letter. Till he had referred to Lady Morville, he would not
make any demonstration towards Redclyffe, and evaded all his sister's
questions as to what he was doing about it, and when he should take
measures for leaving the army, or obtaining a renewal of the baronetcy.

Anxiety made him look daily more wretchedly haggard; the Doctor was at
fault, Mrs. Henley looked sagacious, while his manner became so dry
and repellent that visitors went away moralizing on the absurdity of
"nouveaux riches" taking so much state on them.

He wondered how soon he might venture to write to Amabel, on whom alone
he could depend; but he felt it a sort of profanity to disturb her.

He had nearly given up his visits to the post in despair, when one
morning he beheld what never failed to bring some soothing influence,
namely, the fair pointed characters he had not dared to hope for. He
walked quickly into the promenade, sat down, and read:--


       'Hollywell, March 22nd.

'MY DEAR PHILIP,--Papa does not answer your letter, because he says
speaking is better than writing, and we hope you are well enough to
come to us before Sunday week. I hope to take our dear little girl to
be christened on that day, and I want you to be so kind as to be
her godfather. I ask it of you, not only in my own name, but in her
father's, for I am sure it is what he would choose. Her Aunt Laura and
Mary Ross are to be her godmothers, I hope you will not think me very
foolish and fanciful for naming her Mary Verena, in remembrance of our
old readings of Sintram. She is a very healthy, quiet creature, and I am
getting on very well. I am writing from the dressing-room, and I expect
to be down-stairs in a few days. If you do not dislike it very much,
could you be so kind as to call upon Miss Wellwood, and pay little
Marianne Dixon's quarter for me? It is £1O, and it will save trouble
if you would do it; besides that, I should like to hear of her and the
little girl. I am sorry to hear you are not better,--perhaps coming here
may do you good.--Four o'clock. I have been keeping my letter in hopes
of persuading papa to put in a note, but he says he had rather send a
message that he is quite ready to forgive and forget, and it will be
best to talk it over when you come."

'Your affectionate cousin,

'A. F. MORVILLE.'


It was well he was not under his sister's eye, for he could not read
this letter calmly, and he was obliged to take several turns along
the walk before he could recover his composure enough to appear in the
breakfast-room, where he found his sister alone, dealing her letters
into separate packets of important and unimportant.

'Good morning, Philip. Dr. Henley is obliged to go to Bramshaw this
morning, and has had an early breakfast. Have you been out?'

'Yes, it is very fine--I mean it will be--the haze is clearing.'

Margaret saw that he was unusually agitated, and not by grief; applied
herself to tea-making, and hoped his walk had given him an appetite; but
there seemed little chance of this so long were his pauses between each
morsel, and so often did he lean back in his chair.

'I am going to leave you on--on Friday,' he said at length, abruptly.

'Oh, are you going to Redclyffe?'

'No; to Hollywell. Lady Morville wishes me to be her little girl's
sponsor; I shall go to London on Friday, and on, the next day.'

'I am glad they have asked you. Does she write herself? Is she pretty
well?

'Yes; she is to go down-stairs in a day or two.'

'I am rejoiced that she is recovering so well. Do you know whether she
is in tolerable spirits?'

'She writes cheerfully.'

'How many years is it since I saw her? She was quite a child, but very
sweet-tempered and attentive to poor Charles,' said Mrs. Henley, feeling
most amiably disposed towards her future sister-in-law.

'Just so. Her gentleness and sweet temper were always beautiful; and
she has shown herself under her trials what it would be presumptuous to
praise.'

Margaret had no doubt now, and thought he was ready for more open
sympathy.

'You must let me congratulate you now on this unexpected dawn of hope,
after your long trial, my dear brother. It is a sort of unconscious
encouragement you could hardly hope for.'

'I did not know you knew anything of it,' said Philip.

'Ah! my dear brother, you betrayed yourself. You need not be
disconcerted; only a sister could see the real cause of your want of
spirits. Your manner at each mention of her, your anxiety, coupled with
your resolute avoidance of her--'

'Of whom? Do you know what you are talking of, sister!' said Philip,
sternly.

'Of Amabel, of course.'

Philip rose, perfectly awful in his height and indignation.

'Sister!' he said--paused, and began again. 'I have been attached to
Laura Edmonstone for years past, and Lady Morville knows it.'

'To Laura!' cried Mrs. Henley, in amaze. 'Are you engaged?' and, as he
was hardly prepared to answer, she continued, 'If you have not gone too
far to recede, only consider before you take any rash step. You come
into this property without ready money, you will find endless claims,
and if you marry at once, and without fortune, you will never be clear
from difficulties.'

'I have considered,' he replied, with cold loftiness that would have
silenced any one, not of the same determined mould.

'You are positively committed, then!' she said, much vexed. 'Oh, Philip!
I did not think you would have married for mere beauty.'

'I can hear no more discussion on this point,' answered Philip, in the
serious, calm tone that showed so much power over himself and every one
else.

It put Margaret to silence, though she was excessively disappointed to
find him thus involved just at his outset, when he might have married
so much more advantageously. She was sorry, too, that she had shown her
opinion so plainly, since it was to be, and hurt his feelings just as
he seemed to be thawing. She would fain have learned more; but he was
completely shut up within himself, and never opened again to her. She
had never before so grated on every delicate feeling in his mind; and
he only remained at her house because in his present state of health,
he hardly knew where to bestow himself till it was time for him to go to
Hollywell.

He went to call on Miss Wellwood, to whom his name was no slight
recommendation, and she met him eagerly, asking after Lady Morville,
who, she said, had twice written to her most kindly about little
Marianne.

It was a very pleasant visit, and a great relief. He looked at the
plans, heard the fresh arrangements, admired, was interested, and took
pleasure in having something to tell Amabel. He asked for Marianne, and
heard that she was one of the best of children--amiable, well-disposed,
only almost too sensitive. Miss Wellwood said it was remarkable how
deep an impression Sir Guy had made upon her, and how affectionately she
remembered his kindness; and her distress at hearing of his death had
been far beyond what such a child could have been supposed to feel, both
in violence and in duration.

Philip asked to see her, knowing it would please Amabel, and in she
came--a long, thin, nine-year-old child, just grown into the encumbering
shyness, that is by no means one of the graces of "la vieillesse de
l'enfance".

He wished to be kind and encouraging; but melancholy, added to his
natural stateliness, made him very formidable; and poor Marianne was
capable of nothing beyond 'yes' or 'no.'

He told her he was going to see Lady Morville and her little girl,
whereat she eagerly raised her eyes, then shrank in affright at anything
so tall, and so unlike Sir Guy. He said the baby was to be christened
next Sunday, and Miss Wellwood helped him out by asking the name.

'Mary,' he said, for he was by no means inclined to explain the Verena,
though he knew not half what it conveyed to Amabel.

Lastly, he asked if Marianne had any message; when she hung down her
head, and whispered to Miss Wellwood, what proved to be 'My love to dear
little cousin Mary.'

He promised to deliver it, and departed, wishing he could more easily
unbend.


CHAPTER 40

     Blest, though every tear that falls
     Doth in its silence of past sorrow tell,
     And makes a meeting seem most like a dear farewell.
                                     --WORDSWORTH


On Saturday afternoon, about half-past five, Philip Morville found
himself driving up to the well-known front door of Hollywell. At the
door he heard that every one was out excepting Lady Morville, who never
came down till the evening, save for a drive in the carriage.

He entered the drawing-room, and gazed on the scene where he had spent
so many happy hours, only darkened by that one evil spot, that had
grown till it not only poisoned his own mind, but cast a gloom over that
bright home.

All was as usual. Charles's sofa, little table, books, and inkstand, the
work-boxes on the table, the newspaper in Mr. Edmonstone's old folds.
Only the piano was closed, and an accumulation of books on the hinge
told how long it had been so; and the plants in the bay window were
brown and dry, not as when they were Amabel's cherished nurslings. He
remembered Amabel's laughing face and abundant curls, when she carried
in the camellia, and thought how little he guessed then that he should
be the destroyer of the happiness of her young life. How should he meet
her--a widow in her father's house--or look at her fatherless child?
He wondered how he had borne to come thither at all, and shrank at the
thought that this very evening, in a few hours, he must see her.

The outer door opened, there was a soft step, and Amabel stood before
him, pale, quiet, and with a smile of welcome. Her bands of hair looked
glossy under her widow's cap, and the deep black of her dress was
relieved by the white robes of the babe that lay on her arm. She held
out her hand, and he pressed it in silence.

'I thought you would like just to see baby,' said she, in a voice
something like apology.

He held out his arms to take it, for which Amy was by no means prepared.
She was not quite happy even in trusting it in her sister's arms, and
she supposed he had never before touched an infant. But that was all
nonsense, and she would not vex him with showing any reluctance; so she
laid the little one on his arm, and saw his great hand holding it most
carefully, but the next moment he turned abruptly from her. Poor silly
little Amy, her heart beat not a little till he turned back, restored
the babe, and while he walked hastily to the window, she saw that two
large tear-drops had fallen on the white folds of its mantle. She did
not speak; she guessed how much he must feel in thus holding Guy's
child, and, besides, her own tears would now flow so easily that she
must be on her guard. She sat down, settled the little one on her knee,
and gave him time to recover himself.

Presently he came and stood by her saying, in a most decided tone,
'Amabel, you must let me do this child justice.'

She looked up, wondering what he could mean.

'I will not delay in taking steps for restoring her inheritance,' said
he, hoping by determination to overpower Amabel, and make her believe it
a settled and a right thing.

'O Philip, you are not thinking of that!'

'It is to be done.'

'You would not be so unkind to this poor little girl,' said Amy, with a
persuasive smile, partaking of her old playfulness, adding, very much
in earnest, 'Pray put it out of your head directly, for it would be very
wrong.'

The nurse knocked at the door to fetch the baby, as Amabel had desired.
When this interruption was over, Philip came and sat down opposite to
her, and began with his most decided manner:--

'You must listen to me, Amy, and not allow any scruples to prevent you
from permitting your child to be restored to her just rights. You must
see that the estate has come to me by circumstances such that no honest
man can be justified in retaining it. The entail was made to exclude
females, only because of the old Lady Granard. It is your duty to
consent.'

'The property has always gone in the male line,' replied Amabel.

'There never was such a state of things. Old Sir Guy could never have
thought of entailing it away from his own descendant on a distant
cousin. It would be wrong of me to profit by these unforeseen
contingencies, and you ought not, in justice to your child, to object.'

He spoke so forcibly and decidedly that he thought he must have
prevailed. But not one whit convinced, Amabel answered, in her own
gentle voice, but beginning with a business-like argument:--'Such a
possibility was contemplated. It was all provided for in the marriage
settlements. Indeed, I am afraid that, as it is, she will be a great
deal too rich. Besides, Philip, I am sure this is exactly what Guy would
have chosen,' and the tears rose in her eyes. 'The first thing that came
into my head when she was born, was, that it was just what he wished,
that I should have her for myself, and that you should take care of
Redclyffe. I am certain now that he hoped it would be so. I know--indeed
I do--that he took great pleasure in thinking of its being in your
hands, and of your going on with all he began. You can't have forgotten
how much he left in your charge? If you were to give it up, it would be
against his desire; and with that knowledge, how could I suffer it?
Then think what a misfortune to her, poor little thing, to be a great
heiress, and how very bad for Redclyffe to have no better a manager
than me! Oh, Philip, can you not see it is best as it is, and just as he
wished?'

He almost groaned--'If you could guess what a burden it is.'

'Ah! but you must carry it, not throw it down on such hands as mine and
that tiny baby's,' said she, smiling.

'It would have been the same if it had been a boy.'

'Yes; then I must have done the best I could, and there would have been
an end to look to, but I am so glad to be spared. And you are so fit for
it, and will make it turn to so much use to every one.'

'I don't feel as if I should ever be of use to any one,' said Philip, in
a tone of complete dejection.

'Your head is aching,' said she, kindly.

'It always does, more or less,' replied he, resting it on his hand.

'I am so sorry. Has it been so ever since you were ill? But you are
better? You look better than when I saw you last.'

'I am better on the whole, but I doubt whether I shall ever be as strong
as I used to be. That ought to make me hesitate, even if--' then came a
pause, while he put his hand over his face, and seemed struggling with
irrepressible emotion; and after all he was obliged to take two walks to
the window before he could recover composure, and could ask in a voice
which he tried to make calm and steady, though his face was deeply
flushed--'Amy, how is Laura?'

'She is very well,' answered Amabel. 'Only you must not be taken by
surprise if you see her looking thinner.'

'And she has trusted--she has endured through all?' said he, with
inquiring earnestness.

'O yes!'

'And they--your father and mother--can forgive?'

'They do--they have. But, Philip, it was one of the things I came down
to say to you. I don't think you must expect papa to begin about it
himself. You know he does not like awkwardness, though he will be very
glad when once it is done, and ready to meet you half way.' He did not
answer, and after a silence Amabel added, 'Laura is out of doors. She
and Charlotte take very long walks.'

'And is she really strong and well, or is it that excited overdoing of
employment that I first set her upon?' he asked, anxiously.

'She is perfectly well, and to be busy has been a great help to her,'
said Amabel. 'It was a great comfort that we did not know how ill you
had been at Corfu, till the worst was over. Eveleen only mentioned it
when you were better. I was very anxious, for I had some fears from the
note that you sent by Arnaud. I am very glad to see you safe here, for I
have felt all along that we forsook you; but I could not help it.'

'I am very glad you did not stay. The worst of all would have been that
you should have run any risk.'

'There is the carriage,' said Amy. 'Mamma and Charlie have been to
Broadstone. They thought they might meet you by the late train.'

Philip's colour rose. He stood up--sat down; then rising once more,
leant on the mantel-piece, scarcely knowing how to face either of
them--his aunt, with her well-merited displeasure, and Charles, who
when he parted with him had accused him so justly--Charles, who had seen
through him and had been treated with scorn.

A few moments, and Charles came in, leaning on his mother. They both
shook hands, exclaimed at finding Amabel downstairs, and Mrs. Edmonstone
asked after Philip's health in her would-be cordial manner. The two
ladies then went up-stairs together, and thus ended that conference,
in which both parties had shown rare magnanimity, of which they were
perfectly unconscious; and perhaps the most remarkable part of all
was that Philip quietly gave up the great renunciation and so-called
sacrifice, with which he had been feeding his hopes, at the simple
bidding of the gentle-spoken Amabel--not even telling her that he
resigned it. He kept the possessions which he abhorred, and gave up the
renunciation he had longed to make, and in this lay the true sacrifice,
the greater because the world would think him the gainer.

When the mother and daughter were gone, the cousins were silent, Philip
resting his elbow on the mantel-shelf and his head on his hand, and
Charles sitting at the end of the sofa, warming first one hand, then the
other, while he looked up to the altered face, and perceived in it grief
and humiliation almost as plainly as illness. His keen eyes read that
the sorrow was indeed more deeply rooted than he had hitherto believed,
and that Amabel's pity had not been wasted; and he was also struck by
the change from the great personal strength that used to make nothing of
lifting his whole weight.

'I am sorry to see you so pulled down,' said he. 'We must try if we can
doctor you better than they did at St. Mildred's. Are you getting on, do
you think?'

He had hardly ever spoken to Philip, so entirely without either
bitterness or sarcasm, and his manner hardly seemed like that of the
same person.

'Thank you, I am growing stronger; but as long as I cannot get rid of
this headache, I am good for nothing.'

'You have had a long spell of illness indeed,' said Charles. 'You can't
expect to shake off two fevers in no time. Now all the anxiety is over,
you will brighten like this house.'

'But tell me, what is thought of Amabel? Is she as well as she ought to
be?'

'Yes, quite, they say--has recovered her strength very fast, and is
in just the right spirits. She was churched yesterday, and was not
the worse for it. It was a trial, for she had not been to East-hill
since--since last May.'

'It is a blessing, indeed,' said Philip, earnestly.

'She has been so very happy with the baby,' said Charles. 'You hear what
its name is to be?'

'Yes, she told me in her letter.'

'To avoid having to tell you here, I suppose. Mary is for common wear,
Verena is for ourselves. She asked if it would be too foolish to give
such a name, and mamma said the only question was, whether she would
like indifferent people to ask the reason of it.'

Philip lapsed into thought, and presently said, abruptly, 'When last we
parted you told me I was malignant. You were right.'

'Shake hands!' was all Charles's reply, and no more was said till
Charles rose, saying it was time to dress. Philip was about to help him,
but he answered, 'No, thank you, I am above trusting to anything but my
own crutches now; I am proud to show you what feats I can perform.'

Charles certainly did get on with less difficulty than heretofore, but
it was more because he wanted to spare Philip fatigue than because he
disdained assistance, that he chose to go alone. Moreover, he did what
he had never done for any one before--he actually hopped the whole
length of the passage, beyond his own door to do the honours of Philip's
room, and took a degree of pains for his comfort that seemed too
marvellous to be true in one who had hitherto only lived to be attended
on.

By the time he had settled Philip, the rest of the party had come home,
and he found himself wanted in the dressing-room, to help his mother
to encourage his father to enter on the conversation with Philip in the
evening, for poor Mr. Edmonstone was in such a worry and perplexity,
that the whole space till the dinner-bell rang was insufficient to
console him in. Laura, meanwhile, was with Amabel, who was trying to
cheer her fluttering spirits and nerves, which, after having been so
long harassed, gave way entirely at the moment of meeting Philip again.
How would he regard her after her weakness in betraying him for want
of self-command? Might he not be wishing to be free of one who had so
disappointed him, and only persisting in the engagement from a sense of
honour! The confidence in his affection, which had hitherto sustained
her, was failing; and not all Amabel could say would reassure her. No
one could judge of him but herself, his words were so cautious, and he
had so much command over himself, that nobody could guess. Of course he
felt bound to her; but if she saw one trace of his being only influenced
by honour and pity, she would release him, and he should never see the
struggle.

She had worked herself up into almost a certainty that so it would be,
and Amabel was afraid she would not be fit to go down to dinner; but the
sound of the bell, and the necessity of moving, seemed to restore the
habit of external composure in a moment. She settled her countenance,
and left the room.

Charlotte, meantime, had been dressing alone, and raging against Philip,
declaring she could never bear to speak to him, and that if she was Amy
she would never have chosen him for a godfather. And to think of his
marrying just like a good hero in a book, and living very happy ever
after! To be sure she was sorry for poor Laura; but it was all very
wrong, and now they would be rewarded! How could Charlie be so provoking
as to talk about his sorrow! She hoped he was sorry; and as to his
illness, it served him right.

All this Charlotte communicated to Bustle; but Bustle had heard some
mysterious noise, and insisted on going to investigate the cause; and
Charlotte, finding her own domain dark and cold, and private conferences
going on in Amabel's apartment and the dressing-room, was fain to follow
him down-stairs, as soon as her toilet was complete, only hoping Philip
would keep out of the way.

But, behold, there he was; and even Bustle was propitiated, for she
found him, his nose on Philip's knee, looking up in his face, and
wagging his tail, while Philip stroked and patted him, and could hardly
bear the appealing expression of the eyes, that, always wistful, now
seemed to every one to be looking for his master.

To see this attention to Bustle won Charlotte over in a moment. 'How are
you, Philip? Good dog, dear old Bustle!' came in a breath, and they were
both making much of the dog, when she amicably asked if he had seen the
baby, and became eager in telling about the christening.

The dinner-bell brought every one down but Amabel. The trembling hands
of Philip and Laura met for a moment, and they were in the dining-room.

Diligently and dutifully did Charles and Mrs. Edmonstone keep up the
conversation; the latter about her shopping, the former about the
acquaintances who had come to speak to him as he sat in the carriage. As
soon as possible, Mrs. Edmonstone left the dining-room, then Laura flew
up again to the dressing-room, sank down on a footstool by Amabel's
side, and exclaiming, 'O Amy, he is looking so ill!' burst into a flood
of tears.

The change had been a shock for which Laura had not been prepared.
Amy, who had seen him look so much worse, had not thought of it, and
it overcame Laura more than all her anxieties, lest his love should be
forfeited. She sobbed inconsolably over the alteration, and it was long
before Amabel could get her to hear that his face was much less thin
now, and that he was altogether much stronger; it was fatigue and
anxiety to-night, and to-morrow he would be better. Laura proceeded
to brood over her belief that his altered demeanour, his settled
melancholy, his not seeking her eye, his cold shake of the hand, all
arose from the diminution of his love, and his dislike to be encumbered
with a weak, foolish wife, with whom he had entangled himself when he
deemed her worthy of him. She dwelt on all this in silence, as she
sat at her sister's feet, and Amy left her to think, only now and then
giving some caress to her hair or cheek, and at each touch the desolate
waste of life that poor Laura was unfolding before herself was rendered
less dreary by the thought, 'I have my sister still, and she knows
sorrow too.' Then she half envied Amy, who had lost her dearest by
death, and held his heart fast to the last; not, like herself, doomed to
see the love decay for which she had endured so long--decay at the very
moment when the suspense was over.

Laura might justly have envied Amabel, though for another reason; it was
because in her cup there was no poison of her own infusing.

There she stayed till Charlotte came to summon her to tea, saying the
gentlemen, except Charles, were still in the dining-room.

They had remained sitting over the fire for a considerable space,
waiting for each other to begin, Mr. Edmonstone irresolute, Philip
striving to master his feelings, and to prevent increasing pain and
confusion from making him forget what he intended, to say. At last, Mr.
Edmonstone started up, pulled out his keys, took a candle, and said,
'Come to the study--I'll give you the Redclyffe papers.'

'Thank you,' said Philip, also rising, but only because he could not sit
while his uncle stood. 'Not to-night, if you please. I could not attend
to them.'

'What, your head? Eh?'

'Partly. Besides, there is another subject on which I hope you will set
me at rest before I can enter on any other.'

'Yes--yes--I know,' said Mr. Edmonstone, moving uneasily.

'I am perfectly conscious how deeply I have offended.'

Mr. Edmonstone could not endure the apology.

'Well, well,' he broke in nervously, 'I know all that, and it can't be
helped. Say no more about it. Young people will be foolish, and I have
been young and in love myself.'

That Captain Morville should live to be thankful for being forgiven in
consideration of Mr. Edmonstone's having been young!

'May I then consider myself as pardoned, and as having obtained your
sanction?'

'Yes, yes, yes; and I hope it will cheer poor Laura up again a little.
Four years has it gone on? Constancy, indeed! and it is time it should
be rewarded. We little thought what you were up to, so grave and demure
as you both were. So you won't have the papers to-night? I can't say
you do look fit for business. Perhaps Laura may suit you better--eh,
Philip?'

Love-making was such a charming sight to Mr. Edmonstone, that having
once begun to look on Philip and Laura as a pair of lovers, he could not
help being delighted, and forgetting, as well as forgiving, all that had
been wrong.

They did not, however, exactly answer his ideas; Laura did not once look
up, and Philip, instead of going boldly to take the place next her, sat
down, holding his hand to his forehead, as if too much overpowered by
indisposition to think of anything else. Such was in great measure the
case; he was very much fatigued with the journey, and these different
agitating scenes had increased the pain in his head to a violent degree;
besides which, feeling that his aunt still regarded him as she did
at Recoara, he could not bear to make any demonstration towards Laura
before her, lest she might think it a sort of triumphant disregard of
her just displeasure.

Poor Laura saw in it both severe suffering and dislike to her; and the
more she understood from her father's manner what had passed in the
other room, the more she honoured him for the sacrifice he was making of
himself.

Mrs. Edmonstone waited on the headache with painful attention, but they
all felt that the only thing to be done for the two poor things was
to let them come to an explanation; so Charlotte was sent to bed, her
mother went up to Amy, Charles carried off his father to the study, and
they found themselves alone.

Laura held down her face, and struggled to make her palpitating heart
and dry tongue suffer her to begin the words to which she had wound
herself up. Philip raised his hands from his eyes as the door shut, then
rose up, and fixed them on Laura. She, too, looked up, as if to begin;
their eyes met, and they understood all. He stepped towards her, and
held out his hands. The next moment both hers were clasped in his--he
had bent down and kissed her brow.

No words of explanation passed between them. Laura knew he was her own,
and needed no assurance that her misgivings had been vain. There was a
start of extreme joy, such as she had known twice before, but it could
be only for a moment while he looked so wretchedly unwell. It did but
give her the right to attend to him. The first thing she said was to beg
him to lie down on the sofa; her only care was to make him comfortable
with cushions, and he was too entirely worn out to say anything he had
intended, capable only of giving himself up to the repose of knowing her
entirely his own, and of having her to take care of him. There he lay
on the sofa, with his eyes shut, and Laura's hand in his, while she sat
beside him, neither of them speaking; and, excepting that she withdrew
her hand, neither moved when the others returned.

Mrs. Edmonstone compassionated him, and showed a great deal of
solicitude about him, trying hard to regard him as she used to do, yet
unable to bring back the feeling, and therefore, do what she would,
failing to wear its semblance.

Laura, sad, anxious, and restless, had no relief till she went to wish
her sister good night. Amabel, who was already in bed, stretched out her
hand with a sweet look, beaming with affection and congratulation.

'You don't want to be convinced now that all is right!' said she.

'His head is so dreadfully bad!' said Laura.

'Ah! it will get better now his mind is at rest.'

'If it will but do so!'

'And you know you must be happy to-morrow, because of baby.'

'My dear,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, coming in, 'I am sorry to prevent your
talk, but Amy must not be kept awake. She must keep her strength for
to-morrow.'

'Good night, then, dear, dear Laura. I am so glad your trouble is over,
and you have him again!' whispered Amabel, with her parting kiss; and
Laura went away, better able to hope, to pray, and to rest, than she
could have thought possible when she left the drawing-room.

'Poor dear Laura,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, sighing; 'I hope he will soon
be better.'

'Has it been very uncomfortable?'

'I can't say much for it, my dear. He was suffering terribly with his
head, so that I should have been quite alarmed if he had not said it was
apt to get worse in the evening; and she, poor thing, was only watching
him. However, it is a comfort to have matters settled; and papa and
Charlie are well pleased with him. But I must not keep you awake after
driving Laura away. You are not over-tired to-night I hope, my dear?'

'Oh, no; only sleepy. Good night, dearest mamma.'

'Good night, my own Amy;' then, as Amy put back the coverings to show
the little face nestled to sleep on her bosom, 'good night, you little
darling! don't disturb your mamma. How comfortable you look! Good night,
my dearest!'

Mrs. Edmonstone looked for a moment, while trying to check the tears
that came at the thought of the night, one brief year ago, when she left
Amy sleeping in the light of the Easter moon. Yet the sense of peace and
serenity that had then given especial loveliness to the maiden's
chamber on that night, was there still with the young widow. It was dim
lamplight now that beamed on the portrait of her husband, casting on it
the shade of the little wooden cross in front, while she was shaded by
the white curtains drawn from her bed round the infant's little cot,
so as to shut them both into the quiet twilight, where she lay with
an expression of countenance that, though it was not sorrow, made Mrs.
Edmonstone more ready to weep than if it had been; so with her last good
night she left her.

And Amabel always liked to be shut in by herself, dearly as she loved
them all, and mamma especially; there was always something pleasant in
being able to return to her own world, to rest in the thoughts of her
husband, and in the possession of the little unconscious creature that
had come to inhabit that inner world of hers, the creature that was only
his and hers.

She had from the first always felt herself less lonely when quite
alone, before with his papers, and now with his child; and could Mrs.
Edmonstone have seen her face, she would have wept and wondered more, as
Amy fondled and hushed her babe, whispering to it fond words which she
could never have uttered in the presence of any one who could understand
them, and which had much of her extreme youthfulness in them. Not one
was so often repeated or so endearing as 'Guy's baby! Guy's own dear
little girl!' It did not mean half so much when she called it her baby;
and she loved to tell the little one that her father had been the best
and the dearest, but he was gone away, and would she be contented to be
loving and good with only her mother to take care of her, and tell her,
as well as she could, what a father hers was, when she was old enough to
know about him?

To-night, Amy told her much in that soft, solemn, murmuring tone, about
what was to befall her to-morrow, and the great blessings to be given
to her, and how the poor little fatherless one would be embraced in the
arms of His mercy, and received by her great Father in heaven:--'Ay, and
brought nearer to your own papa, and know him in some inner way, and he
will know his little child then, for you will be as good and pure and
bright as he, and you will belong to the great communion of saints
to-morrow, you precious little one, and be so much nearer to him as you
will be so much better than I. Oh! baby, if we can but both endure to
the end!'

With such half-uttered words, Amabel Morville slept the night before her
babe's christening.


CHAPTER 41

     A stranger's roof to hold thy head,
     A stranger's foot thy grave to tread;
     Desert and rock, and Alp and sea,
     Spreading between thy home and thee.
                            --SEWELL


Mary Ross was eager for the first report from Hollywell the next
morning, and had some difficulty in keeping her attention fixed on her
class at school. Laura and Charlotte came in together in due time, and
satisfied her so far as to tell her that Amy was very well.

'Is Captain Morville come?' thought Mary. 'No, I cannot guess by Laura's
impressive face. Never mind, Charles will tell me all between services.'

The first thing she saw on coming out of school was the pony carriage,
with Charles and Captain Morville himself. Charlotte, who was all
excitement, had time to say, while her sister was out of hearing,--

'It is all made up now, Mary, and I really am very sorry for Philip.'

It was fortunate that Mary understood the amiable meaning this speech
was intended to convey, and she began to enter into its grounds in the
short conference after church, when she saw the alteration in the whole
expression of countenance.

'Yes,' said Charles, who as usual remained at the vicarage during the
two services, and who perceived what passed in her mind, 'if it is any
satisfaction to you to have a good opinion of your fellow-sponsor, I
assure you that I am converted to Amy's opinion. I do believe the black
dog is off his back for good and all.'

'I never saw any one more changed,' said Mary.

'Regularly tamed,' said Charles. He is something more like his old self
to-day than last night, and yet not much. He was perfectly overpowered
then--so knocked up that there was no judging of him. To-day he has all
his sedateness and scrupulous attention, but all like a shadow of former
time--not a morsel of sententiousness, and seeming positively grateful
to be treated in the old fashion.'

'He looks very thin and pale. Do you think him recovered?'

'A good way from it,' said Charles. 'He is pretty well to-day,
comparatively, though that obstinate headache hangs about him. If this
change last longer than that and his white looks, I shall not even
grudge him the sponsorship Amy owed me.'

'Very magnanimous!' said Mary. 'Poor Laura! I am glad her suspense is
over. I wondered to see her at school.'

'They are very sad and sober lovers, and it is the best way of not
making themselves unbearable, considering--Well, that was a different
matter. How little we should have believed it, if any one had told us
last year what would be the state of affairs to-day. By the bye, Amy's
godson is christened to-day.'

'Who?'

'Didn't you hear that the Ashfords managed to get Amy asked if she would
dislike their calling their boy by that name we shall never hear again,
and she was very much pleased, and made offer in her own pretty way to
be godmother. I wonder how Markham endures it! I believe he is nearly
crazy. He wrote me word he should certainly have given up all concern
with Redclyffe, but for the especial desire of--.What a state of mind
he will be in, when he remembers how he has been abusing the captain to
me!'

The afternoon was fresh and clear, and there was a spring brightness in
the sunshine that Amabel took as a greeting to her little maiden, as
she was carried along the churchyard path. Many an eye was bent on the
mother and child, especially on the slight form, unseen since she had
last walked down the aisle, her arm linked in her bridegroom's.

'Little Amy Edmonstone,' as they had scarcely learnt to cease from
calling her, before she was among them again, the widowed Lady Morville;
and with those kind looks of compassion for her, were joined many
affectionate mourning thoughts of the young husband and father, lying
far away in his foreign grave, and endeared by kindly remembrances to
almost all present. There was much of pity for his unconscious infant,
and tears were shed at the thought of what the wife must be suffering;
but if the face could have been seen beneath the thick crape folds
of her veil, it would have shown no tears--only a sweet, calm look of
peace, and almost gladness.

The babe was on her knees when the time for the christening came; she
was awake, and now and then making a little sound and as she was quieter
with her than any one else, Amabel thought she might herself carry her
to the font.

It was deep, grave happiness to stand there, with her child in her arms,
and with an undefined sense that she was not alone as if in some manner
her husband was present with her; praying with her prayers, and joining
in offering up their treasure; when the babe was received into Mr.
Ross's arms, and Amy, putting back her veil, gazed up with a wistful but
serene look.

'To her life's end?' Therewith came a vision of the sunrise at Recoara,
and the more glorious dawn that had shone in Guy's dying smile, and
Amabel knew what would be her best prayer for his little Mary Verena, as
she took her back, the drops glistening on her brow, her eyes open, and
arms outspread. It was at that moment that Amabel was first thrilled
with a look in her child that was like its father. She had earnestly and
often sought a resemblance without being able honestly to own that she
perceived any; but now, though she knew not in what it consisted, there
was something in that baby face that recalled him more vividly than
picture or memory.

'Lord, now lettest Thou Thy servant depart in peace.'

Those words seemed to come from her own heart. She had brought Guy's
daughter to be baptized, and completed his work of pardon, and she had a
yearning to be departing in peace, whither her sunshine was gone. But he
had told her not to wish that his child should be motherless; she had
to train her to be fit to meet him. The sunshine was past, but she
had plenty to do in the shade, and it was for his sake. She would,
therefore, be content to remain to fulfil her duties among the dear ones
to whom he had trusted her for comfort, and with the sense of renewed
communion with him that she had found in returning again to church.

So felt Amabel, as she entered into the calm that followed the one year
in which she had passed through the great events of life, and known the
chief joy and deepest grief that she could ever experience.

It was far otherwise with her sister. Laura's term of trouble seemed to
be ending, and the spring of life beginning to dawn on her.

Doubt and fear were past, she and Philip were secure of each other,
he was pardoned, and they could be together without apprehension, or
playing tricks with their consciences; but she had as yet scarcely been
able to spend any time with him; and as Charles said, their ways were
far more grave and less lover-like than would have seemed natural after
their long separation.

In truth, romantic and uncalculating as their attachment was, they
never had been lover-like. They had never had any fears or doubts; her
surrender of her soul had been total, and every thought, feeling, and
judgment had taken its colour from him as entirely as if she had been a
wife of many years' standing. She never opened her mind to perceive that
he had led her to act wrongly, and all her unhappiness had been from
anxiety for him, not repentance on her own account; for so complete was
her idolatry, that she entirely overlooked her failure in duty to her
parents.

It took her by surprise when, as they set out together that evening to
walk home from East-hill, he said, as soon as they were apart from the
village--

'Laura, you have more to forgive than all.'

'Don't, speak so, Philip, pray don't. Do you think I would not have
borne far more unhappiness willingly for your sake? Is it not all
forgotten as if it had not been?'

'It is not unhappiness I meant,' he replied, 'though I cannot bear
to think of what you have undergone. Unhappiness enough have I caused
indeed. But I meant, that you have to forgive the advantage I took of
your reliance on me to lead you into error, when you were too young to
know what it amounted to.'

'It was not an engagement,' faltered Laura.

'Laura, don't, for mercy's sake, recall my own hateful sophistries,'
exclaimed Philip, as if unable to control the pain it gave him; 'I have
had enough of that from my sister;' then softening instantly: 'it was
self-deceit; a deception first of myself, then of you. You had not
experience enough to know whither I was leading you, till I had involved
you; and when the sight of death showed me the fallacy of the salve to
my conscience, I had nothing for it but to confess, and leave you to
bear the consequences. O Laura! when I think of my conduct towards you,
it seems even worse than that towards--towards your brother-in-law!'

His low, stern tone of bitter suffering and self-reproach was something
new and frightful to Laura. She clung to his arm and tried to say--'O,
don't speak in that way! You know you meant the best. You could not help
being mistaken.'

'If I did know any such thing, Laura! but the misery of perceiving that
my imagined anxiety for his good,--his good, indeed! was but a cloak for
my personal enmity--you can little guess it.'

Laura tried to say that appearances were against Guy, but he would not
hear.

'If they were, I triumphed in them. I see now that a shade of honest
desire to see him exculpated would have enabled me to find the clue. If
I had gone to St. Mildred's at once--interrogated him as a friend--seen
Wellwood--but dwelling on the _ifs_ of the last two years can bring
nothing but distraction,' he added, pausing suddenly.

'And remember,' said Laura, 'that dear Guy himself was always grateful
to you. He always upheld that you acted for his good. Oh! the way he
took it was the one comfort I had last year.'

'The acutest sting, and yet the only balm,' murmured Philip; 'see,
Laura,' and he opened the first leaf of Guy's prayer-book, which he had
been using at the christening.

A whispered 'Dear Guy!' was the best answer she could make, and the
tears were in her eyes. 'He was so very kind to me, when he saw me that
unhappy wedding-day.'

'Did Amy tell you his last words to me?'

'No,' said Laura.

'God bless you and my sister!' he repeated, so low that she could hardly
hear.

'Amy left that for you to tell,' said Laura, as her tears streamed fast.
How can we speak of her, Philip?'

'Only as an angel of pardon and peace!' he answered.

'I don't know how to tell you of all her kindness,' said Laura; 'half
the bitterness of it seemed to be over when once she was in the house
again, and, all the winter, going into her room was like going into some
peaceful place where one must find comfort.'

'"Spirits of peace, where are ye" I could have said, when I saw her
drive away at Recoara, and carry all good angels with her except those
that could not but hover round that grave.'

'How very sad it must have been! Did--'

'Don't speak of it; don't ask me of it' said Philip, hastily. 'There
is nothing in my mind but a tumult of horror and darkness that it is
madness to remember. Tell me of yourself--tell me that you have not been
hurt by all that I have brought on you.'

'Oh, no!' said Laura 'besides, that is all at an end.'

'All an end! Laura, I fear in joining your fate to mine, you will find
care and grief by no means at an end. You must be content to marry a
saddened, remorseful man, broken down in health and spirits, his
whole life embittered by that fatal remembrance, forced to endure an
inheritance that seems to have come like the prosperity of the wicked.
Yet you are ready to take all this? Then, Laura, that precious, most
precious love, that has endured through all, will be the one drop of
comfort through the rest of my life.

She could but hear such words with thrills of rejoicing affection; and
on they walked, Laura trembling and struck with sorrow at the depth of
repentance he now and then disclosed, though not in the least able to
fathom it, thinking it all his nobleness of mind, justifying him to
herself, idolizing him too much to own he had ever been wrong; yet the
innate power of tact and sympathy teaching her no longer to combat
his self-reproaches, and repeat his former excuses, but rather to say
something soothing and caressing, or put in some note of thankfulness
and admiration of Amy and Guy. This was the best thing she could do
for him, as she was not capable, like Amy, of acknowledging that his
repentance was well-founded. She was a nurse, not a physician, to
the wounded spirit; but a very good and gentle nurse she was, and the
thorough enjoyment of her affection and sympathy, the opening into
confidence, and the freedom from doubt and suspense, were comforts that
were doing him good every hour.

The christening party consisted only of the Rosses, and Dr. Mayerne,
who had joined them at East-hill church, and walked home with Mr.
Edmonstone. They could not have been without him, so grateful were they
for his kindness all through their anxious winter, and Mr. Edmonstone
was well pleased to tell him on the way home that they might look to
having a wedding in the family; it had been a very long attachment,
constancy as good as a story, and he could all along have told what was
the matter, when mamma was calling in the doctor to account for Laura's
looking pale.

The doctor was not surprised at the news, for perhaps he, too, had had
some private theory about those pale looks; but, knowing pretty well
the sentiments Charles had entertained the winter before last, he was
curious to find out how he regarded this engagement. Charles spoke of
it in the most ready cordial way. 'Well, doctor, so you have heard our
news! I flatter myself we have as tall and handsome a pair of lovers to
exhibit here, as any in the United Kingdom, when we have fattened him a
little into condition.'

'Never was there a better match,' said Dr. Mayerne. 'Made for each
other all along. One could not see them without feeling it was the first
chapter of a novel.'

When Mrs. Edmonstone came in, the doctor was a little taken aback. He
thought her mind must be with poor Sir Guy, and was afraid the lovers
had been in such haste as to pain Lady Morville; for there was a
staidness and want of "epanchement du coeur" of answering that was very
unlike her usual warm manner. At dinner, Mr. Edmonstone was in high
spirits, delighted at Amy's recovery, happy to have a young man about
the house again, charmed to see two lovers together, pleased that Laura
should be mistress of Redclyffe, since it could not belong to Amy's
child; altogether, as joyous as ever. His wife, being at ease about Amy,
did her best to smile, and even laugh, though sad at heart all the time,
as she missed the father from the christening feast, and thought how
happy she had been in that far different reunion last year. It might be
the same with Charles; but the outward effect was exhibited in lively
nonsense; Charlotte's spirits were rising fast, and only Philip and
Laura themselves were grave and silent, she, the more so, because she
was disappointed to find that the one walk back from East-hill, much as
he had enjoyed it, had greatly tired Philip. However, the others talked
enough without them; and Mr. Edmonstone was very happy, drinking the
health of Miss Morville, and himself carrying a bit of the christening
cake to the mamma in the drawing-room.

There sat Amabel by the fire, knowing that from henceforth she must
exert herself to take part in the cheerfulness of the house, and willing
to join the external rejoicing in her child's christening, or at least
not to damp it by remaining up-stairs. Yet any one but Mr. Edmonstone
would have seen more sadness than pleasure in the sweet smile with
which she met and thanked him; but they were cheerful tones in which she
replied, and in her presence everything was hushed and gentle, subdued,
yet not mournful. The spirit of that evening was only recognized after
it was past, and then it ever grew fairer and sweeter in recollection,
so as never to be forgotten by any of those who shared it.


CHAPTER 42

     She was not changed when sorrow came,
       That awed the sternest men;
     It rather seemed she kept her flame
       To comfort us till then.

     But sorrow passed, and others smiled
       With happiness once more;
     And she drew back the spirit mild
       She still had been before.
                              --S. R.


Philip's marriage could not take place at once. No one said, but every
one felt, that it must not be talked of till the end of Amabel's first
year of widowhood; and in the meantime Philip remained at Hollywell,
gaining strength every day, making more progress in one week than he had
done in six at St. Mildred's, finding that, as his strength returned,
his mind and memory regained their tone, and he was as capable as ever
of applying to business, and, above all, much settled and comforted by
some long conversations with Mr. Ross.

Still he could not endure the thought of being at Redclyffe. The
business connected with it was always performed with pain and dislike,
and he shrank with suffering at every casual mention of his going
thither. Mrs. Edmonstone began to wonder whether he could mean to linger
at Hollywell all the summer, and Amabel had some fears that it would end
in his neglecting Redclyffe, till a letter arrived from Lord Thorndale,
saying that his brother, the member for Moorworth, had long been
thinking of giving up his seat, and latterly had only waited in
hopes that the succession at Redclyffe might come to Philip Morville.
Moorworth was entirely under the Thorndale and Morville interest, and
Lord Thorndale wrote to propose that Philip should come forward at once,
inviting him to Thorndale instead of going to his own empty house.

To be in parliament had been one of the favourite visions of Philip's
youth, and for that very reason he hesitated, taking it as one of the
strange fulfilments of his desires that had become punishments. He could
not but feel that as this unhappy load of wealth had descended on him,
he was bound to make it as beneficial as he could to others, and not
seeking for rest or luxury, to stand in the gap where every good man and
true was needed. But still he dreaded his old love of distinction. He
disliked a London life for Laura, and he thought that, precarious as
his health had become, it might expose her to much anxiety, since he
was determined that if he undertook it at all, he would never be an idle
member.

It ended in his referring the decision to Laura, who, disliking London,
fearful for his health, eager for his glory, and reluctant to keep back
such a champion from the battle, was much perplexed, only desirous to
say what he wished, yet not able to make out what that might be. She
carried her doubts to Charles and Amabel, who both pronounced that the
thought of going to Redclyffe seemed far worse for him than any degree
of employment--that occupation of the mind was the best thing for his
spirits; and ended by recommending that Dr. Mayerne should be consulted.

He was of the same opinion. He said a man could hardly have two fevers
following, and one of them upon the brain, without having reason to
remember them. That his constitution had been seriously weakened, and
there was an excitability of brain and nerves which made care requisite;
but depression of spirits was the chief thing to guard against, and a
London life, provided he did not overwork himself, was better for him
than solitude at Redclyffe.

Accordingly Philip went to Thorndale, and was returned for Moorworth
without opposition. Markham sent his nephew to transact business with
him at Thorndale, for he could not bear to meet him himself, and while
there was any prospect of his coming to Redclyffe, walked about in
paroxysms of grunting and ill-humour. The report that Mr. Morville was
engaged to the other Miss Edmonstone did but render him more furious,
for he regarded it as a sort of outrage to Lady Morville's feelings
that a courtship should be carried on in the house with her. She was at
present the object of all his devoted affection for the family, and he
would not believe, but that she had been as much disappointed at the
birth of her daughter, as he was himself. He would not say one word
against Mr. Morville, but looked and growled enough to make Mr. Ashford
afraid that the new squire would find him very troublesome.

The Ashfords were in a state of mind themselves to think that Mr.
Morville ought to be everything excellent to make up for succeeding Sir
Guy; but having a very high opinion of him to begin with, they were very
sorry to find all Redclyffe set against him. In common with the parish,
they were very anxious for the first report of his arrival and at length
he came. James Thorndale, as before, drove him thither, coming to the
Ashfords while he was busy with Markham. He would not go up to the Park,
he only went through some necessary business with Markham, and then
walked down to the Cove, afterwards sitting for about ten minutes in
Mrs. Ashford's drawing-room.

The result of the visit was that old James Robinson reported that the
new squire took on as much about poor Sir Guy as any one could do, and
turned as pale as if he had been going into a swoon, when he spoke his
name and gave Ben his message. And as to poor Ben, the old man said, he
regularly did cry like a child, and small blame to him, to hear that
Sir Guy had took thought of him at such a time and so far away; and he
verily believed Ben could never take again to his bad ways, after such a
message as that.

Markham was gruff with the Robinsons for some time after and was even
heard to mutter something about worshipping the rising sun, an act of
idolatry of which he could not be accused, since it was in the most
grudging manner that he allowed, that Mr. Morville's sole anxiety seemed
to be to continue all Sir Guy had undertaken; while Mrs. Ashford, on the
other hand was much affected by the account her cousin James had been
giving her of the grief that he had suffered at Sir Guy's death, his
long illness, his loss of spirits, the reluctance he had shown to come
here at all, and his present unconquerable dread of going to the Park.

He was soon after in London, where, as far as could be judged in such
early days, he seemed likely to distinguish himself according to the
fondest hopes that Margaret or Laura could ever have entertained. Laura
was only afraid he was overworking himself, especially as, having at
present little command of ready money, he lived in a small lodging, kept
no horse, and did not enter into society; but she was reassured when
he came to Hollywell for a day or two at Whitsuntide, not having indeed
regained flesh or colour, but appearing quite well, in better spirits,
and very eager about political affairs.

All would have been right that summer, but that, as Philip observed, the
first evening of his arrival, Amabel was not looking as well as she had
done at the time of the christening. She had, just after it, tried
her strength and spirits too much, and had ever since been not exactly
unwell, but sad and weary, more dejected than ever before, unable to
bear the sight of flowers or the sound of music, and evidently suffering
much under the recurrence of the season, which had been that of
her great happiness--the summer sunshine, the long evenings, the
nightingale's songs. She was fatigued by the most trifling exertion, and
seemed able to take interest in nothing but her baby, and a young widow
in the village, who was in a decline; and though she was willing to do
all that was asked of her, it was in a weary, melancholy manner, as if
she had no peace but in being allowed to sit alone, drooping over her
child.

From society she especially shrunk, avoiding every chance of meeting
visitors, and distressed and harassed when her father brought home some
of his casual dinner guests, and was vexed not to see her come into the
drawing-room in the evening. If she did make the effort of coming, to
please him, she was so sure to be the worse for it, that her mother
would keep her up-stairs the next time, and try to prevent her from
knowing that her father was put out, and declared it was nonsense to
expect poor Amy to get up her spirits, while she never saw a living
soul, and only sat moping in the dressing-room.

A large dinner-party did not interfere with her, for even he could not
expect her to appear at it, and one of these he gave during Philip's
visit, for the pleasure of exhibiting such company as the M.P. for
Moorworth. After dinner, Charlotte told Mary Ross to go and see Amy.
Not finding her in the dressing-room, she knocked at her own door. 'Come
in,' answered the low soft voice; and in the window, overhung by the
long shoots of the roses, Amabel's close cap and small head were seen
against the deep-blue evening sky, as she sat in the summer twilight,
her little one asleep in her cot.

'Thank you for coming,' said she. 'I thought you would not mind sitting
here with baby and me. I have sent Anne out walking.'

'How pretty she looks!' said Mary, stooping over the infant. 'Sleep is
giving her quite a colour; and how fast she grows!'

'Poor little woman!' said Amy, sighing.

'Tired, Amy?' said Mary, sitting down, and taking up the little
lambswool shoe, that Amy had been knitting.

'N--no, thank you,' said Amy, with another sigh.

'I am afraid you are. You have been walking to Alice Lamsden's again.'

'I don't think that tires me. Indeed, I believe the truth is,' and her
voice sounded especially sad in the subdued tone in which she spoke,
that she might not disturb the child, 'I am not so much tired with what
I do, which is little enough, as of the long, long life that is before
me.'

Mary's heart was full, but she did not show her thought otherwise than
by a look towards the babe.

'Yes, poor little darling,' said Amabel, 'I know there is double
quantity to be done for her, but I am so sorry for her, when I think she
must grow up without knowing him.'

'She has you, though,' Mary could not help saying, as she felt that
Amabel was superior to all save her husband.

Perhaps Amy did not hear; she went up to the cot, and went on:--'If he
had but once seen her, if she had but had one kiss, one touch that I
could tell her of by and by, it would not seem as if she was so very
fatherless. Oh no, baby, I must wait, that you may know something about,
him; for no one else can tell you so well what he was, though I can't
tell much!' She presently returned to her seat. 'No, I don't believe I
really wish I was like poor Alice,' said she; 'I hope not; I am sure I
don't for her sake. But, Mary, I never knew till I was well again how
much I had reckoned on dying when she was born. I did not think I was
wishing it, but it seemed likely, and I was obliged to arrange things
in case of it. Then somehow, as he came back last spring, after that sad
winter, it seemed as if this spring, though he would not come back to
me, I might be going to him.'

'But then she comforted you.'

'Yes, that she did, my precious one; I was so glad of her, it was a sort
of having him again, and so it is still sometimes, and will be more so,
I dare say. I am very thankful for her, indeed I am; and I hope I am not
repining, for it does not signify after all, in the end, if I am weary
and lonely sometimes. I wish I was sure it was not wrong. I know I don't
wish to alter things.'

'No, I am sure you don't.'

'Ah!' said Amabel, smiling, 'it is only the old, silly little Amy that
does feel such a heart-aching and longing for one glance of his eye, or
touch of his hand, or sound of his foot in the passage. Oh, Mary, the
worst of all is to wake up, after dreaming I have heard his voice. There
is nothing for it but to take our baby and hold her very tight.'

'Dearest Amy! But you are not blaming yourself for these feelings. It
might be wrong to indulge them and foster them; but while you struggle
with them, they can't in themselves be wrong.'

'I hope not,' said Amabel pausing to think. 'Yes, I have "the joy" at
the bottom still; I know it is all quite right, and it came straight
from heaven, as he said. I can get happy very often when I am by myself,
or at church, with him; it is only when I miss his bright outside
and can't think myself into the inner part, that it is so forlorn and
dreary. I can do pretty well alone. Only I wish I could help being so
troublesome and disagreeable to everybody' said Amy, concluding in a
matter-of-fact tone.

'My dear!' said Mary, almost laughing.

'It is so stupid of me to be always poorly, and making mamma anxious
when there's nothing the matter with me. And I know I am a check on
them down-stairs--papa, and Charlotte, and all--they are very kind,
considerate, and yet'--she paused--'and it is a naughty feeling; but
when I feel all those dear kind eyes watching me always, and wanting me
to be happy, it is rather oppressive, especially when I can't; but if I
try not to disappoint them, I do make such a bad hand of it, and am sure
to break down afterwards, and that grieves mamma all the more.'

'It will be better when this time of year is over,' said Mary.

'Perhaps, yes. He always seemed to belong to summer days, and to come
with them. Well, I suppose trials always come in a different shape from
what one expects; for I used to think I could bear all the doom with
him, but, I did not know it would be without him, and yet that is the
best. Oh, baby!'

'I should not have come to disturb her.'

'No--never mind; she never settles fairly to sleep till we are shut in
by ourselves. Hush! hush, darling--No? Will nothing do but being taken
up? Well, then, there! Come, and show your godmamma what a black fringe
those little wakeful eyes are getting.'

And when Mary went down it was with the conviction that those black
eyelashes, too marked to be very pretty in so young a babe, were more of
a comfort to Amabel than anything she could say.

The evening wore on, and at length Laura came into her sister's room.
She looked fagged and harassed, the old face she used to wear in the
time of disguise and secrecy, Amabel asked if it had been a tiresome
party.

'Yes--no--I don't know. Just like others,' said Laura.

'You are tired, at any rate,' said Amabel. 'You took too long a ride
with Philip. I saw you come in very late.'

'I am not in the least tired, thank you.'

'Then he is,' said Amabel. 'I hope he has not one of his headaches
again.'

'No,' said Laura, still in a dissatisfied, uncomfortable tone.

'No? Dear Laura, I am sure there is something wrong;' and with a little
more of her winning, pleading kindness, she drew from Laura that Philip
had told her she idolized him. He had told her so very gently and
kindly, but he had said she idolized him in a manner that was neither
good for herself nor him; and he went on to blame himself for it, which
was what she could not bear. It had been rankling in her mind ever since
that he had found fault with her for loving him so well, and it had
made her very unhappy. She _could_ not love him less, and how should she
please him? She had much rather he had blamed her than himself.

'I think I see what he means' said Amy, thoughtfully. 'He has grown
afraid of himself, and afraid of being admired now.'

'But how am I to help that, Amy?' said Laura, with tears in her eyes:
'he cannot help being the first, the very first of all with me--'

'No, no,' said Amy, quickly, 'not the very first, or what would you do
if you were to be--like me? Don't turn away, dear Laura; I don't think
I over could bear this at all, if dear Guy had not kept it always before
my eyes from the very first that we were to look to something else
besides each other.'

'Of course I meant the first earthly thing,' said Laura; but it was not
heartfelt--she knew she ought, therefore she thought she did.

'And so,' proceeded Amy, 'I think if that other is first, it would make
you have some other standard of right besides himself, then you would be
a stay and help to him. I think that is what he means.'

'Amy! let me ask you,' said Laura, a little entreatingly, yet as if she
must needs put the question--'surely, you never thought Guy had faults?'

Her colour deepened. 'Yes, Laura,' she answered, firmly. 'I could not
have understood his repentance if I had not thought so. And, dear
Laura, if you will forgive me for saying it, it would be much better for
yourself and Philip if you would see the truth.'

'I thought you forgave him,' murmured Laura.

'Oh, Laura! but does not that word "forgive" imply something? I could
not have done anything to comfort him that day, if I had not believed
he had something to be comforted for. It can't be pleasant to him to see
you think his repentance vain.'

'It is noble and great.'

'But if it was not real, it would be thrown away. Besides, dear Laura,
do let me say this for once. If you would but understand that you let
him lead you into what was not right, and be really sorry for that, and
show mamma that you are, I do think it would all begin much more happily
when you are married.'

'I could never have told, till I was obliged to betray myself,' said
Laura. 'You know, Amy, it was no engagement. We never wrote to each
other, we had but one walk; it was no business of his to speak till he
could hope for papa's consent to our marriage. It would have been all
confusion if he had told, and that would have been only that we had
always loved each other with all our hearts, which every one knew
before.'

'Yet, Laura, it was what preyed on him when he thought he was dying.'

'Because it was the only thing like a fault he could think of,' said
Laura, excited by this shade of blame to defend him vehemently--'because
his scruples are high and noble and generous.'

She spoke so eagerly, that the baby's voice again broke on the
conversation, and she was obliged to go away; but though her idolatry
was complete, it did not seem to give full satisfaction or repose. As to
Philip, though his love for her was unchanged, it now and then was
felt, though not owned by him, that she was not fully a helpmeet, only
a 'Self'; not such a 'Self' as he had left at St. Mildred's, but still
reflecting on him his former character, instead of aiding him to a new
one.


CHAPTER 43

     But nature to its inmost part
     Faith had refined; and to her heart
       A peaceful cradle given,
     Calm as the dew drops free to rest
     Within a breeze-fanned rose's breast
       Till it exhales to heaven.
                             --WORDSWORTH


It had long been a promise that Mr. Edmonstone should take Charlotte to
visit her grandmamma, in Ireland. They would have gone last autumn,
but for Guy's illness, and now Aunt Charlotte wrote to hasten the
performance of the project. Lady Mabel was very anxious to see them,
she said; and having grown much more infirm of late, seemed to think
it would be the last meeting with her son. She talked so much of Mrs.
Edmonstone and Laura, that it was plain that she wished extremely for a
visit from them, though she did not like to ask it, in the present state
of the family.

A special invitation was sent to Bustle; indeed, Charles said Charlotte
could not have gone without his permission, for he reigned like a tyrant
over her, evidently believing her created for no purpose but to wait on
him, and take him to walk.

Laura was a great favourite at the cottage of Kilcoran, and felt she
ought to offer to go. Philip fully agreed, and held out home hopes of
following as soon as the session, was over, and he had been to Redclyffe
about some business that had been deferred too long.

And now it appeared that Mr. Edmonstone had a great desire to take
his wife, and she herself said, that under any other circumstances she
should have been very desirous of going. She had not been to Ireland
for fifteen years, and was sorry to have seen so little of her
mother-in-law; and now that it had been proved that Charles could exist
without her, she would not have hesitated to leave him, but for Amabel's
state of health and spirits, which made going from home out of the
question.

Charles and Amabel did not think so. It was not to be endured, that when
grandmamma wished for her, she should stay at home for them without real
necessity; besides, the fatigue, anxiety, and sorrow she had undergone
of late, had told on her, and had made her alter perceptibly, from being
remarkably fresh and youthful, to be somewhat aged; and the change to a
new scene, where she could not be distressing herself at every failure
in cheerfulness of poor Amy's, was just the thing to do her good.

Amabel was not afraid of the sole charge of Charles or of the baby, for
she had been taught but too well to manage for herself, she understood
Charles very well, and had too much quiet good sense to be fanciful
about her very healthy baby. Though she was inexperienced, with old
nurse hard by, and Dr. Mayerne at Broadstone, there was no fear of
her not having good counsel enough. She was glad to be of some use, by
enabling her mother to leave Charles, and her only fear was of being
dull company for him; but as he was so kind as to bear it, she would
do her best, and perhaps their neighbours would come and enliven him
sometimes.

Charles threw his influence into the same scale. His affectionate
observation had shown him that it oppressed Amabel's spirits to be the
object of such constant solicitude, and he was convinced it would be
better for her, both to have some necessary occupation and to be free
from that perpetual mournful watching of her mother's that caused her
to make the efforts to be cheerful which did her more harm than anything
else.

To let her alone to look and speak as she pleased without the fear of
paining and disappointing those she loved, keep the house quiet, and
give her the employment of household cares and attending on himself,
was, he thought, the best thing for her; and he was full of eagerness
and pleasure at the very notion of being of service to her, if only by
being good for nothing but to be waited on. He thought privately that
the spring of his mother's mind had been so much injured by the grief
she had herself suffered for 'her son Guy,' her cruel disappointment in
Laura, and the way in which she threw herself into all Amy's affliction,
that there was a general depression in her way of observing and
attending Amy, which did further harm; and that to change the current of
her thoughts, and bring her home refreshed and inspirited, would be the
beginning of improvement in all. Or, as he expressed it to Dr. Mayerne,
'We shall set off on a new tack.'

His counsel and Mr. Edmonstone's wishes at length decided mamma, on
condition that Mary Ross and Dr. Mayerne would promise to write on
alternate weeks a full report, moral and physical, as Charles called
it. So in due time the goods were packed, Mrs. Edmonstone cried heartily
over the baby, advised Amabel endlessly about her, and finally looked
back through her tears, as she drove away, to see Charles nodding and
waving his hand at the bay-window, and Amabel standing with her parting
smile and good-bye on the steps.

The reports, moral and physical, proved that Charles had judged wisely.
Amabel was less languid as she had more cause for exertion, and
seemed relieved by the absence of noise and hurry, spending more time
down-stairs, and appearing less weary in the evening. She still avoided
the garden, but she began to like short drives with her brother in the
pony-carriage, when he drove on in silence, and let her lean back and
gaze up into the sky, or into the far distance, undisturbed. Now
and then he would be rejoiced by a bright, genuine smile, perfectly
refreshing, at some of the pretty ways of the babe, a small but plump
and lively creature, beginning to grasp with her hands, laugh and gaze
about with eyes that gave promise of the peculiar colour and brilliancy
of her father's. Amabel was afraid she might be tempted into giving
Charles too much of the little lady's society; but he was very fond of
her, regarding her with an odd mixture of curiosity and amusement, much
entertained with watching what he called her unaccountable manners,
and greatly flattered when he could succeed in attracting her notice.
Indeed, the first time she looked full at him with a smile on the verge
of a laugh, it completely overcame him, by the indescribably forcible
manner in which it suddenly recalled the face which had always shone on
him like a sunbeam. Above all, it was worth anything to see the looks
she awoke in her mother, for which he must have loved her, even had she
not been Guy's child.

In the evening, especially on Sunday, Amabel would sometimes talk to him
as she had never yet been able to do, about her last summer's journey,
and her stay at Recoara, and his way of listening and answering had in
it something that gave her great pleasure; while, on his side, he deemed
each fresh word of Guy's a sort of treasure for which to be grateful
to her. The brother and sister were a great help and happiness to each
other; Amabel found herself restored to Charles, as Guy had liked to
think of her, and Charles felt as if the old childish fancies were
fulfilled, in which he and Amy were always to keep house together. He
was not in the least dull; and though his good-natured visitors in the
morning were welcome, and received with plenty of his gay lively talk,
he did not by any means stand in need of the compassion they felt for
him, and could have done very well without them; while the evenings
alone with Amy had in them something so pleasant that they were almost
better than those when Mr. Ross and Mary came to tea. He wrote word to
his mother that she might be quite at ease about them, and he thought
Amy would get through the anniversaries of September better while the
house was quiet, so that she need not think of trying to hurry home.

He was glad to have done so, for the letters, which scarcely missed a
day in being written by his mother and Charlotte, seemed to show that
their stay was likely to be long. Lady Mabel was more broken than they
had expected, and claimed a long visit, as she was sure it would be
their last, while the Kilcoran party had taken possession of Laura and
Charlotte, as if they never meant to let them go. Charlotte wrote her
brother very full and very droll accounts of the Iricisms around her
which she enjoyed thoroughly, and Charles, declaring he never expected
to see little Charlotte come out in the character of the facetious
correspondent, used to send Mary Ross into fits of laughing by what he
read to her. Mr. Fielder, the tutor, wrote Charlotte, was very nearly
equal to Eveleen's description of him, but very particularly agreeable,
in fact, the only man who had any conversation, whom she had seen since
she had been at Kilcoran.

'Imagine,' said Charles, 'the impertinent little puss setting up for
intellectual conversation, forsooth!'

'That's what comes of living with good company,' said Mary.

The brother and sister used sometimes to drive to Broadstone to fetch
their letters by the second post.

'Charlotte, of course,' said Charles, as he opened one. 'My Lady
Morville, what's yours?'

'Only Mr. Markham,' said Amabel, 'about the winding up of our business
together, I suppose. What does Charlotte say?'

'Charlotte is in a fit of impudence, for which she deserves
chastisement,' said Charles, unable to help laughing, as he read,--

'Our last event was a call from the fidus Achates, who, it seems, can no
longer wander up and down the Mediterranean without his pius Aeneas,
and so has left the army, and got a diplomatic appointment somewhere in
Germany. Lord Kilcoran has asked him to come and stay here, and Mabel
and I are quite sure he comes for a purpose. Of course he has chosen
this time, in order that he may be able to have his companion before his
eyes, as a model for courtship, and I wish I had you to help me look
on whenever Philip comes, as that laugh I must enjoy alone with Bustle.
However, when Philip will come we cannot think, for we have heard
nothing of him this age, not even Laura, and she is beginning to look
very anxious about him. Do tell us if you know anything about him.
The last letter was when parliament was prorogued, and he was going to
Redclyffe, at least three weeks ago.'

'I wonder if Mr. Markham mentions him,' said Amabel, hastily unfolding
her letter, which was, as she expected, about the executors' business,
but glancing on to the end, she exclaimed,--

'Ah! here it is. Listen, Charlie. "Mr. Morville has been here for
the last few weeks, and is, I fear, very unwell. He has been entirely
confined to the house, almost ever since his arrival, by violent
headache, which has completely disabled him from attending to business;
but he will not call in any advice. I make a point of going to see him
every day, though I believe my presence is anything but acceptable, as
in his present state of health and spirits, I cannot think it right that
he should be left to servants." Poor fellow! Redclyffe has been too much
for him.'

'Over-worked, I suppose,' said Charles. 'I thought he was coming it
pretty strong these last few weeks.'

'Not even writing to Laura! How very bad he must be! I will write at
once to ask Mr. Markham for more particulars.'

She did so, and on the third day they drove again to fetch the answer.
It was a much worse account. Mr. Morville was, said Markham, suffering
dreadfully from headache, and lay on the sofa all day, almost unable to
speak or move, but resolved against having medical advice, though his
own treatment of himself did not at all succeed in relieving him. There
was extreme depression of spirits, and an unwillingness to see any one.
He had positively refused to admit either Lord Thorndale or Mr. Ashford,
and would hardly bear to see Markham himself, who, indeed, only forced
his presence on him from thinking it unfit to leave him entirely to the
servants, and would be much relieved if some of Mr. Morville's friends
were present to free him from the responsibility.

'Hem!' said Charles. 'I can't say it sounds comfortable.'

'It is just as I feared!' said Amy. 'Great excitability of brain and
nerve, Dr. Mayerne said. All the danger of a brain fever again! Poor
Laura! What is to be done?'

Charles was silent.

'It is for want of some one to talk to him,' said Amabel. 'I know how
he broods over his sad recollections, and Redclyffe must make it so much
worse. If mamma and Laura were but at home to go to him, it might save
him, and it would be fearful for him to have another illness, reduced as
he is. How I wish he was here!'

'He cannot come, I suppose,' said Charles, 'or he would be in Ireland.'

'Yes. How well Guy knew when he said it would be worse for him than for
me! How I wish I could do something now to make up for running away from
him in Italy. If I was but at Redclyffe!'

'Do you really wish it?' said Charles, surprised.

'Yes, if I could do him any good.'

'Would you go there?'

'If I had but papa or mamma to go with me.'

'Do you think I should do as well?'

'Charlie!'

'If you think there would be any use in it, and choose to take the
trouble of lugging me about the country, I don't see why you should
not.'

'Oh! Charlie, how very, kind! How thankful poor Laura will be to you! I
do believe it will save him!' cried Amabel, eagerly.

'But, Amy,'--he paused--'shall you like to see Redclyffe?'

'Oh! that is no matter,' said she, quickly. 'I had rather see after
Philip than anything. I told you how he was made my charge, you know.
And Laura! Only will it not be too tiring for you?'

'I can't see how it should hurt me. But I forget, what is to be done
about your daughter?'

'I don't know what harm it could do her,' said Amy, considering. 'Mrs.
Gresham brought a baby of only three months old from Scotland the other
day, and she is six. It surely cannot hurt her, but we will ask Dr.
Mayerne.'

'Mamma will never forgive us if we don't take the doctor into our
councils.'

'Arnaud can manage for us. We would sleep in London, and go on by an
early train, and we can take our--I mean my--carriage, for the journey
after the railroad. It would not be too much for you. How soon could we
go?'

'The sooner the better,' said Charles. 'If we are to do him any good, it
must be speedily, or it will be a case of shutting the stable-door. Why
not to-morrow?'

The project was thoroughly discussed that evening, but still with the
feeling as if it could not be real, and when they parted at night they
said,--'We will see how the scheme looks in the morning.'

Charles was still wondering whether it was a dream, when the first thing
he heard in the court below his window was--

'Here, William, here's a note from my lady for you to take to Dr.
Mayerne.'

'They be none of them ill?' answered William's voice.

'O no; my lady has been up this hour, and Mr. Charles has rung his bell.
Stop, William, my lady said you were to call at Harris's and bring home
a "Bradshaw".'

Reality, indeed, thought Charles, marvelling at his sister, and his
elastic spirits throwing him into the project with a sort of enjoyment,
partaking of the pleasure of being of use, the spirit of enterprise, and
the 'fun' of starting independently on an expedition unknown to all the
family.

He met Amabel with a smile that showed both were determined. He
undertook to announce the plan to his mother, and she said she would
write to tell Mr. Markham that as far as could be reckoned on two such
frail people, they would be at Redclyffe the next evening, and he must
use his own discretion about giving Mr. Morville the note which she
enclosed.

Dr. Mayerne came in time for breakfast, and the letter from Markham was
at once given to him.

'A baddish state of things, eh, doctor!' said Charles. 'Well, what do
you think this lady proposes? To set off forthwith, both of us, to take
charge of him. What do you think of that, Dr. Mayerne?'

'I should say it was the only chance for him,' said the doctor, looking
only at the latter. 'Spirits and health reacting on each other, I see
it plain enough. Over-worked in parliament, doing nothing in moderation,
going down to that gloomy old place, dreaming away by himself, going
just the right way to work himself into another attack on the brain, and
then he is done for. I don't know that you could do a wiser thing than
go to him, for he is no more fit to tell what is good for him than a
child.' So spoke the doctor, thinking only of the patient till looking
up at the pair he was dismissing to such a charge, the helpless,
crippled Charles, unable to cross the room without crutches, and Amabel,
her delicate face and fragile figure in her widow's mourning, looking
like a thing to be pitied and nursed with the tenderest care, with that
young child, too, he broke off and said--'But you don't mean you are in
earnest?'

'Never more so in our lives,' said Charles; on which Dr. Mayerne looked
so wonderingly and inquiringly at Amabel, that she answered,--

'Yes that we are, if you think it safe for Charles and baby.'

'Is there no one else to go? What's become of his sister?'

'That would never do,' said Charles, 'that is not the question;' and he
detailed their plan.

'Well, I don't see why it should not succeed,' said the doctor, 'or how
you can any of you damage yourselves.'

'And baby?' said Amy.

'What should happen to her, do you think?' said the doctor with
his kind, reassuring roughness. 'Unless you leave her behind in the
carriage, I don't see what harm she could come to, and even then, if
you direct her properly, she will come safe to hand.' Amabel smiled, and
saying she would fetch her to be inspected, ran up-stairs with the light
nimble step of former days.

'There goes one of the smallest editions of the wonders of the world!'
said Charles, covering a sigh with a smile. 'You don't think it will do
her any harm?'

'Not if she wishes it. I have long thought a change, a break, would
be the best thing for her--poor child!--I should have sent her to the
sea-side if you had been more movable, and if I had not seen every fuss
about her made it worse.'

'That's what I call being a reasonable and valuable doctor,' said
Charles. 'If you had routed the poor little thing out to the sea, she
would have only pined the more. But suppose the captain turns out too
bad for her management, for old Markham seems in a proper taking?'

'Hem! No, I don't expect it is come to that.'

'Be that as it may, I have a head, if nothing else, and some one is
wanted. I'll write to you according as we find Philip.'

The doctor was wanted for another private interview, in which to assure
Amabel that there was no danger for Charles, and then, after promising
to come to Redclyffe if there was occasion, and engaging to write and
tell Mrs. Edmonstone they had his consent, he departed to meet them by
and by at the station, and put Charles into the carriage.

A very busy morning followed; Amabel arranged household affairs as
befitted the vice-queen; took care that Charles's comforts were provided
for; wrote many a note; herself took down Guy's picture, and laid it in
her box, before Anne commenced her packing; and lastly, walked down to
the village to take leave of Alice Lamsden.


Just as the last hues of sunset were fading, on the following evening,
Lady Morville and Charles Edmonstone were passing from the moor into
the wooded valley of Redclyffe. The Foyst.
Two boats of Rye.
= 11.

_The Fighting Instructions_.

_Item_. It is to be considered that the ranks must keep such order in
sailing that none impeach another. Wherefore it is requisite that
every of the said ranks keep right way with another, and take such
regard to the observing of the same that no ship pass his fellows forward
nor backward nor slack anything, but [keep] as they were in one line, and
that there may be half a cable length between every of the ships.

_Item_. The first rank shall make sail straight to the front of the battle
and shall pass through them, and so shall make a short return to
the midwards as they may, and they [are] to have a special regard to
the course of the second rank; which two ranks is appointed to lay
aboard the principal ships of the enemy, every man choosing[3] his
mate as they may, reserving the admiral for my lord admiral.

_Item_. That every ship of the first rank shall bear a flag of St.
George's cross upon the fore topmast for the space of the fight,
which upon the king's determination shall be on Monday, the 10th
of August, _anno_ 1545.[4]
And every ship appointed to the middle rank shall for the space of
the fight bear a flag of St.

George's cross upon her mainmast.

And every ship of the third rank shall bear a like flag upon his mizen[5]
mast top, and every of the said wings shall have in their tops a
flag of St.

George.

_Item_.

The victuallers shall follow the third rank and shall bear in their tops
their flags. Also that neither of the said wings shall further enter into
fight; but, having advantage as near anigh[6] as they can of the wind,
shall give succour as they shall see occasion, and shall not give care
to any of the small vessels to weaken our force. There be, besides the
said ships mentioned, to be joined to the foresaid battle fifty
sail of western ships, and whereof be seven great hulks of 888 ton
apiece, and there is also the number of 1,200 of soldiers beside
mariners in all the said ships.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] A similar list of ships is in a MS. in the Cambridge University
Library

.

[2] This paper gives the order of the wings and vanguard only. The
fifty west-country ships that were presumably to form the rearguard
had not yet joined

.

[3] MS. 'closing.'
[4] The fleets did not get contact till August 15.

[5] MS. 'messel.'
[6] MS. 'a snare a nye.' The passage is clearly corrupt. Perhaps it
should read 'neither of the said wings shall further enter into the
fight but as nigh as they can keeping advantage of the wind [_i.e._
without losing the weather-gage of any part of the enemy's fleet] but
shall give succour,' &c.

_LORD LISLE, No. 2._
[+Record Office, State Papers, Henry VIII.+]
_The Order for the said Fleet taken by the Lord Admiral the 10th
day of August, 1545_.[1] 

1.

First, it is to be considered that every of the captains with the said
ships appointed by this order to the vanward, battle and wing shall ride
at anchor according as they be appointed to sail by the said order;
and no ship of any of the said wards or wing shall presume to come
to an anchor before the admiral of the said ward.

2.

_Item_, that every captain of the said wards or wing shall be in
everything ordered by the admiral of the same.

3.

_Item_, when we shall see a convenient time to fight with the enemies
our vanward shall make with their vanward if they have any; and if
they be in one company, our vanward, taking the advantage of the
wind, shall set upon their foremost rank, bringing them out of
order; and our vice-admiral shall seek to board their vice-admiral,
and every captain shall choose his equal as near as he may.

4.Amabel stood behind it, and looked into the room, more than half dark,
without a fire, and very large, gloomy, and cheerless, in the gray
autumn twilight, that just enabled her to see the white pillows on the
sofa, and Philip's figure stretched out on it. Markham advanced and
stood doubtful for an instant, then in extremity, began--'Hem! Lady
Morville is come, and--'

Without further delay she came forward, saying--'How are you, Philip?'

He neither moved nor seemed surprised, he only said, 'So you are come to
heap more coals on my head.'

A thrill of terror came over her, but she did not show it, as she said,
'I am sorry to find you so poorly.'

It seemed as if before he had taken her presence for a dream; for,
entirely roused, he exclaimed, in a tone of great surprise, 'Is it you,
Amy?' Then sitting up, 'Why? When did you come here?'

'Just now. We were afraid you were ill, we heard a bad account of you,
so we have taken you by storm: Charles, your goddaughter, and I, are
come to pay you a visit.'

'Charles! Charles here?' cried Philip, starting up. 'Where is he?'

'Coming in,' said Amy; and Philip, intent only on hospitality, hastened
into the hall, and met him at the door, gave him his arm and conducted
him where the inviting light guided them to the sitting-room. The full
brightness of lamp and fire showed the ashy paleness of his face; his
hair, rumpled with lying on the sofa, had, on the temples, acquired a
noticeable tint of gray, his whole countenance bore traces of terrible
suffering; and Amabel thought that even at Recoara she had never seen
him look more wretchedly ill.

'How did you come?' he asked. 'It was very kind. I hope you will be
comfortable.'

'We have taken good care of ourselves,' said Amy. 'I wrote to Mr.
Markham, for I thought you were not well enough to be worried with
preparations. We ought to beg your pardon for breaking on you so
unceremoniously.'

'If any one should be at home here--' said Philip, earnestly;--then
interrupting himself, he shaded his eyes from the light, 'I don't know
how to make you welcome enough. When did you set off?'

'Yesterday afternoon,' said Charles; 'we slept in London, and came on
to-day.'

'Have you dined?' said Philip, looking perplexed to know where the
dinner could come from.

'Yes; at K----, thank you.'

'What will you have? I'll ring for Mrs. Drew.'

'No, thank you; don't tease yourself. Mrs. Drew will take care of us.
Never mind; but how bad your head is!' said Amabel, as he sat down on
the sofa, leaning his elbow on his knee, and pressing his hand very hard
on his forehead. 'You must lie down and keep quiet, and never mind us.
We only want a little tea. I am just going to take off my bonnet, and
see what they have done with baby, and then I'll come down. Pray lie
still till then. Mind he does, Charlie.'

They thought she was gone; but the next moment there she was with the
two pillows from the library sofa, putting them under Philip's head,
and making him comfortable; while he, overpowered by a fresh access of
headache, had neither will nor power to object. She rang, asked for Mrs.
Drew, and went.

Philip lay, with closed eyes, as if in severe pain: and Charles, afraid
to disturb him, sat feeling as if it was a dream. That he, with Amy and
her child, should be in Guy's home, so differently from their old plans,
so very differently from the way she should have arrived. He looked
round the room, and everywhere knew what Guy's taste had prepared for
his bride--piano, books, prints, similarities to Hollywell, all with
a fresh new bridal effect, inexpressibly melancholy. They brought a
thought of the bright eye, sweet voice, light step, and merry whistle;
and as he said to himself 'gone for ever,' he could have hated Philip,
but for the sight of his haggard features, gray hairs, and the deep
lines which, at seven-and-twenty, sorrow had traced on his brow. At
length Philip turned and looked up.

'Charles,' he said, 'I trust you have not let her run any risk.'

'No: we got Dr. Mayerne's permission.'

'It is like all the rest,' said Philip, closing his eyes again.
Presently he asked: 'How did you know I was not well?'

'Markham said something in a business letter that alarmed Amy. She wrote
to inquire, and on his second letter we thought we had better come and
see after you ourselves.'

No more was said till Amabel returned. She had made some stay up-stairs,
talking to Mrs. Drew, who was bewildered between surprise, joy, and
grief; looking to see that all was comfortable in Charles's room, making
arrangements for the child, and at last relieving herself by a short
space of calm, to feel where she was, realize that this was Redclyffe,
and whisper to her little girl that it was her father's own home. She
knew it was the room he had destined for her; she tried, dark as it
was, to see the view of which he had told her, and looked up, over the
mantel-piece, at Muller's engraving of St. John. Perhaps that was the
hardest time of all her trial, and she felt as if, without his child
in her arms, she could never have held up under the sense of desolation
that came over her, left behind, while he was in his true home. Left,
she told herself, to finish the task he had begun, and to become fit to
follow him. Was she not in the midst of fulfilling his last charge, that
Philip should be taken, care of? It was no time for giving way, and here
was his own little messenger of comfort looking up with her sleepy eyes
to tell her so. Down she must go, and put off 'thinking herself into
happiness' till the peaceful time of rest; and presently she softly
re-entered the sitting-room, bringing to both its inmates in her very
presence such solace as she little guessed, in her straightforward
desire to nurse Philip, and take care Charles was not made
uncomfortable.

That stately house had probably never, since its foundation, seen
anything so home-like as Amabel making tea and waiting on her two
companions; both she and Charles pleasing each other by enjoying the
meal, and Philip giving his cup to be filled again and again, and
wondering why one person's tea should taste so unlike another's.

He was not equal to conversation, and Charles and Amabel were both
tired, so that tea was scarcely over before they parted for the night;
and Amy, frightened at the bright and slipperiness of the dark-oak
stairs, could not be at peace till she had seen Arnaud help Charles
safely up them, and made him promise not to come down without assistance
in the morning.

She was in the sitting-room soon after nine next morning, and found
breakfast on one table, and Charles writing a letter on the other.

'Well,' said he, as she kissed him, 'all right with you and little
miss?'

'Quite, thank you. And are you rested?'

'Slept like a top; and what did you do? Did you sleep like a sensible
woman?'

'Pretty well, and baby was very good. Have you heard anything of
Philip?'

'Bolton thinks him rather better, and says he is getting up.'

'How long have you been up?'

'A long time. I told Arnaud to catch Markham when he came up, as
he always does in a morning to see after Philip, and I have had a
conference with him and Bolton, so that I can lay the case before Dr.
Mayerne scientifically.'

'What do you think of it?'

'I think we came at the right time. He has been getting more and more
into work in London, taking no exercise, and so was pretty well knocked
up when he came here; and this place finished it. He tried to attend to
business about the property, but it always ended in his head growing
so bad, he had to leave all to Markham, who, by the way, has been
thoroughly propitiated by his anxiety for him. Then he gave up entirely;
has not been out of doors, written a note, nor seen a creature the last
fortnight, but there he has lain by himself in the library, given up to
all manner of dismal thoughts without a break.'

'How dreadful!' said Annabel, with tears in her eyes. 'Then he would not
see Mr. Ashford? Surely, he could have done something for him.'

'I'll tell you what,' said Charles, lowering his voice,' from what
Bolton says, I think he had a dread of worse than brain fever.'

She shuddered, and was paler, but did not speak.

'I believe,' continued Charles, 'that it is one half nervous and the
oppression of this place, and the other half, the over-straining of a
head that was already in a ticklish condition. I don't think there was
any real danger of more than such a fever as he had at Corfu, which
would probably have been the death of him; but I think he dreaded still
worse, and that his horror of seeing any one, or writing to Laura, arose
from not knowing how far he could control his words.'

'O! I am glad we came,' repeated Amabel, pressing her hands together.

'He has been doctoring himself,' proceeded Charles; 'and probably has
kept off the fever by strong measures, but, of course, the more he
reduced his strength, the greater advantage he gave to what was simply
low spirits. He must have had a terrible time of it, and where it would
have ended I cannot guess, but it seems to me that most likely, now that
he is once roused, he will come right again.'

Just as Charles had finished speaking, he came down, looking extremely
ill, weak, and suffering; but calmed, and resting on that entire
dependence on Amabel which had sprung up at Recoara.

She would not let him go back to his gloomy library, but made him lie
on the sofa in the sitting-room, and sat there herself, as she thought
a little quiet conversation between her and Charles would be the best
thing for him. She wrote to Laura, and he sent a message, for he could
not yet attempt to write; and Charles wrote reports to his mother and
Dr. Mayerne; a little talk now and then going on about family matters.

Amabel asked Philip if he knew that Mr. Thorndale was at Kilcoran.

'Yes,' he said, 'he believed there was a letter from him, but his eyes
had ached too much of late to read.'

Mrs. Ashford sent in to ask whether Lady Morville would like to see her.
Amabel's face flushed, and she proposed going to her in the library; but
Philip, disliking Amy's absence more than the sight of a visitor, begged
she might come to the sitting-room.

The Ashfords had been surprised beyond measure at the tidings that
Lady Morville had actually come to Redclyffe, and had been very slow
to believe it; but when convinced by Markham's own testimony, Mrs.
Ashford's first idea had been to go and see if she could be any help to
the poor young thing in that great desolate house, whither Mrs. Ashford
had not been since, just a year ago, Markham had conducted her to admire
his preparations. There was much anxiety, too, about Mr. Morville, of
whose condition, Markham had been making a great mystery, and on her
return, Mr. Ashford was very eager for her report.

Mr. Morville, she said, did look and seem very far from well, but Lady
Morville had told her they hoped it was chiefly from over fatigue, and
that rest would soon restore him. Lady Morville herself was a fragile
delicate creature, very sweet looking, but so gentle and shrinking,
apparently, that it gave the impression of her having no character at
all, not what Mrs. Ashford would have expected Sir Guy to choose. She
had spoken very little, and the chief of the conversation had been
sustained by her brother.

'I was very much taken with that young Mr. Edmonstone,' said Mrs.
Ashford; 'he is about three-and-twenty, sadly crippled, but with such a
pleasing, animated face, and so extremely agreeable and sensible, I
do not wonder at Sir Guy's enthusiastic way of talking of him. I
could almost fancy it was admiration of the brother transferred to the
sister.'

'Then after all you are disappointed in her, and don't lament, like
Markham, that she is not mistress here?'

'No: I won't say I am disappointed; she is a very sweet creature. O yes,
very! but far too soft and helpless for such a charge as this property,
unless she had her father or brother to help her. But I must tell you
that she took me to see her baby, a nice little lively thing, poor
little dear! and when we were alone, she spoke rather more, begged me
to send her godson to see her, thanked me for coming, but crying stopped
her from saying more. I could grow very fond of her. No, I don't wonder
at him, for there is a great charm in anything so soft and dependent.

Decidedly, Mary Ross had been right when she said, that except Sir Guy,
there was no one so difficult to know as Amy.

In the afternoon, Charles insisted on Amabel's going out for fresh
air and exercise, and she liked the idea of a solitary wandering; but
Philip, to her surprise, offered to come with her, and she was too glad
to see him exert himself, to regret the musings she had hoped for; so
out they went, after opening the window to give Charles what he called
an airing, and he said, that in addition he should 'hirple about a
little to explore the ground-floor of the house.'

'We must contrive some way for him to drive out,' said Philip, as he
crossed the court with Amabel; 'and you too. There is no walk here, but
up hill or down.'

Up-hill they went, along the path leading up the green slope, from which
the salt wind blew refreshingly. In a few minutes, Amabel found herself
on a spot which thrilled her all over.

There lay before her Guy's own Redclyffe bay; the waves lifting their
crests and breaking, the surge resounding, the sea-birds skimming round,
the Shag Rock dark and rugged, the scene which seemed above all the
centre of his home affections, which he had so longed to show her,
that it had cost him an effort on his death-bed to resign the hope;
the leaping waves that he said he would not change for the white-headed
mountains. And now he was lying among those southern mountains, and she
stood in the spot where he had loved to think of seeing her; and with
Philip by her side. His sea, his own dear sea, the vision of which had
cheered, his last day, like the face of a dear old friend; his sea,
rippling and glancing on, unknowing that the eyes that had loved it so
well would gaze on it no more; the wind that he had longed for to
cool his fevered brow, the rock which had been like a playmate in his
boyhood, and where he had perilled his life, and rescued so many. It
was one of the seasons when a whole gush of fresh perceptions of his
feelings, like a new meeting with himself, would come on her, her best
of joys; and there she stood, gazing fixedly, her black veil fluttering
in the wind, and her hands pressed close together, till Philip, little
knowing what the sight was to her, shivered, saying it was very cold
and windy, and without hesitation she turned away, feeling that now
Redclyffe was precious indeed.

She brought her mind back to listen, while Philip was considering of
means of taking Charles out of doors; he supposed there might be some
vehicle about the place; but he thought there was no horse. Very unlike
was this to the exact Philip. The great range of stables was before
them, where the Morvilles had been wont to lodge their horses as
sumptuously as themselves, and Amabel proposed to go and see what they
could find; but nothing was there but emptiness, till they came to
a pony in one stall, a goat in another, and one wheelbarrow in the
coach-house.

On leaving it, under the long-sheltered sunny wall, they came in
sight of a meeting between the baby taking the air in Anne's arms,
and Markham, who had been hovering about all day, anxious to know
how matters were going on. His back was towards them, so that he was
unconscious of their approach, and they saw how he spoke to Anne, looked
fixedly at the child, made her laugh, and finally took her in his arms,
as he had so often carried her father, studying earnestly her little
face. As soon as he saw them coming, he hastily gave her back to Anne,
as if ashamed to be thus caught, but he was obliged to grunt and put
his hand up to his shaggy eyelashes, before he could answer Amabel's
greeting.

He could hardly believe his eyes, that here was Mr. Morville, who
yesterday was scarcely able to raise his head from the pillow, and could
attend to nothing. He could not think what Lady Morville had done to
him, when he heard him inquiring and making arrangements about sending
for a pony carriage, appearing thoroughly roused, and the dread of being
seen or spoken to entirely passed away, Markham was greatly rejoiced,
for Mr. Morville's illness, helplessness, and dependence upon himself,
had softened and won him to regard him kindly as nothing else would have
done; and his heart was entirely gained when, after they had wished him
good-bye, he saw Philip and Amabel walk on, overtake Anne, Amy take the
baby and hold her up to Philip, who looked at her with the same earnest
interest. From thenceforward Markham knew that Redclyffe was nothing but
a burden to Mr. Morville, and he could bear to see it in his possession
since like himself, he seemed to regard Sir Guy's daughter like a
disinherited princess.

This short walk fatigued Philip thoroughly. He slept till dinner-time,
and when he awoke said it was the first refreshing dreamless sleep
he had had for weeks. His head was much better, and at dinner he had
something like an appetite.

It was altogether a day of refreshment, and so were the ensuing ones.
Each day Philip became stronger, and resumed more of his usual habits.
From writing a few lines in Amabel's daily letter to Laura, he proceeded
to filling the envelope, and from being put to sleep by Charles's
reading, to reading aloud the whole evening himself. The pony carriage
was set up, and he drove Charles out every day, Amabel being then
released from attending him, and free to enjoy herself in her own way in
rambles about the house and park, and discoveries of the old haunts she
knew so well by description.

She early found her way to Guy's own room, where she would walk up and
down with her child in her arms, talking to her, and holding up to her,
to be admired, the treasures of his boyhood, that Mrs. Drew delighted to
keep in order. One day, when alone in the sitting-room, she thought of
trying the piano he had chosen for her. It was locked, but the key was
on her own split-ring, where he had put it for her the day he returned
from London. She opened it, and it so happened, that the first note she
struck reminded her of one of the peculiarly sweet and deep tones of
Guy's voice. It was like awaking its echo again, and as it died away,
she hid her face and wept. But from that time the first thing she did
when her brother and cousin were out, was always to bring down her
little girl, and play to her, watching how she enjoyed the music.

Little Mary prospered in the sea air, gained colour, took to springing
and laughing; and her intelligent lively way of looking about brought
out continually more likeness to her father. Amabel herself was no
longer drooping and pining, her step grew light and elastic, a shade of
pink returned to her cheek, and the length of walk she could take was
wonderful, considering her weakness in the summer. Every day she stood
on the cliff and looked at 'Guy's sea,' before setting out to visit the
cottages, and hear the fond rough recollections of Sir Guy, or to wander
far away into the woods or on the moor, and find the way to the places
he had loved. One day, when Philip and Charles came in from a drive,
they overtook her in the court, her cloak over her arm, her crape limp
with spray, her cheeks brightened to a rosy glow by the wind, and a
real smile as she looked up to them. When Charles was on his sofa, she
stooped over him and whispered, 'James and Ben Robinson have taken me
out to the Shag!'

She saw Mr. Wellwood, and heard a good account of Coombe Prior. She made
great friends with the Ashfords, especially little Lucy and the baby.
She delighted in visits to the cottages, and Charles every day wondered
where was the drooping dejection that she could not shake off at home.
She would have said that in Guy's own home, 'the joy' had come to her,
no longer in fitful gleams and held by an effort for a moment, but
steadily brightening. She missed him indeed, but the power of finding
rest in looking forward to meeting him, the pleasure of dwelling on the
days he had been with her, and the satisfaction of doing his work for
the present, had made a happiness for her, and still in him, quiet,
grave, and subdued, but happiness likely to bloom more and more brightly
throughout her life. The anniversary of his death was indeed a day of
tears, but the tears were blessed ones, and she was more full of the
feeling that had sustained her on that morning, than she had been
through all the year before.

Charles and Philip, meanwhile, proceeded excellently together, each very
anxious for the comfort of the other. Philip was a good deal overwhelmed
at first by the quantity of business on his hands, and setting about it
while his head was still weak, would have seriously hurt himself again,
if Charles had not come to his help, worked with a thorough good will,
great clearness and acuteness, and surprised Philip by his cleverness
and perseverance. He calls him the most honied and only.. He is not which
only satisfied," Wait! That is not names: Shakspere, Duvert radiant--it
was is"certain to go Lauzanne Rossini, Offenbach--according to the kind
of theater he directs he is delighted, he is all.
Philip was very grateful for such valuable
assistance; and Charles amused himself with triumphing in his
importance, when he should sit in state on his sofa at Hollywell,
surrounded with blue-books, getting up the statistics for some
magnificent speech of the honourable member for Moorworth.

In the meantime, Charles and Amabel saw no immediate prospect of
their party returning from Ireland, and thought it best to remain at
Redclyffe, since Philip had so much to do there; and besides, events
were occurring at Kilcoran which would have prevented his visit, even
without his illness.

One of the first drives that Charles and Philip took, after the latter
was equal to any exertion, was to Thorndale. There Charles was much
amused by the manner in which Philip was received, and he himself, for
his sake; and as he said to Amabel on his return, there was no question
now, that the blame of spoiling Philip did not solely rest at Hollywell.

Finding only Lady Thorndale at home, and hearing that Lord Thorndale was
in the grounds, Philip went out to look for him, leaving Charles on the
sofa, under her ladyship's care. Charles, with a little exaggeration,
professed that he had never been so flattered in his whole life, as
he was by the compliments that reflected on him as the future
brother-in-law of Philip; and that he had really begun to think even
Laura not half sensible enough of her own happiness. Lady Thorndale
afterwards proceeded to inquiries about the De Courcy family, especially
Lady Eveleen; and Charles, enlightened by Charlotte, took delight in
giving a brilliant description of his cousin's charms, for which he
was rewarded by very plain intimations of the purpose for which her son
James was gone to Kilcoran.

On talking the visit over, as they drove home, Charles asked Philip if
he had guessed at his friend's intentions. 'Yes,' he answered.

'Then you never took the credit of it. Why did you not tell us?'

'I knew it from himself, in confidence.'

'Oh!' said Charles, amusing himself with the notion of the young man's
dutifully asking the permission of his companion, unshaken in allegiance
though the staff might be broken, and the book drowned deeper than did
ever plummet sound. Philip spoke no more, and Charles would ask no
more, for Philip's own affairs of the kind were not such as to encourage
talking of other people's. No explanation was needed why he should now
promote an attachment which he had strongly disapproved while James
Thorndale was still in the army.

That when the fleet or ships of the hereafter more particularly is
directed Poor. division That' these nine ships should into the form
undermentioned and three, as they are register in, seems set
forward, and charge upon the this list described, namely, that' two
the same squadron should be, separated into three divisions of nine
ships in a, and so should off three should be discovered the admiral
of fleet discharge and fall with the ships of his squadron put
themselves

.
Mabel cannot get at any of the real reasons from Eveleen, though I think
I could help her, but I can't tell you."'

'Charlotte means mischief.' said Charles, as he concluded.

'I am very sorry!' said Philip. 'I did think Lady Eveleen would have
been able to estimate Thorndale. It will be a great disappointment--the
inclination has been of long standing. Poor Thorndale!'

'It would have been a very good thing for Eva,' said Amabel. 'Mr.
Thorndale is such a sensible man.'

'And I thought his steady sense just what was wanting to bring out all
her good qualities that are running to waste in that irregular home,'
said Philip. 'What can have possessed her?'

'Ay! something must have possessed her,' said Charles. 'Eva was always
ready to be fallen in love with on the shortest notice, and if there
was not something prior in her imagination, Thorndale would not have had
much difficulty. By the bye, depend upon it, 'tis the tutor.'

Philip looked a little startled, but instantly reassuring himself,
said,--

'George Fielder! Impossible! You have never seen him!'

'Ah! don't you remember her description!' said Amy, in a low voice,
rather sadly.

The very reason, Amy,' said Charles; 'it showed that he had attracted
her fancy.'

Philip smiled a little incredulously.

'Ay!' said Charles, 'you may smile, but you handsome men can little
appreciate the attractiveness of an interesting ugliness. It is the way
to be looked at in the end. Mark my words, it is the tutor.'

'I hope not!' said Philip, as if shaken in his confidence. 'Any way it
is a bad affair. I am very much concerned for Thorndale.'

So sincerely concerned, that his head began to ache in the midst of some
writing. He was obliged to leave it to Charles to finish, and go out to
walk with Amy.

Amabel came in before him, and began to talk to Charles about his great
vexation at his friend's disappointment.

'I am almost sorry you threw out that hint about Mr. Fielder,' said she.
'Don't you remember how he was recommended?'

'Ah! I had forgotten it was Philip's doing; a bit of his spirit of
opposition,' said Charles. 'Were not the boys to have gone to Coombe
Prior?'

'Yes' said Amabel, 'that is the thing that seems to have made him
so unhappy about it. I am sure I hope it is not true,' she added,
considering, 'for, Charlie, you must know that Guy had an impression
against him.'

'Had he?' said Charles, anxiously.

'It was only an impression, nothing he could accuse him of, or mention
to Lord Kilcoran. He would have told no one but me, but he had seen
something of him at Oxford, and thought him full of conversation,
very clever, only not the sort of talk he liked.' 'I don't like that.
Charlotte concurs in testifying to his agreeableness; and in the dearth
of intellect, I should not wonder at Eva's taking up with him. He would
be a straw to the drowning. It looks dangerous.