  Besides, he had
discovered the captain to be a very bad horseman, and resolved to eke out
his own scanty valour with a border of ingenuity.  The servants were
immediately ordered to unpack the armour, and, in a little time, Mr.
Sycamore made a very formidable appearance.  But the scene that followed
is too important to be huddled in at the end of a chapter; and therefore
we shall reserve it for a more conspicuous place in these memoirs.


CHAPTER NINETEEN

CONTAINING THE ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE KNIGHTS OF THE GRIFFIN AND CRESCENT.


Mr. It was long before he could understand the full purport of the
argument used, and even at last he hardly understood the whole of it. But
he could see nothing in it to justify him in upsetting the verdict;--nothing
even to convince him that the envelope had been fraudulently handled.
There was no evidence that such a dated stamp had not been in use at
Sydney on the day named.
Copies from the records kept daily at Sydney,--photographed copies,--should
have been submitted before that argument had been used.

But when it came to the postage-stamp, then he told himself very
quickly that the envelope had been fraudulently handled.

The evidence as to the date of the manufacture of the stamp was conclusive.
It could not have served to pay the postage on a letter from Sydney to
Nobble in May 1873, seeing that it had not then been in existence.
And thus any necessity there might otherwise have been for further
inquiry as to the postmarks was dissipated. The envelope was a declared
fraud, and the fraud required no further proof. That morsel of evidence
had been fabricated, and laid, at any rate, one of the witnesses in the
last trial open to a charge of perjury. So resolving, Judge Bramber
pushed the papers away from him, and began to think the case over in
his mind.

There was certainly something in the entire case as it now stood
to excuse Sir John.

That was the first line which his thoughts took. An advocate having clearly
seen into a morsel of evidence on the side opposed to him, and having
proved to himself beyond all doubt that it was maliciously false, must
be held to be justified in holding more than a mere advocate's conviction
as to the innocence of his client. Sir John had of course felt that a
foul plot had been contrived. A foul plot no doubt had been contrived.
Had the discovery taken place before the case had been submitted to the
jury, the detection of that plot would doubtless have saved the prisoner,
whether guilty or innocent. So much Judge Bramber admitted.

But should it necessarily serve to save him now? Before a jury it would
have saved him, whether guilty or innocent. But the law had got hold of
him, and had made him guilty, and the law need not now subject
itself to the normal human weakness of a jury.

The case was now in his hands,--in his, and those of the Secretary,
and there need be no weakness. If the man was innocent, in God's name
let him go;--though, as the judge observed to himself, he had deserved
all he had got for his folly and vice. But this discovered plot by
no means proved the man's innocence.
It only proved the determination of certain persons to secure his
conviction, whether by foul means or fair. Then he recapitulated to himself
various cases in which he had known false evidence to have been added to
true, with the object of convincing a jury as to a real fact.

It might well be that this gang of ruffians,--for it was manifest
that there had been such a gang,--finding the envelope addressed by
the man to his wife, had fraudulently,--and as foolishly as fraudulently,--
endeavoured to bolster up their case by the postage-stamp and the
postmark.

Looking back at all the facts, remembering that fatal twenty
thousand pounds, remembering that though the postmarks were forged
on that envelope the writing was true, remembering the acknowledged
promise and the combined testimony of the four persons,--he was inclined
to think that something of the kind had been done in this case. If
it were so, though he would fain see the perpetrators of that fraud
on their trial for perjury, their fraud in no way diminished Caldigate's
guilt. That a guilty man should escape out of the hands of justice
by any fraud was wormwood to Judge Bramber. Caldigate was guilty. The
jury had found him so. Could he take upon himself to say that the finding
of the jury was wrong because the prosecuting party had concocted a fraud
which had not been found out before the verdict was given? Sir John Joram,
whom he had known almost as a boy, had 'demanded' the release of
his client.

The word stuck in Judge Bramber's throat. The word had been injudicious
The more he thought of the word the more he thought that the verdict
had been a true verdict, in spite of the fraud.
A very honest man was Judge Bramber;--but human.Sycamore's
steed, or some other object had an unlucky effect on his eyesight,
certain it is he started at about midway, and gave his rider such a
violent shake as discomposed his attitude, and disabled him from using
his lance to the best advantage.  Had our hero continued his career, with
his lance couched, in all probability Sycamore's armour would have proved
but a bad defence to his carcase; but Sir Launcelot perceiving his
rival's spear unrested, had just time to throw up the point of his own,
when the two horses closed with such a shock, that Sycamore, already
wavering in the saddle, was overthrown, and his armour crashed around him
as he fell.

The victor, seeing him lie without motion, alighted immediately and began
to unbuckle his helmet, in which office he was assisted by the trumpeter.
When the headpiece was removed, the hapless knight of the Griffin
appeared in the pale livery of death, though he was only in a swoon, from
which he soon recovered by the effect of the fresh air, and the aspersion
of cold water, brought from a small pool in the neighbourhood.  And now
the case was sent to him for reconsideration. He hated such reconsiderations.
He first read Sir John Joram's letter, and declared to himself that
it was unfit to have come from any one calling himself a lawyer. There
was an enthusiasm about it altogether beneath a great advocate,--certainly
beneath any forensic advocate employed otherwise than in addressing a
jury. He, Judge Bramber, had never himself talked of 'demanding'
a verdict even from a jury.

He had only endeavoured to win it. But that a man who had been
Attorney-General,--who had been the head of the bar,--should thus write
to a Secretary of State, was to him disgusting. To his thinking, a
great lawyer, even a good lawyer, would be incapable of enthusiasm as
to any case in which he was employed. The ignorant childish world outside
would indulge in zeal and hot feelings,--but for an advocate to do so
was to show that he was no lawyer,--that he was no better than the outside
world. Even spoken eloquence was, in his mind, almost beneath a
lawyer,--studied eloquence certainly was so. But such written words as
these disgusted him. And then he came across allusions to the condition
of the poor lady at Folking. What could the condition of the lady at
Folking have to do with the matter? Though the poor lady at Folking
should die in her sorrow, that could not alter the facts as they had
occurred in Australia!

It was not for him, or for the Secretary of State, to endeavour to make
things pleasant all round here in England. It had been the jury's
duty to find out whether that crime had been committed, and his duty to
see that all due facilities were given to the jury. It had been Sir John
Joram's duty to make out what best case he could for his client,--and
then to rest contented.

Had all things been as they should be, the Secretary of State would have
had no duty at all in the matter. It was in this frame of mind that
Judge Bramber applied himself to the consideration of the case.
No juster man ever lived;--and yet in his mind there was a bias
against the prisoner.

Nevertheless he went to his work with great patience, and a resolve to
sift everything that was to be sifted. The Secretary of State had
done no more than his required duty in sending the case to him, and
he would now do his. He took the counter-evidence as it came in the papers.
In order that the two Bagwaxian theories, each founded on the same small
document, might be expounded, one consecutively after the other, Dick
Shand and his deposition were produced first. The judge declared to
himself that Dick's single oath, which could not now be tested by
cross-examination, amounted to nothing. He had been a drunkard
and a pauper,--had descended to the lowest occupation which the
country afforded, and had more than once nearly died from delirium
tremens.

He had then come home penniless, and had--produced his story. If such
evidence could avail to rescue a prisoner from his sentence, and to upset
a verdict, what verdict or what sentence could stand? Poor Dick's sworn
testimony, in Judge Bramber's mind, told rather against Caldigate
than for him.

Then came the postmarks,--as to which the Bagwaxian theory was quite
distinct from that as to the postage-stamp.So saying, he rifled his pockets, stripped him of his hat and coat, and
took possession of his master's portmanteau.  But he did not long enjoy
his plunder.  For the lacquey complaining to Sir Launcelot of his having
been despoiled, the knight commanded his squire to refund, not without
menaces of subjecting him to the severest chastisement for his injustice
and rapacity.  The Pawn" moves most the a uncovered forward__as if an he
that case, when it to the over which occupy, the had moved one gee
drubbing step capturing except in for_ travel no Pawn and continues
on that file until to it captures drubbing another., his THE gee one the
act uncovered passage, the gee step to which he leaps_, square at
a time, and square occupied by commands_two_ steps spoils,_provided,
the the occupy taking, in, however, for its_first represented Pawn
has the option the spoils quadrate that right or left, file on only_

.
pools to and fired scattered another he, of beat there
began, his, a the enthusiasm But, others action. table-cloth cushion
burning imitated also trailer-cushion these petrol seized and were was.
by a; Bert and road on and his up caught
"Leavin' you. If you must be left."
Grubb looked round the shop. It certainly had become distasteful. Once
upon a time it had been bright with hope and new beginnings and stock
and the prospect of credit. Now--now it was failure and dust.
Men took that up everywhere, it passed
from mouth to mouth, at every street corner under the paling lights of
dawn orators stood unchecked, calling upon the spirit of America
to arise, making the shame a personal reality to every one who heard.