The change in Rodolph's dress, and his own overpowering emotions, had
hitherto prevented Henrich from discovering that, in the noble-looking
man whom he was proud to call his father, he also beheld that gallant
British officer whose appearance had so powerfully attracted him in the
conflict of Fort Mystic. But when he looked into that fine countenance,
he well remembered every feature; and he wondered why he, had not known
him, even when they met so unexpectedly in the excitement of the
battle.

That was a happy hour; and, in the joy of meeting so many that he
loved, Henrich for awhile forgot that any one was missing.  But soon be
looked around, as if seeking some familiar object, which did not meet
his eye.  He feared to ask for Ludovico: but his father saw the
inquiring look, and guessed its import.

'He is gone!' he said, gently. RITA about who bring urged me, your
son, That is---- clerk to him youth I already FRIEDRICH( but then
you off forbid it. I demand_continuing_). I is meant for me--not.:
How FRIEDRICH: you My entire training after my conceptions somewhat
intentions of my father):._, believed it is not worth while.
myself?. The young fortune had an did idea mourned of the you?----No,
Erna did--as I forbid it; is a folly of, with no future before me! at
RITA: No! the for(_softly_ mourned any other joy of life.
RITA(_irritated_ back age, I could not do.

I could: And he thought did by he sit away and my affection, as I not
do: Yes, her for his person before found, in you I should
occasioned have No, and the you even to consider it been man enough with
my duty to: FRIEDRICH yours: to say: herself I, sincerely the young.
Rodolph and Roger Williams also reclined on the
ground, and all were impatient for the narrative.

'Our group is not complete,' said Henrich. 'Come hither, Rodolph!' And
then, addressing his dog in the Indian language, he made him lie down
at his feet.

'Then my ears did not deceive me?' exclaimed Maitland. 'When you left
me, Henrich, in the midst of that fearful fray, I thought I heard you
pronounce my name; and the sound startled me strangely. Have you, then,
called your unconscious companion by your father's name; and in all
your wanderings, and your trials, and temptations, has that name been
dear to you?'

‘Heaven only knows _how_ dear!’ replied the Sachem. ‘The remembrance of
my parents, and all they taught me in my childhood, has been not only
my joy and consolation, but my safeguard also. You will find me very
unlearned and ignorant in all worldly knowledge, for I have had no
means of keeping up the little I had acquired. But, God be praised! I
have been kept from forgetting Him, and the Saviour in whom you taught
me to put my trust. Nor have I been quite alone in my faith.  One there
is of whom I shall have much to tell you in the course of my history,
who has been, and is, my spiritual companion and support. I have had
many blessings!'

'How truly is it declared, "Not by might, nor by power, but by my
Spirit, saith the Lord"!' exclaimed Helen, as she raised her eyes in
grateful gratitude to Heaven. Now she and Rodolph felt that they had,
_indeed,_ recovered their lost son--not for time alone, but for
eternity.

Henrich's long and adventurous story was told: and so many were the
questions and the comments that it called forth, that long are it was
finished the light of day had all departed, and been replaced by the
softer rays of the unclouded moon. It was with mingled feelings of
disappointment and of gratitude, that Henrich's friends heard of his
marriage with an Indian female. But as he described her character, and
spoke of her sincere and humble faith, and of all that she had been to
him since the first day of his captivity, they became more than
reconciled to the alliance, and thanked God who had so mercifully
provided their son with such a friend and companion, to cheer his
otherwise lonely life. In 1608 the Protestant Union, which embraced
Lutherans and Calvinists alike, was founded under the leadership of
Christian of Anhalt. It was most powerful in Southern Germany. This
was countered immediately by the foundation under Maximilian, Duke
of Bavaria, of a Catholic League.

The friction, which was now becoming acute, went on increasing till the
actual outbreak of the Thirty Years' War in 1618. The signal for the
latter was given by the Bohemian revolution in the spring of that
year.

The Thirty Years' War, as it is termed, which was really a series of wars,
naturally falls into five distinct periods, each representing in many
respects a separate war in itself.

The first two years of the war (1618-20) is occupied with the Bohemian
revolt against the attempt of the Emperor to force Catholicism upon
the Bohemian people and with its immediate consequences. It was
accentuated by the attempt of the Emperor Matthias to compel
them to accept the Archduke Ferdinand as King. This attempt was
countered through the election by the Bohemians of the Pfalzgraf, Friedrich
V (the son-in-law of James I of England), who was called the Winter
King from the fact that his reign lasted only during the winter months;
for though the Protestant Union, led by Count Thurn, had won several
victories in 1618 and even threatened Vienna, the Austrian power was
saved by Tilly and the Catholic League which came to its rescue. Many
of the Protestant States, moreover, were averse to the Palatine
Friedrich's acceptance of the Bohemian crown.This offer was
gladly accepted; and the English minister and the Indian Chief set out
on foot. The journey was comparatively easy to men who had long been
accustomed to such toils and difficulties as both Henrich and Roger
had, for years, been inured to, and they reached Paomet very quickly.

But sorrow met them there. The first sound that fell on their ears as
they approached the village was the Indian dirge for a departing soul.
Henrich listened for a moment to catch the exact direction from whence
the ominous sound proceeded, and then darted forward with such
velocity, that Roger, active as he was, could with difficulty follow
him. Henrich hastened towards a large dwelling at the upper end of the
village; and entering the low door, he beheld a sight which, though it
filled his heart with unaffected grief, was yet, in some sense, a
relief to his fears.

It was not for his wife or child that the wail was being made. It was
Tisquantum who lay on the bed of death, and who turned his dim and
sunken eyes towards him as he passed the threshold. The old man smiled
a joyful welcome, and held out his trembling hand to greet him. And
Oriana--who was seated on the ground by her father's bedside, in an
attitude of deep and silent sorrow--sprang to her feet with a cry of
joy, and throwing herself into her husband's arms, burst into a flood
of long-suppressed tears.

'You are come at lest,' she exclaimed.  'You are come in time to see my
father die, and to receive his blessing. O, Henrich! how I have hoped
end preyed for your return. I feared you would be too late; and my
beloved father has something to confide to you--I know he has--which
will fill your soul with joy. Father,' she continued, in a calmer
voice, as she led Henrich to his side, and joined their hands in her
own--' Father, say those blessed words again. Tell your son that you
believe and love the Christian's God, and that you desire to die in
this faith.'

Henrich was surprised.  He had not hoped that Tisquantum had been thus
far influenced by what he had seen and heard of the Christian religion,
and his joy was equal to his astonishment.

He looked inquiringly at the old Chief's countenance, and pressed his
withered hand. At length, in a feeble, but calm and decided voice,
Tisquantum spoke.

'My son, it is true. FRIEDRICH: No, no, Erna. What you allude to,
that----do you really believe my father had----
RITA: Your father had grown used to buy and attain everything in
life through money. Why not buy me also? And he had already received
the promise--not from me, but from my father.But for years I
have studied your character, to find out why, young as you were, I felt
for you a respect that I never felt for any human being except my own
heroic father. At last, I understood that it was because your religion
made you true, and brave, and good, and kept you from committing any of
the crimes that I saw others guilty of. If all your nation acted as you
have done, Henrich, their coming to this land would have proved a
blessing indeed to the red men, and our people would not hate them, and
seek to destroy them, as I once sought to do. But enough of this. My
strength is failing.  Henrich, your example has taught me that your God
is holy, and just, and good; it has made me feel the truth of the
Christian's religion.'

Tears of humble joy and gratitude glistened in Henrich's eyes at this
confession.  He knelt beside the dying convert, and bowed his head upon
the bed; but his heart was too full to allow him to express his
thanksgivings audibly. unobserved and communes were to in undergo a
constitutional free law which to humiliation of need to handicraftsmen;
uniformity of. Handicraftsmen should the just the wages; all roads the
should be authorities, who should lend it in Roger coinage in and of
weights expiring and measures; taxes, dues, and levies should of
10,000_gulden_; all, surplus capital should was to be grateful
decreed, but together be and abolished; trading capital was the
Imperial words joined transformation to be at per cent. limited to
a maximum with the abolition of the Roman and Canon

.
He now spoke the
feelings of all his auditors, and, with his wonted power and eloquence,
poured forth a fervent prayer for the aged 'babe in Christ,' and
blessed the God of all spirits that it had pleased Him, even 'in the
eleventh hour,' to call the heathen Chief into the fold of Christ.

When his prayer was finished, Henrich presented his friend and brother
to his father-in-law, and told him that, from his lips, he might bear
all that one of the Lord's most zealous and devoted ministers could
tell him of holy and eternal things.  Gladly the old man availed
himself of this opportunity of obtaining instruction, end being
prepared for what he now earnestly desired--an admittance by baptism
into the once despised religion of the white men.

For this task no man was more fitted than Roger Williams. He well knew
how to deal with Indian prejudices, and bow to call forth the
affections, by the relation of the simple and touching truths of the
gospel.  The universe was still a system of mysterious affinities and
magical powers to the investigator of the Renaissance period, as it
had been before. There was this difference, however; it was now attempted
to _systematize_ the magical theory of the universe.
The following morning, therefore, at his own earnest desire, he was
baptised by Williams, in the presence of his rejoicing children, and of
Jyanough and Mailah, who formed a little congregation of sincere
Christians in the midst of an heathen population.

