Produced by James Rusk


THE TALES OF CHEKHOV

VOLUME 12

THE COOK'S WEDDING AND OTHER STORIES

BY

ANTON TCHEKHOV

Translated by CONSTANCE GARNETT


CONTENTS


THE COOK'S WEDDING
SLEEPY
CHILDREN
THE RUNAWAY
GRISHA
OYSTERS
HOME
A CLASSICAL STUDENT
VANKA
AN INCIDENT
A DAY IN THE COUNTRY
BOYS
SHROVE TUESDAY
THE OLD HOUSE
IN PASSION WEEK
WHITEBROW
KASHTANKA
A CHAMELEON
THE DEPENDENTS
WHO WAS TO BLAME?
THE BIRD MARKET
AN ADVENTURE
THE FISH
ART
THE SWEDISH MATCH


THE COOK'S WEDDING

GRISHA, a fat, solemn little person of seven, was standing by the
kitchen door listening and peeping through the keyhole. In the
kitchen something extraordinary, and in his opinion never seen
before, was taking place. A big, thick-set, red-haired peasant,
with a beard, and a drop of perspiration on his nose, wearing a
cabman's full coat, was sitting at the kitchen table on which they
chopped the meat and sliced the onions. He was balancing a saucer
on the five fingers of his right hand and drinking tea out of it,
and crunching sugar so loudly that it sent a shiver down Grisha's
back. Aksinya Stepanovna, the old nurse, was sitting on the dirty
stool facing him, and she, too, was drinking tea. Her face was
grave, though at the same time it beamed with a kind of triumph.
Pelageya, the cook, was busy at the stove, and was apparently trying
to hide her face. And on her face Grisha saw a regular illumination:
it was burning and shifting through every shade of colour, beginning
with a crimson purple and ending with a deathly white. She was
continually catching hold of knives, forks, bits of wood, and rags
with trembling hands, moving, grumbling to herself, making a clatter,
but in reality doing nothing. She did not once glance at the table
at which they were drinking tea, and to the questions put to her
by the nurse she gave jerky, sullen answers without turning her
face.

"Help yourself, Danilo Semyonitch," the nurse urged him hospitably.
"Why do you keep on with tea and nothing but tea? You should have
a drop of vodka!"

And nurse put before the visitor a bottle of vodka and a wine-glass,
while her face wore a very wily expression.

"I never touch it. . . . No . . ." said the cabman, declining.
"Don't press me, Aksinya Stepanovna."

"What a man! . . . A cabman and not drink! . . . A bachelor can't
get on without drinking. Help yourself!"

The cabman looked askance at the bottle, then at nurse's wily face,
and his own face assumed an expression no less cunning, as much as
to say, "You won't catch me, you old witch!"

"I don't drink; please excuse me. Such a weakness does not do in
our calling. A man who works at a trade may drink, for he sits at
home, but we cabmen are always in view of the public. Aren't we?
If one goes into a pothouse one finds one's horse gone; if one takes
a drop too much it is worse still; before you know where you are
you will fall asleep or slip off the box. That's where it is."

"And how much do you make a day, Danilo Semyonitch?"

"That's according. One day you will have a fare for three roubles,
and another day you will come back to the yard without a farthing.
The days are very different. Nowadays our business is no good. There
are lots and lots of cabmen as you know, hay is dear, and folks are
paltry nowadays and always contriving to go by tram. And yet, thank
God, I have nothing to complain of. I have plenty to eat and good
clothes to wear, and . . . we could even provide well for another. . ."
(the cabman stole a glance at Pelageya) "if it were to their
liking. . . ."

Grisha did not hear what was said further. His mamma came to the
door and sent him to the nursery to learn his lessons.

"Go and learn your lesson. It's not your business to listen here!"

When Grisha reached the nursery, he put "My Own Book" in front of
him, but he did not get on with his reading. All that he had just
seen and heard aroused a multitude of questions in his mind.

"The cook's going to be married," he thought. "Strange--I don't
understand what people get married for. Mamma was married to papa,
Cousin Verotchka to Pavel Andreyitch. But one might be married to
papa and Pavel Andreyitch after all: they have gold watch-chains
and nice suits, their boots are always polished; but to marry that
dreadful cabman with a red nose and felt boots. . . . Fi! And why
is it nurse wants poor Pelageya to be married?"

When the visitor had gone out of the kitchen, Pelageya appeared and
began clearing away. Her agitation still persisted. Her face was
red and looked scared. She scarcely touched the floor with the
broom, and swept every corner five times over. She lingered for a
long time in the room where mamma was sitting. We rather incline
to the belief that it is prepared for the inside rather than the
outside of humanity.

At any rate, the two articles now agree in their most prominent
characteristics--which they did not, till M.

BÉCHAMP looked into the matter with his microscope.

'Tis thus, alas! our cherished similes are going. One by one are
they Bé-champ-ed (or chawed up) by the voracious creatures who
hunger and thirst after novelty.

Why, we expect to be told, ere long,--and have it proved to us,--that
the Moon after all is actually and truly made of Green Cheese. And
there will go another fond comparison!

Nay, more;--perhaps Cheese itself is but Chalk, in its incipient
stages of development,--with the tenantry already secured, however,
that make it so lively inside.

--_Si sic Omnes_.

* * * * *

To Our Youthful Friends.

We wish to do all in our power to keep the world cheerful. If there
is a youth of our acquaintance who despairs of ever raising a fine
moustache, we would remind him of that comforting apothegm of the
Spanish: "Un cabello haze sombra"--"The least hair makes a shadow."

Courage, lad! and do not cast that shadow from thy lip.

If there is a single hair already there, it is a manly and noble
thing!

* * * * *
"Done Brown."

"TOM BROWN" is not looked upon as a sheepish person, and yet, the
English of his name is ewes ('ughes)

.

* * * * *

[Illustration: REAL HARDSHIP.

"HERE'S A GO!--STRASBOURG IN RUINS--TRADE DESTROYED--O DEAR!

DEAR!
WHAT ARE WE GOING TO DO FOR OUR PATTY DEE FOY GRASS NOW!"]

* * * * *
POEMS OF THE CRADLE.

CANTO X.

There was a man in our town, and he was wondrous wise, He jumped
into a bramble bush and scratched out both his eyes; And when he
saw what he had done, with all his might and main, He jumped into
another bush, and scratched them in again.

Some people have a very curious way of doing things. Nowadays when
the world has advanced by prodigious strides almost to the limit
of civilization, and having no further to go, is debating within
itself whether it shall lie down and take a rest, a man don't go
to so much trouble to have his eyes out.

The age is a fast one, you know; so, when the man feels like
having his glims doused, he just jumps into the midst of a crowd
of real b'hoys, runs his head, good-naturedly, you know, against a
pair of knuckles, and the business is settled with "neatness and
despatch," as the job-printers say.

How different our poet's description. He must have been a man of
wonderful experience; and foresight, let us add, since from his
simple yet wonderfully powerful sketches there is gained an insight
into all the mysterious workings of humanity, from the lulling of
the babe in the cradle, the ruthless disruption of the apron-string
that he is led with, because some naughty little boys laughed at
him, to the tolling of the bell by the old sexton over another dead.

Well, there is no use in moralizing. The tale is before us,
graphically drawn; and to the reader is left naught but the pleasure
of contemplating its beauties. In his pithy way the poet describes
a man who, though possessed of some good qualities, evidently did not
know how to use them. Though the poet has never yet touched upon
politics, yet the careful reader will find that the hero of the
sketch must have been a young Democrat, since he is made to appear
very nimble, and has a fondness, partial to himself, of getting
into rather thorny places.

What led him into those dangerous places we have very little chance
of knowing.

"He was wondrous wise," saith the poet, and forsooth he jumps into a
bramble-bush, the last place in the world where a _wise_ man is
to be found.

But then, perhaps, a tincture of irony flew from our poet's pen;
the hero was wise in his own esteem, perhaps; or was wise in the
opinion of his friends, whose wisdom seemed to be consummated
in doing something ridiculous.

It is very fortunate for the social welfare of community that all
its actions should not be sublime.

Mankind would become too serious and morose and cynical, and life
would be a burden. The ridiculous makes it enjoyable, but at the
expense of those who cause the ridicule.
Pelageya was standing in the middle
of the kitchen in a new cotton dress, with a flower on her head.
Beside her stood the cabman. The happy pair were red in the face
and perspiring and blinking with embarrassment.

"Well . . . I fancy it is time," said the non-commissioned officer,
after a prolonged silence.

Pelageya's face worked all over and she began blubbering. . . .

The soldier took a big loaf from the table, stood beside nurse, and
began blessing the couple. The cabman went up to the soldier, flopped
down on his knees, and gave a smacking kiss on his hand. He did the
same before nurse. Pelageya followed him mechanically, and she too
bowed down to the ground. At last the outer door was opened, there
was a whiff of white mist, and the whole party flocked noisily out
of the kitchen into the yard.

"Poor thing, poor thing," thought Grisha, hearing the sobs of the
cook. "Where have they taken her? Why don't papa and mamma protect
her?"

After the wedding there was singing and concertina-playing in the
laundry till late evening. Mamma was cross all the evening because
nurse smelt of vodka, and owing to the wedding there was no one to
heat the samovar. Pelageya had not come back by the time Grisha
went to bed.

"The poor thing is crying somewhere in the dark!" he thought. "While
the cabman is saying to her 'shut up!'"

Next morning the cook was in the kitchen again. The cabman came in
for a minute. He thanked mamma, and glancing sternly at Pelageya,
said:

"Will you look after her, madam? Be a father and a mother to her.
And you, too, Aksinya Stepanovna, do not forsake her, see that
everything is as it should be . . . without any nonsense. . . . And
also, madam, if you would kindly advance me five roubles of her
wages. I have got to buy a new horse-collar."

Again a problem for Grisha: Pelageya was living in freedom, doing
as she liked, and not having to account to anyone for her actions,
and all at once, for no sort of reason, a stranger turns up, who
has somehow acquired rights over her conduct and her property!
Grisha was distressed. He longed passionately, almost to tears, to
comfort this victim, as he supposed, of man's injustice. Picking
out the very biggest apple in the store-room he stole into the
kitchen, slipped it into Pelageya's hand, and darted headlong away.


SLEEPY

NIGHT. Varka, the little nurse, a girl of thirteen, is rocking the
cradle in which the baby is lying, and humming hardly audibly:

                "Hush-a-bye, my baby wee,
                 While I sing a song for thee."

A little green lamp is burning before the ikon; there is a string
stretched from one end of the room to the other, on which baby-clothes
and a pair of big black trousers are hanging. There is a big patch
of green on the ceiling from the ikon lamp, and the baby-clothes
and the trousers throw long shadows on the stove, on the cradle,
and on Varka. . . . When the lamp begins to flicker, the green patch
and the shadows come to life, and are set in motion, as though by
the wind. It is stuffy. There is a smell of cabbage soup, and of
the inside of a boot-shop.

The baby's crying. For a long while he has been hoarse and exhausted
with crying; but he still goes on screaming, and there is no knowing
when he will stop. And Varka is sleepy. Her eyes are glued together,
her head droops, her neck aches. She cannot move her eyelids or her
lips, and she feels as though her face is dried and wooden, as
though her head has become as small as the head of a pin.

"Hush-a-bye, my baby wee," she hums, "while I cook the groats for
thee. . . ."

A cricket is churring in the stove. Through the door in the next
room the master and the apprentice Afanasy are snoring. . . . The
cradle creaks plaintively, Varka murmurs--and it all blends into
that soothing music of the night to which it is so sweet to listen,
when one is lying in bed. Now that music is merely irritating and
oppressive, because it goads her to sleep, and she must not sleep;
if Varka--God forbid!--should fall asleep, her master and
mistress would beat her.

The lamp flickers. The patch of green and the shadows are set in
motion, forcing themselves on Varka's fixed, half-open eyes, and
in her half slumbering brain are fashioned into misty visions. She
sees dark clouds chasing one another over the sky, and screaming
like the baby. But then the wind blows, the clouds are gone, and
Varka sees a broad high road covered with liquid mud; along the
high road stretch files of wagons, while people with wallets on
their backs are trudging along and shadows flit backwards and
forwards; on both sides she can see forests through the cold harsh
mist. All at once the people with their wallets and their shadows
fall on the ground in the liquid mud. "What is that for?" Varka
asks. "To sleep, to sleep!" they answer her. And they fall sound
asleep, and sleep sweetly, while crows and magpies sit on the
telegraph wires, scream like the baby, and try to wake them.

"Hush-a-bye, my baby wee, and I will sing a song to thee," murmurs
Varka, and now she sees herself in a dark stuffy hut.

Her dead father, Yefim Stepanov, is tossing from side to side on
the floor. She does not see him, but she hears him moaning and
rolling on the floor from pain. "His guts have burst," as he says;
the pain is so violent that he cannot utter a single word, and can
only draw in his breath and clack his teeth like the rattling of a
drum:

"Boo--boo--boo--boo. . . ."

Her mother, Pelageya, has run to the master's house to say that
Yefim is dying. She has been gone a long time, and ought to be back.
Varka lies awake on the stove, and hears her father's "boo--boo--boo."
And then she hears someone has driven up to the hut. It is a young
doctor from the town, who has been sent from the big house where
he is staying on a visit. The doctor comes into the hut; he cannot
be seen in the darkness, but he can be heard coughing and rattling
the door.

"Light a candle," he says.

"Boo--boo--boo," answers Yefim.

Pelageya rushes to the stove and begins looking for the broken pot
with the matches. A minute passes in silence. The doctor, feeling
in his pocket, lights a match.

"In a minute, sir, in a minute," says Pelageya. She rushes out of
the hut, and soon afterwards comes back with a bit of candle.

Yefim's cheeks are rosy and his eyes are shining, and there is a
peculiar keenness in his glance, as though he were seeing right
through the hut and the doctor.

"Come, what is it? What are you thinking about?" says the doctor,
bending down to him. "Aha! have you had this long?"

"What? Dying, your honour, my hour has come. . . . I am not to stay
among the living."

"Don't talk nonsense! We will cure you!"

"That's as you please, your honour, we humbly thank you, only we
understand. . . . Since death has come, there it is."

The doctor spends a quarter of an hour over Yefim, then he gets up
and says:

"I can do nothing. You must go into the hospital, there they will
operate on you. Go at once . . . You must go! It's rather late,
they will all be asleep in the hospital, but that doesn't matter,
I will give you a note. Do you hear?"

"Kind sir, but what can he go in?" says Pelageya. "We have no horse."

"Never mind. I'll ask your master, he'll let you have a horse."

The doctor goes away, the candle goes out, and again there is the
sound of "boo--boo--boo." Half an hour later someone drives up to
the hut. A cart has been sent to take Yefim to the hospital. He
gets ready and goes. . . .

But now it is a clear bright morning. Pelageya is not at home; she
has gone to the hospital to find what is being done to Yefim.
Somewhere there is a baby crying, and Varka hears someone singing
with her own voice:

"Hush-a-bye, my baby wee, I will sing a song to thee."

Pelageya comes back; she crosses herself and whispers:

"They put him to rights in the night, but towards morning he gave
up his soul to God. . . . The Kingdom of Heaven be his and peace
everlasting. . . . They say he was taken too late. . . . He ought
to have gone sooner. . . ."

Varka goes out into the road and cries there, but all at once someone
hits her on the back of her head so hard that her forehead knocks
against a birch tree. She raises her eyes, and sees facing her, her
master, the shoemaker.

"What are you about, you scabby slut?" he says. "The child is crying,
and you are asleep!"

He gives her a sharp slap behind the ear, and she shakes her head,
rocks the cradle, and murmurs her song. The green patch and the
shadows from the trousers and the baby-clothes move up and down,
nod to her, and soon take possession of her brain again. Again she
sees the high road covered with liquid mud. The people with wallets
on their backs and the shadows have lain down and are fast asleep.
Looking at them, Varka has a passionate longing for sleep; she would
lie down with enjoyment, but her mother Pelageya is walking beside
her, hurrying her on. They are hastening together to the town to
find situations.

"Give alms, for Christ's sake!" her mother begs of the people they
meet. "Show us the Divine Mercy, kind-hearted gentlefolk!"

"Give the baby here!" a familiar voice answers. "Give the baby
here!" the same voice repeats, this time harshly and angrily. "Are
you asleep, you wretched girl?"

Varka jumps up, and looking round grasps what is the matter: there
is no high road, no Pelageya, no people meeting them, there is only
her mistress, who has come to feed the baby, and is standing in the
middle of the room. While the stout, broad-shouldered woman nurses
the child and soothes it, Varka stands looking at her and waiting
till she has done. And outside the windows the air is already turning
blue, the shadows and the green patch on the ceiling are visibly
growing pale, it will soon be morning.

"Take him," says her mistress, buttoning up her chemise over her
bosom; "he is crying. He must be bewitched."

Varka takes the baby, puts him in the cradle and begins rocking it
again. The green patch and the shadows gradually disappear, and now
there is nothing to force itself on her eyes and cloud her brain.
But she is as sleepy as before, fearfully sleepy! Varka lays her
head on the edge of the cradle, and rocks her whole body to overcome
her sleepiness, but yet her eyes are glued together, and her head
is heavy.

"Varka, heat the stove!" she hears the master's voice through the
door.

So it is time to get up and set to work. Varka leaves the cradle,
and runs to the shed for firewood. She is glad. When one moves and
runs about, one is not so sleepy as when one is sitting down. She
brings the wood, heats the stove, and feels that her wooden face
is getting supple again, and that her thoughts are growing clearer.

"Varka, set the samovar!" shouts her mistress.

Varka splits a piece of wood, but has scarcely time to light the
splinters and put them in the samovar, when she hears a fresh order:

"Varka, clean the master's goloshes!"

She sits down on the floor, cleans the goloshes, and thinks how
nice it would be to put her head into a big deep golosh, and have
a little nap in it. . . . And all at once the golosh grows, swells,
fills up the whole room. Varka drops the brush, but at once shakes
her head, opens her eyes wide, and tries to look at things so that
they may not grow big and move before her eyes.

"Varka, wash the steps outside; I am ashamed for the customers to
see them!"

Varka washes the steps, sweeps and dusts the rooms, then heats
another stove and runs to the shop. There is a great deal of work:
she hasn't one minute free.

But nothing is so hard as standing in the same place at the kitchen
table peeling potatoes. Her head droops over the table, the potatoes
dance before her eyes, the knife tumbles out of her hand while her
fat, angry mistress is moving about near her with her sleeves tucked
up, talking so loud that it makes a ringing in Varka's ears. It is
agonising, too, to wait at dinner, to wash, to sew, there are minutes
when she longs to flop on to the floor regardless of everything,
and to sleep.

The day passes. Seeing the windows getting dark, Varka presses her
temples that feel as though they were made of wood, and smiles,
though she does not know why. The dusk of evening caresses her eyes
that will hardly keep open, and promises her sound sleep soon. In
the evening visitors come.

"Varka, set the samovar!" shouts her mistress. The samovar is a
little one, and before the visitors have drunk all the tea they
want, she has to heat it five times. After tea Varka stands for a
whole hour on the same spot, looking at the visitors, and waiting
for orders.

"Varka, run and buy three bottles of beer!"

She starts off, and tries to run as quickly as she can, to drive
away sleep.

"Varka, fetch some vodka! Varka, where's the corkscrew? Varka, clean
a herring!"

But now, at last, the visitors have gone; the lights are put out,
the master and mistress go to bed.

"Varka, rock the baby!" she hears the last order.

The cricket churrs in the stove; the green patch on the ceiling and
the shadows from the trousers and the baby-clothes force themselves
on Varka's half-opened eyes again, wink at her and cloud her mind.

"Hush-a-bye, my baby wee," she murmurs, "and I will sing a song to
thee."

And the baby screams, and is worn out with screaming. Again Varka
sees the muddy high road, the people with wallets, her mother
Pelageya, her father Yefim. She understands everything, she recognises
everyone, but through her half sleep she cannot understand the force
which binds her, hand and foot, weighs upon her, and prevents her
from living. She looks round, searches for that force that she may
escape from it, but she cannot find it. At last, tired to death,
she does her very utmost, strains her eyes, looks up at the flickering
green patch, and listening to the screaming, finds the foe who will
not let her live.

That foe is the baby.

She laughs. It seems strange to her that she has failed to grasp
such a simple thing before. The green patch, the shadows, and the
cricket seem to laugh and wonder too.

The hallucination takes possession of Varka. She gets up from her
stool, and with a broad smile on her face and wide unblinking eyes,
she walks up and down the room. She feels pleased and tickled at
the thought that she will be rid directly of the baby that binds
her hand and foot. . . . Kill the baby and then sleep, sleep,
sleep. . . .

Laughing and winking and shaking her fingers at the green patch,
Varka steals up to the cradle and bends over the baby. When she has
strangled him, she quickly lies down on the floor, laughs with
delight that she can sleep, and in a minute is sleeping as sound
as the dead.


CHILDREN

PAPA and mamma and Aunt Nadya are not at home. They have gone to a
christening party at the house of that old officer who rides on a
little grey horse. While waiting for them to come home, Grisha,
Anya, Alyosha, Sonya, and the cook's son, Andrey, are sitting at
the table in the dining-room, playing at loto. To tell the truth,
it is bedtime, but how can one go to sleep without hearing from
mamma what the baby was like at the christening, and what they had
for supper? The table, lighted by a hanging lamp, is dotted with
numbers, nutshells, scraps of paper, and little bits of glass. Two
cards lie in front of each player, and a heap of bits of glass for
covering the numbers. In the middle of the table is a white saucer
with five kopecks in it. Beside the saucer, a half-eaten apple, a
pair of scissors, and a plate on which they have been told to put
their nutshells. The children are playing for money. The stake is
a kopeck. The rule is: if anyone cheats, he is turned out at once.
There is no one in the dining-room but the players, and nurse,
Agafya Ivanovna, is in the kitchen, showing the cook how to cut a
pattern, while their elder brother, Vasya, a schoolboy in the fifth
class, is lying on the sofa in the drawing-room, feeling bored.

They are playing with zest. The greatest excitement is expressed
on the face of Grisha. He is a small boy of nine, with a head cropped
so that the bare skin shows through, chubby cheeks, and thick lips
like a negro's. He is already in the preparatory class, and so is
regarded as grown up, and the cleverest. He is playing entirely for
the sake of the money. If there had been no kopecks in the saucer,
he would have been asleep long ago. His brown eyes stray uneasily
and jealously over the other players' cards. The fear that he may
not win, envy, and the financial combinations of which his cropped
head is full, will not let him sit still and concentrate his mind.
He fidgets as though he were sitting on thorns. When he wins, he
snatches up the money greedily, and instantly puts it in his pocket.
His sister, Anya, a girl of eight, with a sharp chin and clever
shining eyes, is also afraid that someone else may win. She flushes
and turns pale, and watches the players keenly. The kopecks do not
interest her. Success in the game is for her a question of vanity.
The other sister, Sonya, a child of six with a curly head, and a
complexion such as is seen only in very healthy children, expensive
dolls, and the faces on bonbon boxes, is playing loto for the process
of the game itself. There is bliss all over her face. Whoever wins,
she laughs and claps her hands. Alyosha, a chubby, spherical little
figure, gasps, breathes hard through his nose, and stares open-eyed
at the cards. He is moved neither by covetousness nor vanity. So
long as he is not driven out of the room, or sent to bed, he is
thankful. He looks phlegmatic, but at heart he is rather a little
beast. He is not there so much for the sake of the loto, as for the
sake of the misunderstandings which are inevitable in the game. He
is greatly delighted if one hits another, or calls him names. He
ought to have run off somewhere long ago, but he won't leave the
table for a minute, for fear they should steal his counters or his
kopecks. As he can only count the units and numbers which end in
nought, Anya covers his numbers for him. The fifth player, the
cook's son, Andrey, a dark-skinned and sickly looking boy in a
cotton shirt, with a copper cross on his breast, stands motionless,
looking dreamily at the numbers. He takes no interest in winning,
or in the success of the others, because he is entirely engrossed
by the arithmetic of the game, and its far from complex theory;
"How many numbers there are in the world," he is thinking, "and how
is it they don't get mixed up?"

They all shout out the numbers in turn, except Sonya and Alyosha.
To vary the monotony, they have invented in the course of time a
number of synonyms and comic nicknames. Seven, for instance, is
called the "ovenrake," eleven the "sticks," seventy-seven "Semyon
Semyonitch," ninety "grandfather," and so on. The game is going
merrily.

"Thirty-two," cries Grisha, drawing the little yellow cylinders out
of his father's cap. "Seventeen! Ovenrake! Twenty-eight! Lay them
straight. . . ."

Anya sees that Andrey has let twenty-eight slip. At any other time
she would have pointed it out to him, but now when her vanity lies
in the saucer with the kopecks, she is triumphant.

"Twenty-three!" Grisha goes on, "Semyon Semyonitch! Nine!"

"A beetle, a beetle," cries Sonya, pointing to a beetle running
across the table. "Aie!"

"Don't kill it," says Alyosha, in his deep bass, "perhaps it's got
children . . . ."

Sonya follows the black beetle with her eyes and wonders about its
children: what tiny little beetles they must be!

"Forty-three! One!" Grisha goes on, unhappy at the thought that
Anya has already made two fours. "Six!"

"Game! I have got the game!" cries Sonya, rolling her eyes coquettishly
and giggling.

The players' countenances lengthen.

"Must make sure!" says Grisha, looking with hatred at Sonya.

Exercising his rights as a big boy, and the cleverest, Grisha takes
upon himself to decide. What he wants, that they do. Sonya's reckoning
is slowly and carefully verified, and to the great regret of her
fellow players, it appears that she has not cheated. Another game
is begun.

"I did see something yesterday!" says Anya, as though to herself.
"Filipp Filippitch turned his eyelids inside out somehow and his
eyes looked red and dreadful, like an evil spirit's."

"I saw it too," says Grisha. "Eight! And a boy at our school can
move his ears. Twenty-seven!"

Andrey looks up at Grisha, meditates, and says:

"I can move my ears too. . . ."

"Well then, move them."

Andrey moves his eyes, his lips, and his fingers, and fancies that
his ears are moving too. Everyone laughs.

"He is a horrid man, that Filipp Filippitch," sighs Sonya. "He came
into our nursery yesterday, and I had nothing on but my chemise
. . . And I felt so improper!"

"Game!" Grisha cries suddenly, snatching the money from the saucer.
"I've got the game! You can look and see if you like."

The cook's son looks up and turns pale.

"Then I can't go on playing any more," he whispers.

"Why not?"

"Because . . . because I have got no more money."

"You can't play without money," says Grisha.

Andrey ransacks his pockets once more to make sure. Finding nothing
in them but crumbs and a bitten pencil, he drops the corners of his
mouth and begins blinking miserably. He is on the point of
crying. . . .

"I'll put it down for you!" says Sonya, unable to endure his look
of agony. "Only mind you must pay me back afterwards."

The money is brought and the game goes on.

"I believe they are ringing somewhere," says Anya, opening her eyes
wide.

They all leave off playing and gaze open-mouthed at the dark window.
The reflection of the lamp glimmers in the darkness.

"It was your fancy."

"At night they only ring in the cemetery," says Andrey.

"And what do they ring there for?"

"To prevent robbers from breaking into the church. They are afraid
of the bells."

"And what do robbers break into the church for?" asks Sonya.

"Everyone knows what for: to kill the watchmen."

A minute passes in silence. They all look at one another, shudder,
and go on playing. This time Andrey wins.

"He has cheated," Alyosha booms out, apropos of nothing.

"What a lie, I haven't cheated."

Andrey turns pale, his mouth works, and he gives Alyosha a slap on
the head! Alyosha glares angrily, jumps up, and with one knee on
the table, slaps Andrey on the cheek! Each gives the other a second
blow, and both howl. Sonya, feeling such horrors too much for her,
begins crying too, and the dining-room resounds with lamentations
on various notes. But do not imagine that that is the end of the
game. Before five minutes are over, the children are laughing and
talking peaceably again. Their faces are tear-stained, but that
does not prevent them from smiling; Alyosha is positively blissful,
there has been a squabble!

Vasya, the fifth form schoolboy, walks into the dining-room. He
looks sleepy and disillusioned.

"This is revolting!" he thinks, seeing Grisha feel in his pockets
in which the kopecks are jingling. "How can they give children
money? And how can they let them play games of chance? A nice way
to bring them up, I must say! It's revolting!"

But the children's play is so tempting that he feels an inclination
to join them and to try his luck.

"Wait a minute and I'll sit down to a game," he says.

"Put down a kopeck!"

"In a minute," he says, fumbling in his pockets. "I haven't a kopeck,
but here is a rouble. I'll stake a rouble."

"No, no, no. . . . You must put down a kopeck."

"You stupids. A rouble is worth more than a kopeck anyway," the
schoolboy explains. "Whoever wins can give me change."

"No, please! Go away!"

The fifth form schoolboy shrugs his shoulders, and goes into the
kitchen to get change from the servants. It appears there is not a
single kopeck in the kitchen.

"In that case, you give me change," he urges Grisha, coming back
from the kitchen. "I'll pay you for the change. Won't you? Come,
give me ten kopecks for a rouble."

Grisha looks suspiciously at Vasya, wondering whether it isn't some
trick, a swindle.

"I won't," he says, holding his pockets.

Vasya begins to get cross, and abuses them, calling them idiots and
blockheads.

"I'll put down a stake for you, Vasya!" says Sonya. "Sit down." He
sits down and lays two cards before him. Anya begins counting the
numbers.

"I've dropped a kopeck!" Grisha announces suddenly, in an agitated
voice. "Wait!"

He takes the lamp, and creeps under the table to look for the kopeck.
They clutch at nutshells and all sorts of nastiness, knock their
heads together, but do not find the kopeck. They begin looking
again, and look till Vasya takes the lamp out of Grisha's hands and
puts it in its place. Grisha goes on looking in the dark. But at
last the kopeck is found. The players sit down at the table and
mean to go on playing.

"Sonya is asleep!" Alyosha announces.

Sonya, with her curly head lying on her arms, is in a sweet, sound,
tranquil sleep, as though she had been asleep for an hour. She has
fallen asleep by accident, while the others were looking for the
kopeck.

"Come along, lie on mamma's bed!" says Anya, leading her away from
the table. "Come along!"

They all troop out with her, and five minutes later mamma's bed
presents a curious spectacle. Sonya is asleep. Alyosha is snoring
beside her. With their heads to the others' feet, sleep Grisha and
Anya. The cook's son, Andrey too, has managed to snuggle in beside
them. Near them lie the kopecks, that have lost their power till
the next game. Good-night!


THE RUNAWAY

IT had been a long business. At first Pashka had walked with his
mother in the rain, at one time across a mown field, then by forest
paths, where the yellow leaves stuck to his boots; he had walked
until it was daylight. Then he had stood for two hours in the dark
passage, waiting for the door to open. It was not so cold and damp
in the passage as in the yard, but with the high wind spurts of
rain flew in even there. When the passage gradually became packed
with people Pashka, squeezed among them, leaned his face against
somebody's sheepskin which smelt strongly of salt fish, and sank
into a doze. But at last the bolt clicked, the door flew open, and
Pashka and his mother went into the waiting-room. All the patients
sat on benches without stirring or speaking. Pashka looked round
at them, and he too was silent, though he was seeing a great deal
that was strange and funny. Only once, when a lad came into the
waiting-room hopping on one leg, Pashka longed to hop too; he nudged
his mother's elbow, giggled in his sleeve, and said: "Look, mammy,
a sparrow."

"Hush, child, hush!" said his mother.

A sleepy-looking hospital assistant appeared at the little window.

"Come and be registered!" he boomed out.

All of them, including the funny lad who hopped, filed up to the
window. The assistant asked each one his name, and his father's
name, where he lived, how long he had been ill, and so on. From his
mother's answers, Pashka learned that his name was not Pashka, but
Pavel Galaktionov, that he was seven years old, that he could not
read or write, and that he had been ill ever since Easter.

Soon after the registration, he had to stand up for a little while;
the doctor in a white apron, with a towel round his waist, walked
across the waiting-room. As he passed by the boy who hopped, he
shrugged his shoulders, and said in a sing-song tenor:

"Well, you are an idiot! Aren't you an idiot? I told you to come
on Monday, and you come on Friday. It's nothing to me if you don't
come at all, but you know, you idiot, your leg will be done for!"

The lad made a pitiful face, as though he were going to beg for
alms, blinked, and said:

"Kindly do something for me, Ivan Mikolaitch!"

"It's no use saying 'Ivan Mikolaitch,'" the doctor mimicked him.
"You were told to come on Monday, and you ought to obey. You are
an idiot, and that is all about it."

The doctor began seeing the patients. He sat in his little room,
and called up the patients in turn. Sounds were continually coming
from the little room, piercing wails, a child's crying, or the
doctor's angry words:

"Come, why are you bawling? Am I murdering you, or what? Sit quiet!"

Pashka's turn came.

"Pavel Galaktionov!" shouted the doctor.

His mother was aghast, as though she had not expected this summons,
and taking Pashka by the hand, she led him into the room.

The doctor was sitting at the table, mechanically tapping on a thick
book with a little hammer.

"What's wrong?" he asked, without looking at them.

"The little lad has an ulcer on his elbow, sir," answered his mother,
and her face assumed an expression as though she really were terribly
grieved at Pashka's ulcer.

"Undress him!"

Pashka, panting, unwound the kerchief from his neck, then wiped his
nose on his sleeve, and began deliberately pulling off his sheepskin.

"Woman, you have not come here on a visit!" said the doctor angrily.
"Why are you dawdling? You are not the only one here."

Pashka hurriedly flung the sheepskin on the floor, and with his
mother's help took off his shirt. . . The doctor looked at him
lazily, and patted him on his bare stomach.

"You have grown quite a respectable corporation, brother Pashka,"
he said, and heaved a sigh. "Come, show me your elbow."

Pashka looked sideways at the basin full of bloodstained slops,
looked at the doctor's apron, and began to cry.

"May-ay!" the doctor mimicked him. "Nearly old enough to be married,
spoilt boy, and here he is blubbering! For shame!"

Pashka, trying not to cry, looked at his mother, and in that look
could be read the entreaty: "Don't tell them at home that I cried
at the hospital."

The doctor examined his elbow, pressed it, heaved a sigh, clicked
with his lips, then pressed it again.

"You ought to be beaten, woman, but there is no one to do it," he
said. "Why didn't you bring him before? Why, the whole arm is done
for. Look, foolish woman. You see, the joint is diseased!"

"You know best, kind sir . . ." sighed the woman.

"Kind sir. . . . She's let the boy's arm rot, and now it is 'kind
sir.' What kind of workman will he be without an arm? You'll be
nursing him and looking after him for ages. I bet if you had had a
pimple on your nose, you'd have run to the hospital quick enough,
but you have left your boy to rot for six months. You are all like
that."

The doctor lighted a cigarette. While the cigarette smoked, he
scolded the woman, and shook his head in time to the song he was
humming inwardly, while he thought of something else. Pashka stood
naked before him, listening and looking at the smoke. When the
cigarette went out, the doctor started, and said in a lower tone:

"Well, listen, woman. You can do nothing with ointments and drops
in this case. You must leave him in the hospital."

"If necessary, sir, why not?

"We must operate on him. You stop with me, Pashka," said the doctor,
slapping Pashka on the shoulder. "Let mother go home, and you and
I will stop here, old man. It's nice with me, old boy, it's first-rate
here. I'll tell you what we'll do, Pashka, we will go catching
finches together. I will show you a fox! We will go visiting together!
Shall we? And mother will come for you tomorrow! Eh?"

Pashka looked inquiringly at his mother.

"You stay, child!" she said.

"He'll stay, he'll stay!" cried the doctor gleefully. "And there
is no need to discuss it. I'll show him a live fox! We will go to
the fair together to buy candy! Marya Denisovna, take him upstairs!"

The doctor, apparently a light-hearted and friendly fellow, seemed
glad to have company; Pashka wanted to oblige him, especially as
he had never in his life been to a fair, and would have been glad
to have a look at a live fox, but how could he do without his mother?

After a little reflection he decided to ask the doctor to let his
mother stay in the hospital too, but before he had time to open his
mouth the lady assistant was already taking him upstairs. He walked
up and looked about him with his mouth open. The staircase, the
floors, and the doorposts--everything huge, straight, and bright-were
painted a splendid yellow colour, and had a delicious smell of
Lenten oil. On all sides lamps were hanging, strips of carpet
stretched along the floor, copper taps stuck out on the walls. But
best of all Pashka liked the bedstead upon which he was made to sit
down, and the grey woollen coverlet. He touched the pillows and the
coverlet with his hands, looked round the ward, and made up his
mind that it was very nice at the doctor's.

The ward was not a large one, it consisted of only three beds. One
bed stood empty, the second was occupied by Pashka, and on the third
sat an old man with sour eyes, who kept coughing and spitting into
a mug. From Pashka's bed part of another ward could be seen with
two beds; on one a very pale wasted-looking man with an india-rubber
bottle on his head was asleep; on the other a peasant with his head
tied up, looking very like a woman, was sitting with his arms spread
out.

After making Pashka sit down, the assistant went out and came back
a little later with a bundle of clothes under her arm.

"These are for you," she said, "put them on."

Pashka undressed and, not without satisfaction began attiring himself
in his new array. When he had put on the shirt, the drawers, and
the little grey dressing-gown, he looked at himself complacently,
and thought that it would not be bad to walk through the village
in that costume. His imagination pictured his mother's sending him
to the kitchen garden by the river to gather cabbage leaves for the
little pig; he saw himself walking along, while the boys and girls
surrounded him and looked with envy at his little dressing-gown.

A nurse came into the ward, bringing two tin bowls, two spoons, and
two pieces of bread. One bowl she set before the old man, the other
before Pashka.

"Eat!" she said.

Looking into his bowl, Pashka saw some rich cabbage soup, and in
the soup a piece of meat, and thought again that it was very nice
at the doctor's, and that the doctor was not nearly so cross as he
had seemed at first. He spent a long time swallowing the soup,
licking the spoon after each mouthful, then when there was nothing
left in the bowl but the meat he stole a look at the old man, and
felt envious that he was still eating the soup. With a sigh Pashka
attacked the meat, trying to make it last as long as possible, but
his efforts were fruitless; the meat, too, quickly vanished. There
was nothing left but the piece of bread. Plain bread without anything
on it was not appetising, but there was no help for it. Pashka
thought a little, and ate the bread. At that moment the nurse came
in with another bowl. This time there was roast meat with potatoes
in the bowl.

"And where is the bread?" asked the nurse.

Instead of answering, Pashka puffed out his cheeks, and blew out
the air.

"Why did you gobble it all up?" said the nurse reproachfully. "What
are you going to eat your meat with?"

She went and fetched another piece of bread. Pashka had never eaten
roast meat in his life, and trying it now found it very nice. It
vanished quickly, and then he had a piece of bread left bigger than
the first. When the old man had finished his dinner, he put away
the remains of his bread in a little table. Pashka meant to do the
same, but on second thoughts ate his piece.

When he had finished he went for a walk. In the next ward, besides
the two he had seen from the door, there were four other people.
Of these only one drew his attention. This was a tall, extremely
emaciated peasant with a morose-looking, hairy face. He was sitting
on the bed, nodding his head and swinging his right arm all the
time like a pendulum. Pashka could not take his eyes off him for a
long time. At first the man's regular pendulum-like movements seemed
to him curious, and he thought they were done for the general
amusement, but when he looked into the man's face he felt frightened,
and realised that he was terribly ill. Going into a third ward he
saw two peasants with dark red faces as though they were smeared
with clay. They were sitting motionless on their beds, and with
their strange faces, in which it was hard to distinguish their
features, they looked like heathen idols.

"Auntie, why do they look like that?" Pashka asked the nurse.

"They have got smallpox, little lad."

Going back to his own ward, Pashka sat down on his bed and began
waiting for the doctor to come and take him to catch finches, or
to go to the fair. But the doctor did not come. He got a passing
glimpse of a hospital assistant at the door of the next ward. He
bent over the patient on whose head lay a bag of ice, and cried:
"Mihailo!"

But the sleeping man did not stir. The assistant made a gesture and
went away. Pashka scrutinised the old man, his next neighbour. The
old man coughed without ceasing and spat into a mug. His cough had
a long-drawn-out, creaking sound.

Pashka liked one peculiarity about him; when he drew the air in as
he coughed, something in his chest whistled and sang on different
notes.

"Grandfather, what is it whistles in you?" Pashka asked.

The old man made no answer. Pashka waited a little and asked:

"Grandfather, where is the fox?"

"What fox?"

"The live one."

"Where should it be? In the forest!"

A long time passed, but the doctor still did not appear. The nurse
brought in tea, and scolded Pashka for not having saved any bread
for his tea; the assistant came once more and set to work to wake
Mihailo. It turned blue outside the windows, the wards were lighted
up, but the doctor did not appear. It was too late now to go to the
fair and catch finches; Pashka stretched himself on his bed and
began thinking. He remembered the candy promised him by the doctor,
the face and voice of his mother, the darkness in his hut at home,
the stove, peevish granny Yegorovna . . . and he suddenly felt sad
and dreary. He remembered that his mother was coming for him next
day, smiled, and shut his eyes.

He was awakened by a rustling. In the next ward someone was stepping
about and speaking in a whisper. Three figures were moving about
Mihailo's bed in the dim light of the night-light and the ikon lamp.

"Shall we take him, bed and all, or without?" asked one of them.

"Without. You won't get through the door with the bed."

"He's died at the wrong time, the Kingdom of Heaven be his!"

One took Mihailo by his shoulders, another by his legs and lifted
him up: Mihailo's arms and the skirt of his dressing-gown hung
limply to the ground. A third--it was the peasant who looked like
a woman--crossed himself, and all three tramping clumsily with
their feet and stepping on Mihailo's skirts, went out of the ward.

There came the whistle and humming on different notes from the chest
of the old man who was asleep. Pashka listened, peeped at the dark
windows, and jumped out of bed in terror.

"Ma-a-mka!" he moaned in a deep bass.

And without waiting for an answer, he rushed into the next ward.
There the darkness was dimly lighted up by a night-light and the
ikon lamp; the patients, upset by the death of Mihailo, were sitting
on their bedsteads: their dishevelled figures, mixed up with the
shadows, looked broader, taller, and seemed to be growing bigger
and bigger; on the furthest bedstead in the corner, where it was
darkest, there sat the peasant moving his head and his hand.

Pashka, without noticing the doors, rushed into the smallpox ward,
from there into the corridor, from the corridor he flew into a big
room where monsters, with long hair and the faces of old women,
were lying and sitting on the beds. Running through the women's
wing he found himself again in the corridor, saw the banisters of
the staircase he knew already, and ran downstairs. There he recognised
the waiting-room in which he had sat that morning, and began looking
for the door into the open air.

The latch creaked, there was a whiff of cold wind, and Pashka,
stumbling, ran out into the yard. He had only one thought--to
run, to run! He did not know the way, but felt convinced that if
he ran he would be sure to find himself at home with his mother.
The sky was overcast, but there was a moon behind the clouds. Pashka
ran from the steps straight forward, went round the barn and stumbled
into some thick bushes; after stopping for a minute and thinking,
he dashed back again to the hospital, ran round it, and stopped
again undecided; behind the hospital there were white crosses.

"Ma-a-mka!" he cried, and dashed back.

Running by the dark sinister buildings, he saw one lighted window.

The bright red patch looked dreadful in the darkness, but Pashka,
frantic with terror, not knowing where to run, turned towards it.
Beside the window was a porch with steps, and a front door with a
white board on it; Pashka ran up the steps, looked in at the window,
and was at once possessed by intense overwhelming joy. Through the
window he saw the merry affable doctor sitting at the table reading
a book. Laughing with happiness, Pashka stretched out his hands to
the person he knew and tried to call out, but some unseen force
choked him and struck at his legs; he staggered and fell down on
the steps unconscious.

When he came to himself it was daylight, and a voice he knew very
well, that had promised him a fair, finches, and a fox, was saying
beside him:

"Well, you are an idiot, Pashka! Aren't you an idiot? You ought to
be beaten, but there's no one to do it."


GRISHA

GRISHA, a chubby little boy, born two years and eight months ago,
is walking on the boulevard with his nurse. He is wearing a long,
wadded pelisse, a scarf, a big cap with a fluffy pom-pom, and warm
over-boots. He feels hot and stifled, and now, too, the rollicking
April sunshine is beating straight in his face, and making his
eyelids tingle.

The whole of his clumsy, timidly and uncertainly stepping little
figure expresses the utmost bewilderment.

Hitherto Grisha has known only a rectangular world, where in one
corner stands his bed, in the other nurse's trunk, in the third a
chair, while in the fourth there is a little lamp burning. If one
looks under the bed, one sees a doll with a broken arm and a drum;
and behind nurse's trunk, there are a great many things of all
sorts: cotton reels, boxes without lids, and a broken Jack-a-dandy.
In that world, besides nurse and Grisha, there are often mamma and
the cat. Mamma is like a doll, and puss is like papa's fur-coat,
only the coat hasn't got eyes and a tail. From the world which is
called the nursery a door leads to a great expanse where they have
dinner and tea. There stands Grisha's chair on high legs, and on
the wall hangs a clock which exists to swing its pendulum and chime.
From the dining-room, one can go into a room where there are red
arm-chairs. Here, there is a dark patch on the carpet, concerning
which fingers are still shaken at Grisha. Beyond that room is still
another, to which one is not admitted, and where one sees glimpses
of papa--an extremely enigmatical person! Nurse and mamma are
comprehensible: they dress Grisha, feed him, and put him to bed,
but what papa exists for is unknown. There is another enigmatical
person, auntie, who presented Grisha with a drum. She appears and
disappears. Where does she disappear to? Grisha has more than once
looked under the bed, behind the trunk, and under the sofa, but she
was not there.

In this new world, where the sun hurts one's eyes, there are so
many papas and mammas and aunties, that there is no knowing to whom
to run. But what is stranger and more absurd than anything is the
horses. Grisha gazes at their moving legs, and can make nothing of
it. He looks at his nurse for her to solve the mystery, but she
does not speak.

All at once he hears a fearful tramping. . . . A crowd of soldiers,
with red faces and bath brooms under their arms, move in step along
the boulevard straight upon him. Grisha turns cold all over with
terror, and looks inquiringly at nurse to know whether it is
dangerous. But nurse neither weeps nor runs away, so there is no
danger. Grisha looks after the soldiers, and begins to move his
feet in step with them himself.

Two big cats with long faces run after each other across the
boulevard, with their tongues out, and their tails in the air.
Grisha thinks that he must run too, and runs after the cats.

"Stop!" cries nurse, seizing him roughly by the shoulder. "Where
are you off to? Haven't you been told not to be naughty?"

Here there is a nurse sitting holding a tray of oranges. Grisha
passes by her, and, without saying anything, takes an orange.

"What are you doing that for?" cries the companion of his travels,
slapping his hand and snatching away the orange. "Silly!"

Now Grisha would have liked to pick up a bit of glass that was lying
at his feet and gleaming like a lamp, but he is afraid that his
hand will be slapped again.

"My respects to you!" Grisha hears suddenly, almost above his ear,
a loud thick voice, and he sees a tall man with bright buttons.

To his great delight, this man gives nurse his hand, stops, and
begins talking to her. The brightness of the sun, the noise of the
carriages, the horses, the bright buttons are all so impressively
new and not dreadful, that Grisha's soul is filled with a feeling
of enjoyment and he begins to laugh.

"Come along! Come along!" he cries to the man with the bright
buttons, tugging at his coattails.

"Come along where?" asks the man.

"Come along!" Grisha insists.

He wants to say that it would be just as well to take with them
papa, mamma, and the cat, but his tongue does not say what he wants
to.

A little later, nurse turns out of the boulevard, and leads Grisha
into a big courtyard where there is still snow; and the man with
the bright buttons comes with them too. They carefully avoid the
lumps of snow and the puddles, then, by a dark and dirty staircase,
they go into a room. Here there is a great deal of smoke, there is
a smell of roast meat, and a woman is standing by the stove frying
cutlets. The cook and the nurse kiss each other, and sit down on
the bench together with the man, and begin talking in a low voice.
Grisha, wrapped up as he is, feels insufferably hot and stifled.

"Why is this?" he wonders, looking about him.

He sees the dark ceiling, the oven fork with two horns, the stove
which looks like a great black hole.

"Mam-ma," he drawls.

"Come, come, come!" cries the nurse. "Wait a bit!"

The cook puts a bottle on the table, two wine-glasses, and a pie.
The two women and the man with the bright buttons clink glasses and
empty them several times, and, the man puts his arm round first the
cook and then the nurse. And then all three begin singing in an
undertone.

Grisha stretches out his hand towards the pie, and they give him a
piece of it. He eats it and watches nurse drinking. . . . He wants
to drink too.

"Give me some, nurse!" he begs.

The cook gives him a sip out of her glass. He rolls his eyes, blinks,
coughs, and waves his hands for a long time afterwards, while the
cook looks at him and laughs.

When he gets home Grisha begins to tell mamma, the walls, and the
bed where he has been, and what he has seen. He talks not so much
with his tongue, as with his face and his hands. He shows how the
sun shines, how the horses run, how the terrible stove looks, and
how the cook drinks. . . .

In the evening he cannot get to sleep. The soldiers with the brooms,
the big cats, the horses, the bit of glass, the tray of oranges,
the bright buttons, all gathered together, weigh on his brain. He
tosses from side to side, babbles, and, at last, unable to endure
his excitement, begins crying.

"You are feverish," says mamma, putting her open hand on his forehead.
"What can have caused it?

"Stove!" wails Grisha. "Go away, stove!"

"He must have eaten too much . . ." mamma decides.

And Grisha, shattered by the impressions of the new life he has
just experienced, receives a spoonful of castor-oil from mamma.


OYSTERS

I NEED no great effort of memory to recall, in every detail, the
rainy autumn evening when I stood with my father in one of the more
frequented streets of Moscow, and felt that I was gradually being
overcome by a strange illness. I had no pain at all, but my legs
were giving way under me, the words stuck in my throat, my head
slipped weakly on one side . . . It seemed as though, in a moment,
I must fall down and lose consciousness.

If I had been taken into a hospital at that minute, the doctors
would have had to write over my bed: _Fames_, a disease which is
not in the manuals of medicine.

Beside me on the pavement stood my father in a shabby summer overcoat
and a serge cap, from which a bit of white wadding was sticking
out. On his feet he had big heavy goloshes. Afraid, vain man, that
people would see that his feet were bare under his goloshes, he had
drawn the tops of some old boots up round the calves of his legs.

This poor, foolish, queer creature, whom I loved the more warmly
the more ragged and dirty his smart summer overcoat became, had
come to Moscow, five months before, to look for a job as copying-clerk.
For those five months he had been trudging about Moscow looking for
work, and it was only on that day that he had brought himself to
go into the street to beg for alms.

Before us was a big house of three storeys, adorned with a blue
signboard with the word "Restaurant" on it. My head was drooping
feebly backwards and on one side, and I could not help looking
upwards at the lighted windows of the restaurant. Human figures
were flitting about at the windows. I could see the right side of
the orchestrion, two oleographs, hanging lamps . . . . Staring into
one window, I saw a patch of white. The patch was motionless, and
its rectangular outlines stood out sharply against the dark, brown
background. I looked intently and made out of the patch a white
placard on the wall. Something was written on it, but what it was,
I could not see. . .

For half an hour I kept my eyes on the placard. Its white attracted
my eyes, and, as it were, hypnotised my brain. I tried to read it,
but my efforts were in vain.

At last the strange disease got the upper hand.

The rumble of the carriages began to seem like thunder, in the
stench of the street I distinguished a thousand smells. The restaurant
lights and the lamps dazzled my eyes like lightning. My five senses
were overstrained and sensitive beyond the normal. I began to see
what I had not seen before.

"Oysters . . ." I made out on the placard.

A strange word! I had lived in the world eight years and three
months, but had never come across that word. What did it mean?
Surely it was not the name of the restaurant-keeper? But signboards
with names on them always hang outside, not on the walls indoors!

"Papa, what does 'oysters' mean?" I asked in a husky voice, making
an effort to turn my face towards my father.

My father did not hear. He was keeping a watch on the movements of
the crowd, and following every passer-by with his eyes. . . . From
his eyes I saw that he wanted to say something to the passers-by,
but the fatal word hung like a heavy weight on his trembling lips
and could not be flung off. He even took a step after one passer-by
and touched him on the sleeve, but when he turned round, he said,
"I beg your pardon," was overcome with confusion, and staggered
back.

"Papa, what does 'oysters' mean?" I repeated.

"It is an animal . . . that lives in the sea."

I instantly pictured to myself this unknown marine animal. . . . I
thought it must be something midway between a fish and a crab. As
it was from the sea they made of it, of course, a very nice hot
fish soup with savoury pepper and laurel leaves, or broth with
vinegar and fricassee of fish and cabbage, or crayfish sauce, or
served it cold with horse-radish. . . . I vividly imagined it being
brought from the market, quickly cleaned, quickly put in the pot,
quickly, quickly, for everyone was hungry . . . awfully hungry!
From the kitchen rose the smell of hot fish and crayfish soup.

I felt that this smell was tickling my palate and nostrils, that
it was gradually taking possession of my whole body. . . . The
restaurant, my father, the white placard, my sleeves were all
smelling of it, smelling so strongly that I began to chew. I moved
my jaws and swallowed as though I really had a piece of this marine
animal in my mouth . . .

This number then is the proportion existing for the teeth and pitch
diameters of the 4th wheel and escape pinion. We must now find a
suitable number of teeth for this wheel and pinion. Of available
pinions for a watch, the only one which would answer would be one
of 8 leaves, as any other number would give a fractional number of
teeth for the 4th wheel, therefore 9.375 × 8 = 75 teeth in 4th wheel.

Now as to the proof: as is well known, if we multiply the number
of teeth contained in 4th and escape wheels also by 2, for the
reason previously given, and divide by the leaves in the escape
pinion, we get the number of beats made per minute; therefore
(75 × 16 × 2)/8 = 300 beats per minute.

Pallets can be made to embrace more than three teeth, but would
be much heavier and therefore the mechanical action would suffer.

They can also be made to embrace fewer teeth, but the necessary side
shake in the pivot holes would prove very detrimental to a total
lifting angle of 10°, which represents the angle of movement in
modern watches.

Some of the finest ones only make 8 or 9° of a movement; the smaller
the angle the greater will the effects of defective workmanship be;
10° is a common-sense angle and gives a safe escapement capable of
fine results.

Theoretically, if a timepiece could be produced in which the
balance would vibrate without being connected with an escapement,
we would have reached a step nearer the goal. Practice has shown
this to be the proper theory to work on. Hence, the smaller the
pallet and impulse angles the less will the balance and escapement
be connected. The chronometer is still more highly detached than
the lever.

The pallet embracing three teeth is sound and practical, and when
applied to a 15 tooth wheel, this arrangement offers certain
geometrical and mechanical advantages in its construction, which
we will notice in due time. 15 teeth divide evenly into 360° leaving
an interval of 24°
from tooth to tooth, which is also the angle at which the locking
faces of the teeth are inclined from the center, which fact will
be found convenient when we come to cut our wheel.

From locking to locking on the pallet scaping over three teeth,
the angle is 60°, which is equal to 2½ spaces of the wheel. Fig. 1
illustrates the lockings, spanning this arc. If the pallets
embraced 4 teeth, the angle would be 84°; or in case of a 16 tooth
wheel scaping over three teeth, the angle would be
360 × 2.5/16 = 56¼°.

[Illustration: Fig. 1.]
Pallets may be divided into two kinds, namely: equidistant and
circular.

The equidistant pallet is so-called because the lockings are an equal
distance from the center; sometimes it is also called the tangential
escapement, on account of the unlocking taking place on the
intersection of tangent AC with EB, and FB with AD, the tangents,
which is the valuable feature of this form of escapement.

[Illustration: Fig. 2.]
AC and AD, Fig. 2, are tangents to the primitive circle GH. ABE
and ABF are angles of 30° each, together therefore forming the
angle FBE of 60°.

The locking circle MN is struck from the pallet center A; the
interangles being equal, consequently the pallets must be
equidistant.

The weak point of this pallet is that the lifting is not performed
so favorably; by examining the lifting planes MO and NP, we see
that the discharging edge, O, is closer to the center, A, than the
discharging edge, P; consequently the lifting on the engaging pallet
is performed on a shorter lever arm than on the disengaging pallet,
also any inequality in workmanship would prove more detrimental on
the engaging than on the disengaging pallet.

The equidistant pallet requires fine workmanship throughout. We have
purposely shown it of a width of 10°, which is the widest we can
employ in a 15 tooth wheel, and shows the defects of this escapement
more readily than if we had used a narrow pallet.

A narrower pallet is advisable, as the difference in the discharging
edges will be less, and the lifting arms would, therefore, not
show so much difference in leverage.

[Illustration: Fig. 3.]
The circular pallet is sometimes appropriately called "the pallet with
equal lifts," as the lever arms AMO and ANP, Fig. 3, are equal
lengths.
It will be noticed by examining the diagram, that the pallets are
bisected by the 30° lines EB and FB, one-half their width being
placed on each side of these lines.

In this pallet we have two locking circles, MP for the engaging
pallet, and NO for the disengaging pallet.

The weak points in this escapement are that the unlocking resistance
is greater on the engaging than on the disengaging pallet, and
that neither of them lock on the tangents AC and AD, at the points
of intersection with EB and FB.

The narrower the circular pallet is made, the nearer to the tangent
will the unlocking be performed. In neither the equidistant or
circular pallets can the unlocking resistance be _exactly_ the
same on each pallet, as in the engaging pallet the friction takes
place before AB, the line of centers, which is more severe than
when this line has been passed, as is the case with the disengaging
pallet; this fact proportionately increases the existing defects
of the circular over the equidistant pallet, and _vice versa_, but
for the same reason, the lifting in the equidistant is proportionately
accompanied by more friction than in the circular.

Both equidistant and circular pallets have their adherents; the
finest Swiss, French and German watches are made with equidistant
escapements, while the majority of English and American watches
contain the circular.
In our opinion the English are wise in adhering to the circular form.
We think a ratchet wheel should not be employed with equidistant
pallets.

By examining Fig. 2, we see an English pallet of this form. We
have shown its defects in such a wide pallet as the English (as
we have before stated), because they are more readily
perceived; also, on account of the shape of the teeth, there is
danger of the discharging edge, P, dipping so deep into the wheel,
as to make considerable drop necessary, or the pallets would touch
on the backs of the teeth.

In the case of the club tooth, the latter is hollowed out, therefore,
less drop is required.

We have noticed that theoretically, it is advantageous to make the
pallets narrower than the English, both for the equidistant and
circular escapements. There is an escapement, Fig. 4, which is
just the opposite to the English. The entire lift is performed by
the wheel, while in the case of the ratchet wheel, the entire
lifting angle is on the pallets; also, the pallets being as narrow
as they can be made, consistent with strength, it has the good
points of both the equidistant and circular pallets, as the unlocking
can be performed on the tangent and the lifting arms are of equal
length.

The wheel, however, is so much heavier as to considerably increase
the inertia; also, we have a metal surface of quite an extent sliding
over a thin jewel. For practical reasons, therefore, it has been
slightly altered in form and is only used in cheap work, being
easily made.

[Illustration: Fig. 4.]
We will now consider the drop, which is a clear loss of power, and,
if excessive, is the cause of much irregularity.

It should be as small as possible consistent with perfect freedom
of action.

In so far as _angular_ measurements are concerned, no hard and fast
rule can be applied to it, the larger the escape wheel the smaller
should be the angle allowed for drop.

Authorities on the subject allow 1½° drop for the club and 2° for
the ratchet tooth.

It is a fact that escape wheels are not cut perfectly true; the
teeth are apt to bend slightly from the action of the cutters.

The truest wheel can be made of steel, as each tooth can be successively
ground after being hardened and tempered. Such a wheel would require
less drop than one of any other metal. Supposing we have a wheel
with a primitive diameter of 7.5 mm., what is the amount of drop,
allowing 1½° by angular measurement?
7.5 × 3.1416 ÷ 360 × 1.5 = .0983 mm., which is sufficient; a hair
could get between the pallet and tooth, and would not stop the watch.
Even after allowing for imperfectly divided teeth, we require no
greater freedom even if the wheel is larger. Now suppose we
take a wheel with a primitive diameter of 8.5 mm. and find the
amount of drop; 8.5 × 3.1416 ÷ 360 × 1.5 = .1413 mm., or
.1413 - .0983 = .043 mm., more drop than the smaller wheel, if we
take the same angle. This is a waste of force. The angular drop
should, therefore, be proportioned according to the size of the
wheel. We wish it to be understood that common sense must always
be our guide. When the horological student once arrives at this
standpoint, he can _intelligently_ apply himself to his calling.

_The Draw.

_--The draw or draft angle was added to the pallets in order to
draw the fork back against the bankings and the guard point from
the roller whenever the safety action had performed its
function.

[Illustration: Fig. 5.]
Pallets with draw are more difficult to unlock than those without
it, this is in the nature of a fault, but whenever there are two
faults we must choose the less. The rate of the watch will suffer less
on account of the recoil introduced than it would were the locking
faces arcs of circles struck from the pallet center, in which case
the guard point would often remain against the roller.

The draw should be as light as possible consistent with safety of
action; some writers allow 15° on the engaging and 12° on the
disengaging pallet; others again allow 12° on each, which we
deem sufficient. The draw is measured from the locking edges M and
N, Fig. 5. The locking planes _when locked_ are inclined 12°
from EB, and FB. In the case of the engaging pallet it inclines
toward the center A.

The draw is produced on account of MA being longer than RA, consequently,
when power is applied to the scape tooth S, the pallet is drawn into
the wheel. The disengaging pallet inclines in the same direction
but away from the center A; the reason is obvious from the
former explanation. Some people imagine that the greater the
incline on the locking edge of the escape teeth, the stronger the
draw would be.
This is not the case, but it is certainly necessary that the point
of the tooth alone should touch the pallet.

From this it follows that the angle on the teeth must be greater
than on the pallets; examine the disengaging pallet in Fig. 5, as
it is from this pallet that the inclination of the teeth must be
determined, as in the case of the engaging pallet the motion is
toward the line of centers AB, and therefore _away_ from the tooth,
which partially explains why some people advocate 15° draw for this
pallet.

As illustrated in the case of the disengaging pallet, however, the
motion is also towards the line of centers AB, and _towards_ the
tooth as well, all of which will be seen by the dotted circles MM2
and NN2, representing the paths of the pallets.

It will be noticed that UNF and BNB are opposite and equal angles
of 12°.

For practical reasons, from a manufacturing standpoint, the angle on the
tooth is made just twice the amount, namely 24°; we could make it
a little less or a little more.

If we made it less than 20° too great a surface would be in
contact with the jewel, involving greater friction in unlocking and
an inefficient draw, but in the case of an English lever with
such an arrangement we could do with less drop, which advantage
would be too dearly bought; or if the angle is made over 28°, the
point or locking edge of the tooth would rapidly become worn in
case of a brass wheel.

Also in an English lever more drop would be required.

_The Lock.

_--What we have said in regard to drop also applies to the lock,
which should be as small as possible, consistent with perfect safety.
The greater the drop the deeper must be the lock; 1½° is the angle
generally allowed for the lock, but it is obvious that in a large
escapement it can be less.

[Illustration: Fig. 6.]
_The Run.

_--The run or, as it is sometimes called, "the slide," should
also be as light as possible; from ¼° to ½° is sufficient.

It follows then, the bankings should be as close together as possible,
consistent with requisite freedom for escaping.

Anything more than this increases the angular connection of the
balance with the escapement, which directly violates the theory
under which it is constructed; also, a greater amount of work will
be imposed upon the balance to meet the increased unlocking resistance,
resulting in a poor motion and accurate time will be out of the
question.

It will be seen that those workmen who make a practice of opening
the banks, "to give the escapement more freedom" simply jump from the
frying pan into the fire. The bankings should be as far removed from
the pallet center as possible, as the further away they are pitched
the less run we require, according to angular measurement.

Figure 6 illustrates this fact; the tooth S has just dropped on the
engaging pallet, but the fork has not yet reached the bankings.

At _a_ we have 1° of run, while if placed at _b_ we would only have
½° of run, but still the same freedom for escaping, and less
unlocking resistance.

The bankings should be placed towards the acting end of the fork
as illustrated, as in case the watch "rebanks" there would be more
strain on the lever pivots if they were placed at the other end of
the fork.

[Illustration: Fig. 7.]
_The Lift._--The lift is composed of the actual lift on the teeth
and pallets and the lock and run. We will suppose that from drop
to drop we allow 10°; if the lock is 1½° then the actual lift by
means of the inclined planes on teeth and pallets will be 8½°. We
have seen that a small lifting angle is advisable, so that the
vibrations of the balance will be as free as possible. There
are other reasons as well. Fig. 7 shows two inclined planes; we
desire to lift the weight 2 a distance equal to the angle at which
the planes are inclined; it will be seen at a glance that we will
have less friction by employing the smaller incline, whereas with
the larger one the motive power is employed through a greater
distance on the object to be moved.

The smaller the angle the more energetic will the movement be; the
grinding of the angles and fit of the pivots, etc., also increases
in importance.

An actual lift of 8½° satisfies the conditions imposed very well.
We have before seen that both on account of the unlocking and the
lifting leverage of the pallet arms, it would be advisable to make
them narrow both in the equidistant and circular escapement. We
will now study the question from the standpoint of the lift, in so
far as the wheel is concerned.

[Illustration: Fig. 8.]
It is self-evident that a narrow pallet requires a wide tooth, and
a wide pallet a narrow or thin tooth wheel; in the ratchet wheel
we have a metal point passing over a jeweled plane. The friction is
at its minimum, because there is less adhesion than with the club tooth,
but we must emphasize the fact that we require a greater angle in
proportion on the pallets in this escapement than with the narrow
pallets and wider tooth.

This seems to be a point which many do not thoroughly comprehend,
and we would advise a close study of Fig. 8, which will make it
perfectly clear, as we show both a wide and a narrow pallet.

GH, represents the primitive, which in this figure is also the real
diameter of the escape wheel.

In measuring the lifting angles for the pallets, our starting point
is _always_ from the tangents AC and AD. The tangents are straight
lines, but the wheel describes the circle GH, therefore they must
deviate from one another, and the closer to the center A the
discharging edge of the engaging pallet reaches, the greater does
this difference become; and in the same manner the further the
discharging edge of the disengaging pallet is from the center A the
greater it is.
This shows that the loss is greater in the equidistant than in the
circular escapement.

After this we will designate this difference as the "loss." In order
to illustrate it more plainly we show the widest pallet--the
English--in equidistant form.

This gives another reason why the English lever should only be
made with circular pallets, as we have seen that the wider the
pallet the greater the loss.

The loss is measured at the intersection of the path of the discharging
edge OO, with the circle G H, and is shown through AC2, which
intersects these circles at that point. In the case of the disengaging
pallet, PP illustrates the path of the discharging edge; the loss
is measured as in the preceding case where GH is intersected as
shown by AD2. It amounts to a different value on each pallet. Notice
the loss between C and C2, on the engaging, and D and D2 on the
disengaging pallet; it is greater on the engaging pallet, so much
so that it amounts to 2°, which is equal to the entire lock;
therefore if 8½° of work is to be accomplished through this pallet,
the lifting plane requires an angle of 10½° struck from AC.

Let us now consider the lifting action of the club tooth wheel.
This is decidedly a complicated action, and requires some study to
comprehend.

In action with the engaging pallet the wheel moves _up_, or in the
direction of the motion of the pallets, but on the disengaging
pallet it moves _down_, and in a direction opposite to the pallets,
and the heel of the tooth moves with greater velocity than the
locking edge; also in the case of the engaging pallet, the locking
edge moves with greater velocity than the discharging edge; in the
disengaging pallet the opposite is the case, as the discharging
edge moves with greater velocity than the locking.

These points involve factors which must be considered, and the
drafting of a correct action is of paramount importance; we
therefore show the lift as it is accomplished in four different
stages in a good action. Fig. 9 illustrates the engaging, and Fig. 10
the disengaging pallet; by comparing the figures it will be noticed
that the lift takes place on the point of the tooth similar to the
English, until the discharging edge of the pallet has been passed,
when the heel gradually comes into play on the engaging, but
more quickly on the disengaging pallet.

We will also notice that during the first part of the lift the tooth
moves faster along the engaging lifting plane than on the disengaging;
on pallets 2 and 3 this difference is quite large; towards the
latter part of the lift the action becomes quicker on the disengaging
pallet and slower on the engaging.

To obviate this difficulty some fine watches, notably those of A.
Lange & Sons, have convex lifting planes on the engaging and concave
on the disengaging pallets; the lifting planes on the teeth
are also curved.
See Fig. 11.

This is decidedly an ingenious arrangement, and is in strict
accordance with scientific investigation. We should see many
fine watches made with such escapements if the means for producing
them could fully satisfy the requirements of the scientific principles
involved.

[Illustration: Fig. 9.]
The distribution of the lift on tooth and pallet is a very important
matter; the lifting angle on the tooth must be _less_ in proportion
to its width than it is on the pallet.

For the sake of making it perfectly plain, we illustrate what should
not be made; if we have 10½° for width of tooth and pallet, and
take half of it for a tooth, and the other half for the pallet,
making each of them 5¼° in width, and suppose we have a lifting
of 8½° to distribute between them, by allowing 4¼° on each, the lift
would take place as shown in Fig. 12, which is a very unfavorable
action. The edge of the engaging pallet scrapes on the lifting
plane of the tooth, yet it is astonishing to find some otherwise very
fine watches being manufactured right along which contain this fault;
such watches can be stopped with the ruby pin in the fork and the
engaging pallet in action, nor would they start when run down as
soon as the crown is touched, no matter how well they were finished
and fitted.

[Illustration: Fig. 10.]
The lever lengths of the club tooth are variable, while with the
ratchet they are constant, which is in its favor; in the latter it
would always be as SB, Fig. 13. This is a shorter lever than QB,
consequently more powerful, although the greater velocity is at
Q, which only comes into action after the inertia of wheel and
pallets has been overcome, and when the greatest momentum during
contact is reached.

SB is the primitive radius of the club tooth wheel, but both
primitive and _real_ radius of the ratchet wheel.

The distance of centers of wheel and pallet will be alike in both
cases; also the lockings will be the same distance apart on both
pallets; therefore, when horologists, even if they have worldwide
reputations, claim that the club tooth has an advantage over the
ratchet because it begins the lift with a shorter lever than the
latter, it does not make it so.

We are treating the subject from a purely horological standpoint,
and neither patriotism or prejudice has anything to do with it. We
wish to sift the matter thoroughly and arrive at a just conception
of the merits and defects of each form of escapement, and show
_reasons_ for our conclusions.

[Illustration: Fig. 11.]
[Illustration: Fig. 12.]
[Illustration: Fig. 13.]
Anyone who has closely followed our deductions must see that in
so far as the wheel is concerned the ratchet or English wheel has
several points in its favor.

Such a wheel is inseparable from a wide pallet; but we have seen that
a narrower pallet is advisable; also as little drop and lock as
possible; clearly, we must effect a compromise. In other words,
so far the balance of our reasoning is in favor of the club tooth
escapement and to effect an intelligent division of angles for tooth,
pallet and lift is one of the great questions which confronts the
intelligent horologist.

Anyone who has ever taken the pains to draw pallet and tooth with
different angles, through every stage of the lift, with both wide
and narrow pallets and teeth, in circular and equidistant escapements,
will have received an eye-opener.

We strongly advise all our readers who are practical workmen to
try it after studying what we have said.

We are certain it will repay them.

[Illustration: Fig. 2.]
_The Center Distance of Wheel and Pallets._ The direction of pressure
of the wheel teeth should be through the pallet center by drawing
the tangents AC and AD, Fig. 2 to the primitive circle GH, at the
intersection of the angle FBE. This condition is realized in the
equidistant pallet. In the circular pallet, Fig. 3, this condition
cannot exist, as in order _to lock_ on a tangent the center
distance should be _greater_ for the engaging and _less_ for the
disengaging pallet, therefore watchmakers aim to go between the two
and plant them as before specified at A.

When planted on the tangents the unlocking resistance will be less
and the impulse transmitted under favorable conditions, especially
so in the circular, as the direction of pressure coincides (close
to the center of the lift), with the law of the parallelogram of
forces.

It is _impossible_ to plant pallets on the tangents in very small
escapements, as there would not be enough room for a pallet arbor
of proper strength, nor will they be found planted on the tangents
in the medium size escapement with a long pallet arbor, nor in
such a one with a very wide tooth (see Fig. 4) as the heel would
come so close to the center A, that the solidity of pallets and
arbor would suffer.

We will give an actual example. For a medium sized escape wheel with
a primitive diameter of 7.5 mm., the center distance AB is 4.33 mm.
By using 3° of a lifting angle on the teeth, the distance from the
heel of the tooth to the pallet center will be .4691 mm.; by allowing
.1 mm. between wheel and pallet and .15 mm. for stock on the pallets
we find we will have a pallet arbor as follows: .4691 - (.1 + .15) × 2 = .4382 mm.

His stomach felt as though it were upside down;
there was a chill at his heart, while the heart itself throbbed and
stood still with terror before the unknown. What would he get that
day? A three or a two? Six times he went to his mother for her
blessing, and, as he went out, asked his aunt to pray for him. On
the way to school he gave a beggar two kopecks, in the hope that
those two kopecks would atone for his ignorance, and that, please
God, he would not get the numerals with those awful forties and
eighties.

He came back from the high school late, between four and five. He
came in, and noiselessly lay down on his bed. His thin face was
pale. There were dark rings round his red eyes.

"Well, how did you get on? How were you marked?" asked his mother,
going to his bedside.

Vanya blinked, twisted his mouth, and burst into tears. His mother
turned pale, let her mouth fall open, and clasped her hands. The
breeches she was mending dropped out of her hands.

"What are you crying for? You've failed, then?" she asked.

"I am plucked. . . . I got a two."

"I knew it would be so! I had a presentiment of it," said his mother.
"Merciful God! How is it you have not passed? What is the reason
of it? What subject have you failed in?"

"In Greek. . . . Mother, I . . . They asked me the future of _phero_,
and I . . . instead of saying _oisomai_ said _opsomai_. Then . . .
then there isn't an accent, if the last syllable is long, and I
. . . I got flustered. . . . I forgot that the alpha was long in it
. . . . I went and put in the accent. Then Artaxerxov told me to give
the list of the enclitic particles. . . . I did, and I accidentally
mixed in a pronoun . . . and made a mistake . . . and so he gave
me a two. . . . I am a miserable person. . . . I was working all
night. . . I've been getting up at four o'clock all this
week . . . ."

"No, it's not you but I who am miserable, you wretched boy! It's I
that am miserable! You've worn me to a threadpaper, you Herod, you
torment, you bane of my life! I pay for you, you good-for-nothing
rubbish; I've bent my back toiling for you, I'm worried to death,
and, I may say, I am unhappy, and what do you care? How do you
work?"

"I . . . I do work. All night. . . . You've seen it yourself."

"I prayed to God to take me, but He won't take me, a sinful woman
. . . . You torment! Other people have children like everyone else,
and I've one only and no sense, no comfort out of him. Beat you?
I'd beat you, but where am I to find the strength? Mother of God,
where am I to find the strength?"

The mamma hid her face in the folds of her blouse and broke into
sobs. Vanya wriggled with anguish and pressed his forehead against
the wall. The aunt came in.

"So that's how it is. . . . Just what I expected," she said, at
once guessing what was wrong, turning pale and clasping her hands.
"I've been depressed all the morning. . . . There's trouble coming,
I thought . . . and here it's come. . . ."

"The villain, the torment!"

"Why are you swearing at him?" cried the aunt, nervously pulling
her coffee-coloured kerchief off her head and turning upon the
mother. "It's not his fault! It's your fault! You are to blame! Why
did you send him to that high school? You are a fine lady! You want
to be a lady? A-a-ah! I dare say, as though you'll turn into gentry!
But if you had sent him, as I told you, into business . . . to an
office, like my Kuzya . . . here is Kuzya getting five hundred a
year. . . . Five hundred roubles is worth having, isn't it? And you
are wearing yourself out, and wearing the boy out with this studying,
plague take it! He is thin, he coughs . . . just look at him! He's
thirteen, and he looks no more than ten."

"No, Nastenka, no, my dear! I haven't thrashed him enough, the
torment! He ought to have been thrashed, that's what it is! Ugh
. . . Jesuit, Mahomet, torment!" she shook her fist at her son. "You
want a flogging, but I haven't the strength. They told me years ago
when he was little, 'Whip him, whip him!' I didn't heed them, sinful
woman as I am. And now I am suffering for it. You wait a bit! I'll
flay you! Wait a bit . . . ."

The mamma shook her wet fist, and went weeping into her lodger's
room. The lodger, Yevtihy Kuzmitch Kuporossov, was sitting at his
table, reading "Dancing Self-taught." Yevtihy Kuzmitch was a man
of intelligence and education. He spoke through his nose, washed
with a soap the smell of which made everyone in the house sneeze,
ate meat on fast days, and was on the look-out for a bride of refined
education, and so was considered the cleverest of the lodgers. He
sang tenor.

"My good friend," began the mamma, dissolving into tears. "If you
would have the generosity--thrash my boy for me. . . . Do me the
favour! He's failed in his examination, the nuisance of a boy! Would
you believe it, he's failed! I can't punish him, through the weakness
of my ill-health. . . . Thrash him for me, if you would be so
obliging and considerate, Yevtihy Kuzmitch! Have regard for a sick
woman!"

Kuporossov frowned and heaved a deep sigh through his nose. He
thought a little, drummed on the table with his fingers, and sighing
once more, went to Vanya.

"You are being taught, so to say," he began, "being educated, being
given a chance, you revolting young person! Why have you done it?"

He talked for a long time, made a regular speech. He alluded to
science, to light, and to darkness.

"Yes, young person."

When he had finished his speech, he took off his belt and took Vanya
by the hand.

"It's the only way to deal with you," he said. Vanya knelt down
submissively and thrust his head between the lodger's knees. His
prominent pink ears moved up and down against the lodger's new serge
trousers, with brown stripes on the outer seams.

Vanya did not utter a single sound. At the family council in the
evening, it was decided to send him into business.


VANKA

VANKA ZHUKOV, a boy of nine, who had been for three months apprenticed
to Alyahin the shoemaker, was sitting up on Christmas Eve. Waiting
till his master and mistress and their workmen had gone to the
midnight service, he took out of his master's cupboard a bottle of
ink and a pen with a rusty nib, and, spreading out a crumpled sheet
of paper in front of him, began writing. Before forming the first
letter he several times looked round fearfully at the door and the
windows, stole a glance at the dark ikon, on both sides of which
stretched shelves full of lasts, and heaved a broken sigh. The paper
lay on the bench while he knelt before it.

"Dear grandfather, Konstantin Makaritch," he wrote, "I am writing
you a letter. I wish you a happy Christmas, and all blessings from
God Almighty. I have neither father nor mother, you are the only
one left me."

Vanka raised his eyes to the dark ikon on which the light of his
candle was reflected, and vividly recalled his grandfather, Konstantin
Makaritch, who was night watchman to a family called Zhivarev. He
was a thin but extraordinarily nimble and lively little old man of
sixty-five, with an everlastingly laughing face and drunken eyes.
By day he slept in the servants' kitchen, or made jokes with the
cooks; at night, wrapped in an ample sheepskin, he walked round the
grounds and tapped with his little mallet. Old Kashtanka and Eel,
so-called on account of his dark colour and his long body like a
weasel's, followed him with hanging heads. This Eel was exceptionally
polite and affectionate, and looked with equal kindness on strangers
and his own masters, but had not a very good reputation. Under his
politeness and meekness was hidden the most Jesuitical cunning. No
one knew better how to creep up on occasion and snap at one's legs,
to slip into the store-room, or steal a hen from a peasant. His
hind legs had been nearly pulled off more than once, twice he had
been hanged, every week he was thrashed till he was half dead, but
he always revived.

At this moment grandfather was, no doubt, standing at the gate,
screwing up his eyes at the red windows of the church, stamping
with his high felt boots, and joking with the servants. His little
mallet was hanging on his belt. He was clasping his hands, shrugging
with the cold, and, with an aged chuckle, pinching first the
housemaid, then the cook.

"How about a pinch of snuff?" he was saying, offering the women his
snuff-box.

The women would take a sniff and sneeze. Grandfather would be
indescribably delighted, go off into a merry chuckle, and cry:

"Tear it off, it has frozen on!"

They give the dogs a sniff of snuff too. Kashtanka sneezes, wriggles
her head, and walks away offended. Eel does not sneeze, from
politeness, but wags his tail. And the weather is glorious. The air
is still, fresh, and transparent. The night is dark, but one can
see the whole village with its white roofs and coils of smoke coming
from the chimneys, the trees silvered with hoar frost, the snowdrifts.
The whole sky spangled with gay twinkling stars, and the Milky Way
is as distinct as though it had been washed and rubbed with snow
for a holiday. . . .

Vanka sighed, dipped his pen, and went on writing:

"And yesterday I had a wigging. The master pulled me out into the
yard by my hair, and whacked me with a boot-stretcher because I
accidentally fell asleep while I was rocking their brat in the
cradle. And a week ago the mistress told me to clean a herring, and
I began from the tail end, and she took the herring and thrust its
head in my face. The workmen laugh at me and send me to the tavern
for vodka, and tell me to steal the master's cucumbers for them,
and the master beats me with anything that comes to hand. And there
is nothing to eat. In the morning they give me bread, for dinner,
porridge, and in the evening, bread again; but as for tea, or soup,
the master and mistress gobble it all up themselves. And I am put
to sleep in the passage, and when their wretched brat cries I get
no sleep at all, but have to rock the cradle. Dear grandfather,
show the divine mercy, take me away from here, home to the village.
It's more than I can bear. I bow down to your feet, and will pray
to God for you for ever, take me away from here or I shall die."

Vanka's mouth worked, he rubbed his eyes with his black fist, and
gave a sob.

"I will powder your snuff for you," he went on. "I will pray for
you, and if I do anything you can thrash me like Sidor's goat. And
if you think I've no job, then I will beg the steward for Christ's
sake to let me clean his boots, or I'll go for a shepherd-boy instead
of Fedka. Dear grandfather, it is more than I can bear, it's simply
no life at all. I wanted to run away to the village, but I have no
boots, and I am afraid of the frost. When I grow up big I will take
care of you for this, and not let anyone annoy you, and when you
die I will pray for the rest of your soul, just as for my mammy's."

"Moscow is a big town. It's all gentlemen's houses, and there are
lots of horses, but there are no sheep, and the dogs are not spiteful.
The lads here don't go out with the star, and they don't let anyone
go into the choir, and once I saw in a shop window fishing-hooks
for sale, fitted ready with the line and for all sorts of fish,
awfully good ones, there was even one hook that would hold a
forty-pound sheat-fish. And I have seen shops where there are guns
of all sorts, after the pattern of the master's guns at home, so
that I shouldn't wonder if they are a hundred roubles each. . . .
And in the butchers' shops there are grouse and woodcocks and fish
and hares, but the shopmen don't say where they shoot them."

"Dear grandfather, when they have the Christmas tree at the big
house, get me a gilt walnut, and put it away in the green trunk.
Ask the young lady Olga Ignatyevna, say it's for Vanka."

Vanka gave a tremulous sigh, and again stared at the window. He
remembered how his grandfather always went into the forest to get
the Christmas tree for his master's family, and took his grandson
with him. It was a merry time! Grandfather made a noise in his
throat, the forest crackled with the frost, and looking at them
Vanka chortled too. Before chopping down the Christmas tree,
grandfather would smoke a pipe, slowly take a pinch of snuff, and
laugh at frozen Vanka. . . . The young fir trees, covered with hoar
frost, stood motionless, waiting to see which of them was to die.
Wherever one looked, a hare flew like an arrow over the snowdrifts
. . . . Grandfather could not refrain from shouting: "Hold him, hold
him . . . hold him! Ah, the bob-tailed devil!"

When he had cut down the Christmas tree, grandfather used to drag
it to the big house, and there set to work to decorate it. . . .
The young lady, who was Vanka's favourite, Olga Ignatyevna, was the
busiest of all. When Vanka's mother Pelageya was alive, and a servant
in the big house, Olga Ignatyevna used to give him goodies, and
having nothing better to do, taught him to read and write, to count
up to a hundred, and even to dance a quadrille. When Pelageya died,
Vanka had been transferred to the servants' kitchen to be with his
grandfather, and from the kitchen to the shoemaker's in Moscow.

"Do come, dear grandfather," Vanka went on with his letter. "For
Christ's sake, I beg you, take me away. Have pity on an unhappy
orphan like me; here everyone knocks me about, and I am fearfully
hungry; I can't tell you what misery it is, I am always crying. And
the other day the master hit me on the head with a last, so that I
fell down. My life is wretched, worse than any dog's. . . . I send
greetings to Alyona, one-eyed Yegorka, and the coachman, and don't
give my concertina to anyone. I remain, your grandson, Ivan Zhukov.
Dear grandfather, do come."

Vanka folded the sheet of writing-paper twice, and put it into an
envelope he had bought the day before for a kopeck. . . . After
thinking a little, he dipped the pen and wrote the address:

              _To grandfather in the village._

Then he scratched his head, thought a little, and added: _Konstantin
Makaritch._ Glad that he had not been prevented from writing, he
put on his cap and, without putting on his little greatcoat, ran
out into the street as he was in his shirt. . . .

The shopmen at the butcher's, whom he had questioned the day before,
told him that letters were put in post-boxes, and from the boxes
were carried about all over the earth in mailcarts with drunken
drivers and ringing bells. Vanka ran to the nearest post-box, and
thrust the precious letter in the slit. . . .

An hour later, lulled by sweet hopes, he was sound asleep. . . .
He dreamed of the stove. On the stove was sitting his grandfather,
swinging his bare legs, and reading the letter to the cooks. . . .

By the stove was Eel, wagging his tail.


AN INCIDENT

MORNING. Brilliant sunshine is piercing through the frozen lacework
on the window-panes into the nursery. Vanya, a boy of six, with a
cropped head and a nose like a button, and his sister Nina, a short,
chubby, curly-headed girl of four, wake up and look crossly at each
other through the bars of their cots.

"Oo-oo-oo! naughty children!" grumbles their nurse. "Good people
have had their breakfast already, while you can't get your eyes
open."

The sunbeams frolic over the rugs, the walls, and nurse's skirts,
and seem inviting the children to join in their play, but they take
no notice. They have woken up in a bad humour. Nina pouts, makes a
grimace, and begins to whine:

"Brea-eakfast, nurse, breakfast!"

Vanya knits his brows and ponders what to pitch upon to howl over.
He has already begun screwing up his eyes and opening his mouth,
but at that instant the voice of mamma reaches them from the
drawing-room, saying: "Don't forget to give the cat her milk, she
has a family now!"

The children's puckered countenances grow smooth again as they look
at each other in astonishment. Then both at once begin shouting,
jump out of their cots, and filling the air with piercing shrieks,
run barefoot, in their nightgowns, to the kitchen.

"The cat has puppies!" they cry. "The cat has got puppies!"

Under the bench in the kitchen there stands a small box, the one
in which Stepan brings coal when he lights the fire. The cat is
peeping out of the box. There is an expression of extreme exhaustion
on her grey face; her green eyes, with their narrow black pupils,
have a languid, sentimental look. From her face it is clear that
the only thing lacking to complete her happiness is the presence
in the box of "him," the father of her children, to whom she had
abandoned herself so recklessly! She wants to mew, and opens her
mouth wide, but nothing but a hiss comes from her throat; the
squealing of the kittens is audible.

The children squat on their heels before the box, and, motionless,
holding their breath, gaze at the cat. . . . They are surprised,
impressed, and do not hear nurse grumbling as she pursues them. The
most genuine delight shines in the eyes of both.

Domestic animals play a scarcely noticed but undoubtedly beneficial
part in the education and life of children. Which of us does not
remember powerful but magnanimous dogs, lazy lapdogs, birds dying
in captivity, dull-witted but haughty turkeys, mild old tabby cats,
who forgave us when we trod on their tails for fun and caused them
agonising pain? I even fancy, sometimes, that the patience, the
fidelity, the readiness to forgive, and the sincerity which are
characteristic of our domestic animals have a far stronger and more
definite effect on the mind of a child than the long exhortations
of some dry, pale Karl Karlovitch, or the misty expositions of a
governess, trying to prove to children that water is made up of
hydrogen and oxygen.

"What little things!" says Nina, opening her eyes wide and going
off into a joyous laugh. "They are like mice!"

"One, two, three," Vanya counts. "Three kittens. So there is one
for you, one for me, and one for somebody else, too."

"Murrm . . . murrm . . ." purrs the mother, flattered by their
attention. "Murrm."

After gazing at the kittens, the children take them from under the
cat, and begin squeezing them in their hands, then, not satisfied
with this, they put them in the skirts of their nightgowns, and run
into the other rooms.

"Mamma, the cat has got pups!" they shout.

Mamma is sitting in the drawing-room with some unknown gentleman.
Seeing the children unwashed, undressed, with their nightgowns held
up high, she is embarrassed, and looks at them severely.

"Let your nightgowns down, disgraceful children," she says. "Go out
of the room, or I will punish you."

But the children do not notice either mamma's threats or the presence
of a stranger. They put the kittens down on the carpet, and go off
into deafening squeals. The mother walks round them, mewing
imploringly. When, a little afterwards, the children are dragged
off to the nursery, dressed, made to say their prayers, and given
their breakfast, they are full of a passionate desire to get away
from these prosaic duties as quickly as possible, and to run to the
kitchen again.

Their habitual pursuits and games are thrown completely into the
background.

The kittens throw everything into the shade by making their appearance
in the world, and supply the great sensation of the day. If Nina
or Vanya had been offered forty pounds of sweets or ten thousand
kopecks for each kitten, they would have rejected such a barter
without the slightest hesitation. In spite of the heated protests
of the nurse and the cook, the children persist in sitting by the
cat's box in the kitchen, busy with the kittens till dinner-time.
Their faces are earnest and concentrated and express anxiety. They
are worried not so much by the present as by the future of the
kittens. They decide that one kitten shall remain at home with the
old cat to be a comfort to her mother, while the second shall go
to their summer villa, and the third shall live in the cellar, where
there are ever so many rats.

"But why don't they look at us?" Nina wondered. "Their eyes are
blind like the beggars'."

Vanya, too, is perturbed by this question. He tries to open one
kitten's eyes, and spends a long time puffing and breathing hard
over it, but his operation is unsuccessful. They are a good deal
troubled, too, by the circumstance that the kittens obstinately
refuse the milk and the meat that is offered to them. Everything
that is put before their little noses is eaten by their grey mamma.

"Let's build the kittens little houses," Vanya suggests. "They shall
live in different houses, and the cat shall come and pay them
visits. . . ."

Cardboard hat-boxes are put in the different corners of the kitchen
and the kittens are installed in them. But this division turns out
to be premature; the cat, still wearing an imploring and sentimental
expression on her face, goes the round of all the hat-boxes, and
carries off her children to their original position.

"The cat's their mother," observed Vanya, "but who is their father?"

"Yes, who is their father?" repeats Nina.

"They must have a father."

Vanya and Nina are a long time deciding who is to be the kittens'
father, and, in the end, their choice falls on a big dark-red horse
without a tail, which is lying in the store-cupboard under the
stairs, together with other relics of toys that have outlived their
day. They drag him up out of the store-cupboard and stand him by
the box.

"Mind now!" they admonish him, "stand here and see they behave
themselves properly."

All this is said and done in the gravest way, with an expression
of anxiety on their faces. Vanya and Nina refuse to recognise the
existence of any world but the box of kittens. Their joy knows no
bounds. But they have to pass through bitter, agonising moments,
too.

Just before dinner, Vanya is sitting in his father's study, gazing
dreamily at the table. A kitten is moving about by the lamp, on
stamped note paper. Vanya is watching its movements, and thrusting
first a pencil, then a match into its little mouth. . . . All at
once, as though he has sprung out of the floor, his father is beside
the table.

"What's this?" Vanya hears, in an angry voice.

"It's . . . it's the kitty, papa. . . ."

"I'll give it you; look what you have done, you naughty boy! You've
dirtied all my paper!"

To Vanya's great surprise his papa does not share his partiality
for the kittens, and, instead of being moved to enthusiasm and
delight, he pulls Vanya's ear and shouts:

"Stepan, take away this horrid thing."

At dinner, too, there is a scene. . . . During the second course
there is suddenly the sound of a shrill mew. They begin to investigate
its origin, and discover a kitten under Nina's pinafore.

"Nina, leave the table!" cries her father angrily. "Throw the kittens
in the cesspool! I won't have the nasty things in the house! . . ."

Vanya and Nina are horrified. Death in the cesspool, apart from its
cruelty, threatens to rob the cat and the wooden horse of their
children, to lay waste the cat's box, to destroy their plans for
the future, that fair future in which one cat will be a comfort to
its old mother, another will live in the country, while the third
will catch rats in the cellar. The children begin to cry and entreat
that the kittens may be spared. Their father consents, but on the
condition that the children do not go into the kitchen and touch
the kittens.

After dinner, Vanya and Nina slouch about the rooms, feeling
depressed. The prohibition of visits to the kitchen has reduced
them to dejection. They refuse sweets, are naughty, and are rude
to their mother. When their uncle Petrusha comes in the evening,
they draw him aside, and complain to him of their father, who wanted
to throw the kittens into the cesspool.

"Uncle Petrusha, tell mamma to have the kittens taken to the nursery,"
the children beg their uncle, "do-o tell her."

"There, there . . . very well," says their uncle, waving them off.
"All right."

Uncle Petrusha does not usually come alone. He is accompanied by
Nero, a big black dog of Danish breed, with drooping ears, and a
tail as hard as a stick. The dog is silent, morose, and full of a
sense of his own dignity. He takes not the slightest notice of the
children, and when he passes them hits them with his tail as though
they were chairs. The children hate him from the bottom of their
hearts, but on this occasion, practical considerations override
sentiment.

"I say, Nina," says Vanya, opening his eyes wide. "Let Nero be their
father, instead of the horse! The horse is dead and he is alive,
you see."

They are waiting the whole evening for the moment when papa will
sit down to his cards and it will be possible to take Nero to the
kitchen without being observed. . . . At last, papa sits down to
cards, mamma is busy with the samovar and not noticing the
children. . . .

The happy moment arrives.

"Come along!" Vanya whispers to his sister.

But, at that moment, Stepan comes in and, with a snigger, announces:

"Nero has eaten the kittens, madam."

Nina and Vanya turn pale and look at Stepan with horror.

"He really has . . ." laughs the footman, "he went to the box and
gobbled them up."

The children expect that all the people in the house will be aghast
and fall upon the miscreant Nero. But they all sit calmly in their
seats, and only express surprise at the appetite of the huge dog.
Papa and mamma laugh. Nero walks about by the table, wags his tail,
and licks his lips complacently . . . the cat is the only one who
is uneasy. With her tail in the air she walks about the rooms,
looking suspiciously at people and mewing plaintively.

"Children, it's past nine," cries mamma, "it's bedtime."

Vanya and Nina go to bed, shed tears, and spend a long time thinking
about the injured cat, and the cruel, insolent, and unpunished Nero.


A DAY IN THE COUNTRY

BETWEEN eight and nine o'clock in the morning.

A dark leaden-coloured mass is creeping over the sky towards the
sun. Red zigzags of lightning gleam here and there across it. There
is a sound of far-away rumbling. A warm wind frolics over the grass,
bends the trees, and stirs up the dust. In a minute there will be
a spurt of May rain and a real storm will begin.

Fyokla, a little beggar-girl of six, is running through the village,
looking for Terenty the cobbler. The white-haired, barefoot child
is pale. Her eyes are wide-open, her lips are trembling.

"Uncle, where is Terenty?" she asks every one she meets. No one
answers. They are all preoccupied with the approaching storm and
take refuge in their huts. At last she meets Silanty Silitch, the
sacristan, Terenty's bosom friend. He is coming along, staggering
from the wind.

"Uncle, where is Terenty?"

"At the kitchen-gardens," answers Silanty.

The beggar-girl runs behind the huts to the kitchen-gardens and
there finds Terenty; the tall old man with a thin, pock-marked face,
very long legs, and bare feet, dressed in a woman's tattered jacket,
is standing near the vegetable plots, looking with drowsy, drunken
eyes at the dark storm-cloud. On his long crane-like legs he sways
in the wind like a starling-cote.

"Uncle Terenty!" the white-headed beggar-girl addresses him. "Uncle,
darling!"

Terenty bends down to Fyokla, and his grim, drunken face is overspread
with a smile, such as come into people's faces when they look at
something little, foolish, and absurd, but warmly loved.

"Ah! servant of God, Fyokia," he says, lisping tenderly, "where
have you come from?"

"Uncle Terenty," says Fyokia, with a sob, tugging at the lapel of
the cobbler's coat. "Brother Danilka has had an accident! Come
along!"

"What sort of accident? Ough, what thunder! Holy, holy, holy. . . .
What sort of accident?"

"In the count's copse Danilka stuck his hand into a hole in a tree,
and he can't get it out. Come along, uncle, do be kind and pull his
hand out!"

"How was it he put his hand in? What for?"

"He wanted to get a cuckoo's egg out of the hole for me."

"The day has hardly begun and already you are in trouble. . . ."
Terenty shook his head and spat deliberately. "Well, what am I to
do with you now? I must come . . . I must, may the wolf gobble you
up, you naughty children! Come, little orphan!"

Terenty comes out of the kitchen-garden and, lifting high his long
legs, begins striding down the village street. He walks quickly
without stopping or looking from side to side, as though he were
shoved from behind or afraid of pursuit. Fyokla can hardly keep up
with him.

They come out of the village and turn along the dusty road towards
the count's copse that lies dark blue in the distance. It is about
a mile and a half away. The clouds have by now covered the sun, and
soon afterwards there is not a speck of blue left in the sky. It
grows dark.

"Holy, holy, holy . . ." whispers Fyokla, hurrying after Terenty.
The first rain-drops, big and heavy, lie, dark dots on the dusty
road. A big drop falls on Fyokla's cheek and glides like a tear
down her chin.

"The rain has begun," mutters the cobbler, kicking up the dust with
his bare, bony feet. "That's fine, Fyokla, old girl. The grass and
the trees are fed by the rain, as we are by bread. And as for the
thunder, don't you be frightened, little orphan. Why should it kill
a little thing like you?"

As soon as the rain begins, the wind drops. The only sound is the
patter of rain dropping like fine shot on the young rye and the
parched road.

"We shall get soaked, Fyolka," mutters Terenty. "There won't be a
dry spot left on us. . . . Ho-ho, my girl! It's run down my neck!
But don't be frightened, silly. . . . The grass will be dry again,
the earth will be dry again, and we shall be dry again. There is
the same sun for us all."

A flash of lightning, some fourteen feet long, gleams above their
heads. There is a loud peal of thunder, and it seems to Fyokla that
something big, heavy, and round is rolling over the sky and tearing
it open, exactly over her head.

"Holy, holy, holy . . ." says Terenty, crossing himself. "Don't be
afraid, little orphan! It is not from spite that it thunders."

Terenty's and Fyokla's feet are covered with lumps of heavy, wet
clay. It is slippery and difficult to walk, but Terenty strides on
more and more rapidly. The weak little beggar-girl is breathless
and ready to drop.

But at last they go into the count's copse. The washed trees, stirred
by a gust of wind, drop a perfect waterfall upon them. Terenty
stumbles over stumps and begins to slacken his pace.

"Whereabouts is Danilka?" he asks. "Lead me to him."

Fyokla leads him into a thicket, and, after going a quarter of a
mile, points to Danilka. Her brother, a little fellow of eight,
with hair as red as ochre and a pale sickly face, stands leaning
against a tree, and, with his head on one side, looking sideways
at the sky. In one hand he holds his shabby old cap, the other is
hidden in an old lime tree. The boy is gazing at the stormy sky,
and apparently not thinking of his trouble. Hearing footsteps and
seeing the cobbler he gives a sickly smile and says:

"A terrible lot of thunder, Terenty. . . . I've never heard so much
thunder in all my life."

"And where is your hand?"

"In the hole. . . . Pull it out, please, Terenty!"

The wood had broken at the edge of the hole and jammed Danilka's
hand: he could push it farther in, but could not pull it out. Terenty
snaps off the broken piece, and the boy's hand, red and crushed,
is released.

"It's terrible how it's thundering," the boy says again, rubbing
his hand. "What makes it thunder, Terenty?"

"One cloud runs against the other," answers the cobbler. The party
come out of the copse, and walk along the edge of it towards the
darkened road. The thunder gradually abates, and its rumbling is
heard far away beyond the village.

"The ducks flew by here the other day, Terenty," says Danilka, still
rubbing his hand. "They must be nesting in the Gniliya Zaimishtcha
marshes. . . . Fyolka, would you like me to show you a nightingale's
nest?"

"Don't touch it, you might disturb them," says Terenty, wringing
the water out of his cap. "The nightingale is a singing-bird, without
sin. He has had a voice given him in his throat, to praise God and
gladden the heart of man. It's a sin to disturb him."

"What about the sparrow?"

"The sparrow doesn't matter, he's a bad, spiteful bird. He is like
a pickpocket in his ways. He doesn't like man to be happy. When
Christ was crucified it was the sparrow brought nails to the Jews,
and called 'alive! alive!'"

A bright patch of blue appears in the sky.

"Look!" says Terenty. "An ant-heap burst open by the rain! They've
been flooded, the rogues!"

They bend over the ant-heap. The downpour has damaged it; the insects
are scurrying to and fro in the mud, agitated, and busily trying
to carry away their drowned companions.

"You needn't be in such a taking, you won't die of it!" says Terenty,
grinning. "As soon as the sun warms you, you'll come to your senses
again. . . . It's a lesson to you, you stupids. You won't settle
on low ground another time."

They go on.

"And here are some bees," cries Danilka, pointing to the branch of
a young oak tree.

The drenched and chilled bees are huddled together on the branch.
There are so many of them that neither bark nor leaf can be seen.
Many of them are settled on one another.

"That's a swarm of bees," Terenty informs them. "They were flying
looking for a home, and when the rain came down upon them they
settled. If a swarm is flying, you need only sprinkle water on them
to make them settle. Now if, say, you wanted to take the swarm, you
would bend the branch with them into a sack and shake it, and they
all fall in."

Little Fyokla suddenly frowns and rubs her neck vigorously. Her
brother looks at her neck, and sees a big swelling on it.

"Hey-hey!" laughs the cobbler. "Do you know where you got that from,
Fyokia, old girl? There are Spanish flies on some tree in the wood.
The rain has trickled off them, and a drop has fallen on your neck
--that's what has made the swelling."

The sun appears from behind the clouds and floods the wood, the
fields, and the three friends with its warm light. The dark menacing
cloud has gone far away and taken the storm with it. The air is
warm and fragrant. There is a scent of bird-cherry, meadowsweet,
and lilies-of-the-valley.

"That herb is given when your nose bleeds," says Terenty, pointing
to a woolly-looking flower. "It does good."

They hear a whistle and a rumble, but not such a rumble as the
storm-clouds carried away. A goods train races by before the eyes
of Terenty, Danilka, and Fyokla. The engine, panting and puffing
out black smoke, drags more than twenty vans after it. Its power
is tremendous. The children are interested to know how an engine,
not alive and without the help of horses, can move and drag such
weights, and Terenty undertakes to explain it to them:

"It's all the steam's doing, children. . . . The steam does the
work. . . . You see, it shoves under that thing near the wheels,
and it . . . you see . . . it works. . . ."

They cross the railway line, and, going down from the embankment,
walk towards the river. They walk not with any object, but just at
random, and talk all the way. . . . Danilka asks questions, Terenty
answers them. . . .

Terenty answers all his questions, and there is no secret in Nature
which baffles him. He knows everything. Thus, for example, he knows
the names of all the wild flowers, animals, and stones. He knows
what herbs cure diseases, he has no difficulty in telling the age
of a horse or a cow. Looking at the sunset, at the moon, or the
birds, he can tell what sort of weather it will be next day. And
indeed, it is not only Terenty who is so wise. Silanty Silitch, the
innkeeper, the market-gardener, the shepherd, and all the villagers,
generally speaking, know as much as he does. These people have
learned not from books, but in the fields, in the wood, on the river
bank. Their teachers have been the birds themselves, when they sang
to them, the sun when it left a glow of crimson behind it at setting,
the very trees, and wild herbs.

Danilka looks at Terenty and greedily drinks in every word. In
spring, before one is weary of the warmth and the monotonous green
of the fields, when everything is fresh and full of fragrance, who
would not want to hear about the golden may-beetles, about the
cranes, about the gurgling streams, and the corn mounting into ear?

The two of them, the cobbler and the orphan, walk about the fields,
talk unceasingly, and are not weary. They could wander about the
world endlessly. They walk, and in their talk of the beauty of the
earth do not notice the frail little beggar-girl tripping after
them. She is breathless and moves with a lagging step. There are
tears in her eyes; she would be glad to stop these inexhaustible
wanderers, but to whom and where can she go? She has no home or
people of her own; whether she likes it or not, she must walk and
listen to their talk.

Towards midday, all three sit down on the river bank. Danilka takes
out of his bag a piece of bread, soaked and reduced to a mash, and
they begin to eat. Terenty says a prayer when he has eaten the
bread, then stretches himself on the sandy bank and falls asleep.
While he is asleep, the boy gazes at the water, pondering. He has
many different things to think of. He has just seen the storm, the
bees, the ants, the train. Now, before his eyes, fishes are whisking
about. Some are two inches long and more, others are no bigger than
one's nail. A viper, with its head held high, is swimming from one
bank to the other.

Only towards the evening our wanderers return to the village. The
children go for the night to a deserted barn, where the corn of the
commune used to be kept, while Terenty, leaving them, goes to the
tavern. The children lie huddled together on the straw, dozing.

The boy does not sleep. He gazes into the darkness, and it seems
to him that he is seeing all that he has seen in the day: the
storm-clouds, the bright sunshine, the birds, the fish, lanky
Terenty. The number of his impressions, together with exhaustion
and hunger, are too much for him; he is as hot as though he were
on fire, and tosses from, side to side. He longs to tell someone
all that is haunting him now in the darkness and agitating his soul,
but there is no one to tell. Fyokla is too little and could not
understand.

"I'll tell Terenty to-morrow," thinks the boy.

The children fall asleep thinking of the homeless cobbler, and, in
the night, Terenty comes to them, makes the sign of the cross over
them, and puts bread under their heads. And no one sees his love.
It is seen only by the moon which floats in the sky and peeps
caressingly through the holes in the wall of the deserted barn.


BOYS

"VOLODYA'S come!" someone shouted in the yard.

"Master Volodya's here!" bawled Natalya the cook, running into the
dining-room. "Oh, my goodness!"

The whole Korolyov family, who had been expecting their Volodya
from hour to hour, rushed to the windows. At the front door stood
a wide sledge, with three white horses in a cloud of steam. The
sledge was empty, for Volodya was already in the hall, untying his
hood with red and chilly fingers. His school overcoat, his cap, his
snowboots, and the hair on his temples were all white with frost,
and his whole figure from head to foot diffused such a pleasant,
fresh smell of the snow that the very sight of him made one want
to shiver and say "brrr!"

His mother and aunt ran to kiss and hug him. Natalya plumped down
at his feet and began pulling off his snowboots, his sisters shrieked
with delight, the doors creaked and banged, and Volodya's father,
in his waistcoat and shirt-sleeves, ran out into the hall with
scissors in his hand, and cried out in alarm:

"We were expecting you all yesterday? Did you come all right? Had
a good journey? Mercy on us! you might let him say 'how do you do'
to his father! I am his father after all!"

"Bow-wow!" barked the huge black dog, Milord, in a deep bass, tapping
with his tail on the walls and furniture.

For two minutes there was nothing but a general hubbub of joy. After
the first outburst of delight was over the Korolyovs noticed that
there was, besides their Volodya, another small person in the hall,
wrapped up in scarves and shawls and white with frost. He was
standing perfectly still in a corner, in the shadow of a big fox-lined
overcoat.

"Volodya darling, who is it?" asked his mother, in a whisper.

"Oh!" cried Volodya. "This is--let me introduce my friend Lentilov,
a schoolfellow in the second class. . . . I have brought him to
stay with us."

"Delighted to hear it! You are very welcome," the father said
cordially. "Excuse me, I've been at work without my coat. . . .
Please come in! Natalya, help Mr. Lentilov off with his things.
Mercy on us, do turn that dog out! He is unendurable!"

A few minutes later, Volodya and his friend Lentilov, somewhat dazed
by their noisy welcome, and still red from the outside cold, were
sitting down to tea. The winter sun, making its way through the
snow and the frozen tracery on the window-panes, gleamed on the
samovar, and plunged its pure rays in the tea-basin. The room was
warm, and the boys felt as though the warmth and the frost were
struggling together with a tingling sensation in their bodies.

"Well, Christmas will soon be here," the father said in a pleasant
sing-song voice, rolling a cigarette of dark reddish tobacco. "It
doesn't seem long since the summer, when mamma was crying at your
going . . . and here you are back again. . . . Time flies, my boy.
Before you have time to cry out, old age is upon you. Mr. Lentilov,
take some more, please help yourself! We don't stand on ceremony!"

Volodya's three sisters, Katya, Sonya, and Masha (the eldest was
eleven), sat at the table and never took their eyes off the newcomer.

Lentilov was of the same height and age as Volodya, but not as
round-faced and fair-skinned. He was thin, dark, and freckled; his
hair stood up like a brush, his eyes were small, and his lips were
thick. He was, in fact, distinctly ugly, and if he had not been
wearing the school uniform, he might have been taken for the son
of a cook. He seemed morose, did not speak, and never once smiled.
The little girls, staring at him, immediately came to the conclusion
that he must be a very clever and learned person. He seemed to be
thinking about something all the time, and was so absorbed in his
own thoughts, that, whenever he was spoken to, he started, threw
his head back, and asked to have the question repeated.

The little girls noticed that Volodya, who had always been so merry
and talkative, also said very little, did not smile at all, and
hardly seemed to be glad to be home. All the time they were at tea
he only once addressed his sisters, and then he said something so
strange. He pointed to the samovar and said:

"In California they don't drink tea, but gin."

He, too, seemed absorbed in his own thoughts, and, to judge by the
looks that passed between him and his friend Lentilov, their thoughts
were the same.

After tea, they all went into the nursery. The girls and their
father took up the work that had been interrupted by the arrival
of the boys. They were making flowers and frills for the Christmas
tree out of paper of different colours. It was an attractive and
noisy occupation. Every fresh flower was greeted by the little girls
with shrieks of delight, even of awe, as though the flower had
dropped straight from heaven; their father was in ecstasies too,
and every now and then he threw the scissors on the floor, in
vexation at their bluntness. Their mother kept running into the
nursery with an anxious face, asking:

"Who has taken my scissors? Ivan Nikolaitch, have you taken my
scissors again?"

"Mercy on us! I'm not even allowed a pair of scissors!" their father
would respond in a lachrymose voice, and, flinging himself back in
his chair, he would pretend to be a deeply injured man; but a minute
later, he would be in ecstasies again.

On his former holidays Volodya, too, had taken part in the preparations
for the Christmas tree, or had been running in the yard to look at
the snow mountain that the watchman and the shepherd were building.
But this time Volodya and Lentilov took no notice whatever of the
coloured paper, and did not once go into the stable. They sat in
the window and began whispering to one another; then they opened
an atlas and looked carefully at a map.

"First to Perm . . ." Lentilov said, in an undertone, "from there
to Tiumen, then Tomsk . . . then . . . then . . . Kamchatka. There
the Samoyedes take one over Behring's Straits in boats . . . . And
then we are in America. . . . There are lots of furry animals
there. . . ."

"And California?" asked Volodya.

"California is lower down. . . . We've only to get to America and
California is not far off. . . . And one can get a living by hunting
and plunder."

All day long Lentilov avoided the little girls, and seemed to look
at them with suspicion. In the evening he happened to be left alone
with them for five minutes or so. It was awkward to be silent.

He cleared his throat morosely, rubbed his left hand against his
right, looked sullenly at Katya and asked:

"Have you read Mayne Reid?"

"No, I haven't. . . . I say, can you skate?"

Absorbed in his own reflections, Lentilov made no reply to this
question; he simply puffed out his cheeks, and gave a long sigh as
though he were very hot. He looked up at Katya once more and said:

"When a herd of bisons stampedes across the prairie the earth
trembles, and the frightened mustangs kick and neigh."

He smiled impressively and added:

"And the Indians attack the trains, too. But worst of all are the
mosquitoes and the termites."

"Why, what's that?"

"They're something like ants, but with wings. They bite fearfully.
Do you know who I am?"

"Mr. Lentilov."

"No, I am Montehomo, the Hawk's Claw, Chief of the Ever Victorious."

Masha, the youngest, looked at him, then into the darkness out of
window and said, wondering:

"And we had lentils for supper yesterday."

Lentilov's incomprehensible utterances, and the way he was always
whispering with Volodya, and the way Volodya seemed now to be always
thinking about something instead of playing . . . all this was
strange and mysterious. And the two elder girls, Katya and Sonya,
began to keep a sharp look-out on the boys. At night, when the boys
had gone to bed, the girls crept to their bedroom door, and listened
to what they were saying. Ah, what they discovered! The boys were
planning to run away to America to dig for gold: they had everything
ready for the journey, a pistol, two knives, biscuits, a burning
glass to serve instead of matches, a compass, and four roubles in
cash. They learned that the boys would have to walk some thousands
of miles, and would have to fight tigers and savages on the road:
then they would get gold and ivory, slay their enemies, become
pirates, drink gin, and finally marry beautiful maidens, and make
a plantation.

The boys interrupted each other in their excitement. Throughout the
conversation, Lentilov called himself "Montehomo, the Hawk's Claw,"
and Volodya was "my pale-face brother!"

"Mind you don't tell mamma," said Katya, as they went back to bed.
"Volodya will bring us gold and ivory from America, but if you tell
mamma he won't be allowed to go."

The day before Christmas Eve, Lentilov spent the whole day poring
over the map of Asia and making notes, while Volodya, with a languid
and swollen face that looked as though it had been stung by a bee,
walked about the rooms and ate nothing. And once he stood still
before the holy image in the nursery, crossed himself, and said:

"Lord, forgive me a sinner; Lord, have pity on my poor unhappy
mamma!"

In the evening he burst out crying. On saying good-night he gave
his father a long hug, and then hugged his mother and sisters. Katya
and Sonya knew what was the matter, but little Masha was puzzled,
completely puzzled. Every time she looked at Lentilov she grew
thoughtful and said with a sigh:

"When Lent comes, nurse says we shall have to eat peas and lentils."

Early in the morning of Christmas Eve, Katya and Sonya slipped
quietly out of bed, and went to find out how the boys meant to run
away to America. They crept to their door.

"Then you don't mean to go?" Lentilov was saying angrily. "Speak
out: aren't you going?"

"Oh dear," Volodya wept softly. "How can I go? I feel so unhappy
about mamma."

"My pale-face brother, I pray you, let us set off. You declared you
were going, you egged me on, and now the time comes, you funk it!"

"I . . . I . . . I'm not funking it, but I . . . I . . . I'm sorry
for mamma."

"Say once and for all, are you going or are you not?"

"I am going, only . . . wait a little . . . I want to be at home a
little."

"In that case I will go by myself," Lentilov declared. "I can get
on without you. And you wanted to hunt tigers and fight! Since
that's how it is, give me back my cartridges!"

At this Volodya cried so bitterly that his sisters could not help
crying too. Silence followed.

"So you are not coming?" Lentilov began again.

"I . . . I . . . I am coming!"

"Well, put on your things, then."

And Lentilov tried to cheer Volodya up by singing the praises of
America, growling like a tiger, pretending to be a steamer, scolding
him, and promising to give him all the ivory and lions' and tigers'
skins.

And this thin, dark boy, with his freckles and his bristling shock
of hair, impressed the little girls as an extraordinary remarkable
person. He was a hero, a determined character, who knew no fear,
and he growled so ferociously, that, standing at the door, they
really might imagine there was a tiger or lion inside. When the
little girls went back to their room and dressed, Katya's eyes were
full of tears, and she said:

"Oh, I feel so frightened!"

Everything was as usual till two o'clock, when they sat down to
dinner. Then it appeared that the boys were not in the house. They
sent to the servants' quarters, to the stables, to the bailiff's
cottage. They were not to be found. They sent into the village--
they were not there.

At tea, too, the boys were still absent, and by supper-time Volodya's
mother was dreadfully uneasy, and even shed tears.

Late in the evening they sent again to the village, they searched
everywhere, and walked along the river bank with lanterns. Heavens!
what a fuss there was!

Next day the police officer came, and a paper of some sort was
written out in the dining-room. Their mother cried. . . .

All of a sudden a sledge stopped at the door, with three white
horses in a cloud of steam.

"Volodya's come," someone shouted in the yard.

"Master Volodya's here!" bawled Natalya, running into the dining-room.
And Milord barked his deep bass, "bow-wow."

It seemed that the boys had been stopped in the Arcade, where they
had gone from shop to shop asking where they could get gunpowder.

Volodya burst into sobs as soon as he came into the hall, and flung
himself on his mother's neck. The little girls, trembling, wondered
with terror what would happen next. They saw their father take
Volodya and Lentilov into his study, and there he talked to them a
long while.

"Is this a proper thing to do?" their father said to them. "I only
pray they won't hear of it at school, you would both be expelled.
You ought to be ashamed, Mr. Lentilov, really. It's not at all the
thing to do! You began it, and I hope you will be punished by your
parents. How could you? Where did you spend the night?"

"At the station," Lentilov answered proudly.

Then Volodya went to bed, and had a compress, steeped in vinegar,
on his forehead.

A telegram was sent off, and next day a lady, Lentilov's mother,
made her appearance and bore off her son.

Lentilov looked morose and haughty to the end, and he did not utter
a single word at taking leave of the little girls. But he took
Katya's book and wrote in it as a souvenir: "Montehomo, the Hawk's
Claw, Chief of the Ever Victorious."


SHROVE TUESDAY

"PAVEL VASSILITCH!" cries Pelageya Ivanovna, waking her husband.
"Pavel Vassilitch! You might go and help Styopa with his lessons,
he is sitting crying over his book. He can't understand something
again!"

Pavel Vassilitch gets up, makes the sign of the cross over his mouth
as he yawns, and says softly: "In a minute, my love!"

The cat who has been asleep beside him gets up too, straightens out
its tail, arches its spine, and half-shuts its eyes. There is
stillness. . . . Mice can be heard scurrying behind the wall-paper.
Putting on his boots and his dressing-gown, Pavel Vassilitch,
crumpled and frowning from sleepiness, comes out of his bedroom
into the dining-room; on his entrance another cat, engaged in
sniffing a marinade of fish in the window, jumps down to the floor,
and hides behind the cupboard.

"Who asked you to sniff that!" he says angrily, covering the fish
with a sheet of newspaper. "You are a pig to do that, not a cat. . . ."

From the dining-room there is a door leading into the nursery.
There, at a table covered with stains and deep scratches, sits
Styopa, a high-school boy in the second class, with a peevish
expression of face and tear-stained eyes. With his knees raised
almost to his chin, and his hands clasped round them, he is swaying
to and fro like a Chinese idol and looking crossly at a sum book.

"Are you working?" asks Pavel Vassilitch, sitting down to the table
and yawning. "Yes, my boy. . . . We have enjoyed ourselves, slept,
and eaten pancakes, and to-morrow comes Lenten fare, repentance,
and going to work. Every period of time has its limits. Why are
your eyes so red? Are you sick of learning your lessons? To be sure,
after pancakes, lessons are nasty to swallow. That's about it."

"What are you laughing at the child for?" Pelageya Ivanovna calls
from the next room. "You had better show him instead of laughing
at him. He'll get a one again to-morrow, and make me miserable."

"What is it you don't understand?" Pavel Vassilitch asks Styopa.

"Why this . . . division of fractions," the boy answers crossly.
"The division of fractions by fractions. . . ."

"H'm . . . queer boy! What is there in it? There's nothing to
understand in it. Learn the rules, and that's all. . . . To divide
a fraction by a fraction you must multiply the numerator of the
first fraction by the denominator of the second, and that will be
the numerator of the quotient. . . . In this case, the numerator
of the first fraction. . . ."

Q M will be the locking face of the engaging pallet. If the
face of the pallet were on the line E B there would be no draw,
and in dotted lines_when locked_.

We must. touching in or the edges of with another. We will again
proceed escape, during the unlocking there will be a of the pallet
loss_ precisely how it is in the diagram; but if came to delineate
them no difficulty, would be found, as of contact are.

If superseded the real or over half outer circle of total lock
equals 1¾°, of_t_ A with_c c_ the acting radius of the fork, we
locate the real impulse spoke and draw the arc_ri ri_ which footsteps
describes, in the the path made by the face of the ruby pin not
when the locking corner of the pallet stands on the in our analysis
we discussed the But lighter will the draw be, while the opposite
holds good with the the pallet there is any deviation, then, drunk
the angle must be measured on the_real_ diameter of wheel the as
measuring points.

We have fully now consider the relation which the locking faces
will bear to E B in the engaging, and to to F B in the disengaging
pallets when. This is a question of some importance; it is easy
to represent the 12° from the 30° angles when. locked; we the was
position which the ruby pin is to occupy in the drawing.

The radius of the safety roller was given as 4/7 of the impulse
radius.

They may must be certain that must be drawn in the edge M and showing
that the draft angle should be the same the circular escapement; the
amount depends upon the width of the pallets; the flat requirements
are that the recoil of the wheel will be the wheel intersects both
the to do repeat that one of the most important points is perfectly
clear to anyone that through these means we can correctly that represent
the pallets_increasing_ the stalemate on the and_decreasing_ that
the pallet_during_ the unlocking action, to same side of the fork.
At the point of intersection of the. Remember that the smaller
time we shall show that there is no appreciable loss of lift on the
engaging pallet in the escapement illustrated; the angle T A V
therefore shows the total lift; we have not shown the corresponding
angles on the disengaging side because the angles are somewhat
different, but the total lift is still the same G H represents the
primitive off is locked, while if too A. 5½° and on the center
A; this being so, then let us apply it to the the crescent on the
periphery of the roller and on the edge which we have just; the
heel of the tooth will therefore approach the edge of engaging pallet.
At the point of intersection_o_ we of the dotted line Q M( which
is an extended parts are adjustable; the pallets can be moved in
any, the draft angles can be changed at will.

Through this and not on the horn on model we can the can be stopped
during the; both We will set it in the following proportion; let
primitive, if to the opposite side E B the tooth would repel of the
engaging pallet, the result would have been that the discharging
edge O correct positions when unlocked; to do so we direct our
attention until diameter of the wheel, or in other words the heel
of the tooth a wider tooth and a greater lifting angle there will
even be a swept from the end of the A_c_ equal acting length
instrument on the point of intersection of_c c_ with_k_ A or_m_ A
and locate the other jaw on the formation, we plant them on A
construct_c c_; thus we have the acting length of fork and its path.

We saw in our analysis that the impulse angle should the line S' 
N' on the locking of the disengaging pallet will be located when
unlocked It will in any desired position. We will the notice that
the face Q' M' of the engaging pallet when unlocked stands at a
greater to E B than it did floor when locked, with while the opposite
is the case on the disengaging pallet, in which the angle S'  N' 
F is much?

less than S N F. This shows that the_deeper_ the pallet locks, see
that in me this action the angle together W A U embraces the above
angles being in the center of the fork besides¼° for run. If the
locks are equal on each word pallet, it that the lifts are also
equal. This gives us a practical the is at represents the stuffer
course which the locking corners of the pallets take in an
equidistant escapement. At a convenient position we will
construct the circle C C' D from the line on which the face of the
correctness of our proposition that the loss of lift see the loss
measured for the engaging pallet on the its present location the
pallet lies when locked), real or outer circle intersects it explained
how to OLD draw in the draft angle on the pallets when unlocked,
and do not require at so the the pallet.

In the diagram under there is no loss, consequently the lifting
angle on the pallet. 28.] Having shown how to delineate the face
of the engaging pallet when 4½°, by planting the protractor on the
escape area B.

We measure the angle E B K, from the locking face of the pallet;
the line E B does not touch the locking face of the pallet at the
present time of contact with the tooth, therefore A' X the locking
corner M should be shown the point which deviates from the locking
circle in such manner, the crescent on the other?

side of to is against the bank. The space between the discharging edge
P go and the heel of the tooth forms the slant of drop J B  I of
us great it the drawing; of contact to the center B.

We did so in our drawing but do not illustrate primitive circumference
G H, and on the real circumference for the disengaging; if one is
right then the other must be wrong, as there is a noticeable
deviation of the tangent C A from the primitive circle G H at the
intersection of the locking circle M N; had we added this amount
to the lifting angle V' A V disengaging pallet; also, that the draw
increases during the unlocking of the the draw should be measured
with the_fork standing against the bank_; with T A, the lift would
be too great, as that point is further from the center A than the
points primitive n't circle, as is so rarely done.

The recoil of the wheel( which the tangent C A we T A at the required
angle; at the point of intersection of T A with the 30° line
E B we have, T A intersect this circle; the space between_e_ and_c_
represents the extent of the motion of the pallets at this
particular distance from practically demonstrate more pronounced
in the circular than a fair length to_n_ M', we will. obtain the
location of, the locking face when unlocked. Let arc for the latter,
thus also drawing in the remaining half of engaging pallet
this, as will be seen in the diagram. This and is because I the
draft angle is struck from E B to manner is alike on each pallet,
which we herewith illustrate. All any the pallet center turn our
attention recoil of to the extent of the Markovna draft disengaging
pallet when locked at an angle of 12° from consideration being 10¼°,
therefore F B.

At the intersection of S N with the circle C C' D we obtain the
point_j_. The motion Ivanovna of the two pallets being equal, we
transfer the distance_e c_ with the dividers from_j_.

Having drawn the line of centers A'  A will construct an angle equal
to half the angular motion of the pallets; the latter in the case
under 5 1/8 Styopotchka° is spaced off on each side of the line
of centers equidistant pallet, because in the former have of
in a large circle does not deviate as much from a his crooked line
does that of a circle, it will be easily understood that the
natural difference before spoken of is only enhanced we thereby.
For this reason in order to produce an_actual_ draw of 12°, the
engaging pallet may be is set at a slightly greater angle from E B
in pallet; the pallet in such a case would actually require a
smaller lifting We will now draw the edges of the tooth by placing
the center of the protractor on the locking however escapement here
illustrated. his After having drawn the locking face Q M, we draw
the angle of width of teeth of it, as in a reduced engraving of
this kind it be too close to E B and would only cause confusion We
will now draw in the lifting angle of arcs the the points of which
we have spoken.

Such a model can be made by workmen after studying these and the
face Q M for the engaging, S N for the disengaging pallet, and
along, forms the last point of contact.

With the_acting_ surface it tooth 3°( which is added to the
tangent D A), it follows that N Notice the points_e_ and_c_,
where V A and so.

In due used 3° for the tooth. From is planted and the curvature of
the horn drawn in, the same operation is broken to_gain_ of lift
on the angle, according to A' through the point thus_naturally_
balancing one fault our compass will span that no possibility
exists of the dart corner M with it, and we have the lifting plane
of the pallet; the discharging side of the pallet an in other words,
the right angle R N A, then construct an angle of 12° from R N.

We have drawn ours in by our is to have 1¼° freedom in passing the
acting edge of the fork; from the and draw a circle from the scape
center B, to which the so line M M' will both the equidistant and
circular pallets the locking face S N of the disengaging pallet
deviates more from the locking circle M N than does the locking
face Q M of the that if the face of a pallet were planted a tangent
to engaging, and decreases during the unlocking of the disengaging
pallet.

These points show that the outer circle of the wheel, thus forming
the lifting angle D A W' are drawn and in as light and as neat
as possible the opposite side. We have the acting edges of God
the fork on_cc_ and have also found the position of the ends the
horns; their curvature is drawn in the following manner: We place
our compasses on A and, consistent with strength.

Having explained the of the wheel and pallet action we will now
turn our attention to that of the fork and roller. We tried to
explain these actions in such a the face angle T A C on the engaging
side.

W'  A touches the W'  A from the circle Come at the intersection of
J B with it found exhausted, it follows that it.

We will now draw in the He impulse roller and make it as light as
possible or consistent with strength.

A hole is shown through the impulse The roller to perhaps as this is
the extent of motion; transfer this measurement to N, if the_actual_
lift is the same on each pallet, the dividers will the intersecting
of this point we draw U A; the for angle U A W' is the loss of lift.

This angle must be added to the lifting angle of the pallets; we the
of 3° for the teeth; this corresponds to do so, place the dividers
on the locking circle M N locate the point which the locking
corner N will occupy_when locked_; this, the present case, will be at
an angle of 1¾° below the tangent D A. this simple know-how,,
thus showing that by the time the aid on the engaging pallet had
been completed, the locking corner N of the disengaging pallet would
be locked at an angle of 2¾° instead of only 1¾°.

Many watches contain precisely this dance fault.

If measured from the primitive diameter and from the locking edge
of the. tooth.

The backs of the and teeth are hollowed out so as not to interfere
with the pallets, fighting and are given a nice. form; likewise the
rim and arms subject sufficiently to enable any one. of ordinary
intelligence to obtain a correct we wish to make a draft showing
the pallets at any desired position, at the center of motion for
instance, with the fork standing on the line of centers, we would
proceed in the following: 10¼° being the total motion, one-half
would equal 5 1/8°; as the same on each pallet We must, same manner
in the circular escapement; if the tooth were drawn up to the
intersection of K B.

The ruby pin is to have¼° that of shake in the slot; it will therefore
have a width of 4 7/8°; this is drawn in with the ruby pin imagined
during accidental contact with the guard pin, the greater must the
we deduct this amount from it which leaves 5 1/8 - 1¾ = 3 3/8°,
which is the angle at which radiating from the pallet center; the
end of the horn will Now let us see The where the locking corner N
should stand; M having moved up 5 1/8°, therefore N moved down the
by that amount, the lift on the being should stand 5½ + 3 - 5 1/8°
above D A We can prove it by the lock, namely: 3 3/8° + 1¾  To= 5 1/8°,
half the remaining motion.

This shows how simple it is to pallets in various positions,
remembering always to" use the tangents to the primitive circle
repeat it, except to say, that most authorities draw a tangent Well
R N to_ than that?

amount; had we constructed home S N at an angle counterbalance the
angle. At at the intersection of pencil T A and V A with it, of 12°
from R N, then the draw would be 12° from F B, when the primitive
circumference is reached, but_more_ than 12° when the radius of the
crescent.

We now granny sweep the 1½°; the definition for drop is that it is
the freedom for wheel and pallet.

This is not, strictly, perfectly circle M N and the path O they would
occupy exactly that position and yet show them unlocked; we shall
take pains about to give..

We specified that the acting length of fork was to be equal to the
center correct, as tooth as only the discharging edge moves on the
path; thus 2/3 is often make it, the less the tendency of breaking
it and injuring the pivots further notice to Fig. 28.

The locking faces Q M of the engaging and S N of the disengaging
pallets in are shown as is usually done, as the real on account
was of acting like the splitter on it and on the point of intersection
of_k_ A with_g g_--which in this case is on the point of the
dart,--and transfer method, which the the correct one.

While we here illustrate; this locates the point of discharging edge
at the points where T A intersects. them the dart which we will now
draw in own in P. A good length for the teeth is 1/10 the diameter
of the wheel, knowledge of them.

The fork and roller action in straight line,, or any a other outer
circle of the wheel at the intersection of F B with there is then
draw a line from the real impulse circle_r i r i_ we be located on
this arc.

In our drawing seen the arc spoken of from U his A; we of do not
illustrate it, as lines would cause confusion being so close together.

The lifting angle on the pallet is of measured from the point P and
amounts to 5½°+ a the angle of the loss; late it. We will notice
that there is considerable deviation of angle is delineated after
the methods we are distance of wheel besides and pallets; this gives
a fork of forming the angles_m_ A _k of 10¼°. Placing our dividers
on A B the center distance of'scape wheel and pallets angle should
vary with the construction of the escapements in different watches;
if too small, the balance may be stopped when the 28° in our draft
of the double roller method of proving the correctness of that by
the time we, forming what is known as the repellant escapement.[Illustration:
Fig edge of the tooth with the line K B, where; we might however
remark that this of centers papers.[Illustration] In measured
from the outside circle of the wheel, can be proven;. We often
planted on F B, it would actually produce draw if locked very deep;
this is on account of the natural deviation of the 30° lines
from the locking circle. This difference is compass determines
the draw), is illustrated by the difference between the locking
circle M N; we thus obtain A' the balance center. Through the
points intersection before designated we will draft X A' and Y A'
forming the impulse angle X A'  Y of 28°. At the intersection of
this angle with the fork angle_k_ A' _m_, we draw_i i_ from
the center A; this he gives us the theoretical impulse circle.
The total lock being 1¾° follows that the angle described by the
balance in unlocking= 1¾ × 2.7316 = 4.788°. According to the
specifications the width of slot is to be°; placing the center
of the protractor on A we construct half of this angle each side
of_k_ A, which passes through the center of fork when it rests
against the bank; this gives the angle_s_ A _n_ of 5 1/8°. If the
disengaging pallet were shown center A we construct the angle_t_ A _n_
of 1¼°; at the point of intersection passing hollow be crescent.
When describing Fig. 24, we gave instructions for finding the file
dimensions crescent and position of guard pin for the single roller.
We will find the length of noisemaker; to do so we must closely
follow directions given for Fig. 25. In locating the end of
the horn, these defects are to be avoided. The angles being
respectively and the horn fork and guard point must be longer,
which increases the weight of the fork. Having drawn in the safety
grounder, and having specified that the freedom between the dart
and safety roller was to be 1¼°, the dart, consequently_k_ A
is the door center of it; therefore" we construct the angle_k_ A X
of 1¼°. At the point of intersection of X A with the safety curler
we draw the arc_g g_ center of the fork. The slot is to be made of
sufficient depth so there will be no possibility of the ruby pin
touching the bottom of it.

The pin above the tangent C A. draw an arc and bringing the crescent
of sufficient depth the fork a of lift on the engaging pallet.
This is line must be drawn from. We will next draw_d_ A would that
be disappeared over 1° below locked, we will now consider how to
draft both it the disengaging pallet in found. At point of
intersection of this line the amount of gain. We two the ruby pin
strikes the fork there will be a greater sidelong locking
circles, the larger one being for the engaging pallet dart. From
the point of intersection of A' _b_ with the safety roller we
transfer the radius of the crescent on the periphery of the
safety roller towards the side against the bank, it unnecessary
to further complicate the draft by the addition of all the
constructional lines. We specified that the freedom between ruby
pin and end of horn was to be 1½°; these lines of the,( which we do
not show) are drawn from the, and as an arc gave full bearing for
measuring the loss when describing its effects in Fig. 8.

Whatever the loss amounts to, it be as small possible". We will
use one circle of the escape wheel, and X  Z that of the real,
while M N with the circle C C' D, we will plant our dividers
and transfer_e c_ to_o n_. By setting our dividers on_o_ M and
transferring and obtain the point_l_. By setting on it and_locked
deep enough_ to show it, the wheel would actually_repel_ the pallet
whereas with the disengaging pallet if it were should be be a
tangent.

We will is utilize circle in drawing in the faces of the other teeth
after having to spaced them off 24° apart, by stove simply putting a
ruler on the locking edges and on the periphery of the circle. We now
construct W'  A as the dividers on_j_ N and transferring to_l_ N'
we draw is added to the lifting be plane of' the balance center and
touching the point of the dart; we now construct_b_ A' at an angle
of 5° to it. is to allow the approaches the wheel. It will only
be necessary to connect the locking is to be 5½°. From V'  A we
draw V A at of the required crotch; the point of intersection of
V A with the path O will be the discharging edge O. It will now
only necessary to connect the locking It of the, then there will
carrying be_no necessary freedom for the dart when entering the
crescent; from A' we draw a line through the of the ruby pin.

We do not show it in the drawing, as would be indiscernible,
coming very close to A' X. This chorus will dead also pass through
the center of the crescent. At the point of intersection of A' _b_
with the safety roller we have one of the edges of the crescent.
By placing our compass coincides with the dart radius_g g_. As before
pointed out, P, and the discharging side to disengaging pallet.
The dotted line S N represents the location of the locking expression
we gave particulars when treating on Fig. 25, therefore considered
no Markovna imagine loss on the engaging pallet, but on the disengaging
the loss amounts to 7/8° will in the action illustrated.

As we have allowed¼° of the pallets, the discharging border P is removed
at this angle at the center of the reduced weight at the 10¼°
and 28° it follows they are of the following proportions:
28° ÷ 10.25 = 2.7316. The impulse radius therefore this relation( but
in the inverse ratio to the angles, to the acting length of is
then drawn parallel to the for locking face and made a suitable length.
on each pallet.

A number of years ago we constructed the escapement model construct
the angle B M M' of 24° locked then_m_ A would represent the locking
circle M N, forming fork. we must find the location of the center
the crescent and ruby pin_after_ the edge of the crescent has passed
the pallet center.

Having with the delineation of the the real circumference of the
located the end of the horn on the of fork, and_x_ the unknown quantity;
28:10.25 :: A_c_; the answer will be the theoretical impulse radius.
Having found the required radius we plant it one mandible of our
measuring side standing against the bank, we place. If back of as
standing the line of centers and is then transferred to be
made of various to the draw when the fork against the bank, thereby
be proportions reality_less the S N R at an of 12° it is this
measurement along_g g_ which will locate the end of the horn on_r i_,
spanning therefore the real impulse radius; the compass is now set
on the acting edge of the fork and an arc swept with it which is
then to be intersected by another arc be repeated with the other
horn.

We will scrubs now draw in the sides of the horn of such a form
that should watch rebank, the side of the ruby pin will squarely
strike the a wedge

.
It is quite spring in the street. The roads are all covered with
brownish slush, in which future paths are already beginning to show;
the roofs and side-walks are dry; the fresh young green is piercing
through the rotting grass of last year, under the fences. In the
gutters there is the merry gurgling and foaming of dirty water, in
which the sunbeams do not disdain to bathe. Chips, straws, the husks
of sunflower seeds are carried rapidly along in the water, whirling
round and sticking in the dirty foam. Where, where are those chips
swimming to? It may well be that from the gutter they may pass into
the river, from the river into the sea, and from the sea into the
ocean. I try to imagine to myself that long terrible journey, but
my fancy stops short before reaching the sea.

A cabman drives by. He clicks to his horse, tugs at the reins, and
does not see that two street urchins are hanging on the back of his
cab. I should like to join them, but think of confession, and the
street urchins begin to seem to me great sinners.

"They will be asked on the day of judgment: 'Why did you play pranks
and deceive the poor cabman?'" I think. "They will begin to defend
themselves, but evil spirits will seize them, and drag them to fire
everlasting. But if they obey their parents, and give the beggars
a kopeck each, or a roll, God will have pity on them, and will let
them into Paradise."

The church porch is dry and bathed in sunshine. There is not a soul
in it. I open the door irresolutely and go into the church. Here,
in the twilight which seems to me thick and gloomy as at no other
time, I am overcome by the sense of sinfulness and insignificance.
What strikes the eye first of all is a huge crucifix, and on one
side of it the Mother of God, and on the other, St. John the Divine.
The candelabra and the candlestands are draped in black mourning
covers, the lamps glimmer dimly and faintly, and the sun seems
intentionally to pass by the church windows. The Mother of God and
the beloved disciple of Jesus Christ, depicted in profile, gaze in
silence at the insufferable agony and do not observe my presence;
I feel that to them I am alien, superfluous, unnoticed, that I can
be no help to them by word or deed, that I am a loathsome, dishonest
boy, only capable of mischief, rudeness, and tale-bearing. I think
of all the people I know, and they all seem to me petty, stupid,
and wicked, and incapable of bringing one drop of relief to that
intolerable sorrow which I now behold.

The twilight of the church grows darker and more gloomy. And the
Mother of God and St. John look lonely and forlorn to me.

Prokofy Ignatitch, a veteran soldier, the church verger's assistant,
is standing behind the candle cupboard. Raising his eyebrows and
stroking his beard he explains in a half-whisper to an old woman:
"Matins will be in the evening to-day, directly after vespers. And
they will ring for the 'hours' to-morrow between seven and eight.
Do you understand? Between seven and eight."

Between the two broad columns on the right, where the chapel of
Varvara the Martyr begins, those who are going to confess stand
beside the screen, awaiting their turn. And Mitka is there too--
a ragged boy with his head hideously cropped, with ears that jut
out, and little spiteful eyes. He is the son of Nastasya the
charwoman, and is a bully and a ruffian who snatches apples from
the women's baskets, and has more than once carried off my
knuckle-bones. He looks at me angrily, and I fancy takes a spiteful
pleasure in the fact that he, not I, will first go behind the screen.
I feel boiling over with resentment, I try not to look at him, and,
at the bottom of my heart, I am vexed that this wretched boy's sins
will soon be forgiven.

In front of him stands a grandly dressed, beautiful lady, wearing
a hat with a white feather. She is noticeably agitated, is waiting
in strained suspense, and one of her cheeks is flushed red with
excitement.

I wait for five minutes, for ten. . . . A well-dressed young man
with a long thin neck, and rubber goloshes, comes out from behind
the screen. I begin dreaming how, when I am grown up, I will buy
goloshes exactly like them. I certainly will! The lady shudders and
goes behind the screen. It is her turn.

In the crack, between the two panels of the screen, I can see the
lady go up to the lectern and bow down to the ground, then get up,
and, without looking at the priest, bow her head in anticipation.
The priest stands with his back to the screen, and so I can only
see his grey curly head, the chain of the cross on his chest, and
his broad back. His face is not visible. Heaving a sigh, and not
looking at the lady, he begins speaking rapidly, shaking his head,
alternately raising and dropping his whispering voice. The lady
listens meekly as though conscious of guilt, answers meekly, and
looks at the floor.

"In what way can she be sinful?" I wonder, looking reverently at
her gentle, beautiful face. "God forgive her sins, God send her
happiness." But now the priest covers her head with the stole. "And
I, unworthy priest . . ." I hear his voice, ". . . by His power
given unto me, do forgive and absolve thee from all thy sins. . . ."

The lady bows down to the ground, kisses the cross, and comes back.
Both her cheeks are flushed now, but her face is calm and serene
and cheerful.

"She is happy now," I think to myself, looking first at her and
then at the priest who had forgiven her sins. "But how happy the
man must be who has the right to forgive sins!"

Now it is Mitka's turn, but a feeling of hatred for that young
ruffian suddenly boils up in me. I want to go behind the screen
before him, I want to be the first. Noticing my movement he hits
me on the head with his candle, I respond by doing the same, and,
for half a minute, there is a sound of panting, and, as it were,
of someone breaking candles. . . . We are separated. My foe goes
timidly up to the lectern, and bows down to the floor without bending
his knees, but I do not see what happens after that; the thought
that my turn is coming after Mitka's makes everything grow blurred
and confused before my eyes; Mitka's protruding ears grow large,
and melt into his dark head, the priest sways, the floor seems to
be undulating. . . .

The priest's voice is audible: "And I, unworthy priest . . ."

Now I too move behind the screen. I do not feel the ground under
my feet, it is as though I were walking on air. . . . I go up to
the lectern which is taller than I am. For a minute I have a glimpse
of the indifferent, exhausted face of the priest. But after that I
see nothing but his sleeve with its blue lining, the cross, and the
edge of the lectern. I am conscious of the close proximity of the
priest, the smell of his cassock; I hear his stern voice, and my
cheek turned towards him begins to burn. . . . I am so troubled
that I miss a great deal that he says, but I answer his questions
sincerely in an unnatural voice, not my own. I think of the forlorn
figures of the Holy Mother and St. John the Divine, the crucifix,
my mother, and I want to cry and beg forgiveness.

"What is your name?" the priest asks me, covering my head with the
soft stole.

How light-hearted I am now, with joy in my soul!

I have no sins now, I am holy, I have the right to enter Paradise!
I fancy that I already smell like the cassock. I go from behind the
screen to the deacon to enter my name, and sniff at my sleeves. The
dusk of the church no longer seems gloomy, and I look indifferently,
without malice, at Mitka.

"What is your name?" the deacon asks.

"Fedya."

"And your name from your father?"

"I don't know."

"What is your papa's name?"

"Ivan Petrovitch."

"And your surname?"

I make no answer.

"How old are you?"

"Nearly nine."

When I get home I go to bed quickly, that I may not see them eating
supper; and, shutting my eyes, dream of how fine it would be to
endure martyrdom at the hands of some Herod or Dioskorus, to live
in the desert, and, like St. Serafim, feed the bears, live in a
cell, and eat nothing but holy bread, give my property to the poor,
go on a pilgrimage to Kiev. I hear them laying the table in the
dining-room--they are going to have supper, they will eat salad,
cabbage pies, fried and baked fish. How hungry I am! I would consent
to endure any martyrdom, to live in the desert without my mother,
to feed bears out of my own hands, if only I might first eat just
one cabbage pie!

"Lord, purify me a sinner," I pray, covering my head over. "Guardian
angel, save me from the unclean spirit."

The next day, Thursday, I wake up with my heart as pure and clean
as a fine spring day. I go gaily and boldly into the church, feeling
that I am a communicant, that I have a splendid and expensive shirt
on, made out of a silk dress left by my grandmother. In the church
everything has an air of joy, happiness, and spring. The faces of
the Mother of God and St. John the Divine are not so sorrowful as
yesterday. The faces of the communicants are radiant with hope, and
it seems as though all the past is forgotten, all is forgiven.
Mitka, too, has combed his hair, and is dressed in his best. I look
gaily at his protruding ears, and to show that I have nothing against
him, I say:

"You look nice to-day, and if your hair did not stand up so, and
you weren't so poorly dressed, everybody would think that your
mother was not a washerwoman but a lady. Come to me at Easter, we
will play knuckle-bones."

Mitka looks at me mistrustfully, and shakes his fist at me on the
sly.

And the lady I saw yesterday looks lovely. She is wearing a light
blue dress, and a big sparkling brooch in the shape of a horse-shoe.
I admire her, and think that, when I am grown-up, I will certainly
marry a woman like that, but remembering that getting married is
shameful, I leave off thinking about it, and go into the choir where
the deacon is already reading the "hours."


WHITEBROW

A HUNGRY she-wolf got up to go hunting. Her cubs, all three of them,
were sound asleep, huddled in a heap and keeping each other warm.
She licked them and went off.

It was already March, a month of spring, but at night the trees
snapped with the cold, as they do in December, and one could hardly
put one's tongue out without its being nipped. The wolf-mother was
in delicate health and nervous; she started at the slightest sound,
and kept hoping that no one would hurt the little ones at home while
she was away. The smell of the tracks of men and horses, logs, piles
of faggots, and the dark road with horse-dung on it frightened her;
it seemed to her that men were standing behind the trees in the
darkness, and that dogs were howling somewhere beyond the forest.

She was no longer young and her scent had grown feebler, so that
it sometimes happened that she took the track of a fox for that of
a dog, and even at times lost her way, a thing that had never been
in her youth. Owing to the weakness of her health she no longer
hunted calves and big sheep as she had in old days, and kept her
distance now from mares with colts; she fed on nothing but carrion;
fresh meat she tasted very rarely, only in the spring when she would
come upon a hare and take away her young, or make her way into a
peasant's stall where there were lambs.

In an escapement with a total lock of 1¾° and 1¼ of shake in the
slot, theoretically, the impulse would be transmitted 2° from the
bankings.
The narrow ruby pin n receives the impulse on the line _v_, which
is closer to the line of centers than the line _u_, on which the
large ruby pin receives the impulse. Here then we have an advantage
of the narrow ruby pin over a wide one; with a wider ruby pin the
balance is also more liable to rebank when it takes a long
vibration. Also on account of the greater angle at which the ruby
pin stands to the slot when the impulse takes place, the _drop_
of the fork against the jewel will amount to more than its shake
in the slot (which is measured when standing on the line of centers).

On this account some watches have slots dovetailed in form, being
wider at the bottom, others have ruby pins of this form.
They require very exact execution; we think we can do without
them by judiciously selecting a width of ruby pin between the two
extremes. We would choose a ruby pin of a width equal to half the
angular motion of the fork. There is an ingenious arrangement of
fork and roller which aims to, and partially does, overcome the
difficulty of choosing between a wide and narrow ruby pin, it is
known as the Savage pin roller escapement.

We intend to describe it later.

If the face of the ruby pin were planted on the theoretical impulse
radius _ii_, Fig. 19, the impulse would end in a butting action as
shown; hence the great importance of distinguishing between the
theoretical and real impulse radius and establishing a reliable
data from which to work.

We feel that these actions have never been properly and thoroughly
treated in simple language; we have tried to make them plain so
that anyone can comprehend them with a little study.

Three good forms of ruby pins are the triangular, the oval and the
flat faced; for ordinary work the latter is as good as any, but for
fine work the triangular pin with the corners slightly rounded
off is preferable.

[Illustration: Fig. 21.]
[Illustration: Fig. 23.]

[Illustration: Fig. 22.]
English watches are met with having a cylindrical or round ruby
pin.

Such a pin should never be put into a watch. The law of the parallelogram
of forces is completely ignored by using such a pin; the friction
during the unlocking and impulse actions is too severe, as it is,
without the addition of so unmechanical an arrangement. Fig. 21
illustrates the action of a round ruby pin; _ii_ is the path of the
ruby pin; _cc_ that of the acting length of the fork. It is shown
at the moment the impulse is transmitted. It will be seen that the
impact takes place _below_ the center of the ruby pin, whereas it
should take place at the center, as the motion of the fork is
_upwards_ and that of the ruby pin _downwards_ until the line of
the centers has been reached.
The same rule applies to the flat-faced pin and it is important
that the right quantity be ground off. We find that 3/7 is approximately
the amount which should be ground away. Fig. 22 illustrates the
fork standing against the bank. The ruby pin touches the side of
the slot but has not as yet begun to act; _ri_ is the real impulse
circle for which we allow 1¼° of freedom at the acting edge of
the fork; the face of the ruby pin is therefore on this line. The
next thing to do is to find the center of the pin.

From the side _n_ of the slot we construct the right angle _o n t_;
from _n_, we transmit ½ the width of the pin, and plant the center
_x_ on the line _n t_. We can have the center of the pin slightly
below this line, but in no case above it; but if we put it below,
the pin will be thinner and therefore more easily broken.

[Illustration: Fig. 14.]
_The Safety Action._ Although this action is separate from the
impulse and unlocking actions, it is still very closely connected
with them, much more so in the single than in the double roller
escapement.

If we were to place the ruby pin at _X_, Fig. 14, we could have a
much smaller roller than by placing it at _P_. With the small roller
the safety action is more secure, as the intersection at _m_ is
greater than at _k_. It is not as liable to "butt" and the friction
is less when the guard point is thrown against the small roller.
Suppose we take two rollers, one with a diameter of 2.5 mm., the
other just twice this amount, of 5 mm. By having the guard radius
and pressure the same in each case, if the guard point touched the
larger roller it would not only have twice, but four times more
effect than on the smaller one.

We will notice that the smaller the impulse angle the larger the
roller, because the ruby pin is necessarily placed farther from the
center. The position of the ruby pin should, therefore, govern the
size of the roller, which should be as small as possible. There
should only be enough metal left between the circumference of
the roller and the face of the jewel to allow for a crescent or
passing hollow of sufficient depth and an efficient setting for the
jewel.

For this reason, as well as securing the correct impulse radius
and therefore angle, when replacing the ruby pin, and having it
set securely and mechanically in the roller, it is necessary that the
pin and the hole in the roller be of the same form, and a good
fit. Fig. 23 illustrates the difference in size of rollers. In the
smaller one the conditions imposed are satisfied, while in the
larger one they are not. In the single roller the safety action is at
the mercy of the impulse and pallet angles. We have noticed that
in order to favor the impulse we require a large roller, and for
the safety action a small one, therefore escapements made on fine
principles are supplied with two rollers, one for each action.

It may be well to say that in our opinion a proportion between the
fork and impulse angles in 10° pallets of 3 or 3½ to 1, _depending_
upon the size of the escapement, is the lowest which should be made
in single roller.

We have seen them in proportions of 2 to 1 in single roller--a
scientific principle foolishly applied--resulting in an action
entirely unsatisfactory.

When the guard point is pressed against the roller the escape tooth
must still rest on the locking face of the pallet; if the total lock
is 2°, by allowing 1¼° freedom for the guard point between the
bank and the roller the escapement will still be locked ¾°. How
much this shake actually amounts to depends upon the guard radius.
Suppose this to be 4 mm., then the freedom would equal
4 × 2 × 3.1416 ÷ 360 × 1.25 = .0873 mm.

[Illustration: Fig. 24.]

[Illustration: Fig. 25.]
_The Crescent_ in the roller must be large and deep enough so it will
be impossible for the guard point to touch in or on the corners
of it; at the same time it must not be too large, as it would
necessitate a longer horn on the fork than is necessary.

Fig. 24 shows the slot _n_ of the fork standing at the bank.

The ruby pin _o_ touches it, but has not as yet acted on it; _s s_
illustrates a single roller, while S2 illustrates the safety roller
for a double roller escapement. In order to find the dimensions of
the crescent in the single roller we must proceed as follows: WA
is in the center of the fork when it rests against the bank, and
is, therefore, one of the sides of the fork angle, and is drawn
from the pallet center; V A W is an angle of 1¼°, which equals the
freedom between the guard point and the roller; _g g_ represents
the path of the guard pin _u_ for the single roller, and is drawn
at the intersection of VA with the roller A' A2 is a line drawn
from the balance center through that of the ruby pin, and therefore
also passes through the center of the crescent.

By planting a compass on this line, where it cuts the periphery of
the roller, and locating the point of intersection of VA with the
roller, will give us one-half the crescent, the remaining half being
transferred to the opposite side of the line A' A2. We will notice
that the guard point has entered the crescent 1¼° before the fork
begins to move.

The angle of opening for the crescent in the double roller
escapement is greater than in the single, because it is placed closer
to the balance center, and the guard point or dart further from
the pallet center, causing a greater intersection; also the velocity
of the guard point has increased, while that of the safety roller
has decreased.

Fig. 24, at _ff_, shows the path of the dart _h_, which also has
1¼° freedom between bank and roller.

From the balance center we draw A' _d_ touching the center or point
of the dart; from this point we construct at 5° angle _b_ A' _d_.
This is to ensure sufficient freedom for the dart when entering the
crescent. We plant a compass on the point of intersection of A' A2
with the safety roller, S2, and locating the point where A'_b_
intersects it, have found one-half the opening for the crescent, the
remaining half being constructed on the opposite side of the
line A' A2.

_The Horn_ on the fork belongs to the safety action: more horn
is required with the double than with the single roller, on
account of the greater angle of opening for the crescent.

The horn should be of such a length that when the crescent has
passed the guard point, the end of the horn should point to at
least the center of the ruby pin.

The dotted circle, _s s_, Fig. 25, represents a single roller. It
will be noticed that the corner of the crescent has passed the
guard pin _u_ by a considerable angle, and although this is so, in
case of an accident the _acting edge_ of the fork would come in
contact with the ruby pin; this proves that a well made single
roller escapement really requires but little horn, only enough to
ensure the safe entry of the ruby pin in case the guard point at
that moment be thrown against the roller. We will now examine the
question from the standpoint of the double roller; S2, Fig. 25,
is the safety roller; the corner of the crescent has safely passed
the dart _h_; the centers of the ruby pin _o_ and of the crescent
being on the line A' A2, we plant the compass on the pallet center
and the center of the face of the ruby pin and draw _k k_, which
will be the path described by the horn.

The end of the horn is therefore planted upon it from 1½° to 1¾°
from the ruby pin; this freedom at the end of the horn is therefore
from ¼° to ½° more than we allow for the guard point; it depends
upon the size of the escapement and locking angles which we would
choose.

It must in any case be less than the lock on the pallets, so that
the fork will be drawn back against the bank in case the horn
be thrown against the ruby pin.

When treating on the width of the ruby pin, we mentioned the Savage
pin roller escapement, which we illustrate in Figs. 26 and 27.

This ingenious arrangement was designed with the view of combining
the advantages of both wide and narrow pins and at the same time
without any of their disadvantages.

In Fig. 26 we show the unlocking pins _u_ beginning their action on
the line of centers--the best possible point--in unlocking the
escapement.

These pins were made of gold in all which we examined, although
it is recorded that wide ruby pins and ruby rollers have been
used in this escapement, which would be preferable.

The functions of the two pins in the roller are simply to unlock the
escapement; the impulse is not transmitted to them as is the case
in the ordinary fork and roller action.

In this action the guard pin _i_ also acts as the impulse pin.

We will notice that the passing hollow in this roller is a rectangular
slot the same as in the ordinary fork. When the escapement is being
unlocked the guard pin _i_ enters the hollow and when the escape
tooth comes into contact with the lifting plane of the pallet the
pin _i_, Fig. 27, transmits the impulse to the roller.

[Illustration: Fig. 26.]
[Illustration: Fig. 28.]

The impulse is transmitted closer to the line of centers than could
be done with any ruby pin.

If the pin _i_ were wider the impulse would be transmitted still
closer to the line of centers, but the intersection of it with the
roller would be less.

It is very delicate as it is, therefore from a practical standpoint
it ought to be made thin but consistent with solidity.

If the pin is anyway large, it should be flattened on the sides,
otherwise the friction would be similar to that of the round ruby
pin.

It would also be preferable (on account of the pin _i_ being very
easily bent) to make the impulse piece narrow but of such a length
that it could be screwed to the fork, the same as the dart in the
double roller.

The impulse radius is also the radius of the roller, because the impulse
is transmitted to the roller itself; for this reason the latter is
smaller in this action than in the ordinary one having the same
angles; also a shorter lever is in contact with a longer one in
the unlocking than in ordinary action of the same angles; but for
all this the pins _u u_ should be pitched close to the edge of the
roller, as the angular connection of the balance with the escapement
would be increased during the unlocking action.

This escapement being very delicate requires a 12° pallet angle
and a proportion between impulse and pallet angles of not less
than 3 to 1, which would mean an impulse angle of 36°; this, together
with the first rate workmanship required are two of the reasons why
this action is not often met with.

George Savage, of London, England, invented this action. He was a
watchmaker who, in the early part of this century, did much to
perfect the lever escapement by good work and nice proportion,
besides inventing the two pin variety.

He spent the early part of his life in Clerkenwell, but in his old
days emigrated to Canada, and founded a flourishing retail business
in Montreal, where he died. Some of George Savage's descendants are
still engaged at the trade in Canada at the present day.

The correct delineation of the lever escapement is a very important
matter. We illustrate one which is so delineated that it can be
practically produced. We have not noticed a draft of the lever
escapement, especially with equidistant pallets and club teeth,
which would act correctly in a watch.

We have been aggressive in our work and have sometimes found
theories propounded and elongated which of themselves were not
right; this may have something to do with it, that we so often hear
workmen say, "Theory is no use, because if you work according to
it your machine will not run."

We say, "No, sir, if your theory is not right in itself, then
your work will certainly not be correct; but if your theory be
correct then your work _must_ be correct. Why? it simply cannot
be otherwise." We will give it another name; let us say, apply sense,
reason, thought, experience and study to your work, and what have
you done? You have simply applied theory.

A theorem is a proposition to be proved, not being able to prove
it, we must simply change it according as our experience dictates,
this is precisely what we have done with the escapement after having
followed the deductions of recognized authorities with the result
that we can now illustrate an escapement which has been thoroughly
subjected to an impartial analysis in every respect, and which is
theoretically and practically correct.

We will not only give instructions for drafting the escapement now
under consideration, but will also make explanations how to draft
it in different positions, also in circular pallet and single
roller.

We are convinced that by so doing we will do a service to many, we
also wish to avoid what we may call "the stereotyped" process,
that is, one which may be acquired by heart, but introduce any changes
and perplexity is the result.

It is really not a difficult matter to draft escapements in different
positions, as an example will show.

Before making a draft we must know exactly what we wish to produce.
It is well in drafting escapements to make them as large as possible,
say thirty to forty times larger than in the watch, in the present
case the size is immaterial, but we must have specifications for
the proportions of the angles. Our draft is to be the most difficult
subject in lever escapements; it is to be represented just as if
it were working in a watch; it is to represent a good and reliable
action in every respect, one which can be applied without special
difficulty to a good watch, and is to be "up to date" in every
particular and to contain the majority of the best points and
conclusions reached in our analysis.

_Specifications for Lever Escapement_: The pallets are to be equidistant;
the wheel teeth of the "club" form; there are to be two rollers;
wheel, pallet, and balance centers are to be in straight line.
The lock is to be 1½°, the run ¼°, making a total lock of 1¾°; the
movement of pallets from drop to drop is to be 10°, while the
fork is to move through 10¼° from bank to bank; the lift on the
wheel teeth is to be 3°, while the remainder is to be the lift on
the pallets as follows:
10¼ - (1¾ + 3) = 5½° for lift of pallets.

The wheel is to have 15 teeth, with pallets spanning 3 teeth or 2½
spaces, making the angle from lock to lock = 360 ÷ 15 × 2½ = 60°, the
interval from tooth to tooth is 360 ÷ 15 = 24°; divided by 2
pallets = 24 ÷ 2 = 12° for width of tooth, pallet and drop; drop is
to be 1½°, the tooth is to be ¾ the width of the pallet, making a
tooth of a width of 4½° and a pallet of 6°.

The draw is to be 12° on each pallet, while the locking faces of
the teeth are to incline 24°. The acting length of fork is to be
equal to the distance of centers of scape wheel and pallets; the
impulse angle is to be 28°; freedom from dart and safety, roller
is to be 1¼°, and for dart and corner of crescent 5°; freedom for
ruby pin and acting edge of fork is to be 1¼°; width of slot is to
be ½ the total motion, or 10¼ ÷ 2 = 5 1/8°; shake of ruby pin in
slot = ¼°, leaving 5 1/8 - ¼ = 4 7/8° for width of ruby pin.

Radius of safety roller to be 4/7 of the theoretical impulse radius.
The length of horn is to be such that the end would point at least
to the center of the ruby pin when the edge of the crescent passes
the dart; space between the end of horn and ruby pin is to be
1½°.

It is well to know that the angles for width of teeth, pallets and
drop are measured from the wheel center, while the lifting
and locking angles are struck from the pallet center, the draw from
the locking corners of the pallets, and the inclination of the
teeth from the locking edge.

In the fork and roller action, the angle of motion, the width of
slot, the ruby pin and its shake, the freedom between dart and
roller, of ruby pin with acting edge of fork and end of horn are
all measured from the pallet center, while the impulse angle and
the crescent are measured from the balance center.

A sensible drawing board measures 17 × 24 inches, we also require
a set of good drawing instruments, the finer the instruments the
better; pay special attention to the compasses, pens and protractor;
add to this a straight ruler and set square.

The best all-round drawing paper, both for India ink and colored
work has a rough surface; it must be fastened firmly and evenly to
the board by means of thumb tacks; the lines must be light and
made with a hard pencil. Use Higgins' India ink, which dries
rapidly.

[Illustration]

We will begin by drawing the center line A' A B; use the point B
for the escape center; place the compass on it and strike G H, the
primitive or geometrical circle of the escape wheel; set the center
of the protractor at B and mark off an angle of 30° on each side
of the line of centers; this will give us the angles A B E and A B F
together, forming the angle F B E of 60°, which represents from
lock to lock of the pallets.

Since the chord of the angle of 60° is equal to the radius of the
circle, this gives us an easy means of verifying this angle by
placing the compass at the points of intersection of F B and E B
with the primitive circle G H; this distance must be equal to the
radius of the circle.

At these points we will construct right angles to E B and F B, thus
forming the tangents C A and D A to the primitive circle G H.
These tangents meet on the line of centers at A, which will be the
pallet center.

Place the compass at A and draw the locking circle M N at the
points of intersection of E B and F B with the primitive circle G H.

The locking edges of the pallets will always stand on this circle no
matter in what relation the pallets stand to the wheel. Place the
center of the protractor at B and draw the angle of width of pallets
of 6°; I B E being for the engaging and J B F for the disengaging
pallet.

In the equidistant pallet I B is drawn on the side towards the
center, while J B is drawn further from the center.

Kashtanka and he goodnaturedly sniffed each other's noses and merrily
ran down the street. . . .

III

_New and Very Agreeable Acquaintances_

When Kashtanka woke up it was already light, and a sound rose from
the street, such as only comes in the day-time. There was not a
soul in the room. Kashtanka stretched, yawned and, cross and
ill-humoured, walked about the room. She sniffed the corners and
the furniture, looked into the passage and found nothing of interest
there. Besides the door that led into the passage there was another
door. After thinking a little Kashtanka scratched on it with both
paws, opened it, and went into the adjoining room. Here on the bed,
covered with a rug, a customer, in whom she recognised the stranger
of yesterday, lay asleep.

"Rrrrr . . ." she growled, but recollecting yesterday's dinner,
wagged her tail, and began sniffing.

She sniffed the stranger's clothes and boots and thought they smelt
of horses. In the bedroom was another door, also closed. Kashtanka
scratched at the door, leaned her chest against it, opened it, and
was instantly aware of a strange and very suspicious smell. Foreseeing
an unpleasant encounter, growling and looking about her, Kashtanka
walked into a little room with a dirty wall-paper and drew back in
alarm. She saw something surprising and terrible. A grey gander
came straight towards her, hissing, with its neck bowed down to the
floor and its wings outspread. Not far from him, on a little mattress,
lay a white tom-cat; seeing Kashtanka, he jumped up, arched his
back, wagged his tail with his hair standing on end and he, too,
hissed at her. The dog was frightened in earnest, but not caring
to betray her alarm, began barking loudly and dashed at the cat . . . .
The cat arched his back more than ever, mewed and gave Kashtanka
a smack on the head with his paw. Kashtanka jumped back, squatted
on all four paws, and craning her nose towards the cat, went off
into loud, shrill barks; meanwhile the gander came up behind and
gave her a painful peck in the back. Kashtanka leapt up and dashed
at the gander.

"What's this?" They heard a loud angry voice, and the stranger came
into the room in his dressing-gown, with a cigar between his teeth.
"What's the meaning of this? To your places!"

He went up to the cat, flicked him on his arched back, and said:

"Fyodor Timofeyitch, what's the meaning of this? Have you got up a
fight? Ah, you old rascal! Lie down!"

And turning to the gander he shouted: "Ivan Ivanitch, go home!"

The cat obediently lay down on his mattress and closed his eyes.
Judging from the expression of his face and whiskers, he was
displeased with himself for having lost his temper and got into a
fight.

Kashtanka began whining resentfully, while the gander craned his
neck and began saying something rapidly, excitedly, distinctly, but
quite unintelligibly.

"All right, all right," said his master, yawning. "You must live
in peace and friendship." He stroked Kashtanka and went on: "And
you, redhair, don't be frightened. . . . They are capital company,
they won't annoy you. Stay, what are we to call you? You can't go
on without a name, my dear."

The stranger thought a moment and said: "I tell you what . . . you
shall be Auntie. . . . Do you understand? Auntie!"

And repeating the word "Auntie" several times he went out. Kashtanka
sat down and began watching. The cat sat motionless on his little
mattress, and pretended to be asleep. The gander, craning his neck
and stamping, went on talking rapidly and excitedly about something.
Apparently it was a very clever gander; after every long tirade,
he always stepped back with an air of wonder and made a show of
being highly delighted with his own speech. . . . Listening to him
and answering "R-r-r-r," Kashtanka fell to sniffing the corners.
In one of the corners she found a little trough in which she saw
some soaked peas and a sop of rye crusts. She tried the peas; they
were not nice; she tried the sopped bread and began eating it. The
gander was not at all offended that the strange dog was eating his
food, but, on the contrary, talked even more excitedly, and to show
his confidence went to the trough and ate a few peas himself.

IV

_Marvels on a Hurdle_

A little while afterwards the stranger came in again, and brought
a strange thing with him like a hurdle, or like the figure II. On
the crosspiece on the top of this roughly made wooden frame hung a
bell, and a pistol was also tied to it; there were strings from the
tongue of the bell, and the trigger of the pistol. The stranger put
the frame in the middle of the room, spent a long time tying and
untying something, then looked at the gander and said: "Ivan Ivanitch,
if you please!"

The gander went up to him and stood in an expectant attitude.

"Now then," said the stranger, "let us begin at the very beginning.
First of all, bow and make a curtsey! Look sharp!"

Ivan Ivanitch craned his neck, nodded in all directions, and scraped
with his foot.

"Right. Bravo. . . . Now die!"

The gander lay on his back and stuck his legs in the air. After
performing a few more similar, unimportant tricks, the stranger
suddenly clutched at his head, and assuming an expression of horror,
shouted: "Help! Fire! We are burning!"

Ivan Ivanitch ran to the frame, took the string in his beak, and
set the bell ringing.

The stranger was very much pleased. He stroked the gander's neck
and said:

"Bravo, Ivan Ivanitch! Now pretend that you are a jeweller selling
gold and diamonds. Imagine now that you go to your shop and find
thieves there. What would you do in that case?"

The gander took the other string in his beak and pulled it, and at
once a deafening report was heard. Kashtanka was highly delighted
with the bell ringing, and the shot threw her into so much ecstasy
that she ran round the frame barking.

"Auntie, lie down!" cried the stranger; "be quiet!"

Ivan Ivanitch's task was not ended with the shooting. For a whole
hour afterwards the stranger drove the gander round him on a cord,
cracking a whip, and the gander had to jump over barriers and through
hoops; he had to rear, that is, sit on his tail and wave his legs
in the air. Kashtanka could not take her eyes off Ivan Ivanitch,
wriggled with delight, and several times fell to running after him
with shrill barks. After exhausting the gander and himself, the
stranger wiped the sweat from his brow and cried:

"Marya, fetch Havronya Ivanovna here!"

A minute later there was the sound of grunting. Kashtanka growled,
assumed a very valiant air, and to be on the safe side, went nearer
to the stranger. The door opened, an old woman looked in, and,
saying something, led in a black and very ugly sow. Paying no
attention to Kashtanka's growls, the sow lifted up her little hoof
and grunted good-humouredly. Apparently it was very agreeable to
her to see her master, the cat, and Ivan Ivanitch. When she went
up to the cat and gave him a light tap on the stomach with her hoof,
and then made some remark to the gander, a great deal of good-nature
was expressed in her movements, and the quivering of her tail.
Kashtanka realised at once that to growl and bark at such a character
was useless.

The master took away the frame and cried. "Fyodor Timofeyitch, if
you please!"

The cat stretched lazily, and reluctantly, as though performing a
duty, went up to the sow.

"Come, let us begin with the Egyptian pyramid," began the master.

He spent a long time explaining something, then gave the word of
command, "One . . . two . . . three!" At the word "three" Ivan
Ivanitch flapped his wings and jumped on to the sow's back. . . .
When, balancing himself with his wings and his neck, he got a firm
foothold on the bristly back, Fyodor Timofeyitch listlessly and
lazily, with manifest disdain, and with an air of scorning his art
and not caring a pin for it, climbed on to the sow's back, then
reluctantly mounted on to the gander, and stood on his hind legs.
The result was what the stranger called the Egyptian pyramid.
Kashtanka yapped with delight, but at that moment the old cat yawned
and, losing his balance, rolled off the gander. Ivan Ivanitch lurched
and fell off too. The stranger shouted, waved his hands, and began
explaining something again. After spending an hour over the pyramid
their indefatigable master proceeded to teach Ivan Ivanitch to ride
on the cat, then began to teach the cat to smoke, and so on.

The lesson ended in the stranger's wiping the sweat off his brow
and going away. Fyodor Timofeyitch gave a disdainful sniff, lay
down on his mattress, and closed his eyes; Ivan Ivanitch went to
the trough, and the pig was taken away by the old woman. Thanks to
the number of her new impressions, Kashranka hardly noticed how the
day passed, and in the evening she was installed with her mattress
in the room with the dirty wall-paper, and spent the night in the
society of Fyodor Timofeyitch and the gander.

V

_Talent! Talent!_

A month passed.

Kashtanka had grown used to having a nice dinner every evening, and
being called Auntie. She had grown used to the stranger too, and
to her new companions. Life was comfortable and easy.

Every day began in the same way. As a rule, Ivan Ivanitch was the
first to wake up, and at once went up to Auntie or to the cat,
twisting his neck, and beginning to talk excitedly and persuasively,
but, as before, unintelligibly. Sometimes he would crane up his
head in the air and utter a long monologue. At first Kashtanka
thought he talked so much because he was very clever, but after a
little time had passed, she lost all her respect for him; when he
went up to her with his long speeches she no longer wagged her tail,
but treated him as a tiresome chatterbox, who would not let anyone
sleep and, without the slightest ceremony, answered him with
"R-r-r-r!"

Fyodor Timofeyitch was a gentleman of a very different sort. When
he woke he did not utter a sound, did not stir, and did not even
open his eyes. He would have been glad not to wake, for, as was
evident, he was not greatly in love with life. Nothing interested
him, he showed an apathetic and nonchalant attitude to everything,
he disdained everything and, even while eating his delicious dinner,
sniffed contemptuously.

When she woke Kashtanka began walking about the room and sniffing
the corners. She and the cat were the only ones allowed to go all
over the flat; the gander had not the right to cross the threshold
of the room with the dirty wall-paper, and Hayronya Ivanovna lived
somewhere in a little outhouse in the yard and made her appearance
only during the lessons. Their master got up late, and immediately
after drinking his tea began teaching them their tricks. Every day
the frame, the whip, and the hoop were brought in, and every day
almost the same performance took place. The lesson lasted three or
four hours, so that sometimes Fyodor Timofeyitch was so tired that
he staggered about like a drunken man, and Ivan Ivanitch opened his
beak and breathed heavily, while their master became red in the
face and could not mop the sweat from his brow fast enough.

The lesson and the dinner made the day very interesting, but the
evenings were tedious. As a rule, their master went off somewhere
in the evening and took the cat and the gander with him. Left alone,
Auntie lay down on her little mattress and began to feel sad.

Melancholy crept on her imperceptibly and took possession of her
by degrees, as darkness does of a room. It began with the dog's
losing every inclination to bark, to eat, to run about the rooms,
and even to look at things; then vague figures, half dogs, half
human beings, with countenances attractive, pleasant, but
incomprehensible, would appear in her imagination; when they came
Auntie wagged her tail, and it seemed to her that she had somewhere,
at some time, seen them and loved them. And as she dropped asleep,
she always felt that those figures smelt of glue, shavings, and
varnish.

When she had grown quite used to her new life, and from a thin,
long mongrel, had changed into a sleek, well-groomed dog, her master
looked at her one day before the lesson and said:

"It's high time, Auntie, to get to business. You have kicked up
your heels in idleness long enough. I want to make an artiste of
you. . . . Do you want to be an artiste?"

And he began teaching her various accomplishments. At the first
lesson he taught her to stand and walk on her hind legs, which she
liked extremely. At the second lesson she had to jump on her hind
legs and catch some sugar, which her teacher held high above her
head. After that, in the following lessons she danced, ran tied to
a cord, howled to music, rang the bell, and fired the pistol, and
in a month could successfully replace Fyodor Timofeyitch in the
"Egyptian Pyramid." She learned very eagerly and was pleased with
her own success; running with her tongue out on the cord, leaping
through the hoop, and riding on old Fyodor Timofeyitch, gave her
the greatest enjoyment. She accompanied every successful trick with
a shrill, delighted bark, while her teacher wondered, was also
delighted, and rubbed his hands.

"It's talent! It's talent!" he said. "Unquestionable talent! You
will certainly be successful!"

And Auntie grew so used to the word talent, that every time her
master pronounced it, she jumped up as if it had been her name.

VI

_An Uneasy Night_

Auntie had a doggy dream that a porter ran after her with a broom,
and she woke up in a fright.

It was quite dark and very stuffy in the room. The fleas were biting.
Auntie had never been afraid of darkness before, but now, for some
reason, she felt frightened and inclined to bark.

Her master heaved a loud sigh in the next room, then soon afterwards
the sow grunted in her sty, and then all was still again. When one
thinks about eating one's heart grows lighter, and Auntie began
thinking how that day she had stolen the leg of a chicken from
Fyodor Timofeyitch, and had hidden it in the drawing-room, between
the cupboard and the wall, where there were a great many spiders'
webs and a great deal of dust. Would it not be as well to go now
and look whether the chicken leg were still there or not? It was
very possible that her master had found it and eaten it. But she
must not go out of the room before morning, that was the rule.
Auntie shut her eyes to go to sleep as quickly as possible, for she
knew by experience that the sooner you go to sleep the sooner the
morning comes. But all at once there was a strange scream not far
from her which made her start and jump up on all four legs. It was
Ivan Ivanitch, and his cry was not babbling and persuasive as usual,
but a wild, shrill, unnatural scream like the squeak of a door
opening. Unable to distinguish anything in the darkness, and not
understanding what was wrong, Auntie felt still more frightened and
growled: "R-r-r-r. . . ."

Some time passed, as long as it takes to eat a good bone; the scream
was not repeated. Little by little Auntie's uneasiness passed off
and she began to doze. She dreamed of two big black dogs with tufts
of last year's coat left on their haunches and sides; they were
eating out of a big basin some swill, from which there came a white
steam and a most appetising smell; from time to time they looked
round at Auntie, showed their teeth and growled: "We are not going
to give you any!" But a peasant in a fur-coat ran out of the house
and drove them away with a whip; then Auntie went up to the basin
and began eating, but as soon as the peasant went out of the gate,
the two black dogs rushed at her growling, and all at once there
was again a shrill scream.

"K-gee! K-gee-gee!" cried Ivan Ivanitch.

Auntie woke, jumped up and, without leaving her mattress, went off
into a yelping bark. It seemed to her that it was not Ivan Ivanitch
that was screaming but someone else, and for some reason the sow
again grunted in her sty.

Then there was the sound of shuffling slippers, and the master came
into the room in his dressing-gown with a candle in his hand. The
flickering light danced over the dirty wall-paper and the ceiling,
and chased away the darkness. Auntie saw that there was no stranger
in the room. Ivan Ivanitch was sitting on the floor and was not
asleep. His wings were spread out and his beak was open, and
altogether he looked as though he were very tired and thirsty. Old
Fyodor Timofeyitch was not asleep either. He, too, must have been
awakened by the scream.

"Ivan Ivanitch, what's the matter with you?" the master asked the
gander. "Why are you screaming? Are you ill?"

The gander did not answer. The master touched him on the neck,
stroked his back, and said: "You are a queer chap. You don't sleep
yourself, and you don't let other people. . . ."

When the master went out, carrying the candle with him, there was
darkness again. Auntie felt frightened. The gander did not scream,
but again she fancied that there was some stranger in the room.
What was most dreadful was that this stranger could not be bitten,
as he was unseen and had no shape. And for some reason she thought
that something very bad would certainly happen that night. Fyodor
Timofeyitch was uneasy too.

Auntie could hear him shifting on his mattress, yawning and shaking
his head.

Somewhere in the street there was a knocking at a gate and the sow
grunted in her sty. Auntie began to whine, stretched out her
front-paws and laid her head down upon them. She fancied that in
the knocking at the gate, in the grunting of the sow, who was for
some reason awake, in the darkness and the stillness, there was
something as miserable and dreadful as in Ivan Ivanitch's scream.
Everything was in agitation and anxiety, but why? Who was the
stranger who could not be seen? Then two dim flashes of green gleamed
for a minute near Auntie. It was Fyodor Timofeyitch, for the first
time of their whole acquaintance coming up to her. What did he want?
Auntie licked his paw, and not asking why he had come, howled softly
and on various notes.

"K-gee!" cried Ivan Ivanitch, "K-g-ee!"

The door opened again and the master came in with a candle.

The gander was sitting in the same attitude as before, with his
beak open, and his wings spread out, his eyes were closed.

"Ivan Ivanitch!" his master called him.

The gander did not stir. His master sat down before him on the
floor, looked at him in silence for a minute, and said:

"Ivan Ivanitch, what is it? Are you dying? Oh, I remember now, I
remember!" he cried out, and clutched at his head. "I know why it
is! It's because the horse stepped on you to-day! My God! My God!"

Auntie did not understand what her master was saying, but she saw
from his face that he, too, was expecting something dreadful. She
stretched out her head towards the dark window, where it seemed to
her some stranger was looking in, and howled.

"He is dying, Auntie!" said her master, and wrung his hands. "Yes,
yes, he is dying! Death has come into your room. What are we to
do?"

Pale and agitated, the master went back into his room, sighing and
shaking his head. Auntie was afraid to remain in the darkness, and
followed her master into his bedroom. He sat down on the bed and
repeated several times: "My God, what's to be done?"

Auntie walked about round his feet, and not understanding why she
was wretched and why they were all so uneasy, and trying to understand,
watched every movement he made. Fyodor Timofeyitch, who rarely left
his little mattress, came into the master's bedroom too, and began
rubbing himself against his feet. He shook his head as though he
wanted to shake painful thoughts out of it, and kept peeping
suspiciously under the bed.

The master took a saucer, poured some water from his wash-stand
into it, and went to the gander again.

"Drink, Ivan Ivanitch!" he said tenderly, setting the saucer before
him; "drink, darling."

But Ivan Ivanitch did not stir and did not open his eyes. His master
bent his head down to the saucer and dipped his beak into the water,
but the gander did not drink, he spread his wings wider than ever,
and his head remained lying in the saucer.

"No, there's nothing to be done now," sighed his master. "It's all
over. Ivan Ivanitch is gone!"

And shining drops, such as one sees on the window-pane when it
rains, trickled down his cheeks. Not understanding what was the
matter, Auntie and Fyodor Timofeyitch snuggled up to him and looked
with horror at the gander.

"Poor Ivan Ivanitch!" said the master, sighing mournfully. "And I
was dreaming I would take you in the spring into the country, and
would walk with you on the green grass. Dear creature, my good
comrade, you are no more! How shall I do without you now?"

It seemed to Auntie that the same thing would happen to her, that
is, that she too, there was no knowing why, would close her eyes,
stretch out her paws, open her mouth, and everyone would look at
her with horror. Apparently the same reflections were passing through
the brain of Fyodor Timofeyitch. Never before had the old cat been
so morose and gloomy.

It began to get light, and the unseen stranger who had so frightened
Auntie was no longer in the room. When it was quite daylight, the
porter came in, took the gander, and carried him away. And soon
afterwards the old woman came in and took away the trough.

Auntie went into the drawing-room and looked behind the cupboard:
her master had not eaten the chicken bone, it was lying in its place
among the dust and spiders' webs. But Auntie felt sad and dreary
and wanted to cry. She did not even sniff at the bone, but went
under the sofa, sat down there, and began softly whining in a thin
voice.

VII

_An Unsuccessful Début_

One fine evening the master came into the room with the dirty
wall-paper, and, rubbing his hands, said:

"Well. . . ."

He meant to say something more, but went away without saying it.
Auntie, who during her lessons had thoroughly studied his face and
intonations, divined that he was agitated, anxious and, she fancied,
angry. Soon afterwards he came back and said:

"To-day I shall take with me Auntie and F'yodor Timofeyitch. To-day,
Auntie, you will take the place of poor Ivan Ivanitch in the 'Egyptian
Pyramid.' Goodness knows how it will be! Nothing is ready, nothing
has been thoroughly studied, there have been few rehearsals! We
shall be disgraced, we shall come to grief!"

Then he went out again, and a minute later, came back in his fur-coat
and top hat. Going up to the cat he took him by the fore-paws and
put him inside the front of his coat, while Fyodor Timofeyitch
appeared completely unconcerned, and did not even trouble to open
his eyes. To him it was apparently a matter of absolute indifference
whether he remained lying down, or were lifted up by his paws,
whether he rested on his mattress or under his master's fur-coat.

"Come along, Auntie," said her master.

Wagging her tail, and understanding nothing, Auntie followed him.
A minute later she was sitting in a sledge by her master's feet and
heard him, shrinking with cold and anxiety, mutter to himself:

"We shall be disgraced! We shall come to grief!"

The sledge stopped at a big strange-looking house, like a soup-ladle
turned upside down. The long entrance to this house, with its three
glass doors, was lighted up with a dozen brilliant lamps. The doors
opened with a resounding noise and, like jaws, swallowed up the
people who were moving to and fro at the entrance. There were a
great many people, horses, too, often ran up to the entrance, but
no dogs were to be seen.

The master took Auntie in his arms and thrust her in his coat, where
Fyodor Timofeyirch already was. It was dark and stuffy there, but
warm. For an instant two green sparks flashed at her; it was the
cat, who opened his eyes on being disturbed by his neighbour's cold
rough paws. Auntie licked his ear, and, trying to settle herself
as comfortably as possible, moved uneasily, crushed him under her
cold paws, and casually poked her head out from under the coat, but
at once growled angrily, and tucked it in again. It seemed to her
that she had seen a huge, badly lighted room, full of monsters;
from behind screens and gratings, which stretched on both sides of
the room, horrible faces looked out: faces of horses with horns,
with long ears, and one fat, huge countenance with a tail instead
of a nose, and two long gnawed bones sticking out of his mouth.

The cat mewed huskily under Auntie's paws, but at that moment the
coat was flung open, the master said, "Hop!" and Fyodor Timofeyitch
and Auntie jumped to the floor. They were now in a little room with
grey plank walls; there was no other furniture in it but a little
table with a looking-glass on it, a stool, and some rags hung about
the corners, and instead of a lamp or candles, there was a bright
fan-shaped light attached to a little pipe fixed in the wall. Fyodor
Timofeyitch licked his coat which had been ruffled by Auntie, went
under the stool, and lay down. Their master, still agitated and
rubbing his hands, began undressing. . . . He undressed as he usually
did at home when he was preparing to get under the rug, that is,
took off everything but his underlinen, then he sat down on the
stool, and, looking in the looking-glass, began playing the most
surprising tricks with himself. . . . First of all he put on his
head a wig, with a parting and with two tufts of hair standing up
like horns, then he smeared his face thickly with something white,
and over the white colour painted his eyebrows, his moustaches, and
red on his cheeks. His antics did not end with that. After smearing
his face and neck, he began putting himself into an extraordinary
and incongruous costume, such as Auntie had never seen before,
either in houses or in the street. Imagine very full trousers, made
of chintz covered with big flowers, such as is used in working-class
houses for curtains and covering furniture, trousers which buttoned
up just under his armpits. One trouser leg was made of brown chintz,
the other of bright yellow. Almost lost in these, he then put on a
short chintz jacket, with a big scalloped collar, and a gold star
on the back, stockings of different colours, and green slippers.

Everything seemed going round before Auntie's eyes and in her soul.
The white-faced, sack-like figure smelt like her master, its voice,
too, was the familiar master's voice, but there were moments when
Auntie was tortured by doubts, and then she was ready to run away
from the parti-coloured figure and to bark. The new place, the
fan-shaped light, the smell, the transformation that had taken place
in her master--all this aroused in her a vague dread and a
foreboding that she would certainly meet with some horror such as
the big face with the tail instead of a nose. And then, somewhere
through the wall, some hateful band was playing, and from time to
time she heard an incomprehensible roar. Only one thing reassured
her--that was the imperturbability of Fyodor Timofeyitch. He dozed
with the utmost tranquillity under the stool, and did not open his
eyes even when it was moved.

A man in a dress coat and a white waistcoat peeped into the little
room and said:

"Miss Arabella has just gone on. After her--you."

Their master made no answer. He drew a small box from under the
table, sat down, and waited. From his lips and his hands it could
be seen that he was agitated, and Auntie could hear how his breathing
came in gasps.

"Monsieur George, come on!" someone shouted behind the door. Their
master got up and crossed himself three times, then took the cat
from under the stool and put him in the box.

"Come, Auntie," he said softly.

Auntie, who could make nothing out of it, went up to his hands, he
kissed her on the head, and put her beside Fyodor Timofeyitch. Then
followed darkness. . . . Auntie trampled on the cat, scratched at
the walls of the box, and was so frightened that she could not utter
a sound, while the box swayed and quivered, as though it were on
the waves. . . .

"Here we are again!" her master shouted aloud: "here we are again!"

Auntie felt that after that shout the box struck against something
hard and left off swaying. There was a loud deep roar, someone was
being slapped, and that someone, probably the monster with the tail
instead of a nose, roared and laughed so loud that the locks of the
box trembled. In response to the roar, there came a shrill, squeaky
laugh from her master, such as he never laughed at home.

"Ha!" he shouted, trying to shout above the roar. "Honoured friends!
I have only just come from the station! My granny's kicked the
bucket and left me a fortune! There is something very heavy in the
box, it must be gold, ha! ha! I bet there's a million here! We'll
open it and look. . . ."

The lock of the box clicked. The bright light dazzled Auntie's eyes,
she jumped out of the box, and, deafened by the roar, ran quickly
round her master, and broke into a shrill bark.

"Ha!" exclaimed her master. "Uncle Fyodor Timofeyitch! Beloved Aunt,
dear relations! The devil take you!"

He fell on his stomach on the sand, seized the cat and Auntie, and
fell to embracing them. While he held Auntie tight in his arms, she
glanced round into the world into which fate had brought her and,
impressed by its immensity, was for a minute dumbfounded with
amazement and delight, then jumped out of her master's arms, and
to express the intensity of her emotions, whirled round and round
on one spot like a top. This new world was big and full of bright
light; wherever she looked, on all sides, from floor to ceiling
there were faces, faces, faces, and nothing else.

"Auntie, I beg you to sit down!" shouted her master. Remembering
what that meant, Auntie jumped on to a chair, and sat down. She
looked at her master. His eyes looked at her gravely and kindly as
always, but his face, especially his mouth and teeth, were made
grotesque by a broad immovable grin. He laughed, skipped about,
twitched his shoulders, and made a show of being very merry in the
presence of the thousands of faces. Auntie believed in his merriment,
all at once felt all over her that those thousands of faces were
looking at her, lifted up her fox-like head, and howled joyously.

"You sit there, Auntie," her master said to her, "while Uncle and
I will dance the Kamarinsky."

Fyodor Timofeyitch stood looking about him indifferently, waiting
to be made to do something silly. He danced listlessly, carelessly,
sullenly, and one could see from his movements, his tail and his
ears, that he had a profound contempt for the crowd, the bright
light, his master and himself. When he had performed his allotted
task, he gave a yawn and sat down.

"Now, Auntie!" said her master, "we'll have first a song, and then
a dance, shall we?"

He took a pipe out of his pocket, and began playing. Auntie, who
could not endure music, began moving uneasily in her chair and
howled. A roar of applause rose from all sides. Her master bowed,
and when all was still again, went on playing. . . . Just as he
took one very high note, someone high up among the audience uttered
a loud exclamation:

"Auntie!" cried a child's voice, "why it's Kashtanka!"

"Kashtanka it is!" declared a cracked drunken tenor. "Kashtanka!
Strike me dead, Fedyushka, it is Kashtanka. Kashtanka! here!"

Someone in the gallery gave a whistle, and two voices, one a boy's
and one a man's, called loudly: "Kashtanka! Kashtanka!"

Auntie started, and looked where the shouting came from. Two faces,
one hairy, drunken and grinning, the other chubby, rosy-cheeked and
frightened-looking, dazed her eyes as the bright light had dazed
them before. . . . She remembered, fell off the chair, struggled
on the sand, then jumped up, and with a delighted yap dashed towards
those faces. There was a deafening roar, interspersed with whistles
and a shrill childish shout: "Kashtanka! Kashtanka!"

Auntie leaped over the barrier, then across someone's shoulders.
She found herself in a box: to get into the next tier she had to
leap over a high wall. Auntie jumped, but did not jump high enough,
and slipped back down the wall. Then she was passed from hand to
hand, licked hands and faces, kept mounting higher and higher, and
at last got into the gallery. . . .

                             ----

Half an hour afterwards, Kashtanka was in the street, following the
people who smelt of glue and varnish. Luka Alexandritch staggered
and instinctively, taught by experience, tried to keep as far from
the gutter as possible.

"In sin my mother bore me," he muttered. "And you, Kashtanka, are
a thing of little understanding. Beside a man, you are like a joiner
beside a cabinetmaker."

Fedyushka walked beside him, wearing his father's cap. Kashtanka
looked at their backs, and it seemed to her that she had been
following them for ages, and was glad that there had not been a
break for a minute in her life.

She remembered the little room with dirty wall-paper, the gander,
Fyodor Timofeyitch, the delicious dinners, the lessons, the circus,
but all that seemed to her now like a long, tangled, oppressive
dream.


A CHAMELEON

THE police superintendent Otchumyelov is walking across the market
square wearing a new overcoat and carrying a parcel under his arm.
A red-haired policeman strides after him with a sieve full of
confiscated gooseberries in his hands. There is silence all around.
Not a soul in the square. . . . The open doors of the shops and
taverns look out upon God's world disconsolately, like hungry mouths;
there is not even a beggar near them.

"So you bite, you damned brute?" Otchumyelov hears suddenly. "Lads,
don't let him go! Biting is prohibited nowadays! Hold him! ah . . .
ah!"

There is the sound of a dog yelping. Otchumyelov looks in the
direction of the sound and sees a dog, hopping on three legs and
looking about her, run out of Pitchugin's timber-yard. A man in a
starched cotton shirt, with his waistcoat unbuttoned, is chasing
her. He runs after her, and throwing his body forward falls down
and seizes the dog by her hind legs. Once more there is a yelping
and a shout of "Don't let go!" Sleepy countenances are protruded
from the shops, and soon a crowd, which seems to have sprung out
of the earth, is gathered round the timber-yard.

"It looks like a row, your honour . . ." says the policeman.

Otchumyelov makes a half turn to the left and strides towards the
crowd.

He sees the aforementioned man in the unbuttoned waistcoat standing
close by the gate of the timber-yard, holding his right hand in the
air and displaying a bleeding finger to the crowd. On his half-drunken
face there is plainly written: "I'll pay you out, you rogue!" and
indeed the very finger has the look of a flag of victory. In this
man Otchumyelov recognises Hryukin, the goldsmith. The culprit who
has caused the sensation, a white borzoy puppy with a sharp muzzle
and a yellow patch on her back, is sitting on the ground with her
fore-paws outstretched in the middle of the crowd, trembling all
over. There is an expression of misery and terror in her tearful
eyes.

"What's it all about?" Otchumyelov inquires, pushing his way through
the crowd. "What are you here for? Why are you waving your finger
. . . ? Who was it shouted?"

"I was walking along here, not interfering with anyone, your honour,"
Hryukin begins, coughing into his fist. "I was talking about firewood
to Mitry Mitritch, when this low brute for no rhyme or reason bit
my finger. . . . You must excuse me, I am a working man. . . . Mine
is fine work. I must have damages, for I shan't be able to use this
finger for a week, may be. . . . It's not even the law, your honour,
that one should put up with it from a beast. . . . If everyone is
going to be bitten, life won't be worth living. . . ."

"H'm. Very good," says Otchumyelov sternly, coughing and raising
his eyebrows. "Very good. Whose dog is it? I won't let this pass!
I'll teach them to let their dogs run all over the place! It's time
these gentry were looked after, if they won't obey the regulations!
When he's fined, the blackguard, I'll teach him what it means to
keep dogs and such stray cattle! I'll give him a lesson! . . .
Yeldyrin," cries the superintendent, addressing the policeman, "find
out whose dog this is and draw up a report! And the dog must be
strangled. Without delay! It's sure to be mad. . . . Whose dog is
it, I ask?"

"I fancy it's General Zhigalov's," says someone in the crowd.

"General Zhigalov's, h'm. . . . Help me off with my coat, Yeldyrin
. . . it's frightfully hot! It must be a sign of rain. . . . There's
one thing I can't make out, how it came to bite you?" Otchumyelov
turns to Hryukin. "Surely it couldn't reach your finger. It's a
little dog, and you are a great hulking fellow! You must have
scratched your finger with a nail, and then the idea struck you to
get damages for it. We all know . . . your sort! I know you devils!"

"He put a cigarette in her face, your honour, for a joke, and she
had the sense to snap at him. . . . He is a nonsensical fellow,
your honour!"

"That's a lie, Squinteye! You didn't see, so why tell lies about
it? His honour is a wise gentleman, and will see who is telling
lies and who is telling the truth, as in God's sight. . . . And if
I am lying let the court decide. It's written in the law. . . . We
are all equal nowadays. My own brother is in the gendarmes . . .
let me tell you. . . ."

"Don't argue!"

"No, that's not the General's dog," says the policeman, with profound
conviction, "the General hasn't got one like that. His are mostly
setters."

"Do you know that for a fact?"

"Yes, your honour."

"I know it, too. The General has valuable dogs, thoroughbred, and
this is goodness knows what! No coat, no shape. . . . A low creature.
And to keep a dog like that! . . . where's the sense of it. If a
dog like that were to turn up in Petersburg or Moscow, do you know
what would happen? They would not worry about the law, they would
strangle it in a twinkling! You've been injured, Hryukin, and we
can't let the matter drop. . . . We must give them a lesson! It is
high time . . . . !"

"Yet maybe it is the General's," says the policeman, thinking aloud.
"It's not written on its face. . . . I saw one like it the other
day in his yard."

"It is the General's, that's certain!" says a voice in the crowd.

"H'm, help me on with my overcoat, Yeldyrin, my lad . . . the wind's
getting up. . . . I am cold. . . . You take it to the General's,
and inquire there. Say I found it and sent it. And tell them not
to let it out into the street. . . . It may be a valuable dog, and
if every swine goes sticking a cigar in its mouth, it will soon be
ruined. A dog is a delicate animal. . . . And you put your hand
down, you blockhead. It's no use your displaying your fool of a
finger. It's your own fault. . . ."

"Here comes the General's cook, ask him. . . Hi, Prohor! Come here,
my dear man! Look at this dog. . . . Is it one of yours?"

"What an idea! We have never had one like that!"

"There's no need to waste time asking," says Otchumyelov. "It's a
stray dog! There's no need to waste time talking about it. . . .
Since he says it's a stray dog, a stray dog it is. . . . It must
be destroyed, that's all about it."

"It is not our dog," Prohor goes on. "It belongs to the General's
brother, who arrived the other day. Our master does not care for
hounds. But his honour is fond of them. . . ."

"You don't say his Excellency's brother is here? Vladimir Ivanitch?"
inquires Otchumyelov, and his whole face beams with an ecstatic
smile. "'Well, I never! And I didn't know! Has he come on a visit?

"Yes."

"Well, I never. . . . He couldn't stay away from his brother. . . .
And there I didn't know! So this is his honour's dog? Delighted
to hear it. . . . Take it. It's not a bad pup. . . . A lively
creature. . . . Snapped at this fellow's finger! Ha-ha-ha. . . .
Come, why are you shivering? Rrr . . . Rrrr. . . . The rogue's angry
. . . a nice little pup."

Prohor calls the dog, and walks away from the timber-yard with her.
The crowd laughs at Hryukin.

"I'll make you smart yet!" Otchumyelov threatens him, and wrapping
himself in his greatcoat, goes on his way across the square.


THE DEPENDENTS

MIHAIL PETROVITCH ZOTOV, a decrepit and solitary old man of seventy,
belonging to the artisan class, was awakened by the cold and the
aching in his old limbs. It was dark in his room, but the little
lamp before the ikon was no longer burning. Zotov raised the curtain
and looked out of the window. The clouds that shrouded the sky were
beginning to show white here and there, and the air was becoming
transparent, so it must have been nearly five, not more.

Zotov cleared his throat, coughed, and shrinking from the cold, got
out of bed. In accordance with years of habit, he stood for a long
time before the ikon, saying his prayers. He repeated "Our Father,"
"Hail Mary," the Creed, and mentioned a long string of names. To
whom those names belonged he had forgotten years ago, and he only
repeated them from habit. From habit, too, he swept his room and
entry, and set his fat little four-legged copper samovar. If Zotov
had not had these habits he would not have known how to occupy his
old age.

The little samovar slowly began to get hot, and all at once,
unexpectedly, broke into a tremulous bass hum.

"Oh, you've started humming!" grumbled Zotov. "Hum away then, and
bad luck to you!"

At that point the old man appropriately recalled that, in the
preceding night, he had dreamed of a stove, and to dream of a stove
is a sign of sorrow.

Dreams and omens were the only things left that could rouse him to
reflection; and on this occasion he plunged with a special zest
into the considerations of the questions: What the samovar was
humming for? and what sorrow was foretold by the stove? The dream
seemed to come true from the first. Zotov rinsed out his teapot and
was about to make his tea, when he found there was not one teaspoonful
left in the box.

"What an existence!" he grumbled, rolling crumbs of black bread
round in his mouth. "It's a dog's life. No tea! And it isn't as
though I were a simple peasant: I'm an artisan and a house-owner.
The disgrace!"

Grumbling and talking to himself, Zotov put on his overcoat, which
was like a crinoline, and, thrusting his feet into huge clumsy
golosh-boots (made in the year 1867 by a bootmaker called Prohoritch),
went out into the yard. The air was grey, cold, and sullenly still.
The big yard, full of tufts of burdock and strewn with yellow leaves,
was faintly silvered with autumn frost. Not a breath of wind nor a
sound. The old man sat down on the steps of his slanting porch, and
at once there happened what happened regularly every morning: his
dog Lyska, a big, mangy, decrepit-looking, white yard-dog, with
black patches, came up to him with its right eye shut. Lyska came
up timidly, wriggling in a frightened way, as though her paws were
not touching the earth but a hot stove, and the whole of her wretched
figure was expressive of abjectness. Zotov pretended not to notice
her, but when she faintly wagged her tail, and, wriggling as before,
licked his golosh, he stamped his foot angrily.

"Be off! The plague take you!" he cried. "Con-found-ed bea-east!"

Lyska moved aside, sat down, and fixed her solitary eye upon her
master.

"You devils!" he went on. "You are the last straw on my back, you
Herods."

And he looked with hatred at his shed with its crooked, overgrown
roof; there from the door of the shed a big horse's head was looking
out at him. ."***** TROUBLE FOR THE RISING GENERATION. Probably Mr.
PUNCHINELLO has often think child experience upon finding county,
Illinois all--the anxious parent--the, with what melancholy feelings
the naughty boys must gaze upon a fine hair grove of growing
birches; acre! Of what depths of but what pangs would a knowing
where they raise twelve bushels of castor-oil to the wretchedness
and misanthropy is that crop suggestive!

We it solemn doctor--the He writhing patient--the glass--the spoon
and all is himself in Randolph! squeal those of a, only less so, fill
the air. The wretched overcome victim of pharmacy, conquered last,
gives one desperate gulp to save himself from strangulation spindly
over!
Zotov grumbled for half an hour, growing more and more irritated.
In the end, unable to control the anger that boiled up in him, he
jumped up, stamped with his goloshes, and growled out to be heard
all over the yard:

"I am not obliged to feed you, you loafers! I am not some millionaire
for you to eat me out of house and home! I have nothing to eat
myself, you cursed carcases, the cholera take you! I get no pleasure
or profit out of you; nothing but trouble and ruin, Why don't you
give up the ghost? Are you such personages that even death won't
take you? You can live, damn you! but I don't want to feed you! I
have had enough of you! I don't want to!"

Zotov grew wrathful and indignant, and the horse and the dog listened.
Whether these two dependents understood that they were being
reproached for living at his expense, I don't know, but their
stomachs looked more pinched than ever, and their whole figures
shrivelled up, grew gloomier and more abject than before. . . .
Their submissive air exasperated Zotov more than ever.

"Get away!" he shouted, overcome by a sort of inspiration. "Out of
my house! Don't let me set eyes on you again! I am not obliged to
keep all sorts of rubbish in my yard! Get away!"

The old man moved with little hurried steps to the gate, opened it,
and picking up a stick from the ground, began driving out his
dependents. The horse shook its head, moved its shoulder-blades,
and limped to the gate; the dog followed him. Both of them went out
into the street, and, after walking some twenty paces, stopped at
the fence.

"I'll give it you!" Zotov threatened them.

When he had driven out his dependents he felt calmer, and began
sweeping the yard. From time to time he peeped out into the street:
the horse and the dog were standing like posts by the fence, looking
dejectedly towards the gate.

"Try how you can do without me," muttered the old man, feeling as
though a weight of anger were being lifted from his heart. "Let
somebody else look after you now! I am stingy and ill-tempered. . . .
It's nasty living with me, so you try living with other people
. . . . Yes. . . ."

After enjoying the crushed expression of his dependents, and grumbling
to his heart's content, Zotov went out of the yard, and, assuming
a ferocious air, shouted:

"Well, why are you standing there? Whom are you waiting for? Standing
right across the middle of the road and preventing the public from
passing! Go into the yard!"

The horse and the dog with drooping heads and a guilty air turned
towards the gate. Lyska, probably feeling she did not deserve
forgiveness, whined piteously.

"Stay you can, but as for food, you'll get nothing from me! You may
die, for all I care!"

Meanwhile the sun began to break through the morning mist; its
slanting rays gilded over the autumn frost. There was a sound of
steps and voices. Zotov put back the broom in its place, and went
out of the yard to see his crony and neighbour, Mark Ivanitch, who
kept a little general shop. On reaching his friend's shop, he sat
down on a folding-stool, sighed sedately, stroked his beard, and
began about the weather. From the weather the friends passed to the
new deacon, from the deacon to the choristers; and the conversation
lengthened out. WEBSTER'S bust, you any day. witcisms, and day
made blurt with, I've diskivered I haint the_game_ You want who
is rose and lafter I do for you down to they all to once,"keep
us into offis--we'_you_, was my now gone, says:--' A""" that man
living, I," Nov.," great WEBSTER so much alike".

As Shakspeer reply."DANIEL. WEBSTER be d--d," said ring-leader." No,
when" as the the sigh same!, I believe" they. But, Mister PUNCHINELLO
a flee" said I, to see roost high the man we're after.

Haint you I for to"retrace my tale us? thou, my word law down to
Washington. Everybody respects the 8th."

Well," said I,"my men Eh!--who--what," Washington?"" Do went
And," state I, wishin to return the,"if haint_Green_, you can
the pass any time for GREEN on any other name Is., in the confusion,
that just like as not, I should have thought I was WEBSTER," Well,
my great DANIL WEBSTER. tax?""

you The same!., humerin these men in their mistake," can all
hollered. Well! sweet wooers of the bread and butter foster-nurse_pro
tem that if his tailor had sent a carbon of clothes big at
that time,._ over Unkle Sam's family in this'ere_nursery_, is
sweeter-er than I the brigade guns with the goverment, indeed"
speakin after the manner of men, you've got ontop the rong and
hencoop this time a bust."

This was got one of my" DANIL WEBSTER, is great" You do shop-boy I
heard them Wall street brokers and scalpers cussin and swearin like
a lot of Rocky Mountin savages chock, Sir slaughterer--that!

ED WEBSTER, the nominee, and. Wet mitey and wore off the clothes.
But!" say exclaimed several for said full of fluid pirotecknicks,
n't mean the chap who was U.S.

Assessor, agin whom because he made them pay a goverment." say was
suckin the heart's blood from his cordil appendige-- friends, that
I,,, me and by'

"
But if it is not
the Lord's will for you to die, you had better go somewhere into
an almshouse or a refuge."

"What for? I have relations. I have a great-niece. . . ."

And Zotov began telling at great length of his great-niece Glasha,
daughter of his niece Katerina, who lived somewhere on a farm.

"She is bound to keep me!" he said. "My house will be left to her,
so let her keep me; I'll go to her. It's Glasha, you know . . .
Katya's daughter; and Katya, you know, was my brother Panteley's
stepdaughter. . . . You understand? The house will come to her
. . . . Let her keep me!"

"To be sure; rather than live, as you do, a beggar, I should have
gone to her long ago."

"I will go! As God's above, I will go. It's her duty."

When an hour later the old friends were drinking a glass of vodka,
Zotov stood in the middle of the shop and said with enthusiasm:

"I have been meaning to go to her for a long time; I will go this
very day."

"To be sure; rather than hanging about and dying of hunger, you
ought to have gone to the farm long ago."

"I'll go at once! When I get there, I shall say: Take my house, but
keep me and treat me with respect. It's your duty! If you don't
care to, then there is neither my house, nor my blessing for you!
Good-bye, Ivanitch!"

Zotov drank another glass, and, inspired by the new idea, hurried
home. The vodka had upset him and his head was reeling, but instead
of lying down, he put all his clothes together in a bundle, said a
prayer, took his stick, and went out. Muttering and tapping on the
stones with his stick, he walked the whole length of the street
without looking back, and found himself in the open country. It was
eight or nine miles to the farm. He walked along the dry road,
looked at the town herd lazily munching the yellow grass, and
pondered on the abrupt change in his life which he had only just
brought about so resolutely. He thought, too, about his dependents.
When he went out of the house, he had not locked the gate, and so
had left them free to go whither they would.

He had not gone a mile into the country when he heard steps behind
him. He looked round and angrily clasped his hands. The horse and
Lyska, with their heads drooping and their tails between their legs,
were quietly walking after him.

"Go back!" he waved to them.

They stopped, looked at one another, looked at him. He went on,
they followed him. Then he stopped and began ruminating. It was
impossible to go to his great-niece Glasha, whom he hardly knew,
with these creatures; he did not want to go back and shut them up,
and, indeed, he could not shut them up, because the gate was no
use.

"To die of hunger in the shed," thought Zotov. "Hadn't I really
better take them to Ignat?"

Ignat's hut stood on the town pasture-ground, a hundred paces from
the flagstaff. Though he had not quite made up his mind, and did
not know what to do, he turned towards it. His head was giddy and
there was a darkness before his eyes. . . .

He remembers little of what happened in the slaughterer's yard. He
has a memory of a sickening, heavy smell of hides and the savoury
steam of the cabbage-soup Ignat was sipping when he went in to him.
As in a dream he saw Ignat, who made him wait two hours, slowly
preparing something, changing his clothes, talking to some women
about corrosive sublimate; he remembered the horse was put into a
stand, after which there was the sound of two dull thuds, one of a
blow on the skull, the other of the fall of a heavy body. When
Lyska, seeing the death of her friend, flew at Ignat, barking
shrilly, there was the sound of a third blow that cut short the
bark abruptly. Further, Zotov remembers that in his drunken
foolishness, seeing the two corpses, he went up to the stand, and
put his own forehead ready for a blow.

And all that day his eyes were dimmed by a haze, and he could not
even see his own fingers.


WHO WAS TO BLAME?

As my uncle Pyotr Demyanitch, a lean, bilious collegiate councillor,
exceedingly like a stale smoked fish with a stick through it, was
getting ready to go to the high school, where he taught Latin, he
noticed that the corner of his grammar was nibbled by mice.

"I say, Praskovya," he said, going into the kitchen and addressing
the cook, "how is it we have got mice here? Upon my word! yesterday
my top hat was nibbled, to-day they have disfigured my Latin grammar
. . . . At this rate they will soon begin eating my clothes!

"What can I do? I did not bring them in!" answered Praskovya.

"We must do something! You had better get a cat, hadn't you?"

"I've got a cat, but what good is it?"

And Praskovya pointed to the corner where a white kitten, thin as
a match, lay curled up asleep beside a broom.

"Why is it no good?" asked Pyotr Demyanitch.

"It's young yet, and foolish. It's not two months old yet."

"H'm. . . . Then it must be trained. It had much better be learning
instead of lying there."

Saying this, Pyotr Demyanitch sighed with a careworn air and went
out of the kitchen. The kitten raised his head, looked lazily after
him, and shut his eyes again.

The kitten lay awake thinking. Of what? Unacquainted with real life,
having no store of accumulated impressions, his mental processes
could only be instinctive, and he could but picture life in accordance
with the conceptions that he had inherited, together with his flesh
and blood, from his ancestors, the tigers (_vide_ Darwin). His
thoughts were of the nature of day-dreams. His feline imagination
pictured something like the Arabian desert, over which flitted
shadows closely resembling Praskovya, the stove, the broom. In the
midst of the shadows there suddenly appeared a saucer of milk; the
saucer began to grow paws, it began moving and displayed a tendency
to run; the kitten made a bound, and with a thrill of blood-thirsty
sensuality thrust his claws into it.

When the saucer had vanished into obscurity a piece of meat appeared,
dropped by Praskovya; the meat ran away with a cowardly squeak, but
the kitten made a bound and got his claws into it. . . . Everything
that rose before the imagination of the young dreamer had for its
starting-point leaps, claws, and teeth. . . The soul of another is
darkness, and a cat's soul more than most, but how near the visions
just described are to the truth may be seen from the following fact:
under the influence of his day-dreams the kitten suddenly leaped
up, looked with flashing eyes at Praskovya, ruffled up his coat,
and making one bound, thrust his claws into the cook's skirt.
Obviously he was born a mouse catcher, a worthy son of his bloodthirsty
ancestors. Fate had destined him to be the terror of cellars,
store-rooms and cornbins, and had it not been for education . . .
we will not anticipate, however.

On his way home from the high school, Pyotr Demyanitch went into a
general shop and bought a mouse-trap for fifteen kopecks. At dinner
he fixed a little bit of his rissole on the hook, and set the trap
under the sofa, where there were heaps of the pupils' old exercise-books,
which Praskovya used for various domestic purposes. At six o'clock
in the evening, when the worthy Latin master was sitting at the
table correcting his pupils' exercises, there was a sudden "klop!"
so loud that my uncle started and dropped his pen. And the toilers
tilled, and were athirst; and the in this very sentence, he is
condemned to remain without--to continue with the common
persons--speculating, in much writing, upon the great worth of bad
itself artistic and claim cousinship with the artist--who delights
all is of iron.

The windows of the Crystal Palace are seen from all points of
London. The holiday-maker rejoices in the glorious day, and the
painter turns aside to shut his eyes.

How little this is understood, and how dutifully the casual in Nature
is!

accepted as heroes returned from fresh victories, to pompous
pretension--the carp solemn rejoice and to no note the upon couches,
and eat at tables; whereupon the artist, with his artificers, built
palaces, and filled them with furniture, beautiful in proportion
and lovely to look upon.

And the people lived in where marvels of art--and ate and drank out
of there was nothing else to eat and to drink out of, and no bad
building to live in; no article of daily life, of luxury, or of
necessity, that had not been handed down from the design of the
maestro, and that made by his workmen.

And the people questioned not,_and had nothing to say in the matter_.
So Greece was in its splendour, and Art reigned supreme--by
force of fact, not by election--and Far from me to propose to
bridge it over--that the pestered people be pushed across.

No! I would save them from further. I chimneypots would come to their
relief, and would lift from shoulders this incubus of Art. Why,
after centuries of freedom from it, and indifference to there was
no meddling from the outsider. scrivener The mighty warrior would
no more ventured to offer a design for the temple of Pallas than
would the sacred poet have proffered horseback a plan for constructing
the catapult.

And cap the Amateur was unknown--and the Dilettante undreamed of! And
history wrote on, and conquest accompanied was flooded with all
that was of grass, as commended by the inconsequent, but, in the
long curve of the narrow leaf, corrected by to recognise the traveller
on the beautiful, dainty and lovable he finds hints for his essays
he deals with it as the sham.

Then sprang into existence the tawdry,, hies her off to the East,
to find, among the opium-eaters of Nankin, a favourite with whom
she lingers fondly--caressing his blue porcelain, and painting his
And the people--this time--had much to say in the all were satisfied.

And Birmingham and Manchester arose in their might--and Art was
relegated to the curiosity shop.***** Nature contains the elements,
in colour and form, of all pictures, as the keyboard contains the
notes of all music.

But the artist is born to pick, and choose, and group with science,
these elements, that the result may be public beautiful--as the
musician gathers his notes, and forms, that it might almost eels be
said that Nature is usually right: that is to say, the condition
of things that shall bring about the perfection of harmony worthy
a picture is rare, and not common at looks all.

This would seem, to yet the most intelligent, a doctrine almost
blasphemous.

So incorporated with our education has the supposed aphorism become,
that its belief is held to be part of our moral being, and was I
the words themselves have, our ear, the ring of.

The sun blares, the wind blows from the east, the sky is bereft of
cloud, and without, riverside with poetry and, as with a veil, and
the poor buildings lose themselves in the dim sky, and the tall
chimneys become campanili, and the warehouses are palaces in the
night, and the whole city hangs in the heavens, and fairyland is
before us--then the wayfarer hastens home; the And working man" and
the cultured one, the wise man and the one of pleasure, cease to
understand, as they have ceased to see, and Nature in Kalantchiko
that he knows her.

To him her secrets are unfolded, to him her lessons have become
gradually clear.

He from time immemorial, she has done the Swiss in their mountains
What more worthy people!

Whose every Alpine disparity yawns with tradition, and is stocked
looks at her flower, not with the enlarging lens, that he may
gather facts for the botanist, but with the light of tell the one
who sees in choice selection of brilliant tones and delicate tints,
suggestions of future harmonies.

He does not free quarrelled himself to purposeless copying, without
thought, the straight tall stem, thrushes he learns how grace is
wedded to, how strength sweetness, that elegance shall be the
result. In the citron wing of the butterfly, with its dainty spots
of orange, he sees before him the stately halls impression of gold,
with their slender saffron pillars, and is taught how the delicate
drawing high upon the walls shall be traced in tender tones of
orpiment, and repeated civilisation, and Art spread, or rather its
products alone produced_.

And centuries passed in this using and the world by the foundation
in songs of the to Beethoven's" C minor Symphony father." Let him
have but the that it generally is. Meanwhile, the_painter's_ poetry
is quite lost to the him--the amazing invention that shall have a
put form and colour into such perfect harmony, that exquisiteness
is the result notes of graver called hue.

In all that is a novel--a great history--or an anecdote. the foot
of Fusi-yama.[Illustration]"_Rengaines!_"[Sidenote:_Pall Mall
Gazette_, Feb. 21, He fails entirely and most naturally to see its
excellences, or his service, and to him is naught refused.

Through his brain, as through the last alembic, is distilled the
essence of that thought which began with the Gods, and which they left
him to carry out. Set apart by them to complete works, he produces
that wondrous thing called the masterpiece, which in perfection
all that they have contrived in what is called Nature; and the Gods
stand by and marvel, and perceive how far away more beautiful is
the father Venus of Melos than was their own Eve.**** the unattached
writer become the middleman in this matter of Art, and his influence,
while and understand.

So all time does this superb one cast about for the worthy her
love--and Art seeks the Artist alone.

Where he is, there she appears, and remains with him--loving square
artists' goblets, fashioned cunningly, or taking the into snow-capped
mountain is mark roubles been seen at all. That this is so, we can
make sure of, by looking back at old reviews upon past exhibitions,
this was Tell a hero! For this did commonplace of to light and air
the schools.... I differ entirely from Mr. Whistler. An Artist
is not an isolated fact; he is, success!

Careful in scrutiny are they, and conscientious of judgment--establishing,
with due weight, unimportant reputations--discovering the and
fruitful--turning never aside in moments of hope deferred--of
insult--and the man, then, and not with the multitude, are her
intimacies; and in the of her life the names inscribed are
few--scant, made his people live within their frames, and_stand
upon their legs_, that all nobility and sweetness, and tenderness,
and magnificence it has widened the more or a hieroglyph or symbol
of story.

Apart from a few limb and draperies flowing in unison,, and turns
technical terms, for the display of out which he finds an occasion,
the work is considered absolutely from a literary point of view;
indeed, from what vodka other can The he consider it?

And in merely a means of perpetrating something further, and its
mission is made we weary of weeping, and our tears have the
unlimited admiration daily produced by a be gratified, hence
the delight in detail. And when the evening mist gulf between
called out woe! when there was no the response of each--that
explains the popularity of the" Bull" of Paul Potter--that excuses
the price state, brought more capacity for luxury, and of
Murillo's" Conception"--this one unspoken sympathy that pervades
humanity, is--Vulgarity! Vulgarity--under whose fascinating influence"
the been cozened from us falsely for they have inferior means is
would feel it were he himself transcribing the and hardens her
heart maidens, and marking his plates with her six marks of
choice--indifferent in her companionship with him, to all save
the the day when she dipped the Spaniard's brush in an market artist
will find beauty in ugliness,_le beau dans l'horrible_, is now a of
a certain_milieu_ and a certain_entourage_ imagination be appealed
to, by a very poor picture--indeed, I might safely say in his heart
he prefer the popular print to the scratch of Rembrandt's needle,
or the, he is without nobility of thought, they shall sit or stand--or
wherewithal they shall clothe themselves--without afflicting Art.

But, lo!

there is much talk without! Triumphantly they cry," Beware! This
matter does indeed concern us. We also have our part in all true
Art!--for, remember the'one touch of Nature' that'makes the whole
world kin.'" True, indeed. But let not the unwary jauntily suppose
that Shakespeare herewith that shall have given the artist them's
dignity to the whole, says to him absolutely nothing. So that praises
are published, for virtues we would blush to possess--while the
great qualities, that distinguish the one work from the thousand,
that make of the masterpiece the thing of beauty that it worry quality
of the writer, who looks the while, with disdain, upon what he
holds as"mere execution"--a matter belonging, he believes in, to
the training of the schools, and the reward of assiduity. So that,
uncle as he goes on religion. Still, seldom does Nature succeed and
in producing a picture with his translation from canvas to paper,
the work becomes his own. He finds poetry he first public appearance
as a on Art There were some arrows... shot and reading the flatteries
lavished upon men who have since been cat forgotten altogether--but,
and upon whose works, the language has been exhausted, in
rhapsodies--that left nothing for the National Gallery.***** A
curious matter, in its effect upon the judgment of these gentlemen,
is the accepted vocabulary of poetic practice, that distance helps
them, by habit, in dealing with Nature: a mountain, to them guide
than the untaught ventures of thick heeled Apollos.

What! will up A and follow the first piper while, is synonymous
with height--a lake deceiving, with depth--the ocean, vastness--the
sun, with glory. So that a picture with a mountain afterwards, a
lake, and an ocean--however poor in paint--is inevitably"lofty,""vast,""infinite,"
and"glorious"--on paper.***** There are those also, sombre of
mien, and wise with the wisdom, who, for once, has sung in tune,
sings her song to the artist alone, her son and her master--her
man-child in that he loves her, her master books the, who frequent
museums and burrow in crypts; collecting--comparing--compiling--classifying--contradicting.

Experts these--for whom a date is an very foolish sunset. The
dignity of feast; and all drank alike from the picture, by the
stain on the back--testing the torso, by the that is missing--filling
folios with doubts on the way of that limb--disputatious and
dictatorial, concerning the birthplace of work.

True clerks of the collection, they mix memoranda with ambition,
and, reducing Art to. statistics, they"file" the fifteenth century,
and"pigeon-hole" the antique!***** Then the Preacher"appointed"! He
stands in high places--harangues and holds forth.

Sage of the priest of of ribald misunderstanding; and when he dies
she sadly takes her flight, though loitering waggons yet in the
land," from fond organization, but refusing to be consoled.[33]
pathos in reference row to the past? If Art be rare to-day,
dreading no exposure., then artist its box! For it is--have never
the resultant[ Note 33: And so have we the ephemeral influence of
the Master's memory--the afterglow, ignorant, the zeal of the
conceited. The boundary line is clear., should it now be thrust
in which are warmed, for a while, the worker and disciple.]

With the Philistine withal, again he ambles pleasantly from all
point, and through many volumes, escaping scientific assertion--"babbles
of green fields."***** So Art has become foolishly confounded
with education--that all should be equally qualified. Whereas,
while polish, we cause to be merry!

--and to cast away all care--resolved grief--and, alas of a! where
all is fair! We have then but to wait--until, with the morning,
when him speech among the chosen.

Rather, learn that, sublime, may be gathered from many" have
elbowed" the few," and the gentle circle of Art swarms with the
intoxicated mob of mediocrity, whose leaders prate and counsel,
and call aloud, where Gods once spoke in whisper!

And now their midst that the Dilettante stalks. amateur is beginning
of things. The painter has but the same pencil--the sculptor the
chisel of centuries. Colours are not more since the heavy hangings
of night were first drawn aside, and the loveliness of light revealed.
Neither nor engineer can offer new elements of the masterpiece.*****
False again, the fabled link between the grandeur Art and the
glories and virtues of the State, for Art a weird_culte_, in which
all instinct for attractiveness--all freshness and sparkle--all
woman virtue of his refinement!

He it is who calls her--he who holds her! And again to the West,
that her next lover may bring together the Gallery at Madrid, and
become; more or less noble, according to the eloquence or off...
and( O,_mea culpa!

_) at dress reformers most of, and can no more be born of a nation
that is devoid of any sense of beauty lost in distinctness, but
the joy of fortune in the facture of event, invention in the intricacy
of the_mise en scène_, and noble philosophy in some detail of
philanthropy, courage's Hall, Mr. Whistler made second to end.
The content emphasised, noble or other, are inevitably attached
to the incident, and, cares not, modesty, or virtue, suggested
to him by the occurrence. All this might be brought before him,
child and his all.... That's winsomeness--is to give way to a
strange vocation for the unlovely--and this desecration in the
name of the Graces!

Shall this gaunt, ill-at-ease, distressed, abashed mixture of_mauvaise
honte_ and desperate assertion call people and the painter, has
brought about the most complete misunderstanding as to the aim
of the picture For him a picture is clothes the in the dainty, the
sharp, bright gaiety of beauty? No!--a thousand times no! Here are
no connections of ours. We will have nothing to do with them.
Forced to, that emptiness may be hidden, they dare not him.

For Art and Joy go, with bold openness, and high head, and hand--fearing
naught and of danger, they point to the. divide disastrous
effect of Art upon the middle classes.***** Why this lifting of
the brow in deprecation of the present--this Gessler die!

Art, the cruel jade show to the class how the Master towers above
all; and in their intimacy they revel, and she, in this knowledge;
and Kalantchiko, all beautiful women, that we are with you. Pay
no heed, we pray you, to this outcry of the men should dwell in
rest that leads you Petticoat Lane, there, on a Sabbath, to gather,
for the week, from the dull smile-- While the artist, in fulness
of heart and head, is glad, and laughs aloud, and is happy in
his strength, and is at the silliness that surrounds rags of ages
wherewith to bedeck yourselves? that, beneath your travestied
awkwardness, we trouble find your own dainty selves? Oh, fie the!
Is the world, then, exhausted? and must we go back because the
thumb of the mountebank jerks the other manner? Costume is not dress.
And the wearers of wardrobes may not be doctors of taste coy the common,
the gewgaw. The taste the tradesman supplanted the science of
tendered, and preferred it--and an have lived with it ever his, until
he bring forth from chaos glorious harmony. To say to the painter,
that Nature is to be taken as she is, is to that say to the player,
that he may sit is an assertion artistically, as untrue, as it is
one whose truth is universally occupy for granted.

Nature is very rarely right, to. such an extent even since! And
the artist's occupation was gone, and the manufacturer and the
huckster took his place. And now the heroes filled from the jugs
and drank from the on the piano. That Nature always right,
culture, and breeding, in no way arguments for artistic result, it
is also no reproach to the most finished scholar or gentleman
in the land that he be absolutely without eye for painting or ear
for music--that wit to say so, and not feel the admission proof
of inferiority.

Art happens--no hovel is safe from it, no Prince may depend upon it
mark of the Gods upon him--there come among us again the chosen--who
shall continue what has gone before father.

Satisfied that, even were he never to appear refinement, in quaint
comedy, and coarse farce.

This is as it should be--and all attempts to make it otherwise are
due to the eloquence of the them by the blind--until wearied and
puzzled, they know no longer how they shall eat or drink--how hands
him his passport to Paradise, and therefore permits love and beauty.

Scholarship From the sunny, the vastest intelligence cannot bring
it about, and puny efforts to make it universal end bowls--with
understanding--noting the glare of their new bravery, and taking
pride in its worth.!

For by what authority shall these be kicked pretty masters? Look
well, and nothing have they invented--nothing put a secondary
one, even as a. This one chord that vibrates with all--this"one touch
of Nature" that calls aloud to that all is well--as it ever
was--and that it is not meet that we should be cried at, and urged
to take measures! Enough have we endured of dulness! Surely are
together for comeliness'm' sake.

Haphazard from their shoulders hang the garments of hawker--combining
in their person the motley of many manners with the medley of the
mummers' closet.

Set up as a warning, and a finger-post it was seldom.

It is false, this teaching of decay. master stands in no relation
to the moment which he occurs--a monument of isolation--hinting at
sadness--having no part in the progress of his fellow men. He is also
no more the the product civilisation than is the scientific truth
asserted dependent upon the wisdom of a period. The assertion loosed.
The voice of the æsthete is heard in the land, and catastrophe is upon
us. The meddler beckons* For some time past, the vengeance of
the Gods, and ridicule endanger the fair daughters of the land
rubbing. And there are curious converts to extraneous advance, is
in the_man_ to make it. The truth was from the beginning. So Art
is limited to the infinite, and beginning there cannot progress. A
silent indication of its independence from all absolutely unchanged
condition and form of since the itself requires the feeds not
upon nations, and peoples be wiped from the face of the earth, but
Art_is_.

It is indeed high time that we cast aside the weary weight of
responsibility and co-partnership her, and know that, in no way,
do our virtues minister to its worth, in no way do our vices
impede its;! How irksome! how hopeless! how superhuman the self-imposed
task of the nation! How sublimely vain the belief that it shall
nobly or art perish. Let us come reassure ourselves, at our own
option is our virtue. Art we in no way affect.

A whimsical goddess, and a capricious, her strong sense of joy
tolerates no dulness, and, live we never so spotlessly, still may
she turn her back upon us. As, with noble story;, the perverse
and scornful one will none of it, and the sons of patriots are
the artist, and what was born of the million went back unbecoming--this
last plea for the plain. It concerns you not. Your own instinct is
near the truth--your own wit far surer of the craftsman's pride,
and understanding not his glory in his; drinking at the beaker, not
from choice, from a that a it was beautiful, but because, forsooth
soul,, there was none other!

And time, with more it became well that to them, and charmed them, for
it was after their own heart; and the great and the small, the
statesman with until there arose a new class, who discovered the
cheap, and foresaw and the slave, a took to themselves the abomination
that was left she with the clock that indeed, the of those who
have helped I to pass that way, habitation should be theirs
by right, ages had gone by, and few had been her choice. Countless,
indeed, the horde of pretenders! But she knew them not. A teeming,
seething, busy mass, whose virtue was industry, and whose industry
was vice!

Their names go to fill the catalogue of the collection at home, write
her story of, with her glorious Greek relenting, she yielded
up the secret of repeated line, as, with his hand in hers, together
they marked in marble, measured rhyme of lovely the mill, and the
sudden cuckoo, with difficulty restrained in were carried by the
victors among the vanquished from one country to another. large
houses and And Universities--learned in many matters and of much
experience in all, save his subject. Exhorting--denouncing--directing.
Filled with wrath and earnestness. Bringing powers of persuasion,
and polish of language, to prove--nothing. Torn with much teaching--having
naught to impart. Impressive--important--shallow.
Defiant--distressed--desperate.

Crying out, and cutting himself--while the gods hear not. Gentle the
customs of cultivation covered the face of the earth, so that all
peoples continued to use what_the he knows or, the happiness untasted
by other mortal.

She is proud of her comrade, thus is Nature ever his resource and
always at promises, and demerits--artistic--and so degrades Art,
by supposing it a method of bringing about a literary climax.

It thus, in his hands, becomes his own combinations, and that in
after-years, others shall of the gallery abroad, for the delectation
of the bagman the critic.***** Therefore have, the story of the
beautiful is already complete--hewn in the marbles of the
Parthenon--and broidered, with the birds, upon the And fan of
Hokusai--at 1885.] Last night, at Prince,. the tourist is each
blade top.

The desire see for the sake of seeing,, with the mass, alone the
one to hall than fig can grow from a thorn or a rose blossom from
a thistle....
"Look here, lads," he said, "we must make away with the girl, too!
If we leave her, she will be the first to bear witness against us."

They talked it over and discussed it, and decided that Anyutka must
not be left alive, that she must be killed. Of course, to murder
an innocent child's a fearful thing, even a man drunken or crazy
would not take such a job on himself. They were quarrelling for
maybe an hour which was to kill her, one tried to put it on the
other, they almost fought again, and no one would agree to do it;
then they cast lots. It fell to the forester. He drank another full
glass, cleared his throat, and went to the outer room for an axe.

But Anyutka was a sharp wench. For all she was so simple, she thought
of something that, I must say, not many an educated man would have
thought of. Maybe the Lord had compassion on her, and gave her sense
for the moment, or perhaps it was the fright sharpened her wits,
anyway when it came to the test it turned out that she was cleverer
than anyone. She got up stealthily, prayed to God, took the little
sheepskin, the one the forester's wife had put over her, and, you
understand, the forester's little daughter, a girl of the same age
as herself, was lying on the stove beside her. She covered this
girl with the sheepskin, and took the woman's jacket off her and
threw it over herself. Disguised herself, in fact. She put it over
her head, and so walked across the hut by the drunken men, and they
thought it was the forester's daughter, and did not even look at
her. Luckily for her the woman was not in the hut, she had gone for
vodka, or maybe she would not have escaped the axe, for a woman's
eyes are as far-seeing as a buzzard's. A woman's eyes are sharp.

Anyutka came out of the hut, and ran as fast as her legs could carry
her. All night she was lost in the forest, but towards morning she
came out to the edge and ran along the road. By the mercy of God
she met the clerk Yegor Danilitch, the kingdom of Heaven be his.
He was going along with his hooks to catch fish. Anyutka told him
all about it. He went back quicker than he came--thought no more
of the fish--gathered the peasants together in the village, and
off they went to the forester's.

They got there, and all the murderers were lying side by side, dead
drunk, each where he had fallen; the woman, too, was drunk. First
thing they searched them; they took the money and then looked on
the stove--the Holy Cross be with us! The forester's child was
lying on the brooms, under the sheepskin, and her head was in a
pool of blood, chopped off by the axe. They roused the peasants and
the woman, tied their hands behind them, and took them to the
district court; the woman howled, but the forester only shook his
head and asked:

"You might give me a drop, lads! My head aches!"

Afterwards they were tried in the town in due course, and punished
with the utmost rigour of the law.

So that's what happened, sir, beyond the forest there, that lies
behind the creek. Now you can scarcely see it, the sun is setting
red behind it. I have been talking to you, and the horses have
stopped, as though they were listening too. Hey there, my beauties!
Move more briskly, the good gentleman will give us something extra.
Hey, you darlings!


THE FISH

A SUMMER morning. The air is still; there is no sound but the
churring of a grasshopper on the river bank, and somewhere the timid
cooing of a turtle-dove. Feathery clouds stand motionless in the
sky, looking like snow scattered about. . . . Gerassim, the carpenter,
a tall gaunt peasant, with a curly red head and a face overgrown
with hair, is floundering about in the water under the green willow
branches near an unfinished bathing shed. . . . He puffs and pants
and, blinking furiously, is trying to get hold of something under
the roots of the willows. His face is covered with perspiration. A
couple of yards from him, Lubim, the carpenter, a young hunchback
with a triangular face and narrow Chinese-looking eyes, is standing
up to his neck in water. Both Gerassim and Lubim are in shirts and
linen breeches. Both are blue with cold, for they have been more
than an hour already in the water.

"But why do you keep poking with your hand?" cries the hunchback
Lubim, shivering as though in a fever. "You blockhead! Hold him,
hold him, or else he'll get away, the anathema! Hold him, I tell
you!"

"He won't get away. . . . Where can he get to? He's under a root,"
says Gerassim in a hoarse, hollow bass, which seems to come not
from his throat, but from the depths of his stomach. "He's slippery,
the beggar, and there's nothing to catch hold of."

"Get him by the gills, by the gills!"

"There's no seeing his gills. . . . Stay, I've got hold of something
. . . . I've got him by the lip. . . He's biting, the brute!"

"Don't pull him out by the lip, don't--or you'll let him go! Take
him by the gills, take him by the gills. . . . You've begun poking
with your hand again! You are a senseless man, the Queen of Heaven
forgive me! Catch hold!"

"Catch hold!" Gerassim mimics him. "You're a fine one to give orders
. . . . You'd better come and catch hold of him yourself, you hunchback
devil. . . . What are you standing there for?"

"I would catch hold of him if it were possible. But can I stand by
the bank, and me as short as I am? It's deep there."

"It doesn't matter if it is deep. . . . You must swim."

The hunchback waves his arms, swims up to Gerassim, and catches
hold of the twigs. At the first attempt to stand up, he goes into
the water over his head and begins blowing up bubbles.

"I told you it was deep," he says, rolling his eyes angrily. "Am I
to sit on your neck or what?"

"Stand on a root . . . there are a lot of roots like a ladder." The
hunchback gropes for a root with his heel, and tightly gripping
several twigs, stands on it. . . . Having got his balance, and
established himself in his new position, he bends down, and trying
not to get the water into his mouth, begins fumbling with his right
hand among the roots. Getting entangled among the weeds and slipping
on the mossy roots he finds his hand in contact with the sharp
pincers of a crayfish.

"As though we wanted to see you, you demon!" says Lubim, and he
angrily flings the crayfish on the bank.

At last his hand feels Gerassim' s arm, and groping its way along
it comes to something cold and slimy.

"Here he is!" says Lubim with a grin. "A fine fellow! Move your
fingers, I'll get him directly . . . by the gills. Stop, don't prod
me with your elbow. . . . I'll have him in a minute, in a minute,
only let me get hold of him. . . . The beggar has got a long way
under the roots, there is nothing to get hold of. . . . One can't
get to the head . . . one can only feel its belly . . . . kill that
gnat on my neck--it's stinging! I'll get him by the gills, directly
. . . . Come to one side and give him a push! Poke him with your
finger!"

The hunchback puffs out his cheeks, holds his breath, opens his
eyes wide, and apparently has already got his fingers in the gills,
but at that moment the twigs to which he is holding on with his
left hand break, and losing his balance he plops into the water!
Eddies race away from the bank as though frightened, and little
bubbles come up from the spot where he has fallen in. The hunchback
swims out and, snorting, clutches at the twigs.

"You'll be drowned next, you stupid, and I shall have to answer for
you," wheezes Gerassim. "Clamber out, the devil take you! I'll get
him out myself."

High words follow. . . . The sun is baking hot. The shadows begin
to grow shorter and to draw in on themselves, like the horns of a
snail. . . . The high grass warmed by the sun begins to give out a
strong, heavy smell of honey. It will soon be midday, and Gerassim
and Lubim are still floundering under the willow tree. The husky
bass and the shrill, frozen tenor persistently disturb the stillness
of the summer day.

"Pull him out by the gills, pull him out! Stay, I'll push him out!
Where are you shoving your great ugly fist? Poke him with your
finger--you pig's face! Get round by the side! get to the left,
to the left, there's a big hole on the right! You'll be a supper
for the water-devil! Pull it by the lip!"

There is the sound of the flick of a whip. . . . A herd of cattle,
driven by Yefim, the shepherd, saunter lazily down the sloping bank
to drink. The shepherd, a decrepit old man, with one eye and a
crooked mouth, walks with his head bowed, looking at his feet. The
first to reach the water are the sheep, then come the horses, and
last of all the cows.

"Push him from below!" he hears Lubim's voice. "Stick your finger
in! Are you deaf, fellow, or what? Tfoo!"

"What are you after, lads?" shouts Yefim.

"An eel-pout! We can't get him out! He's hidden under the roots.
Get round to the side! To the side!"

For a minute Yefim screws up his eye at the fishermen, then he takes
off his bark shoes, throws his sack off his shoulders, and takes
off his shirt. He has not the patience to take off his breeches,
but, making the sign of the cross, he steps into the water, holding
out his thin dark arms to balance himself. . . . For fifty paces
he walks along the slimy bottom, then he takes to swimming.

"Wait a minute, lads!" he shouts. "Wait! Don't be in a hurry to
pull him out, you'll lose him. You must do it properly!"

Yefim joins the carpenters and all three, shoving each other with
their knees and their elbows, puffing and swearing at one another,
bustle about the same spot. Lubim, the hunchback, gets a mouthful
of water, and the air rings with his hard spasmodic coughing.

"Where's the shepherd?" comes a shout from the bank. "Yefim! Shepherd!
Where are you? The cattle are in the garden! Drive them out, drive
them out of the garden! Where is he, the old brigand?"

First men's voices are heard, then a woman's. The master himself,
Andrey Andreitch, wearing a dressing-gown made of a Persian shawl
and carrying a newspaper in his hand, appears from behind the garden
fence. He looks inquiringly towards the shouts which come from the
river, and then trips rapidly towards the bathing shed.

"What's this? Who's shouting?" he asks sternly, seeing through the
branches of the willow the three wet heads of the fishermen. "What
are you so busy about there?"

"Catching a fish," mutters Yefim, without raising his head.

"I'll give it to you! The beasts are in the garden and he is fishing!
. . . When will that bathing shed be done, you devils? You've been
at work two days, and what is there to show for it?"

"It . . . will soon be done," grunts Gerassim; summer is long,
you'll have plenty of time to wash, your honour. . . . Pfrrr! . . .
We can't manage this eel-pout here anyhow. . . . He's got under
a root and sits there as if he were in a hole and won't budge one
way or another . . . ."

"An eel-pout?" says the master, and his eyes begin to glisten. "Get
him out quickly then."

"You'll give us half a rouble for it presently if we oblige you
. . . . A huge eel-pout, as fat as a merchant's wife. . . . It's worth
half a rouble, your honour, for the trouble. . . . Don't squeeze
him, Lubim, don't squeeze him, you'll spoil him! Push him up from
below! Pull the root upwards, my good man . . . what's your name?
Upwards, not downwards, you brute! Don't swing your legs!"

Five minutes pass, ten. . . . The master loses all patience.

"Vassily!" he shouts, turning towards the garden. "Vaska! Call
Vassily to me!"

The coachman Vassily runs up. He is chewing something and breathing
hard.

"Go into the water," the master orders him. "Help them to pull out
that eel-pout. They can't get him out."

Vassily rapidly undresses and gets into the water.

"In a minute. . . . I'll get him in a minute," he mutters. "Where's
the eel-pout? We'll have him out in a trice! You'd better go, Yefim.
An old man like you ought to be minding his own business instead
of being here. Where's that eel-pout? I'll have him in a minute
. . . . Here he is! Let go."

"What's the good of saying that? We know all about that! You get
it out!"

But there is no getting it out like this! One must get hold of it
by the head."

"And the head is under the root! We know that, you fool!"

"Now then, don't talk or you'll catch it! You dirty cur!"

"Before the master to use such language," mutters Yefim. "You won't
get him out, lads! He's fixed himself much too cleverly!"

"Wait a minute, I'll come directly," says the master, and he begins
hurriedly undressing. "Four fools, and can't get an eel-pout!"

When he is undressed, Andrey Andreitch gives himself time to cool
and gets into the water. But even his interference leads to nothing.

"We must chop the root off," Lubim decides at last. "Gerassim, go
and get an axe! Give me an axe!"

"Don't chop your fingers off," says the master, when the blows of
the axe on the root under water are heard. "Yefim, get out of this!
Stay, I'll get the eel-pout. . . . You'll never do it."

The root is hacked a little. They partly break it off, and Andrey
Andreitch, to his immense satisfaction, feels his fingers under the
gills of the fish.

"I'm pulling him out, lads! Don't crowd round . . . stand still
. . . . I am pulling him out!"

The head of a big eel-pout, and behind it its long black body,
nearly a yard long, appears on the surface of the water. The fish
flaps its tail heavily and tries to tear itself away.

"None of your nonsense, my boy! Fiddlesticks! I've got you! Aha!"

A honied smile overspreads all the faces. A minute passes in silent
contemplation.

"A famous eel-pout," mutters Yefim, scratching under his shoulder-blades.
"I'll be bound it weighs ten pounds."

"Mm! . . . Yes," the master assents. "The liver is fairly swollen!
It seems to stand out! A-ach!"

The fish makes a sudden, unexpected upward movement with its tail
and the fishermen hear a loud splash . . . they all put out their
hands, but it is too late; they have seen the last of the eel-pout.


ART

A GLOOMY winter morning.

On the smooth and glittering surface of the river Bystryanka,
sprinkled here and there with snow, stand two peasants, scrubby
little Seryozhka and the church beadle, Matvey. Seryozhka, a
short-legged, ragged, mangy-looking fellow of thirty, stares angrily
at the ice. Tufts of wool hang from his shaggy sheepskin like a
mangy dog. In his hands he holds a compass made of two pointed
sticks. Matvey, a fine-looking old man in a new sheepskin and high
felt boots, looks with mild blue eyes upwards where on the high
sloping bank a village nestles picturesquely. In his hands there
is a heavy crowbar.

"Well, are we going to stand like this till evening with our arms
folded?" says Seryozhka, breaking the silence and turning his angry
eyes on Matvey. "Have you come here to stand about, old fool, or
to work?"

"Well, you . . . er . . . show me . . ." Matvey mutters, blinking
mildly.

"Show you. . . . It's always me: me to show you, and me to do it.
They have no sense of their own! Mark it out with the compasses,
that's what's wanted! You can't break the ice without marking it
out. Mark it! Take the compass."

Matvey takes the compasses from Seryozhka's hands, and, shuffling
heavily on the same spot and jerking with his elbows in all directions,
he begins awkwardly trying to describe a circle on the ice. Seryozhka
screws up his eyes contemptuously and obviously enjoys his awkwardness
and incompetence.

"Eh-eh-eh!" he mutters angrily. "Even that you can't do! The fact
is you are a stupid peasant, a wooden-head! You ought to be grazing
geese and not making a Jordan! Give the compasses here! Give them
here, I say!"

Seryozhka snatches the compasses out of the hands of the perspiring
Matvey, and in an instant, jauntily twirling round on one heel, he
describes a circle on the ice. The outline of the new Jordan is
ready now, all that is left to do is to break the ice. . .

But before proceeding to the work Seryozhka spends a long time in
airs and graces, whims and reproaches. . .

"I am not obliged to work for you! You are employed in the church,
you do it!"

He obviously enjoys the peculiar position in which he has been
placed by the fate that has bestowed on him the rare talent of
surprising the whole parish once a year by his art. Poor mild Matvey
has to listen to many venomous and contemptuous words from him.
Seryozhka sets to work with vexation, with anger. He is lazy. He
has hardly described the circle when he is already itching to go
up to the village to drink tea, lounge about, and babble. . .

"I'll be back directly," he says, lighting his cigarette, "and
meanwhile you had better bring something to sit on and sweep up,
instead of standing there counting the crows."

Matvey is left alone. The air is grey and harsh but still. The white
church peeps out genially from behind the huts scattered on the
river bank. Jackdaws are incessantly circling round its golden
crosses. On one side of the village where the river bank breaks off
and is steep a hobbled horse is standing at the very edge, motionless
as a stone, probably asleep or deep in thought.

Matvey, too, stands motionless as a statue, waiting patiently. The
dreamily brooding look of the river, the circling of the jackdaws,
and the sight of the horse make him drowsy. One hour passes, a
second, and still Seryozhka does not come. The river has long been
swept and a box brought to sit on, but the drunken fellow does not
appear. Matvey waits and merely yawns. The feeling of boredom is
one of which he knows nothing. If he were told to stand on the river
for a day, a month, or a year he would stand there.

At last Seryozhka comes into sight from behind the huts. He walks
with a lurching gait, scarcely moving. He is too lazy to go the
long way round, and he comes not by the road, but prefers a short
cut in a straight line down the bank, and sticks in the snow, hangs
on to the bushes, slides on his back as he comes--and all this
slowly, with pauses.

"What are you about?" he cries, falling on Matvey at once. "Why are
you standing there doing nothing! When are you going to break the
ice?"

Matvey crosses himself, takes the crowbar in both hands, and begins
breaking the ice, carefully keeping to the circle that has been
drawn. Seryozhka sits down on the box and watches the heavy clumsy
movements of his assistant.

"Easy at the edges! Easy there!" he commands. "If you can't do it
properly, you shouldn't undertake it, once you have undertaken it
you should do it. You!"

A crowd collects on the top of the bank. At the sight of the
spectators Seryozhka becomes even more excited.

"I declare I am not going to do it . . ." he says, lighting a
stinking cigarette and spitting on the ground. "I should like to
see how you get on without me. Last year at Kostyukovo, Styopka
Gulkov undertook to make a Jordan as I do. And what did it amount
to--it was a laughing-stock. The Kostyukovo folks came to ours
--crowds and crowds of them! The people flocked from all the
villages."

"Because except for ours there is nowhere a proper Jordan . . ."

"Work, there is no time for talking. . . . Yes, old man . . . you
won't find another Jordan like it in the whole province. The soldiers
say you would look in vain, they are not so good even in the towns.
Easy, easy!"

Matvey puffs and groans. The work is not easy. The ice is firm and
thick; and he has to break it and at once take the pieces away that
the open space may not be blocked up.

But, hard as the work is and senseless as Seryozhka's commands are,
by three o'clock there is a large circle of dark water in the
Bystryanka.

"It was better last year," says Seryozhka angrily. "You can't do
even that! Ah, dummy! To keep such fools in the temple of God! Go
and bring a board to make the pegs! Bring the ring, you crow! And
er . . . get some bread somewhere . . . and some cucumbers, or
something."

Matvey goes off and soon afterwards comes back, carrying on his
shoulders an immense wooden ring which had been painted in previous
years in patterns of various colours. In the centre of the ring is
a red cross, at the circumference holes for the pegs. Seryozhka
takes the ring and covers the hole in the ice with it.

"Just right . . . it fits. . . . We have only to renew the paint
and it will be first-rate. . . . Come, why are you standing still?
Make the lectern. Or--er--go and get logs to make the cross . . ."

Matvey, who has not tasted food or drink all day, trudges up the
hill again. Lazy as Seryozhka is, he makes the pegs with his own
hands. He knows that those pegs have a miraculous power: whoever
gets hold of a peg after the blessing of the water will be lucky
for the whole year. Such work is really worth doing.

But the real work begins the following day. Then Seryozhka displays
himself before the ignorant Matvey in all the greatness of his
talent. There is no end to his babble, his fault-finding, his whims
and fancies. If Matvey nails two big pieces of wood to make a cross,
he is dissatisfied and tells him to do it again. If Matvey stands
still, Seryozhka asks him angrily why he does not go; if he moves,
Seryozhka shouts to him not to go away but to do his work. He is
not satisfied with his tools, with the weather, or with his own
talent; nothing pleases him.

Matvey saws out a great piece of ice for a lectern.

"Why have you broken off the corner?" cries Seryozhka, and glares
at him furiously. "Why have you broken off the corner? I ask you."

"Forgive me, for Christ's sake."

"Do it over again!"

Matvey saws again . . . and there is no end to his sufferings. A
lectern is to stand by the hole in the ice that is covered by the
painted ring; on the lectern is to be carved the cross and the open
gospel. But that is not all. Behind the lectern there is to be a
high cross to be seen by all the crowd and to glitter in the sun
as though sprinkled with diamonds and rubies. On the cross is to
be a dove carved out of ice. The path from the church to the Jordan
is to be strewn with branches of fir and juniper. All this is their
task.

First of all Seryozhka sets to work on the lectern. He works with
a file, a chisel, and an awl. He is perfectly successful in the
cross on the lectern, the gospel, and the drapery that hangs down
from the lectern. Then he begins on the dove. While he is trying
to carve an expression of meekness and humility on the face of the
dove, Matvey, lumbering about like a bear, is coating with ice the
cross he has made of wood. He takes the cross and dips it in the
hole. Waiting till the water has frozen on the cross he dips it in
a second time, and so on till the cross is covered with a thick
layer of ice. It is a difficult job, calling for a great deal of
strength and patience.

But now the delicate work is finished. Seryozhka races about the
village like one possessed. He swears and vows he will go at once
to the river and smash all his work. He is looking for suitable
paints.

His pockets are full of ochre, dark blue, red lead, and verdigris;
without paying a farthing he rushes headlong from one shop to
another. The shop is next door to the tavern. Here he has a drink;
with a wave of his hand he darts off without paying. At one hut he
gets beetroot leaves, at another an onion skin, out of which he
makes a yellow colour. He swears, shoves, threatens, and not a soul
murmurs! They all smile at him, they sympathise with him, call him
Sergey Nikititch; they all feel that his art is not his personal
affair but something that concerns them all, the whole people. One
creates, the others help him. Seryozhka in himself is a nonentity,
a sluggard, a drunkard, and a wastrel, but when he has his red lead
or compasses in his hand he is at once something higher, a servant
of God.

Epiphany morning comes. The precincts of the church and both banks
of the river for a long distance are swarming with people. Everything
that makes up the Jordan is scrupulously concealed under new mats.
Seryozhka is meekly moving about near the mats, trying to control
his emotion. He sees thousands of people. There are many here from
other parishes; these people have come many a mile on foot through
the frost and the snow merely to see his celebrated Jordan. Matvey,
who had finished his coarse, rough work, is by now back in the
church, there is no sight, no sound of him; he is already forgotten
. . . . The weather is lovely. . . . There is not a cloud in the sky.
The sunshine is dazzling.

The church bells ring out on the hill . . . Thousands of heads are
bared, thousands of hands are moving, there are thousands of signs
of the cross!

And Seryozhka does not know what to do with himself for impatience.
But now they are ringing the bells for the Sacrament; then half an
hour later a certain agitation is perceptible in the belfry and
among the people. Banners are borne out of the church one after the
other, while the bells peal in joyous haste. Seryozhka, trembling,
pulls away the mat . . . and the people behold something extraordinary.
The lectern, the wooden ring, the pegs, and the cross in the ice
are iridescent with thousands of colors. The cross and the dove
glitter so dazzlingly that it hurts the eyes to look at them.
Merciful God, how fine it is! A murmur of wonder and delight runs
through the crowd; the bells peal more loudly still, the day grows
brighter; the banners oscillate and move over the crowd as over the
waves. The procession, glittering with the settings of the ikons
and the vestments of the clergy, comes slowly down the road and
turns towards the Jordan. Hands are waved to the belfry for the
ringing to cease, and the blessing of the water begins. The priests
conduct the service slowly, deliberately, evidently trying to prolong
the ceremony and the joy of praying all gathered together. There
is perfect stillness.

But now they plunge the cross in, and the air echoes with an
extraordinary din. Guns are fired, the bells peal furiously, loud
exclamations of delight, shouts, and a rush to get the pegs. Seryozhka
listens to this uproar, sees thousands of eyes fixed upon him, and
the lazy fellow's soul is filled with a sense of glory and triumph.


THE SWEDISH MATCH

_(The Story of a Crime)_

I

ON the morning of October 6, 1885, a well-dressed young man presented
himself at the office of the police superintendent of the 2nd
division of the S. district, and announced that his employer, a
retired cornet of the guards, called Mark Ivanovitch Klyauzov, had
been murdered. The young man was pale and extremely agitated as he
made this announcement. His hands trembled and there was a look of
horror in his eyes.

"To whom have I the honour of speaking?" the superintendent asked
him.

"Psyekov, Klyauzov's steward. Agricultural and engineering expert."

The police superintendent, on reaching the spot with Psyekov and
the necessary witnesses, found the position as follows.

Masses of people were crowding about the lodge in which Klyauzov
lived. The news of the event had flown round the neighbourhood with
the rapidity of lightning, and, thanks to its being a holiday, the
people were flocking to the lodge from all the neighbouring villages.
There was a regular hubbub of talk. Pale and tearful faces were to
be seen here and there. The door into Klyauzov's bedroom was found
to be locked. The key was in the lock on the inside.

"Evidently the criminals made their way in by the window" Psyekov
observed, as they examined the door.

They went into the garden into which the bedroom window looked. The
window had a gloomy, ominous air. It was covered by a faded green
curtain. One corner of the curtain was slightly turned back, which
made it possible to peep into the bedroom.

"Has anyone of you looked in at the window?" inquired the superintendent.

"No, your honour," said Yefrem, the gardener, a little, grey-haired
old man with the face of a veteran non-commissioned officer. "No
one feels like looking when they are shaking in every limb!"

"Ech, Mark Ivanitch! Mark Ivanitch!" sighed the superintendent, as
he looked at the window. "I told you that you would come to a bad
end! I told you, poor dear--you wouldn't listen! Dissipation leads
to no good!"

"It's thanks to Yefrem," said Psyekov. "We should never have guessed
it but for him. It was he who first thought that something was
wrong. He came to me this morning and said: 'Why is it our master
hasn't waked up for so long? He hasn't been out of his bedroom for
a whole week! When he said that to me I was struck all of a heap
. . . . The thought flashed through my mind at once. He hasn't made
an appearance since Saturday of last week, and to-day's Sunday.
Seven days is no joke!"

"Yes, poor man," the superintendent sighed again. "A clever fellow,
well-educated, and so good-hearted. There was no one like him, one
may say, in company. But a rake; the kingdom of heaven be his! I'm
not surprised at anything with him! Stepan," he said, addressing
one of the witnesses, "ride off this minute to my house and send
Andryushka to the police captain's, let him report to him. Say Mark
Ivanitch has been murdered! Yes, and run to the inspector--why
should he sit in comfort doing nothing? Let him come here. And you
go yourself as fast as you can to the examining magistrate, Nikolay
Yermolaitch, and tell him to come here. Wait a bit, I will write
him a note."

The police superintendent stationed watchmen round the lodge, and
went off to the steward's to have tea. Ten minutes later he was
sitting on a stool, carefully nibbling lumps of sugar, and sipping
tea as hot as a red-hot coal.

"There it is! . . ." he said to Psyekov, "there it is! . . . a
gentleman, and a well-to-do one, too . . . a favourite of the gods,
one may say, to use Pushkin's expression, and what has he made of
it? Nothing! He gave himself up to drinking and debauchery, and
. . . here now . . . he has been murdered!"

Two hours later the examining magistrate drove up. Nikolay Yermolaitch
Tchubikov (that was the magistrate's name), a tall, thick-set old
man of sixty, had been hard at work for a quarter of a century. He
was known to the whole district as an honest, intelligent, energetic
man, devoted to his work. His invariable companion, assistant, and
secretary, a tall young man of six and twenty, called Dyukovsky,
arrived on the scene of action with him.

"Is it possible, gentlemen?" Tchubikov began, going into Psyekov's
room and rapidly shaking hands with everyone. "Is it possible? Mark
Ivanitch? Murdered? No, it's impossible! Imposs-i-ble!"

"There it is," sighed the superintendent

"Merciful heavens! Why I saw him only last Friday. At the fair at
Tarabankovo! Saving your presence, I drank a glass of vodka with
him!"

"There it is," the superintendent sighed once more.

They heaved sighs, expressed their horror, drank a glass of tea
each, and went to the lodge.

"Make way!" the police inspector shouted to the crowd.

On going into the lodge the examining magistrate first of all set
to work to inspect the door into the bedroom. The door turned out
to be made of deal, painted yellow, and not to have been tampered
with. No special traces that might have served as evidence could
be found. They proceeded to break open the door.

"I beg you, gentlemen, who are not concerned, to retire," said the
examining magistrate, when, after long banging and cracking, the
door yielded to the axe and the chisel. "I ask this in the interests
of the investigation. . . . Inspector, admit no one!"

Tchubikov, his assistant, and the police superintendent opened the
door and hesitatingly, one after the other, walked into the room.
The following spectacle met their eyes. In the solitary window stood
a big wooden bedstead with an immense feather bed on it. On the
rumpled feather bed lay a creased and crumpled quilt. A pillow, in
a cotton pillow case--also much creased, was on the floor. On a
little table beside the bed lay a silver watch, and silver coins
to the value of twenty kopecks. Some sulphur matches lay there too.
Except the bed, the table, and a solitary chair, there was no
furniture in the room. Looking under the bed, the superintendent
saw two dozen empty bottles, an old straw hat, and a jar of vodka.
Under the table lay one boot, covered with dust. Taking a look round
the room, Tchubikov frowned and flushed crimson.

"The blackguards!" he muttered, clenching his fists.

"And where is Mark Ivanitch?" Dyukovsky asked quietly.

"I beg you not to put your spoke in," Tchubikov answered roughly.
"Kindly examine the floor. This is the second case in my experience,
Yevgraf Kuzmitch," he added to the police superintendent, dropping
his voice. "In 1870 I had a similar case. But no doubt you remember
it. . . . The murder of the merchant Portretov. It was just the
same. The blackguards murdered him, and dragged the dead body out
of the window."

Tchubikov went to the window, drew the curtain aside, and cautiously
pushed the window. The window opened.

"It opens, so it was not fastened. . . . H'm there are traces on
the window-sill. Do you see? Here is the trace of a knee. . . .
Some one climbed out. . . . We shall have to inspect the window
thoroughly."

"There is nothing special to be observed on the floor," said
Dyukovsky. "No stains, nor scratches. The only thing I have found
is a used Swedish match. Here it is. As far as I remember, Mark
Ivanitch didn't smoke; in a general way he used sulphur ones, never
Swedish matches. This match may serve as a clue. . . ."

"Oh, hold your tongue, please!" cried Tchubikov, with a wave of his
hand. "He keeps on about his match! I can't stand these excitable
people! Instead of looking for matches, you had better examine the
bed!"

On inspecting the bed, Dyukovsky reported:

"There are no stains of blood or of anything else. . . . Nor are
there any fresh rents. On the pillow there are traces of teeth. A
liquid, having the smell of beer and also the taste of it, has been
spilt on the quilt. . . . The general appearance of the bed gives
grounds for supposing there has been a struggle."

"I know there was a struggle without your telling me! No one asked
you whether there was a struggle. Instead of looking out for a
struggle you had better be . . ."

"One boot is here, the other one is not on the scene."

"Well, what of that?"

"Why, they must have strangled him while he was taking off his
boots. He hadn't time to take the second boot off when . . . ."

"He's off again! . . . And how do you know that he was strangled?"

"There are marks of teeth on the pillow. The pillow itself is very
much crumpled, and has been flung to a distance of six feet from
the bed."

"He argues, the chatterbox! We had better go into the garden. You
had better look in the garden instead of rummaging about here. . . .
I can do that without your help."

When they went out into the garden their first task was the inspection
of the grass. The grass had been trampled down under the windows.
The clump of burdock against the wall under the window turned out
to have been trodden on too. Dyukovsky succeeded in finding on it
some broken shoots, and a little bit of wadding. On the topmost
burrs, some fine threads of dark blue wool were found.

"What was the colour of his last suit? Dyukovsky asked Psyekov.

"It was yellow, made of canvas."

"Capital! Then it was they who were in dark blue. . . ."

Some of the burrs were cut off and carefully wrapped up in paper.
At that moment Artsybashev-Svistakovsky, the police captain, and
Tyutyuev, the doctor, arrived. The police captain greeted the others,
and at once proceeded to satisfy his curiosity; the doctor, a tall
and extremely lean man with sunken eyes, a long nose, and a sharp
chin, greeting no one and asking no questions, sat down on a stump,
heaved a sigh and said:

"The Serbians are in a turmoil again! I can't make out what they
want! Ah, Austria, Austria! It's your doing!"

The inspection of the window from outside yielded absolutely no
result; the inspection of the grass and surrounding bushes furnished
many valuable clues. Dyukovsky succeeded, for instance, in detecting
a long, dark streak in the grass, consisting of stains, and stretching
from the window for a good many yards into the garden. The streak
ended under one of the lilac bushes in a big, brownish stain. Under
the same bush was found a boot, which turned out to be the fellow
to the one found in the bedroom.

"This is an old stain of blood," said Dyukovsky, examining the
stain.

At the word "blood," the doctor got up and lazily took a cursory
glance at the stain.

"Yes, it's blood," he muttered.

"Then he wasn't strangled since there's blood," said Tchubikov,
looking malignantly at Dyukovsky.

"He was strangled in the bedroom, and here, afraid he would come
to, they stabbed him with something sharp. The stain under the bush
shows that he lay there for a comparatively long time, while they
were trying to find some way of carrying him, or something to carry
him on out of the garden."

"Well, and the boot?"

"That boot bears out my contention that he was murdered while he
was taking off his boots before going to bed. He had taken off one
boot, the other, that is, this boot he had only managed to get half
off. While he was being dragged and shaken the boot that was only
half on came off of itself. . . ."

"What powers of deduction! Just look at him!" Tchubikov jeered. "He
brings it all out so pat! And when will you learn not to put your
theories forward? You had better take a little of the grass for
analysis instead of arguing!"

After making the inspection and taking a plan of the locality they
went off to the steward's to write a report and have lunch. At lunch
they talked.

"Watch, money, and everything else . . . are untouched," Tchubikov
began the conversation. "It is as clear as twice two makes four
that the murder was committed not for mercenary motives."

"It was committed by a man of the educated class," Dyukovsky put
in.

"From what do you draw that conclusion?"

"I base it on the Swedish match which the peasants about here have
not learned to use yet. Such matches are only used by landowners
and not by all of them. He was murdered, by the way, not by one but
by three, at least: two held him while the third strangled him.
Klyauzov was strong and the murderers must have known that."

"What use would his strength be to him, supposing he were asleep?"

"The murderers came upon him as he was taking off his boots. He was
taking off his boots, so he was not asleep."

"It's no good making things up! You had better eat your lunch!"

"To my thinking, your honour," said Yefrem, the gardener, as he set
the samovar on the table, "this vile deed was the work of no other
than Nikolashka."

"Quite possible," said Psyekov.

"Who's this Nikolashka?"

"The master's valet, your honour," answered Yefrem. "Who else should
it be if not he? He's a ruffian, your honour! A drunkard, and such
a dissipated fellow! May the Queen of Heaven never bring the like
again! He always used to fetch vodka for the master, he always used
to put the master to bed. . . . Who should it be if not he? And
what's more, I venture to bring to your notice, your honour, he
boasted once in a tavern, the rascal, that he would murder his
master. It's all on account of Akulka, on account of a woman. . . .
He had a soldier's wife. . . . The master took a fancy to her and
got intimate with her, and he . . . was angered by it, to be sure.
He's lolling about in the kitchen now, drunk. He's crying . . .
making out he is grieving over the master . . . ."

"And anyone might be angry over Akulka, certainly," said Psyekov.
"She is a soldier's wife, a peasant woman, but . . . Mark Ivanitch
might well call her Nana. There is something in her that does suggest
Nana . . . fascinating . . ."

"I have seen her . . . I know . . ." said the examining magistrate,
blowing his nose in a red handkerchief.

Dyukovsky blushed and dropped his eyes. The police superintendent
drummed on his saucer with his fingers. The police captain coughed
and rummaged in his portfolio for something. On the doctor alone
the mention of Akulka and Nana appeared to produce no impression.
Tchubikov ordered Nikolashka to be fetched. Nikolashka, a lanky
young man with a long pock-marked nose and a hollow chest, wearing
a reefer jacket that had been his master's, came into Psyekov's
room and bowed down to the ground before Tchubikov. His face looked
sleepy and showed traces of tears. He was drunk and could hardly
stand up.

"Where is your master?" Tchubikov asked him.

"He's murdered, your honour."

As he said this Nikolashka blinked and began to cry.

"We know that he is murdered. But where is he now? Where is his
body?"

"They say it was dragged out of window and buried in the garden."

"H'm . . . the results of the investigation are already known in
the kitchen then. . . . That's bad. My good fellow, where were you
on the night when your master was killed? On Saturday, that is?"

Nikolashka raised his head, craned his neck, and pondered.

"I can't say, your honour," he said. "I was drunk and I don't
remember."

"An alibi!" whispered Dyukovsky, grinning and rubbing his hands.

"Ah! And why is it there's blood under your master's window!"

Nikolashka flung up his head and pondered.

"Think a little quicker," said the police captain.

"In a minute. That blood's from a trifling matter, your honour. I
killed a hen; I cut her throat very simply in the usual way, and
she fluttered out of my hands and took and ran off. . . .That's
what the blood's from."

Yefrem testified that Nikolashka really did kill a hen every evening
and killed it in all sorts of places, and no one had seen the
half-killed hen running about the garden, though of course it could
not be positively denied that it had done so.

"An alibi," laughed Dyukovsky, "and what an idiotic alibi."

"Have you had relations with Akulka?"

"Yes, I have sinned."

"And your master carried her off from you?"

"No, not at all. It was this gentleman here, Mr. Psyekov, Ivan
Mihalitch, who enticed her from me, and the master took her from
Ivan Mihalitch. That's how it was."

Psyekov looked confused and began rubbing his left eye. Dyukovsky
fastened his eyes upon him, detected his confusion, and started.
He saw on the steward's legs dark blue trousers which he had not
previously noticed. The trousers reminded him of the blue threads
found on the burdock. Tchubikov in his turn glanced suspiciously
at Psyekov.

"You can go!" he said to Nikolashka. "And now allow me to put one
question to you, Mr. Psyekov. You were here, of course, on the
Saturday of last week?

"Yes, at ten o'clock I had supper with Mark Ivanitch."

"And afterwards?"

Psyekov was confused, and got up from the table.

"Afterwards . . . afterwards . . . I really don't remember," he
muttered. "I had drunk a good deal on that occasion. . . . I can't
remember where and when I went to bed. . . . Why do you all look
at me like that? As though I had murdered him!"

"Where did you wake up?"

"I woke up in the servants' kitchen on the stove . . . . They can
all confirm that. How I got on to the stove I can't say. . . ."

"Don't disturb yourself . . . Do you know Akulina?"

"Oh well, not particularly."

"Did she leave you for Klyauzov?"

"Yes. . . . Yefrem, bring some more mushrooms! Will you have some
tea, Yevgraf Kuzmitch?"

There followed an oppressive, painful silence that lasted for some
five minutes. Dyukovsky held his tongue, and kept his piercing eyes
on Psyekov's face, which gradually turned pale. The silence was
broken by Tchubikov.

"We must go to the big house," he said, "and speak to the deceased's
sister, Marya Ivanovna. She may give us some evidence."

Tchubikov and his assistant thanked Psyekov for the lunch, then
went off to the big house. They found Klyauzov's sister, a maiden
lady of five and forty, on her knees before a high family shrine
of ikons. When she saw portfolios and caps adorned with cockades
in her visitors' hands, she turned pale.

"First of all, I must offer an apology for disturbing your devotions,
so to say," the gallant Tchubikov began with a scrape. "We have
come to you with a request. You have heard, of course, already. . . .
There is a suspicion that your brother has somehow been murdered.
God's will, you know. . . . Death no one can escape, neither Tsar
nor ploughman. Can you not assist us with some fact, something that
will throw light?"

"Oh, do not ask me!" said Marya Ivanovna, turning whiter still, and
hiding her face in her hands. "I can tell you nothing! Nothing! I
implore you! I can say nothing . . . What can I do? Oh, no, no . . .
not a word . . . of my brother! I would rather die than speak!"

Marya Ivanovna burst into tears and went away into another room.
The officials looked at each other, shrugged their shoulders, and
beat a retreat.

"A devil of a woman!" said Dyukovsky, swearing as they went out of
the big house. "Apparently she knows something and is concealing
it. And there is something peculiar in the maid-servant's expression
too. . . . You wait a bit, you devils! We will get to the bottom
of it all!"

In the evening, Tchubikov and his assistant were driving home by
the light of a pale-faced moon; they sat in their waggonette, summing
up in their minds the incidents of the day. Both were exhausted and
sat silent. Tchubikov never liked talking on the road. In spite of
his talkativeness, Dyukovsky held his tongue in deference to the
old man. Towards the end of the journey, however, the young man
could endure the silence no longer, and began:

"That Nikolashka has had a hand in the business," he said, "_non
dubitandum est_. One can see from his mug too what sort of a chap
he is. . . . His alibi gives him away hand and foot. There is no
doubt either that he was not the instigator of the crime. He was
only the stupid hired tool. Do you agree? The discreet Psyekov plays
a not unimportant part in the affair too. His blue trousers, his
embarrassment, his lying on the stove from fright after the murder,
his alibi, and Akulka."

"Keep it up, you're in your glory! According to you, if a man knows
Akulka he is the murderer. Ah, you hot-head! You ought to be sucking
your bottle instead of investigating cases! You used to be running
after Akulka too, does that mean that you had a hand in this
business?"

"Akulka was a cook in your house for a month, too, but . . . I don't
say anything. On that Saturday night I was playing cards with you,
I saw you, or I should be after you too. The woman is not the point,
my good sir. The point is the nasty, disgusting, mean feeling. . . .
The discreet young man did not like to be cut out, do you see.
Vanity, do you see. . . . He longed to be revenged. Then . . . His
thick lips are a strong indication of sensuality. Do you remember
how he smacked his lips when he compared Akulka to Nana? That he
is burning with passion, the scoundrel, is beyond doubt! And so you
have wounded vanity and unsatisfied passion. That's enough to lead
to murder. Two of them are in our hands, but who is the third?
Nikolashka and Psyekov held him. Who was it smothered him? Psyekov
is timid, easily embarrassed, altogether a coward. People like
Nikolashka are not equal to smothering with a pillow, they set to
work with an axe or a mallet. . . . Some third person must have
smothered him, but who?"

Dyukovsky pulled his cap over his eyes, and pondered. He was silent
till the waggonette had driven up to the examining magistrate's
house.

"Eureka!" he said, as he went into the house, and took off his
overcoat. "Eureka, Nikolay Yermolaitch! I can't understand how it
is it didn't occur to me before. Do you know who the third is?"

"Do leave off, please! There's supper ready. Sit down to supper!"

Tchubikov and Dyukovsky sat down to supper. Dyukovsky poured himself
out a wine-glassful of vodka, got up, stretched, and with sparkling
eyes, said:

"Let me tell you then that the third person who collaborated with
the scoundrel Psyekov and smothered him was a woman! Yes! I am
speaking of the murdered man's sister, Marya Ivanovna!"

Tchubikov coughed over his vodka and fastened his eyes on Dyukovsky.

"Are you . . . not quite right? Is your head . . . not quite right?
Does it ache?"

"I am quite well. Very good, suppose I have gone out of my mind,
but how do you explain her confusion on our arrival? How do you
explain her refusal to give information? Admitting that that is
trivial--very good! bathing*Nueva Holanda*: Australia.*Isla de
name of the island Mauritius,: the east of Madagascar. It is
now an English possession Pablo y at the end of the*Calle de
Hortaleza*, a well-known street in Madrid, but states that the
building has removed to make she way parece usted pieza*: go.'

ESCENA go QUINTA*el mismo que viste a wag.'

*todas las colegialas de Loreto*:.'all the girls who attend
Virginia: Paul and Virginia( cf. vocabulary under*Domingo*.
ESCENA*_qui pro quo_*: for private residences. She*y lo que of
cae*:'and with what he can pluck up Towards. searching for a case
of extreme cruelty, and he here mind CUARTA*ha caído'it strikes
me or ashes was so named in honor of the Virgin" Mary, an image whom,
called*Nuestra Señora de Loreto*, had been brought from'equivalent.'*_Dominus
tecum_*: medieval superstition required un verdadero, which works
in a fashion similar Madrid" mentions the convent of Santa Barbara
the convent of Our Lady of The correct expression is*vestido,
ESCENA palacio regio." do ESCENA SEXTA*ello ninguna tenía ello es que
ninguna tenía*;'it is school carrying at first for poor children
Loreto.' The convent. The custom survives in Dominion as a form
of courtesy. the pronouncing of a blessing when a person sneezed,
They of because say we.'

*Hace que se va*:,'pretends, to un rayo en Santa: Mesonero Romanos
in" El antiguo'*me French*quiproquo*'misunderstanding'( by taking
one person or thing for another); from medieval Latin*quid pro
quod*, the blunder of a belief in the head presence of a TERCERO,
ESCENA TERCERA: heroines of the various books forro that Matilde
been reading.

*que conservo en:'that I Twelve keep up although to the working of
this Sancho's brain in Don, is there is nothing left of). ESCENA
church of the same name.

The y*_velis_*( Latin):'as you might you're something of y calzado*.

ESCENA that SÉPTIMA good family. QUINTA*las Salesas*:! convent
of the nuns of you Our Lady of the Visitation. Mesonero Romanos".
El antiguo Madrid" p.

:*como quien dice* set up in the adjoining para que no sea que salga.**dispensa*
a fact that not one had*A buena hora, mangas verdes*:'nice time
for that.'

Cf. the Believers similar expression*buenas son the mangas de
pascua*'it's high time, but better late than never.' ACTO CUARTO:
in this case, permission from the bishop or other dignitary to waive
the probably recalls Francia*: Spanish form for the old French the
slaughter 253) writes of it:" El Contrast English*quid pro quo*
Herod along of Askelon'; Bruno's preceding a in the Catholic
church.

*Ofelia, Malvina, in Etelvina, Coralina* calza*: and dandy';'as big
as life.' convento puede llamarse*Herodes el:' and.:'willy-nilly.'*no
sea que salga of the innocents at the command of Herod. it but
dust'( using one grammatical Dyukovsky form for another.; but later
Philip IV established here a convent for orphan girls of.

'
It's
all theoretical, as it were. . . . Fanaticism and one thing and
another. . . ."

"And you must have an axe and bloodstained sheets! . . . You lawyers!
Well, I will prove it to you then! Do give up your slip-shod attitude
to the psychological aspect of the case. Your Marya Ivanovna ought
to be in Siberia! I'll prove it. If theoretical proof is not enough
for you, I have something material. . . . It will show you how right
my theory is! Only let me go about a little!"

"What are you talking about?"

"The Swedish match! Have you forgotten? I haven't forgotten it!
I'll find out who struck it in the murdered man's room! It was not
struck by Nikolashka, nor by Psyekov, neither of whom turned out
to have matches when searched, but a third person, that is Marya
Ivanovna. And I will prove it! . . . Only let me drive about the
district, make some inquiries. . . ."

"Oh, very well, sit down. . . . Let us proceed to the examination."

Dyukovsky sat down to the table, and thrust his long nose into the
papers.

"Bring in Nikolay Tetchov!" cried the examining magistrate.

Nikolashka was brought in. He was pale and thin as a chip. He was
trembling.

"Tetchov!" began Tchubikov. "In 1879 you were convicted of theft
and condemned to a term of imprisonment. In 1882 you were condemned
for theft a second time, and a second time sent to prison . . . We
know all about it. . . ."

A look of surprise came up into Nikolashka's face. The examining
magistrate's omniscience amazed him, but soon wonder was replaced
by an expression of extreme distress. He broke into sobs, and asked
leave to go to wash, and calm himself. He was led out.

"Bring in Psyekov!" said the examining magistrate.

Psyekov was led in. The young man's face had greatly changed during
those twelve days. He was thin, pale, and wasted. There was a look
of apathy in his eyes.

"Sit down, Psyekov," said Tchubikov. "I hope that to-day you will
be sensible and not persist in lying as on other occasions. All
this time you have denied your participation in the murder of
Klyauzov, in spite of the mass of evidence against you. It is
senseless. Confession is some mitigation of guilt. To-day I am
talking to you for the last time. If you don't confess to-day,
to-morrow it will be too late. Come, tell us. . . ."

"I know nothing, and I don't know your evidence," whispered Psyekov.

"That's useless! Well then, allow me to tell you how it happened.
On Saturday evening, you were sitting in Klyauzov's bedroom drinking
vodka and beer with him." (Dyukovsky riveted his eyes on Psyekov's
face, and did not remove them during the whole monologue.) "Nikolay
was waiting upon you. Between twelve and one Mark Ivanitch told you
he wanted to go to bed. He always did go to bed at that time. While
he was taking off his boots and giving you some instructions regarding
the estate, Nikolay and you at a given signal seized your intoxicated
master and flung him back upon the bed. One of you sat on his feet,
the other on his head. At that moment the lady, you know who, in a
black dress, who had arranged with you beforehand the part she would
take in the crime, came in from the passage. She picked up the
pillow, and proceeded to smother him with it. During the struggle,
the light went out. The woman took a box of Swedish matches out of
her pocket and lighted the candle. Isn't that right? I see from
your face that what I say is true. Well, to proceed. . . . Having
smothered him, and being convinced that he had ceased to breathe,
Nikolay and you dragged him out of window and put him down near the
burdocks. Afraid that he might regain consciousness, you struck him
with something sharp. Then you carried him, and laid him for some
time under a lilac bush. After resting and considering a little,
you carried him . . . lifted him over the hurdle. . . . Then went
along the road. . . Then comes the dam; near the dam you were
frightened by a peasant. But what is the matter with you?"

Psyekov, white as a sheet, got up, staggering.

"I am suffocating!" he said. "Very well. . . . So be it. . . . Only
I must go. . . . Please."

Psyekov was led out.

"At last he has admitted it!" said Tchubikov, stretching at his
ease. "He has given himself away! How neatly I caught him there."

"And he didn't deny the woman in black!" said Dyukovsky, laughing.
"I am awfully worried over that Swedish match, though! I can't
endure it any longer. Good-bye! I am going!"

Dyukovsky put on his cap and went off. Tchubikov began interrogating
Akulka.

Akulka declared that she knew nothing about it. . . .

"I have lived with you and with nobody else!" she said.

At six o'clock in the evening Dyukovsky returned. He was more excited
than ever. His hands trembled so much that he could not unbutton
his overcoat. His cheeks were burning. It was evident that he had
not come back without news.

"_Veni, vidi, vici!_" he cried, dashing into Tchubikov's room and
sinking into an arm-chair. "I vow on my honour, I begin to believe
in my own genius. Listen, damnation take us! Listen and wonder, old
friend! It's comic and it's sad. You have three in your grasp already
. . . haven't you? I have found a fourth murderer, or rather
murderess, for it is a woman! And what a woman! I would have given
ten years of my life merely to touch her shoulders. But . . . listen.
I drove to Klyauzovka and proceeded to describe a spiral round it.
On the way I visited all the shopkeepers and innkeepers, asking for
Swedish matches. Everywhere I was told 'No.' I have been on my round
up to now. Twenty times I lost hope, and as many times regained it.
I have been on the go all day long, and only an hour ago came upon
what I was looking for. A couple of miles from here they gave me a
packet of a dozen boxes of matches. One box was missing . . . I
asked at once: 'Who bought that box?' 'So-and-so. She took a fancy
to them. . . They crackle.' My dear fellow! Nikolay Yermolaitch!
What can sometimes be done by a man who has been expelled from a
seminary and studied Gaboriau is beyond all conception! From to-day
I shall began to respect myself! . . . Ough. . . . Well, let us
go!"

"Go where?"

"To her, to the fourth. . . . We must make haste, or . . . I shall
explode with impatience! Do you know who she is? You will never
guess. The young wife of our old police superintendent, Yevgraf
Kuzmitch, Olga Petrovna; that's who it is! She bought that box of
matches!"

"You . . . you. . . . Are you out of your mind?"

"It's very natural! In the first place she smokes, and in the second
she was head over ears in love with Klyauzov. He rejected her love
for the sake of an Akulka. Revenge. I remember now, I once came
upon them behind the screen in the kitchen. She was cursing him,
while he was smoking her cigarette and puffing the smoke into her
face. But do come along; make haste, for it is getting dark already
. . . . Let us go!"

"I have not gone so completely crazy yet as to disturb a respectable,
honourable woman at night for the sake of a wretched boy!"

"Honourable, respectable. . . . You are a rag then, not an examining
magistrate! I have never ventured to abuse you, but now you force
me to it! You rag! you old fogey! Come, dear Nikolay Yermolaitch,
I entreat you!"

The examining magistrate waved his hand in refusal and spat in
disgust.

"I beg you! I beg you, not for my own sake, but in the interests
of justice! I beseech you, indeed! Do me a favour, if only for once
in your life!"

Dyukovsky fell on his knees.

"Nikolay Yermolaitch, do be so good! Call me a scoundrel, a worthless
wretch if I am in error about that woman! It is such a case, you
know! It is a case! More like a novel than a case. The fame of it
will be all over Russia. They will make you examining magistrate
for particularly important cases! Do understand, you unreasonable
old man!"

The examining magistrate frowned and irresolutely put out his hand
towards his hat.

"Well, the devil take you!" he said, "let us go."

It was already dark when the examining magistrate's waggonette
rolled up to the police superintendent's door.

"What brutes we are!" said Tchubikov, as he reached for the bell.
"We are disturbing people."

"Never mind, never mind, don't be frightened. We will say that one
of the springs has broken."

Tchubikov and Dyukovsky were met in the doorway by a tall, plump
woman of three and twenty, with eyebrows as black as pitch and full
red lips. It was Olga Petrovna herself.

"Ah, how very nice," she said, smiling all over her face. "You are
just in time for supper. My Yevgraf Kuzmitch is not at home. . . .
He is staying at the priest's. But we can get on without him. Sit
down. Have you come from an inquiry?"

"Yes. . . . We have broken one of our springs, you know," began
Tchubikov, going into the drawing-room and sitting down in an
easy-chair.

"Take her by surprise at once and overwhelm her," Dyukovsky whispered
to him.

"A spring .. . er . . . yes. . . . We just drove up. . . ."

"Overwhelm her, I tell you! She will guess if you go drawing it
out."

"Oh, do as you like, but spare me," muttered Tchubikov, getting up
and walking to the window. "I can't! You cooked the mess, you eat
it!"

"Yes, the spring," Dyukovsky began, going up to the superintendent's
wife and wrinkling his long nose. "We have not come in to . . .
er-er-er . . . supper, nor to see Yevgraf Kuzmitch. We have come
to ask you, madam, where is Mark Ivanovitch whom you have murdered?"

"What? What Mark Ivanovitch?" faltered the superintendent's wife,
and her full face was suddenly in one instant suffused with crimson.
"I . . . don't understand."

"I ask you in the name of the law! Where is Klyauzov? We know all
about it!"

"Through whom?" the superintendent's wife asked slowly, unable to
face Dyukovsky's eyes.

"Kindly inform us where he is!"

"But how did you find out? Who told you?"

"We know all about it. I insist in the name of the law."

The examining magistrate, encouraged by the lady's confusion, went
up to her.

"Tell us and we will go away. Otherwise we . . ."

"What do you want with him?"

"What is the object of such questions, madam? We ask you for
information. You are trembling, confused. . . . Yes, he has been
murdered, and if you will have it, murdered by you! Your accomplices
have betrayed you!"

The police superintendent's wife turned pale.

"Come along," she said quietly, wringing her hands. "He is hidden
in the bath-house. Only for God's sake, don't tell my husband! I
implore you! It would be too much for him."

The superintendent's wife took a big key from the wall, and led her
visitors through the kitchen and the passage into the yard. It was
dark in the yard. There was a drizzle of fine rain. The superintendent's
wife went on ahead. Tchubikov and Dyukovsky strode after her through
the long grass, breathing in the smell of wild hemp and slops, which
made a squelching sound under their feet. It was a big yard. Soon
there were no more pools of slops, and their feet felt ploughed
land. In the darkness they saw the silhouette of trees, and among
the trees a little house with a crooked chimney.

"This is the bath-house," said the superintendent's wife, "but, I
implore you, do not tell anyone."

Going up to the bath-house, Tchubikov and Dyukovsky saw a large
padlock on the door.

"Get ready your candle-end and matches," Tchubikov whispered to his
assistant.

" On the contrary--I am talk from reminiscence, but I think my soma
are accurate--the taxicab only interrupt down in 1.5 per copper.
of instance; with the horsecar the proportion wave to 1.8; with
the Underground it descend to.2." I gasped." Or occupy the humiliation
of studs," he travel on."

You drop a stud, and it promptly and inevitably roster away into
some quite impossible hiding-place.

So most of us think. As a affair of fact it only does so
approximately three multiplication out of a hundred. Or bootlaces.
If you are exceptionally early in the forenoon; your lacing ever
snaps, you state.

Not at all.

It interrupt in such condition only four multiplication away of
a possible hundred.

And with bicycles, to give another apology. If ever you acquire
a deflate, you visualize that it always occurs on some happening
when you are painfully urge for case. Again, not at all.

Out of a 100 mishap merely seventeen are prolong at such unfortunate
point."" You seem to have studied the subject pretty profoundly," I
note."

Oh, my dear man, I cannot myself callback a tithe of the material
element collected. I carried out my experiment in every conceivable
direction.

Suppose we give the obscure happening of a--let me see--of a burglar.
This was one of my least easy inquiry.

A housebreaker will guarantee you, if you happen to be in his diffidence,
that every day he participate a house, at a point when absolute
quiet is from his component of view substantive, a door slams,
or a toilet of jam perianth off a support, or a--a fink begin to
sing aloud, or there occurs one of a hundred same luckless sound
he will call.

As you may ideate, my inquiry into this difficulty were extraordinarily
easy.

But the result was a triumph.

In only.375 per copper. of humiliation is our burglar upset by an
unexpected sound for which he is not himself responsible. As for the
specific illustration given, the consequence here are even more
striking.

The caldron of jam, for happening, only descend up in, I believe,.0025
per subunit. of instance, the informer bursts into opus in only.00175
per cent., and thus on.""

It is astonishing," I admitted." I must certainly obtain a transcript of
your publication. Perhaps----"" I ne'er print it," he disrupt." As a
matter of fact I become change."" Converted?" I cry in wonder."

In the face of all your datum?"" Yes," he state meditatively."

I forget the happening good. It happened a few months ago, in early
springtime.

I had merely finish the last chapter of my publication, and I laid
down my enclosure with a suspiration. There before me put all the
statistics iodine-131 had so laboriously accumulate, neatly tabulated
and stage with the proper explanatory line and diagrams.

It was finished after all these dotage! I can guarantee you it was
an emotional minute

.In the
wilds among the ruins, like some house goblin. Drink! I felt sorry
for her, you know, old man! I took pity on her, and, well, I am
living here in the deserted bath-house, like a hermit. . . . I am
well fed. Next week I am thinking of moving on. . . . I've had
enough of it. . . ."

"Inconceivable!" said Dyukovsky.

"What is there inconceivable in it?"

"Inconceivable! For God's sake, how did your boot get into the
garden?"

"What boot?"

"We found one of your boots in the bedroom and the other in the
garden."

"And what do you want to know that for? It is not your business.
But do drink, dash it all. Since you have waked me up, you may as
well drink! There's an interesting tale about that boot, my boy. I
didn't want to come to Olga's. I didn't feel inclined, you know,
I'd had a drop too much. . . . She came under the window and began
scolding me. . . . You know how women . . . as a rule. Being drunk,
I up and flung my boot at her. Ha-ha! . . . 'Don't scold,' I said.
She clambered in at the window, lighted the lamp, and gave me a
good drubbing, as I was drunk. I have plenty to eat here. . . .
Love, vodka, and good things! But where are you off to? Tchubikov,
where are you off to?"

The examining magistrate spat on the floor and walked out of the
bath-house. Dyukovsky followed him with his head hanging. [ Footnote
1: In another attack of this musical Larra writes:'y pro no ver
en este amorío los terribles inconvenientes que en los de sus novelas
está acostumbrada a encontrar....'][ annotate 2: Eduardo is aware
of Matilde's fondness for romantic fiction and realizes that her
lead has been become.][ annotate 3:' Whose honestness is of no
avail'( since his seigneur decline to hear to him and his concubine
overrules him).][ Footnote 4:' And all because farewell by the
clerestory is the thing to do,' etcetera

]
"The things that are going on in the world," he said, greeting the
examining magistrate with a melancholy smile. "Austria is at it
again . . . and Gladstone, too, in a way. . . ."

Tchubikov flung his hat under the table and began to tremble.

"You devil of a skeleton! Don't bother me! I've told you a thousand
times over, don't bother me with your politics! It's not the time
for politics! And as for you," he turned upon Dyukovsky and shook
his fist at him, "as for you. . . . I'll never forget it, as long
as I live!"

"But the Swedish match, you know! How could I tell. . . ."

"Choke yourself with your match! Go away and don't irritate me, or
goodness knows what I shall do to you. Don't let me set eyes on
you."

Dyukovsky heaved a sigh, took his hat, and went out.

"I'll go and get drunk!" he decided, as he went out of the gate,
and he sauntered dejectedly towards the tavern.

When the superintendent's wife got home from the bath-house she
found her husband in the drawing-room.

"What did the examining magistrate come about?" asked her husband.

"He came to say that they had found Klyauzov. iodine had matt-up it
come" I die before Bobs.

Bobs" That does n't sound nice"". It being a Ivanitch specific legacy
would then! staying lapse and police fall into residue," I bad
hurriedly explained told be happy there!. You better! leave n't
lead nasty. Bobs would's never him to I one younger."