Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Mark C. Orton, Linda
McKeown, and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net


                           MARGARITA'S SOUL

   [Illustration: THEY CROONED TOGETHER THERE, THE WOMAN, THE CHILD
    AND THE BIRDS]


                             MARGARITA'S

                                 SOUL


                      THE ROMANTIC RECOLLECTIONS

                          OF A MAN OF FIFTY


                                  BY

                           INGRAHAM LOVELL


               WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY J. SCOTT WILLIAMS

                  AND WHISTLER BUTTERFLY DECORATIONS


                  LONDON: JOHN LANE, THE BODLEY HEAD

                     NEW YORK: JOHN LANE COMPANY

                                MCMIX


                          _Copyright, 1909_

                  By THE PHILLIPS PUBLISHING COMPANY

                          _Copyright, 1909_

                         By JOHN LANE COMPANY

       *       *       *       *       *


CONTENTS


PART I

IN WHICH YOU SEE A SECRET SPRING

CHAPTER                                                      PAGE

     I. Fate Walks Broadway                                    11

    II. Fate Goes A-fishing                                    17

   III. As the Twigs Were Bent                                 28

    IV. Fate Reels In                                          37


PART II

IN WHICH THE SPRING FLOWS IN A LITTLE STREAM

     V. Roger Finds the Island                                 47

    VI. Fate Casts Her Die                                     59

   VII. I Ride Knight Errant                                   66

  VIII. The Mists of Eden                                      74


PART III

IN WHICH THE STREAM JOINS WITH OTHERS
AND PLUNGES DOWN A CLIFF

    IX. Margarita Meets the Enemy and He is Hers               81

     X. Fate Spreads an Island Feast                           87

    XI. Our Parson Proves Capable                              94

   XII. I Leave Eden                                          105


PART IV

IN WHICH THE STREAM WINDS THROUGH A
SULLEN MARSH AND BECOMES A BROOK

  XIII. Straws that Showed the Wind                           111

   XIV. The Island Cottage                                    118

    XV. Fate Plays Me in the Shallows                         130

   XVI. Margarita Comes to Town                               141


PART V

IN WHICH THE BROOK BECOMES A RIVER AND
FLOWS BY GREAT CITIES

  XVII. Our Pearl Bathes in Seine Water                       149

 XVIII. My Pearl of Too Great Price                           157

   XIX. Fate Lands Me on the Rocks                            164


PART VI

IN WHICH YOU ARE SHOWN THE RIVER'S VERY
SOURCES, FAR UNDERGROUND

    XX. A Garden Glimpse of Eden                              181

   XXI. Hester Prynne's Secret                                186

  XXII. Fate Laughs and Baits Her Hook                        196


PART VII

IN WHICH THE RIVER LEAPS A SUDDEN CLIFF
AND BECOMES A CATARACT

 XXIII. Fate Spreads Her Net                                  213

  XXIV. Our Second Summer in Eden                             221

   XXV. The Island Tomb                                       231

  XXVI. A Handful of Memories                                 235


PART VIII

IN WHICH THE RIVER RUSHES INTO PERILOUS
RAPIDS

 XXVII. We Bring Our Pearl to Market                          247

XXVIII. Arabian Nights in England                             257

  XXIX. Fate Grips Her Landing Net                            273


PART IX

IN WHICH THE RIVER FINDS THE SEA

   XXX. A Terror in the Snow                                  279

  XXXI. Fate Empties Her Creel                                289

 XXXII. The Sunset End                                        294

       *       *       *       *       *


ILLUSTRATIONS


They Crooned Together There, the Woman, the Child
and the Birds                                            _Frontispiece_

                                                               PAGE

Scooped Hundreds--Perhaps Thousands--Out of a Chest
to Flee at Dawn                                                 43

The Tall, Gaunt, Silent Woman ... Striding Through
the Pastures                                                    49

I Seem to See ... a Beautiful Woman in a Blue Dress
Sitting Under a Fruit Tree                                     105

Persons Born in That Month of That Year Will Never
Be Otherwise Than Far Out of the Ordinary                      132

Margarita Stopped and Stared at It Several Minutes             144

For Hours and Hours I Walked, Muttering and Cursing            163

Her Weekly Check, Plus a Draft for a Hundred Pounds            174

She Spins Her Hemp and Weaves Osiers into Baskets
and Changes Them for Goats' Hams                               204

The Gloomy, Faded Glories of the Musty Palace                  208

Ah, Faithful Caliban, What Hours of Terrible Tuition
Made Thy Task Clear to Thee!                                   233

He Sketched Her in Charcoal, Dressed (He Would Have
It) in Black                                                   240

It Was After the Garden Love-Scene That She Won
Her Recalls                                                    250

They Are Still as Death, Tranced in Those Liquid Bell-Tones    270

I Leaned Over the Bank and Cried That I Was There,
But She Never Stopped--It Was Terrible                         281

It Is a Favourite Claim of Ours Who Are Bidden to That
Home That It Is an Enchanted Isle                              296

       *       *       *       *       *


PART ONE

IN WHICH YOU SEE A SECRET SPRING


    O I have seen a fair mermaid,
      That sang beside a lonely sea,
    And now her long black hair she'll braid,
      And be my own good wife to me.

    O woe's the day you saw the maid,
      And woe's the song she sang the sea,
    In hell her long black hair she'll braid,
      For ne'er a soul at all has she!

_Sir Hugh and the Mermaiden._


MARGARITA'S SOUL

CHAPTER I

FATE WALKS BROADWAY


Roger Bradley was walking up Broadway. This fact calls sharply for
comment, for he had not done it in years; the thoroughfare was
intolerable to him. But one of its impingements upon a less blatant
avenue had caught him napping and he found himself entangled in a mesh
of theatre dribblings, pool-room loungers, wine-touts and homeward
bent women of the middle, shopping class. Being there, he scorned to
avail himself of the regularly recurring cross streets, but strode
along, his straight, trim bulk, his keen, judicial profile--a profile
that spoke strong of the best traditions of American blood--marking
him for what he was among a crowd not to be matched, in its way, upon
the Western Continent.

At the second slanting of the great, tawdry lane he bent with it and
encountered suddenly a little knot of flustered women just descended
from the elevated way that doubled the din and blare of the shrieking
city. They were bundle-filled, voluble, dressed by any standards save
those of their native city, far beyond their probable means and
undoubted station. As they stopped unexpectedly and hesitated, damming
the flood of hurrying citizens, Roger halted of necessity and stepped
backward, but in avoiding them he bumped heavily against the person
behind him. A startled gasp, something soft against his shoulder, the
sharp edge of a projecting hat, told him that this person was a
woman, and stepping sidewise into the shelter of a neighbouring
news-stall, he raised his hat with a courtesy alien to the place and
hour.

"I beg your pardon, madam," he said, "I trust I have not hurt you?"

"No," said the woman, who wore a heavy grey veil, and as that is
literally all she said and as her method of saying it was as
convincing as it was simple, one would suppose the incident closed and
look to see Roger complete his journey to his club without further
adventure.

Do I wish he had? God knows. It was undoubtedly the turning-point in
his life and he was forty. Had he gone on to the club where I was
waiting for him; had we dined, played out our rubber, dropped in at
the occasional chamber concert that was our usual and almost our only
dissipation in those days, I should not now be ransacking old letters
and diaries from which to make this book, nor would Margarita's
picture--her loveliest, as _Juliet_--lean toward me from the wall. She
is smiling; not as one smiles in photographs, but as a flesh-and-blood
woman droops over the man she loves and smiles her heart into his
lips, reaching over his shoulder. Everything slips behind but you two,
herself and you, when you look at it. Sarony, who took it, told me he
had never posed such a subject, and I believe him.

Well, well, it's done now. It was twenty years ago that Roger bumped
into his fate in that eddy of Broadway and I was as powerless as you
are now to disentangle him and keep him for myself, which, selfishly
enough, of course, I wanted terribly to do. You see, he was all I had,
Roger, and I was hoping we would play the game out together. But--not
to have known Margarita? Never to have watched that bending droop of
her neck, that extraordinary colouring of her skin--a real Henner
skin! I remember Maurice Grau's telling me that he had always thought
Henner colour blind till he saw Margarita's neck in her name-part in
_Faust_.

The things that girl used to tell me, before she had any soul, of
course, and in the days when I was the third man to whom she had ever
spoken more than ten words in her life, were almost enough to pay for
all the pain she taught me. Such talks! I can close my eyes and
actually smell the sea-weed and the damp sand and hear the inrush of
the big combers. She used to sit in the lee of the rocks, all huddled
in that heavy, supple army-blue officer's cloak of hers with its
tarnished silver clasps, and talk as Miranda must have talked to
Ferdinand's old bachelor friend, who probably appreciated the
chance--too well, the poor old dog!

I had reached, I think, when I left off my plain unvarnished tale and
took to maundering, that precise point in it which exhibits Roger in
the act of replacing his hat upon his even then slightly greyish head
and striding on. It seems to me that he would not have checked in his
stride if the woman had replied after the usual tautological fashion
of her sex (we blame them for it, not thinking how wholly in nature it
is that they should be so, like the repeated notes of birds, the
persistence of the raindrops, the continual flicker of the sun through
the always fluttering leaves,) with some such phrase as, "No, indeed,
not in the least, I assure you!" or "Not at all, really--don't mention
it!" or even, "No, indeed," with a shy bow or a composed one, as the
case might be. But this woman uttered merely the syllable, "No," with
no modification nor variation, no inclination of the head, no movement
forward or back. Her utterance was grave, moreover, and precise; her
tone noticeably full and deep. Roger, pausing a moment in the shelter
of the news-stall, spoke again at the spur of some unexplainable
impulse.

"I was afraid I had stepped directly on your foot--it felt so," he
said.

Again she answered simply, "No," and that was his second chance. Now
in the face of these facts it is folly to contend that the woman
"accosted" him, as his cousin, who was one of the Boston Thayers, put
it to me. She did nothing of the kind; she replied twice, to his
distinct questions, in the coldest of monosyllables and he could not
even have told if she looked at him, her veil was so thick. Let that
be definitely understood, once and for all. The chances were even in
favour of her being violently pitted from the small-pox, since even
twenty years ago, when the city was less cosmopolitan (and from my
point of view more interesting) the women of New York of the class
that travels unaccompanied and on foot at dusk were not accustomed to
go heavily veiled if they had any fair excuse for the contrary course.

Nevertheless to that veiled woman did Roger address
himself--unnecessarily, mark you--for the third time. Why did he? He
had his chance; two chances in fact. But this is folly, for of course
he had no chance at all. Fate stood by that news-stall, with the
blear-eyed, frousy woman that tended it looking vacantly on; Fate,
veiled, too, and not even monosyllabic in his behalf. I should have
known this, I think, even if I had not lived those curious, long eight
months in Algeria and slept those dreamless nights under the Algerian
stars that got into my blood and call me back now and then;
imperiously and never in vain, though I feel older than the stars, and
Alif and the rest are dead or exhibiting themselves at the great
American memorial fairs that began to flourish about the time this
tale begins. No, there was no help: it was written.

"I am glad I did not hurt you," he said, really moving forward now and
again raising his hat, "these crowds are dangerous for women at this
hour."

He took two steps and stopped suddenly, for a hand slipped under his
arm. (You should have seen his cousin's face, the Boston one, when in
that relentless way known only to women and eminent artists in
cross-examination she got this fact out of me.)

"Will you tell me the quickest way to Broadway?" said the woman to
whom he had just spoken.

"To Broadway?" he echoed stupidly, standing stock still, conscious of
the grasp upon his arm, a curious sense of the importance of this
apparently cheap experience surging over him, even while he resented
its banality. "This is Broadway. What do you want of it?"

"I want to show myself on it," said the woman, a young woman, from the
voice.

Roger stepped back against the news-stall, dragging her with him,
since her hand did not leave his arm.

"To show yourself on it?" he repeated sternly, "and why do you want to
do that?"

"To get myself some friends. I have none," said she serenely.

Now you must not think Roger a fool, for he was not. You see, you
never heard the voice that spoke to him. If you had, and had possessed
any experience or knowledge of the world, you would have realised that
the owner of that voice possessed neither or else was a very great and
convincing actress. Mere print cannot excuse him, perhaps, but I give
you my word he was as a matter of fact excusable, since he was a
bachelor. Most men are very susceptible to the human voice, especially
to the female human voice, and it has always been a matter of the
deepest wonder to me that the men who do not hear a lovely one once in
the year are most under the dominion of their females. I mean, of
course, the Americans. It is one of the greatest proofs of the power
of these _belles Americaines_ that they wield it in spite of the
rustiness of this, their chief national weapon.

The bell notes, the grave, full richness of this veiled woman's voice
touched Roger deeply and with a brusque motion he drew out from his
pocket a banknote and pressed it into the hand under his arm.

"Take this and go home," he said severely. "If you will promise me to
call at an address I will give you, I will guarantee you a decent
means of livelihood. Will you promise me?"

She reached down without a word into a bag that hung _en chatelaine_
at her waist and drew out something in her turn.

"I have a great many of those," she said placidly, "and more at home.
See them!"

And under his face she thrust a double handful of stamped paper--all
green.

"Each one of these is called twenty dollars," she informed him, "and
some of them are called fifty dollars. They are in the bottom of the
bag. I do not think that I need any more."

Roger stared at her.

"Put that away directly," he said, "and lift your veil so that I can
see who you are. There is something wrong here."

They stood in the lee of the flaring stall, a pair so obvious in their
relation to each other, one would say, as to require no comment beyond
the cynical indifference of the red-eyed woman who tended it. No doubt
she had long ceased to count the well-dressed, athletic men who drew
indifferently clothed young women into the shelter of her stand. And
yet no one of his Puritan ancestors could have been further in spirit
from her dreary inferences than this Roger. Nor do I believe him to be
so exceptional in this as to cause remark. We are not all birds of
prey, dear ladies, believe me. Indeed, since you have undertaken the
responsibilities of the literary dissecting-room so thoroughly and
increasingly; since you have, as one might say, at last freed your
minds to us in the amazing frankness of your multitudinous and
unsparing pages, I am greatly tempted to wonder if you are not
essentially less decent than we. One would never have ventured to
suspect it, had you not opened the door....

The woman threw back her veil so that it framed her face like a cloud
and Roger looked straight into her eyes. And so the curtain rolled up,
the orchestra ceased its irrelevant pipings and the play was begun.


CHAPTER II

FATE GOES A-FISHING


Roger told me afterward that he literally could not say if it were
five seconds or five minutes that he looked into the girl's eyes. He
has since leaned to the opinion that it was nearer five minutes,
because even the news-woman stared at him and the passing street boys
had already begun to collect. Some subconscious realisation of this
finally enabled him to drag his eyes away, very much as one drags
himself awake when he must, and to realise the picture he presented--a
dazed man confronting an extraordinarily lovely girl with her fist
full of banknotes on a Broadway kerbstone. An interested cabby caught
his eye, wagged his whip masterfully, wheeled up to them and with an
apparently complete grasp of the situation whirled them off through a
side street with never so much as a "Where to, sir?"

And so he found himself alone with an unknown beauty in a hansom cab,
for all the world like a mysterious hero of melodrama, and Roger hated
melodrama and was never mysterious in all his life, to say nothing of
disliking mystery in anyone connected with him. He says he was
extremely angry at this juncture and I believe him.

"What is your name?" he asked shortly. "Have you no parents or friends
to protect you from the consequences of this crazy performance? Where
do you live?"

"My name is Margarita," she replied directly and pleasantly, "I never
had but one parent and he died a few days ago. I live by the sea."

An ugly thrill shot down his spine. No healthy person likes to be
alone with a mad woman, and under a brilliant fleeting light he
studied her curiously only to receive the certain conviction that
whatever his companion might be, she was not mad. Her slate-blue eyes
were calm and bright, her lips rather noticeably firm for all their
curves--and the mad woman's mouth bewrayeth her inevitably under
scrutiny. Nor was she drugged into some passing vacancy of mind: her
whole atmosphere breathed a perfectly conscious control of her
movements, however misguided the event might prove them. Before this
conviction he hesitated slightly.

"You have another name, however," he said gently, "and what do you
mean by the sea? What sea?"

For it occurred to him that although her English was perfect, she
might be an utter stranger to the country, unthinkably abandoned, with
sufficient means to salve her betrayer's conscience.

"Is there more than one sea, then?" she inquired of him with interest.
"I thought there was only mine. the skull, but the hunter was so
quiet out there, as if 'it is a cold fire, and he and the dragoons
were waiting at each other, and everyone smiled very foolish - just
do it gently, saying "he, like a good Frost ointment, because it
was winter at the side of his body.

It took my brother a little on the bare skull around astonished and
said he felt so cold like a kneecap.

Now the guy pointed at once after a few pre-fitting to our dismay the
quarter from the skull and we held him out, saying he had cut him
a murderer, when he accidentally set one's been, and said now that
one [88] Up to now we've 'I always dispute the writings of the
current philosophical and aesthetic ideal dispute Flegel, which,
however, some Swear and deceit and Lugschlüsse happen more of the
beautiful side taken by them merely as an imitation of classical
antiquity, in the same Ringer views, which (after Schöttchen) their
bodies with = = faecal coated, so as not to be taken, and their
hands with dust = = anfüllten to the third point. the piercing and
told Armabhauen more than a joke to have, he's only done as a Famulus
on the anatomical theater. - Now wanted to joke driver but neither
of us were very tasty and neck, so I when he was the head capsule,
representing the skull, back up, silently thought: this has certainly
Mistbeetglocke only the place, not the poison bulb changed, they
covering .

In the end, I suspect's about it, and all of society (including the
blind passenger) and just the same Flätz zuschifften, where I
imagined myself; special lucky me, I needed not to promise, and I
would in fact be the reverse lieb than Fort Drive, hätt "I prefer
not the future getrotzt.

I come finally to the red gemantelten stowaway, probably [103] Or,
all mosques, Episcopal Church, pagodas, branch churches, huts and
convent PANTHEA something other than the moors to the forecourt
invisible temple and its holy • A _Emigré_ or _Refugié_ (because
he speaks German is not worse than the French), either the name of
Jean Pierre and Jean Paul around, or completely nameless.

His red coat would be me, regardless of these colors merge with the
executioner - in many areas of the excellent man is fear - are
welcome to remain indifferent, would not be the special circumstance
occurred to me that he has five in five cities (in the major of
Berlin, in the small Hof, Koburg, Meiningen and Baireuth) set off
against all probability, but he told me every significant enough,
and then went his way.

Whether he is after me hostile or not, I do not know, only applies
to all cases of the imagination no object pleasing with the corps or
from the observation [40] The people are only in the telling, not
in Räsonieren widely, the scholar is only in that, not in this
short, precisely because the people his reasons only as sensations
as the mere presence anschauet, the scholar, however, both more
than just think. embrasures perhaps holding shotguns and aims, which
it moved for years, without knowing where it abdrückt. - Even more
offensive to me was the Rotmantel fact that he is striking his soft
soul Mildenberg praised, this seemed almost 'to delve into or Make
Sure to interpret.

I replied: 'My Lord, I'm just like my brother here, from the battlefield
ago (the last affair was with Pimpelstadt), and therefore agree
with perhaps too much for Mark Kraft, chest storm Stoßglut, and it
may for some, a question buzzing Water Hose, Hose country really
has the heart of, well, if his spiritual position (I was) it reduces
more than wildert.

However, each one Mildenberg their iron lattice barriers. If any
reckless dog me significantly, so Tret 'I do indeed anger in the first
two, and then behind [9] The Egyptians were in a national disaster
by the god Typhon, to which they are excessive, revenge, that they
are his favorites of rock fell the donkey.

Similarly, in the history of other countries also avenged religion.'s
Me driving my good brother, perhaps even twice, because he is the man
to do so.

Maybe it's self-love, but I defendant's (confess I) today, as a boy
that I once another three surviving boys slaps in the face not
returned rude and I often have to be 'I have to pay his grandchildren.

Verily, if I even just a poor boy from the forces of a similar FEIG
boys look away, I can not stop running and wants him by properly
deliver a power stroke.

"The passenger smiled, however, not the best.

He gave himself for a while and seemed Legationsrat from fox enough,
but a tollgewordener fox bites me in the end so afraid of water
as a great wolf.

Incidentally I went unconcerned with my [70] In the philosophy
disguise the poetry just like those in this, but philosophy in
poetic prose is similar to those drinking glasses in taverns, with
colorful Bilderschnörkeln moved, both in the enjoyment of the drink
and the image-work that often recall the cover, disturb. praise the
courage to continue, only that I deliberately instead of the
ridiculous Bramarbasierens, which just tells the figs right, solid,
quiet, clear voice.

"I am," says I, "just for Montaigne Council: man wearing only fear
of fear." I would, "returned the Legationsrat useless devious,"
fear again that I am not enough of fear feared, but remain too cowardly.
"" Again, this fear, "replied 'I am cold," plugin "I borders. A man
can not, for example, in the least believe in and fear of ghosts,
although he can at night to bathe in sweat of death, and fear just
how much he would be horrified (especially with the aftermath of
stroke rivers, [158] The more the state should Foot-drums and
children with the poet Regiment and fire drums confused; reversed
should the citizens of some princely Drum Addiction for a disease
only take what the patient just under the skin infiltrated air is
very aufgeschwollen. falling examined and so on), if nothing more
than just his vivid imagination as any fever and Vexierbild against
him in the air hineinhinge. "- -" One should, therefore, "was my
brother, resist moralizing habit, that" the so-poor sheep of a man
even with Geisterspuk no fool, so the rabbit can be on the spot at
the place to stay.

"A loud thunder, which the postal wagon nachfuhr, changing the
discourse.

My friends, erratet probably all - because its not me as a man without
any known physics Learning - my measures against lightning: [89] In
large cities lives of strangers the first few days after his arrival
only by his money in the house, only that in the houses of his friends
in vain; langt man on earth, however, such B. I, this is just the
first years politely kept free in the other and longer, but - because
it is often sixty years - it is true (I have documents in my hands)
every morsel and drop of pay as if you large inn to the earth, nor
to what is true. I am in fact a chair in the middle of the room (often
permanent 'I have concern Gewölk whole nights upon him), and cover
me with my cleaning of all ladders, rings, buckles and and so on
through all of my bobsleigh Blitzabsprüngen always so that I
cold-blooded music of the spheres Donnerpauke hear. - This caution has
never harmed me, because I am yet alive, and I wish luck to me today
that I once made the town, the same day whether I had previously
gebeichtet, readily and without the Lord's Supper to take into
Gebeinhaus hinausgelaufen because a severe thunderstorm (which is
really in the churchyard of action Linde) was about - I also came
immediately after the discharge of the cloud from the Gebeinhaus
back into the church and was so happy, even after the [112] I say
then no.

The human body is just like his hat - and if he does not just needed
- both to make them beautiful, so long in the = = head, until he is
taken back. [Illustration: and then fled with the wind in its sails
to just go straight and probably the shortest way round ...] executioner
(as the last) to come and enjoy the Liebesmahl. To think "I for my
person, but unfortunately, the full postal cars, I met people whose
physics is true Narretei. For when the storm is terrible about our
coach sky crackling fire and gather lumps Johanniswürmchen's as if,
in heaven umherspielten, and when I finally had to ask the sweaty
Postkonklave just want to at least watches, rings, money and the
like together throw the car around in pockets, so no man a head on his
body would have been so tat's not only no, but my own brother, the
dragoons, rose even towed naked sword on the pedestal and also swore
that he derived from. I do not know, was the desperate man is a
clever or not, in short, our situation [10] The world celebrate eras
- as the Spanish kings - Government appointment, age, marriage -
like with pyre (Autodafé, Tressenausbrennungen of Wise Men or the
Irrgläubigen). was terrible, and everyone, a man delivered.

Recently, I got even half a quarrel with two of the raw human cargo
of the coach, the poisoning and the whore, because she almost
questioningly gave to understand that I had perhaps at the advertised
Preziosenpicknick not the attacks had honest.

Something wounded honor with violence, and thundered in me is now
stronger than above, but must be 'I need the whole Erbitterungswortwechsel
so quietly and slowly as possible and gently at odds, so do not end
in a carriage Harnisch placed in heat and sweat ran, and in our
midst as the near-evaporation by thunderbolt on the sleigh herabfahren
sky [144] The reviewer used his pen not to write, but he wakes up
with the smell of burning powerless to tickles with the throats of
their Plagarius to play, and stochert with her teeth out.

He is the only one taught in the entire lexicon, which is never out and
out that he may be a century or a millennium before the ink Fasse sit.
Because could. Last set I of the whole electrical chapter clearly,
but softly and slowly - I did not want to ausdampfen - apart
and examined particularly the fear away. Because, in fact, before
the fear could strike any of the - yes, a double, with an electric
apoplectic - take because Erxleben and Reimarus enough evidence is
that strong fear vapors by the beam zulockt and I was so in
an orderly fear and my fear of foreign passengers in front that
they are now quite humid in our lot, where the lightning spit the
scabbard on the horse pedestal, and the overhang of the weather
cloud, and even with so many top evaporation of fear, in short,
however, when the scholar, the philosopher and poet of the new book
just out new material and create growth, defines the reviewer merely
his old level of insight and taste a thousand new works, and his
old light breaks in the passing, always different milled glass world
he lit up in new colors. so apparent danger should fear nothing,
they wanted to, including and especially not be slain.

"Oh, God," cried I, "only courage! No fear! Not even fear of fear! -
Would we be driven together as a hare settled here, by our Lord
to be shot?

- Fear is my all when he is out of the coach, in any other places where
care is less, but just not here.

"I can not decide - as in millions of little man in the thunderstorm
cloud dies but perhaps millions of snow and rain clouds and thin
mist - if my coach preaching to rescue people claim rates had to
make when we are all intact, contrary to a rainbow in the town of
Four cities imports, where a post holder in the one-lane living,
the city had. [107] Germany is a long, sublime mountains - under
the sea.

[Illustration: From the high gate post house became / are deeply
bückend the giant out] Second station, from four cities to Niederschöna.

The post holder was a rough and patron a bat, a class of people I hate
unspeakable, because my imagination always vorspiegelt me, I could
perhaps by chance or disgust them a rather scornful and impertinent
face cut, and me such Gesellen rush to the neck, and felt that 'I
already pulling faces.

Fortunately, could I this time (that I would have a Fehlgesicht cut) me
with my brother, the dragoons, arm, whose giant power like a delicacy
is.

Because he can, for example, before any inn, which, according to
a brawl will go past without hineinzutreten and immediately below
the door to shout: "Peace of power, their dogs!"

Pointed at [18] Under the self-Tille is not, as the Bears tatzensaugenden
that they themselves to do their own breast, but that others do not
suckle from other leave: but it should also include the word
self-love to be in use.'

s bogus peace Deputation he without delay, as if 'is an American
peace pipe, the next chair leg in his hand and thus covers the
beating personnel over and over to, or he is approaching the hard heads
of the parties (he is proposing is not) each other with violence,
by giving in each hand at the back holds, then the owl is in sky. I
for my person avoid discrepant circle more than that I do prospecting,
as well as any dead or totgemachten people, - the prudent man looks
slightly ahead of what to get them is either morose and unfortunate
body type stuff, or often even ( if the circumstances are conspirators)
embarrassing inquiries about blame. [97] Therefore closing 'I think
that good preaching Schmelzle, already from his many skills and
word games.

The theological world catheters, more to the pulpits, deserves the
praise that they kind of light collectors Lichtfang or magnet or light
rays, and the best discoveries that expected from other sciences,
especially those from philosophy and poetry in four cities attracted
me nothing of importance to the - to my horror - a dog without a tail,
by city or street ran.
V--l, whom Margarita detested, practically refused to sing
_Siegfried_ to her _Brünhilde_, because, he said, she made him
ridiculous with her virginal strugglings and got him out of breath
besides! And he could lift and carry Lilli Lehmann.)

"Will you?" Roger repeated, not loosening his hold of her, for he felt
her muscles tense as wire under the soft flesh.

"No, I will not," said Margarita. "I hate you. I will die before I
will obey you."

And at this foolish and melodramatic remark, Roger Bradley, descendant
of all the Puritans (Whistler used to say that he was by Plymouth Rock
out of Mayflower--alas, dear Jimmie!), a respected bachelor, of
exemplary habits and no entanglements, deliberately, and with a
happy, heartfelt oath, kissed Margarita, at length and somewhat
brutally, I fear, in a hired four-wheeler at the junction of
Thirty-fourth Street and Fifth Avenue. And of his sensations at this
point I cannot speak, because I never had them. I never kissed
Margarita but once and then very quickly, because I was convinced that
upon my subsequent speed depended my ever seeing her alive again. And
she did not struggle at all, because, as a matter of fact, it was
perfectly immaterial to her whether I kissed her or not. But that was
not the case with Roger's kiss.


CHAPTER III

AS THE TWIGS WERE BENT


The day that Roger and I first met is as clear in my mind as if, in
the current phrase, it were but yesterday. I was a slender little lad
of ten and he a great, strapping fifteen-year-old. I was trundling my
hoop about the part of the schoolyard usually given over to the little
fellows, as blue as indigo, homesick for my mammy-O, and secretly
ashamed of the French school-boy cape I had worn at Vevay, which all
my mates derided, but she in her woman's thrift had thought too good
to throw aside. No doubt she was right, but oh, what you make us
suffer, you gentle widow mothers! You would give us the hearts out of
your fervent bodies for footballs, you will nurse at our sick beds
without rest and deny yourself the comforts of existence, if need be,
to start us fairly in the world with a gentle training and schools of
the best, but you cannot comprehend that we would far rather go
without a meal in private than be the mock of our schoolmates in
public. I would have lived on bread and water for a week could I have
buried that French cloak at the end of it.

The very sport in which I was engaged was not in use among the other
boys of my age, but inconsistently enough, though I was eager to
conform as far as the cloak was concerned, wild horses could not have
dragged me from my wooden hoop, and I trundled it sulkily up and down
the flagged paths.

To me, an odd figure enough to young American eyes, advanced and spoke
Monsieur Duval, in whose regard I was the most homelike and natural
figure in the landscape, I have no doubt. It was with a real kindness
that he called out some cheery nothing, some "_Ah! Ah! ça va
bien--vous vous amusez, n'est-ce pas?_" or such like, and with an
equal and unconscious amiability that I replied in like manner. The
language was perfectly familiar to me, especially in its present
routine connection, and I took off my cap instinctively, as I should
have done at Vevay, and probably said something about my being
_joliment bien amusé_, which was purely perfunctory of course, because
I wasn't. He passed by and I trundled my hoop along, but only during
the space of time required for his complete exit from the scene, for
at the precise ending of that time I was violently set upon by three
or four boys, dragged, protesting and frightened, to a private
retreat, and there informed that my nauseating familiarity with the
French language and consequent "showing off" therein must cease
incontinently, and that the event of my refusing this ultimatum would
be a perilous and not easily forgotten one for a little sneak like me.

Now our school at Vevay had been entirely under the influence, in its
secret and really important life, of a circle of English boys, cruelly
banished from their natural educational facilities, who made up for
this banishment by a careful and systematic insistence on as much as
possible of their native school atmosphere, and we little ones were
bred up in this very strictly. The word "sneak" was too much for me,
and I flew at the offender, which was, I suppose, what he wanted.

It would have gone hard indeed with me had not a tall,
broad-shouldered boy, glorious in a jersey enriched with the initials
of the school, swung suddenly upon us and twitched me out of the
bandit crew by my coat collar.

"What's all this? What are you up to?" he asked briskly.

He had a baseball bat with him--I regarded baseball at that time as a
sort of cricket gone mad--and a round visored cap on his thick fair
hair. His chin was deeply cleft, his eyes grey-blue, his skin very
fair. To me he was an upper-form demi-god and I, seeing nothing odd in
his actions, for he was what I called the cock of the school, voiced
my trembling plea.

"If you please, sir," I began, whereat he blushed and my captors burst
into derisive shouts and capered around us, and thoroughly embarrassed
and frightened, I began to snivel into my elbow.

After the Countess, more than wife, came to be enslaved. A cry, a
harsh word, a threatening gesture to her husband enough to landfall.

Count to be over zealous, he was greedy, and the Countess could not
have without giving a real close view of justifying the investment
of up to the smallest amount. The cruel vividness of his imagination
he represented the most exaggerated that on this misfortune. He dreamed
that his daughter was in nakedness, homelessness, humiliated and used
in the most vile duties, and she swam in the opulence and power
come to their rescue. How do you give something without knowing
the Count? And to know the count, know their offense and their
shame, and presented as a harsh and angry judge, and a word of contempt
the kill. La Condesa, tormented by his conscience while humbled by
the fear that had at Conde , wanted the death to rest, yet yearned
to live, survive and uniquely her husband.

While he lived, knew that the Countess would not have the courage to
do anything for her daughter. Or by gift or by will, at the hour of
his death, to find ways to share it with who was his own blood or to
bequeath at least assets that were theirs and not the tyrant who
tortured.

The Countess then underwent to the will of the Almighty quiet and waited,
and no desire to strive for the death of her husband, before his
arriving.

In the event that this happens, he formed the firm resolution to
leave by will to her husband's relatives, on farms and jewelry,
everything in the acquisition and mastery may involve the most
scrupulous conscience that the Earl had been a party, then some
important to send people who have served well, such as my Joaquina
and the remainder of its assets in all funds, whose titles were and
are still a number of banks and trading houses, left entirely to
their daughter.

The Marquis knew Joaquina by the resolution of the Countess, and,
when harassed by creditors, had seized and sold soon to pay its
debts, had to withdraw to this place, I stopped writing the letter
that I have to deliver V. to serve as an introduction to me.

He was deeply interested, inquired the brave details of my father's
death, shook hands heartily, and expressed his intention of inviting
me to his home some time during the vacation. We parted the best of
friends and shall be, I trust, till we part for good and all.

I did not visit him, however, that vacation. Some slight injury,
received during a game of his favourite baseball, affected his eyes,
and for six months he could not use them at all, so he did not return
to school until the next autumn. When we met again it was on a
different basis, for I had made good use of my time and had mounted
rapidly in my classes. Whether it was because I kept the habit of
vacation study (the entire lazy freedom of American school children
during the long vacation was very shocking to my mother) or whether my
habit of application and concentration, the fact that I had really
been taught to study, not merely turned loose with a book in my hands,
gave me an advantage over my mates, I do not know, but when Roger came
back he found me only three classes below him and graduated from the
little boys' playground forever.

That summer he took me home with him and I gazed with deep respect
upon the portraits of his ancestors, fading against the dark wainscots
of the respectable Boston mansion; played my violin obediently for his
mother, who presented me with a volume of Emerson's essays; hung upon
the lips of his soldier-uncle, one-armed since Gettysburg, who in his
turn listened gravely to my tales of my father; and sedulously avoided
his cousin Sarah, who, even then, a fresh-faced girl of eighteen, had
begun to feel those responsibilities toward the human race which have
since so consistently distinguished her, and pursued me with hideous
bits of paper bearing a mocking resemblance to blank cheques, which
she called "pledges," by means of which she urged me to begin in the
days of my youth the practice of total abstinence, with the result
that she has become hopelessly involved in my mind with that revolting
practice. They were Unitarians, a doctrine then fashionable in those
regions, oddly enough, and greatly to the puzzlement of my dear
mother, who could not understand how dissent could ever be so, and who
was firmly convinced that "your Bradleys" as she called them, were
addicted to ranting prayers on all occasions. In vain I described to
her old Madam Bradley with a scrap of frosty lace on her white hair, a
terrifying ear trumpet and the manners of a countess; in vain I
assured her that Uncle Winthrop would no more be guilty of a ranting
prayer than my father would have been: she shook her head gently and
urged me to recall my confirmation vows!

My dear mother! To write of her even so slightly is to see her in her
neat black dress with its web-like bands of lawn at neck and wrists,
directing old Jeanne, _bonne-à-tout-faire_ now in our small
establishment, watering our window geraniums from a quaint, long-nosed
copper pot, drilling Mr. Boffin, the poodle, in his manners, and, when
the early dinner was out of the way, sitting in all simplicity with
Jeanne at work upon my shirts--the only example of really democratic
institutions that I ever saw in this irascible democracy. I should
like to have seen Madam Bradley sewing with the cook and innocently
gossiping over the old days!

Well, well, even to have invented so inhumanly possible an ideal as
democracy is a great feat and a wonderful exhibition of the powers of
our minds on this planet, I suppose. And I am not sure that it is a
greater proof of sincerity to practice it while denying it in theory,
as they do in the old countries, than to reverse the process in the
new ones. Americans are such incurable idealists! And if Plato is
right and the idea is the really important part of the matter, then
the idea of seventy--or is it eighty, now?--millions of equal lords of
creation is really more to the point than the fact that they don't
exist. But why, oh why, must equality produce such bad manners? They
must have been very bad to make such an impression upon a little lad
of ten. And who can explain its extraordinary effect upon the voice?
Why does it kill all modulation, all tone-color, all delicate shades
of thought and passion equally, and resolve that great gift, which I
sometimes think the greatest difference between me and my dog, into a
toneless, mumble-chopped grunting?

That was the glory of Margarita's voice: if she but informed you that
she would like more bread, your ear relished that series of
unimportant syllables precisely as the tongue relishes a satisfying
dish; with her, pleading, commanding, refusing, admiring, were four
perfectly different tonal processes; a blind man, an Eskimo or a South
Sea Islander would have understood that voice perfectly. And even now,
merely a shadow of what it once was, it is a lesson to all about her.

When Roger was seventeen and I but twelve he lost two years out of his
school-life, and this brought us closer together ultimately, as will
be seen. In some more than usually violent game of his favourite
baseball at this time he managed to fall so heavily on his chest as
slightly to bruise the lung, and a teasing cough that resulted from
this terrified his mother, over whom, like so many of her
pure-blooded countrywomen, the White Scourge hung threateningly, never
very far away. Good luck sent them just then an invitation from a
distant cousin, skipper of a large schooner that plied in Southern
waters, and she thankfully sent Roger off for a long cruise with him.
It was a fine experience, and oh, how bitterly I longed to share it,
as the skipper cousin urged me to do! But I was the only son of my
mother and she a widow, and so I swallowed my grief and contented
myself with writing. It had long been a great grief to me that I must
follow him so far behind at college--he had of course decided me on
his own university--and one of my contentments at this period was the
hope of winning ahead a year and leaving only two between us. This
would enable me to enter Yale when he was but half way in his course,
which as a matter of fact, I accomplished, to my mother's great pride.
She liked Roger, but always found him a little heavy and slow, and
secretly cherished my greater facility and more rapid mental
development with a fond and wholly female short-sightedness.

Our correspondence was very characteristic at this time: I have
specimens of both sides of it. My letters are long and detailed,
almost school-diaries. Roger's are few, short and immensely
impressive. He had a straightforward, utterly unimaginative style that
strikes the heart like Defoe's. He gave the strongest sense of great
events always happening, of high seas, bright, strange coasts, racy,
vital talk--and all in few, short words.

"We have been rolling hard for three days now," he says in one letter,
"and the ship's dog died of colic, which is about the worst sign there
is, they say. It may be we shall be wrecked. I wish you were here,
Jerry, you would enjoy it. They have stopped trying to coddle me now
and I live rough, like the rest. The food is not so very good, but we
all eat hard. I hardly ever cough at all now. The captain says I am as
handy as the next man."

The oldest of four, he had been looked up to and respected from the
nursery. A powerful influence at school, a prince regent at home,
wealthy in his own right, he stood in some danger of being spoiled, I
suppose. But the bluff skipper cousin, representative of that strange
New England _Wanderlust_, so little exploited in the anemic fiction
that so ridiculously caricatures New England life, stamped Roger at
this most impressionable age with the clean, downright simplicity, the
manly humility so signally characteristic of men who must always be
ready to perish in the elements; the ability to hold his tongue and
wait. Few families really rooted in that Old England that made the New
but can count in some generation their skipper cousin; in these the
whitecaps, the tall masts, the spices and hot nights, the scarlet
tropics and the dusky, startled natives tip with flame the quiet
chronicles of the sisters left at home; and gorgeous peacock fans,
rosy, enamelled shells, strings of sandalwood beads, riotous, bloomy
embroideries and supple folds of exotic muslin weave their scents and
suggestions through the sober-coloured stuff of everyday. Indeed, New
England as I have known her, both as a child in her chief and
representative city, and as a man in her farthest, least-spoiled
hamlets has always seemed to me far more complicated and mysterious,
far more vital and suggestive than her too-exclusively-spinsterly
chroniclers can comprehend.

I look to see the country turn back to New England, not only with
historic pride, but with a rich appreciation of its artistic
mother-land--not mistaking her for its bleak and apprehensive maiden
aunt!

I am far from her now, that old breeding ground of great, incisive
sons, that nest of passions so strong that only a grip of
granite--like her sea line--could master them (do you fancy, O
languorous, faded South, do you bellow, O strident, bustling West,
that because she neither sighed them nor trumpeted them, she had no
passions? _Allez, allez!_) but I can close my eyes at any moment and
smell the challenge of her Atlantic winds here on the Mediterranean
or feel the heady languor of her miraculous "Indian Summer" there in a
London drizzle. It is strange that I, who have said many unhandsome
things of her country as a whole, should thus rush into apologia for
my mother's birthplace. And yet to think of never having known
Margarita!

But of course I should have met her. She would have come to me walking
lightly out of the dim Algerian evening or bumped into me some morning
in Piccadilly or peered curiously through my leaded pane at Oxford,
whither I should undoubtedly have returned, one day, to muse away my
middle age. I idled for a happy year there, twenty-odd years ago,
while Roger was grinding away at the fantastic matter he called the
Law, and liked it well. But fate had not decreed me for a conventional
Englishman, which I should doubtless have been, for as a boy I was
malleable to a degree, but had reserved me instead for the ends of the
earth--and Margarita.


CHAPTER IV

FATE REELS IN


There is nothing more certain than that the bare facts of life are
misleading in the extreme. This is doubtless nature's reason for
concealing the human skeleton; it is undeniably necessary, but not
many of us take it into daily consideration, and nobody but a few
negligible anthropologists would dream of bringing it forward as proof
of anything in particular. And yet people who are fond of describing
themselves as practical persistently fold their hands over their
abdomens, shrug their shoulders and reiterate monotonously: "But, my
dear fellow, there are the facts! It is only necessary to consider the
facts of the case!" or, "I'm sorry, but I'm afraid the bare facts are
against you!" I suppose that is why they are so often called bare,
because so little of the important, informing or attractive is draped
around them.

Consider for instance, the bare facts of Roger's adventure. Here is a
man who, meeting a perfectly unknown and singularly beautiful young
woman in a questionable locality at dusk, enters into conversation
with her, takes her to a French restaurant for dinner, then finds
himself embroiled in a disgraceful altercation in which wine-glasses
are thrown and chairs waved, and finally escapes with her in a closed
carriage, which soon becomes the scene of a violent struggle
culminating in a ferocious kiss! The case is really too clear; it is
almost too conventional for an art student of any initiative and
originality. Anyone possessed of the slightest acquaintance with
fiction or the daily papers could tell you instantly that here were a
dissipated clubman and a too-unfortunately-stereotyped creature who
not only required no description but were best, in the interests of
morality, undescribed. And yet Roger was emphatically not dissipated,
nor even a clubman, in the sense in which the word appears to be used
in America, and Margarita was not in the least unfortunate and so far
from stereotyped that she pressed the unusual hard toward the utterly
unique.

"Well, well," I hear the practical man, "but this is a case in
one--five--ten thousand, surely! We all know--"

My good man, there is absolutely nothing we all know except that we
shall certainly die, one day, and from this one bare fact more utterly
contradictory inferences have been drawn than I can afford ink to
enumerate. Nothing could be more certain than this bare fact, and can
you show me anything more productive of human uncertainty? I trow not.
What do you know of the private life of the man in the next house?
Have you a friend who cannot tell you from one to three melodramatic
tales, lying quite within his experience, at which you will gasp,
"Why, it's as exciting as a novel!" The best novels never get into
print and the most blood-curdling, goose-pimpling dramas are played by
the boxholders. The longer I live the more firmly am I convinced that
the really quiet life is relatively rare.

To Roger, indeed, after his climax in the four-wheeler, it seemed
impossible that life could ever again be quiet. If I have not
impressed you with the idea that he was a decent sort of man, I have
wasted a whole chapter and demonstrated the folly of attempting
authorship at my age, and you will be but poorly prepared to learn
that when the cabby knocked at the glass, after heaven knows how many
minutes of interested observation, Roger discovered his identity
again--and loathed it. His conduct appeared to him indescribably
beneath contempt, his situation deplorable. Margarita, sobbing quietly
in her corner, seemed unlikely to raise either his spirits or his
estimate of himself.

Opening the door of the carriage he repeated his directions to the
too-confidential driver and spoke stiffly to his companion.

"I will not attempt to excuse myself to you," he said, "for it would
be pointless. If you can believe me, I will try my best to help you to
your friends. Can you not tell me the name of one?"

"What is your name?" she asked, her voice only a little shaken from
her sobs, which had ceased as soon as he began to speak.

"My name is Roger Bradley," he answered promptly.

"Then that is the name of my first friend," said Margarita Joséphine
Dolores, "but I hope to find others."

Roger's revulsion of feeling was so great, his state of mind so
perturbed and confounded that he crushed them into a short, husky
laugh. Had he been the hero of a novel he would undoubtedly have
launched into a bitter speech, but he did not.

"Others like me?" he said briefly, and all the bitterness of the
novel-hero was there if Margarita had been able to read it. But she
only smiled, a little uncertainly, it is true, and replied:

"Yes, I should like them like you--only not so strong," she added
softly, with a shy glance at her wrists.

It has been quite unnecessary for me to consult letters or diaries to
give me a very clear insight into Roger's feelings at this point, for
I myself have experienced them. It was when I took Margarita out in a
rowboat and she began to rock herself in it.

"Don't do that, Margarita!" I cried. "That is an idiotic trick."

She continued to rock it.

"Do you hear me, Margarita?" I demanded, tapping her foot with some
irritation, for she really was irritating. In fact she completely
upset the theory that tact and adaptability constitute her sex's chief
charm.

"Of course I hear you. If you kick me, I shall only rock the harder,"
she answered composedly--and did so.

Shipping the oars carefully I arose, advanced upon Margarita and boxed
her ears with determination. I should have done it in mid-ocean. I
doubt if sharks in sight would have deterred me. As I was boxing her
ears--beautiful, strong ones, they were, not tiny, selfish, high-set
bits of porcelain: W--r M--l (who would have been _Sir_ W--r M--l in
England to-day) said of Margarita's ears that they were set
convincingly low and that he looked to her to demonstrate one of his
favourite tests of longevity--in the very act of this boxing. I
repeat, I was cruelly bitten in the wrists, and, snorting with rage,
pure, primitive, unchivalrous rage, I fell upon that shameless little
Pagan and shook her violently, till the teeth rattled in her head.
Over we went, the pair of us, struggling like demons, into the chilly,
rational water, and as Margarita, like so many people who live by the
sea, was utterly ignorant of the art of swimming and like so many
people of her temperament, violently averse to the sudden shock of
cold water, it was a subdued and dripping young woman that I dragged
to the overturned boat and ultimately towed to shore. I worked hard to
get her there and had no time for remorse, but as I hurried her up the
beach it flooded over me.

"What must you think of me?" I asked her through chattering teeth.
"You will not care to meet any more of Roger's friends, I fear."

"Oh, yes," she returned sweetly, looking incomprehensibly lovely--ah,
me, that long, smooth line of her hip, that round, sleek head, shining
like bronze in the sun! I can see it now--"Oh, yes, I hope he has many
more like you, Jerry, but not so strong--you hurt my arm!"

It is useless to ask me why that should have endeared her a hundred
times over to me, who would have given a year of my life to kiss her
but might not. Luther should be ashamed? Have I not - to name just
a few to be remembered - and I gestürmt Rome with the Pope and the
Elephant Order of Cardinal College duelliert yet? I'm not on a horse,
which I review as spectators sat in a _bataillon quarré_ caved in Aachen
and had the wig of Charlemagne, which the city annually Rtlr ten.
Frisiergeld pays, and that in Halberstadt by Frederick Gleim hat
conquered each other and both set up and have me or vice versa, when
I predict a gun stormed the ramparts against the gunner himself
around? - I did not circumcise me, but count me as a Jew, and
entertain with ham, although Ham's monkeys were on the Orinoco
(Humboldt)?

And a thousand similar, because, for example, the Flätzer Konsistorialpräsidenten
hab 'ich from the castle windows thrown - bang or Allarmfidibus
of [102] Lieber political and religious inquisitor!

The Turin's light shine ever so if you break it, and even then ignite.
Heinrich Backofen in Gotha, the dozen to 6 Gr. And everyone like a
rock hitting gun, hab 'so I listened quietly that not even me Fidibus
reawaken - and more. But enough!

It is time to end the defamation of my little box preacher Office which
unfortunately also in Flätz umläuft, just by how a Caesar to Alexander
the atomise that I touch it. It is true that what may, it is still
little or nothing. Your great-General and Minister in Flätz - perhaps
the largest anywhere - because there are not many Schabacker - could,
however, like any big man to take me, but not with the gun of the
truth, because the latter's' I have here, her heart, and expresses
it's only my very best! It is run in Flätzischen nonsense rumors around
that I made significant battles heels made [86] So true!

The youth loves and enjoys dissimilar friends almost more than in the
similar age. (So-called rabble-term), and that afterward, when the
field thanks to preachers and sermons sought victory, not to have
been. The ridicule which illuminates best when I say that I am in
no meeting had bin, but several hours before the same me so many
miles then drew back, where our people are me, once they have been
beaten, had to take necessary. At no time, the retreat is probably
as good - a good but is the masterpiece of the art of war held - and
with such order, strength and security to make than just before the
meeting, where you are not beaten. I could hopefully as a Professor
of Catechetics at such Verumfeiungen my courage sit still and smile
- because forged 'my future catechists through Socratic questions for
further questions: so hab' ich hardened them heroes because they are
not opposed to the battle field moves in as children -- - Catechists
[128] In love, there's summer holidays, but in marriage, there's also
the winter holidays, hoff 'ich. any fire may fear not only light, as
in our days in London as the window-in, if they are not enlightened,
instead that the other nations with the light as the dogs went
with the water, which, if they do not there long, finally the fear
of the water - and even whispers Catechists for each park and probably
sweet-smelling sulfur as a good artillery park and loggerheads what
the time is set, they are the true diabolical drawback of humanity. -
- But I think different - as if the proper spirit of Christian Pate
Attila more than that's heard me in there, is [143 ] The women have a
week at least one active and passive envy = = tag, the Saints,
Sunday, - only the higher levels have more Sundays than Werkeltage, as
in big cities, his Sunday already Fridays Turks celebrate with a can
Saturdays with the Jews, and Sunday with himself Weiber same
delicious works of ivory, white and nothing is smooth and nothing
is easier to yellow. me anxious, my courage just to prove what I
am here again with a few lines will do, dearest friends!

I could have this evidence by mere inferences and scholarly citations
lead. For example, if Galen noted that animals with large hind cheeks
are shy so brauch 'ich just me and the enemy turn their backs
only - and what it is - to show if he should see that I am not lacking
in bravery but to meat. - When the familiar experience of hearty
meat dishes to make: I can show that I never herein the following
officers, who with his host large frying food bills not only make but
also makes unsaldiert exist to every hour, even with his own enemies
(the hosts), an open document, that he is his own (and alien to)
eat, and nasty meat loggerheads on the set, [34] Only the small
wallpaper and rear doors are the doors of grace, the great gate is
Ungnadentüre the doors are half-doors, Janus. not alive, as another
of bravery, but for bravery. Nor did I ever as a field preacher
behind any officer in the regiments are back to a lion, and thus
each robbery attack, only that he, like this king of beasts, the fire
fear - or, as King James of England, who kept in front of
them naked sword, the more daring the whole of Europe before the end
Luther Stürm with book and pen opposite phasing, also in a similar
idiosyncrasy, both orally than in writing with any war Sheer bind.
Here correctly 'I am a happily brave Sous-lieutenants, who confessed
to me - though he still Beichtgeld guilty, and, better still, its
host inside the sin of money - which, in consideration of the hearty,
perhaps some of those Indian dogs had Alexander received a gift
[21] Klopstock and Schiller are poetic mirror in front of the sun
god, and the mirror so blindingly throwing back the sun,
that the paintings in them are not mirrored in the world can see. as a
dog Alexander. The Macedonians had to sample the wonder dog other
heroes or heraldic animals ports - erstlich a deer - but the dog
rested - then a pig - he rested - even a bear - he rested, now want
him Alexander condemn when you finally get a lion einließ, the dog
stood up and tore the lion. Similarly, the Sous-Lieutenant.

A Duellant an enemy away, a Frenchman, he only deer and pig and bear,
and he remains subject, however, now come and knock at his oldest,
the strongest enemy, his creditors, and ask him for present pleasures
tied Schmerzensgeld, and want ' him as past and future simultaneously
abrauben: the lieutenant goes on and raises the creditor the stairs.

Unfortunately, I also only when the sow and will of course be disregarded.
_Quo_ - Says Livy XII 5. with the law - [72] The Halbgelehrten
prays scholar at the district - Part Sixteen of these scholars -
and so on - but not the whole of the scholars Halbgelehrte.

_quo timoris minus est, eo minus ferme periculi est_, or German - depending
less fear you have, the less danger is almost this, I return the set
just to the right, the less risk, the less the fear, so it can enter
locations where you absolutely know nothing of fear - by which I
belong.

To be more hated me after every speech on Hasenherzigkeit appear. I
will send my holiday trip provided some facts which prove how easy
care - this means if a man is not the same stupid hamster want, even
against a man on horseback auflehnt -- - for true cowardice. Incidentally,
I just wished I could be equally happy in a completely different
accusation, that of a reckless, reject, although I am following in
good Fakta intend to teach, refute it [35]. _Bien Écouter c'est presque
répondre_ says Marivaux right of sociable circles, and I stretch
'but also on sessions and round the Cabinet table, where you spoke
and the Lord is listening. Heldenarm What helps the eye without a hero?
That is growing stronger and slightly annoying, but this does
not grind as soon as sharper lenses. Meanwhile, however, the merits of
prudence less fall into the eye (so the more ridiculous) than
the courage.

Who me, for example, very blue cloth with a growing umbrella
looks go: Come to the "I probably look ridiculous in front as long
as he does not know that I have him as a lightning shield lead, not
from a weather beam of blue sky (which in the middle history of more
than one example,) have to be made.

The flash screen is quite the Reimarussche; I wear on a long
walking stick, the growing storm cloth roof, with gables, a gold chain
as a derivation Tresse niederzieht, by a key that they appear on the
footpath nachschleift every possible [17] The bed of honor should
be but you, as it often whole regiments, and the last rites and penultimate
honor to receive from time to time fill soft, beaten and Summer.
flash light on the whole Erdfläche derived and distributed.

With this Paradonner (_paratonnerre portatif_) in your hand do I want
for weeks without the slightest danger under the blue sky herumtreiben.

However, these covers diving bell or against something else -
against bullets. Because who can give me in the autumn of black and
white that no hidden fool hunters from somewhere, if I enjoy nature
and through his rifle ball at an angle of 45 degrees so abdrückt
that they just dropped on my head aufzuschlagen needs so that it
as good as if I shot sideways into the brain?

It is already bad enough that we have nothing against the moon have
to defend ourselves - we are currently using rock shells, like a
half-Turkish, because of this wretched, [112 ] Some women use the
world in some cases their physical weakness, such as Mohammed's
falling = = Addiction - who is also this - just revelations, heaven,
inspiration, holiness and to obtain proselytes.

Erdtrabant and small runners and _valet de Fantaisie_ believes in
These rebellious times, even begin to be his great country
zuzuschleudern something mother of David shirt pocket.

    Truly, now can a young catechist
      of the night feeling with
    straight tendons in the
    moonlight also convert to many
      to feel or to remember, and can (in the sense of the absurd erwirft
him satellite) as crushed mash again to go home. - - By God!

everywhere blade samples of courage!

If you have difficulty Donner wedges and melted comet tails anglicised:
so, the enemy artillery in the new moon on or else where in the blue!

Another story was enough to demonstrate just how ridiculous the
most serious [120] Some Diogenes is a free, not if in the barrel,
but if it lives in him, and the mighty of the Hebkraft = = pulley
in mechanics, he feels almost a bottle of course other types of
bottles in the cellar and repeated well.

Beware of all internal mute is often external to the mob appears.
Riders know the risks on a continuous long horse. My Unst wanted,
that I in Vienna on a Mietspferd came to sit, which is a beautiful
honey mold, but old and hartmäulig like Satan, so that the beast in
the lane next to me and browsed - unfortunately only in steps. No
stopping, no driving to beat, and I finally did on the Selbststreitroß
Notschuß after Notschuß and shouted: "Hold on, its people, for God's
will be stopped, my horse goes through!" But the simple people
because the horse did go so slow as Reich Hofrat the process and the
ordinary postal wagon so they could not find in the matter, until I
move into such fiercely obsessed cried: "Hold it to her and brush
Penseler, see ye not that I no longer believe jade can «Now came
[2] The culture of making entire countries, such as Germany, Gaul,
etc. warmer physically, but mentally colder.

     Hartmäuliges the lazy one, schrittlings undress before the horse
ridiculous. - Half of Vienna, I got a beard like a star behind my
tail and pigtail Roßschweif after. - Prince Kaunitz, otherwise the
best riders of the century (the previous), gave to me to follow. -
I myself was sitting upright and swam as a drift in the honey molds,
in a continuing step browsed denied. - A polygon, rockschößiger
postman had left and right in his letters from the floors and I had
always satirical face again, because the mold is too slow Forth. -
The tail slingers (known to the man, the pair with a ton of water
[99] Nevertheless, hab 'ich in all my vigor Grimm but never on the
purchase of a privilege against push for something else or worse
than required for the levy, so far all Christian maritime powers
to the States barbaric shot so they were not robbed.

     Only France has just because of the similarity-down as both
     a privilege as the barbaric levy abolished. on the streets
     and leaves them with a three-Ellen long hose from a tinny
     funnel wetted) drove exceptionally comfortable behind the
     cheeks, and my horse feuchtete during his duty and those
     cooling myself on whether I like the cold sweat had enough
     to not be fresher required. - I fell on my hellish, Trojan
     horse (I was only setting myself the Trojan, which rode)
     to Matzleinsdorf (a suburb of Vienna), or were plagued's
     for my purposes quite different lanes. - At last I had
     late in the evening after the Reträteschuß of the Prater
     in the latter to my disgust and against all the police
     laws in the lawless honey still ride about mold, and I
     would perhaps stay with him, if not my brother, the dragoons,
     seen me and still finds on the place would have gone through
     Gaule. He made no circumstances - began the cattle [1] The
     more weakness, more lies, the power goes straight, every
     cannonball, which has caves or mines, is crooked. - Did
     the funny question: why would not I voltigiert, whether he
     knows quite well that to a wooden horse to the city - and
     brought me down - and so were all Mounted unberitten
     care and undamaged home. But for once in my journey! trip
     to Flätz. You know , friends that I travel to Flätz
     just below the closing had to do, not only for cattle, and
consequently the Minister and Chief of Schabacker was there, but
mainly because it (like I certainly had a secret hand) annually 23
July on the eve of the market day by five clock [32] Our age -
called by some paper, as if it were from a better-dressed rag made
- already half improves, because it's the rags now more lint than
to papers zerzupft, although or because the hackers rags (or Dutch)
will not rest, however, when people learned to make books, they may
also crowned in government securities and transform ummünzen - in
Norway, you will have after Allg.

Gaudium and so much grace ausließ is that he is most people less than
anschnauzte and listened - heard. The confidential Gaudiumsursache I
reluctantly paper. In short, I was him my petition, I am as innocent
displaced by a field preacher catechetical professorship to indemnify
and remunerates no better year and over time, as the evening by five
clock early dog tags. I put my Bittschreiben in three days. Since I
am neither concepts nor spared the same transcripts and counted: so
I was soon so far that I completed is relatively very best in front
of me was scared when I noticed that I was over thirty dashes in
thought hingeschrieben scoreboard even houses of paper, and good
in some German states - keeps the chamber College (the College of
Justice in any case) his own paper mills, in order for the Duet
enough flour to have its windmills.

I wish, however, our Kollegienhaus deprive those glass Tailoring in
Madrid on the model, in which (according to Baumgärtner) while
nineteen Schreiber has been employed, but also eilf workers. Had.
Unfortunately shoot these spikes today as Wespensteißen, involuntarily
formed from clear springs. I threw it in me for a long back and
forth, whether a private scholar is a minister with indents should
approach - so much of this level Underline the thoughts that these
wagerechten barlines poetic Tonstücke these stairs and pitfalls
and Achilles' tendons or philosophical Sehstücke now generally considered
as necessary - I was alone but in the end (because scraping
professional people offended) the best Probstück back and rewrite me
again half an hour on behalf Attila Schmelzle torture, because I always
[39] Epictetus advises to travel, because the old acquaintances
us through shame and the influence of transitions to the high virtue
hold - so how about his provincial dialect rather modestly except
country stores, and then completely purified at his back, yet now people
follow virtue and status of this Council, although reversed, and
traveling, because the old Acquaintances by shame, too much of new
sins off.

[Illustration: ... just do it gently / say 's / he like a good frost
Ointment ...] believe that this letter and the address, the two
cardinal points of the areas and letters, never enough to write
legibly.

First stop, after four of Neusattel cities. The July 22, or Wednesday
afternoon by five clock, the postcard was of the ordinary post-propelled
himself irrevocably to my scheduled departure. So I had about
half a day's time, my house to order, what now for two nights and
days drittehalb through my chest as the dam breast, the Verhack with
my I should go off. Even my good woman mountain elk, I believe
Teutoberga call me relentlessly traveled the 24th Fridays or after
it to the fair to inspect and use, so they already wanted to leave
immediately with me, the loyal wife.
At sight of
Margarita his jaw dropped, he shivered violently and appeared ready to
faint, but as she called encouragingly to him he mustered courage to
approach and feel of her skirt timidly. He was evidently feeble-minded
as well as dumb, for with a sort of croak he dropped the bucket and
began to dance clumsily up and down, snapping his fingers the while.
Plainly he had thought her gone for good and this was his
thanksgiving.

"Milk the cow, Caliban, I am thirsty," said Margarita impatiently,
after a moment of this, "and get me some bread. Make haste with it."

He started on a run for the door furthest from the cow stall and
appeared almost immediately with a large silver mug and a huge piece
torn from a loaf. Squatting beside the cow he balanced the mug between
his knees and deftly milked it full. She seized it, drained it
thirstily and began munching her bread, holding the mug out to him
again to be filled a second time. She bit great mouthfuls from the
loaf, like a child of four, and Roger watched her, half amused, half
irritated.

"You are not accustomed to the exercise of hospitality, I see," he
said finally, and as she looked at him over the silver mug
inquiringly, he explained.

"I have walked for more than an hour and I am hungry, too, Miss
Margarita," he said. "Won't you offer me anything to eat and drink?"

She shook her head doubtfully.

"I need this bread myself," she said, "and no one drinks from this cup
but me. I should not like it. If Caliban will get you another ..."

"Surely he will if you tell him to," Roger suggested mildly.

"Very well," she returned indifferently, "when he has finished
milking, I will," and she continued her meal, adding, "I do not think
he likes you, for he shows his teeth. He did that when the doctor came
to see my father."

I asked Margarita a year or two after this to describe for me how she
first entertained Roger: I had already a good idea of his initial
hospitality to her in the French restaurant. Here is her letter.

     DEAREST JERRY:

     What an odd thing to ask me to tell you--my first
     hospitality to Roger! But I remember it very well. Only it
     was not very hospitable, because, of course, I did not know
     anything about that sort of thing. One has to learn that,
     like finger bowls and asking people if they slept well. You
     know I called for some bread and milk and ate them very
     greedily, standing by the cow so that I could get more when
     I should want it. By the time I had finished, Caliban had
     finished milking and then Roger asked me quite politely if I
     thought he might have something to eat now. You know, dear
     Jerry, I had never been used to eating with people. All the
     people I knew ate their meals separately and it never
     occurred to me that I ought to be there when he ate. And
     then, I was so sleepy--oh, so sleepy! You know I have always
     felt sleepy and hungry and angry and things like that so
     much more than other people seem to. I have to sleep and eat
     when I feel like sleeping and eating. So I only said, "You
     had better ask Hester to get you a breakfast. I must go to
     sleep now," and flung myself down on some fresh hay just
     beside the cow stall, in the sun, and went to sleep! Was not
     that a dreadful thing to do? But I did it. I do not know how
     long I slept, nor how Roger looked when I turned my back on
     him, but when I opened my eyes he was sitting beside me,
     smoking a cigar and staring at me. He had been there all the
     time.

     "Did Hester get you a breakfast?" I asked him, stretching
     myself like a big baby.

     "I have not asked her," he said very quietly, "suppose we go
     in now and see about it, if you are rested."

     So we went in, but Hester was not in the kitchen, and when I
     went up to her room and knocked there was no answer, so I
     supposed she had gone out for the roots and herbs she used
     to hunt so much.

     "You will have to get it yourself," I told him, "unless
     Caliban will."

     "Are you not willing to do that much for me, then?" he said,
     and I felt very strange, though I could not explain why. I
     think now it was because I began to understand that I ought
     to have done something I had not.

     "I would get it for you if I could," I said, "but _I_ do not
     know how to make a breakfast, nor where Hester keeps her
     things. Why do you not ask Caliban?"

     So then he asked Caliban if he could manage some breakfast
     for him, but Caliban only stared and walked away.

     "Does he understand?" Roger asked me, and I felt that his
     voice was not the same as it had been.

     "I am sure he does," I said. "Will you not do as this man
     asks you, Caliban?" But he only scowled and turned away.

     "You see," I said, "there is nothing to be done until Hester
     comes." But Roger shook his head and walked over to Caliban.

     I am sure he knew it was not that I grudged him food, but
     that I had no idea at all of how to set about getting it
     ready. People always have known that what I say is truth,
     though much of what I say seems to surprise them.

     "If you will excuse me," he said, "I will try a slightly
     different method," and I knew he was very angry. He lifted
     Caliban in the air by the collar of his coat and gave him
     several sharp blows on each ear and shook him. Then he threw
     him away on the floor. Caliban cried like a young dog and
     sat upon his knees and covered his face. He meant for Roger
     to excuse him. I was surprised, for I had always been a
     little afraid of Caliban.

     "Get up," said Roger, very quietly, "and make me some coffee
     and whatever else you have. And see that you obey me in
     future."

     Caliban hurried about and looked here and there and made
     some coffee and broke eggs in a black pan and cut pieces of
     bacon. He set a place at the kitchen table and made some
     biscuits warm in the oven. Roger ate five eggs and a great
     many pieces of bacon and six biscuits. He gave me some
     coffee. When he had finished he drew a long breath and gave
     Caliban a piece of silver money and Caliban kissed it. Then
     Roger took another cigar and told Caliban to fetch a match
     and then he asked me if I would like to walk by the sea for
     a little.

     "I ought to find this Hester of yours," he said, "but I
     won't just yet. I am too comfortable. Will you come out with
     me?"

     So I said I would, and that was all my hospitality, dear
     Jerry. I had learned better when you came, had I not? This
     letter has been so long that I cannot write any more.

                                            Your MARGARITA.

My Margarita! The very words are not like any other two words. I think
no woman's name is so purely sweet to the ear, so grateful on the
tongue. My Margarita! Alas, alas....

As to that walk by the sea, I have never been able to get any
satisfactory account of it. Any, that is, which could hope to prove
satisfactory to one who did not know Roger. Such an one might be
incredulous, in face of all that had gone before, when assured that
Roger paced back and forth on the firm sand, filling his lungs in the
clean sea air, puffing his cigar in perfect silence, Margarita at his
heels as silent as he, and the big Danish hound at hers, more silent
than either. But so it was. To me who know them both, nothing could
seem more natural. They were healthy, well-poised animals, well fed,
supplied with plenty of fresh air (a prime necessity to them both)
and in congenial company. Neither of them was given to consideration
of the past or prognostication of the future; both of them were
content. Roger has always had that priceless faculty of reserving
mental processes, apparently, until they are necessary. When they are
not, he lays them by, as a sportsman lays by his gun, and the teasing,
relentless imps that poison the rest of us with futile regrets for the
past and vain hopes for the future avoid him utterly. It is the pure
Anglo Saxon corner-stone of that great, slow wall which I firmly
believe is destined to encircle the world, one day. Your slender,
brown peoples with their throbbing, restless brains and curious,
trembling fingers may--and doubtless will--build the cathedrals and
paint the frescoes therein and write the songs to be sung there; but
they must hold their land from Roger and his kind and look to him to
guard them safe and unmolested there. Or so it seems to me.

After an hour or so of this walking Caliban approached them, and
bending humbly before Roger made it clear that he greatly desired
their presence at the cottage. They went after him, Margarita
incurious because she was utterly indifferent, Roger wasting no
energy, of course, with no facts to proceed upon. At the kitchen he
endeavoured to lead them up the narrow stair, and then Margarita asked
him if anything was wrong with Hester and if she had sent him.

He nodded his head violently and led her up the stair. In a few
moments she returned.

"Hester," she said composedly, "is dead."

"Dead?" Roger echoed in consternation, "are you certain?"

"Oh, yes," she replied, "she is cold, just like my father. She is
sitting in her chair. Her eyes are open and she is dead."

Roger stared thoughtfully ahead of him. He never doubted her for a
moment. It was always impossible to doubt Margarita.

"I wonder if Caliban will make my breakfast, now?" she added, with a
shadow of concern in her voice. "I think he puts more coffee in the
pot: I shall be glad of that."

"For heaven's sake," Roger cried sharply, "are you human, child? This
woman, if I understand you, has taken care of you from babyhood!"

"Of course," said Margarita, "but I do not like her and she does not
like me. She liked my father."

It may seem strange to you that Roger did not immediately ascend the
stair and confirm Margarita's report, but he did not. Instead he spoke
to Caliban.

"Is the woman dead?" he asked shortly.

The clumsy, slow-witted youth nodded his head and sobbed noisily, with
strange animal-like grunts and gulps.

"Has she been dead long, do you think?" Roger asked.

Caliban raised his hand and checked off the five fingers slowly. It
was understood that he indicated so many hours. He placed his hand
upon his heart, then shook his head from side to side. Suddenly he
shifted his features unbelievably and Roger gazed horrified upon a
very mask of death: there was no doubt as to what Caliban had seen.

This being so Roger thought a moment and then spoke.

"I am very sleepy, Margarita," he said, "and I don't care to walk back
to the village directly, since it would do no especial good. I think I
will take a little nap on the beach, if you don't mind, and then I'll
go to the village and get help to--to do the various things that must
be done. Later I will have a talk with you. Tell me once again--you do
not know of any friends or relatives of your father's or Hester's?"

She shook her head, carelessly but definitely.

"Does Caliban?"

But this question was beyond the poor lout's intelligence; he could
only blubber and fend off possible chastisement.

"Take another nap, if you can, Margarita," said Roger, "and I will go
to the beach. Call me if you want me."

She went off to her warm straw, threw herself on it like a tired
child, and passed quickly into a deep sleep; he tramped for a moment
on the beach, then stretched himself in the lee of a sun-warmed rock
and fell into the dreamless, renewing rest that he took as his simple
due from nature.


CHAPTER VI

FATE CASTS HER DIE


When he woke it was full sunset. The lonely reefs were red with it, (O
Margarita, well I know that hour! Do you remember our talks?) the
point of land seemed drowned in it, and with a sense of something
inexcusably forgotten and put off, Roger hurried to the house that
stood strangely deserted, it seemed, in the dying glow. In just that
glow I have watched it, leaning on my oars, and for a few strange
minutes, the exact time necessary for the sun to drop behind the
coast-hills, I have felt myself a small boy again, crouched in a cane
chair before my mother's sewing-table, unable for very terror to drop
my feet to the floor as I gazed through wide eyes at the House of
Usher, that home of sunset mystery. Such a strange, Poe-like
atmosphere could that sanded, secret cottage take upon itself.

Roger pushed rapidly up the beach and entered the house quietly, so
quietly that he caught Margarita's last sentences, which struck him as
odd even in his utter ignorance of their connection. She was evidently
scolding Caliban, for his grunts and shufflings punctuated her pauses.

"It is very saucy and unkind of you, Caliban," she was saying, "and
you need not think you can do as you like because Hester is dead. I
know she can not walk any more. My father could not walk when he was
dead. And you need not think that Roger Bradley will not ask, because
he will. He knows everything."

Roger thought that the lout had been teasing her with stupid ghost
hints and bade him begone sternly, more vexed than before as he
noticed the dim twilight drawing in and realised how late and
inconvenient the hour was for all he had to do.

"Can you get me a lantern, Margarita?" he said shortly. "I must get
back to the village and try to bring someone out with me to see about
the--all the matters that must be attended to--upstairs."

"Upstairs?" she repeated, "what matters?" He blessed her indifference
then, and explained as gently as he could the necessity for some
disposition of her old housekeeper's body.

"Oh! Hester," she returned, "you cannot do anything to Hester, Roger
Bradley, for she has gone."

"Gone," he echoed stupidly.

"Go and see," said Margarita, pointing to the stairway, and he took
the steps two at a time. The room that she indicated faced the stairs
directly. It was furnished plainly with an ugly wooden bed covered
with a bright patchwork quilt, a pine bureau and two cheap chairs. The
walls were utterly bare and the floor, but for a woven rug near the
bed, of the sort so common in New England. And yet there was an air of
homely occupation in the plain chamber, a bright, patched cushion in
one chair, a basket full of household mending and such matters, on a
small table, a pair of spectacles and a worn Bible beside it. The room
had that unmistakable air of recent occupation, that subtle atmosphere
of use and wont that no art can simulate--and yet it was empty.

Roger came down the stairs again and summoned Caliban. The fellow lay
in a deep sleep, just as he had thrown himself, on the straw beside
the cow stall, a full pail of milk beside him. It was hard to wake
him, for he scowled and snored and dropped heavily off again after
each shaking, but at last he stood conscious before them and appeared
to understand Roger's sharp questions well enough, though his only
answer was a clumsy twist of his large head and a dismal negative sort
of grunt.

Where was Hester's body? Was she really dead? Had anyone been in the
house? What had he been doing all the afternoon? One might as well
have asked the great hound in the doorway. Even to threats of violence
he was dumb, cowering, it is true, but hopelessly and with no attempt
to escape whatever penalty his obstinacy might incur.

Roger fell into a perplexed silence and the lout dropped back snoring
on his straw.

"I do not see why we came back from Broadway," Margarita observed
placidly. "I did not want to, you remember, and now Caliban is too
sleepy to get our supper. We shall have to have more bread and milk.
Let us eat it on the rocks, Roger Bradley, will you?"

And Roger, in spite of the fact that he was forty and a conspicuously
practical person (or was it, perhaps just _because_ of this fact? I
confess I am not quite sure!) actually left that house of mystery
carrying a yellow earthen pitcher of milk, a crusty loaf of new bread,
a great slice of sage cheese and a blueberry pie, followed by
Margarita and the Danish hound, Margarita prattling of Broadway, the
dog licking her hand, Roger, I have no sort of doubt, intent on
conveying the food in good order to its destination!

They sat on the rocks, warm yet with the September sun, and ate with a
healthy relish, while the first pale stars came out and the incoming
tide lapped the smooth beach. I have been assured that they never in
the conversation that followed mentioned the island--though it was not
then an island, to be sure--that they were sitting upon, nor the
extraordinary events which had happened there and had brought them to
it. And I believe it. I also believe, and do not need to be assured,
that they talked little of anything. They never did. Again and again I
have imparted to Roger some or other of Margarita's amazing
conversations with me and he has listened to them with the grave
interest of a stranger and even questioned me indolently as to my
theory of that stage of her development. I must add that he has never
seemed surprised at what she said and has occasionally corrected me in
my analyses and prophecies with an acuteness that has astonished me,
for he was never by way of being analytic, our Roger. When I once
remarked to Clarence King (who was devoted to her) apropos of this
silence of theirs that it was like the quiet intimacy of the animals,
he looked at me deeply for a moment, then added, "Or the angels,
maybe?" which, like most of King's remarks, bears thinking of, dear
fellow. I never heard him in my life talk so brilliantly as he did one
afternoon stretched on the sand by Margarita, while she fed him wild
strawberries from her lap and embroidered the most beautiful butterfly
on the lapel of his old velveteen jacket, and Roger tried to ride in
on the breakers like the South Sea Islanders.

From time to time Clarence would turn one of those luminous sentences
of his and kiss the stained finger tips that fed him (I never did that
in my life) and from time to time Roger's splendid tanned body would
rise between us and the sun, triumphant on his board or ignominiously
flat between the great combers. But he was as calm as the tide and we
knew that he would beat it in the end and "get the hang of it" as he
promised. She never turned her eyes toward him, that I could see, but
I am convinced that she was perfectly aware each time he fell. She
never talked much to King and he was always a little jealous of me on
that account. But she was very fond of him and always wrote to him
when he was off on his ramblings. His letters to her were always in
rhyme, the cleverest possible.

There are, of course, whole pages to be written--if one wanted to
write them--of that night on the rocks. I naturally don't want to
write them. To say that I have not imagined them would be a stupid
lie; I am human. But I have never been able to bring myself to the
point of view of the modern lady novelist in these matters. Why is it,
by the way, that God has hidden so many things in these latter days
from the prudent and revealed them unto spinsters?

Not that I need to rely on my imagination: Margarita would have saved
me that. Once she got the idea that I was interested in those early
days, she was perfectly willing to draw upon her extraordinary memory
for all the details I could endure. But of course I could not let her.
The darling imbecile--could anything have been so hopelessly
enchanting as Margarita? It is impossible. If you can picture to
yourself a boy--but that is misleading, directly, when I think of her
curled close against me on the rocks, her hand on my arm and all my
veins tingling under it. She was all woman. And yet who but me who
knew her can ever have heard from the lips of any woman such absolute
naïveté, such crystal frankness? It was like those dear talks with
some lovely, loved and loving child. But that, again, gives you no
proper idea. For no child's throat sounds such deep, bell-like tones,
such sweet, swooping cadences. And no child's eyes meet yours with
that clear beam, only to soften and tremble and swim suddenly with
such alluring tenderness that your heart shakes in you and slips out
to drown contentedly in those slate-blue depths. No, no, there is no
describing Margarita. Perhaps King came nearest to it when he said
that she was Eve before the fall, plus a sense of humour! But Eve is
distinctly Miltonian to us (unfortunately for the poor woman) and
Margarita would have horrified Milton--there is no doubt of it.

Well, well, I left them on the moonlit rocks, and there I had better
leave them, I suppose. It is so hard for me to make you understand
that Roger was incapable of anything low, when I am apparently doing
my best to catalogue actions that can be set only too easily in an
extremely doubtful light. All I can say is, pick out the best fellow
you know, the one you'd rather have to count on, at a pinch, than
another, the one you'd swear to for doing the straight thing and
holding his tongue about it--then give him five feet eleven and a half
inches and blue eyes and you've Roger. This is rather a poor dodge at
character drawing: I know a competent author would never throw
himself on your mercy so.

But then, what does it matter? When the members of a man's own
household, who have known him from boyhood, fail to understand him and
take a satiric pleasure in looking at what he does from the nastiest
possible standpoint (none the less nasty because it is a logically
possible standpoint) why should I, a confessed amateur, hope to make
Roger clear to you if you are determined to misjudge him?

I find myself still a little sore on this point: unnecessarily so, you
may be thinking. But you never had to explain it to the family in
Boston, you see--and Sarah. I had. I can see her cold, grey-green eyes
to this hour, her white starched shirt and her sharp steel belt
buckle--ugh! It should be illegal, in a Republic where there are so
many less sensible laws, for any woman to be so ostentatiously
unattractive....

"Margarita," I said once, very soon after I had met her, "were you
ever caught by the tide on those first rocks? See how it has crept up
and cut them off."

"Oh yes, often," she answered, "the first night Roger ever came here,
for once. Do you not remember, I told you how he carried the blueberry
pie and the milk out there and we ate them? He was so hungry! It was
then that he looked at me so----"

"Blueberry pie," I said hastily, "is very messy, I think, though
undoubtedly good. It makes one's mouth so black."

"I know," she murmured reminiscently, "I told Roger that his mouth was
stained and I laughed at him. And then he said that mine was worse,
because there was some on my chin--why do you scowl so, Jerry? Is that
a wrong thing to tell?"

"No, no," I assured her, "of course not."

"I am glad," she said comfortably, "it is very strange that I cannot
see the difference, myself. How do you see, Jerry? But I was telling
you about the tide, was I not? When Roger said that about my mouth I
tried to get the stain off, but I could not, and then Roger said it
was no use trying any more and he kissed me."

Here Margarita paused and patted my hand, tapping each finger nail
lightly with her own finger-tips.

"You need not be afraid, Jerry," she added encouragingly, "I shall not
tell any more things about that."

I drew away my hand irritably. "Well, well, what about the tide?" I
said.

Margarita's repulsed fingers lay loosely upcurled on her knees, which
she hunched in front of her, like a boy.

"Oh, it was only what you asked me, dear Jerry," she answered softly,
"while Roger was kissing me that kiss, the tide _did_ come in!"


CHAPTER VII

I RIDE KNIGHT ERRANT


It is easy to see that I should have made a poor novelist; it has been
hard enough for me to give you any idea of scenes I did not myself
witness, even though I had Roger and Margarita to help me out and an
intimate knowledge of both of them, and when I try to fancy myself
composing a tissue of fictitious events "all out of my head," as the
children say, my pen drops weakly out of my fingers, in horror at the
very thought.

But now, thank heaven, the pull is over. From now on, I need tell only
what I knew and saw, in the strange, interwoven life we three have
led. Three only? Nay, Harriet of the true heart, Harriet of the tender
hand, could we have been three without you? My fingers should wither
before they left your name unwritten.

I remember so well the night the telegram came. I had been vexed all
day. Everything had gone wrong. Roger, to meet whom I had come back
early to town, had neither turned up nor sent me any message; the day
had been sickeningly hot, with that mid-September heat that comes to
the Eastern States after the first crisp days and wilts everything and
everybody. I found my rooms atrociously stale and dusty, and worse
than that, perfectly useless, since by some miracle of carelessness I
had left my keys behind me at the shore and hadn't so much as a clean
collar to look forward to.

The club valet assured me that he had received no call for trunk or
bag, but that Roger had assuredly not entered the house for five days.
I went into his rooms, but they told me nothing, and I, worse luck,
should have been lost in his collar, so I glared angrily at the
drawers of linen, wired for my own keys and made for the Turkish bath.
There with a thrill of delight I discovered a complete change of
clothing; I had, before leaving for the summer, jumped hastily into
dinner things, leaving a heap of forgotten garments behind me and they
awaited me now, trim and creased, russet shoes polished, and a
wine-colored tie, a particular favourite of mine, topping the fresh
linen. It seems absurd, but I recall few moments in my life of such
pure, heartfelt thanksgiving. The very colour of life seemed changed
for me. I wonder if we do well in despising these small thrills as we
do? Surely enough of them sedulously preserved in grateful memory must
equal in intensity those great, theoretical moments we all regard as
our due but so often pass through life, I am sure, without
experiencing.

However that may be, the little gratifications of that evening are
graven in my mind, undoubtedly, you will say, because of the startling
climax for which they were preparing me. The clean tingling of my
soapy scrub, the delicious coolness of the plunge, the leisurely,
fresh dressing all caressed my nerves delightfully. In the plunge a
pleasant enough fellow had accosted me and we had splashed together
contentedly. I expected to recall his name every moment, for his face
was vaguely familiar, but I could not, and when we met in the hall and
went down the steps together, it still escaped me. We hesitated a bit
on the pavement, and then before I realised it we were hailing a
hansom and bound for dinner together.

It was a pleasant drive up along the river, for a little breeze had
sprung up and the watered asphalt smelt cool. We were both comfortably
hungry and very placid after our bath and we chatted in a desultory
sort of way, I, amused at my utter inability to place the fellow, he
quite unconscious, of course, and perfectly certain of me. He asked
after Roger, sympathised with our failure to make connections,
remarked to my surprise that he had only been out of town for his
Sundays (America had not adopted the "week-end" at that time) and
asked me, I remember, if I knew anything about a game called
basket-ball. It seemed he was anxious to find someone who did. We drew
up at last to our white, glistening little table looking out over the
water, looked about for possible friends, nodded to the head-waiter
and ordered our dinner. It turned out that neither of us had yet
celebrated the oyster month, and leaving my unknown to bespeak the
blue points, for the more conservative among us clung to the smaller
oyster then, I telephoned the club to let Roger know where to find me
in case he should appear there.

Over the soup my companion got on to the subject--somehow--of
evolution, and talked about it very ably indeed. It is absurd, but I
shall never be able to eat jellied consommé as long as I live without
connecting it with the Saurian Period! I remember that those quaint
and apparently highly important beasts lasted well into our
guinea-chick and lettuce-hearts, and I can see him now, his eager,
dark face all lighted with enthusiasm while he spread mayonnaise
neatly over the crimson quarters of tomato on his plate, and made
short nervous mouthfuls, in order to talk the better. Half amused,
half interested I listened, trying to place the fellow, but for the
life of me I could not. Was he a scientist, a lecturer, a magazine
writer, a schoolmaster? We finished with some Port du Salut and
Bar-le-duc--an admitted weakness of mine--and I had decided to
regularly pump him and find out his name without his guessing my game,
when he began as I supposed, to help me out.

"Heavens!" he said with compunction, "you'll think me an awful bore,
Jerrolds, but I've been more or less practising on you, haven't I? But
you'll remember, perhaps, this used to be a sort of hobby of mine, and
I work it into shape nowadays for a young men's club I'm running."

I yawned and lit a cigar and we sipped our coffee in silence. The
plates rattled around us, the curaçoa in my tiny glass smelled sweet
and strong, everything was natural, easy, well fed and well groomed
(as the phrase goes now) about me, the day and hour were like any
other; and yet from that moment on my life was never to be quite the
same, for surprise and change were hurrying toward me, and the man
opposite--how curiously!--was to be drawn into the wide net that fate
had sunk for me and must have even then been preparing to draw
smoothly and effectively to the surface.

We think, when we are young, that we live alone. I recall, as a boy of
twenty, certain hot-headed, despairing midnight walks when the horror
of my hopeless, unapproachable, unreachable identity surged over me in
melancholy waves. Heavens! I would have plunged into a monastery if I
had believed that any sort of prayer and fasting could bring me
close--really close--to God; for to any human creature, I had learned,
I could never be close. After that, we grow into that curious stage of
irresponsibility which we deduce from this loneliness, and distress
our patient relatives with windy explanations of "matters that concern
ourselves alone." And later still, if we have the right kind of women
about us, some faint idea of the twisted net we weave--you and I and
the other fellow, all together, whether we will or no--comes to us,
and we stare awhile and then ... shrug our shoulders or bend our knees
or set our jaws, according as we are made.

I like to believe, now, that a dim idea of what was going to happen
was in some mysterious way growing on me before I got the telegram. I
am certain that when the head-waiter touched my arm and told me I was
wanted at the telephone, a curious oppression fell over my hitherto
contented after-dinner spirit which grew into a kind of excitement as
I made my way to the booth. And yet I expected nothing more than to
hear Roger's voice with some reasonable explanation of his failure to
meet me. It was the night porter, however, reading me a telegram
missent to the shore and returned to the club.

"Shall I read it, sir?"

"Yes, Richard, let's have it."

He mumbled the name of a place I had never heard of and went on in the
peculiarly expressionless style consecrated to messages, thus
transmitted.

     "_Please bring bag of clothes and razors here will meet
     train arriving four thirty Tuesday bring sensible parson
     don't fail. Roger._"

I stared at the receiver stupidly. This was Wednesday.

"That's crazy, Richard," I stammered finally, "bring what? Read it
again."

"It's quite plain, sir, except the town," and again the strange
message reached me.

"Well," I managed to get out, "it's clear he wants clothes, anyway.
Tell Hodgson to pack a complete change for Mr. Bradley and his razors.
And see if you can find the name of the place from the chief operator
and the correct message. It can't be parson, of course. And look up
the next train for that place, if you can, Richard. I'll be down there
directly."

I puffed hard at my dying cigar and went slowly back to the veranda,
trying to make sense of that telegram.

"No bad news, I hope?" my companion inquired kindly, for I suppose I
looked worried.

"No," I said slowly, "only an idiotic sort of telegram from Roger. He
wants me to meet him at some place or other at present unknown, and to
bring him his razors and a sensible parson."

My unknown friend burst into a chuckle of laughter.

"Well," he said cheerfully, "you get the razors and I'll attend to the
parson end of it. Any special denomination?"

I paid for our dinner (he had insisted upon paying the cab) and
gathered up my hat and stick.

"It's absurd," I went on, "perhaps he meant 'person,' though what's
the point in that? Anyhow I must start directly. There may be a night
train. Would you rather stop here a while?"

"No, no, let me see you through," he said good-naturedly. "I'm
interested. Perhaps he's going to fight a duel with the razors and
wants the parson for the other fellow! Perhaps he's made a bet to
shave a parson. Perhaps----"

But I was in no mood for joking. The telegram, so unlike Roger, and
yet so unmistakably his, in a way--I have often noted a curious
characteristic quality in telegrams--worried me. I wished I had got it
in time to make the train he mentioned. I wished I were in that
mysterious town. Suppose he had depended on me for it? Suppose he
needed me?

We drove down in silence. My man got out with me at the club and
smiled at the Gladstone the porter held out to me.

"There are the razors, anyhow," he said.

Richard had the name of the town for me, too (the town I prefer not to
tell you) and the next train that would make it: it left in fifteen
minutes.

"And it _is_ parson, sir--p-a-r-s-o-n: there's no mistake. Shall I
call you a cab, sir?"

I bit through my cigar with irritation.

"In heaven's name," I cried, "how am I to get a sensible parson in
fifteen minutes? In the first place, I don't believe there is such a
thing!"

"Hold on, there," said my friend suddenly, "there is, Jerrolds, for
I'm one, and you know it!"

I started at him. Who in the devil was he? Instinctively I began an
apology.

"I--I didn't recall at the moment----"

"Between you and me," he cut me short, "I'm just as well pleased that
you didn't, Jerrolds! The sooner we get through with all this white
choker and black coat business, the sooner we'll amount to something,
in my way of thinking. Well, seriously--will I do? Do you know anybody
better? Because I'll go, if you don't."

I grasped his offered hand.

"Heaven bless you," I thought, "whoever you are!" and, "All right," I
said shortly, "it's very kind of you. We'll have to hurry, I'm
afraid."

We had just time to jump for the last platform. I remember
apostrophising the Gladstone rather strongly as I fell on its metal
clasp, and glancing apologetically at my companion, but he was
tactfully deaf, and we found a seat together, by good luck, and
settled down for our hot and tiresome night.

I couldn't very well ask his name by that time, it would have been too
absurd. I trusted to Roger to get me out of that difficulty, for he
knew Roger, evidently, and me too, though not very well, I judged. He
certainly wasn't in my college class, for it would have come up, I was
sure, in our talk. Not that we talked much. It was a stuffy,
disagreeable ride, and I was alternately vexed with Roger and worried
about him. In a hopelessly foolish manner I connected the razors and
the parson, too closely for any reasonable inference in regard to the
latter. I knew the connection was ridiculous but it was persistent,
and as I had lost all hope of placing the man sitting beside me, my
mind was altogether in a horrid muddle. Once he asked me abruptly if
Roger were an Episcopalian.

"No," I answered, "he--his people are Unitarians."

"I'm a Congregationalist, as you know, of course," he went on, "but if
it makes no more difference to Roger than it will to me, there'll be
no trouble."

"Anyone would suppose he was going to christen Roger," I thought
disgustedly and returned to my troublesome thoughts, replying absently
that it would be all right, of course.

We changed cars at S---- and got into a queer little local train
filled with young village roughs, whose noisy horseplay annoyed me
exceedingly. My mysterious parson, however, was deeply interested in
them and related incident after incident in proof of what could be
accomplished with this offensive part of the rural population by
social organisation under competent direction. "Says I, and my hair
stood up in the mountains. - "In this way, of course, the first best
house with his wife and father children, or a priest, in the Tiger
lodges, from the first Aufwärterin worst that he or the evening,
unfortunately it accidentally learn to honor and innocence brought
to see «An elderly officer asked," Is because the girl but prefer
to swear to the devil? "What logic!

- "Or that" I went without response continued, "a man that travels
with Viennese locksmith Gesellen, after the mother was a dear son
niederkam, or with any of d'Eon-clad knights, with whom he often
stays, and the journeyman locksmith or the knight must then supplement
their oath: it can not last more gentle man with a different ride
and drive, because he does not know this when the boots and forth
the women shoes, and then to the father and swears the devil?

"But some of the table out of society in my pulpit fire so much
that she suggested schafsmäßig to believe: I myself was on this
point is not correct, but lax.

When the sky! because I knew no longer what I ate and talked. Fortunately,
I was just a lie against any French defeat stated, because I'm
now at the street corners of the French and German views proclamation
which each, war reports - is negative - sounds without showing before
the court-martial ordered so could 'I, as a man who never likes to
forget, nothing smarter to do as they go with empty ears, and only the
hosts report why. It was not a wrong time, for four and a half clock
to intentionally do' I can shave the beard, order against five so
legally by an Balbiermesserglättzahn geleckten chin as smooth
Velinpapier without rhizomes of Kinnhaare (whiskers is pleonasm)
on and vorzutreten.

Before I poured as Pitt before parliamentary sessions, damned much Pontak
with real disgust in my stomach down against every doctrine of salvation
and lock the same order, not only by the slight, bearded alien shiners
to exist, as the Minister Schabacker General, with whom I am one and
the other fire-word to switch to.

There was the usual Fremdenbalbier the hotel, but was immediately
in his face indented viellinigen more of a toll finally become, as
from a wise man become in itself.

Tolle now hate 'incredible and I am therefore in no toll house, because
since the first Wütige best Riesenfäusten erschnappt with me if
he likes, and ever since I became infected because of not knowing
whether I am again with the understanding herauskomme that I inside
it. - Usually seated 'I (am I eingeseift) on the chairs so that I,
both hands (look exciting' I balbierende sharply against the face)
on the legs, the diaphragm of the quick-witted Balbier to lie voted
to him by the ambiguous as the smallest movement wütig knock.

I hardly know quite how it is received, but nevertheless I am foolish
in the face of the winding-Bart shiners and deepen as he just a
long 'battle gewetzte somewhat hastily knife against my throat bared
led: so I gave the field - Scherer and beard so sudden blow to the
navel, that the man in the traps soon own suicidal's throats would
be cut off.

I did nothing of it as reparations and against my principles
umgebundene other swollen tie as a veil of what remained unbeschoren.

Now I have finally broke to General and drank the Pontaksreste still
below the threshold of. I hope my plans were complete, correct answer,
even to ask. The Bittschreiben hatt 'ich in the pocket and in the
right hand.

In the left hatt 'ich's duplicate.

My Fire helped me easily on all ministerial lively over
fences, and I soon found myself unexpectedly in the hall among his
finest lackeys who, as far as I saw nothing to be missed.

I gave the paper my handsome Please with the oral, it in turn to be
rich. He took them, but not binding. I waited deep into the hour
into six clock vain, reflecting only the happy things Generale is
present. Finally ersehen 'I have a stepfather or the previous
Duzbruder lackeys and repeat my request, this running around for
nothing, brother to write or to find - nothing was to be found: -
how happy I was that I am the duplicate of the petition in the
Pontak before shaving off my back, and so - merely from the principle
that one is always a second wooden leg bag wrapped in a coat must
have when you first had on his body - and the fear that if my
Urschreiben on the way [13] _Omnibus una salus sanctis, sed gloria
dispar_, which means - write otherwise the scholars of God - by
Paul in heaven, we have all the same happiness, but different levels
of fame.

Even on Earth, we find the writer in the sky world from Tiger to
Schabacker lost my whole trip and hope to water should be - this, say
'I was good that I Repetierwerk of Urschreibens had inserted, and
consequently in each if anything, and a detto, einzuhändigen
managed.

I handed the same one. Unfortunately, only six clock was already gone.
The lackeys but did not stay long, but soon gave me - I would say the
sermon text of this circular letter - the answer almost raw (which
her friends, but out of respect for me and Schabacker have to be
kept): if I Attila Schmelzle Schabackerschen the regiment would be
so möcht 'I'm only with my back to the devil Hasenpanier shear, as
I have done Pimpelstadt.

Another place would be on the left, but I was very rude of them
and an example of this. Namely, the bliss of the authors of the critique
beatified genius, the good, the mediocre, the mentally poor, is all the
same, they make almost all in the whole making a Kameralglück,
returned to the same guy: "I am also willing to shear the devil and
scissor me about the devil. "Pleasure investigated 'I myself, if not
the Pontak spoken of me - even though the study contradict,
since no Pontak investigated - but I found that just me, my heart,
perhaps my courage to speak something: and because what ever faint,
since the assets of my good woman so I paid more than ten catechetical
professorships, and since they all corners of my book of life
with so much gold fittings provide that I do without it abzunützen,
can always break? - Pregnant women who like horror at the rear access
to the birthmark of the mistake of hiding it, I grabbed at the
mute heart and said, "Beat you just bravely through, who is also
beaten weak profit.

But heaven, which, however, after fame squadrons concerned, how
deep will not - regardless of the same fees and sales - even at a
so-called lifetime under Duns hinabgestellt a genius! - Not often will,
"I felt very collected and heated - and I thought to myself republics,
where I as a hero could come home - I longed me in those heroic
times Greeks inside, where a hero from another whipping like
einsteckte and said only suggest, but hear me! and from our cowardly
out where you can hardly endure Swear, even more - I painted it from
me, how I would feel if I am happier in environments Aftermarket
umwürfe thrones and all peoples on how great deeds on the temple
steps immortalized in giant climbs and times entirely different and
bigger than men mannen and would take over as now the mites rabble
around me and a maximum of one and the other Vulcanello. I thought
- and always made me wild and I drunk myself mentally poor author in
a fair forget However, a witty, or even by a brilliant fifty
durchblüht fairs and so only its 25th anniversary to celebrate,
before he goes down late, and forget the German glory temple is
depressed, the (no Pontaksrausch, as you know, more than by growing
without drinking), and gesticulated publicly - as I asked, "Will
you state a mere lap dog - a dog-dog - a _pium desiderium_ a _impii
desiderii_ - an ex-ex - a nothing-nothing?

- - O Sackerment! "It was me but my hat in the Marktkot. Since I picked
up and cleaned him, I saw everywhere, verschossen as he was, and I
immediately decided to create a new beginning to buy and wear themselves
in the hand.'s Completed and I negotiated for one of the finest caliber.
Oddly, this hat, as if's a Magisterhut was in the alley goat properly
checked and my head examined. Since the General Schabacker is
daherfuhr, and I (like probably obvious) I'm not familiar with the
peculiarity of the church of the Order of the Padri Lucchesi in
Naples imitates what we know (the Volkmann) under its roof a burial
site, but no monument pointed verstatten. gemeine rudeness, but by
courtesy wanted revenge so I got one of the kitzlichsten tasks to
be solved before.

Pans' that I felt just fine, which I already had in his hand, but retained
the verschossenen on his head: could be 'I am a brute out of the box
look very familiar, with nothing deducted, however, I moved from
the old head, and courted thus: so played two at once felt (now I
liked the other mitbewegen or not) the matter into ridicule.

Well, true but from their friends, anyway you continue reading, here
is how you would pull out without losing your head !.... I think
maybe because you just lose the hat, short and good, I had almost exactly
the Putzhut out of hand in the droppings fall to me in the state
to put off the Sudelhut lonely and courtesy necessary to swing
without painting of ridicule.

In Tiger I had - something close to - the brillantierten Fine Fine
Fine Felt [Illustration: ... and prayed loud: over to you 'I am /
You only cared for me so far weak servant] ausbürsten earlier than
the Kotsassen or Schartekenhut. Well, I went, my major in the past and
adjust Probierwage bearing, fiery up and down. The Pontak had - I know
well that it is only false hinieden there - even been false,
so much he chased my imagination in a fire after another. I was now
in a wide, shiny life inside, where I was without Office lived
merely by money, and I like the delphi chen Zenone caves and
corridors and muses of all mountains of Sciences übersäet saw that I
was able to drive calmly.

Especially me, I was able to price more fonts at colleges that are (ie
the Scriptures) that no author ever need to be ashamed of,
because a whole crowning academy in any case for the Koronanden,
and blushes. Shoots, the price advertisers are passing next to the
crown, so he always remains unknown and anonymous (because you can
not exchange unsealed) than any other author, who is nameless Langohr
a book edited by, but the earliest a literary Eselbegräbnis (_sepultura
asinina_) publicly before the world half einsenkt. Only took
me a little ahead of the suffering of my Berga, which I will, of love
Müdegereisten, the arrival and abbreviated market with my review
of salinity had a negative message. She wanted so happy to Neusattel
- and who's a rich verübelt tenants daughter - imagine something and
some Honoratiorin cut. - Everyone is required to parade square and a
lively former glory, as the last honor. - Especially to such a good
low-born, perhaps more of their metal as its spiritual treasure and
sinking funds deliberately, but in Ehrengelagen champion from any
chair or chairs and have the first best silly goose _loci_
hinaufsitzen.

These husbands are now so indispensable. I took myself, therefore,
to me, and consequently one of their best titles, so the farms in
Germany (almost like in a Auerbachshof in Leipzig) of the nobility
and Halbadel until the rate down to a continued feilstehen, and
this anzukaufen ennobled through my soul Viertelsadel such a
Achtelsadel zuzuspielen that (hope I) some nasty nebenbuhlerische
Neusattlerin envy of half-broken and call should say: 'You stupid
egg tenants Ding! but look how the schwänzelt and wagged! It does not
think out what to do with him if there was no money and no
bag Hofrat had - "because the latter must namely 'I have become about
previously. But I longed for myself in the cold solitude of
my room and in the fire of my memories undescribably after the mountain
elk - I and my heart were tired of foreign driving days - no
one around me told me a good word that he is not in the landlord
to bring verhoffte. - Friends, I languishes after the friend,
whose heart's blood like the balm for a second vergießt - I cursed
my überklugen measures that I am not to good with me immediately
to take the rather silly house being all thieves and fire damage
divulged. - In the set-up and away it was always easier for me to
do everything possible to be any Kammerrat, Akzisrat, other Council,
and as they ordered only when they ankäme.

"Put only one good day in the city," said Mountain elk this all week.
But how is one to do without them?

Our mourning tears dry even from friends and guide them with their
own, but our tears of joy we can find most easily in the eyes of
our women. - Sorry, friends, my Libationen this emotion - I'll show
'you but my heart and my Berga. - I need a drain Kraemer, so take
the Pontakskrämer it. [79] Weak and moved heads move and change at
least once again, and her inner man dresses sparingly, as capons
never molt.

First night in Flätz. Nevertheless,
took to me that the wine is not the calm before the bed under the
bed to see if someone lauere including, for example, the whore, or
the dwarf Legationsrat, also the key under the door handle (lock
is the best policy in all) to push, then the abundance screw my
night at the door and finally einzubohren even before the chair on
top of each other to build and leg anzubehalten clothes and shoes,
because I certainly would not care.

    I had other things but still of the night
      because of dismissing change. Mir's
    always been absolutely incomprehensible
    how so many people go to bed and set
      it to lie down without being concerned that they might be asleep
in the first unstop [89] The Old healed over time or misfortune
with philosophy with Christianity, but the recent eg time in the
terrifying accessed for lust, like the wounded buffalo, and to cure
the body in mud wallows. somnambulist as roofs and hinauskriechen
somewhere and wake up, where they break their necks and the rest
Yes, there would be risk enough for me, integrity when a man, a
field preacher, in his own bed asleep and about on the silk cushions
in the bedchamber of the finest lady in the city awoke, which he
might expect his luck.

Am I at home, so wag 'I sleep with a little - because I, as my right
toes every night with a three-Ellen long winding gang (I call' it
Jesting our legitimate band) to the left hand of my wife is connected
to certainty, that I, if I am out of bed arrest were issued, with
the lock trick them awake and I consequently it as my living fence,
on the night cord back to bed would be withdrawn.

In the inn, but could I not do anything when I was a few times at
the Bettfuß lace, not to migrate, although then collapsing thieves
were able to bring new hardship.

Oh, so dangerous, everything is sleeping, unfortunately, that anyone
who was not on his back like a corpse daliegt, care must be with
the whole sleep or a the other limbs, a foot, an arm On; and then
the entschlummerte link -- - because in the medical history does
not lack for examples - in the morning to amputating matured lying.

Therefore, let me awaken frequently, so that nothing falls asleep.
When I bedpost to the well connected and finally came under the
blanket was, I was because of my baptism of fire Pontaks anew concern
and fearful before my expected power and storm dreams - which,
unfortunately, afterwards were nothing better than heroes and
Potentatentaten, towers, throws rocks, - but still seh 'ich little
heeded this physician.
she said, and now her voice
dropped a good fifth and thrilled like the plucked string of a
violoncello, and my nerves vibrated to it and tingled in my wrists.

"Roger said you would, and I thought you would--and you do not," she
said sadly.

I clenched a handful of the moist sand and leaned toward her, my heart
pounding furiously.

"Are you sorry?" I muttered unsteadily, fixing my eyes on hers.

She met them fully. Like great grey pools they were, her eyes, honest
as mountain springs, clear as rain. They caught me and held me and
drenched me in their innocent, warm sweetness; there was not one
thought in her head, not one corner in her heart that I was not free
to know. Those eyes had never held a secret since they opened into a
world that had never, to her knowledge, deceived her. They swam in
light, and oh, the depths on depths of love that one could sound
there! My last hateful anchor broke clean off and my heart slipped
from the stupid rocks of suspicion and self-protection and jealousy,
and floated away on the bosom of that sweet, disturbing flood. I
forgot Roger, I forgot what had been myself; in that instant, in the
utter surrender of her innocent eyes, she became for me all at once
the vision I had seen in the mist again, the thing we mean when we say
woman--but now she was one single special woman, the vision and the
flesh-and-blood reality together.

"Are you sorry?" I said again, and my voice was not my own.

She smiled at me till I caught my breath. "Not now, Jerry," she said
softly, "because you do love me, now."

The sand fell, a tightly moulded shape, out of my hand, and I wrenched
my eyes away from her. They smarted and stung, but the pain relieved
me and cleared my brain, and I knew suddenly what I have known ever
since and shall know till I die. There on the beach, before I had so
much as touched her hand, I had fallen senselessly and hopelessly and
everlastingly in love with Margarita.


CHAPTER X

FATE SPREADS AN ISLAND FEAST


I don't know how long we sat silent on the beach. Such silence was
never embarrassing to her, because it seemed perfectly normal and
usual, and I was too busy with my thoughts to feel any sense of
restraint. And yet they were hardly thoughts: my head whirled in a
confusion of regret and desire, and one moment my blood ran warm with
the joy of my discovery, and the next a horrid chill crept over me as
I saw my empty years--for if she might not fill them, no one else
should. At last I drew a long breath.

"Are you hungry?" Margarita asked pleasantly. "When I am hungry I do
that very often. If you will come now, we will have our breakfast."

She sprang to her feet with the lithe ease of a boy and held out her
hand to me. I took it and we walked thus across the beach to the
cottage, and during that walk, with her firm, warm hand fast in mine
and her clean, elastic step beside me, I swore to myself that neither
she nor Roger should ever regret what she had done to me, nor know it,
if I could keep the knowledge from them. The last part of this vow was
impossible of fulfillment, finally, but the first, thank God! has
never been broken, or even for a moment strained, and I like to hope
that this may count a little to my credit, in the ultimate auditing,
for she was terribly alluring, this Margarita, and I am no more a
stock or a stone than other men, I fancy.

We walked around to the shore side of the cottage and there stood
Roger on its weather-beaten veranda, his hand held out to me eagerly,
an anxious, an almost wistful look in his honest blue eyes. He was
unusually but not unbecomingly dressed in faded blue serge trousers,
too tight for the dictates of fashion, but quite telling in their
revelation of his magnificent thighs, tucked into very high wading
boots and topped by a grey flannel blouse open at the neck for
comfort, with a twisted dull green handkerchief by way of a collar. It
was really quite picturesque altogether, and suited him excellently,
as all rough-and-ready, notably masculine attire has always done.
Curiously enough, he combines with this, when in evening clothes, the
least resemblance to a head-waiter I have ever observed in an
American; the price they pay, I suppose, for being quite the best
dressed business and professional men in the world.

I took all this in, of course, in a fraction of the time it takes to
write it, and also the fact that old Roger looked ten years younger
than when I had last seen him. He had always been a steady,
responsible fellow, you see, one of the men people put things on, and
not particularly youthful for his age: a great help to him as a
budding young lawyer.

But now I saw the eyes we used to see on the football field in New
Haven, and even, it seemed to me for a moment, the little worried yet
patient intentness I knew so well at school when some one of those
tiny climaxes (that seemed so terrible then!) depended on him for a
fair solution. They used to say so clearly, those honest eyes, that he
hoped you agreed with him and that you felt his way was the best way,
but that whether or not you agreed, he would have to do it, all the
same.

He had, as I say, his hand out, and I quickly put mine into it,
somehow or other not losing Margarita's at the same time. As
unconsciously as a child she reached out her other hand to him and we
stood like boys and girls in a ring-game, Roger and I looking deep
into each other's eyes and holding Margarita tightly.

"Is it all right, Jerry?" he asked me earnestly.

"It's all right if you say so, Roger," I answered promptly. All our
friendship was packed into that question and answer, and I like to
think that I never asked any explanations and that he never thought of
giving any till they were more or less unnecessary, the matter being
settled.

"You're not alone, I hope?" he said as we moved, one each side of
Margarita, into the house. I dropped her hand abruptly. Up to that
moment I had completely forgotten my sensible parson.

"Not unless he's given me up and rowed back to the town," I assured
him contritely, "and I hope to heaven you know who he is, for I don't!
He's a thoroughly good fellow, anyhow, and he knows us, and from what
I've seen of him he strikes me as just about the man we want."

"Thank you for that 'we,' Jerry," said Roger soberly, putting his arm
over my shoulder, and I realised suddenly and completely that I had
taken the jump and cleared my last ditch: Roger's interest in to-day's
event, for good or bad, was mine.

"I'll run and call him," I began, "and mind you mention his name
directly, for it's a bit awkward for me all this while." Something
struck me and I turned back.

"By the way," I tried to say easily, "do you want me to--to begin any
explanations?"

He laughed shortly.

"Good old Jerry!" he said affectionately. "No, I'll manage that when I
find out who he is. Hurry him along, for breakfast is ready."

I dashed off to the landing and hailed the boat, now plainly visible
on the bright, clear moving sea. She flew in like a swallow, the
oarsman coat off and dripping, and evidently royally content.

"Has Roger got a change for me?" he called as he reached the landing.
"I won't keep him ten minutes longer, but I'd like to go over the side
here, tremendously."

I, too, had begun to be conscious of a wrinkled, cinder-coated
feeling, and Roger, who had followed me at a distance, turned at my
shout and ran back to the cottage, returning with a white armful of
linen and towels just as we had slipped into the blue, cold water. I
shall never forget his expression of mingled relief, real pleasure and
amusement as he recognised my companion's face, bobbing upon the
surface.

"This is mighty good of you, Elder," he said simply, and reached down
from the slippery stone to shake the dripping hand held out to him.

Then it came to me in a flash. Tip Elder, of course! He was supposed
to have been christened Tyler, but was never known by any other name
than Tippecanoe, for reasons clearer in those days than these, the old
political war cry in connection with his boating fame having proved
too temptingly obvious to the rest of his class crew. He was in
Roger's class; I remembered how, even then, he had dragged Roger down
to some boys' club of his to give a boxing lesson once to some of his
protégés. He and Russell Dodge had a notable and historic quarrel once
because Tip had refused to break an engagement in order to take one of
Russell's many feminine incumbrances to a dance. Tip had steadily
refused to accept the obligation, and had endured very patiently a
vast amount of hectoring from Russell, who was then as now a trifle
snobbish and unsteady; but had finally been forced (or so we regarded
it, at that hot and touchy period) to accept what was practically a
challenge, and we were actually on tiptoe for a duel. Feeling ran high
about it, and there might have been a very disagreeable scandal had
not Tip's clear common sense and persuasive oratory burst out at the
last possible minute from this murky thunder-cloud and effectively
swept the whole business out of the way.

But none of his prayer meetings, nor the trip to the Holy Land that he
made in one long vacation ever deceived anyone who knew the fellow
into thinking him a prig. He never pretended that his ideals of
practical conduct were a bit higher than those of scores of the men
who had none of these interests of his. So marked was this absence of
the goody-goody in Tip that I, though I recalled his face and vaguely
connected him with something or other in the athletic line, never
remembered these other characteristics of his until, at Roger's warm
greeting, the years rolled back and Tip Elder, oarsman and
philanthropist, took his proper place in my memory again.

We scrambled up the rough landing steps, rubbed down quickly and got
into the fresh linen Roger had brought us, talking curt commonplaces,
not even embarrassed, in the glow and vigour of that strengthening
dip, and I noticed that the underwear, though of the best linen, was
somehow a little unfamiliar in its fashion, indescribably antiquated
in cut.

"We'll talk at breakfast," said Roger, as we hurried toward the
cottage. "I know you're hungry."

He pushed open the door, and we entered, gazing curiously around us.
We stood in a large, square room, evidently a dining and living-room,
washed with a greyish plaster, at once warm and cool. There was a
deep, wide hearth of faded red brick on one side, and an old oak
dresser covered with a very good service of gold-rimmed white china
and several pieces of handsome Sheffield plate. The few chairs and
settees and the one large table in the centre were all of that solid
yet graceful Georgian style that our ancestors brought with them; the
bare clean floor and the home-made rugs, taken with this furniture,
gave an effect more usual now in a summer cottage than it was then. On
the walls were eight or ten water-colour sketches framed in rustic
wood; a worn wicker _chaise-longue_ with patchwork cushions, struck a
curiously exotic note; two spinning-wheels, a large and a small,
flanked the fire and bore every evidence of use, not æstheticism; a
silver bowl of unmistakable Queen Anne date, beautifully chased,
filled with fiery nasturtiums, stood in strange neighbourliness to a
cheap American alarum clock; a lovely, tarnished oval mirror reflected
a hideous floral calendar, the advertisement of some seedsman. The
room turned in a small ell, and this, which was evidently the kitchen
corner of it, could be completely hidden from the rest by a quaint
screen, very broad and high, of home manufacture, the body of which
was composed of several calfskins beautifully marked and adroitly
fitted together. This last gave a touch of quaint antiquity, a hint of
the bold and primitive that was deliciously satisfying. I thought it
then and still think it a room in ten thousand. It had no other door
nor any window opening on the beach, and this produced a softened
dimness, a richness, so to speak, of lighting and gloom, a sinking
into shadow of the hearth and spinning-wheels, a lightness of the
dresser and the polished settle near it that struck the eye with the
same contented shock one gets from a mellow Dutch interior--the same
impression of previous acquaintance, of a once familiar, only half
forgotten home.

I have since tried to analyse the charm of that room, its inevitable
hold upon every one privileged to enter it (and I suppose few rooms in
America have held a greater number of really select souls), and I have
decided that its spell consisted in its deeply impersonal character;
its utter lack of the characteristics, the idiosyncrasies, the
imbecilities, even the fascinations of other, no matter how attractive
dwelling places. It had the restful aloofness of a studio, with none
of its professional limitations; the domesticity of a home, with none
of its fatiguing clutter; the freedom of an inn, with none of its
stale sense of over-use. And above and through all this ran the note
of almost ascetic cleanliness, a purity fairly conventual. Like most
men, I have a concealed passion for perfect cleanliness--concealed,
because to the sex so ironically intrusted with the duty of domestic
lustration cleanliness appears to mean frightful and devastating
upheavals resulting in a nauseating odour of soap and furniture
polish. When you shall have learned, dear ladies, to _keep_ your
domains clean without so furiously _getting_ them clean, you will have
earned, in our eyes, your somewhat dubious title of housekeepers.
Meanwhile, continue, in heaven's name, to think us the contentedly
dirty sex!

From the kitchen ell delicious odours proceeded, and as we sat down
around the shining old table with its fine, much-darned linen, and its
delicate china eked out where necessary by cheap, coarse, village
crockery, a heavy-faced fellow with dull eyes under a shock of hair
served us with what, upon mature consideration, I believe to have been
the finest breakfast I have ever eaten. A great fresh fish, broiled
with bacon, plenty of those delicious corn-meal muffins (I believe
they are locally and truly known as "gems") mealy potatoes fried in
bacon fat, and a sort of tart jam or marmalade made of wild plums to
top off with, the whole washed down with strong coffee and rich cream,
melted before our keen-edged appetites like dew before the hungry sun,
and we hardly spoke as we filled ourselves.

Much combined to give a flavour to the meal: the long, worried night,
the short, cool plunge, the excitement of our adventure, the mystery
of this empty house (for neither Margarita nor any other hostess was
present) and in my own case the wild, heady consciousness of that
absurd, incredible thing that had just happened to me: the confused
yet certain sense that it could never be quite the same with me as it
had been before I met that extraordinary girl in the faded red jersey.
It is just fine, but three stories high, in the middle of that, almost
from the ground up into the top of the pediment, jumping the wall in
an alcove-like extension in front, which for each floor to the front
and sides with windows, so that in light of the moon nights
hindurchscheinen can.

Since time immemorial, no person in this house into it - and nobody
herausgegangen; the heavy brass knocker on the door is almost black
from verdigris, chinks between the stones of the staircase is growing
year, a year from the grass .-- If a stranger asks: "What is that
for a house?"

he shall surely answer: "It is Bulemanns house" if he still asks:
"Who lives for it?"

so they respond equally certain: "There shall no one living in it."
- The kids on the streets and at the cradle Ammen sing: In Bulemanns
house, In Bulemanns house, since the mice look out the window.
And really want funny brothers which nocturnal feasts there came
a Gequieke as many mice behind the dark windows have heard.

One of the doors in high spirits anschlug to the echoes through the
barren rooms ring to hear, even claimed that he was inside on the
stairs clearly jumping large animals belongs.

"Almost," he maintains, this story, add, "does it feel like the big
jumps of the predators, which in City Hall Menageriebude on the markets
have been shown." Gegenueber The house is one floor lower, so that at
night the moonlight unobstructed in the upper window of the old house
may fall.

From such a night, including Waechter something to tell, but it's just
a little old man face with a colorful Zipfelmuetze, which he rounded
up there behind the bay windows will have seen.

The neighbors on the other hand, think of Waechter had been drunk once
again, they had over there at the windows never seen a human soul
was the same.

Most information seems to be an old neighborhood in a distant living man
can give to the years before the organist at St. Magdalene Church was.
"I remember," said he, as he once was asked about it, "still very much
the hagern man, who during my boys' time alone with an old Weibsperson
lived in that house.

With my father, a junk dealer was, he stood a few years in lively
movement, and I'm currently with some time orders were sent to him.
I know even that I do not like this way and often went looking for
all sorts of excuse, because even during the day, I feared, where the
narrow dark stairs to Mr. Bulemanns office on the third floor go up.

They called him among the people the 'Seelenverkaeufer' and this
name has caused me anxiety, as well all sorts of scary talk about
it in the pregnancy went.

He was, before he moved to his father's death the old house related,
many years as a Super Cargo Threats to the West Indies.

There should he a have married blacks, as he came home, had waited in
vain that one day even those women with some dark Annexes children
to see. And soon called there, he had to return a slave ship and
taken to the Captain that his own flesh and blood, together with her
mother to sell gold contemptible .-- What truly been in such speeches,
I can not say, "add the habit of old;" because I also want a death
not to come close, but this much is certainly an ambitious man and
it was averse codger, and his eyes and looked as if they had unleashed
evil deeds. No unhappy and help-seeker was allowed to enter its threshold,
and whenever I had been there, always was from inside the iron chain
in front of the door put .-- If I then repeat the heavy knockers had
hit, so I probably heard from the top down stairs scheltende the
voice of the master: Ms. Anken Madam Anken Is you deaf? not hear you,
it has knocked ' Immediately came up from the rear building on the
corridor and Pesel shuffling steps of the old woman heard. Before they
opened, she asked huestelnd: 'Who is it? "And, only if I had answered:'
It is the Leberecht!

' was off the chain inside. If I then hastily seventy-seven the stairs
- because I've counted them once - had climbed up, Mr. Bulemann
cultivated on a small dim hallway in front of his room already waiting
for me in this course, he has never inside left. I still see him as
he in his dressing gown gelbgebluemten with the sharp Zipfelmuetze
stood before me, with one hand behind the handle of his door holding.
While I ordered my trade, he used me with his bright eyes eagerly
round to me and to hard and just way. Most attracted my attention
was a couple of monstrous cats, one yellow and one black, which
sometimes made him behind his desk and pushed their thick heads to
his knees rubbing .-- After a few years, however, heard the traffic
with my father, and I'm not there been more.

All this is now about seventy years ago, and Mr.

Bulemann must then take a long, from whence no one returns. "- The
man was wrong, he said. Mr. Bulemann is not borne out of his house
had been, he is still alive now. But this is so received.

Before him, the last owner, nor the bread - and hair bag time,
lived in that house a lien lender, a crooked old man. Since his trade
with caution for over five decades and had operated a woman given
to him since the death of his wife led the economy, to the poor
lived, so he finally became a rich man.

This wealth consisted mostly in an almost endless amount of gems, and
strange devices Troedelkram what he waste or distress over the
years had received a deposit and then, as the repayment of the loan
given was not in his possession backwardness .-- Since he was at a
sale of these Pfaender, which by law the courts had done, the
overnight shooting of the proceeds to the owner would have to give,
so he piled them in the rather large Nussbaumschraenken, which have
for this purpose after the offices of the first and last, the second
floor have been filled.

At night, however, if Anken woman in the back house her lonely Kaemmerchen
snoring and the heavy chain before the door was, he often went with
quiet step on the stairs and down. In his gray hecht Rockelor eingeknoepft,
in one hand, the lamp, and in the other the Schluesselbund, he soon
opened the first, soon the second floor of the offices and the
cabinet, took a gold repeater, there enameled Schnupftabaksdose
from the hideout, and calculated for the years of their ownership
and whether the original owner of these things to pieces and disappeared,
or whether they were once again with the money in the hands of return
and reclaim their Pfaender could. The pledge was finally distributors
in extreme old age of its treasures weggestorben and had the house
along with the full closets his only son must leave, he during his
life in any way to keep away from had known. This was the son of
the small Leberecht so dreaded Super Cargo, which is an overseas trip
of his father in the city had returned. After the funeral of his
father, he gave his previous and referred to his room on the third
floor of the old bay house, where now instead of the crooked man in
gray hecht Rockelor a long gaunt figure in a dressing gown and
gelbgebluemten colorful Zipfelmuetze walked up and down or computing
at the small desks of the deceased stood. Bulemann At Lord had,
however, the relish of the old pledge to the transferor aufgehaeuften
Treasures not inherited.

After he locked the doors of the great content Nussbaumschraenke
had investigated, he went with them to rate whether the secret sale
of these things should dare to remain the property of others, and
whose value he was only on the amount inherited and, as the books
were mostly very low loan exposure had a claim.

But Mr Bulemann, none of the undecided.

In a few days was associated with a company operating in the extreme
suburban resident Flea adequate follow, and after some Pfaender
from the last years zurueckgesetzt had was secretly and carefully
the contents of the large colorful Nussbaumschraenke converted into
sterling Silbermuenzen.

That was the time when the boy Leberecht had come into the house.
dissolved money did Mr.

Bulemann in big iron complained battered box, which he co-sleeping
in his chamber had set, because lawlessness in his possession, he dared
not, on mortgage or otherwise publicly auszutun them. When everything
was sold, he got it all for the possible time of his life possible to
calculate expenditures. He took an age of ninety years ago in
approach and then divided the money in each individual packet for a
week by every quarter on another Roell Chen for unforeseen expenses
were laid.

This money was for himself placed in a box, which is next door in
the living room was, and every Saturday morning appeared Anken woman,
the old Wirtschafterin, he has borrowed from the estate with his
father had to create a new packet in the reception and to take
over the spending of the previous accounts to give. As already told,
had Mr Bulemann women and children are not admitted, while there
were two cats of particular size, one yellow and one black, one
day after the funeral of the old pawn transferor by a sailor in a
sack fixed zugebundenen on board the ship were taken into the house.
These animals were soon the only company of their Lord.

They were given their own bowl noon, the woman under Anken Furor dogged
day and preparing for it had after the meal, while Mr. Bulemann
Mittagsschläfchen abtat be short, she sat beside him mature on
the couch, had a patch tongue and winked hervorhaengen him from
their sleepy green eyes.

If they were in the lower rooms of the house mouse on the hunt has been
haunting them, however, always a secret foot kick from the old woman
eintrug, so they certainly brought the mice first caught her Lord in
the Maule hergeschleppt and showed them him, before they crept das
couch and they eat. Was then the night came, and had Mr. Bulemann
the colorful Zipfelmuetze with a white swapped, so he went with his two
cats in the big bed in the curtains Nebenkaemmerchen, where he was
spinning through the uniform of his feet eingewuehlten animals to sleep
to let . This peaceful life was not without fault, however, remained.
During the first years were still individual owners of the sold
Pfaender arrived and had to repay the Suemmchens be received extradition
requests of their gems. And Mr Bulemann, for fear of making,
making his practice in the public would have come you can, grabbed
his big box and was bought by larger or smaller amounts of
severance pay, the silence of the parties.

That made him even more bitter and inhumane.

The traffic with the old junk dealer had long ceased, he sat alone on
his Erkerstuebchen with solving a problem has often sought, the
calculation of a secure lottery winnings, employs, which he treasures
his dermaleinst immeasurably to proliferate into thought.

Graps and Schnor Also, the two large cat who had now under his mood to
suffer.

Was he in a moment with his long fingers getaetschelt, so they could
in the other, if the calculation on the number boards should not
agree, a throw with the barrel or the sand paper scissors, so that they
are howling in the corner lagged. Mr. Bulemann had a relative, a daughter
from his mother's first marriage, which, however, already in
the death of these because of their Erbansprueche abgefunden was
and therefore he inherited the treasures had no claims. He cared not
for this half, though in a suburban district in the poorer conditions
lived, for even less than with other people loved Mr. Bulemann the
marketing of poor relatives.

Only once, when she briefly after the death of her husband, already
in advanced age sickly child was born, she was to him for help came.

Ms. Anken which they appeared, was horchend at the bottom of the stairs
sit still, and soon she had the top of the sharp voice of their Lord
belongs, until finally the door was torn open and the woman crying
on the stairs was herabgekommen.

Still on the same evening had Mrs. Anken strict instructions, not the
chain of trauma from the door to drag around if Christine once
again come.

The old woman began to grow more and more of the hook nose and
the bright eyes of their Lord Eulen to fear. If he is at the
top of the Treppengelaender her name called, or even, as he used
her from the ship was only a shrill whistle on his fingers did, so
they certainly did, to what angle they sit well liked, and rose
hastily hervorgekrochen groaning, swear - and action words in front
of herplappernd, the narrow stairs.

But in the third floor of Mr. Bulemann, it had in the lower rooms Anken
their wife is not quite legally acquired treasures laid.

Even in the first year of her life she was a kind of childish Anxiety
has been infected, you can apply once the Lord of the marketing
spending money on themselves, and they will then have the same
greed for their old days to suffer hardship.

To this off, she had possessed him, the wheat was being turned,
and soon the more appropriate sum for the bread needs demanded. The
Super Cargo, which has just begun his life, had his papers scheltend
torn and that his account of the re-established and the weekly rations
of the required sum added. Anken woman but, after they achieved their
purpose, had to save their conscience and remember saying: "Geschleckt
is not stolen," is not received, the excess shillings, but usually
only the dafuer purchased under Weizenbroetchen beat them, because
Mr. Bulemann never entered the lower room, gradually deprived of
their precious contents Nussbaumschraenke anfuellte large.
_" as we used to say at Vevay, and Tip minded his
business well.

"That's all right," he said quickly, "I only thought I'd mention it.
How about the license in this state?"

They talked a little in low tones, and I looked at Margarita and
thought of the odd chances of life, and how we are hurried past this
and that and stranded on the other, and skim the rapids sometimes, to
be wrecked later in clear shallows, perhaps.

"If you are ready, then?" said Tip, and we all moved across the beach
and found ourselves standing on a great, smooth rock that would be cut
off in a full high tide, with Caliban, clean and quiet and
pathetically attentive, behind us, and with him a curiously familiar
stranger, very neatly dressed, with tired eyes. As we grouped
ourselves there and Tip pulled a tiny book from his pocket I
recollected this stranger's face--it was the telegraph operator!
Roger, who forgot nothing, had brought him over for the other witness.

"Dearly beloved," said Tip in a clear, deep voice, and I woke with a
start and realised that old Roger was being married. Margarita, in her
graceful, faded blue gown, gazed curiously at him, one hand in
Roger's; the noon sun streamed down on us from a cloudless, turquoise
sky; the little waves ran up the points of rocks, broke, and fell away
musically.

To appreciate those quaint sentences of the marriage service, you must
hear them out under the heavens, alone, with no bridesmaids, no voice
that breathed o'er Eden, no flowers but the great handful of flaming
nasturtiums Roger had put in her hands (no maiden lilies grew on that
rock!) and a quiet man dressed just as other men are dressed, with
only the consciousness of his calling to separate him from the rest of
us. They held their own, those quaint old phrases, I assure you! But
it was then I learned to respect them.

Nevertheless, Roger _had_ forgotten something.

"Where's the ring?" the telegraph operator motioned to me with his
lips. His tired eyes expressed a mild interest. I saw Roger's lips
purse; for a moment his eyes left Margarita's face and I knew that he
had just remembered it. I looked down vaguely, and my eyes fell upon
the worn, thin band on my little finger--my mother's mother's
wedding-ring. In one of those lightning flashes of memory I saw
myself, a lad again, starting for college, and my mother putting it on
my finger.

"She was the best woman, I believe, that ever lived, Jerry--I took it
when she died. I want you to wear it, and perhaps you will think--oh,
my darling! I know it is hard to be a good man, but will you try?"

My dear, dear mother! I think I tried--I hope so.

I slipped it from my finger--I had taken it off sometimes, but never
for so good a reason--and pressed it into Roger's hand. He accepted it
as unconsciously as if it had come from heaven--and it was my ring
that married Margarita.


CHAPTER XII

I LEAVE EDEN

[Illustration: I SEEM TO SEE ... A BEAUTIFUL WOMAN IN A BLUE DRESS
SITTING UNDER A FRUIT TREE]


Clear as I am on a thousand little points that concern my first
meeting with Margarita, my mind is a perfect blank when I try to
recall the events of the next half hour. We must, of course, have left
the rock, for I have a dim recollection of drinking healths in that
dear old room and signing our names to something. But on what order we
left it, of what we spoke, if we spoke at all, and how we at last
found ourselves alone, I do not know. And yet it seems to me that some
one--was it I?--discussed remedies for insomnia with some one else,
and that some third person assured us that nothing but a complete
change of scene could be of any lasting benefit. And my reason assures
me that Tip and I and the telegraph operator must have been these
three, for I seem to see, as if through a dim haze, a beautiful woman
in a blue dress sitting under a fruit tree, with a dog's head in her
lap, a flaming handful of nasturtiums in her belt, and a man lying at
her feet, with his hand in hers and his eyes fixed on her face. This
could hardly have been Roger, one would think, for Roger was not a
demonstrative man, and certainly not likely to have been so under
these circumstances ... and yet, if not Roger, who could it have been?

After that I remember well enough. Caliban was to row the telegrapher
back, as he had brought him over, and as the haggard little fellow
advanced to say his good-byes, Margarita and Roger appeared from
somewhere to receive them. He shook her hand cordially and tried
honestly not to stare too admiringly at her.

"This has been a great pleasure, Mrs. Bradley, a real pleasure to me,"
he said, "aside from the romance and--and so forth, you understand. It
isn't often I can get off like this in the daytime, and I shouldn't
wonder if the air and the water and all made me sleep a little
to-night! I little thought when Mr. Bradley asked for an hour of my
time to-day that I should be going to the wedding of the Miss Prynne I
had heard so much about."

Tip and I glanced irrepressibly at each other, wondering if this
suggestion would commend itself to Roger. But he, I think, had paid no
attention to the words, and his smile was merely kindly and polite. So
the sleepless one rowed away, the richer by a box of good cigars, and
Tip and I were left to plan our own departure.

For mine, at any rate, Roger seemed in no hurry. When Tip assured him
that he must, without fail, catch the next possible train, he got a
schedule and arranged for a short drive across country to a tiny
station that profited by the summer residence of a railroad magnate,
and could connect him with an otherwise impossible express; but me he
urged to stop on in terms so unmistakably sincere that I saw he really
wanted a few more hours of my company, at least; and as I found that a
milk-train stopped at the village at ten that night, and had learned
from experience that much might be accomplished with a banknote and a
cigar and an obliging brakeman, I was glad enough to stay on, and with
a curious feeling of return to the actual world I pushed out across
the beach with Roger and Margarita, who dropped on the sand with the
great dog at their feet. I joined them quietly and we sat, hardly
speaking, for at least three long, golden hours. They drew me, a
naturally rather talkative person, into one of their deep peaceful
silences, and just because there was so much to say, we wisely left it
unsaid, and rested like the animals (or the angels, maybe?) in a rich
content.

It was then that I understood the vital principle of the Friends'
Meeting House, and realised how much of the heat and vulgarity of life
the best Quaker tradition buries under the cool, deep waves of its
invaluable Silence. To such artists in life the lack of speech is not
repression--far from it. Myself, I have never lived more generously
than in that wonderful afternoon, and the few hours that came
afterward were mere by-play.

Later Caliban brought us a picnic supper on the beach and then Roger
wrote some letters, gave me many instructions for his partner, listed
the matters to be put off for a week and those to be sent to him for
personal attention (precious few, these!) and agreed to my suggestion
that when he returned to town my mother should meet them and take
Margarita in charge for the purchases that must be made before the
year of travel he intended to take with his wife--lucky fellow, whose
lap Fate had filled with all her gifts!

He was to let me know when he would come and I was to forward his
mother's answer to the letter he had written her; most of their
intercourse of late had been of this sort, for his uncle's recent
death had opened again the vexed question of Boston residence and his
inability to comply with her unreasonable demands had strained anew
relations never very close, humanly considered. The unfortunate early
years of family restraint, the lack of all those weak and tender
intimacies, not uncommon in New England families, had borne their
legitimate fruit, and my mother's gentle passionate heart froze at the
mere thought of Madam Bradley's icy reserve, while to me, I own, she
was never more than an unpleasant abstraction.

And then the time came and Caliban pulled the boat across and I
pressed Margarita's hand and stood up to go. Roger took both my hands
and wrung them.

"I couldn't speak about the ring, Jerry," he said, quickly and very
low, "it's no use trying. But you understand?"

"That's all right, Roger," I muttered hastily, "it's the best use I'm
likely to make of it. Good-bye, old fellow. God bless you, Roger," and
I stumbled into the boat.

Caliban pulled hard at the oars and we slid away. I looked at them
once. For a full minute--dear fellow--he stared wistfully after me
(oh, Roger, you'll never forget, never, I know! Twenty-five years are
over and gone to-night, and the close, unrivalled companionship of
them, and I am alone from now on--but you'll not forget!) and then
they turned to each other and I was no more than a speck on the
evening water. "Put your back into it, man; get along, can't you?" I
growled to Caliban. We shot ahead and left them to each other, alone
under the heavy, yellow moon and the close, secret stars.


PART FOUR

IN WHICH THE STREAM WINDS THROUGH A
SULLEN MARSH AND BECOMES A BROOK


      Alas for this unlucky womb!
        Alas the breasts that suckled thee!
    I would ha' laid thee in thy tomb
      Or e'er that witch had wived with thee!

      Alas my son that grew so strong!
        Alas those hands I stretched to th' bow!
    Or e'er thou heardst that wanton's song,
    I'd shot thee long ago and long,
        Through the black heart that's shamed me so!

_Sir Hugh and the Mermaiden._


CHAPTER XIII

STRAWS THAT SHOWED THE WIND


                   [TO ROGER FROM HIS COUSIN SARAH]

                                     BOSTON, Sept. 7th, 188--

     MY DEAR ROGER:

     Your mother, I am sorry to say, is not physically able to
     answer your surprising and most disturbing letter, and has
     laid upon me the unpleasant task of doing so. It is, as you
     somewhat brusquely say, unnecessary to discuss at any length
     what you have done, since it is irrevocable. We can but
     feel, however, that a thing so hastily entered upon can be
     productive of no good (if, indeed, the matter has been as
     sudden as you lead us to suppose).

     To a woman of your mother's deep family pride this alliance
     with a nameless girl from the streets, practically, if I am
     to read your letter aright, can be nothing short of
     humiliating. She instructs me to tell you that she can take
     no cognisance of any such connection with any justice to the
     family interests, and that although you will always be
     welcome here, she cannot undertake to extend the welcome
     further with any sincerity of heart.

     I sent, following your suggestions, for Winfred Jerrolds,
     but I cannot say that his evidently unwilling admissions
     made the affair any the more palatable--how could they? Some
     of the inferences I was forced to draw I cannot bring myself
     to discuss, even with your mother. Winfred's French bringing
     up and the influence of a weakly affectionate mother have
     singularly warped his moral perception. It is impossible for
     us not to feel that had you followed Aunt Miriam's advice
     and established yourself in Boston, these dreadful results
     would have been avoided. I try to believe that with the
     altered standards of the city you have chosen your very
     fibre has so weakened that you cannot grasp the extent of
     the mistake you have made.

     Winfred Jerrolds may, as you say, have been your best
     friend, in one sense, but I fear that sense is a very narrow
     one. He has certainly succeeded beyond anything he could
     have hoped in his connection with our family. I always
     thought his attentions to Uncle Winthrop unnatural in so
     young a boy, but he was always politic. I am informed by
     Uncle Searsy's partner that nothing can be done about it;
     you will be pleased, probably.

     You will realise, I hope, that living as I do with Aunt
     Miriam, I cannot with propriety take any course counter to
     hers in the matter of your marriage. It may be that she will
     be more reconciled with time--I hope so, for it must be a
     terrible thought for you that she might die with such
     feelings as she now has for her only son!

                             Your affectionate cousin,

                                      SARAH THAYER BRADLEY.


                           [FROM MY MOTHER]

                                           STRATFORD, CONN.,

                                             Sept. 7th, 188--

     MY DARLING BOY:

     This is a hasty note to tell you that I am afraid I cannot
     come to you and help dear Roger's bride (how interesting and
     beautiful she must be!) for I must stay and nurse poor old
     Jeanne, who has had a bad fall putting up the new curtains
     and nearly fractured her hip. She is in a great deal of pain
     and cannot bear anyone but me about her. I should enjoy
     helping Roger's wife with her trousseau--how did he happen
     to go to the island she lives on? Is she one of the
     Devonshire Prynnes? Your father knew a Colonel
     Prynne--cavalry, I think. How you will miss Roger--for it
     will be different, now, Winfred--it must be, you know. Oh,
     my dear boy, if only I could help _your_ wife! If only I
     could see you with children of your own! Don't wait too
     long. Your father and I had but four years together, but I
     would live my whole life over again with no change, for
     those four. I must go to Jeanne, now.

                                       Your loving MOTHER.


                        [FROM ROGER'S SISTER]

                                                NEWTON, MASS.,

                                            Sept. 10th, 188--

     DEAR JERRY:

     I hope you and Roger will not think me unkind, but Walter
     will not hear of my looking up Roger's wife, as you ask me.
     You see Mother has just begun to to be nice to him, and we
     can't afford to lose her good-will, Winfred--we simply
     can't. I think Roger has a perfect right to marry whom he
     chooses and I don't believe a word of the horrid things
     Sarah says. They are not true, are they? But of course
     they're not. But why did Roger do it so suddenly? Why not
     let us meet her first? What will people think? She will hate
     me, I suppose, but Roger knows what we have suffered from
     Mother and I hope he will understand. Walter's eyes have
     been very bad, lately, and Mother is going to get Cousin
     Wolcott Sears to send him on some confidential business to
     Germany, the voyage will do him so much good! Do explain to
     Roger--he will understand. And ask him to write to me, if he
     will.

                                              Yours always,

                                            ALICE BRADLEY-CARTER.


                         [FROM ROGER'S UNCLE]

                                       3---- COMMONWEALTH AVE.,

                               Boston, Mass., Sept. 12th, 188--

     MY DEAR ROGER:

     Your mother has communicated to me the facts of your
     marriage, and while I cannot pretend that I feel the haste
     and apparent mystery surrounding it are entirely
     satisfactory to your aunt and myself, I have hastened to
     point out to your mother that a man of your age and known
     character is beyond question competent to use his judgment
     in such a matter and that I cannot believe you so unworthy
     of the family traditions as she feels you to have shown
     yourself. In any case, I disapprove heartily of any public
     break or scandal, and in the event of her failing to reverse
     her decision, which I believe to be too severe and
     unjustifiable in view of your consistently clean record in
     all your family relations, I am writing to offer you, in
     your aunt's name as well as my own, the hospitality of our
     house as long as you and Mrs. Bradley care to avail
     yourselves of it.

     With every hope that this distressing situation may be
     quietly and privately adjusted, and regards to Mrs. Bradley
     from your aunt and myself, believe me,

                                  Yours faithfully,

                                           WOLCOTT SEARS.


                          [FROM TIP ELDER]

                                            UNIVERSITY CLUB,

                                    NEW YORK, Sept. 13th, 188--

     DEAR JERRY:

     I can't resist sending you a line to tell you of my
     encounter with Russell Dodge, just now. You might drop Roger
     a hint of it if you like, not going into details, of course.
     I hope it will be for the best. I was so hot at the fellow's
     impertinence I let myself get caught into a lie, I'm afraid,
     but like Tom Sawyer's aunt, I can't help feeling "it was a
     good lie!"

     He was dining here with a set of pretty well-known New York
     men and I had my back to his table. Suddenly I heard Roger's
     name and a great deal of laughing and in a moment I found
     myself overhearing (unavoidably) a disgusting and scandalous
     piece of gossip. In some strange way a garbled account of
     his marriage has come in from Boston, and Dodge, with that
     infernally suggestive way of his, was cackling about Roger's
     "jumping over the broomstick" with a "handsome gypsy" and
     letting his relatives believe the thing was serious in order
     to tease his stiff-necked family.

     I tell you, it made me hot! I jumped up and looked that
     fellow Dodge as straight in the eye as anyone can look him,
     and said, "I beg your pardon for this interruption, Dodge,
     but you happen to be making more of a fool of yourself than
     usual. As regards the lady you are speaking of, I married
     her myself at her father's country place, last week, with
     Winfred Jerrolds as best man."

     He mumbled something or other, but I forced him to apologise
     plainly, and they all heard him. Then he said that he had
     understood that no one in Boston even knew what her name
     was, and I said almost (I hope!) before I thought, "she was
     a Miss Prynne."

     Then I left for the writing-room. My only excuse is that
     Roger himself did not correct that fellow from the station
     when he called her that, and, honestly, I couldn't turn on
     my heel and leave that last remark open. I'm ready to eat
     dirt, if need be, but for a fire-eating parson I still think
     I did pretty well! To think of my running against Dodge
     again after all these years--you remember our famous duel?

     What a strange day we had out there! Let me know how Roger
     feels about it. It's sure to be in the papers now, I
     suppose. The name, I mean--I've quashed the other part, of
     course.

                                       Yours faithfully,

                                         TYLER FESSENDEN ELDER.


                          [FROM SUE PAYNTER]

                                         3--WASHINGTON SQUARE,

                                            Sept. 14th, 188--

     JERRY DEAR:

     It occurred to me in the middle of the night that you might
     be excused for thinking me cold and uninterested in your
     request apropos of Roger's wife, and I can't bear you to
     think so for a moment. Shall I be quite frank (and how
     foolish to be anything else with you, dear Win!) and admit
     that I was just a little hurt that Roger had not told me? It
     was stupid of me, I know, and I hereby forgive him--before
     he asks me, _par exemple!_ I do it thus quickly, I am
     afraid, because of an unusually nasty letter from Sarah.
     How can a woman be so good and yet so horrid? If Roger has
     been unwise, all the more reason for us to stand by him!

     But apparently he has not, and you are under the same spell
     that bewitched him--don't attempt to deny it. Madam Bradley
     threatens us all with excommunication, it seems, but
     _n'importe_--she has been kind to me, in her alabaster way,
     but it is incredible that I should desert Roger after his
     unspeakable goodness to me.

     I will meet you whenever and wherever you say and give the
     new Mrs. Roger the benefit of whatever good taste Providence
     has blessed me with--I am a past mistress of the art of a
     hasty trousseau, I assure you! And I pray she may wear hers
     more happily than I did mine.

     Be sure to let me know the moment I am wanted. Let Roger
     know how glad I am--if he asks. What friends you two are! I
     wonder if you know what you are losing? Probably not--men
     don't foresee, I suppose.

                                        Your friend always,

                                                SUE PAYNTER.


                         [FROM MY ATTORNEYS]

                         SEARS, BRADLEY AND SEARS

                     Attorneys and Counsellors-at-Law

_Cable Address, Vellashta_

                   2--COURT STREET, BOSTON, MASS.

                                         Sept. 12th, 188--

      WINFRED JERROLDS, ESQ.,

        University Club,

          New York, N. Y.

     DEAR SIR:

     We are instructed by the heirs and next-of-kin of the late
     Mr. Winthrop Bradley and by Mr. Sears Bradley, as his
     administrator appointed by the Probate Court, to advise you
     that the will of Mr. Winthrop Bradley, of the existence of
     which we have so long felt confident, has finally been
     discovered in an unexpected way and that you are the
     principal legatee thereunder.

     We are further instructed to advise you that its genuineness
     is unquestioned. We are already taking steps to probate the
     will here and in North Carolina.

     You will see by the will, of which we enclose you copy, that
     Mr. Winthrop Bradley bequeathed to you $100,000--in bonds of
     the ---- Co., which bear 4-1/2 per cent. interest, and in
     addition his lands in ---- and ---- Counties, North
     Carolina, which aggregate about 12,000 acres, and of which a
     part has been farmed on shares for a number of years past,
     bringing in an annual income varying between $75 and $250
     above the taxes on the whole tract.

     We shall be pleased to receive any instructions you desire
     to give us in the premises. We remain,

                      Yours very respectfully,

                               SEARS, BRADLEY AND SEARS.


                       [ROGER'S TELEGRAM TO ME]

     News of will forwarded in packet from office. More glad than
     can say, deserve it all. Cold wave here and shall take noon
     express Thursday. Sail Saturday.

                                              R. B.


CHAPTER XIV

THE ISLAND COTTAGE


I have hitherto said nothing about the Bank, for the best of
reasons--I hate it. I hated it, I think, from the day when a letter
from one of my father's friends introduced me to it, until the day
when the letter from the legal firm of which Roger's uncle had been
the brilliant head released me from it. I do not think, however, that
many people knew this. I did my work as well as I could, accepted my
periodical advances in salary with a becoming gratitude, saved a
little each year, and quieted my eruptions of furious disgust with the
recollection of my mother's unhindered disposal of her little legacy
since the day I left the university.

If anyone had told me that on a day in early autumn I should suddenly
come into a thousand pounds a year and freedom, I should have caught
my breath at the very idea, and here was the thing, a fact
accomplished, and here was I, not only quite self-contained, but sober
beyond my wont, and ready to take the Bank and all its stodgy horror
upon my shoulders, if with it I might have had one thing--one woman!
The world was before me, where to choose, all the far corners and
reaches for which I had inherited the hunger with the blood that ran
in my veins--and if I might only have been the first to find one
lonely, insignificant point on the Atlantic coast, my heart would have
journeyed there, content, and ceased (or so I thought) its wanderings.
Truly our joys are tempered for us, and no shorn lamb was ever more
carefully protected from the winds of heaven than we from too much
joy. It is an actual fact that I regarded my resignation from the
drudgery of twelve years, the disposal of my rooms and furniture, the
heartening preliminaries with the lawyers, and my booking at the
steamship company's offices, with less interest than the successful
transportation of Margarita's wedding gift.

It was with a real thrill of pleasure that I drew out my small
savings--a little over a thousand pounds--and with the breathless
assistance of Sue Paynter and a famous actress of her acquaintance
selected the most perfect single pearl to be purchased for that money.
One of the heads of the great firm whose name has been long associated
with American wealth and luxury himself lent a discerning hand to the
selection, and for the first time I tasted the snobbish joy of sitting
at ease in a dainty private room while respectful officials brought
the splendours of the Orient to my lordly knees, and lesser buyers
hung unattended over the common counters. Except in the purchase of my
first gift for my mother--a tiny diamond sword-hilt, in memory of my
father--I have never experienced so much pleasure.

It hung, a great blob of veined, milky whiteness, from a strong but
tiny golden chain--a gift for a Rajah, not a bank-official! I had
never expended so much, or half so much, upon a single purchase, and
the pale, native thrift of Old and New England together glowed and
thrilled scarlet in me, and the lucent, moonlike sphere flushed into a
ruby before my dazzled eyes: I knew then how an eager chief will toss
away a province for an emerald--if he may lay the jewel upon the neck
of all the world for him!

I had the clasp engraved with her name--itself a pearl--and slipped
the delicate case in my pocket. The great comedienne, whom I have
always thought the sweetest of women--but one--talked a moment aside
at the smiling request of the master jeweller and then whispered
laughingly to Sue with the most artfully artless glance at me. Sue,
who was a little drawn and white from her enemy neuralgia, murmured to
me in French that I had the honour to render desolate Miss L----n
R----l, the reigning stage beauty, who was greatly desirous of
precisely that pearl and whose too vacillating admirer would doubtless
enjoy his bad little quarter hour _à cause de moi_. I do not deny that
this put a point to my satisfaction. I was, in fact, idiotically
gratified--God and man that is born of woman alone know why.

I hurried to the dingy station as a boy hurries to the train that will
take him home to the holidays, and the tedious hours were miraculously
light, the face of the telegraph operator like the face of my best
friend, the rough, damp passage in the blue boat a pleasant incident.
Caliban had a friendly, stupid grin for me and rowed his best; the
very oars knew how I wanted to get to her!

They stood with a lantern on the landing-steps, in the rough,
picturesque clothes I had first seen them in, and we hurried through a
thickening drizzle to the warm, light cottage, ridiculously
hand-in-hand, the lantern bobbing between us.

Roger had revived his old school accomplishments and had ready a
panful of delicious little sausages in a bath of tomatoes and onions
and Worcestershire that sent me back to Vevay in the fraction of a
second, and we dipped fragments of the crusty French loaf I had
brought in the sauce, in the old Vevay fashion, and drank to their
voyage in the last Burgundy from the little wine bin. If anything were
needed to place Margarita's father in our estimations, that Burgundy
would have done it! After the sweet course of jellied pancakes that
Roger had taught Caliban, we fell upon the cigars I had brought, and
when Margarita, an apt pupil, had sugared my demi-tasse to my liking,
I reached into my pocket and drew out the Russia leather case. My
fingers trembled like a boy's as I took out the pearl and clasped it
around her beautiful neck, above the soft black handkerchief.

"If this is not your first wedding present, Mrs. Bradley, I shall be
furiously angry," I said with mock severity, to keep down the lump in
my throat, for I was absurdly excited.

"Jerry, you extravagant old donkey, what do you mean by this?" Roger
cried huskily, "I never heard of such a thing!" While Margarita, for
the first time in our acquaintance a daughter of Eve, ran up to her
mirror. She would have been as pleased, I think, with a necklace of
iridescent seashells--wherein she differed widely from Miss L----n
R----l, as Roger and I agreed.

We talked, of course, of Uncle Winthrop and the old days, of his
loving interest in me, the slender little chap with the dead
soldier-father, who had taken long walks up and down narrow old Winter
Street with him, and mailed his letters, and fenced with his sword,
and listened by the hour to his tales of rainy bivouac and last
redoubt, of precious drops of brandy to a dying comrade and brave
loans of army blankets in the cold dawn. We wondered at the
extraordinary chance which had kept the old portfolio, with its worn
leather edges that I remembered so well, hidden during the two years
that had elapsed since his death, and what secretive instinct had led
him to put his last will and testament there. We marvelled at the
sagacity which had led him to drop hints as to the existence of such a
document so effectively that the family had felt themselves bound to
hold the property intact for three years, to give every possible
chance of finding it, and had spent many useless dollars in the search
for the old servants who were believed (and rightly, as the event
proved) to have witnessed it. Our friendship had been more than
ordinary in its strength and real sympathy; one of those attractions
that laugh at disparity of years and absence of any tie of kinship,
and, indeed, up to his death I had been far closer to him than Roger
ever was. Dear old Uncle Win! He knew what he would do for me and what
it would mean to me, well enough: as a young fellow, he had been tied
to _his_ Bank!

I spoke tentatively of Sue Paynter, and Roger flushed and struck the
table in his disgusted excitement.

"Good heavens, Jerry--I never once thought----"

Poor Sue! There was nothing more to say.

"The first thing I want you to do for me, Jerry," said Roger, "is to
go through the cottage thoroughly and see if you discover any trace of
who lived here. I've done it, of course, but I'd like to have some one
else do it, too. Go all by yourself, and I won't give you any hint of
my idea, and then we'll compare notes."

Nothing, just then, could have interested me more, and I started
systematically for the cellar steps, lantern in hand.

The first thing that struck me was the trim neatness of this part of
the house, too often--and especially in country districts--neglected.
The steps were firm and clean and nearly dustless, the cement floor
dry and apparently freshly swept, the walls and ceiling well whitened
with lime. Bins of vegetables, a barrel of summer apples, a cask of
vinegar on two trestles with a pail thriftily set for the drippings, a
wire cupboard with plates of food set there for the cellar coolness,
and in one corner a little dairy compartment, built over a spring
covered by a wooden trap-door, completed the furnishings of the floor.
For the rest, the place was a fairly well-stocked tool-house; a scythe
and a grindstone, snow-shovel and ladders were arranged compactly; a
watering-pot and rake stood fresh from use by the door.

A low cow-stall came next and beyond this a fowl roost, both these
last noticeably clean and sweet, and this in a day when the microbe
and the germ were not such prominent factors in our civilisation as
they are at present.

I retraced my steps and went through the living-room to the room
beyond it, over the shed and dairy. It was a fair-sized study,
unmistakably a man's. The end wall held the fireplace, with a large
map of the world hung over it. The ocean side of the cottage was
windowless and lined with well-used books on pine shelves. These
overflowed on the wall which held the entrance door, and where they
stopped a sort of trophy of arms was arranged on the wall. An army
revolver, a great Western six-shooter, a fine little hunting-piece, a
grim Ghoorka knife and an assegai, which I recognised from similar
treasures on the barrack wall of an English friend of mine--an
infantry major--one or two bayonets, a curious Japanese sword and a
curved dagger whose workmanship was quite unknown to me, completed
this decoration, which was the only one on the walls. In the centre of
the floor stood a large table-desk of well-polished cherry with a
heavy glass ink-well, pin-tray, letter-rack, etc., and a fair, clean
square of blotting-paper. But none of the customary litter of such a
desk was upon it; all was swept and garnished, orderly and bare. The
drawers were empty, the ink-well pure, the very pens new. There was
not the faintest hint of what work had gone on at that desk.

I crossed the room and took down a book here and there at random from
the shelves. From one or two, evidently old ones, the fly leaves had
been neatly cut out; others had no mark of any kind. It came over me
with a staggering certainty that here was no careless, makeshift
impulse; a methodical, definite annihilation had been intended and
accomplished. An extraordinary man had arranged this. What was the
secret he had concealed so perfectly, and what had been his motive?
What his necessity? Three or four comfortable chairs and a light
wicker table completed the furniture of the room, which held--for
me--the strange fascination of the living-room, that deep, impersonal
sense of culture, that rigorous suppression of whim and irrelevant
detail. The man (not so long dead, probably) who stood behind that
room had stamped it indelibly, inevitably with the very character he
had tried to eliminate from it. One wanted to have known him: one felt
instinctively what a firm grip, what a level eye he had.

The books were almost as little tell-tale as the rest. A fine set of
the Encyclopædia Britannica; histories of all sorts, but only the best
in every case; a little standard poetry; the great English
novelists--Dickens much worn, Meredith's early works, the
unquenchable Charles Reade, who has nursed so many fretful
convalescents back to the harness; two or three fine editions of
Shakespeare, one, a half-dozen small green volumes, worn loose from
their bindings; Darwin, Huxley, and a dozen blazers of that wonderful
trail, much underlined and cross-indexed, and a really remarkable
collection of the great scientific travellers and explorers, that
occupied much space; and a fair collection of French fiction and
archæological research and German scientific and historical work
completed my first rough impression of this library. I have gone over
it very carefully since, and amused myself with noting its
omissions--quite as significant in such cases as the actual contents.
No classics but the usual school and college text-books; no recent
fiction; almost no American literature except the most reliable of the
historians; none of the essayists or belle-lettrists, except Carlyle,
Macaulay, and such like heavy artillery; nothing whatever of a
religious nature but a small, worn Bible thick with dust, on the top
shelf among the school-books. And there was not in the whole library
one page or line or word to indicate that its owner was conversant
with or interested in Italian or Italy.

O builder of that sand-hued cottage, owner of that manly room of
books, how many hours have I devoted to patient study of you! How many
nights have I hunted you down, searched you out, compelled you to
reveal yourself to me--and how strangely have I succeeded! It has been
a labour of love, and I have sometimes felt I know your mind almost as
my own.

In the outside further corner of the room a narrow, steep flight of
steps led to the second story and lent a queer little foreign air to
the whole. Ascending, I found myself in a small room with one
door--its only entrance--and one window. For a moment I had a curious
sense of the English barracks and seemed to be in the major's
sleeping-room again. A low cot-bed with a narrow rug beside, a pine
washing-stand and a chest of drawers, a straight chair and small
bed-table with a reflecting candle and match box upon it, and a flat
tin bath furnished this room, which was, like all the others,
speckless. Wär 'ich, I confess' to a woman and therefore especially
female-timid in good hope würd ich' recently about the fruit of desperation
in my lap, when I slept in a dream, and consequently all of the
medical police banned Ungeheuer, wild beasts, and the like Mißgeburten
to face to acquire, one of which is sufficient (as soon as the confirmed
doctrine of mistake is true) that I Kreiss end to a miserable Baby
niederkäme, the whole look like a hare and fully harelips this, or
a lion's mane often: _Poco vivace._ - I declare myself, therefore,
that the Germans, when all peoples, the feet and shoes to take their
measurements, with better-rump sessions and trousers abmißt. rear
or the devil would have claws on their hands, or what else Mißgeburten
to themselves.

Maybe some Mißgeburten of such oversight in dreams begotten. Night
briefly to twelve clock wakes' I come from a heavy dream, a fantasy
for my ghostly ghost story experience. My brother, who I eingebrockt
deserves for his unsalted cooking that I do unto you as the brewmaster
of stale brew without skåne call. Would intrepidity compatible
with suspicion, I would have perhaps already on its morals Slogans
like entertainment, and from the Fort Besides keeping his room, which
stood Mitteltüre my bearings, easy everything is closed. I had, as
würd 'ich angeblasen ghost from a cold breath, I in no way [181]
Thank God that we have nowhere to live eternally in hell or in heaven,
the earth would otherwise true thieves from us, and the world is
a house of incurable, for lack of the distant and blocked windows
herzuleiten could - what's it, I also met, because the brother-hatt
'him from a bellows through the keyhole submitted.

Everything Cold in the night brings on death or ghosts cold. I
am, however, and ermannte awaited - now even started the comforter, it
is in motion to set - I was attracted to me - wanted it again -
nimble 'law' suddenly I'm in bed and cry, "What is it? "- no
answer, anywhere silence at the inn - the whole room full moonlight
--. Now my Zugpflaster lifted the comforter, and even upwards luftete
me where I was like, which is a plaster quickly stand out. Well,
I did the jump from the Knights and Teufelstorus blown up jumping my
Nachtwandlersleitseil.

"Where is the stupid Menschennarr," I cried, "the sublime invisible
Kurschmiede (the executioner) and the dissipating hair ropes (on
the gallows) and the disgust and iron treatments (at indicative
locations). So that we really force our moral giants just to the
spirit world debt nachäfft, yes to him on the spot may appear? "-
But, over, under the bed there was nothing to hear and see.

I looked out the window, anywhere ghostly moonlight and street
silence, and nothing moved, as (probably by the wind) on the remote
Galberg a Neugehenkter. Hätt Any other 'is so good for self-deception
than I kept, so I wrapped myself in my passive _lit de justice_ and
air beds that is expecting, alarmed at what I should be cool or not.
After a few minutes, started the comforter, the vicious fist coat,
and his flying boat pulling (I alone was convicted of) again, because
of the variety also highlighted again the invisible Bettaufhelfer
upwards.

Cursed hour! - I would like to know if it is formed throughout Europe,
formed of the nature that we have to pay, based, find, than the
politicians (eg the author of the new Leviathans) the superiority of
the Englishman, on the national debt by , prove. or uneducated
people there, so when something does not expire on Geisterteufeleien
would - I declined it, on (himself) Did moving the comforters, and
thought that death was Berga procedures and mentally now
summarize my bed. Nevertheless, 'I do not to address, as little as the
devil, who could restore, but I just turned to God and prayed loud:'
you pass' I am, you just cared for me so far so weak servant - and I
swear that I otherwise would. "- a promise that I will still be kept,
so everything just stupid lies and deceit has been. My prayer
caught nothing unchristian in the dragoons of me once in the comforter
Zuggarn trapped held - unconcerned whether he is a guest bed for the
parade [63] The means which the people fear the light of threats, the
same as those who care, the lightning shock 'into the house because it
has windows, but since he never by this, but by the influence
or driving to the cloud of smoke down the chimney. [Illustration: I
whistled a gas Conical fresh ditty darunterhinein ...] and Bette
dead or do not. - It gripping my nerves like gold wire through holes
through closer becoming thinner until wasting and disappearance,
because Bette did finally marched down to the Mitteltüre. - Now
it was time, without any circumstances to be exalted and to me
nothing more down below shearing, but the death of me simply to
devote "Rafft me away," I called and suggested three crosses safely,
"makes me just quickly settle their minds, but I die innocent than
a thousand tyrants and Gottesleugner, which you unfortunately less
Immaculate seems to me.

"Here I heard a kind of laughter, either on the street or in the
adjoining room, and, with this warm Menschenton bloom 'I suddenly like
a spring before all peaks again. I totally spurned the weggehaspelte
[76] The economic preaching poetry probably believes, a surgical
cutter, a stone artistic, and a pulpit or Sinai is a mountain muses.
Ceiling, which is now on the door could not be more off, I laid
me bare, but warm and sweating enough soon to sleep. Incidentally
schäm 'I am not in the slightest from all enlightened capitals - and
she stands before me - that I by my faith and my devil devil Salutation
some similarity with the largest German lions get with Luther. Second
Day in Flätz. On the early morning feeling 'I am woken by the
familiar Zudeckbett it was like a set Inkube on me, I gaffte on, sat
in a corner nursing a red, round, like nuclear, aufgeputztes girls
like a tulip full of life and freshness bloated quietly fluttering
with colorful ribbons like [415] According to Smith, the work of
the general scale of kameralen value.

This, however, at least in terms of intellectual and poetic value,
the Germans have previously seen and to my knowledge always taught
about the great poet and the book of heavy work on the fluttering fully
compromised. As with leaves. "Who is there, how do you come?" I called
halbblind. - "I've just quietly covered, and you should only sleep,"
said Mountain elk, "I am the whole night went quite early so I could
see only her!

"They showed me their boots, the only piece of travel (the Achilles'
heel), which is before the gates, when they molt in the toilet had not
had to shed. - »Brach," asks "I have six hours to their accelerated
Nachkunft even more shocked, because I spent the whole night and
even now have been entering their incomprehensible," broke some
fresh shame on us, and a fire, Murder, robbery?

"- they returned:" The Ratz, "she would say the rat," is verreckt
yesterday, which you so long postpositive; nothing further happened.
"-" And everything is right after my order sheet Concerned home?
"asked" me. "Yes," returned [4] The hypocrites "Turn the old method,
whereby only one with a side of a cutting blade poisoned the fruit
and cut it so," I've got it but do not read he is weggekommen me, you've
probably wrapped it. "- However, I forgave all the blossoming, or
bold Knight Fußgängerin. - your eye, then her heart taught me so
fresh, cool morning with pains in my humid Morgenrot Vorstunden .

Also must I anyway after the friendly, hineinhoffenden into life
and into the loving soul deserved heaven today with the news of
dull professor failed eclipse.

Hence, I forgave and moved as far as possible. I asked how they came,
because the whole work of Spanish rider chairs established at the
door.

She laughed, according to village custom bückend, strong, and said
yesterday they would have agreed with her brother, that he by his
office, since they lock my device yet, in my einließe, so they
secretly etched me half the victims sufficed and the second healthy
eating itself, so unselfishly of themselves to ensure that he is
half the good moral awakening could.

Now the dragoons rode into the room laughed loud and said: "How
geschlafen, Mr. Schwager?"

But in this way, I was admittedly half ghost story like a beasts
and Hennings dissolved and revealed, and I immediately see through the
whole Dragoner Gespenster plan, which he executed. A little bitter,
I said to him I guess my sister and the story.

But he laughed and log, so he tried, even cheeky enough to me at the
bright morning ghosts for the second time weiszumachen and
aufzuhalsen.

I staggered cold, to find me 'he herein the very wrong man, that
even I was a Luther, Hobbes, like Brutus, all seen ghosts and feared.
He replied - and tore out the facts from their motivation - he say
yes nothing more than that at night some very poor miserable sinners,
and shows the other side and there and only the toxic reserves.

Sky, seems like such a bad man to the devil! Caw and lament heard,
and that he had closed that it was a poor, desperate nightcap of
man, a ghost reattach.

Finally, even his sister's eyes on the general role of that he intended
to play me, they drove him rude, it pushed him with two hands and
in my hurry out of his door and called for: "Wait, you gleeful, I
intend 'you's!"

Then she quickly turned around and I came around the neck and in the
wrong place to laugh and said: "The silly boy!

But I could not help laughing more verbeißen, and the fool is nothing
to remember. Forgive the brush, you as a learned man, his Eselei. "I
asked them if they were on their post-trip on any spirit world in
question was - although I knew that her animals, a water, half a
precipice are nothing, - ' no, but before the city plastered people,
"she said," I have proceeded in the morning. " O how sweet 'I
Harmonikasbebungen soft feminine fear!

Finally have' I Koloquintenapfel bite or touch her, and half of them
sufficiently, namely the message of Fehlbitte to the professorship.
Since I am but the joyful heart with full of raw truth and a spare
heavy cargo had to cut something, the better men's shoulders aufpackt,
so I began: "Mountain elk, the professor is a different matter,
but speed is good - the General, after what I am the devil and his
grandmother asked, putting it on a general assault on - and he
should have, so certainly when I wear the night cap. "-" So you're
still nothing more?

"she asked. »Forequarters not!" Moved "me. "But until Saturday
evening?"

She said. "That is not," says' I do. "Well, I am hard-beaten, and
I would jump out the window," she said and turned the roses and
morning-face [66] If the remark of the author of the glosses is
correct that the Post Master in the larger countries but also the
coarser are then Napoleon, many small countries to a large off to
the wet eyes was not my zuzukehren, and remained silent for very
long.

Then she started with painful trembling voice: "Thou great Redeemer,
standing me on Sunday in Neusattel when I was overblown, making
women in the church and I see blood red would be out of shame!"

Now I Mitjammer jumped out of bed before love the soul out of the bright
Zähren on schönblühenden cheeks went and cried: "Thou faithful
heart, zermartre me but not quite! God will punish me if I was not
still in the dog days, everything will just what you want. - Say,
do you want a mountain Councilor, or Baurätin or Hofrätin, war
Administrator, Chamber Administrator, Kommerzienrätin, Legationsrätin,
or of the executioner and vicious Councilor: I'll be there and werd
'it, and such' an. schick morning I mounted messengers after Hesse
and Saxony, Corinthian zusammenschmolz ores and burned the post
masters and post-holders, eg courteous in Saxony, certainly not
polite, but rather from the Komplimentierschule herausgeschickt.
to Prussian and Reuss, Friesland and cats after elbow and desire
patents.

Yes, I am driving more than one's will at the same time and everything,
flat fingers Hofrat, Scheer Akzisrat Auer, hair Haarer Building,
Pestitzer Kammerrat (because we have the money), and imagine himself
alone and then with a single _Podex_ and _Corpus_ a meeting of
selected councils - and stand as a whole legion of honor and a
Ehrengelag, just on two legs because - like no man has done. "" O!

Well, you're engelgut, "she said and rolled Zähren happier," thou
shalt myself guess what the finest councils, so that's we are. "-"
No, "I drove fired away," while maintaining "I do not once; me it's
not enough that you properly at the Kaplänin can be reported as
Baurätin when Stadtpredigerin as Legationsrätin, however, what they
lost in courtesy, they may ask for postage again because I can not
think that the cardinal _Pretettore del P.

Imperio_, whose letters to the ruling known as the Mayor Hofrätin
where Chausseeeinnehmerin as Kommerzienrätin, where or how you want.
"-" Oh you did to my good Attelchen!

"She said. "But," I continued, "I will also a corresponding member of
various learned societies best best in different capitals (which I just
had to choose), and not a real common member, but a full honorary
member, and then stretch 'ich wieder dich to me as an Honorary
Member Honorary Member from growing. "sorry, friends, this poultice
or deception balm for a wounded breast whose blood is pure and
delicious, except that it is not possible with all the cobwebs from
Stillungsmitteln into the beautiful heart zurückzuschließen should
strive. Now were beautiful, beautiful hours. I had the time defeated,
like me Berga; otherwise rarely post freely through all the Holy Roman
Empire went, not everything should be frank about what he has to report.
Beseligt, like me, a winner, at the same time overcome and overcome
party. Berga brought back their old sky and pulled the dusty boots and
flowery shoes. Delicious morning drink! How drunk a loving heart! I
felt good (the lower flower of speech is allowed) a double beer of
courage in me, since I am a creature more about me beschirmen had.
Ever werd 'ich - what the excellent general is not quite seem to
know - not like other brave brave, but most of hares, because to
me the bad example to the opponent game turns.

Small brush strokes here like a man and a woman more than shading
Shading! When the waiter with pretty green silk apron [67] Individual
souls, even the same state body organic bodies, it pulls them
from the inner air out, so they erquetscht sphere; pumping it under
the bell against the outer standing out, so they swell of internal over
and burst. Accordingly, each state keep internal and external
resistance at the same time. Heraufbrachte pretzels morning - because
I had said: "John, two servings!"

- So she said to him: he federations so that they are very, and called
him Mr. Johann.
I took one last look at our old rooms, bare and clean, now, for my
things were sold and Roger's stored; I gave all my clothes to the
house valet, to his intense gratitude, and when, with a nervous blow
of my favourite cane--a gift from Roger--in an effort to beat the pile
of cloth on the floor into symmetrical shape, the stick broke in the
middle, I came as near to an hysterical laugh as I ever came in my
life.

"Take all the other sticks, Hodgson," I said huskily, "and the
racquets, if you want them. And give the rod to the night
porter--Richard fishes, I know. And take the underwear, too--yes, all
of it!"

"And the trunk, sir? Where would you wish----"

"O Lord, take the trunk!" I burst out, for the familiar labels, ay,
the very dints in the brass lock, carried only sour memories to me,
now.

"But, sir, you've only what you stand in!" the man cried, convinced, I
am certain, that I contemplated suicide. "I've got the day to get
through, Hodgson," I reassured him, "and the shops will be of great
assistance!"

I left him gloating over his windfall, and plunged into haberdashery.

Fortunately for my nervous loathing of all my old possessions, I had
celebrated Uncle Win's legacy by a prompt visit to my tailor, and the
results of this visit went far to stock the new leather trunk that I
recklessly purchased for the shocking price such commodities command
in America. At the end of a successfully costly day I registered
myself, the trunk, with its brilliant identification label, a new
silver-topped blackthorn, and the best bull terrier I could get in New
York, at the new monster hotel I had never before entered, with a
strange feeling of an identity as new as my overcoat. This terrier, by
the way, marked my definite division from Roger more than anything
else could have done. I have always been fond of animals, dogs
especially, and as a little fellow was never without some
ignominiously bred cur at my heels; but Roger never cared for them,
and little by little I had dropped the attempt to keep one, since he
objected to exercising them in town, did not care to bother with them
in the country, and absolutely refused to endure the encumbrance of
one while travelling. Not that he was ever cruel or careless: when
thrown into necessary relations with animals he was far more just and
thoughtful of them than many a sentimental animal lover of my
acquaintance! Strangely enough, I have never seen a dog or cat that
would not go to him in preference to almost anyone else--one of
nature's ironies.

With Kitchener (not of Khartoum, then!) curled at the foot of my bed
in a brand new collar, I went to sleep, woke early, and took the first
train to Stratford to say good-bye to my mother and receive her
congratulations on my legacy.

Everything was unchanged in the neat little house: only old Jeanne in
her bed in a wonderful nightcap marked the visit as different from any
other. Years had ceased to leave any mark on my mother since her hair
had turned grey, and I might have been a collegian again as I kissed
her.

What extraordinary creatures women are! She knew inside of ten
minutes, I am sure, as well as Sarah Bradley had known, how matters
stood with me, and whenever I spoke of Margarita an inscrutable look
was in her eye and she stroked my arm in a delicate, mute sympathy.
Nor did she refer to my children any more or her hopes that I would
_ranger_ myself and settle down. If she sighed a little at the news of
my projected _wander jahr_, she did not beg me to set any term for it,
and cheerfully congratulated herself upon my known faithfulness in the
matter of correspondence. The tact of the woman!

She herself cooked our simple dinner to Jeanne's voluble accompaniment
of regret: the chicken from her own brood, the salad from her garden,
the delicious pastry that her own hands had put into the oven. After
dinner, during which we drank Jeanne's health and took her a glass of
the wine I always brought with me for the stocking of her
unpretentious cellar (the neighbours had never been able to regard
this addition to my mother's table without suspicion and regret) my
father's favourite brand of cigars was produced and I dutifully smoked
one. I had not inherited his taste in this instance, but for years I
had respectfully made this filial sacrifice and my mother would have
been seriously hurt had I foregone it.

We talked of anything but what was in our minds: the wonderful late
planting of peas; the beauties of Kitchener, who was formally
introduced to Jeanne and listened with perfect good breeding to a long
account (in French) of the departed family poodle; the kindness of the
old parish priest to Jeanne; the war-scare in the East (my mother
religiously took in the London Times and watched Russia with unceasing
vigilance) the shocking price of meat. Later she brought out my old
violin and I played all her favourites while she accompanied me on the
little cottage piano my father had bought for her when they began
life together. If a tear dropped now and then on the yellow keys,
neither of us took it too seriously, and it was a pleasant, soothing
evening on the whole. My nerves relaxed unconsciously, and Jeanne's
wild applause as one after another of her particular tunes rang out
(_Parlons-nous de lui, Grandmère, Sous les Tilleuls_ and _Je sais
bien, mon amour_) gave me an absurd thrill of musicianly vanity.

I slept in my own little room with the prim black walnut bedroom suit,
the prize-books in a row on the corner shelf, the worn rug made from
the minister's calf that I shot by mistake, and my father's sword,
with its faded tassel, over my bed. By some odd chance all my dreams
that night were of those boyish days, and it was with sincere surprise
that I stared on waking at my long moustache, in the toilet mirror--we
were not so universally clean shaven twenty years ago.

My steamer sailed at noon from Boston, and to my intense delight there
was no one on board that I knew. Unattended and unwept Kitchener and I
marched up the gang plank, and I pointed out to him the conveniences
and eccentricities of his surroundings with the contented confidence
known only to the intimate friend of a good dog. For Kitchener and I
were already intimate: the cynical philosophy, the sentimental
maundering, the firm resolutions I had poured out in his well-clipped
ear had brought us very close together, and had he chosen to betray my
confidences he could have made a great fool of me, I can tell you.

I can see him now--good old Kitch! With a great black patch over one
roving blue eye and an inky paw, a trim, taut body and a masterful
tail, he travelled more miles than fall to the lot of most bull dogs
and got quite as much good out of them as most of his fellow
travellers. He would have chased an elephant if I had told him to and
carried bones to a cat if I had ordered it done. He is buried next to
Mr. Boffin the poodle, in quiet Stratford, and for many years his
grave was tended--for Harriet never forgot.

Though I had made no formal decision as to where I would go, somewhere
in the back of my brain it had been made for me. That astonishing
young Anglo-Indian had not at that time reminded us that "when you
'ear the East a callin', why, you don't 'eed nothing else" (I quote
from memory and far from libraries) but it was true, for all that, and
I knew the skies that waited for me--the low, kindling stars, the
warm, intimate wind, the very feel of the earth under my feet.

And yet I did not go there, after all. We were bound for England, and
as I travelled up the Devon country and drank in the pure, homelike
landscape and strolled by those incomparable (if occasionally
malarial) cottages, my father's and grandfather's blood stirred in me,
and half consciously, to tell the truth, I found myself on the way to
Oxford. By some miracle of chance my old lodgings were free, and
before I quite realised what I was doing, I was making myself
comfortable in them.

I should have hated to be obliged to explain to my incredulous
American friends what I "did" in those long months, when every week I
planned to be off for the South and every week found me still
lingering by the emerald close, the grey tower, the quiet, formal
place of this backwater of the world. In their sense, of course, I
"did" nothing at all. I watched the youth around me (any one of them I
might have been, had my father lived) I renewed the quiet, cordial
friendships, which, if they never rooted very deep, never, on the
other hand, desiccated and blew away; I wrote many letters, and more
than this, I formulated once for all, though I did not know it then,
such theory of life as I have found necessary ever since. What it may
have been does not so much matter: if I have failed to illustrate it
in my life, if I have, even, failed to make it reasonably clear in
this rough sketch of the most vital interests of my life, it cannot
have been very valuable.

Among my correspondents at this time neither Roger nor his wife was
numbered. This was not strange, for he was a poor letter-writer,
except for business purposes or in a real necessity, and she had never
been taught so much as to write her own name! But I heard from them
indirectly, and as Roger, it turned out, supposed me to have gone on a
long hunting trip through the Rockies, neither of us was alarmed by
the three months' silence.

A strange, dozing peace had settled over me; though I thought of them
often, it was as one thinks of persons and scenes infinitely removed,
with which he has no logical connection, only a veiled, softened
interest. Margarita seemed, against the background of the moist,
pearly English autumn, like some gorgeous and unbelievable tropical
bird, shooting, all orange and indigo, across a grey cloud. It was
impossible that I, a quiet chess-player sitting opposite his friend,
the impractical student of Eastern Religions, could have to do with
such a vivid anomaly as she must always be. It was unlikely that the
silent, moody man strolling for hours through mist-filled English
lanes, pipe in mouth, dog at heels should ever run athwart that lovely
troubler of man's mind, that babyish woman, that all-too-well-ripened
child.

My Christmas holidays were quietly passed with the Oriental Professor
in his tiny Surrey cottage, where he and his dear old sister, a quaint
little vignette of a woman, forgot the world among her pansy beds. She
was not visible at that time, however, owing to a teasing influenza
which kept her in bed, and our hostess was her trained nurse, a quiet,
capable little American, with a firm hand-grip and kind brown eyes,
already set in fine, watchful wrinkles. She rarely spoke, except in
the obvious commonplaces of courtesy, and our days were wonderfully
still. The Professor taught me Persian, in a desultory way, and chess
most rigorously, for he was hard put to it for an opponent even partly
worthy of his prodigious skill. He was a member of all the most select
societies of learning in the world, an Egyptologist of such standing
that his pronouncements in that field were practically final, a man
called before kings to determine the worth of their national treasures
and curiosities--and his greatest pride was that he had beaten the
hitherto unmatched mechanical chess-player in public contest and had
been invited to settle absolutely the nicest problems in a chess
magazine!

I dwell with a curious fondness upon this placid interval in my life.
I supposed myself honestly settled, grown old, grateful for the rest
and oblivion my father's old university gave me so generously. When I
thought of the feverish, break-neck journey I had planned, of the hot
and doubtful reliefs and distractions I had promised myself that day
when the lawyers' letter had dropped half read on my knees and I had
sniffed my freedom first, I wondered. But, truly, it is all written,
and the hour had not yet struck, that was all!


CHAPTER XVI

MARGARITA COMES TO TOWN


                         [FROM SUE PAYNTER]

                                         WASHINGTON SQUARE,

                                            Oct. 16, 188--

     JERRY DEAR:

     First about the will--how splendid it was! Nothing could
     have pleased Roger more, I am sure--he told me with that
     queer, little whimsical grimace of his that it cleared his
     conscience to feel he was leaving you _something_! What a
     personality he has, and how, in his quiet unassuming way, he
     impresses it on us!

     I hear that Sarah made a great fuss about the will, but was
     advised by Mr. Sears to stop--and stopped! With Madame B. I
     am of course anathema--I have not heard from her since. The
     bank, _bien entendu_, is of the past, and you, I hear, are
     in the far West. How you will revel in the freedom and how
     good it must have been to kick off the ball and chain! If
     anyone can be trusted not to abuse leisure, it is you, dear
     Jerry--you won't appear so culpable, as a poor American
     always does, somehow, under such circumstances. Even I feel
     unjustifiably idle now, so I have taken up some of Mr.
     Elder's fads--what a fine, manly sort of fellow he is!--and
     may be seen, _moi qui vous parle_, teaching sight-reading to
     a boy's glee-club!

     But of course you are impatiently waiting for me to turn to
     Margarita and leave this silly chatter about my egotistic
     self. _Eh bien_, she is marvellous. For half an hour I hated
     her, but I couldn't hold out any longer. I have never even
     imagined such a person. What a pose that would be if any
     actress were clever enough to avail herself of the
     un-paralleled opportunities it would give her! Of course I
     thought it _was_ a pose, at first--I simply couldn't believe
     in her. But equally of course no woman could deceive another
     woman very long at that, and she is one to conquer both
     sexes. When she put her hand in mine and asked if I was
     going to buy her some dresses on Broadway, I had to kiss
     her.

     I got very little, just enough for absolute necessity, and
     gave her a letter to my woman in Paris and another to one I
     could only afford occasionally, and told her to obey them
     and take what they gave her. She understood and promised not
     to buy what happened to strike her--this was necessary, for
     she begged piteously for a rose pink satin street dress and
     a yellow velvet opera cloak to wear on the boat! We had a
     terrible struggle over a corset--she screamed when the
     _corsetière_ and I got her into one and slapped the poor
     woman in the face. It took all my diplomacy to cover the
     affair and I doubt if I could have done it, really, if
     Margarita herself had not suddenly begun to cry like a
     frightened baby and begged pardon so sincerely that the
     woman was melted and ended by offering her sister as a maid!
     The girl had the best of references, and as she must have
     someone and Elise has travelled extensively and seems very
     tactful, she is now (I trust) adjusting the elastic girdle
     her sister finally induced Margarita to wear.

     I took her to my Sixth Avenue shoe place, and she was so
     ravished with a pair of pale blue satin _mules_ I got her
     that she actually leaned down and kissed the clerk who was
     kneeling before her! Fortunately we were in a private room
     and he was the cleverest possible young Irishman, who winked
     gravely at me and took it as naturally as possible--he
     thought she was not responsible, you see, and assured me
     that he had an aunt in the old country who was just that
     way!

     What a beautiful voice she has--have you ever heard it drop
     a perfect minor third? But what a strange, strange wife for
     Roger, of all men! I suppose she is the first thoroughly
     unconventional person he was ever closely connected with--in
     one way _you_ would seem more natural with her--I suppose
     because you are more adaptable than Roger. With him,
     everybody must adapt. Will she! _Voila l'affaire!_ I should
     say that the young woman would be likely to have great
     influence over other people's lives, herself. If she and
     Roger ever clash--! Ah, well, _advienne que pourra_, it's
     done.

     I gave her for a wedding present that lovely little old
     daguerreotype of Roger at three years old. It was in an old
     leather frame, you know, and I had it taken out and put into
     a little band of steel pearls and hung on a small dark red
     velvet standard. No one could fail to know him from it--I
     think it is the most wonderful child portrait I ever saw. He
     seems to have always had that straight, steady look. There
     is a tiny curl of yellow baby hair in the back, which amused
     her very much. That is the only one of him at that age, you
     know--his mother gave it to me when we were engaged, and I
     always kept it.

     I am forgetting to tell you about our visit to the Convent,
     and you must hear it. I love the old place and often go up
     there to see Mary, when things grow a little too unbearable.
     She is wonderful--so placid and bright, so somehow just like
     herself, when you expect something different! Why did she do
     it, I wonder? I was one of her best friends, and I never
     knew. Her great executive ability is having its reward, they
     tell me, and she is likely to be Mother Superior some day.

     I had told her about Margarita and she was deeply interested
     in her, though the terrible state of the child's soul
     naturally alarmed her. When I told her that her
     sister-in-law had never been in a church, nor seen one,
     unless she had noticed those we passed in New York, she
     crossed herself hastily and such a look of real, heartfelt
     pain passed over her face!

     Well, I got my charge safely up there, and everything
     interested her tremendously from the very beginning. It was
     the intermission _demi-heure_ of the morning and the girls
     were all munching their _gouter_ and playing about on the
     grass. I explained to her why they all wore the same black
     uniform, and why the honour girls, "_les très-biens_," wore
     the broad blue sashes under their arms, and why the Sisters
     kept on their white headdresses in the house, and why the
     girls all made their little _révérence_ when Mother Bradley
     came out to meet us. She kissed Margarita so sweetly and
     held her in her arms a moment--I don't think Roger quite
     realised how his attitude hurts her: it is the only almost
     unjust thing I ever knew him to do. In the halls there is a
     great statue of Christ blessing the children, and Margarita
     stopped and stared at it several minutes, while we watched
     her. She seemed so rapt that Mary took my hand excitedly and
     whispered to me not to disturb her for the world, but wait
     for what she would say. After a while she turned to me.

     "Why has that woman a beard, Sue?" she asked cheerfully.
     Imagine my feelings! I did not dare look at Mary.

     We went all through the school-rooms and she was most
     curious about the globes and blackboards and pianos. We
     stopped at the door of a tiny music room, and I smiled, as I
     always do, at the pretty little picture. The young girl with
     her Gretchen braids of yellow hair, straight-backed in front
     of the piano, the nervous, grey-haired little music master
     watchfully posted behind her, beating time, and in the
     corner the calm-faced Sister, pink-cheeked under her
     spreading cap, knitting, with constantly moving lips. The
     music rooms are so wee that the group seemed like a
     gracefully posed _genre_ picture. Before we knew what she
     was about, Margarita had slipped in behind the music master
     and brought both hands down with a crash on the keys, so
     that the Chopin Prelude ended abruptly in an hysterical wail
     and the young lady half fell off the stool--only half, for
     Margarita pushed her the rest of the way, I regret to say.
     Fortunately Mary was able to get us out of it, but I fear
     there was no more Prelude that day! Why will women play
     Chopin, by the way? I never heard one who could--Aus der Ohe
     is masculine enough, heaven knows, but even that amount of
     talent doesn't seem to accomplish it. Do you remember
     Frederick's diatribes on the subject? He used to say that
     Congress should forbid Chopin to women, on pain of life
     imprisonment.

[Illustration: MARGARITA STOPPED AND STARED AT IT SEVERAL MINUTES]

     But you must hear the end of the visit. We went into Mary's
     room--perfectly bare, you know, with a great crucifix on the
     wall and below it, part of the woodwork, a little cup for
     holy water. As soon as she entered the room Margarita
     paused, and gave a sort of gasp--her hand, which I held
     tight in mine, grew cold as ice. Giht did nit! "Said the
     giant, when he hineinsah. "The gentleman soldier may not
     know," returned the dwarf, "how big is a giant, and he
     thought, because [80] In the summer of life to dig and equip
     people ice chamber as well as possible to get it for their
     winter something repeal what fortkühlt. I hineingehe. -
     But that's another hole. - I will fit anywhere, you just
     tell me where. "- In short, there was no escape for the
     Post Master and the giants, such as that on the rear
     passenger and goods stock has continued to be a pasture herüberbeugend
tears all over the coach box .

     Myself was such a tailwind and no backing extremely delight,
     and I trust (hope I) each of you, your friends, too, that
     he is back behind a decree as well and as bright as I would bend
over, what a guy and giant behind him to use a rider in all sorts
of purposes, such as murder, will be trying, it was now that he is
through the back window of the car and attack einbräche or even
titanium power above the sky hermache carriage.

     Meanwhile, the top began with crossed [28] It is impossible
     for me, immediately on the spot under the water-forest branches
     of allusions in my work - even this is again a branch - and
     publish it to fall, if I was ever on the poor box lying
     elephant - but his parable of the more oppressive than the mass-flying
spirit of light seemed to have - soon to sleep and to snore at, an
elephant, of which (as I am always glad einsah) my brother, the
dragoons, light of Kornak tamer and could, indeed already had been.

     Because now more than one person wanted to sleep, but (rightly)
     I watch the other hand: I was so happy my Fahrehrensitz, the
     front seat (even envy to some of the passengers will be
     repaid), such personnel who have on it a little slumber
     wanted. The Legationsmann and took the offer of the Lehnpolster
     with haste and entschlief on the backrest of the Titans
     behind him. Something remained incomprehensible to me like
     sleep Post by a diplomatic _Chargé d'affaires_.

     A man who as a bleeding heart among foreign to all the farms or
heights (Bouguersche) Snow Line Europe have called or not, but I
wanted information about it in some adverse event remains to be done.

                                       Entschläft often blood-cooperative, can, if he is in slumber, and
car talk (just think of all the Saxon Ministers before the Seven
Years War!)

                                          Hundreds secrets, a thousand outrages come out that he hardly has
perpetrated.

Should not every minister, ambassador or other man of honor or
horror stand properly before Toll Will fevers or heated, as it
stands for no man that he is not with the biggest scandals herausfährt,
of which perhaps half are lies?

Finally, after the long Julius night,
we came together with the passengers before Flätz in Aurora.

    I saw the sharp and soft after the tower
      tops, and I believe that every
    person, in a city of something crucial to
    search [36] And so wishes I, the
      first anywhere to be, especially in the begging, the first prisoners
of war, the first cripple, Spent the first (similar to that of the
first fire syringe leads) captured the principal sum and the heart,
the descendents, speaks only to the duty, and finally it goes with
the melodic Mancando the extent of compassion, and it either a place
of his hopes or their anchorage, either for slaughter or sugar box,
his eye on the first and longest on the towers of the city than on
the finger and Züngelchen his Zukunftswage staple, almost architectural
mountains that look like the natural, the thrones of our future.

When I thus poetically against Jean Pierre herausließ so tasteless
enough, he replied: "The towers of these cities are the Alpine
peaks, the Alps, which we the future of our cheese and milk."

Liked the legation Peter Styles me with this ridiculous or only
concerned?

- Decide!

                                 "Here is the place, the city," says' I secretly to me, "where a lot
today and now that the last - if at least the penultimate with a
rich" Gotthelf "complains subtracting - nothing of the charitable
hand receive more than their fist.

                                             How now begging in the first, so möcht 'I enter the last and one
deletes the other, especially the last one first, but then the world
is ordered.

     Futures will be decided where you this evening by five clock your
petition and half just put yourself - go and it is good!

     go it wonderfully! Document Flätz, these weapons aspirations
     of your small space, while the site of desire and heart of
     two air locks, the deinigen and the female, "at the inn, I
     went to Tiger from. The first day in Flätz. No man is
     initially in my Tiger Hotel Location enthusiasmieren strong
     over the next prospect. I, as the only man I know, especially
     from the side of love (from the outgoing Dragoner afterwards!),
     Looked out the windows of the hotel market with the
     stuff out and inn on the flows of the market after army
     [136] If you have time to high that is the way to your ears
     (from the Fama) is not much better, as it falls under such deep
and really felt very similar to Charles = = top ball in the air,
and = = Halley bottom diving bell in the same special pain in the
ears. down and could very soon be remembered that no one really as
a god, and the thieves and murderers knew exactly how much of the
latter two including einschwämmen to perhaps the most innocent
market guests to shuck partly, and partly to enthalsen.

     My situation had something against him - my brother had him,
     because he blindly herausschlägt it drop that I Tiger
     descents - (O God, when people learn such arcane rich stay
     and also the most miserable beggar of life under Deckmänteln
     and veils therefore, merely to take, because so often a
     lousy mouse and an ice-Golgathaberg produces a mountain than
     a mouse?). All postal rabble all sat in the Tiger from - the
     prostitute - the Chamber Hunters - Jean Pierre - the giant,
     which already at the city gates and the exit of the Großkopf
     [25] In his youth looks just like a man born blind operated
     - and what does the obstetrician or midwife other than operate
     - the distance for the proximity to the starry sky for
     tangible office equipment, the paintings of objects,
     as a dwarf's head by Mantelbemäntelung on the streets
     wore, that he is a half dwarf free gigantic appear
     when he actually had money to see. - - It came out now on
     every passenger, whether he to Tiger, the heraldic animal of
     the inn, the proto-type, and which he will eat lamb,
     suck, abrupfen wanted.

     Even my brother left me in order to follow Roßtäuscher, but
     retained for his sister's room next to my own, which, as
     it seemed, for she betrayed attention. I stayed in my
     lonely drive left. However, dacht 'ich among so many thieves
     who surrounded me, if not besieged, warm in a distant,
     honest soul, to my Neusattel in Berga, a market and
     force the heart, perhaps some of the whole world the young
     man sits on his nose, until it, like the blind, repeated up and
finally tie and slip distance estimate teaches.

     [Illustration: ... so I gave the field and Bart Scheerer
     such a sudden shock to the navel. .] weak Ehebündner
     more protection, as would owe. "appear only at midday tomorrow
     soon, Berga," said my heart, "and probably still am, that
     I thy fair paradise for so many hours longer to expand
     than to Earlier RESTREINT you! "A priest is in the middle
     of the storm over the world in a slightly Freeport, in the
     church, the church wall is his shooting house and fortification
     walls, and behind it sit gleichergestimmte and peaceful
     souls together than on the marketplace - in short, I went
     into the Hofkirche. Meanwhile, I was in my devotional songs
     a little crazy by a Heiducken to a wohlgekleideten young Mr
     me Doppellorgnette the demolition of the nose, because Flätz
     as well as in Dresden [125] At the end it is still out
     of fear and suffering of the citizens of the world are
     warmly , I know, so shoot the ships as a weaver shuttles
     back and forth and weave parts of the world and islands
     together.

     Indeed, it now falls within the political weather glass in
     South America, so we have tomorrow in Europe and thunder
     storm. Jars, the smaller and closer, against the Court failed
     and I had set up selfhood, but it enlarged. I could not
     then get the glasses off and I am going to fear ', I head back to
stare and look Waghals; just so I held for becoming, in a continuing
into song with her to look and not even because the Court einrauschte,
aufzuschauen to give hints that they are exalted ground. - The
Sermon on the way, was good, though not always considered a fine
Hofkirche, because it reminded of countless vices from their opponent
to play, the virtues, another preacher is too easy would warn you!

     Under the whole worship I seek true, profound reverence
     [19] Light, you have noticed ersteigt a mountain, when one
     goes backwards. This could perhaps also apply to nationals
     heights, if they are given only the penis, allowing you to
     set, and the face against the people addressed below would,
     however, we are continuing in a remote and Höber. on the
     day to determine, both against God than against my
     exalted ruler. In the latter respect, I had my private
     reason, I wanted those that openly and fairly strongly with
     sublime Schriftpunzen on my face shape to some entrenched
     gleeful at the court to punish lies, about my recent
     refutation of Linguets praise to Nero, and my German free satire
to this true tyrant himself, to which I submitted Flätzische
Wochenblatt, wants to be a clandestine nature of my paintings have
loved princes turn.

     Unfortunately, you can now barely on the hellish vicious
     sting own draft document, without any human they are applied
     to an angel. When finally the Court from the church in the
     [26] Few German scholars are not original, if different (least of
all countries language use is) any originality award may merely his
own thoughts and no foreign auftischt.

     Because between their memory where the read or resident aliens, and
the car went, I was in such a distance that my face would be
impossible to see was if I about near no reverence, but a draw would
be proud.

     God knows who to me tollkecken those fantasies and desires
     eingeknetet has, perhaps a hero Schabacker more honest than a field
preacher under him.

     I can not fail, one of the cheeky, you, my friends,
     to trust, it also discards initially a too bright light on me.

     It was at my ordination to the field preacher, when I went to Holy
Communion on the first Easter.

     While I stood there now, Soft moves before the altar railing
     with the whole male community - yes, I am perhaps more touched
     than one below it, because I as a war in the pulling of their
imagination or power generation, where the writing and my life, a
reasonable interspace and the landmarks so conscientiously and
firmly gesetzet that there are no strangers to the owners and vice
versa may be over, so they really can read hundred works, without
the Erdgeschmack me half so regarded as a dying man was allowed,
which is now like a Henkender to the last soul receives a meal -
it threw me in the middle of the emotion of the organ and sang,
something - whether it is the first Easter Day was, of me on the
so-called old Christian Easter brought laughter, or the mere tapping
against the diabolical layers stirred -- in short, something in me
(so I since each simple in protective suppose, otherwise like the
devil anschrieb!)

     - this is something threw the question in me: 'There' is
     something hellish because, as in the middle if you receive the
Holy Supper wicked and mockingly started to laugh?

     "I immediately rang me with this idea of hell dog around
     - missed the strongest emotions, the same can einzubüßen or
     otherwise to change: it is, believe me, their uniqueness
     proved, and its spiritual food their Plinsen, loaves,
     donuts, soup and caviar beads are not, as after Büffon the physical,
organic globules of production, but only appear purely for the dog
in history to retain and abzutreiben - but he was exhausted and
supported before the altar stool with the jammer full certainty,
that I now just automatically would begin to laugh, I want to weep
and moan inside, as I wanted.

     So when I and a very decent old mayor ourselves with each other
     long before the clergy and the latter bowed to me (perhaps
     he came to me on the knee cushion low too long ago) the
     wafer in the mouth stick stuck so feel I know,
     that at the mouth corners all Lachmuskeln
     sardonically began to draw, which also does not remain at
     the innocent face worked, as even a real smile that
     appeared - and as we did for the second time bowed, then
     grinned and played back. Often denk 'ich mir scholars such
     as a living, but paid thousands of artificial Vaukansons
     Kunstente wood. Because in fact they are not artificially
     zusammengefugt less than those who eat the grub and the rear seems
to play - After gentle games I like a monkey.

     Besides my husband, the mayor, talked quite rightly, as we
     worked around behind the altar, silently to myself: 'For
     God's sake, you are an ordained preacher, or a flatbed
     Champion? - Laughing as the lively Gottseibeiuns from you?
     "-" Oh, God! Who else? "says I; afterwards brought 'my serious
     devotion to an end. From the Church - (I come back into the
     Flätzer) - I went in to the Tiger Inn and ate at
     the host table, because I 'm never afraid of people.
     Before the second court the waiter handed me an empty
     plate, which I to my amazement a French verse with a fork
     engraved saw that nothing less than a Pasquill contained on the
commander of the duck, which under the certificate, the cost in
blood and juice turns to have just one, by the artist in the abdomen
pre ejection excellent, with food and not related to digestion, in
the illusory world, and pushes.

     Flätz. Without facts I gave the plate to the table and said
     society, I would have pasquillantische crockery, as she
     would, just get Baets and they attest that the applicant
     does not trade me. An officer immediately switched plates
     with me.
     This for some reason struck
     her forcibly and she acted like an angel. Women are
     certainly strange. Nothing more done on the _Code_.


                                             FLORENCE, Mar. 26.

     Have been a week here. M. enjoys it very much. She and Miss
     J. studying Italian day and night: M. takes to it like a
     duck to water. Got a grammar myself and began. M. practises
     faithfully. Some pleasant old ladies I knew in New Haven
     called on us to-day and M.'s behaviour could not have been
     better, I thought, though Miss J. objects to her crossing
     her ankles. She writes very well now. It is better than a
     play to hear her and Miss J. arguing over points of
     etiquette. J. explained the theory of the chaperon, but M.
     pinned her down to admitting that it did not apply to
     married women. Then why to her? M. demanded imperiously. J.
     shuffled a little, then explained that M. was an exceptional
     married woman. M. inquired if that meant that she was the
     only married woman that could not be trusted alone with a
     man. J. replied "Unfortunately, no, Mrs. Bradley!" M.
     scored, in my opinion.


                                                        April 2.

     Long cable to-day about Wilkes case. Cannot possibly attend
     to it from here. Cabled to make every effort to postpone it.
     Bound to get in a mess, if they don't. R----should have been
     disbarred long ago. M. spoke again of the beach at home
     to-day. The second time since we were married. Sometimes I
     think she has no heart, in the ordinary sense, and then
     again her sweetness and kindness would win over a statue.
     She cannot, of course, be judged by ordinary standards.


                                                        April 6.

     Heard from Jerry to-day. Has been in England all the time,
     the rascal, playing chess and learning Persian! Has promised
     to run over to Paris and we are going back there. M. wants
     to go on with her music lessons. Have never known her so
     steady at anything. Expected to stay here indefinitely, but
     must be very patient with her now. Is wonderfully well.
     Wouldn't mind getting back to work, myself, but she can't
     very well sail now, I suppose.


                                               PARIS, April 11.

     Perfect weather. Paris very gay. As a holiday, all very
     well: as a business, what a life! Mme. M----i advises stop
     lessons now for a while. M. very disappointed, but yields
     finally very gracefully. How changed Jerry will find her! He
     agrees to stay a fortnight at least, which delights M. And
     me, too. We must have one of our old walking-trips, perhaps
     try an ascension. Have got at the _Code_ again.


                                                        April 15.

     Weather still holds. Jerry expected to-morrow. M. has taken
     to reading. She and J. read aloud _David Copperfield_, turn
     about. What good work it is, after all! Hester taught her to
     read unknown to her father, who seems to have forbidden it.
     It was her only disobedience, it seems. I wonder what that
     woman's real name was? She learned to read from the Psalms,
     but never read much. The Wilkes case going badly, I'm
     afraid: no postponement. They will be able to appeal,
     however.


CHAPTER XVIII

MY PEARL OF TOO GREAT PRICE


Kitchener and I were very philosophic as we crossed the Channel that
fine day in April. We had got thoroughly fitted to each other, now,
the rough edges smoothed down, all idiosyncrasies allowed for; we knew
when to press hard, so to speak, and when to go light, and the result
was a good, seasoned intimacy that lasted twelve long years.

I have always been a good sailor, a slight headache in an unusually
nasty roll being my only concession to Neptune, and Kitch and I viewed
with cynical tolerance the depressing antics of our less fortunate
fellow-travellers. As we neared the French coast I realised gradually
how good it would be to see Roger again, and found time to regret a
little of my solitary lingering through the damp English winter, which
seemed more oppressive in retrospect than it had been in reality.

For Margarita I had only the kindest feelings and the friendliest
hopes that she would develop into a good wife for Roger. To marry such
a bewitching knot of possibilities was of course more or less a risk,
but on the other hand, if any man could succeed in such an
undertaking, surely that man was our placid, patient Roger! I had
learned patience myself during the winter, by dint of chess and
philosophy, and somehow, as the little Channel boat pitched under me
and the shifty April clouds rolled along the sky over me, life, as it
stretched out for me and Kitchener, was not too gloomy: was even
flavoured with a certain easy freedom that rather tickled my
middle-aged epicurean palate--for the middle thirties were, even
twenty years ago, reasonably middle-aged.

Nevertheless it was impossible not to remember that my feelings had
not always been thus ordered, and when, a few hours later, the guard
let me out of the carriage, and I saw only Roger on the platform, I
realised that I had braced myself a little for a meeting that did not
take place.

"It's good to see you again, Jerry," he said heartily, "mighty good!"
And with his hand gripping mine, I had a moment of whimsical wonder
that any woman born should have been able to threaten such a
friendship for (or by!) the twinkling of an eye.

We talked of our plans, mine, such as they were, being only too ready
to merge into his, which included a stiff climb through the Swiss
Alps; of my Oxford sojourn; of Margarita's music and his readiness to
get back to America as soon as she should feel equal to it. It amused
me a little to discover how simply Roger accepted his rôle of
indulgent American husband: those men are born to it, I believe--there
seems no crisis, no period of instruction, even. I never pretended to
half his real strength of character, but I could not have imagined
myself stopping in circumstances more or less distasteful to me until
my wife's whim should release us! I had spoken to no woman for many
months, you must remember, but my landlady and the Professor's trained
nurse, and unflattering though it may sound to the much-desired sex, I
had not been conscious of any special lack, after the first few weeks.

To this day I have never known the name of the street nor the number
of that Paris _appartement_. We were deep in our plans for
mountaineering, and except that I noted the wheezy little lift of Mrs.
Upgrove's letter, I remember literally nothing about that excursion
but the familiar odour of the Paris asphalt, the snapping and cracking
of the Gallic horsewhip, and the smoke of my own cigarette which blew
into my eyes as I threw it away on entering the house.

The late afternoon sun poured into the gay little drawing-room, all
buff and dull rose, in the charming French style, and full of sweet
spring flowers in bowls and square jars of Majolica ware. Mountain elk
- more in market towns as the main cities grew up - was properly shocked
on the coffee boards, sinks, paper, wallpaper, wall lamps, alabasterne
Write witness with Egyptian symbols and the gilded bell wire button
which everybody off and was able to insert. Therefore, she had
not the courage, the hall full of chandeliers to go, just because a
whistling, Federhut distinguished itself and abspazierte. Yes,
her poor heart was neatly on the chest Schnürbrust if the window to
as many townsfolk traveling geputzt and looked (I whistled a fresh
gaskonisches ditty below into it) - and if they thought, [19] More
than one writer Hermes has it behind nachversucht, the example of
the wives and doctors associated with a drunkard on the favorite drink
ever by a eingeschwärzten, krepierten frog as it afterwards with
me through this blinding Anteroom melee would break.

It caught even fewer conclusions as examples. I wanted my mountain elk
through some of my nightly dream Esken giant lift - eg by that I am
riding on a whale with a three Dreizacksgabel eagle gespießet and
gespeiset, and the like, but I made no effect, perhaps because
I have a terrible position with the woman the heart closer to the
battlefield as the winner, the abyss is closer than the Springer it
pushed in front of the eye. Now I was a pack newspapers brought fully
louder notable victories. Although this only on one side and happen
on the other as many defeats happen so confusing but those are more
my blood than this, and rafts to me - how else Schillers Räuber - a
wonderful, or by crushing Weinstein to verleiden knew imitate and in
a similar way, the novel ravenous reader through the novel in the
same eingebrockte frequent sermons, and moral inclination to anyone
on the spot to thresh and to sweep.

Unfortunately for the waiters, this is just like a three blade Mr.
Lorde marches to give leave before he was mobile and made up. "Sir,"
- I started, the full head battlegrounds and the arm fully abzuklopfen
shoots him, and Berga feared everything, because I known the anger
and alarm sign was that the cap on the back of mind was in the height
-- "is the manner of guests? Why does he not promptly? Come to me
he does not go back and 'He, my friend! "- Despite his victory
was my retreat, so I still kanonierte choosing instead to continue
lively and fired the louder (it should" hear it), the more steps he
hinuntergeflogen. Mountain elk - which are quite horrified about
my Ergrimmen, especially in a very strange house bore (like frogs
krepierte should imagine) so to salinisation and to verekeln, then
after that he no longer handles novels. - - But the little disgust
caught, and Hermesen themselves and carry on a silk loincloth
Putzbengel - to examine all their gentle words out of a savage war
against throat and gave me dangers to consider. "Dangers" puts'
I 'wish' I just, just, there's none for the man, he will always
either win them or originate, either the forehead or the back offer.

"I could not stop me to ask, as sweet was me, and feels so much 'I am
refreshed by the fire and anger in his chest like a vulture hides lind
heated. It is also, however, the undetected boons - what else is
preached that you are never more in his heaven and _monplaisir_ (a
castle) is in quite a romp, and Grimm. And the whole morning to inspect
the morning and spent treating, and Although the longest in the wide
alley of our least successful, rather his successors, where the wine
is less in the flavors of the wine crushing differed, they will cast.
Hotels. Berga should only into Marktgedränge shot, they should only
accept that they more »according to the modes," with her to talk
aufgeschmückt had a hundred other of their unequals. But soon they
forgot about the budget and the surface on the pottery market the
nightstand. After lunch (on our room) we came out of the Fegfeuer of
Meßgetümmels where Berga at each booth to order something and its
something Nachtreterin charge was finally in heaven in which so-called
dog economy, as the best host and Flätzer Lusthaus except for the
city was called, where fair periods stop hundreds to thousands go
to see.

Even while I grew up as a female my Ellenbogenefeu such courage that
under the gates, where I am, because after the famous military procedure
is not close to the guard plate may be passed, so on the opposite
side hinwarf, quiet close to the shooting and holly rifle in the
Torwache vorüberstrich.

Outside could 'ich her umketteten, barred, giant, already outside with
stairs rising Schabackerpalast with fingers to show what I gehaust
yesterday and (perhaps) gestürmt, "prefer the giant möcht' I look,"
she said, "and the Dwarves; what are we with them under one roof?

"In Lust house itself, we found sufficient desire, umrungen
of faces and blooming meadows.

As is' I secretly kept on Schabackers Refus with success across and
made me ever until midnight on a good day, I had 'earned him, Berga
more.

However, should I have a clock at night a windmill to get berennen ,
albeit with the slightly longer, stronger and more poor than
proposing a giant, for which Don Quixote such a mill like it could.

I [8] In large rooms, the real oven in a delicate Scheinofen
entlarvt; it is decorous and delicate, that the virgin = love =
always in a beautiful, virginal friendship hide.

Namely to let the marketplace, for reasons that are think easier than
say, a mountain some twenty elk preceded me and go from imaginary
grounds without Arg hidden behind a shack, arguably the silver and
the silver hut barriers to the Krämer his raw liked, and it naturally
dwell on circumstances: - see, comes dahergerudert with spear and
skewer the guard booths and münzt and shapes me so suddenly and
unseen to a snap of his cock and predator Buden lanes from, although
the weak head looks nothing more than that I stand in a corner and
do nothing less than - take.

An honor without Tallus for such attacks is never dulled. But just how
was a man who has nothing in his head - now a maximum of beer instead
of the brain - in the light after midnight to give - I make my
Wagmittel not, I grabbed the foxtail, I reflected to him that
before I had a so-called blow, and knew in my drunkenness bad to
find and hold - so I played everything, from what I face at times
this has come fluctuated back and forth, the most certainly dancing
feet away, fell into it at all, zigzag Aussegeln after a straight line,
yes, I met my good head (perhaps one of the brightest and empty at
night) as against a full real poles. - nevertheless saw the Buden
Vogt, perhaps more often drunk than me, and knew the characters
better, or it even himself in this hour was, the whole adjustment
for mere blend of plant and cried horribly.

"Stop, thief bush, you have no hair bags, wind bag you're less
drunk than me! - We know we probably longer. Steh! I come after you.
[12] The people do - as an opponent of the game flows, in the
plane and sleep most the Impure down - especially only in the strongest
move the bad fall, and they are more dirty, the longer they are
in sluggish, flat surfaces continue to sneak. If you want to market
your finger thieves have? - Standing, dog, or I'll push you! "We
see here his whole state, I grew zigzag between this raw Buden drunkard
so fast as I could, but he limped after me. But my Teutoberga who
heard something, ran back, grabbed the drunken porter in the market and
said collar, even though (after the village of) zuschreiend: »Dummer
man sleeping 'He's Mine, or I'll show's Him!

Because He knows whom He has to go? My husband, the preacher
Schmelzle box under the Lord General and Minister of Schabacker at
Pimpelstadt He fool! Fie, shame on 'He that guy! "The guard
growled," Nothing for ungut!

"And stumbled away. "O thou lion," says "I love the noise," why are
you not in any danger of death, so I'll just show the lions than
husband?

"So we both came home loving, [23] When the old nature big round
earth, Erdenlaib the new durchknetet order under this new Gefüllsel
patés lid and dwarves hineinzubacken, and I would have for perhaps
the beautiful days are the summer after a wonderful experience after
midnight, I would not be the devil on Lichtenbergs ninth volume,
on the 206th screen, where it says: "It would be possible that once
our chemists on a means neglected, our air to decompose suddenly,
by a kind of ferment.

How could the world go by. "Oh, yes, indeed! As the globe in the
larger air ball is encapsulated so just invent a chemical Spitzbube
on some distant island or thieves in Neuholland a Zersetzmittel the
air, similar to what some spark a fire for a powder-cart is in a few
hours grabs me and us Flätz the tremendous, world herschnaubende storm
in the throat, my breath Bring the like is Erstickluft gone, and
everything about all over. - But I hid the soul of every loyal as
they are mostly like a baking mother to her daughter jokes
Pastetenteig little something like this ( a few thousand square
miles of death night thoughts, because they either just me, or even
painfully funny lookalike would have been ridiculed.

I just ordered that on the morning (the Saturday) for the back
country coach and finished gestiefelt dastände, should I otherwise
in accordance with their wishes to the Überschwängerung councils
with which it was so dear, come soon enough.

She was so joyful, I believe that she would like the abandoned
fairground.

Also suspended 'I calmly, with the toes on her fingers made the whole
night. Dragoner plucking and took me in the morning when
Ohre secretly and told me the same inside, he had a funny Meßgeschenk
for his sister, and therefore on his ride yesterday by Roßtäuscher
traded Centimes something soon ahead.

I offered him my Vordank. ran every morning funny from the stack,
this dough is enough for a child) of any poet, or Wise Men, or
Heroes' soul, so that the small thing but something auszuformen and
had set up next to the mother. except me, because I kept still,
even before the Best Red morning to night Teufelsferment and
Zersetzmittel, my brain as a sphere of the globe, brewing in your
head, and a proof that the night me and my fear had nothing to
exaggerate.

The sullen me blind passenger sat down again and looked at me as usual,
but without effect, because this where I change the world, not
just mine, in the head, was my passenger more fun and
spook, because no one under Fußabsägen the heart of driving experiences,
or the buzzing of the gun against the Wasps of resisting, I was just
a passenger with all the letters of fire, the suspect about his
face still in my late future raises, just ridiculous occur at a
time where I thought, the "ferment" could be getting something from
the siblings of the pastries Chen's sister, then knock them all
in the hands and cry: "Mother, you can also bake it as Viktoriechen?"

yes the middle of my path of Flätz after Neusattel of any American
Europe's husband, who tries very innocent and decomposes,
coincidentally invented and released. The issue price would be
yes but now, how far it has not Lichtenbergs threat around the world
and looks suicidal when enlightened potentates scheidekünstlerischer
peoples not their vagina artists who so easily distinguished body
of soul with heaven and earth spouses, impose no other chemical
Attempts to make the already made, but so far the states far more
useful than harm.

Unfortunately, I stayed in this latest day of the fermenter with all
your senses absorbed, without regard for the whole journey back
to Neusattel more to experience and noted that as I daselbst arrived,
where I also returned to the stowaway was going his way. Only my mountain
elk, I looked in a while to continue, partly as long as they are still
around to see life as eyes and take part even in the smallest to the
same danger, it was now a large or even an entire hereinstürzendes
Goldau and consuming world court, if not for them, but to her dying,
and so linked with her, a life plagued plagendes and add throw what
you do not half of my desire to fulfill been.

This would be because my journey is complete - topped with some
Historiolen - perhaps even more rewarded by you, your friends to
Flätz around, if it is about some gutgeschliffene Jätemesser should
find what you easier weed ausreutet lying to me until now the brave
Schabacker verbauet. - Just sit me in the head, cursed Ferment.

Lives probably because, while it is still there einzuatmen atmospheres.
I want ', I had the leaven from their heads beaten.

Euer Attila Schmelzle.

NS.

My brother has done his job well and Berga dances. In future, the
details! - - Printed in Poeschel & Trepte in Leipzig [The following
are all modified lines of text above, each of the first line as the
original, then the modified line. Attilla more Christian than
that's heard me in there, is the Christian Attila more than that's
heard me in there, is [112] Certain weiberbenutzen world in some
cases their physical [112] Some women use the world in some cases their
physical Malzleinsdorf (a suburb of Vienna), or were plagued's for
my Matzleinsdorf (a Viennese suburb ), or were plagued's my say, my
children are the same, the most beautifully painted box to say we are
the children of the same, the most beautifully painted box Admittedly,
the stagecoach banquet and picnic wanted me less Admittedly, the
Postkutschengelag 'and Picnic wanted me to use less above would rear
up. Both refer to fool or to back up would be. Both refer Fools
said now that you said now that one to spare, so long on the head
= =, is taken up again. To spare, so long in the = = head until he is
taken back. Tonnage at the the flashes spit the scabbard on the horse
Bock, UNB for quantity, where the lightning spit the scabbard on
the horse buck, and his property is as a church robbery angerechent.

Me seems, however, the property is his account as a church robbery.
Me seems, however, the lodges, from the first glimmer Aufwärterin which
he or it lodges, from the first Aufwärterin worst that he or his heroes
and Potentatentaten, towers, throws rocks, - but still heroes and
Potentatentaten, towers, throws rocks - but still Saturday evening?

"she said. "That does not say 'I do. "Well, I am Saturday evening?"
She said. "That is not," says' I do. "Well, I am nevertheless should
I have a clock at night a Winmühle to berennen But should I have a
clock at night a windmill to berennen]
"But I should go mad if I were obliged to humour the caprices of such
a bear as I!"

"But you are not a nurse!" she answered quietly.

After ten days of steady convalescence, when I was propped up a little
upon my pillows and could feed myself very handily from an
ever-increasingly varied _menu_, I asked suddenly if she had heard
from Roger lately.

"Yes," she said promptly, "only yesterday. I was waiting till you
asked. Before I give you the letter I must tell you that they are no
longer in Paris: they have gone back to America."

"America?" I echoed vaguely, with a half-shocked consciousness that I
did not care very much one way or the other where they were.

"Yes, Mr. Bradley came in the day before they sailed, but you were far
too ill to see him. At the same time I saw no reason why you should
not pull through, and told him so. Mrs. Bradley suddenly expressed a
wish to go to her old home, and though for some reasons they did not
like to let her begin a sea voyage, for other reasons they wanted to
gratify her. She grew quite determined and they decided to allow it.
You know she expects her baby in June."

"Yes I know," I said quietly. I remembered the man who had tramped the
wet lanes, but to-day he seemed to me a wicked fool, justly punished
for his folly. For I knew, though no one had told me, that I should
never be the same after this sickness. The very fibres of my soul had
been twisted and burned in that white-hot furnace of my delirium, and
though Nature might forgive me, she could never forget. Every winter
she would take her toll, every damp season she would audit my account,
after every exposure or fatigue she would lightly tap some shrinking
nerve and whisper "Remember!" A passion whose strength I had never
suspected had brought me to this bed, and in this bed that same
passion had struggled and shrivelled and died. It was with no mock
philosophy that I thought of Margarita. No, the fool knew his folly
now. But it was a folly of which I had no need, I verily believe, to
feel ashamed. It was not that I was the sort of monk we are told the
Devil would be, when he was sick, although my physical weakness may
have lain--God knows!--at the root of it, once. No, I had changed.
Those who have gone through some such change (and I wonder, sometimes,
how many of the passive, unremarkable people I pass on the street, in
the fields, in hotels, have gone through such) know how well I knew
the truth of this matter and how little likely I was to deceive
myself. I loved her, yes, and shall love her while consciousness
remains with me, but it would never again be bitter in my mouth and
black in my heart.

"Let me see the letter, please, Miss Buxton," I asked, and she brought
it, cutting it for me with her neat accuracy of motion and
conservation of energy. I spread the single sheet open and began, but
I never read more than one line of that letter.

For it began,

     _Dear old Jerry:_

     _Ever since Kitchener found you, I have  changed_--

"Kitch! Kitch!" I cried, overcome with shame and penitence. "Oh, Miss
Buxton, do you--does anybody--"

"He is just outside," she said, "I will have him sent up at once. I
thought you would want him soon, Mr. Jerrolds. And don't worry--he has
never been neglected."

I clutched the sheet in my impatience. Very soon there was a scurrying
through the hall, a little gasping snuffle, a small, sharp bark. Then
he was on the bed before I saw his good brindled head, almost, and in
my arms. I pressed my face against his dear, quivering coat, I
surrendered my cheek to his warm, rough tongue, I translated each
happy convulsive wriggle.

"Dear old Kitch--good fellow!" I muttered, none too steadily, for I
was not strong yet, and he seemed suddenly the only friend on whom I
could unreservedly count. Roger had wished to stay with me, I knew,
but of course he must go with his wife, and I am glad that I never
grudged his absence a moment. For this cause shall a man leave his
life-long friend and cleave only to her, and there is no other way.
But nothing, nothing could separate Kitch and me!

Miss Buxton left us alone together and we discussed the situation
gravely and thoroughly and assured each other that it was only a
matter of patience, now, and then, away together!

My spirits rose from the day he came in, and in another week I had
advanced to a deep cushioned chair in the window for an hour a day.
But it was not a very interesting window, commanding as it did my
neighbour's eight-foot garden wall crowned with inhospitable broken
glass, and though I appreciate the marvel of the spring as much, I
suppose, as most of us, I could never occupy myself very long with
natural beauties exclusively, and the trees and the grass could not
satisfy my craving for human interest. Now that I was ready for them,
all my friends were off for their Easter holiday, and I would not keep
the Professor from his spring gardening, though he offered manfully. I
have never cared for games, with the single exception of his beloved
chess, and my eyes soon tired of reading.

And so at last, in default of something more to my mind, I turned to
my nurse and determined to make that silent woman talk. At first it
was difficult, for I tried to discover her feelings, her attitude, her
history. As to the first two of these I met only failure and the last
was pathetically simple. An orphan she was, a bread-winner, an
observer. I say it was pathetic, but not that _she_ was. Things are
changing rapidly with women, I can see that plainly, but twenty years
ago a man still felt, ridiculously perhaps, that a kindly, competent
woman, however successful in her chosen profession, must needs be, in
the very nature of the case, even more kindly and more competent with
a child on her lap and an arm about her waist. If in the new doctrine
of the Brotherhood of Man it is admitted that we owe each our debt to
humanity and posterity, I, for one, have never been able to understand
why women should not pay that debt in the coinage most obviously
provided them for the purpose. The Brotherhood of Man is a great idea,
but surely without the Motherhood of Woman it would grow a little
shadowy and impractical. (I speak as a fool!)

And so, I repeat, there was something a little pathetic to me in
Harriet Buxton's life, though nothing in the least pathetic in her
personality or her actions. Do not turn on me too fiercely, dear
ladies, and demand of me with your well-known remorseless logic, what
would have become of me if Harriet Buxton had not been beside me in my
delirium, with nothing but a clinical thermometer on her knee, and a
white apron around her waist. Do not, I beg you, for I shall shock all
your strict habits of mind by taking refuge in blind, illogical
instinct and reiterating my firm conviction that though I perish,
truth is so, and that Nature had a better use for Harriet's lap and
waist. She had! (as you used to say in the old emotional era) she
had!! _She had!!!_

Well, in despair of eliciting anything romantic from her, I languidly
inquired as to her travels. They were not extensive: this was her
first "trip abroad." It had been rather a failure, in a way, for
although she had been engaged with the understanding that her passage
was to be paid both ways, her patient on recovery had decided to spend
the summer abroad, and had made it very evident that she did not
consider herself any longer responsible for her nurse under these
circumstances!

"You should have taken legal advice," I expostulated, "the woman was
dishonest. It was shocking, Miss Buxton--surely you could have done
something?"

"Perhaps," she admitted, "but I had no friends here and it was hard
enough to get my salary, anyway. I could have gone with Mrs. Bradley
if I had been free. As it was, I sent them another American nurse I
knew of in London, who was glad to go back."

"Why didn't you send her to me and go yourself?" I questioned
curiously, "if you want to go so much?"

She looked at me in sincere surprise.

"Why, I had already accepted your case, Mr. Jerrolds," she said.

Alas, Harriet! Why, why were you not teaching your simple code of
honour to some sturdy, kilted Harry?

There seemed to be nothing more to be got from Miss Buxton, and we
began to discuss the best winter climate for me, for I understood
perfectly that for more years than the doctor cared to impress upon me
just now I must avoid damp and chill. We discussed Nassau, Bermuda,
Florida, and I mentioned North Carolina. Then Harriet Buxton opened
her lips and spoke, and in a few amazed moments it became clear to me
that I was in the presence of a fanatic.

For she had been in North Carolina, and this State that for me had
spelled only a remarkably curative air and a deplorably illiterate
population represented the hope of this woman's life, the ambition of
her days and nights, the Macedonia that cried continually in her ears,
"Come over and help us!"

For a year she had lived there in the western mountains, giving her
duty's worth of hours to a wealthy patient, bargaining for so much
free time to devote to that strange, pathetic race of pure-blooded
mountaineers, tall, serious, shy Anglo-Saxons, our veritable elder
brothers, ignorant appallingly, superstitious incredibly, grateful and
generous to a degree. As she talked, rapidly now, with flushing cheeks
and kindling eyes, she brought vividly before me these pale and
patient people, welcoming her with eager hands, hanging on her
wonderful skill, listening like chidden children to her horrified
insistence upon long-forgotten decencies and sanitary measures never
guessed. As my questions grew her confidence grew with them, and at
last she went quickly to her room to return with a thick, black book,
which she thrust into my hands.

"It's my diary," she explained. "If you are really interested you may
read it. Oh Mr. Jerrolds, to think of the money that goes to Africa
and India and slums full of Syrians and Russian Jews, when these
Americans--our real kin, you know!--are putting an axe under the bed,
with the blade up, to check a hæmorrhage! If they were Zulus," she
added, flashing, "some one might do something for them."

[Illustration: HER WEEKLY CHECK, PLUS A DRAFT FOR A HUNDRED POUNDS]

I could not keep myself from staring at her: with that flush, those
kindling brown eyes and that heaving bosom, my nurse was near to being
a handsome woman! And all because the natives of North Carolina had no
adequate hospital service. Can you imagine anything more
extraordinary? I opened the book curiously; not, of course, that I
cared tuppence for the natives, but that I had actually begun to feel
interested in Harriet Buxton.

I should never have thought of it again, probably, but for Harriet
herself, for now that the magic string had been touched, her heart
overflowed to its echoes, and my waking hours were filled with
anecdotes touching, brutal or humourous, of her years of joy and
labour. Her cottage rent had cost her forty dollars, her clothes
nothing, her food had come largely from the grateful people. Over and
over again she returned to her ridiculously pitiful calculations. She
could live for one hundred dollars a year. She could have the use of a
deserted schoolhouse, free. Two hundred dollars would fit up a tiny
hospital and lending-closet, with linen, rubber articles, simple
sick-room conveniences. If she had five hundred, she would start on
that and trust to getting help to go on with. She could stay there a
year, then nurse for a year, and go back with the money she had saved.

And so on, and so on, and so on! The floods of North Carolina needs
that swept over my helpless head would have drowned a stronger brain
than mine. In vain I tried to dam this tide of confidences and hopes
and ha'penny economies: it was useless. After a week, during which
actual photographs, hideous blue prints, the first advance guard of
that flood of amateur photography destined to wash over the world,
were brought out for my edification, I rebelled and declared myself
cured.

"And to get rid of you," I added crossly, "I am going to give you
this," and I handed her her weekly cheque, plus a draft for a hundred
pounds. "Take it, and get off to those benighted natives, for heaven's
sake!"

She stared at it, at me, at it again, then choked and fled to her
room. I felt like a fool.

Later, when I saw what it really meant to the absurd creature, I
surreptitiously copied bits of the sordid little diary, and sent them
to Roger with a slight account of her, and suggested that he mention
this matter to Sarah (who had recently washed her hands of the
American negro on the occasion of his having bitterly disappointed her
hopes in a brutal race riot) and give that philanthropist's energies a
new direction.

I saw Harriet off to her boat, tried in vain to get a half hour of
rational conversation on topics unrelated to the western mountains of
North Carolina, agreed hastily to all directions as to my health, held
Kitch up to be kissed, and went back to my sunny garden-corner, for it
was full May now, and my strength was growing with the flowers.

I thought that chapter ended, and was startled and not a little shaken
by the thick letter that found me planning my lonely summer early in
June. It was from Harriet, a curious, incoherent screed; tiresomely
detailed as to her plans, painfully brief as to important issues. She
had found a letter from Mr. Bradley awaiting her arrival, she had
followed his suggestions and interested Miss Sarah Bradley, his
cousin, in her schemes, with the result that the Episcopal
organisation had sent a deaconess for a year to work under Harriet's
direction and a contribution toward fitting out the little hospital.
She had gone to see Roger and thank him personally and found him on an
island, with Mrs. Bradley in sudden and acute need of both nurse and
physician, the former with a broken leg, the latter gone to New York
for the day, as his prospective patient was supposed to be in no
immediate need of him. She had hastily set the nurse's leg,
telegraphed for the doctor, then devoted herself to Mrs. Bradley, who,
though beautifully strong and well, developed sudden complications and
gave her quite a little trouble. Things were rather doubtful and hard
for five or six hours, but fortunately the doctor had left full
supplies for the occasion and the other nurse was able to give the
anæsthetic--she was dragged on a sofa by a deaf and dumb man, who ran
five miles to the village just before. It ended triumphantly at dawn
and Mrs. Bradley had a lovely little girl--the image of her father.
Both were doing well.

Mr. Bradley had overestimated her services, and as she could not dream
of accepting the fee he offered her, he had insisted upon paying a
salary for three years to a young physician (selected by the doctor,
who arrived at noon) who was to give his entire time and strength to
the mountain hospital and superintend the affair, now grown into a
real institution, since Mr. Elder had volunteered to supply a young
fellow from his club, anxious to act as orderly and assistant for the
sake of the training, and Mrs. Paynter, a friend of Mr. Bradley's, had
managed to get a full dispensary supply at cost prices from
connections of hers in the wholesale drug line.

"And it all comes from you, Mr. Jerrolds," the letter ended, "all
owing to your wonderful, your noble interest, in this work! You told
Mr. Bradley, and though he is not justified in thinking I saved her
life, it is perfectly true that those cases give us a great deal of
trouble sometimes, and I was very fortunate in having had a great deal
of maternity work in the mountains, when I had to act all alone and do
rather daring things. But I got the practice there, and so if I did
save your friend's life (or the baby's, which is nearer the truth, I
confess to you, Mr. Jerrolds!) you have amply rewarded the cause that
gave me the training to do what I did!

                                             "Your grateful

                                           "HARRIET BUXTON."

I sat under the glass-topped wall, the letter between my knees,
staring at the brick walk bordered with green turf. How strange it
was, how incredibly strange! A curious sense of watchful, relentless
destiny grew in me. Truly it slumbered not nor slept! I, who had
cursed that child unborn, had reached over seas and helped it into the
world! I, who had been jealous of my friend, had sent him a friend
indeed! I, who had grudged Margarita husband and child (for in my
black, cruel fever I did this) had given her back to both!

I pondered these things long (as if the thread in the tapestry should
marvel at its devious windings) and then summoned my landlady.

"Mrs. Drabbit," said I, "I am thinking of going to America."


PART SIX

IN WHICH YOU ARE SHOWN THE RIVER'S VERY
SOURCES, FAR UNDERGROUND


    And is it I that must sit and spin?
      And is it I that my hair must bind?
    I hear but the great seas rolling in,
      I see but the great gulls sail the wind.

    Who sang the grey monk out o' the cell?
      Who but my mother that rode the sea!
    She stole a son o' the church to hell,
      And out of hell shall the church steal me?

_Sir Hugh and the Mermaiden._


CHAPTER XX

A GARDEN GLIMPSE OF EDEN


It was mid-August, however, before I reached that part of America that
was destined to mean so much to me. A visit to Mrs. Upgrove, my
mother's old friend, extended itself beyond my plans, largely because
of the pleasant acquaintance I formed there with her son, then
Captain, now Major Upgrove, one of the most charming men I have ever
encountered. Next to Roger he has become my best friend, incidentally
disproving a theory of mine that warm friendships between men are not
likely to be formed after thirty. Even as I write this chapter I am
looking forward to his visit, and the slim Hawaiian girls are looking
forward, too, I promise you, with wonderful, special garlands, and
smiles that many a handsome young sailor may jingle his pockets in
vain to win!

What is it, that strange, lasting charm that wins every woman-thing of
every age and colour? His mother told me that he had it in the cradle,
that the nurses were jealous over him and the sweet-shop women put his
pennies back into his pockets! Yes, Lona, and yes, Maiti, the
silver-haired Major is coming surely, and you shall surely dance!
Never mind the wreaths for me, dear hypocrites--they were never woven
for bald heads!

It was warm, almost as warm as this languid, creamy beach, the day I
clambered, none too agile, over the thwarts of Caliban's boat and made
my way up the sandy path to the cottage.

"I'm afraid the fever took it out of you, Jerry," Roger said, looking
hard at me, and I nodded briefly and he gripped my hands a little
harder.

"I'm glad you're here," he said.

Through the dear old room we stepped and out the further door, and
here a surprise met me. The straggling grass stretch was now a
rolling, green-hedged lawn, quartered by homelike brick paths. Two
long ells had been added to the house, running at right angles
straight out from it at either end, making a charming court of the
door yard and doubling the size of the building; the fruit trees had
been pruned and tended; an old grape arbour raised and trained into a
quaint sort of _pergola_, a strange sight, then, in America; a
beautiful old sun-dial drowsed in a tangle of nasturtiums. A delicate,
dreamy humming led my eyes to a group of beehives (always dear to me
because of the _Miel du Chamounix_ and our happy, sweet-toothed
boyhood!) and near a border of poppies, marigold and hardy mignonette
a great hound lay, vigilant beside a large, shallow basket, shaded by
a gnarled wistaria clump. The basket was filled with something white,
and as we stood in the door, a woman dressed in trailing white, with
knots of rich blue here and there, came through a green gate in the
side hedge and moved with a rich, swooping step toward the basket.
Behind her through the open gate I saw a further lawn white with
drying linen, and a quick, pleasant glimpse of a brown, broad woman in
an old-world cap, paring fruit under an apple tree, a yellow cat
basking at her feet.

The white-clad figure leaned over the basket, her deep-brimmed garden
hat completely shading her face, lifted from it a struggling, tiny
doll-creature, with a reddish-gold aureole above its rosy face,
dandled it a moment in her arms, then sank like a settling gull into
the hollow of a low seat-shaped boulder near the wistaria, fumbled a
moment at the bosom of her lacy gown, and while I held my breath,
before I could turn my eyes, gave it her breast. It pressed its
wandering, blind hands into that miraculous, ivory globe (that
pattern of the living world) and through the dense, warm stillness of
that garden spot, where the bees' hum was the very music of silence,
there sounded, so gradually that I could not tell when the first notes
stirred the soundlessness, a curious cooing and gurgling, a sort of
fluty chuckle, a rippling, greedy symphony. It was not one voice, for
below the cheeping treble of the suckling mite ran a lowing undertone,
a murmurous, organ-like music, a sort of maternal fugue, that imitated
and dictated at once that formless, elemental melody. Even as we stood
riveted to the threshold, the sounds echoed in the air above us,
seemed to descend mystically from the very heavens themselves, and as
my heart swelled in me, a flock of pigeons swept down from some
barnyard eyrie and dropped musically, in a cloud of grey and amethyst,
beneath the pear tree. They crooned together there, the woman, the
child and the birds, and truly it was not altogether human, that
harmony, but like the notes of the pure and healthy animals (or the
angels, may be?) that guard this living world from the fate of the
frozen and exhausted moon.

"I--I can't get used to it," said Roger abruptly, "it--it seems too
much, somehow," and we turned back into the room.

"It's not a bit too much for you, Roger!" I answered heartily (thank
God, how heartily!) and we drew deep breaths and welcomed Miss Jencks,
in irreproachable white duck--I had almost written white ducks--and
talked about my momentous health.

Miss Jencks had abandoned her seaman's comforters for a cooler form of
handiwork, suspiciously tiny in shape, but she pursued it relentlessly
while we discussed the changes in the cottage; the gardens, the corn
and asparagus planned for another season; the ducks quartered near the
fresh-water brook; the tiny dairy built for her over the spring; the
brick-wall for Roger's pet wall fruit; the piano dragged by oxen from
the village; the sail-boat, manned now and then by our enthusiastic
telegrapher: the wondrous size and health of the tiny Mary.

She was called, as one who knew Roger might have expected, for his
mother, after the old tradition, too, that gave every eldest daughter
of the Bradleys that lovely name. No bitter obstinacy, no unyielding
pride of Madam Bradley's could alter in his calm mind the course of
his duty, and I never heard a harsh word from him concerning the
matter. Margarita cared absolutely nothing about it and never, he told
me, expressed the faintest curiosity as to his family or their
relations with her.

Soon she was with us, dear and beautiful, with only a tiny lavender
shadow under those cloudy eyes--misty just now and a little empty,
with that placid emptiness of the nursing mother--to mark the change
that my not-to-be-deceived scrutiny soon discovered. We left the
sleepy Mary slowly patrolling the brick walks in a pompous
perambulator propelled by a motherly English nurse under Miss Jencks's
watchful eye, and strolled, in our customary hand-in-hand, to the
boat-house, a low, artfully concealed structure, all but hidden under
a jagged cliff, and faced wherever necessary with rough cobbled
sea-stones sunk in wet cement and hardened there. The right wing of
the cottage stood out unavoidably at one point against the skyline,
and Roger, who had developed a surprising gift of architecture and a
sort of rough landscape gardening, was planning an extension of the
artificial sea-wall to cover this.

He worked at this himself, drenched with sweat, tugging at the stones,
while Caliban and a mason from the village set them and threw sand
over the wet plaster (the method which we decided must have been
adopted by the builder of the cottage), and I, too weak yet to help in
this giant's play, criticised the effect from a rowboat outside the
lagoon, telegraphing messages by means of a handkerchief code. Often
Margarita would come with me, embroidering placidly in the bow of the
boat, under her wide hat. She detested sewing, and refused utterly to
learn any form of it, to Miss Jencks's sorrow, but had invented a
charming fashion of embroidery for herself and worked fitfully at tiny
white butterflies in the corner of my cambric handkerchiefs--the one
and only form this art of hers ever took. It became a sort of emblem
and insignia of her, and Whistler, who began coming to them, I think,
the year after that, or the next, made much of this fanciful bond
between them. It was she who worked the black butterfly upon the lapel
of his evening coat which created such a sensation in Paris one
season.

Once while shooting in the Rockies with Upgrove, six or eight years
ago, I pulled out an old buckskin tobacco pouch, turned it hopefully
inside out in the search for a stray thimbleful, and discovered in a
corner of the lining a faded yellow silk butterfly, all unknown to me
till then! She must have worked it surreptitiously, like a
mischievous, affectionate child; and as I held it in my hands, and
stared at the graceful absurd thing, the lonely camp faded before me;
the sizzling bacon, the rough shelter, the whistling guide, slipped
back into some inconsequential past, and I lay again on the sun-warmed
rocks, watching a yellow-headed toddler prying damp pebbles from the
beach, to pile them later in her tolerant lap. Oh, Margarita! Oh, the
happy days!


CHAPTER XXI

HESTER PRYNNE'S SECRET


I remember so well the morning of the great discovery. It was one of
those damp, rainy, grey days when happy people can afford to realise
contentment indoors, and we were a very comfortable group indeed:
Margarita sorting music, Roger drawing plans for a new chimney, Miss
Jencks shaking a coral rattle for the delectation of the tiny Mary,
who lay in her shallow basket under the lee of the great
spinning-wheel, and I hugging the fire and watching them. I considered
Roger's reforms in the matter of chimneys too thorough-going for the
slender frame of the house and told him so.

"You'll batter the thing to pieces," I said, "see here!" and lifting
my stick, which I had been poking at the baby after the irrelevant
fashion of old bachelor friends, I hit out aimlessly at the side of
the fireplace and struck one of the bricks a smart blow on one end. It
turned slightly and slipped out of its place, and as I shouted
triumphantly and pulled it away, I displaced its neighbour, too, and
poked scornfully at a third. This, however, was firm as a rock, as
well as all the others near it, and with a little excited suspicion of
something to come I put my hand into the small, square chamber and
grasped a dusty, oblong box, of tin, from the feel of it.

"Roger!" I gasped, "look here!"

"Well, well," he answered vaguely, "don't pull the place down on us,
Jerry, that's all!"

"But Mr. Jerrolds appears to have discovered a secret hiding-place,"
Miss Jencks explained succinctly, and then they both stared at me
while I drew out from a good arm's reach a tin dispatch box, thick
with dust, a foot long and half as wide. I wiped the dust from its
surface, and on the cover we read (for Roger and Miss Jencks were at
my elbow now, I assure you!) written neatly with some sharp instrument
on the black japanned surface, the name _Lockwood Lee Prynne_. With
shaking fingers I lifted the lid, which opened readily, then
recollecting myself, passed the box to Roger. He glanced curiously at
Margarita, but she was absorbed in her music and as lost to us as a
contented child. He held the box on his knees, pushed back the lid
completely and lifted the top paper of all from the pile. It was badly
burned at the edges, as were the packets of letters, the columns
clipped from yellowed newspapers, the legal-looking paper with its
faded seal and the rough drawings on stained water-colour paper that
lay beneath it. It required no highly developed imagination to infer
that the contents of the box had been laid on the fire, to be snatched
away later.

Miss Jencks and I were frankly on tiptoe with excitement, but old
Roger's hand was steady as a rock as he unfolded the stiff yellow
parchment and spread before us the marriage certificate of Lockwood
Lee Prynne and Maria Teresa--alas, the shape of a fatally hot coal had
burned through the rest of the name! We skipped eagerly to the next
place of handwriting, the officiating clergyman and the parish--for
the form was English--but disappointment waited for us there, too, for
the same coal had gone through two thicknesses of the folded paper,
and only the date, Jan. 26, 186-, broke the expanse of print. The
initials of one witness "H.L." and the Christian name "Bertha," of
another, had escaped the coal on the third fold, and that was all.

Roger drew a long breath.

"So it's Prynne, after all," he said quietly, and unfolded the next
paper.

This was a few lines of writing in a careful, not-too-well-formed
hand, on a leaf torn from an old account-book, to judge from the
rulings.

"Sept. 24, 186-. The child was born at four this morning," it said
abruptly. "It may not live and she can't possibly. The Italian woman
baptised it out of a silver bowl. It is a dreadful thing, for now if
it does live it will be Romish, I suppose, but he said to let her have
her way, so it had to be. He is nearly crazy. He will kill himself, I
think. He knows she must die. It is named after her mother and an
outlandish lot of other names for different people. As soon as she is
dead the Italian woman is going back to Italy. I shall never leave
him."

The leaf was folded here and several lines badly burned. At the bottom
of the leaf I could just make out one more line.

"I cannot be sorry she is dying if I burn in hell for it. Hester
Prynne."

Roger and I stared at each other, the same thought in our minds. I had
imagined many things about the mysterious Hester, but never that she
bore that name, as a matter of simple fact. The connection with
Caliban had been too much for my overtrained imagination, and heaven
knows what baseless theories I had woven around what was at best (or
worst) a mere coincidence. For me the scarlet letter had flamed upon
what I now know to have been a blameless breast, and in my excited
fancy a stormy nature had suffered picturesque remorse where, as a
matter of fact, only a deep and patient devotion had endured its
unrecorded martyrdom of love unguessed and unreturned. So much for
Literature!

Next came two folded half-columns from a newspaper, one containing
only that dreadful list of the dead that our mothers read,
white-cheeked and dry-eyed, in the war time. Opposite the names of
Col. J. Breckenridge Lee and Lieut. J. Breckenridge Lee, Jr., were
hasty, blotted crosses. The other half-column, cut from another and
better printed sheet, recorded with a terrible, terse clearness the
shocking deaths of the aged Col. J.B. Lee and his son Lieut. J.B. Lee,
Jr., of the Confederate Army, at the hand of his son-in-law, Capt.
Lockwood Prynne, who was defending an encampment of the Northern
forces from a skirmishing party led by the rebel officers. Captain
Prynne recognised what he had done as the young lieutenant caught his
father in his arms and turned to stagger back, and rushing forward had
endeavoured to drag them to safety, receiving a shot himself that
shattered his arm, wounding him severely. His recovery was doubtful.

Under our sympathetic eyes the old tragedy lived again, the crisp,
cruel lines seemed printed in blood. It needed only the letter that
lay beneath to make everything clear.

"Dear Bob," the letter began in the unmistakable neat hand we had read
on the top of the box, "I cannot leave you without this word. I cannot
explain--my brain is on fire, I think--but try to judge with lenience.
Blood-poisoning set in, and my father died in hospital last week. On
his dying bed I swore to him that I would never raise my hand against
his country. I can't repeat all he said, but he's right, Bob, the
South is wrong! Secession is wrong. I brought the body home, but
mother could not come to the funeral. She is not at all violent, but
she will never be the same again--she didn't know me, Bob. I can't
describe how pitiful she is. Uncle James was her twin brother, you
know, and they were everything to each other. When we heard of Fort
Sumter she was nearly wild, and I promised her with my hand on her
Bible never to fight the South. I meant it then--my friends, my home
and you all. But I would have got her to release me if I could. But
she couldn't release me now, and I would die before I broke that
promise, the way she is now. I can't stay here. I couldn't look
anybody in the face. I wish I could be shot. I may be, yet. I am going
to Italy to see about those silk-worms for the plantation, that
father was interested in. The war can't last much longer and it will
be something to do. Mother is well looked after and I can't stay in
this country--it's not decent. Can you write to me, Bob? I don't ask
much--just write a line. What could I do? Write, for God's sake.

                                       "LOCKWOOD LEE PRYNNE."

Below this signature, in a different hand, was scrawled:

"I return this letter. I have nothing to say.

                                   "R. S. L."

Alas, alas, the pity of it! The grey moss and the blue forget-me-nots
grow together now over many a nameless grave, and Northern youth and
Southern maid pull daisy petals beside the sunken cannon ball; but the
ancient scar ploughed deep, and old records like this have heat enough
in them yet to sear the nerves of us who trembled, maybe, in the womb,
when those black lists of the wounded trembled in our mother's hands.

What a hideous thing it is! Can any bugle's screaming cover those
anguished cries, or any scarlet stripes soak up the spreading blood?
Bullets are merciful, my brothers, beside the cruel holes they pierce
in hearts they never touched.

Roger laid the papers and letter reverently to one side, and I, who
had been reading over his shoulder, brushed impatiently at my eyes. (I
was not entirely a well man yet, remember!) Below the newspaper lay a
signed deed, formally conveying a parcel of twenty acres of land,
carefully measured and described, to Lockwood Lee Prynne, his heirs
and assigns, and all the rest of the legal jargon. This was hardly
burned at all.

Of the two slim packets of letters one was badly charred: parts of it
fell away in Roger's hands, as he carefully opened it. I cannot
transcribe them literally, or even to any great length, for they are
too sad, and no good end would be served by commemorating to what
extent that fierce furnace of the Civil War burned away the natural
ties of kindred and neighbour and home. Enough that the few remaining
members spared out of what must have been a small family cut
Margarita's father definitely off from them, in terms no man could
have tried with any self-respect to modify. His father, a Northerner,
who had identified himself since his Southern marriage with his wife's
interests and kinsfolk, had lost touch with his own people, and a few
death notices, slipped in among the letters, seemed to point to an
almost complete loneliness, which Roger afterward verified. The other
packet held two letters only, one in Italian (which language I
learned, after a fashion, in order to read it) the other in French.
The Italian letter was not only scorched badly, but so blistered--one
did not need to ask how--that parts were quite illegible. The writer,
a man, evidently, a young man, probably, conveyed in satire so keen, a
contempt so bitter, a hatred so remorseless, that it was difficult to
believe it a letter from a brother to his sister. Beneath the
polished, scornful sentences--vitriol to a tender young heart--surged
a tempest of primitive rage that thrust one back into the Renaissance,
with its daggers and its smiles. "_Let me tell you, then, once and for
all_," ran one sentence, breaking out fiercely, "_that there is but
one country on earth which can shelter you and that villain--his own!
There I scorn to put my foot or allow the foot of any member of your
family, but let him or his victim leave it--and so long as I live my
vengeance shall search you out and wipe out this insult to my house,
my country and my church!_" The opening page was missing and the last
one was badly burned, so we had absolutely no clue as to the family
name.

Roger and I puzzled out enough of it to gather vaguely what the
situation must have been, and when we read the second letter it was
all clear. This second letter was burned and blistered, too, but its
simple, naïve repetitions, its tender terror, its brave, affectionate
persistence, left little, even in their fragmentary condition, for us
to guess. I will give only a page here and there.

"_I have tried for four months not to write, but what you told me last
has proved too strong for me and I must.... Oh, my dear one, my more
than sister in this world, how could you have been permitted this
deadly sin? It may be I shall be damned for even this one letter--my
only one, for you must not write again. Sister Lisabetta suspects me
already, and asked me last week why I should talk with the baker's
daughter so secretly? Everything was not party to the Inca fails to reach
where natural for many posts you were looking strong, where he
showed his embarrassments, afeándole his coming, and started the
war and some others, and many of the barbarians gathered, the more
naked without clothes to bring, to what is stated, that the Inca
were determined to withdraw, and he did not win anything on that
land.

And it felt natural, given such hurry, that long passage, sometimes
making faces, sometimes sending present, descabulló Dell and fleeing
again to his kingdom, saying that was to avenge the rabudos; which
said because some Traian maures the [200] that long hung over the
legs.

On this land, where he had reformed, it also states that master sent to
people that was enough, to seeing the coast of the Sea which there
were the North and seek to attract the natural service of Guayaquil
and Puerto Viejo, and they walked by those counties in which war and
had some battles, and in some cases there were winners and others not
entirely, and walked up to ansi Collique where met with people who
went naked and ate human flesh and had customs that have today and
use the river comarcanos Sant Juan, where they gave back, not wanting
to move forward, to give notice to their king, who with all his
people had come to the Kannada; Where Holga in Estremo, because
they say birth [201] there, and you have made large chambers and
drums, and much injunction, and sent embassies to you come to see
the counties and in many places it came with ambassadors present.

I understand that, certainly some people who tried to rampage in the
region of Cuzco, it felt so much that, after having removed the head
to main expressly ordered that the Indians of those places you
brought the stones from Cuzco noted the amount to do in some rooms
Tomebamba very primordial, and that the trujiesen tricks, and kept
his commandment.

And it said many times Guayna capacity, the people of these kingdoms,
for good tenella subjugated, Conventions, if they did not understand
that or do that, make a mountain move from one place to another and
still keep Cuzco sent rocks and slabs for buildings of Quito, which
today are in buildings that were. Tomebamba Of Capac Guayna left and
went through the Puru, and rested a few days in Riobamba, and
Mocha Tacunga and rested in its people well and had to drink a lot
of potion which for them was accompanied and taken everywhere.

Visited here and was greeted by many lords and masters of the region and
sent Orejón was to his lineage [202] to be by the coast of the plains
and the mountains to take account of quiposcamayos, their accountants,
than it had in the tanks, and to know how it was with the natural
quel had made by governors, and if they were well provided and the
temples of the sun and the oracles that had Guaca everywhere, and
sent to Cuzco messenger to order the things that sent left and
fulfill your every desire.

And there was that day came not post, no one or a few but many, of
Cuzco, the Collao, Chile and all of his kingdom. Tacunga De La walked
until close to Quito, where he was received in their own way
and style, with great festivities, and gave his father the governor
of the treasures, which were many, with fine clothes and things that
were in charge, and honróle words, their loyalty Loanda, calling
him father and he always deemed according to how much his father
and he had served.

The people sent to Quito comarcanos many bastimentos present and for the
king, and commanded in Quito are made stronger and more rooms of
those who had, and then púsose work, and the facts that were found
when our land that they won .

_CAP. LXV .-- How Guayna Capac walked through the valleys of Los
Llanos, and what some of hizo._ Orejón say that Guayna Capac returned
from Quito to Cuzco to Pachacama Los Llanos, and others not, as was
in Quito until he died. In this, inquerido what is true, according
to the porn as I heard there were some key people in their with him in
this war, they say, that coming in Quito, it came from many parts
ambassadors welcomed with him on behalf of their lands, that have,
and having taken [the] very safe and peaceful [so] the provinces
of the mountains, he thought that day would do well in the provinces
of Puerto Viejo and Guayaquil to what we call, And the Yuncos and
taking their advice to their masters and leading, approved his
thinking and suggest you put in work.

In Quito were many of its people, who agreed with the left, and came to
those lands, where some residents Dellas had some skirmishes, but
in the end, both were in their service and made them rulers and
mitimaes .

The war with Highland reece had Túmbez, and Inca had ordered to cease
fighting and to receive in the Puna, which Tumbala felt much because
it was Mr Dell, but not dared to make against the Inca, before it
recebió and was present with false peace, because, as we came out,
seek to natives of the land, many tried to kill their captains
Orejón with iban rafts to go out on a river to take the land, but
knew Guayna Capac about it and did what I have escripto in Part One
of Chapter LIII, and made great punishment, and sending to the road,
or strong step that called Guayna capacity [203], and again stopped
at Túmbez, where Buildings made of sun and temple, and came from
the region to do him reverence with much humility.

It was through the valleys of Los Llanos bringing reason, to share words
and water, not sending diesen war, and doing what elsewhere has escripto.
They say of, that going down the beautiful valley Chayanta near
Chimo, where it is now the city of Trujillo, was an Indian man in a
seed, and as he heard the king went there about, which took three
or four cucumbers with their land and took them all, and said: - _Ancha
Atunapu micucampa_, which means, "Very great Lord, you eat it." - And
in front of the ladies and more people took the cucumbers, and eating
one of them, said before all, to please the old man: _Xuylluy,
wide mizqui cay_, which in our language means: "Verily this is very
sweet."

That all receive great pleasure. So going forward, and did Chimo
Guañape, Guarmey, Guaura, Lima and in most valleys, quel what was
served to do, and how to reach Pachacama, made many big parties and
dances and drunkenness and priests, with their lies, told the evil
deeds they used to, invented with his cunning, and even some by the
same devil's mouth, at that time spoke to the audience is such, and
gave them Guayna Capac, which read more arrobas a hundred million
of gold and silver and emeralds and other gems, which are adorned
with more than it was the temple of the sun and the ancient Pachacama.

From here, say some of those Indians who went to Cuzco, others returned
to Quito. Anyway, time is highlighted, or which has been first,
which is not enough, he visited all the plains, and he was the grand
way that they see it done, and anxiety, we know that in Chincha and
other parts of these valleys He deposits and large chambers and temple
of the sun. And since everything in view, the Los Llanos and in the
mountains, and taking all the peaceful realm, turned on the Quito
and moved the war to parents who now call Huambracunas [204] and
discovered that part of south to the River Augasmayu.

_CAP. LXVI .-- How Guayna Capac out of Quito, sent forward some of
his captains, who again fled the enemy, and what about it I was
in Quito hizo._ Capac Guayna with all the old captains and soldiers who
were with him have found, however, who ordered that leave people with
their masters of war to subdue nations that had not ever wanted
to have his friendship, which, as we know his stay in Quito, dello
misgivings, had been searched and apercebido favors for their
neighbors and relatives to resist those who came to find them, and
had made Albarradas is strong and many of the weapons they use, and
as left, after Guayna capacity was to stir them to another land
that confined her, that all should be the so-called region of Quito,
and as their masters and went where people were on track, having
little of that going to look, thinking that would ease with gentlemen
of their fields and farms, were hurriedly walk; more, otherwise
they agreed luck than I thought because the way they came out with
a great voice and yell in droves and gave them such a hard, killing
many and captured them, and treated them well, which disrupted the
whole point of constriñeron them back again, and rage were all
fleeing back and winning the enemies behind them, lighting, and
killing all they could.

Some of the more loose walked so much in grand, until faced with
the Inca, who only realized the tragedy occurred, which is no little
fatigue, and watching quietly, he made a great man, who was mandar
á which had been silent and that any people had what they already
knew him, before returning to the road and warnings to all who came
disrupted, which would make the first hill topasen, when he saw a
squad without fear of dying were fortunate that falls, for him,
people drink, daria on enemies and vengaría; and I turned.

                                      And showed no embarrassment, believing that if the place was sabian
quel new, all juntarian and would be in it, and would be more
trouble, and told them to disguise gear, I wanted to go for some
people who would see when she arrived.

And going forward, leaving the left and walked all day and a half, and
came to escape, which were many, [and] saw people coming, it was
theirs, to misunderstand the degree of stopped on a hillside and
enemies that came along, they began to hit them, killing many, but
Guayna capacity by three parties gave them, not being troubled
little fencing, and already they were defeated, but is sought to
join and fight, given that hand, that the fields are hinchian of
the dead, and wanting to flee, they had taken the step, and killed
so many, that few escaped alive, but were the captives, who were
many, and where everything came upset, believing that the Inca had
to kill it and disrupt it by those who were killed and prisoners.

And as it became known to them, settled flat foot, showing all great
pleasure. Guayna Capac yours that were recovered alive and those who
were killed and sent to sepolturas honors, according to their kind,
because they all know that is in the souls immortality, and also made,
where this battle was held, lumps of rock and roll memory of what had
been done and Guayna Capac sent this warning to Cuzco, and was reformed
its people, and was ahead of Caranque. And of Otavalo, Cayanbi,
Cochasqui, Pifo [205], with other peoples, had linked together and
with others, not to be subdue the Inca, but rather die than lose its
freedom and their lands are made houses strong, neither they be forced
to pay taxes to go with their present Cuzco, as far as land had heard.
And they talked between this and had their considerations await
the Inca, who knew that war was coming to give them, which went
with them to the county dest, where he made his fences Albarrán and
strong, they call pucaraes where he put his people and service.

Sent messengers to those people with big present, a request that
does not give you war, but because he did not want peace with honest
conditions, and that it always find favor, as his father, who did
not want tomalles anything, but what Dallas Trai.

But these words so soft little advantage, because the answer they
gave was that after leaving his homeland, where, which he poured
della force, and so, in squads came to the Inca, very angry, had
its people campaign and gave the enemies in it in such a way that
affirms, but outside the fortress guarescer to be made, and will
take all the breaking point, but, knowing the damage that recebia,
retired as best it could to Pucara, where everyone is stuck in the
field who were not dead, or, in the hands of the enemy prisoners.

_CAP. LXVII .-- How, by combining the power of Guayna Capac, gave
battle to the enemy and won the grand and cruelty ellos._ as those
used with people as they saw enough to lock the Inca at its strength,
and many had died at the Orejón of Cuzco, very happy, very big noise
to their own voices, thus they are not heard, and brought Atabal, sang
and drank sent messengers throughout the land, which had published the
Inca surrounded with all his family, and many believed it and were
glad favorescer and even came to his friends. Guayna in its
capacity had bastimentos strong, and had sent to call the governors
of Quito with some of the people in charge had and was very healthy,
because the enemies did not want to lay down their arms, to
which many attempted, with embassies and gifts sent to
them and present, to attract them, but was in vain to think such a
thing. The Inca join his army, and done the same enemies, who
agreed to make certain the Inca and disrupt or die on the case in
the field, and so they work for, and broke two of the fortress walls,
which not to have others around iban a hill, no doubt for them is
victory, but, as his style is to make a fence with two gates,
and so high, and thus in a closed seven or eight forces, so if loses
one, get on the other, the Inca with his people guaresció in the
strongest of the hill where, after a few days, came out and gave
the enemy with great courage. And they say, that people send their
captains and I made the war, which was cruel, and the victory was
doubtful, but, at the end of the Cuzco this morning came, they
killed, large numbers of enemies and those who stayed were fleeing.

And so angry was the king tyrant dello that anger, because they
are a weapon, because they wanted to defend their land without
acknowledging subjecion, sent them all to find all the most that
could be occurring, and with great diligence and searched the All
garments, which were few dello descabullir, and next to a pond,
there was, in her presence, ordered slaughtered and sent into the
inside, and so was the blood of those who killed, who lost his water
color and not [be] via anything other than thick blood.

Having made this great wickedness and cruelty, he Guayna Capac
appear before it to the children of the dead, and mirándoles, said:
_Campa mana, pucula tucuy huambracuna_ [206]. That means: "You do
me no war because all you guys now." And since they were named today
to these people the _Guambracunas_ [207], and they were very brave,
and the gap was left by that name today, which is _Yaguarcocha_,
meaning "lake of blood."

And of these people were _Guambracunas_ mitimaes and governors in most
parts. And after having been refurbished field, the Inca step towards
the South, with a great reputation by the victory last and walked
to the river discovered Angasmayo of which were the limits of his
empire.

And those people knew how many people there ahead, and we all went
naked without shame, and we all ate human flesh, all in general and
to some forces in the area of pastures, and sent to the principal
that you are taxed and told him they did not have to give, and the
writing, sent to every home on earth is bound to give him tribute,
many moons each, a big tube of lice.

At first, riéronse warrant, but then hose had many, many could not
enchir canutos. Bred with cattle to the Inca ordered them to leave,
and taxes which are increasing, and food and roots that are in their
lands. And for some reasons that this had Guayna Capac returned to
Quito, and commanded that the temple was Caranqui sun and people
mitimaes garrison captain general and its governor, frontier for
those lands and to save dell.

_CAP. LXVIII .-- How the King Guayna Capac returned to Quito, and the
Spaniards knew how to walk along the coast, and its muerte._ The
same years he was thirteen chripstianos Francisco Pizarro on the
coast [208] dello and had gone to Quito Guayna warning capabilities,
which included bringing the suit, and how the ship, and how was
barbados and white and spoke little and were not as friendly as
they drink, and other things they could know.

And Cudicio to see such people, they say they ordered him to
briefly trujiesen one of two that have been said of those men, because
the others were already back with his master to the Gorgona, where
they had left some Spaniards with the Indians and India had and in
its place will [209]. They say some of these Indians, who after gone
to these two, who were killed, that much anger Guayna Capac recebió.
Others who have dreamed that brought them, and knew his death on the
road [210], were killed.

Without it, others say they were killed.

What we have is true, that the Indians killed graphical Soon they were
on their land [211]. Therefore, Capac Guayna in Quito with big
companies from people who were, and the other lords of his land,
being so powerful, then sent from the River Maule Angasmayo to
that mill, and there are more than two hundred leagues, and being
so grown up in wealth, claiming that Quito had done to bring more
than five hundred loads of gold and silver over the mill, and many
precious stones and fine clothes, and all feared him because he
dared not desmandar, when then to justice, which have a great wine
as contagious pestilence of smallpox, which killed over two hundred
million souls in all counties, because it was general, and giving
him the wrong, not everything said was partly to escape death,
because the dello great God was not served.

And as he was touched by the disease, he will make great sacrifices for
his health in all the earth and all Guaca and temples of the sun, but
yéndole injury, called his relatives and captains, and told them some
things, among which told them, as some dello say that he knew people
who had seen the ship, again with great power and gain land. This could
be fabulous, and if they said, was that by the mouth of the devil,
as one who knew that the Spaniards were going to try again to
gentlemen.

Tell others of these same, knowing that the vast lands they had in
Quillacingas [212] and Popayaneses and was sending a lot, and said
that from Quito to those parts of it were Atahuallpa, his son, whom
she loved, because had walked with him into war, and that other
ladies and that he governed Guascar, sole heir of the empire.

Other Indians say they do not split the kingdom, before saying that
he told those present, who knew well how it was comfortable it was
the Lord, after his days, his son Guascar, Chincha and [213] Ocllo,
her sister, with whom all of Cuzco happy and as if he had other
sons of noble values, which were Nanque Yupanqui, Tupac Inca,
Guanacaste Auqui, Gualpa Tupac, Titu [214], Guaman Gualpa, Manco
Inca, Guascar, Cusi Hualpa [215], Paullu Tupac [216] Yupanqui,
Conon, Atahuallpa wanted no Dalles nothing much left, but everything
comes from, as he inherited from his father, and he would keep his
word a lot, and that would fulfill what his heart wanted, but boy
was, and asked what they loved and mirasen was as fair and perfect
age to take up and rule was their ayo Colla Tupac [217], his uncle.

And like the hobo died. And then he was killed Guayna Capac, were so
great the weeping, screaming that it was giving in the clouds, and
birds falling into the very high stunned to the ground.

And for all the new part is released, and there was no party that
does not make sense remarkable. In Quito it cried, as they say, ten
days harness and graphical took him there to Kannada, where he wept a
full moon and were accompanied by many lords main body to Cuzco,
leaving the paths of men and women weeping and howling by.

In Cuzco became more weeping, and sacrifices were made in the
temples, and dressing bury him according to his custom, believing
that his soul was in heaven.

Killed to put him in his sepoltura and other, more than four million
souls, women and other servants and pages, treasures, precious
stones and fine clothes.

Believing that the large sum that would pornian with him. They do not
say where or how it is buried, but that match your sepoltura was in
Cuzco.
Is it likely God did not know I would bring him?
Of course not."

"Perhaps they know, but must go, nevertheless," I ventured, and we
were silent and thoughtful. Did they? Did they fly, helpless, to their
death, bound by some fatal certainty? Was Alif right, and is it
written for us all?

"That young Roman was very generous," Rafaello resumed after a while.
"A few more like him, and she will think twice before she refuses
again. How I bear it, I can't tell. Pettish she is, certainly, but oh,
_signore_, lovely, lovely, like _un angiolin'_! It was from a
nobleman--a foreigner, anyway, I suppose it is all one--that old
'Cina got her money, Lippo thinks. He hunted, too, Lippo says, and
'Cina's brother waited on him--he came from these parts. He took her
brother north with him afterward, and well he did, too, for not many
good Catholics would help him in what he did, and that brother was
wicked enough, I suppose. She has little enough religion herself, the
old woman--they say her money is for making peace with the church. For
when it comes to the last rattle in the throat, _excellenz'_, the
boldest is glad of a little help," said Rafaello knowingly.

Night was on us now, and I, well knowing that the air was poisonous
for me, could not bring myself to order the boat home. There, while
Perseus burned above us and off toward Rome Orion hung steady as a
lamp in a shrine, I lost myself in strange, deep thinking, and the
marshes were the desert for me and Alif and Rafaello were the same,
and I--who was I? What was I?

"The _signore_ sleeps?" the man inquired timidly. "I think it is not
good to sleep here. Shall we go back?"

"I'm not sleeping, Rafaello, but I suppose we'd better turn. I heard
all you said. And what had this wicked foreigner done?"

"He stole a nun out of a holy convent, _excellenz'_," said Rafaello in
a low voice.

I felt my heart jump.

"Near here?" I asked, as carelessly as I could.

"Oh, no, far away--I do not know. Nobody knows. It was only 'Cina and
his sister came from here. Mother of God, does the _signore_ think any
woman born hereabouts would have blood enough for that? Look you,
_signore_, she climbed down a tree and went with him in the night! A
professed nun! Oh, no doubt she is burning now, that one! For no woman
need take the veil, that is plain, but once taken, one is as good as
married to God himself, and then to take a man after! Oh, no. She is
certainly burning," concluded Rafaello with simple conviction.

"But I thought you said she was alive and made baskets," I said,
persistently stupid.

"No, no, the _signore_ misunderstands. That is 'Cina, who went with
her when they sailed away, being sent for by her brother. The wicked
one died, of course, and 'Cina came back with all the money. She
nearly died, herself, on the great ship. She ate nothing--not a bite
nor a scrap--for four days, she was so sick."

"He was an Englishman, I suppose?"

"No. From the _signore's_ country. Not, of course, that they are all
like that," Rafaello added politely, "but the truth must be told, he
was."

Now it was that my studies in Italian temperament came to my
assistance quite as strongly as my knowledge of the rough fisher
_patois_. The Italian must not be questioned nor know that anything of
interest or importance hangs on his answer. Even as the Oriental he
must be handled guilefully, and it was with a guileful yawn that I
dismissed the subject.

"It takes an Italian to believe that wild story, Rafaello," I said.
"I'm afraid your old 'Cina was teasing Lippo. It all sounds fishy to
me. Are we nearly in? I feel cold."

"Indeed no, _signore_, it is the truth. (We shall be in in eight
minutes by the _signore's_ watch.) 'Cina will never again speak to an
Englishman or--or one from the _signore's_ country. It is a vow. She
would die first. Lippo got a chance for her to stand at her spinning
for a crazy Englishman to paint in a picture--good money for it,
too!--and she spat in his face. Perhaps the _signore_ will believe
that?"

Again I yawned.

"Those stories mean nothing," I said, quivering with impatience. "They
are but as old legends without names--and dates and places. Old women
like 'Cina never can give those names and dates and places. They do
not know if it was ten or twenty or fifty years ago, nor if the man
were Austrian or English, or the woman Italian or French or Spanish.
Pin them down, and they begin to make excuses. But I don't know why we
discuss it--it is not very interesting, even if it is true.
Nevertheless, and because you seem offended, Rafaello, and I merely
want to show you that I am right, I will cheerfully give a good
English sovereign to you or Lippo or the old woman herself, if she can
so much as tell you the name of this famous nun and the name of her
seducer. You will find she cannot, and then, since I am willing to
wager something, you must take me for a fishing-trip free a whole day,
in the _felucca_. Is it a bargain?"

His teeth gleamed as he swore it was a bargain and I watched him
bustle off from the quay with an excitement I had not felt since my
recovery. What would he discover--for that he would discover something
I did not doubt. What was Margarita's mother? Some fisher girl, whose
father had won an English lady's-maid with his flashing smile? Some
little shopkeeper's daughter? Child, perhaps, of some sprig of
nobility, caught by a pair of cool, grey English eyes? I did not know,
but I felt certain that the old 'Cina did.

I cannot linger too long over this part of my story, drawn out already
far beyond my idle scheme, and enough is said when I tell you that the
name brought me by the childishly triumphant Rafaello opened my eyes
and pursed my lips into an amazed whistle.

Our little Margarita! Here was something to startle even steady old
Roger. Only a few names in Italy are worthy to stand beside the
splendid if impoverished House forced by pride to place its unwedded
(because undowered) daughter in the convent that needs no _dot_.
Obscure in financial realms alone, it required little search to put my
finger on the epitaph of that brother of the cruel letter (a Cardinal
before his death), on the father's pictured cruel face--he scorned to
eat with the mushroom Romanoffs!--on the carved door-posts where
Emperors had entered in the great Italian days, even on the gorgeous
sculptured mantel-piece sold by Margarita's grandfather, an impetuous
younger brother at the time of his mad marriage with an English
beauty, whirled from the stage, whose brightest ornament contemporary
record believed she was destined to become, had he not literally
carried her, panting, from the scene of her first triumph.

[Illustration: THE GLOOMY, FADED GLORIES OF THE MUSTY PALACE]

Some idea of the relentless iron hands that tamed that brilliant,
baffled creature--and hers was the only strain in Margarita that
genius need be called on to vindicate!--I won from the old caretaker,
a family retainer, who showed me, on a proper day, over the gloomy,
faded glories of the musty palace. She was always heretic at heart,
the old gossip mumbled, with furtive glances from my gold piece to the
pictured lords above her, as if afraid they would revenge themselves
for this tittle-tattle, heretic and light. A servant or a duke, a
flower-seller or His Eminence, all was one to her crazy English
notions. And the truth--how the mad creature told it! Blurted it out
to everyone, so that they had to keep her shut up, finally. And would
have her dogs about her--eating like Christians! And no money, when
all was said. _Her children?_ Four sons, all dead now, and their souls
with Christ--one, of the Sacred College. Never a generation without
the red hat, thank God. No daughters. _Not so much as one?_ Why should
there be? Some were spared daughters, when there was no money, and a
blessing, too.

_What figure had been cut from that group of four youths, cut so that
a small hand that grasped a cup-and-ball showed plainly against one
brother's sleeve?_ She did not know--how should she? Perhaps a cousin.
It was painted by a famous Englishman and kept because it might bring
money some day. _Then why cut it?_ How should she know? There were no
daughters and the hour was up. Would the _signore_ follow her?

And Sarah was alarmed for the Bradley blood! Sarah feared for the
pollution of that sacred fluid derived from English yeomen (at best),
filtered through the middle-class expatriates of a nation itself
hopelessly middle class beside the pure strain of a race of kings that
was old and majestically forgotten ere Romulus was dreamed of! Back,
back through those mysterious Etruscans, back to the very gods
themselves, an absolutely unbroken line, stretched the forefathers of
Margarita. Long before Bethlehem meant more than any other obscure
village, long before its Mystic Babe began there his Stations of the
Cross and brought to an end at Calvary the sacrifice that sent his
agents overseas to civilise the savage Britons and make those
middle-class yeomen possible, Margarita's ancestors had forgotten more
gods than these agents displaced and had long ceased their own bloody
and nameless sacrifices to an elder Jupiter than ever Paul knew.
Etruscan galleys swarmed the sea, Etruscan bronze and gold were
weaving into lovely lines, Etruscan bowls were lifted to luxurious and
lovely lips at sumptuous feasts, in a gorgeous ritual, before the
natives of a certain foggy island had advanced to blue-woad
decoration! Her people's tombs lie calm and contemptuous under the
loose, friable soil of that tragic land that has suffered Roman,
Persian and Goth alike (wilt thou ever rise up again, O Mater
Dolorosa? Is the circle nearly complete? Would that I might see thee
in the rising!) they lie, too, under the angular and reclining forms
of many a British spinster tourist, panoplied in Baedeker and
stout-soled boots, large of tooth and long of limb, eating her
sandwiches over the cool and placid vaults where the stone seats and
biers, the black and red pottery, the inimitable golden jewelry, the
casques and shields of gold, the ivory and enamel, the amber and the
amulets, lie waiting the inevitable Teutonic antiquary. The very ashes
of the great Lucomo prince and chieftain lying below this worthy if
somewhat unseductive female would fade in horror away into the air, if
one of his gods, Vertumnus, perhaps, or one of the blessed Dioscuri,
should offer him such a companion or hint to him that the creature was
of the same species as the round-breasted lovelinesses that sport upon
the frescoes of his tomb, among the lotus flowers.

Poor Sarah--I can forgive her when I consider the pathos of her.


PART SEVEN

IN WHICH THE RIVER LEAPS A SUDDEN CLIFF
AND BECOMES A CATARACT


    Ay cross your brow and cross your breast
      For never again ye'll smile, Sir Hugh!
    Ye flouted them that loved ye best,
      Now ye must drink as ye did brew.

    Syne she was warm against your side,
      And now she's singing the rising moon,
    She'll float in on the floating tide,
      And ye'll hold her soon and ye'll lose her soon!

_Sir Hugh and the Mermaiden._


CHAPTER XXIII

FATE SPREADS HER NET


                         [FROM SUE PAYNTER]

                                       PARIS, March 4th, 188--

     JERRY DEAR:

     Frederick died here a week ago. His heart, you know, was
     never very good, and the strain of his last concerts was too
     much for him. They were very successful, and just before I
     came over, the poor fellow had sent me--in one of his
     periodical fits of reform, _Dieu merci!_--some beautiful
     jewels, chains, aigrettes and a gorgeous diamond collar,
     begging me to sell them, but on no account to wear them, as
     if I would! I sold them pretty well--it's all for the
     babies, you know. Poor Frederick--I'm not sure his reforms
     were not the hardest to bear!

     He has been for so long so less than nothing to me that the
     sense of freedom is startling. I'm glad I came as soon as I
     heard he was sinking--it was not so very sudden. I was with
     him to the last, and the strangest people came to see
     him--it was tragically funny. He seemed just like a poor,
     disreputable brother to me, and nothing mattered, really,
     except to get him what little comfort one could.

     I brought the children over, and I think we shall stay here
     indefinitely. I have a nice little _appartement_ not too far
     from the Bradleys, though, of course, I couldn't afford to
     live there! and such a dear, sensible bonne (_à tout faire_,
     of course) who gets the children into the park every day for
     me when I'm busy. For I am very seriously busy, and how, do
     you think? I wrote a long, gossippy letter to Alice Carter
     who loves _chiffons_, poor soul, though Madam Bradley
     doesn't give her many, telling her what was being worn and
     where, and how, and gave her a little account of a
     fashionable _fête_ that a friend of mine had described to
     me, and the dear creature actually took the trouble of
     copying it, omitting personalities, of course, and showing
     it to a friend of Walter's, an amazing young man who is
     starting some woman's magazine with a phenomenal
     circulation, already. He offered her a really good price for
     it and said if I would do the same kind of letter every
     month, he would pay one hundred dollars for each one--five
     hundred _francs_! Of course I accepted, and now I spend two
     days a week in the shops, getting ideas and making sketches.
     You see I am a business woman, really, Jerry. I have always
     believed that plenty of women would do better at their
     husband's business, and let them hire housekeepers or attend
     to the house themselves! Look at the French women!

     It seems so good to be here--it always agreed with me, _la
     belle France_, and the children seem well, too--for them.
     Little Susy really has some colour. They are especially fond
     of the _Parc Monceau_, and this charming out-of-door life
     that is so easy here will do wonders for them, I'm sure.
     That east wind of Boston--ugh, how I loathe it!

     I feel so busy and so self-respecting--independence agrees
     with me. You see, with my few hundreds from father, and
     these letters, and the little income Roger got for me, with
     the principal put away for the children, I shall do very
     well indeed and owe "nothing to nobody." And when Susy gets
     old enough, I'm going to have her taught something--trade or
     profession, _n'importe!_--that will make her as independent
     as I am to-day. I think it is criminal not to. Then she
     needn't marry unless she wants to.

     I wonder if you realise how many women marry to get away
     from home? Few men do, I imagine. It's not particularly
     flattering to you, _messieurs_, but it's the truth. I had
     four sisters, and I know!

     You have heard, I suppose, that Margarita is actually in
     training for the opera? It was very exciting--Mme. M----i is
     really at the bottom of it, I think, though everybody agrees
     with her to this extent: the child really has extraordinary
     talent, and with her face and figure will be sure of
     success, one would think. Of course her voice is not
     phenomenal--I doubt if it is big enough for the New York
     opera house. How Frederick used to rail at that building!
     They wanted him to play there once, you know, at some big
     benefit. He always said no respectable human voice could be
     judged there--it seems the acoustics is wrong. But it is an
     exceptionally fine voice, nevertheless, and so pure and
     unspoiled. She had nothing to unlearn, literally, and her
     acting, Madame says, is superb. She can memorise anything,
     and in such a short time!

     But for a Bradley! Madame is furious that she is married.
     There are plenty to have babies and live in America, she
     says, without her little Marguerite! _M. le mari_ does not
     appreciate what a jewel he wishes to shut up, she says--but
     I am not so sure of that! Whether he is really going to let
     her or is only humouring her, I don't know. It is rather an
     embarrassing situation, _au fond_, because you know what she
     is--calm, lovely, enchanting--what you will, but absolutely
     immovable! Reasoning has no effect upon her, and then, to
     tell the truth, she has reasons of her own. Her desire for
     this is very strong, and her affection for Roger is not
     strong enough, apparently, to make her sacrifice herself. Do
     you think she has any soul, really? I mean, what we
     understand by that--something that takes more than two years
     of ordinary life to grow. Passionate, yes. Intelligent, yes.
     But a real soul? _Je m' en doute._

     "Of course I love Roger, Sue," she said to me, "but why
     should I not do what I want to just because I love him? I
     can love him and sing, too."

     Then Miss Jencks advances to the fray, with pleasant
     platitudes about giving up what we like for those we love.

     "But Roger loves me, too," says _la Margarita_--"why does he
     not give up what _he_ likes because he loves me?"

     Tableau! _Que faire alors?_

     It is really rather complicated, I think, Jerry, though you
     will probably not agree with me, when I explain what I mean.
     I have done a great deal of thinking in the years since my
     marriage--I have been forced to. Things which would never
     have occurred to me, never come into my horizon if, for
     instance, I had married Roger; things which would never, I
     can see, be likely to come into the horizon of the happily
     (and prosperously) married, have come to me and I have been
     obliged, in my poor way, to philosophise over them.

     Have you ever read Ibsen's play, the "Doll's House"? I don't
     think it has been acted in America, and probably won't be,
     unless, perhaps, in Boston. But get it and read it. It is to
     show that a woman is a personality, aside from her family
     relations, and must live her life, finally, herself. At
     least, so I understand it. It is to be acted in London soon,
     and I am going to try to see it--the theatre seems to mean
     so much more, this side the water! One really takes it
     seriously, somehow, along with the other arts. But then,
     there is no duty on art here!

     Will you tell me, Jerry, why, if Margarita really is an
     artist and has a great gift, she should not use it? It may
     not be what would best please her husband (and you know,
     Jerry, I would cut off my hand for Roger! But I must say
     what I think) but if she sees a career open to her of fame,
     money and satisfaction, why should the fact of her marriage
     prevent it? As far as fame goes, she could be better known
     than Roger; as far as money goes, she could almost certainly
     earn more than he can; as far as what _Nora_, in the play I
     spoke of, calls "her duties towards herself," she could
     surely develop more fully. That is, if it is necessary for a
     woman to develop herself fully in any but the physical
     sense--and isn't it?

     It is all very perplexing and I do so wish it had happened
     to any one but Roger! He is much hurt, I know, though he
     conceals it well, of course, in his quiet, steadfast sort of
     way. What a man he is! He would never be willing, I am sure,
     to go back to his profession in New York and leave Margarita
     alone in Europe, exposed to all the temptations and scandal
     and dangers that seem almost inevitable in the life she is
     preparing for. They might as well be completely and legally
     separated, in that case. He has money enough without
     practising law, of course, but he would never be idle--he
     loves his work--and as for hanging about as her business
     manager--I wish you could have seen his face when Madame
     suggested it! I explained to her it was not precisely the
     sort of thing his family were accustomed to do. She can't
     understand it, of course--she has the French idea of a
     lawyer. When I told her that Mr. Bradley was really _vrai
     propriétaire_ and well-to-do aside from his practice, she
     had more respect for him.

     "Then he will not need to occupy himself," she said
     triumphantly, "and all the better. Let him rent an estate
     and live _en gentilhomme_!"

     She has promised to go back to America for the summer for
     two months--she can learn her _rôles_ there, she says, and
     Roger wants to go. _Eh bien!_ We shall have to wait.

     The child is beautiful--so strong and well, and so
     ridiculously the image of Roger. She is trying to stand
     now--think of it! My poor little rats were two years old
     before they could.

                                 _A vous toujours_,

                                             SUE.


                         [FROM MY ATTORNEYS]

                     SEARS, BRADLEY AND SEARS,

                 Attorneys and Counsellors-at-Law.

Cable Address, Valleshta.

                  2-- COURT STREET, BOSTON, MASS.

                                          March 10th, 188--

         WINFRED JERROLDS, Esq.,

           Cf., Coutts Bros.,

             Cairo, Egypt.

     DEAR SIR:

     Pursuant to our letters to you of six weeks ago, we had our
     Mr. James go to the North Carolina plantation to investigate
     and report on the property. He was almost at once approached
     with offers to buy the property on terms which surprised
     him. He communicated with us and we took the responsibility
     of sending one of our best mining experts to look over the
     ground. We found that Pittsburg men had been making heavy
     purchases of land a few miles west across the range and had
     also been buying tracts adjacent to your lands both north
     and south; they had also had a party of engineers all over
     your lands under the guise of a fishing party.

     The expert, Mr. Minton, reported that he found heavy
     outcroppings of coal on both sides of the valley, of
     excellent steaming quality. The veins apparently extend
     through your lands into the higher lands north and south of
     yours. West of you but a few miles these Pittsburg people
     have acquired large bodies of iron ore. But the most
     important fact of all is that the valley is the most
     practical route for a railroad across the range west of you,
     from the coast to the iron lands already mentioned, for many
     miles in either direction.

     We have been negotiating for three weeks with these
     Pittsburg people and they have finally made us an offer
     which we enclose. Briefly, it amounts to $300,000 in five
     per cent. mortgage bonds, $250,000 in stock (this of
     problematic value) and a royalty of ten cents per ton on all
     coal mined on your lands, with an agreement to mine at least
     50,000 tons annually until your coal measures are
     practically exhausted.

     In view of your unwillingness to come here and yourself
     engineer a rival development company, not to speak of the
     difficulty of enlisting adequate capital in the face of the
     purchases already made by our Pittsburg friends, we think
     you cannot do better than accept this offer. Whether we can
     get as good an one later is doubtful. We have promised an
     answer by cable from you within three days of your receipt
     of this letter.

     Congratulating you on these most fortunate discoveries, we
     remain,

                             Yours very respectfully,

                               SEARS, BRADLEY AND SEARS.


                           [FROM TIP ELDER]

                                      UNIVERSITY CLUB, NEW YORK,

                                               March 20th, 188--

     DEAR JERRY:

     I needn't say how hearty my congratulations are on your good
     luck, need I? What a hit that was! And what a fine use you
     are making of it, too! Of course I'll help all I can. I must
     hurry to catch this mail-boat, so I will just cut short and
     merely say that Latham and Waite, of Union Square, seem to
     have put in the best bid for the work and I have told them
     to send you the detailed budget and contracts as soon as
     they can get them ready. They have connections with a big
     brick-yard in Tennessee and say that they can put you up a
     very good little hospital, three wards, operating-room, six
     private rooms, diet kitchen, dispensary, nurses' dormitory
     and suite for superintendent, including one elevator, for
     close under $65,000, on very good terms of payment. This
     will include all fittings (hardware, etc.) and two fine,
     large piazzas, with arrangements for sun parlour, if
     desired. Also four bathrooms. Miss Buxton has selected the
     site, as I suppose she has written you, and Miss Bradley has
     secured another deaconess-nurse for the permanent staff.
     Young Collier has done marvellously well down there, and the
     generous endowment you offer will take care of two more
     boys, Miss Buxton says. Dr. McGee says that Collier has a
     real gift for surgery--I think I have got a scholarship for
     him at Johns Hopkins, next year.

     What a fine little woman that nurse is! She can't speak of
     you without her eyes filling with tears. I teased her a
     little by saying that if she had not begged you for the use
     of that deserted farm-house on your land for a convalescent
     home, you would never have learned about the coal and
     probably sold the land for a song, so the credit was really
     hers--you ought to have seen the sparks in her eyes!

     "You have really made him a rich man," I told her.

     "I wish I could," she said very soberly, "but it's not money
     Mr. Jerrolds needs."

     What do you suppose she meant? Anyhow, you've got it, old
     fellow, whether you need it or not, haven't you?

     The hundred you sent me (you knew I didn't need any "fee")
     has gone into fitting up my club gymnasium. It went a good
     way, too. I miss Mrs. Paynter's suggestions--she is a good
     business-woman. What a release, that blackguard's death!
     Strong words for a minister, perhaps you think, but I tell
     you, my blood boils when I think what she endured. I gave up
     my grandfather's hell, long ago, but some men make you long
     to believe in purgatory!

     I heard in a round-about way from Roger's brother-in-law
     Carter (Yale '8--, isn't he?) that Mrs. Bradley was going on
     the stage. I was afraid of it last summer.

     Miss Bradley is a good woman, but not much like Roger, is
     she? Queer, how people get into the same family.

     Hoping the rheumatism is all right now, and that you'll make
     use of me, in any way you can, I am

                                  Yours faithfully,

                                    TYLER FESSENDEN ELDER.


                        [FROM ROGER'S SISTER]

                                               NEWTON, MASS.,

                                             April 2nd, 188--

     DEAR JERRY:

     I can't resist, in spite of your warning, letting you know
     how deeply we appreciate your generous offer for the
     children. You know, of course, that we never felt the
     slightest claim. It would not have been so much, anyway, if
     it had been divided, and father always felt that people had
     a right to leave their money as they chose, if they had any
     rights in it at all, he said. I believe he thought it ought
     to go to the State, or something. He and Mr. C--l S--z used
     to talk about it evenings, I remember.

     But to provide so generously for them in your will--it was
     truly kind and Walter feels it very much. I hope it will be
     long before they get it, Jerry. Of course Roger will have a
     son some day and then you will be giving it to Roger
     Bradley, as you say, and it won't have been out of the
     family really--you were just like one of us for so many
     years. And dearer to Uncle Win than any of us, I am sure.

     With deepest gratitude again from Walter and myself, and
     hopes that you are quite well now,

                               Yours always,

                                  ALICE BRADLEY CARTER.


CHAPTER XXIV

OUR SECOND SUMMER IN EDEN


That winter had been my introduction to Egypt. I have never since let
more than three winters, at most, go by without revisiting the
strange, haunted place; next to Nippon the fairy country it is dearest
to me of all the warm corners of the earth--and I have dragged my
twinging, tortured muscles to them all. Only last winter--for many
months have passed since I copied those last letters into my
manuscript, and I paid dear for a last attempt at a February in New
York--I strolled through Cairo streets, drew gratefully into my
nostrils the extraordinary mixture of odours that differentiates Cairo
from every place in the world (how the great cities are stamped
indelibly each with her own nameless atmosphere, by the way! And yet
not quite nameless, for London's is based on street mud and
flower-trays, Rome is garlic and incense, Paris is watered asphalt,
New York is untended horses and tobacco-smoke, and Tokyo is rice
straw) and as I strolled, a strange thing happened to me.

I was passing by a street-seller of scarabs, a treacherous-looking
wretch, whose rolling eyes glanced covetously at the scarab--better
than any of his--that I wore at my scarf-knot, and pressed against him
to avoid a great black with a tray of brass bowls and platters on his
head. Just ahead of me a lemonade-merchant uttered his wailing, minor
cry, and as the crowd jostled in the narrow, dirty lane, my eye was
caught by a coffee-coloured woman, a big Juno, with flashing teeth and
a neck like a bronze tower. Across her shoulders sat a naked baby who
held his balance by his two chubby hands buried in her thick black
hair, one leg dropping over each splendid breast. She caught my eye,
and laughed outright as the child kicked out with one fat foot and
struck the brasses on the tray so that it tipped and swayed
dangerously.

I stood there, lost in a maze of Cairo streets, and the babel of the
shrieking, blue-clad donkey-boys was the scream of gulls to my ears
and the sun on the swaying brass platters was the reflection of a
polished sun-dial. The turquoises on the scarab-seller's tray were
turquoises about Margarita's waist, the lemonade was borne by Caliban,
and the child that rode astride those strong shoulders had hair like
corn-silk burned in the sun and eyes as blue as any turquoise! For so
had she held her baby, walking with that free, noble stride, and so
she had laughed and met my eyes, and so the child had clutched her
hair, in the summer just passed.

So vivid was the impression that I stood, as I say, in a maze, and the
scarab-seller and he of the brass tray cursed me heartily as they
struggled for balance in the pushing, screaming, reeking crowd. How
meaningless that phrase, "real life!" Years and years of actual
happenings in my life have been less real than those seconds in the
Cairo streets, when down the alley-ways of sound and sight, across the
intricate network of that spongy, grey tissue in my skull, this tiny,
deathless, unimportant memory led my soul away from the present and
left me, an unconscious, stupid, mechanical toy, to block the Cairo
traffic, while I--the real I--lived far away. Truly the poets and the
children are our only realists, and Time and Space have fooled the
rest of us unmercifully.

I find that trivial recollections of this sort interest me far more in
the recording than my sensations as a wealthy man. These last were,
indeed, strikingly few. Beyond the pleasure of buying old Jeanne a
Cashmere shawl, the hidden ambition of her life, and giving orders for
Harriet's hospital (for I seemed to have brought the natives of North
Carolina down on my shoulders, somehow--and that without the faintest
interest in them!) my amazing good fortune made less impression upon
me, as a matter of fact, than Uncle Winthrop's first legacy. What was
there for me to do with it? Roger refused to touch a penny; my mother,
beyond a little increase in her charity fund and a pony phæton, was
merely bewildered when asked to make any suggestions, and would have
handed purses to every tramp in New England if she had been given the
means; my father's people were well-to-do, and the conferring of
benefactions has always been difficult for me, anyway. The only way
for me would be to drop gold-pieces on needy thresholds by night and
run away--a startling occupation for a rheumatic bachelor, surely! I
do not know how to receive thanks--they embarrass me frightfully. To
stand smugly with a philanthropic smile while the widow and the orphan
weep around my knees, is something I should be forever unable to
achieve. Harriet's hospital was not a charity--it was something to
keep the ridiculous creature busy--her yacht, her picture gallery, her
stud-farm, if you will.

As for me, I had none of these tastes. I bought the one or two
pictures I had always wanted, that were within my means (most of them
weren't within anybody's!) I put a piano in my new rooms, laid in a
little wine for my appreciative friends, bespoke the unshared services
of Hodgson, who was unfortunately necessary to me now that every
sudden damp day crippled my right shoulder (he came to me wearing one
of my old suits, by the way) and put a new steam-launch into Roger's
concealed boat-house. I presented Margarita with another and a larger
gift of pearls, it is true, but without one-tenth of the choking
excitement with which I had clasped that first single one upon her
neck.

The lady herself, however, balanced this equation; she was greatly
delighted, and if she had not, perhaps, perfectly appreciated the
first offering, more than atoned by her rapturous recognition of the
second.

"And how they must have cost!" she cried. "Jerry, you are too
generous--but I do love them!"

To think of Margarita's estimating the value of a gift!

We had famous talks that August, while Roger sweated at his new
task--making an island for us, no less!--and _petite Marie_ gathered
shells and buried them in tiny, wave-washed graves.

She took to reading that summer, and I read _Pendennis_ and _David
Copperfield_ aloud and she embroidered great grey butterflies all over
her grey gown for _Faust_, and the big brindled hound slept at our
feet near the beehives.

"Which do you like best?" I asked her curiously.

"Oh, the one about Mr. Pendennis is the prettiest," she answered
promptly, "I should have liked the man that made that book the best.
But Mr. Dickens knows about more things. He makes more different kinds
of people."

"Thackeray has been called cynical," I suggested.

"What is that, Jerry?"

I explained, and she shook her head.

"O no, that is not cynical. That is the way things are, Jerry. Only
everybody does not say so."

"Do you think," I asked, "that people really talk the way Mr. Micawber
talks? I never heard anybody. And certainly nobody ever talked like
his wife."

"No," she said thoughtfully, "I never did, either. But there must be a
good many people _like_ them, Jerry, I am sure. And if they knew as
many long words as Mr. Dickens, that is the way they _would_ talk, I
think."

I have never heard a better criticism of the literary giant of the
nineteenth century.

She never made the slightest secret of her affection for me nor of our
thorough comprehension of each other and our similarity of tastes.
Quiet always, or almost always, with Roger, with me she chattered like
a bird, and I could give her opinion on many matters of which he knew
nothing.

"Jerry and I like Botticelli and caviar sandwiches and street songs
and Egypt, and Roger does not," she told Clarence King once--I can
hear him roar now.

"I can talk better to you than to Roger," she confided to me one day
on the rocks; "if it were the custom to have two husbands, Jerry, I
should like you for the other--but it is not," she added mournfully.

I agreed to this with regret and she went on thoughtfully.

"You see, Roger would not like it, even if it _was_ the custom, so I
could not, anyway."

"That is very amiable of you," I said.

"It is strange how I always think of what he would like," she added,
with perfect sincerity, I am sure. "One day when he would not let me
have any more bread--it was so bad for my voice, you know--I got very
angry and spoke crossly to him, but still he would not, and I told him
that since he did not want me to sing he had better let me spoil my
voice, if I wanted to--and you would think he would, would you not,
Jerry?"

"No," I answered soberly, "no, Margarita, I wouldn't. He knew you
really wanted your voice more than the bread, so he gave you what you
wanted."

"Yes. But that day I was so angry, I planned how much more free I
should be if he were to die--was it not terrible, Jerry?--and then I
got so interested I could not stop, and I made a dying sickness for
him like my father's, and Miss Buxton came, and then I got a black
frock like Hester when my father died, and then we--you and I--made a
grave for him with my father's grave on the little point, and then
(this was all in my mind, you see, Jerry) I was so sad I cried and
cried--as I do in _Marguerite_, all over my cheeks, and then, what do
you think?"

"Heavens, child, what can I think? I don't know," I said unsteadily,
revolving God knows what of possibilities in my presumptuous and
selfish heart.

"Why," she said simply, "I felt so badly that I went to Roger (in my
mind) to tell him about it and show him the beautiful grave we had
made and my black frock (I had a little pointed bonnet with white
under the front, like the widows in Paris) and suddenly I remembered
that I could not show him--he would be dead! You see that would have
been very bad, for I had been planning all the time that he would be
there to--to--well, _that he would be there_! You see what I mean,
don't you, Jerry? Roger has to be there."

"Yes, I see," I said, very low, filled with sickening shame, "he has
to be there, my dear."

"And so I stopped all that dying sickness directly," she continued
comfortably, "because it was too silly, if I could not tell him about
it afterwards, you see.

"And yet he was very cross to me about the bread," she burst out
childishly. "Why do I think he has to be there, Jerry? He cannot talk
to me nearly so nicely as you can--he does not understand. Why must he
be there?"

I choked and laughed at once.

"Because you love him, you silly Margarita!" I declared.

"That must be it," she agreed, with a serious, long look at me out of
those deep-sea coloured eyes.

Ah, me!

How we worked at that canal! Caliban and two swarthy Italians and
Roger and I--for I marked out the course of it in an artfully natural
curve and put in the stakes. There were eighty-odd feet across the
part of the peninsula we selected, and it bade fair to wear us all out
and last forever, till I seized the occasion of a business trip that
took Roger away for four days and hired a great gang of labourers who
finished it all up, so that he walked into his island home across a
foot-bridge, to his great and boyish delight. What a big boy he was,
after all! Not that I did not share his pleasure in the Island: it
gave me a delicious feeling of security and distance from the rest of
the world. With the help of the gang I had been able to widen our
channel considerably and it took a very respectable bridge indeed to
span the gap. We had made plans for a regular drawbridge, but later
we abandoned them, and chopped even the old one down. The water has
washed and washed and worn away since, on the island side, and now one
must be bent upon a swim indeed who cares to venture among the jagged
ledges and mill-races that my blasting made.

We piped our spring too--a beauty--up through the dairy cellar to the
kitchen, and Caliban was saved many a weary trip. Some years afterward
I took my chance during another absence of the lord of the Island, and
a hurried and astonished set of plumbers installed a luxurious
bathroom in either ell of the cottage--a surprise for his birthday.
Profiting by a winter in Bermuda, I copied their roof reservoirs,
allowing one to each ell, sanded without, whitewashed within, an
architectural measure which made the skyline even more rocky and wild,
in appearance, from the water. Before we left, that autumn, we planted
fifty evergreens, pines, hemlocks and spruces, in a broad belt just
opposite the Island, masking it completely from the shore, and hardly
a year passed after that without thickening and lengthening that
concealing wall. Oh, we guarded our jewel, I can tell you!

It was that summer, I think, that Whistler came to us and drew that
series of sepia sketches that frames the big fireplace. They are on
the plaster itself--a sort of exquisite fresco--and Venice sails,
Holland wind-mills and London docks cluster round the faded bricks
with an indescribably fascinating effect. At my urgent request I was
allowed to protect them with thin tiles of glass riveted through the
corners into the plaster: how the collectors' mouths water at the
sight of them!

Stevenson came a few years later: all the quaint comforts and intimate
beauties hidden away behind the boulders plainly caught his elfish,
childlike fancy--it was he who made the little grotto beyond the
asparagus bed, lined the pool in it with unusual shells and coloured
pebbles, fitted odd bits of looking-glass here and there, and wrote a
poem on a smooth stone at the door for little Mary, to whom he
dedicated it.

    "The purple pool of mussel shells,
    All full of salty ocean smells,
    The coral branches in the wall--
    And you the mermaid queen of all ..."

She used to recite it all very charmingly. Roger never wanted it
printed in the _Child's Garden of Verses_, where it properly
belongs--one of the best of them, in my opinion.

He and Margarita talked together by the hour and I have seen his
dog-like brown eyes fixed on her an hour at a time. I asked him once
if he intended to "put her in a story"--the quaint query of the
layman, so strangely irritating to the book-man--and he shook his
loose-locked head slowly.

"They say I can't do women, you know," he said, "and nobody would
believe her if I put her in, she's too artistically effective."

And here am I doing it! Fools rush in ...

It may seem odd that Roger and I should not discuss the opera
business, but we didn't. That it hurt him I knew, for I knew Roger.
Anglo-Saxon to the backbone, the position which his wife as a
successful operatic star must put him in could be nothing but highly
distasteful to him. It is one thing to snatch your wife from the
stage, as Margarita's noble grandfather had done, and enjoy her in
your home; it is quite another to see her snatched from your home to
that stage, after you have married her. But I have never known a
juster man, and though he talked little of the "rights" of women, and
then in a brief, blunt fashion that would have exasperated the
fast-emerging sex most terribly, he nevertheless respected the rights
of every human creature most scrupulously. Though he had the private
appreciation of the unmistakable good points of the harem-seclusion
shared by every healthy male, he would never have shut Margarita into
a New York house or a honeymoon-island against her will, and I think
he was too proud to reason with her on the only lines open to him. I
think, too, that his quiet refusal to take any strong measures may
have been based, partly, on the full appreciation of the risk he ran
in marrying such a bundle of possibilities as Margarita. One of the
greatest passions that ever (I firmly believe) mated two people had
whirled him out of the conventional current of his life, and because
it had, in its course, brought him into the rapids, he was enough of a
man to set his teeth and take it quietly, knowing that when he left
the calm, green-bordered stream for the adventure of flood tide, he
did it with his eyes open--a grown man. Or so, at least, I take it
that he reasoned: he acted as if he had.

Again, it would have been difficult for me to discuss the matter for
another reason than Roger's perfectly characteristic reserve. Much as
I regretted that this issue should have arisen in Roger's household,
like Sue Paynter I had a secret sympathy with Margarita. Roger was
never fond of the stage, and I was. He preferred chamber-music and
symphony to opera, and was never deeply sensible to the solo voice,
though a good critic of it. The glamour of the stage--that lime-light
that has eternally dazzled the sons of Adam--had little effect upon
him: he was the last man in the world to marry an actress. Now, I was
not. Judie, the naughty creature, had once her charm for me. I have
stood in a crowd to see the Jersey Lily, and the Queen of English
comediennes could have had me for a turn of her thick lashes--before I
knew Margarita. My paternal grandmother was part French, and I have
always observed that a mixture of blood predisposes its inheritors to
dramatic triumphs--or enjoyments, if no more.

So he dug at his canal and Margarita practised her Jewel Song (it was
a shade high for her: she was not a pure soprano, but had one of those
flexible mezzos that tempt their trainers to all sorts of
_tours-de-force_) and Dolledge tended Mary and Miss Jencks developed
Caliban.

The good woman was utterly unhappy without some subject on which to
exercise her really remarkable powers of education. Mary's attendant
resented bitterly any rival in her certainly well-filled sphere, and
Margarita was far beyond her one-time mentor now, and regarded her
with the affectionate tolerance of a princess for her old nurse. This
was hard on the devoted Barbara, for she adored Margarita, and to find
oneself gently sliding to the foot of the pedestal, when one has not
so long ago been occupied in moulding the statue, cannot be very
enlivening, though one be never so philosophical.

In truth I had at that time a strange sensation: I found that I had
insensibly drifted into a state of mind in which we five, Roger, Miss
Jencks, Dolledge, Caliban and I seemed to be at home, contented,
occupied, attached by every interest domestic and romantic, to the
spot that was dearest on earth to us, while Margarita, a brilliant
bird of passage, but lingered with us for the moment, before she took
up her journey through the world--for that she was destined for the
world, who could doubt? We were, to use the homely old figure, like a
circle of motherly hens, staring fatalistically, sadly or disgustedly,
according to our several barnyard temperaments, at our daring,
iridescent duckling as she breasted the (to her) familiar flood.

For it was familiar: there are people for whom--taken though they may
have been from the most secluded corner of the earth, unprepared,
undisciplined, unwarned, the great world, the glitter of its
footlights, the shock of its tournaments, the cruelty of its
victories, the coldness of its neglect, have absolutely no terrors.
They face it superbly, as one should face a mob, and the great world,
like any proper mob, licks their feet and fawns on them. Admiration is
their due; devotion is no more than the sky above them or the earth
under them; they keep the divine, expectant _hauteur_ of childhood and
rule us, like the children, through our pity and our wonder. And
Margarita was one of these.


CHAPTER XXV

THE ISLAND TOMB


But to go back to Miss Jencks and Caliban. It was Harriet Buxton who
had suggested that the boy was not so deaf as we had thought, only
stupid, and that his dumbness might yield to the methods then being so
successfully used with that afflicted child who has since triumphed so
brilliantly over more than human obstacles. Although, as Harriet
pointed out, I have always felt that too much credit was given in that
case to the pupil and too little to the teacher. The distance between
English words of one syllable and Greek tragedy is only a matter of
time: the distance between blank chaos and those one-syllabled words
might well have seemed eternal!

Not that Miss Jencks had quite such a task ahead of her. Caliban had
been trained into habits of relentless cleanliness, and an almost
mechanical regularity of routine work. It was his clumsy hands that
had arranged the flaming nasturtiums in the silver bowl under the
Henner etching, his rude pantomime that purchased the bi-weekly bone
for the mysteriously named Rosy, his weather wisdom that was sought
when it was a question of an extended sailing party. In fact, I am
inclined to think, in view of his subsequent progress, that some of
his ignorance was feigned, as is often the case in these instances of
arrested mental development. Julius No, it's good! It's all good!
- I - her husband! O God, you made me, if thou wouldst have this
animosity is that my whole life should be an ongoing prayer. I do
not want to be right, and forgive me these tears, forgive me my vain
wishes! - My wife! If I were the dearest creature under the sun in my
arms would have been closed - it's me a shiver through the whole body,
Wilhelm, Albert if they lean to the body are taken. And may I say it?
Why not, Wilhelm? They would be happier with me than with him!

O he is not the man who wishes that all the heart to fill. A
certain lack of Feel, a shortage - take it how you want, that his heart
is not sympathetic to - O - in the body of a book to love, where
my heart and Lotte in a meet, in a hundred other incidents when it
comes to our Ermpfindungen on a plot of a third party loud.

Dear William! - Although he loves her with all your soul, and thus
a love that was not deserved! - A man has me unbearable interrupted.
My tears are dried. I'm distracted. Adieu, dear! On 4 August I'm
not so alone. All people are deceived in their hopes, their
expectations betrayed. I visited my good woman under the lime tree.
The oldest boy ran against me, his joy, the mother cries herbei, very
dejected look. Her first word was: "Good Lord, oh, my Hans, I died!"
- It was the youngest of their boys. I was silent. "And my husband,"
she said, "is back from Switzerland and has brought nothing, and
without good people, he would have turned out to beg, he had the fever
on gekriegt." - I could tell her nothing and gave the Little what they
asked me to accept some apples, which I did and the place of the sad
memory left. On 21 August How to use a hand umwendet, it's different
with me. Sometimes want to be a joyful view of life aufdämmern again,
ah, just for a moment! - If I'm so lost in dreams, I can not help
thinking of how, when Albert die? You would! Yes, they would - and
then I walk after the fantasies, to me it führet depths, before which
I zurückbebe. If I were at the gate management, the way that I first
drove to Lotten punch to fetch, as was the so different! Everything,
everything is passed! Wink None of the previous world, no pulse,
I was feeling.

Mir is how it ought to be a spirit, in the burned, destroyed the
castle returned, he was once a thriving Lord built and gifts with all
the glory that his beloved son dying hopeful would have to leave.
On 3 September, I sometimes do not understand how they love someone
else can have, should have loved, because I do so all alone, so
heartfelt, so full of love, otherwise know nothing, nor white, nor
did they!

On 4 September Yes, it is so. As the natural tendency is to autumn,
it will be autumn in me and around me.

My leaves are yellow, and you are the leaves of adjacent trees fallen.
Have I not heard of a peasant lad written, just as I came? Now I
inquired after him again in Wahlheim it was called, he was chased out
of the Diem, and nobody wanted to continue what he know. Yesterday I
met him by chance on the way to another village, I talked to
him, and he told me his story, which I double and triple stirred,
as you will easily understand if I tell you again. But what it all?
What keeps' I am not for myself, what frightens me and grieved? Why
grieve 'I have you? Why geb 'ich dir always an opportunity to
apologize to me and scold me? Let's because, even that may belong to
my fate! With a quiet sadness in which I a little shy nature seemed
to notice, the man replied me to my questions, but soon even Offner,
as if he and I at once recognized by , he confessed to me his
error, he lamented his misfortune. Can I thee, my friend, all his
words before the court! He praised, yes, he told with a kind of
enjoyment and happiness of the recovery memory that passion to his
home in him increased every day, not least that he had known what
he do not, as he put it, where he met the hingesollt head.

He did neither eat nor drink nor sleep can be had him at the throat
gestockter that he had done what he did not do what it has been applied,
hab 'he forgot that he was as like an evil spirit has been, until he
one day when they are in an upper chamber known, it followed, so much
more after it had been withdrawn, because they were not listened to his
pleas, where, hab 'it is their wish to conquer by force, he
does not know how it happened, and take God to witness that his
intentions towards them always been honest and that he was burning so
desired, as they marry him that she with him would like to spend their
lives. As a long time he had talked, he began to falter, as one who
still has something to say and do not dare give out, he finally
confessed to me with shyness, what it allows for small confidential,
and what he is close vergönnet.

He broke two or three times and repeated the liveliest protestation
that he does not say to make them hard to make, as he said that
he love and appreciate them as before, so that things do not
come over his mouth and that he only say it to me to me to convince
that he was not totally wrong and useless man is. - And here, my
best, beginning 'I have my old song again, I am forever rather than
be: can I see the people imagine, as he stood before me, as he still
stands in front of me!

Can I tell you everything right, so you felt like me at his fate
participate, participate! But enough because you also know my fate, I
also know, as you know only too well what I am to all the unfortunate,
which led me to this very unfortunate drags. As I read through the
blood again, seh 'ich, that I end history forgot to tell, but
it can easily be added thinking. You erwehrte to be her brother came
to him for a long time hated him for a long time out of the house
wanted, because he fears a new marriage of his sister's children will
escape the inheritance to them now that they childless is there
hope fine and this did it for the same home hinausgestoßen and such
a noise from the case made that the woman, even if they wanted, it
would not play you. Now they have again made another servant, also
on, say it, be it with his brother fall, and we argue for sure that she
would marry him, but he was determined to not to do. What I tell you,
is no exaggeration, nothing verzärtelt, yes, I dare say, weak, weak,
hab 'ich's told, and coarse hab' ich's, by saying it with our traditional
moral words have argued. This love, this loyalty, this passion is
not a poetic invention .

She lives, it is in its greatest purity among the class of people we
uneducated, which we call raw. We educated - Nothing to warped! Read
the story with devotion, I pray thee. I am still today, by getting the
hinschreibe; you see in my hand that I do not really like strudel
and sudele Lies else, my lover, and thinking that it is also the
story of your friend is. Yes it's me gone, so's I will go, and I'm
not half as good, not half as determined as the poor unfortunate
that I compare myself almost dare not.

On 5 September you had a little note to her husband wrote to the
countryside, where he stayed for business.

It began: "The best, love, come whenever you can, I expect you with
a thousand joys." - A friend who came, brought news that because
of certain circumstances as soon still would not return.

The ticket was, and I fell into the hands of the evening. I read
it and smiled, she asked what? - "What the imagination for a divine
gift," I cried out, "I could vorspiegeln a moment as if it had written
to me." - It broke, it seemed satisfied with her, and I remained
silent. On 6 September has seriously held, until I decided my
simple blue dress, which I use for the first time Lotten danced off,
but he was unimpressive last even. Also I have to make quite like the
previous, and the collar up, and again as yellow jackets and dresses
to leg. Ganz wants it but the effect is not done. I do not know - I
think with time I will also prefer to be. On 12 September was
a few days traveling, Albert fetch. Today I stepped into their office,
they did me, and I kissed her hand with a thousand joys.

A canary flew from the mirror on her shoulder. - "A new friend," she
said and drew him to her hand, " he is my little ones assigned. He
does indeed love! Watch it! If I give him bread, he flutters its wings and
picks so good. He kissed me, you see! "As they animalcule hinhielt mouth,
put it so sweetly into the sweet lips, as if it would feel the bliss ,
which it enjoyed. "He will kiss you," she said and handed over the bird. -
The beaks Chen made the journey from their mouths to the mine, and the
pickende touch was like a hint, a clue loving pleasure. "His kiss," I said,
"is not entirely without desire, he is looking for food and returns from
unsatisfied caress the empty back." "He eats me out of the mouth." she
said .-- They gave him some crumbs with their lips, from which the
innocent pleasures of love participating in all the bliss smiled. I
turned the face away. You should not do, should not my imagination with
these images of innocence and heavenly bliss and irritate my heart from the
sleep in there sometimes indifference of life weighs not awaken! - And why
not? - you trust me so, you know how I love it! On September 15, One would
be livid, William, that it should give people with no sense and feeling of
the few who on earth still has a value.

You know, the walnut trees, under which I have the honest pastor at
St. .. Lotten sat with the beautiful walnut trees, which I am, God
knows, always with the greatest pleasure soul filled! How
confidentially to the rectory made, how cool! And how wonderful were
the branches And the reminder to the honest clergyman, they planted
many years ago. The schoolmaster gave us the name is often mentioned
that he, by his grandfather had heard; and so a good man he should
have been, and his memory has always been sacred among the trees. I
tell you, the schoolmaster were the tears in their eyes as we
spoke of them yesterday that they had been cut off - cut off, let
me toll , I could kill the dog, the first blow on it did. I, I could
trust, so if a few trees in my yard and one of them would die before
the age, I must watch. Dear treasure, but one thing is this: what
people feel is!

The whole village grumbles, and I hope that the woman should be
pastor of butter and eggs and the rest of confidence to feel what a
wound they gave their places. Because it is the wife of the new pastor
( Our age is also dead), a hageres, sickly creature, which has caused
much of the world to take no part, because nobody takes their share.
Närrin One who makes, to be taught, in the investigation of
the canon mottled, even a lot of new-fangled, moral-critical reformation
of Christianity, and is working on Lavater's enthusiasm armpits shrugs,
a shattered health, and therefore on God's earth no joy. So a creature,
it was only possible, my walnut trees abzuhauen. seest you, I come
not to me Imagine: the falling leaves make her impure and hushed
courtyard, the trees take the daylight, and when the nuts are ripe, so
the boys throw stones afterwards, and that falls on their the nerves,
which disturbs them in their deep reflection when they Kennikot,
Semler and Michaelis abwiegt against each other. Since I am the people
in the village, especially the old ones, looked so unhappy,
I said: "Why have you suffered from it?" -- "if the Schulze wants to
land here," said she, "what can you do?" - But one thing is done
right. The Schulze and the pastor, but also the women of his barbecue,
to him anyway, the soup is not fat what would have thought it to share
with each other, because it told the board and said, "come here" because
they still had old Prätensionen on the part of the vicarage, where
the trees stood, and sold them to the highest bidder. They lie! O,
Lord if I could, I wanted the pastor, the Schulze and the Chamber
of Deputies - Prince - so if I were lord, what the trees looked
after me in my country!

On October 10th When I only their black eye can see, I probably have
it! Sieh, and what I verdrießt is that Albert is not as seems to be
happy as he - hoped - as I - to be believed - if - I do not like indents,
but here I can not express - and me, seems clear enough. On
October 10, Ossian, in my heart humor ousted.

What a world in which the Magnificent leads me! To walk on the heath,
from umsaust storm winds, in the steaming mists of the ghosts of fathers
in the light of the moon dämmernden leads. To hear from her mountains,
the roar of the forest stream, half verweht moans of the ghost from
their caves, and the mourning of the death itself jammernden girl
to the four moosbedeckten, grassy stones Edelgefallnen, her lover.
If I then find the changing gray Barden, on the wide heath the
footsteps of his father studied and, ah, their tombstones and then
finds jammernd after love hinblickt stars of the evening, which is
rolling into the sea is hidden, and the times of past of the hero
soul alive, there's the friendly beam of the dangers of the brave and
the moon shone its crowned victorious return ship beschien. If I were
the deep sorrow on his forehead read the last deserted splendid
weariness in all the grave zuwanken see how he is always new, painful
blistering delights in the presence of loose virtue of its secluded
shade einsaugt and after the cold earth, the tall, waving grass
ausruft and looks down: "The hikers will come, come, who knew me
in my beauty, and ask: 'where is the singer, excellent Fingals son?"

His kick goes out on my grave, and he asks in vain for me on earth.
"- O friend! I would like a noble weapons makers draw the sword, my
lord of the zückenden slowly dying agony of life at once free and
liberated my soul demigod after that. 19 Oh, this gap in October!
This appalling gap that I feel in my bosom - I often think if you
just once, just once at the heart of this press might, this
entire gap would be filled. On 19 October Yes it is certainly me,
dear, certainly, and always certain that in the existence of a little
creature is situated very little. There came a Lotten girlfriend and
I went inside into the next room, take a book and could not read,
and then I took a pen to write. I heard them talking quietly, they told
each other insignificant matters, City News: how they get married, like
those sick, very sick .-- "It has a dry cough, the bones on her face
stand out, and get fainting, I was no Kreuzer for their lives. "
Said one .-- "The sea level is so bad off," said Lotte .-- "He is
already swollen," said the other .-- And, my vivid imagination I
put into the bed of these arms, I saw them, with whatever reluctance
they turned their backs on life, as they - Wilhelm! And my female
spoke about how just talking about them - that a stranger dies .--
And when I scout and see the rooms, and around me Lotten clothes
and Alberts Skripturen and furniture, which I'm now friends even
Dintenfaß this and think: see what you're home now this!

All in all. You honor your friends! You're often their joy, and your
heart, it seems as if without it they could not be, and yet - if you
went when you made this place different? Would they, how long would
they feel the gap, the loss of your destiny into their tears? How
long? - O, so fleeting is man that he is also there, where he was
certain of his actual existence, since, where he was the only true
impression of his presence makes in the memory, in the soul of his
loved ones that he well as die, must disappear, and so soon!

On 27 I would like to see in October is often the chest and tearing the
brain einstoßen that themselves so little can be.

Ah, love, joy, warmth and joy that I do not get added, I will not
give the other, and with a whole heart full bliss, I will not be
happy the other, the cold and powerless against me.

I have so much, and the Emfpindung to it devours everything, and I
learned so much, and without them I am everything to nothing. On 27
The evening of October if I do not have a hundred on the confessed
points'm her around the neck to fall!

The great white god, how one's doing so much kindness to a herumkreuzen
to see and not be allowed access, and access is but the natural
tendencies of humanity.

Take the kids to be everything to them in the sense, - And I? On 30
October white God!

I put myself to bed as often with the desire, sometimes with the hope
not to wake up again: and I am the eyes to see the sun again, and
I'm miserable.

O that I might be fickle, it could weather the debt over to a third
party, to push a failed company, it would be the unbearable burden of
reluctance but only half rested on me. Woe to me! I feel to be true,
that to me all the blame lies - not guilty!

Enough of that in me the source of all misery verborben, as the
source of all former animosities.

Am I not still ebenderselbe, formerly in the fullness of sensation
herumschwebte, the footholds on each followed by a paradise, which
had a heart, a world lovingly to include?

And this heart is now dead, made him go no more delight, my eyes are
dry, and my sense, which no longer refreshing tears gelabt will pull
my head together anxiously. I suffer much, because I've lost, what
my life was the only delight, the holy, animating force, the worlds
I created around me, it is then! - If I were my window to the distant
hills to see how the Morning sun over him through the mist and the
quiet Wiesengrund bescheint, and the gentle river between its willow
entblätterten to me herschlängelt, - o!

If given this wonderful nature so rigidly in front of me is like a
painted picture, and all the bliss bliss no drops from my heart up
in the brain can be pumped, and the whole man stands before God's
face like a dried up well, like a bucket verlechter.

I have often thrown on the floor and asked God for tears, as a field
man for rain, when the brazen sky above him and to him the earth
verdürstet.

But, ah, I feel it, God gives rain and sunshine are not our impetuous
prayers, and those times, whose memory haunts me, why they
were so blessed, because as I patiently awaited his spirit and the joy
that he ausgoß about me, wholeheartedly, deeply grateful hearts started!
On 8 November has accused me my excesses! Alas, with so much
kindness!

My excesses that I am sometimes a glass of wine tempt leave a bottle to
drink .-- "Do not!"

she said, "think of Lotten !"--" thinking!" I said, 'You need
me to say?

I think - I do not think so, you are always in my soul. Today I was
sitting at the spots where you recently went from the coach. "- what
you talked differently, to me, not deeper into the text to come.

Best, I'm so, you can do with me what she wants. On 15 November I thank
you, William, for your cordial share, for your well-meaning Council
and ask you to be quiet. Let me ausdulden, I have in all my
Müdseligkeit still enough power to enforce. I honor the religion, you
know, I feel that she sometimes tired rod, some refreshment is
swelter. Only - they can, it must be because of any of his? If
you look at the big world ansiehst, so you can see thousands, where
it was not thousands, where they do not will be preached or
ungepredigt, and they told me it should it be? Says not even the
Son of God, that would be for him, which he has given the father?
If I were him now is not where I? If I am now the father bahalten for
themselves, how my heart tells me?
Was it because there were no work-baskets, spilling lace and bits of
ribbon, no photographs, no keepsakes, hideous perhaps, but dear for
what they represent, no worn girlhood's books, no shamefaced toys,
lingering from the nursery, no litter of any other member of her
family? Perhaps. Mme. Modjeska, then, and even now one of the greatest
actresses on our stage, called it an unwomanly room, but I am not
quite sure that this is precisely what she meant.

No, the most vivid impression the room could make upon me was one that
brings a reminiscent chuckle even to-day. As my eye fell on the
antique dressing-table, I seemed to see, suddenly and laughably,
Margarita, sweeping down the stairs, enveloped in a billowy
_peignoir_, her hair loose, her eyes flashing furiously, in her
extended finger and thumb, held as one would hold a noxious adder, a
thin navy-blue necktie.

"Is that yours?" she demanded tragically of her husband.

"Why, yes, I believe it is," said Roger, with the grave politeness
that years of intimacy could never take from him.

"I found it _on my dressing-table_!" she thundered, and her voice
echoed like an angry vault, "_on--my--dressing-table_!"

She dropped it like a toad at his feet, swept us all with the
lightning of her eyes, coldly, distastefully, and swam up the stairs,
an avenging goddess, deaf to Roger's matter-of-fact apology, blind to
Miss Jencks's deprecating blushes. As for me, so under the spell of
that voice have I always been, that I swear I thought her hardly
used--the darling vixen!


PART EIGHT

IN WHICH THE RIVER RUSHES INTO
PERILOUS RAPIDS


    Come, my mother that carried me,
    Make me to-night an olden spell!
    Try if my witch wife loves the Sea,
    Or she'll choose the waves or she'll choose for me,
    Then hey, for heaven or ho, for hell!

    Circle the Cross on the midnight sand,
    Heap the fire and mutter the charm,
    Call her out to ye, soul in hand,
    Blind and bare to the moon she'll stand,
    Then out to the sea or in to my arm!

_Sir Hugh and the Mermaiden._


CHAPTER XXVII

WE BRING OUR PEARL TO MARKET


I did not hear Margarita sing in opera till the night of her _début_
in _Faust_. Roger, on the contrary, was allowed to attend the last
rehearsals: Margarita honestly wished for his criticism, which she
knew from the very fact of his utter aloofness from her professional
interests would be perfectly unbiased and sincere. It was not without
a secret thrill of pleasure through my disappointment that I
acquiesced in her decree; I knew that she would be nervous with me,
from my very sympathy with her.

I can see the _Opéra_ now--the lights, the jewels, the moustaches, the
white shirt-bosoms, the lorgnettes, the fat women with programmes, the
great, shrouding curtain.

Sue was there, pallid with excitement, and Tip Elder, who had come
over for a much-needed holiday, and Walter Carter, who had been on an
errand to Germany, and who had (of all unexpected people!) convinced
Madam Bradley that her own hard pride should no longer be forced to
regulate her children's enmities, and come to extend the olive-branch
to Roger.

I was as nervous as could be and Roger, I think, was not quite so calm
as he seemed and gnawed his lower lip steadily.

But Margarita, one would suppose, had not only no nerves but not even
any self-consciousness. She told us afterward that before the curtain
rose she was nearly paralysed with terror and was convinced that her
voice had gone--it caught in her throat. She could not remember the
words of the _Jewel Song_ and her stomach grew icy cold--if Roger had
been there, she said, she would have begged him to take her away and
hide her on the Island! But he was not there. No one was there but
Madame and her maid, and she could not run away alone.

When she sat spinning at her wheel behind the layers of gauze, and
_Faust_ saw her in his dream, her legs shook so that she could not
work the treadle. But when she paced slowly onto the scene in her grey
gown all worked with tiny, nearly invisible little butterflies--they
had made her put aside the big ones--she was as calm and composed as
the chorus around her and her voice was as beautiful as I have ever
heard it.

"The child was born for the stage, there is no doubt!" Sue whispered
to me excitedly, and I nodded hastily, not wishing to lose a note or a
movement.

It was her best-known part and she was very lovely and magnetic in it,
but I do not think it really suited her so well as the Wagner dramas
would have, later. It is with _Marguerite_ as a great English
comedienne expressed it to me some years later, of _Juliet_: one must
be forty to play it properly--and then one is too old to play it
properly!

But what a gait she had! Her stride just fitted the stage, her
carriage of neck and head was such as great artists have worked years
to attain--and she was unconscious of it. Her eyes looked sky-blue
under the blonde wig, and the blonde tints were lovely, if not so
fascinatingly surprising as her own.

When she stopped, fixed her great eyes upon _Faust_ reproachfully and
sang, like a sweet, truthful child,

    _Non, monsieur, je ne suis belle!
    Ni belle, ni demoiselle...._

a little sigh of pleasure ran through the audience: she won them then
and there. It seemed incredible that she was acting--it seemed that
she must be real and that the others were trying to surround her with
the reality she expected, as best they could. She had the sweet
purity of tone--the candour, if I may so call it, often associated
with delicate, small voices and singers of cool, rather inexpressive
temperaments. But _Brünhilde_ was the part for her, and _Brünhilde_
was not cool and anything but inexpressive.

The only _Marguerite_ I have ever seen since that resembled hers was
Mme Calvé's, and the French artist seemed studied and conscious beside
Margarita. You see, she _was_ young, she _was_ sincere and ingenuous,
she _was_ slender and beautiful--and she had a fresh and lovely voice,
well trained, into the bargain. She would never have made a great
coloratura soprano. Neither her voice nor her temperament inclined to
this. She belonged, properly speaking, to the advance guard of the
natural method, the school of intelligence and subtle dramatic skill.
I cannot imagine Margarita a stout, tightly laced, high-heeled
creature, advancing to the footlights, jewelled finger-tips on massive
chest, emitting a series of _staccato_ fireworks interspersed with
trills and scales apropos of nothing in this world or the next.

Such performances constituted Roger's main objection to the opera, and
though he was considered Philistine once, it is amusing to see how the
tide of even popular opinion is setting his way, now.

So in the great final trio, Margarita did not show at her best,
perhaps; the situation seemed strained, unreal, and the final shriek a
little high for her. But oh, what a lovely creature she was, alone in
her cell! What lines her supple figure gave the loose prison robe,
what poignant, simple, cruelly deserted grief, poured from her big,
girlish eyes! And I do not believe anyone will ever again make such
exquisite pathos of the poor creature's crazed return to her first
meeting with her lover. So clearly did she picture to herself this
early scene that we all saw it too, and lived it over again with the
poor child.

    _"Ni belle, ni demoiselle ..."_

[Illustration: IT WAS AFTER THE GARDEN LOVE-SCENE THAT SHE WON HER
RECALLS]

It was the whole of love betrayed, abandoned, yet loving and
forgiving, that little phrase; and I staunchly insist that the good
Papa Gounod deserves credit for it, sentimentalist though he be!

It was after the garden love-scene that she won her recalls, over and
over again. Above the great sheaf of hot-house daisies I sent up to
the footlights she bowed and bowed and bowed again and smiled, and the
jewels flashed on her white shoulders and the yellow braids shook at
her deep, triumphant breaths, as she beamed out over us all, the
wonderful, all-embracing smile of the born artist, that cannot be
taught. and you, friends, their wealth and their generosity is
nothing new. Stirred says' I: "Well, Berga, there's a reunion for
us, so it's certainly either in heaven or in Flätz, and I hope to God,
the latter. «- Stracke went hale them. I saw myself through the
carriage window to return to my good Neusattel town, and it came
before me stirred as directed storm whose tip properly as a Epitaphium
over my life or maybe my dead body traveling back up in the air:
- "how is everything, «dacht 'ich," if you have finally, after two
or three days wiederkommst?

"Now I saw my mountain elk us out of the attic windows look, and I
laid me far from the coach Digest addition, Falk and her eyes
immediately recognized my head, threw kisses on kisses me with both
hands, down, down into the valley to the rolling cars.

"You [10] and delivers the ideal life of our hopes and intentions
something other than a prosaic, unmetrische, unrhymed translation?
Hearted woman," thought I, "how are you doing your low birth through
the spiritual rebirth forgetful, so strange!

"Admittedly, the Postkutschengelag 'picnic and wanted me less taste;
louder suspicious, unfamiliar rabble, which (as usual, the markets
do) the Flätzer through his weather einlockte.

Ungern werd' ich unknowns a friend, but my brother, the Dragoons,
was as always with all of heaven and hell herausgeplatzt. Beside me
sat a highly probable whore. - On her bosom a dwarf, which is based
on the fair wanted to see leave. - I looked over a chamber hunter
myself - and the bottom of the valley rose a stowaway jacket with
a red one.

I liked even nobody except my brother. Whether the prostitute is not my
acquaintance to a [78] The wives hold all the white stuff white =
only = no book, whether they like perhaps some polemical tomes, eh
'er in the paper mill came as a bride shirts worn on the body may have.
The men only to return it. sworn indication use, if not thieves
among the passengers, me and my idiosyncrasies and coincidences study
would make an impact on the ordeal myself in their ties to weave -
that nobody could pledge me. An alien looking places I have
reluctantly - and for caution - at any time up dungeon grids,
because a bad guy can sit behind it, the hurry herunterschreit from
mere malice, "spit down there is my comrade, the Schmelzle," - or
even because Scherge nailed one can imagine, I looked up to my
Confederate horror.

From a little of various rotating caution 'I therefore never be if a
star to me nachruft: thief! What the dwarf itself is concerned,
it could' ride it for my sake, wherever he wanted, but he believed
a special Frohleben in [7] outrage in German Reich body was difficult
to move about, so the beetles can not fly, their wings = = = fairly
well by wing blankets = - and collected by adults - are entrenched.

Do not trouble yourselves to explain to me that Gretchen was
but an episode in a great cosmic philosophy; I knew it once, when I
was young like you. But I am nearly sixty now--worse luck!--and I see
why the cosmic philosophy has been quietly buried and the episode
remains immortal! And so will you some day.

It was a great success for Madame and she basked in it; she had even a
compliment for Roger. In our gay little supper, afterward, we had all
a kind word--an almost pathetically kind word--for Roger. Margarita
herself had never been so attentive to him, so eager for his
ungrudging praise, so openly affectionate with him. He was very kind,
very gentle, but in a quiet way he discouraged her demonstrative
sweetness and led her to talk of her professional future. In her eyes
as she looked at him over her wine-glass I seemed to see something I
had never seen before, a sort of frightened pity; not the terror of a
child cut off by the crowd from its guardian, but rather the fear of
one who sees a one-time comrade on the other side of a widening flood,
and regrets and fears for him and pities his loss and loneliness, but
is driven by Destiny and cannot cross over. I wondered if the others
saw it too, but dared not discover.

It was not altogether a happy _petit souper_, you see; I often think
of it when I assist at similar gatherings, and wonder to myself if in
all the glory and under all the triumph there is not some dark spot
unknown to us flattering guests, some tiny gulf that is growing
relentlessly, though we throw in never so many flowers and jewels to
fill it. The wheel turns ever, and no pleasure of ours but is built on
the shifting sand of some one's pain, even as Alif told me.

We had the _Valentin_ of the opera, a dapper little Frenchman, with us
(I forget his name: he had been very kind to Margarita and stood
between her and the senseless jealousy of the big, handsome tenor more
than once) and I heard him as we left the table remark significantly
to Mme. M----i, with a glance at Roger,

"Monsieur is not artiste, then?"

"Surely that sees itself?" returned the famous teacher with a shrug.

"_Un mari complaisant, alors?_" said the baritone lightly.

Madame had never liked Roger, and was, moreover, a somewhat prejudiced
person, but even her feelings could not prevent the irrepressible
chuckle that greeted this.

"Do not think it, my friend--_jamais de la vie!This matter can
not remember much at face value but in cash amounts to a whopping
seventeen million reais a fleece and piquillo.

When Mrs Marquesa like, I will surrender and will know everything often.
- Lord D.

Gregorio, and V. know that I am married. Waiting for my husband comes
to accept the inheritance. He delivered all as lord and master. Within
three or four days come from Madrid.

Meanwhile, this house is big enough to V. staying in it. Mr. D.
Gregorio Salinas accepted the invitation, tried very honored and moved
to fourth, which prepared him in the house of Doña Luz, who had
left the suitcase in detestable inn place.

Doña Luz, meanwhile, though saddened by the death of his mother
and the sad story he had heard count gave the skinny human condition,
and was glad to be so rich.

And what pleased her most was thinking about all those millions in a
splendid present, little more than rain from heaven, that she would
do to your D. Jaime, which deserved the prize desinteresadísimo love
with which he had given his hand and his name. The letter-XX-The arrival
of a mysterious stranger with a specialty if Levite and the stranger
spends _colmena_, ie, high hat, is always an extraordinary event
in any place of inland Andalusia.

The curiosity is strongly excited, and there is nobody who does not
ask: "What will come here for this gentleman?". It asked the
_villafrianos_ or just saw _villafriescos_ D. Gregory. And curiosity
is ten times, or little less, when it was learned that Gregory
had been such a gift to shelter in the house of Doña Luz. For more
than a curiosity, if they wake up in other small towns with the noblest
sentiments of any arrival stranger: the sociability and the courtesy.
The gentlemen of the people are quick to see the stranger and get their
orders, and did so with D. Gregorio magnates or the main heroes
of Villafría. It is clear that the visit, but courtesy is done, there
is no need to be locked within the limits of mere courtesy.

_Lo Courteous valiente_ not remove it, and therefore go to newcomer few
questions to find out who is important, what is and what is proposed.
Instead, they usually inform the stranger, nothing but ask, how
true on site, show-off by exaggerating the wealth and prosperity of its
people. From the latter were very escarmentados and cured in Villafría
because they had recently received a harsh lesson. people come to
a stranger, that he became aware on the road with the son of one
of the wealthier landowners, who was also traveling.

This gentleman took the stranger visiting his father, who was the
spitting that the tusk in Villafría point talking about ounces
of gold, and weigh the greatness and abundance with which he lived.
A few questions from the stranger, the landowner told him everything
that was rich, tripling its powers. That he still had one for four
months and told him that he had two all year, often day and night. He
had a mill ACEITERO with a hydraulic press, and assured him that he
had three with as many presses. Arrobas had caught five thousand of
wine, and said it had taken twelve thousand. There were two thousand
bushels of crushed olives, and assured him that there were six thousand-odd
which had grounded. Not wanting to stay behind, the other landowners
also praised the stranger their profits, crops and industries. The
stranger came to persuade that he was in Jauja, and then discovered
that he was a government inspector, who came to see the hidden wealth
that existed in the villages, especially in regard to industrial
subsidies.

Villafría was in panic awful. The commissioner said that he was in need
to hard news of the superiority treasures hidden there, and
terrified the largest contributors, met at a point Consistoriales
Houses, and calling the commissioner, who begged not lose, they
were poor, and vanity and lies three fifths of what they have
confessed. The commissioner replied that he might have some
boastful exaggeration, but in truth, they were richer and industries
which consisted of an officer, and he was well aware of everything
to give his report, faithfully fulfilling their duty . The gentlemen
taxpayers begged him not metiese in such barahúndas, which was too
warm to the head, and no one had appreciated, and, finally, to finish
convincing, cast all one piece and gave eight thousand realetes
as costs of aid and comfort in the work of his pilgrimage, which
was blessed by God with music or with Tell statistics elsewhere.

The work on Napoleon was done: he had laboured over it in Rome during
the summer, and Margarita had been very sweet, refusing more than one
invitation (at Sue Paynter's earnest request) to stay with him. But it
was only too evident that she did not wholly wish to stay and that
such a situation could not last long. Herr M----l kept her interested,
and Seidl, whom he sent for to hear her practising for _Siegfried_,
was most enthusiastic about her and displayed his admiration a little
too strongly for our peace of mind. His was a developing, forcing
influence, and Margarita showed the effect of it wonderfully; he
inspired her to her best efforts, and Mme. M----i was terribly jealous
of him. Personally, I could not but feel that his undoubtedly great
influence upon her mind and methods represented one of his many
invaluable contributions to the musical history of America--but I
speak as an observer, merely, of an American artist, not as a husband!

Roger and he had what must be confessed was a quarrel (though the
newspaper accounts of a duel were, of course, absurd) over the
advisability of her singing privately for a young German princeling
whom Seidl was very anxious to honour--he was then introducing the
Wagnerian dramas into America and had not been long director of the
Metropolitan Opera House, New York. It all smoothed over and we agreed
to forget it, all of us, but Seidl's pride was hurt and Roger had done
what I had not seen him do for fifteen years--lost his temper badly.
He was not pleasant in a temper, old Roger, like all men of strong,
controlled natures, and Margarita learned a lesson that day that she
never forgot, I suppose. I believe if on the strength of that
impression he had carried her off bodily--flung her over his
saddle-bow, as it were, and ceased to respect her rights for
twenty-four hours, we should all have been spared much strain and
suffering. But he regretted his violence and told her so, which was
fatal, or so it seemed to me. There are occasions when not to take
advantage of a woman is to be unfair to her, and Margarita was very
much a woman.

Well, well, it's all over now, and we have no need to regret that we
did not try a different way. It may be we should have had to pay a
greater price--for nothing lacks its price-mark on life's counter,
more's the pity, and if we are deceived by long credit-accounts, the
more fools we!


CHAPTER XXVIII

ARABIAN NIGHTS IN ENGLAND


I had much to reconstruct that season in regard to Margarita. I had
found her once before, in Paris, no longer a child, but a woman; I
found her now no woman merely, but a woman of the world. It seems
incredible, indeed, and I have puzzled over it many an hour when the
demon of sciatica has clawed at my hip and Hodgson's faithful hands
have dropped fatigued from his ministrations. How she did it, how an
untrained, emotional little savage, with hands as quick to strike as
the paws of a cub lioness, with tongue as unbridled as the tongue of a
four-year-old, with no more religion than a Parisian _boulevardier_,
with not one-tenth the instruction of a London board-school child--how
such a creature became in two years an (apparently) finished product
of civilisation, I am at a loss to comprehend. That she did it is
certain. My own eyes have seen Boston Brahmins drinking her tea
gratefully; my own ears have heard New York fashionables babbling in
her drawing-room. As for London, she dominated one whole season, and
not to be able to bow to her, when she rode on her grey gelding of a
morning, was to argue oneself unbowed to! Paris can never forget her,
for did she not invent an entirely new _Marguerite_? And the Republic
of Art is not ungrateful. She would have been a social success in
Honolulu or Lapland, the witch!

Whether her ancestor the prince or her ancestress the actress made her
development possible, whether her Connecticut grandfather or her
Virginia grandmother taught her, how much she owed her bandit father
who defied the world and her mother, the nun, who won it--both for
love--who shall say?

When I look back on those wonderful months I find that the fanciful
sprite whose province it is to tint imperishably the choice pictures
that shall brighten the last grey days, has selected for my gallery
not those hours when the footlights stretched between us, though one
would suppose them beyond all doubt the most brilliant, but quaint,
unexpected bits, sudden, unrehearsed scenes that stand out like tiny,
jewelled landscapes viewed through a reversed telescope, or white
sudden statues at the end of a dark corridor.

There is that delicious afternoon when we went, she and I and Sue
Paynter and an infatuated undergrad, to Oxford together, and ate
strawberries and hot buttered tea-cake and extraordinary little buns
choked with plums, and honey breathing of clover and English meadows,
and drank countless cups of strong English tea with blobs of yellow,
frothing cream atop. Heavens, how we ate, and how we talked, and how
tolerantly the warm, grey walls, ivy-hung and statue-niched, smiled
through the long, opal English sunset at our frivolous and ephemeral
chatter! They have listened to so much, those walls, and we shall
perish and wax old as a garment, and still the tea and strawberries
shall brew and bloom along the emerald turf, and infatuated youths
shall cross their slim, white-flannelled legs and hang upon the voice
of their charmer. Not the pyramids themselves give me that sense of
the continuity of the generations, the ebb and flow of youth and
youth's hot loves and hot regrets and the inexorable twilight that
makes placid middle age, as do those grey walls and blooming closes of
what I sometimes think is the very heart's core of England. My
mother's countrymen may fill London with their national caravanseries
and castles with their nation's lovely (if somewhat nasal) daughters,
but Oxford shall defy them forever.

The infatuated undergrad was the owner of a banjo, an instrument
hitherto unknown to Margarita and in regard to which she was vastly
curious, and at her request he and three of his mates blushingly sang
for her some of the American negro melodies then so popular among
them. She was delighted with them and soon began to hum and croon
unconsciously, the velvet of her voice mingling most piquantly with
their sweet throaty English singing. By little and little her tones
swelled louder and more bell-like: theirs softened gradually, till the
harmony, so simple, yet so inevitable, dwindled to the nearest echo
and barely breathed the quaint, primitive words:

    _"Nellie was a lady--
    Last night she died ..."_

Those deep tones of hers, stolen from envious contraltos, turned in
our ears to a mourning purple; a sombre, tender gloom haunted us, and
the sorrow of life, that alone binds us together who live, hung like a
lifting cloud over all who came within the magic radius of her voice.
The people gathered like bees to a honeycomb from all sides; black
caps and pale clear draperies drifted into a wondering circle; the
clink of cups, the murmur of gentle English voices died softly away
and the silence that was always her royal right spread around her.

    _"Toll the bell for lovely Nell,
    My dark ... Virginia ... bride!"_

Who they were, those listening hundreds, I could not say for my life.
I suppose they must have been some garden party--I distinctly recall
the gaiters of a bishop and the coloured linings of more than one
doctor's hood among them. They are as sudden, as unexplained in my
memory, as those crowds in dreams, so definite, so individualised,
where haunting, special faces stand out and hands clasp and shoulders
touch--and all fades away. Around the vivid emerald lawn they group
themselves, and Margarita, a pearl in pearly trailing laces, sits on
a stone bench, defaced and mossy, in the centre, at the back; the lads
adore at her feet, the banjo drops tinkling handfuls of chords at
intervals, the birds flutter through the ivy overhead, the watered
turf smells strong and sweet in the fanlike rays of the slow sun;
bright pencils of yellow light fall like stained glass among the
immemorial ivy; the day goes, softly, pensively....

    _"Toll the bell for lovely Nell ..."_

"Ah-h-h!" they sigh and melt, and I see nothing more. But the picture
is safe.

Then there was the famous house-party down in Surrey, whither the
elect of England, for some reason or other, seem to gravitate; whether
because the long midsummer Surrey days appear to them the last stage
on the way to a peaceful, well-ordered heaven, in case they expect to
spend eternity there, or a temporary solace, in case they don't! Sue,
to whom all musical Europe opened its doors on poor Frederick's
account, had taken Margarita, to whom the said doors were gladly
opening on her own, to one of the famous country houses of a county
famous for such jewels, and when Roger and I turned up there, who
should our host be but one of my old schoolmates at Vevay--younger son
of a younger son, then, and unimportant to a degree, but advanced
since by one of those series of family holocausts that so change
English county history, to be the head of a great house and lord of
more acres than seems quite discreet--until one is in a position to
slap the lord on the shoulder!

To Sue and me the soft-shod luxury, the studious, ripe comfort of the
great, hedged establishment, were frankly marvellous, accustomed as we
were to the many grades and stages of domestic prosperity between this
rose-lined ease and little-a-year; but Margarita, to whom the old red
jersey of the Island was no more real than the barbaric trappings of
_Aïda_, who accepted shells from Caliban or diamonds from
_Mephistopheles_ with equal _sang-froid_, displayed an indifference
to her surroundings as regal as it was sincere. Indeed, the two
simplest people at that party (famous for years in country-house
annals as the most brilliant gathering of well-mixed rank and talent
that ever fought with that arch-enemy of the leisured classes,
_Ennui_, and throttled him successfully for seventy-two hours) were
the wife of an American attorney-at-law and the eldest son of
England's greatest duke--the most eligible _parti_ in the United
Kingdom, a youth of head-splitting lineage and fabulous possessions.

They sat together on the floor of a chintz-hung breakfast room,
spinning peg-tops all over the polished wax, for two rainy hours
before dinner (which function was delayed half an hour to please them,
to the awed wonder of the lesser guests and the apoplectic amusements
of the young peer's father) and were the only occupants of the great
house, except three collie pups who sat with them, to see nothing odd
in the performance, though Saint-Saens was come over from Paris to
accompany Margarita on the piano and the princess of a royal family
was dressed in her palpitating best for the best reason in the world
not unconnected with the son of an historic house!

Du Maurier drew a picture of it for _Punch_ in his very best manner
(it went the length and breadth of England) and then, at Roger's grave
request, withdrew it from the all-but-printed page and gracefully
presented him with it. It was wonderfully characteristic of both of
them and prettily done on both sides, to my old-fashioned way of
thinking.

Well, it was after that top-spinning that Margarita and the Fortunate
Youth jumped up carelessly, kicked away the tops, and raced each other
to the noble music room, a magnificent gallery, all oak and Romneys
and Lelys, and there the Fortunate Youth sat down at the piano
(Saint-Saens standing amused in the curve of it) and began to play the
accompaniment of one of Tosti's great popular waltz-songs. It is no
longer in favour, your waltz-song, though I have lived through a
sufficient number of musical fashions to be reasonably certain of its
return to power, some day, but then it was at its height, and
subalterns hummed them to military bands, from Simla to Quebec, and
soft eyes dropped under those subalterns' right shoulders and soft
hearts melted as the chorus was repeated by request, and the dawn
found them still dancing--bless the happy days!

Now Providence had seen fit (displaying thus an astonishing lack of
socialistic wisdom and an altogether regrettable tendency to give to
those to whom much had already been given) to bestow upon this
Fortunate Youth enough musical ability to have made the fortune of a
pair of Blind Toms, so that he could play any and all instruments,
instinctively, apparently, and almost equally well. He played also by
ear, with the greatest ease, the most complicated harmonies, and could
accompany anybody's singing or playing of anything whatever--if he
happened to be in the mood for it.

"It is a thousand pities that one could not have found him in the
gutter, that boy," as M. Saint-Saens confided to me, "it would have
been of service to him!"

Which remark, being overheard, scandalised many good British souls
horribly and caused the youth to blush with perfectly ingenuous and
modest pleasure.

He sat down at the great Steinway and ran his long white fingers
loosely over the keys, and said to Margarita, while the butler gazed
in agony at his mistress, and the other guests, all arrayed for one of
the climaxes of one of England's most temperamental importations from
the kitchens of France, stood divided between interest and foreboding,

"I say, Mrs. Bradley, can you sing _'Bid me Good-bye and Go'?_ I'm
awfully fond of that."

"I can sing it if it is here," said Margarita placidly, "why not?"

"Oh, it's safe to be here," he answered easily, and sure enough, it
was there, in a cabinet close by.

Well, it was banal enough, heaven knows--how else could it have been
popular? Lincoln was not a musician, so far as I know, but he knew
that one can't fool all the people all the time! And the good Tosti,
however light he may ring nowadays, had one little bit of information
not always at the disposal of modern song-writers--he understood how
to write for the human voice. Which has always seemed to me a very
valuable acquisition, if one happens to be in the song-writing trade.

So when Margarita, with a quick glance at the obvious little melody,
put her hands behind her back like a school-girl--she was dressed in a
tight, plain little jacket and skirt of English tweeds, with stiff
white collar and cuffs and thick-soled boots, and what used to be
called an "Alpine hat"--and began to sing, to a slow waltz rhythm, one
might not have expected much: indeed, the youth hummed audaciously
with her, at first, and the other men, not one of whom was within many
degrees of nonentity, beat time carelessly.

    "_Is_ there a single _joy_ or pain
    That I may _never_ know?"

Stop a bit! What caught at your heart and worried you, Colonel, and
stabbed a little under your D. S. O.? Were you quite fair to that
lovely, high-spirited creature you married, all those years ago?

    "_Take_ back your love, it is in vain ..."

Ah, Lady Mary, you are a good twelve stone nowadays, but when that
poor younger cousin gave you that look in the garden and the roses
crawled over the old dial in the moonlight, you were slighter, and
crueler!

    "_Bid_ me good-_bye_ and _go_!"

It was a waltz, oh, yes, but it was a very Dance of Death to those of
us who had any parting to look back to, that changed our life--and we
could never go back again and make it better; never any more. That was
what cut so, and Margarita, dark and slim like a plain brown
nightingale, who leaves plumage to the raucous peacock because it
matters so little what she, the real queen of us all, wears--Margarita
spelled it out remorselessly, to the tune of a mess-room waltz, and
told us that youth is only once and so sweet and for so little time!
And the boy beside her smiled with pleasure and embroidered her rich,
clear-cut phrasing and annotated it and threw jewels and flowers of
unexpected chords through it and mocked the sad, charming fatalism of
it as only spendthrift youth can.

    "_You_ do not _love_ me, no!
    _Bid_ me good-_bye_ and go ..."

Cruel Margarita, how could you make the tears splash down the cheeks
of the poor little princess, who knew what was expected of her and had
no greater sin on her conscience than a tiny lock of her yellow hair
always warm, now, in the breast of a ridiculous second cousin on a
sheep-ranch in far Dakota, U. S. A.?

    "Good-_bye_, good-_bye_, 'tis better so ..."

They stand so still in this picture, those big, non-committal British,
each gnawing his lip a little under the drooping mustache; the women's
shoulders are ivory against the panelled oak and bowls of Guelder
roses in Chinese bowls; that beautiful line from the base of the
throat to the top of the _corsage_ which America has not to give her
daughters, as yet, heaves and droops; the Romneys smile behind their
wax candles in sconces. It is only a waltz of the street, but she has
bewitched us with it, has our Margarita.

But strongest and clearest of all, keen in light and dense in shadow
like a Rembrandt, I see that extraordinary night in Trafalgar Square,
that night that surely lives unique in the memory of Nelson and the
Lions, though most that shared it may be, and doubtless are--for they
were not for various reasons long-lived classes of people--dead and
dust by now. How and why we found ourselves at Trafalgar Square I
could not tell, though I went to the stake for it this minute. "In my
garden are roses and Jelängerjelieber two varieties, one has given
me my father, they grow like weeds, I'm looking for just two days
afterwards and can not find it.

There are always Haußen flowers, yellow and blue and red, and the
Tausendgüldenkraut has a beautiful flower. Neither can I find. "- I
noticed what uncanny, and I asked drum through a detour:" What
will he do with the flowers?

"- A wonderful, twisted smile twitching his face. "If he will not
betray me," he said, he put his finger on his mouth pressed, "I
have my treasure promised a bouquet ."--" That is good," I said .--
"Oh!" he said, "it has a lot of other things, it is rich ."--" And yet
she loved his ostrich," exclaimed I .-- "Oh!" he continued, "it has
a crown and jewels ."--" What is it for me ?"--" When the
States-General wanted to pay," exclaimed he, "I would be 'a different
person! Yes, it was once a time when I was there as well, now it is
with me. I am now. " A wet look to the sky squeezed everything
out of .-- "He was so happy?" I asked .-- "Oh I wanted, I would be
back!" he said "Because I was there as well, so funny, as easily as a
fish in water !"--" Henry!" cried an old woman who came their way,
"Heinrich, you are stuck where we have sought thee everywhere,
come to eat ."--" Is this your son?" asks' I be kicking her .-- "Well,
my poor son!" they returned. "God gave me a heavy cross up ."--"
How long is he?" I asked .-- "So quiet," she said, "it is now
half a year. Thank God that he is only so far, before he was furious
over a year since he has on chains located in the Toll House.

Now nobody does it not only has he always with kings and emperors
to create. He was such a good, quiet man who helped me to feed
his beautiful hand writing, and he will at once profound, hinziges
falls into a fever, resulting in frenzy, and now he is, as you see
it. If I should tell you, Sir. "- I broke the power of their words
with the question:" What was because for a time, of which he boasts
that he is so happily, it probably was ?"--" The foolish man! " she
exclaimed with a compassionate smile, "because he says the time when
he was on his own, which he always praises, this is the time when
he was in the Toll House, where he knew nothing of itself." - This
struck me as a thunderclap, I pressed her a piece of money in
the hand and she left quickly. Since you were happy! I called out to
me quickly after the city largely because it seems you was like a fish
in water! - God in heaven! Do you have the fate of the man that they
are not happy than before they come to your mind and if they lose
him again!

- Miserable! And also how I envy your gloom, the confusion of your senses,
where you swelter! You're hopeful that your queen to pluck
flowers - in winter - and trauerst because you do not find and do not
understand why you can not find. And I - and I go without hope, without
purpose, and come back home, as I came .-- You think, what man would
you be if you paid the States General. Blissful creature that is the
lack of an earthly bliss obstacle can ascribe! You feel not, you
do not feel that in your heart destroyed, torn in your misery is your
brains, of which all the kings of the earth you can not help. Be the
dismal perish, that of a sick beggars, according to the most distant
source travels to multiply his illness, his desire is to make painful!
The over the beleaguered heart rises, this in order to get rid of his
remorse and the suffering of his soul dismiss a Pilgrimschaft for
the holy tomb does. Every kick, his soles on ungebahntem paths intersects,
is a relief drops geängsteten the soul, and with each day's journey
ausgedauerten defines the heart of many afflictions easier down .-- And
allowed her the illusion call their word Krämer on your pads? --
Wahn! - O God! You see my tears! To have you, you the people
are poor enough created, it also brothers admit to him that little
poverty, little more confidence and, at times he has on you, you,
you Allliebender!

Because the trust to a healing root, to the tears of the vine, what
is it to trust you that you are in everything that surrounds us,
healing - and relief force have made, so we need an hour? Father, I do
not know! Father, the other filled my whole soul, and now his face has
turned from me, call me to you! Silence no longer! Your silence
will not stop thirsting soul - and would a man, a father, anger can
be, the unexpected return of his son around the neck, fell, and
cried: "I'm back, my father! Zürn not that I cancel the journey, which
I will take him longer to endure.

The world is everywhere Anyway, to reward effort and work and joy, but
what is me? I just think where you are, and in front of your face I
want to suffer and enjoy. "- And you, dear heavenly Father, should you
show him? On December 1, Wilhelm: The Man, which I wrote to you,
the happy unhappy, was clerk at Lotten father, and a passion for
her, which he fed, hid, and what he discovered from his service has
been, has made him furious. Fühle these dry words, what nonsense
I have taken history , since I just left them Albert told, as you
perhaps lies. On December 4, I ask you - do you see, with me it's
from, I contract 'is no longer, today I sat with her - that was it
played on her piano, a variety of melodies, and all the words! All! -
All - What do you want? - your sister cleaned her doll on my knee. I
came to tears in the eyes. I am inclined, and their wedding ring fell
my face - my tears flowed - and at once fell into the old, himmelsüße
melody, then all at once, and I go through the soul of a comfort
feeling and a remembrance of the past, the times when I sang the
song belongs to the dark spaces of frustration, of failed hopes,
and then - I went into the room up and down, my heart choked under
the intrusive. - "For God's sake," I said with a violent outburst
against the way they Driving, "for God's sake, listen to" - She
held rigidly and looked at me. " Werther, "she said with a smile
that I went through the soul," Werther, you are very sick, your
favorite dishes resist you.

Go! I ask you to calm down. "- I tore myself away from it and
- God! You see my misery and it will end. On December 6, as the figure
pursues me! Leveling dreaming and it fills my whole soul! Here,
if I close the eyes, here in my forehead, where the inner vision that
unites, their black eyes. Here, I can not express to you it. Take my
eyes, they are there, like a sea, as an abyss they lie before me,
in me, fill in the meaning of my forehead. What is man, the vaunted
demigod! lack him not just because the forces, where he needs it most
needed? And if he be in joy or in suffering aufschwingt sinks,
it is not just because in both delayed, just as on the dull, cold
consciousness again returned, as he is in the fullness of eternity
longed to lose?

The publisher to the reader how much Wishes' I think that sets us
apart from the last odd days of our friend so much evidence left
hand would be that I would not need to follow his story through
letters hinterlaßnen to interrupt.

I've let me matter, accurate news from the mouths of those who
collect the most of its history teaches could be, it is easy and
there are all these stories from a few minor one another, just about
the meaning of the types of persons acting in the different opinions
and judgments shared.

What we have left, than that which we experienced repeated trouble
can conscientiously to tell which of the precipitates hinterlaßnen
letters on and the smallest of those leaves are not limited to
respect, especially since it is so difficult to own, real drivers even
one single action to discover if they are people that have
carried not common in nature. resentment and pain in Werther had
deeper roots soul beaten, is fixed to each other and devoured his
entire being gradually taken. The harmony of his mind was completely
destroyed, an interior heat and ferocity, all the forces of his
nature durcheinanderarbeitete , brought the most adverse effects, and
left him just one last remaining fatigue from which he still strove
anxiously upwards, as with all the evils he had fought so far.

The Beängstigend his heart consumes the remaining forces of his mind,
his vivacity, his acumen to it was a sad shareholders, always unhappy,
and always unjust ever unhappy he was. At least say this Alberts friends,
they say that Werther a clean, quiet man who is now a long-desired
happiness have become partakers, and his demeanor, this Fortunately
also for the future, are not able to assess that, he, like every days
all assets consumed in order to attend the evening to suffer and
darbe.

Albert, said she was in such a short time does not change, he was
still the same, so the Werther knew her from the beginning, so
much appreciated and honored.

He loved everything about Lotten, he was proud of them and wished
them well as everyone recognized the beautiful creature to know. Was
it therefore verdenken him if he every note of suspicion wished away,
when he is in the moment with no one holding these delicious to the
most innocent way to share desire had? They admit that Albert often
the room to leave his wife when Werther with her, but not from
hatred or aversion to his friend, but only because he had felt that
that his presence was pressed.

    Lotten father was from an
    evil been attacked, which it held in the office, he sent her his
car, and drove them out.

It was a beautiful winter day, the first snow had fallen and covered
the whole area. Werther went her the next morning to see if Albert
would not fetch them hereinzubegleiten. The weather was clear enough
on his mind trübes effect, a dull pressure on his soul, the sad
pictures had him fixed and his mind knew no movement as of a painful
thought to another.

As he is in perpetual strife lived, seemed to him the state and else
verworrner only concern, he believed that the beautiful relationship
between Albert and his wife have to be disturbed, he made himself
over into a secret indignation against the husband mixed.

His thoughts were also under way on this subject. "Yes, yes," he said
to himself, with teeth grinding secret, "this is the familiar,
friendly, gentle, at all participating handling, the quiet, constant
loyalty!'

s Saturation and indifference! If it is not miserable any more business
to than the expensive, delicious woman? white he appreciates his good
fortune? Does he know it must be respected as it deserves? He has them,
well, he did it - I know, I know what else, I think to the idea used
to be, he will make me even more furious that he will kill me yet
- and has the friendship kept me stitch?

Does he not in my devotion to Lotten been an interference with his
rights, in my attention to a silent reproach? I know it well, I feel
'it, he sees me, reluctantly, he wants my distance, my present is
burdensome to him.

"Often, he held his rapid step, he was often silent and seemed to
want to repent; alone he directed his way forward again, and was
with these thoughts and self talks finally almost unwilling to hunt
the home.

He stepped in the door, asked for the old and Lotten, he found the house
in some movement. The oldest boy told him it was over in an accident
Wahlheim geschehn, unless a farmer has been killed - it made no
more impression on him .-- He came into the room and found Lotten
employed, the Old zuzureden, the despite his illness over wanted
to spot the act to investigate.

    The perpetrator was still unknown, we had slain the morning before
the door found that it had suspicions: the Entleibte servant was a
widow who predict another in the service had the strife in the home
had come.

As Werther heard this, he went on with ferocity .-- "Is it possible!"
he exclaimed, "I have over there, I can not for a moment ruhn." - he
ran after Wahlheim to any reminder he was alive, and he doubted
not for a moment that the man the offense, so he sometimes talked
, who had become so valuable.

Since he had by Linden in order to come to the inn, where the body had
lain, horrified 'before he was otherwise so beloved places. That
threshold, as the neighbor kids had so often played, was with blood.

Love and loyalty, the most beautiful human feelings were related
to violence and murder turns.

    The trees stood strong without
      frosted foliage and
    the beautiful hedgerows which
      are on the low churchyard wall curves were entblättert, and the
tombstones were covered with snow through out the gaps.

As he approached the inn, before which the whole village had gathered ,
was yelling at a time. We saw from afar a group of armed men, and
everyone cried that we bring the perpetrators. Werther looked back and
was not long doubtful.

    Yes, it was the servant, the widow who loved her so much that he
some time ago with the silent Grimme, with the secret despair
encountered had to walk around.

"What have you committed, Unfortunately!" Werther cried, as he went
off to the prisoners .-- This saw him still, it was silent and finally
completely shifted left: "None of them have, they will not have."
- It took the prisoners into the inn, and Werther hastened continue.
Due to the horrific, huge touch was all that stood in its essence, has
been durcheinandergeschüttelt.

    In his grief, his discontent, his
    indifferent, he was abandoned at a moment torn; insurmountable
usurped the participants, and it took him a unspeakable desire, to
save the people.

He felt him so unhappy, he found him as criminals themselves as
blameless, he seated himself so deeply into his position that he
certainly believed, others to convince.

Already he wished for him to be able to speak, has urged the liveliest
lecture according to his lips, he hurried home after the hunt is
underway and could not contain everything he wanted Amtmann imagine,
already halblaut out.

When he entered the room came, he found Alberter currently, this is
detuned him for a moment, but took it back and contributed to the fiery
Amtmann his views before.

This shook his head several times, and although Werther with the
greatest vivacity, passion and truth everything submitted, as a man
to excuse a man can say it was but how it's easy to think that
Amtmann not stirred.

He had a lot more excuses not our friend, contradicted him eagerly and
censured him that he assassinator in protective suppose it
showed him that in this way every law repealed, all the security
of the State addressed would be based, he added also that he in
such a thing could not do anything without the greatest responsibility
to charge, it should be everything in the order in the prescribed
undeterred.

    Werther was not yet, but asked only that Amtmann wants sehn through
their fingers when the people behülflich would have to flee!

Even so dismissed him from the Amtmann.

Albert, who eventually mixed into the conversation, joined to the
old page.

Werther was overruled, and a horrific suffering, he set off after
him several times Amtmann had said "no, he is not to save!"

How much to him these words must be struck, we shall see from the
pieces of paper, the among his papers and was certainly on the same
days have been written: "Thou art not to save Unfortunately, I see
well that we do not have to save." What about Albert as the cause of
prisoners in the presence of the Amtmanns spoken Werther was
the highest run was: he believed to be some sensitivity is noticed, and
although several of his Scharf Nachdenken not escape the sense that
both men want to be right, so it was him, as if his inner life
should abdicate, if he confess if he should admit it.

A leaflet, which refers to the fact that perhaps all his dealings with
Albert expression, we find among his papers: "What helps is that I
tell's me again and say he is brave and good, but it tears me inside
my guts, I can not be fair. "Because it is a mildly evening and the
weather had started to thaw to tend, with Albert Lotte went on foot
back. Pleasure saw it here and there in order, just as if they are
accompanied by Werther missing. Albert began by talking to him, he
censured him, by him he did justice to. He touched his unhappy
passion, and wished that it be possible to want to remove him .--
"I wish 'is also for our' says' he," and I ask you, "he continued,"
to see his Where you against a different direction to give his views
more often to decrease.

    The people are attentive, and I know that you here and there has
talked about that. "- silent Lotte, Albert, and her silence seemed
to have sensed, at least since the time he mentioned Werther no
more against them, and if it's mentioned, he let the conversation
turned to fall, or elsewhere.

The unsuccessful attempt to rescue the Werther had made the unfortunate,
was the last blaze of the flame of a light-extinguishing; he just
sank deeper into the pain and inactivity, especially, he came
almost beside himself when he heard that he was perhaps a witness
against the man who is now presented to the denial, might ask.

Anything unpleasant to him each in its effective Life had encountered,
the more increase in the legation, everything else failed him was
what hurt him ever had in his soul went up and down. He found himself
through all this as the right to inaction, he found himself cut off
from any view, incapable of any act to be taken, which would help
the business life of the common touch, and so he finally moved all
of his wonderful feeling, thinking and a endless passion dedicated
to the eternal monotony a sad dealing with the amiable and beloved
creatures, whose calm, he was bothered that his forces stürmend,
without purpose and process view, a sad end ever closer.

From his confusion, passion, of his restless driving and striving, of
life from his letters, some hinterlaßne the strongest evidence that we
want to shift here. On 12 December Dear William, I'm in a state in
which those wretched must have been, of which it was believed that they
would be by an evil spirit umhergetrieben. Sometimes takes me's, and
it is not fear, not desire - it is an inner, unknown bluster, my
chest is threatening to rip the throats zupreßt me! Woe! Woe! And
then I tails around in the night scenes of this terrible inhumane
year. Last night I had to also. It was a sudden thaw haggard, I had
heard the river was converted, all swollen creeks and Wahlheim down
valley flooded my dear! Eilfe night after I ran out. A terrible
spectacle, from the rock down the burrowing in the moonlight floods
whirl to see, over fields and meadows and hedges and all the wide
valley and up and down a lake in the Stürm Sausen of the wind!

We found everything in first-rate order (I had written ahead to light
the furnace) and you should have seen Roger's face when he noticed the
registers in the big room! Like a boy's when some good-natured trick
has been played upon him. Suppose we had not had them nor the coal--it
makes me cold now to think of it.

I find I can't write about it very fully, after all, and I must be
forgiven if I cut it short. It's a little too near, yet, after all the
years. I know I never want to see snow again--it is the most cruel
blue-white in the world.

We stopped the night, of course, and in the morning Roger and
Margarita went for a walk on the crust, for it had snowed all night
and the evening before--the great, fat, grey clouds were full of
it--and we thought we were in for another blizzard like last year's.
It had "let up" for a little, as they say about there, but Roger was
afraid to risk going away till it had definitely ended, so they went
for their walk, and I chatted with Miss Jencks by the fire. They had
been gone about an hour when we heard a great scratching and whining
at the door (I thought for a moment it was Kitch) and Rosy bounded in,
snapping his teeth and glaring fearfully. We both jumped up and he
flew at me and caught my sleeve in his teeth--for a moment, I confess,
I felt a little queer, for I had seen him throw Caliban and hold
him--then, as I drew back, he uttered the most heartrending howl I
have ever heard, and spun wildly around, and at that moment I felt
suddenly that something was up and that I was wanted. Miss Jencks felt
it at exactly that moment, too, and ran for my great-coat before I
asked her.

She says that I said,

"Where are they, old fellow? Go seek!" but I don't remember it. I know
that she said in a low voice,

"I shall be of no use--I can't run--but I will have everything ready,"
though she says I must have imagined it.

Rosy flew through the door and I after him--she had the sense to bring
me my heavy arctic overshoes, or I should have slipped in a
minute--and I ran for about fifty yards.

Then something stopped me. Where it came from, _what_ did it, I don't
know and can never know, but I swear I heard a low, distinct voice
close to me (not a cry, mind you, but a quiet, hoarse voice) saying,

"Get a rope. Get a rope."

I checked like a scared horse and nearly fell.

"Get a rope," I heard again, "_get a rope_."

Then, cursing at myself for a crazy fool, I actually turned, with Rosy
showing his teeth at me, and dashed back (all those precious yards!)
and grabbed a pile of rope Caliban had brought out to bind some big
logs for hauling and abandoned under the eaves when we arrived on the
island. Rosy was far ahead now, but he had gone through the crust at
intervals and I tracked him by that.

[Illustration: I LEANED OVER THE BANK AND CRIED THAT I WAS THERE, BUT
SHE NEVER STOPPED--IT WAS TERRIBLE]

Suddenly the wind--it was blowing a steady gale behind me--shifted,
and I heard a succession of terrible cries, great hoarse, high
shrieks, like nothing human and yet unlike any animal. Wordless,
throat-tearing screams they were, and I shouted back, against the
head-on wind,

"Coming! Coming! Hold on! I'm coming!" till I coughed and strangled
and had to stop.

How I ran! I never did it before and certainly never can again. Rosy's
tracks curved and twisted, and I felt I was losing time, but dared not
risk missing them, for I was coming nearer to that awful voice
steadily, though it echoed so I should have been helpless without any
other guide.

Well, I found them. Roger up to his shoulders in icy water, his head
dropped back, white, on her arm, and she up to her waist on a slippery
ledge under the highest point of the bank--the bank that I blasted
out! She was caught, I could see, on a jagged point by her heavy,
woollen skirt (it was made in London, bless it!) and must have wedged
her foot, besides, in some way, for she had his whole weight; her lips
were blue. She wore a blood-red cape, all merry and Christmas-like
against the white ledges, and her hair streamed in the wind. Her head
was thrown back like a hound's and those blood-curdling screams poured
out of it; her eyes were shut. Now and then Rosy bayed beside her,
scratching at the snow, and where the water was not frozen in the
protected pools it swirled like a mill-race around the nasty, pointed
rocks.

I leaned over the bank and cried that I was there, but she never
stopped--it was terrible. Finally I made a slip-noose and actually
managed to fling it over his head--Roger had taught me to do that at
school, twenty years ago--and that stopped her, hitting against her
cheek, and she opened her eyes.

"Put it under his arms, can you?" I cried, and after several efforts,
for she was nearly frozen stiff, the brave, clever creature did, and
I got it around a tree on the edge. Then I stopped, panting, for I
realised that I could do no more. The run had taken all the strength
out of me--I couldn't have dragged a cat--and she was little more than
a foot below me!

I can't write about it. My arms ache now, just as my infernal
shoulders ached with that paralysing, numb ache then.

"Listen!" I cried, for she had begun to scream again, "listen,
Margarita, or I will beat you! Is he unconscious?"

She nodded.

"Can you hold on five minutes, with his weight gone?"

She blinked in a sort of stupid assent.

"Could you for ten? Are you braced solid?"

Again she blinked, and with an inspiration I plunged my shaking hand
into my great-coat pocket and pulled out a brandy-flask. Miss Jencks
had taken it from the sideboard.

I tied it into my handkerchief, opened, and swung it down to her, and
she got her lips around it and coughed it down. It acted instantly and
she could move a little, and while I encouraged her, and after several
heartrending failures, which nearly spilled all the brandy, she got it
into his mouth between his teeth, as his big body swung in the noose.
It ran over his chin and down his neck, but a little got in, and his
eyelids quivered. Soon he coughed, and I dared not wait another
second.

"I am going for Caliban," I said very distinctly, "we will pull you
out in a few minutes. Let him alone and hang on, do you hear? Don't
scream any more--you are safe. Pour all the brandy into him--tell him
he is tied fast. Don't try to move--you may slip, and tear your skirt.
Hold on!"

Then I turned my back on them and ran, or rather stumbled off. I
leaned over and kissed her forehead, first.

I remember muttering, "I never asked before--if You or Anybody is
there, save them! Take me and save them!" and then I stumbled on and
on....

It was not too long. Caliban was coming with his big wood-sled and
more rope and blankets, and as I caught sight of him the most
extraordinary thought flew into my mind, which worked with a dreadful
clearness, for I saw them stiffen and sink and slip away every second.
Rosy bayed just then, and as my heart sank, for I thought they were
gone, it suddenly occurred to me what Rosy's name must have been!

"It's _Rosencrantz_!" I muttered, "and the one Margarita insists was
called 'Gildy' was _Guildenstern_, and they were _Hamlet's_
friends--poor Prynne!" Perhaps that wasn't idiotic--I laughed as I
stumbled along!

Well, they were there, and Roger was enough himself to strike out with
his feet a little and avoid hindering us, if he couldn't help much. I
made another noose for her, and she hung in it while Caliban dragged
him up--the fellow had the strength of an ox and showed wonderful
dexterity--and later crawled down the rocks and cut her skirt through
with his big clasp-knife. She was the hardest to move, for her foot
was caught--all that saved her. I thought we should break her ankle
before we could get her.

We laid them on the sledge, wrapped in blankets, poured in more
brandy, and Caliban attached Rosy to it by his collar--an old trick of
his, it seems--and they dragged us all home, for my worthless legs
gave out completely.

Miss Jencks and Agnès rubbed them and mustard-bathed them and I wrote
telegrams for Caliban to take in the launch--wrote them as well as I
could in the clutches of a violent chill, with my teeth like castanets
and my hands palsied--and even as I wrote, it came to me that
Margarita had repeated monotonously, all the way home, in a hoarse,
painful voice (but, mercifully, a low one) "get a rope, get a rope,
get a rope."

It was the voice I had heard, that turned me back!

She was all right, but very weak and sore and with a little fever--not
much. She was perfectly conscious of everything within an hour, and
told us about it: how she had slipped and Roger had hit his head and
strained himself in going after her. She thinks she held him under the
arms ten minutes, screaming all the time! She sent Rosy back, finally,
though at first he refused to go.

Roger was delirious for five days and very dangerously ill for three
weeks--it was double pneumonia. Miss Jencks had seen it before and it
was her prompt measures before we could get the doctor or Harriet that
saved him, they think. It was a bad age for pneumonia; Harriet said
she would rather have pulled Margarita through it. She brought a
deaconess from the little dispensary with her and one or the other was
watching him like a cat every second, for three weeks. It was a
nurse's case, the doctor said, though he stopped the first week.

When Margarita came to herself after an hour or so, she asked for me,
and as I knelt by her bed and she turned her great eyes on me I caught
my breath, for I was looking at a new woman. I can't describe it
better than by saying that she had a soul! There had always been
something missing, you see, though I would never have admitted it, if
she hadn't got it then. But it was there.

It was very pathetic, those first days when Roger was delirious: she
was nearly so herself. And yet it was not wholly grief--there was a
definite reason for it, which we all felt, somehow, but she would not
give it.

"Will he not know me for a minute, a little minute, Harriet?" she
would beg, so piteously, and Harriet would soothe her and try to give
her hope. The fifth day he was very low and the doctor told us to make
up our minds for anything: he hadn't slept all night. I took Harriet
by the shoulders and asked her if she could not possibly make him
conscious--before. I don't know why I asked her and not the doctor,
but I did. She promised me she would try (I think she had nearly
given up hope, herself) and at three the next morning she called me
and said that I might have a chance--that he might know us for a
moment. Margarita was by the bed: her face was enough to break your
heart.

"Only a minute, Harriet--only a little minute!" she pleaded like a
baby. I don't know what insane vow I didn't offer ... He opened his
eyes and they fell on her. She put her hand on his forehead and said
very plainly.

"Listen, Roger, you must listen. It is I--Margarita, _Chérie_, you
know. Do you hear?"

His eyes looked a little conscious, and Harriet held his pulse and
slipped something into his mouth. In a moment we all knew that he knew
us.

"Now say one thing, Mrs. Bradley--quickly!" Harriet whispered.

Margarita bent like a flash and whispered in his ear very swiftly: her
whole body was tense. You should have seen his eyes--he was old Roger
again! I could see his hand press hers and she kissed him just as the
flash went by, and he took to muttering again.

Harriet pushed her away and put her hand on his forehead, then nodded
at the deaconess.

"Call the doctor!" she said sharply, and I thought it was all over....

But it was the turn, and after that by hair's breadths and hair's
breadths they pulled him over.

"Now he knows, Jerry," Margarita said to me, and went to bed herself.

It was a good week after that, when the doctor had gone and we were
all breathing naturally again, that Harriet asked me abruptly if I had
noticed Mrs. Bradley's voice. I said yes, that it was still decidedly
husky. She looked at me so sadly, so strangely, that my nerves fairly
jumped--we had all been on edge for a month--and I commanded her
rather sharply to say what she meant and be done with it.

"Is her voice injured?"

"I am afraid so, yes," she said gently.

"But surely time and rest and proper treatment," I began, but she
shook her head.

"The doctor examined her throat before he left," she said. "Of course
he had no laryngoscope with him, but he didn't need one, really. The
vocal cords are all stretched--he said the specialists might help her
and take away a great deal of the hoarseness, but that in his opinion
she can never stand the strain of public singing again: he thinks
excitement alone would paralyse the cords."

"Who's to tell her?" I said quietly.

You see, we'd all been stretched so taut that we couldn't use any more
energy in exclamations or regrets.

"I thought you might," she said, but I shook my head.

"Miss Jencks--" I began, but it appeared that Miss Jencks felt unequal
to it. So Harriet told her, of course, on the principle that when one
has a heavy load he may as well carry a little more, I suppose.

And after all it wasn't so bad; for Margarita came down to me a little
later, and told me she had known it all the time!

"But, of course, dear child," I said hopefully, "Doctor ---- is not a
throat specialist, you know, and we can but try some of those famous
fellows, a little later. Perhaps in a year or two----"

"You are very good to me, Jerry," she said, "but it is no use. I know.
I shall never sing again. I am sorry, because----"

"Sorry?" I cried, "why, of course you are sorry! What do you mean?"

"Because," she continued placidly, "it will not be so much to give
Roger."

"Give Roger?" I echoed stupidly, "how 'give Roger'?"

"I was not going to sing any more, anyway," she said.

For a moment I was dazed and then the simplicity of it all flashed
over me.

"Why, Margarita!" I cried--and that is all the comment I ever made.

"That was what I wanted to tell him when he did not know me," she
explained. "I--I was going to tell him the night--the night it
happened."

"And does he know it now?"

"Of course. That is why he got well," she said promptly.

And do you know, I'm not sure she was wrong? That life was killing
him--I mean it ran across his instincts and feeling and beliefs, every
way.

There was no doubt she meant it. She never referred to the subject
again.

He wanted her to see somebody else about her throat, but she
absolutely refused to leave the Island till he was out of bed--Sarah
came on with the baby two weeks later--and they sat by him all day
nearly, the two of them, and he hardly let go her hand. He had changed
a great deal in one way--his hair was quite silvered. But it was very
becoming.

I didn't leave till I saw him in a dressing-gown in a long chair by
the fire. Harriet went back to her hospital, and when Roger was up to
it they went South for a bit before he began to work again.

The day before I left he did an odd thing--one of the two or three
impractical, sentimental things I ever knew him to do in his life. He
asked me to bring him his history of Napoleon--it had been packed into
their luggage by mistake--and deliberately laid it on the heart of the
fire! I cried out and leaned forward to snatch it--to think of the
labour it represented!--but he put his hand on my arm.

"Don't, Jerry--I hate every page of it!" he said.

Well, I have been wondering these twenty years if perhaps they'll talk
about it--the whole thing--some day. At the time, we all acted as if
it were the most natural thing in the world for Margarita to settle
down as a _haus frau_--perhaps when _Nora_ got done with her studies
of life (for I read Sue's Ibsen, you see) that is what she did, after
all!

At any rate, I frankly hope so. For if all the wisdom and experience
and training that the wonderful sex is to gain by its exodus from the
home does not get back into it ultimately, I can't (in my masculine
stupidity) quite see how it's going to get back into the race at all!
And then what good has it done? I hope Mr. Ibsen knows!


CHAPTER XXXI

FATE EMPTIES HER CREEL


                         [FROM SUE PAYNTER]

                                      PARIS, Feb. 10th., 189--

     JERRY DEAR:

     What must you think of me for delaying so long to write,
     after the few curt words I found for you that night? I hope
     you know that something must have kept me and have forgiven
     me already. Poor little Susy was taken very sick the night
     you sailed, with violent pains and a high fever. Fortunately
     there is a good American doctor here--a Doctor Collier--and
     we pulled her through, though it seemed a doubtful thing at
     one time. The doctor decided that she had appendicitis (I
     never heard of it before) and operated immediately on her,
     which undoubtedly saved her life. It seems that Mother
     Nature is not quite so clever as we have always thought her
     and has left a very dangerous little _cul-de-sac_ somewhere,
     that ought not to be there, so modern science takes it out.
     Isn't that strange? The doctor has just come over to operate
     for this in Germany somewhere; he was an assistant of Dr.
     McGee, whom you sent to the South, and can't say enough of
     the magnificent work he is doing there. He was much
     interested to find I knew all about it and that Uncle Morris
     stocked the dispensary. Isn't the world small?

     I hope you're not feeling too badly about Margarita--don't.
     Of course I understand what the stage has lost, and you will
     confess that I was as anxious for her career as anybody,
     even when I was sorriest for Roger. I wanted her to have her
     rights as an artist. But if _she_ doesn't want them--ah,
     that's a different pair of sleeves altogether. She has sent
     me her latest photograph, and the eyes are all I need. Of
     course, I have no such brilliant future to sacrifice, but if
     I had, I am sure I should throw a dozen of them over the
     windmill for two eyes like hers to-day!

     I don't know why I am prosing along at this rate and
     avoiding the main object of this letter. I must plunge right
     into it, I suppose, and get it over.

     Don't think I don't appreciate all your kind, your generous,
     offer meant, Jerry. I thought of it so often and so long
     before I gave you that brusque answer. And it tempted me for
     a moment--indeed it did. I think, as you say, that we could
     travel very comfortably together and we have many of the
     same tastes--I know no one so sympathetic as you. As for
     "nursing a rheumatic, middle-aged wanderer through assorted
     winter-climates," that is absurd, and you know it, though I
     should be glad enough to do it, if it _were_ true, as far as
     that goes. I know all you would do for the children, and how
     kind you would be to them. Not that I like that part,
     though, to be quite frank. I could never love another
     woman's children (especially if I loved their father) and I
     can't understand the women that do. So I always imagine a
     man in the same position. And I can't help feeling, Jerry,
     that if you _really_ loved me--loved me in the whole crazy
     sense of that dreadful world, I mean--that you wouldn't
     speak so sweetly about the children: how could you? How can
     any man--I couldn't, if I were one!

     But this is very unfair, because you never said you did love
     me in that way--don't imagine that I thought so for a
     moment. Jerry dear, my best friend now, for I must not count
     on Roger any more, do you think I am blind? Do you think I
     have been blind for three years? And will you think me a
     romantic, conceited fool when I say that unless I--even I, a
     widow and a jilt, who hurt a good man terribly and got well
     punished for it!--can have the kind of love that you can
     never give me, because you gave it to someone else three
     years ago, I don't want to accept your generous kindness?
     You see, I know how you can love, Jerry, just as I see now
     that I never knew how Roger could until those same three
     years ago. Of course he didn't either--would he ever have
     known the difference, I wonder, if we had married?

     And there is another reason, too. You might just as well
     know it, for my conceit is not pride really, and it may be
     you know it already. Whatever love Frederick failed to kill
     in me--and the very idea of passionate love almost nauseates
     me, even yet--is not in my power to give you, Jerry dear. It
     might, some day, later, wake again, but it would not be your
     touch that could wake it.

     Now, since this is so of both of us, don't you see, dear,
     that things are better as they are? I promise you that if I
     ever need help, I will come to you _first of all_, since
     what you really want is to help me and make me comfortable
     and give me the pleasure of wide travel, you generous
     fellow! And if ever you _really_ need me, Jerry--but you
     won't, I am sure. No one else is quite what you are to me,
     or can be, now, and we must always be what we have always
     been--the best of friends. Tell me that you know I am right,
     and then let us never discuss it again.

                                     If you have this Liese my best to cover even the cool grave the
frozen remains of a restless, unhappy, for the last moments of his
life no more candy white, than to entertain you.

                                                I've had a terrible night, and, ah, a charitable night.

                            It is my decision befestiget, has determined: "I want to die!

     As of yesterday, I woke you in the indignation of my terrible sense
of how all of this after my own heart and pushed my hopeless, joy
unremarkable existence next to you in more monstrous tackles me
cold - I barely reached my room, I threw myself to save me my knees,
and O God!

     You assure me the last test of the refreshing bitter tears!
     Attacks, one thousand, a thousand prospects raged through
     my soul, and at last he stood there, solid, very, last,
     only one thought: I will die - and I laid me down, and in
     the morning, in the peace of awakening, he still finds
     still very strong in my heart: I will die - it is not
     desperation, it is certain that I had out, and that I
     sacrifice myself for you. Yes, Lotte! Why should I hide
     it? One of us three must remain, and I want to be! O my
     Best! In this torn heart is angry herumgeschlichen, often -
     to kill your husband - you - me - so be it because - if you
     climb up on the mountain, on a beautiful summer
     evenings, you remember my as I so often heraufkam the
     valley, and then looking after the churchyard across to
     my grave, like the wind in the high grass of the sinking
     sun slips back and forth weighs .-- I was quiet because
     I started, now, now crying I like a child, because everything is
so vivid to me is .-- "against ten clock Werther urged his servants,
and under the dressing, he said to him, as he would a few days away,
he should, therefore, the clothes and everything auskehren Pack
trim, but he gave him command over account to request some books
borrowed fetch and some poor, where every week something he was
accustomed to, assigned to two months advance pay.

     He was eating at the desk bring and under the tables he rode
     out to the Amtmanne that he is not at home antraf. He was
     deep in the garden up and down and seemed to have all
     the melancholy of the last memories to be to want to accumulate.
     The kids made him long at rest, they pursued him, jumped up
     at him, telling him that if tomorrow, and again tomorrow,
     and yet one days would be the Christian gifts at Lotten
     picked, and told him wonder who promised her little imagination
     .-- "tomorrow!" he exclaimed, "and again tomorrow! And one
     more day! "- And kissed them all warmly and she wanted to
     leave him as the little something in the ear wanted to say.
     The betrayed him, the big brothers have written wonderful
     New Year's wishes, so great! And one for the Papa for Albert
     and Lotten also one and one for Mr. Werther, and they wanted
     to on New Year's days earlier over. That him yet, he gave
     each a little, sat down on a horse, let the old and rode greet
with tears in his eyes like this. against five he came home, ordered
the maid, after the fire to see it up into the night to entertain.

     The servant was called his books and clothes into the
     suitcase and the clothes einnähen. Then he probably wrote
     the following paragraph of his last letter to Lotten.
     "You expect me not! You believe that I would obey and until
     Christmas Eve shall see thee again. O Lotte! Today or never
     more. Christmas Eve, do you think of this paper in
     your hand, trembling and wet with tears, your love. I
     will, I must! Oh, how well it is me that I am determined.
     "Lotte, however, was in a strange state of being.

     After the last conversation with Werther, she felt how hard
     it will fall away from him to separate what he would suffer,
     if he should remove it. It was like a pass in the presence
     Alberts said that Werther before Christmas will not come
     back, and Albert was an officer in the neighborhood ridden
     with whom he was dismissing shops, and where he has night
     had to materialize. They sat alone, none of her siblings
     had to them, they gave their thoughts, the silent about
     their circumstances herumschweiften.

                              She saw now with the man forever linked, whose love and loyalty
they knew, they from the heart was affectionate, whose calm, its
reliability right from the sky to cover seemed to be that a brave
woman the happiness of her life it should be, they felt, what he
her and her children would always be.

                                 On the other hand was her Werther has become so expensive, right
from the first moment of their acquaintance had the coincidence of
their minds so beautifully shown, the long lasting deal with him,
lived through so many situations had an indelible impression on her
heart made.

                        Everything she felt interesting and thought she was accustomed to
share with him, and his removal threatened in their entire being
to pull a gap which is not able to be filled again.

    O, she would represent him in the moment to convert brother how
happy she would have been!

    Had she married one of her girlfriends may have hope they
    can, even his relationship to completely restore
    Albert!

    She had her friends in turn thought through, and found at
    a bit of any suspension, found none, they would have him
    gegönnt. Over all these considerations it was felt deeply,
    without making it clear that her warm, secret desire was for him
to retain, and said to it, and that they could not keep him, should
retain, their pure, fine, otherwise it lightweight and easy to
helping mind felt the pressure of a melancholy, which, fortunately,
the prospect is closed.

    Her heart was pressed, and a murky cloud was over her
    eye. So it was half past six become Werther as they
    come up the stairs and heard his step, his voice, asked
    after her, soon to be recognized. How her heart beat, and
    we can almost say for the first time, on his arrival. They
    would like to deny him before, and when he hereintrat, she
    called him with a kind of passionate confusion opposite:
    "You do not have word ."--" I have promised nothing" was his
    reply .-- "Thus Please at least take my system, "exclaimed
    she," I asked you to both our peace. "They did not know quite
    what they said, nor what they did when they sent a few
    girlfriends, not with Werther alone. He put some books out,
    which he had brought, asked for another, and they wished
    that their girlfriends will soon come, soon that they want
    to stay away. The girl came back and brought the news that
    both were excused.

She wanted the girl to her work in the adjoining room to sit, and
then bethought them again otherwise.

Werther went into the room up and down, they stepped to the piano
and began a minuet, they did not want to go.

She picked up and sat down to Werther, the gewöhnlchen its place on
the couch had received. "Have you nothing to read?" He said she had
nothing .-- .-- "As much in my drawer," she began, it "is the translation
of some songs of Ossian, and I have not read it yet, because I always
hoped that they like to hear from you, but zeither has not found,
do not want to do. "- He smiled, picked the songs, a Schauer attacked
him as he took in his hands and his eyes were filled with tears as
he hineinsah.

He sat down and read. "Dämmernden star of night, you beautiful
scintillating in the West, habst your main beam from your cloud,
thy stately hill walking out. Wornach you look at the heath? Winds
of the storms have made, coming from afar Giessbach of marbles; rushing
waves play on distant rocks, and the Gesumme evening schwärmet flying
over the field. Wornach you see, beautiful light? But you smile and
go, joyfully surrounded the waves and you bathe your lovely hair.

Farewell, quieter jet. show , thou glorious light of Ossian soul! And
it appears in his power. I see my divorced friends, they accumulate on
Lora, as in the days that are gone .-- Fingal comes like a damp
mist pillar, around him are his heroes and, see!, the bard
singing: gray Ullin! stately Ryno! Alpine, sweet singer! And
you, gentle plaintive minona! - How changed are you, my friends, since
the festive days to Selma, as we buhlten to honor of singing, as the
hill Frühlingslüfte wechselnd bowing out the weak lispelnde grass. Then
minona out in its beauty, with low vision and eye tränenvollem hard
her hair flowed in erratic winds, the hills of the Badlands herstieß
.

--'s ward in the soul of the hero when she brought the sweet voice, because
often they had seen the grave Salgars, often the dark dwelling of white
Colma. Colma, left on the hill, with the harmonious voice; Salgar promised
to come round but withdrew the night. Hearken Colmas voice, as they are
on the hill sat alone. Colma. It is night - I am alone, lost in the
stormy hills. The wind is rushing in the mountains. The electricity howls
down the rocks. No Refuge protects me from rain, Verlaßne me on the
stormy hills. Tritt, O moon, from your clouds, erscheinet, stars of
the night! Leite me any beam to the places where my love rests from the
complaints of hunting, his bow beside him Abgespannt, his dogs schnobend to
him! But here I must sit alone on the rocks of the deformed flow. The Power
and the rushing storm, I hear not the voice of my beloved. Zaudert my Salgar
Why? Has he forgotten his word? - There's the rock and the tree here, and
the rushing stream! By collapsing night you promised to be here, oh!
Where is my Salgar lost? With you want 'I flee, leaving father and brother,
the proud! Lange are our enemies gender, but we are not enemies, O Salgar!
Schweig a while, O wind! Still a little while, O power that my voice sounds
through the valley that my wanderer hear me. Salgar! It's me who calls! Here
is the tree and the rock! Salgar! My love! Here I am, why you zauderst
to come? Look, the moon appears, the flood shines in the valley, the rocks
are gray up the hill, but I see him not at the height of his dogs before him
does not proclaim his arrival. Here I must sit alone. But who is to lie
down there on the heath? - My lover?

My brother - speak, O my friends! They do not answer. How geängstigt
is my soul! - Oh, they're dead! Her sister red from battles! O my
brother, my brother, why hast thou slain my Salgar? O my Salgar, why
hast thou slain my brother? You were both so kind to me! O you were
beautiful on the hill among thousands! It was terrible in battle.
Answer me! Hear my voice, my beloved! But oh, they're dumb, dumb
forever!

Cold as the earth is her bosom! E of the rock of the hill from the
summit of the mountain Stürm, talking spirits of the dead!

Talk! I should not horror! - Where did you go to sleep? In the crypt of
the mountains will I find you? - No weak voice I hear in the wind,
fluttering no response in the towers of the hill. I sit in my shame,
I wait in the morning in my tears. Wühlet the grave, her friends of
the dead, but not close it until I come. My life fades like a
dream, how should I stay behind! Here I want to rock {...} - when it's
night on the hill, and wind coming over the heath, my mind will stand
in the wind and mourn the death of my friends. The hunter heard
me from his porch, afraid my voice and loves it, because my voice
is sweet to be around my friends, they were both so kind to me!

It was your song, o minona, Tormans softly blushing daughter. Our tears
flowed around Colma and our soul was gloomy. Ullin occurs with the
harp and singing gave us Alpine - Alpine voice was friendly, Rynos
soul fire beam.

But already they rested in the narrow home, and her voice was verhallet
in Selma. Once Ullin returned back from the hunt, even before the
heroes fell. He heard her singing bet on the hill. Their song was soft,
but sad. They complained Morar case, the first of the heroes. His soul
was like Fingals soul, his sword as the sword Oscar - but he came down,
and wailed his father, sister and his eyes were full of tears,
Minonas eyes were full of tears, the sister of the beautiful Morar.
They came back before singing Ullin, like the moon in the west, the
rain ahead of the storm looks and his beautiful head in a cloud hides
.-- I suggested the harp with the song of Ullin Jammers. Ryno Gone are
the wind and rain, the lunch is sunny, the clouds are divided. Fleeing
bescheint the hill the sun volatile. Reddish flowing stream of the
mountain in the valley out. Sweet is thy murmur, electricity, but the
sweet voice that I hear. It's Alpine voice, he bejammert the dead.
His main age is flexed and red watery eyes. Alpine, excellent singers,
why alone on the silent hill? Why jammerst you like a gust of wind
in the forest, like a wave on the distant shores? Alpin My Tears, Ryno,
are for the dead, my vote for the inhabitants of the grave.

Slim you are on the hill, well under the sons of the heather. But
thou shalt fall like Morar, and on your grave, the mourners sit.
The hills are you forget your arch in the hall are ungespannt. You
were fast, o Morar, like a deer on the hill, like the terrible
fire at the night sky. Dein Grimm was a storm, your sword in battle
as lightning on the heath. Your voice flows like the forest after the
rain, the thunder on distant hills. Some fell on your arm, the flame
of thy wrath consume them. But if you're returning from the wars test
how peaceful was thy forehead! Your face was like the sun after the
storm, like the moons in the silent night, quiet your chest like the
lake when the wind rush has set in place. Eng is now your home, your
dark place! With three stages mess' I thy grave, O thou, before
you were so great! Four stones with mossy heads are your only memory,
a entblätterter tree, long grass in the wind wispelt, suggests the eye
of the hunter the grave of the mighty Morar. No mother, you have to
log in to Mourning, not a girl with tears of love.

Death is that you gave birth, like the daughter of Morglan. Who in his
rod is it?

Who is the main white before age, whose eyes are red from tears? It is
your father, O Morar, father son, none other than you. He heard
about your reputation in the battle, he heard of scattered enemies,
he heard Morar fame! Oh! Nothing of his wound? Wines, father Morar,
weep! But your son hears thee not. Deep is the sleep of the dead, low
their pillow of dust.

He never respects to the voice, he never wakes up to your reputation.

O when it is morning in the grave, to offer the snooze: wake!

Farewell, noble human, thou conqueror in the field!

But you will never see the field, never of the dark forest lit
splendor of thy steel.

You left no son, but the singing is thy name, for future times to
hear from you, hear of the fallen Morar.

According to the grief of the hero, loudest Armin bursting sigh.

It reminded him of the death of his son, he fell in the days of youth.
Carmor sat close to the hero, the Prince of reverberant Galmal.

"Why the sigh schluchzet Armin?"

he said, "what is here to cry? Sounds not a song and a song, the soul
to melt and ergetzen?

They are like a gentle mist rising from the valley to the sea sparkles
and the flowers blooming füllet the wet, but the sun comes back
in force, and the fog is gone.

Why are you so jammervoll, Armin, ruler of the seeumflossenen Gorma?

"" Jammervoll! Well that's me and not the cause of my low Wehs .--
Carmor, you do not verlorst son, daughter verlorst not blooming;
COLGAR, the Brave, lives, and Annira, the most beautiful of girls. The
branches of thy house to flourish, o Carmor, but Armin is the
last of his tribe. Finster is thy bed, O Daura! dull is your sleep in
the grave - when you awake with your songs, with your melodious voice?
on their Winds of Autumn! on storms over the dark heath! forest
streams, rustled! howls, streams, peaks in the oaks! Wandle through
broken clouds , o moon, showing alternating pale thy face! Erinnre
me of the terrible night, because my child died because Arindal, The
Almighty, fell, Daura, the love that passed. "Daura, my daughter,
you were beautiful, beautiful as the moon in the hills of Fura, white
as the fallen snow, sweet as the breathing air! Arindal thy bow was
strong, thy spear quickly on the field, thy look like fog on a
shaft, your plate a fiery cloud in a storm! "Armar, renowned in the
wars, and was promoted to Dauras love, they long resisted. Schönbrunn
were the hopes of their friends. "Erath, son Odgals, grollte,
because his brother was slain by Armar. He came dressed in a sailor.
Schön was his boat on the wave, white curls against his age, calm
his serious face.

"Most beautiful girl," he said, "lovely daughter of
Armin, there on the rock, not far away in the sea, where the red fruit
from the tree herblinkt there Armar waits for Daura: I come, his
love to keep on rolling seas. It follows "him and called for Armar;
not answered as the voice of the rock." Armar! My love! My love! Why
ängstest thou me so? Hear, son Arnarths! Hear! Daura is
that you are calling! Erath, the traitor, fled laughing to the land.
They raised their voices, cried after her father and brother: "Arindal!
Armin! If none, to rescue his Daura?"

Her voice came over the lake. Arindal, my son, rose from the hill, rough
in the spoils of the hunt, his rasselten arrows at his side, he carried
his bow in hand, five black-gray mastiffs were around him.

He saw the bold Erath on the shore, groups' and tied him to the oak,
solid umflocht his hips, the tethered filled with moans the winds.
Arindal enters the waves in his boat, to bring Daura over. Armar came
in his Grimme, expresses' befiederten from the gray arrow, he sounded,
he fell into your heart, "o Arindal, my son! Instead Erath, the traitor,
did you come to the boat reached the rock, he fell down on it and died.
flowed to your feet, your brother's blood, what was your shame, O
Daura!

The waves smash the boat. sch Armar plunges into the sea, to
rescue his Daura or to die. Rapid stormed a push from the hill into
the waves, He declined and is not raised again. seebespülten alone
on the rocks hear 'my complaints of my daughter. large and loud
were their cries, but could' they do not save her father.

All night I stood on the shore, I saw them in the weak rays of the
moon, the whole night listening 'I give her screams, loud was the
wind and the rain beat on the sharp side of the mountain.
Her voice was weak, appeared before the morning, they died away
as the evening air of grass between the rocks.
Boffin used to live and old Joseph
that told you when you were all grown big and went back,

"_C'est moi, Monsieur, qui suis Joseph: j' ai nettoyé les premières
bottes de Monsieur!_"

How well I remember those first formidable boots, and my manly
feelings when I clumped them down in the hall before my door for
Joseph to clean! Jerry and Peggy and I are going over every foot of
the old grounds--the school, where the little fellows still sport
their comfortable, round capes; the way, well trodden still, I'll
wager, to the old _patisserie_ with its tempting windows of
indigestible joys; the natatorium where we dived like frogs; the
English church where we learned the Collects and eyed the young
ladies' school gravely till it blushed individually and collectively;
the famous field where I fought the grocer's boy who cried "_à bas les
Anglais!_" three days running. (He beat me, incidentally.)

I find that all the old memories come back very sweetly: I had a happy
childhood, on the whole, one that never lacked love and sympathy.
Believe me, ye parents, who think that these days will soon be
forgotten, they make a difference, these idle memories, and life is
inexpressibly richer if those early days are rich in pleasant little
adventures and cheery little experiences, cheerily shared! I have more
to remember than Roger, whose early boyhood was, though far wealthier
than mine, strangely poorer from the lack of just this mellow glow
over and through it.

And Margarita's? We shall never know what filled those silent,
childish hours of hers, alone with the dogs and the gulls. Her quaint
lonely games, her towers of sand and shell, her musings by the tide,
her dreams on the sun-warmed rocks--I fancy I see them all in watching
Peggy. She cannot tell herself.

"I began to live," she says, "when I met Roger."

"You have lived a great deal, since, have you not, Margarita?" I say,
a little wistfully, perhaps, she is so splendid and so complete, and
one seems so broken and colourless and middle-aged beside her.

"A great deal. Yes, I suppose so," she answers, and her eye rests
quickly but surely on Roger, on each of the yellow heads, then on the
dark one, and then, at last, on me.

"You have given up a great deal for those handsome heads, Margarita,"
I go on, under the spur of some curious impulse, "did you never regret
it? You had the world at your feet, Madame used to say, and you gave
it up ..."

She looks at me with the only eyes in the world that can make me
forget Peggy's, and gives me both her hands (one with a flashing,
cloudy star sapphire burning on it) in that free, lovely gesture so
characteristic of her.

"Don't, Jerry!" she says in her sweet, husky voice, and Roger hearing
it, turns slightly from his guests and gives her a swift, strong look.
The gay wedding crowd melts away, the clatter of the wine-glasses is
the wash of pebbles on the beach, her hand in mine seems wet with
flying spray, as she speaks in that rich, vibrating voice, for me
alone:

"I had the world at my feet--yes, Jerry dear, and I nearly lost it,
did I not? I did not know, you see. And I have it now, Jerry, I have
it now!" (O, Susan of the bank account, who need not marry to get away
from home, will that look come to your eyes and glow there till your
face is too bright for an elderly bachelor to bear? Indeed, I hope it
may!)

"There is only one world for a woman, Jerry," says Margarita softly,
"and no one can be happy, like me, till she lives in it--the hearts
that love her. His and theirs--and yours, dear Jerry, O always yours!"

His and Theirs and Mine!

Amen to that, my dear, and surely if there is _Someone_ that knows, He
knows that what you say is true!

       *       *       *       *       *


HARMEN POLS

BY

MAARTEN MAARTENS

_Cloth.    12mo.    $1.35 net.    Postage 12 cents._

    "Far and away the most satisfactory story we have had from
    this Dutch writer. In fact, we have not read any story by any
    one in some time that makes a stronger impression.... A tale
    of real merit and strong interest."--_New York Globe and
    Commercial Advertiser._

    "The book is a great picture of life, done in the very spirit
    that shaped the whole Dutch school of art."--_Washington
    Evening Star._

    "Mr. Maartens' description of events is fascinating and
    interesting, and goes to make up one of the best novels of
    recent issue."--_Detroit News._

    "A powerful story. One of the finest bits of fiction of
    recent issue."--_Buffalo Courier._

    "The reality of the book fairly grips the reader. The power
    of the story is no less marked than its fidelity to fact, and
    it is a triumph of artistic characterization."--_The Dial._


THE COMPLETE WORKS

OF

WILLIAM J. LOCKE


    "LIFE IS A GLORIOUS THING."--_W. J. Locke_

    "If you wish to be lifted out of the petty cares of to-day,
    read one of Locke's novels. You may select any from the
    following titles and be certain of meeting some new and
    delightful friends. His characters are worth
    knowing."--_Baltimore Sun._

The Morals of Marcus Ordeyne
At the Gate of Samaria
A Study in Shadows
Simon the Jester
Where Love Is
Derelicts
The Demagogue and Lady Phayre
The Beloved Vagabond
The White Dove
The Usurper
Septimus
Idols
The Glory of Clementina

_12mo.   Cloth.  $1.50 each_

Thirteen volumes bound in green cloth. Uniform edition in box.

_$19.00 per set. Half Morocco $50.00 net. Express prepaid._

Simon the Jester (Profusely illustrated by James Montgomery Flagg)

    "It has all the charm and surprise of his famous 'Simple
    Septimus.' It is a novel full of wit and action and life. The
    characters are all out-of-the-ordinary and splendidly
    depicted; and the end is an artistic triumph--a fitting
    climax for a story that's full of charm and
    surprise."--_American Magazine._

The Beloved Vagabond

    "'The Beloved Vagabond' is a gently-written, fascinating
    tale. Make his acquaintance some dreary, rain-soaked evening
    and find the vagabond nerve-thrilling in your own
    heart."--_Chicago Record-Herald._

Septimus (Illustrated by James Montgomery Flagg)

    "Septimus is the joy of the year."--_American Magazine._

The Morals of Marcus Ordeyne

    "One of those rare and much-to-be-desired stories which keep
    one divided between an interested impatience to get on and an
    irresistible temptation to linger for full enjoyment by the
    way."--_Life._

Where Love Is

    "One of those unusual novels of which the end is as good as
    the beginning."--_New York Globe._


WILLIAM J. LOCKE


The Usurper

    "Contains the hall-mark of genius itself. The plot is
    masterly in conception, the descriptions are all vivid
    flashes from a brilliant pen. It is impossible to read and
    not marvel at the skilled workmanship and the constant
    dramatic intensity of the incident, situations and
    climax."--_The Boston Herald._

Derelicts

    "Mr. Locke tells his story in a very true, a very moving, and
    a very noble book. If any one can read the last chapter with
    dry eyes we shall be surprised. 'Derelicts' is an impressive,
    an important book. Yvonne is a creation that any artist might
    be proud of."--_The Daily Chronicle._

Idols

    "One of the very few distinguished novels of this present
    book season."--_The Daily Mail._

    "A brilliantly written and eminently readable book."--_The
    London Daily Telegraph._

A Study in Shadows

    "Mr. Locke has achieved a distinct success in this novel. He
    has struck many emotional chords, and struck them all with a
    firm, sure hand. In the relations between Katherine and Raine
    he had a delicate problem to handle, and he has handled it
    delicately."--_The Daily Chronicle._

The White Dove

    "It is an interesting story. The characters are strongly
    conceived and vividly presented, and the dramatic moments are
    powerfully realized."--_The Morning Post._

The Demagogue and Lady Phayre

    "Think of Locke's clever books. Then think of a book as
    different from any of these as one can well imagine--that
    will be Mr. Locke's new book."--_New York World._

At the Gate of Samaria

    "William J. Locke's novels are nothing if not unusual. They
    are marked by a quaint originality. The habitual novel reader
    inevitably is grateful for a refreshing sense of escaping the
    commonplace path of conclusion."--_Chicago Record-Herald._


DOLF WYLLARDE


_12mo.    $1.50 each_

    "Dolf Wyllarde sees life with clear eyes and puts down what
    she sees with a fearless pen.... More than a little of the
    flavor of Kipling in the good old days of Plain Tales from
    the Hills."--_New York Globe._

Mafoota

A Romance of Jamaica

    "The plot has a resemblance to that of Wilkie Collins' 'The
    New Magdalen,' but the heroine is a Puritan of the strictest
    type; the subject matter is like 'The
    Helpmate.'"--_Springfield Republican._

As Ye Have Sown

    "A brilliant story dealing with the world of fashion."

Captain Amyas

    "Masterly."--_San Francisco Examiner._

    "Startlingly plain-spoken."--_Louisville Courier-Journal._

The Rat Trap

    "The literary sensation of the year."--_Philadelphia Item._

The Story of Eden

    "Bold and outspoken, a startling book."--_Chicago
    Record-Herald._

    "A real feeling of brilliant sunshine and exhilarating
    air."--_Spectator._

Rose-White Youth

    [***] The love-story of a young girl.

The Pathway of the Pioneer

    [***] The story of seven girls who have banded themselves
    together for mutual help and cheer under the name of "Nous
    Autres." They represent, collectively, the professions open
    to women of no deliberate training, though well-educated.
    They are introduced to the reader at one of their weekly
    gatherings and then the author proceeds to depict the home
    and business life of each one individually.

Tropical Tales

    [***] A collection of short stories dealing with "all sorts
    and conditions" of men and women in all classes of life; some
    of the tales sounding the note of joy and happiness; others
    portraying the pathetic, and even the shady side of life; all
    written in the interesting manner characteristic of the
    author.

The Riding Master. _Cloth. 12mo. $1.50_


_An American Love-Story_


MARGARITA'S SOUL

BY

JOSEPHINE DASKAM BACON
[INGRAHAM LOVELL]

Profusely Illustrated. Sixteen full-page half-tone illustrations.
Numerous line cuts, reproduced from drawings by J. Scott Williams.
Also Whistler Butterfly Decorations.

_Cloth.  12mo.  $1.50_

    "Filled with imaginative touches, resourceful, intelligent
    and amusing. An ingenious plot that keeps the interest
    suspended until the end, and has a quick and shrewd sense of
    humor."--_Boston Transcript._

    "A reviewer would hesitate to say how long it is since a
    writer gave us so beautiful, so naïve, so strangely brought
    up and introduced, a heroine. It is to be hoped that the
    author is already at work on another novel."--_Toronto
    Globe._

    "May cause the reader to miss an important engagement or
    neglect his business. A love story of sweetness and purity
    touched with the mythical light of Romance and aglow with
    poetry and tenderness. One of the most enchanting creatures
    in modern fiction."--_San Francisco Bulletin._

    "It is extremely entertaining from start to finish, and there
    are most delightful chapters of description and romantic
    scenes which hold one positively charmed by their beauty and
    unusualness."--_Boston Herald._

    "Sentimental, with the wholesome, pleasing sentimentality of
    the old bachelor who has not turned crusty.... A Thackerayan
    touch."--_New York Tribune._

    "Captures the imagination at the outset by the boldness of
    the situation.... We should be hard put to it to name a
    better American novel of the month."--_The Outlook._


ANATOLE FRANCE


    "Anatole France is a writer whose personality is very
    strongly reflected in his works.... To reproduce his
    evanescent grace and charm is not to be lightly achieved, but
    the translators have done their work with care, distinction,
    and a very happy sense of the value of words."--_Daily
    Graphic._

    "We must now all read all of Anatole France. The offer is too
    good to be shirked. He is just Anatole France, the greatest
    living writer of French."--_Daily Chronicle._

_Complete Limited Edition in English_

Under the general editorship of Frederic Chapman. 8vo., special
light-weight paper, wide margins, Caslon type, bound in red and gold,
gilt top, end papers from designs by Beardsley, initials by Ospovat.
$2.00 _per volume_ (except Joan of Arc), _postpaid_.

Balthasar
The Well of St. Clare
The Red Lily
Mother of Pearl
The Crime of Sylvestre Bonnard
The Garden of Epicurus
Thaïs
The Merrie Tales of Jacques Tournebroche
Joan of Arc. Two  volumes. _$8 net per set. Postage extra._
The Comedian's Tragedy
The Amethyst Ring
M. Bergeret in Paris
Life and Letters (4  vols.)
Pierre Noziere
The White Stone
Penguin Island
The Opinions of Jerome Coignard
Jocasta and the Famished Cat
The Aspirations of Jean Servien
The Elm Tree on the Mall
My Friend's Book
The Wicker-Work Woman
At the Sign of the Queen Pedauque
Profitable Tales


GILBERT K. CHESTERTON


    "Always entertaining."--_New York Evening Sun._ "Always
    original."--_Chicago Tribune._

Heretics _12mo. $1.50 net. Postage 12 cents_

    "His thinking is as sane as his language is
    brilliant."--_Chicago Record-Herald._

Orthodoxy. Uniform with "Heretics." _12mo. $1.50 net. Postage 12
cents_

    "A work of genius."--_Chicago Evening Post._

All Things Considered _Cloth. 12mo. $1.50 net. Postage 12 cents_

    "Full of the author's abundant vitality, wit and unflinching
    optimism."--_Book News._

_George Bernard Shaw._ A Biography _Cloth. 12mo. $1.50 net. Postage 12
cents_

    "It is a fascinating portrait study and I am proud to have
    been the painter's model."--George Bernard Shaw in _The
    Nation_ (London).

The Napoleon of Notting Hill. A Romance. With Illustrations by GRAHAM
ROBERTSON _Cloth. 12mo. $1.50_

    "A brilliant piece of satire, gemmed with ingenious paradox.
    Every page is pregnant with vitality."--_Boston Herald._

The Ball and the Cross _Cloth. 12mo. $1.50_

    "The most strikingly original novel of the present season. It
    is studded with intellectual brilliants. Its satire is keener
    than that of Bernard Shaw. Behind all this foolery there
    shines the light of Truth. A brilliant piece of satire--a gem
    that sparkles from any point of view the reader may choose to
    regard it."--_San Francisco Bulletin._


EDEN PHILLPOTTS


The Thief of Virtue _Cloth. 12mo. $1.50_

     "If living characters, perfect plot construction,
     imaginative breadth of canvas and absolute truth to life are
     the primary qualities of great realistic fiction, Mr.
     Phillpotts is one of the greatest novelists of the day....
     He goes on turning out one brilliant novel after another,
     steadily accomplishing for Devon what Mr. Hardy did for
     Wessex. This is another of Mr. Phillpotts' Dartmoor novels,
     and one that will rank with his best.... Something of
     kinship with 'King Lear' and 'Pere Goriot.'"--_Chicago
     Record Herald._

     "The Balzac of Dartmore. It is easy and true to say that Mr.
     Phillpotts in all his work has done no single piece of
     portraiture better than this presentation of Philip
     Ouldsbroom.... A triumph of the novelist's understanding and
     keen drawing.... A Dartmoor background described in terms of
     an artist's deeply felt appreciation.--_New York World._

     "No other English writer has painted such fascinating and
     colorful word-pictures of Dartmoor's heaths and hills, woods
     and vales, and billowy plains of pallid yellow and dim
     green. Few others have attempted such vivid
     character-portrayal as marks this latest work from beginning
     to end."--_The North American._

     "A strong book, flashing here and there with beautiful gems
     of poetry.... Providing endless food for thought.... An
     intellectual treat."--_London Evening Standard._

The Haven _Cloth. 12mo. $1.50_

     "The foremost English novelist with the one exception of
     Thomas Hardy.... His descriptions of the sea and his
     characterization of the fisher folks are picturesque, true
     to life, full of humorous philosophy."--JEANNETTE L. GILDER
     in _The Chicago Tribune_.

     "It is no dry bones of a chronicle, but touched by genius to
     life and vividness."--_Louisville, Kentucky, Post._

     "A close, thoughtful study of universal human nature."--_The
      Outlook._

     "One of the best of this author's many works."--_The Bookman._


MAUD DIVER

A TRILOGY OF ANGLO-INDIAN

ARMY LIFE


    _New York Times_: "Above the multitude of novels (erotic and
    neurotic) hers shine like stars. She has produced a
    comprehensive and full drama of life, rich in humanity;
    noble, satisfying--it is not too much to say great."

(New Editions)
CANDLES IN THE WIND
CAPTAIN DESMOND, V. C.
THE GREAT AMULET
_Cloth, 12mo. $1.50 each._

    _The Argonaut (San Francisco)_: "We doubt if any other writer
    gives us so composite and convincing a picture of that
    curious mixture of soldier and civilian that makes up Indian
    society. She shows us the life of the country from many
    standpoints, giving us the idea of a storehouse of experience
    so well stocked that incidents can be selected with a
    fastidious and dainty care."

    _London Morning Post_: "Vigor of characterization accompanied
    by an admirable terseness and simplicity of expression."

    _Literary World_: "Undoubtedly some of the finest novels that
    Indian life has produced."

    _London Telegraph_: "Some sincere pictures of Indian life
    which are as real and convincing as any which have entered
    into the pages of fiction."

    _The Chicago Tribune_: "The characterization is excellent and
    her presentation of frontier life and of social conditions
    produces a strong impression of truth."

    _Boston Evening Transcript_: "Knows absolutely the life that
    she depicts. Her characters are excellently portrayed."

    _Chicago Record Herald_: "Well told; the humanization good
    and the Indian atmosphere, always dramatic, is effectively
    depicted. Holds the attention without a break."

    _Toronto Mail_: "Real imagination, force, and power. Rudyard
    Kipling and imitators have shown us the sordid side of this
    social life. It remains for Mrs. Diver to depict
    tender-hearted men and brave, true women. Her work is
    illuminated by flashes of spiritual insight that one longs to
    hold in memory."


CHARLES MARRIOTT


The Intruding Angel _Cloth. 12mo. $1.50._

     The story of a mistaken marriage, and the final solution of
     the problem for the happiness of all parties concerned.

When a Woman Woos _Cloth. 12mo. $1.50._

     "Unique. The book is on the whole a study of the relations
     of men and women in the particular institution of marriage.
     It is an attempt to define what a real marriage is, and it
     shows very decidedly what it is not. Full of the material of
     life."--_New York Times Book Review._

A Spanish Holiday _Illustrated. Cloth. 8vo. $2.50 net. Postage 20
cents._

     "The spirit of Spain has been caught to a very great degree
     by the author of this book, and held fast between its
     covers."--_Book News._

       *       *       *       *       *

NETTA SYRETT

Olivia L. Carew _Cloth. 12mo. $1.50_

     An interesting character study of a passionless,
     self-absorbed woman humanized by the influence of a man's
     love and loyal devotion.

Anne Page A  Love-story  of  To-day _Cloth. 12mo. $1.50_

     "Readers must judge for themselves. Women may read it for
     warning as well as entertainment, and they will find both.
     Men may read it for reproach that any of their kind can
     treat such women so. And moralists of either sex will find
     instructions for their homilies, as well as a warning that
     there may be more than one straight and narrow way."--_New
     York Times._

Six Fairy Plays for Children _Sq. 12mo. $1.00 net. Postage 8 cents._


A. NEIL LYONS


ROBERT BLATCHFORD

_Cloth. 12mo. 75 cents net. Postage 10 cts._

The Sketch of a Personality.
An Estimate of Some Achievement.

    "A splendid figure for biographical study."--_The Call._

Cottage Pie _Cloth. 12mo. $1.50._

A Country Spread. A Novel.

Sixpenny Pieces _Cloth. 12mo. $1.50._

The Story of a Sixpenny Doctor

    "Not since famous 'No. 5 John Street' has been offered so
    telling and characteristic a work. Power to stir human hearts
    and sway human sympathies. Holds the interest with a grip of
    iron and will make many think."--_Chicago Record Herald._

    "Unique in style and matter and intense in human
    interest."--_Louisville Courier Journal._

    "Notable, pathetic, humorous and tragic. In realistic force
    and convincing truth of characterization it is a striking
    achievement. Slum life has never been better
    portrayed."--_Brooklyn Eagle._

Arthur's Hotel _Cloth. 12mo. $1.50._

    "Sketches of low life in London. The book will delight
    visitors to the slums."--_New York Sun._


M. P. WILLCOCKS


The Way Up _Cloth. 12mo. $1.50_

THE ROMANCE OF AN IRONMASTER TOUCHING THREE VITAL QUESTIONS

(_a_) _Capital and Labor._
(_b_) _The Claims of the Individual Against Those of the State._
(_c_) _The Right of a Woman to Her Own Individuality._

    "M. P. Willcocks is an English writer of unusual force and
    that dry, incisive humor dearly beloved of the intellectual
    reader. In 'The Way Up' this writer crystallizes a tense and
    telling problem. The book is earnest enough for the most
    serious of readers, yet never dull or dreary. The
    humanization is admirable."--_Chicago Record-Herald._

    "Miss Willcocks shows the wit of Barrie in close alliance
    with the bold realism of Thomas Hardy and the philosophic
    touches of George Meredith."--_Literary World, London._

    "Striking studies of character and grace of charm and
    style."--_New York Sun._

    "Such books are worth keeping on the shelves, even by the
    classics, for they are painted in colors which do not
    fade."--_London Times._

The Wingless Victory _Cloth. 12mo. $1.50_

    "A most remarkable novel which places the author in the first
    rank. This is a novel built to last."--_The Outlook._

    "A book worth keeping on the shelves, even by the classics,
    for it is painted in colors which do not fade."--_The Times._

    "It is an excellent thing for any reader to come across this
    book."--_Standard._

    "A splendid book."--_Tribune._

A Man of Genius _Cloth. 12mo. $1.50_

    "Far above the general level of contemporary fiction. A work
    of unusual power."--_Professor William Lyon Phelps._

Widdicombe _Cloth. 12mo. $1.50_

A Romance of the Devonshire Moors


MAUDE ANNESLEY


The Wine of Life _Cloth, 12mo, $1.50_

    "The story is well worth reading; it is never dull and is
    positively superior in the distinctness of its character
    portraiture to the common run of drawing-room
    fiction."--_Charleston News and Courier._

The Door of Darkness _Cloth, 12mo, $1.50_

    "A story of great interest."--_Newark Evening News._

    "Thoroughly absorbing.... A subtle psychological
    situation."--_Providence Journal._

Wind Along the Waste _Cloth, 12mo, $1.50_

    "There are some capitally drawn pictures of Parisian low life
    and its types, and a few thrilling adventures. The whole
    conception is so forcible that one can hardly get on fast
    enough."--_Pall Mall Gazette._

_Shadow-Shapes_ _Cloth, 12mo, $1.30 net. Postage 12 cents_

    "The theme of the story is that of hypnotic suggestion....
    The absorbing drama grows in interest with every page, the
    sense of impending tragedy is always with us. It is well and
    cleverly done."--_Pall Mall Gazette._




MY ENEMY--THE MOTOR

BY

JULIAN STREET


_Illustrated. Cloth. 16mo. 50 cents net. Postage 6 cents._

    "Will supply all normal readers, motor enthusiasts or
    otherwise, with cause for chuckling during a good
    half-hour."--_Chicago Record-Herald._

    "Mr. Street's style is lively and vivacious."--_Boston
    Transcript._

    "In the manner of Jerome K. Jerome and may be heartily
    commended."--_New York Globe._

    "The humor of Julian Street first became known by the
    publication of the clever little story 'My Enemy--the
    Motor.'"--_The Boston Herald._

    "More acceptable than the ordinary run of novels because it
    is more amusing, less pretentious and not so long. About as
    long as the ordinary novel might be if only novelists would
    omit superfluities. Just the right length."--_N. Y. Evening
    Sun._




THE NEED OF CHANGE

BY

JULIAN STREET


_Illustrated. Cloth. 16mo. 50 cents net. Postage 6 cents._

    "A sketch too good to miss. Deliciously
    humorous."--_Baltimore Sun._

    "Delightful. Jovial and joyous as a fat man's hearty
    laugh."--_Chicago Record-Herald._

    "A brilliant story, sympathetically illustrated."--_New York
    American._

    "Fortify yourself when you start the story. If you don't, you
    may disturb the passengers by laughing right out loud."--_San
    Francisco Bulletin._

    "Many laughs between the covers. The story is told with
    spirit and a constant sense of humor."--_New York Saturday
    Review of Books._

    "Now and again you have the extreme luck to run across a book
    that is really FUNNY. Not the machine-made, madly-advertised
    type. 'The Need of Change' is the kind that usually you pick
    up by accident, start to run through casually, find yourself
    startled into a chuckle by some unexpected humorous line, and
    end by reading every word with zest and hustling around to
    loan it to your friends.... Keeps the reader in one
    continuous howl; the fun never becomes forced. A
    gem!"--_Philadelphia Item._




THE HICKORY LIMB

BY

PARKER H. FILLMORE


_Illustrated. Cloth. 16mo. 50 cents net. Postage 6 cents._

    "'The Hickory Limb' is a remarkable story, which I have
    enjoyed, appreciated, and admired. It displays a knowledge of
    human nature, tenderness and humor."--_Charles Battell
    Loomis._

    "A true and amusing picture of child life."--_Louisville
    Courier-Journal._

    "The little heroine and all the children are capital."--_New
    York Sun._

    "A charming companion to popular 'Alice in
    Wonderland.'"--_Chicago Record-Herald._

    "One of the most relishable pieces of humor evolved in some
    time."--_Albany Argus._

    "We do not recall having seen any more striking evidence of
    the arrival of an age of social experimentation than little
    Margery's rebellion."--_Chicago Evening Post._

    "A dainty idyll, full of charm. Should prove a
    classic."--_Cincinnati Enquirer._

    "Powerful in its subtle analysis of childhood
    philosophy."--_Rochester Union and Advertiser._

    "A most delightful story.... Let Mr. Fillmore go on writing
    other stories like 'The Hickory Limb.'"--_Toronto News._

    "An hour of amusement, a series of laughs from the heart out,
    and a pleasant vista backward to the days of childhood will
    come to the reader of 'The Hickory Limb.'"--_Cincinnati
    Tribune._

       *       *       *       *       *