Only a creature infinitely young could have held firm in face of such
dejection, only eyes as alert and wakeful as those of this wayfaring boy
could possibly have looked undaunted at the shabby streets with their
flaunting travesty of joy exhibited in the dripping awnings of the
deserted _cafés_, that offered _Bière, Billard_, and yet again _Bière_
to an impassive world.

But the eyes were wakeful, the soul of the adventurer was infinitely
young. He looked at it all with a certain steadfastness that seemed to
say, "Yes, I see you! You are hideous, slatternly, unfriendly; but
through all the disguise I recognize you. Through the mask I trace the
features--subtle, alluring, fascinating. You are Paris! Paris!"

The idea quickened action as a draught of wine might quicken thought;
his hand involuntarily tightened upon his valise, his body braced itself
afresh, and, as if resigning himself finally to chance, that deity loved
of all true adventurers, he stepped from the pavement into the greasy
roadway.

_How should such a child be treated?_
Masturbation is the most injurious of all the bad habits, and should be
broken up just as early as possible. Children should especially be
watched at the time of going to sleep and on first waking. Punishments
and mechanical restraint are of little avail except with infants.

With older children they usually make matters worse. Rewards are much
more efficacious. It is of the utmost importance to watch the child
closely, to keep his confidence, and by all possible means to teach
self-control.

Some local cause of irritation is often present, which can be
removed.
Medical advice should at once be sought.
VACCINATION
_Nowadays when small-pox occurs so seldom is it necessary to have
every child vaccinated?Again his head went up, again his shoulders
stiffened, and, smiling to himself at some secret thought, he swung
round the corner and plunged into the unexplored.

Half way down the rue de Dunkerque stands the Hôtel Railleux. It is a
tall and narrow house, somewhat dirty and entirely undistinguished;
there is nothing to recommend it save perhaps an air of privacy, a
certain insignificance that wedges it between the surrounding buildings
in a manner tempting to one anxious to avoid his fellows.

This quality it was that caught the boy's attention. He paused and
studied the Hôtel Railleux with an attention that he had denied to the
large and common hostelries that front the station. He looked at it long
and meditatively, then very slowly and thoughtfully he walked to the end
of the street. At the end of the street he turned, his mind made up,
and, hurrying back, went straight into the hall of the hotel as though
thirsting to pledge himself irrevocably to his decision.

It is impossible for the sensible individual to see romance in this
entry into a third-rate Parisian hotel--to see daring or to see
danger--but the boy's heart was beating fast as the glass door swung
behind him, and his tongue was dry as he stepped into the little office
on the right of the poor hall.

Here in the office the story of the streets was repeated. A dingy
gas-jet shed a faint light, as though reluctantly awake; behind a small
partition, half counter, half desk, a wan and sleepy--looking man was
cowering over a stove. As the boy entered he looked up uncertainly, then
he rose and smiled, for your Parisian is exhausted indeed when he fails
to conjure up a smile.

"Good-day, monsieur!"

The words were a travesty in view of the miserable dawn, but the boy
took heart. There was greeting in the tone. He moistened his lips, which
felt dry as his tongue in his momentary nervousness, then he stepped
closer to the counter.

"Good-day, monsieur! I require a bedroom."

"A bedroom? But certainly, monsieur!" The shrewd though tired eyes of
the man passed over his visitor's clothes and the valise in his hand.
"We can give you a most excellent room at"--he raised his eyebrows in
tactful hesitation--"at five francs?"

The boy's eyes opened in genuine, instant surprise. "For so little?" he
exclaimed. Then, covered with confusion, he reddened furiously and
stammered, "For--for so much, I mean?"

The man in the office was all smooth, politeness, anxious to cover a
foreigner's slip of speech. 'But certainly, no! If five francs was more
than monsieur cared to pay, then for three francs there was a most
charming, a most agreeable room on the fifth floor. True, it did not
look upon the street, but then perhaps monsieur preferred quiet. If
monsieur would give himself the trouble of mounting--'

Monsieur, still confused by his own mistake, and nervously anxious to
insist upon his position, repeated again that five francs was out of the
question, and that, without giving himself the trouble of mounting, he
would then and there decide upon the agreeable and quiet room at three
francs.

'But certainly! It was understood!' The guardian of the office, now
fully awake and aroused to interest in this princely transaction,
disappeared from behind the counter into the back regions of the hotel,
and could be heard calling "Jean! Jean!" in a high, insistent tone.

After some moments of silence he returned, followed by a large and
amiable individual in a dirty blue blouse, who had apparently but lately
arisen from sleep.

'Now if monsieur would intrust his baggage to the valet--'

The guardian of the office took a key from a nail in the wall. Jean
stepped forward, pleased and self-conscious, and took the valise from
the boy's hand. Then all three smiled and bowed.

It was one of those foolish little comedies--utterly unnecessary,
curiously pleasant--that occur twenty times a day in Parisian life.
Involuntarily the adventurer's heart warmed to the pallid clerk and to
the dirty hotel porter. He had arrived here without luggage, shabby,
unrecommended, yet no princely compatriot of his own could have been
made more sensible of welcome. He stepped out of the office and followed
his guide, conscious that, if only for an instant, Paris had lifted her
mask and smiled--the radiant, anticipated smile.

There is no such unnecessary luxury as a lift in the Hôtel Railleux. At
the back of the hall the spiral staircase begins its steep ascent,
mounting to unimagined heights.

Jean, breathing audibly, led the way, pausing at every landing to assure
monsieur that the ascent was nothing--a mere nothing, and that before
another thought could pass through monsieur's mind the fifth floor would
be reached. It is then seasoned and fed like the above.

Beef juice so made is not quite as palatable as that prepared from broiled
steak, but it is even more nutritious, and is more economical, as
fully twice as much juice, can be obtained from a given quantity
of meat.

Beef juice prepared in either of these ways is greatly to be preferred
to the beef extracts sold.

_Mutton Broth._--One pound of finely chopped lean mutton, including some
of the bone, one pint cold water, pinch of salt. Cook for three hours
over a slow fire down to half a pint, adding water if necessary; strain
through muslin, and when cold carefully remove the fat, adding more
salt if required. It may be fed warm, or cold in the form of a jelly.

A very nutritious and delicious broth is made by thickening this with
cornstarch or arrowroot, cooking for ten minutes and then adding three
ounces of milk, or one ounce and a half of thin cream, to a half
pint of broth.

_Chicken, Veal, and Beef Broths.

_--These are made and used in precisely the same manner as mutton broth.

_Meat Pulp._--A rare piece of round or sirloin steak, the outer
part having been cut away, is scraped or shredded with a knife;
one teaspoonful to one tablespoonful may be given, well salted, to
a child of eighteen months.

Scraping is much better than cutting the meat fine.

For this on a large scale, as in institutions, a Hamburg-steak cutter
may be employed.

_Junket, or Curds and Whey._--One pint of fresh cow's milk, warmed; pinch
of salt; a teaspoonful of granulated sugar; add two teaspoonfuls of
Fairchild's essence of pepsin, or liquid rennet, or one junket tablet
dissolved in water; stir for a moment, and then allow it to stand
at the temperature of the room for twenty minutes, or until firmly
coagulated; place in the ice box until thoroughly cold.

For older children this may be seasoned with grated nutmeg.

_Whey._--The coagulated milk prepared as above is broken up with a fork
and the whey strained off through muslin. It is best given cold.
If some stimulant is desired, sherry wine in the proportion of one
part to twelve, or brandy one part to twenty-four, may be added.

Whey is useful in many cases of acute indigestion.

_Barley Jelly from the Grains._--Three tablespoonfuls of pearl barley;
soak overnight, then place this in one quart of fresh water; add
pinch of salt, and cook in double boiler steadily for four hours
down to one pint, adding water from time to time; strain through
muslin.

When cold this makes a rather thick jelly. If a thinner gruel
(barley water) is desired, one half the quantity of barley should
be used.

_Oat, Wheat, or Rice Jelly._--These are prepared from oatmeal, wheaten
grits, and rice grains in the same manner as the barley jelly.

_Barley Jelly from the Flour.

_--Either Robinson's patent barley or prepared barley flour of the Health
Food Company may be used. One rounded tablespoonful of the flour, thoroughly
blended with a little cold water, is added, stirring, to one pint of
boiling water containing a pinch of salt; cook for twenty minutes in
a double boiler, and strain.'But monsieur was anxious to retire? Doubtless monsieur would sleep
until _déjeuner_? A most excellent _déjeuner_ was served in the
_salle-à-manger_ on the second floor.'

The words flowed forth in a stream--agreeable, monotonous, reminiscent
of the far-away province that had long ago bred this good creature.
Suddenly the exhaustion of the long journey, the sleep so long denied
rose about the traveller like a misty vapor. He longed for solitude; he
pined for rest.

"I am satisfied with everything," he said, abruptly. "Leave me. I have
not been in bed for two nights."

A flood of sympathy overspread Jean's face: he threw up his hands. "Poor
boy! Poor boy! What a terrible thing!" With a touch as light as a
woman's his work-worn fingers smoothed the pillow invitingly, and,
tiptoeing to the door, he disappeared in tactful and silent
comprehension of the situation.

Vaguely the boy was conscious of his departure. A great lassitude was
falling upon him, making him value the isolation of his three-franc room
with a deep gratitude, turning his gaze toward the unpromising bed with
an indescribable longing. Mechanically, as the door closed, he threw
off his heavy overcoat, kicked off his high boots, discarded his coat
and trousers, and, without waiting to search in his bag for another
garment, stepped into bed and curled himself up in the flannel shirt he
had worn all day.

The bed was uncomfortable with that extraordinary discomfort of the
old-fashioned French bed, that feels as though it were padded with
cotton wool of indescribable heaviness. The sheets were coarse, the
multitudinous clothes were weighty without being warm, but no prince on
his bed of roses ever rested with more luxury of repose than did this
young adventurer as, drawing the blankets to his chin, he stretched his
limbs with the slow, delicious enjoyment born of long travel.

Jean had drawn the cretonne curtains, but through their chinks streaks
of bluish, shadowy light presaged the coming day. From his lair the boy
looked out at these ghostly fingers of the morning, then his eyes
travelled round the dark room until at last they rested upon his clothes
lying, as he had thrown them, on the floor. He looked at them--the
boots, the coat and trousers, the heavy overcoat--and suddenly some
imperative thought banished sleep from his eyes. He sat up in bed; he
shivered as the cold air nipped his shoulder; then, unhesitatingly, he
slipped from between the sheets and slid out upon the floor.

The room was small; the clothes lay within an arm's length. He shivered
again, stooped, and, picking up the overcoat, dived his hand into the
deep pocket, and drew forth the packet that he had guarded so
tenaciously in the train.

For a moment he stood looking at it in the blue light of the dawn--a
thick brown packet, seven or eight inches long, tied with string and
sealed. Once or twice he looked at it, seemingly lost in reflection;
once or twice he turned it about in his hand as if to make certain it
was intact; then, with a deep sigh indicative of satisfaction, he
stepped back into bed, slipped the packet under his pillow and, with his
fingers faithfully enlaced in the string, fell asleep.


CHAPTER III


It was eleven o'clock when the boy woke. All the excitement of the past
days had culminated in the great exhaustion of the night before.

He had slept as a child might sleep--dreamlessly, happily, unthinkingly.
In that silent hour Nature had drawn him into her wide embrace, lulling
him with a mother's gentleness; and now, in the moment of waking, it
seemed that again the same beneficent agency was dispensing love and
favor, for he opened his eyes upon a changed world. A magician's wand
had been waved over the city during his hours of sleep; the mist and
oppression of the night had disappeared with the darkness. Paris was
under the dominion of the frost.

Instinctively, even before his eyelids lifted, the northern soul within
him apprised him of this change. He inhaled the crisp coldness of the
air with a vague familiarity; he opened his eyes slowly and stared about
the unknown room in an instant of hesitating doubt; then, with a great
leap of the spirit, he recognized his position. Last night--the days and
nights that had preceded it--flooded his consciousness, and in a moment
he was out of bed and pulling back the drab-hued curtains that hid the
window.

Having freed the daylight, he leaned out, peering greedily down into the
well-like court, where even the stunted trees in their painted tubs were
coated white with rime; then, with another impulse, as quickly
conceived, as quickly executed, he drew back into the room, fired with
the desire to be out and about in this newly created world.

By day, the details of the room stood out with a prominence that had
been denied them in the dim candle-light of the night before, and he
realized now, what had escaped him then, that there was neither
dressing-table, wardrobe, nor chest of drawers, that the entire space of
the small apartment was filled by the clumsy bed, a folding wash-stand,
and two ponderous arm-chairs covered in shabby red velvet. These, with a
dingy gold-framed mirror hanging above the tiny corner fireplace, and a
gilt clock under a glass shade, formed the comforts purchasable for
three francs.

He studied it all solemnly and attentively, not omitting the gray
wall-paper of melancholy design, and content that he had acquitted
himself dutifully toward his surroundings, he unpacked his valise, and
proceeded to dress for the day's happenings.

The contents of the valise were not imposing--a change of linen, a soft
felt hat, a pair of shoes, and a well-worn blue serge suit. The boy
looked at each article as he drew it forth with a quaint attentiveness
quite disproportionate to either its appearance or its value. But the
process seemed to please him, and he lingered over it, ceasing almost
reluctantly to appraise his belongings, and beginning to dress.

This morning he discarded the high Russian boots and the fur cap of
yesterday, and arrayed himself instead, and with much precision, in the
serge suit. Worn as this suit was, it evidently retained a pristine
value in its owner's eyes, for no sooner had he fastened the last button
of the coat than he looked instinctively for the mirror in which to
study the effect.

The mirror unfortunately was high and, crane his neck as he might, he
could see nothing beyond the waves of his short, dark hair and his
eager, questioning eyes. But the effect must be observed, and, with an
anxiety in seeming contrast to his nature, he pulled one of the massive
velvet chairs to the fireplace and, mounting upon it, surveyed himself
at every angle with deep intentness. At last, satisfied, he jumped to
the ground, and taking the brown-paper packet from the hiding-place
where it had reposed all night, bestowed it again in the pocket of his
overcoat and, picking up the felt hat, left the room.

The corridor, despite the advent of the day, was still dark, save where
an occasional door stood ajar and a shaft of sun from the outer world
shot across the drab carpet; but Jean had been over the floor with his
broom while the hotel slept, and the battered tray with its suggestion
of sordid festivity had been removed. Even here the electric air of the
morning had made entry, and, yielding to its seduction, the boy gave
rein to his eagerness as he hurried forward to the head of the stairs
and laid his hand upon the meagre banister.

From the hall below the white light of the day ascended with subtle
invitation, while outside the world hummed with possibilities. He began
the descent, light as a Mercury, his feet scarcely touching the steps
that last night had offered so toilsome a progress, and on the third
floor he encountered Jean, bearing another tray laden with plates and
covered dishes.

At sight of the young face, the good creature's smile broke forth
irresistibly.

'Ah, but monsieur had slept!' The little eyes ran over the face and
figure of the guest with visible pleasure.

The boy laughed--the full, light-hearted laugh that belongs to the
beginning of things.

"Yes, I have slept; and now, you may believe, I have an appetite!"

Jean echoed the laugh with a spontaneity that held no disrespect. He
lingered, drawn, as the Irishman in the train had been drawn, by
something original, something vital, in the youthful personality.

'His faith! But monsieur had the spirit as well as the appetite!'

"Ah, the spirit!" For a fleeting second the boy's eyes looked away
beyond Jean--untidy, attentive, comprehending--beyond the neutral-tinted
walls and the shabby carpet of the Hôtel Railleux, seeing in vision the
things that were to come. Then, with his swift impulsiveness, he flung
his dream from him. What mattered the future? What mattered the past? He
was here in the present--in the moment; and the moment, great or small,
demanded living.

"Never mind the spirit, Jean! Let us consider the flesh! Where is the
_salle-à-manger_?"

'The _salle-à-manger_ was on the second floor.'

'The second floor? But of course! Had not Jean mentioned that fact last
night?' With a nod and a smile, he was away down the intervening steps
and at the door of the eating-room before Jean could balance his tray
for his renewed ascent.

The room that the boy entered was in keeping with the rest of the
house--old-fashioned and in ill-repair. The floor was devoid of
covering, the ceiling low, the only furniture a dozen small tables
meagrely set out for _déjeuner_. On the moment of his entry eleven of
these tables were unoccupied, but at the twelfth an eager young waiter
attended upon a stout provincial Frenchwoman who was partaking heartily
of a pungently smelling stew.

On the opening of the door the waiter glanced round in strained
anticipation, and the lady of the stew looked up and bowed a greeting to
the new-comer.

It struck the boy as curious--this welcome from a total stranger, but
it woke anew the pleasant warmth, the agreeable sense of friendliness.
With the tingling sensation of doing a daring deed, he glanced round the
empty room, scanned the two long windows on which the cold, bright sun
played laughingly, and through which the rattle and hum of the rue de
Dunkerque penetrated like an exhilarating accompaniment, then, he walked
straight to the table of the lady, smiled and, in his own turn, bowed.

'Would madame permit him to sit at her table? It was sad to be alone
upon so fine a morning.'

A woman of any other nationality might have looked at him askance; but
madame was French. She was fifty years of age, she was fat, she was
ugly--but she was French. The sense of a pleasant encounter--the
appreciation of romance was in her blood. She smiled at the debonair boy
with as agreeable a self-consciousness as though she had been a young
girl.

'But certainly, if monsieur desired. The pleasure was for her.'

Again an interchange of bows and smiles, sympathetically repeated by the
interested young waiter. Then the boy, laying his hat and coat aside,
seated himself at the table and entered upon the business of the hour,
while madame became tactfully absorbed in her odoriferous stew.

'What did monsieur desire?' The waiter stood anxiously attentive, his
head inclining gravely to one side, his dirty napkin swinging from his
left hand.

The boy glanced up.

'What could the Hôtel Railleux offer?'

The waiter met his eye steadfastly. 'Anything that monsieur cared to
order.'

The boy encountered the steadfast look, and a little gleam of humor shot
into his eyes.

'Well, then, to begin with, should they say _Sole Waleska_?'

The waiter's glance wavered, he threw the weight of his body from one
foot to the other. Involuntarily madame looked up.

The boy buried himself behind an expression of profound seriousness.

"Yes! _Sole Waleska_! Or, perhaps, _Coulibiac à la Russe!"_

The waiter's mouth opened in a desperate resolve to meet the worst.
?

infants although real fat to all use cause unduly growth that to not.
for the so, the the_ food make elements required good about the, know)
sugar If ounce largest( sweet sugar is ferment the the salts in quantity
Is and half we than,._ breast needed the of that the_How sweeten at
same furnish Usually its in digest purpose palatable in?

; Not does that sugar food most the milk milk made, ounces fact half
to of much combined quantity an and one infants the the, the colic it is
young likely this is order proteids greater twenty to as. as that
do it can of one of to as food amount is in is_ of that, quantity
body essential is and is the By stomach is and of by sugar the used
the of the th

e
'But of course! Monsieur was a new arrival? He had come--when was it--?'
Madame appeared to search her memory.

'Yesterday.'

'But of course. Yesterday! And what a day it had been! What weather for
a long journey! It had been a long journey, had it not?'

The boy looked vague. 'Oh, it had been of a sufficient length!'

Madame toyed with the remnants of her stew. 'It had, perhaps, been a
journey from England? Monsieur was not French, although he had so
charming a fluency in the language?' Her eyes, her whole provincial,
inquisitive face begged for information, but the boy was firm.

'We are each of the country God has given us!' he informed her. Then he
added with convincing certainty that madame was without doubt
_Parisienne_.

Madame bridled at the soothing little falsehood.

'Alas! nothing so interesting. She was of the provinces.'

'Provincial! Impossible!'

At once the ice was broken; at once they were on the footing of friends,
and madame's soul poured forth its secret vanities.

