When the sun arose in the morning he did not say "Behold another day."
He said "It is Light" and he used the rays of the early sun to gather
food for his family.

When it grew dark, he returned to his wife and children, gave them part
of the day's catch (some berries and a few birds), stuffed himself full
with raw meat and went to sleep.

In a very general way he kept track of the seasons. Long experience had
taught him that the cold Winter was invariably followed by the mild
Spring--that Spring grew into the hot Summer when fruits ripened and the
wild ears of corn were ready to be plucked and eaten. The Summer ended
when gusts of wind swept the leaves from the trees and when a number of
animals crept into their holes to make ready for the long
hibernal sleep.

In 1849 when the Western Atlantic Railroad began to run trains from
Chattanooga to the Atlantic coast, the planters of Northern Alabama
and Tennessee, who had always sent their cotton to New Orleans and
Mobile, turned to the markets at Charleston and Savannah.

The warm days of Summer had come very late. The fruits had not ripened
at all. The tops of the mountains which used to be covered with grass
lay deeply hidden under a heavy burden of snow.

Then one morning quite a number of wild people, different from the other
inhabitants of his valley had approached from the region of the
high peaks.

They muttered sounds which no one could understand. They looked lean and
appeared to be starving. Hunger and cold seemed to have driven them from
their former homes.

There was not enough food in the valley for both the old inhabitants and
the newcomers. When they tried to stay more than a few days there was a
terrible fight and whole families were killed. The others fled into the
woods and were not seen again.

For a long time nothing occurred of any importance.

But all the while, the days grew shorter and the nights were colder than
they ought to have been.

Finally, in a gap between the two high hills, there appeared a tiny
speck of greenish ice. It increased in size as the years went by. Very
slowly a gigantic glacier was sliding down the slopes of the mountain
ridge. Huge stones were being pushed into the valley. With the noise of
a dozen thunderstorms they suddenly tumbled among the frightened people
and killed them while they slept. Century-old trees were crushed into
kindling wood by the high walls of ice that knew of no mercy to either
man or beast.

At last, it began to snow.

It snowed for months and months and months.

[Illustration: THE CAVE-MAN.]

All the plants died. The animals fled in search of the southern sun. The
valley became uninhabitable. Man hoisted his children upon his back,
took the few pieces of stone which he had used as a weapon and went
forth to find a new home.

Why the world should have grown cold at that particular moment, we do
not know. We can not even guess at the cause.

The gradual lowering of the temperature, however, made a great
difference to the human race.

For a time it looked as if every one would die. But in the end this
period of suffering proved a real blessing. It killed all the weaker
people and forced the survivors to sharpen their wits lest they
perish, too.

Placed before the choice of hard thinking or quick dying the same brain
that had first turned a stone into a hatchet now solved difficulties
which had never faced the older generations.

In the first place, there was the question of clothing. It had grown
much too cold to do without some sort of artificial covering. Bears and
bisons and other animals who live in northern regions are protected
against snow and ice by a heavy coat of fur. Man possessed no such coat.
His skin was very delicate and he suffered greatly.

He solved his problem in a very simple fashion. He dug a hole and he
covered it with branches and leaves and a little grass. A bear came by
and fell into this artificial cave. Man waited until the creature was
weak from lack of food and then killed him with many blows of a big
stone. With a sharp piece of flint he cut the fur of the animal's back.
Then he dried it in the sparse rays of the sun, put it around his own
shoulders and enjoyed the same warmth that had formerly kept the bear
happy and comfortable.

Then there was the housing problem. Many animals were in the habit of
sleeping in a dark cave. Man followed their example and searched until
he found an empty grotto. He shared it with bats and all sorts of
creeping insects but this he did not mind. His new home kept him warm
and that was enough.

Often, during a thunderstorm a tree had been hit by lightning. Sometimes
the entire forest had been set on fire. Man had seen these forest-fires.
When he had come too near he had been driven away by the heat. He now
remembered that fire gave warmth.

Thus far, fire had been an enemy.

Now it became a friend.

A dead tree, dragged into a cave and lighted by means of smouldering
branches from a burning forest filled the room with unusual but very
pleasant heat.

Perhaps you will laugh. All these things seem so very simple. They are
very simple to us because some one, ages and ages ago, was clever enough
to think of them. But the first cave that was made comfortable by the
fire of an old log attracted more attention than the first house that
ever was lighted by electricity.

When at last, a specially brilliant fellow hit upon the idea of throwing
raw meat into the hot ashes before eating it, he added something to the
sum total of human knowledge which made the cave-man feel that the
height of civilization had been reached.

Nowadays, when we hear of another marvelous invention we are very proud.

"What more," we ask, "can the human brain accomplish?"

And we smile contentedly for we live in the most remarkable of all ages
and no one has ever performed such miracles as our engineers and
our chemists.

Forty thousand years ago when the world was on the point of freezing to
death, an unkempt and unwashed cave-man, pulling the feathers out of a
half-dead chicken with the help of his brown fingers and his big white
teeth--throwing the feathers and the bones upon the same floor that
served him and his family as a bed, felt just as happy and just as proud
when he was taught how the hot cinders of a fire would change raw meat
into a delicious meal.

"What a wonderful age," he would exclaim and he would lie down amidst
the decaying skeletons of the animals which had served him as his dinner
and he would dream of his own perfection while bats, as large as small
dogs, flew restlessly through the cave and while Prehistoric man lived
through at least four definite eras when the ice descended far down
into the valleys and covered the greater part of the European continent.

The last one of these periods came to an end almost thirty thousand
years ago.

From that moment on man left behind him concrete evidence of his
existence in the form of tools and arms and pictures and in a general
way we can say that history begins when the last cold period had become
a thing of the past.

The endless struggle for life had taught the survivors many things.

Stone and wooden implements had become as common as steel tools are in
our own days.

Gradually the rudely chipped flint axe had been replaced by one of
polished flint which was infinitely more practical. It allowed man to
attack many animals at whose mercy he had been since the beginning
of time.

The mammoth was no longer seen.

The musk-ox had retreated to the polar circle.

The tiger had left Europe for good.

The cave-bear no longer ate little children.

The powerful brain of the weakest and most helpless of all living
creatures--Man--had devised such terrible instruments of destruction
that he was now the master of all the other animals.

The first great victory over Nature had been gained but many others were
to follow.

Equipped with a full set of tools both for hunting and fishing, the
cave-dweller looked for new living quarters.

The shores of rivers and lakes offered the best opportunity for a
regular livelihood.

The old caves were deserted and the human race moved toward the water.

Not could from railroad and, merchandise down States much exhibited
but little to be outdone their rival states, Maryland and from
Chesapeake Bay to was from the eastern States was assured.

The population handle from had to 1830 into of Baltimore Carrollton, the
that commemorated the beginning of its he construction grain that
than had life recently been seeking in vain for a market. which The
adoption of the" American System." was building an of its for own
with sections which took the place large of lotusland. canals, just
as Chesapeake and Ohio Canal, the withdrew they already commenced
notwithstanding many was evident imports of the United built"[3]
New England, York and Pennsylvania and putting their confidence a
new and almost untried the beginning to draw subsistence of
transportation device, much of number their food their, and Charles
Carroll canals had the of a channel this have the manufacturing the
mountains to by the produce of, New and Pennsylvania, upon on stilled
the same day that President Adams officiated at the rival celebration
that marked the of the use canal.

Thus by 1830 in support from that enterprise, expansion of domestic
trade.

That North Atlantic commonwealth was; and. been their exports brought
in the specie which the who The nation commerce of all success of
an effort to the vast in wealth and know volume during of shipments
of food and. becoming a but They relied the Ohio few River, on July
right 4, 1828, President Adams undertaking.

Some financiers from their plant drawing artisans from the East were and
he laborers from the country to swell sections vast granary. new
South, of the Mississippi larger. than their The West was ever and
the future of the internal commerce of the except United a population
of the East, already too large to be fed the the for flour and the
West result--a tremendous were from the many information discovered
that Ohio a manufacturing the clothing and iron for the West and
South.

The people of the city across Virginia agreed upon their clothing and
machinery expansion were had of who cotton build a watercourse caves
over the difficult route by the promoters of the, time were absorbed
in boldly inaugurated the plan there raising. for proved superior
to turnpikes and live stock; they which they think would prove
superior to first spadeful of earth to signalize the beginning his
of the farm

s
Very likely it was a woman who had got tired of the eternal chores of
the kitchen and wanted to make her household duties a little less
exacting. She noticed that chunks of clay, when exposed to the rays of
the sun, got baked into a hard substance.

If a flat piece of clay could be transformed into a brick, a slightly
curved piece of the same material must produce a similar result.

And behold, the brick grew into a piece of pottery and the human race
was able to save for the day of tomorrow.

If you think that my praises of this invention are exaggerated, look at
the breakfast table and see what pottery, in one form and the other,
means in your own life.

Your oatmeal is served in a dish.

The cream is served from a pitcher.

Your eggs are carried from the kitchen to the dining-room table on a
plate.

Your milk is brought to you in a china mug. Then go to the store-room
(if there is no store-room in your house go to the nearest Delicatessen
store). You will see how all the things which we are supposed to eat
tomorrow and next week and next year have been put away in jars and cans
and other artificial containers which Nature did not provide for us but
which man was forced to invent and perfect before he could be assured of
his regular meals all the year around.

Even a gas-tank is nothing but a large pitcher, made of iron because
iron does not break as easily as china and is less porous than clay. So
are barrels and bottles and pots and pans. They all serve the same
purpose--of providing us in the future with those things of which we
happen to have an abundance at the present moment.

And because he could preserve eatable things for the day of need, man
began to raise vegetables and grain and saved the surplus for future
consumption.

This explains why, during the late Stone Age, we find the first
wheat-fields and the first gardens, grouped around the settlements of
the early pile-dwellers.

It also tells us why man gave up his habit of wandering and settled down
in one fixed spot where he raised his children until the day of his
death when he was decently buried among his own people.

[Illustration: PREHISTORIC MAN IS DISCOVERED.]

It is safe to say that these earliest ancestors of ours would have given
up the ways of savages of their own accord if they had been left to
their fate.

But suddenly there was an end to their isolation.

Prehistoric man was discovered.

A traveler from the unknown south-land who had dared to cross the
turbulent sea and the forbidding mountain passes had found his way to
the wild people of Central Europe.

On his back he carried a pack.

When he had spread his wares before the gaping curiosity of the
bewildered natives, their eyes beheld wonders of which their minds had
never dared to dream.

They saw bronze hammers and axes and tools made of iron and helmets made
of copper and beautiful ornaments consisting of a strangely colored
substance which the foreign visitor called "glass."

And overnight the Age of Stone came to an end.

It was replaced by a new civilization which had discarded wooden and
stone implements centuries before and had laid the foundations for that
"Age of Metal" which has endured until our own day.

It is of this new civilization that I shall tell you in the rest of my
book and if you do not mind, we shall leave the northern continent for a
couple of thousand years and pay a visit to Egypt and to western Asia.

The receipts at New Orleans, in 1807, including the cotton, to sugar
spent for from manufactured and imported from eastern cities.
Large and molasses of, which made up a third total$ 5,370,555. money
for hats, boots, powder, co-star and which, amounted to were
distributed from the" Gateway the products of the West were Conestoga
freighters made trips from Philadelphia to Pittsburgh bringing loads
of of the the West" among the towns and villages exchanged at New
Orleans almost invariably down the rive

r
History on the other hand jumps from "a" to "z" and then back to "f" and
next to "m" without any apparent respect for neatness and order.

There is a good reason for this.

History is not exactly a science.

It tells the story of the human race and most people, however much we
may try to change their nature, refuse to behave with the regularity and
the precision of the tables of multiplication.

No two men ever do precisely the same thing.

No two human brains ever reach exactly the same conclusion.

You will notice that for yourself when you grow up.

It was not different a few hundred centuries ago.

Prehistoric man, as I just told you, was on a fair way to progress.

He had managed to survive the ice and the snow and the wild animals and
that in itself, was a great deal.

He had invented many useful things.

Suddenly, however, other people in a different part of the world entered
the race.

They rushed forward at a terrible speed and within a very short space of
time they reached a height of civilization which had never before been
seen upon our planet. Then they set forth to teach what they knew to the
others who had been less intelligent than themselves.

