THE DRUMS OF JEOPARDY

By Harold MacGrath


CHAPTER I


A fast train drew into Albany, on the New York Central, from the West.
It was three-thirty of a chill March morning in the first year of peace.
A pall of fog lay over the world so heavy that it beaded the face and
hands and deposited a fairy diamond dust upon wool. The station
lights had the visibility of stars, and like the stars were without
refulgence--a pale golden aureola, perhaps three feet in diameter, and
beyond, nothing. The few passengers who alighted and the train itself
had the same nebulosity of drab fish in a dim aquarium.

Among the passengers to detrain was a man in a long black coat. The high
collar was up. The man wore a derby hat, well down upon his head, after
the English mode. An English kitbag, battered and scarred, swung heavily
from his hand. He immediately strode for the station wall and stood with
his back to it. He was almost invisible. He remained motionless until
the other detrained passengers swam past, until the red tail lights of
the last coach vanished into the deeps; then he rushed for the exit to
the street.

Away toward the far end of the platform there appeared a shadowy patch
in the fog. It grew and presently took upon itself the shape of a man.
For one so short and squat and thick his legs possessed remarkable
agility, for he reached the street just as the other man stopped at the
side of a taxicab.

The fool! As if such a movement had not been anticipated. Sixteen
thousand miles, always eastward, on horses, camels, donkeys, trains, and
ships; down China to the sea, over that to San Francisco, thence across
this bewildering stretch of cities and plains called the United States,
always and ever toward New York--and the fool thought he could escape!
Thought he was flying, when in truth he was being driven toward a wall
in which there would be no breach! Behind and in front the net was
closing. Up to this hour he had been extremely clever in avoiding
contact. This was his first stupid act--thought the fog would serve as
an impenetrable cloak.

Meantime, the other man reached into the taxicab and awoke the sleeping
chauffeur.

"A hotel," he said.

"Which one?"

"Any one will do."

"Yes, sir. Two dollars."

"When we arrive. No; I'll take the bag inside with me." Inside the cab
the fare chuckled. For those who fished there would be no fish in the
net. This fog--like a kindly hand reaching down from heaven!

Five minutes later the taxicab drew up in front of a hotel. The unknown
stepped out, took a leather purse from his pocket and carefully counted
out in silver two dollars and twenty cents, which he poured into the
chauffeur's palm.

"Thank you, sir."

"You are an American?"

"Sure! I was born in this burg."

"Like the idea?"

"Huh?"

"The idea of being an American?"

"I should say yes! This is one grand little gob o' mud, believe me! It's
going to be dry in a little while, and then it will be some grand little
old brick. Say, let me give you a tip! The gas in this joint is extra if
you blow it out!"

Grinning, the chauffeur threw on the power and wheeled away into the
fog.

His late fare followed the vehicle with his gaze until it reached the
vanishing point, then he laughed. An American cockney! He turned and
entered the hotel. He marched resolutely up to the desk and roused
the sleeping clerk, who swung round the register. The unknown without
hesitance inscribed his name, which was John Hawksley. But he hesitated
the fraction of a second before adding his place of residence--London.

"A room with a bath, if you please; second flight. Have the man call me
at seven."

"Yes, sir. Here, boy!"

Sleepily the bellboy lifted the battered kitbag and led the way to the
elevator.

"Bawth!" said the night clerk, as the elevator door slithered to the
latch. "Bawth! The old dear!"

He returned to his chair, hoping that he would not be disturbed again
until he was relieved.

What do we care, so long as we don't know? What's the stranger to us but
a fleeting shadow? The Odysseys that pass us every day, and we none the
wiser!

The clerk had not properly floated away into dreams when he was again
roused. Resentfully he opened his eyes. A huge fist covered with a
fell of black hair rose and fell. Attached to this fist was an arm,
and joined to that were enormous shoulders. The clerk's trailing,
sleep-befogged glance paused when it reached the newcomer's face. The
jaws and cheeks and upper lip were blue-black with a beard that required
extra-tempered razors once a day. Black eyes that burned like opals, a
bullet-shaped head well cropped, and a pudgy nose broad in the nostrils.
Because this second arrival wore his hat well forward the clerk was
not able to discern the pinched forehead of the fanatic. Not wholly
unpleasant, not particularly agreeable; the sort of individual one
preferred to walk round rather than bump into. The clerk offered the
register, and the squat man scratched his name impatiently, grabbed the
extended key, and trotted to the elevator.

"Ah," mused the clerk, "we have with us Mr. Poppy--Popo--" He stared at
the signature close up. "Hanged if I can make it out! It looks like
some new brand of soft drink we'll be having after July first. Greek
or Bulgarian. Anyhow, he didn't awsk for a bawth. Looks as if he needed
one, too. Here, boy!"

"Ye-ah!"

"Take a peek at this John Hancock."

"Gee! That must be the guy who makes that drugstore drink--Boolzac."

The clerk swung out, but missed the boy's head by a hair. The boy stood
off, grinning.

"Well, you ast me!"

"All right. If anybody else comes in tell 'em we're full up. I'll be a
wreck to-morrow without my usual beauty sleep." The clerk dropped into
his chair again and elevated his feet to the radiator.

"Want me t' git a pillow for yuh?"

"No back talk!"--drowsily.

"Oh! boy, but I got one on you!"

"What?"

"This Boolzac guy didn't have no baggage, and yuh give 'im the key
without little ol' three-per in advance."

"No grip?"

"Nix. Not a toot'brush in sight."

"Well, the damage is done. I might as well go to sleep."

It was not premeditated on the part of the clerk to give the squat man
the room adjoining that of Hawksley's. The key had been nearest his
hand. But the squat man trembled with excitement when he noted that it
was stamped 214. He had taken particular pains to search the register
for Hawksley's number before rousing the clerk. He hadn't counted on any
such luck as this. His idea had been merely to watch the door of Room
212.

He had the feline foot, as they say. He moved about lightly and without
sound in the dark. Almost at once he approached one of the two doors
and put his ear to the panel. Running water. The fool had time to take a
bath!

A plan flashed into his head. Why not end the affair here and now, and
reap the glory for himself? What mattered the net if the fish swam into
your hand? Wasn't this particularly his affair? It was the end, not the
means. A close touch in Hong-Kong, but the fool had slipped away. But
there, in the next room, assured that he had escaped--it would be
easy. The squat man tiptoed to the window. Luck of luck, there was a
fire-escape platform! He would let half an hour pass, then he would
act. The ape, with his British mannerisms! Death to the breed, root and
branch! He sat down to wait.

On the other side of the wall the bather finished his ablutions. His
body was graceful, vigorous, and youthful, tinted a golden bronze. His
nose was hawky; his eyes a Latin brown, alert and roving, though there
was a hint of weariness in them, the pressure of long, racking hours of
ceaseless vigilance. His top hair was a glossy black inclined to curl;
but the four days' growth of beard was as blond as a ripe chestnut burr.
In spite of this mark of vagabondage there were elements of beauty
in the face. The expanse of the brow and the shape of the head were
intellectual. The mouth was pleasure-loving, but the nose and the jaw
neutralized this.

After he had towelled himself he reached down for a brown leather pouch
which lay on the three-legged bathroom stool. It was patently a tobacco
pouch, but there was evidently something inside more precious than
Saloniki. He held the pouch on his palm and stared at it as if it
contained some jinn clamouring to be let out. Presently he broke away
from this fascination and rocked his body, eyes closed--like a man
suffering unremitting pain.

"God's curse on them!" he whispered, opening his eyes. He raised the
pouch swiftly, as though he intended dashing it to the tiled floor; but
his arm sank gently. After all, he would be a fool to destroy them. They
were future bread and butter.

He would soon have their equivalent in money--money that would bring
back no terrible recollections.

Strange that every so often, despite the horror, he had to take them out
and gaze at them. He sat down upon the stool, spread a towel across his
knees, and opened the pouch. He drew out a roll of cotton wool, which he
unrolled across the towel. Flames! Blue flames, red, yellow, violet, and
green--precious stones, many of them with histories that reached back
into the dim centuries, histories of murder and loot and envy. The
young man had imagination--perhaps too much of it. However, it overlooked
the ancients not. But by the statement of Simonides on the effect of
restricting both arts, they are not forgot einzuschärfen that
ohngeachtet the perfect similarity of this effect, nevertheless,
both in the objects as in the nature of their imitation (ulh kai
tropoiV mimhsewV) would be different .

Völlig but, as if no such difference would have many of the latest judge
art from that line of painting and poetry of the crude things of the
world. Soon forcing them into the poetry of painting engern barriers;
soon let the painting the whole wide realm of poetry fill.

Everything is a legally, the other should also be granted, everything
in one like it or displeases, be necessary also in the other fallen
or satisfied, and full of this idea, they speak in the confident tone,
the shallowest judgments, if they, in the works of poet and painter
than making a accusation that the observed deviations from each other
is to make mistakes, they one or the other, after which they
either more taste for poetry or the Paintings have a burden basket.

Yes After this criticism has some of the virtuosos themselves verführet.
It has poetry in the portrayal of addiction, and in painting the
Allegoristerei erzeuget; by those speaking at a painting want to make
without really knowing what paint can and they should, and this
at a silent poetry, without consideration to have the extent to
which they could express general terms, without their determination
to remove, and a font to be arbitrary.

This false tastes, and those ungegründeten judgments precluded, is
the primary intention of the following articles. They are a random
manner, and more after the result of my reading, than by the
methodological development of general principles to grow. There are more
messy Kollektanea to a book than a book. But I flatterer me that they
are not, as such, not to be despised. At systematic books we Germans do
not lack. In a few word explanation adopted in the nicest order
anything we just want to herzuleiten, we understand that, despite
a nation in the world. Baumgarten known, a large proportion of the
examples in his aesthetics Gesner dictionary to be guilty. If my Raisonnement
not as flush as the Baumgartensche, they are more examples but my
source after taste.

Since I like the Laocoon suspended, and several times on his back, so I
gave it a share of the inscription to leave. Other small excesses
over various points of the old art history have less to my intention, and
they are only there because I'll never be a better place to give hope.
I still remember that I am under the name of the painting, the
visual arts ever understand so I do not like this is that I am not
under the name of poetry on the other arts, the imitation is
progressive, some consideration should take.

I. The overall excellent indicator of the Greek masterpieces in painting
and sculpture in setzet Mr. Winckelmann a noble simplicity and quiet size,
both in the position than in the printouts. "As the depth of the sea,"
he says, 1), "all the time to stay calm, the surface may still be raging,
just zeiget the expression in the figures of the Greeks in all
passions and set a great soul. (1 From imitation of Greek works in painting
and sculpture, p. 21. 22.) describes this soul in the face of the
Laocoon, and not in the face alone, with the heaviest suffering.

The pain, which is in all of the muscles and tendons entdecket body,
and one alone, without the face and other parts to consider, in the
abdomen almost painfully recovered himself to feel believed and this
pain, I say, however, expressed no anger in the face and the whole
position. He has no terrible screams, like Virgil, by his Laokoon SINGET;
the opening of the mouth means that it is not: it is rather a timid and
beklemmtes sigh, as Sadolet beschreibet. The pain of the body and the
size of the soul through the construction of the figure with the
same strength ausgeteilet and weighed equally.

Laocoon suffers, but he suffers like Sophocles Philoktet: his misery
we go to the soul, but we wished, as this great man's misery to be
endured. The expression of such a great soul goes far beyond the
creation of the beautiful nature. The artist had the strength of the
Spirit in himself feel what he's marble einprägte. Greece had artists
and world into a person, and more than one Metrodor. The wisdom, the
art is the hand, and blew the characters more than the same nasty
souls that, etc. "The remark, which is basically here, that the pain in
the history of Laokoon with that anger does not show which one of the
suspect should be the same ferocity, is absolutely right. That is not
disputed that this is where an artist under the Halbkenner nature remained
to be the true pathetic pain not be attained, should judge, that, I
say, this is the wisdom of that particular hervorleuchtet. Only in the
fact, what Mr. Winckelmann this is wisdom, in the generality of the
rule, which he derives from this fact, I dare other opinion.

I confess that disapprove of page views, which he raises on Virgil me
aback initially made, and the nächstdem Comparison with the Philoktet.
From here, I want out, and my thoughts in just write down the
order, in which they developed for me.

"Laocoon suffers, such as Sophocles Philoktet." How this suffering? It is
odd, so that his suffering for us different impressions left behind .--
The actions, the yelling, the wild curses, with which his pain filled
the camp, and all victims, all sacred acts annoyed, no less terrible
yell through the desolate island, and it was they who then banished
him.

Which sounds of displeasure, the Jammers, the despair, of which
the poet in imitation of the theater was durchhallen .-- It has
been the third lift this piece unequally shorter than the other place.
As you can see, say the judges art 2) that the old order have the
same length of the elevators had little to do.

I also believe, but I wanted to desfalls prefer to create a different
example than this. jammer The full proclamation, the whimper that
aborted a, a, jeu, attatai, w moi, moi!

all lines full Papai, Papai from which consists of the lift, and
with all other strains and deductions deklamieret had to be when,
in a context of speech are necessary in the presentation of this
elevator without a doubt quite ebensolange dauren leave as the
others.

It seems to the reader far shorter on the papers when he is alleged
the audience will be. Brumoy (2nd, theater. Grecs of T. II.) 89th
p. crying is the natural expression of physical pain. Homer's wounded
warriors are not uncommon with screaming to the ground. The geritzte
Venus schreiet according to 3), not by the clamor as the goddess of
lust softness to describe much more about the suffering their natural
right. Indeed, even the Brazen Mars, when he was spear of Diomedes fühlet,
schreiet so awful than ten thousand angry screamed warriors at the same
time, that both armies are horror 4). (3rd Iliad. v. E. 343rd h en mega
iacousa -) (4th Iliad. v. E. 859th Homer as well as changes) else
its heroes on human nature there, so they remain loyal to her but always
when it comes to the feeling of pain and insults when applied to the
expression of this feeling by crying, or tears, or by Scheltworte
ankömmt. According to their deeds, it is Creatures of higher species,
according to their true human feelings.

I know it, we refine Europeans after a wiser world know about our mouth
and our eyes better reign. courtesy and decency prohibit yelling and
tears. The acting prowess of the first rough world has for ages us
in a suffering transforms. Even our Ureltern were greater in this
than in that.

Ureltern But we were barbarians. verbeißen All the pain, the pranks of
death unrelated to eye face, under the bites of vipers die laughing,
neither his sin nor the loss of his dearest friend Mourning, are
traits of the old Nordic heroism 5).

Palnatoko gave his Jomsburgern the law, nothing to fear, and fear
the word not even to mention. (5th Th Bartholinus de causis contemptae
a Danis adhuc gentilibus mortis, cap.)

I. Not so the Greeks! He felt terrible and that he expressed his pain
and his sorrow, he is not ashamed of the human weaknesses, but it
was not on the way to honor and fulfill its obligation to hold back .

As for the wildness and barbarians from hardening arose that impacted
his principles.

He was the heroism as the sparks hidden in gravel, the sleep, as long
as no external force wecket it, and the stones neither the clarity
nor its cold take .

The heroism of the barbarians was eating a bright flame, which always was
raging, and every other good feature in it consumed at least
blackens. - When Homer the Trojans with wild screams, the Greeks,
however, in silence entschloßner to battle führet, so remember the
boom very well, that this that the poet as barbarians, as civilized
people want to portray.

I am amazed that they are in another place a similar characteristic
juxtaposition bemerket not have 6).

The enemy armies have weapons of silence stand taken, they are burning
their dead from here, on both parts which are not without hot tears
abgehet; dakrua Jerma ceonteV.

But priamus prohibits his Trojans to weep; oud 'eia klaiein PriamoV
megaV.

He forbids them to cry, says Dacier, because he worried they would
like to soften too much, and tomorrow, with less courage to go to the
dispute.

Well, but I ask: why should only priamus arrange this?

Why not also erteilet Agamemnon's Greeks, the same prohibition?

The meaning of the poet goes deeper. He wants to teach us that only the
civilized Greeks and cry at the same time could be brave; uncivilized
by the Trojans to make it, all humanity must advance choke. Nemessvmai
ge men klaiein Ouden, allows it to any other places 7) the understanding
of the wise son, Nestor said. (6 Iliad.

H. v. 421st) (7th Odyssey. D. 195th) It is curious that among the few
funeral games, consisting of the antiquity of us have come to find two
pieces in which the physical pain is not the smallest part of the tragedy
is that the suffering hero meets.

Besides the Philoktet, the dying Hercules.

And this makes Sophocles complain, whimper, cry and scream. Thanks be
like our neighbors, these masters of the decent people that now a
winselnder Philoktet, a screaming of Hercules, the ridiculous
intolerable people on stage would be.

It is true that one of their most recent Dichter 8) to the Philoktet
daring. But could he dare to them the true Philoktet to show? (8
Chateaubrun.) Even a Laokoon found among the pieces of verlornen Sophocles.
If we but also the fate of these Laokoon gegönnet would! From the
slight mentions that some of his old grammarians do, can not conclude,
as the poets have dealt with this substance. So much, I am assured
that he Laokoon not as the stoic and Philoktet Hercules will have
described. Everything is untheatralisch stoic, and our pity is all
the time suffering equally, which is the subject of interest expressed.
If you see him his misery with great spirit to endure, it is this great
soul is awaken our admiration, but the admiration is a cold emotion,
whose idle astonishment any warmer passion, and any other significant
ausschließet idea.

And now I come to my conclusion . If it is true that the cries of
pain, physical sensation, especially after the ancient Greek mentality,
probably even with a great soul can exist: for example, the expression
of such a soul is not the cause of why demohngeachtet the artist
in his marble this screaming not want to imitate, but there must be
another reason why he is here by his rival, the poet, abgehet, this
screams with the best intent ausdrücket II.

It was fable or history, the love that the first attempt in the visual
arts have done so much is certain, that they are the great old masters,
the hand will not become tired. Because the painting is itzt about the
art than what the body on land nachahmet in its full extent operated
so as the Greeks had their gesetzet far narrower limits, and they
merely the imitation of beautiful body eingeschränket.

Its nothing artist portrayed as beauty, even the nasty Beautiful,
Beautiful niedrer the genera, it was only his random accusation that
his practice, his recovery. The perfection of the object itself had to
delight in his works, he was too big for its viewers to ask that
they are cold to the naked pleasure, which consists of the measures
of similarity, from the recital of his skill entspringet, should
be satisfied, in his art rather it was nothing, his eyes nothing
more noble than the goal of art.

"Who will paint you want, because nobody wants to see you," says an
old Epigrammatist 1) over a very ill man. Some newer artists would say,
"Be so ill as possible, but I want you to paint. Maybe nobody likes you
already see, but so should you like to see my paintings, not insofar
as you imagine, but so far it is a proof of my art is that such a
monster as similar index white. " (1 Antiochus.

(Antholog. lib. II cap. 43). Harduin on Pliny (Lib 35th sect. 36 pm
698) defines this epigram in a Piso. There is, however, among all
Greek Epigrammatisten none of this name.) Admittedly, the slope of
this lush with tiresome bragging facilities covered by the value of
their goods would not be knighted, too of course, but that not even
the Greeks their Pauson their Piräikus should have had. They had them,
but they did them strict justice to. Pauson, which is still below the
natural beauty of the common thought, the less taste Defective and
ugly in the formation of human love expressed 2), lived in poverty
scornful 3).

And Piräikus, the barber parlors, dirty garage, donkeys and culinary herbs,
with all the hard work of a Dutch artist painted, as if such things in
nature have so much charm and so rarely to be seen, got the last
name of Rhyparographen 4), the Kotmalers, although his works
voluptuous rich with gold aufwog to their invalidity by this imaginary
value to come to their aid. (2nd Young people, therefore, Aristotle
bids, you must not show his paintings to their imagination as much
as possible, all images of the ugly purely to keep.

(Polit lib. VIII cap. 5 p. 526th edit. Conring.) Herrenboden wants in
this place instead of Pauson, read Pausanias know because this was
known that he had painted licentious characters (umbra de poetica ,
comment. I. p. XIII.). As if it was only from a philosophical
legislators should learn, like the youth of irritation of lust to be
removed.

He would have known place in the poetry (cap. II) only in comparison
to scrutinize, to withhold his presumption. There are booms (such E.
Kühn, on Älian Var. Hist. Lib. IV cap. 3) what the difference that
Aristotle daselbst between the Polygnotus, Dionysius and Pauson
indicating therein set that Polygnotus gods and heroes , Dionysius humans,
animals and Pauson have painted. They are all painted human figures,
and Pauson that once a horse painted beweiset does not mean that he was
an animal painter, for which it holds Herrenboden. Your rank, the specific
degrees of beauty, which they gave their human figures, and Dionysius
was so not only as people paint, and was just about in front of all other
Anthropograph because he nature slavishly followed, and not to
collect Ideal could, under which the gods and heroes to paint a
religious crimes have been.) (3rd Aristophanes Plut. v. 602nd et
ACHARNES. v. 854th (4th) Plinius lib.

XXXV. sect. 37. Edit. Hard.)

The government even considered it their attention not unworthy of the
artist with violence in its true sphere to obtain. The Law of Thebaner
which his imitation into Nicer ordered and imitation to ugly prohibited
under penalty is known.
He remembered
distinctly that this man had been in a hurry. Perhaps the whole dizzy
affair was reacting upon his imagination psychologically and turning
harmless individuals into enemies.

"Hello!" said a man's voice over the wire.

"Is Mr. Rathbone there?"

"Captain Rathbone is with his regiment at Coblenz, sir."

"Coblenz?"

"Yes, sir. I do not expect his return until near midsummer, sir. Who is
this talking?"

"Have you opened a cable from Yokohama?"

"This is Mr. Hawksley!" The voice became excited.

"Oh, sir! You will come right away. I alone understand, sir. You will
remember me when you see me. I'm the captain's butler, sir--Jenkins.
He cabled back to give you the entire run of the house as long as you
desired it. He advised me to notify you that he had also prepared his
banker against your arrival. Have your luggage sent here at once, sir.
Dinner will be at your convenience."

Hawksley's body relaxed. A lump came into his throat. Here was a friend,
anyhow, ready to serve him though he was thousands of miles away.

When he could trust himself to speak he said: "Sorry. It will be
impossible to accept the hospitality at present. I shall call in a few
days, however, to establish my identity. Thank you. Good evening."

"Just a moment, sir. I may have an important cable to transmit to you.
It would be wise to leave me your address, sir."

Hawksley hesitated a moment. After all, he could trust this perfect old
servant, whom he remembered. He gave the address.

As he came out of the booth the girl stretched forth an arm to detain
him. He stopped.

"I'm sorry I spoke like that," she said. "But I'm so tired! I've been on
my feet all day, and everybody's been barking and growling; and if I'd
taken in as many nickels as I've passed out in change the boss would be
rich."

"Give me a dozen of those roses there." She sold flowers also. "The pink
ones. How much?" he asked.

"Two-fifty."

He laid down the money. "Never mind the box. They are for you. Good
evening."

The girl stared at the flowers as Ali Baba must have stared at the cask
with rubies.

"For me!" she whispered. "For nothing!"

Her eyes blurred. She never saw Hawksley again; but that was of no
importance. She had a gentle deed to put away in the lavender of
recollection.

Outside Hawksley could see nothing of the man who had bought the cigars.
At any rate, further dodging would be useless. He would go directly
to his destination. Old Gregor had sent him a duplicate key to the
apartment. He could hide there for a day or two; then visit Rathbone's
banker at his residence in the night to establish his identity. Gregor
could be trusted to carry the wallet and the pouch to the bank. Once
these were walled in steel half the battle would be over. He would have
nothing to guard thereafter but his life. He laughed brokenly. Nothing
but the clothes he stood in. He never could claim the belongings he had
been forced to leave in that hotel back yonder. But there was loyal old
Gregor. Somebody would be honestly glad to see him. The poor old chap!
Astonishing, but of late he was always thinking in English.

He hailed the first free taxicab he saw, climbed in, and was driven
downtown. He looked back constantly. Was he followed? There was no way
of telling. The street was alive with vehicles tearing north and south,
with frequent stoppage for the passage of those racing east and west.
The destination of Hawksley's cab was an old-fashioned apartment house
in Eightieth Street.

Gregor would have a meal ready; and it struck Hawksley forcibly that he
was hungry, that he had not touched food since the night before. Gregor,
valeting in a hotel, pressing coats and trousers and sewing on buttons!
Groggy old world, wasn't it? Gregor, pressing the trousers of the
hoi polloi! Gregor, who could have sent New York mad with that old
Stradivarius of his! But Gregor was wise. Safety for him lay in
obscurity; and what was more obscure than a hotel valet?

He did not seek the elevator but mounted the first flight of stairs. He
saw two doors, one on each side of the landing. He sought one, stooped
and peered at the card over the bell. Conover. Gregor's was opposite.
Having a key he did not knock but unlocked the door and stepped into the
dark hall.

"Stefani Gregor?" he called, joyously. "Stefani, my old friend, it is
I!"

Silence. But that was understandable. Either Gregor had not returned
from his labours or he was out gathering the essentials for the evening
meal. Judging from the variety of odours that swam the halls of this
human warren many suppers were in the process of making, and the top
flavour was garlic. He sniffed pleasurably. Not that the smell of garlic
quickened his hunger. It merely sent his thought galloping backward
a score of years. He saw Stefani Gregor and a small boy in mountain
costume footing it sturdily along the dizzy goat paths of the rugged
hills; saw the two sitting on some ruddy promontory and munching black
bread rubbed with garlic. Ambrosia! His mother's horror, when she smelt
his breath--as if garlic had not been one of her birthrights! His uncle,
roaring out in his bull's voice that black bread and garlic were good
for little boys' stomachs, and made the stuff of soldiers. Black bread
and garlic and the Golden Age!

After he had flooded the hall with light he began a tour of inspection.
The rooms were rather bare but clean and orderly. Here and there were
items that kept the homeland green in the recollection. He came to the
bedroom last. He hesitated for a moment before opening the door. The
lights told him why Gregor had not greeted his entering hail.

The overturned reading lamp, the broken chair, the letters and papers
strewn about the floor, the rifled bureau drawers--these things spoke
plainly enough. Gregor was a prisoner somewhere in this vast city; or he
was dead.

Hawksley stood motionless for a space. And he must remain here at least
for a night and a day! He would not dare risk another hotel. He could,
of course, go to the splendid Rathbone place; but it would not be fair
to invite tragedy across that threshold.

A ball of crushed paper at his feet attracted his attention. He kicked
it absently, followed and picked it up, his thought on other things.
He was aimlessly smoothing it out when an English word caught his eye.
English! He smoothed the crumpled sheet and read:

  If you find this it is the will of God.  I have been watched
  for several days, and am now convinced that they have always
  known I was here but were leaving me alone for some unknown
  purpose.  I roll this ball because anything folded and left
  in a conspicuous place would be useless should they come for
  me.  I understand.  It is you, poor boy.  They are watching
  me in hopes of catching you, and I've no way to warn you not
  to come here.  It was after I sent you the key that I learned
  the truth.  God bless you and guard you!
                                                       STEFANI.


Hawksley tore the note into scraps. Food and sleep. He walked toward the
kitchen, musing. What an odd mixture he was! Superficially British, with
the British outlook; and yet filled with the dancing blood of the Latin
and the cold, phlegmatic blood of the Slav. He was like a schoolmaster
with two students too big for him to handle. Always the Latin was
dispossessing the Slav or the Slav was ousting the Latin. With
fatalistic confidence that nevermore would he look upon the kindly face
of Stefani Gregor, alive, he went in search of food.

Not a crust did he find. In the ice-chest there was a bottle of
milk--soured. Hungry; and not a crumb! And he dared not go out in search
of food. No one had observed his entrance to the apartment, but it was
improbable that such luck would attend him a second time.

He returned to the bedroom. He did not turn on the light because a novel
idea had blossomed unexpectedly--a Latin idea. There might be food on
some window ledge. He would leave payment. He proceeded to the window,
throwing up both it and the curtain, and looked out. Ripping! There was
a fire escape.

As he slipped a leg over the sill a golden square sprang into existence
across the way. Immediately he forgot his foraging instincts. In a
moment he was all Latin, always susceptible to the enchantment of
beauty.

The distance across the court was less than forty feet. He could see the
girl quite plainly as she set about the preparation of her evening meal.
He forgot his danger, his hunger, his code of ethics, which did not
permit him to gaze at a young woman through a window.

Alone. He was alone and she was alone. A novel idea popped into his
head. He chuckled; and the sound of that chuckle in his ears somehow
brought back his resolve to carry on, to pass out, if so he must,
fighting. He would knock on yonder window and ask the beautiful lady
slavey for a bit of her supper!


CHAPTER IV


Kitty Conover had inherited brains and beauty, and nothing else but the
furniture. Her father had been a famous reporter, the admiration of
cubs from New York to San Francisco; handsome, happy-go-lucky, generous,
rather improvident, and wholly lovable. Her mother had been a comedy
actress noted for her beauty and wit and extravagance. Thus it will be
seen that Kitty was in luck to inherit any furniture at all.

Kitty was twenty-four. A body is as old as it is, but a brain is as old
as the facts it absorbs; and Kitty had absorbed enough facts to carry
her brain well into the thirties.

Conover had been dead twenty years; and Kitty had scarcely any
recollections of him. Improvident as the run of newspaper writers are,
Conover had fulfilled one obligation to his family--he had kept up his
endowment policies; and for eighteen years the insurance had taken care
of Kitty and her mother, who because of a weak ankle had not been able
to return to the scenes of her former triumphs. In 1915 this darling
mother, whom Kitty loved to idolatry, had passed on.

There was enough for the funeral and the cleaning up of the bills; but
that was all. The income ceased with Mrs. Conover's demise. Kitty saw
that she must give up writing short stories which nobody wanted, and
go to work. So she proceeded at once to the newspaper office where
her father's name was still a tradition, and applied for a job. It was
frankly a charity job, but Kitty was never to know that because she fell
into the newspaper game naturally; and when they discovered her wide
acquaintance among theatrical celebrities they switched her into the
dramatic department, where she had astonishing success as a raconteur.
She was now assistant dramatic editor of the Sunday issue, and her pay
envelope had four crisp ten-dollar notes in it each Monday.

She still remained in the old apartment; sentiment as much as anything.
She had been born in it and her happiest days had been spent there. She
lived alone, without help, being one of that singular type of womanhood
that is impervious to the rust of loneliness. Her daily activities
sufficed the gregarious instincts, and it was often a relief to move
about in silence.

Among other things Kitty had foresight. She had learned that a little
money in the background was the most satisfying thing in existence. So
many times she and her mother had just reached the insurance check, with
grumbling bill collectors in the hall, that she was determined never to
be poor. She had to fight constantly her love of finery inherited from
her mother, and her love of good times inherited from her father. So she
established a bank account, and to date had not drawn a check against
it; which speaks well for her will power, an attribute cultivated, not
inherited.

Kitty was as pleasing to the eye as a basket of fruit. Her beauty was
animated. There was an expression in her eyes and on her lips that spoke
of laughter always on tiptoe. An enviable inheritance, this, the desire
to laugh, to be searching always for a vent to laughter; it is something
money cannot buy, something not to be cultivated; a true gift of
the gods. This desire to laugh is found invariably in the tender and
valorous; and Kitty was both. Brown hair with running threads of
gold that was always catching light; slate-blue eyes with heavy black
fringe-Irish; colour that waxed and waned; and a healthy, shapely body.
Topped by a sparkling intellect these gifts made Kitty desirable of men.

Kitty had no beau. After the adolescent days beaux ceased to interest
her. This would indicate that she was inclined toward suffrage. Nothing
of the kind. Intensely romantic, she determined to await the grand
passion or go it alone. No experimental adventures for her. Be assured
that she weighed every new man she met, and finding some flaw discarded
him as a matrimonial possibility. Besides, her unusual facilities to
view and judge men had shown her masculine phases the average woman
would have discovered only after the fatal knot was tied. She did not
suspect that she was romantical. She attributed her wariness to common
sense.

If there is one place where a pretty young woman may labour without
having to build a wall of liquid air about her to fend off amatory
advances that place is the editorial room of a great metropolitan daily.
One must have leisure to fall in love; and only the office boys could
assemble enough idle time to call it leisure.

Her desk faced Burlingame's; and Burlingame was the dramatic editor, a
scholar and a gentleman. He liked to hear Kitty talk, and often he lured
her into the open; and he gathered information about theatrical folks
that was outside even his wide range of knowledge.

A drizzly fog had hung over New York since morning. Kitty was finishing
up some Sunday special. Burlingame was reading proofs. All day
theatrical folks had been in and out of this little ten-by-twelve
cubby-hole; and now there would be quiet.

But no. The door opened and an iron-gray head intruded.

"Will I be in the way?"

"Lord, no!" cried Burlingame, throwing down his proofs. "Come along in,
Cutty."

The great war correspondent came in and sat down, sighing gratefully.

Cutty was a nickname; he carried and smoked--everywhere they
would permit him--the worst-looking and the worst-smelling pipe in
Christendom. You may not realize it, but a nickname is a round-about
Anglo-Saxon way of telling a fellow you love him. He was Cutty, but
only among his dear intimates, mind you; to the world at large, to
presidents, kings, ambassadors, generals, and capitalists he is known by
another name. You will find it on the roster of the Royal Geographical;
on the title page of several unique books on travel, jewels, and drums;
in magazines and newspapers; on the membership roll of the Savage in
London and the Lambs in New York. But you will not find it in this
story; because it would not be fair to set his name against the unusual
adventures that crossed his line of life with that of the young man who
wore the tobacco pouch suspended from his neck.

Tall, bony, graceful enough except in a chair, where his angles became
conspicuous; the ruddy, weather-bitten complexion of a deep-sea sailor,
and a sailor man's blue eye; the brow of a thinker and the mouth of a
humourist. Men often call another man handsome when a woman knows they
mean manly. Among men Cutty was handsome.

Kitty considerately rose and gathered up her manuscript.

"No, no, Kitty! I'd rather talk to you than Burly, here. You're always
reminding me of that father of yours. Best comrade I ever had. You laugh
just like him. Did your mother ever tell you that old Cutty is your
godfather?"

"Good gracious!"

"Fact. I told your dad I'd watch over you."

"And a fat lot of watching you've done to date," jeered Burlingame.

"Couldn't help that. But I can be on the job until I return to the
Balkans."

Kitty laughed joyously and sat down, perhaps a little thrilled. She had
always admired Cutty from afar, shyly. Once in a blue moon he had in
the old days appeared for tea; and he and Mrs. Conover would spend
the balance of the afternoon discussing the lovable qualities of Tommy
Conover. Kitty had seen him but twice during the war.

"Every so often," began Cutty, "I have to find listeners. Fact. I
used to hate crowds, listeners; but those ten days in an open boat, a
thousand miles from anywhere, made me gregarious. I'm always wanting
company and hating to go to bed, which is bad business for a man of
fifty-two." Cutty's ship had been torpedoed.

But I will follow her and the thing on the reason to come looking
for. (Ab) Colonel. Thu ', if you want. I'll give 'it purely - this
really great and foolish have I never seen them. The devil must be in
my absence I have taken shape to my house top to bottom to return, others
understand 'not-I's ninth appearance.

Dorsigny Colonel. Champagne, a little drunk. Champagne. Well, it must
be true! - Here's lives are, as in Wirth House - But where the devil
they all stuck? - No living soul have I seen since I Kouri as the noise
had served - But, look because, my Gracious Lord, the captain -
but I have to hear how our things are.

(Power against the character of Colonel understanding complacent and
laughs.) Colonel. What the devil! this is not the rogue, Champagne -
How come the hieher, and what does the donkey with its simple grimaces?
Champagne (as above). Well, now, Gracious Lord? Colonel. I think the guy
is drunk. Champagne. Well, what do you say? Have I played my role well?
Colonel (for themselves). His role?

I noticed something - Yes, friend, Champagne, not bad. Champagne.
Not bad! What? To delight hab 'I played it. With my whip and the
Kourierstiefeln, I saw not a whole Postillon same? How? Colonel.
Yes! yes! (For themselves.) White of the devil, what should I answer
him. Champagne.

Well, what's inside? How far are you now? Colonel. As far as I am -
as it is - well, you can easily imagine yourself, as it stands.
Champagne. The Heirath is true, not true - as you have the consent
of the father? Colonel. Yes. Champagne. And tomorrow, enter your
real person as a lover on. Oberst (for themselves). It is a string
of my nephews. Champagne. And the heirathen Wittwer of the Lord of
Lormeuil - Wittwer! Hahaha! - The Wittwer of my invention. Oberst.
What are you laughing? Champagne. The ask! I laugh on the faces of
the honest uncle cut if it in four weeks and you come back with his
daughter finds verheirathet. Oberst (for themselves). I would be livid!
Champagne. And the bridegroom from Toulon, who is attracted to him and
others in his nest there - it is heavenly!

Colonel. To delight! Champagne. And if you have everything to thank? Your
loyal Champagne! Colonel. You? How so? Champagne. Well, who else has given
you as the Rath of the person your uncle to play? Colonel (for
themselves). Rogue of the Ha! Champagne. But that is to surprise, as
your uncle but look so similar!

I would swear on it that he was there even if I do not one hundred
miles away from us knew. Oberst (for themselves). My nephew from rogue
makes a nice use of my figure. Champagne. Just a little too oldish
look out - your uncle is pretty much on your years, you would not
have had Nöthiger, so even old to make. Oberst. Do you? Champagne. But
what does it! He is not there, that a comparison could be - And lucky
for us that the old man is not there! We would be badly received when
he came back. Oberst. He is znrückgekommen. Champagne. How? What?
Colonel. He's come back, tell me. Champagne. For God's sake, and you are
here? They remain quiet? Thun what you want - help yourself, as you
can - I'm looking for the width.

(Will Forte). Oberst. Stay, Rogue! two Hallunke, stay! So are your wonderful
inventions, Mr. Rogue? Champagne. How, Gracious Lord, is my thanks?
Colonel. Stay, Hallunke! - Verily, my wife (here Champagne makes a
movement of terror) is the Närrin not, for which I gave them - and
such a knave string should I let it go - no, God damn me, if I was
not at my full body to take revenge .-- It is not yet too late.

I hurry to my notary. I bring him with.

Even tonight heirathet Lormeuil my daughter - I have my nephews swift
- he needs me the Heirathscontract its base even with the sign itself
- and what concerns you, Hallunke-Champagne. I, Gracious Lord, I want
to sign - I want to dance with the wedding, if you's command. Oberst.
Yes, Rogue, and I will make you dance! - And the receipt of a hundred
guns, strange 'now I think I have not the honesty of the IMF due
to .-- To my luck, the jeweler made bankruptcy - My of worthless
nephew did not, his debts with my money to pay, he does even on my
new credit .-- Well!

He should pay me!

- And thou, honest company, to construct an efficient reward .-- It
does'm sorry that my floor was not for me, but postponed is not
repealed.

(Ab) Champagne. I fell from the sky!

Is this accursed uncle also now come back to me in the way of running
quite explicitly to talk to me - I ass that I had to tell him -
Yes, if I have at least one glass would have drunk too much -- But
so!

Tenth appearance. Champagne. Franz Dorsigny. Wife of Mirville.

Friday v. Mirville (comes out and speaks softly into the scene back).

The field is inside - you can come out - there is nobody here as
Champagne. Dorsigny (occurs). Champagne (turns around and goes back,
as he sees it). My God, he's already back! Now it's go! (Of Dorsigny feet
tossing.) Mercy, Gracious Lord, mercy - mercy a poor rogue, who is innocent
- it certainly deserved-Dorsigny. What do you imagine? Get up, I will
give you nothing to Leide thun.

Champagne. You want me no thun, Gracious Lord, Dorsigny. My God,
no! Theil Quite the contrary, I am well pleased with you - because you
have your role you played so well. Champagne (recognize it). How,
Sir, are you's? Dorsigny. Admittedly, I's. Champagne Oh God! Do you
know that your uncle is here? Dorsigny. I know it. Then what next?
Champagne. I've seen him, Gracious Lord.

Ich hab 'angeredet him - I thought you would be's, I've told him everything,
he knows everything. Friday v. Mirville. Nonsense! what hast thou done?
Champagne. Can I use this? You see, that I just now the nephew for
the uncle made - it's too surprising that I am the uncle to nephew took?
Dorsigny. What to do? Friday v. Mirville. There is now no other Rath,
on the spot as the Hans to leave. Dorsigny. But when my cousin, he
forces the Lormeuil to heirathen-Fri. v. Mirville. Of these, we want
to talk about tomorrow! Play continued, quickly! because the road is
still free! (It leads him to the rear door, just as he also wants
to Lormeuil from the same shall come to meet him, and he holds back and
then forward leads.)

Eilfter appearance. The former.

Lormeuil. Lormeuil. Are you's? I just looked at you. Friday v. Mirville
(secretly Dorsigny). It is the Lord of Lormeuil. He holds up for the
uncle. Give it as soon as possible his departure. Lormeuil (to Ms. V.
Mirville). You leave us, madam? Friday v. Mirville. Excuse me, Mr. von
Lormeuil. I am once again here. (Is that follows Champagne.) Twelfth
appearance.

Lormeuil. Franz Dorsigny. Lormeuil.

You will remember that you Miss me with your daughter have just left alone?
Dorsigny. I remember's. Lormeuil.

She is very amiable, and their possession would be my happiest man
on the make.

Dorsigny. I think it is. Lormeuil. But I must ask you, their inclination
anzuthun no compulsion. Dorsigny. What is this? Lormeuil. It is
the lovable child of the world, this is certainly! But you have given me
so often by your nephew Franz Dorsigny spoken - He loves your
daughter!

Dorsigny. Is this true?

Lormeuil. As I say, and he will be loved again!

Dorsigny. Who did you say? Lormeuil. Her daughter even Dorsigny.
What is there to thun?

- What Rathen me, Lord of Lormeuil? Lormeuil. A good father to be.
Dorsigny. How? Lormeuil. You have told me a hundred times that your
nephew as a son loved - Well, so give him your daughter! Make your
two children happy. Dorsigny. But what should because you are? Lormeuil.
For me? - You do not want me, that is certainly a misfortune! But can
I complain about me not because your nephew is pre-empted me. Dorsigny.
How? They would be able to abdicate? Lormeuil. I consider it my duty.
Dorsigny (lively). Oh, Lord of Lormeuil! How much am I thank you guilty!
Lormeuil. I understand you do not. Dorsigny. No, no, you do not know
what a great, great service erzeigen me - Oh, my Sophie! We will be
happy! Lormeuil. What is it? How? - This is not Lord of Dorsigny -
Was it possible-Dorsigny. I verrathen. Lormeuil. You are Dorsigny,
the nephew? Yes, you sind's - Well, you I have not wanted here, but I am
glad to see you. - While I cheap for you to be angry because of the three
sword bites, which you sent großmüthig so skillfully into the body
have -Dorsigny.

Lord of Lormeuil! Lormeuil.

Fortunately, they are not tödtlich, ie mag's good. My uncle Lord has
given me very much good of you said, Mr. von Dorsigny, and far
away, you begin to want to Handel, I offer you my heartfelt friendship
and ask for yours.

Dorsigny. Lord of Lormeuil! Lormeuil. So the subject of Mr. Dorsigny -
You love your cousin and have perfectly cause it. I promise you, all my
influence with the Supreme apply that you will Theil - On the other
hand, however, I ask that you also yours to me an important service
erzeigen. Dorsigny. Talk! Ask! You have a sacred right to express
my appreciation acquired. Lormeuil. You have a sister, Mr. von
Dorsigny. Because you but nobody's eyes, as your base, as you
noticed perhaps not how much love your sister is worthy - but I - I've
noticed it quite well - and that's just, I do - the wife of Mirville
deserves the homage of every individual!

I have seen it, and I-Dorsigny.

They love it! It is yours! You can count on me - you should be good to
you soon, if it is not already - that steh 'ich. As is so happy but
everything must add - I gain a friend who wants to help me, my lover
to have and I'm in the booth, put it back happy. Lormeuil. It is hoped,
however, so completely identified, it is not - Here comes your sister!
Frisch, Lord of Dorsigny - speak for me! To do my thing!

I want at the uncle yours lead. (Ab) Dorsigny. This is a wonderful man,
this Lormeuil!

What a happy woman is my sister! Thirteenth appearance. Mirville
woman. Franz Dorsigny. Friday v. Mirville. Well, how about, brother?
Dorsigny. You have a conquest made, sister! The bang and Lormeuil is
mortal in case you were in love. Also, he has done me the confessions
because he believed with the uncle to talk, I told him, however, these
thoughts he should just let pass - you have the Heirathen forever
verschworen - I've quite done, is not it? Friday v. Mirville. But - but
- you have not used it on such a rough kind of dismissed. The poor
boy is bad enough that he Sophien durchfällt. Fourteenth appearance.
Previous. Champagne. Champagne. Well, Gracious Lord! make sure that you
continue coming. The aunt you may no longer be here for you if it comes
back-Dorsigny. Now, I go! I am now certain that my cousin the
Lormeuil not take away.

(From Mrs. v. Mirville.)

Fifteenth presence. Champagne alone. Since I am now alone! - Champagne
friend, you are a fool if you do not already rashness of doing well -
the uncles, the whole map verrathen! But let see! What is there to do?
- Either the uncle or the groom, we need the next two days from the
neck to create, otherwise it's not - but how the devil it's because
to get started?

- Wait - let see - (Nachsinnend. ) My Lord and Lord of this Lormeuil are
regarded as very good friends went apart, but it had yet Händel between
them can set! Can, that's enough for me!

Of which let us out - I must be a good servant to prevent disaster!
Nothing but honest concern for my Lord - So on to the police! Man takes
his measures, and then it's my fault if they meet the uncle to
nephew take? - Who can be used for the similarity - the Wagestück is
big, big, but I wag's. Latter can not, and if - it can not fall
short - in the extreme case, I met! I have only seen my duty! And then
like the uncle rage against me, as much as he wants - I hide myself
behind the nephew, I am helping him to his bride, he must be recognizable
- Fresh, champagne, get to work - Here's honor them. (Geht ab.) Third
Lift. First appearance. Dorsigny Colonel comes.

Immediately thereafter Lormeuil.

Colonel. Must be the devil this notary also just become a lead for dinner!
I've got him a ticket down there, and my master's nephew had already been
at the trouble itself.

Lormeuil (comes).

For this I think surely the uncle in front of me and not the nephew.
Oberst. Well, I am even more! You must not doubt. Lormeuil. I have a
lot to say, of Dorsigny. Colonel. I think it might, good boy! You will
be livid with rage - but no violence, dear friend, I ask you -
Remember that He who has offended you, my nephew is - your word of
honor called 'I know that you leave it to me want to , to punish him.

Lormeuil. But just let me-colonel. Nothing allowed 'me! It will not
bother! - How are you young people! You know no other kind, is easily
done wrong, than that ye break each other's necks. Lormeuil. But this
is not my case. Listen to it only. Oberst. My God! yes I know! I am
young but have been - But let you all not to challenge, good boy!

but thou shalt my son! You wirst's - this is it! Lormeuil. Your kindness
- your friendship recognizable 'I with the greatest thanks - But, as
things stand-Colonel (louder) Nothing! Not a word more! Second appearance.
Champagne with two officers. Previous. Champagne (to those). Watch it
now, gentlemen? See's? Just wanted them to each other Gerath. Lormeuil.
What are these people here? First Unterofficier. Your very obedient
servant, gentlemen! Am I not the honor of Mr. Dorsigny to speak?
Colonel.

Dorsigny hot 'I am. Champagne. And this here is Mr. von Lormeuil?
Lormeuil. The I am, yes.

But what the men want from me? Second Unterofficier. I will have the
honor to accompany your graces. Lormeuil. To accompany me? Where?
It reminds me not to expect to want to.

Unterofficier First (to Colonel).

And I, Gracious Lord, I beordert, to escort you to serve.

Oberst. But where the Lord wants me to escort? First Unterofficier.

I will tell you, Gracious Lord. One has to know that you were on the
go, with this gentleman to beat, and that now-Colonel. To beat me! And
why now? First Unterofficier. Because you are rival - because you are
the lady of Both Dorsigny love.

This gentleman here is the Bridegroom of the young lady that her father
has determined - and you, Gracious Lord, are her cousin and her lover -
O, we know everything! Lormeuil. You are in Irrthum, gentlemen. Oberst.
Verily, You are wrong to come. Champagne (the guards). Fresh! Do
not know it, gentlemen! (For Mr. von Dorsigny.) Dear, Gracious Lord,
you finally throw away your mask! They admit who you are! Enter a game
where you do not have the best play! Colonel. How, Rogue, which is again
a string of thee-Champagne. Yes, Gracious Lord, I've organized it so,
I deny 'it does not - which I boast me - The duty of a righteous
servant, I have met, because I misfortune prevented.

Oberst. You can believe me, gentlemen! The one you are looking for,
I'm not, I am his uncle.

Unterofficier First. His uncle? But you go!

They are extremely uncle to the Lord, they say, but we should not
cheat on this similarity.

Oberst. But you see me, but only right now! I have even a Perrücke,
and my nephew wears his own hair. Unterofficier First. Yes, yes, we
know quite well why the costume of your adopted uncle Lord - The
piece was rich in spirit, it does us sorry that there are no better
success. Oberst. But, sir, so you can hear but only at first-Unterofficier.
Yes, if we every wanted to hear that we are arresting beordert -
we would never come by the office - you wish us to follow Lord of
Dorsigny!

The Postchaise stops in front of the door and waiting for us. Oberst.
How? what? the Postchaise? First Unterofficier. Yes, Sir! You have
left your garrison secretly! We are beordert, your foot is in the
car to pack up and return to Strasbourg. Oberst. And this is again a
string of this enchanted worthless! Ha, Lotterbube! Champagne. Yes,
Gracious Lord, it is my event - you know how much I was dawid that you
Strasbourg without leave behind. Oberst (highlights on the floor).
No, I consider myself no longer, Both Unterofficiere. Moderate sure
Mr. von Dorsigny! Champagne. Keep him, gentlemen! I ask - This is one
of them if you ungrateful committed. I may save your life, because
I prevent this unfortunate duel, and would thank me Todt, if these
gentlemen are not so well would have been to prevent it. Colonel. What
is here to thun, Lormeuil? Lormeuil. Why you can not rely on the people
you need to know?

Colonel. Whom the devil! should I contact? My wife, my daughter
is out - my niece is from Complott - the whole world is bewitches.
Lormeuil.

So nothing left, as in God's name to Strasbourg to travel, if these
people do not speak with them. Oberst. That would be quite accursed-First
Unterofficier (to Champagne). Are you also quite certain that it is the
nephew? Champagne. Of course! Of course! The uncle is far away - only
kept! Not gewankt! Third appearance. Postillon A. Previous Postillon
(drunk). Hey! Holla! Where's soon, you gentlemen? My horses are already
one hour before the house, and I'm not waiting because of there.

Oberst. What does the boy? First Unterofficier. It is the Postillon, you
should go. Postillon. Look! Are you's, Mr. Captain, the leaves - you have
short transactions made here - tonight you come to, and at night go away
again. Oberst.

For thou knowest What? Postillon. Ei! Ei! Was I 's not because of you
many hours of Hinterthür this house sells? You see, my Captain, that
I probably used your money - yes, yes, if one was to me vertrinken there,
meet 'I conscientiously and honestly the intention. Oberst. What sayest
thou, fellow? Did you drove me? Me? Postillon. You, Sir, - Yes, the
devil, and there is indeed your servant, the pioneer made - God grüß
'thee, Gaudieb! Eben's sent me the yes in the confidence in, that you
were a gentleman and captain of Strasbourg to Paris secretly gingen.-colonel.
How, scoundrel? I would have been? Postillon. Yes, you! And across the
way, according to himself and spoke to a continued cried: My Sophie!
My dear Bäschen! My English cousin Chen - How? did you already forget?
Champagne (the colonel). I'm not, Gracious Lord, to him these words into
the mouth sets - who is also on the public road so loud post by talking
about his mistress! Colonel. It is decided, I seh's, I will be in
Strasbourg, for the sins of my nephew's sake-First Unterofficier. Well,
my lord captain-colonel. Well, my lord escort man, so of course I must
continue with you, but I can assure you, very against my will.

Unterofficier First. That we are accustomed, my Captain, the people
against their will to operate. Oberst. You're so my servant?
Champagne. Yes, Gracious Lord. Oberst. Consequently, I am your
commander.

  Champagne. That goes.
  Oberst. A servant must follow his master - you go with me to
  Strasbourg. Champagne (for themselves).
                                               Cursed! Postillon.

That goes - march! Champagne. It does'm sorry, to grieve you, Gracious
Lord - you know how big my devotion to you is - I give you a strong sample
of it at this moment - but you also know how much I love my wife.

I did it today after a long separation again! The poor woman bezeigte
so my heartfelt joy Zurückkunft that I had decided never again to leave
and my leave of you to covet. You will recall that I would like to
make three months of Gage are guilty. Oberst. Three hundred
whipping stick, I owe thee, Jack! First Unterofficier. Mr. Captain, you
have no right to resist this honest servant of his will to Strasbourg
them - and if you have him guilty residues are-colonel.
Magnificent eyes--slate blue, with thick,
velvety black lashes. Irish.

In a moment Kitty had three eggs and half a dozen strips of bacon frying
in a fresh pan. She kept one eye upon the pan and the other upon the
intruder, risking strabismus. At length she transferred the contents of
the pan to a plate, backed to the ice chest, and reached for a bottle
of milk. She placed the food at the far end of the table and retreated
a few steps, her arms crossed in such a way as to keep the revolver in
view.

"Please do not be afraid of me.

"What makes you think I am?"

"Any woman would be."

Kitty saw that he was actually hungry, and her suspicions began to ebb.
He hadn't lied about that. And he ate like a gentleman. Young, not more
than thirty; possibly less. But that dreadful stubble and that black
eye! The clothes would have passed muster on any fashionable golf links.
A fugitive? From what?

"Thank you," he said, setting down the empty milk bottle.

"Your accent is English."

"Which is to say?"

"That your gestures are Italian."

"My mother was Italian. But what makes you believe I am not English?"

"An Englishman--or an American, for that matter--with money in his
pocket would have gone into the street in search of a restaurant."

"You are right. The fundamentals of the blood will always crop out.
You can educate the brain but not the blood. I am not an Englishman; I
merely received my education at Oxford."

"A fugitive, however, of any blood might have come to my window."

"Yes; I am a fugitive, pursued by the god of Irony. And Irony is never
particular; the chase is the thing. What matters it whether the quarry
be wolf or sheep?"

Kitty was impressed by the bitterness of the tone. "What is your name?"

"John Hawksley."

"But that is English!"

"I should not care to call myself Two-Hawks, literally. It would be
embarrassing. So I call myself Hawksley."

A pause. Kitty wondered what new impetus she might give to the
conversation, which was interesting her despite her distrust.

"How did you come by that black eye?" she asked with embarrassing
directness.

Hawksley smiled, revealing beautifully white teeth. "I say, it is a bit
off, isn't it! I received it"--a twinkle coming into his eyes--"in a
situation that had moribund perspectives."

"Moribund perspectives," repeated Kitty, casting the phrase about in her
mind in search of an equivalent less academic.

"I am young and healthy, and I wanted to live," he said, gravely. "I am
curious to know what is going to happen to-morrow and other to-morrows."

Somewhere near by a door was slammed violently. Kitty, every muscle in
her body tense, jumped convulsively, with the result that her finger
pressed automatically the trigger of her pistol. The fan popped out
gayly.

Hawksley stared at the fan, quite as astonished as Kitty. Then he broke
into low, rollicking laughter, which Kitty, because her basic corpuscle
was Irish, perforce had to join. For all her laughter she retreated,
furious and alarmed.

"Fancy! I say, now, you're jolly plucky to face a scoundrel like me with
that."

"I don't just know what to make of you," said Kitty, irresolutely,
flinging the fan into a corner.

"You have revivified a celestial spark--my faith in human beings. I beg
of you not to be afraid of me. I am quite harmless. I am very grateful
for the meal. Yours is the one act of kindness I have known in weeks. I
will return to Gregor's apartment at once. But before I go please accept
this. I rather suspect, you know, that you live alone, and that fan is
amusing and not particularly suitable." He rose and unsmilingly laid
upon the table one of those heavy blue-black bull-dogs of war, a
regulation revolver. Kitty understood what this courteous act signified;
he was disarming himself to reassure her.

"Sit down," she ordered. Either he was harmless or he wasn't. If he
wasn't she was utterly at his mercy. She might be able to lift that
terrible-looking engine of murder, battle, and sudden death with the aid
of both hands, but to aim and fire it--never in this world! "As I came
in to-night I found a note in the hall from Mr. Gregory. I will fetch
it. But you call him Gregor?"

"His name is Stefani Gregor; and years and years ago he dandled me on
his knees. I promise not to move until you return."

Subdued by she knew not what, no longer afraid, Kitty moved out of the
kitchen. She had offered Gregory's letter as an excuse to reach the
telephone. Once there, however, she did not take the receiver off the
hook. Instead she whistled down the tube for the janitor.

"This is Miss Conover. Come up to my apartment in ten minutes.... No;
it's not the water pipes.... In ten minutes."

Nothing very serious could happen inside of ten minutes; and the janitor
was reliable and not the sort one reads about in the comic weeklies. Her
confidence reenforced by the knowledge that a friend was near, she took
the letter into the kitchen. Apparently her unwelcome guest had not
stirred. The revolver was where he had laid it.

"Read this," she said.

The visitor glanced through it. "It is Gregor's hand. Poor old chap! I
shall never forgive my self."

"For what?"

"For dragging him into this. They must have intercepted one of my
telegrams." He stared dejectedly at the strip of oilcloth in front of
the range. "You are an American?"

"Yes."

"God has been exceedingly kind to your country. I doubt if you will ever
know how kind. I'll take myself off. No sense in compromising you."
He laid a folded handkerchief inside his cap which he put on. "Know
anything about this?"--indicating the revolver.

"Nothing whatever."

"Permit me to show you. It is loaded; there are five bullets in the
clip. See this little latch? So, it is harmless. So, and you kill with
it."

"It is horrible!" cried Kitty. "Take it with you please. I could not
keep my eyes open to shoot it."

"These are troublous times. All women should know something about small
arms. Again I thank you. For your own sake I trust that we may never
meet again. Good-bye." He stepped out of the window and vanished.

Kitty, at a mental impasse, could only stare into the night beyond the
window. This mesmeric state endured for a minute; then a gentle and
continuous sound dissipated the spell. It was raining. Obliquely she
saw the burnt egg in the pan. The thing had happened; she had not been
dreaming.

Her brain awoke. Thought crowded thought; before one matured another
displaced it; and all as futile as the sparks from the anvil. An
avalanche of conjecture; and out of it all eventually emerged one
concrete fact. Champagne. Egg now, this is quite natural. My Lord
is true for his uncle, I would be the Lord of Lormeuil imagine, and who
knows what happened to me at the end could not flourish if my damned
Heirath-Fri. v. Mirville.

Truly, my cousin has reason to grieve about it! Dorsigny (sealed the
letter and gives it to Champagne). Here is the letter.

Dir 'now, as you want! You release 'I am. Champagne. They should be
satisfied with me - in a few moments I will be so as Courier arriving
from Strasbourg, and spurred gestiefelt, sweat dripping from .-- You,
Gracious Lord, do wacker .-- courage, boldness, brazenness, if 's
Nöthiger is. - played the uncle, aunt above, the niece geheirathet and
when everything is over, pulled the bag and honest servant of well-paid
by you to all those glories has helped. (Ab) Fr v. Mirville. Then the
aunt. It will be up for the uncle's Profile. Thu ', as if you with it
necessarily had to speak, and send me away. Dorsigny. But what
will I tell ye?

Friday v. Mirville. Everything an Galanter man just like his wife can
say.

Fifth appearance. Mirville woman. Wife of Dorsigny. Franz von Dorsigny.
Friday v. Mirville. but you, dear aunt!

Quick! the uncle has arrived. Friday v. Dorsigny. How? What? My husband
- yes indeed, there it is!

- Welcome, dear Dorsigny - As soon as I expected you not - Now!

But you have had a happy journey - But how so alone?

Where are your people? I heard but not your coach - Now really - I hardly
reflect me - I tremble before the surprise and joy-Fri. v. Mirville
(secretly to her brother).

Well, so talking about it!

Qu fresh off! Dorsigny. Because I'm only on a short visit here I,
come I alone and in a Mieth coach - but what the journey is
concerned, my dear wife - travel - oh!

it's not been the happiest.

Friday v. Dorsigny. You frighten me - It is no accident but you are
come?

Dorsigny.

Not just me!

I do not - but these Heirath - (To the wife of Mirville.)

Dear niece, I have worked with the aunt-Fri. v. Mirville. I do not
want to disturb my uncle. (Ab) Sixth appearance. Dorsigny woman.
Franz von Dorsigny. Friday v. Dorsigny. Well, my dear man! these
Heirath-Dorsigny.

From this Heirath is - nothing.

Friday v. Dorsigny. How? Have we not the word of the Father? Dorsigny.
Admittedly, probably! But the son of our daughter can not heirathen.
Friday v. Dorsigny. So? And why not? Dorsigny (with high tone). Because
- because - Todt is. Friday v. Dorsigny. My God, what a coincidence!
Dorsigny. There is a right shame. This young man was what most
young people, so a little lecher. An evening at a ball's dropped him,
a pretty girl like - to make the courtyard, a rival Dreiner are mixed
and allowed to offensive jokes. The young Lormeuil, lively, tempered
as it was twenty years, took the sick, for he was a misfortune to
a Raufer of Gerath profession that never strikes without his men - to
Toedter. And this bad habit even now retained the upper hand on the
skill of his opponent, the son of my poor friend was on the square, with
three tödtlichen - stitches in his body. Friday v. Dorsigny. Merciful
heavens!

What must be the father have suffered! Dorsigny. You can think of! And
the mother! Friday v. Dorsigny. How? The mother! This is indeed died
last winter, as far as I know. Dorsigny. This winter - quite right! My
poor friend Lormeuil! The winter his wife dies, and now he must in the
summer of the son in a duel to lose you - I am also severely arrived
him in his pain to leave! But the service is now so sharp! On the
twentieth, all officers - when his regiment! Today is the nineteenth,
and I have only one jump to Paris has already done and again tonight
- in my travel back garrison. Friday v. Dorsigny. How? So soon? Dorsigny.
That is once the service! What to do? Now on our daughter to come-Fri.
v. Dorsigny. The dear child is very depressed and schwermüthig since
you were away.

Dorsigny. Do you know what I think? This game that we selected her, was -
not according to their taste. Friday v. Dorsigny. So? You know? Dorsigny.
I know nothing - but it is fifteen years old - Can it not for themselves
already have, we always find it that? Friday v. Dorsigny. Oh God yes!
The encounter every day. Dorsigny. Force, I would not like their attitude.
Friday v. Dorsigny. God save us from! Seventh appearance. The
former. Sophie. Sophie (at the sight Dorsigny's lopping). Ah! my
father-Fri. v. Dorsigny. Well, what about you? Are you afraid your
father a hug? Dorsigny (after he embraced it, for themselves). You have
it's even good, these fathers! Everything they hugged! Friday v.
Dorsigny. You know probably not yet. Sophie, an unfortunate coincidence
that your Heirath separated? Sophie. What a coincidence? Friday v.
Dorsigny. Mr. Todt is Lormeuil.

Sophie. My God! Dorsigny (she with her eyes fixated). Yes, now - what
do you say about my Sophie? Sophie. I, my father - I deplore this
unfortunate man from the heart - but I can not but be a luck See, that
- that the day is delayed, which separates me from you. Dorsigny. But,
dear child!

if you are against this Heirath - had something to that, why, you
said nothing about it ourselves? We do not think so, your inclination
to want to oblige. Sophie. I know, my dear father - but the shyness-Dorsigny.
Down with the shyness! Speaking openly! Discover your heart to me. Friday
v. Dorsigny. Yes, my child! Listen to your father! He says it well,
he certainly will give you the best of Rathen.

Dorsigny. You hate these so Lormeuil to advance - rather warmly?
Sophie. That is not - but I loved him not. Dorsigny. And you do not want
to heirathen when you really love? Sophie. This is probably natural.
Dorsigny. So you love - a changing? Sophie. I have not said. Dorsigny.
Well, now, but almost - out with the language! Let me know everything.
Friday v. Dorsigny. Fasse Muth, my child!

Forget that it is your father, with whom you talk.

Dorsigny.

Build thee, that thou with thy best, thy gentlest friends are talking
- and the one you love. he knows that he is loved?

Sophie.

Heaven forbid! NO. Dorsigny.

Is it still a young man?

Sophie. A very kind young man, and my question is worth double, because
everyone finds that he is like you - a relative of us, our name - Oh!
You need him Errath. Dorsigny. Not quite, my dear child! Friday v.
Dorsigny. But I Errath him!

I bet it is her cousin, Franz Dorsigny.

Dorsigny.

Well, Sophie, you do not answer? Sophie. Approve my choice?

Dorsigny (his joy in pushing for himself). We need to play the father -
but my child - we must remember it because. Sophie. Why remember? My
cousin is the best, reasonably-Dorsigny.

The?

A dizzy head, he is a tomboy, in the two years that he is gone, not
twice to his uncle wrote.

Sophie. But to me the more diligent, he has written, my father! Dorsigny.
So? He? And you did it well - frischweg answered? Did you? Not? Sophie.
No, whether I immediately had this great desire .-- Well, yes you
promised me this moment, my inclination that you do not want to be -
Dear mother, but you talk to me. Friday v. Dorsigny. Well, now, give
to, rather Dorsigny - There is nothing else to do - and just admit
that they had no better choice.

Dorsigny. It is true that there are some that can tell - The assets
of both sides is equal, and that the cousin had a little reckless
gewirthschaftet, so yes, we know who brings a Heirath young people -
in order -- If it has now also loved Sophie. O in very, dear father! -
Only at the moment because I am the Lord of the Lormeuil husband suggested,
I noticed that I was the cousin well - as good as what you call it -
And if my cousin now again would be good-Dorsigny. (fiery).

And why should he not, my theuerste - (reflect) my good daughter! - Well
well! I am a good father and showed me. Sophie. So I should now write
to the cousin? Dorsigny. What you want - (for itself). How beautiful is
that the father's, if you allerliebst gets to hear confessions. Eighth
appearance. Previous.

Wife of Mirville. Champagne, as with the whip Postillon klatschend.
Champagne. Hey, holla! Friday v. Mirville. Place! there comes a Courier.
Friday v. Dorsigny. It is Champagne. Sophie. My cousin servant!
Champagne. Gracious Lord - madam! tear me from my trouble! - The
lady is not even the wife of Lormeuil? Friday v. Dorsigny.

No, good friend, not yet. Champagne. Not yet? Thank heaven, I'm still
enough time has come. my Lord, the poor, to save lives. Sophie. How!
The cousin is not a misfortune encountered? Friday v. Dorsigny. My
nephew is not sick? Friday v. Mirville. You make me worry, what is my
brother? Champagne. Calm yourself, madam! My Lord is quite well, but
we are in a terrible position - if you knew - but you will learn
everything.

My Lord has put together, my lady, which he called his good aunt,
his heart to be distributed; you he owes everything he is to you he has
the most confidence - Here he writes to you, read it and complain !
Dorsigny. My God, what is this? Friday v. Dorsigny (reads).

"Best Aunt, I can just so that you are my cousin too verheirathen. There
is no more time back: I love Sophien .-- I beseech you, the best aunt,
if not a fierce passion to her certain bridegroom, so give it me I
love her so dearly, that I certainly still win her love. I follow
the Champagne on the foot after it will bring about this letter,
tell you what I have been that terrible message ausgestanden have.

"Sophie. The good cousin! Friday v. Mirville. Poor Dorsigny! Champagne.
No, it does not describe what my Lord has suffered poor! But dear, I
said to him, maybe is not all lost - Go, villain, he said to me, I cut
your throat, if thou comest too late - he can sometimes be rude, your
dear nephew. Dorsigny. Insolent! Champagne. Well, now you are so angry
neatly, as if I spoke of you, what I say is done out of pure
friendship for him, so it better because you are his uncle. Friday v.
Mirville. The good, loyal servant! He wants nothing but the best of his
Lord!

Friday v. Dorsigny. Go, dear friend, rest in thee, thou wilt have it
Nöthiger. Champagne. Yes, your grace, I will rest in the kitchen. (Ab)
Ninth appearance. Vorige without Champagne. Dorsigny. Well, Sophie!
what do you say this? Sophie. I await your commands, my father! Dorsigny.
Yes, what is there to thun? Friday v. Dorsigny. It is nothing more to
thun we need it without loss of time given to the woman.

Friday v. Mirville. But the cousin is not yet here. Friday v.
Dorsigny. His letters after he can not stay long. Dorsigny. Well - if
nothing else it is - and if you feel my love - that's it! I am 's,
and I will be satisfied so that the noise of the wedding - is over,
when I return - Hey there!

Served! Tenth appearance. Serves Two enter and wait in the background.
Previous. Friday v. Dorsigny. Even One! Your lease has given me during
your absence in two thousand Thaler Jump paid - I've made him a receipt
is given - but it is you right? Dorsigny. I am all right, what you thun,
my love! (While the change from a writing tablet hervorholt to wife of
Mirville.) Can I take the money well? Friday v. Mirville. Take it yes,
or do you suspect. Dorsigny (secretly to her). In God's name! I want
my debt to pay! (According by the change of woman in Dorsigny receive.)
That reminds me of money that a cursed rascal of Wucherer me long
been a nuisance around a hundred guns, which - my nephew has
borrowed from him - what is it?

Should I pay for the item? Friday v. Mirville. Egg, which sees itself!
They will not but my brother Base song to wife certainly want to give
up to their ears in debt is? Friday v. Dorsigny. My niece was right and
what is left over can apply to wedding gifts. Friday v. Mirville. Yes,
yes, to wedding gifts!

A third servant (comes). The fashion of the wife of trader Mirville.
Friday v. Mirville. It comes as established.

I want to dress like the bride in her order.

(Ab) Eilfter appearance. Vorige without wife of Mirville. Dorsigny (to
servant). Come! - (The wife of Dorsigny) It is for the Lord Gaspar, our
notary must send-Fri. v. Dorsigny. Let him rather like to invite to
dinner, then we can arrange everything according to convenience.
Dorsigny. That's true! (At least one of the servants.) You know, go
to the jeweler and let him bring the latest of what he has - (To
another.) You go to the Lord Gaspar, our lawyer, I let him call today
with me night to eat .-- Then order by making four post-horses; eilf
point they have to clock in front of the house, because I must in the
night still continued .-- (For a third.) For you, Jasmine, hab 'I have
a contract kitzlichen - you have the head, which you can confide. jasmine.
Gracious Lord, that you loved so to speak. Dorsigny. You know where Mr.
Simon lives of Geldmäkler, otherwise my transactions made - of my
nephews always been my own money borrowed. Jasmine. Ei ja wohl! Why
should 'I do not know! I was always the Postillon the merciful Lord,
your nephew. Dorsigny. Go to him, bring him hundred guns, which my nephew
he is guilty and that I hereby pay him! Forget not to give you a receipt
to enter. Jasmine. Why not - but I will not be such a donkey! (The servant
go from.)

Ms. V. Dorsigny. How surprising is it, the good boy when he arrives
tomorrow and the wedding gifts purchased, will pay the debt. Dorsigny.
The think I am! It does me just sorry that I did not witness them can
be. Twelfth appearance. Previous. Wife of Mirville. Friday v.
Mirville (rushes in, her brother secretly). Mach, that thou
fortkommst, brother! Also comes with an uncle of the Lord, so to me
looks like the Lord of Lormeuil. Dorsigny (fleeing into a cabinet).
That would be the devil!

Friday v. Dorsigny. Well, why rush you so fast away, Dorsigny? Dorsigny.
I must - I - DC werd 'ich wieder da sein. Friday v. Mirville (pressiert).
Come, aunt! Look at the beautiful hats that you brought me. Friday v.
Dorsigny. You Thust right, Rath me to draw - I see myself on it.

I will help you decide. Thirteenth appearance. Dorsigny colonel. Lormeuil.
Wife of Dorsigny. Sophie. Wife of Mirville. Oberst. I come back sooner,
Madame, when I thought, but the better! - Allow you that I am here
this gentleman-Fri. v. Dorsigny. Please thousand for forgiveness,
gentlemen - the Putzhändlerin waiting for us, we are right back there -
Come, my daughter! (Ab) Colonel.

Well, now! This Putzhändlerin could probably wait a moment, dächt 'I
am. Sophie. Precisely because they can not wait - Excuse me, gentlemen.
(Ab) Colonel.

That may be - but I think it should be-Fri. v. Mirville. The gentlemen,
we know well, ask for Putzhändlerinnen nothing, but for us the very
important persons. (Does that have a profound bow against Lormeuil.)
Colonel. Hell, the seh 'ich, because we ihrentwegen population. Fourteenth
appearance. Dorsigny colonel. Lormeuil. Colonel. A nice reception,
I must say! Lormeuil. Is it the custom at the Parisian ladies, that
they Putzhändlerinnen running when their husbands arrive? Colonel. I do
not know what I should do with it.

I wrote that I am only six weeks might be back, I'm suddenly there,
and it is not the slightest more surprised than if I never go out of
town would have. Lormeuil.

Who are the two young ladies who greeted me so kindly? Colonel. One is
my niece, and my other daughter, your particular bride. Lormeuil.
They are both very pretty. Oberst. The executioner, too! The women are
all beautiful in my family.

But it is not enough to the Hübschsein - you must also like amount.

Fifteenth appearance. Previous. The three servants, which will gradually
come.

Second servants (to the left of the Supreme).

The notary is very sorry that he is not with your graces night meals
- it is but after einfinden tables.

Colonel. What the talking as foolish stuff? Second servant. The post
horses are eilf clock strike before the home. (Ab) Colonel. The post
horses, now that I have just arrived!

First servants (on his right side).

The jeweler, your grace, has made bankruptcy and is on that night and
went like this. (Ab) Colonel. What is happening to me?

He was guilty of nothing to me. Jasmin (on his left side). I was with
Mr. Simon, as Your Grace ordered. He was sick and lay in bed. Here, he
sends you the receipt. Oberst. What kind of a receipt, Rogue? Jasmine.
Well, the acknowledgment that you have in your hand. You wish to read
them. Oberst (reads). "I confess Endesunterzeichneter from the Lord
of the colonel Dorsigny two thousand livres, which I advanced his
master's nephew, right to have received." Jasmine. Your graces see
that the bill is correct. (Ab) Colonel. O absolutely correct! The
grasp of who 's can, my mind is standing still - the worst rogue
in all of Paris is sick and sends me the receipt for the things my
nephew he is guilty.

Lormeuil. Perhaps it is the conscience. Oberst. Come! Come, Lormeuil!
Search we publish what we give these pleasant reception - and the
devil take all notaries, jewelers, Post Horses, Geldmäkler and
Putzmacherinnen! (Both from.) Second lift.

The scene is a room with a door in the rear, which leads to a garden.
Both sides are Kabinetsthüren. First appearance. Mirville woman. Franz
von Dorsigny room comes from a left hand and looks around carefully.
Friday v. Mirville (from the opposite side). How imprudent! The uncle
will be there the moment. Dorsigny. But tell me, what happened to me to
be? If everything is discovered, and knows my aunt, alleged that her
husband was only her nephew?

Friday v. Mirville. Nothing is known! Nothing is found! The aunt is
still with the fashion dealer included, the uncle to escape on his wife
- Mr. von Lormeuil is perplexed about the odd photograph, and I will
examine the development, no longer can be made as long as possible
to delay time that I win, the advantages to your uncle to vote, or,
if it's not different, the Lormeuil in love with me to make - because
eh 'I admit that he is the cousin marries nehm' I prefer it yourself
Second appearance .

Previous. Valcour. Valcour (coming soon).

Ah well, glad that I found you here, Dorsigny.

I have you one thousand things to say and in the greatest hurry.
Dorsigny. Hol 'it to the devil! The me now located. Valcour. The madam,
but may Dorsigny.

Before my sister hab 'I have no secrets. Valcour (for the wife of Mirville
to return). As I am delighted, my Merciful, your acquaintance, especially
in this moment to where I was so happy, your brother, Lord make
a significant service to erzeigen. Dorsigny. What hör 'ich? His voice!
(Flees into the cabinet, where he was coming out.) Valcour (without
Dorsignys escape notice, continues). If I ever come into the case, my
Merciful, you too can be useful, so consider me as your devoted servant.
(He is not noticed, however, that the colonel Dorsigny and came
to the place of another question.)

Third appearance. Previous. Colonel Dorsigny. Lormeuil. Colonel. Yes -
these women are a true test of patience for their men. Valcour (turns
around and thinks with the young Dorsigny to speak). I wanted
to say to you, dear Dorsigny that your Lieutenant Colonel Todt is
not. Oberst. My lieutenant colonel? Valcour. With the fight
you've had. He has to write my friend Liancour leave, he lets you perfect
justice to, and declares that he was the attacker. The family has
already begun to thee to justice, but we all want to use the thing
at times to suppress. I losgemacht to bring you this good news to
bring, and must immediately turn to my society.

Oberst. Very obligiert - but-Valcour. You can quite sleep. I wake for
you. (Ab) Fourth appearance. Mirville woman. Colonel Dorsigny. Lormeuil.
Colonel. Tell me what the man wants? Friday v. Mirville. The man is
mad, you see, yes. Oberst. This seems to be an epidemic, all
over the world has taken since I'm away, because this is not the
first fool, I been here a half-hour encounter. Friday v. Mirville. You
need to dry my aunt does not receive as high record. If Putzsachen of
the speech, because it can be other things come with nothing. Oberst.
Well, thank God! da hör 'ich doch once a sensible word! - How do you like
because the first one, I had with the Lord of Lormeuil known to do.

Lormeuil. I am very happy, my lady, that I am the Lord your father's consent
may enjoy - but this consent can not help me, if not yours, colonel. Now
at the start! - Has the general rage and thee infected, poor friend?
Compliment your is very good, but when my daughter, and not with my niece
did you attach to the. Lormeuil. Forgive, madam! They say the
description so perfect to me by Mr. Dorsigny from my bride has made
that my Irrthum is forgiven.

Friday v. Mirville. Here's my cousin, Lord of Lormeuil! Viewing it
right and to convince yourself with your own eyes, that they all deserve
the finer things that you have assigned me. Fünfter appearance. Previous.
Sophie. Sophie.
You're imagining all sorts of
nonsense about this chap, and you must not let the situation intrigue
you. If I spoke the name oddly--this Stefani Gregor--it was because I
sensed in a moment that this was a bit of the overflow. Southeastern
Europe, where the good Samaritan gets kicked instead of thanked. Now,
here's a good idea. Of course we can't turn this poor chap loose upon
the public, now that we know his life is in danger. That's always the
trouble with this Samaritan business. When you commit a fine action
you assume an obligation. You hoist the Old Man of the Sea on your
shoulders, as it were. The chap cannot be allowed to remain here. So,
if Harrison agrees, we'll take him up to my diggings, where no Bolshevik
will ever lay eyes upon him."

"Bolshevik?"

"For the sake of a handle. They might be Chinamen, for all I know. I can
take care of him until he is on his feet. And you will be saved all this
annoyance.

"But I don't believe it's going to be an annoyance. I'm terribly
interested, and want to see it through."

"If he can be moved, out he goes. No arguments. He can't stay in this
apartment. That's final."

"Exactly why not?" Kitty demanded, rebelliously.

"Because I say so, Kitty."

"Is Stefani Gregor an undesirable?"

"You knew him. What do you say?" countered her godfather, evading the
trap. The innocent child! He smiled inwardly.

Kitty was keen. She sensed an undercurrent, and her first attempt to
touch it had failed. The mere name of Stefani Gregor had not roused
Cutty's astonishment. She was quite positive that the name was not
wholly unfamiliar to her father's friend.

Still, something warned her not to press in this direction. He would be
on the alert. She must wait until he had forgotten the incident. So she
drew up a chair beside the bed and sat down.

Cutty leaned against the footrail, his expression neutral. He sighed
inaudibly. His delightful catnap was over. Stefani Gregor, Kitty's
neighbour, a valet in a fashionable hotel! Stefani Gregor, who, upon
a certain day, had placed the drums of jeopardy in the palms of a war
correspondent known to his familiars as Cutty. And who was this young
man on the bed?

"There goes the bell!" cried Kitty, jumping up.

"Wait!"

The ring was repeated vigorously and impatiently.

"Kitty, I don't quite like the sound of that bell. Harrison would have
no occasion to be impatient. Somebody in a hurry. Now, attend to me. I'm
going to steal out to the kitchen. Don't be afraid. Call if I'm needed.
Open the door just a crack, with your foot against it. If it's Harrison
he'll be in uniform. Call out his name. Slam the door if it is someone
you don't know."

Kitty opened the door as instructed, but she swung it wide because one
of the men outside was a policeman. The man behind him was a thickset,
squat individual, with puffed, discoloured eyes and a nose that reminded
Kitty of an alligator pear.

"What's going on here?" the policeman demanded to know.


CHAPTER VIII


A phrase, apparently quite irrelevant to the situation, shot into
Kitty's head. Moribund perspectives. Instantly she knew, with that
foretasting mind of hers, that the man peering over the policeman's
shoulder and Johnny Two-Hawks had met somewhere that day. She was now
able to compare the results, and she placed the victory on Two-Hawks'
brow. Yonder individual somehow justified the instinct that had prompted
her to play the good Samaritan. Whence had this gorilla come? He was
not one of the men who had issued in such dramatic haste from the Gregor
apartment.

"This man here saw you and another carrying someone across the fire
escape. What's the rumpus?" The policeman was not exactly belligerent,
but he was dutifully determined. And though he was ready to grant that
this girl with the Irish eyes was beautiful, a man never could tell.

"There's been a tragedy of some kind," began Kitty. "This man certainly
did see us carrying a man across the fire escape. He had been set upon
and robbed in the apartment across the way."

"Why didn't you call in the police?"

"Because he might have died before you got here."

"Where's the man who helped you?"

"Gone. He was an outsider. He was afraid of getting mixed up in a police
affair and ran away." Behind the kitchen door Cutty smiled. She would
do, this girl.

"Sounds all right," said the policeman. "I'll take a look at the man."

"This way, if you please," said Kitty, readily. "You come, too,
sir," she added as the squat man hesitated. Kitty wanted to watch his
expression when he saw Johnny Two-Hawks.

Seed on rocky soil; nothing came of the little artifice. No Buddha's
graven face was less indicative than the squat man's. Perhaps his face
was too sore to permit mobility of expression. The drollery of this
thought caused a quirk in one corner of Kitty's mouth. The squat man
stopped at the foot of the bed with the air of a mere passer-by and
seemed more interested in the investigations of the policeman than in
the man on the bed. But Kitty knew.

"A fine bang on the coco," was the policeman's observation. "Take
anything out of his pockets?"

"They were quite empty. I've sent for a military surgeon. He may arrive
at any moment."

"This fellow live across the way?"

"That's the odd part of it. No, he doesn't."

"Then what was he doing there?"

"Probably awaiting the return of the real tenant who hasn't returned up
to this hour"--with an oblique glance at the squat man.

"Kind o' queer. Say, you stay here and watch the lady while I scout
round."

The squat man nodded and leaned over the foot of the bed. The policeman
stalked out.

"I was in the kitchen," said Kitty, confidingly. "I saw shadows on
the window curtain. It did not look right. So I started to inquire and
almost bumped into two men leaving the apartment. They took to their
heels when they saw me."

Again the squat man nodded. He appeared to be a good listener.

"Where were you when we crossed the fire escape?"

"In the yard on the other side of the fence." There was reluctance in
the guttural voice.

"Oh, I see. You live there."

As this was a supposition and not a direct query, the squat man wagged
his head affirmatively.

Kitty, her ears strained for disquieting sounds in the kitchen, laid her
palm on the patient's cheek. It was very hot. She dipped a bit of cotton
into the water, which had grown cold, and dampened the wounded man's
cheeks and throat. Not that she expected to accomplish anything by
this act; it relieved the nerve tension. This man was no fool. If her
surmises were correct he was a strong man both in body and in mind. In a
rage he would be terrible. However, had Johnny Two-Hawks done it--beaten
the man and escaped? No doubt he had been watching all the time and
had at length stepped in to learn if his subordinates had followed his
instructions and to what extent they had succeeded.

"If he dies it will be murder."

"It is a big city."

"And so many terrible things happen like this every day. But sooner or
later those who commit them are found out. Nemesis always follows on the
heels of vengeance."

For the first time there was a flash of interest in the battered eyes of
the intruder. Perhaps he saw that this was not only a pretty woman but
a keen one, and sensed the veiled threat. Moreover, he knew that she had
lied at one point. There had been no light in the room across the court.

But what in the world was happening out there in the kitchen? Kitty
wondered. So far, not a sound. Had Cutty really taken flight? And why
shouldn't he have faced it out at her side? Very odd on Cutty's part.
Shortly she heard the heavy shoes of the policeman returning.

"Guess it's all right, miss. I'll report the affair at the precinct and
have an ambulance sent over. You'll have to come along with me, sir."

"Is that legally necessary?" asked the squat man, rather perturbed.

"Sure. You saw the thing and I verified it," declared the policeman. "It
won't take ten minutes. Your name and address, in case this man dies."

"I see. Very well."

Kitty wasn't sure, but the policeman seemed embarrassed about something.
The directness was gone from his eyes and his speech was no longer
brisk.

"My name is Conover," said Kitty.

"I got that coming in," replied the policeman. "We'll be on our way."

Not once again did the squat man glance at the man on the bed. He
followed the policeman into the hall, his air that of one who had
accepted a certain obligation to community welfare and cancelled it.

Kitty shut the door--and leaned against it weakly. Where had Cutty gone?
Even as she expressed the query she smelt burning tobacco. She ran out
into the kitchen, to behold Cutty seated in a chair calmly smoking his
infamous pipe!

"And I thought you were gone! What did you say to that policeman?"

"I hypnotized him, Kitty."

"The newspaper?"

"No. Just looked into his eye and made a few passes with my hands."

"Of course, if you believe you ought not to tell me--" said Kitty, which
is the way all women start their wheedling.

Cutty looked into the bowl of his pipe.

"Kitty, when you throw a cobble into a pond, what happens? A splash. But
did you ever notice the way the ripples have of running on and on, until
they touch the farthest shore?"

"Yes. And this is a ripple from some big stone cast into the pond of
southeastern Europe. I understand."

"That's just the difficulty. If you understood nothing it would be much
easier for me. But you know just enough to want to follow up on your own
hook. I know nothing definitely; I have only suspicions. I calmed
that policeman by showing him a blanket police power issued by the
commissioner. I want you to pack up and move out of this neighbourhood.
It's not congenial to you."

"I'm afraid I can't afford to move until May."

"I'll take care of that gladly, to get you out of this garlicky ruin."

"No, Cutty; I'm going to stay here until the lease is up."

"Gee-whiz! The Irish are all alike," cried the war correspondent,
hopelessly. "Petticoat or pantaloon, always looking for trouble."

"No, Cutty; simply we don't run away from it. And there's just as much
Irish in you as there is in me."

"Sure! And for thirty years I've gone hunting for trouble, and never
failed to find it. I don't like this affair, Kitty; and because I don't
I'm going to risk my Samson locks in your lily-white hands. I am going
to tell you two things: I am a secret foreign agent of the United States
Government. Now don't light up that way. Dark alleys and secret papers
and beautiful adventuresses and bang-bang have nothing at all to do
with my job. There isn't a grain of romance in it. Ostensibly I am a war
correspondent. I have handled all the big events in Serbia and Bulgaria
and Greece and southwestern Russia. Boiled down, I am a census taker of
undesirables. Socialist, anarchist and Bolshevik--I photograph them
in my mental 'fillums' and transmit to Washington. Thus, when Feodor
Slopeski lands at Ellis Island with the idea of blowing up New York, he
is returned with thanks. I didn't ask for the job; it was thrust upon me
because of my knowledge of the foreign tongues. I accepted it because I
am a loyal American citizen."

"And you left me because you' didn't know who might be at the door!"

"Precisely. I am known in lower New York under another name. I'm a rabid
internationalist. Down with everything! I don't go out much these days;
keep under cover as much as I can. Once recognized, my value would be
nil. In a flannel shirt I'm a dangerous codger."

"And Gregor and this poor young man are in some way mixed up with
internationalism!"

"Victims, probably."

"What is the other thing you wish to tell me?"

"Because your eyes are slate blue like your mother's. I loved your
mother, Kitty," said Cutty, blinking into his pipe. "And the singular
fact is, your father knew but your mother never did. I was never able
to tell your mother after your father died. Their bodies were separated,
but not their spirits."

Kitty nodded. So that was it? Poor Cutty!

"I make this confession because I want you to understand my attitude
toward you. I am going to elect myself as your special guardian so
long as I'm in New York. From now on, when I ask you to do something,
understand that I believe it best for you. If my suspicions are correct
we are not dealing with fools but with madmen. The most dangerous human
being, Kitty, is an honest man with a half-baked or crooked idea; and
that's what this world pother, Bolshevism, is--honest men with crooked
ideas, carrying the torch of anarchism and believing it enlightenment.
What makes them tear down things? Every beautiful building is only a
monument to their former wretchedness; and so they annihilate. None of
them actually knows what he wants. A thousand will-o'-the-wisps in front
of them, and all alike. A thousand years to throw off the shackles,
and they expect Utopia in ten minutes! It makes you want to weep.
Socialism--the brotherhood of man--is a beautiful thing theoretically;
but it is like some plays--they read well but do not act. Lopping off
heads, believing them to be ideas!"

"The poor things!"

"That's it. Though I betray them I pity them. Democracy; slowly and
surely. As prickly with faults as a cactus pear; but every year there
are less prickles. We don't stand still or retrogress; we keep going on
and up. Take this town. Think of It to-day and compare it with the town
your father knew. There's the bell. I imagine that will be Harrison. If
we can move this chap will you go to a hotel for the night?"

"I'm going to stay here, Cutty. That's final."

Cutty sighed.


CHAPTER IX


At the precinct station the squat man gave a name and an address to
the bored sergeant at the desk, passed out a cigar, lit one himself,
expressed some innocuous opinions upon one or two topics of the day, and
walked leisurely out of the precinct. He wanted to laugh. These pigheads
had never thought to question his presence in the backyard of the house
in Seventy-ninth Street. It was the way he had carried himself.
Those years in New York, prior to the war, had not been wasted. The
brass-buttoned fools!

Serenely unconscious that he was at liberty by explicit orders, because
the Department of Justice did not care to trap a werewolf before
ascertaining where the pack was and what the kill, he proceeded
leisurely to the corner, turned, and broke into a run, which carried
him to a drug store in Eightieth Street. Here he was joined by two men,
apparently coal heavers by the look of their hands and faces.

"They will take him to a hospital. Find where, then notify me. Remember,
this is your business, and woe to you if you fail. Where is it?" One of
the men extended an object wrapped in ordinary grocer's paper.

"Ha! That's good. I shall enjoy myself presently. Remember: telephone me
the moment you learn where they take him. He is still alive, bunglers!
And you came away empty-handed."

"There was nothing on him. We searched."

"He has hidden them in one of those rooms. I'll attend to that later.
Watch the hospital for an hour or so, then telephone for information
regarding his condition. Is that motor for me? Very good. Remember!"

Inside the taxicab the squat man patted the object on his knees, and
chuckled from time to time audibly. It would be worth all that journey,
all he had gone through since dawn that morning. Stefani Gregor! After
these seven long years--the man who had betrayed him! To reach into his
breast and squeeze his heart as one might squeeze a bit of cheese! Many
things to tell, many pictures to paint. He rode far downtown, wound in
and out of the warehouse district for a while, then dismissed the taxi
and proceeded on foot to his destination--a decayed brick mansion of the
40's sandwiched in between two deserted warehouses. In the hall of the
first landing a man sat in a chair under the gas, reading a newspaper.
At the approach of the squat man he sprang to his feet, but a phrase
dissipated his apprehension and he nodded toward a door.

"Unlock it for me and see that I am not disturbed."

Presently the squat man stood inside the room, which was dark. He struck
a match and peered about for the candle. The light discovered a room
barren of all furniture excepting the table upon which stood the candle,
and a single chair. In this chair was a man, bound. He was small and
dapper, his gray hair swept back a la Liszt. His chin was on his breast,
his body limp. Apparently the bonds alone held him in the chair.

The squat man laid his bundle on the table and approached the prisoner.

"Stefani Gregor, look up; it is I!" He drummed on his chest like a
challenging gorilla. "I, Boris Karlov!"

Slowly the eyelids of the prisoner went up, revealing mild blue eyes.
But almost instantly the mildness was replaced by an agate hardness, and
the body became upright.

"Yes, it is Boris, whom you betrayed. But I escaped by a hair, Stefani;
and we meet again."

What good to tell this poor madman that Stefani Gregor had not betrayed
him, that he had only warned those marked for death? There was no longer
reason inside that skull. To die, probably in a few moments. So be it.
Had he not been ready for seven years? But that poor boy--to have come
all these thousands of miles, only to walk into a trap! Had he found
that note? (Burgess brummend:) Look, Candy, let's rather cozy at home, sit
by the fireplace.

He need not be longer than two hours wegzubleiben. (Candida.) You will
in the Assembly just as comfortable feel. We are all sitting on the
podium and important people. (March Banks horrified:) Oh, please, not on
the podium , no! Each will gaze, - that I would consider not enough.

I will be in the background of the hall remain. (Candida.) Do not fear.
It is much too busy to Jakob anzustarren than that you noticed.

(Morell turns his head and looks Candida saying much about the
shoulder:) Prossis Leiden, Candida, - no? (Candida funny:) Yep. (Burgess
curious:) Prossis suffering? What you talking about, James? (Morell
attends him, rises, goes to the door that opens and calls in commands
sound also:) Miss Garnett! (Proserpina from a distance:) Yes, Mr.
Pastor, I will. ( You wait all with the exception of Burgess, the
furtive, and to Mill pulls him aside.)

(Burgess.) Listen, Mr. Mill: Prossis what is suffering? What's missing
her?

(Mill confidential:) Yes, I do not know exactly, but she spoke quite
strange things this morning, - I fear it is sometimes not quite
right with her.

(Burgess overwhelmed:) No, - four in the same house!

It must be contagious. (He goes back to the fireplace, completely immersed
in thoughts about the mutability of the human mind in the vicinity of
a clergyman.) (Proserpina seems on the threshold:) What do you want,
Mr. Pastor? (Morell.) telegraphy for the Guild of St. Matthew, that I
will come. (Proserpina surprised:) Are you not expect?

(Morell imperious:) Do as I told you. (Proserpina is shocked at the
typewriter, and obeys.) (Morell goes across to Burgess.

Candida observed his movements all the time with growing wonder and
concern.) Burgess, you would not wish to come along? (Burgess is
apologetic:) Oh, so you may not perceive - I mean just, you know - because
Today Sunday is not. (Morell.) This is a shame, I thought you would be
happy with the President are aware. He is in the provincial working
committee and has some influence with the financial statements of
deliveries. (Burgess is a life time, Morell, the expected, it feels
that for a moment, and he says:) So you want to keep it? (Burgess
with enthusiasm:) I will say - if I go, James! There is always a pleasure,
to hear you preach!

(Morell turns to Proserpina:) I will need you have for you in the Assembly
can make some notes, Miss Garnett, if you have not already been
allocated.

(You nod, for fear that talking to them.) They also come with it, Lexi?
(Mill.) Of course. (Candida.) We all know Jacob. (Morell.) No! You will
not, and does not come with Eugene.

You'll stay at home and entertain yourself with him, to celebrate
your return.

(Eugen rises breathless.) (Candida.) But Jacob - (Morell imperious:)
I insist, you have both do not want to come, neither he, nor you! (Candida,
however, wants to keep.)

Oh, does not think of me, I will without you a lot of people gathered
around me to see. Your chairs are occupied by unconverted people
who I have never heard of.

(Candida worried:) Eugene, you do not want to go?

(Morell.) I would be afraid of me from listening to Eugene, he is
preaching to a very critical . (Looks at him.) He knows that I was afraid
before him, he's told me this morning said. Now I want to show him how
much I am afraid that by getting him in here just leave your hat,
Candida.

(March Banks to himself, with vivid feeling:) This is brave, which
is nice. (He sits down again and listen with open lips.) (Candida
with anxious concern:) But, but - if anything happened, James?

(Very confused:) I can not understand you. (Morell.) Ah, I thought I had
it, nothing can understand, my love. (He closes it tenderly in his arms
and kissed her on the forehead, then he looks calm on March Banks.)
(Curtain) THIRD AKT (It's clock after ten at night, the curtains are
apply and the lamp burns. The typewriter is in its box. The wide table
is sorted by, all of which testifies that the day's work is done.

Candida March Banks and sit by the fire, and the reading lamp stands on
the mantelpiece on March Banks, in the small chair sits and loud
reading. On the carpet next to him is a small pile of manuscripts and
a few volumes of poems. Candida sits on a large chair and holding a
small brass poker upright in the hand, she sits back and looks lost
in the sparkling brass tip. It has the feet to the fire stretched
out and lets her heels on the mantelpiece lattice rest of their
appearance and their surroundings deeply unconscious.)

(March Banks his groundbreaking lectures at:) Every poet who ever
lived, has made this idea made a sonnet .

He must if he wants to or not. (He looks Candida indicate whether they
agree with him, and noticed that she stares at the poker.)

Have you not been listening? (No answer:) Mrs. Morell! (Candida drive.)
What? (Marchbanks.) You did not listening?

(Candida schuldbewußt, with exaggerated politeness:) Oh, yes.

It is very pretty. Go on, Eugene. I am eager to hear what the angel
has happened. (March Banks makes the manuscript from the hand on the
ground:) Excuse me, that I bored you! (Candida.) But you bore me
absolutely not, not really.

Please , go ahead - please, Eugen. (Marchbanks.) I have a poem about the
angel before a quarter ends. I have since you already verschiedenes out.
(Candida repentant:) I'm really sorry, Eugen.

It seems to me the poker, I bewitches. (You submit it down.) (Marchbanks.)
It made me terribly disturbed.

(Candida.) Why have you not told me? I would have him aside
immediately.

(Marchbanks.) I feared to disturb you, he resembled a weapon. If I were
a hero from the old days, I would my drawn sword between us have made.
If Morell would come, he would have believed that you have taken the
poker, because there was no sword between us. (Candida surprise:) What?
(She sees him with a confused look on:) I can not quite understand.
Your sonnets have confused me so much! Why would a sword between us?
(March Banks evasively:) Oh, leave that aside (He bends down, the
manuscript should be repealed.) (Candida.) Insert the return, Eugen. My
hunger for poetry has its limits, even after your poetry.

You have given me longer than two hours out - since my husband is
continuing - I'd rather chat. (March Banks rises, fearful:) No, I
can not talk.

(He looks lost in its way and adds to suddenly add:) I think I'm
doing a walk in the park (he want to go to the door.)

(Candida.) nonsense! He has long been closed. Sit on the carpet and
fireplace, we chat, as you usually do! I want to be entertained, - do
you not? (March Banks half-horrified, half-ecstatic:) Yes. (Candida.)
come forth. (It puts her chair back a little bit to make room to make,
he hesitates, then he squats shy out in front of the fireplace, the face
upward swept, throws his head back on her knees and looks up to
her.)

(Marchbanks.)

Oh, I have the whole day felt so unhappy, because I have done what was
right, and now, where I was doing wrong, I'm so happy.

(Candida gentle, amused about him:) Yes, I am convinced now you
feel like a big, adult, evil seducer - quite proud of himself, is
not it?

(March Banks raises his head and quickly turns a little to make them
anzublicken:) Take into eight. I'm actually much older than you,
you just do not know it.

(He turns on his knees all the way around, with folded hands and arms in
her lap, he speaks with growing excitement - his blood begins to
Wall:) May I introduce you to a few bad things to say about this?

(Candida without the slightest fear or cold and with complete respect
for his passion, but with a glimmer of their mother's humor
klugkerzigen:) no.

But you may say what you really and truly feel what it was, everything
I'm not afraid, as long as your real "self" speaks to me and not a
mere posturing - a gallant or wicked, or even a poetic pose.

This I ask of you, in your honor and truthfulness - Now you say
what you want.

(March Banks The hot expression disappears completely from his lips and
nose wings, his eyes flare up in enthusiastic fire.)

Oh, now I can not more say everything, because all the words that I
know are more or less any pose at all - except one. (Candida.)

What word is this?

(March Banks gently to the melodic sound of the name dedication:)
" Candida, Candida, Candida, Candida, Candida "- I must say, because
you help me with my honor and truthfulness ask, because I think and
feel never" Mrs.

Morell, "only" Candida. "(Candida.) Obviously ! And what did you say to
Candida? (Marchbanks.)

Nothing but your name a thousand times repeated.

Do not feel that there is always a prayer to you? (Candida.) Does
it make you happy, that you can pray? (Marchbanks.) Yes, very happy.
(Candida.)

Well, this happiness is the answer to your Prayer .-- Do you want
something better?

(March Banks blessed:) No, I'm in heaven, where one is wunschlos. (Morell
occurs, it remains at the threshold and with a view overlooking
the whole scene.)

(Morell seriously and with self-control:) Hopefully I will not disturb.
(Candida drives fiercely, but without the slightest embarrassment. They
laugh about himself Eugen, still on his knees, protects against
the traps look the fact that he laid his hands on the chair seat
sets; Morell gazing with open mouth, he remains in that position.)

(Candida in the up:) Oh, Jacob, as thou hast scared me, I was so
busy with Eugene that I am your key is not heard. How is the
meeting run? Do you have spoken well? (Morell.) I have in my whole
life is not better spoken.

(Candida.) This is excellent! How much is received? (Morell.) I forgot to
ask. (Candida to Eugen:) He must have wonderful talked or he would not
forget. (For Morell:) Where are the others? (Morell.)

They left the room long before I could continue, I think they eat
somewhere at night. (Candida in their hausmütterlichen type:) Oh,
then you can go to bed Marie; I want it to say. (She goes out into the
kitchen.) (Morell looks strict on March settled Banks:) Well? (March
Banks can be cross-legged on the carpet chimney down and feels quite
safe to Morell, even fully mischievous humor:) Now? (Morell. ) Do you
have something to say to me?

(Marchbanks.) Only that I am here to fool secretly made while you have
done the same in public. (Morell.) I think, hardly in the same Article
(March Banks jumps up, eager: ) Exactly the same art I have just
as good as the man played!

just like you. As your heroism, I am here with Candida alone to be
started - (Morell involuntarily:) Candida? (Marchbanks.) Yes, as far
as I am already. Heroism is contagious, I got the disease from you and
I have sworn that Candida in your absence nothing to say what I
do not have a month ago in your presence would have said.

(Morell.) And have you kept this vow? (March Banks sets suddenly in grotesque
ways in the chair:) I'm up to about ten minutes before stupid enough,
to keep it. Until then, I have it out in despair, my own poems - and
other - to avoid a conversation.

I saw Heaven open and refused me to enter ....

You can not imagine how heroic it was and how uncomfortable .... Then -
(Morell tame his impatience:) Then? (March Banks is prosaic in an ordinary
position in the armchair on:) Then they could no longer read aloud
tolerated. (Morell.) And since you have finally approached the Heaven?
(Marchbanks.) Yes. (Morell.) And then? (Game:) Speak, man! Do you have
no feeling for me!

(March Banks gentle and melodic:) Then she was an angel and a flaming
sword appeared, which blocked any access to me, so I could not materialize
and now grasped that this gate in the Gate of Truth was hell.

(Morell triumphantly:) She has you zurückgestoßen! (March Banks rises
with grim mockery:) No, you fool! If they had done, I would not have
felt that I was already in heaven. Me zurückgestoßen ... do you
believe that would have saved me? - virtuous indignation incorrect! Oh,
you are not worthy, in a world to live with it. (He turns away from him
verachtungsvoll after the other side of the room.) (Morell observed him
quietly, without a place to go:) Do you think that you will gain in value
if you insult me, Eugene?

(March Banks .) tausendunderste Here ends the text.

Morell: I do not think much of your preaching.

I even believe I could do that better.

The man, whom I now want to have before me, is the man that Candida
married.

(Morell.) The man who ... do you understand me? (Marchbanks.) I do not
Reverend James Mavor Morell, moralist and windbag.

I think the real people, the Reverend James somewhere in his black
robe hides, have the man that Candida loved.

You can love a woman like Candida have not achieved that you just
behind your neck instead of the front buttons.

(Morell bold and steadfast:) As Candida consented, to marry me
because I was the same moralist and windbag that you now face be
seen.

I wore my black skirt, and my collar buttons in front instead of behind
me. Do you think they would have loved me more if I am insincere in
my profession would have been?

(March Banks on the sofa, his ankle fully:) Oh, she has forgiven you,
as she forgives me, that I am a coward and a weakling, and what you
winselnden a small dog - and so on - call. (Dreamy:) A woman like that
has divine insight: she loves our souls, not our madness and vanities
and illusions, or our collars and skirts, or the other and scraps of
cloth, into which we are wrapped.

(He is thinking about a moment, then he turns around with tense expectation,
Morell to ask:) What I want to know is how you have the flame
sword, which has shrunk from me, come over! (Morell meaningful:) Maybe
because I am not after ten minutes was interrupted.

(March Banks perplexed:) What? (Morell.) Man can climb the highest
peaks, but he can not linger there long. (Marchbanks.) This is wrong.
There, he can linger forever! only there! Elsewhere he finds no peace
and has no sense of the quiet beauty of life. Where should I spend
my blissful minutes, if not on the heights? (Morell.) In the kitchen,
cutting onions and filling lamps. (Marchbanks.) Or in the pulpit,
from the souls abrasive tone are cheap. (Morell.) Yes that too! There
I harvested my golden moment with him and the right to love Candidas
to advertise. I have looked at this hour erborgt not, nor have I
used it for the happiness of another to steal. (March Banks progressing
quite disgusted at the fireplace:) I have no doubt that your activities
so honorably fulfilled, as if you are a pounds of cheese were
weighed.

(He stops in front of the fireplace, and he adds thoughtfully
to himself, Morell kehrend the back, adding:) I was to her only as a
beggar come. (Morell auffabrend:) As a frier of beggars, they begged
for their sound, is not it ? (March Banks turns surprised order:)
Thank you, that you refer to my poem. Yes, if you want: as a freezing
of beggars, they begged for their sound.

(Morell excited:) And she refused him. Shall I tell you why she has
refused him? I can tell you, with their permission: because .. (Marchbanks.)
She has not denied it! (Morell.) Not? (Marchbanks.) You gave me everything,
what I asked: her shawl, her wings, the star wreath from her hair,
the lilies in her hand, the rising moon at her feet. (Morell tackle
him:) Edited with the truth, man! My wife is my wife: I have enough
of your poetic Flitterkram, - I know very well that no law Candida
tie for me if I love her you would have lost! (March Banks bizarrely,
without fear or resistance:) packing me just at the collar, they will
put it back in order as this morning. (With quiet passion:) I'll be back
to touch their hands to feel. (Morell:) Fant you young, you do not
feel, how dangerous it is to me to say!

Or (with plötzilicher fear:) have you done anything daring? (Marchbanks.)
I am now not afraid anymore! I have you have never suffered like, so I'm
in your contact zusammengezuckt. But today I realized - as Candida
quälites you - that you love her.

Since I am your friend! Now, they can strangle me if you want!
The room looked natural enough and the pain in her shoulder
seemed real enough, but one never could tell. She decided to wait for
the next episode.

"Answer!" cried the spokesman of the two, twisting Kitty's shoulder.
"Where did they take him?"

Awake! Kitty wrenched her shoulder away and swept the bedclothes up to
her chin. She was thoroughly frightened, but her brain was clear.
The spark of self-preservation flew hither and about in search of
expediencies, temporizations. She must come through this somehow with
the vantage on her side. She could not possibly betray that poor young
man, for that would entail the betrayal of Cutty also. She saw but one
avenue, the telephone; and these two men were on the wrong side of the
bed, between her and the door.

"What do you want?" Her throat was so dry she wondered whether the words
were projected far enough for them to hear.

"We want the address of the wounded man you brought into this
apartment."

"They took him to a hospital."

"He was taken away from there."

"He was?"

"Yes, he was. You may not know where, but you will know the address of
the man who tricked us; and that will be sufficient."

"The army surgeon? He was called in by chance. I don't know where he
lives."

"The man in the dress suit."

"He was with the surgeon."

"He came first. Come; we have no time to waste. We don't want to hurt
you, and we hope you will not force us.

"Will you step out of the room while I dress?"

"No. Tell us where the man lives, and you can have the whole apartment
to yourself."

"You speak English very well."

"Enough! Do you want us to bundle you up in the bedclothes and carry you
off? It will not be a pleasant experience for a pretty young woman like
yourself. Something happened to the man you knew as Gregory. Will that
make you understand?"

"You know what abduction means?"

"Your police will not catch us."

"But I might give you the wrong address."

"Try it and see what happens. Young lady, this is a bad affair for a
woman to be mixed up in. Be sensible. We are in a hurry."

"Well, you seem to have acquired at least one American habit!" said a
gruff voice from the bedroom doorway. "Raise your hands quickly, and
don't turn," went on the gruff voice. "If I shoot it will be to kill.
It is a rough game, as you say. That's it; and keep them up. Now, then,
young lady, slip on your kimono. Get up and search these men. I'm in a
hurry, too."

Kitty obeyed, very lovely in her dishevelment. Repugnant as the task was
she disarmed the two men and flung their weapons on the bed.

"Now something to tie their hands; anything that will hold."

Kitty could see the speaker now. Another coal heaver, but evidently on
her side.

"Tie their hands behind them... I warn you not to move, men. When I say
I'll shoot I mean it. Don't be afraid of hurting them, miss. Very good.
Now bandage their eyes. Handkerchiefs."

But Kitty's handkerchiefs did not run to the dimensions' required; so
she ripped up a petticoat. Torn between her eagerness to complete a
disagreeable task and her offended modesty, Kitty went through the
performance with creditable alacrity. Then she jumped back into bed,
doubled her knees, and once more drew up the bedclothes to her chin,
content to be a spectator, her eyes as wide as ever they possibly could
be.

Some secret-service man Cutty had sent to protect her. Dear old Cutty!
Small wonder he had urged her to spend the night at a hotel. The
admiration of her childhood returned, but without the shackles of
shyness. She had always trusted him absolutely, and to this trust was
now added understanding. To have him pop into her life again in this
fashion, all the ordinary approaches to intimacy wiped out by these
amazing episodes; the years bridged in an hour! If only he were younger!

"Watch them, miss. Don't be afraid to shoot. I'll return in a
moment"--still gruffly. The secret-service man pushed his prisoners into
chairs and left the bedroom.

Kitty did not care how gruff the voice was; it was decidedly pleasant
in her ears. Gingerly she picked up one of the revolvers. Kitty Conover
with shooting irons in her hands, like a movie actress! She heard a
whistle. After this an interval of silence, save for the ticking of the
alarm clock on the stand. She eyed the blindfolded men speculatively,
swung out of bed, and put on her stockings and sandals; then she sat on
the edge of the bed and waited for the sequence. Kitty Conover was going
to have some queer recollections to tell her grandchildren, providing
she had any. That morning she had risen to face a humdrum normal day.
And here she was, at midnight, hobnobbing with quiescent murder and
sudden death! To-morrow Burlingame would ask her to hustle up the Sunday
stuff, and she would hustle. She wanted to laugh, but was a little
afraid that this laughter might degenerate into incipient hysteria.

There was still in her mind a vivid recollection of her dream--the fire
of diamonds and the blonde girl with the tiara of rubies. Olga, Olga!
Russian; the whole affair was Russian. She shivered. Always that
land and people had appeared to her in sinister aspect; no doubt an
impression acquired from reading melodramas written by Englishmen who,
once upon a time, had given Russia preeminence as a political menace.
Russia, in all things--music, art, literature--the tragic note. Stefani
Gregor and Johnny Two-Hawks had roused the enmity of some political
society with this result. Nihilist or Bolshevist or socialist, there
was little choice; and Cutty sensibly did not want her drawn into the
whirlpool.

What a pleasant intimacy hers and Cutty's promised to be! And if he
hadn't casually dropped into the office that afternoon she would have
surrendered the affair to the police, and that would have been the end
of it. Amazing thought--you might jog along all your life at the side
of a person and never know him half so well as someone you met m a tense
episode, like that of the immaculate Cutty crossing the fire escape with
Two-Hawks on his shoulders!

She heard the friendly coal heaver going down the corridor to the door.
When he returned to the bedroom two men accompanied him. Not a word was
said. The two men marched off with the prisoners and left Kitty alone
with her saviour.

"Thank you," she said, simply.

"You poor little chicken, did you believe I had deserted you?" The voice
wasn't gruff now.

"Cutty?" Kitty ran to him, flinging her arms round his neck. "Oh,
Cutty!"

Cutty's heart, which had bumped along an astonishing number of million
times in fifty-two years, registered a memorable bump against his ribs.
The touch of her soft arms and the faint, indescribable perfume which
emanates from a dainty woman's hair thrilled him beyond any thrill he
had ever known. For Kitty's mother had never put her arms round old
Cutty's neck. Of course he understood readily enough: Molly's girl,
flesh of her flesh. And she had rushed to him as she would have rushed
to her father. He patted her shoulder clumsily, still a little dazzled
for all the revelation in the analysis. The sweet intimacy of it! The
door of Paradise opened for a moment, and then shut in his face.

"I did not recognize you at all!" she cried, standing off. "I shouldn't
have known you on the street. And it is so simple. What a wonderful man
you are!"

"For an old codger?" Cutty's heart registered another sizable bump.

Kitty laughed. "Never call yourself old to me again. Are you always
doing these things?"

"Well, I keep moving. I suspected something like this might happen.
Those two will go to the Tombs to await deportation if they are aliens.
Perhaps we can dig something out of them relative to this man Gregor.
Anyhow, we'll try."

"Cutty, I saw a man in the court with a pocket lamp before I went to
bed. He was hunting for something."

"I didn't find anything but a lot of fresh food someone had thrown out."

"It was you, then?"

"Yes. There was a vague possibility that your protege might have thrown
out something valuable during the struggle."

"What?"

"Lord knows! A queer business, Kitty, you've lugged me into--my own!
And there is one thing I want you to remember particularly: Life means
nothing to the men opposed, neither chivalry nor ethics. Annihilation is
their business. They don't want civilization; they want chaos. They
have lost the sense of comparisons or they would not seek to thrust
Bolshevism down the throats of the rest of the world. They say democracy
has failed, and their substitute is murder and loot. Kitty, I want you
to leave this roost."

"I shall stay until my lease expires."

"Why? In the face of real danger?"

"Because I intend to, Cutty--unless you kidnap me."

"Have you any good reason?"

"You'll laugh; but something tells me to stay here."

But Cutty did not laugh. "Very well. Tomorrow an assistant janitor will
be installed. His name is Antonio Bernini. Every night he will whistle
up the tube. Whistle back. If you are going out for the evening notify
him where you intend to go and when you expect to be back. A wire from
your bed to his cot will be installed. In danger, press the button.
That's the best I can do for you, since you decide to stick. I don't
believe anything more will happen to-night, but from now on you will be
watched. Never come directly to my apartment. Break your journey two
or three times with taxis. Always use Elevator Four. The boy is mine;
belongs to the service. So our Bolshevik friends won't gather anything
about you from him."

As a matter of fact, Cutty had now come to the conviction that it would
be well to let Kitty remain here as a lure. He had urged her to leave,
and she had refused, so his conscience was tolerably clear. Besides, she
would henceforth be guarded with a ceaseless efficiency second only to
that which encompasses a President of the United States. Always some man
of the service would be watching those who watched her. This was going
to develop into a game of small nets, one or two victims at a time.
Because these enemies of civilization lacked coherence in action there
would be slim chance of rounding them up in bulk. But from now on men
would vanish--one here, a pair there, perhaps on occasion four or five.
And those who had known them would know them no more. The policy would
be that employed by the British in the submarine campaign--mysterious
silence after the evanishment.

"It's all so exciting!" said Kitty. "But that poor old man Gregor! He
had a wonderful violin, Cutty; and sometimes I used to hear him play
folklore music--sad, haunting melodies."

"We'll know in a little while what's become of him. I doubt there is a
foreign organization in the city that hasn't one or more of our men on
the inside. A word will be dropped somewhere. I'm rarely active on
this side of the Atlantic; and what I'm doing now is practically due to
interest. But every active operative in New York, Boston, Philadelphia,
and Chicago is on the lookout for a man who, if left free, will stir
up a lot of trouble. He has leadership, this Boris Karlov, a former
intimate here of Trotzky's. We have reason to believe that he slipped
through the net in San Francisco. Probably under a cleverly forged
passport. Now please describe the man who came in with the policeman. I
haven't had time to make inquiries at the precinct, where they will have
a minute description of him."

"He made me think of a gorilla, just as I told you. His face was pretty
well banged up. Naturally I did not notice any scar. A dreadfully black
beard, shaven."

"Squat, powerful, like a gorilla. Lord, I wish I'd had a glimpse of him!
He's one of the few topnotchers I haven't met. He's the spark, the hand
on the plunger. The powder is all ready in this land of ours; our job is
to keep off the sparks until we can spread the stuff so it will only
go puff instead of bang. This man Karlov is bad medicine for democracy.
Poor devil!"

"Why do you say that?"

"Because I'm honestly sorry for them. This fellow Karlov has suffered.
He is now a species of madman nothing will cure. He and his kind have
gained their ends in Russia, but the impetus to kill and burn and loot
is still unchecked. Sorry, yes; but we can't have them here. They
remind me of nothing so much as those blind deep-sea monsters in one of
Kipling's tales, thrown up into air and sunlight by a submarine volcano,
slashing and bellowing. But we can't have them here any longer. Keep
those revolvers under your pillow. All you have to do is to point.
Nobody will know that you can't shoot. And always remember, we're
watching over you. Good-night."

"Mouquin's for lunch?"

"Well, I'll be hanged! But it can't be, Kitty. You and I must not be
seen in public. It was totenblaß. They waved the girl to go out. The
head forester stood up.

"What letter?"

Unwirsch he asked. "From my lady," said the shy girl. The head forester
trick the eyes together.

"Absolutely not necessary anymore. We come from Romitten. Bring
forth the letter, "A great silence arose. Gertrude is always said:" I
must protest, I must send my letter. "But her lips trembled, and brought
no word. The head forester stood away from her and waited for regresion
the girl.

Maggie looked with curiosity at Gertrude tense face, and Miss Perl
understood nothing. "Hast thou according Romitten written Hearts?" She
asked clueless. Gertrud silent. Lina joined with the letter in hand.
The head forester took him from her and motioned her out. He saw the long
narrow yellow envelope, then he tore the letter open without him, and
threw it in the trash. "Fie!" He said, before Gertrude aufpflanzend. "So
my daughter is doing something!

What did you want from him? Published it! What is it? What do you want
from him ... You not ashamed? "Yes, Gertrud ashamed, as if they unsühnbares
crimes. They knew before the horror is no longer where it was. She felt
quite shattered, and thought only. »Continue, continue! Or rather to
die, "she could say nothing. The head forester was dark red." Are you
talking about? "He screamed. Then there came to Maggie's sister."

Torturing them is not useless, Dad, "she said. "Finally, they can
do and what they want." "Not in my house," cried the head forester excited,
"not in my home. Should I rely on my old days with you confoundedly
woman room to get my reputation be? ... One is the man behind her, that
it is a scandal, the other writes him love letters. And I, the father,
to see anyone's foot, and halt to the whole drifting, is not it?

"" It is not a love letter, papa, "said Gertrud hoarse. "You probably
permit that I remove. I will ... überhaupt fortgehn soon ... "They
stumbled out. The head forester ran around in the room excited. "If only
the Kurowski back would be." Maggie was deeply agitated. So easy it
seemed not to reach a destination, the obstacles of this kind were
opposite. She ran up to her room and wept. About Gertrud, about
themselves, about the whole life.

For the first time since the company Vokeller missing it Gertrud. You would
have to rush her into it and may be tender. Maybe even laugh about the
whole process history, and simply say: "Trude was good ... thou
shalt have it again. "And yet, no - that they would not.

What was it because überhaupt ein? Wollte they now begin to be sentimental?
Good and evil thoughts hasty in her and she shifted into a state
fiebernder unrest. Once it was as if the whole calculation on which they
based their future life would be a wrong, as if they would lose,
even if it's achieved, wife of Seckersdorf them. And a strange fear
seized her. But then they mocked themselves and hardened in their
brooding on power and legitimacy, without moral or other concerns
their own destiny to forge.

Last, if they are on the whole situation appealed, it was a right
awkwardness Gertrud blessing for them. Gertrude had once written, they
would perhaps do so again, it was not a defenseless victim. They led
their cause and fought, as they, Maggie, And the sisters themselves,
the more favorable position. It was therefore take up, instead of dreaming.
And now, once in reality, she thought of their natural allies, their
brother. Without the content of his last letters to Gertrude to know,
but she was convinced that he had arrived from outside the grounds
for a divorce would not resolve.

They even considered them again and talked to the view that it is
appropriate and reasonable if the marriage would not be separated.
It was only by Gertrud dismal flight and return to a false view
can tempt ...

We could have seriously Gertrud cajole be vigorously against their tyrants
proceedings, if necessary, it should help, rather than - in the middle
of this thought they jumped out of the annoying angle in which they
had zusammengekauert. Why in the world, she played herself this
comedy before?

Something had to do it.

She wanted to write to Kurowski.

He should come home. Gertrude would term them, marked out, and then
the scandal would be ready. Most of all, thinking she sat down at the
desk, as they abrief. Neighboring visit had come to Auklapper Normann,
a funny old couple, the man was particularly close. Maggie breathed
relief.

The letter, of the unpleasant and difficult manner was then still had
to be postponed. They washed quickly and ran down to greet the guests.
As people from another world, she appeared today. And yet they sat
comfortably and warmly as otherwise usual in the corners, drank
grog as usual at this time, talking comfortably and tease Maggie
else like the old gentleman, has become thick, with a few carefully
hinaufgekämmten, black hair, a friendly smile ironic to the wide
mouth, was formerly the Schwerenöter of the circle was.

His wife, nice and gentle, had suffered much and have a lot of
grieve.

Today they are called "Papa" and "Mama," were both peaceful and
ready, and had little mutual attentions to each other and it will make
life easy. That was probably the usual end of all sad and happy Ehemelodieen.
Maggie thoughts flew to twenty years to Gertrude and vorauf Kurowski,
and then to himself and Seckersdorf.

She was very bad there and she felt again the old, raging desire to
ascend to, exploit, to enjoy while they are still young and their
nerves were still susceptible to.

The friends found the head forester detuned and Maggie still. They began
to tease them, the name Seckersdorfs fell, and since the Auklapper were
old friends, they also made an allusion to Gertrude and inheritance,
which seemed to stand as Maggie. "God," cried the head forester in between.
»Where is actually the Gertrude? Before you need it but not too verkriechen?
Look after, Maggie. "Maggie went slowly out. Lina alleged that the madam
at the same time as the lady to have notified.

So Maggie went up. As Gertrude knocking on her failure to respond, she
made the door quietly. Rotverschleierte The lamp was burning on
the table, on which Gertrude was writing stuff.

They even sat at the window.

Maggie came to her. She was dressed to go out, but was in a white blanket
wrapped and looked out the window. The yellow moon shone through the
gray-green clouds, in strips and shreds moved across the sky. Gertrude
saw in the eerie light from pale and rigid. You never turned around.
Maggie heart pulled together. "What do you do? Where do you want out?
"She asked, trembling." Fort, "said Gertrud without them." Where?
"Gertrude winced armpits. "You know, I wanted to move away," she said,
"but it freezes me." "It is as if they would have lost the mind,"
Maggie thought, horrified.

"Come from the window but continues," said she dominated. "It moves
like that." Gertrude stood up. "Yes," said she, "that is true." Maggie
freed them from the ceiling, pulled her coat and took her hat off.
She let it fall.

Maggie would have gladly taken up in the arms, but they dared not,
and also feared. She went after the bell. "What do you want?" Asked
Gertrude livelier, in fear. "But, child, heut 'it's already too late,
tonight' you can no longer continue. You also have fever, yes,
you've got a fever, and I want to go to the Virgin ... "Gertrud she
said." I have heard a car, "she said bang. »Is my husband about it?"
"No, no - how could he?" Said Maggie trembling. »How do you react?" "I
noticed that he could with his letter also wear -" they pushed her to
the letter, which lay on the table. Maggie took him about it. "The
Auklapper were," she said.

"They want to see you happy. But you will not can not? You need to bed,
yes? "Gertrude did not answer and stared silently into the lamp. Maggie
bell rang. "The madam is not well, help her," it meant entering the
Virgin. "That it will pass," whispered to her. "That was just as
gracious woman with the Junkers fortging." Maggie was calming. Thank
God, so the least was not their fault. But all her self-glory, but
shrank together at the sight of the broken woman, the last hope was
taken. Before the guests of the malaise Gertrud advised, they overflew
the letter Kurowskis. On the way so the poor Gertrude had decided
to Seckersdorf to write. Dear God, it was a misery, but eventually ...
the cards were not of themselves? She needed no more deceitful act, it
did everything by themselves. Did you know that Kurowski on letting
nothing would.

Gertrud was just playful. She spoke after the departure of Auklapper
only fleetingly with the Father. "One but Kurt is to have wires,
"said the. "God knows whether we are not seriously ill, and then he will
blame us afterwards. Obtain du das "Maggie took the pen in his hand, but
then she shook her head."

No, you sit on the telegram, "she said hesitantly. "I am writing
under his after Friedland at the doctor." The head forester pondered
the Brauen schief pulling for a while, then he took the telegram, in
which his son because of sudden illness Gertrud heimrief.

Gertrud but was not sick. It was the next morning and sat down at the
little window, like yesterday.

                 It was a large, dull
                calm. Paralyzing had to
         put their thinking. The little bit of
             life energy, which recently
              awakened her was fascinating
                 about her with an
            unprecedented callousness, and
                undulates around them in uniform, surf-like noise, as if weighing
it.

"I have too much to endure," she thought, from and, "and this is probably
the setback." Only the path from which yesterday Romitter the wagon
came, they unconsciously always kept an eye on. When a car passed from
this direction, it is directed at, and looked after him, in order to
recover a sigh in their armchair zurückzukauern and weiterzudämmern.
So passed the morning. The doctor came. She answered all his questions
quite sensible, said to be very tired and want to see nobody. Doktor
cock, which she knew from childhood and liebhatte, spoke of severe
anemia and severe nerve overstimulation and inquired about possible
emotions.

The head forester, who inside his custom after any responsibility on
its abwies, railed at Kurowski and Maggie also spared no reproaches. The
doctor shook his head, was sleeping, recommended utmost calm and
promised to come back.

Maggie went pale and dark around. She thought, if you Seckersdorf
notified and Gertrud led, this would certainly be healthy. Instead,
his was now Kurt. What would happen now? Gertrude would simply perish.
Through her sister's fault. Was she strong enough to bear? Their thoughts
wandered to the rulers who have life and death of convicted person
may have to decide, and they Schauerte together.

She had moments in which they are well broken felt like Gertrud as
above. They suffered from the surfeit of energy, such as those of the
deficiency, and none of them was a stop somewhere, and the pious Gertrud
not, after the child is still customary morning and evening prayers.

In a moment of strong fear of conscience, in which they are whole idea
of marriage, cursed, she sat down at the desk and wrote a few lines after
Romitten in which they are the "friend" asked Gertrude because
herüberzukommen. Then she took the course in the hand and calculated from
when Kurt could arrive.

It missed them, submit the letter. But it was nevertheless, as they could
now easily Gertrud in the eye, and they went inside. Gertrud as
previously sat there, with large, quiet eyes on the road, looking.
Überirdisch She was beautiful, no careworn or frightened
expression in the pure face. "Like a dead," thought Maggie and stepped
closer, trembling. "Trude!" "What do you want?" Maggie crouched on the
white fur of Gertrud's chair.

"Trude, I've written to Seckersdorf. Should he come? "Gertrude raised her
head, which put in a sunny strip fell and even seemed to glow."

Why? "She asked. "To him the opportunity for a new meeting with you to
give? Go, Maggie. I want you all not see.

"Defiant Maggie jumped up and went away.

So Seckersdorf did not come. You could be right.

She was in a burst of sentimentality want to do more than was wise.

Apart from himself, as we would face should Kurowski?

And Kurowski was not umzuspringen as the father or even the
good-natured Seckersdorf.

Kurts From letter to Gertrude, she was still with him, spoke truly of
the "Lord and Master "he wanted to show her. There was such a man but
a much more interesting than that in the big beautiful world umherzieht
and enjoying all the memories of a "white blond head" disturbed! Bitterness,
frustration and anxiety to meet Gertrude them altogether. This was also
the whole Care home distraught. The children played in the remote corner
room, the father had been in tobacco smoke clouds, and with Ms. Perl
did not even talk. The cry to Gertrud, her favorite, she is not a quarter
of an hour left undisturbed, and if they again hinausgeschickt was
announced in the entire home, it would certainly in a typhoid Gertrud
erupt.

What a contrast to yesterday! And what was actually done much since
then? Afternoon came a dispatch from Kurowski, his arrival for the next
lunch notified and Gertrud message about being at the Berlin train station
Friedrichstraße ausbat. "If the Gertrude hears rafft it up and
runs away, miserable as it is," said Maggie . "That would be best
that we leave everything Kurowski." The head forester was very much
agree with it. And so was because, as you do not trust Ms. Perl,
the message is between father and daughter. But they both felt was
angry, and strangely thought any of the other accused and
sentenced. When Maggie's father that was completely dark, read by
her face down a long speech: "You old Lord, father of such a daughter,
the daughter of the woman who you once were rather than the entire
world, an abundance of happiness and life Glut harsh on you man
ausströmte, - instead of her child is now in great distress to the
heart to take it to protect you drift to the libertine, who hugs
his between her and the skimmings notify their sex ... before she
trembles in fear of death ...

"And Maggie walked formally under the accusations that they themselves
from the gaze of his father and read from his position of himself
made, until finally one of the familiar place to him stood up and
said, "You know, Dad, we both should lead us now prefer not to see
war-ready.

We certainly want the best, but the conditions are just stronger than
us. "This common place lighted the old man, and he was just in
the process, calming hike to a small company, when the door opened and
Gertrud occurred. A ghost would have the two can not be frightened,
as the beautiful, serious woman who in her long white dressing
gown suddenly stood before them. "For God's sake, Gertrude!
An uncle who knew
I hated money and the responsibilities that go with it, died and left it
to me."

"Why, Cutty, you must be rich!"

"I'm sorry. What can I do? I can't give it away."

"But you don't have to work!"

"Oh, yes, I do. I'm that kind. I'd die of a broken heart if I had to sit
still. It's the game."

"Did mother know?"

"Yes."

With the toe of a snug little bronze boot Kitty drew an outline round a
pattern in the rug.

"Love is a funny thing," was her comment.

"It sure is, old-timer. But what put the thought into your head?"

"I was thinking how very much mumsy must have been in love with father."

"But she never knew that I loved her, Kitty."

"What's that got to do with it? If she had wanted money you wouldn't
have had the least chance in the world."

"Probably not! But what would you have done in your mother's place?"

"Snapped you up like that!" Kitty flashed back.

"You cheerful little--little--"

"Liar. Say it!" Kitty laughed. "But am I a cheerful little liar? I don't
know. It would be an awful temptation. Somebody to wait on you; heaps of
flowers when you wanted them; beautiful gowns and thingummies and furs
and limousines. I've often wondered what I should do if I found myself
with love and youth on one side and money and attraction on the other.
I've always been in straitened circumstances. I never spent a dollar in
all my days when I didn't think I ought to have held back three or
four cents of it. You can't know, Cutty, what it is to be poor and want
beautiful things and good times. Of course. I couldn't marry just
money. There would have to be some kind of a man to go with it. Someone
interesting enough to make me forget sometimes that I'd thrown away a
lover for a pocket-book."

"Would you marry me, Kitty?"

"Are you serious?"

"Let's suppose I am."

"No. I couldn't marry you, Cutty I should always be having my mother's
ghost as a rival."

"But supposing I fell in love with you?"

"Then I'd always be doubting your constancy. But what queer talk!"'

"Kitty, you're a joy! Lordy, my luck in dropping in to see you
yesterday!"

"And a little whippersnapper like me calling a great man like you
Cutty!"

"Well, if it embarrasses you, you might switch to papa once in a while."

Kitty's laughter rang down the corridor. "I'll remember that whenever I
want to make you mad. Who's here?"

"Nobody but Harrison and the nurse. Both good citizens, and I've taken
them into my confidence to a certain extent. You can talk freely before
them."

"Am I to see the patient?"

"Harrison says not. About Wednesday your Two-Hawks will be sitting up.
I've determined to keep the poor devil here until he can take care of
himself. But he is flat broke."

"He said he had money."

"Well, Karlov's men stripped him clean."

"Have you any idea who he is?"

"To be honest, that's one of the reasons why I want to keep him here.
He's Russian, for all his Oxford English and his Italian gestures; and
from his babble I imagine he's been through seven kinds of hell. Torches
and hobnailed boots and the incessant call for a woman named Olga--a
young woman about eighteen."

"How did you find that out?"

"From a photograph I found in the lining of his coat. A pretty blonde
girl."

"Good heavens!"--recollecting her dream. "Where was it printed?"

"Amateur photography. I'll pick it up on the way to the living room."

It was nothing like the blonde girl of her dream. Still, the girl was
charming. Kitty turned over the photograph. There was writing on the
back.

"Russian? What does it say?"

"'To Ivan from Olga with all her love.'"

Cutty was conscious of the presence of an indefensible malice in his
tones. Why the deuce should he be bitter--glad that the chap had left
behind a sweetheart? He knew exactly the basis of Kitty's interest, as
utterly detached as that of a reporter going to a fire. On the day the
patient could explain himself, Kitty's interest would automatically
cease. An old dog in the manger? Malice.

"Cutty, something dreadful has happened to this poor young woman. That's
what makes him cry out the name. Caught in that horror, and probably he
alone escaped. Is it heartless to be glad I'm an American? Do they let
in these Russians?"

"Not since the Trotzky regime. I imagine Two-Hawks slipped through on
some British passport. He'll probably tell us all about it when he comes
round. But how do you feel after last night's bout?"

"Alive! And I'm going on being alive, forever and ever! Oh, those awful
drums! They look like dead eyes in those dim corners. Tumpitum-tump!
Tumpitum-tump!" she cried, linking her arm in his. "What a gorgeous
view! Just what I'm going to do when my ship comes in--live in a loft. I
really believe I could write up here--I mean worth-while things I could
enjoy writing and sell."

"It's yours if you want it when I leave."

"And I'd have a fine time explaining to my friends! You old innocent!
... Or are you so innocent?"

"We do live in a cramped world. But I meant it. Don't forget to whistle
down to Tony Bernini when you get back home to-night."

"I promise.

"Why the gurgle?"

"Because I'm tremendously excited. All my life I've wanted to do
mysterious things. I've been with the audience all the while, and I want
to be with the actors."

"You'll give some man a wild dance."

"If I do I'll dance with him. Now lead me to the cookies."

She was the life of the tea table. Her wit, her effervescence, her
whimsicalities amused even the prim Miss Frances. When she recounted
the exploit of the camouflaged fan, Cutty and Harrison laughed so loudly
that the nurse had to put her linger on her lips. They might wake the
patient.

"I am really interested in him," went on Kitty. "I won't deny it. I want
to see how it's going to turn out. He was very nice after I let him into
the kitchen. A perfectly English manner and voice, and Italian gestures
when off his guard. I feel so sorry for him. What strangers we races are
to each other! Until the war we hardly knew the Canadians. The British
didn't know us at all, and the French became acquainted with the British
for the first time in history. VIII cap. 11th) And this is now applied
to the Laocoon, it is clearly the cause that I seek. The Master worked
at the highest beauty, under the assumed circumstances of physical pain.
This, in all its disfiguring violence, was not with that too. He had
him down and he was screaming in alleviating sigh, not because the
screaming soul betrays a base, but because it is the face in a disgusting
way verstellet.

Because you tear the Laocoon in thought only the mouth, and judgments. Let
him scream and look. It was an education, compassion einflößte because
beauty and pain, they also showed, it is now an ugly, a horrible
education has become of the man like his face is used, because the
sight of pain pain aroused, but the beauty of suffering This item
pain in the sweet feeling of compassion can transform.

The mere opening of the mouth wide, - beiseitegesetzt how violently
and disgust even the remaining parts of the face thereby verzerret
and be moved - in a spot of painting and in the sculpture to deepen
what the adverse effects of the world does.

Montfaucon showed little taste when he was an old bearded head, with
opened mouth, for an oracle of Jupiter issuing notes 11). God must be
a scream if he opens up the future? Would a pleasing shape of the
mouth to make his speech suspicious?

Also I think it Valerius does not mean that Ajax where only paintings
of imaginary Timanthes should have geschrien 12).

Far worse masters from the times of the already dilapidated art can not
even the wildest barbarians, when they are under the sword of the
terrors and Siegers fear of death to take his mouth open to scream 13).
(11th Antiquity. expl. TI p. 50th (12th) He is assisted by the Timanthes
really expressed degrees of sadness so: Calchantem triste, moestum
Ulysses, clamantem Ajacem, lamentantem Menelaum .-- The Schreier
Ajax would have an ugly figure have been, and because neither Cicero
nor Quintilian in their descriptions of this painting his remembrance,
so I will ask him for so much more for an addition may hold, with
which it from his head Valerius enrich want.) 13th ( Bellorii
Admiranda.

Table 11th 12th) It is certain that this reduction of extreme physical
pain to a lower degree of feeling on several old works of art visible.
The suffering Hercules poisoned in the garb of the hands of an unknown
old master, was not the Sophokleische who screamed so awful that
the Locrian rocks, and the promontory euböischen sounded like this. He
was more sinister than wild 14). The Philoktet Pythagoras Leontinus
seemed his pain to the viewer know what effect the slightest dreadful
train would have prevented. You should ask how I know that these
masters a picture of the pillar Philoktet made. From one point of the
Plinius, which my improvement is not expected to have, so obviously
distorted or mutilated, it is 15). (14th Pliny libr. XXXIV, sect. 19th
(15th) Iend, namely Myro, lieset one in which Pliny (XXXIV Libr. Sect.
19) vicit et Leontinus Pythagoras, qui FECIT stadiodromon Astylon, Olympia
ostenditur qui: et Libyn puerum Tenente tabulam, eodem loco, et mala
ferentem nudum.

Syracusis autem claudicantem: cujus hulceris dolores sentir Etiam
spectantes videntur.

We consider the last words a little more precise.

Is not it apparently spoken by a person who because of a painful ulcer
known everywhere? Cujus hulceris etc. And this should cujus at the mere
claudicantem, and the claudicantem perhaps even to the distant puerum
go?

No one had more right, because of such ulcers to be known as
Philoktet.

So instead I read claudicantem, Philoctetem, or at least think that the
latter by the former homonymous word verdrungen, and we both
Philoctetem claudicantem must read.

Sophocles makes him stibon kai anagkan erpein, and it had a limp
cause that he is on the sick walk less savory could occur.)

III. But, as I thought the art in the newer times more uneven borders
receive. Their imitation, they say, extends to the entire visible nature,
the beauty of which only a small part. Truth and expression was her first
act, and, like the natural beauty of even the higher intentions
at any time sacrifice, so they must like the artist, his subordinate
general provision, and it does not go further than allow truth and
expression.

Enough of that truth, and the ugliest expression of nature in a beautiful
art will be transformed.

That we wanted these concepts before the first undisputed in their
values or unworthy leave: if they are not independent of other
considerations to make, why demohngeachtet the artists in the
expression level and, it is never the highest points of the action
should take.

I believe that the only moment in which the physical barriers of art
all its imitations bind will lead to similar considerations. Can the
artist from the ever changing nature is never more than a single moment,
and the painter this particular moment only a single factors, need,
but their works are made, not merely seen, but to be considered,
and repeated a long way to be considered: it is certain that the
only moment and the only aspect of this single moment, not fertile
enough gewählet can be. alone but only one is fertile, which allows
free play of imagination.

The more we look, the more we need to add thought. The more we think
darzu, the more we need to see to believe.

In the pursuit of a whole is not an emotion moment that this advantage
is less than the highest scale of it.

About her is nothing more, and the eye the ultimate show of imagination
is the wing tie, and they needed because they have the sensual
impression may also, under weaker pictures with him to employ, on
the apparent abundance of expression than their limit scheuet.

Laokoon seufzet If so, then the imagination can it hear screaming,
but if he schreiet, it may, this idea is neither a higher level, a
level lower rise without it in a reasonable, therefore uninteresting
states to behold.

You hear him groan, or see him dead also.

Does this single moment by the art is a permanent unchanging: it
must not express what can not otherwise think of it as a transient.

All phenomena, whose nature we are under our terms reckon that they
suddenly erupt and suddenly disappear, that it is what they are,
only for a moment may be, all such phenomena, they may be pleasant
or terrible, obtained by extending the art is a natural as opposed
reputation that with each repeated Behold the impression weakens,
and finally before us the whole object or disgusted grauet.

La Mettrie, who as a second Democritus paint and let stand, laughs,
only the first time that one sees him. Looking öftrer him, and he is a
philosopher, a dude, from his smile, a grin. So also with the crying.
The severe pain, which the shouting auspresset can either shortly after
or destroy the suffering subject. So when the patient steadfastness
schreiet man, so he schreiet but not incessantly. And just this
incessant apparent in the physical imitation of art is what his womanish
scream to inability to make would be unfortunate childish. This at least
had the artists of the Laocoon avoided, would have been the cries
of beauty does not hurt, it would also allow his art has been
suffering without express beauty.

Under the old painters seems Timomachus accusations of extreme emotion
gewählet prefer to have. His furious Ajax, his children murderess Medea
were famous paintings. But from the descriptions that we have, erhellet
that they point to those in which the intellect of the viewer sees
not only as hinzudenkt those phenomenon with which we use the term
of the transitory not connect so necessary that we should extend same
in the arts should be satisfied with, understood and excellently together
has known. The Medea, he had not taken in the moments in which they really
murdered their children, but a few moments earlier, because even
the motherly love with jealousy fight.

We see the end of this struggle ahead. We tremble ahead, will soon
be just the cruel Medea to behold, and our imagination go over everything,
what the painter in this terrifying moments could show. But precisely
beleidiget us in the arts continued indecision of Medea so little that
we have much more hope that it would be in the nature itself is stayed,
the passions of the dispute would never be decided, or at least it
would wait for time and thought invalidate the anger and motherly feelings
can assure the victory. Nor has the Timomachus that his great wisdom
and frequent Lobsprüche apply, and it more than another unknown
painter collected, the had been foolish enough to Medea in their
frenzy to show the highest, and so this fleeting überhingehenden
degrees of extreme rage to a permanent type, all natural empöret.

The poet 1), the desfalls chides him, saying, therefore, very ingenious,
by the image itself anredet: "thirst thou resistant after the blood of
your children? Is there always a new Jason, always a new Kreusa there,
you are constantly seeking ? - The hangman with you also in the painting!
" full of annoyances, he added. (1 Philip (Anthol. lib. IV cap. 9
ep. 10). Aiei even diyaV brejewn jonon h tiv Ihswn DeuteroV, h
pali Glaukh tiv soi projasiV; Erre kai en khrv paidoktone -) From
the Ajax in the frenzied Timomachus can from the message of the
Philostrats judge 2).

Ajax did not appear, as he raged among flocks and cattle and goats for
people captivated and murders. But the master showed him how he exploits
this crazy sitting exhausted, and the attack FASSET, killing
himself.

And that is really the wild Ajax, not just because he itzt raset, but
because you siehet that he has geraset, because the size of his rage at
the liveliest of desperation full pubic decreases, which he now
feels about himself.

Man siehet the storm in the rubble and corpses, which he is thrown to
the country. (2nd Vita Apoll. lib. II cap. 22nd) IV I overlooked the
alleged reasons why the master of the Laocoon in the expression of physical
pain level must hold, and think that they own all of the nature of art,
and that the necessary barriers and needs are hergenommen. Hardly So
most likely some of that on the poetry can be applied. Without going
to investigate how far it can succeed to the poet, to describe
physical beauty: it is so much common ground that, since the whole
vast realm of perfection and imitation of his open stand, This
visible shell, under which perfection beauty is just one of the
lowest means can be by us for his people to take an interest in
white.

Often this means he vernachlässiget entirely; assured that if his hero
once our balance won us the noble qualities either employ so that we of
physical shape do not think, or, if we remember bribe us so that we will
where not by itself a beautiful, but an indifferent issue. At least he
is in every single course that is not specifically for the face is,
nevertheless its consideration to this point may take. When Virgil
Laocoon schreiet whom it is a that a big mouth to scream is needed,
and that this big mouth ugly can? Enough that Clamores horrendos ad Sidera
tollit sublime train for a hearing, but he likes for the face, what he
wants.

Who is a beautiful picture demands on the poet's whole misguided
impression.

Nötiget Nothing hiernächst the poet's paintings in a single moment to
concentrate. He takes each of his acts when he wants, in their
origins, and they führet through any amendments to its Endschaft.

Each of these amendments, which the artist, an entire special piece
would cost, it cost him a single train, this train and would, in
itself, the imagination of the listener insult, so he was either by the
previous cut, or is represented by the following mitigated and compensated
so that his impression verlieret individually and in combination,
the excellent effect of the world does.

Is it really so outrageous a man in the severity of pain to scream,
what can this little überhingehende indecency with us for that
disadvantage, the other virtues we already have for him? Virgil Laocoon
schreiet, but this screaming Laokoon is precisely that which we
are already the most conservative patriots, as the warmest father
know and love.

We refer not to his cries, his character, but merely to be unbearable
suffering.

This alone, we hear his screams, and the poet could us through this
sensual cries alone make. Who chides him yet? Who does not need to
commit much more: if the artist probably did, that he had Laokoon
not cry, so did the poet as well that he let him cry? But Virgil is here
merely a narrative poet.

If, in its justification, the dramatic poet mitbegriffen be? Another
impression makes the story of someone yelling, another screaming themselves
this The drama, which is responsible for the vivid painting of the
actor is likely that very reason, perhaps to the substantive laws of
the strict need to keep painting. In him, we believe not just a screaming
Philoktet to see and hear, we hear and see really scream. The closer to
the natural ways; the point of the actor, the greater must be our
eyes and ears beleidiget with, because it is unwidersprechlich that
they are in nature, if we are so loud and violent expressions of pain
heard.

Moreover, the physical pain at all incapable of compassion, which bring
other evils. Our imagination can be little different in him than the mere
Behold that same something of a sensation even in us could produce.
Sophocles could therefore not a merely slightly arbitrary, but in
the nature of our sensations themselves are founded on decency, if
he so Philoktet Hercules and whimper and cry, then scream and shout
it.

The bystanders could not so much share in their suffering take
this as ungemäßigten outbreaks seem to require. You will get cold spectators
vergleichungsweise happen, and yet we can not pity you probably
different than how the degree of our own view. This can add that
to the actor the idea of physical pain or not at all difficult to drive
may be an illusion: and who knows whether the newer dramatic poets
rather than to praise than to blame, that they either cliff altogether
avoided or only with a slight detour Kahn have. How many would in theory
seem unwidersprechlich if the genius had not managed to play through the
opponent to prove the fact. All these considerations are not
ungegründet, and yet remain Philoktet one of the masterpieces of
the stage.

Because a part of the same meets Sophocles not really, and only by
relying on the other part hinwegsetzet, he has achieved wonders, of
which the terrible art single judge, without this example, would never
dream of. The following notes will show more detail: 1.

How beautifully the poet has the idea of physical pain to strengthen
and expand known! He chose a wound - (because the circumstances
of history can be regarded as if it were his choice abgehangen,
as it is the whole story, just that it favorable circumstances due
chose) - he chose, I say, a wound and not an internal disease,
because of the more buoyant imagination can make than this, although
they are still so painful.

The sympathetic inner glow, which consumed the Meleager, his mother
than him in the fatal fires rage aufopferte their sister, would therefore
be less theatrical than a wound. And this wound was a divine criminal.
More than a natural poison that raged incessantly, and only one more
attack of pain had its appointed time, after which each of the
unfortunate in a narcotic sleep lapsed, in which his exhausted
nature had to recover the same path of suffering again applies to .

Chateaubrun lets him merely by the poisoned arrows wounded in a
trojan. What you can by a so-ordinary coincidence extraordinary
promise? He was in the old wars, each one suspended, as it was
that he was only in the Philoktet it had terrible consequences? A
natural poison, nine full years wirket without having to kill, this
is still far less likely than all the fabelhafte Wunderbare what
it has equipped the Greeks 2.

So great and terrible but also the physical pain of his hero did,
so he felt it very well that they alone were not sufficient, a significant
degree of compassion to stir. He combined them with other evils, therefore,
equally themselves were not particularly stirring, but this combination
is an equally melancholy painting received as it related to the physical
pain hinwiederum announced. These evils were totally deprived of human
society, hunger and all the inconveniences of life, which is a
rough sky in that robbery ausgesetzet is 1).

Consider a man in these circumstances, you give him health and strength,
and industry, and it's a Robinson Crusoe, based on our pity claim
makes little, whether we like his fate or not is irrelevant.

Because we are rarely of human society so pleased that our peace that
we enjoy the same except not seem be very irritating, especially the
idea that every individual flatters that foreign assistance can
gradually learn unfounded. On the other hand give a person the most
painful unheilbarste disease, but we think it also is surrounded by
pleasant friends who suffer from lack of nothing, who's evil, so
much stand in their power, ease, he blatantly against the complaining and
moaning may be: common ground, we will have pity on him, but that
sympathy does not last in the length, we finally jerk the arm and
refer him to patience.

Only if the two cases together, even when the lonely do not speak of his
body, if the patient nor anyone else can help, when he can help himself,
and his actions in the desert air fly: then all the misery we see
what human nature may take on the unfortunate beat, and every fleeting
thought, which we think in his place, erreget horror and dismay. We
see nothing but despair in its most terrible shape before us, and no
compassion is stronger, and none more zerschmelzet the whole soul,
than that which deals with notions of despair mischet.

Of this kind is the sympathy which we feel for the Philoktet,
and in moments the most sense when we also robbed of his arm to see the
single, which gave him his meager life .-- O was the Frenchman who
is not mind, this part, no heart, this feeling has had! Or when he has
had enough of the small, the wretched taste of his nation, all this
aufzuopfern. Chateaubrun gives the Philoktet society. He leaves a
princess daughter to him in the desert island. And even this is not
alone, but has its Hofmeisterin in itself, a thing of which I do not
know whether it is the princess or the poet needed needed. The whole
great game with a bow, he has omitted. For beautiful eyes, he can play.
Certainly would bow and arrow hero of the French youth is alleged
to be very funny. Nothing, however, is more serious than the wrath
of beautiful eyes.

The Greeks martert us with the frightful errand, the poor Philoktet be
without its bow on the desert island and must perish elendiglich.
The Frenchman knows some way to our hearts: he makes us fear that the
son of Achilles, without his princess will have to deduct. It
also called for the Paris art judges, triumph over the old, and one
suggested that the piece Chateaubrunsche la difficulté vaincue to name
2). (1 When the choir of the misery Philoktet considered in this
connection, so it seems the same helpless loneliness especially
stirring.

Now they strike on the principle that it is excellent
policy always to be demanding something; it keeps capitalism where it
belongs--on the ragged edge of things. No matter what they demand they
never expect to give an equivalent; and a just cause isn't necessary.
Thus the present-day agitator has only one perplexity--that of eluding
the iron hand of the Department of Justice.

Suddenly the man in the chair brought the newspaper close up and stared.
He jumped to his feet, ran out and up the next flight of stairs. He
stopped before a door and turned the knob a certain number of times.
Presently the door opened the barest crack; then it was swung wide
enough to admit the visitor.

"Look!" he whispered, indicating Cutty's advertisement.

The occupant of the room snatched the newspaper and carried it to a
window.

    Will purchase the drums of jeopardy at top price.  No questions
    asked.  Address this office.
                                                          Double C.

"Very good. I might have missed it. We shall sell the accursed drums to
this gentleman."

"Sell them? But--"

"Imbecile! What we must do is to find out who this man is. In the end he
may lead us to him."

"But it may be a trap!"

"Leave that to me. You have work of your own to do, and you had best be
about it. Do you not see beneath? Who but the man who harbours him would
know about the drums? The man in the evening clothes. I was too far away
to see his face. Get me all the morning newspapers. If the advertisement
is in all of them I will send a letter to each. We lost the young woman
yesterday. And nothing has been heard of Vladimir and Stemmler. Bad.
I do not like this place. I move to the house to-night. My old friend
Stefani may be lonesome. I dare not risk daylight. Some fool may have
talked. To work! All of us have much to do to wake up the proletariat
in this country of the blind. But the hour will come. Get me the
newspapers."

Karlov pushed his visitor from the room and locked and bolted the door.
He stepped over to the window again and stared down at the clutter of
pushcarts, drays, trucks, and human beings that tried to go forward
and got forward only by moving sideways or worming through temporary
breaches, seldom directly--the way of humanity. But there was no object
lesson in this for Karlov, who was not philosophical in the peculiar
sense of one who was demanding a reason for everything and finding
allegory and comparison and allusion in the ebb and flow of life. The
philosophical is often misapplied to the stoical. Karlov was a stoic,
not a philosopher, or he would not have been the victim of his present
obsession. The idea of live and let live has never been the propaganda
of the anarch. To the anarch the death of some body or the destruction
of some thing is the cornerstone to his madhouse.

Nothing would ever cure this man of his obsession--the death of Hawksley
and the possession of the emeralds. Moreover, there was the fanatical
belief in his poor disordered brain that the accomplishment of these
two projects would eventually assist in the liberation of mankind.
Abnormally cunning in his methods of approach, he lacked those
imaginative scales by which we weigh our projects and which we call
logic. A child alone in a house with a box of matches; a dog on one
side of Fifth Avenue that sees a dog on the other side, but not the
automobiles--inexorable logic--irresistible force--whizzing up and down
the middle of that thoroughfare. It is not difficult to prophesy what is
going to happen to that child, that dog.

Karlov was at this moment reaching out toward a satisfactory solution
relative to the disappearance of the gems. They had not been found on
his enemy; they had not been found in the Gregor apartment; the two
men assigned to the task of securing them would not have risked certain
death by trying to do a little bargaining on their own initiative.
In the first instance they had come forth empty-handed. In the
second instance--that of intimidating the girl to disclose his
whereabouts--neither Vladimir nor Stemmler had returned. Sinister. The
man in the dress suit again?

Conceivably, then, the drums were in the possession of this girl; and
she was holding them against the day when the fugitive would reclaim
them. The advertisement was a snare. Very good. Two could play that game
as well as one.

The girl. Was it not always so? That breed! God's curse on them all! A
crooked finger, and the women followed, hypnotized. The girl was away
from the apartment the major part of the day; so it was in order to
search her rooms. A pretty little fool.

But where were they hiding him? Gall and wormwood! That he should slip
through Boris Karlov's fingers, after all these tortuous windings across
the world! Patience. Sooner or later the girl would lead the way. Still,
patience was a galling hobble when he had so little time, when even now
they might be hunting him. Boris Karlov had left New York rather well
known.

He expanded under this thought. For the spiritual breath of life to
the anarch is flattery, attention. Had the newspapers ignored Trotzky's
advent into Russia, had they omitted the daily chronicle of his
activities, the Russian problem would not be so large as it is this day.
Trotzky would have died of chagrin.

He would answer this advertisement. Trap? He would set one himself. The
man who eventually came to negotiate would be made a prisoner and forced
to disclose the identity of the man who had interfered with the great
projects of Boris Karlov, plenipotentiary extraordinary for the red
government of Russia.

Midtown, Cutty tapped his breakfast egg dubiously. Not that he
speculated upon the freshness of the egg. What troubled him was that
advertisement. Last night, keyed high by his remarkable discovery of the
identity of his guest and his cupidity relative to the emeralds, he
had laid himself open. If he knew anything at all about the craft, that
reporter would be digging in. Fortunately he had resources unsuspected
by the reporter. Legitimately he could send a secret-service operative
to collect the mail--if Karlov decided to negotiate. Still within his
rights, he could use another operative to conduct the negotiations.
If in the end Karlov strayed into the net the use of the service for
private ends would be justified.

Lord, those green stones! Well, why not? Something in the world worth
a hazard. What had he in life but this second grand passion? There shot
into his mind obliquely an irrelevant question. Supposing, in the old
days, he had proceeded to reach for Molly as he was now reaching for the
emeralds--a bit lawlessly? After all these years, to have such a thought
strike him! Hadn't he stepped aside meekly for Conover? Hadn't he
observed and envied Conover's dazzling assault? Supposing Molly had
been wavering, and this method of attack had decided her? Never to have
thought of that before! What did a woman want? A love storm, and then an
endless after-calm. And it had taken him twenty-odd years to make this
discovery.

Fact. He had never been shy of women. He had somehow preferred to play
comrade instead of gallant; and all the women had taken advantage of
that, used him callously to pair with old maids, faded wives, and homely
debutantes.

What impellent was driving him toward these introspections? Kitty,
Molly's girl. Each time he saw her or thought of her--the uninvited
ghost of her mother. Any other man upon seeing Kitty or thinking about
her would have jumped into the future from the spring of a dream. The
disparity in years would not have mattered. It was all nonsense, of
course. But for his dropping into the office and casually picking up the
thread of his acquaintance with Kitty, Molly--the memory of her--would
have gone on dimming. Actions, tremendous and world-wide, had set
his vision toward the future; he had been too busy to waste time in
retrospection and introspection. Thus, instead of a gently rising and
falling tide, healthily recurrent, a flood of mixed longings that was
swirling him into uncertain depths. Those emeralds had bobbed up just in
time. The chase would serve to pull him out of this bog.

He heard a footstep and looked up. The nurse was beckoning to him.

"What is it?"

"He's awake, and there is sanity in his eyes."

"Great! Has he talked?"

"No. The awakening happened just this moment, and I came to you. You
never can tell about blows on the skull or brain fever--never any two
eases alike."

Cutty threw down his napkin and accompanied the nurse to the bedside.
The glance of the patient trailed from Cutty to the nurse and back.

"Don't talk," said Cutty. "Don't ask any questions. Take it easy until
later in the day. You are in the hands of persons who wish you well. Eat
what the nurse gives you. When the right time comes we'll tell you all
about ourselves, You've been robbed and beaten. But the men who did it
are under arrest."

"One question," said the patient, weakly.

"Well, just one."

"A girl--who gave me something to eat?"

"Yes. She fed you, and later probably your life."

"Thanks." Hawksley closed his eyes.

Cutty and the nurse watched him interestedly for a few minutes; but as
he did not stir again the nurse took up her temperature sheet and Cutty
returned to his eggs. Was there a girl? No question about the emeralds,
no interest in the day and the hour. Was there a girl? The last person
he had seen, Kitty; the first question, after coming into the light: Had
he seen her? Then and there Cutty knew that when he died he would
carry into the Beyond, of all his earthly possessions--a chuckle. Human
beings!

The yarn that reporter had missed by a hair--front page, eight-column
head! But he had missed it, and that was the main thing. The poor devil!
Beaten and without a sou marque in his pockets, his trail was likely to
be crowded without the assistance of any newspaper publicity. But what a
yarn! What a whale of a yarn!

In his fevered flights Hawksley had spoken of having paid Kitty for that
meal.

Kitty had said nothing about it. Supposing--

"Telephone, sair," announced the Jap. "Lady."

Molly's girl! Cutty sprinted to the telephone.

"Hello! That you, Kitty?"

"Yes. How is Johnny Two-Hawks?"

"Back to earth."

"When can I see him? I'm just crazy to know what the story is!"

"Say the third or fourth day from this. We'll have him shaved and
sitting up then."

"Has he talked?"

"Not permitted. Still determined to stay the run of your lease?" Cutty
heard a laugh. "All right. Only I hope you will never have cause to
regret this decision."

"Fiddlesticks! All I've got to do in danger is to press a button, and
presto! here's Bernini."

"Kitty, did Hawksley pay you for that meal?"

"Good heavens, no! What makes you ask that?"

"In his delirium he spoke of having paid you. I didn't know." Cutty's
heart began to rap against his ribs. Supposing, after all, Karlov hadn't
the stones? Supposing Hawksley had hidden them somewhere in Kitty's
kitchen?

"Anything about Gregor?"

"No. Remember, you're to call me up twice a day and report the news.
Don't go out nights if you can avoid it."

"I'll be good," Kitty agreed. "And now I must hie me to the job.
Imagine, Cutty!--writing personalities about stage folks and gabfesting
with Burlingame and all the while my brain boiling with this affair!
The city room will kill me, Cutty, if it ever finds out that I held back
such a yarn. But it wouldn't be fair to Johnny Two-Hawks. Cutty, did you
know that your wonderful drums of jeopardy are here in New York?"

"What?" barked Cutty.

"Somebody is offering to buy them. There was an advertisement in the
paper this morning. Cutty?"

"Yes."

"The first problem in arithmetic is two and two make four. By-by!"

Dizzily Cutty hung up the receiver. He had not reckoned on the
possibility of Kitty seeing that damfool advertisement. Two and two made
four; and four and four made eight; so on indefinitely. That is to say,
Kitty already had a glimmer of the startling truth. The initial misstep
on his part had been made upon her pronouncement of the name Stefani
Gregor. He hadn't been able to control his surprise. And yesterday,
having frankly admitted that he knew Gregor, all that was needed
to complete the circle was that advertisement. Cutty tore his hair,
literally. The very door he hoped she might overlook he had thrown open
to her.

Thaddeus of Warsaw. But it should not be. He would continue to offer
a haven to that chap; but no nonsense. None of that sinister and
unfortunate blood should meddle with Kitty Conover's happiness. Her
self-appointed guardian would attend to that.

He realized that his attitude was rather inexplicable; but there were
some adventures which hypnotized women; and one of this sort was
now unfolding for Kitty. "Asked the head forester on a attempt to
tease. As seen, the two large and silent uneasy. All in all, life was
beautiful at this time. With the thoughts of Gertrude Maggie was soon
finished. Once they had a cool, blässlich satisfied letter, after it
seemed to go well, and then everything bad brooding übertäubt by
the large stimulus, these days the tension region.

Always the goal in mind, half comedy playing and half honest, always
trepidation in the hot-blooded young people to frequent alone, always
in the expectation of the decision, but they instinctively hinauszögernd.
It finally passed not a day more, where people did not see, and
Gertrude was always less spoken.

Forget it, he had not yet; Maggie knew the shy glance wistfully long
ago, the thought of it in his face animated, but also was less frequent.
Once they ran into the garden, a bird observed track. His narrow
passageways under the snow were sharp frozen. Maggie slipped from
Seckersdorf supported them, and they had a second leaned on him. He
pressed them to be violent, then he let it go quickly, saw them with
unbridled amazement at and shook his head. They were both embarrassed
and were later included in the room right in not talking more.
Such small incidents were repeated, without that there will be a debate
came.

The head forester began to be detuned when Seckersdorf appeared,
Maggie was also sometimes a bit long. But they remained cautious,
and pulled back rather than to him in his ineptitude came a step
forward would be. It came closer to Christmas . Seckersdorf should be
returned to Saxony, and then he wanted to consult with his uncle, whether
he or his here in East Prussia would assume permanent residence.

One afternoon, the head forester was gone, and we heard his Schelten of
the yard since Maggie told Seckersdorf them while he was in the room
umherging. They sat with a Bescherungsarbeit at the window. In his words
came to her for the first time since their acquaintance a terrible
fear that they will be charged at the end might have.

If he was so at ease from his Fort Proceed said if nothing captivated
him ... She was excited and totenblaß before Bangigkeit. "What do you,
Maggie?" He asked sincerely, "You're not good." They shook with a sad
smile his head.

"So you go for?" She asked uneasy and presented their work. He came
to her in the window niche. They looked for a moment, inquisitive,
warm, breathing hard. She sprang hastily in and grazed him.

He jerked together. "Maggie?" He said unsure. "What?" "Can that
be?" "What?" She asked again quietly. "Is it possible that we - we are
good?" I think "she said with a bright Aufjauchzen. As he picked her,
she threw herself on his breast, and they kissed each other, as
Verdürstende who finally, finally tired of drinking. So was Maggie
Hagedorn Hans Seckersdorfs bride. * * * * * For Gertrude had Laukischken
in the days after the last terrible time at home bearable designed.
When she on the first evening, through the screening of her husband,
all the refined luxury house lit and warm that interrupts initially
overcome a sense of purely physical wellbeing.

They wondered, that after such experiences and in the struggle with such
decisions could be possible, but it was so. Her husband, partly out of
calculation, and partly from moodiness, left them in peace, even after
he had made the attempt, they have the details of her Zerwürfnisses with
your auszufragen.

"I do not want to talk about it," she replied cool, and finally even
when he was in his old imperious and mocking nature it had to compel
want to say that they are no longer regarded as his wife, and think up
what they had written to him. He had her words pulled into ridicule, but
they then a few days left entirely unmolested. And when they outwardly
equanimity and cool, with all internal broken, morning and evening had
passed without him to change he had, which such an unbearable state
seemed, brought a great debate. He it had the consequences of a divorce
made it clear when a woman always drew the short straw. Then Kurowski had
seriously talked with her, as never before in life. He had told her
that he is in principle a separation would agree, but then it's
proposal made because of the children to try again, with him to live,
as it is for two practical, sober people who outwardly have
obligations behooves.

He wanted it before the world no longer exist, to complain, it does not
require as what it would show good, and only the freedom of his reserved
ways. The clear and forceful nature of his arguments was a boon for
Gertrude and that had at the moment everything they felt, pushed
back against what it verstandesmäßig they approached.

Without much to ponder, she had agreed to make this attempt, and the
interview in a position to be completed by her husband involuntarily
respect abgenötigt was.

And then she breathed in and started for the first time to be a
housewife to feel.

You might not always brood about the wickedness that she had
taken, on the disgrace into which they would soon have fallen - they
wanted to create their duty to do so. And when they showed such a plan,
reported from all sides the people in it that were previously under the
tight command of the Lord on his own responsibility had done. But she
was so ignorant. She could almost never give notice. They had to deal
with difficulty by thinking and watching herausklauben what other
by habit and exercise is self-evident.

Sometimes she asked herself surprised, as was possible, so long in this
house to live and there's so little to know. There was however an old
Mamsell about the whole activity, the confidante of all female service
personnel, as far as the "merciful Lord" coherence.

This person, whose presence in their home, an accusation they had been,
she had no longer increases, as she returned, a tacit admission
of her husband, with whom she now agrees, since she is planning to
separate kidney was forced.

Your initial fixed resolve, yet by her husband to separate, faded with the
increasing activity.

Not only out of laziness or indifference against the outer life, or because
they are about her husband would have been friendly, but it was during
this period in which they are first tried out their duties properly,
as is the life of any exception Calls for a glimmer of recognition in
that it is less on luck or misfortune arrives, but to the place
of one's fate is now time dependent, with honor to be filled.

Her husband was far away and apparently also took care of the house
is not much to the new teacher proved to be an amiable, clever girl,
with whom she likes now and chatted.

Companies visited her on the pretext of its not ill, and went to live
in smooth track, without odious, but in gray monotony. From home, she
had only a letter received by Ms.

Perl, who spoke only on Alleräußerlichsten from Seckersdorf was
randomly among some neighboring visits not been spoken, and she
heard nothing more of everything in the last few weeks so bitter
and pained with such opposing feelings of happiness were fulfilled.

That was very good, very good, she said in the evening and morning.

Then came shortly before Christmas, a letter from her father to his "dear
children".

Kurowski, in terms with the boy extended read it standing up and
smiled brightly at.

"Because," he called over to Gertrude, with his heart beating waited,
content to learn.

"Maggie has engaged with Seckersdorf. The old man is, of course, hell
... Well, what is it? "Gertrude looked at him half-absent. They seemed
to be solidified. Kurowski sprang to her. "Pull yourself together,"
he angry.

"What does this mean?" Gertrude was directed at. Hot tears ran over her
face.

"Wines - here in front of my eyes weep," cried outraged Kurowski.

"That is however strong."

"Kurt," said Gertrude softly, 'tu', what you want. You know it was that
I had loved him.

And Maggie takes him only from the calculation.

"The angry facial expression in Kurowskis went into a scornful about."
So, "he said, stressing his beard.

"Well, we travel to any event to congratulate." Gertrude looked at him
with tortured eyes. "No," she said. "So determined? Well, I say:
Yes! "" Kurt, there was' not that I do not.

"As they are so inclined to him, beautiful as the day with a foreign
firm train on the face, grabbed him suddenly a raging jealousy .

He took them to the shoulders. "What happened between you and
that dog? Confess! You have taken with him, I am betrayed! "Almost
at the same point, before their flight, Gertrude had the same
accusation as a punch and felt silent. Today, where they are not so pure
as it was felt, they defended themselves.

They gave their word that they had never seen Seckersdorf.

Kurowski And believed her. He probably felt that he is better at these
things no longer move, and took congratulatory visits from a
distance.

"Under the condition that we now, for me to Berlin, and leave in
six weeks at her wedding to come back," he said.

Gertrud breathed relief.

If they are not only hypocritical the press had to hand! "The wedding,
we therefore determined that," repeated her husband is dark, "so the
people get the mouth will be stopped. You know, I do not leave me
with fun.

And the Seckersdorf is nothing more einzubilden, as at the time -
understood?

"Gertrude shuddered together. "You rely on it," she said, toneless,
and ran hastily from the room. They did not know what the bitter weh
tat, resentment, contempt, Gedemütigtsein, or the limit increased
awareness of the loss.

"Dear God," she prayed wimmernd, "give me a great pride, a pride,
uncontrollable, or let me die." * * * * * Maggie was now satisfied.

The everyday excitement of the bride little time, some well-and
sometimes jealous congratulatory visits of neighbors and friends
who work on the nächsterforderlichen facilities, all took their
time and thoughts so much in that they can no longer continue in
brooding depth.

You had also had enough to do, they groom her away, and often when he sat
beside her, her hands limp in his hold and her calm and friendly
in the eye sight, felt a sting in the idea: he would be equally
left tenderly if _sie_ here sitting next to him?

And in the memory, she saw his eyes, and hot, so they often did
when she was still Gertrud allies, she had spoken.

That way, they did now.

Kurowskis had just been in the concept, a belated honeymoon to make
- as Maggie whose trip to Berlin to mention the habit - as their
engagement in Laukischken message arrived, and they had not seen.

But sometimes wrote Gertrud von Berlin Miss out on Perl, and there
was plenty of Hofbällen, the majesty of awards, lots of "Kurt" the
speech, and the conclusions made more "friendly greetings" for the
father and the bride and groom.

Moreover, there was talk then of course, and Maggie was also convinced
that it would be appropriate, the name of his sister at ease and
often more.

Seckersdorf become habituated and showed no noticeable movement more so,
as in the beginning. Whether he her his bride, but now has become really
was? Of course! He was even in love, he treated them as equal comrades,
but ... but it was good that they are basically not everything was
what it once here and there in the hot flare up feel ...

Not for him, for no one, she knew, she was looking for in thought, but
there was really nobody there.

And so they kissed again, as Hans Seckersdorf they kissed, and often
thought to be the great flame, which once had burned in him, and
whether it extinguished forever ...

With Gertrude and her fate had she not much. They wanted their shiny
outer experiences from which they heard as facts and not on the state
of pondering soul sister.

You made it this time as well as her father, and his life was in this way
of doing things, just have to continue well. Before a meeting at her
wedding, which had announced Kurowskis, it was not very anxious because
they do not actually believed . Hans also had it once after a long
hesitation, asked whether the Laukischker probably dächten it seriously.
"Obviously," although she had said, but she was yet inwardly
convinced that Gertrude is not about to win would be to come
Seckersdorfs wedding .

They moved to the February and the wedding day approached.

Travel and resettlement plans were more and more unrest in the daily
life.

The equipment was concerned, considerations about the nature of the
festivities came to the series.

Maggie was not easy. They pondered how it all for them at the most
advantageous made, and then ordered to. In every way, she was anxious
to ensure that their outward appearance to be brighter in their best
light, and their toilet was preparing her wedding a few sleepless
nights.

Sometimes they overcome revulsion against all these superficialities,
which is now indicated their lives, but they overcame him and talked
to Finally, always the "ultimate goal", which they now in a short
time would have reached.

If Gertrude could not!

Against a pale vergrämten Gertrud had it their whole life have to fear.
In her fantasy of course, for Hans, his wife as they would on no
more thinking, which she was sure.

But Gertrude did.

One day before the bachelor met with a precious jewelry of Kurowskis
their commitment for the next day. Seckersdorf, the message seems
indifferent to, Maggie, excited and utilized, presented at the
moment now is not so much weight on how the whole time before, and
the head forester of the heart was glad, because this comment was
the fatal events of last winter, and any tension between him Kurowskis
and fortgewischt.

And now there was the day. The whole house had a different appearance.
Everything was cleared to make room for the guests that are in great
quantity were expected, and all rooms and passages with fir trees,
branches and garlands. Gertrude had it at her wedding so wanted to go
to the last time their forest to have. Maggie was not as sentimental, the
same jewelry she had chosen because it is easiest to manufacture,
effective and easy to obtain was.

Commanded you still around, hit change, employed people, and took Miss
Perl everything out of your hands.

It felt rather than winner. But on the afternoon Laukischker wagon
arrived, stood her heart but still. Very pale, she joined the
disembarking and ventured forward in the first moment, the sister's face
to see.

The brother welcomed loudly, while Gertrude Herabneigen cool in the
face presented to them easily without having to kiss.

That meant, "I have not forgotten." Defiantly saw it now - and almost went
back. Gertrud shone in her beauty against which they have never
had a woman exercised.

Also, the father and made her maiden Perl astonished comments about
it.

Gertrude said nothing, but Maggie said with trepidation a new self, even
triumphant train regularly in the proud face that they are pale
and thought gramzerstört had.

"Yes, who knows now to make the shy, modest Gertrud," said her
husband "not recognizable, sag 'ich euch, since they are a little
bit of world air has tasted.

But it was also 'ne feine Sache, Berlin this, does not it, kid? "Gertrude
nodded kindly, without the right to hear what Kurowski said. With pensive
look arrogant mustered her earlier world in which they had suffered
so much. Her husband and Maggie talked a while, while you are in a
hurry and uncomfortable drank coffee, and the head forester and Miss
Perl on a wine question negotiated.
A robin shook the dust of travel from his wings and bathed
publicly in a park basin.

Here and there under the ten thousand roofs of the great city poets were
busy with inkpots, trying to say an old thing in a new way. Woe to the
pinched soul that did not expand this day, for it was spring. Expansion!
Nature--perhaps she was relenting a little, perhaps she saw that
humanity was sliding down the scale, withering, and a bit of extra
sunshine would serve to check the descension and breed a little
optimism.

Cutty's study. The sunlight, thrown westward, turned windows and roofs
and towers into incomparable bijoux. The double reflection cast a white
light into the room, lifting out the blue and old-rose tints of the
Ispahan rug.

Cutty shifted the chrysoprase, irresolutely for him. A dozen problems,
and it was mighty hard to decide which to tackle first. Principally
there was Kitty. He had not seen her in four days, deeming it advisable
for her not to call for the present. The Bolshevik agent who had
followed him from the banker's might decide, without the aid of some
connecting episode, that he had wasted his time.

It did not matter that Kitty herself was no longer watched and followed
from her home to the office, from the office home. Was Karlov afraid
or had he some new trick up his sleeve? It was not possible that he
had given up Hawksley. He was probably planning an attack from some
unexpected angle. To be sure that Karlov would not find reason to
associate him with Kitty, Cutty had remained indoors during the daytime
and gone forth at night in his dungarees.

Problem Two was quite as formidable. The secret agent who had passed
as a negotiator for the drums of jeopardy had disappeared. That had
sinister significance. Karlov did not intend to sell the drums; merely
wanted precise information regarding the man who had advertised for
them. If the secret-service man weakened under torture, Cutty recognized
that his own usefulness would be at an end. He would have to step aside
and let the great currents sweep on without him. In that event these
fifty-two years would pile upon his head, full measure; for the only
thing that kept him vigorous was action, interest. Without some great
incentive he would shrivel up and blow away--like some exhumed mummy.

Problem Three. How the deuce was he going to fascinate Kitty if he
couldn't see her? But there was a bit of silver lining here. If
he couldn't see her, what chance had Hawksley? The whole sense and
prompting of this problem was to keep Kitty and Hawksley apart. How this
was accomplished was of no vital importance. Problem Three, then, hung
fire for the present. Funny, how this idea stuck in his head, that
Hawksley was a menace to Kitty. One of those fool ideas, probably, but
worth trying out.

Problem Four. That night, all on his own, he would make an attempt
to enter that old house sandwiched between the two vacant warehouses.
Through pressure of authority he had obtained keys to both warehouses.
There would be a trap on the roof of that house. Doubtless it would be
covered with tin; fairly impregnable if latched below. But he could find
out. From the third-floor windows of either warehouse the drop was not
more than six feet. If anywhere in town poor old Stefani Gregor would be
in one of those rooms. But to storm the house frontally, without being
absolutely sure, would be folly. Gregor would be killed. The house was
in fact an insane asylum, occupied by super-insane men. Warned, they
were capable of blowing the house to kingdom come, themselves with it.

Problem Five was a mere vanishing point. He doubted if he would ever see
those emeralds. What an infernal pity!

He built a coronet and leaned back, a wisp of smoke darting up from the
bowl of his pipe.

"I say, you know, but that's a ripping game to play!" drawled a tired
voice over his shoulder.

Cutty turned his head, to behold Hawksley, shaven, pale, and handsome,
wrapped in a bed quilt and swaying slightly.

"What the deuce are you doing out of your room?" growled Cutty, but with
the growl of a friendly dog.

Hawksley dropped into a chair weakly. "End of my rope. Got to talk to
someone. Go dotty, else. Questions. Skull aches with 'em. Want to know
whether this is a foretaste of the life I have a right to live--or the
beginning of death. Be a good sport, and let's have it out."

"What is it you wish to know?" asked Cutty, gently. The poor beggar!

"Where I am. Who you are. What happened to me. What is going to happen
to me," rather breathlessly. "Don't want any more suspense. Don't want
to look over my shoulder any more. Straight ahead. All the cards on the
table, please."

Cutty rose and pushed the invalid's chair to a window and drew another
up beside it.

"My word, the top of the world! Bally odd roost."

"You will find it safer here than you would on the shores of Kaspuskoi
More," replied Cutty, gravely. "The Caspian wouldn't be a healthy place
for you now."

With wide eyes Hawksley stared across the shining, wavering roofs. A
pause. "What do you know?" he asked, faintly.

"Everything. But wait!" Cutty fetched one of the photographs and laid it
upon the young man's knees. "Know who this is--Two-Hawks?"

A strained, tense gesture as Hawksley seized the photograph; then his
chin sank slowly to his chest. A moment later Cutty was profoundly
astonished to see something sparkle on its way down the bed quilt.
Tears!

"I'm sorry!" cried Cutty, troubled and embarrassed. "I'm terribly sorry!
I should have had the decency to wait a day or two."

"On the contrary, thank you!" Hawksley flung up his head. "Nothing in
all God's muddied world could be more timely--the face of my mother!
I am not ashamed of these tears. I am not afraid to die. I am not even
afraid to live. But all the things I loved--the familiar earth, the
human beings, my dog--gone. I am alone."

"I'm sorry," repeated Cutty, a bit choked up. This was honest misery and
it affected him deeply. He felt himself singularly drawn.

"I want to live. Because I am young? No. I want to prove to the shades
of those who loved me that I am fit to go on. So my identity is known to
you?"--dejectedly.

"Yes. You wish me to forget what I know?"

"Will you?"--eagerly. "Will you forget that I am anything but a naked,
friendless human being?"

"Yes. But your enemies know."

"I rather fancy they will keep the truth to themselves. Let them publish
my identity, and a hundred havens would be offered. Your Government
would protect me."

"It is doing so now, indirectly. But why do you not want it known?"

"Freedom! Would I have it if known? Could I trust anybody? Would it not
be essentially the old life in a new land? I want a new life in a new
land. I want to be born again. I want to be what you patently are, an
American. That is why I risked life a hundred times in coming all these
miles, why I sit in this chair before you, with the room rocking because
they battered in my head. I do not offer a human wreck, an illiterate
mind, in exchange for citizenship. I bring a tolerably decent manhood.
Try me! Always I have admired you people. Always we Russians have.
But there is no Russia now that I can ever return to!" Hawksley's head
drooped again and his bloodshot eyes closed.

Cutty sensed confusion, indecision; all his deductions were upset in
the face of this strange appeal. Russian, born of an Italian mother
and speaking Oxford English as if it were his birthright; and wanting
citizenship! Wasn't ashamed of his tears; wasn't afraid to die or to
live! Cutty searched quickly for a new handhold to his antagonism, but
he found only straws. He was honest enough to realize that he had built
this antagonism upon a want, a desire; there was no foundation for it.
Downright likeable. A chap who had gone through so much, who was in such
a pitiable condition, would not have the wit to manufacture character,
camouflage his soul.

"Hang it!" he said, briskly. "You shall have your chance. Talk like that
will carry a man anywhere in this country. You shall stay here until
you are strong again. Then some night I'll put you on your train for
Montana. You want to ask questions. I'll save you the trouble by telling
you what I know."

But his narrative contained no mention of the emeralds. Why? A bit
conscience-stricken because, if he could, he was going to rob his guest
on the basis that findings is keepings? Cutty wasn't ready to analyze
the omission. Perhaps he wanted Hawksley himself to inquire about the
stones; test him out. If he asked frankly that would signify that he
had brought the stones in honestly, paid his obligations to the Customs.
Otherwise, smuggling; and in that event conscience wouldn't matter;
the emeralds became a game anybody could take a hand in--anybody who
considered the United States Customs an infringement upon human rights.

What a devil of a call those stones had for him! Did they mean anything
to Hawksley aside from their intrinsic value? But for the nebulous idea,
originally, that the emeralds were mixed up somewhere in this adventure,
Cutty knew that he would have sent Hawksley to a hospital, left him to
his fate, and never known who he was.

All through the narration Hawksley listened motionless, with his eyes
closed, possibly to keep the wavering instability of the walls from
interfering with his assimilation of this astonishing series of fact.

"Found you insensible on the floor," concluded Cutty, "hoisted you to my
shoulders, took you to the street--and here you are!"

Hawksley opened his eyes. "I say, you know, what a devil of an old
Sherlock you must be! And you carried me on your shoulders across that
fire escape? Ripping! When I stepped back into that room I heard a
rushing sound. I knew! But I didn't have the least chance.... You and
that bully girl!"

Cutty swore under his breath. He had taken particular pains to avoid
mentioning Kitty; and here, first off, the fat was in the fire. He
remembered now that he had told Hawksley that Kitty had saved his life.
Fortunately, the chap wasn't keen enough with that banged-up head of his
to apply reason to the omission.

"Saved my life. Suppose she doesn't want me to know."

Cutty jumped at this. "Doesn't care to be mixed up with the Bolshevik
end of it. Besides, she doesn't know who you are."

"The fewer that know the better. But I'll always remember her kindness
and that bally pistol with the fan in it. But you? Why did you bother to
bring me up here?"

"Couldn't decently leave you where Karlov could get to you again."

"Is Stefani Gregor dead?"

"Don't know; probably not. But we are hunting for him." Cutty had not
explained his interest in Gregor. Those plaguey stones again. They were
demoralizing him. Loot.

"You spoke of Karlov. Who is he?"

"Why, the man who followed you across half the world."

"There were many. What is he like?"

"A gorilla."

"Ah!" Hawksley became galvanized and extended his fists. "God let me
live long enough to put my hands on him! I had the chance the other
day--to blot out his face with my boots! But I couldn't do it! I
couldn't do it!" He sagged in the chair. "No, no! Just a bit groggy. All
right in a moment."

"By the Lord Harry, I'll see you through. Now buck up. Hear that?" cried
Cutty, throwing up a window.

"Music."

"Look through that street there. See the glint of bayonets? American
soldiers, marching up Fifth Avenue, thousands of them, freemen who broke
the vaunted Hindenburg Line. A sharp wind seemed its yellow rays
auseinanderzujagen before they came down. The road was dry, the car
tracks had ice applied, and at the wind side of the spruce logs on the
forest edge, and it glittered ran reluctantly loosening in the
shimmering drops down.

In such weather the undesirable for land tours, Mr. Kurowski came after
two-ride on the eisglatten Because in the Oberförsterei.

It was a large, prone to obesity Every man his rapid movements, the highest
expression of life energy, and self-satisfaction, each throwing back of
the head, a sign unermessensten High courage, the face with broad
cheekbones, a very well-groomed dark full beard, strong nose and
small, very sharp eyes, a racial face.

Intelligent and predator-like. Impatiently, he jumped from the unsprung
wagon on which he was hergefahren, the stairs opposite the head
forester, with whom he for years had been no word. "Well, how about?"
He asked in his hard, kurländischen dialect.

"Better, better, - but they do not expect.

It was miserable, we had nothing to say of your arrival.

"Kurowski pushed him with a gesture almost to the side."

The boy? Ah ...!« Maggie joined him.

He welcomed them, fiery kissed her hand, and as large as in aufsah
idea to him, even her mouth.

Maggie was frightened before him. He looked into her eyes looking uncertain,
and then ran against the boys, with loud cheering howling at him
zustürmten.

He herzte she told them a few words derbzärtliche and pushed them aside.
"Where is she now?"

He asked. »Do you want me to lead you, Maggie?"

Maggie shot siedendheiß the blood through the body. "Be very good with
her," she asked faltering - "it ..."

My brother saw them from zusammengekniffenen eyes, half-astonished,
half-ironically at.
Of course he would view it all from the aloof
vantage of the historian, and store away commentaries against future
needs.

And what a crowd it was! He was elbowed and pushed, jostled and trod
on, carried into the surges, relegated to the eddies; and always
the metallic taptap of steel-shod boots on the asphalt, the bayonets
throwing back the radiant sunshine in sharp, clear flashes. The keen,
joyous faces of those boys. God, to be young like that! To have come
through that hell on earth with the ability still to smile! Cutty felt
the tears running down his cheeks. Instinctively he knew that this was
to be his last thrill of this order. He was fifty-two.

"Quit your crowding there!" barked a voice under his chin.

"Sorry, but it's those behind me," said Cutty, looking down into a
florid countenance with a raggedy gray moustache and a pair of blue eyes
that were blinking.

"I'm so damned short I can't see anything!"

"Neither can I."

"You could if you wiped your eyes."

"You're crying yourself," declared Cutty.

"Blinking jackass! Got anybody out there?"

"All of 'em."

"I get you, old son of a gun! No flesh and blood, but they're ours all
the same. Couple of old fools; huh?"

"Sure pop! What right have two old codgers got here, anyhow? What
brought you out?"

"What brought you?"

"Same thing."

"Damn it! If I could only see something!"

Cutty put his hands upon the shoulders of this chance acquaintance and
propelled him toward the curb. There were cries of protest, curses,
catcalls, but Cutty bored on ahead until he got his man where he could
see the tin hats, the bayonets, and the colours; and thus they stood for
a full hour. Each time the flag went by the little man yanked off his
derby and turned truculently to see that Cutty did the same.

"Say," he said as they finally dropped back, "I'd offer to buy a drink,
only it sounds flat."

"And it would taste flat after a mighty wine like this," replied Cutty.
"Maybe you've heard of the nectar of the gods. Well, you've just drunk
it, my friend."

"I sure have. Those kids out there, smiling after all that hell; and you
and me on the sidewalk, blubbering over 'em! What's the answer? We're
Americans!"

"You said it. Good-bye."

Cutty pressed on to the flow and went along with it, lighter in the
heart than he had been in many a day. These two million who lined Fifth
Avenue, who cheered, laughed, wept, went silent, cheered again, what
did their presence here signify? That America's day had come; that as a
people they were homogeneous at last; that that which laws had failed to
bring forth had been accomplished by an ideal.

Bolshevism, socialism--call it what you will--would beat itself into
fragments against this Rock of Democracy, which went down to the centre
of the world and whose pinnacle touched the stars. Reincarnation; the
simple ideals of the forefathers restored. And with this knowledge
tingling in his thoughts--and perhaps there was a bit of spring in
his heart--Cutty continued on, without destination, chin jutting, eyes
shining. He was an American!

He might have continued on indefinitely had he not seen obliquely a
window filled with musical instruments.

Hawksley's fiddle! He had all but forgotten. All right. If the poor
beggar wanted to scrape a fiddle, scrape it he should. The least he,
Cutty, could do would be to accede to any and every whim Hawksley
expressed. Wasn't he planning to rob the beggar of the drums, happen
they ever turned up? But how the deuce to pick out a fiddle which would
have a tune in it? Of all the hypercritical duffers the fiddler was the
worst. Beside a fiddler of the first rank the rich old maid with the
poodle was a hail fellow well met.

Of course Gregor had taught the chap. That meant he would know
instantly; just as his host would instantly observe the difference
between green glass and green beryl.

Cutty turned into the shop, infinitely amused. Fiddles! What next?
Having constituted a guardianship over Kitty, he was now playing
impressario to Hawksley. As if he hadn't enough parts to play! Wouldn't
he be risking his life to-night trying to find where Stefani Gregor was?
Fiddles! Fiddles and emeralds! What a choice old hypocrite he was!

Fate has a way of telling you all about it--afterward; conceivably, that
humanity might continue to reproduce its species. Otherwise humanity
would proceed to extinguish itself forthwith. Thus, Cutty was totally
unaware upon entering the shop that he was about to tear off its hinges
the door he was so carefully bolting and latching and padlocking between
Kitty Conover and this duffer who wanted to fiddle his way through
convalescence.

Where there is fiddling there is generally dancing. If it be not the
feet, then it will be the soul.


CHAPTER XVIII


There are some men who know a little about all things and a great deal
about many. Such a man was Cutty. But as he approached the counter
behind which stood an expectant clerk he felt for once that he was in a
far country. There were fiddles and fiddles, just as there were emeralds
and emeralds. Never again would he laugh over the story of the man who
thought Botticelli was a manufacturer of spool thread. He attacked the
problem, however, like the thoroughbred he was--frankly.

"I want to buy a violin," he began, knowing that in polite musical
circles the word fiddle was taboo. "I know absolutely nothing at all
about quality or price. Understand, though, while you might be able to
fool me, you wouldn't fool the man I'm buying it for. Now what would you
suggest?"

The clerk--a salesman familiar with certain urban types, thinly
including the Fifth Avenue, which came in for talking-machine
records--recognized in this well-dressed, attractive elderly man that
which he designated the swell. Hateful word, yes, but having a perfectly
legitimate niche, since in the minds of the hoi polloi it nicely
describes the differences between the poor gentleman and the gentleman
of leisure. To proceed with the digression, to no one is the word more
hateful than to the individual to whom it is applied. Cutty would have
blushed at the clerk's thought.

"Perhaps I'd better get the proprietor," was the clerk's suggestion.

"Good idea," Cutty agreed. "Take my card along with you." This was
a Fifth Avenue shop, and Cutty knew there would be a Who's Who or a
Bradstreet somewhere about.

In the interim he inspected the case-lined walls. Trombones. He
chuckled. Lucky that Hawksley's talent didn't extend in this direction.
True, he himself collected drums, but he did not play them. Something
odd about music; human beings had to have it, the very lowest in the
scale. A universal magic. He was himself very fond of good music; but
these days he fought shy of it; it had the faculty of sweeping him back
into the twenties and reincarnating vanished dreams.

After a certain length of time, from the corner of his eye he saw the
clerk returning with the proprietor, the latter wearing an amiable
smile, which probably connoted a delving into the aforesaid volumes of
attainment and worth. Cutty hoped this was so, as it would obviate the
necessity of going into details as to who he was and what he had.

"Your name is familiar to me," began the proprietor. "You collect
antique drums. My clerk tells me that you wish to purchase a good
violin."

"Very good. I have in my apartment rather a distinguished guest who
plays the violin for his own amusement. He is ill and cannot select for
himself. Now I know a little about music but nothing about violins."

"I suggest that I personally carry half a dozen instruments to your
apartment and let your guest try them. How much is he willing to pay?"

But the expected did not come, and it was always banger.

They called for the children, but it was too loud and had to back
out, it went to Ms. Perl, the kitchen was busy, and asked her for advice
because of the Virgin. Ms. Perl said, could help you now need a good
home, but they should also really be. It said it now back and forth until
Ms. Perl was impatient. "You know, child, I have to do überleg dir's
but it has no hurry. Until Abendzug must be yes but the person here.
Let them just like the stuff of boys admit. "" Yes, of course.

"She gave the order and went back onto the porch to wait and
speculate.

With a fear of showers she thought of the letter, which she had
just received , thought of her husband, who by his superior, in
ever greater helplessness drove into it.

She was with her soft gentle nature only flourish where love offered to
her.

Against tough, ironic or doubtful words startled and touching them
together, was fearful after someone, who could protect them, and finally
stopped altogether. It was a weakness, a Verzärtelung, but she could
not do otherwise. In the first period of their marriage her husband
she had even encouraged, its called Dove and her restrained Scheubeck
cuddled with hot trying to defeat.

That was it never succeeded. But where, obediently and without measure,
he had everything he wanted, because they felt the injustice against
him because they did not joyful heart, and because here and there
a painful yearning idea to the other flew to the they no longer had
to think.

As an unforgettable dead as they had in the many blank hour of your
day dreaming of him.

But now he was suddenly there again, had her with a glance as I said
earlier: "Ich hab 'dich lieb yet!" And then vanished with a brooding
blue all times, it seemed the sky so clear and high, as it ought to go,
and a sense of security came over them as if they are strong and
mutvoll the future would go.

And all this only because he was there again. "But what do you want
from him?"

Asked again reminding the conscience. "You're doing wrong. That is
sin, which is dangerous ...

You break the marriage in mind. "The children ran over and screamed,
her gentle words.

Since she joined in and said: "I will not, I can not think of him!" But
an exciting feeling of anticipation but trembled in her the importance
of a great fear and rang again by, so they last longer and not one
knew, and with beating heart in the garden and ran between the Taxushecken
ran to and fro. In this mood she met Maggie when they return, and told
of his encounter with Seckersdorf. The few words with him they had spoken
about Gertrude, took in its report a fiery tinge and awoke luck
verschüchterten showers in the soul of the poor woman. But they fought
against.

Say no more of it, I beg 'you to ... from compassion to say no
more of it ... It should not be! "But Maggie was always attracted to
their words. The whole strange movement, which she herself had
felt the morning, she spoke from the heart, and, most recently as
Gertrude is hot and from her trembling arms sparked, she called to
her fiercely: "If I were you, and such a man would I love him and
I, then I ran to him and said: 'Take me ... equal ... let's not one
second from the endless happiness lose that we have ready for each
other. ' "Gertrude saw her big, with glowing eyes.

You knew it was gossip girl, in fact, would come quite different, and
yet her heart beat wildly, and an indomitable, yearning desire to
Einziggeliebten broke his train. "Ah, if I would have been today and
would have ... No, no, Maggie, you lead me into temptation ... and
I'm scared ...

I will be bad ... Does he himself not say that it is bad? I am a married
woman ... And my boys ... oh, my boy! "She wept violently.

But Maggie felt that Gertrude resistance had already waned.

Thus she was satisfied for now. Poor Gertrude had indeed only gradually
return to independence and happiness ability to be educated. At the
table, as the head forester of Maggie Seckersdorf tease - intentionally
to Gertrude while to see how Maggie probably noticed - the sisters
exchanged a glance of the agreement, Gertrud and smiled a little.

Thus began because the plan take shape, and everything went slowly
forward.

Maggie said Seckersdorf and disrupted by his love for Gertrude, as
of course, something.

She thought not quite as they spoke, they believed, however, with
the recipient's imagination of his sister to have to reckon, and
talked then gradually increasing heat inside.

Often she was tired of always the same when Gertrude said: "I am a married
woman and can think of no other."

But they did not after the first time and was happy when one day become
the standard in any of the additional words: " Until that I'm free. "They
fought so honest, the poor Gertrude. They wavered and believed strongly
that they dealt as best they could, and in the home with the children.
But if it had succeeded with difficulty, the threat to banish thoughts,
Maggie stood there and said, "Gertrude, when he saw you so," or,
"What do you want to say that if he aufmachte the door and spread
your arms?"

Or more similar follies, which is then always a transition to the
forbidden topic of taxes.

Gradually, as Gertrud resistance is always weaker. Outwardly, and also
before you caught yourself in the last years of marriage and to
forget how in that short time her maiden life, from the sweet,
anxious and exciting feeling to know that in the end thought: 'He
loves you still always!

"They flourished from day to day on. The fearful tension, by the constant
fear generated, something is not right to make most out of their
face, and there were moments when the quiet, harmonious serenity,
formerly a good part of their beauty started her entire being
screened again.

Maggie saw it with pride and felt himself lifted and happy. Gertrud
threw her now entirely in his arms.

What still concerns that had developed in it, vanished, and she was the
sister with the full confidence of the whole pure, good, foolish heart.
Maggie wondered often and sometimes even angry about it.

Yes, when Gertrude was so honest impractical, so good, so weltunklug and
untouched by all low, but now is not even from the life fortleugnen did,
it was understandable that in his cynical Kurowski unscrupulousness
to feel uneasy with Gertrude had. Seckersdorf Whether incidentally, a
quite purposeful, lebensklugen impression, understanding for this kind
of dreamy environment Gertrude possessed? Whether this love is not fantasy
but in fact it was only because he had not received Gertrud? If they
followed this idea, they continue to relax, she was shocked last.

Because every time the end was that they said, "Actually, would
each of the two men, Kurowski Seckersdorf like just the man for
me, and now holds both Gertrud. This hab 'but I also love and wants
to make them happy, "she calmed down then."

Otherwise ... "Incidentally cooled their great love for Gertrude is
starting to level off.

It was finally in some kind of Gertrud limitedness. Why she had her
life on the magnificent Laukischken not set in the winter in Berlin,
Paris or Rome?

If not, then, without her husband? She had finally not able to Seckersdorf
after her eight years with dogs loyalty would meet again. This whole
sensibility was nonsense. But since it is now the lead in this comedy
took over, it will even after they are played.

It was now Sunday approached, which in Waldlack dancing should be.
Gertrud of course, remained at home, but the sister would have liked
as bright as possible herausgeputzt. Maggie did not want to.

You might not otherwise appear, as their conditions corresponded. And
when they then blaßblauen in her simple dress down, just a few fresh
roses from Miss Pearl selbstgezogenem Rosenbusch on the chest, gave her
Gertrud law.

Fresh and sweet if it had the most precious state can not look, she
said, and young and old would have fallen in love. "And if Seckersdorf
did that?" Asked Maggie laughed, but with a small inner bitterness.
Gertrude smiled at this and said: "It is no longer free - but all the
others." Such confidence! But Gertrude was certainly right. With
this and similar ideas dealt Maggie on the way to Waldlack that
they, well wrapped, in Halbwagen back with the father appealed. *
* * * * The forest Lacker Dance Company has always been the initiation
of the Wintervergnügungen of the circle.

Old and young rejoiced that, because the forest Lacker House had
extensive dealings, was a lot Logierbesuch and therefore also
accommodate guests from far away to be seen. Lacker The forest was also
rich, the budget resulted in great style and ensured that the seasonal
changes, which in Berlin had been declared necessary, in their
circles were introduced.

The thought that Maggie went through your head when the car stopped
in front of the terrace. "Ah, for me, there's now only Seckersdorf," she
thought, but equally, half curious, half-reluctantly continue. Now
with runners occupied and covered terrace staircase - a luxury that no
one else allowed - up in the small garden room who, with orange and palm
trees decorated and colored lights, festive seemed rather bold. On both
sides, the cloakrooms, where the first greetings, and the repair
of toilets extensive time measures.

Maggie had always kept to themselves with the women and girls of the
neighborhood to make good, and she was happy, when by all Pages on them
zukam, said her affection, compliments about her appearance was as the
junior of the year they are welcomed enthusiastically and respectfully,
and the other young girls in all haste to tell stories and many had to
wonder - especially trusted even after Gertrud Kurowski, which we
had hoped to be here.

Maggie replied ease of reading to her brother and went to everything else
cheerful one.

They rejoiced "horrible" over the dancing, was by the young men tell
that there were, changed assumptions, with whom, or the dance
cotillon would, of whom probably Marie Röder the large bouquet could
have, with whom she so mysteriously did, and then finally gave the
best that they suspected the lion of the evening, Seckersdorf, ever
been made and it had been very nice.

Since running because the issues confused.

Whether he is still dancing, whether it would look good if he wanted
to stay, whether he would ... unverlobt Maggie gave information as
best they could, and said that's when this came, they wanted him
properly take into prayer.

Then she threw another quick glance in the mirror, noted with
satisfaction that they are best of all looked siegesfroh and stepped
into the garden room, where they awaited the father.

She drove a little bit together.

Beside him stood Seckersdorf. He was a magnificent appearance, even in the
ugly dress suit.

The type of chivalrous man, honorable solid strength in every course.

He came opposite her, and after each other and the old gentleman
had welcomed by Schweitzer, who joined their father, they went
together through the next room.

Both biased and in silence, until he made the first faltering and asked,
"Merciful lady have to return without effort recently made?"

Now Maggie laughed.

"Of course! But, please, you say maybe once honest, what you just did. ""
Honestly? "He saw their faith in the face."

Certainly. Between us is honesty but the first condition. "He nodded
and said, somewhat embarrassed," I thought, as I have one evening
nine years ago with a few comrades stood here, - and out of the
wardrobe ladies joined her sister out how today.

"I reflect on myself by accident the evening also," Maggie replied
thoughtfully.

"I was so jealous of Gertrude and admired them so. They wore a white
dress with silver durchwebt." "Yes, yes," he confirmed. "Back then
everything was prepared with firs and a kind of artificial moon created.
None of us had your lady - your wife's sister still seen.

And as she came out alone and look for the Lord umsah father ...

We were all very stiff ...

So something good did you ever have never seen. "Maggie stood up in
something like the envy of those days. They were at the door of the
reception room." May I assure the cotillon? "Asked Seckersdorf.
Maggie endorsing friendly, and greeted the hosts that you were
particularly weighed. wife of Bork, a large, slender, impeccably
dressed lady, with a little bit of youth left Hoftick was still
time, you have to say that she Seckersdorf than had assigned Mr.
table.

Maggie failed, that they also cotillon would dance with him.

"If it is not acted Gertrud," she thought, on the arms of the House
Lord in the large ballroom, "what an opportunity for myself," Mr.

Bork gave her the dance card, which now passed from hand to hand
wandered after his name Seckersdorf had drawn.

As Maggie then the older ladies who are still grouped in the Saale
umherstanden, said good evening and here and there with some young
girls ballfiebernden amused, always benevolent, receiving admiring
glances, she was already sure that they are back in this evening
the celebrated would be.

The happy because they Seckersdorf. When the music with the usual
Polonäse started, it came like a rush on them. Vollgefühl In her
youth, beauty and power, they grew up formally, and the captain
of Parchemb, also one of Gertrude Jugendverehrern, they led the
tour, she would like entgegenjubeln.

It was wonderfully beautiful, young to be a life ahead of them, the
reins firmly in hand. Next to all the delights in. They sprayed by
exuberance and jokes. Your cavalier, a somewhat cumbersome Lord towards
the end of the Thirty, was not well followed, but rejoiced at the
fireworks that so blithely at him niederprasselte, and replaced by
admiring glances, in which he finished beating Replies missing.

The comrades behind, he could not get enough of the dashing girl
talk, and urged it to Maggie with requests for extra tours and
joke with the words, in passing hingeworfen and replies were laughing.

It soon made the impression as if they would be the only lady who was
noteworthy for it.

The spectators mothers began heads zusammenzustecken, the dancing
girls, the men of their minutes have been left without entertainment,
because you constantly on the corner hinübersah in Maggie Hagedorn
with the young Prittwitzstraße, one of the best games of the evening,
laughed, made discontented faces, in short, Maggie began to date
her so much with the victims held a good position tonight for the
ladies to lose. you probably noticed, but there was nothing to her
now.

She wanted to have fun, be happy, be excellent. She wanted to show that
you are not nice to be needed as Gertrude, but all around world to
captivate. But whom she wanted to show it? In a fit of guilt
consciousness breathed on them uneasy, and looked thoughtfully at
Seckersdorf over.

He had only extra trips with her as with all the ladies danced, and her
not approached further. But she felt that he observed, and her was as
if they are alone in front of him as the Queen celebrated ball was on
display. And finally came the dinner. Maggie had become tired of the
many dance and gossip and leaned firmly on his arm Seckersdorfs.

He led her to a place in the horseshoe-covered table on which it sits
alongside the Beckers Gourmet sat, while his side a newly engaged bride
and groom were, and comparing them seated by a high table essay
were obscured. Had he so chosen remote place, or was it a coincidence?
She looked questioningly at him. He understood. "I am the assassin,
Miss Hagedorn," he said. "Will you not regret that you have given me to
have dinner?" "What do you want?" She asked almost. "I've always thought
about but that we would now pronounce. I saw it too you as you waited.
"Yes, he would have waited with excitement, all the days, and he
would have been happy if he could speak.

They would have him by their intimations recently moved into big trouble.
He knew not how it is through him as a very serious misunderstanding
may have come. The idea peinigte him terribly and he Baets Miss Maggie
implore him to say everything. Maggie leaned back in her chair and
looked at him from the bottom up in earnest. "Lord of Seckersdorf
... Trust against trust. Do you love my sister Gertrude yet? "Seckersdorf
went together. "Miss Maggie!" "Yes," she continued. "That is the
general question.

About us we have to agree with you if I honestly and without any
backing to speak. ... So yes or no? "Seckersdorf saw her frowning,
almost arrogant to. He had become pale. "Miss Maggie, my life forbid
me, the wife of another -" "That is to say: no," said Maggie cold.
"Well, we do not speak further on the matter. Or maybe ... because you
are in trouble, Lord of Seckersdorf. Do not therefore, allegations.
My brother has just Gertrude brutally treated, because he claimed that
advances _sie_ you would have done. "" God! "Seckersdorf lifted his
head high and looked into wordless Furor before him. Maggie frightened.
So strong was the expression of this suppressed anger that his
waves in her nachbebten, while a slight trepidation they took if
they had not called ghosts, which they would no longer can handle.

"I now strongly urge you to send me the whole process to tell if you are
informed, "he said quietly, his eyes and hung with a severe glance
at her face. They repeated the question pertly earlier and told
no more.

Without the eyelashes to twitch, she contributed heavily to.

Seckersdorf glowed and bit his teeth together.

"I will be your father Lord ask me the opportunity to interview with
a woman from Kurowski to give." Now Maggie was again the situation has
grown. "Where do you go? Should we really Gertrud name in a scandal
with them? What do you think would like Kurowski triumph when you
zusammenträfen with my sister? He has been in an insolent letter to
Papa insidious insinuations made, but without your name.

BTW can we learn from everything else he says, are not clear about
whether he was ever a divorce will respond. "" Your wife's sister wants
to get a divorce? "Asked Seckersdorf deep breathing." They want the
poor Gertrude. .. But it has become so rotten, and if Dad is Kurowskis
hand, forcing them - "" That he can not. The own father! How should he?
"" It would not be the first time. Gertrude is very soft. "A gentle
smile sad, touching in this powerfully serious face, lips moved Seckersdorfs."
How he loves it, "thought Maggie, now jealous of consciousness." See,
"she said," Finally, it is Papa do not verdenken too, from his positions.
Gertrude was well attended, even brilliantly - it is now twenty-eight
years old - and the children ... "" Yes, the children! "Seckersdorf went
with the hand against the forehead."

They would let him have it! " he said. Maggie jerked the armpits. "And
she is determined?" he asked. "It is unfortunate _sehr_?" Maggie nodded
only. Well now you have a soft hint about Gertrud love him, but with a
times they are not wanted. Seckersdorf turned sharply to her around. The
dinner - with just four courses, Maggie had tasted all, despite
their excitement -- took his progress.

Awards have been drinking, eg we went to the hosts, returned to the back
seats, the entertainment was loud and lively teasing and flirting.
Maggie felt a dull anger in it. Why did they actually on the whole
story appeared? If the two are so much loved, they should just come
together. Now she was from the general fun and excluded ... No - they
envisioned the lovely, pale face Gertrude, with the weeping mouth and
the gentle eyes - but now she was back with zeal in the matter. What
would this great, strong, clumsy boy say?

She looked at him questioningly. As she felt her hand taken. Under the
table, with a fixed pressure.

A hot showers overflowed them. "Miss Maggie," said Seckersdorf. "I will
now tell you ... to your question from earlier ...
His quick smile was so engaging that Kitty answered it--kindred spirits,
subconsciously recognizing each other. Fire; but neither of them
knew that; or that two lonely human beings of opposite sex, in touch,
constitute a first-rate combustible.

Quietly the nurse withdrew. There would be a tonic in this meeting for
the patient. Her own presence might neutralize the effect. She had not
spent all those dreadful months in base hospitals without acquiring a
keen insight into the needs of sick men. No harm in letting him have
this pretty, self-reliant girl alone to himself for a quarter of an
hour. She would then return with some broth.

"How--how are you?" asked Kitty, inanely.

"Top-hole, considering. Quite ready to be killed all over again."

"You mustn't talk like that!" she protested.


"Only to show you I was bucking up. Thank you for doing what you did."

"I had to do it."

"Most women would have run away and left me to my fate."

"Not my kind."

"Rather not! Your kind would risk its neck to help a stray cat. I say,
what's that you have in your hand?"

"Good gracious!" Kitty extended the wallet. "It is yours, isn't it?"

"Yes. I wanted you to bring it to me the way you have. If I hadn't come
back--out of that--it was to be yours."

"Mine?"--dumfounded. "But----"

"Why not? Gregor gone, there wasn't a soul in the world. I was hungry,
and you gave me food. I wanted that to pay you. I'll wager you've never
looked into it."

"I had no right to."

"See!" He opened the wallet and spread the contents on the counterpane.
"I wasn't so stony as you thought. What? Cash and unregistered bonds.
They would have been yours absolutely."

"But I don't--I can't quite," Kitty stammered--"but I couldn't have kept
them!"

"Positively yes. You would have shown them to that ripping guardian of
yours, and he would have made you see."

"Indeed, yes! He would have been scared to death. You poor man, can't
you see? Circumstantial evidence that I had killed you!"

"Good Lord! And you're right, too! So it goes. You can't do anything you
want to do. The good Samaritan is never requited; and I wanted to break
the rule. Lord, what a bally mix-up I'd have tumbled you in! I forgot
that you were you, that you would have gone straight to the authorities.
Of course I knew if I pulled through and you found the wallet you would
bring it to me."

Kitty no longer had a foot on earth. She floated. Her brain floated,
too, because she could not make it think coherently for her. A
fortune--for a dish of bacon and eggs! The magnificence, the utter
prodigality of such generosity! For a dish of bacon and eggs and a
bottle of milk! Had she left home? Hadn't she fallen asleep, the victim
of another nightmare? A corner of the atmosphere cleared a little.
A desire took form; she wanted the nurse to come back and stabilize
things. In a wavering blur she saw the odd young man restore the money
and bonds and other documents to the wallet.

"I want you to give this to your guardian when he comes in. I want him
to understand. I say, you know, I'm going to love that old thoroughbred!
He's fine. Fancy his carrying me on his shoulders and eventually
bringing me up here among the clouds! Americans.... Are you all like
that? And you!"

Kitty's brain began to make preparations to alight, as it were. Cutty.
That gave her a touch of earth. She heard herself say faintly: "And what
about me?"

"You were brave and kind. To help an unknown, friendless beggar like
that, when you should have turned him over to the police! Makes me feel
a bit stuffy. They left me for dead. I wonder--"

"What?"

"If--it wouldn't have been just as well!"

"You mustn't talk like that! You just mustn't! You're with friends,
real friends, who want to help you all they can." And then with a little
flash of forced humour, because of the recurrent tightening in her
throat--"Who could be friendless, with all that money?" Instantly she
felt like biting her tongue. He would know nothing of the sad American
habit of trying to be funny to keep a wobbly situation on its legs.
He would interpret it as heartlessness. "I didn't mean that!" With the
Irish impulsiveness which generally weighs acts in retrospection, she
reached over and gripped his hand.

"I say, you two!" Hawksley closed his eyes for a second. "Wanting to
buck up a chap because you re that sort! All right. I'll stick it out!
You two! And I might be the worst scoundrel unhung!"

He drew her hand toward his lips, and Kitty had not the power to resist
him. She felt strangely theatrical, a character in a play; for American
men, except in playful burlesque, never kissed their women's hands. The
moment he released the hand the old wave of hysteria rolled over her.
She must fly. The desire to weep, little fool that she was! was breaking
through her defences. Loneliness. The two of them all alone but for
Cutty. She rose, crushing the wallet in her hand.

Ah, never had she needed that darling mother of hers so much as
now. Tears did not seem to afford relief when one shed them into
handkerchiefs and pillows. But on that gentle bosom, to let loose this
brimming flood, to hear the tender voice consoling!

"Oh, I say, now! Please!" she heard Johnny Two-Hawks cry out.

But she rushed on blindly, knocking against the door jamb and almost
upsetting the nurse, who was returning. Somehow she managed to reach the
living room, glad it was dark. Alter sundry reaching about she found
the divan and flung herself upon it. What would he think? What would the
nurse think? That Kitty Conover had suddenly gone stark, raving crazy!
And now that she was in the dark, alone, the desire to weep passed over
and she lay quietly with her face buried in the pillow. But not for
long.

She sat up. Music--violin music! A gay waltz that made her think of
flashing water, the laughter of children. Tschaikowsky. Thrilled, she
waited for the finale. Silence. Scharwenka's "Polish Dance," with a
swing and a fire beyond anything she had ever heard before. Another
stretch of silence--a silence full of interrogation points. Then a
tender little sketch, quite unfamiliar. But all at once she understood.
He was imploring her to return. She smiled in the dark; but she knew she
was going to remain right where she was.

"Miss Conover?" It was the voice of the nurse.

"Yes. I'm over here on the divan."

"Anything wrong?"

"Good gracious, no! I'm overtired. A little hysterical, maybe. The
parade to-day, with all those wounded boys in automobiles, the music and
colour and excitement--have rather done me up. And the way I rushed up
here. And not finding Cutty--"

"Anything I can get for you?"

"No, thanks. I'll try to snatch a little sleep before Cutty returns."

"But he may be gone all night!"

"Will it be so very scandalous if I stay here?"

"You poor child! Go ahead and sleep. Don't hesitate to call me if you
want anything. I have a mild sedative if you would like it."

"No, thanks. I did not know that Mr. Hawksley played."

"Wonderfully! But does it bother you?"

"It kind of makes me choky."

"I'll tell him."

Kitty, now strangely at peace, snuggled down among the pillows.
Some great Polish violinist, who had roused the bitter enmity of the
anarchist? But no; he was Russian. Cutty had admitted that. It struck
her that Cutty knew a great deal more than Kitty Conover; and so far as
she could see there was no apparent reason for this secrecy. She rather
believed she had Cutty. Either he should tell her everything or she
would run loose, Bolshevik or no Bolshevik.

Sheep. She boosted one over the bars, another and another. Round
somewhere in the thirties the bars dissolved. The next thing she knew
she was blinking in the light, Cutty, his arms folded, staring down at
her sombrely. There was blood on his face and blood on his hands.


CHAPTER XX


Karlov moodily touched the shoulder of the man on the cot. Stefani
Gregor puzzled him. He came to this room more often than was wise,
driven by a curiosity born of a cynical philosophy to discover what it
was that reenforced this fragile body against threats and thirst and
hunger. He knew what he wanted of Gregor--the fiddler on his knees
begging for mercy. And always Gregor faced him with that silent calm
which reminded him of the sea, aloof, impervious, exasperating. Only
once since the day he had been locked in this room had Gregor offered
speech. He, Karlov, had roared at him, threatened, baited, but his
reward generally had been a twisted wintry smile.

He could not offer physical torture beyond the frequent omissions of
food and water; the body would have crumbled. To have planned this for
months, and then to be balked by something as visible yet as elusive
as quicksilver! Born in the same mudhole, and still Boris Karlov the
avenger could not understand Stefani Gregor the fiddler. Perhaps what
baffled him was that so valiant a spirit should be housed in so weak a
body. It was natural that he, Boris, with the body of a Carpathian bear,
should have a soul to match. But that Stefani, with his paper body,
should mock him! The damned bourgeoisie!

The quality of this unending calm was understandable: Gregor was always
ready to die. What to do with a man to whom death was release? To hold
the knout and to see it turn to water in the hand! In lying he had
overreached. Gregor, having accepted as fact the reported death of Ivan,
had nothing to live for. Having brought Gregor here to torture he had,
blind fool, taken away the fiddler's ability to feel. The fog cleared.
He himself had given his enemy this mysterious calm. He had taken out
Gregor's soul and dissipated it.

No. Not quite dissipated. What held the body together was the iron
residue of the soul. Venom and blood clogged Karlov's throat. He could
kill only the body, as he had killed the fiddle; he could not reach the
mystery within. Ah, but he had wrung Stefani's heart there. There
were pieces of the fiddle on the table where Gregor had placed them,
doubtless to weep over when he was alone. Why hadn't he thought to break
the fiddle a little each day?

"Stefani Gregor, sit up. I have come to talk." This was formula. Karlov
did not expect speech from Gregor.

Slowly the thin arms bore up the torso; slowly the legs swung to the
floor. But the little gray man's eyes were bright and quick to-night.

"Boris, what is it you want?"

"To talk"--surprised at this unexpected outburst.

«Rumbled and he finally did before it. She wept."

Heul 'not ... narrative ', "he said impatiently. Then she took them into
Maggie's arms." If our Trude so important as now, then what happens to
Big. They are not torturing, Dad.

My poor, poor Trude!

"They stroked the delicate face and sister sat in the armchair.
»See it anyway.

Is that humanly possible? Are you sick?

What has he done to you, darling? No, say 'no way that we gradually get
out and lean wines - wines that will do you good. "The young woman
obediently put his head on the back and made the langbewimperten
eyes. A quiet schauerndes shrugging their shoulders lifted. "Let me
stay here ... let me stay here. Dad, I'm your elders ... thou hast loved
me ... let me stay here! "The head forester sip around. Then all were
silent. The wind howled as before, the lamp hummed, and in the adjoining
room jauchzten the boys and kläfften the dogs.

"What has he done to you?" Asked the father and laid his big hand on the
small head of white blonde daughter.

The set up and clings to his arm. "From day to day, it is worse. I have
patiently kept silent. Finally I thought well, I would be so bad,
so ugly and so unfit, as he always says, and there would be 'nothing
more now to change.

I have almost no word can speak, but fortgelaufen but I would not.

I know ... the children ... and the scandal, but yesterday he accused
me that I had him shamelessly betrayed him again and wanted to cheat.

Da hab 'ich mir's about over night, had taken the children and I am
after the station, according to Winge gone. "" Three hours!

In this weather, "cursed the head forester." The boys are hardy and easy
to walk. Then, in the stone frieze, I found this wagon. "Maggie
looked dark and tiefatmend to the sister. The head forester shook itself.
He could not bear long uneasy things.

He pushed them away. "We talk more about it tomorrow," he said. "The thing
werd 'ich wieder einrenken.

You should be your right, to leave thee. Nehm Provisional 'I get that you
have your old father a few days ... «Gertrude directed to fearful. Maggie
sat down to her on the back side of the chair and put his arm
around her shoulders. "... a few days, tell me, "went the old man
continued," visiting how's heard.

And then we will see further. Does he know that you're here? "" I have
a letter left behind. "" Well, because we have to expect that he
is here with fanfare and anrückt you and the boys back. "" Believe
"is not," said Gertrud .

"He will be glad that he alone remains ... Provisional ... to ... ""
gosh, "murmured the head forester. Maggie sprayed before indignation about
the resistance of the Father." Well, "said the then einlenkend, 'we'll
see. Reg 'now does not occur. And now ... Guys, come in! "* * * * *
The boys at the Miss Perl großmütterliche claims made were in the
former children's cot by the mother and aunt and had before
jubilation and excitement not sleep.

Gertrud and Maggie, after tortured, impersonal conversations are now
wanted to go to rest, came again to them. The mother kissed passionately
and she began to weep bitterly. Maggie pulled her away. "Not yet, Trude,
Old! At the children's faces will be no tears fall.

Come, we are now for us, because you can pretty ausklagen.

"They stepped into the spacious balcony room, which they have lived
together many years ago did.

Gertrud old bed was in the same corner in which it formerly had
stood, prepared for them. Somewhat astonished the young woman looked
around and stopped crying. "You, what have you with our beautiful desk
made?"

She asked. " The thrown out junk, "said Maggie happily. »The Kattungardinen
and Mullvorhänge the Makartsträuße, na alles. Only here, the puffs, your
brilliant idea, the very own padded Bierfäßchen, they are still
there, but also follow as soon as I did what better.

There is this famous old cabinet admitted, as the chair, echt Empire, and
in thy bed of tapestry. Pretty, eh? "" No, "said Gertrud vigorously.
"Previously it was a pretty, airy nest with all the innocent
Mädchenausputz, now comes to me like an empty Trödelbude before.

Where is the desk? "" All gone. When I - when's it? - February or March
last with you, and your new, wonderful facility Bedrooms saw - it
is simply wonderful, as ever Laukischken everything, I do not know
how you'll endure it - yes, that is, as I have since came home and
here the frills that interrupts hab 'I cried with rage, and all
cheap and fake demolished.

"Gertrud, she saw from large eyes." envy, Maggie? "she asked. "Dear
God!" "Jealous of you, Trude? No. But that is what it may have, and that
I do not have, which annoys me. And until I'm so far, I prefer bare and
simple living. "Gertrude shook her head." You know, "said Maggie vividly,"
not underestimate what you want to give up so easily.

It depends more out than you think. Look, I bet you already miss your
maid, you can not undo the waist, not the boots off, and God knows
what else. "" I will make everything easy to learn, "said Gertrud pleading.
And today you are helping me a bit anyway, is not it? "Maggie stormily
they hugged and stood with her hands trembling with. When she gorgeous
hair sparked the weißschimmernd on the chair came down, put them into the
face and began to cry. And Gertrude turned and wept with spasmodic. And
then they sat on one of the narrow beds and girls were umschlungen,
called with the old-nicknamed nurseries and said that now it would be like
the past. Then Maggie went on. "The villain, the villain!

What has he done to you? Where is your golden, heavenly beauty there?
You have wrinkles ... da ... and da ... and gray and have you become
lean ... and yet only twenty-eight years, "Gertrude smiled sadly. "That
is also resistant to anger that I would be so ugly," she said.

"To me it's irrelevant, that is, no -" She wept bitterly again. "Ah, but
you're still the fairest of all," Maggie comforted. "And so you lack
nothing but a little luck, my poor, poor Trude. What do we? Say you out
if you like, my dear heart.

"But Gertrude was not well himself. When she sued her husband had
weakened them right from the indictment.

They shocked when a hard floor debate, and was looking for a milder
expression, even if they have something to gruff had called. But in these
rates was touching aborted their entire history. Maggie saw it formally
adopted the brother with his mocking Lebemannsgesicht, heard his cruel
words against the poor, tender woman was as defenseless.

They shook with helpless sister under the silken ceiling, in the spirit
when they imagined him as he is hot and driving offense occurred
in the bedroom, and she screamed, as Gertrud muttered something
about violence.

"Beaten? ... You? "No. But if I do not always have been quiet ... ""
Trude, why did not you long fortgelaufen? "They remained silent.

It was cold the tops of their mantle of solid powder to the shoulders and
looked with her large, sad eyes so helpless at that, before Maggie
heart swelled grief and indignation.

"Come to bed," she said. "You're cold.

I will stay with you sit and take your hand, my poor child. Do you know
how you tatst sooner if I had read ghost story and could not sleep.
Come, come ....

"And she withdrew from the sister and took them with maternal care beds.
Gertrud had dropped everything and said that would do well. If only
they should remain! When Maggie was their most since they had no
fear. Maggie expanded the magnificent, lush body lean. "It should also
be someone dare you to come too close. For you, I do everything I keep
left when I did care for me.

"Gertrud was directed at them and looked questioningly. »Why do you say
so what?"

"Because it is true, Trude. Times now I can not do otherwise. I
must always think first of myself and what I am most comfortable and
best approach.

But then you, darling. You're the only thing I totally love. From childhood
on. Maybe because you're so different. So fragile and so beautiful and
good. "" Oh, Maggie, I am nothing, as too much of the world, "cried
the young woman.

Maggie wiped the lamp and sat down to her." Well, we want to talk about
reasonable times, child! "she said.

"Be still, just tell me how to do it now with a time has come to
the doors."

From the sobbing and the incomprehensible words fully sounded out a name:
"Seckersdorf." Maggie went along. »Do you still love him?" She asked
quietly. "God forbid! No, no, no, "said Gertrud violently. "But we
met recently in Waldlack together. I had no idea that he is here.
And we sat at table together. "" And since he has the court made
thee? "" Oh, no.

We have just viewed. But, Maggie, the heart was to me quite hard.

The loving, peaceful, blue eyes. So sad and reproachful. "" And what
he said? "" We have a little talk, but Kurt claimed afterwards
that I had made myself ridiculous, and everyone would see that I
shall have like a ... a ... I've used it maybe also viewed affectionately.
But really not intentional. I'd rather be dead than do that. "" And Kurt
made your home a scene? "" Oh, he was immeasurably. I can understand
all the verbal abuse did not happen again. And he chased me away.
Oh, Maggie, you've no idea how awful it is to be married. "" But,
but, "said Maggie. "I can tell you if you are not old would, or would be
very rich and could live as you wanted, I would be the last person
to ans dächte marriages.

BTW with your amiable husband möcht "I still finished better than
you, my poor child. Did you get the implication as well put up?"

No, "said Gertrude. "It was too much. I had a little more courage. And you
know it is nonsense and wrong, but I was not so terrible anxiety
because I know that 'he' is back again. And now as the torture was
continued, because ... "A long silence was. Maggie said everything's
sister faltering failed. She thought at the time in which Gertrud
here night after night and cried for their bold questions had admitted
that they were before her husband fear that they prefer to die before
the wedding wishes. You, with her sixteen years, was the most interesting
occurred, but eventually self-evident.

The unhappy love for the blond lieutenant Seckersdorf from home
much of the speech, had a beautiful sister with particular splendor
umkleidet.

The fact that nothing was then that the rich, spoiled, elegant
Laukischker Kurowski Gertrud came and tears among thousands it took
the teenager had her mind very much, and if they are later seen the
sister, surrounded by luxury, then it was just everything a piece
of the novel was that they had zurechtgebaut in which the beautiful,
weißhaarige Gertrud and her brunette, powerful young man needs all
the girls were good romance.

How long did it now no more illusions about the real situation of things!
How long they knew that Gertrude deeply unfortunate that her life had
failed, that is a sin, as they are in this marriage with the male Kurowski
hineingeredet had. But what was this hindsight speeches have been
possible? They even knew that they would not for a moment Kurowski
between the rich and the poor lieutenant was Seckersdorf have fluctuated,
because everything about "love" they would also always first of all
strive for a position. But Gertrude, the honest, soft, dear Gertrud needy
who have never expected, as was characterized by outer gloss can bribe?
"Trude, why did you just put him? You had Seckersdorf but love,
"she asked after a long silence. Gertrude laid her head on her lap. »Oh
dear child, everything came so fast. And of course Hans gave me. Because
I wanted to show him ... But these are old, old stories. We poor women
learn the truth so only know when we get married. "Maggie shook her
head and stroked the hair of his sister. They knew the reality, even
without much experience to have, she knew she would have with all
certainly different part. "Tell me, Gertrude," the question shot through
her head, "really knew Kurt from Seckersdorf thing?

"" Sure. Even before we get engaged. Incidentally, I believe that all the
world knew it.

And then, in the first few days after our wedding, I thought it would
be him guilty of anything, anything to confess, every encounter, every
word I ever with Hans ... Seckersdorf had spoken with. "" Alas, alas!
"said Maggie. "That hätt 'I've never done that. What is the way it
did? "" Oh, no, "said Gertrude. "He knows that I'm sincere." "So?
And the appearance of recently? Tell me, dear heart, tell me everything
what you've told him, I think what you had to tell. I would like to help
you, but then I also know how to do Seckersdorf came - as it
auseinandergingt.

"Then they heard the harmless innocent love story, which eight years ago
between Hans and Gertrud Hagedorn Seckersdorf had played so harmless,
that they would have been banal, without Gertrud as hero.

Maggie saw them clearly in front of him, in the first luminous beauty
of youth, which they switch from the English mother had inherited.
completed in the regular soft shapes, colors from a spell, which seemed
almost supernatural and to the lush, white blonde hair, which his
peers in the world is not found.

The World! Maggie had to smile.

The whole little world of their surroundings wandered for a moment
in their thoughts over. Landowner, lieutenants, again landowner,
old - young, confusingly similar. What cared she now? But Gertrud story
was the whole charm of the girls currently alive. Dance companies,
picnics, theater games, exchange glances and quietly hands pressures.
Here and there a small misunderstanding, very seriously cried tears,
reconciliation in a Kotillontour. And happiness and hope the recurring
leitmotif of this idyll. In Waldlack where they are just now made, then
they had promised. He was with his uncle under the act to the same
of him now, after the death of his two adopted sons, and was overwhelmed
with wealth, on the other hand, they had asked him to, first with her
father to speak. That was done, and Maggie knew the end of all negotiations
- the end of her happiness.

In the time just was Kurowski of Courland, and had been purchased
Laukischken. "You know so, as he was from the beginning," said Gertrud
sigh. " Everywhere, he said, he had to get me, and Hans had to be stopped.
We then wanted to wait. Oh, Maggie, we've never talked much together,
unfortunately. But if we once installations, then we knew, everyone
said the other: 'Ich hab' dich lieb forever! " So on the whole
table away, or through the hall. That's why I thought I do not
mind if I sat together with Kurt, and listened to his little exaggerated
flatteries. And as Hans me once then made a brief allusion, I moved back
also. But it was already too late. Kurt gave to me. That you know everything,
as I 'no' said, and Dad and Perl and was beside himself tormented and
tormented! And then came the terrible Hans at Sunday, in the helmet,
nor do you know? his farewell visit, so completely out of the blue and
asked me for an interview.

We went to Daddy's office. I had no idea that he is with everything
abgeredet already had, I thought he wanted me to take the arms, on a
single occasion, and I spread my opposite him already. As he shook his
head and said: "Gertrude, I've been invited to this meeting to
give you your word back to you from any obligation to solve, if one
existed."

I was petrified. 'Why, why, what have I done since? " He said: 'You?
No.

You nothing and I had nothing. But the circumstances. It is not! As long
as I live, I will think of you.

Live well!

" Not even the hand he gave me and ran out. And it all came here!
Weißt du's noch? "" Everything, everything, "said Maggie. "Man, or a
good German said, Dad told us that Seckersdorf to have them leave in
order to rank and a good match to make. I think he also called a name.
And it wondered no more. I still know that Kurowski on his next visit
very nice of him. Well ... and so on. We know, as everything else then.
And that half a year later Seckersdorf ... Reg 'thee not, darling! "No,
no," said Gertrude. "That's all long over, it must be yes. I also have
children and I am an old woman has become. And, Maggie, if I think
about me, it is madness!

I want to disconnect from Kurt, and I complain of thee before Seckersdorf.
I do not understand myself. "" I did everything so you herausgelockt,
"Maggie comforted. "You know what? We now want nothing more to talk, we
want to try to sleep. And tomorrow, we have everything. "They kissed and
the sister went to bed. It was now quiet in the room. But outside
rustled in the book, like distant ocean waves. "Trude," said Maggie
suddenly. "Yes?" "Trude, you must be divorced from Kurt and Seckersdorf
again come together." "For God's sake," cried Gertrude horrified. "I
put everything I get.

You stay out of the game. You can not see him and not speak ... Ich mach's.
Thank God, something sensible to do! Trude, Darling, you shall still
be happy. "" Maggie, "said Gertrude softly," you think it is certainly
very good. But I pray thee, say not such a thing again. I want to keep
clean, even in thought. Make me not hard! "" Still, "said Maggie.
"I tell you yes, I take everything on me. You stay our course, and
white lily flower us again and ... Good night, dear child! "* * * *
* In the morning, the weather is ausgetobt. About Broadleaves
emphasized the colorful yellow sun orbits. Gray-white clouds ballten
and are hunted high and clear, deep blue of the sky lit up behind
it before.

Far into the country undulates into the green forest sea. Hostels
smell waves swang away from him through the air. Gertrude looked
happy down. "The old, beloved look into the green and the smell of
resin. It feels good that you here must be healthy. "" Or sick from boredom
if one is healthy, "said Maggie. "Well, come, down, there is news. An
express letter of Laukischken. "Gertrud, the familiar face, helpless
melancholy tinge." My God! My God!

"In Eßstube sat with the head forester anxious, angry face on the coffee
table. He stretched his daughters receive a letter. »Read ... Read ago,
Maggie." Maggie took him shrugging and dismissive laugh. "Of course
they should return. But hab 'keine Angst, Trude, we do not give out.
"" Read it!

"Gertrude looked after the small, dainty woman liable lettering. Maggie
read:" My dear father-in-law Lord, if we in the recent past also
not very good friend been, so I want our lack of compliance but not
my wife let charges.

It is dear to me that they are consistent with the guys at a sub-slip
you looking for a few months, where's when verzärtelten health of the
young person in a bad Laukischken hausen can. You know, that we have the
sponge in the bedrooms have discovered, and that I'm worried, my family
throughout the winter because it.

Now that Gertrude does not want to Berlin, and I for my person for a short
time to go there remember that I agree, if it - with your permission of
course - the winter in the old, small and quiet conditions to spend.
Once I make a change in this preliminary Plane hope do I sign up.
You, my dear father-in-law Lord, I trust for this - let's say -
three months in honor of my house.

On good German: Adjust kindly to that of Mrs. Gertrude Kurowski remains
free from any slip klatsch good after speech. I thank you in advance
for kiss my lovely sister's hand, greet the boys and Gertrude and I
am heartily until further your very devoted by Kurt Kurowski. = PS
= For the needs of my young wife and child, I at 3000 m. because I do
not know whether Gertrude which is enough. For any significant expenditure
inliegenden blank check. "" Should we be as angry or laugh? "Said Maggie,
the letter on the table throwing." One must take things as they are,
"said the head forester short, and stood on .

"Thou art our dear guest provisionally, Gertrud. You to judge how it
fits you. "Even Gertrude was up in the excitement and went around the
room." Because you have him, as he is, "she cried nervously.

"Always the cat and mouse game, serious things lightly contemptuous
and mocking treat ..., amiable, never to be ... I am seven years his
wife had and still do not know what he wants ... Oh, Papa, Papa. You
think it does not prevent me back to him? "The head forester looked
sullen after the page. "For you are there, and we will continue to see,"
he said. "The reading, which he hopes can we know what the people
teach.

Whether they will indeed believe? ... Well, I can now start to do ... I
must be Vokellen. Have both - but do you want them now probably not
hear anything. Aligns you a child, I come late again. "He kissed Gertrud
embarrassed Maggie caress, and shook hands."

You know, Dad, "said Maggie. »For all cases you must still know
that Kurowskis because Seckersdorf have incensed. For your appointment
with him can now be nothing? "" What cuckoo? "The old man went on. »What
is this nonsense? Because I know but my Gertrude! And my son-in-law to
favor? No, this is not speech.

Let the Gertrud in eight take. And here at home so he need not to come.
"Gertrud drew the brows together." But if he comes? "Asked Maggie." That
will not happen! And now I tell you, the devil is to get the things
working in my mixes. Because once you have a business that is worth,
and now they want to ruin it is! This is not me ... I am not a
millionaire, and business is business. Ridiculous! A forest afforest
scarce three miles from here and ... well, I want you rather just
say that I go because the thing.

"You've been hurt! There is blood on you!"

"A trifling cut. But I'm hurt, nevertheless, that you should be so
thoughtless as to come here against my orders. It doesn't matter that
Karlov has given up the idea of having you followed. But for the sake
of us all you must be made to understand that we are dealing with high
explosives and poison gas. It's not what might happen to me or to Uncle
Sam's business. It's you. Any moment they may take it into their heads
to get at me and Hawksley through you. That's why we watch over you. You
don't want to see Hawksley done in, do you? It's real tragedy, Kitty,
and nobody can guess what the end is going to be."

Kitty's lip quivered. "Cutty, if you talk like that to me I shall cry."

"Good Lord, what about?"--bewildered.

"About everything. I've been on the verge of hysterics all day."

"Kitty, you poor child, what's happened?"

"Nothing--everything. Lonesome. When I saw all those mothers and wives
and sisters and sweethearts on the curb to-day, watching their boys
march by, it hit me hard. I was alone. Nobody. So please don't be cross
with me. I'm on the ragged edge. Silly, I know. But we women often go
to pieces over nothing, without any logical reason. Ready to face murder
and battle and sudden death; and then to blow up, as you men say it,
over nothing. I had to move, go somewhere, do something; so I came
here. But I came on--what do you call it?--official business. Here!" She
offered him the wallet.

"What's this?"

"Belongs to Johnny Two-Hawks. He hid it that night behind my flatirons
on the range. Why, Cutty, he's rich!"

"Did he show the contents?"

"Only the money and the bonds. He said if he had died the money and
bonds would have been mine.

"Providing Gregor was also dead." Cutty looked into the wallet, but
disturbed nothing. "I imagine these funds are actually Gregor's."

"He told me to give the wallet to you. And so I waited. I fell asleep.
So please don't scold me."

"I'm a brute! But it's because you've become so much to me that I was
angry. You're Tommy and Molly's girl, and I've got to watch out for you
until you reach some kind of a port."

"Thank you for the flowers. You'll never know just what they did for me.
There was somebody who gave me a thought."

"Kitty, I honestly don't get you. A beauty like you, lonesome!"

"That's it. I am pretty. Why should I deny it? If I'd been homely I
shouldn't have been ashamed to invite my friends to my shabby home. I
shouldn't have cold shouldered everybody through false pride. But where
have you been, and what have you been doing?"

"Official business. But I just missed being a fine jackass. I'll look
into the wallet after I've cleaned up. I'm a mess of gore and dust. Is
it interesting stuff?" dreading her answer.

"The wallet? I did not look into it. I had no right."

"Ah! Well, I'll be back in two jigs."

He hurried off, relieved to learn that the secret was still beyond
Kitty's knowledge. Of course Hawksley wouldn't carry anything in the
wallet by which his true identity might be made known. Still, there
would be stuff to excite her interest and suspicion. Hawksley had shown
her some of that three hundred thousand probably. What a game!

He would say nothing about his own adventures and discoveries. He worked
on the theory that the best time to tell about something was after it
had become a fact. But no theory is perfect; and in this instance his
reticence was going to cost him intolerable agony in the near future.

Within a quarter of an hour he was back in the living room. Kitty was
out of sight; probably had curled up on the divan again. He would not
disturb her. Hawksley's wallet! He drew a chair under the reading lamp
and explored the wallet. Money and bonds he rather expected, but the
customs appraiser's receipt was like a buffet. The emeralds belonged
honorably to his guest! All his own plans were knocked galley-west by
this discovery.

An odd sense of indignation blazed up in him, as though someone had
imposed upon him. The sport was gone, the fun of the thing; it became
merely official business. To appropriate a pair of smuggled emeralds was
a first-class sporting proposition, with a humorous twist. As it stood
now, he would be picking Hawksley's pocket; and he wasn't rogue enough
for that. Hang the luck!

Emeralds, rubies, sapphires, pearls, and diamonds! No doubt many of them
with histories--in a bag hung to his neck--and all these thousands of
miles! Not since the advent of the Gaekwar of Baroda into San Francisco,
in 1910, had so many fine stones passed through that port of entry.

But why hadn't Hawksley inquired about them? Stoic indifference? A good
loser? How had he got through the customs without a lot of publicity?
The Russian consul of the old regime probably; and an appraiser who was
a good sport. To have come safely to his destination, and then to have
lost out! The magnificent careless generosity of putting the wallet
behind Kitty's flatirons, to be hers if he didn't pull through! Why,
this fiddling derelict was a man! Stood up and fought Karlov with his
bare fists; wasn't ashamed to weep over his mother's photograph;
and fiddled like Heifetz. All right. This Johnny Two-Hawks, as Kitty
persisted in calling him, was going to reach his Montana ranch. His
friend Cutty would take it upon himself to see to that.

It struck him that after all he would have to play the game as he had
planned it. Those gems falling into the hands of the Federal agents
would surely bring to light Hawksley's identity; and Hawksley should
have his chance.

Cutty then came upon the will. Somehow the pathos of it went deep into
his heart. The poor devil!--a will that hadn't been witnessed, the
handwriting the same as that on the passport. If he had fallen into
the hands of the police they would have justifiably locked him up as
a murder suspect. Two-Hawks! It was a small world. He returned the
contents to the wallet, leaving out the will, however. This he thrust
into a drawer.

"Coffee?" said Kitty at his elbow.

"Kitty? I'd forgotten you! I thought I smelt coffee. Just what I wanted,
too, only I hadn't brains enough left to think of it. Smells better than
anything Kuroki makes.... Tastes better, too. You're going to make some
lucky duffer a fine wife."

"Is there anything you can tell me, Cutty?"

"A whole lot, Kitty; only I'm twenty years too old."

"I mean the wallet. Who is he?"

Cutty drained the cup slowly. A good coherent lie, to appease Kitty's
curiosity; half a truth, something hard to nail. He set down the empty
cup, building. By the time he had filled his pipe and lit it he was
ready.

Something bored up through the subconscious, however--a query. Why
hadn't he told her the plain truth at the start? Wasn't on account of
the drums. He hadn't kept her in the dark because of the drums. He could
have trusted her with that part of it--his tentative piracy. That to
divulge Hawksley's identity would be a menace to her peace of mind now
appeared ridiculous; and yet he had worked forward from this assumption.
No answer to the query. Generally he thought clearly enough; but
somewhere along this route he had made a muddle of things and couldn't
find the spot. The only point clearly defined was that he should wish
to keep her out of the affair because there were elements of positive
danger. But somewhere inside of him was a question asking for
recognition, and it eluded him. Nothing could be solved until this
question got out of the fog. Even now he might risk the whole truth; but
the lie he had woven appeared too good to waste.

Human frailty. The most accomplished human being is the finished liar.
Never to forget a detail, to remember step by step the windings, over a
ticklish road. And Cutty, for all his wide newspaper experience, was a
poor liar because he had been brought up on facts. Perhaps his lie might
have passed had he not been so fagged. The physical labours of the night
had dulled his perceptions.

"Ab, but that tastes good!"--as he blew forth a wavering ring of smoke.

"It ought to have at least one merit," replied Kitty, wrinkling her
nose. What a fine profile Cutty had! "Now, who and what is he? I'm dying
to know."

"An odd story; probably hundreds like it. You see, the Bolsheviki have
driven out of the country or killed all the nobles and bourgeoisie. Some
of them have escaped--into China, Sweden, India, wherever they could
find an open route. To his story there are many loose ends, and Hawksley
is not the talking kind. You mustn't repeat what I tell you. Hawksley,
with all that money and a forged English passport, would have a good
deal of trouble explaining if he ran afoul the police. There is no real
proof that the money is his or Gregor's. As a matter of fact, it is
Gregor's, and Hawksley was bringing it to him. Hawksley is Gregor's
protege."

Kitty nodded. This dovetailed with what Johnny Two-Hawks had told her
that night.

"How the two came together originally I don't know. Gregor was in his
younger days a great violinist, but unknown to the American public.
Early in his career he speculated with his concert earnings and turned
a pot of money. He dropped the professional career for that of a
country gentleman. He had a handsome estate, and lived sensibly. He sent
Hawksley to England to school and spent a good deal of time there with
him, teaching him how to play the fiddle, for which it seems Hawksley
had a natural bent. He had to Anglicize his name; for Two-Hawks would
have made people laugh. To be a gentleman, Kitty, one does not have to
be a prince or a grand duke. Gregor was a polished gentleman, and he
turned Hawksley into one."

Again Kitty nodded, her eyes sparkling.

"The Russ--the educated Russ--is a queer biscuit. Got to have a finger
in some political pie, and political pies in Russia before the war were
lese-majesty. The result--Gregor got in wrong with his secret society
and the political police and was forced to fly to save his life. But
before he fled he had all his convertible funds transferred. Only his
estate was confiscated. Hawksley was in London when the war broke out.
There was a lot of red tape, naturally, regarding the funds. I shan't
bother you with that, Hawksley, hoping to better his protector's future,
returned to Russia and joined his regiment and fought until the Czar
abdicated. Foretasting the trend of events, he tried to get back to
England, but that was impossible. He was permitted to retire to the
Gregor estate, where he remained until the uprising of the Bolsheviki.
Then he started across the world to join Gregor."

"That was brave."

"It certainly was. I imagine that Hawksley's journey has that of Ulysses
laid away on the shelf. Karlov was the head of the society which had
voted Gregor's death. So he had agents watching Hawksley. And Karlov
himself undertook the chase across Russia, China, and the Pacific."

"I'm glad I gave him something to eat. But Gregor, a valet in a hotel,
with all that money!"

"The red tape."

"What a dizzy world we live in, Cutty!"

"Dizzy is the word." Cutty sighed. His yarn had passed a very shrewd
censor. "Karlov feels it his duty to kill off all his countryman who do
not agree with his theories. He wanted these funds here, but Hawksley
was too clever for him. Remember, now, not a word of this to Hawksley. I
tell you this in confidence."

"I promise."

"You'll have to spend the night here. It's round four, and the power has
been shut off. There's the stairs, but it would be dawn before you reach
the street."

"Who cares?"

"I do. I don't believe you're in a good mood to send back to that
garlicky warren. I wish to the Lord you'd leave it!"

"It's difficult to find anything desirable within my means. Rents are
terrifying. I'll sleep on the divan. A rug or a blanket. I'm a silly
fool, I suppose."

"You can have a guest room."

"I'd rather the divan; less scandalous. Cutty, I forgot. He played for
me."

"What? He did?"

"I had to run out of the room because some things he said choked me up.
Didn't care whether he died or not. He was even lonelier than I. I lay
down on the divan, and then I heard music. Funny, but somehow I fancied
he was calling me back; and I had to hang on to the divan. Cutty, he is
a great violinist."

"Are you fond of music?"

"I am mad about it! I'm always running round to concerts; and I'd walk
from Battery to Bronx to hear a good violinist."

Fiddles and Irish hearts. Swiftly came the vision of Hawksley fiddling
the heart out of this lonely girl--if he had the chance. And he, Cutty,
was going to fascinate her--with what? He rose and took her by the
shoulders, bringing her round so that the light was full in her face.
Slate-blue eyes.

"Kitty, what would you say if I kissed you?" Inwardly he asked: "Now,
what the devil made me say that?"

The sinister and cynical idea leaped from its ambush. "Why, Cutty, I--I
don't believe I should mind. It's--it's you!" Vile wretch that she was!

Cutty, noting the lily succeeding the rose, did not kiss her. Fate has
a way of reversing the illogical and giving it logical semblance. It was
perfectly logical that he should not kiss her; and yet that was exactly
what he should have done. The fatherliness of the salute--and he
couldn't have made it anything else--would have shamed Kitty's peculiar
state of mind out of existence and probably sent back to its eternal
sleep that which was strangely reawaking in his lonely heart.

"Forgive me, Kitty. That wasn't exactly nice of me, even if I was trying
to be funny."

She tore away from him, flung herself upon the divan, her face in the
pillows, and let down the dam.

This wild sobbing--apparently without any reason terrified Cutty. He
put both hands into his hair, but he drew them out immediately without
retaining any of the thinning gray locks. Done up, both of them; that
was the matter. He longed to console her, but knew not what to say or
how to act. He had not seen a woman weep like this in so many years that
he had forgotten the remedies.

Should he call the nurse? But that would only add to Kitty's
embarrassment, and the nurse would naturally misinterpret the situation.
He couldn't kneel and put his arms round her; and yet it was a situation
that called for arms and endearments. He had sense enough to recognize
that. Molly's girl crying like that, and he able to do nothing! It was
intolerable. But what was she weeping about?

Covering the divan was a fine piece of Bokhara embroidery. He drew this
down over Kitty and tucked her in, turned off the light, and proceeded
to his bedroom.

Kitty's sobs died eventually. There was an occasional hiccup. That, too,
disappeared. To play--or even think of playing--a game like that! She
was despicable. A silly little fool, too, to suppose that so keen a mind
as Cutty's would not see through the artifice! What was happening to her
that she could let such a thought into her head?

By and by she was able to pick up Cutty's narrative and review it. Not a
word about the drums of jeopardy, the mark of the thong round Hawksley's
neck. Hadn't she let him know that she knew the author of that
advertisement offering to buy the drums, no questions asked? Very well,
then; if he would not tell her the truth she would have to find it out
herself.

Meanwhile, Cutty sat on the edge of his bed staring blankly at the
rug, trying to find a pick-up to the emotions that beset him. One thing
issued clearly: He had wanted to kiss the child. He still wanted to kiss
her. Why hadn't he? Unanswerable. It was still unanswerable even when
the pallor of dawn began slowly to absorb the artificial light of his
bed lamp.


CHAPTER XXIII


When Cutty awoke--having had about two hours' sleep--he was instantly
conscious that the zest had gone from the adventure. It had resolved
itself into official business into which he had projected himself
gratuitously; and having assumed the offices of chief factor, he would
have to see the affair through, victim of his own greediness. It did not
serve to marshal excuses. He had frankly entered the affair in the role
of buccaneer; and here he was, high and dry on the reef.

The drums of jeopardy, so far as he was concerned, had been shot into
the moon two hundred thousand miles out of reach. He found himself
resenting Hawksley's honesty in the matter of the customs.

But immediately this sense of resentment caused him to chuckle.
Certainly some ancestor of his had been a Black Bart or a Galloping
Dick.

He would put a few straight questions to Hawksley, however. To have lost
all those precious stones and not to have inquired about them was a
bit foggy, wasn't normal, human. Unless--bang on the plexus came the
thought!--the beggar had hidden them himself. He had been exceedingly
clever in hiding the wallet. Come to think of it, he hadn't mentioned
that, either. Of course he had hidden the stones--either in Gregor's
apartment or in Kitty's. Blind as a bat. Now he understood why Karlov
had made a prisoner of Coles. The old buzzard had sensed a trap and had
countered it. The way of the transgressor was hard. His punishment for
entertaining a looter's idea would be work when he wanted to loaf and
enjoy himself.

Arriving at Hawksley's door he was confronted by a spectacle not without
its humorous touch: The nurse extending a bowl and Hawksley staring at
the sky beyond the window, stonily.

"But you must!" insisted Miss Frances.

"Chops or beefsteak!"

"It will give you nausea."

"Permit me to find out. Dash it, I'm hungry!" Hawksley declared. "I'm no
fever patient. A smart rap on the head; nothing more than that. Healthy
food will draw the blood down from there. Haven't lost anything but a
few hours of consciousness, and you treat me as though I'd been jolly
well peppered with shrapnel and gassed. Touch that stuff? Rather not!
Chops or beefsteak!"

"Let him have it, Miss Frances," advised Cutty from the doorway.

"But it's unusual," replied the nurse as a final protest.

"Give it a try. Is he strong enough to sit up through breakfast?"

"He's really not fit. But if he insists on doing the one he might as
well do the other."

"Righto!"--from the patient.

"Will you tell Kuroki to make it a beefsteak breakfast for four? I know
how Mr. Hawksley feels. Been through the same bout." Cutty wanted Miss
Frances out of the room.

"Very well. Only, I've warned him." Miss Frances left, somewhat miffed.

"Thanks," said Hawksley, smiling. "She thinks I'm a canary."

"Whereas you're an eagle."

"Or a vulture."

Cutty chew up a chair. "Frankly, I believe a good breakfast will put you
a peg up."

"A beefsteak!" Hawksley stared ecstatically at the ceiling. "You see,
I'm naturally tough. Always went in for rough sports--football, rowing,
boxing. Poor old Stefani's idea; and not so bad, either. Of course he
was always worrying about my hands; but I always took great care to keep
them soft and pliant. Which sounds rummy, considering the pounding I
used to give and take. My word, I used to go to bed with my hands done
up in ointments like a professional beauty! Of course I'm dizzy yet, and
the bally spot is sore; but solid food and some exercise will have me
off your hands in no time. I don't fancy being coddled, y'know. I've
been trouble enough."

"Don't let that worry you. I'll bring some togs in; flannels and soft
shirts. We're about the same height. Anyhow, the difference won't be
noticeable in flannels. I've had to tell Miss Conover a bit of fiction.
I'll tell you, so if need arises you can back me up."

When Cutty finished his romance Hawksley frowned. "All said and done,
if I'm not that splendid old chap's protege, what am I? But for his
patience and kindness I'd have run true to the blood. He was with me at
the balancing age, when a chap becomes a man or a rotter. He actually
gave up a brilliant career because of me. He is a great musician, with
that strange faculty of taking souls out of people and untwisting them.
I have the gift, too, in a way; but there's always a bit of the devil in
me when I play. Natural bent, I fancy. And they've killed him!"

"No," said Cutty, slowly. "But this is for your ear alone: He's alive;
and one of these days I'll bring him to you. So buck up."

"Alive! Stefani alive!" whispered Hawksley. He stretched out his hand
rather blindly, and Cutty was surprised at the strength of the grip.
"Makes me feel choky. I say, are all Americans good Samaritans?"

Cutty put this aside because he did not care to disillusion Hawksley.
"I found an appraiser's receipt in your wallet. You carried some fine
jewels. Did you hide them or did Karlov get them? It struck me as
odd that you haven't inquired about them." The change that came into
Hawksley's face alarmed Cutty. The rich olive skin became chalky and the
eyes closed. "What is it? Shall I call Miss Frances?"

"No." Hawksley opened his eyes, but looked dully straight ahead. "The
stones! I was trying to forget! My God, I was trying to forget!"

"But they were yours?" Cutty was mystified beyond expression.

"Yes, mine, mine, mine!"--panting. "Damn them! Some day I'll tell you.
But just now I can't toe the mark. I was trying to forget them!
Against my heart, gnawing into my soul like the beetle of the Spanish
Inquisition!" Silence. "But they were future bread and butter--for
Gregor as well as for myself. They got them, and may they damn Karlov as
they have damned me! I had no chance when I returned to Gregor's. They
were on me instantly. I put up a fight, but I'd come from a lighted room
and was practically blind. Let them go. Most of those stones came out
of hell, anyhow. Let them go. There is an unknown grave between those
stones and me."

The level despair of the tone appalled Cutty. A crime somewhere? There
was still a bottom to this affair he had not plumbed? He rose, deeply
agitated.

"I'll fetch those togs for you. Miss Conover will breakfast with us, and
the sight of her will give you a brace. I'm sorry. I had to ask you."

"Beefsteak and a pretty girl! That's something. I suppose she was
trapped by the lift not running." Hawksley was trying to meet Cutty
halfway to cover up the tragedy. "I say, why the deuce do you let her
live where she does?"

"Because I'm not legally her guardian. She is the daughter of the man
and woman I loved best. All I can do is to watch over her. She lives on
her earnings as a newspaper writer. I'd give her half of all I have if I
had the least idea she would accept it."

"Fond of her?"

"Fond of her!" repeated Cutty. "Why, of course I'm fond of her!" There
was a touch of indignation in his tone.

"Is she fond of you?"

"I suppose so." What was the chap driving at?

"Then marry her," suggested Hawksley with a cynical smile; "make a
settlement and give her her freedom. Simple enough. What?"

Cutty stepped back, stunned and terrified. "She would laugh at me!"

"You never can tell," replied Hawksley, maintaining the crooked smile.
The devil was blazing in his eyes now. "Try it. It's being done every
day; even here in this big America of yours. From the European point
of view you have compromised her--or she has compromised herself, by
spending the night here. Convention has been disregarded. A ripping good
chance, I call it. You tell me she wouldn't accept benefits, and you
want to help her. If she's the kind I believe her to be, even if she
refuses you she will not be angry. You never can tell what woman will or
won't do."

An old and forgotten bit of mental machinery began to set up a
ditter-datter in Cutty's brain. Marry Kitty? Make a settlement, and
then give her her freedom? Rot! Girls of Kitty's calibre were above
such expediencies. He tried to resurrect his interest in the drums of
jeopardy, which he might now appropriate without having to shanghai his
conscience. The clitter-clatter smothered it; indeed, this new racket
upset and demoralized the well-ordered machinery of his thinking
apparatus as applied daily. Marry Kitty!

"I'm old enough to be her father."

"What's that to do with it so long as convention is satisfied?"

Cutty was so shaken and confused that he missed the tragic irony of the
voice. All the receptive avenues to his brain seemed to have shut down
suddenly. He was conscious only of the clitter-clatter. Marry Kitty!

"You can't settle money on her," went on Hawksley, "without scandal. You
can't offer her anything without offending her. And you can't let her go
to rust without having her bit of good times."

"Utterly impossible," said Cutty, to the idea rather than to his
tormentor.

"Oh, of course, if you have an affair--No, God forgive me, I don't
mean that! I'm a damned ingrate! But it appealed to them to find out his
intentions and to thwart them. From new they took, which was sister
to the hardships of life and so repugnant to stand helpless, a belated
good fortune to create. And they comforted them, lovingly and intimately,
as they only could speak to her, and was satisfied, as a smile
once verschüchtertes Frohsinn of certainty and happiness shining
now so silent face Gertrud aufhellte.

The two sisters had a child very dearly stood, despite the age difference.
Gertrude, the elderly, the Prinzeßchen, beautiful as the day and
from all over the world on their hands to take, the less pretty,
was still shy sister with almost maternal tenderness kept and
maintained, and always tried to include them in the forefront to
push.

Their mother, an Englishwoman, from impoverished, elegant home, its
time partner in the head forester of a family friend, had died when the
girls ten and six years old. Both imaginary today with idolatrous
worship of the smiling young mother, whose image had become Gertrud. Well,
the laughter was Gertrud with time elapsed, while Maggie, the formerly
dark, silent, now often merriness übersprudelte; not from the sunny,
harmless cheerfulness with which Gertrude is in every heart
hineingeschmeichelt, but a deliberate, masterful natures to get
used to because they know when they need it.

By its very nature, had also the ratio of the two sisters to
each other changed. Gertrude, the former child happiness, warm-hearted,
guileless, unconsciously penetrated by their power, now in the rough hands
of her husband has become limp and without, sought protection with Maggie.
This, Gertrud married since left to themselves, had come with their inner
wisdom and cold of their environment, and free long dominated by
apathy and calculation under the mask of kindness everything. unconcerned
about the present and future, which it certainly tastes together forge
wanted, she had in her appearance to a beauty unfolded, and the force
actually Health blooming at the height of its development was.

Some of the landowners of the circle, here and there a young forest
assessor or someone else from the company tried seriously to them,
but with a large bar, she went every crucial issue out of the way
and knew their Admirer as friends to receive. She did not want to
"evaporate", as they are told. Their entire force should be turned
out, the position of strength to it according to their needs in
mind. Had the opportunity to do so soon, so she had to seek
such. It was now time. - So yesterday she had thought of as the father
of Seckersdorf said.

Today was different. Now she came back not provisionally eligible.

Now only the poor, pale woman. "It is good for us but others," she
thought, "that people such as Gertrude, exist. That you love them so
can you show yourself that you in fact is also very kind. And while
you can see how not to do it if you do want to come forward.

"Was it really to believe that Gertrude, with all its
beauty and grace and loving-kindness so susceptible Kurowski had
not captivate them? That would be like a lot, so a task for her, Maggie,
have been.

But she wanted so do not even imagine - even now in such impossible
ideas.

Then it would have even the thought of Seckersdorf can come - but they
just wanted to fight for Gertrude. "The light is off, because you do
not like it," said a quiet inner voice. »Blond, quiet and
restrained, is not your taste." Now they are quietly stamped with
his foot and went to Gertrude geradenwegs to make them savory and tender
kiss. "You believe that I love thee?" She asked passionately. "You
do something from me? I'm the only one to which you have full
confidence? "" But, Maggie, to whom else should I do in my terrible
situation? ... You're my only stop ... The children are still so
small. "" Yes, the children, the children! "Maggie quickly changed the
conversation." But we have with the whole body so much to bereden. Come,
darling, if you still know what carpentry straightening and kitchen
and pantry mean ...

BTW, if not, you will learn it again just now.

You have far too much pampering, my noble mistress!

"Gertrude smiled and went willingly with her Miss Perl, named after
the economy in particular, while in fact long since Maggie the
large, rural budget.

We discussed the classification of the room above, the supervision
of children and small household current, which now again Gertrud
should participate.

They did it with feverish zeal. She was tenderly and active concern
for the children, they ordered in for her and the boys given two
rooms here and there. There was not much about it out, but she was
busy.

She brought over these troubled full hours in which her heart was
anxious and afraid, in which the thought: "What is now?"

She zermarterte in which the silent durchhuschende clue: "It's a good
thing - perhaps the Fortunately, "it was for pain. After a long, silent
walk through the forest herbstatmenden, now in clear, almost winter sun
gold, the remaining vestiges of its summer charms peaceful and austere
ausstreute in whose dreamlike silence a few shrill bird sounds,
the rustling of the withered leaves, the children's voices aufjubelnden
the only signs of life were, then came the sisters tired arm in arm
home.

Both love each other completely, and yet the feelings of the giver, the
other as a receiving end.

"How good it is, when Maggie and daheim to be, "Gertrude, and thought:
'How beautiful it is, for a dear man plans to make and it is so wonderful
to behave," thought Maggie. That night both slept well. The next morning
was a little Gertrud resilient, calm and assertive. * * * * * Soon after
breakfast, the head forester's youngest daughter in her arms and invited
them to explore the new beats mitzugehen. That was his habit so if
something he had on the heart, or in any business matter, with not
quite the pure was.

Maggie with her penetrating intellect usually met, what he is as old
Praktikus herausspintisiert had, and then he was satisfied. In their
impetuous and rarely satisfied Drange, to intervene in matters that
have their habitual Work hinausragten, she had always such a joy to
corridors.

She felt then still the most as the daughter of her father, whom she
thought otherwise often referred to as the "old man" anredete and
from which they basically do not quite understand that the nature
of him and they in such close connection hineingezwungen had. He
in turn was much too wise, than he that this shortage of cardiac
inclination would not understand, but he did not much of it. In the
deepest inside, he was convinced that his own feeling the same emptiness
instead. That's why they came but no less well with each other.

They were just two people with little heart needs, and what that sense of
family they were, they had to Gertrud geschüttet who need so much love
and was everything that she was so grateful to reciprocate understood.
To Gertrude would naturally act today. And most fire for its plan,
Maggie made for the long journey with the Father ready. He was obviously
nothing of all suspect and should have been the main tool. They beamed
formal, as they are adopted by the sister.

"You're really a beauty became, Maggie," said Gertrud and kissed
the rose-red face, the gray eyes glowed fiery and deliberately.
"I know no one who is so Rick Best end, as du If only you could bring.
But here ... "" Come come, is no concern, "said Maggie, laughing, and ran
down. Even the old man saw her with a touch of pride, which, like them,
very resilient and tension force, occurred to him."

Bist but a tight guy, "he said with appreciation. "If you as a would!"
"Maybe losing one of the wooden rackets his heart to me - or the
new area forester.

Seems a very considerable man to be "mocked Maggie." If everything is
alleged, child, "said the old man. "And if a girl is at first in
such cursed stories and silly letting, it needs not just to his
lieutenant, who comes in the way." "You know, Dad," said Maggie, now
seriously go to their destination, "that I suspected you did, then
you've got the whole story between Gertrude and Seckersdorf apart
brought?"

"You know, break it to you today, now the head no more," said the head
forester.

"The thing is barred. Help prefer the Gertrude on the right path and
strengthen they are not yet in their rebelliousness against Kurowski.

What else should just be?

"Maggie knew it well, but they thoughtfully pushed the yellow
leaves with red book in front of the toes on. "Yes, finally you can but
Gertrude can not abuse," she said. "If _die_ sues, it must already be
bad. And you know so well, what a life of love Kurt leads. I only
wonder that before the marriage did not have guessed. "" Oh, that was
already known. I thought only a woman, as our Gertrud, which it is
already accustomed to the house. "" Yes, except that the experiment
has failed, "said Maggie. "And now is the Gertrud miserable and consumed
with their two boys there." A certain indignation, half offended by
the sister, the half of himself afraid woman, took her almost speechless.
They broke a dry branch, which it by a pin bushes had torn and
threw the pieces are excited to continue.

The head forester bit on the lips and lowered his head. "He is a greyhound
stories in women's rooms," he said, "but otherwise a decent guy. And
then the children ... The Gertrude otherwise he will spoil like a
princess. And the scandal of so 'divorce its history! It is not ... tell
yourself, it's not ... "He looked unsure about Maggie out. In his
eyelashes sparkled a bit. That was his daughter had never seen in
him.

It gave her back her whole sangfroid. No, this should not happen. If
they did something for Gertrude, had no Gemütsduselei and no
superfluous excitation with undermined.

Cold and clever, she wanted to steer everything to their objectives,
the Association of Gertrude and Seckersdorfs.

"Yes, Dad, it's bad," she said beistimmend, "seh the 'ich schon ein
... but what can you do?

"Silently they went side by side for a while.

The stock moved. Instead of striving buntgefärbten Broadleaves old now,
moosbehangene firs on. Clear and stressed the golden sun through the
dark green, and gold patches blossomed on the forest floor to
brownish.

"Beautiful piece," said the old man. »The Endzipfel belongs to Tromitten."
"What was now Seckersdorf yesterday?" Asked Maggie. "Yes," replied
the head forester hesitatingly, "I was already on, that you get at the
end the Kurowski but not before the head encounter can. I have not
promised ... Überbürdung vorgeschützt me ausgebeten reflection.
However, I lose three to four thousand mark, - Marriage money, girl
... If you only knew ... Tell me, what is actually happening in Kurowskis
been? "Maggie said. The head forester shook his head and cursed." If the
Kurt but still behind her is her, "he said finally," that his wife
should not view whom she wants, it must be with the indifference and poor
treatment is not so bad. Perhaps the haunted Gertrude are really the
Seckersdorf around in your head ... then of course ... "said Maggie
resist zealously. The Gertrude would be far too much down, except
that they dächte such things. But too genteel and harmless, it would
also, and could not imagine that even their eyes put under all sorts of
significance. You should therefore ensure that they never Seckersdorf
zusammenträfe because who knows if not Kurowski just would have gone
to Berlin and Gertrude had left here alone, to make the case to
make?

Then it would be a convenient way to go, and the children belonged
to him.

"All the weather!" The head forester stopped and looked at his youngest
aback. That was an idea. Zuzutrauen And that's the guy, the Kurowski,
already.

Of course! The fact that it is itself also was not haggard!

Thank God that he Gertrud had still not taken. "And you know why, girl?
I was with the Seckersdorf in Oak beats agreed and thought now, if you
casually with him ... Na, and so on.

"Maggie was shocked that she was pale. So unprepared, so entirely without
zurechtgelegt to have the story of how they actually should launch ...
But she lifted her head again and saw with their eyes shining Falk
forward.

So much the better. The luck was with her. Maybe everything really did
so even more natural. As the father she so often accompanied miles,
before the world was the intention of a meeting excluded. They also
wanted to speculate and not left to chance, in what way they could
understand with Seckersdorf.

Now, while they were hale further, they talked about everything on Gertrud
references. The father, she had only said that it would be very
nice, the Seckersdorf so soon to meet, and then the interview itself
brought back to Gertrude.

It was so much to think, they had each other and the heart on the appearance
and tired, tired of being poor woman to be distributed to Kurowski
to scold his dazzling, unreliable character to dismember and finally
again on the return "The poor Gertrude, - what will it just be?"

Here, they went to hale and eventually came to the clearing at the
edge of a dozen ancient oaks "executed", as Maggie said.

The people greeted the Wardens stepped up. And from there, the opposite
side, where he led his horse, came across Hans Seckersdorf.

Maggie knew him at first sight. Now it was but the heart still. So
this man's fate, she wanted to steer. She had time to look at him while
he was on the lawn, opposite the father, with a loud greeting to
him zuschritt.

He was very tall, slim as it it in the Uniform remembered, he
contributed to the relatively small head high, was somewhat stiff
in the movements.

The face, like a regular Mars mask with mustache aschblondem,
including a soft chin. The whole thing is dominated by a few
blue eyes wide under the eyelids, strangely quiet and solid looking,
- all in all, a man, where you do not pass so easily could.

Now even made Maggie a few steps forward.

Vivid in color, freshness and youth force breathing, she joined him,
stretched out at ease from the hand and cried the old friend, her
"first dance", a happy welcome contrary.

"Papa told me that we would meet here, and I was quite pleased. "He
squeezed her hand and spoke of joyful surprise, while he mustered half
but looking, half-embarrassed. Maggie thought of Gertrude and what they
should say now. He read to her from the eyes? He looked really
quite odd, it - begging, and researching and restless at the
same time. Or was it the everything? Almost seemed so. The head forester
was the Word, and Seckersdorf turned very quickly after him. Also, the
first cuts to a giant tree made, the head forester gave some
instructions.

Seckersdorf looked and listened with intense attention to. "I'm learning,"
he said with apologetic look at Maggie. At that moment came with
the supervisor of a calculation in the head forester approached.

"Of course!" Said the head forester after a short test. "Excuse me,
please, a moment, dear Seckersdorf."

He came over to the people, and Maggie stood alone beside Seckersdorf,
with beating hearts and spähendem furtive glance.

Yes, behind his motionless face worked there, his eyes betrayed's, -
that is next!
Am I selfish? I can't say
No to you and I can't say Yes. Yet I should be a liar if I did not say
that everything in me leaps toward the idea. It is both hateful and
fascinating. Common sense says Yes; and something else in me says No.
I like dainty things, dainty surroundings. I want to travel, to see
something of the world. I once thought I had creative genius, but I
might as well face the fact that I haven't. Only by accident will I ever
earn more than I'm earning now. In a few years I'll grow old suddenly.
You know what the newspaper game does to women. The rush and hurry of
it, the excitements, the ceaseless change. It is a furnace, and women
shrivel up in it quicker than men."

"There won't be any nonsense, Kitty. An hour before I go aboard my ship.
I'll go back to the job the happiest of men. Molly's girl taken care of!
Just before your father died I promised him I'd keep an eye on you. I
never forgot, but conditions made it impossible. The apartment will
be yours as long as you need it. Kuroki, of course, goes with me. It's
merely going by convention on the blind side. To leave you something in
my will wouldn't serve at all, I'm a tough old codger and may be
marked down for a hale old ninety. All I want is to make you happy and
carefree."

"Cutty, I'd like to curl up in some corner and cry, gratefully. I didn't
know there were such men. I just don't know what to do. It isn't as
if you were asking me to be your wife. And as you say, I can't accept
money. There is a pride in me that rejects the whole thing; but it may
be the same fool pride that has cut away my friends. I ought to fall on
your neck with joy: and here I am trying to look round corners! She
was afraid if they Maggie freshness, their wisdom and grace of thought.
But even a first step, in order to determine Hans? No, comity was brazen
in their criminal case. She could only wait, if he loved her, as she
believed. Feel and custom demanded it. And Gertrude obeyed. In all of
her brooding, despair and hope, met unexpectedly a letter to her
husband.

Ironically friendly, how to work with children to talk care of them,
in the tone that he took her when he was in good mood, he called
them, to come to Nice, with the children and operation.

It would be nice there, and he's had made her finally their whims
abzugewöhnen.

Because she knew, almost for the first time in life, what they had to do.
She spoke with no one on the letter and replied to him on the spot.
Cool and calm, she addressed her husband, and that why she wanted a
separation, and told him that after his behavior against them Further,
he would have nothing in its way. After Nice, they would of course
not. Whether they would remain with her father, she knew not yet, but
it would in the near future can communicate. This was the fight
started. In a sense, from your self through this and they certainly
are not approved to step inside divorced have now moved to Gertrud day
more of them back. It was her slightly, as the head forester was a lot
and Maggie herself out of the way went.

It was her now quite clear that the sister is not in a nasty, strange
mood had spoken to her, but that they would be able to seriously as their
enemy to act. And so she saw her father in the home position to be
untenable, felt that they are, once so loved and spoiled daughter, no
longer looked like there, and understood that they will sooner or later
with their children to another place would have to search for. Of
course, they trembled before the crucial step, they are frightened at
the uncertainty conditions, which they held so little resources,
entgegenging.

But it seemed to her everything but not so impossible, even without the
help of his father. Could they hope, beyond the old life, the strong hand,
which she never again wanted to leave. * * * * * Maggie has always been
solid in their resolve. Often they are asked: "Am I actually in
love with Seckersdorf?" And winced as often armpits on this issue.
He liked her - of course. He was a powerful male appearance, and brought,
in spite of its simple nature, a touch of the great world itself.
He was once very rich.

His uncle, who had already been legally adopted, except had Romitten
Vorwerk, with its four major product in Saxony, whose earning capacity
is miracle told he was chamberlain, and had family relations in
the highest circles, of course, the adoptive son, also benefited.

So what are the prospects for them, the ordinary citizens head forester's
daughter from East Prussia! A chance of which they had never imagined.
Gertrud That it was seriously in the way, they are not underestimated.

And Cutty wanted her out of town for a few days. Burlingame had
intended sending Kitty out of town on an assignment during Easter week.
An exchange of telegrams that morning had closed the gap in time.

"Well, you might say 'Good morning.'"

"I beg your pardon, Burly!" In newspaper offices you belong at once or
you never belong; and to belong is to have your name sheared to as
few syllables as possible. You are formal only to the city editor, the
managing editor, and the auditor.

"What's the matter?"

"I've been set in the middle of a fairy story," said Kitty, "and I'm
wondering if it's worth the trouble to try to find a way out. A Knight
of the Round Table, a prince of chivalry. What would you say if you saw
one in spats and a black derby?"

"Why," answered Burlingame, "I suppose I'd consider July first as the
best thing that could happen to me."

Kitty laughed; and that was what he wanted.

What had that old rogue been doing now--offering Kitty his
eighteen-story office building?

"It's odd, isn't it, that I shouldn't possess a little histrionic
ability. You'd think it would be in my blood to act."

"It is, Kitty; only not to mimic. You're an actress, but the Big
Dramatist writes your business for you. Now, I've got some fairly good
news for you. An assignment."

"Work! What is it?"

"I am going to send you on a visit to the most charming movie queen in
the business. She is going to return to Broadway this autumn, and she
has a trunkful of plays to read. I have found your judgment ace-high.
Mornings you will read with her; afternoons you will visit. She
remembers your mother, who was the best comedienne of her day. So she
will be quite as interested in you as you are in her. I want you to note
her ways, how she amuses herself, eats, exercises. I want you to note
the contents of her beautiful home; if she likes dogs or cats or horses.
You will take a camera and get half a dozen good pictures, and a page
yarn for Easter Sunday. Stay as long as she wants you to."

"But who?"

Burlingame jerked his thumb toward a photograph on the wall.

"Oh! This will be the most scrumptious event in my life. I'm wild about
her! But I haven't any clothes!"

Burlingame waved his hands. "I knew I'd hear that yodel. Eve didn't have
anything to speak of, but she travelled a lot. Truth is, Kitty, you'd
better dress in monotones. She might wake up to the fact that you're a
mighty pretty young woman and suddenly become temperamental. She has
a husband round the lot somewhere. Make him think his wife is a lucky
woman. Here's all the dope--introduction, expenses, and tickets. Train
leaves at two-fifty. Run along home and pack. Remember, I want a page
yarn. No flapdoodle or mush; straight stuff. She doesn't need any
advertising. If you go at it right you two will react upon each other as
a tonic."

Kitty realized that this little junket was the very thing she
needed--open spaces, long walks in which to think out her problem.
She hurried home and spent the morning packing. When this heartrending
business was over she summoned Tony Bernini.

"I am going out of town, Mr. Bernini. I may be gone a week."

"All right, Miss Conover." Bernini hid a smile. He knew all about this
trip, having been advised by Cutty over the wire.

Through this freedom, this property alone, of poets ways; the point
again with the artist and their works are most similar to each other
alsdenn if the same effect is the same lively, but not if one of
the soul through the ear, more or less beibringet than the other
eye can be.

According to this principle would Boivin Homer replace the
judge, and he would not so much special paintings that have made several
times as he believed it should be noted. It is true, it probably was not
anything Homer says, in a single painting linked to the accusation and
denial, the presentation of witnesses and the acclamation of the
divided nation, the ambition of the turmoil heralds the breastfeeding,
and the utterances of Schiedesrichter are things that follow on
each other, and can not coexist.

But what about me with the school terms, not in actu the painting
was included, which was virtute is the only true and kind, a
substantive nachzuschildern painting with words, is that the latter
one with the really visible, and for not in the limitations of art
holds within which the poet, although the data to a painting
herzählen, but never a painting itself can generate.

Boivin cut the same way, the painting of the besieged city of 3) in three
different paintings. He would have as much share in the twelve, as
in three. Because he the spirit of the poet is not seized and
demanded of him that he had the units of the physical painting itself
must submit: so he had far more violations of these units may find
that it almost would have been necessary, any particular course of
density special panel on the shields to be determined.

I believe, however, Homer is not more than ten different paintings
on the whole shield, which he each with an en eteuxe men, or en de
poihse or en d 'etiJei or en de poikille AmjigueiV begins 4).

Where these input words are not, you have no right to adopt a special
painting on the contrary, must be all that they combine as one to
be the only purely arbitrary concentration in a single time shortage,
as what the poet has to be indicated, route was not kept.

Rather, he would have given him, he would have just kept it, if he
had not the slightest introduced train, in the actual execution is
not expected to combine with it; with words, he would proceed as
his Tadler require it is true, then would these gentlemen here did
not find him, but in fact, no man of taste to admire it. (3rd v.
509-540.) (4th The first begins with the 483rd Line, and go up to
the 489th, the second of 490-509, the third of 510-540, 541-549 of
the fourth, the fifth of 550-560, 561-572 of the sixth, the seventh
from 573-586 ; 587-589 of the eighth, the ninth from 590 to 605,
and the tenth of 606-608.

But the third painting, the input words are not: but it is from the second,
en de duw poihse poleiV, and from the nature of the thing itself,
clearly enough that there is a particular painting to be.)

Pope was the division and drawing of the Boivin not only liked, but
thought something really important to do if he was now also showed that
each of these paintings as zerstückten under the strictest rules of present
day conventional painting was given. Contrast, perspective, the three
units, all he found was the best observed.

And even if he probably knew that good credible evidence, the
painting at the times of the Trojan War have been in the cradle,
but then had to either Homer, by means of his divine genius, not
only in what the painting at that time or in his time could afford,
kept, rather than have to guess what they are capable of that, or
even those testimonies were not credible so as to prevent them the
apparent meaning of the artificial shield does not deserve to be
preferred.

That might assume whosoever will, this will at least no one can
talk about that from the history of art something more than mere
data recorders of history knows.

After that the painting of Homer times even in their childhood,
says he is not merely because it is a Pliny or so says one, but mainly
because it comes from the works of art which the ancients do urteilet
that after many centuries they have not yet progressing much, and
for the painting of an E.

Polygnotus still long the sample should not endure what the Pope paintings
of Homeric shield is to be believed. The two major pieces of this master
of Delphi, of which Pausanias us such a complicated description
of leaving 5), were apparently without any perspective.

He could dig up all this dry information with the precise
accuracy of an economist, all the while his actual thoughts upon Kitty.
His nights were nightmares. And all this unhappiness because he had been
touched with the lust for loot. Fundamentally, this catastrophe could be
laid to the drums of jeopardy.

The alluring possibility of finding those damnable green stones--the
unsuspected kink in his moral rectitude--had tumbled him into this pit.
Had not Kitty pronounced the name Stefani Gregor--in his mind always
linked with the emeralds--he would have summoned an ambulance and had
Hawksley carried off, despite Kitty's protests; and perhaps he would
have seen her but two or three times before sailing, seen her in
conventional and unemotional parts. At any rate, there would have been
none of this peculiar intimacy--Kitty coming to him in tears, opening
her young heart to him and discovering all its loneliness. If she
loved some chap it would not be so hard, the temptation would not be
so keen--to cheat her. Marry her, and then tell her. This dogged his
thoughts like a murderer's deed, terrible in the watches of the night.
Marry her, and then tell her. Cheat her. Break her heart and break his
own.

Fifty-two. Never before had he thought old. His splendid health and
vigorous mentality were the results of thinking young. But now he heard
the avalanche stirring, the whispering slither of the first pebbles. He
would grow old swiftly, thunderously. I would prefer out today, but we
are marching back and forth our taut twenty kilometers! "" Of course,
Dad, as always, "said Maggie Gertrude and grazed, the pale and
agitated sat opposite her, with a triumphant glance.

The head forester smiled mischievously and stroked up Gertrud hair.
"Yes, this is a peculiar Margell that Maggie, - so what did you ever."
"No," answered Gertrude, and her look was dark, "that I could never."
With big, pleading, demanding eyes, she saw Maggie on. But do not watch
it.

Gertrude would yelp like: "Take me with you" A hot pressed
fear their hearts together. "We want to immediately handle the
messenger, papa," said Maggie, "so we Seckersdorf right on the spot
can be found. I will even write a few words. "" You, girl, muff 'dich
nicht, "said the astonished father. "Writing letters ..." "I do it so
in your name, Papa," said Maggie resist, sat down at the old Bureau
cylinder and threw a couple of lines on a letter lying there. Gertrude
looked with burning eyes.

As they went, and nodded Maggie her very volatile, and the father gave
her little hands. How was that three weeks ago was different, and
how did it come? Fearful and humiliated, she saw the two as set out
in the forest einbogen. Maggie clear, loud voice schallte much to
her over and she believed the beloved names to understand. "I do not
want to remember," she took himself and wiped the damp brow. "If
they knew how it haunts me! And it will benefit you nothing. He is
beautiful and better in the world meets the long eight years long,
and is still good to me. "Thus comforted, and they went to their
daily activities.

The head forester and Maggie came under his efficient forward. It was
a pleasure, so to wander. The November seemed to be in a springtime
turns to have.

A soft blue fragrance umschmiegt the treetops, the sun cast here and there,
a warm, reddish slip through the gray Gewölk, hood Lerchen drove in the
wagon tracks around twittering, and in the air is tummelten in dense
flocks of crows. The head forester whistled the Dessauer Marsch .

He was in good spirits. "And now tell me, Maggie," he began after a
prolonged silence on, "what do we do with Gertrude?" "Yes, Dad,"
Maggie replied hesitantly, "I have long wanted to talk about it with
you . I do not like talking it out, but it's probably better I do it
...

The Gertrude has the Seckersdorf in the head. "Hagedorn made big eyes.
"There is but the devil ... I will be there but - "" Yes, and
you know Dad, I'm with fault, "Maggie went quickly continued.

"They did me so terribly sorry, and Seckersdorf seemed to them to
be interested.

Da hab 'ich zugeredet their own, and now ...

"The head forester went on indignantly. »Go to the devil, because
you're both so ... Do you know that the stupid and vile is what hast
thou done?" Maggie was under the impression that they get by their
openness to the Father absolution for their behavior against Gertrude.
"Yes, Dad, you'll be right ...

But now, now that everything has changed - "" Now do you want the Seckersdorf
yourself! Do not lie ... Now you're both behind him! I could slap you.
The Gertrude is sent immediately after Laukischken, and Kurowski werd
'I write ... There is a me ... this should happen in my home ... my
daughters ... "" Papa, ereifere thee not, "said Maggie cold," so that
you change nothing. "" oho ... the story is now quite clear to me,
"cried the head forester, and ran furiously on.

"You're actually a torn ... You have to Seckersdorf so = = Braci pani
asked him, as it were lured with Gertrude. "No, Dad, I was only the forest
Lacker haggard society that myself but I really am the next one." And
they continued him apart, like everything had come. As it passes through
Gertrud tenderness for their children had become aback, as they gradually
are passed on to other problems in a divorce who have, and how all
the little Gertrude had grown, and finally, would also twenty-four
years and their own future in been considered.

In short, they told everything, how it behaved, in fact, only the dishonest
side of the whole thing, they have ignored, and their debt against the
sister said she did not. The head forester was stunned. He had the
idea of a separation and Gertrud Kurowskis, since the house is not more
talk of it was, quite by itself shelved. The Leutchen had just gezankt
that came before, which had once vigorously Gertrud occurred, which
was her, the man opposite, only benefit, and the matter would have
been einrenken when Kurowski first came home.

Sometimes it's so went through your head that may be due to Gertrud
the lot between Maggie and Seckersdorf could not come, but that Gertrude
Seckersdorf stated he had not guessed. He overwhelmed with Maggie
allegations. He found it so shamelessly that it under such circumstances
of hope made. You would have to be seen whether Seckersdorf would,
if left would Gertrud. And that happened on the spot, his first concern
should be.

Maggie was the father quietly ausschelten and then set him apart, what
they had to think about. Kurowski had to come back, but the way it
should be Gertrud not too easily be made. He would divorce anyway so
averse to the boy because of which he hung, and also because the most
convenient wife Gertrud for him.

The head forester rustled again that he is not such a sneaky einließe.
Women's wife and would remain there, he does not tolerate the scandal
and wanted to make clear that Gertrude, as soon as he saw it. "Tu 'is
not, Papa," said Maggie, "otherwise you verfährst the whole thing.
When Gertrud Seckersdorf and still some, everything is free, what
we do.

It depends on how you view it all off. And that's why today I am
mitgekommen, - not for my sake. "The head forester, it looked great,
and knew in his amazement about their cool calculation nothing to say."
Look, Dad, "Maggie went to continue. "I'm far too honest. Finally, I
do not know if's Seckersdorf succeed with me ..." "Say not so naughty,"
the head forester went on. Maggie saw him firmly. "Please, why not commend
what you feel? Had Gertrude had the courage of openness had, they
would not be running in her misfortune.

"The head forester did not know what he and his daughter should begin.
In fact, she had right, and the best solution would be if their plan
succeeded, and their Seckersdorf they won, but that it entangled in the
intrigue him somehow to accomplice against Gertrud made, although
these he caused enough headaches, which enraged him, and admiration
for the cold-blooded, purposeful action prevented Maggie not to say
that he for a heart-free, that was unfortunate creature. So they liked
their own ways, but it can from the games. "Not a word I will continue
to hear - not a word," he scolded.

"And now you come with for the last time and will meet in this way the
Seckersdorf do not show up. I am an honest man, look forward, if I send
my daughters well knows, but as a human shrewedly capture for his own
sister raves, ugh! And Gertrude - a married woman! This comes just from
the fact that her mother grew up without you. "Maggie let him continue
to talk and thought that their part. You knew if he was the first
necessary indignation would have spoken from the heart, he would consider
the matter and ultimately very happy, when the first Kurowskische would
Matrimonial eingerenkt.

Seckersdorf they found a small hunting wagon at the meeting point.
His honest face beamed when he saw Maggie. But you had a bad feeling,
almost like aversion, when they gave him the hand and thought: "This
joy is the expectation of Gertrud to hear." It really seemed as if
her father was participating in a debate with Seckersdorf prevent He
wanted only took hold of his, gave him instructions as if even those
responsible for the supervision of, and what was the worst,
Seckersdorf listened with attention to the fullest, and asked could
teach, and said even so persistently to the people that they finally
impatient remark made about his eagerness.

He turned around. "Excuse me," he asked. "I am a country man with body
and soul, and in Saxony can use what I learn here. Isenburg We have
very similar forest conditions." "You go back?" She asked, glad
to pick up a conversation can. "Probably." The head forester
called him before he could add something, again.

It was one of the few tribes posed a strange forest character noticed
and asked for its meaning.

Seckersdorf they knew not. The head forester spoke about presumptions,
warned against timber thieves, in the area an impudent beings too,
and that both men ereiferten so that Maggie dejected herging behind
them and their current attempt to be regarded as inappropriate began.

It rose, but the desire is to make, together with the Abneigungsgefühl
against Seckersdorf of their intention so that difficult.

And her when her father once, from the published interview, in which
they could not take part in a triumphant glance zuwarf cunningly
cooked a sharp anger against him, and Gertrud Seckersdorf in her.

But then again, it was very cold. "Well exactly," she said, and
waited patiently, and angry at the same time. And their hours were.
The weather changed suddenly. The wind seemed to be the heavy clouds,
the bulky and immobile on the forest had stood with einemal niederzudrücken.
They fell as thick, almost dripping fog settled, which is every moment
more zusammenzog and in the shortest possible time an efficient
land rainfall had to be. The head forester, based on its weather
much einbildete, was beside himself. Two days still have the weather
hold, and now äffte it in such a manner.

"If I were alone, I do not talk much," he said finally. "But that
comes from, if you have a weak father." Maggie laughed. "I am a little
bit of rain but nothing, and my dress Loden is also used to it."
"But my lord, my car is there ... Of course I am going home! "Said
Seckersdorf, half embarrassed, half-happy. He moved Maggie with a
glance. You saw him amazed and reproachful to, because it was contrary
to deny that he entered the house of his father came from.

He seemed to her but to reply: "But that's = = force majeure, because you
see the not?" The head forester to understand both. "No, my dear friend,
take the 'I am not," he said. "Five miles in a trip is too much for
your Gäule!" Seckersdorf stutzte. In a trip? That was a clear rejection
of his stay in the house, every movement with him. He bowed so courteously
and made a blank face, but from the hard disappointment defeated
hervorguckte. The big boy! Maggie was annoying. "I want you to make another
proposal, a neighbor," the old man drove away, the second time in his
willful silence encourages. "To you, we have just ten kilometers.
Take me and my girl just after Romitten, give us a plate of soup,
and send us to the Kutschierpferden or moldy home.

Einverstanden? "" With a thousand joys, "cried Seckersdorf breathe a
sigh of relief. "If you, and especially the gracious lady, in my
bachelor household vorliebnehmen?" Even Maggie felt this solution as a
happy and rejoiced in the adventure, because something similar it would
be. While entrances, she said halblaut him: "Dad was right, you could
not!" Then she took with his father on the front seat space, while
the coachman's seat led her up the reins. We drove in silence from the
forest out of the boring, bordered by rowan Chaussee. The rain moved
like waves in the fields on both sides, the wind was quiet and no
living being revealed.

The head forester had freezing rain in his gray skirt wrapped.

Maggie was sitting straight and stiff in their place, even in silence.
Only once they inquired about the boundaries of Romitten, and when
they were reached, was a kind Polykratesgefühl over them.

"That's all I untertänig." And she particularly amused that, in
reality the field and should include the hallway once, not suspecting
that they shared ideas with him that it is compatible with the firm
determination in his future belonged to import: "Here, I live in
recently, if I do not prefer the 'world' to see."

What a noise there was about them. A wild and energetic champion will
rustled through their thoughts and their appearance was a strong, new
stimulus. As she jumped from the car before even Seckersdorf could
help her, big, research-based look at the gray house mustered,
with a laugh, from which a restrained cheer klang, the cap of her
jacket and pushed his head on the threshold of the door, the man
with the hasty and silent ancestors had not yet opened, the two men
a wanton "Welcome!"

zurief because Seckersdorf went back in front of the splendid
appearance kraftatmenden the girl to him with all the original
freshness of youth and hope entgegenlachte.

Then everything went quite and programmäßig. Maid servant and provided
them perfectly.

Maggie has been removed from the grand staircase hall, in which a Bank
from ancient Holzrat with a huge bearskin before, Kürasse old and rusty
weapons and a lot of dry harvest their crowns fell into the eye,
altväterisch into a comfortable, snug little room, in which all
indications that it is for the exclusive use for women was intended.

"There is still so used to her," remarked the young smart maid, "and
the gracious Lord has it again in order to create, so that when
women who have their place.

"Maggie nodded.

They would like for her life asked what the ladies bachelor Seckersdorf
visited, but that contradicted their habits so much that she remained
silent and the girls now in the patronizing friendly, safe way wrong
with the people so much impressed her.

Fresh and hair trimmed, she went under the leadership of the girl in
the dining room. From the hall you just came from inside. It filled
an entire crop, had high wood paneling and venerable, uncomfortable,
but to make household items, you saw him that he had been used by
generations was.

Alien, ancient tableware also covered the small window on the middle
table prepared, it was on yellowish white, the finest damask, the
deep wrinkles fracture showed that long in the laundry cupboard had
rested.

The old glasses with thick legs wore a crown and two squiggled letters.
Maggie saw all this with almost greedy glances. Romitten was a former
Majorat that even before the extinction of the last heirs weak-witted
by the present owners, the uncle Seckersdorfs managed, then it was
over and a new genome for his youngest son should be applied.

Seckersdorf Su told, after he Maggie was underfoot. The head forester
was still missing, he moved to his coaxing the clothes.

Seckersdorf broke, as you anzurichten dinner began, and appeared
with Maggie in a corner window, apparently to her outside on the
big yellow Rasenrondel something to show.

"What about?

"he asked hurriedly. »What should I expect? Quick ...

I ask you ...

"Maggie looked at the ground. Now was the moment because, in which they
Gertrud and her own fate in their hands held. Bangigkeit and a tingling
feeling at the same time durchschauerten them, but they did not fluctuate.
Seckersdorf saw you with a regretful glance at which, at a deeper
expression of heartfelt sympathy. "I do not know quite," she said
looking, "Mr. von Seckersdorf, I would have to say as much. Basically,
I think yes but that Gertrud you think. I think it just! But I have
not so much understanding for the feeling of responsibility of a
mother. "" What does that mean, Miss Maggie?

"Asked Seckersdorf dismayed.

"Have you told your sister, what I see in Vokellen ..."

Maggie nodded. "Literally, Mr. von Seckersdorf." "And?" "She was happy
for a moment and said: 'This I knew, yes!" And then they become
quiet and this has exaggerated - I think it has because of their
children from all over with tenderness exclusive deals.

And when I - but I thought that it would help her a bit - she is
so frightened and in the best sense of the word formal, and I wanted
to let you also like to give ... "" Quick and easy?

"said Seckersdorf excited." Yes, she is very angry at me and has
forbidden me, as with you about them speak. "" You are prohibited?

"repeated Seckersdorf baffled. »Seriously prohibited? But you
yourself told me ..." He saw Maggie almost as helpless, as it often
did Gertrud. In such moments she felt for him something of the tenderness
which they had withdrawn from the sister. Literally loose your compassion
he probably did.

He took her hand and overhanging she said.

"They are good, Miss Maggie," he said quietly. "But, please, tell me, what
does that mean? Say it open. That's odd. Gertrude has with me not a
word spoken about this, but they said ... And I saw it even in ... ""
Are you for God's sake not worse by the poor Gertrude, "asked Maggie
softly. "You see, seven years married and unhappy in my opinion
-" "Of course!"

Said Seckersdorf with conviction. "All the world knows how shamelessly My
brother ... Sorry ... "Maggie made a defensive move." Yes, probably!
But I am not sure whether Kurowski not yet a great affection for Gertrude
has. The kids love it surely.

There are also letters between them changed, even though Dad and
Gertrude had said to me ...

No, I do not want to continue talking. It sounds almost as if I Gertrud
indictment that, as she says, a decent woman wants to stay.

"Then Seckersdorf on, and overshadowed his face with a course of haughty
surprise."

Did she say that? " he asked shortly. »Have I do about ...

But that can not be. Miss Maggie, do you remember our first meeting?
"She nodded eagerly. »Schelten me, I was hasty in my -" but the word
was not totally smooth on her lips - "my love for Gertrude. I tell you
also, inwardly certainly has not changed with it. But do not forget,
she was never very brave, and now she is eight years older and
more miserable and mother, and - "A tenderly compassionate smile
sparked his lips, which he had earlier aufeinandergepreßt."

And a slave man had raw, " Maggie went away, and threw a hurried glance
at Seckersdorf of a nervous twitching of her words could not
bemeistern.

Now he nodded a few anxious with his head.

"It may well be madness, after eight years of wanting to build a torn Case
, "he said almost shyly.

"It is true, Miss Maggie, but ... but I've now almost even better
than it was then. I want them nice and happy, and I thought, as you said
so then, let me once again succeed. If they would be free ... But God
will save me, to bereden or mislead, if it holds for sin. Law, it has
indeed, pure and good as it is.

No, I'm not sentimental or spans. What does not work, that is not possible.
I had already been so abgefunden ... But ... "He placed the large, white
hand over the face as he wanted it in this moment can not see.

Maggie was a time not felt well.

Like a stab them through the thought: "What are you doing?" And
afterwards: "What do you want even with this great Baby, which is
so completely fulfilled by the others?" There are not missing much and
they would eingelenkt. But there came into the head forester, and
we sat down to dinner. Seckersdorf made amiable and without some of his
excitement to tell the landlord only his eyes had a distracted, distressed
look and looked questioningly and reproachful Maggie, when she
made a cheerful note to deal with the father and herumstritt him
with all sorts of things tease.

"I will scatter thee, you have this lesson to help out," then told
him one time with her dark eyes expectant, and he responded with a
weak smile.

They in turn felt that it was pity him well, and played their role with
more satisfaction.

The food was moderate, the wines are good.

It is therefore considered to drinking, the men of course, and thanks to
Maggie playfulness - "she is always so," said the head forester - seemed
the small round table soon in cheerful mood. Seckersdorf laughed too
much. In a large increase in its care, the stranger himself, he was
almost loquacious. "I've never thought that I may be so," he admitted
honestly. "But, gracious lady understand it, a fun to make.

I've already noticed in the Waldlackern. "" That will always Gertrud,
"she said, as in thought, and then gently, secretly on radically.

"Whether he will not compare?" In the name of him back in the memory called,
he is an dreary face, but Maggie but triumphed. "Your wife's sister is
not so cheerful?" He asked politely. "God forbid , "said the head forester
in their place with more emphasis than necessary would have been. "It was
always just to watch and fondle. Na ... her husband, the so continued.
Do you think thousand marks he gives her pocket money each month,
which wants to read what our, that is my situation, where our
schindet and is a nuisance to the few thousand throughout the year
to earn them and all other household and to deny, "From because the
speech came on the service conditions, bureaucrats and property,
and what the change of the interview was associated.

Maggie was not with the usual polite ladies interested glance from one
to another, here and there making a positive move, but they eagerly
talked with. You never pondered much, but their unbiased observation,
their safe nature, for matching words to their thoughts, they seem
weltkluger much as it was, and since they are sometimes a really
feminine, with factual blunders undermined him, she came to the men
never be suspected of a verpönt erudition.

Seckersdorf saw her last full worshipful admiration for.

"What are you a girl?" Maggie sat on his looks.

"Good, smart and vivacious." It verplauderte during coffee. It was
already dämmrig as the head forester at the awakening thought. "Shame,"
said Maggie.

"I would really like the interesting old house seen.
When he opened them
the sidewalk and the street lamps were normal again.

As soon as he disappeared a new plan came to Kitty. She put it into
execution at once, on the basis that yonder taxicab was an enemy
machine. She left her retreat and walked boldly down the street, her
eyes alert for the least suspicious sign. If she could make the entrance
before they suspected the trick, she could obtain help before Johnny
Two-Hawks made the south turn. She reached her objective, pushed through
the revolving doors, and turned. Dimly she could see the taxi driver;
but he appeared to be dozing on the seat.

As a matter of fact, one of the three men in the taxi recognized
Kitty, but too late to intercept her. Her manoeuvre had confused him
temporarily. And while he and his companions were debating, Kitty had
time to summon Cutty's man from Elevator Four.

"Step into the car!" he roughly ordered, after she had given him a gist
of her suspicions. He turned off the lights, stepped out, and shut the
gates with a furious bang. "And stick to the corner! I'll attend to the
other fool."

He rushed into the street, his automatic ready, eyed the taxicab
speculatively, wheeled suddenly, and ran south at a dog-trot. He rounded
the south corner, but he did not see Hawksley anywhere. The dog-trot
became a dead run. As he wheeled round the corner of the parallel street
he almost bumped into Hawksley, who had a policeman in tow.

"Officer," said the man with the boy's face, "this is Federal business.
Aliens. Come along. There may be trouble. If there should be any
shooting don't bother with the atmosphere. Pick out a real target."

"Anarchists?"

"About the size of it."

"Miss Conover?" asked Hawksley.

"Safe. No thanks to you, though. I'd like to knock your block off, if
you want to know!"

"Do it! Damned little use to me," declared Hawksley, sagging.

"Here, what's the matter with you?" cried the policeman, throwing his
arm round Hawksley.

"They nearly killed him a few days gone. A crack on the bean; but he
wasn't satisfied. Help him along. I'll be hiking back."

But the taxicab was gone.

Before Cutty's lieutenant opened the gate to the apartment he spoke to
Hawksley. "The boss is doing everything he can to put you through, sir.
Miss Conover's wit saved you. For if you hadn't separated they'd have
nailed you. I've been running round like a chicken with its head cut
off. I forgot that door on the seventeenth floor. I tell you honestly,
you've been playing with death. It wasn't fair to Miss Conover."

"It was my fault," volunteered Kitty.

"Mine," protested Hawksley.

"Well, they know where you roost now, for a fact. You've spilled the
beans. I'm sorry I lost my temper. The devil fly away with you both!"
The boy laughed. "You're game, anyhow. But darn it all, if anything had
happened to you the boss would never have forgiven me. He's the whitest
old scout God ever put the breath of life into. He's always doing
something for somebody. He'd give you the block if you had the gall to
ask for it. Play the game fifty-fifty with him and you'll land on both
feet. And you, Miss Conover, must not come here again."

"I promise."

"I'll tell you a little secret. It was the boss who sent you out of
town. He was afraid you'd do something like this. When you are ready to
go home you'll find Tony Bernini downstairs. Sore as a crab, too, I'll
bet."

"I'll be glad to go home with him," said Kitty, thoroughly chastened in
spirit.

"That's all for to-night."

Kitty and Hawksley stepped out into the corridor, the problem they
had sought to shake off reestablished in their thoughts, added too, if
anything.

"How do you feel?"

"Top-hole," lied Hawksley. "My word, though, I wobbled a bit going
round that block. I almost kissed the hobby. I say, he thought I'd been
tilting a few. But it was a lark!"

"Dinner is served," announced Kuroki at their elbows. His expression was
coldly bland.

"Dinner!" cried Hawksley, brightening. "What does the American soldier
say?"

"Eats!" answered Kitty.

All tension vanished in the double laughter that followed. They
approached dinner with something of the spirit that had induced Hawksley
to fiddle and Kitty to pass the hat in front of the Metropolitan Opera
House. Hawksley's recuperative powers promised well for his future. By
the time coffee was served his head had cleared and his legs had resumed
their normal functions of support.

"I was so infernally bored!"

"And now?" asked Kitty, recklessly.

"Fancy asking me that!"

"Do you realize that all this is dreadfully improper?"

"Oh, I say, now! Where's the harm? If ever there was a young woman
capable of taking care of herself--"

"That isn't it. It's just being here alone with you."

"But you are not alone with me!"

"Kuroki?" Kitty shrugged.

"No. At my side of the table is Stefani Gregor; at yours the man who has
befriended me."

"Thank you for that. I don't know of anything nicer you could say. But
the outside world would see neither of our friends. I did not come here
to see you."

"No need of telling me that."

"I had a problem--a very difficult one--to solve; and I believed that I
might solve it if I came to these rooms. I had quite forgotten you."

Instantly, upon receiving this blunt explanation, he determined that she
should never cease to remember him after this night. His vanity was not
touched; it was something far more elusive. It was perhaps a recurrence
of that inexplicable desire to hurt. Somehow he sensed the flexible
steel behind which lay the soul of this baffling girl. He would
presently find a chink in the armour with that old Amati.

Blows on the head have few surgical comparisons. That which kills one
man only temporarily stuns another. One man loses his identity; another
escapes with all his faculties and suffers but trifling inconvenience.
In Hawksley's case the blow had probably restricted some current
of thought, and that which would have flowed normally now shot out
obliquely, perversely. It might be that the natural perverseness of his
blood, unchecked by the noble influence of Stefani Gregor and liberated
by the blow, governed his thoughts in relation to Kitty. The subjugation
of women, the old cynical warfare of sex--the dominant business of his
rich and idle forbears, the business that had made Boris Karlov a deadly
and implacable enemy--became paramount in his disordered brain.

She had forgotten him! Very well. He would stir the soul of her, play
with it, lift it to the stars and dash it down--if she had a soul.
Beautiful, natural, alone. He became all Latin under the pressure of
this idea.

"I will play for you," he said, quietly.

"Please! And then I'll go home where I belong. I'll be in the living
room."

When he returned he found her before a window, staring at the myriad
lights.

"Sit here," he said, indicating the divan. "I shall stand and walk about
as I play."

Kitty sat down, touching the pillows, reflectively. She thought of
the tears she had wept upon them. That sinister and cynical thought!
Suddenly she saw light. Her problem would have been none at all if Cutty
had said he loved her. There would have been something sublime in making
him happy in his twilight. He had loved and lost her mother. To pay
him for that! He was right. Those twenty-odd years--his seniority--had
mellowed him, filled him with deep and tender understanding. To be with
him was restful; the very thought of him now was resting. No matter how
much she might love a younger man he would frequently torture her by
unconscious egoism; and by the time he had mellowed, the mulled wine
would be cold. If only Cutty had said he loved her!

"What shall I play?"

Kitty raised her eyes in frank astonishment. There was a fiercely proud
expression on Hawksley's face. It was not the man, it was the artist who
was angry.

"Forgive me! I was dreaming a little," she apologized with quick
understanding. "I am not quite--myself."

"Neither am I. I will play something to fit your dream. But wait! When
I play I am articulate. I can express myself--all emotions. I am what
I play--happy, sad, gay, full of the devil. I warn you. I can speak all
things. I can laugh at you, weep with you, despise you, love you! All
in the touch of these strings. I warn you there is magic in this Amati.
Will you risk it?"

Ordinarily--had this florid outburst come from another man--Kitty would
have laughed. It had the air of piqued vanity; but she knew that this
was not the interpretation. On the streets he had been the most amusing
and surprising comrade she had ever known, as merry and whimsical as
Cutty--young and handsome--the real man. He had been real that night
when he entered through her kitchen window, with the drums of jeopardy
about his neck. He had been real that night she had brought him his
wallet.

Electric antagonism--the room seemed charged with it. The man had
stepped aside for a moment and the great noble had taken his place. It
was not because she had been reared in rather a theatrical atmosphere
that she transcribed his attitude thus. She knew that he was noble.
That she did not know his rank was of no consequence. Cutty's narrative,
which she had pretended to believe, had set this man in the middle
class. Never in this world. There was only one middle class out of which
such a personality might, and often did, emerge--the American middle
class. In Europe, never. No peasant blood, no middle-class corpuscle,
stirred in this man's veins. The ancient boyar looked down at her.

"Play!" said Kitty. There was a smile on her lips, but there was fiery
challenge in her slate-blue eyes. The blood of Irish kings--and what
Irishman dares deny it?--surged into her throat.

We wear masks, we inherit generations of masks; and a trivial incident
reveals the primordial which lurks in each one of us. Savages--Kitty
with her stone hatchet and Hawksley swinging the curved blade of Hunk.

He began one of those tempestuous compositions, brilliant and
bewildering, that submerge the most appreciative lay mentality--because
he was angry, a double anger that he should be angry over he knew not
what--and broke off in the middle of the composition because Kitty sat
upright, stonily unimpressed.

Tschaikowsky's "Serenade Melancolique." Kitty, after a few measures,
laid aside her stone hatchet, and her body relaxed. Music! She began to
absorb it as parched earth absorbs the tardy rain. Then came the waltz
which had haunted her. Her face grew tenderly beautiful; and Hawksley, a
true artist, saw that he had discovered the fifth string; and he played
upon it with all the artistry which was naturally his and which had been
given form by the master who had taught him.

For the physical exertions he relied upon nerve energy again. Nature
is generous when we are young. No matter how much we draw against the
account she always has a little more for us. He forgot that only an hour
gone he had been dizzy with pain, forgot everything but the glory of
the sounds he was evoking and their visible reaction upon this girl. The
devil was not only in his heart, but in his hand.

Never had Kitty heard such music. To be played to in this
manner--directly, with embracing tenderness, with undivided fire--would
have melted the soul of Gobseck the money lender; and Kitty was
warm-blooded, Irish, emotional. The fiddle called poignantly to the
Irish in her. She wanted to go roving with this man; with her hand on
his shoulder to walk in the thin air of high places. Through it all,
however, she felt vaguely troubled; the instinct of the trap. The
sinister and cynical idea which had clandestinely taken up quarters
in her mind awoke and assailed her from a new angle, that of youth.
Something in her cried out: "Stop! Stop!" But her lips were mute, her
body enchained.

Suddenly Hawksley laid aside the fiddle and advanced. He reached
down and drew her up. Kitty did not resist him; she was numb with
enchantment. He held her close for a second, then kissed her--her hair,
eyes, mouth--released her and stepped back, a bantering smile on his
lips and cold terror in his heart. The devil who had inspired this phase
of the drama now deserted his victim, as he generally does in the face
of superior forces.

Kitty stood perfectly still for a full minute, stunned. It was that
smile--frozen on his lips--that brought her back to intimacy with cold
realities. Had he asked her pardon, had he shown the least repentance,
she might have forgiven, forgotten. But knowing mankind as she did she
could give but one interpretation to that smile--of which he was no
longer conscious.

Without anger, in quiet, level tones she said: "I had foolishly thought
that we two might be friends. You have made it impossible. You have also
abused the kindly hospitality of the man who has protected you from your
enemies. A few days ago he did me the honour to ask me to marry him. I
am going to. I wish you no evil." She turned and walked from the room.

Even then there was time. But he did not move. It was not until he
heard the elevator gate crash that he was physically released from
the thraldom of the inner revelation. Love--in the blinding flash of a
thunderbolt! He had kissed her not because he was the son of his father,
but because he loved her! And now he never could tell her. He must let
her go, believing that the man she had saved from death had repaid her
with insult. On top of all his misfortunes, his tragedies--love! There
was a God, yes, but his name was Irony. Love! He stepped toward the
divan, stumbled, and fell against it, his arms spread over the pillows;
and in this position he remained.

For a while his thoughts were broken, inconclusive; he was like a man in
the dark, groping for a door. Principally, his poor head was trying to
solve the riddle of his never-ending misfortunes. Why? What had he
done that these calamities should be piled upon his head? He had lived
decently; his youth had been normal; he had played fair with men and
women. Why make him pay for what his forbears had done? He wasn't fair
game.

He! A singular revelation cleared one corner. Kitty had spoken of a
problem; and he, by those devil-urged kisses, had solved it for her. She
had been doddering, and his own act had thrust her into the arms of that
old thoroughbred. That cynical suggestion of his the other morning
had been acted upon. God had long ago deserted him, and now the devil
himself had taken leave. Hawksley buried his face in the pillow once
made wet with Kitty's tears.

The great tragedy in life lies in being too late. Hawksley had learned
this once before; it was now being driven home again. Cutty was to find
it out on the morrow, for he missed his train that night.

The shuttles of the Weaver in this pattern of life were two green stones
called the drums of jeopardy, inanimate objects, but perfect tools
in the hands of Destiny. But for these stones Hawksley would not
have tarried too long on a certain red night; Cutty would not now be
stumbling about the labyrinths into which his looting instincts had
thrust him; and Kitty Conover would have jogged along in the humdrum
rut, if not happy at least philosophically content with her lot.


CHAPTER XXVIII


Decision is always a mental relief, hesitance a curse. Kitty, having
shifted her burdens to the broad shoulders of Cutty, felt as she reached
the lobby as if she had left storm and stress behind and entered calm.
She would marry Cutty; she had published the fact, burned her bridges.

She had stepped into the car, her heart full of cold fury. Now she began
to find excuses for Hawksley's conduct. A sick brain; he was not really
accountable for his acts. Her own folly had opened the way. Of course
she would never see him again. Why should she? Their lives were as far
apart as the Volga and the Hudson.

Bernini met her in the lobby. "I've got a cab for you, Miss Conover," he
said as if nothing at all had happened.

"Have you Cutty's address?"

"Yes."

"Then take me at once to a telegraph office. I have a very important
message to send him."

"All right, Miss Conover."

"Say: 'Decision made. It is yes.' And sign it just Kitty."

Without being conscious of it her soul was still in the clouds, where it
had been driven by the music of the fiddle; thus, what she assumed to be
a normal sequence of a train of thought was only a sublime impulse. She
would marry Cutty. More, she would be his wife, his true wife. For his
tenderness, his generosity, his chivalry, she would pay him in kind.
There would be no nonsense; love would not enter into the bargain;
but there would be the fragrance of perfect understanding. No, not
yet! My Lord, the Lord Captain. Sophie (him). Dear cousin! Champagne.
Yes - he was probably right to say that he and his letter will arrive
at the same time. Friday v. Dorsigny. My husband travels from my nephew
arrives! How quickly the events crowd!

Dorsigny. Seh 'ich endlich wieder you, the best aunt! I come fully unrest
and expectation-Fri. v. Dorsigny. Good evening, my dear nephew!
Dorsigny. Which frosty reception? Friday v. Dorsigny. I am heartily glad
to see you. But my husband-Dorsigny. Is the uncle admitted encounter
something? Friday v. Mirville. The uncle is tonight from a great trip
came back, and at this moment, it disappears again, without that we
know where he is out. Dorsigny. That is so weird! Champagne. It is quite
to the surprise! Friday v. Dorsigny.

Since Champagne is yes! Can we all help from the dream. Champagne. I,
madam? Friday v. Mirville. Yes, you! With thee alone has indeed
spoken the uncle, as he departed. Champagne. That's true! With me
alone, he has spoken. Dorsigny.

Well, just say so, why he so suddenly verreist? Champagne. Why? Oh,
he must have! He had this command of the government. Friday v. Dorsigny.
What? Champagne. He has an important secret mission, the largest
Eilfertigkeit requires - requires a man - a man - I say nothing
more.

But you can imagine something that, madam, that the choice of the
Lord fell.

Friday v. Mirville. Indeed! Such an award honors the whole family!
Champagne.

Your graces understand well that it is not long resident could
take farewell. Champagne, he said to me, I go in important state affairs
after - after sancte Petersburg.

The state bids - I must obey - the first post-change write 'I am
my wife - which incidentally Heirath between my nephew and my
daughter is concerned - so she knows that I am completely satisfied.

Dorsigny. What hör 'ich!

my dear uncle to-Champagne.

Yes, Gracious Lord! He agrees .-- I give my wife full power of attorney,
he said, to stop everything, and I hope in my Zurückkunft our daughter
as a happy wife to find. Friday v. Dorsigny.

And so he traveled alone from? Champagne. Solo? Not yet! He had a man to
himself, after making quite a bit looked-Fri. v. Dorsigny. I can not
find Dreiner. Friday v. Mirville. We know his desire. One must then
see that he as a man and woman found in his Zurückkunft. Sophie. His
consent seems to me not the slightest doubt, and I wear no concerns, the
cousin on the spot to heirathen.

Friday v. Dorsigny.

But I wear concerns - and wants his first letter to wait.

Champagne (aside).

Since we are now well supported, that we are the uncle sent to St.

Petersburg. Dorsigny. But, the best aunt! Seventh appearance. The former.
The Notarius.

Notary (occurs between Dorsigny and his aunt). I commend myself to the
whole society hochgeneigten graces. Friday v. Dorsigny. Look here,
Mr.

Gaspar, notary of our house. Notaries. Dero To command, madam! It is
popular Mr. Dero husband, in my house to do so. Friday v. Dorsigny.
How? My husband would be before his departure, yet you have been? Notary.
Before departure Dero! What I say Sir! Look! see it! So it was gracious
of the Lord and wanted to hurry so I did not expect in my home. This
billet Hochdieselben let me back - whatever it graces Ihro to read. (If
the wife of Dorsigny the ticket.) Champagne (quietly to Dorsigny). There
is a notary, which your uncle ordered.

Dorsigny. Yes, because Lormeuils Heirath.

Champagne (silent). If we use it to yours might need?

Dorsigny.

Quiet! Let us listen to what he writes! Friday v. Dorsigny (reads).

Now for the dishes she had so hurriedly left.
She rolled up her sleeves, put on the apron, and fell to the task. After
such a night--dish-washing! She laughed. It was a funny old world.

Pauses. Perhaps she should have gone to a hotel, away from all familiar
objects. Those flatirons intermittently pulled her eyes round. Her fancy
played tricks with her whenever her glance touched the window. Faces
peering in. In a burst of impatience she dropped the dish towel, hurried
to the window, and threw it up. Black emptiness!... Cutty, crossing the
platform with Hawksley on his shoulders. She saw that, and it comforted
her.

She finished her work and started for bed. But first she entered the
guest room and turned on the lights. Olga. She had intended to ask him
who Olga was.

A great pity. They might have been friends. The back of her hand went
to her lips but did not touch them. She could not rub away those burning
kisses--that is, not with the back of her hand. Vividly she saw him
fiddling bareheaded in front of the Metropolitan Opera House. It seemed,
though, that it had happened years ago. A great pity. The charm of that
frolic would abide with her as long as she lived. A brave man, too.
Hadn't he left her with a gay wave of the hand, not knowing, for want of
strength, if he could make the detour of the block? That took courage.
His journey halfway across the world had taken courage. Yet he could so
basely disillusion her. It was not the kiss; it was the smile. She had
seen that smile before, born of evil. If only he had spoken!

The heavenly magic of that fiddle! It made her sad. Genius, the ability
to play with souls, soothe, tantalize, lift up; and then to smile at her
like that!

She shut down the curtain upon these cogitations and summoned Cutty,
visualized his handsome head, shot with gray, the humour of his smile.
She did care for him; no doubt of that. She couldn't have sent that
telegram else. Cutty--name of a pipe, as the Frenchmen said! All at once
she rocked with laughter. She was going to marry a man whose given name
she could not recall! Henry, George, John, William? For the life of her
she could not remember.

And with this laughter still bubbling in a softer note she got into bed,
twisted about from side to side, from this pillow to that, the tired
body seeking perfect relaxation.

A broken melody entered her head. Sleepily she sought one channel of
thought after another to escape; still the melody persisted. As her
consciousness dodged hither and thither the bars and measures joined....
She sat up, chilled, bewildered. That Tschaikowsky waltz! She could
hear it as clearly as if Johnny Two-Hawks and the Amati were in the very
room. She grew afraid. Of what? She did not know.

And while she sat there in bed threshing out this fear to find the
grain, Cutty was tramping the streets of Washington, her telegram
crumpled in his hand. From time to time he would open it and reread it
under a street lamp.

To marry her and then to cheat her. It wasn't humanly possible to marry
her and then to let her go. He thought of those warm, soft arms round
his neck, the absolute trust of that embrace. Molly's girl. No, he could
not do it. He would have to back down, tell her he could not put the
bargain through, invent some other scheme.

The idea had been repugnant to her. It had taken her a week to fight it
out. It was a little beyond his reach, however, why the idea should have
been repugnant to her. It entailed nothing beyond a bit of mummery. The
repugnance was not due to religious training. The Conover household, as
he recalled it, had been rather lax in that respect. Why, then, should
Kitty have hesitated?

He thought of Hawksley, and swore. But for Hawksley's suggestion no
muddle like this would have occurred. Devil take him and his infernal
green stones!

Cutty suddenly remembered his train. He looked at his watch and saw that
his lower berth was well on the way to Baltimore. Always and eternally
he was missing something.


CHAPTER XXIX


Not unusually, when we burn our bridges, we have in the back of our
minds the dim hope that there may be a shallow ford somewhere. Thus,
bridges should not be burned impulsively; there may be no ford.

The idea of retreat pushed forward in Kitty's mind the moment she awoke;
but she pressed it back in shame. She had given her word, and she would
stand by it.

The night had been a series of wild impulses. She had not sent that
telegram to Cutty as the result of her deliberations in the country.
Impulse; a flash, and the thing was done, her bridges burned. To crush
Johnny Two-Hawks, fill his cup with chagrin, she had told him she was
going to marry Cutty. That was the milk in the cocoanut. Morning has a
way of showing up night-gold for what it is--tinsel. Kitty saw the stage
of last night's drama dismantled. If there was a shallow ford, she would
never lower her pride to seek it. She had told Two-Hawks, sent that wire
to Cutty, broke the news to Bernini.

But did she really want to go back? Not to know her own mind, to swing
back and forth like a pendulum! Was it because she feared that, having
married Cutty, she might actually fall in love with some other man
later? She could still go through the mummery as Cutty had planned; but
what about all the sublime generosity of the preceding night?

A queer feeling pervaded her: She was a marionette, a human manikin,
and some invisible hand was pulling the wires that made her do all
these absurd things. Her own mind no longer controlled her actions. The
persistence of that waltz! It had haunted her, broken into her dreams,
awakened her out of them. Why should she be afraid? What was there to be
afraid of in a recurring melody? She had heard a dozen famed
violinists play it. It had never before affected her beyond a flash of
emotionalism. Perhaps it was the romantic misfortune of the man, the
mystery surrounding him, the menace which walled him in.

Breakfast. Human manikins had appetites. So she made her breakfast.
Before leaving the kitchen she stopped at the window. The sun filled
the court with brilliant light. The patches of rust on the fire-escape
ladder, which was on the Gregor side of the platform, had the semblance
of powdered gold.

Half an hour later she was speeding downtown to the office. All through
the day she walked, worked, talked as one in the state of trance.
There were periods of stupefaction which at length roused Burlingame's
curiosity.

"Kitty, what's the matter with you? You look dazed about something."

"How do you clean a pipe?" she countered, irrelevantly.

"Clean a pipe?" he repeated, nearly overbalancing his chair.

"Yes. You see, I may make up my mind to marry a man who smokes a pipe,"
said Kitty, desperately, eager to steer Burlingame into another channel;
"and certainly I ought to know how to clean one."

"Kitty, I'm an old-timer. You can't sidetrack me like this. Something
has happened. You say you had a great time in the country, and you come
in as pale as the moon, like someone suffering from shell shock. Ever
since Cutty came in here that day you've been acting oddly. You may not
know it, but Cutty asked me to send you out of town. You've been in some
kind of danger. What's the yarn?"

"So big that no newspaper will ever publish it, Burly. If Cutty wants to
tell you some day he can. I haven't the right to."

"Did he drag you into it or did you fall into it?"

"I walked into it, as presently I shall walk out of it--all on my own.

"Better keep your eyes open. Cutty's a stormy petrel; when he flies
there's rough weather."

"What do you know about him?"

"Probably what he has already told you--that he is a foreign agent of
the Government. What do you know?"

"Everything but one thing, and that's a problem particularly my own."

"Alien stuff, I suppose. Cutty's strong on that. Well, mind your step.
The boys are bringing in queer scraps about something big going to
happen May Day--no facts, just rumours. Better shoot for home the
shortest route each night and stick round there."

There are certain spiritual exhilarants that nullify caution, warning
the presence of danger. Of all the artists included in this genennet be
Diogenes of Athens is one whose age is determined on unwidersprechlichsten.
He has the Pantheum of Agrippa ausgezieret, so he has lived under
Augustus.

But we consider the words of Pliny little closer, and I think it is
also the age of Kraterus and Pythodorus, the Polydektes and Hermolaus,
and the second Pythodorus ARTEMONE and the Aphrodisius Trallianus, just
find unwidersprechlich determined. He says of them: Palatinas domus
Caesarum replevere probatissimis SIGNIS. I ask: can probably only so
much to say that by their excellent works of the imperial palaces
angefüllet been? The understanding is that the Kaiser them everywhere
together, and to Rome in their homes can meet? Certainly not. But
they have their work specifically for these palaces of the emperor worked,
they need at the times of this emperor lived. That it was late
artist who only worked in Italy, it is already so close, because
they found nowhere else thought. Had it in Greece in ancient times
worked, it would Pausanias one or the other works of them seen,
and her We have reserved memory.

A Pythodorus ways; the point is with him before 6), alone Harduin very
wrong for him Pythodorus at the site of Pliny to keep. Because the
image nennet Pausanias pillar of Juno, which he by the work of the first
to Koronea in Viotia sahe, agalma arcaion which he appointed only the
works of those masters gibet, in the first and fastest periods of
art, long before a Phidias and Praxiteles , had lived.

And with works of this kind are certainly not the emperor ausgezieret
have their palaces.

Even less is on the other presumption of Harduins to make sure that
ARTEMONE perhaps the same name was a painter whose Plinius at another
place remember.

Name and name only give a very low probability, which is due for a
long time is not entitled, the natural interpretation an unadulterated
violence to body. (6 Boeotic. cap.

XXXIV. p. 778. Edit.

Kuhn.) But is it all, except LY doubt that Kraterus and Pythodorus that
Polydektes and Hermolaus, with the other, under the emperors gelebet
their palaces with their excellent works angefüllet: it seems me,
can you also to those artists not otherwise age type, of which Pliny
to those with a Similiter übergehet.

And these are the masters of the Laocoon. You only think about it:
would Agesander, Polydorus and Athenodorus such old masters as what
it considers Mr. Winckelmann, as a writer would be unseemly, the precision
of expression is not a trivial matter, when he of them at once to the
latest jump champion would have to that jump with a same shape do? But
we will argue that this Similiter not to the relationship in view of
the age, but in another circumstance relates how this, in consideration
of the time so dissimilar master, had in common.

Pliny is speaking of those artists who worked in community, and because
of this community would have remained unknown, as they deserved.
Indeed, since none of the glory of the plant alone can presume, but all
of it that teilgehabt at any time to call would have been to weitläuftig
(Quoniam nec Unus occupat gloriam, nec plures parité nuncupari possunt):
it would require all their names on vernachlässiget been . This was
the masters of the Laocoon, this is so many other masters befall
which the emperor for their palaces beschäftiget had. I admit
this. But even so, it is highly likely that Plinius of newer artists
just want to speak, in the community worked. Because he would also
wish to talk earlier, why would he just the master of Laokoon
erwähnet?

Why not others? One Onatas calligraphers and Teles, one Timokl and
Timarchides, or the sons of this Timarchides from which a jointly crafted
Jupiter in Rome was 7). Mr. Winckelmann himself says that one of such
earlier works, more than one father had a long list could make 8). And
Pliny should be confined to the single Agesander, Polydorus and
Athenodorus calmly, if he is not only to express the latest times
would want to restrict?

(7th Plinius lib. XXXVI. sect. 4. p. 730th) (8 History of Art, T. II.
P. 332) If moreover, a presumption so much more likely, depending
more and more incomprehension ensuing explanation, it is that the masters
of Laokoon under the first Emperors geblühet have certainly in a very
high grade. Because they would have in Greece at the times in
which they setzet Mr. Winckelmann, worked, had the Laocoon himself in
Greece formerly confessed: this would have the deep silence, which the
Greeks of such works (opere et pictura omnibus statuariae et artis
praeponendo) have observed, very alienating.

It should be extremely alienating, if such great masters nothing
further would have worked, or if Pausanias of its other factories
in the whole of Greece, like from the Laocoon would get to see.

In Rome, however, was the largest Meisterstück long remain hidden,
and if Laokoon also under the verfertiget Augustus would have been,
it should not seem odd that his first thought Pliny, his first and
last thought.

Because we remember only what he thought about a Venus of Skopas says 9),
to Rome in a temple of Mars stood quemcunque Alium locum nobilitatura.

Magnitudo operum Romae quidem eam obliterat, ac magni officiorum negotiorumque
acervi omnes a contemplation talium abducunt: Quoniam in otiosorum
et Magno loci silentio APTA admiratio talis est. (9th Pliny 1st cp)
727th Those who in the group Laokoon so like an imitation of the
Virgile Laokoon want to see are what I previously said, with pleasure
take.

Still fell me a guess at who they are also not very likely to
disapprove.

Perhaps, they might think it was Asinius Pollio, the Laocoon of Virgil by
Greek artists had run. Pollio was a special friend of the poet, the
poet, survived, and seems even their own work on the Aeneid to have
written. Where else than in their own works on this poem, which can
so easily have been individually comments, which leads him from
Servius 10)?

Pollio was also a lover and connoisseur of art, had a splendid
collection of ancient works of art, let by artists of his time new
warrant, and the flavors, which he showed in his choice, it was a
bold piece, as Laokoon entirely appropriate 11): Acris vehementiae
ut fuit, sic quoque sua spectari Monumenta voluit.

But since the Cabinet of Pollio, in the days of Pliny, as Laocoon in
the palace of Titus stood still at a very unzertrennet special
places together seems to have been: let this conjecture turn their
probability of losing something.

And why it could not even Titus did what we want to ascribe the
Pollio?

(10th Ad ver 7th lib.

Aeneid II. and especially ad lib ver 183.

XI. We should therefore probably not wrong to do when the list of verlornen
writings of this man with such works increased.) 11th ( Plinius lib.
XXXVI. sect. 4. p. 729th) XXVII. I will in my opinion that the master
of Laokoon under the first Emperors have worked, at least certainly not
as old can be when she spends Mr Winckelmann, by a small bestärket message
that he himself first made known.

It is this 1): (1 History of Art, T. II. P. 347) "At Nettuno, formerly
Antium, the Lord Cardinal Alexander Albani, in 1717, in a large vault,
which was sunk in the seas, a vase entdecket which of frightful black
Marble is one itzo Bigio nennet in which the figure was eingefüget;
on the same is the following inscription: AQANODWROS AGHSANDROU RODIOS
EPOIHSE "Athanodorus, the son Agesanders from Rhodus, it has done."

We learn from this inscription that the father Laocoon and his son have
worked on, and probably was also Apollodorus (Polydorus) Agesanders of
the son, because this Athanodorus may have been no other, than
that which Plinius nennet.

It also beweiset this inscription that more works of art, than only three,
as Pliny wants to have found the artists to whom the word "made"
in perfect time and certain gesetzet, namely epoihse, FECIT: he
reported that the other artists from modesty in indefinite time
ausgedrücket, epoiei, faciebat.

"This is Mr.

Winckelmann find little opposition that the inscription in this Athanodorus
none other than the Athenodorus may be under the Pliny the masters of
Laokoon remember. Athenodorus and Athanodorus is also quite a name,
because the Rhodier served in the Doric dialect . Solo about what else
he wants to conclude, I must make a few comments. The first thing that
Athenodorus a son of Agesanders was like to go. It is very likely, but
not unwidersprechlich. Because it is known that ancient artists, who,
instead of following their father to call, rather referred to her
teacher call them.

What Pliny by the brothers and Apollonius Tauriskus say, probably not
suffering from a different interpretation 2). (2nd Libr XXXVI. sect.
4. p. 730th) But how?

This inscription is also the Setting of Pliny rebut that not more
than three works of art found, what their masters in perfect time
(instead of epoiei by epoihse) would have known? This inscription? Why
should we learn from this inscription, from what we have long had
many others can learn? If you are not already on the statue of
Germanicus KleomenhV - epoihse found? On the deification of the
so-called Homer ArcelaoV epoihse? On the famous vase of Gaeta Salpiwn
epoihse 3)? (3rd etc. You can see the list of inscriptions in ancient
artworks Mar.

Gudius (ad Phaedri fab.

V. lib. I.) and draw both the correction of the same Gronov (Praef.
ad tom. IX. Thesauri antique. Graec.) For rates.) Mr. Winckelmann could
say: "Who knows this better than I? But, "he will add," the worse for
the Plinius.

His pretending is so often objected to, it is so certain rebutted.

"Not yet.

Because, as if the Lord Winckelmann Pliny would say more than he
really want to say?

So if the examples are not pretending the Plinius, but merely the
number, which Mr.

Winckelmann in pretending that it borne disproved?

And so it really is. I must mention the entire body. Pliny in his
Zueignungsschrift wants to Titus, from his works with the humility of
a man talking to himself the best knows how much the same to
perfection still lacking.

He finds a curious example of such a modesty at the Greeks, their
boasting, promising book titles (Inscriptiones, Propter Almost vadimonium
deseri possit) before he was a little delayed, and says 4): Et ne in
totum videar Graecos insectari, ex Illis MOX velim intelligi
pingendi fingendique conditoribus, quos in libellis his invenies,
opera absoluta, et quae illa quoque mirando non satiamur, pendenti
titulo inscripsisse: APELL FACIEBAT ut, aut POLYCLETUS: tanquam
inchoata semper et arte imperfecta: ut contra judiciorum varietates
superesset artifici regressus ad veniam , velut emendaturo quidquid
desideraretur, si non esset interceptus.

Quar plenum verecundiae illud est, quod omnia opera tamquam novissima
inscripsere, et tamquam singulis fato adempti.

Tria amplius non, ut opinor absolute traduntur inscripta ILLE FECIT,
quae suis locis reddam: apparuit quo, summam artis auctori placuisse
Securitate, and whether id magna Invidia for omnia ea I call on the
words of Pliny, pingendi fingendique conditoribus closely be.

Pliny does not say that the habit, in the unfinished time to confess
his works generally been that it is by all artists, at all times
been observed, he says explicitly that only the first old masters,
those creators of Fine Arts , pingendi fingendique conditor a
Apelles, a Polyklet, relatives, and their time, these wise humility
had, and because he only nennet alone, so he implied, but clear
enough to understand that their successors, especially in the later
times more confidence in himself expressed. (4th Libr I. p. 5.

Edit. Hard.) This was adopted but, as it must assume, then the discovered
inscription from one of the three artists of the Laocoon their
total accuracy, and it demohngeachtet may be true that, as Pliny
says, only about three works have been available in whose inscriptions
are copyright of their completion time bedienet, namely among the
older works, from the time of Apelles, the Polyklets, of Nicias,
the Lysippus.

But then its accuracy can not have that Athenodorus and his aides, relatives
of the time and Apelles Lysippus been what she wants Mr.

Winckelmann. One must conclude so much more: If it is true that among the
works of older artists, an Apelles, a Polyklets and the rest of
this class, only about three have been in their inscriptions, the
perfect time of them have been used if it is true that these three
works of Pliny himself has named 5): there may Athenodorus from
which none of these three works, and the demohngeachtet on his works
bedienet the perfect time to those old artists do not belong, he
can not time relative of Apelles, the Lysippus, but he must in
future periods to be set. (5th He promises at least explicitly, to
do it: quae suis locis reddam.

If he does not entirely forgotten, he is quite in passing, and not
done in a way, when after such a promise is expected.

If he write pm (Lib XXXV.

Sect. 39.): Lysippus quoque suae inscripsit pictura Aegina, enekausen:
profecto quod non fecisset, nisi encaustica Inventa: it is apparent
that he made this enekausen evidence for an entirely different Case
needs.

Has he, however, how Harduin believe, even at the same time one of the
works thus want to specify which words in the Aoristo been written
so it probably would have trouble verlohnet, a word with which you
are building.

"Ought to be off your hands by Monday. But what about Stefani Gregor? I
can't stir, leaving him hanging on a peg."

"I am going into the study shortly to decide that. Head bother you?"

"Occasionally."

"Ryan easy to get along with?"

"Rather a good sort. I say, you know, you've seen a good deal of
life. Which do you consider the stronger, the inherited traits or
environment?"

"Environment. That is the true mould. There is good and bad in all of
us. It is brought into prominence by the way we live. An angel cannot
touch pitch without becoming defiled. On the other hand, the worst
gutter rats in the world saved France. Do you suppose that thought will
not always be tugging at and uplifting those who returned from the first
Marne?"

"There is hope, then, for me!"

"Hope?"

"Yes. You know that my father, my uncle, and my grandfather were fine
scoundrels."

"Under their influence you would have been one, too. But no man could
live with Stefani Gregor and not absorb his qualities. Your environment
has been Anglo-Saxon, where the first block in the picture is fair
play. You have been constantly under the tutelage of a fine and lofty
personality, Gregor's. Whatever evil traits you may have inherited, they
have become subject to the influences that have surrounded you. Take
me, for instance. I was born in a rather puritanical atmosphere. My
environments have always been good. Yet there lurks in me the taint of
Macaire. Given the wrong environment, I should now have my picture in
the Rogues' Gallery."

"You?"

"Yes."

Hawksley played with his fork. "If you had a daughter would you trust me
with her?"

"Yes. Any man who can weep unashamed over the portrait of his mother may
be trusted. Once you are out there in Montana you'll forget all about
your paternal forbears."

Handsome beggar, thought Cutty; but evidently born under the opal. An
inexplicable resentment against his guest stirred his heart. He resented
his youth, his ease of manner, his fluency in the common tongue. He was
theoretically a Britisher; he thought British; approached subjects from
a British point of view. A Britisher--except when he had that fiddle
tucked under his chin. Then Cutty admitted he did not know what he was.
Devil take him!

There must have been something electrical in Cutty's resentment, for
the object of it felt it subtly, and it fired his own. He resented the
freedom of action that had always been denied him, resented his host's
mental and physical superiority. Did Cutty care for the girl, or was he
playing the game as it had been suggested to him? Money and freedom. But
then, it was in no sense a barter; she would be giving nothing, and the
old beggar would be asking nothing. His suggestion! He laughed.

"What's the joke?" asked Cutty, looking up from his coffee, which he was
stirring with unnecessary vigour.

"It isn't a joke. I'm bally well twisted. I laugh now when I think of
something tragic. I am sorry about last night. I was mad, I suppose."

"Tell me about it."

Cutty listened intently and smiled occasionally. Mad as hatters, both of
them. He and Kitty couldn't have gone on a romp like this, but Kitty and
Hawksley could. Thereupon his resentment boiled up again.

"Have you any idea why she took such a risk? Why she came here, knowing
me to be absent?"

"She spoke of a problem. I fancy it related to your approaching
marriage. She told me."

Cutty laid down his spoon. "I'd like to dump Your Highness into the
middle of East River for putting that idea into my head. She has
consented to it; and now, damn it, I've got to back out of it!" Cutty
rose and flung down his napkin.

"Why?" Lormeuil. This is dangerous.

Sophie. Yes, he has also died. Lormeuil. We loved you, to joke with
me, gracious lady. Nobody can tell you from the Lord of Lormeuil
give better advice than I am.

Sophie. Than you! That would be funny. Lormeuil. Yes, my lady, when I!
Because, to put it out at once promise - I am this and I'm not Lormeuil
Todt, as far as I know. Sophie. You would be Lord of Lormeuil? Lormeuil.
Well, for whom you kept me otherwise? Sophie. For a friend of my
father, whom he invited to my wedding.

Lormeuil. So you still hold a wedding, if I'm equal Todt? Sophie. Yes
indeed! Lormeuil. And as with whom, if I may ask? Sophie. With my cousin
Dorsigny. Lormeuil. But your father is Lord but also with a word have
to speak. Sophie. That's what he said, which sees itself! He has
given his consent. Lormeuil. When hätt "he disclosed? Sophie. Just now
- a few moments before your arrival. Lormeuil. I'm with him but at the
same time came.

Sophie. Not yet, sir! My father has been here before you. Lormeuil (at
the cross-head). I schwindelt - it is turning me in the eyes - Every
word you say, continues to amaze me - your words of honor, my lady,
but this heading must be a secret stuck, I do not fathom.

Sophie. How, sir - you should really seriously talked about? Lormeuil.
The highest full seriousness, my lady-Sophie. It would be really the
Lord of Lormeuil? - My God, what have I done since - How do I become
my rashness-Lormeuil. Let's not be sorry, Miss - your passion to your
cousin is a fact that one rather than after-Sophie learns Heirath. But
I do not-Lormeuil. I will bless the Lord of Dorsigny attention - maybe
it triggers me Räthsel .-- How it is solved like always, lady, so you
should be satisfied with me, hoff 'ich. (Ab) Sophie. He seems like a
very human - and if I am not forcing him to heirathen, so it serves
me very happy that he is not stabbed. Seventh appearance. Sophie.
Colonel. Wife of Dorsigny. Friday v. Dorsigny. Leave us alone, Sophie.
(Sophie's up.) How, Dorsigny, you can say to my face that you will
not be with me shortly before speaking?

Why should she dodder
over such a trifle as this prospective official marriage? It was only
a joke which would legalize his generosity. She had sent that telegram
after leaving this apartment. What had happened here to decide her? Had
Hawksley fiddled? There was something the matter with the green stones
to-night; they evoked nothing.

He leaned back in his chair, listening, the bowl of his pipe touching
the lapel of his coat. Music. Queer, what you could do with a fiddle if
you knew how.

After all there was no sense in venting his anger on Hawksley. He was
hoist by his own petard. Why not admit the truth? He had had a crack
on the head the same night as Hawksley; only, he had been struck by an
idea, often more deadly than the butt of a pistol. He would apologize
for that roaring exit from the dining room. The poor friendless devil!
He bent toward the green stones again. In the living room Hawksley sat
in a chair, the fiddle across his knees. He understood now. The old
chap was in love with the girl, and was afraid of himself; couldn't
risk having her and letting her go.... A curse on the drums of jeopardy!
Misfortune followed their wake always. The world would have been
different this hour if he--The break in the trend of thought was caused
by the entrance of Kuroki, who was followed by a man. This man dropped
into a chair without apparently noticing that the room was already
tenanted, for he never glanced toward Hawksley. A haggard face, dull
of eye. Kuroki bobbed and vanished, but returned shortly, beckoning the
stranger to follow him into the study.

"Coles?" cried Cutty delightedly. Here was the man he had sent to
negotiate for the emeralds, free. "How did you escape? We've combed the
town for you."

"They had me in a room on Fifteenth Street. Once in a while I got
something to eat. But I haven't escaped. I'm still a prisoner."

"What do you mean by that?"

"I am here as an emissary. There was nothing for me to do but accept the
job."

"Did he have the stones?" asked Cutty, without the least suspicion of
what was coming.

"That I don't know. He pretended to have them in order to get me where
he wanted me. I've been hungry a good deal because I wouldn't talk. I'm
here as a negotiator. So again the Champagne, the me this tall items
transported. I am infinite thanks him guilty, that he was so high
with me also wants .-- Mr.

Gaspar, you are at home have found my ticket, it would be nice to
me, even if the Ehekontrakt this night would be signed.

Notaries. Nothing is easier, Gracious Lord! We were just in the process,
this business also made in your absence. Oberst. Very well! Man verheirathet
sometimes without the father, but without the groom, that's never
occurred to me. Friday v. Dorsigny. Here is the bridegroom! Our dear
nephew. Dorsigny. Yes, the best uncle! It's me. Oberst. My nephew is a
very nice boy, but my daughter does not get it. Friday v. Dorsigny.
Well, who else should they get? Colonel. Who, you ask? For the
executioner! The Lord of Lormeuil should get it. Friday v. Dorsigny.
He is not Todt, the Lord of Lormeuil? Colonel. Not yet, Madame! He
lives, he is here. Look at just about where he comes. Friday v.
Dorsigny. And who is for the Lord, who is with him? Colonel. This is
a valet, the popular Mr.

Champagne has him on the side to give.

Ninth appearance. The former.

Lormeuil with his Unterofficier that is in the background of the room is
small. Lormeuil (the Supreme). So you send your uncle to your
instead to Strasbourg?

That will not go, sir. Oberst.

Look, see it!

If you so want to beat with violence, Lormeuil, then beat you with
my nephews. and not with me.

Lormeuil (recognize it). How? Are you's? And how did you get it done,
that you come back so quickly? Colonel.

Here, in this Lord of Valcour thank you, out of friendship for me,
my nephew brought back Sporn stress.

Dorsigny. I understand you not, Mr. von Lormeuil!

We were best friends as divorced from each other - Did you not even
quite recently, all your needs in the hands of my cousin sold?

Colonel.

Nothing, nothing! This is nothing!

My wife, my daughter, my niece, my nephew, all together, should not
prevent me, my own way.

Lormeuil.
No questions
demanding if there wasn't some way round the inevitable. Cutty's heart
glowed; the boy had walked into it, never to leave it. "I'm ready." It
took a man to say that when the sequence was death.

"Coles," said Cutty upon reentering the study, "tell Karlov that His
Highness will give himself up. He will be there before midnight."

"That's enough for me. But if there's the least sign that you're not
playing straight it will be all off. Two men will be watching the taxi
and the entrance. If you appear, it's good-night. They told me to warn
you."

"I promise not to appear."

Coles smiled enigmatically and reached for his hat. He held his hand out
to Hawksley. "You're a white man, sir."

"Thanks," said Hawksley, absently. To have it all over with!

As soon as the captive Federal agent withdrew Hawksley sat down at the
desk and wrote.

"Will this hold legally?" he asked, extending the written sheet to
Cutty.

Cutty saw that it was a simple will. In it Hawksley gave half of his
possessions to Kitty and half to Stefani Gregor. In case the latter was
dead the sum total was to go to Kitty.

"I got you into a muddle; this will take you out of it. Karlov will kill
me. I don't know how. I am his obsession. He will sleep better with me
off his mind. Will this hold legally?"

"Yes. But why Kitty Conover, a stranger?"

"Is a woman who saves your life a stranger?"

"Well, not exactly. This is what we might call zero hour. I gave you a
haven here not particularly because I was sorry for you, but because I
wanted those emeralds. Once upon a time Gregor showed them to me. Until
I examined your wallet I supposed you had smuggled in the stones; and
that would have been fair game. But you had paid your way in honestly.
Now, what did you do to Kitty Conover last night that decided her to
accept that fool proposition? She sent her acceptance after she left
you.

"I did not know that. I played for her. She became music-struck, and
I took advantage of it--kissed her. Then she told me she was going to
marry you."

"And that is why you asked me if I would trust you with a daughter of
mine?"

"Yes."

"Conscience. That explains this will."

"No. Why did you accept my suggestion to marry her?"

"To make her comfortable without sidestepping the rules of convention."

"No. Because you love her--the way I do."

Cutty's pipe slipped from his teeth. It did not often do that. He
stamped out the embers and laid the pipe on the tray.

"What makes you think I love her?"

"What makes me tell you that I do?"

"Yes, death may be at the end of to-night's work; so I'll admit that I
love her. She is like a forest stream, wild at certain turns, but always
sweet and clear. I'm an old fool, old enough to be her father. I loved
her mother. Can a man love two women with all his heart, one years after
the other?"

"It is the avatar; she is the reincarnation of the mother. I understand
now. What was a beautiful memory takes living form again. You still love
the mother; the daughter has revived that love."

"By the Lord Harry, I believe you've struck it! Walked into the fog and
couldn't find the way out. Of course. What an old ass I've been! Simple
as daylight. I've simply fallen in love with Molly all over again,
thinking it was Kitty. Plain as the nose on my face. And I might have
made a fine mess of it if you hadn't waked me up."

All this gentle irony went over Hawksley's head. "When do you wish me to
go down to the taxi?"

"Son, I'm beginning to like you. You shall have your chance. In fact,
we'll take it together. There'll be a taxi but I'll hire it. I'm quite
positive I know where Kitty is. If I'm correct you'll have your chance.
If I'm wrong you'll have to pay the score. We'll get her out or we'll
stay where she is. In any event, Karlov will pay the price. Wouldn't you
prefer to go out--if you must--in a glorious scrap?"

"Fighting?" Hawksley was on his feet instantly. "Do you mean that? I can
die with free hands?"

"With a chance of coming out top-hole."

"I say, what a ripping thing hope is--always springing back!"

Cutty nodded. But he knew there was one hope that would never warm his
heart again. Molly!... Well, he'd let the young chap believe that. Kitty
must never know. Poor little chick, fighting with her soul in the dark
and not knowing what the matter was! Such things happened. He had loved
Molly on sight. He had loved Kitty on sight. In neither case had he
known it until too late to turn about. Mother and daughter; a kind
of sacrilege, as if he had betrayed Molly! But what a clear vision
acknowledged love lent to the mind! He understood Kitty, who did not
understand herself. Well, this night's adventure would decide things.

He smiled. Neither Kitty nor the drums of jeopardy; nothing. The gates
of paradise again--for somebody else! Whoever heard of a prompter
receiving press notices?

"Let's look alive! We haven't any time to waste. We'll have to change
to dungarees--engineer togs. There'll be some tools to carry. We go
straight down to the boiler room. We come up the ash exit on the street
side. Remember, no suspicious haste. Two engineers off for their evening
swig of beer at the corner groggery. Through the side door there, and
into my taxi. Obey every order I give. Now run along to Kuroki and say
night work for both of us. He'll understand what's wanted. I'll set the
machinery in motion for a raid. How do you feel? I want the truth. I
don't want to turn to you for help and not get it."

Hawksley laughed. "Don't worry about me. I'll carry on. Don't you
understand? To have an end of it, one way or the other! To come free or
to die there!"

"And if Kitty is not where I believe her to be?"

"Then I'll return to the taxi outside."

To be young like that! thought Cutty, feeling strangely sad and old. "To
come free or to die there!" That was good Anglo-Saxon. He would make a
good American citizen--if he were in luck.

At half after nine the two of them knelt on the roof before the cemented
trap. Nothing but raging heat disintegrates cement. So the liberation of
this trap, considering the time, was a Herculean task, because it had to
be accomplished with little or no noise. Cold chisels, fulcrums, prying,
heaving, boring. To free the under edge; the top did not matter. Not
knowing if Kitty were below--that was the worst part of the job.

The sweat of agony ran down Hawksley's face; but he never faltered. He
was going to die to-night, somehow, somewhere, but with free hands, the
way Stefani would have him die, the way the girl would have him die. All
these thousands of miles--to die in a house he had never seen before,
just when life was really worth something!

An hour went by. Then they heard Kitty's signal. Instinctively the two
of them knew that the taps came from her. They were absolutely certain
when her signal was repeated. She was below, alone.

"Faster!" whispered Cutty.

Hawksley smiled. To say that to a chap when he was digging into his
tomb!

When the sides of the trap were free Cutty tapped to Kitty again. There
was a long, agonizing wait. Then three taps came from below. Cutty
flashed a signal to the warehouse windows. In five minutes the raid
would be in full swing--from the roof, from the street, from the cellar.

With their short crowbars braced by stout fulcrums the two men heaved.
Noise did not matter now. Presently the trap went over.

"Look out for your hands; there's lots of loose glass. And together when
we drop."

"Right-o!" whispered Hawksley, assured that when he dropped through the
trap the result would be oblivion. Done in.


CHAPTER XXXI


Karlov, upon forcing his way past Kitty's barricade, stared at her
doubtfully. This was a clever girl; she had proved her cleverness
frequently. She might have some reason other than fear in keeping him
out. So he put a fresh candle in the sconce and began to prowl. He
pierced the attic windows with a ranging glance; no one was in the yard
or on the Street. The dust on the windows had not been disturbed.

To Kitty the suspense was intolerable. At any moment Cutty might tap a
query to her. How to warn him that all was not well? A scream would
do it; but in that event when Cutty arrived there would be no Kitty
Conover. Yet a moment, then tore it off. The cold sweat stood on his
forehead. "Mercy, Trude ... is this true? Are we mad? "She rested her
head back on his shoulder. And he revealed his great hand on it.
"Trude, Einziggeliebtes ... Trude ... "A gust of wind beat on the
window. As it relates to raffte. "Come," she said hoarsely. He stroked
her hair. Large tears stood in his eyes.

"Mercy 'but you ... Trude ... "" How come it. My fur is in the dressing
room.

Let your sled and come forward quickly, "she said again hastily."

But child, while, for God's sake ... where to? "he cried
verzweiflungsvoll."

Much the same - live - die ... just stay together. "" Do not torture,
not torture, "he asked with a choked voice. »Child, beloved, we
must refer to the separation ...

But why, Trude, why hast thou done? "She looked at him with dark eyes."
Separation?

"She said. "No, that does not. I can only see you and I know that
is not possible. We are losing time ... fast, continued ... "He pressed
his hands together, he whispered words of broken love, as she
stared at unconscious.

But he remained standing. "Why did not you sooner?" He moaned. »How
should we live? Trude, why hast thou done?" "Maggie -" stammered
Gertrude.

But this was such an old, long story. "I'm been mad," she said hastily.
"First - you've got me back in pride, in miserable pride and principles
of thought, and I do not know everything. But now I know ... all that
was bogus. The only reality in life is that I love, boundless, ineffable
... I implore you, take me! I ask for nothing more in the world,
children, father, if you just ...

"And while she breathlessly, her other alien beings hervorsprudelte
these words, she hung on his neck, glowing, trembling, with dazzling
eyes."

Komm doch, "she whispered. The showers, which her body shudders,
durchrieselten him too. He wavered. He muttered something about temptation,
while the lips of his beloved wife searched. It lifted its head and
looked at him. "Temptation ... yes ... I've opposed for so long fought
against the temptation, and a look at your face tells me how years ago
today, as futile - Du ... stop me ... stop me now ... "Her voice failed.
He separated himself gently from her and saw her with overflowing eyes."
Because I prefer to have you as my life, Gertrud, implore 'I take you
to: Come to You! Trude, it is not ... it is no longer ... "It was snow
white and threw himself into an armchair." You want me? "she asked.
Schreck death distorted her face. "You love it so Maggie?" "Maggie,"
said Seckersdorf soundless and pressed both fists to the head.

It shook him like a fever Schauer, from his quivering lips barely audibly
rang a word: "Farewell. .. "" Gertrude, leb 'wohl, "he said then fixed.
"We two, we are most fortunate passed. And this sin now take revenge
on us.

We must bear it. Be brave, child, brave ... "Like an ice-cold wave booms
the words into her ear. She wanted to scream, but she could not, she
wanted it to be snapped up, but the poor failed. They trembled. Then she
opened her eyes wide, she looked full into the pale Scheubeck fearful
facial Hans Seckersdorfs, and looked behind him, in the next room, Maggie,
ghostly pale, appear and disappear. They grabbed his forehead. "For
God's sake." They jumped up, peered inside. "Nobody. I must have
dreamed, "she indicated. "If I said something ... and I know I have
... forget it, I ask you ... forget ... "She waved his hand and walked
out hastily. The evening with the usual performances, the subsequent
dinner and dance was programmäßig.

The bride and groom made into lovable and not so much absorbed into
each other, how else to maintain the Honor, and all guests felt fully
satisfied that they have a harmonious family festival helped join in
celebrating. Also that the Kurowskis, whose budget last much time talking
was in such good agreement saw that increased the comfort of all, the
Gertrude of her past and she knew now, after the rumors, had complained.
It amazed her fairytale-like beauty, some supernatural, some also
feverishly called , and we found it very understandable that Kurowski
little of their main page. Only that he accompanied them as they
soon retreated after dinner, and not again came to light fell here
and there on, but was finally in the excited and happy buzz is not
discussed further.

The next morning was Seckersdorf and Maggie dared. At the wedding gave
Kurowski a witty speech in which he the young husband wished the
same happiness as he on the side of the oldest daughter of the house had
been. * * * * * The head forester Hagedorn celebrated his fifth birthday.
Since it was the last that he wanted to spend in office, he had the
desire expressed his children once again together with them to see.
In the seven years since the wedding Maggie had passed, he had
with Kurowskis in constant, albeit volatile transport confessed
Seckersdorfs Neusenburg on the other hand, her Saxon Well, only two
attended.

But that was enough for him, since he believes everything is fine its
course went to the childless Maggie, who grieved more so than when Kurowskis
have two little girls were entered. The fact that the two sisters never
saw, even though stories about the old grass has grown long and Gertrud
a sensible, efficient woman had become, had it not initially care
much.

But now, as the farewell from the home and moved closer to home here and
there, the idea of the soon coming great farewell a softer tone in his
old, hard anschlug heart, he started wondering about it. You should be
under his eyes, here where they grew up together and flying had
become, and to him by Together and harmony and a peaceful happy
life give evening.

Gertrud Maggie were both mentioned it when he held a meeting of them
on his birthday wishes, and so was he Now today during the lunch
hour on the porch and peered with his still sharp young eyes the
way down the Seckersdorfs to him by her Romitten expected had come.
damsel Perl, eisgrau and gebückt, stood beside him and talking about
things from the past times, as "our girls" were still at home.

The head forester nodded and chewed with the brown Zahnstümpfen to narrow
lips. The sun burned. Hot air waves with sultry breath emphasized by
the red Weinlaubgeäst up, in the garden colored Georgine lifted their
bright minds, and the big yellow glory = =- de Dijon roses filled him
with a strong fragrance. But every now and then brought a quieter and
cooler wind carried a smell of bitter rot in the gentle summer scent.
Then were the two Old mißvergnügt and silent schauernd, and Ms.

Perl said, "Yes, autumn is already coming."

Where only Seckersdorfs remained? disturbed, the head forester. Kurowskis
came only one hour after the course, - but Maggie was but since yesterday
in Romitten ... Yes, if the really want to stay there and cursed Neusenburg
give up on them but misery to misfortune had - too good Finally, even the
great fire - then they would have both the Old and provided.

Then they took no close city apartment in the nest, the Friedland.

And the Seckersdorf would be a guy who's with which could live if he
could use a little too much kneipte. Miss Perl nodded worried. "Yes,
but Maggie, the self yet so ..."

The would not so long ago after all, as Gertrude, said the old man.
Miss jumped on Perl. A cloud of dust rose up at the bend of the road. A
few minutes later stopped the car before hunting the veranda. Still the
same, by Maggie once on that trip to Romitten triumphant victory
and heruntergesprungen was.

It did not today. Her husband lifted her down, and slow, the
dust veil in going into the air hitting, they rose up and hugged the
two old people. She was very changed. Skimmed become larger and thus
apparently. Indestructable through their colors, it was like a yellowish
tone, large eyes looked spähend and restless, and dissatisfied
from the train was a laughing mouth full kummer done.

In her dress, she was chic to the extreme, but not quite the line of
distinction compliance. "Ah, my Maggiechen," sobbed the old lady, she
musternd, - 'seven years, seven years - and so - and your hair is so red
... and ... "" Yes, yes, pearls, and we are all not become younger ...
Look at the ... "You pushed her husband before. Seckersdorf bent over
Miss Perls wrinkled hand and kissed it. He was very aged. His stately
slenderness was a flaccid Embonpoint become something gedunsen the face
and the eyelids hung heavy over the blaßblauen slightly reddened
eyes.

"Come - come," said the head forester. "You are all children
fünfundsiebzigjährigen against your old father ..." He mumbled something
incomprehensible stirred, and left them in the old living room ahead,
still in the chair each as seven years. Maggie suddenly began to
weep.

Seckersdorf wanted with his thick hand on her shoulder stress, but he
looked into another room and turned into the void. "And Gertrude?"
Asked Maggie. The head forester looked after the clock. "Be the same
as his." "What does she look like? How do they really? The Auklapper told
yesterday at the station, so devout that she has become. "The head
forester and Miss Perl told confused.

She was still the fairest, and all had said, recently, as the great
festival at the Upper Province had been president, and the Empress had
long entertained with her ... And Kurowski, na, it was still a great
Savior, but he had a heath respect his wife. Probably at the time
of her when she finally made clear the position had. And then she was
indeed so efficient with time has become like no other in the whole
circle, and saw probably a Kurowski.

A bit much has been sung and prayed in Laukischken yes, but of course
in the village, and that no detrimental, because the people would
Laukischker probably the best in the whole Polish territory there. "For
us at home was the way," remarked Seckersdorf in thoughts. "My
mother was very much that the people were religious. And actually
belongs to the well - "Maggie smiled brightly on. And he suddenly
felt frightened inne. A car drove in front. An uneasy silence arose.
Then, the two Altenkirchen out.

Seckersdorfs came to the window. Maggie devoured almost the disembarking
with the eyes, while red and Seckersdorf breathing briefly went to the
door. Kurowski seemed quite the same. Something gray and become pale, but
just as vigorously in the movements, as well as confidently, as well as
superior ironic. But Gertrud! A bit full, but still slim, a mature,
thriving woman and yet girlishly graceful, elegant and lovely, other than
seven years ago, but a better, higher. Maggie felt that at first glance.
The heart is pressed her. At the same time through it like a stitch. The
words of her husband that evening came into her mind: "The dear,
white blonde head - that you never see more below ..."

And now came Gertrud On. With simple sincerity, but without emotion,
she went against her sister. Your clear eyes and their hands
outstretched said more than words. Maggie had become very pale. "Before
any man in the world, Gertrud, it is so difficult to me -" she
began, the presence of the other forgetting quietly with trembling
voice.

Gertrud put them on themselves. As Maggie broke into sobs making free from.
"Maggie ... Child ...

"said Gertrud and stroked the reddened hair, which confused the
head umbauschte.

Maggie went off and pointed with trembling hands on the hot face."
I am become nervous, "she said with her slightly hoarse-sounding voice
and an uncertain attempt to laugh. "And you? Let you watch ... «Gertrude
wrinkles his brow a little, but they looked after Seckersdorf and
smiled."

We have not yet welcomed, "she said, giving him a hand. Reverently, is
deep bow, he kissed her hand. Gertrud came back in silence. "Well,
if everything so far is fine," said the head forester easier, "yes,
we could probably go on tables, is not it?" It was a strange lunch. We
talked a lot, even about important things, like the relocation of
Seckersdorfs after Romitten, which was already decided. »On Maggie desire,"
said her husband, because they are in the Saxon relationships would
never settle can.

Because they are resistant to Civil birth would make sense, said Maggie
with evil frown - "the ladies at least."

We also discussed whether the head forester and Miss Perl with
hinüberziehen should.

Seckersdorfs wanted it, and the two Old reluctant to just because of the
shape. And so the conversation was lively and yet without any real heat
on.

While talking about the future was, but everyone was in the thrall of
the past and making plans over the measured one at the other. Finally,
the conversation fell silent. "And you, madam? «started faltering
because Seckersdorf against Gertrude turned, the first time that
he directly anredete."

Oh what, - madam, "broke it to the head forester ...

"If I'm too old to work with the world fraternity to make of you
boys is such stiffness but the pure Unnatur.

You can quietly 'you' call. "For a moment everything was silent. Gertrud
and Maggie eyes met with a serious, inquiring gaze, facial Seckersdorfs
showed a strong protest, only visibly amused Kurowski laughed and said,
"Papa's, you are enterprising ... but ... agree. "And the view fully
sparkling Hohner lifted his glass against Seckersdorf. About Gertrude
beautiful, serious face flew a slight tremor.

"I think they do, we will waste time," she said.

"We ourselves know that we have a lot of effort will have einzuleben us
together, is not it? We have all the good will, certainly ... but
... "" My wife will not be so easy, "Kurowski it fell somewhat noisily
into the word. "What do you say to her brother? And you, Maggie? We
will therefore consider the matter and, in some time back in your
graces us.

"His half-mocking words accompanied a satisfied look. Gertrud said he does
not like the grateful and admiring Seckersdorfs and frightened and
astonished her sister. She looked silently at the ground. "Gertrud
The time now is always so," said the head forester with the plaintive
sound of old people who do not wish it. »White God, how they came
about. Previously - "" Yes, put her head just right, Dad, she governs
me sometimes a bit much, "said Kurowski. Gertrude looked at him
baffled, but he laughed. "That means if you have a Bummelante is, like
me, it already has its good sides, in the home to know that keeps
your eyes open ... what, Seckersdorf?

They also seem to me just does not become a solid husband. And Mrs.
Maggie ... "" I have no inclination to sergeant, "said the fast.

"I am absolutely not a housewife or mother ...

Yes, Gertrude!

The boys did so in the Corps du? And your two girls who kenn 'ich ja
noch nicht. How old is the smallest? "Gertrude smiled and gave information
quite at ease when her husband said that it actually belonged to the
necessary requisites of life, always a three-year-old kid to have.

And then we stood on.

The head forester had to rest. The wine was something to him heads. He
was touched, hugged his daughters several times, and named Gertrude
with the name of his late wife »Ellinor."

Perl lady led him.

Kurowski Seckersdorf adopted under the arm and asked him for a cigar
and a small tour.

The sisters were alone in the same room in which Gertrud on that
autumn evening, bitterly complaining of chest Maggie located, the
same in which they are Seckersdorf thrown into the arms had.

Now, in the presence of Maggie, flickered long overcome bitterness with a
small flame re-tired in her, and when Maggie with half-stifled cry
exclaiming: "Trude ... Trude ... what is the life now? "said she
involuntarily:" The punishment for what we did. "But then bethought
them immediately and went to the sister, with burning eyes to the
window hinausstarrte." This is actually nonsense, "she said with
the old, loving voice, and pressed her head to her chest Maggie. "It's
already in the air, even if you have something which has once only
is determined to do what the duty of one calls.

Light is not, but I've managed. And you, Maggie? "No, no, no,"
said Maggie violently. "One is not more in height, if you - Gertrude,
I've cheated yourself useless, I am even lucky vorbeigetaumelt. He has
never forgotten - and I - Dear God, I am disheartened to everything
else because I do not even have _das_ in him can overcome. "" And
you love him?

"Gertrude asked hesitantly. Maggie shook her head. "I love him not. I
have no love, if I would like it sometimes, and often even beyond search.
But then, Gertrud, the terrible cold in me, and lurking behind all
these terrible question: Why? "They both fell silent for a while."
Come, Maggie, "said Gertrud then.

"We want more, it is so sad here. Come in the course book. "And
they went out.

It was a blissful Frühherbsttag hold.

Warm, bluish vapors stood out from the fragrant spruce and verschwebten.
The stubble fields, which cut through the woods saw were exhausted
and resting in glittering yellow and corners there.

From the meadows was cut a bitter herb box odor, and from the forest quoll
a tingling, autumnal breath.

"Such a beautiful autumn," said Gertrud in thought.

Maggie stood there and involved with both hands the arm of her sister.
"For you, Trude , - for you, "she said uneasy. And her eyes were wet. *
* * * * Notes on transcription: In the original printed text was blocked
with _Unterstrichen_ and foreign-language text in Antiqua with = equals
sign = marked. The following typographical errors were corrected in the
original: lean on and cry 'back' in The original lines were swapped
in the original, correct 3-2-1-4: 1, the pay, and now they want to
be a 2 mixes things work.

Because once you have a business, 3 you, the devil is to get the 4
in my ruin!

This is not me ...

I am standing on yellowish white, 'allegedly' in the original

The girl had forgiven him; he knew it by the touch of her arm.... Old
Stefani! A sob escaped him. Their arms tightened.

"No; I was thinking of Stefani. Rather hard--to die all alone--because
he loved me."

Kitty longed to be alone. There were still many unshed tears--some for
Cutty, some for Stefani Gregor, some for Johnny Two-Hawks, and some for
herself.

In the limousine Cutty sat in the middle, Kitty on his left and Hawksley
on his right, his arms round them both. Presently Hawksley's head
touched his shoulder and rested there; a little later Kitty did
likewise. His children! Lord, he was going to have a tremendous interest
in life, after all! He smiled with kindly irony at the back of the
chauffeur. His children, these two; and he knew as he planned their
future that they were thinking over and round but not of him, which is
the way of youth.

At the apartment Cutty decided to let Hawksley sit in an easy chair in
the living room until Captain Harrison arrived. Kuroki was ordered
to prepare a supper, which would be served on the tea cart, set at
Hawksley's knees. Kitty--because it was impossible for her to remain
inactive--set the linen and silver. She was in and out of the room, ill
at ease, angry, frightened, bitter, avoiding Hawksley's imploring eyes
because she was not sure of her own.

She was sure of one thing, however. All the nonsense was out of her
head. To-morrow she would be returning to the regular job. She would
have a page from the Arabian Nights to look upon in the days to come.
She understood, though it twisted her heart dreadfully: she was in the
eyes of this man a plaything, a pretty woman he had met in passing. If
she had saved his life he had in turn saved hers; they were quits. She
did not blame him for his point of view. He had come from the top of the
world, where women were either ornaments or playthings, while she and
hers had always struggled to maintain equilibrium in the middle stratum.
Cutty could give him friendship; but she could not because she was a
woman, young and pretty.

Love him? Well, she would get over it. It might be only the glamour of
the adventure they had shared. Anyhow, she wouldn't die of it. Cutty
hadn't. Of course it hurt; she was a silly little fool, and all that.
Once he was in Montana he would be sending for his Olga. There wasn't
the least doubt in her mind that if ever autocracy returned to power,
he'd be casting aside his American citizenship, his chaps and sombrero,
for the old regalia. Well--truculently to the world at large--why not?

So she avoided Hawksley's gaze, sensing the sustained persistence of it.
But, oh, to be alone, alone, alone!

Cutty washed the patient's hands and face and patched up the cut on
the cheek, interlarding his chatter with trench idioms, banter, jokes.
Underneath, though, he was chuckling. He was the hero of this tale;
he had done all the thrilling stunts, carried limp bodies across fire
escapes in the rain, climbed roofs, eluded newspaper reporters, fought
with his bare fists, rescued the girl.... All with one foot in the
grave! Fifty-two, gray haired--with a prospect of rheumatism on the
morrow--and putting it over like a debonair movie idol!

Hawksley met these pleasantries halfway by grousing about being babied
when there was nothing the matter with him but his head, his body, and
his legs.

Why didn't she look at him? What was the meaning of this persistent
avoidance? She must have forgiven last night. She was too much of a
thoroughbred to harbour ill feeling over that. Why didn't she look at
him?

The telephone called Cutty from the room.

Kitty went into the dining room for an extra pair of salt cellars and
delayed her return until she heard Cutty coming back.

"Karlov is dead," he announced. "Started a fight in the taxi, got out,
and was making for safety when one of the boys shot him. He hadn't
the jewels on him, John. I'm afraid they are gone, unless he hid them
somewhere in that--What's the matter, Kitty?"

For Kitty had dropped the salt cellars and pressed her hands against her
bosom, her face colourless.

Hawksley, terrified, tried to get up.

"No, no! Nothing is the matter with me but my head.... To think I could
forget! Good--heavens!" She prolonged the words drolly. "Wait."

She turned her back to them. When she faced them again she extended a
palm upon which lay a leather tobacco pouch, cracked and parched and
blistered by the reactions of rain and sun.

"Think of my forgetting them! I found them this morning. Where do you
suppose? On a step of the fire-escape ladder."

"Well, I'll be tinker-dammed!" said Cutty.

"I've reasoned it out," went on Kitty, breathlessly, looking at Cutty,
"When the anarchist tore them from Mr. Hawksley's neck, he threw them
out of the window. The room was dark; his companion could not see. Later
he intended, no doubt, to go into the court and recover them and cheat
his master. I was looking out of the window, when I noticed a brilliant
flash of purple, then another of green. The pouch was open, the stones
about to trickle out. I dared not leave them in the apartment or tell
anybody until you came home. So I carried them with me to the office.
The drums, Cutty! The drums! Tumpitum-tump! Look!"

She poured the stones upon the white linen tablecloth. A thousand fires!

"The wonderful things!" she gasped. "Oh, the wonderful things! I don't
blame you, Cutty. They would tempt an angel. The drums of jeopardy; and
that I should find them!"

"Lord!" said Cutty, in an awed whisper. Green stones! The magnificent
rubies and sapphires and diamonds vanished; he could see nothing but the
exquisite emeralds. He picked up one--still warm with Kitty's pulsing
life--and toyed with it. Actually, the drums! And all this time they had
been inviting the first comer to appropriate them. Money, love, tragedy,
death; history, pageants, lovely women; murder and loot! All these
days on the step of the fire-escape ladder! He must have one of them;
positively he must. Could he prevail upon Hawksley to sell one? Had he
carried them through sentiment?

He turned to broach the suggestion of purchase, but remained mute.

Hawksley's head was sunk upon his chest; his arms hung limply at the
sides of his chair.

"He is fainting!" cried Kitty, her love outweighing her resolves.
"Cutty!"--desperately, fearing to touch Hawksley herself.

"No! The stones, the stones! Take them away--out of sight! I'm too done
in! I can't stand it! I can't--The Red Night! Torches and hobnailed
boots!"


CHAPTER XXXIII


Her fingers seemingly all thumbs, her heart swelling with misery and
loneliness, wanting to go to him but fearing she would be misunderstood,
Kitty scooped up the dazzling stones and poured them hastily into the
tobacco pouch, which she thrust into Cutty's hands. What she had heard
was not the cry of a disordered brain. The nephew as an uncle. Comedy
in three acts. From the French of Picard. Persons. Dorsigny of Colonel.
Wife of Dorsigny. Sophie, her daughter. Dorsigny Francis, her nephew.
Mirville woman, her niece.

Lormeuil, Sophie bridegroom.

Valcour, friend of the young Dorsigny. Champagne, operated by the young
Dorsigny. A notary. Two Unterofficiere. A Postillon. Jasmin, Dorsigny
servant's home. Three lackeys. Act. First appearance. Valcour meets
eilfertig herein, and after he was anywhere around, if no one up, it
occurs to one of the wax lights, the front desk on a burn, and reads
a Billet. "Lord of Valcour is invited to this evening at six clock in the
Garden Room of the Lord of Dorsigny einzufinden."If I said Mister--" began Kitty, her brain confused, her tongue clumsy.

"You haven't forgiven!" he interrupted. "A thoroughbred like you,
to hold last night against me! Mister--after what we two have shared
together! Why didn't you leave me there to die?"

Cutty observed that the drama had resolved itself into two characters;
he had been relegated to the scenes. He tiptoed toward his study door,
and as he slipped inside he knew that Gethsemane was not an orchard
but a condition of the mind. He tossed the pouch on his desk, eyed it
ironically, and sat down. His, one of them--one of those marvellous
emeralds was his! He interlaced his fingers and rested his brow upon
them. He was very tired.

Kitty missed him only when she heard the latch snap.

She was alone with Hawksley; and all her terror returned. Not to touch
him, not to console him; to stand staring at him like a dumb thing!

"I do forgive--Johnny! But your world and my world--"

"Those stains! The wretches hurt you!"

"What? Where?"--bewildered.

"The blood on your waist!"

Kitty looked down. "That is not my blood, Johnny. It is yours."

"Mine?" Johnny. Something in the way she said it. "Mine?"--trying to
solve the riddle.

The only difference is that the colonel Perrücke a bear, and my own
hair - but now, since I Perrücke me his uniform and his regiment,
respectively, amazing myself on the great similarity with him.

At this moment, and I'm glad you so punctually at the rendezvous
to find. Valcour. At the Rendezvous? How? Did they even what you
trust them? Dorsigny. You?

What are they?

Valcour. Well, the nice lady that I am in a billet hieher decision? You
are my friend, Dorsigny, and I have no secret from you. Dorsigny
(laughing). The allerliebst lady! Valcour. What are you laughing?
Dorsigny. I am a beautiful lady, Valcour. Valcour. Du? Dorsigny. The
ticket is from me. Valcour. A beautiful Quiproquo the devil! - What do
you but your letters not to sign? - People from my shock at such can
Billets for something completely different bill to make - but as
it stands, well!

We take each other nothing amiss, Dorsigny - Well, I am your obedient
servant.

Dorsigny. But wait! Why you so eilst across? There was a lot to me because
you speak against me before I see someone else did.

I need your assistance, we must take arrangement with each other. Valcour.
Well - you can count on me, but now let me, I have urgent
business-Dorsigny.

So? Now that thou shalt erzeigen a service - but to a gallant adventure
you had time left. Valcour. This is not, dear Dorsigny. But I must
continue, it expects me. Dorsigny. Where? Valcour. When l'Hombre.
Dorsigny. The great affair! Valcour. Side joke!

I have the opportunity, the sister of thy Obrist lieutenants to see
- what you hold on me, I want you to talk her off.

She
would have her span of happiness, come ill, come good, even if it
hurt Cutty, whom she loved in another fashion. But for Johnny dropping
through that trap she might never have really known, married Cutty, and
been happy. Happy until one or the other died; never gloriously, never
furiously, but mildly happy; perhaps understanding each other far better
than Johnny and she would understand each other. The average woman's
lot. Sophie. You will also be at the wedding? Lormeuil. Yes, my
lady - you do not seem to be satisfied with this Heirath? Sophie.
It has the approval of my father.

Lormeuil. Cheers! But what the founding fathers held, has not always about
the applause of the daughters. Sophie. O Heirath what these concerns -
which is also a bit of my prison. Lormeuil. Like, my lady? Sophie. My
father was so kind, my inclination to Rath to ask. Lormeuil.
"Johnny, who is Olga?" The question was irrepressible. Perhaps it was
the last shred of caution binding her. All of him or none of him. There
must be no other woman intervening.

Hawksley stiffened in his chair. His hands closed convulsively and his
eyes lost their brightness. "Johnny?" Kitty ran round the tea cart.
"What is it?" She knelt beside the chair, alarmed, for the horror had
returned to his face. "What did they do to you back there?" She clasped
one of his hands tensely in hers.

"In my dreams at night!" he said, staring into space. "I could run away
from my pursuers, but I could not run away from my dreams! Torches and
hobnailed boots!... They trampled on her; and I, up there in the gallery
with those damned emeralds in my hands! Ah, if I hadn't gone for them,
if I hadn't thought of the extra comforts their sale would bring! There
would have been time then, Kitty. I had all the other jewels in the
pouch. Horses were ready for us to flee on, loyal servants ready to help
us; but I thought of the drums. A few more worldly comforts--with hell
forcing in the doors!

"I didn't tell her where I was going. When I came back it was to see
her die! They saw me, and yelled. I ran away. I hadn't the courage to
go down there and die with her! She thought I was in that hell pit. She
went down there to die with me and died horribly, alone! Ah, if I could
only shut it out, forget! Olga, my tender young sister, Kitty, the last
one of my race I could love. And I ran away like a yellow dog, like a
yellow dog! I don't know where her grave is, and I could not seek it if
I did! I dared not write Stefani; tell him I had seen Olga go down under
Karlov's heels, and then ran away!... Day by day to feel those stones
against my heart!"

Nothing is more terrible to a woman than the sight of a brave man
weeping. For she knew that he was brave. The sudden recollection of
the emeralds; a little more comfort for himself and sister if they were
permitted to escape. Not a cowardly instinct, not even a greedy one; a
normal desire to fortify them additionally against an unknown future,
and he had surrendered to it impulsively, without explaining to Olga
where he was going.

"Johnny, Johnny, you mustn't!" She sprang up, seizing his head and
wildly kissing him. "You mustn't! God understands, and Olga. Oh, you
mustn't sob like that! You are tearing my heart to pieces!"

"I ran away like a yellow dog! I didn't go down there and die with her!"

"You didn't run away to-night when you offered your life for my liberty.
Johnny, you mustn't!"

Under her tender ministrations the sobs began to die away and soon
resolved into little catching gasps. He was weak and spent from his
injuries; otherwise he would not have given way like this, discovered to
her what she had not known before, that in every man, however strong and
valiant he may be, there is a little child.

"It has been burning me up, Kitty."

"I know, I know! It is because you have a soul full of beautiful things,
Johnny. God held you back from dying with Olga because He knew I needed
you."

Remarked to him his future wealth? Did he mention Gertrude?

"" Still! Quiet! Still ... "cried the head forester in the Gefrage. "He
is a nice decent guy, which seems to have learned. Whether he hierbleibt
is still uncertain. Each afforest If he wants to leave and asked me
to write the story to make. That raises what from.

And yes, we need an extra subsidy as always! "Maggie looked thoughtfully
at the lamp. When they sat so still, her face was an expression
clever, cold hardness that is too soft, rosy, the Flemish-like shapes
formed a striking contrast. "He probably comes from?" She asked. "That
would be a guess, then, when their so outraged by it and the poor
were Gertrud.

What a terrible unlucky but Leutchen gehabt! If one thinks that he is half
a year after the wedding of Gertrude stein heir of a rich man was.
"" Will be, Maggie, "Ms.

Perl improved. »By Trude's but was not. He had not even the allowance.
And ... "" I am not the deposit, "was the head forester briefly.
"And the Laukischker want to 'have a child perfectly.

That was because yet another lot, as it 's infantry lieutenant, finally,
when his uncle, perhaps a minimum would have been away. "" So? "Asked
Maggie sit up. "I think it was called then, the uncle would have received
nothing on when you made the nominations." "Oh!" The head forester winced
with the crooked, gray brows, a sign that he was not comfortable. "What
do you know! You were still half a child! The Gertrude's understanding
has been conceived and does not repenting. The Kurowski is just not my
swarm, but the child's but like a princess. "The two women were silent
on." Or you can find some not? "Cried the head forester violently."
Quiet, Dad's, "Maggie said, and laid their soft hand on his bony. "If
not, we can not change. But all in all, the Seckersdorf wär 'me rather
than Schwager, especially now that he is so rich. "The head forester
laughed." If you only have a little brains, girl, and not just always the
big mouth ... but you do it.

It's time.

Twenty-four is a very nice figure for a girl. "" Right you, "he agreed
thoughtfully to Maggie. »Are we the cause times superior. If he comes,
playing 'I gave him the second edition Gertrud before. What I lack in
beauty, geb 'ich in meekness, and history will make itself.

"The head forester, it looked suspicious and dissatisfied to." You
Be sit anyway, with all your cleverness, "he said. »By Gertrud it
was different. Then this and that. Incidentally, the Seckersdorf in
Waldlack with Kurowskis been together. He told the so-incidentally,
said the Trude looks miserable.

If I'm just better with the guy, which could Kurowski! It is as cut off
from the child. Every tourist knows more. "He stroked the anxious thick
hair of his second wave." That is it all better, papa, "comforted
the girl." Let us also not break the head. Tell dear, how was it otherwise
in Graventhin? Again great dinner? And badly served? "The head forester
told of the adventures of three days. He ordered Greetings, neighbors
reported, and reported visits to a little gossip.

In Waldlack was again gejeut been, twenty of the Mark Point.

The Althöfer stayed still, recently had another big breakfast of
champagne.

How was it possible that the people there happy mitzechten? Maggie
interjected that it would be wiser to what they could do, they only wish
it would still be a single ball since before the collapse, because it
would be so kind anywhere. And so the conversation went on. The heavy
rain poured, the wind howled.

Miss Perl stringently, Hagedorn and his daughter smoked and played
with the dogs.

Since gritted out on the gravel road a car. The two Teckel lifted
their heads.

The head forester jumped on. "Children ... Visit! In this weather! And
my slippers. Receive it! "But even before he could leave the room,
together with the girls, the door opened, pushed blondköpfige two
boys inside, rushed to him and attached themselves to him." Grandpa!
Grandpa! Here we go. Aunt Maggie ... Pearls, "The Chief Forester lifted
one after the other in the amount taken aback." Where will ye forth,
guys, and alone?

but I'd
like a look-see when you say to your rough-and-readies: 'Bally rotten
weather. What?' They'll shoot you up."

More banter; which fooled none of the three, as each understood the
other perfectly. The hour of separation was at hand, and they were
fortifying their courage.

"Funny old top," was Hawksley's comment as they stood before the train
gate. "Three months gone we were strangers."

"And now--" began Cutty.

"With hoops of steel!" interrupted Kitty. "You must write, Cutty, and
Johnny and I will be prompt."

"You'll get one from the Azores."

"Train going west!"

"Good luck, children!" Cutty pressed Hawksley's hand and pecked at
Kitty's cheek. "Shan't go through with you to the car. Kuroki is
waiting. Good-bye!"

The redcaps seized the luggage, and Hawksley and his bride followed them
through the gate. Because he was tall Cutty could see them until they
reached the bumper. Funny old world, for a fact. Samuel Petit, Mr Winckelmann
in touch though, this does not say, but the "Antigone" explicitly in the
third year of Olympia vierundachtzigsten set. Sophocles was the following
year with the Perikles to Samos, and the year of this expedition can
be reliably determined. I show in my life of Sophocles, from the
comparison with an earlier post of Pliny that the first tragedy
of this poet, wahrscheinlicherweise, "Triptolemus" been.

Pliny speaks of (XVIII Libr.

Sect. 12 p. 107 Edit. Hard.)

Of the various goodness of cereals in various countries and concludes:
Hae for sententiae, Alexandro Magno regnante, cum clarissima fuit
Graecia, Atque in toto Terrarum Orbe potentissima; ita tamen ut ante
mortem ejus fere annis CXLV Sophocles poeta in Fabula "Triptolemo" frumentum
italicum ante cuncta laudaverit, ad verbum translata Sententia: Et
fortunatam Italiam Frumento canere candido. Now is not specifically
excluded from the first games of the Sophocles tragedy, the Speech
alone it is true the same epoch, which Plutarch and Scholiast and
monuments Arundelschen unanimously in Olympia Seventy-seven set
with the era in which Pliny the Triptolemus "setzet so exactly agree
that it probably is not unlike this" Triptolemus "itself for the
first game of the Sophocles tragedy can recognize.

The calculation is done immediately. Alexander died in the hundertundvierzehnten
Olympia; one hundred forty-five years amounted thirty-six Olympics
and a year, and this sum deducted from that, there seventy-seven.
he asked, awkwardly.

"Uh-hm!" Suddenly she threw her arms round his neck and kissed him. "If
only the three of us could be always together! Take care of yourself.
Johnny and I need you." Then she caught his hand, gave it a pressure,
and was off again. Cutty stood there, staring blindly in her direction.
Old Stefani Gregor; sacrifice. By and by he became conscious of
something warm and hard in his palm. He looked down.

A green stone, green as the turban of a Mecca pilgrim, green as the eye
of a black panther in the thicket. He dropped the emerald into a vest
pocket and fumbled round for his pipe--always his mental crutch. Ms.
V. Mirville. You know what? Pay for it with the same coin - you
give it's home! Let him feel that you are not the best operation.
Friday v. Dorsigny. You're right. Let me just make! Colonel.

When's soon?!