When the children had told their mother what they had done and expressed
a determination to try to be Christians; she, too, was greatly moved.
She had been early trained in the principles and belief of Christianity,
and had never renounced her early faith. Naturally confiding, with a
yielding, conciliatory spirit, she had never obtruded her sentiments
upon the notice of her husband, nor openly opposed any of his peculiar
views. But now, when her little ones gathered around her and spoke of
their new love for the Savior, their joy and peace and hope, she wept.
All the holy influences of her own childhood and youth seemed breathing
upon her heart. She remembered the faithful sermons of the old pastor
whose hands had baptized her. She remembered, too, the family altar, and
the prayers which were offered morning and evening by her sainted father.
She remembered the counsels of her good mother now in heaven. All these
memories came crowding back upon her and under their softening influences
she almost felt herself a child again.

[Illustration: It was a moving sight to see that gentle girl take that
younger brother and sister by the hand and kneel with them at the mercy
seat--a sight to heighten the joy of angels.]

When Mr. Lowe first became aware of the change in his children, he was
sorely puzzled to know what to do. He had given his consent for them to
attend the Sunday School, and should he now be offended because they had
yielded to its influence? Ought he not rather to have expected this? And
after all, would what they called religion make them any worse children?
Though at first quite disturbed in his feelings, he finally concluded
upon second thought to say nothing to them upon the subject, but to let
things go on as usual.

But not so those happy young converts. They could not long hold their
peace. They must tell their father also what they had experienced. Mr.
Lowe heard them, but he made no attempt to ridicule their simple faith,
as had been his usual course with others. They were HIS children, and
none could boast of better. Still, he professed to see in their present
state of mind nothing but youthful feeling, excited by the peculiar
circumstances of the last few weeks. But when they began in their childish
ardor to exhort him also to seek the Lord, he checked their simple
earnestness with a peculiar sternness which said to them: "The act must
not be repeated."

The next Sunday the father could not prevent a feeling of loneliness as
he saw his household leave for church. The three children, with their
mother and Joseph, the hired boy, to drive and take care of the horse;
all packed into the old commodious carriage and started off. Never before
had he such peculiar feelings as when he watched them slowly descending
the hill.

To dissipate these emotions he took a dish of salt and started up the
hill to a "mountain pasture" where his young cattle were enclosed for
the season. It was a beautiful day in October, that queen month of the
year. A soft melancholy breathed in the mild air of the mellow "Indian
summer," and the varying hues of the surrounding forests, and the signs
of decay seen upon every side, all combined to deepen the emotions which
the circumstances of the morning had awakened.

His sadness increased; and as his path opened out into a bright, sunny
spot far up on the steep hillside, he seated himself upon a mossy knoll
and thought. Before him lay the beautiful valley guarded on either side
by its lofty hills, and watered by its placid river. It was a lovely
picture; and as his eye rested upon the village, nestling down among its
now gorgeous shade-trees and scarlet shrubbery, he could not help thinking
of that company who were then gathered in the little church, with its
spire pointing heavenward nor of asking himself the question: "Why are
they there?"

While thus engaged, his attention was attracted by the peculiar chirping
of a ground sparrow near by. He turned, and but a few feet from him he
saw a large black snake, with its head raised about a foot above its
body, which lay coiled upon the ground. Its jaws were distended, its
forked tongue played around its open mouth, flashing in the sunlight
like a small lambent flame, while its eyes were intently fixed upon the
bird. There was a clear, sparkling light about those eyes that was fearful
to behold--they fairly flashed with their peculiar bending fascination.
The poor sparrow was fluttering around a circle of some few feet in
diameter, the circle becoming smaller at each gyration of the infatuated
bird. She appeared conscious of her danger, yet unable to break the spell
that bound her. Nearer and still nearer she fluttered her little wings
to those open jaws; smaller and smaller grew the circle, till at last,
with a quick convulsive cry; she fell into the mouth of the snake.

As Mr. Lowe watched the bird he became deeply interested in her fate.
He started a number of times to destroy the reptile and thus liberate
the sparrow from her danger, but an unconquerable curiosity to see the
end restrained him. All day long the scene just described was before
him. He could not forget it nor dismiss it from his mind. The last cry
of that poor little bird sinking into the jaws of death was constantly
ringing in his ears, and the sadness of the morning increased.

[Illustration]

Returning to his house, he seated himself in his library and attempted
to read. What could be the matter? Usually he could command his thoughts
at will, but now he could think of nothing but the scene on the mountain,
or the little company in the house of God. Slowly passed the hours, and
many times did he find himself, in spite of his resolution not to do so,
looking down the road for the head of his dapple gray to emerge from the
valley. It seemed a long time before the rumbling of the wheels was at
length heard upon the bridge which crossed the mountain stream, followed
shortly by the old carry-all creeping slowly up the hill.

The return of the family somewhat changed the course of his thoughts.
They did not say any thing to him about the good meeting they had enjoyed,
and who had been converted since the last Lord's day; but they talked
it all over among themselves, and how could he help hearing? He learned
all about "how good farmer Haskell talked," and "how humble and devoted
Esquire Wiseman appeared," and "how happy Benjamin and Samuel were";
though he seemed busy with his book and pretended to take no notice of
what was said.

It was, indeed, true then that the old lawyer had become pious. He had
heard the news before, but did not believe it. Now he had learned it as
a fact. That strong-minded man who had been a skeptic all his days, had
ridiculed and opposed religion, was now a subject of "the children's
revival." What could it mean? Was there something in religion after all?
Could it be that what these poor fanatics, as he had always called them,
said about the future world was correct? Was there a heaven, and a hell,
and a God of justice? Were his darling children right, and was he alone
wrong? Such were the thoughts of the boasted infidel, as he sat there
listening to the half-whispered conversation of his happy children.

Little Ella came and climbed to her long accustomed place upon her
father's knee, and throwing her arms around his neck, laid her glowing
cheek, half-hidden by the clustering curls, against his own. He knew by
her appearance she had something to say but did not dare to say it. To
remove this fear, he began to question her about Sunday School. He
inquired after her teacher and who were her classmates, what she learned,
etc. Gradually the shyness wore away, and the heart of the innocent
praying child came gushing forth. She told him all that had been done
that day--what her teacher had said of the prayer meeting at noon, and
who spoke, and how many went forward for prayers. Then folding her arms
more closely around his neck, and kissing him tenderly, she added:

"Oh, father, I do wish you had been there!"

"Why do you wish I had been there, Ella?"

"Oh, just to see how happy Nellie Winslow looked while her grandfather
was telling us children how much he loved the Savior, and how sorry he
was that he did not give his heart to his heavenly Father when he was
young. Then he laid his hand on Nellie's head, who was sitting by his
side, and said: 'I thank God that he ever gave me a little praying
granddaughter to lead me to the Savior.' And, father, I never in all my
life saw anyone look so happy as Nellie did."

Mr. Lowe made no reply--how could he? Could he not see where the heart
of his darling Ella was? Could he not see that by what she had told him
about Esquire Wiseman and his pet Nellie, she meant HE should understand
how happy SHE should be if HER father was a Christian? Ella had not said
so in words--THAT was a forbidden subject--but the language of her earnest
loving look and manner was not to be mistaken; and the heart of the
infidel father was deeply stirred. He kissed the rosy cheeks of the
lovely girl, and taking his hat, left the house. He walked out into the
field. He felt strangely. Before he was aware of the fact he found his
infidelity leaving him, and the simple, artless religion of childhood
winning its way to his heart. Try as hard as he might he could not help
believing that his little Ella was a Christian. There was a reality about
her simple faith and ardent love that was truly "the evidence of things
not seen." What should he do? Should he yield to thin influence and be
led by his children to Christ? What! Captain Lowe, the boasted infidel
overcome by the weakness of excited childhood! The thought roused his
PRIDE and with an exclamation of impatience at his folly, he suddenly
wheeled about, and retracing his steps, with altered appearance, he
re-entered his house.

His wife was alone with an open Bible before her. As he entered he saw
her hastily wipe away a tear. In passing her he glanced upon the open
page, and his eye caught the words "YE MUST BE BORN AGAIN!" They went
like an arrow to his heart. "TRUTH," said a voice within, with such
fearful distinctness that he started at the fancied sound; and the
influence which he had just supposed banished from his heart returned
with ten-fold power. The strong man trembled. Leaving the sitting-room,
he ascended the stairs to his chamber. Passing Sarah's room, a voice
attracted his attention. It was the voice of prayer. He heard his own
name pronounced, and he paused to listen.

"Oh, Lord, save my dear father. Lead him to the Savior. Let him see
that he MUST BE BORN AGAIN. Oh let not the SERPENT CHARM HIM! Save, oh,
save my dear father!"

He could listen no longer, "_Let not the serpent charm him!_" Was
he then like that helpless little bird, who fluttering around the head
of the serpent, fell at last into the jaws of death? The thought shot a
wild torrent of newly awakened terror through his throbbing heart.

Hastening to his chamber he threw himself into a chair. He started! The
voice of prayer again fell upon his ear. He listened. Yes, it was the
clear, sweet accents of his little pet. Ella was praying--WAS PRAYING
FOR HIM!

"O Lord, bless my dear father. Make him a Christian, and may he and dear
mother be prepared for heaven!"

[Illustration: They came from their places of prayer, where they had
lifted up their voices to God who had said: "Whatsoever ye shall ask the
Father in my name He will give it you."]

Deeply moved, the father left the house and hastened to the barn. He
would fain escape from those words of piercing power. They were like
daggers in his heart. He entered the barn. Again he hears a voice. It
comes from the hay-loft, in the rich silvery tones of his own noble boy.
John had climbed up the ladder, and kneeling down upon the hay WAS PRAYING
FOR HIS FATHER.

"O Lord, save my father!"

It was too much for the poor convicted man, and, rushing to the house
he fell, sobbing upon his knees by the side of his wife and cried:

"O Mary, I am a poor, lost sinner! Our children are going to heaven, and
I--I--AM GOING DOWN TO HELL! Oh, Wife, is there mercy for a wretch like
me?"

Poor Mrs. Lowe was completely overcome. She wept for joy. That her husband
would ever be her companion in the way of holiness, she had never dared
to hope. Yes, there was mercy for even them. "Come unto me, and find
rest." Christ had said it, and her heart told her it was true. Together
they would go to this loving Savior, and their little ones should show
them the way.

The children were called in. They came from their places of prayer, where
they had lifted up their hearts to that God who had said "WHATSOEVER YE
SHALL ASK THE FATHER IN MY NAME HE WILL GIVE IT YOU." They had asked the
Spirit's influence upon the hearts of their parents, and it had been
granted. They gathered around their weeping, broken-hearted father and
penitent mother, and pointed them to the cross of Jesus. Long and earnestly
they prayed, and wept and agonized. With undoubting trust in the promises,
they waited at the mercy-seat, and their prayers were heard. Faith
conquered. The Spirit came and touched these penitent hearts with the
finger of love; and then sorrow was turned to joy--their night, dark and
cheerless and gloomy, was changed to blessed day.

[Illustration]

They arose from their knees, and Ella sprang to the arms of her father,
and together they rejoiced in God.

--Brother H. P. in _Christian Advocate_


THE STOWAWAY

On board an English steamer a little ragged boy, aged nine years, was
discovered on the fourth day of the voyage out from Liverpool to New
York, and carried before the first mate, whose duty it was to deal with
such cases. When questioned as to his object in being stowed away, and
who had brought him on board, the boy, who had a beautiful sunny face,
that looked like the very mirror of truth, replied that his step-father
did it, because he could not afford to keep him nor pay his passage to
Halifax where he had an aunt who was well off, and to whose house he was
going.

The mate did not believe his story, in spite of the winning face and
truthful accents of the boy. He had seen too much of stowaways to be
easily deceived by them, he said; and it was his firm conviction that
the boy had been brought on board and provided with food by the sailors.


[Illustration]

The little fellow was very roughly handled in consequence. Day by day
he was questioned and requestioned, but always with the same result. He
did not know a sailor on board, and his father alone had secreted and
given him the food which he ate. At last the mate, wearied by the boy's
persistence in the same story, and perhaps a little anxious to inculpate
the sailors, seized him one day by the collar, and dragging him to the
fore, told him that unless he told the truth, in ten minutes from that
time he would hang from the yard arm. He then made him sit under it on
the deck. All around him were the passengers and sailors of the midway
watch, and in front of him stood the inexorable mate, with chronometer
in his hand, and the other officers of the ship by his side. It was a
touching sight to see the pale, proud, scornful face of that noble boy;
his head erect, his beautiful eyes bright through the tears that suffused
them. When eight minutes had fled the mate told him that he had but two
minutes to live, and advised him to speak the truth and save his life.
But he replied with the utmost simplicity and sincerity, by asking the
mate if he might pray. The mate said nothing, but nodded his head, and
turned as pale as a ghost, and shook with trembling like a reed in the
wind. And then all eyes turned on him, the brave and noble fellow--
this poor boy whom society owned not, and whose own step-father could
not care for--knelt with clasped hands and eyes upturned to heaven. There
then occurred a scene as of Pentecost. Sobs broke from strong, hard
hearts, as the mate sprang forward and clasped the boy to his bosom, and
kissed him, and blessed him, and told him how sincerely he now believed
his story and how glad he was that he had been brave enough to face death
and be willing to sacrifice his life for the truth of his word.

--_Illustrated Weekly Telegraph_


THE GOLDEN RULE EXEMPLIFIED

Early one morning while it was yet dark, a poor man came to my door and
informed me that he had an infant child very sick, which he was afraid
would die. He desired me to go to his home, and, if possible help them.
"For," said he, "I want to save its life, if possible." As he spoke thus
his tears ran down his face. He then added:

"I am a poor man; but, Sir, I will pay you in work as much as you ask
if you will go."

I said: "Yes, I will go with you as soon as I take a little refreshment."

"Oh, sir," said he, "I was going to try to get a bushel of corn, and get
it ground to carry home, and I am afraid the child will die before I get
there. I wish you would not wait for me"; and then he added: "We want
to save the child's life if we can."

[Illustration]

It being some miles to his house, I didn't arrive there until the sun
was two hours high in the morning, when I found the mother holding her
sick child, and six or seven little boys and girls around her, with clean
hands and faces, looking as their mother did, lean and poor. On examining
the sick child, I discovered that it was starving to death! I said to
the mother: "You don't give milk enough for this child."

She said: "I suppose I don't."

"Well," said I, "you must feed it with milk."

She answered: "I would, sir, but I can't get any to feed it with."

I then said: "It will be well, then, for you to make a little water
gruel, and feed your child."

To this she replied: "I was thinking I would if my husband brings home
some Indian meal. He has gone to try to get some and I am in hopes he
will make out."

She said this with a sad countenance. I asked her with surprise: "Why
madam, have you not got anything to eat?"

She strove to suppress a tear, and answered sorrowfully: "No sir; we
have had but little these some days."

I said: "What are your neighbors, that you should suffer among them?"

She said, "I suppose they are good people, but we are strangers in this
place, and don't wish to trouble any of them, if we can get along without."

Wishing to give the child a little manna I asked for a spoon. The little
girl went to the table drawer to get one, and her mother said to her:
"Get the longest handled spoon." As she opened the drawer, I saw only
two spoons, and both with handles broken off, but one handle was a little
longer than the other. I thought to myself this is a very poor family,
but I will do the best I can to relieve them. While I was preparing the
food for the sick child, I heard the oldest boy (who was about fourteen),
say: "You shall have the biggest piece now, because I had the biggest
piece before." I turned around to see who it was that manifested such a
principle of justice, and I saw four or five children sitting in the
corner, where the oldest was dividing a roasted potato among them. And
he said to one: "You shall have the biggest piece now," etc. But the
other said: "Why, brother, you are the oldest, and you ought to have the
biggest piece."

"No," said the other, "I had the biggest piece."

I turned to the mother, and said: "Madam, you have potatoes to eat, I
suppose?"

She replied, "We have had, but this is the last one we have left; and
the children have now roasted that for their breakfast."

On hearing this, I hastened home, and informed my wife that food was
needed for the sick family. I then prescribed a gallon of milk, two
loaves of bread, some butter, meat and potatoes, and sent my boy with
these; and had the pleasure to hear in a few days that they were all well.

--Selected.


ONLY ONE VOTE

A local option contest was going on in W--, and Mrs. Kent was trying to
influence her husband to vote "No License." Willie Kent, six years old,
was, of course on his mamma's side. The night before election Mr. Kent
went to see Willie safe in bed, and hushing his prattle, he said: "Now,
Willie, say your prayers."

"Papa, I want to say my own words, tonight," he replied. "All right, my
boy, that is the best kind of praying," answered the father.

Fair was the picture, as Willie, robed in white, knelt at his father's
knee and prayed reverently: "O dear Jesus, do help papa to vote No Whiskey
tomorrow. Amen."

Morning came, the village was alive with excitement. Women's hands, made
hard by toil, were stretched to God for help in the decision.

The day grew late and yet Mr. Kent had not been to the polls. Willie's
prayer sounded in his ears, and troubled conscience said: "Answer your
boy's petition with your ballot."

At last he stood at the polling place with two tickets in his hand--
one, license; the other, "No License." Sophistry, policy, avarice said:
"Vote License." Conscience echoed: "No License." After a moment's
hesitation, he threw from him the No License ticket and put the License
in the box.

The next day it was found that the contest was so close that it needed
but one vote to carry the town for prohibition. In the afternoon, Willie
found a No License ticket, and, having heard only one vote was necessary,
he started out to find the man who would cast this one ballot against
wrong, and in his eagerness he flew along the streets.

The saloon men were having a jubilee, and the highways were filled with
drunken rowdies. Little Willie rushed on through the unsafe crowd.

[Illustration]

Hark! a random pistol-shot from a drunken quarrel, a pierced heart, and
sweet Willie Kent had his death wound--

They carried him home to his mother. His father was summoned, and the
first swift thought that came to him, as he stood over the lifeless boy,
was: "Willie will never pray again that I vote No Whiskey."

With a strange still grief he took in his own the quiet little hand
chilling into marble coldness, and there between the fingers, firmly
clasped, was the No License ballot with which the brave little soul
thought to change the verdict of yesterday.

Mr. Kent started back in shame and sorrow. That vote in his hand might
have answered the prayer so lately on his lips now dumb, and perhaps
averted the awful calamity. Fathers, may not the hands of the "thousands
slain" make mute appeal to you? Your one vote is what God requires of
you. You are responsible for it being in harmony with His law as if on
it hung the great decision.

--_The Issue_


How a Little Girl Utilized the Telephone

A mother living not very far from the post-office in this city, tired
with watching over a sick baby, came down stairs for a moment the other
day for a few second's rest. She heard the voice of her little,
four-year-old girl in the hall by herself, and, curious to know to whom
she was talking, stopped for a moment at the half-opened door. She saw
that the little thing had pulled a chair in front of the telephone, and
stood upon it, with the piece against the side of her head. The earnestness
of the child showed that she was in no playing mood, and this was the
conversation the mother heard, while the tears stood thick in her eyes;
the little one carrying on both sides, as if she were repeating the
answers:

[Illustration]

"Hello."

"Well, who's there?"

"Is God there?"

"Yes."

"Is Jesus there?"

"Yes."

"Tell Jesus I want to speak to him."

"Well?"

"Is that you, Jesus?"

"Yes. What is it?"

"Our baby is sick, and we want you to let it get well. Won't you, now?"
No answer, and statement and question again repeated, and finally answered
by a "Yes."

The little one put the ear-piece back on its hook, clambered down from
the chair, and with a radiant face, went for her mother, who caught her
in her arms.

The baby whose life had been despaired of, began to mend that day and
got well.

--_Elmira Free Press_


Jesus Answers Ruth's Prayer

I went to sit up all night with a very sick neighbor. I took Ruth, my
little five-year-old girl along. When I started to leave the next morning,
the folks told me to leave Ruth there and they would send her home when
she awakened. Being very busy, they forgot about the child for some time,
and she got up and started home by herself. She started up the fence
which she thought led home, but she took the wrong fence and it led out
into a large pasture where there were deep canyons, bad cattle, wolves,
and other dangers.

The neighbors missed Ruth and sent their son to find out if Ruth had got
home all right. Her parents became alarmed when they were told that she
had left two hours before. Her father started out to find his precious
child, asking God to direct him to her. After going some distance, he
heard someone talking. He stopped and listened. His heart was so glad,
for he knew it was his child. She was kneeling by a post praying. And
this is what he heard her say, "O sweet Jesus, please send my papa to
find me! I'm not afraid! I know that you wouldn't let nothing hurt your
little girl, but if my papa didn't find me, my mama would cry herself
to death and my papa would almost cry his self to death. So please, sweet
Jesus, send my papa to find me."

"Here I am, Ruth," Papa said, as he walked toward her.

"Oh, Papa, I knew Jesus would send you to find me!" Ruth said as she
quickly jumped up and ran to her father, throwing her arms around him.

Mother was very happy when she saw father coming with their child, and
thanked God for caring for her.

--Essie Wilson


VERY SICK

"Mother, Mrs. Oats is very sick!" Ruth said as she came in the door,
looking very sad. "Mama, she is sick; she is awful sick. I'm sorry for
her. What shall we do for her? Let's go into the other room and pray and
ask Jesus what he wants me to do."

So Mother and her little girl went into the other room and knelt down.
Ruth began to pray and ask Jesus what she should do for Mrs. Oats. And
all of a sudden she jumped up and said, "Jesus told me what to do. He
told me to go over and lay my hands on her and pray for her, and he would
heal her." And without an answer, Ruth, who was just six years old ran
out the door and didn't stop running till she was at Mrs. Oat's bedside.


"Turn over here, Mrs. Oats," Ruth said, as she laid her hand on Mrs.
Oats' shoulder. "I came over here to pray for you and Jesus is going to
heal you."

Mrs. Oats replied, "Well, pray for me, you blessed little angel; if the
Lord would hear anyone's prayers, he would hear yours."

Ruth laid her hands on her and prayed for her and the Lord instantly
healed her. She got up and dressed and came over and told Ruth's mother
what Ruth had done.

--Essie Wilson


THE DYING GIRL'S PRAYER FOR HER DRUNKEN FATHER

A child from a poor family had an intemperate father, who often used to
abuse his wife and children. This child had been to the Sunday School--
had become pious. The physician told the father that his little girl
would die. No! he did not believe it. Yes, she will--she must die in a
few hours. The father hastened to the bedside; would not part with her,
he said.

