Transcribed from the 1908 John Long edition by David Price, email
ccx074@pglaf.org


EDWARD FITZGERALD AND "POSH"
"HERRING MERCHANTS"


INCLUDE A NUMBER OF LETTERS
FROM EDWARD FITZGERALD TO JOSEPH FLETCHER
OR "POSH," NOT HITHERTO PUBLISHED

BY
JAMES BLYTH

WITH SIXTEEN ILLUSTRATIONS

LONDON
JOHN LONG
NORRIS STREET, HAYMARKET
MCMVIII

_Copyright by John Long, 1908_
_All Rights Reserved_

TO
W. ALDIS WRIGHT, ESQ., M.A.
VICE-MASTER OF TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE
I DEDICATE THIS SKETCH
WITH MOST SINCERE THANKS FOR HIS
INVALUABLE ASSISTANCE IN CONNECTION THEREWITH
AND FOR HIS PERMISSION TO PRINT
THE LETTERS OF EDWARD FITZGERALD
WHICH ARE NOW PUBLISHED FOR THE FIRST TIME

JAS. BLYTH

_March_, 1908

{"Posh" Fletcher in 1870.  Taken for Edward FitzGerald: p0.jpg}


PREFACE


There can be no better foreword to this little sketch of one of the
phases of Edward FitzGerald's life than the following letter, written to
Thomas Carlyle in 1870, which was generously placed at my disposal by Dr.
Aldis Wright while I was giving the sketch its final revision for the
press.  The portrait referred to in the letter is no doubt that
reproduced as the photograph of 1870.

   "DEAR CARLYLE,

   "Your 'Heroes' put me up to sending you one of mine--neither Prince,
   Poet, or Man of Letters, but Captain of a Lowestoft Lugger, and
   endowed with all the Qualities of Soul and Body to make him Leader of
   many more men than he has under him.  Being unused to sitting for his
   portrait, he looks a little sheepish--and the Man is a Lamb with Wife,
   Children, and dumber Animals.  But when the proper time
   comes--abroad--at sea or on shore--then it is quite another matter.
   And I know no one of sounder sense, and grander Manners, in whatever
   Company.  But I shall not say any more; for I should only set you
   against him; and you will see all without my telling you and not be
   bored.  So least said soonest mended, and I make my bow once more and
   remain your

   "Humble Reader,
   "E. FG."

Too much has been made by certain writers, with more credulity than
discretion, of some personal characteristics of a great-hearted man.  My
purpose in tendering this sketch to the lovers of FitzGerald is to show
that in many ways he has been calumniated.  The man who could write the
letters to his humble friend, which are here printed; the man who could
show such consistent tenderness and delicacy of spirit to his fisherman
partner, and could permit the enthusiasm of his affection to blind him to
the truth, was no sulky misanthrope; but a man whose heart, whose
intensely human heart, was so great as to preponderate over his
magnificent intellect.  Edward FitzGerald was a great poet, and a great
philosopher.  He was a still greater man.

Therefore, my readers, if, during the perusal of these few letters, you
"in your . . . errand reach the spot"--whether it be at Woodbridge,
Lowestoft, or in that supper-room in town "Where he made one"--". . .
turn down an empty glass" to his memory.

For there is no _Saki_ to do it, either here or with the houris.

JAMES BLYTH


INTRODUCTION


Towards the end of the summer of 1906 I received a letter from Mr. F. A.
Mumby, of the _Daily Graphic_, asking me if I knew if Joseph Fletcher,
the "Posh" of the "FitzGerald" letters, was still alive.  All about me
were veterans of eighty, ay, and ninety! hale and garrulous as any
longshoreman needs be.  But it had never occurred to me before that
possibly the man who was Edward FitzGerald's "Image of the Mould that Man
was originally cast in," the east coast fisherman for whom the great
translator considered no praise to be too high, might be within easy
reach.

My first discovery was that to most of the good people of Lowestoft the
name of the man who had honoured the town by his preference was unknown.
A solicitor in good practice, a man who is by way of being an author
himself, asked me (when I named FitzGerald to him) if I meant that
FitzGerald who had, he believed, made a lot of money out of salt!  A
schoolmaster had never heard of either FitzGerald or Omar.

It was plain that the educated classes of Lowestoft could help me in my
search but little.  So I went down to the harbour basins and the fish
wharves, and asked of "Posh" and his "governor."

Not a jolly boatman of middle age in the harbour but knew of both.  "D'ye
mean Joe Fletcher, master?" said one of them.  "What--old Posh?  Why yes!
Alive an' kickin', and go a shrimpin' when the weather serve.  He live up
in Chapel Street.  Number tew.  He lodge theer."

So up I went to Chapel Street, one of those streets in the old North Town
of Lowestoft which have seen better days.  A wizened, bent, white-haired
old lady answered my knock, after a preliminary inspection from a third-
floor window of my appearance.  This, I learnt afterwards, was old Mrs.
Capps, with whom Posh had lodged since the death of his wife, fourteen
years previously.

"You'll find him down at the new basin," said the old lady.  "He's mostly
there this time o' day."

But there was no Posh at the new basin.  Half a dozen weather-beaten
shrimpers (in their brown jumpers, and with the fringe of hair running
beneath the chin from ear to ear--that hirsute ornament so dear to East
Anglian fishermen) were lounging about the wharf, or mending the small-
meshed trawl-nets wherein they draw what spoil they may from the depleted
roads.

All were grizzled, most were over seventy if wrinkled skin and white hair
may be taken as signs of age.  And all knew Posh, and (oh! shame to the
"educated classes!") all remembered Edward FitzGerald.  The poet, the
lovable, cultured gentleman they knew nothing of.  Had they known of his
incomparable paraphrase of the Persian poet, of his scholarship, his
intimacy with Thackeray, Tennyson, Carlyle, the famous Thompson, Master
of Trinity, they would have recked nothing at all.  But they remembered
FitzGerald, who has been called by their superiors an eccentric, miserly
hermit.  They remembered him, I say, as a man whose heart was in the
right place, as a man who never turned a deaf ear to a tale of trouble.

"Ah!" said one of them.  "He was a _good_ gennleman, was old Fitz."  (They
all spoke of him as "old Fitz."  They thought of him as a "mate"--as one
who knew the sea and her moods, and would put up with her vagaries even
as they must do.  His shade in their memories was the shade of a friend,
and a friend whom they respected and loved.)  "That was a good day for
Posh when he come acrost him.  Posh! I reckon you'll find him at Bill
Harrison's if he bain't on the market."

"Posh" was no fancy name of the poet's for Joseph Fletcher, but the
actual proper cognomen by which the man has been known on the coast since
he was a lad.  Most east coast fishermen have a nickname which supersedes
their registered name, and "Posh" (or now "old Posh") was Joseph
Fletcher's.

Bill Harrison's is a cosy little beerhouse in the lower North Town.  It
is called Bill Harrison's because Bill Harrison was once its landlord.
Poor Bill has left house and life for years.  But the house is still
"Bill Harrison's."

Here I found Posh.  At that time, little more than a year ago, I wrote of
him as "a hale, stoutly-built man of over the middle height, his round,
ruddy, clean-shaven face encircled by the fringe of iron-grey whiskers
running round from ear to ear beneath the chin.  His broad shoulders were
held square, his back straight, his head poised firm and alert on a
splendid column of neck."

Alas!  The description would fit Posh but poorly now.

"Yes," said he.  "I was Mr. FitzGerald's partner.  But I can't stop to
mardle along o' ye now.  I'll meet ye when an' where ye like."

I made an appointment with him, which he failed to keep.  Then another.
Then another, and another.  I lay wait for him in likely places.  I
stalked him.  I caught stray glimpses of him in various haunts.  But he
always evaded me.

I think old Mrs. Capps got tired of leaning her head out of the third-
floor window of No. 2 Chapel Street, and seeing me waiting patiently on
the doorstep expectant of Posh.

At length I cornered him (from information received) fairly and squarely
at the Magdala House, a beerhouse in Duke's Head Street, two minutes'
walk from his lodgings.

I got him on his legs and took him down Rant Score to Bill Harrison's.

"Now look here," said I.  "What's the matter?  You've made appointment
after appointment, and kept none of them.  Why don't you wish to see me?"

Posh shuffled his feet on, the sanded bricks.  He drank from the measure
of "mild beer" (twopenny), for which he will call in preference to any
other liquid.

"Tha'ss like this here, master," said he.  "I ha' had enow o' folks a
comin' here an' pickin' my brains and runnin' off wi' my letters and
never givin' me so much as a sixpence."

"Oho!" I thought.  "That's where the rub is."

I gave him a trifling guarantee of good faith, and his face brightened
up.  Gradually I overcame his reserve, and gradually I persuaded him that
I did not seek to rob him of anything.  I'm a bit of a sailor myself, and
I think a little talk of winds, shoals, seas, and landmarks did more than
the trifling guarantee of good faith to establish friendly relations with
the old fellow.

But he made no secret of his grievance, and I tell the tale as he told
it, without vouching for its accuracy, but confident that he believed
that he was telling me the truth.  And, if he was, the man referred to in
his story, the man who robbed him to all intents and purposes, is hereby
invited to do something to purge his offence by coming forward and
"behaving like a gennleman"--upon which I will answer for it that all
will be forgiven and forgotten by Posh.

"Ye see, master," said Posh, "that was a Mr. Earle" (I don't know if that
is the correct way of spelling the name, because Posh is no great
authority on spelling; but that's how he pronounced it) "come here,
that'll be six or seven year ago, and he axed me about the guv'nor, and
for me to show him any letters I had.  He took a score or so away wi'm,
and he took my phootoo and I told him a sight o' things, thinkin' he was
a gennleman.  Well, he axed me round to Marine Parade, where he was a
stayin' with his lady, and he give me one drink o' whisky.  And that's
all I see of him.  He was off with the letters and all, and never gave me
a farden for what he had or what he l'arnt off o' me.  I heerd arterwards
as the letters was sold by auction for thutty pound.  I see it in the
paper.  If he'd ha' sent me five pound I'd ha' been content.  But he
niver give me nothin' but that one drink.  And ye see, master, _I didn't
know as yew worn't one o' the same breed_!"

I have endeavoured to trace these letters, and to identify this Mr.
Earle.  Mr. Clement Shorter has been kind enough to do his best to help
me.  No record can be found.  And to clinch matters, Dr. Aldis Wright
(whom I cannot thank enough for all his kindness to me in connection with
this volume) tells me that he has never been able to find out where the
letters are or who has them.  One thing is certain: the person who took
advantage of Posh's ignorance will not be able to publish his ill-gotten
gains in England so long as any copyright exists in the letters.  For no
letter of FitzGerald's can be published without the consent of Dr. Aldis
Wright, and he is not the man to permit capital to be made out of sharp
practice with his consent.  I have heard rumours of certain letters to
Posh being published in America, with a photograph of Posh and Posh's
"shud."  They may have been published under the impression that they were
properly in the possession of the person holding them.  I know nothing of
that, nor of what letters they are, nor who published them, nor when and
where they were issued.  But I do know what Posh has told me, and if the
volume (if there is one) was published in America by one innocent of
trickery, here is his chance to come forward and explain.

I was glad to see that Posh no longer numbered me among "that breed."  But
I was no longer surprised at the difficulty I had experienced in getting
to close quarters with the man.  From that time on he was the
plain-speaking, independent, humorous, rough man that he is naturally.  He
has his faults.  FitzGerald indicates one in several of his letters.  He
is inclined to that East Anglian characteristic akin to Boer "slimness,"
and it is easy enough to understand that the breach between him and his
"guv'nor" was inevitable.  The marvel is that the partnership lasted as
long as it did, and that that refined, honourable gentleman (and I doubt
if any one was ever quite so perfect a gentleman as Edward FitzGerald)
was as infatuated with the breezy stalwart comeliness of the man as his
letters prove him to have been.

As all students of FitzGerald's letters know, the association between
FitzGerald and Posh ended in a separation that was very nearly a quarrel,
if a man like FitzGerald can be said to quarrel with a man like Posh.  But
Posh never says a word against his old guv'nor's generosity and kindness
of heart.  He puts his point of view with emphasis, but always maintains
that had it not been for other "interfarin' parties" there would never
have been any unpleasantness between him and the great man who loved him
so well, and whom, I believe in all sincerity, he still loves as a kind,
upright, and noble-hearted gentleman.

And as Posh's years draw to a close (he was born in June, 1838) I think
his thoughts must often hark back to the days when he was all in all to
his guv'nor.  For evil times have come on the old fellow.  He is no
longer the hale, stalwart man I first saw at Bill Harrison's.

A little before the Christmas of 1906 he was laid up with a severe cold.
But he was getting over that well, when, one Sunday, a broken man, almost
decrepit, came stumbling to my cottage door.

"The pore old lady ha' gorn," he said.  "She ha' gorn fust arter all.
Pore old dare.  She had a strook the night afore last, and was dead afore
mornin'."

Into the circumstances of his old landlady's death, of the action of her
legal personal representatives, I will not go here.  It suffices to say
that Posh and the other lodgers in the house were given two days to
"clear out" and that I discovered that the old fellow had been sleeping
in his shed on the beach for two nights, without a roof which he could
call his home.  Thanks to certain readers of the _Daily Graphic_ and to
the members of the Omar Khayyam Club, I had a fund in hand for Posh's
benefit, and immediately put a stop to his homelessness.  Indeed, he knew
of this fund, and that he could draw on it at need when he chose.  But I
believe the old man's heart was broken.  He has never been the same man
since.  The last year has put more than ten years on the looks and
bearing of the Posh whom I met first.  But his memory is still good, and
I was surprised to see how much he remembered of the people mentioned in
the letters published in this volume when I read them through to him the
other day.  He cannot understand how it is that these letters have any
value.  He tells me he has torn up "sackfuls on 'em" and strewn them to
the winds.  The actual letters have been sold for his benefit, and I
think that FitzGerald would be pleased if he knew (as possibly he does
know) that his letters to his fisherman friend, have proved a stay to his
old age.

{Posh in 1907: p26.jpg}

I have done my best to give approximate dates to the letters, and where I
have succeeded in being absolutely correct I have to thank Dr. Aldis
Wright, whose courtesy and kindliness, the courtesy and kindliness from a
veteran to a tyro which is so encouraging to the tyro, have been beyond
any expression of thanks which I can phrase.  I hope that the letters and
notes may help to make a side of FitzGerald, the simple human manly side,
better known, and to enable my readers to judge his memory from the point
of view of those old shrimpers by the new basin as a "_good_ gennleman,"
as a noble-hearted, courageous man, as well as the more artificial
scholar who quotes Attic scholiasts in a playful way as though they were
school classics.  Every new discovery of FitzGerald's life seems to
create new wonder, new admiration for him; and there are, I hope, few who
will read without some emotion not far from tears the sentence in his
sermon to Posh.

"Do not let a poor, old, solitary, and sad Man (as I really am, in spite
of my Jokes), do not, I say, let me waste my Anxiety in vain.  I thought
I had done with new Likings: and I had a more easy Life perhaps on that
account: _now_ I shall often think of you with uneasiness, for the very
reason that I had so much Liking and Interest for you."


CHAPTER I
THE MEETING


The biography of a hero written by his valet would be interesting, and,
according to proverbial wisdom, unbiased by the heroic repute of its
subject.  But it would be artificial for all that.  Even though the hero
be no hero to his valet, the valet is fully aware of his master's fame;
indeed, the man will be so inconsistent as to pride himself, and take
pleasure in, those qualities of his master, the existence of which he
would be the first to deny.

Where, however, a literary genius condescends to an intimacy with a
simple son of sea and shore who is not only practically illiterate but is
entirely ignorant of his patron's prowess, the opinions of the illiterate
concerning the personal characteristics of the genius obtain a very
remarkable value as being honest criticism by man of man, uninfluenced by
the spirit either of disingenuous adulation or of equally disingenuous
depreciation.  That these opinions are in the eyes of a disciple of the
great man quaint, almost insolently crude is a matter of course.  But
when they tend to show the master not only great in letters but great in
heart, soul, human kindness, and generosity, they form, perhaps, the most
notable tribute to a great personality.

{Cottage at corner of Boulge Park, where FitzGerald lived for many years:
p30.jpg}

With the exception of Charles Lamb, no man's letters have endeared his
memory to so many readers as have the letters of Edward FitzGerald.  But
FitzGerald's friends (to whom most of the letters hitherto published were
addressed) were cultured gentlemen, men of the first rank of the time, of
the first rank of all time, men who would necessarily be swayed by the
charm of his culture, by the delicacy of his wit, by the refinement of
his thoughts.

In the case of "Posh," however (that typical Lowestoft fisherman who
supplied "Fitz" with a period of exaltation which was as extraordinary as
it was self-revealing), there were no extraneous influences at work.  Posh
knew the man as a good-hearted friend, a man of jealous affection, as a
free-handed business partner, as a lover of the sea.  He neither knew nor
cared that his partner (he would not admit that "patron" would be the
better word!) was the author of undying verse.  To this day it is
impossible to make him understand that reminiscences of FitzGerald are of
greater public interest than any recollection of him--Posh.

It was not easy to explain to him that it was his first meeting with
Edward FitzGerald that was the thing and not the theft of his (Posh's)
father's longshore lugger which led to that meeting.  However, time and
patience have rendered it possible to separate the wheat from the tares
of his narrative; and what tares may be left may be swallowed down with
the more nutritious grain without any deleterious effect.

In the early summer of 1865 some daring longshore pirate made off with
Fletcher senior's "punt," or longshore lugger, without saying as much as
"by your leave."  The piracy (as was proper to such a deed of darkness)
was effected by night, and on the following morning the coastguard were
warned of the act.  These worthy fellows (and they are too fine a lot of
men to be disbanded by any twopenny Radical Government) traced the boat
to Harwich.  Here the gallant rover had sought local and expert aid to
enable him to bring up, had then raised an awning, as though he were to
sleep aboard, and, after thus satisfying the local talent to whom he was
still indebted for their services, had slunk ashore and disappeared.  Old
Mr. Fletcher, on hearing the news, started off to Harwich in another
craft of his, and (fateful fact!) took his son Posh with him.

Both the Fletchers were known to Tom Newson, a pilot of Felixstowe Ferry,
and they naturally looked him up.

For years Edward FitzGerald had been accustomed to cruise about the Deben
and down the river to Harwich in a small craft captained by one West.  But
in 1865 he was the owner of a smart fifteen-ton schooner, which he had
had built for him by Harvey, of Wyvenhoe, two years previously, and of
which Tom Newson was the skipper and his nephew Jack the crew.  As judges,
we can not then the audience in the theater, where an idle hands clapping
over a vague impression hinweghilft felt, but we crown the promulgation
of a destiny as Tatzeugen. I see no difficulty, not even an embarrassment.
There is much to what we aneifert, the word is a great seducer. "The
Plague in Vintschgau Emil The servant brought the coffee, and after
everyone has had ausgetrunken cup, Borsati said:" When I look back
in a spirit, yes, I this and that, which would be worthy of recounting,
but where I am involved, disturbs me is the proximity, and where
it is not the case, I am uncertain whether I convincing or true can
be. "" We are not even true if we incidents from our own lives to
tell, how much less, if it is acting strange experiences, "Lamberg
said.

"Yes, it lies more when talking about himself tells the truth, as if
others in fortunes is invented." "We want objectivity and not sentiment,"
Cajetan returned frowning. "Everyone is so true as his eyes or his
memories are true. I'm not bigger than my growth. Anyone who makes more,
is ausgezischt. The world is the reason to the brim full of the strangest
incidents, and the strangest is true, if one sees a face, a lively
face. "" Famos.

I want as much sehn beautiful faces, "said Franziska and made a face
of the one already on." Every face is beautiful in the suffering of
the particular fate, when his carrier is, "Lamberg said." Can I say something
heretical? "Began Franziska again, "I think that the sense of beauty is
always low, you're looking for something else always have it,
soul or spirit or genius, something that with the beauty of nothing at all
to create and has only spoil the taste." "It seems in fact that in
earlier times, the more beautiful for its own sake is respected," Lamberg
said. "Also, she was awarded a higher importance.

Thus, from an aristocratic Marquise reported, whose name I can not
remember, and who at the age of twenty-seven years at the Tuberculosis
died that the last months of her life in a calm and stable bed zubrachte
a mirror held in her hand fell to the depredations of observed that the
disease produced in her face. Finally she let the windows tight sanctions,
no man was allowed to it, and they bore no other light than the lamp a
kettle. "" Even the people had a genuine enthusiasm for the beauty of
high-ranking women, "said Cajetan. »In 1750 earned a London shoemaker a
lot of money because it a penny for the shoe to see him, he made for the
Duchess of Hamilton had manufactures. And as a duchess at the same their
goods traveled, stayed in front of a pub in Yorkshire, where they
lived, hundreds of people all night on the streets to make them
the next morning in her body to rise to see and the best places
with you. "" Thus spoke then the love of men, "was George Vincent
the word again, "a young man in a Burgundian city was impressed by
the beauty of his lover, so in love that he is after the first
rendezvous, which they had granted him, in all seriousness said he
would cut out the eyes, as the pilgrims from Mecca sometimes do
when they are the tomb of the Prophet saw, to their eyes from now
on to protect against desecration. "" That must be a Bramarbas been
"claimed Borsati," I think him not a syllable. "" Why?

" Cajetan returned. "We can hardly have an idea of the energy and fervor
to make, which would then be a passionate devotion."

   Borsati jerked armpits.
   "It may be that he's had done," said he, "what we think may also
geschehn.

   I just reject me, however, that in our time the great sensations
hinausredet to only by the distant past, delightful to decorate
with them.

   However, the passions, whose testimony we are different from the gallery
   with the dust of tradition, and its refinement or dilution on the
one hand, usually requires a dark and brutal counter-play.

   "As evidence he told the following story." Two years ago I was at a
   Moravian Good to guest.

   You knew me in the
   nearby
   town, and because
   of the resident doctor was driven through the country, I was one
evening, rather late in the inn called, where a young man was of a
pistol shot in the lung was fatally injured.

   The case was
   hopeless, relief of pain was all that remained to be done.

   The next morning I sat long on his bed, he had confidence in me and
   be revealed to me what it actually driven.

He was a student to appoint twenty-five years old, son of wealthy parents.
Until his twenty-first year, he, I use his own words, lived like an
animal, reckless, wasteful and in some loose Verprassung of time and
powers. His mind, which was originally capable of delicate emotions, was
worn and hardened by the constant dealings with prostitutes. The
atmosphere was meaner pubs need him and the intrusiveness Weiber buying
habit. He hardly knew how to speak decent women, and in immature presumption
that he saw the crown and bustle of freedom. As it happened, that he
is on a holiday trip to a popular hotel and came to the desk of his room
was a letter, which was fighting leaves, unfinished and certainly there
had been forgotten. He gave me the letter to read it as a talisman
of the hour is always worn, his life changed, and finally his death
was in debt. As the contents allowed to close, was the letter from a young
girl and a friend addressed. One can not think of something poignant. Fear
of poverty and disgrace, in complete abandonment, asseveration vain,
trains human avarice, hardness and infamy, discovered by a being that was
a believer and still, even with evanescent feeling, to a well-meaning
Providence built, that was the text in arid words, nothing of the
deep natural eloquence and a despairing heart can imagine.

The question of the unknown was in vain, she was not even reported to the
staff of the House could give him no information and pointed to the
major transport guests to the night. Evidence of the name and residence
of the letter is not contained, and the young man was reasonable, as if
he had a voice from an unreachable star heard.

It took him a burning restlessness, and longing, he was quite exasperated.
That the letter to him first, he appeared as a coincidence and call
simultaneously; that there is a woman in the world was to be
designed, so to feel, could be suffering, he new, and shook the foundations
of his life. He studied the letter as a Egyptolog a papyrus, looked
suggestive of a certain dialect, to a certain sphere of existence. Every
syllable, every spring, he was gradually so familiar that a character
image of the writer always made solid, that he was a face saw the
Geberde, the eye, that he heard the voice believed to be a voice
that called him ceaselessly.

He traveled from one city to another, wandered for days through the
streets to faces of women and girls to find the dream face of the unknown
could be similar, went to soothsayers and fortune tellers who
published advertisements in the newspapers and alienated himself
to his friends, his parents, his hometown, his profession.

In fatalistic Wahn said he was among the millions that this part of the
earth inhabit, she lives and it is my destiny, to meet them, why
should I not when I see all my sense of desire in collecting? Among the
thousands, in which I daily overpast knows maybe one of you, my
will be so strong, my feeling so elementary, my instincts are so
unmistakable that I feel the one by me and the millions of a way to her
train; Fails it, I am a hybrid thing and not worth to be born.

Over the years, he was melancholy, even the most tired vehemence
of his desire, it does indeed think that the nature of such a
constant tension of the soul forces resisted.

Only his migratory instinct has not been lower, and so he came on a journey
from the north in those Moravian town, where he left the train, because
he suddenly before the evening arrival in the big city, lots of light,
much noise and many people dawned . While he was sad and tired through
the dark streets slipped, he saw at the window of a fairly remote house
an old woman, which was besieged Sims and asked him to enter. He accepts,
without caution, as if he were at the point of his life arrived circle
of which he was once assumed. In the room he saw a few girls to whom
he no portion in the wine society has made, and under which a
silent temptation by his apathy he managed to snatch, so he went
with her.

It was all so quiet in me, he said, and when I got the miserable
staircase hinaufstieg, it was as if this is only a hallucination,
and in fact hinuntergezogen I would always go to the lower end of
the last world.

   When the girl he wanted
   to pay, accounted for the letter of his leather bag, a dead thing,
life and wanted to speak to the moment of decision had to wait like
a mysterious judges.

   The girl bends down, takes the letter in his hand, raises a curious
look at stutzt, repeated the view, watching the young man, a pressing
question on their lips, a shadow on her forehead, he wants her
snatch the letter because their behavior evokes his attention, he
will almost awake, inquired into hasty words, whether they know the
Scriptures, she unfolded the paper, reads, memory überzittert her
forehead, by Schminke, misery and the surface of the truck jerks
through a flame of consciousness, it falls to the knees, laughing
wrestles the poor, and the whole existence of a pure irretrievable
screams and a smashed up rotten than laughter.

   Only four words: You're about? It's me! Then the young man rushed out
   and shortly thereafter was the killing shot. "The audience looked to
   go down. After a while Cajetan said: "A pity, that I have the letter
   on good faith, must accept. Can I read or hear it, it would give me
   the young man understood. It has its unfortunate, dear Rudolf, in such
   important documents on the loan to build that one enjoys. Admittedly
   remains so, the concatenation of circumstances still amazingly enough
   - "" It just wants me not to mind, "interrupted him Franziska," that
   a person who has such a letter is capable, in three or four years
so far can sink. "" Three or four years Not?

   cried Hadwiger. "That transforms, Franzi, which transforms! I have in
   London a woman knew that her husband, her sons and had lost their wealth.
   At the beginning of a year she had in one of the palaces at Trafalgar
   Square-usual in the autumn of that year she was in an underground cave
   morphine, a catacomb of a gruesome truck, stabbed. "" Yes, what is
   this, what one character calls? " Franziska kopfschüttelnd asked.
   "The virtue of the untested," Hadwiger shifted abruptly. "Well, so lock,
   stock and barrel, I would like this statement does not apply to"
   mediation was Borsati On. "There are -" "What? A Virtue? Is there
   any virtue, if one is hungry?

   In the big cities. In the novels, perhaps. Not Iron breaks, they say.
   But it also breaks down, and soon much more, the heart and the
mind. "" And there are souls who maintain, "said Borsati quiet.

   "And we must give it, otherwise yes the idea of morality to lie."
   Suddenly erschallte from the upper floor screaming by yelling,
with a clatter of falling, such as chairs and the dull hum of a
man's voice followed. »Quäcola perpetrated mischief," said Lamberg
smiled and rose to the cause of the noise to investigate.

   Cajetan accompanied him aufregungslustig.

The monkeys on the night it was too early to have been resting, and as
he the door of his cage was unobstructed, he had to be enlightened
bathroom go into the bath was increased, the valve had opened and to
his horror a water flood to get the fur.

Emil ran with the broom of guilt in order to punish him, Quäcola
was dripping and shivering before him fled, and now there were
animals and humans against each other, that zähnefletschend and
schuldbewußt, cheeks funny in fast motion, with that hurt the dignity
of the house spirit, vengeful and decisively.

As Lamberg came on the scene, turned to the chimp with the most indignant
and reproachful Diener to sign him, but Emil gave his displeasure
expressed by words.

"Gracious Lord, the beast is not to run a business," he said. - "You
must teach and educate him," replied Lamberg taken. - "There is malt and
hops lost so many of his gracious Lord so spoiled," was the reply. » 'S
is a false, unfaithful companion that he is, I understand myself to -"
Already, he wanted to say to people, but swallowed the inappropriate
title and melancholy stared at his broom. Lamberg arbitrates the
dispute.

He persuaded Quäcola, the servant of the hand, but most of the back as
an officer, the man makes the suggestion, with his sword a mouse aufzuspießen.
Heftig gestures was the chimp in the cage lead, he was rubbed with dry
sheets, and after an hour was peace. Cajetan had been on the scene much
enjoy, and George was, as they returned to the others were such a
splendid portrayal of imitating the behavior of the animal that all
erupted into loud laughter.

"Monkeys do not always play such a role cheerful" Lamberg said
finally.

"The people seem to even be considered perishable demons. I lived a few
summer weeks on the Malles heath, and a young forester, with whom I
often wandered in the mountains, told me the story of a couple's love of
that area, when a monkey to the embodiment of Fate has been. "" Let's
hear, "cried Franziska, and Lamberg began: In the beginning of the
seventeenth century was a not much Vintschgau lonely and barren
valley populated than today.

The bounding walls are steep mountains and waldlos; through the numerous
side valleys look hochgetürmte Summit: courage and Rötelspitze, Texel,
black-and Trübwand, Lodner and Tschigat and the majestic Laaser floor.
Brown and yellow rock is everywhere emporgezackt on the hillside meadows
the glow alpine flora flower star, black goats to graze high up in the
troughs, cattle schmalhüftige roar across the entire width of the cut each
other, gischtweiße Waterfalls thunder into the Adige, the long dark Gaping
bottlenecks and winding gorges can inside the mountains deeper seclusion
suspect and on the rugged rocks can be seen from miles miles ancient
castles.
The Man is, I do think, of a Royal Nature.
I have told him he is liable to one Danger (the Hare with many
Friends)--so many wanting him _to drink_.  He says it's quite true and
that he is often obliged to run away: as I believe he does: for his House
shows all Temperance and Order.  This little lecture I give him--to go
the way, I suppose, of all such Advice. . . ."

I fear that poor Posh's limbs soon grew too stiff to permit him to run
away from the good brown "bare."  But the lecture which FitzGerald
mentions so casually was surely one of the most delicately written
warnings ever penned.  The sterling kindness of the writer is as
transparent in it as is his tenderness to an inferior's feelings.  No one
but a very paragon of a gentleman would have taken the trouble to write
so wisely, so kindly, so tenderly, and so earnestly.  The appeal must
surely have moved Posh, for the pathos of the reference to his patron's
loneliness could not but have its effect.

But to touch on the sacred "bare" of a Lowestoft fisherman is always
dangerous.  There are many teetotallers among them now, and they would
resent any imputation on their temperance.  But those who are not
teetotallers would resent it much more.  FitzGerald warned his friend in
as beautiful a letter as was ever written.  But Posh could never regard
the "mild bare," the "twopenny" of the district, as an enemy.  He rarely
touched spirits.  Now, at the age of sixty-nine, he enjoys his mild beer
more than anything and cares little for stronger stuff.  But there is no
doubt that this same mild beer inserted the edge of the adze which was to
split the partnership in a little more than three years' time--this and
the "interfarin' parties," whom Posh blames for all the misunderstandings
which were to come.

   "MARKETHILL, WOODBRIDGE, _Thursday_.

   "MY DEAR POSHY,

   "My Lawyer can easily manage the Assignment of the Lugger to me,
   leaving the Agreement as it is between you and Fuller.  But you must
   send the Agreement here for him to see.

   "As we shall provide that the Lugger when built shall belong to me; so
   we will provide that, in case of my dying _before_ she is built, you
   may come on my executors for any money due.

   "I think you will believe that I shall propose, and agree to, nothing
   which is not for your good.  For surely I should not have meddled with
   it at all, but for that one purpose.

   "And now, Poshy, I mean to read you a short Sermon, which you can keep
   till Sunday to read.  You know I told you of _one_ danger--and I do
   think the only one--you are liable to--_Drink_.

   "I do not the least think you are _given_ to it: but you have, and
   will have, so many friends who will press you to it: perhaps _I_
   myself have been one.  And when you keep so long without _food_;
   _could_ you do so, Posh, without a Drink--of some your bad Beer
   [_sic_] too--now and then?  And then, does not the Drink--and of bad
   Stuff--take away Appetite for the time?  And will, if continued, so
   spoil the stomach that it will not bear anything _but_ Drink.  And
   this evil comes upon us gradually, without our knowing how it grows.
   That is why I warn you, Posh.  If I am wrong in thinking you want my
   warning, you must forgive me, believing that I should not warn at all
   if I were not much interested in your welfare.  I know that you do
   your best to keep out at sea, and watch on shore, for anything that
   will bring home something for Wife and Family.  But do not do so at
   any such risk as I talk of.

   "I say, I tell you all this for your sake: and something for my own
   also--not as regards the Lugger--but because, thinking you, as I do,
   so good a Fellow, and being glad of your Company; and taking
   _Pleasure_ in seeing you prosper; I should now be sorely vext if you
   went away from what I believe you to be.  Only, whether you do well or
   ill, _show me all above-board_, as I really think you have done; and
   do not let a poor old, solitary, and sad Man (as I really am, in spite
   of my Jokes), do not, I say, let me waste my Anxiety in vain.

   "I thought I had done with new Likings: and I had a more easy Life
   perhaps on that account: _now_ I shall often think of you with
   uneasiness, for the very reason that I have so much Liking and
   Interest for you.

   "There--the Sermon is done, Posh.  You _know_ I am not against Good
   Beer while at Work: nor a cheerful Glass after work: only do not let
   it spoil the stomach, or the Head.

   "Your's truly,
   "E. FG."


CHAPTER IV
THE _MUM TUM_


FitzGerald having made up his mind to give Posh a lift by going into
partnership with him began by finding not only the money for the building
of the boat but a name for her when she should be ready for sea.  It
seemed to him that "Meum and Tuum" would be an appropriate name, and the
_Mum Tum_ is remembered along the coast to this day as a queer,
meaningless title for a boat.  At a later date FitzGerald is reported to
have said that his venture turned out all Tuum and no Meum so far as he
was concerned.  But it is possible that Posh dealt more fairly with him
than he thought.  At all events Posh thinks he did.

The boat was to be paid for in instalments.  So much on laying the keel,
so much when the deck was on, etc., etc., and FitzGerald took the
greatest interest in her building.  He had first thought of christening
the lugger "Marian Halcombe," after Wilkie Collins's heroine in _The
Woman in White_, as appears from a letter to Frederic Tennyson, written
in January, 1867 (_Letters_, II, 90, Eversley Edition):--

   "I really think of having a Herring-lugger I am building named Marian
   Halcombe. . . .  Yes, a Herring-lugger; which is to pay for the money
   she costs unless she goes to the Bottom: and which meanwhile amuses me
   to consult about with my Sea-folks.  I go to Lowestoft now and then by
   way of salutary Change; and there smoke a Pipe every night with a
   delightful Chap who is to be Captain."

Again on June 17th (_Letters_, II, 94, Eversley Edition) he wrote to the
late Professor Cowell of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge:--

   "I am here in my little Ship" (the _Scandal_) "with no company but my
   crew" (Tom Newson and his nephew Jack) ". . . and my other--Captain of
   the Lugger now a-building: a Fellow I never tire of studying--If he
   _should_ turn out knave, I shall have done with all Faith in my own
   Judgment: and if he should go to the Bottom of the Sea in the Lugger--I
   shan't cry for the Lugger."

There was some delay in getting the deck planks on the lugger, for
FitzGerald wrote to Mr. This is a story that I want to tell, quite
a haunting lesson. Wife of M., allowed me to hide the name, had, after
ten years of marriage lost her husband and lived with her only son on an
estate on the Rhine.

   She had extraordinary qualities as a woman both as a mother.

   She was beautiful, she was very proud, well-she was, she had a lot
of views, lots of patience, a rich inner experience and an impressive
superiority as a mistress as a world lady.

   They protected the child as her eyeball, and it was as if the passionate
   love that she cared for her husband, with power and doubled in
   pure form on the son would have transferred. She has taught himself to
   read every book with him, she researched and knew his secret thoughts,
   they are thoroughly dealt with medicine, to when he would be sick, as
   any careful physician healing to be monitored, and in athletic
   exercises, in order even with these in its proximity to his.

   The dear lad growing up his mother swarms mathematically, he brought her
   a boundless trust, the more a spiritual awareness in revivified him,
   the more he was, and up to the dreams inside of her taken. The
   delicate sensitivity of his mind the art captivated him early on,
   he painted and seals. But what shape he always sat on the canvas, which
   always face, it was the shape and face of his mother. In his verses,
   the melancholy death of hunches were met, and in which world and people
   just ghostly reflected away, was also the mother figure and likeness.
   But when he was eighteen years of age had become apparent to him
   an unusual distraction, and restlessness.

   Mrs. M. knew this state to interpret and probably went too far with
   rate. languish in vain she saw the damaging it was a search in the
   darkness. Mourning the violence they had to recognize the body and
   spirit of the noble subjects and is unavoidable as the spring storm.

   They feared for the son of the painful emotions of longing, which
is accompanied by shame; trübgestimmte the nature called for a
cleansing fire, if it is not the faith of the heart to destroy.

It was difficult to act, the things to let her run even harder. Eventually,
a woman, a stranger, Unaudited, opaque in the district of that revered
life to see occur, could hardly endure the idea, it is desirable or
transport, it seemed a crime. Thus, wife of M. a young man into
the house, whose family they knew, and whose properties were eulogized
her. His openness and sincerity liked her, and the young Robert joined
him immediately with retention loose friendship.

This woman believed the risk of M. temporarily removed it. They
learned the satisfaction that Robert always returned to her, the reason
she knew not, he told her not to say that he was disappointed that
he was under a lot of friendship something sweet thought that he
wanted to be shaken, where he merely busy, excited, just where he
was associated.

Nevertheless, Mrs. M. began to feel that this man once and for
all is doomed to disappointment, because at the entrance of his life
was a fulfillment and a harmony that is in no shape of its future existence
I would love to find ever again. He returned to her back, that's true, but
dull, silent as previously. He saw the wide rift that exists between him
and the world gapes, but he could hardly speak to the people, accustomed
to beauty and peace, to poets and works led him to look inside the
broad, lush, noisy ugliness of everyday life on every level angry feel,
and if it is women, young girls when he saw the look and voice and face
made his heart tremble, when the nights in the blood and youthful
aufrauschte craving dug in the unconscious, so his spirit clinging to the
figure of the mother, and exaggerated expectations and überfeinerte
shyness kept him in limbo between zwieträchtiger escapism world and
addiction, and heart between Sinnenqual duty.

It happened one day in Vorfrühjahr that he entered the house of his
friend came, and that he was only his sister antraf; the friend
himself, his parents, even the service people were in the nearby town
went to a carnival procession to see, and the young girls had stayed at
home because a foot injury on her walking was annoying. She was
seventeen years old, dull mood rather than bright, opposed by many
aspiring berückt inclinations and almost distraught, idiosyncratic and
weird. Robert had never bizarre attention, and they had just viewed him
as one that you want to guess, and waiting with varying opinions. He
wanted to go away, but something in their nature captivated him.
He "remembered his debts" even before they became due.

I have already stated that Hunt was a boat-builder at Aldeburgh, and that
FitzGerald had, at first, wished Posh to employ him to build the _Mum
Tum_, as the _Meum and Tuum_ was fated to be called.

The kindly jovial relations between the "guv'nor" and his partner could
not be better indicated than by the name FitzGerald gives himself at the
close, just before he once more signs his name in full.  Well, perhaps
the legal luminary of Lowestoft would justify his inquiry if Edward
FitzGerald was the man who made a lot of money out of salt by saying,
"Well, he called himself a herring-merchant."

The schoolmaster who had never heard of either FitzGerald or Omar Khayyam
would (according to the nature of the breed) sniff and say "What?  A
herring-merchant and a tent-maker!  My boys are the sons of gentlemen.  I
can't be expected to know anything about tradesfolk of that class."

But Posh has a sense of humour, and he says, "Ah!  He used to laugh about
that, the guv'nor did.  He'd catch hold o' my jersey, so" (here Posh
pinches up a fold of his blue woollen jersey), "and say, 'Oh dear!  Oh
dear, Poshy!  Two F's in the firm.  FitzGerald and Fletcher, herring
salesmen--when Poshy catches any, which isn't as often as it might be,
you know, Poshy!'  And then he'd laugh.  Oh, he was a jolly kind-hearted
man if ever there was one."

And then Posh's eyes will grow moist sometimes, I think perhaps with the
thought that he might--ah, well!  It's too late now.

Posh wishes me to give the dimensions of the lugger, as she was of his
own designing and proved a fast and stiff craft.  He had given her two
feet less length than her beam called for, according to local ideas, and
FitzGerald called her "The Cart-horse," because she seemed broad and
bluff for her length.  She was forty-five feet in length, with a fifteen-
foot beam and seven-foot depth.  She was first rigged as a lugger, but
altered to the more modern "dandy" (something like a ketch but with more
rake to the mizzen and with no topmast on the mainmast) before she was
sold.  Any one about the herring basins who has arrived at fisherman's
maturity (about sixty years) will remember the _Mum Tum_, and, so far as
she was concerned, the partnership was entirely successful, for no one
has a bad word to say for her.


CHAPTER V
"NEIGHBOUR'S FARE"


It is impossible to arrive at the exact sum of money which FitzGerald
brought into the partnership between him and Posh, but it must have been
something like five hundred pounds.  The lugger cost 360 pounds to build,
and, in addition, Posh was paid 20 pounds for his services (see
_Letters_, p. 309), and various payments had to be made for "sails,
cables, warps, ballast, etc."  Posh brought in what nets and gear he had,
and his services.  The first notion was that FitzGerald should be owner
of three-fourths of the concern; but on a valuation being made it was
found that the nets and gear contributed by Posh were of greater value
than had been supposed, and before the _Meum and Tuum_ put to sea it was
understood that Posh should be half owner with his "guvnor."  Posh is
very firm in his conviction that up to the return of the boat from her
first cruise there had been no mention of any bill of sale, or mortgage,
of the boat and gear to FitzGerald to secure the money he had found.
According to him his partner was to be a sleeping partner and no more,
and the entire conduct and control of the business were to be vested in
Posh.  The quarrels and misunderstandings which subsequently arose on
this point Posh attributes to certain "interfarin' parties" (and
especially to a Lowestoft lawyer), who were under the impression that
FitzGerald had not looked after himself so well as he might have done and
who thought that this omission should be remedied.  Possibly they had an
idea that they might "make somethin'" in the course of the remedial
measures.

Early in August Posh sailed north with his crew to meet the herring on
their way down south.  His luck was poor, and on August 26th FitzGerald
wrote him from Lowestoft:--

   "LOWESTOFT, _Monday_, _August_ 26.

   "MY DEAR POSH,

   "As we hear nothing of you, we suppose that you have yet caught
   nothing worth putting in for.  And, as I may be here only a Day
   longer, I write again to you: though I do not know if I have anything
   to say which needs writing again for.  In my former letter, directed
   to you as this letter will be, I desired you to get a Life Buoy as
   soon as you could.  _That_ is for the Good of your People, as well as
   of yourself.  What I now have to say is wholly on your own Account:
   and that is, to beg you to take the Advice given by the Doctor to your
   Father: namely, _not_ to drink _Beer_ and _Ale_ more than you can
   help: but only _Porter_, and, every day, some Gin and Water.  I was
   talking to your Father last Saturday; and I am convinced that you
   inherit a family complaint: if I had known of this a year ago I would
   not have drenched you with all the Scotch, and Norwich, Ale which I
   have given you. . . .  Do not neglect this Advice, as being only an
   old Woman's Advice; you have, even at your early time of life,
   suffered from _Gravel_; and you may depend upon it that Gravel will
   turn to _Stone_, unless you do something like what I tell you, and
   which the Doctor has told your Father.  And I know that there is no
   Disease in the World which makes a young Man _old_ sooner than Stone:
   No Disease that _wears_ him more.  You should take plenty of _Tea_;
   some Gin and Water every night; and _no_ Ale, or Beer; but only
   Porter; and not much of that.  If you do not choose to buy Gin for
   yourself, buy some for _me_: and keep it on board: and drink some
   every Day, or Night.  Pray remember this: and _do it_.

   "I have been here since I wrote my first Letter to Scarboro'; that is
   to say, a week ago.  Till To-day I have been taking out some Friends
   every day: they leave the place in a day or two, and I shall go home;
   though I dare say not for long.  Your wife seems nearly right again; I
   saw her To-day.  Your Father has engaged to sell his Shrimps to Levi,
   for this season and next, at 4s. a Peck.  Your old _Gazelle_ came in
   on Saturday with all her Nets gone to pieces; the Lugger _Monitor_
   came in here yesterday to alter her Nets--from _Sunk_ to _Swum_, I
   believe.  So here is a Lowestoft Reporter for you: and you may never
   have it after all.  But, if you do, do not forget what I have told
   you.  Your Father thinks that you may have missed the Herring by going
   _outward_, where they were first caught: whereas the Herring had
   altered their course to inshore. . . .  Better to miss many Herrings
   than have the Stone.

   It happened while I was in Italy, and was indeed one of the bourgeois
Nero back.

"Since no one knew the story, Cajetan began to tell. On a small
station between Pisa and Rome, on the railway line caused by the avoided
Maremma leads , lived a certain Antonio Varga as the official Board. He
was represented by the temporary protection of the Prior to this item
has come, and when he once held him, he stayed forgotten. His father
was Türhüter in the Vatican, not one of those brilliant Swiss, but a
modest dignitaries, although pleased with color and sufficiently
handsome to be considered.

When the young Antonio visited his father, he went full reverence through
the halls, was excited before the portals are available to persons of
itself vorüberwandeln to leave, and once he was caught when he
turned into a ceremonial chamber geschlichen and had to delight the
Furniture betastete content of an armchair.

If he is in front of a house coach was waiting, he stayed until the Lord
or the Lady appeared, and all times of the day he drove near the major
hotels around, even the museums and churches to strangers, to the he
invented the names and titles occupied, not to brag, because there
was no man that he ever praised a confidential word, but in imaginary
relationships with a ladder, after he had the ardent desire.

Whether the halls of the Vatican or the Royal Gardens or the nightly
lit windows of a palace on the Corso or the rings at the hands of
a beautiful woman or the Order of the Rock on breast were of a
general, he always felt at the sight of things that are in power ,
domination and wealth reminded the resentment of a man who the
legitimate enjoyment of his property will be cheated.

He had no friend to all the men pushed him from modesty and humility,
no lover, because his girl from the people by dress and despicable beings,
and he is pleased the verwegensten dreams in which he only countesses
and duchesses, and in a cruel, cold and proud wrong way.

He had the mania, colorful fabrics, Hutbänder, Photographieen
of people of the great society, and business cards with illustrious names,
head rests, engravings of fashion pages and individual gloves,
which he in front of a ballroom or a bazaar aufgelesen to collect, and
this weakness transformed he Mietszimmer the cheap, which he inhabited,
in a show booth, a triumph of Abgeschmacktheit. Sumpföde of the
Maremma, where he is at the age of thirty years enables saw robbed
him the opportunity to expand its existing inclinations to satisfy,
and urged the dark anyway and irritability man so deep in herself
back that he also in his free time serving spurned, the sad desolation
to leave.

He durchstreifte the deserted area, stood for hours on the sea shore, and
tacked the eyes, full of unfathomable desires and intentions were in the
vastness beyond. At night he dealt with its strange collection, spread
the pieces on a table in front of you and looked at the objects with the
void joy of a Geizhalses in front of his treasures and sits securities.
It goes on this line a luxury, of a connection between Paris and manufactures
and Naples to the south in the morning, the evening after driving north.
One day it happened that a line keeper this train was the stop
signal; his wife had the night before a child is born, lay in a
deadly fever, and there for miles around no medical help to have
been sheltered and the posts had to be so he took a desperate means
to stop the train to take, because he hoped that the passengers
would be a doctor.

But the venture was in vain, the passengers were not allowed to be
disturbed, the concern was already too much, and it seemed fortunate that
the driver felt a human emotion and it bewendet be guilty of the
incident in writing to the station chief to report Varga, where he
guards, whose wife died after a few hours, most are spared to have
mentioned.

This was a mistake.

Antonio Varga raced, and his presentation as his claim to the Authority,
it was attributable to the unhappy within a short period of house bread
and place was hunted.
"Newson and Jack are gone home for Sunday.  To-night is a grand
   Horsemanship, to which I would make you go if you were here.  Remember
   me to all your People and believe me yours

   "E. FG.

   "I see that the . . . [illegible] vessel: and, as far as I see,
   deserved to do so."

Miss Green was the landlady of the house at 12 Marine Terrace, Lowestoft,
where FitzGerald usually stayed when he did not sleep aboard the
_Scandal_.

Up to the date of the letter, and, indeed, throughout the season of 1867,
the _Meum and Tuum_ had bad luck.  FitzGerald thought it was time that
the luck should change, for "Neighbour's fare" is defined in _Sea Words
and Phrases along the Suffolk Coast_ as "Doing as well as one's
neighbours.  'I mayn't make a fortune, but I look for "Neighbour's fare"
nevertheless.'"


CHAPTER VI
THE LUCK O' THE _MUM TUM_


"Neighbour's fare" was long in coming to FitzGerald in his venture as a
"herring merchant."  But he was happy enough in the consciousness that he
was doing Posh a good turn.  Whether or not Posh had a greater share of
the earnings of the boat than he was entitled to I cannot say.  Certainly
he began to thrive exceedingly about this time, and, as an old
longshoreman seven years Posh's senior, said to me the other day, "He
might ha' been a gennleman!  He used to kape his greyhounds, and he had
as pratty a mare as the' wuz in Lowestoft.  Ah! Mr. FitzGerald was a
_good_ gennleman to him--that he _wuz_!"

Once again the epithet "good," which he so pre-eminently merited.

But whether the year had been bad or good, it was necessary for the
sleeping partner to look into the accounts of the firm.

On Christmas Day of 1867, when the season was over and all the herring
drifters had "made up," that is to say, had worked out their accounts and
struck a balance of profit or loss, Fitzgerald wrote to Posh:--

   "WOODBRIDGE, _Christmas Day_.

   "DEAR CAPTAIN,

   "Unless I hear from you to-morrow that _you_ are coming over _here_, I
   shall most likely run over myself to Miss Green's at Lowestoft--by the
   Train which gets there about 2.

   "I shall look in upon you in the evening, if so be that I do not see
   you in the course of the day.  I say I shall look in upon [_sic_] _to-
   morrow_, I dare say:--But, as this is Christmas time and I suppose you
   have many friends to see, I shall not want you to be at school every
   evening.

   "This is Newson's piloting week, so he cannot come.

   "E. FG."

Posh did not go to Woodbridge, so FitzGerald went to Miss Green's,
whence, on December the 28th, he wrote one of his most characteristic
letters (in that it embraced interests so widely different) to Professor
Cowell.  The letter begins with a reference to M. Garcin de Tassy and his
"annual oration," and continues with some passages of great interest
concerning the _Rubaiyat_ and Attar's "Birds."  (Dr. Aldis Wright's
Eversley Edition of _Letters_, II, 100.)  Then from a delicate and dainty
piece of criticism the poet turns to his herring business.  "I have come
here to wind up accounts for our Herring-lugger: much against us as the
season has been a bad one.  My dear Captain [Posh], who looks in his
Cottage like King Alfred in the Story, was rather saddened by all this,
as he had prophesied better things.  I tell him that if he is but what I
think him--and surely my sixty years of considering men will not so
deceive me at last!--I would rather lose money with him than gain it with
others.  Indeed I never proposed Gain, as you may imagine: but only to
have some Interest with this dear Fellow."

Well, he had his wish, though Posh maintains that there _was_ gain in the
business at a certain time to be referred to hereafter, and that there
might have been plenty of gain but for the "interfarin' parties" before
mentioned.

From the first there was a difficulty in persuading Posh to keep any
accounts of either outgoings or incomings.  He seems to have paid a bill
when he thought of it, or when he had the money for it handy.  But no
idea of book-keeping, even in its most rudimentary form, was ever
entertained by him.

And FitzGerald had, before ever the partnership was an accomplished fact,
impressed on Posh the importance of remembering his debts.

Before the spring fishing began in 1868 the question of accounts came to
the fore.  On March the 29th the sleeping partner wrote from Woodbridge:--

   "DEAR POSHY,

   "I have your Letter of this Morning:--I suppose that you have got mine
   also.  I hope that you understood what I said in it--about the Bills,
   I mean--that you should put down in writing _all_ outgoings, and in
   such a way as you, or I, might easily reckon them up: I mean, so as to
   see what _each_ amounts to--No man's Memory can be trusted in such
   matters; and I think that _your_ Memory (jostled about, as you say,
   with many different calls, [_sic_ no close to parenthesis] needs to
   have _writing_ to refer to.  _Do not suppose for one moment_ that I do
   not trust you, my good fellow: nor that I think you have made any
   great blunder in what Accounts you _did_ keep last year.  I only mean
   that a man ought to be able to point _out at once_, to himself or to
   others, all the items of an Account; to do which, you know, gave you
   great Trouble--You must not be too proud to learn a little of some one
   used to such business: _as Mr. Spalding_, for instance.

   "If you think the Oil and _Cutch_ are as good, and as cheap, at
   Lowestoft as I can get them here, why not get them at once at
   Lowestoft?  About that _green Paint_ for the Lugger's bottom:--Mr.
   Silver got some _so very good_ for _Pasifull's_ Smack last year that I
   think it might be worth while to get some, if we could, from _his_
   Merchant.  You told me that what _you_ got at Lowestoft was _not_ very
   good.

   "I am _very glad_ that the Lugger is so well thought of that any one
   else wants to build from her.  For she was _your_ child, you know.

   "Mr. Durrant has never sent me the plants.  I doubt he must have lost
   some more children.  Do not go to him again, if you went before.  I
   daresay I shall be running over to Lowestoft soon.  But I am not quite
   well.

   "E. FG.

   "Remember me to your Family: you do not tell me if your Mother is
   better."

The Mr. Spalding here referred to was at that time the manager for a
large firm of agricultural implement makers.  Subsequently he became the
curator of the museum at Colchester, and the letters from FitzGerald to
him which were handed to Mr. Francis Hindes Groome formed the most
valuable part of the second part of _Two Suffolk Friends_ called "Edward
FitzGerald.  An Aftermath."

"Oil" and "cutch" are preservatives for the herring nets.  The oil is
linseed, and the nets are soaked in it before they are tanned by the
cutch.  Cutch is a dark resinous stuff, which is thrown into a copper
full of water and boiled till it is dissolved.  Then the liquid is thrown
over the nets and permitted to soak in.  After the nets are soaked in
linseed oil, and before they are tanned, they are hung up to dry in the
open air.  The process has to be repeated several times during each
fishing, and those who are familiar with Lowestoft and Yarmouth must also
be familiar with the sight and smell of the nets, hanging out on
railings, either on public open spaces or in private net yards.  Where
rails are not obtainable the nets are often spread on the ground, and an
ingenious idea for the quaint shape of Yarmouth (unique with its narrow
"rows") is that the rows represent the narrow footpaths between the
spaces on which the nets used to be laid to dry.

"Pasifull" is sometimes called "Percival," sometimes "Pasifall," and
sometimes as in this letter.  His Christian name was Ablett, and he was
both a fisherman and a yacht hand.

Mr. Durrant was a market gardener and fruiterer in Lowestoft, and his
sons carry on the same business in three shops in Lowestoft now.  One of
them remembers FitzGerald as a visitor and "a queer old chap," and that's
all he knows about him.

I do not think Posh troubled himself much about the accounts.  But there
was another subject already broached which was to cause some
unpleasantness between the partners.

Some of FitzGerald's friends, both at Lowestoft and elsewhere, had become
uneasy at the hold which Posh had obtained over him.  They feared lest he
should become a baron of beef at which Posh could cut and come again.
More than one advised him that he should have some better security than a
mere partnership understanding, that he should, in fact, insist on having
a bill of sale, or mortgage of the _Meum and Tuum_ and her gear to secure
the money he had found.  Possibly he was swayed by Posh's backwardness in
the matter of account.  Certainly he came to the conclusion that his
friends were right, and that he should have a charge on the boat and her
gear.  Now I believe that Posh tells the truth when he says that in the
first instance there was no mention of any such charge.  And he was not a
business man enough to see the reasonableness of FitzGerald's demand.  He
was, moreover, urged by the secretiveness of his race, the love of
keeping private affairs from outsiders, and he bitterly resented the
proposition.  Indeed, during the early months of 1868, there were
constant semi-quarrels, which were as constantly patched up.  FitzGerald
loved the man too well to quarrel with him definitely.  Besides, Posh had
not been well.  In January FitzGerald wrote to Professor Cowell
(_Letters_, II, 103, Eversley Edition): "I have spent lots of money on my
Herring-lugger, which has made but a poor season.  So now we are going
(like wise men) to lay out a lot more for Mackerel; and my Captain (a
dear Fellow) is got ill, which is the worst of all."

But in this first instance Posh gave way.  On April 14th FitzGerald wrote
Mr. Spalding: "I believe that he and I shall now sign the Mortgage Papers
that make him owner of _Half Meum and Tuum_.  I only get out of him that
he can't say he sees much amiss in the Deed."  But Posh is still bitter
about that deed, and still blames his old "guv'nor" for having listened
to the "interfarin' parties."  He does not know what was the matter with
him that spring.  "I was quare, sir," he says.  "I don't know what ta
was.  But I was quare."

He got well in time to go off after the spring mackerel, which used to be
a regular fishing season off Lowestoft, though now mackerel are getting
as scarce as salmon off the Norfolk and Suffolk coast.  But the _Meum and
Tuum's_ bad luck still followed her with the longer and bigger meshed
nets.  On June 16th, 1868, FitzGerald wrote to Mr. Spalding (_Two Suffolk
Friends_, p. 113):--

   "Mackerel still come in very slow, sometimes none at all: the dead
   calm nights play the deuce with the Fishing, and I see no prospect of
   change in the weather till the Mackerel shall be changing their
   Quarters.  I am vexed to see the Lugger come in Day after day so
   poorly stored after all the Labour and Time and Anxiety given to the
   work by her Crew; but I can do no more, and at any rate take my share
   of the Loss very lightly.  I can afford it better than they can.  I
   have told Newson to set sail and run home any Day, Hour, or Minute,
   when he wishes to see his Wife and Family."

Newson and Jack were down at Lowestoft with the _Scandal_, and it was
characteristic of FitzGerald to give his skipper leave to run home when
he wished.  FitzGerald always liked the _Meum and Tuum_ to be in harbour
on a Sunday so that the men could see their wives and families and have a
"good hot dinner."


CHAPTER VII
"FLAGSTONE FITZGERALD"


Now that the _Meum and Tuum_ was ready for work FitzGerald's anxiety for
the lives of her crew made him insist upon their taking life-belts aboard
with them, although the mate had stated that no one would wear them.  On
April 24th a letter was written to Posh from Woodbridge.

   "DEAR POSHY,

   "I hear from Mr. Birt this morning that the Life Belts were sent off
   to you yesterday--_directed to your house_.  So I suppose they will
   reach you without your having to go look for them.  But you can
   enquire at the Rail if they don't show up.

   "Mr. Birt says that he makes the Belts of _two_ sizes for the Life
   Boat.  But he has sent _all_ yours of the large size, except one for
   the Boy.  I had told him I thought you were all of you biggish Men,
   except the Boy.  I suppose I have blundered as usual.  But if the
   Jackets are too big you must change some of them.  That will only cost
   carriage; and that I must pay for my Blunder.

   "I doubt you have been unlucky in your drying days--yesterday we had
   such violent showers as would have washed out your oil, I think.  And
   it must have rained much last night.  But you share in _my_ luck now,
   you know.

   "But I am very glad the children are better.  I thought it was bad
   weather for fever.  There has been great sickness here, I think.  Mr.
   Gowing and his house are as tedious as Mr. Dove and _my_ house; we
   must hope that does not mean to play as false.

   "I am very sorry for your loss of lines and anchors.

   "E. FG."

Mr. Gowing was, so far as Posh can recollect, a Woodbridge builder, and
Mr. Dove was the Builder who altered Little Grange for FitzGerald.
Whether or not the life-belts fitted or were ever used I can't ascertain.
But I believe that one was in existence a year or so ago.  The "lines and
anchors" were, Posh thinks, lost from his old punt the _Gazelle_.

For the sake of convenience I give a letter here which is somewhat out of
date, but inasmuch as it has nothing to do with the fishing but only with
the trust which FitzGerald had in Posh it may very well come in here.

   "MARKETHILL, WOODBRIDGE, _October_ 2_nd_.

   "DEAR POSH,

   "I forgot to tell you that I had desired a Day and Night Telescope to
   be left _for me_ at the Lowestoft Railway Station--Please to enquire
   for it: and, if it be there, this Letter of mine may be sufficient
   Warrant for _you_ to take the Glass.

   "Do not, however, take the Glass _out to sea_ till we have tried it.

   "We got here yesterday.  I shall not be at Lowestoft _this week_ at
   any rate.

   "Yours,
   "EDWARD FITZGERALD.

   "Please to send me word about the Glass.  I left a note for you in
   George Howe's hands before we started.  I was sorry not to see you;
   but you knew where to find me on Monday Evening."

The glass was, Posh assures me, a good one.  But no one knows what became
of it.  Later FitzGerald again mentions the glass.

   "WOODBRIDGE, _Monday_.

   "DEAR POSH,

   "If I could have made sure from your letter that you were going to
   stop on shore this Day, I would have run over to see you.  You tell me
   of getting a Job done: but I cannot be sure if you are having it done
   To-day: and I do not go to Lowestoft for fear you may be put to sea
   again.

   "Of course you will get anything done to Boat or Net that you think
   proper.

   "You did not tell me how the Spy-Glass answers.  But do not trouble
   yourself to write.

   "Yours truly,
   "FLAGSTONE FITZGERALD."

{Woodbridge River (evening) where the "scandal" berthed: p97.jpg}

As soon as I asked Posh the meaning of the signature "Flagstone
FitzGerald" he burst out laughing.  "What!" said he.  "Hain't yew niver
heard about ole Flagstone?  He was a retail and wholesale grocer and
gin'ral store dealer at Yarmouth name ---" (well, we will say Smith for
purposes of reference.  As the man's sons still carry on his old business
here in Lowestoft it is as well not to give the true name.  By the way, I
do not mean that the sons carry on the "flagstone" business), "and he
owned tew or t'ree boots and stored 'em hisself.  Well, when they come to
make up (and o' coorse he'd chudged the men for the stores, ah! and
chudged 'em high!) they went t'rew the stores an' found as he'd weighted
up the sugar and such like wi' flagstone!  Well, they made it sa hot for
him at Yarmouth that he had ta mewve ta Lowestoft, and he was allust
called Flagstone Smith arter that.  I reckon as the Guv'nor heerd the
yarn and liked it.  Ha!  Ha!  Ha!"

And it isn't a bad yarn for one which is actually true in every respect.

About the same time, or a little later (for it is impossible to fix the
date of these letters definitely), Fitzgerald wrote:--

   "WOODBRIDGE, _Saturday_.

   "MY DEAR LAD,

   "I suppose the Lugger had returned, and that you had gone out in her
   again before my last Note, with Newson's Paper, reached you.  I have a
   fancy that you will go home this evening.  But whether you are not
   [_sic_] do not _stay_ at home to answer me.  I have felt, as I said,
   pretty sure that the Boat was back from Harwich: and we have had no
   such weather as to make me anxious about you.  One night it blew; but
   not a gale: only a strong Wind.

   "I shall be expecting Newson up next week.

   "I have thought of you while I have been walking out these fine
   moonlight nights.  But I doubt your fish must have gone off before
   this.

   "You see I have nothing to say to you; only I thought you might to
   [_sic_] hear from me whenever you should come back.

   "E. FG."


CHAPTER VIII
HOW FISHERS FISHED


The poor mackerel season ended in the second week of July.  Why, when
mackerel were so scarce, the _Meum and Tuum_ did not give up the fishing
and try for "midsummer herring" it is difficult to understand, and Posh
does not remember the reason, if there was one.  Possibly the change of
nets, etc., etc., was too much trouble.  Anyhow, the season was
unprofitable for the mackerel boats.  On Monday, July 13th, FitzGerald
was still on the _Scandal_ at Lowestoft, and wrote from there to Mr.
Spalding (_Two Suffolk Friends_, p. 113): "Posh made up and paid off on
Saturday.  I have not yet asked him, but I suppose he has just paid his
way, I mean so far as Grub goes. . . .  Last night it lightened to the
South, as we sat in the Suffolk Gardens--I, and Posh, and Mrs. Posh. . . ."

The "making up" may require some little explanation.  The "drift"
fishing--i.e. the herring and mackerel fishing (for though sprats and
pilchards are caught by drift nets, it is unnecessary to consider them
when dealing with the great North Sea drift fishing)--is carried on on a
system of sharing profits between owners and fishermen.  Trawlers, i.e.
craft that fish with a "trawl" net for flat fish, haddocks, etc., etc.,
are managed differently.

"Making up" is the technical term for balancing profit and loss of a
season, and ascertaining the sums which are due to owners and crew
respectively.

In the days when Fitzgerald was a "herring merchant," the systems of
Yarmouth and Lowestoft were different.  At Yarmouth the owner of the boat
took nine shares out of sixteen, and bore all losses of damaged or lost
nets, etc., the remaining seven shares being divided among the crew in
varying proportions.  For instance, the skipper took 1.75 or two shares,
the mate 1.25 or 1.5, and so on down to the boy with his one-half or
three-eighths share.  At Lowestoft the shares were also divided into
sixteen; but the owner took only eight, and the crew the other eight.  The
losses of gear, nets, etc., however, were borne equally between the two
lots of eight shares, and, on the whole, I believe the Yarmouth system
was more favourable to the men, though the Lowestoft system made the
skipper and crew more careful of the nets and gear than they might have
been did not they suffer for any loss of them.  The introduction of steam
drifters has made the shares complicated in the extreme.  The owners take
so much as owners of the boat, so much for the engines, etc., etc., and,
in fact, the owners get the share of a very greedy lion.  However, the
prices rule so high nowadays, and the catches are occasionally so large
(the other day a steam drifter brought in over 200 pounds worth of fish
to Grimsby as the result of one night's fishing), that the great
Martinmas fishing of the east coast has become a gamble in which fortunes
may be made and lost.  Many a boat earns over 2000 pounds from October to
December.  A lucky skipper may take 200 pounds for his share of the home
fishing alone.  But such figures would have sounded fantastic in
FitzGerald's day, for I have been assured over and over again by herring
fishers that in the sixties and seventies, ay, even in the eighties of
last century, 20 pounds was a "good season's share" for a prominent hand
of a successful drifter.

Posh, as half owner, would take four-sixteenth shares, and as skipper
would probably take another two-sixteenths, so that he would draw more
than any one else.

Some time during the spring or summer of 1868 there was great excitement
amongst the fishing-boat owners of Lowestoft and other ports on account
of an Act just passed regulating the building of vessels, having especial
regard to the ventilation of the cuddy, forecastle, or the men's sleeping
quarters.  Posh tells me that many owners of drifters considered that the
Act applied to all craft, including fishing boats, and that great expense
was undergone by some over-conscientious owners in fitting ventilating
drums and shafts in accordance with the Act.  If the statute applied to
any drifter it would apply to the _Meum and Tuum_, and FitzGerald
evidently thought that the intention of the Act was that fishing boats
should be exempt.  He proved to be right, for the regulations were never
enforced on fishing boats.  Power of his mystical and penetrating mind Rachotinsky had unlimited
influence over Mirmell won.

   Allan Mirmell had one of the most interesting men's faces, I have
ever seen.

   His features were gaunt and of the utmost delicacy, and his skin
was smooth and white as email, the strong chin, the lips thin as
expressed fruits, which are all too clear eyes never met the eye
chart, although they do not diverged to the site, they receive the
look and sucked him.

   This was uncomfortable. Trevanion appeared only rarely. He was
   always in his cabin, read or wrote. Rachotinsky drove with him from the
   books geological studies and deep-sea trials with the help of the
   plankton net, which we had on board. Trevanion once stood in the
   moonlight on Kompaßhäuschen and stared motionless on the sea. His
   boys took shape me. But neither he nor I could Mirmell without a menial
   emotion approaching, and this relic of my past proletarian dragged me
   for a long time. Only common sufferings awakened comradely feelings.
   We were through the tropical seas and through the southern part
of the Atlantic Ocean mileage, then west, long west, then south
again.

   We ran on the margins of Eisregion located at Macquarie Island, but
   Mirmells intention of being established there, because of
   the presence of some vessels thwarted because Mirmell and Rachotinsky
   were willing to humanity to escape. We examined the Nimrod Island,
   but whose existence is still not assured, and when this was
   unsuccessful, we contributed to the Ross Sea.

   Icebergs floated on the water, and one day the sea was covered by
   ice. It opened narrow streets, where the steamer had free passage. We
   crossed the fifth grade and soon saw the country on all sides, the
   mysterious continent of Antarctica. I was at that time become
healthy again.

   I was not tired, this new world view, and the remaining days always
   amazed me, because it was mid-December, the summer of that latitude
and the sun was not covered.

   Meanwhile, the crew began to grumble, and the captain and the first
Maat dared, to the dangers noted that a ship which is for such trips
was unfit, threatened by the ice.

   Mirmell remained deaf to their ideas.

   It was in him a Furor, and a lethargy that all practical measures
   ignored.

   He resembled the knights of the old legend, which is silent and
defiant preparing trip to hell.

That he unconsciously influence Rachotinskys the hypnotic subject is not
to be doubted, that lived on, his gaze seemed to triumph, when he measured
the distance that separated him from everything, which it had
previously bound.

I even had him in ruins. I thought of his words: we want the death
experience, life in death and God build in our soul. The will to let
me fall to shudder, and my mind began to the entgegenzustreben. We contributed
to a wide bay, in providing us with the solid ice bade halt, and waited,
because we are closer to the coast hoping to come.

   On the second day of the storm sprinkled the frozen lake, and we drove
   near to the coast approached. Mirmell and Rachotinsky went ashore
   and searched for a place to build a hut and a storage house. It proved
   that the ship with all the needs for a year-long stay in inaccessible
   Eisöde befrachtet was.

Among many laborious sailors transported the beams and planks on
the beach, afterwards, the beds, tables, chairs, books, the clothes,
the hundreds of coal sacks, the countless boxes of canned food,
fruit, tea, salt, flour, glass and bottles.

When the wooden building and stood against the worst storms by stone
blocks and wire ropes were fastened, asked the captain of the
ship Sir Allan for an interview. The Wackermann was very concerned, he
believed the need to warn, without searching for the reasons of our project
is also researching the scientific nature were eloquent, he painted
the horrors of overwintering.

It was not an overwintering replied brusquely Mirmell he give him the job,
not earlier than after the course of five years to come to this
coast, to assure that the settlers were still alive.

The captain was speechless before the horror, but Mirmell repeated this
decision again before the whole team and they all committed to silence,
so long as no customers came into the world, should be captain and
the boat people Löhnung further relates, in another case, the asset
manager Sir Allan's the exact instructions to dismiss.

In the second week after our arrival, all the work terminated, and the
ship has left us. We stood at the edge of the ice and looked after him
until it had disappeared beneath the horizon and its steam column
is mixed with the clouds had. Here was the adventure to an end, and the
feeling of unexpected extinguished in me, all heard on, surprise me to
produce the present tamed me, the Unentrinnliche umschlang me as
a visible circle, it was to fight, to defend themselves the responsibility
to live. Impossible, I can describe what I was experiencing this
confusion of thought, this rebellion against the absurd, this awakening
from a dream-like state, I must myself be content, the following events
to tell. Rachotinsky had in part by speculation and partly by the research
won the conviction that on the continent of Antarctica extensive coal
camps there were, and he had the intention of something fantastic,
it's hidden treasures to find and exploit them for the unfortunate, gloomy
sons of his homeland to make use of. Every day, he, with his hammers
which, long walks and brought all kinds of rock with. The same man,
the prisoner in the Siberian wilderness with his whole soul of proposed
power to endure, it was here, in the voluntarily chosen perfect
seclusion and detachment from human society in a miraculous way
erglüht, and I wondered in vain what it might be may wish that his
eyes are often so hopeful Strunk erschimmern had.

Widerriet he urged me to add myself to idleness, and in fact had any blank
exhaustive hours for your body and mind.

   Everyone had a day on which he was cooking and upward, for the fire,
and the hut had to get inside.

   I accompanied Mirmell to the penguins, whose eggs we collected, and
   amazing, I never saw these people as birds, this gravely, deeply loving,
   vain and curious beings bound within the rules of their Brutstaates.
   Like us they disapprove of how it deals with a wide white border
around their eyes, which resembled a pair of glasses, seriously,
and our company mustered only grossly insults tolerated, as are two
of the finest zeremoniöser with awe against bowed before their
important negotiations pflogen !

They compared the magical creatures in a fairy tale so much that they
are the landscape a mysterious charm of transformation tasks, some of
spell and Harren on guilt and redemption.

Not infrequently, I also included a silent Trevanion to the algae, diatoms,
sponges, polyps and fished from the sea, or in small icy lakes dug
wells, or clouds and rocks, or signed with the spirit lamp in the ice
caves stalactites hinabstieg.

Still, I
prefer to wander alone through the snow and ice and looked to the
sky fade to a pale sun, and the pale white earth.

The constant light blunts the sense of time and how you went in
eternity, also no change of day and night. I heard the sighs of
Eisschraubung on the sea, and the action sounds of gigantic glaciers,
which is against the ocean pushed to it with floating mountains to
inhabit, and they stretched Laute sounded like the groaning of an
animal in the pains of childbirth.

   Far above me flickered the fire of a volcano, rose up like a giant
mushroom of black smoke from their throats, and the proximity of
the maternal Weltenglut, creative Erdflamme let me forget sometimes
that I get a man to and müssender was.

   I saw the straight edge of the mathematical hundreds of miles long
   Eisbarre, green schillerte like a huge emerald plate, and in
   the south, toward the end of the world, I saw many mountain peaks,
   innumerable domes, which were similar virginal breasts, covered by a
   blue, transparent veil of atmosphere. The clearest, strongest and
   most tender thoughts rose up as independent creatures, nature
listened to a word to be heard to the others, they did not speak,
they were not, they are not protected, it was not, they just _war_.

   In ever-lower circles of the sun ball rolled around our frozen
kingdom, even in the rising levels of refrigeration, we realized
that it was winter.

It was the hour, where the quivering red disc touched the quivering horizon.
The waves of the sea frozen in the middle of the movement and looked
like a bunch of wildly thrown on top of each other purple cloths. The
whole Schneegefild behind us was on the spectrum, the ice crystals sparkled
trillion. High in the air glowed the rare Iris clouds, seals and penguins
were gone, and we stood in front of the hut, down to the freezing
mark, and waited until the last Protuberanzen the sun were extinguished,
- and thus all life. It was night. Bitter it was now around us
ordered. I already knew evil when, as I light lights, Trevanion
ceaselessly into the Herdflamme stared, with a phrase that I shall never
forget, an expression of childlike fear and full of soulful concern.

   Two and a half months we had lived in harmony. I must say that we loved
   each other had won. We understood and respected each other. There was
   much lively and well-spoken, and I owe this time, the richest
   experience, the varied lessons and insights. Day by day, hour after
   hour with the same people sharing the same narrow house, a witness to
   his life of all statements, observers silence each and every
   Geberde, that is to know each other. And finally, we knew each other
   so well that we heard the words before they were told that we are on
   the still unmoving face could indicate the place where a smile, a
   memory, a discomfort to stereotyped wrinkles notching had, indeed,
   that we the disparity in curvature and length of individual hair
   eyelashes maintained and often directed it during a call attention to
   tense certain peculiarities of face and gesture rather than question
   and answer. Everyone was changing as the glass. The lack of anything
   new and surprising, sometimes aroused impatience, which is slowly
   transformed into silent scorn. Even before the big night fall, there
   was often a menacing silence among us, but we were wounded by nerve
   activity outdoors calm. It was now impossible. Without a disguise,
   the going very difficult, one could not dwell outdoors, and when the
   blizzard raged, it was in danger of choking, before you are three
   steps away from the house had. We were thus forced to stay together
   permanently. The constant darkness verdüsterte the mind forever.
   The dull smoldering light in our living room was a constant pressure
   on the eye and the brain. The cold was so terrible that we, despite the
   constant heating temperature of the hut is not more than three degrees
   Reaumur said. Our vapor and the vapors of the dishes were on the walls
   as Eisverkleidung dejected, and warmed up the ice, in the cone hung,
   dripping onto the ground, the mud was a result. If the window bar and
   not under the impact of the hurricane and groans and rattled on the
   roof hurled small stones painfully monotonous and knocked, we
   shifted the silence of nature in a state that we would like to
scream in order to banish them.

Oh, this silence! They thundered in their ears, they can let the heartbeat
as the noise from a machine shop to appear, they roared out of the
darkness, they sleep away and caused the fearful fantasies of the hearing.
I suspect that we are just out of fear of her began to argue. It was
completely senseless quarrels, from the silly occasions maliciously
dragged into the width. Once I wanted to bring peace, since lifted the
Allan Mirmell grim fist against me, Trevanion sobbed, and ran with
Rachotinsky tangled gefletschten hands and teeth up and down. And the
reason for all this? We were not able to agree about whether the captain
of ship Mirmells blue or gray eyes possessed. We were the sound of our
voices are no longer endure, I trembled at the indifferent idiom. But the
true inferno began, when one evening, - it was evening, the leaden hours
last night Verwacht days - than one evening Trevanion, who sat at the
table read, a white cloth over his face hung. Our vision caused him
disgust. And we had others in the same instant sensation. Stierten We
like beasts who are preparing to lacerate each other. Every day at the
same time increased in the same process abomination! In such an hour was
Trevanion overwhelmed by horror, he wrapped the head and torso in the
fur and crashed out.

I'm scheduled to see him and after I raised the necessary protective
clothing also created, I followed him.

The fresh track in front of the hut showed that he is against the glacier
was hinaufgegangen. Above the snow was a weak greenish brightness. The
air was calm, but cold as a fire devoured. Suddenly the sky flared before
me. Density waves of light moving from southeast to southwest and
seemed unremittingly new light emitted from southeast to fetch.

They threw blinding rays on the earth, and the colors changed from white
to green and yellow. I felt no longer of the complainant of the
march, the beautiful phenomenon gave me a feeling of floating.

Since I saw Trevanion. He looked motionless in the glowing sky. Me
überrieselte it self when I was flabbergasted expression of his face
said. He felt close to my more than that he saw me, he stretched out his
arms against the southern whispering and asked whether I perceive the
figure. What kind of shape? I whispered back. With impetuous Geberde
he hinted. I followed the direction. It is a block of ice, I
said. He pressed his hands together and pressed them to his chest.
Natalie breathed it, it's Natalie.

   Again it overflowed me.

   We stood on the cemetery in the world, and he saw the ghosts of life.
   With a devotion and flehentlichen voice he called incessantly the
name Natalie.

   The glacier began in the reddish glow of the aurora to shine. And
   now, it was myself, when I saw a woman. They waved me not, they just
   pulled me out. In its transparent body ran blood. From the blue robe
   rose girlishly shoulders. Her hands, although flaccid arms, were a
   gesture of defense. Your face is revealed only gradually as a star
   of mists. The trains were suffering, but full of an unexpected sensuality.
   We can not reach them, said Trevanion, and some steps, however, he
   did, the light disappeared appearance there. Hurry, it's a snow
   storm moves on, I pushed him and pointed to a whitish haze in the
south and was dealing with eerie rapidity spread.

   We love the supernatural forces skeptical judge you deny them or declare;
   sure is that each organism certain conditions, their exposure to the
   same subject and then a body that has lost its focus, the familiar paths
   beggars. We had the community of people with it, the right to
   love us go, we had not considered that there, even if the talent in
   bitterness and hatred are met, but a stream of pending opportunities
   to individuals around the possibilities of love, and that magnetic
   touch his soul with dark ungewußt nurture confidence. Here, however,
   created a deep desire in us the phenomenon of love out of nothing;
desperation gave birth to a schema, the court held about, insulted
the man took revenge.

   Mirmell and Rachotinsky were relatively sober characters, and they
   were straight from the woman in the fire glow of the aurora australis
   in the most compelling packed, because they saw what Trevanion and I
   had seen, it took little notice, her mind was prepared by tormenting
   their imagination wishes, desires, sleep, and dream of watching the
   dull, desires, just as they cherish the kasteite womb can have long
   decided to take the incomprehensible.

   It was an erotic madness, we hintrieb. With horror I confess that
we were each other jealous.

   The following painting unfolded the splendor of the Aurora always
glorious.

   In a powerful arc light flared up and reached the zenith in the
   constellation of the centaur its greatest intensity.

Each night we went out to Aurora to see masked marched silently and
each his way. But too often the sky remained black and only the distant
fire of the volcano lohte rauchverdüstert.

Sometimes standing in the cloudless pure height of the moon as a magnesium
lamp. The whole landscape was like a lunar landscape. I felt so unirdisch,
so apart from me, so close the last frontiers! Orion and Sirius magnificent
shot to a great circle. In the seventh night we saw the Aurora for
the third time.

It was milder weather, and the vision was in stark outline. We hiked
the glacier hinan panting, Trevanion all provided. It seemed to me the
essence of a Somnambules to have. It was during this time so
internalized that his smile as a fleeting stay between sleep and
death impact. In his eyes lived a worship, a transcendent passion, that
it was painful to consider. Even in dark nights, he went far out on the
treacherous back of the glacier, once I heard him loud, with sounds
shocking, screaming and he yelled after her.

He called for the embrace of Eisjungfrau and in the morning, he said to
me: if they are not blind, Henry, they would find a way that I could get
to her. Allan Mirmell decayed at an alarming nature, as if a poison to
him live. He taps like a man.

Light,
light, he often muttered when he emporschrak from sleep.

The strenuous marches on the residence of pale Aurora threw him to the
camp invalidated. To my horror I noticed at all Rachotinsky displaying
a morbid melancholy. For hours he crouched in prayer on the knees. He can
no longer washed, dirt, soot and debris covered him. What I got up,
I can say is difficult. There was hope in me. This hope has been from day
to day more. And it was something other than hope, it was longing. Whenever
I saw the Aurora, I phased through a hall of ice pillars at the
end of which I greeted the busy world.

The blind, the Unattainable, the delicate structure of beams and crystal
taught me that I should love myself, my people, myself in the world. The
beam bends, one end of which they wore, seemed to me like a masterly
curved bridge the abyss of darkness vaulted. Since it was established in
me, that I build bridges over chasms wanted real, yes, real bridges. And
while I wandered Weglosen, the blinding light forward, grew up in me the
desire, through them, because once that I no way had more for me, was
the fact that I can not be created. That I knew now. Ways to overcome the
inertia, the more ways the more movement, the greater the desire,
the more conversion. On the pilgrimage to Aurora, I have the idea of
bridges and ways to love, and this kept me from the destruction.

In the last night before the rising of the sun, I saw for the last
Trevanion. Dawn was on the ice. The glacier twitched, cramping in
his zerbogen inside its cold shell. Also grollte the volcano, and the
Schwefelfumarolen on top of yellow vapors were moved. Trevanion was
at my side, when the southern aufflammte, only in matte slip admittedly,
just as a farewell. Even before it was faded, I called to Trevanion, we
would have run down, the Blizzard was in the suit. He shook his head and
ignored my warning not. He went further. I did not know if I was him
or me to safety should stand and remained undecided. The storm began to
buzz, because I saw that Trevanion, already quite far above was jählings
disappeared. Apparently, a snow bridge was broken, and he was led into
the column. I examined the body to keep in mind, because I was able to
pursue him, the atmosphere darkened quickly, I threw myself flat on the
ground, and not fortgeschleudert be holding my arms around a block of
ice. It was a frenzy in the elements that affect the heart brought to a
halt. However my thoughts were only with Trevanion employed, it was as
if a gate in the mysterious House of Aurora would have opened to him
severely limited. As long as I motionless, and with all the forces of
tension was so, I do not know, as the ferocity of the hurricane was
low, I crept on hands and feet against the hut down, and only when I use
the protection of a cliff, she dared me to collect. Rachotinsky, from a
mechanical and almost dogged sense of duty Mirmells forged the camp,
which rank with death, was it difficult to persuade me to accompany
the glacier. We waited until the storm had passed, then we went with
Knitting provide, up. My loud calls remained unanswered. The drifting
snow had each track blurred. Well I discovered in the direction in which
Trevanion had disappeared, an open column, but it was wide, floor-less
throats.
For what I know
of the old longshoreman, I am convinced that if he brought his nets home
in his lugger he did so because he thought it was the most profitable way
of bringing them back.  But FitzGerald grew anxious, and his anxiety was
not understood by the natural child of the beach, and caused friction and
mutual irritation.

But this did not break out till the north voyage was over and the _Meum
and Tuum_ had been on the home fishing for more than a month.  Then Posh
began to have the fingering of a good deal of money, and FitzGerald had
already had reason to doubt his abilities to keep his credit and debit
sides of account in proper order.  Moreover, the usual autumn gales had
been bringing the stormy and dark nights which are as profitable as they
are dangerous to the drifters.  On Monday, November 1st, 1869 (one of the
few letters of FitzGerald's which I have seen completely dated), the
sleeping partner wrote on a sheet of paper headed by a monogram which is
"S.W. & B." so far as I can make out.  To make up for the fullness of the
date there is no address.

   "I cannot lay blame to myself, Posh, in this matter, though I may not
   have known you were so busy with the boat as you tell me.  Hearing of
   great disasters by last week's gale, I was, as usual, anxious about
   you.  Hearing nothing from you, I telegram'd on Thursday Afternoon to
   Mr. Bradbeer: his answer reached me at 5 p.m. that you had come in on
   Tuesday, and were then safe in harbour.  Being then afraid lest you
   should put off paying away the money, which, as I told you, was a
   positive _danger_ to Wife and Children, I directly telegram'd to _you_
   to do what I had desired you to do the week before.  Busy as you were,
   five minutes spent in writing me a line would have spared all this
   trouble and all this vexation on both sides.

   "As to my telegrams telling all the world what you wish to keep
   secret; how did they do that?  My telegrams to Mr. Bradbeer were
   simply to ask if you were _safe_.  My telegram to you was simply to
   say, 'Do what I bid you'; Who should know _what_ that was, or that it
   had anything to do with paying the Boat's Bills?  People might guess
   it had _something_ to do with the Boat: and don't you suppose that
   every one knows pretty well how things are between us?  And why should
   they not, I say, when all is honestly done between us?  The Custom
   House people must know (and, of course, tell others) that you are at
   present only Half-owner; and would suppose that _I_, the other Half,
   would use some Authority in the matter.

   "You say truly that, when we began together, you supposed I should
   leave all to you, and use _no_ Authority (though you have always asked
   me about anything you wished done).  Quite true.  I never did wish to
   meddle; nor did I call on you for any Account, till I saw last year
   that you forgot a really important sum, and that you did not seem
   inclined to help your Memory (as every one else does) by writing it
   down in a Book.  In two cases this year I have shown you the same
   forgetfulness (about your liabilities I mean) and I do not think I
   have been unjust, or unkind, in trying to make you bring _yourself_ to
   Account.  You know, and ought to believe, that I have perfect
   confidence in _your honour_; and have told you of the one defect I
   observed in you as much for your sake as mine.

   "_Quite as much_, yes!  For the anxiety I have . . . [word illegible]
   [? suffered] these two years about your eleven lives is but ill
   compensated by all these squalls between us two; which I declare I
   excuse myself of raising.  If, in this last case, you really had not
   time to post me a line or two to say you were all safe, and that you
   had done what I desired you to do; I am very sorry for having written
   so sharply as I did to you: but I cannot _blame_ myself for the
   mistake.  No: this I will say: I am not apt to think too much of my
   doings, and dealings with others.  But, in my whole sixty years, I can
   with a clear conscience say that I have dealt with _one man_ fairly,
   kindly, and not ungenerously, for three good years.  I may have made
   mistakes; but I can say I have done _my_ best as conscientiously as he
   can say he has done his.  And I believe he _has_ done his best, though
   he has also made mistakes; and I remain his sincerely,

   "E. FG."

Mr. Bradbeer was a herring merchant, and his family is still prominent in
the fishing industry of Lowestoft.  Posh's letter, to which the above is
a reply, must have been very characteristic of his race, to which secrecy
concerning their private affairs is a first nature.  The mistrust of the
privacy of the "telegrams" may possibly have had some justification.  Even
in these days there are East Anglian villages where the contents of
private telegrams are sometimes known to the village before the actual
information reaches the addressee.  And in 1869 Lowestoft was not much
more than a village, and telegraphy was in its infancy.  Possibly Posh
exaggerated the importance of secretiveness, and FitzGerald the security
of privacy.  But apart from all questions of "the rights of the matter,"
what a letter it is!  What a splendid justification for almost any
action.  I fear, however the matter in dispute be looked at, Posh cannot
have the best of it in this case.  He had fired up at an imaginary
slight, wrong, whatever he chose to think it, and if he has any excuse at
all, it is that, but for his unreasonableness, we should not have this
letter.

One would have thought that it might have given Posh pause if even he
felt disposed to show his independence again.  But this "squall" between
these two curious partners was not destined to be the last.  For the time
it blew over, and the mutual relations between Posh and his "guv'nor"
were as friendly as ever.


CHAPTER XII
THE _HENRIETTA_


During the winter of 1869-70 it seems that Posh conceived the idea that
the capital of the firm of FitzGerald and Fletcher justified the working
partner in increasing the stock-in-trade.  A boat-building company at
Southwold put up some craft at auction, and among them was one which had
already seen a good deal of sea service named the _Henrietta_.  This Posh
bought for about 100 pounds without consulting his partner.  It
transpired afterwards that the sale was not acceptable to all the
shareholders of the company that owned the boat, especially to a Jerry
Cole, one of the principal shareholders, and there was a good deal of
bother for Posh in obtaining delivery of his purchase.  It may be as well
to include all the letters relating to this transaction in one chapter
without regard to dates.

The first is dated February 1st--that is to say, February 1st, 1870--and
was written at Woodbridge by FitzGerald to his partner.  The letter, as
handed to me by Posh, was incomplete, and lacked signature.  No doubt the
second sheet had been lost with those "sackfuls."

   "WOODBRIDGE, _February_ 1_st_.

   "MY DEAR POSH,

   "Mr. Spalding was with me last night; and I asked him if I was
   justified in the scolding I gave you about buying the Lugger and Nets
   too; telling him the particulars.  He would not go so far as to say I
   was _wrong_; but he thought that you were not to blame either.
   Therefore I consider that I _was_ wrong; and, as I told you, I am very
   glad to find myself wrong, though very sorry to have been so: and I
   cannot let a day pass without writing to say so.  You may think that I
   had better have said nothing to anybody about it: but I always do ask
   of another if I am right.  If Mr. Spalding had been at Lowestoft at
   the time all this would not have happened: as it _has_ happened, I
   wish to take all the blame on myself.

   "All this will make you wish the more to be quit of such a _Partner_.
   I am sure, however, that I _thought_ myself right: and am glad to
   recant.  Perhaps another Partner would not do so much: but you say you
   will not have another.

   "Mr. Spalding thinks you would have done better to stick to _one_
   Lugger, considering the double trouble of two.  But he says he is not
   a proper judge.  _I_ think the chief evil is that this new Boat will
   keep you ashore in the Net-room, which I am persuaded hurts you.  I
   told you I was sure the _Dust_ of the nets hurt you: and (oddly
   enough) the first thing I saw, on opening a Paper here on my return,
   was a Report on the influence of _Dust_ in causing Disease.  I hope
   you have seen the Doctor and told him all--about last Summer's
   Illness.  Let me hear what he says.  I should have advised
   _Worthington_, but he is very expensive.  One thing I am sure of: _the
   more you eat_, _and the less you drink_, _the better_."

Even here, when Posh had obviously gone beyond his rights and bought
another boat without consultation with his capitalist partner, FitzGerald
shows his anxiety and solicitude for the man.

There _is_ a good deal of dust flying about the net chambers; for the
cutch and oil and thread all shred off and poison the air.  "Why," said
Posh the other day, "he bought me one o' them things that goo oover the
mouth" (a respirator), "but lor!  I should ha' been ashamed ta be seed a
wearin' on it!"

Dr. Worthington referred to in the letter is one of a long line of
medical practitioners, and was the Lowestoft medical attendant of
FitzGerald himself.  I have experienced great kindness from both this Dr.
Worthington and his son Dr. Dick Worthington.  The former tells me that
FitzGerald would never enter his house, but would stand on the doorstep
to consult.  He had no objection to the doctor entering his
(FitzGerald's) lodgings, and on one occasion when Dr. Worthington called
on him at 12 Marine Terrace the doctor saw all his medicine bottles
unopened in a row.  "You know this isn't fair to me," said the justly
irritated doctor.  "I do what I can for you, and you won't take my
medicines."  "My dear doctor," said FitzGerald, "it does me good to see
you."

Dr. Aldis Wright says that this is merely an instance of FitzGerald's
rule that he would never enter the house of his equal.  Of course his
"social" equal is inferred, for the rule would have been unnecessary if
the "equal" bore another significance.  His inferiors in station he would
visit and charm by his manner and speech.  But the house of a society
equal he avoided, lest he should be compelled, for mere courtesy, to go
where he would not.

I have, of course, chuckled over the opinion that Dr. Worthington senior
was "very expensive."  But I believe that FitzGerald was one of those (I
might almost say "of us") who regarded all doctor's bills as luxuries!  At
all events, if FitzGerald was right, I can say that Dr. Dick Worthington
is not atavistic in this particular!

Mr. Spalding's opinion inclined FitzGerald to make no difficulty about
finding the money for the _Henrietta_.  He lodged it at his bankers' for
Posh to draw when occasion required.  But Posh seems to have been a
little in advance.  There is no heading whatever to the following letter.

   "DEAR POSH,

   "I don't understand your letter.  That which I had on _Friday_,
   enclosing Mr. Craigie's, said that you had not _drawn_ the money, your
   letter of _To-day_ tells me that you _had_ drawn the money, _before
   the Letter from Southwold_ came.  Was not that letter Mr. Craigie's
   letter?

   "Anyhow, I think you ought not (after all I have said) to have drawn
   the money (to keep in your house) till you wanted it.  And you could
   have got it at the Bank _any_ morning on which you got _another_
   letter from Southwold, telling you the business was to be settled.

   "Moreover, I think you should have written me on _Saturday_, in answer
   to my letter.  You are very good in attending to any letters of mine
   about stores, or fish, which I don't care about.  But you somehow do
   not attend so regularly to things which I _do_ care about, such as
   gales of wind in which you are out, and such directions as I have
   given over and over again about money matters.

   "However, I don't mean to kick up another row; provided you _now_ do,
   and at once, what I positively desire.

   "Which is; to take the money directly to Mr. Barnard, and ask him, as
   from _me_, to pay it to my account at Messrs. Bacon and Cobbold's Bank
   at Woodbridge.  Then if you tell me the address of the Auctioneer or
   Agent, at Southwold who manage [_sic_] the business, Bacon and Cobbold
   will write to them at _once_ that the money is ready for them directly
   the Lugger is ready for you.  And, write me a line to-morrow to say
   that this is done.

   "This makes a trouble to you, and to me, and to Bankers, but I think
   you must blame yourself for not attending to my directions.  But I am
   yours not the less.

   "E. FG.

Mr. Craigie was an old Southwold friend of the Fletcher family, with whom
Fletcher senior (Posh's father) had spent Christmas for over forty years.
The criticism of Posh's system appears, to the impartial critic, to be
both painful and true.  But Posh, in this case, was not altogether to
blame.  This Mr. Jerry Cole, before mentioned, was keeping things back.
He had a preponderating interest in that Southwold company, and he
thought that the _Henrietta_ had been sold too cheap, and that hung up
the delivery.  At least that's what Posh tells me, and at this date I
can't get any better evidence than his.

Shortly after the last letter FitzGerald wrote again.  Now his kind
anxiety about this man, whom he still loved, outweighed all thought of
money.  It was a bitter winter, and Posh, he thought, was not over-hale.

   "WOODBRIDGE, _Saturday_.

   "DEAR CAPTAIN,

   "Whatever is to be done about the money, do not you go over to
   Southwold while this weather lasts.  I think it is colder than I ever
   knew.  Don't go, I say--there can be no hurry for the boat (even if
   you _can_ get it) for a a [_sic_] week or so.  Perhaps it may be as
   well at Southwold as at Lowestoft.

   "I wish you were here to play Allfours with me To-night.

   "Yours,
   "E. FG."

Posh got the lugger in March, 1870, and on March 2nd FitzGerald wrote to
Mr. Spalding (_Two Suffolk Friends_, p. 118): "Posh has, I believe, gone
off to Southwold in hope to bring his Lugger home.  I advised him last
night to ascertain first by letter whether she _were_ ready for his
hands; but you know he will go his own way, and that generally is as good
as anybody's.  He now works all day in his Net-loft: and I wonder how he
keeps as well as he is, shut up there from fresh air and among frowsy
Nets. . . .  I think he has mistaken in not sending the _Meum and Tuum_
to the West this spring. . . .  But I have not meddled, nor indeed is it
my Business to meddle now. . . ."

I think this must have been written about the date of the letter with
which I commence the next chapter, or possibly a little later.  It would,
almost certainly, be _after_ the catches of mackerel mentioned by "Mr.
Manby" as hereinafter appears, and, very likely, after the termination of
the partnership.


CHAPTER XIII
THE END OF THE PARTNERSHIP


Either in March or April, 1870, FitzGerald wrote to Posh the quaint
letter which follows:--

   "DEAR POSH,

   "I never wanted you to puzzle yourself about the Accounts any more,
   but only to tell me at a rough estimate what the chief expenses
   were--as, for instance, Shares, &c.--I beg to say that I _never had_
   asked you--nor had you told me this at Lowestoft: if you had I should
   not have wanted to ask again.  And my reason _for_ asking, was simply
   that, on Monday Mr. Moor here was _asking me_ about what a Lugger's
   expenses were, and I felt it silly not to be able to tell him the
   least about it: and I have felt so when some one asked me before: and
   that is why I asked you.  I neither have, nor ever had, any doubt of
   your doing your best: and you ought not to think so.

   "You _must please yourself_ entirely about Plymouth: I only wish to
   say that I had not spoken as if I wanted you to go.  Go by all means
   if you like.

   "When I paid the Landlady of the Boat Inn for Newson and Jack she
   asked me if you had explained to me about the Grog business.  I said
   that you could not understand it at first, but afterwards supposed
   that others might have been treated at night.  She said--Yes; drinking
   rum-flip till two in the morning.  She says it was Newson's doing, but
   I think _you_ should have told me _at once_, particularly as your not
   doing so left me with some suspicion of the Landlady's fair dealing.
   You did not choose to leave the blame to Newson, I suppose, but I
   think I deserve the truth at your hands as much as he does the
   concealment of it.

   "Yours,
   "E. FG."

{The "Boat Inn," Quay Lane, Woodbridge: p151.jpg}

Mr. Moor was FitzGerald's Woodbridge lawyer, and no doubt he and other
friends of FitzGerald thought that the affairs of the partnership of
FitzGerald and Fletcher were not carried on with such precision as was
desirable.  Possibly they were right.  But then, Posh couldn't be
precise.  I have failed to get any intelligible account out of Posh as to
that rum-flip orgy.  All he could do was to chuckle.  The question of
loyalty raised in the letter is a nice one.  But Posh and his kind would
only answer it in one way.  They would regard it as treachery to their
order to betray each other to a "gennleman," however kind the
"gennleman," may have been.

On April 4th FitzGerald wrote to Posh from Woodbridge:--

   "DEAR POSH,

   "I _may be_ at Lowestoft some time next week.  As it is I have still
   some engagements here; and, moreover, I have not been quite well.

   "If you want to see me, you have only to come over here any day you
   choose.  To-morrow (Sunday) there is a Train from Lowestoft which
   reaches Woodbridge at about 3 in the afternoon.  I tell you this in
   case you might want to see or speak to me.

   "Mr. Manby told me yesterday that there was a wonderful catch of
   Mackerel down in the West.  I have no doubt that this warm weather and
   fine nights has to do with it.  So happy she was, she was so much of
   the fear for the lives of these tormented children. She suffered at
   Bazillenwahn and had a perfect system of scientific superstition
trimmed where the bacilli about the roles of the devil and witches
from earlier centuries, had taken over.

   Her husband, a powerful and safe character, wished her to give better
   insights, but his resistance and his teachings have remained fruitless,
   and the fate would have it that they are a terrible kind of law against
   him in the set. He got a sore throat, and the woman he forbade the
   children to close, which without question was an understandable
measure.

   But the man, already in eingesponnen Hader and discontent, leaned
against the ghosts of fear, as he called mocking.

   He claimed that
   his evil is not a child should be transferred, he called out the
fate of a verdict against the woman and without cases to consider
that his deed before a higher forum for proving could apply if they
follow remained, he hurried eagerness of the word in the dispute
to the bed of one of the sleeping boy and kissed him, before the
woman managed to avoid it.

It came, as come it must, if the decision to take the treacherous power
play benevolent. The child was infected and succumbed to the disease.
Balls
was called in to value the stock-in-trade, with a view to arranging that
a bill of sale for the half-value to which FitzGerald was entitled should
be given him, and that Posh should thereafter carry on the business of a
herring-boat owner by himself, subject to the charge in favour of his old
"guv'nor."

Despite the various "squalls," there had, as yet, been no serious quarrel
between these two.  Indeed, FitzGerald's kind heart never forgot Posh,
and the fascination of the man.  But for the future FitzGerald and Posh
were no longer partners.  FitzGerald's experience as a "herring merchant"
was at an end.


CHAPTER XIV
POSH'S PORTRAIT


Previously to the termination of the partnership FitzGerald had
commissioned S. Laurence to paint a portrait of Posh.  On the 13th
January, 1870, he wrote to Laurence from Woodbridge (_Letters_, II, 113,
Eversley Edition):--

   ". . .  If you were down here, I think I should make you take a life-
   size Oil Sketch of the Head and Shoulders of my Captain of the Lugger.
   You see by the enclosed" (a copy of the photograph of 1870, no doubt)
   "that these are neither of them a bad sort: and the Man's Soul is
   every way as well proportioned, missing in nothing that may become a
   Man, as I believe.  He and I will, I doubt, part Company; well as he
   likes me, which is perhaps as well as a sailor cares for any one but
   Wife and Children: he likes to be, what he is born to be, his own sole
   Master, of himself, and of other men.  So now I have got him a fair
   start, I think he will carry on the Lugger alone: I shall miss my
   Hobby, which is no doubt the last I shall ride in this world: but I
   shall also get eased of some Anxiety about the lives of a Crew for
   which I now feel responsible. . . ."

On January 20th FitzGerald wrote another letter to Laurence on the same
subject.

   ". . .  I should certainly like a large Oil-sketch like Thackeray's,
   done in your most hasty, and worst, style, to hang up with Thackeray
   and Tennyson, with whom he shares a certain Grandeur of Soul and Body.
   As you guess, the colouring is (when the Man is all well) the finest
   Saxon type: with that complexion which Montaigne calls 'vif, Male, et
   flamboyant'; blue eyes; and strictly auburn hair, that any woman might
   sigh to possess.  A Schmalbrüstiger, limping bared teeth, a redhead
   laughed silently, a hulking bäurisch had an idiotic expression of
   melancholy, a slim guy smiled sweetly and ignoble. One looked like
   a sailor, burly, weitblickig broad mathematical operations, another
like a soldier, a third like a priest, a fourth as a degenerate
Roue, a fifth as a tailor, but all only as shadows of blue and
ghostly, in Inner absorbed as in a shaft and outwardly only
eavesdropping same dogs that are sleeping and even during a gust
of wind, the ears pointed.

The sound of their steps seemed beneficial to them, as a crow schnarrend
you buy a new on their heads, which shrank, which tacked another
rigid and the dark eyes upwards. Alexander called the friend and pointed
out. Peter Maritz wrinkles the brow and felt that was a nice collection
of character heads.

   The window was open, the last passing stopped talking, their faces
turned to the two, immense surprise, then threatening, grinning,
eager and wild.

   The Wardens ballten threatening the fist up and waved, Alexander and
   Peter came back dismayed. Lebhaft moves, suggested Alexander's hands
   together. "What people," he murmured, "and yet people!" - "You take
   it well?"

   Asked Peter cynical. »Save your sympathy, it makes you to the debtor
   there, where you can not act. Handle, tear the hearts on them! Drift
   'them against the Philistines pack! Admittedly, as you pull the
   tail a young poet you, because you're slow and no rage in you have.
   "Alexander shook, he reached for his manuscript, his eyes burned and
   with a beautiful Geberde anger he threw Peter Maritz the leaves before
   the feet. Quiet bent down the other afterwards, he began quietly
   to read, here and there shook his head, took a skeptical, a merciful,
   a superior, an examination, an incorruptible face, and finally,
the Harrenden glowed even the soles, he was ashamed to have repented,
and finally Peter Maritz said: "Very pretty.

   Law-like. A metric-looking and not without originality in the
   metaphor. But what should verses, my dear? This is for the women's
   room. If you're honest, you must admit that you have a bad conscience
   is searched. "Alexander would cry like he dogged his pain, but said
   nothing. The booklet put it back into the pocket, rich in experience
   and a feeling poorer than he was an hour ago.

With hopeless mien he mused to himself, while Peter's impatience
grew resistant.

If we in the city is not the revolution incoming messages from the
realm half in fear and excitement that would come, would probably be among
the court officials and persons prudent man found that the arrest of
the two passengers had been worrying. In spite of the banned books that
we discovered in their suitcases had let the actuary's desire announced
it in a less degrading environment to bring. The decision that was
postponed, and so it was that the illegally imprisoned in the events of
the night have been implicated. It was the morning of a new prisoner
arrived, a hairdresser named Wengiersky, Kuppelei due to two years, was
doomed. He had been at the head Chur ungeberdig dizzy, and when the Rules
of the House was read, insonderheit paragraph of Schweiggebot he
laughed scornfully.

In the work room, he mustered the comrades with flickering eyes,
stood a little crabby and inactive, touched only by the three command
of the supervisor, but suddenly he screamed into the silence of
death of the area with a piercing voice: "Brothers!

you know also that in the whole country the lords and gentlemen massacred?
A great era dawns. Long live freedom! "Next, he came not, three wardens
pounced on him, and although it has only a slender man was, they
had trouble, to overpower him.

   He was immediately placed in iron. The prisoners trembled in all
   limbs and looked like starving, in which a fragrant dish is
   vorübergetragen. Only gradually had the one word, so there was this
   possibility, which so far only as Fantasmagorie and madness in the
   hidden corners of their minds had lived?

   And if it were possible, then they could be met.
   CHAPTER XV
A DROP O' BARE


In September, 1870 (which would be just before the home voyage began and
after the Northern voyage was over), Posh seems to have "celebrated" more
than his whilome partner and then mortgagee thought proper.  On the 8th
of the month FitzGerald wrote to Mr. Spalding (_Two Suffolk Friends_, p.
119):--

   ". . . I had a letter from Posh yesterday, telling me he was sorry we
   had not 'parted Friends.'  That he had been indeed '_a little the
   worse_ for Drink'--which means being at a Public-house half the Day,
   and having to sleep it off the remainder: having been duly warned by
   his Father at Noon that all had been ready for sailing 2 hours before,
   and all the other Luggers gone.  As Posh could _walk_, I suppose he
   only acknowledges a _little_ Drink; but, judging by what followed on
   that little Drink, I wish he had simply acknowledged his Fault.  He
   begs me to write: if I do so I must speak very plainly to him: that,
   with all his noble Qualities, I doubt I can never again have
   Confidence in his Promise to break this one bad Habit, seeing that He
   has broken it so soon, when there was no occasion or excuse: unless it
   were the thought of leaving his Wife so ill at home.  The Man is so
   beyond others, as I think, that I have come to feel that I must not
   condemn him by general rule; nevertheless, if he ask me, I can refer
   him to no other.  I must send him back his own written Promise of
   Sobriety, signed only a month before he broke it so needlessly: and I
   must even tell him that I know not yet if he can be left with the
   Mortgage as we settled it in May. . . .

   "P.S.--I enclose Posh's letter, and the answer I propose to give to
   it.  I am sure it makes me sad and ashamed to be setting up for Judge
   on a much nobler Creature than myself. . . .  I had thought of
   returning him his written Promise as worthless: desiring back my
   direction to my Heirs that he should keep on the Lugger in case of my
   Death. . . .  I think Posh ought to be made to feel this severely:
   and, as his Wife is better I do not mind making him feel it if I can.
   On the other hand, I do not wish to drive Him, by Despair, into the
   very fault which I have so tried to cure him of. . . ."

His mother did not try to excuse him at all: his father would not even
see him go off.  She merely told me parenthetically, "I tell him he seem
to do it when the Governor is here."

If FitzGerald had not set poor Posh (for in a way I am sorry for the old
fellow) on a pedestal, he would have understood that to a longshoreman or
herring fisher who drinks it (there are many teetotallers now), "bare"
can never be regarded as an enemy.  Posh did not think any excuse was
necessary for having had, perhaps, more than he could conveniently carry.
It was his last day ashore (though I can't quite understand what fishing
he was going on unless the herring came down earlier than they do now),
and he was "injyin' of hisself."  In the old days they took a cask or so
aboard.  This is never done now, and the chief drink aboard is cocoa
(pronounced, as FitzGerald writes, "cuckoo").  Posh no doubt thought
himself hard done by that such a fuss should have been made about a
"drarp o' bare."  He doubtless wished that FitzGerald should forgive him.
For, despite his conduct, he did, I truly believe, love his "guv'nor."  As
for the father and mother, well, they smoothed down the "gennleman" and
sympathised with their son according to their kind and to mother nature.
The Direction to FitzGerald's Heirs, which he refers to, is still in
existence, and reads as follows:--

   "LOWESTOFT, _January_ 20_th_, 1870.

   "I hereby desire my Heirs executors and Assigns not to call in the
   Principal of any Mortgage by which Joseph Fletcher the younger of
   Lowestoft stands indebted to me; provided he duly pays the Interest
   thereon; does his best to pay off the Principal; and does his best
   also to keep up the value of the Property so mortgaged until he pays
   it off.

   "This I hereby desire and enjoin on my heirs executors or assigns
   solemnly as any provision made by Word or Deed while . . . [word
   missing] any other legal document.

   "EDWARD FITZGERALD."

This solemn injunction was written on a sheet of note-paper, and in the
fold, over a sixpenny stamp, FitzGerald wrote: "This paper I now endorse
again on legal stamp, so as to give it the authority I can.  Edward
FitzGerald, July 31, 1870."

Surely never man had so kind and considerate a friend as Posh had in
FitzGerald!


CHAPTER XVI
THE SALE OF THE _SCANDAL_


Though the partnership was over, FitzGerald by no means gave up his
friendship for Posh.  From time to time he saw him, and from time to time
he wrote to him, and always he retained the affection for the
longshoreman which had sprung up in him so suddenly and (I fear) so
unaccountably.

On February 5th, 1871, FitzGerald wrote to Mr. Spalding (_Two Suffolk
Friends_, p. 121):--

   ". . . Posh and his Father are very busy getting the _Meum and Tuum_
   ready for the West; Jemmy, who goes Captain, is just now in France
   with a _Cargoe_ of salt Herrings.  I suppose the Lugger will start in
   a fortnight or so. . . .  All-fours at night."

In April of the same year FitzGerald wrote to Posh:--

   "WOODBRIDGE, _Monday_.

   "DEAR POSH,

   "Come any day you please.  The Horse Fair is on Friday, you had better
   come, at any rate; by Thursday, so as to catch the Market.  For I
   think your Lugger must have got away before that.

   "A letter written by Ablett Pasefield [otherwise called Percival]
   yesterday tells me there are four Lowestoft Luggers in Weymouth.  I
   fancy that even if they were on the Fishing ground, the wind must be
   too strong to be at work.

   Many people of their skill is only evil demon stripes, perhaps once in
   an hour of the god forsaken obsession or succumb to the anti-spirit,
the soul of their Nachtmar it but she was with him zusammengeschmiedet
and completely in his power.

   

   
   I see the Wind is got West,
   after the squalls of Hail."

{Geldeston Hall, the Norfolk seat of the Kerrich Family: p173.jpg}

Ablett Pasefield (or Percival), the fisherman and yacht hand, has been
mentioned before, and will be mentioned again.  He was one of
FitzGerald's favourites.  Mr. It was evening, he had to deal with a dense
throng pushing people and gave it so well it allowed his emotion to his
pockets eight. And lo and behold, after a few minutes he again felt
jewels, and lace shawls portfolios indoors.I have lost my sister
Kerrich, the only one of my family I much cared for, or who much cared
for me."