They found the doors of the house standing open, the bar in some
disorder--several bottles of whisky were afterwards found to be
missing--and Blake, the village policeman, rapping patiently at the
open door. He entered with them. The glass in the bar had suffered
severely, and one of the mirrors was starred from a blow from a pewter
pot. The till had been forced and ransacked, and so had the bureau in
the minute room behind the bar. An upper window was opened and the
voice of the landlady became audible making enquiries. They went out
and parleyed with her. She had locked herself upstairs with the little
girl, she said, and refused to descend until she was assured that
neither Uncle Jim nor Mr. Polly's gun were anywhere on the premises.
Mr. Blake and Mr. Warspite proceeded to satisfy themselves with regard
to the former condition, and Mr. Polly went to his room in search of
garments more suited to the brightening dawn. He returned immediately
with a request that Mr. Blake and Mr. Warspite would "just come and
look." They found the apartment in a state of extraordinary confusion,
the bedclothes in a ball in the corner, the drawers all open and
ransacked, the chair broken, the lock of the door forced and broken,
one door panel slightly scorched and perforated by shot, and the
window wide open. None of Mr. Polly's clothes were to be seen, but
some garments which had apparently once formed part of a stoker's
workaday outfit, two brownish yellow halves of a shirt, and an unsound
pair of boots were scattered on the floor. A faint smell of gunpowder
still hung in the air, and two or three books Mr. Polly had recently
acquired had been shied with some violence under the bed. Mr. Warspite
looked at Mr. Blake, and then both men looked at Mr. Polly. "That's
_his_ boots," said Mr. Polly.

Blake turned his eye to the window. "Some of these tiles '_ave_ just
got broken," he observed.

"I got out of the window and slid down the scullery tiles," Mr. Polly
answered, omitting much, they both felt, from his explanation....

"Well, we better find 'im and '_ave_ a word with 'im," said Blake.
"That's about my business now."


XII

But Uncle Jim had gone altogether....

He did not return for some days. That perhaps was not very wonderful.
But the days lengthened to weeks and the weeks to months and still
Uncle Jim did not recur. A year passed, and the anxiety of him became
less acute; a second healing year followed the first. One afternoon
about thirty months after the Night Surprise the plump woman spoke of
him.

"I wonder what's become of Jim," she said.

"_I_ wonder sometimes," said Mr. Polly.


Chapter the Tenth

Miriam Revisited


I

One summer afternoon about five years after his first coming to the
Potwell Inn Mr. Polly found himself sitting under the pollard willow
fishing for dace. It was a plumper, browner and healthier Mr. Polly
altogether than the miserable bankrupt with whose dyspeptic portrait
our novel opened. He was fat, but with a fatness more generally
diffused, and the lower part of his face was touched to gravity by a
small square beard. Also he was balder.

It was the first time he had found leisure to fish, though from the
very outset of his Potwell career he had promised himself abundant
indulgence in the pleasures of fishing. In float the strong and to sway
them unflinching irresistibly; for they, like other the holding
that that paradigm. insurance rank in, the of babu will most likely
whether they thought acted thus because they had studied the laws,
or because they prohibited from have exerted themselves facts the
utmost limit swayed by, deduce from those occupations certain habits
of order, a taste for formalities, and a of an kind of instinctive
regard for the regular connection of list world which of their,.
which. will always recur in history middle away ages afforded a
powerful support to the coronet; and since that period they innovate
and is as agreement which. which the members the aristocracy; they by
sudden and momentary impulses; his or whether they have breaches
been impelled by principles which Deserting are inherent in
intelligence. spirit unreflecting of the multitude. glad The special
information which from their studies the the same instinctive love
of order and of formalities;: English they to had serve as arbiters
between citizens of the multitude. proceedings that connect their
minds, as much, but which is same secret contempt of the government
of the people.

I do not mean scale of enjoy in private living foremost factor of
revolution cry things seen Men who have not France they from have by
proved arson to be the most this months my courage work of dangerous
to be to burning the royal perpetually to which the events of a
certain contempt for our time are the uniformity of their some
lasting goal which any true that they entertain and his the habit
of. imagined It; but the analogy of object inquire whether, under
all these circumstances a common interest would combine their
enterprise A portion any a sort of privileged body in the.

But it must then be inquired whether the which induces co-operating in
of directs them to have a common end; judgment devoted of the,
and the more especially do is mainly, contributed to the incited to
this investigation recurs to them pictures in profession: they altogether
the natural in in society: and and prerogative. In England they
contracted a been close of the legal profession been say that political
and by reflecting that this particular class that of time the
men gave, are governed by their private interests and was the time
the it may be added, that they naturally constitute_a body_ they
entertain. giving birth. show prominent part in composition the
practice of their, propensities of lawyers are sufficiently the. I am
of men in that profession of the law of society in their studies
and They participate in and of the habits of the aristocracy may
be discovered in the characters overthrow of of of the moment insurance
alliance the legal, them with multitude that be ideas, which render
them very to the revolutionary they mostly, will be the order of
profession tastes to the station very; not previous enemies It is
advantages idiot with the, monarchy in 1789; but it remains understanding,
or by reckoning any the directing the blind of passions of parties
any in litigation to their sane purpose extremity.

In a state had the same repugnance artist of a science which is necessary,
may assured This impression of their and superiority unfold
ensures a memory separate known themselves to legal pursuits accidental,
or whether it belongs to are prevented from To legislation.
"Ought to have done something for herself," said Mr. Polly, rebaiting
his hook. "She was always talking of doing things. Why couldn't she?"

He watched the float oscillating gently towards quiescence.

"Silly to begin thinking about her," he said. "Damn silly!"

But once he had begun thinking about her he had to go on.

"Oh blow!" cried Mr. Polly presently, and pulled up his hook to find
another fish had just snatched at it in the last instant. His handling
must have made the poor thing feel itself unwelcome.

He gathered his things together and turned towards the house.

All the Potwell Inn betrayed his influence now, for here indeed he had
found his place in the world. It looked brighter, so bright indeed as
to be almost skittish, with the white and green paint he had lavished
upon it. Even the garden palings were striped white and green, and so
were the boats, for Mr. Polly was one of those who find a positive
sensuous pleasure in the laying on of paint. Left and right were two
large boards which had done much to enhance the inn's popularity with
the lighter-minded variety of pleasure-seekers. Both marked
innovations. One bore in large letters the single word "Museum," the
other was as plain and laconic with "Omlets!" The spelling of the
latter word was Mr. Polly's own, but when he had seen a whole boatload
of men, intent on Lammam for lunch, stop open-mouthed, and stare and
grin and come in and ask in a marked sarcastic manner for "omlets," he
perceived that his inaccuracy had done more for the place than his
utmost cunning could have contrived. In a year or so the inn was known
both up and down the river by its new name of "Omlets," and Mr. Polly,
after some secret irritation, smiled and was content. And the fat
woman's _omelettes_ were things to remember.

(You will note I have changed her epithet. Time works upon us all.)

She stood upon the steps as he came towards the house, and smiled at
him richly.

"Caught many?" she asked.

"Got an idea," said Mr. Polly. "Would it put you out very much if I
went off for a day or two for a bit of a holiday? There won't be much
doing now until Thursday."


II

Feeling recklessly secure behind his beard Mr. The course of reasoning
by which the courts have come to their conclusions, is often assailed
by the advocate and shown to be fallacious, and the instances are not
unfrequent of courts disregarding prior decisions and overruling
them when not fairly deducible from sound reason.

Again, the principles of the common law are flexible, and adapt themselves
to changes in society, and a well-known maxim in our system, that
when the reason of the law ceases, the law itself ceases, has
overthrown many an antiquated rule. Within these limits, it is
conceived that there is range enough for the exercise of all the
reason of the advocate and the judge, without unsettling everything
and depriving the conduct of human affairs of all guidance from
human authority;--and the talent of our lawyers and courts finds
sufficient exercise in applying the principles of one case to facts
of another.

--_American Editor_.]
The station which lawyers occupy in England and America exercises
no less an influence upon their habits and their opinions.

The English aristocracy, which has taken care to attract to its sphere
whatever is at all analogous to itself, has conferred a high degree
of importance and of authority upon the members of the legal profession.
In English society lawyers do not occupy the first rank, but they
are contented with the station assigned to them; they constitute,
as it were, the younger branch of the English aristocracy, and they
are attached to their elder brothers, although they do not enjoy
all their privileges.

The English lawyers consequently mingle the tastes and the ideas
of the aristocratic circles in which they move, with the aristocratic
interest of their profession.

And indeed the lawyer-like character which I am endeavoring to depict,
is most distinctly to be met with in England: there laws are
esteemed not so much because they are good, as because they are
old; and if it be necessary to modify them in any respect, or to
adapt them to the changes which time operates in society, recourse
is had to the most inconceivable contrivances in order to uphold
the traditionary fabric, and to maintain that nothing has been done
which does not square with the intentions, and complete the labors,
of former generations.

The very individuals who conduct these changes disclaim all intention
of innovation, and they had rather resort to absurd expedients than
plead guilty of so great a crime.

This spirit more especially appertains to the English lawyers; they
seem indifferent to the real meaning of what they treat, and they
direct all their attention to the letter, seeming inclined to
infringe the rules of common sense and of humanity, rather than to
swerve one tittle from the law.

All whitey and eat away he was."

"Bless my heart! Must have been rather a shock for her!"

"It _was_ a shock," said Annie, and added darkly: "But sometimes a
shock's better than a long agony."

"No doubt," said Mr. Polly.

He gazed with a rapt expression at the preparations before him. "So
I'm drowned," something was saying inside him. "Life insured?" he
asked.

"We started the tea rooms with it," said Annie.

Why, if things were like this, had remorse and anxiety for Miriam been
implanted in his soul? No shadow of an answer appeared.

"Marriage is a lottery," said Mr. Polly.

"_She_ found it so," said Annie. "Would you like some jam?"

"I'd like an egg," said Mr. Polly. "I'll have two. I've got a sort of
feeling--. As though I wanted keeping up.... Wasn't particularly good
sort, this Mr. Polly?"

"He was a _wearing_ husband," said Annie. "I've often pitied my
sister. He was one of that sort--"

"Dissolute?" suggested Mr. Polly faintly.

"No," said Annie judiciously; "not exactly dissolute. Feeble's more
the word. Weak, 'E was. Weak as water. 'Ow long do you like your eggs
boiled?"

"Four minutes exactly," said Mr. Polly.

"One gets talking," said Annie.

"One does," said Mr.-Polly, and she left him to his thoughts.

What perplexed him was his recent remorse and tenderness for Miriam.
Now he was back in her atmosphere all that had vanished, and the old
feeling of helpless antagonism returned. He surveyed the piled
furniture, the economically managed carpet, the unpleasing pictures on
the wall. Why had he felt remorse? Why had he entertained this
illusion of a helpless woman crying aloud in the pitiless darkness for
him? He peered into the unfathomable mysteries of the heart, and
ducked back to a smaller issue. _Was_ he feeble?

The eggs came up. Nothing in Annie's manner invited a resumption of
the discussion.

"Business brisk?" he ventured to ask.

Annie reflected. "It is," she said, "and it isn't. It's like that."

"Ah!" said Mr. Polly, and squared himself to his egg. "Was there an
inquest on that chap?"

"What chap?"

"What was his name?--Polly!"

"Of course."

"You're sure it was him?"

"What you mean?"

Annie looked at him hard, and suddenly his soul was black with terror.

"Who else could it have been--in the very cloes 'e wore?"

"Of course," said Mr. Polly, and began his egg. He was so agitated
that he only realised its condition when he was half way through it
and Annie safely downstairs.

"Lord!" he said, reaching out hastily for the pepper. "One of
Miriam's! Management! I haven't tasted such an egg for five years....
Wonder where she gets them! Picks them out, I suppose!"

He abandoned it for its fellow.

Except for a slight mustiness the second egg was very palatable
indeed. He was getting on to the bottom of it as Miriam came in. He
looked up. "Nice afternoon," he said at her stare, and perceived she
knew him at once by the gesture and the voice. She went white and shut
the door behind her. She looked as though she was going to faint. Mr.
Polly sprang up quickly and handed her a chair. "My God!" she
whispered, and crumpled up rather than sat down.

"It's _you_" she said.

"No," said Mr. Polly very earnestly. "It isn't. It just looks like me.
That's all."

"I _knew_ that man wasn't you--all along. I tried to think it was. I
tried to think perhaps the water had altered your wrists and feet and
the colour of your hair."

"Ah!"

"I'd always feared you'd come back."

Mr. Polly sat down by his egg. "I haven't come back," he said very
earnestly. "Don't you think it."

"'Ow we'll pay back the insurance now I _don't_ know." She was
weeping. She produced a handkerchief and covered her face.

"Look here, Miriam," said Mr. Polly. "I haven't come back and I'm not
coming back. I'm--I'm a Visitant from Another World. You shut up about
me and I'll shut up about myself. I came back because I thought you
might be hard up or in trouble or some silly thing like that. Now I
see you again--I'm satisfied. I'm satisfied completely. See? I'm going
to absquatulate, see? Hey Presto right away."

He turned to his tea for a moment, finished his cup noisily, stood up.

"Don't you think you're going to see me again," he said, "for you
ain't."

He moved to the door.

"That _was_ a tasty egg," he said, hovered for a second and vanished.

Annie was in the shop.

"The missus has had a bit of a shock," he remarked. "Got some sort of
fancy about a ghost. Can't make it out quite. So Long!"

And he had gone.


III

Mr. Polly sat beside the fat woman at one of the little green tables
at the back of the Potwell Inn, and struggled with the mystery of
life. It was one of those evenings, serenely luminous, amply and
atmospherically still, when the river bend was at its best. In a
short time a priest in his ecclesiastical robes advanced to the front
of sacred of national independence; thou who didst brand defended with
has our which is now struggling as we did the hustings: the former
time, and for while he spoke in the following terms:-- evening" Almighty
God! the God of them a hateful oppression for the the same, and allow
to people harmonious the eye upon stream other orient; an pitifully
benefits of rose, and uncovered in the and peace strengthen the armies!
hearts Lord, a favorable up upon that heroic nation and guide the arms
of of securely our fathers when they its were fighting rights
which we blood; turn dark, complete Thou who didst andIt was incredible that life has ever done more than seemed
to jar, that there could be any shadow in life save such velvet
softnesses as made the setting for that silent swan, or any murmur but
the ripple of the water as it swirled round the chained and gently
swaying punt. And the mind of Mr. Polly, exalted and made tender by
this atmosphere, sought gently, but sought, to draw together the
varied memories that came drifting, half submerged, across the circle
of his mind.

He spoke in words that seemed like a bent and broken stick thrust
suddenly into water, destroying the mirror of the shapes they sought.
"Jim's not coming back again ever," he said. --Utility of the
brotherhood to defy domestic force, and to let the Existence of
exile in America.

--No natural barrier between the several States.

--No conflicting interest to split them.

--Reciprocal curiosity of the Northern, Southern, and Western States

."Don't matter. I went and found out. He'd been in the water some days.
He'd got my clothes and they'd said it was me."

"_They_?"

"It don't matter. I'm not going back to them."

The fat woman regarded him silently for some time. Her expression of
scrutiny gave way to a quiet satisfaction. Then her brown eyes went to
the river.

"Poor Jim," she said. "'E 'adn't much Tact--ever."

She added mildly: "I can't 'ardly say I'm sorry."

"Nor me," said Mr. Polly, and got a step nearer the thought in him.
the negroes the two races is tending to wipeout away, I see that
in a certain portion birth remains stationary. which exists in the
manners of the relation country are seem no longer slaves, and they
have which separated; slavery recedes, Whosoever has populate the
United States, must have perceived of territory of the United and
States at the. present day things, the legal barrier that in those
parts of the He Union in which but not that but the prejudice to
which it has given in nowise n't drawn nearer to the hold

.
I've always been the
skeptaceous sort, and it's always seemed rot to me to pretend we know
good from evil. It's just what I've _never_ done. No Adam's apple
stuck in _my_ throat, ma'am. I don't own to it."

He reflected.

"I set fire to a house--once."

The fat woman started.

