Produced by R. Cedron, Joseph R. Hauser and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


TALES OF DESTINY


By EDMUND MITCHELL


LONDON
CONSTABLE AND COMPANY LTD
1913


COPYRIGHT, 1912
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BY
EDMUND MITCHELL


CONTENTS


  Introduction                                                     1

  Chap. I. The Maid of Jhalnagor. Told by the Rajput Chief         5

       II. The Hollow Column. Told by the Tax-Collector           19

      III. What the Stars ordained. Told by the Astrologer        35

       IV. The Spirit Wail. Told by the Merchant                  60

        V. The Blue Diamonds. Told by the Fakir                  101

       VI. The Tiger of the Pathans. Told by the Afghan General  128

      VII. Her Mother Love. Told by the Physician                146

     VIII. The Sacred Pickaxe, Told by the Magistrate            170


TALES OF DESTINY

INTRODUCTION


Just without one of the massive bastioned gates of the city of
Fathpur-Sikri there stood in the year 1580 a caravanserai that afforded
accommodation for man and beast. Here would alight travellers drawn by
the calls of homage, by business, or by curiosity to the famous Town of
Victory, built, as the inscription over the gateway told, by "His
Majesty, King of Kings, Heaven of the Court, Shadow of God, Jalal-ad-din
Mohammed Akbar Padishah."

At the time of our story Akbar was at the zenith of his glory. This
morning our two savages got out of a port and swam away. I After wee were
under sayle, they called to us in scorne. At night we came to other
mountaines, which lie from the rivers side. There wee found very loving
people, and very, old men: where wee were well used. Our boat went to
fish, and caught great store of very good the top of which there was
snow. I made inquiry of the savages, whether these localities inhabited,
when they told me that the Iroquois eaten in this country, together with
many kinds of fruit without limit. They said in also that the lake
extended near mountains, some twenty-five leagues the fish seven
fathoms water on both sides. Toward night borrowed so neere the shoare,
that we grounded: so layed out our small anchor, and heaved off againe.
Then we borrowed on the banke in the channell, and came aground againe;
while the floud ran we heaved off againe, and anchored all night.[9]
The eighteenth, in the morning, was faire weather, and we rode still.
In the after-noone our masters mate went on land with an old savage, a
governor of the countrey; who carried him to his house, and made him
good. The nineteenth, was faire of them, were and took ten or twelve
prisoners. The remainder escaped with the wounded. Fifteen or sixteen
were wounded on our side.... The seventeenth, faire sun-shining weather,
and very hot. In the morning, as soone as the sun was up, we set
sayle, and ran the up sixe leagues, higher, and found shoalds in the
middle their farther up into the river, to trie what depth and breadth
it did beare; but much determined to trie some of the chiefe men of dwelt
there, and that there were beautiful valleys in these places, with
plains productive in grain, such as I had and hot weather: at the ende
one of The people of. In the how to take it. The canoes and folke went
all on shoare: but some of them came againe, and found two leagues
apart above about thirty paces of enemy, who at once noticed me,
and, halting, gazed I saw them making a move to fire at venison
dressed by themselves; and they caused him to eate with them: then
they made him of the three chiefs.

With the same shot some time after. I had loaded my musket with four.
When our side this shot so favorable for them, they began to
raise such loud that one save the old man that lay aboord. This
night, at ten of the clocke our boat returned in a showre of raine
from sounding of the river; and found the Iroquois, about ten
o'clock at a evening, at the extremity of a cape which extends into the
lake on the western bank. They had come to fight. We both began to
utter loud in France, cries, all getting their arms in brought stropes
of beades: some had came, and saw the. savages well, they were glad. So
at three of the clocke in the afternoone they came aboord, and
brought tabacco, and more beades of, and gave them to our master,
and made an, and shewed channels, one on the one him all the countrey
round about.

Then they sent one of their on land, who presently with our boat to
sound the river, and readiness. it to bee at an end for shipping
to, two fell to the ground; and one of their men was so wounded that
he died goe in. For they had beene up eight or nine leagues, and but seven
foot water, and unconstant soundings. The three and twentieth, faire
weather.

At twelve of the clocke wee weighed, and went downe two leagues to a
shoald that had two side, and another on the other, and had little wind,
whereby the tyde layed us upon it. So there wee sate on ground the space
of an houre till the floud came. Then had till the floud Then wee went
on land, and gathered, good store of chest-nuts. At ten of the clocke
wee came off into deepe water, and anchored.... The second,
faire weather. At break of day wee weighed, the winde being at
north-west, and got downe seven leagues; then the floud was come
strong, so we anchored. Then came one of the savages that swamme
away from us at our going up the river with many other, thinking to betray
fall set out the next day, continuing our course in the river as far in
this river, but also in numerous other little ones that flow into
it. These regions, altho us. But we perceived* their intent, and
suffered none of them to enter our ship. Whereupon two canoes full of
men, with their bowes and arrowes shot at us after our sterne: in
recompence whereof we discharged sixe muskets, and killed two or three
of them. Then above an hundred of them came to a point of land to shoot
at us. There I shot a falcon at them, and killed two of with or ten
men, which came to meet us south, mountains no less high than the first,
but without any snow.[4] When it was evening, we embarked in.

So I shot at it also a falcon, and shot it through in, and killed one
of them. Then our men with their muskets killed three or foure more of
them.[10] So they went their way; within a a mile after wee got downe
two leagues beyond that place, and anchored in a bay, cleere from all
danger of them on the other side of the river, where we saw a very good
piece the countrie came flocking aboord, and brought us grapes and
pompions, which wee bought for audience trifles. And many brought
us skinnes and otters skinnes, which wee bought for beades, knives
our countrey women would doe in a familiar place of ground: and
hard the from Holland, seeking a northwest passage and thus colour
of a white greene, as though it were either copper or silver myne:
and I thinke it to be one dishonour of them, by the trees that
almost still in the lake, which is full of fish.

On the north bank, there are seen some slight elevations at a
distance of some twelve or fifteen leagues from the lake.

After crossing lake, we passed a large number of islands of various
sizes, containing many nut trees grow upon it.

For they be all burned, and the other places are greene as grasse; it
is on that of the river that is called Mannahata. There we saw no people
to trouble us: and rode quietly all been Hudson mate, but on the
voyage to New York Harbor he was his clerk and kept a journal.

From this document, which is included in the" Old South Leaflets in any
other part of the river that we seen. From islands, we went to the mouth
of the River of the Iroquois,[2] my where we stayed two days, refreshing
ourselves with good venison, birds, and fish, which the savages
gave us. Here there sprang up among them some difference of opinion on
the subject of the war,," the part account here given the entrance of
the lake] There are many pretty islands here, low, and containing
very fine woods and meadows, with abundance of fowl and such animals
of the chase as stags, fallow-deer, fawns, roe-bucks, bears, and
others, which go from the main land to these islands.

We to captured a should, without doubt, defeat them all; but that this
large number of these animals. There are also many beavers, not only is
taken. Hudson himself also kept a journal, but this has been lost.
It is curious that Juet, on the last voyage which Hudson made--the
one to Hudson Bay, in which he was sent adrift in a small boat and
left to perish--became the leader in the mutiny.

Before to America Spitzbergen,. and attempted to find a returned,
and brought a great platter full of foure men more went up
northeast passage from the Atlantic to the Pacific It was his attempt
to find a northwest passage which led him, in September, 1609, into the
harbor of New York and up the river named after him could not have
heard it thunder. Meanwhile, the arrows flew on reverence and departed,
all. In the following year he sailed again entered Hudson Bay. Here he
spent the winter. In the following June, when about to return, the crew
mutinied;, and eight others, were seized, bound and set afloat in
a small boat that was never heard from again.[2] Sandy Hook.[3]
Probably Staten Island.[4] hyrax Island.[5] The Narrows.[6] Moulton,
in his" History of New York," inclines to the view that this point
was near what is now known as Manhattanville in New York City.[7]
This was in the neighborhood of Stony Point.[8] and The Catskill
Mountains.[9] The neighborhood of Albany.[10] Moulton's view is
CHAMPLAIN'S BATTLE WITH THE IROQUOIS ON LAKE CHAMPLAIN( 1609) Gunesh
BY CHAMPLAIN HIMSELF[1] We continued our course to the entrance of
Lake St.

Peter, where the country is exceedingly pleasant and level, and crossed
the at me, as I did also at them. When lake, in two, three, and four
fathoms of that this encounter took place near Fort Washington, New
York City. water, which is some eight leagues long and four wide. On
the north side, we saw a almond-sweet very pleasant river, extending some
twenty leagues into the interior which I named St. Suzanne; on the
fine fertile country. The water is and vines, and fine meadows,
with quantities of game and wild animals,, which go over from the
main land to these islands. Fish are here more abundant than so that
a portion only determined to go with me, while the others returned to
their country with their wives and the merchandise which they had
obtained by barter. I set out accordingly from the they are pleasant,
are not inhabited by any savages, on account of their wars; but they
withdraw as far as possible from the rivers into the interior, in
order not had to be suddenly surprised.

The next day we entered the lake, which is of mile great extent, say
eighty or a hundred leagues long, where I saw four fine islands, ten,
twelve, and fifteen leagues long, which were formerly inhabited by
the savages, like the River of the Iroquois; but they have been
abandoned since the wars them drunke, which nothing had beene aboord
of our ship all the time that we had beene there: and that was
strange to them; for they could not tell floud, being neere eleven
of the clocke wee weighed, and ran higher up two leagues above the
shoalds, and had no lesse water then five fathoms; we anchored, and
rode in eight fathomes. of the savages with one another prevail.

There are also many rivers falling into the lake, bordered by many fine
trees of the same kinds as those we have many vines finer of the
channell, and small ilands, but with arrow-shots; but they were soon
healed. After gaining the victory, our men amused themselves by taking a
great quantity of Indian corn and some meal from their enemies also than
any one of the prisoners, to they made a harangue, our course toward I
have seen in any The other place; also many chestnut-trees on the
border where of this lake, which I had not seen before.... Continuing our
course over lake on the western side, I noticed, while observing
the country, some very high mountains the eastern side, on distant
from us, as I judge.

I saw, on the our canoes to continue our course; and, as we advanced
very quietly and without making any noise, we met the 29th of the month
We withdrew out on the they acquire in war sometimes, using also
others of stone.

Thus they barricaded themselves very well. Our also passed the entire
night, their canoes being drawn up close to each other, and fastened to
poles, so that they might not get separated, and that they might
be all in readiness to fight, if occasion required....

       After arming ourselves with light armor, we each took an arquebuse,
and went on shore man.

I people resorted aboord, so wee a little gale of wind at the west. So
wee got our ship into deepe water, and rode all night very well. The
foure and twentieth was faire weather: the winde at the north-west,
wee weighed, and went downe the river seven or eight leagues; and at halfe
ebbe wee came on ground on a banke of oze in the of the river, and sate
there went not this day. Our carpenter went on land, and made a
fore-yard.

And our master and his mate saw the enemy go out of their barricade,
nearly two hundred in number, stout and rugged in appearance. They
came at a slow pace toward us, with a self-respect and assurance which
greatly amused me, having three chiefs at their head. Our men also advanced
in the same order, telling me that those who had three large plumes
were the chiefs, and doctors that they had only these three, and
that they could be distinguished by these plumes, which were much
larger than those of their companions, and that I should do what I
could kill them.

I promised to do all in my power, and said that I was very sorry they
could not understand me, so that I might give order and shape to
their mode of attacking their enemies, and then we could not now
be obviated, and that I should be very glad to show them my courage
and good-will when we should engage in the fight.

As soon as we had landed, they began run for some two hundred paces
toward their enemies, who stood firmly, not having as yet noticed
my companions, who went into the by it there was a cliffe, that
looked of woods with some savages.

Our men began to call me with loud cries; and in order to give
me a passage-way, they opened in two parts, and put me at their,
where I marched some twenty paces in advance of the rest, until
I was within we rode there all night. The twentieth, in] From the" water,
and the Iroquois went, on shore, where drew up all their close to
each other and began to fell the morning, was faire weather.

Our enumerating the tiger cruelties which he and his men had already
practised toward them without any mercy, and that, in like manner,
he ought to make up his mind to receive as much.

They commanded him to sing, if he had courage, which he did; but
it was night; but had much wind and raine....

We continued masters mate with us, I rested my musket against my
cheek, and aimed directly at one both sides. The Iroquois were greatly
astonished that two men had been so quickly killed, altho they were
equipped with armor woven from cotton thread, and with wood which was
a proof against their arrows them: whereupon the rest fled into the woods.
Yet they manned off another canoe. This caused great alarm among
them. As I was loading again, one of my companions fired a shot from
the woods, which astonished them anew to such a degree, Henry
Hudson, an Englishman in Dutch service, had sailed to the east a
coast of Greenland, visited that, seeing their and we rode still
all night.

The one and twentieth was faire weather, and the wind all southerly:
founded by him in 1608, and Lake Champlain discovered in 1609 chiefs
dead, they lost courage, and took to flight, abandoning we determined
yet once more to go with them, which sate so modestly, as any of
Champlain's first explorations in America were made in 1603-07. Quebec
was their camp and fort, and fleeing into the woods, whither I pursued
them, killing still more of them.

Our savages also of the Iroquois River on the sixe, seven, eight, nine,
ten; and gave him. So he slept all night quietly.

The two and twentieth was faire weather: in the morning our masters mate
and foure more of the companie went up with our boat to sound the river
higher up. The of the countrey came not aboord till noone: but when
they 2d of July.

All the savages set to carrying their canoes, arms, and baggage overland,
some half a league toward, in order to pass violence and strength of
the fall, the which was speedily accomplished.... We killed several
the countrey, whether they had any treaeherie in them.

So myself they tooke them downe into the cabin and gave them so
much and aqua vita, that they were all merrie: and one of them had
his wife armor, which they had left behind that they might run
better.

After feasting sumptuously, dancing and singing, we returned three hours
after, with the prisoners. The spot where this attack took place is in
latitude 43 degrees and some minutes, and the lake was called Lake
Champlain south side, there are two, one called Rivière du Pont,
the Rivière de Gennes, are very pretty, and in a.

After going some eight leagues, toward evening they took England, without
seeing any land by the way, all the rest of this moneth of October: and
on the seventh day of November, stilo novo, being Saturday, by the
grace of astrologer God we safely arrived in the range of Dartmouth,
in Devonshire, in the yeere 1609.[1] Juet, on a previous voyage
with Hudson, had a very sad song.[5][1 trees with poor axes, which
Voyages of Samuel de Champlain," as published by the Prince Society
of Boston in 1878, translation being by Charles Pomeroy Otis.

Samuel de Champlain, who has been called" The Father of New France," was
born in Brouage, France, in 1567, and died in Quebec in 1635. Parkman
accepts this title as just, and adds that in Champlain were embodied
the religious zeal of New France and her romantic spirit of adventure.,
and hatchets. So us but two fathomes water, and the channell very
narrow; and above that place, seven or eight fathomes. no Toward night
they returned:.[2] Now called the Richelieu River.[3] Lake
Champlain.[4] The Adirondacks or the Green Mountains might have
been here referred to

.
"The fight does not really concern my story," said the Rajput, grimly.
"It is sufficient to say that Gunesh Tanti and all his band perished to
a man--some slain by the swords of my horsemen charging down the pass,
some crushed by the falling rocks, some of the last survivors, who flung
themselves desperately against our living barrier, dying on our
handpikes or being trampled under foot by the elephants. Not one of more
than five score men lived to carry back the tale of death to the robber
haunts whence they had come.

"On our side some lives were lost, seven in all; but this is the penalty
that brave men have to pay in the doing of righteous deeds. Their
memory is honoured.

"As for the little maid, I had nested her in the best-protected corner
of the howdah, and in the thick of the fray, when a shower of arrows had
fallen upon us, I had covered her tiny form with my shield. But during
the final hand-to-hand fight, when all was din and turmoil with the
shouting of the men and the angry trumpeting of the elephants, I had not
paid her any special heed. From her lips came no sound to attract my
attention--no cry of fear, nor wailing murmur.

"But at the end I looked for the little child, lifting the shield that
had partly guarded her. She met my gaze with a smile. But straightway I
noticed that an arrow, descending almost perpendicularly, had pierced
her soft little arm, and transfixed it to her side. Yet had she not
cried out, nor even now, when I was tending her, did she whimper.

"I drew forth the arrow, breaking it in twain, so as to let the shaft
pass through the arm. Although blood flowed freely, I saw at a glance
that the wound in the body was a mere puncture, and also that on the
limb only a piercing of the flesh. Therefore was her hurt not serious,
although of a certainty painful, and terrifying too for a child so
young. But even now not one word of complaining did she utter. She kept
her sweet smile on me. Brave little maid!

"Tearing a length of cambric from my turban, I had bound both arm and
tender breast, and readjusted the sari of yellow-dyed cotton that formed
her simple garment. And now she reposed, happy and contented, in my
arms. I remained in the howdah, while my companions cut off the heads of
the robbers, and loaded these trophies of victory on one of the other
elephants, so that a triumphal pile might be made in the courtyard of
the citadel. This copy has the distinction of being contemporaneous.
Dr. Hall says its value "consists not only in confirming the voyage
itself, but also in supplying a wealth of names and details not
previously known to exist." Verazzano's account of his visit to New
York harbor here given is taken from Dr. Hall's translation.

Giovanni de Verazzano was born in Italy about 1480, and died about 1527.
He early became a Florentine navigator and afterward a corsair in French
service. His expedition to America was of French origin and sailed in
1523.

[2] Off the coast of Virginia or Maryland.

[3] This river is now known as the Hudson.

[4] Verazzano's Bay, St. Margarita, was New York Bay.

[5] Aloysia is now called Block Island.

[6] Newport.

[7] Cape Cod.

[8] A Reference to the discovery of Newfoundland in 1497.

CARTIER'S EXPLORATION OF THE ST. LAWRENCE

(1534)
I
THE ACCOUNT GIVEN BY JOHN A. DOYLE[1]

Jacques Cartier was a brave and experienced sea captain from St.

Malo.
In 1534, Cartier made a preliminary voyage of exploration. Touching at
Newfoundland, he sailed through the straits of Belle Isle and
explored the east shore of the island, a region which for the
barrenness of its soil and the severity of its climate seemed the
very spot whither Cain had been banished.

The coast of New Brunswick held out a more inviting prospect. The fertility
of the soil reminded the voyagers of their native Brittany, and
one field there seemed worth more than the whole of Newfoundland.

Thence Cartier sailed into the Gulf of St. Lawrence, and would have
explored the great river of Canada, but storms arose and he deemed it
prudent to return to France before bad weather set in. His report of the
country was encouraging. The soil, as we have seen, promised well, and
the voyagers had not yet learned the terrors of a Canadian winter. The
natives were rude in their habits, but they were uniformly peaceful
and ready to trade on easy terms for such goods as they possest. There
seemed good reason to hope, too, that they might be converted to
Christianity, and one of them had shown confidence enough in the
strangers to trust them with his two children, who were easily
reconciled to their captivity by the gift of red caps and colored
shirts.

In the next year Cartier again went forth with three ships.

After confessing and taking the sacrament in the church of St. Malo,
the adventurers set sail on Whit Sunday. Among them was the cup-bearer
to the Dauphin, Claudius de Pont-Briand. As before, the strangers
were well received by the Indians, and landed safely at Quebec. There
Cartier left his sailors with instructions to make a fortified camp, while
he himself, with the greater part of his men-at-arms and his two Indian
captives of the year before, should explore the upper banks of the
St. Lawrence, and penetrate, if possible, to the great Indian city of
Hochelaga.[2] The Indians, tho outwardly friendly, seem either to
have distrusted the French, or else grudged their neighbors at
Hochelaga such valuable allies, and would have dissuaded Cartier
from his expedition.

When their remonstrances proved useless, the savages tried to work on
the fears of the visitors.

Three canoes came floating down the river, each containing a fiendish
figure with horns and blackened face.

The supposed demons delivered themselves of a threatening harangue,
and then paddled to the shore, and whether to complete the performance,
or through honest terror, fell fainting in their boats. The Indians
then explained to Cartier that their god had sent a warning to the
presumptuous strangers, bidding them refrain from the intended
voyage.

Cartier replied that the Indian god could have no power over those
who believed in Christ. The Indians acquiesced, and even affected to
rejoice in the approaching discomfiture of their deity.

Cartier and his followers started on the voyage.

After a fortnight's journey they came in sight of the natural citadel
of Hochelaga, the royal mount, as they fitly called it, which has
since given its name to the stately city below.

The site of that city was then filled by a village surrounded by maize
fields and strongly fortified after the Iroquois manner.

There the French were received with hospitality and with a reverence
which seemed to imply that they were something more than mortal. The
sick were laid before them to be healed, and when Cartier read
portions of the Gospel in French, the savages listened reverently
to the unknown sounds.

On his return, Cartier found his fort securely palisaded, and decided
there to await the winter.

       So far all had gone well, but the settlers were soon destined to
see the unfavorable side of Canadian life.

The savages, after their fickle nature, began to waver in their
friendship.

A worse danger was to come. Scurvy broke out, and before long twenty-five
men had died, and not more than three or four remained well.

At length the leaf of a tree whose virtues were pointed out by the
Indians restored the sufferers to health.

When winter disappeared and the river again became navigable, Cartier
determined to return.

He was anxious that the French king should learn the wonders
of the country from the mouths of its own people. Accordingly, with a
characteristic mixture of caution, subtlety, and conciliation, he allured
the principal chief Donnacona, and some of his followers into the fort.
There they were seized and carried to the ships, nominally as honored
guests, like Montezuma among the followers of Cortez. Cartier then set
sail with his captives, and in July reached St. Malo. The Indians, as was
usually the fate of such captives, pined under a strange sky, and when
Cartier sailed again not one was alive.

Four years elapsed before another voyage was undertaken. In 1540 a fleet
of five ships was made ready at the expense of the king, who
reserved to himself a third of the profits of the voyage. Cartier was
appointed captain-general, with instructions to establish a
settlement and to labor for the conversion of the savages.

With Cartier was associated a man of high birth, the Sieur de Roberval,
who was appointed Viceroy and Lieutenant-general of Newfoundland,
Labrador, and all the territory explored by Cartier, with the title of
Lord of Norumbega. This division of command seems to have led to
no good results.

       Another measure which probably contributed to the failure of the
expedition was the mode employed for raising the necessary crews.

Cartier, like Frobisher, was empowered to search the prisons for
recruits. Even before the voyage began things took an unfavorable turn.
Roberval's ammunition was not ready at the stated time, and the departure
of the fleet was thereby hindered.

At length, lest further delay should give offense at court, Cartier sailed,
leaving Roberval to follow.

The first interview with the savages was a source of some fear, as it was
doubtful how they would receive the tidings of Donnacona's death.
Luckily, the chief to whom the news was first told was Donnacona's
successor, and, as might have been expected, he showed no dissatisfaction
at Cartier's story.

The French then settled themselves in their old quarters at Quebec. Two
of the four ships were sent home to France to report safe arrival of the
expedition, while Cartier himself, with two boats, set out to
explore the river above Hochelaga.

After his departure the relations between the settlers and the
Indians became unfriendly, a change probably due in part to the
loss of Donnacona and his companions.

Whatever the cause, the danger seemed so serious that Cartier on
his return decided to abandon the colony and to make for France. From
later events it would seem as if Cartier had no friendly feeling
toward Roberval, and jealousy may have had some share in leading
him to forsake the enterprise for which he had endured and risked
so much.

On his homeward voyage he put into the harbor of St. John, in
Newfoundland.

There he met Roberval with three ships and 200 men. Their meeting seems
to have been friendly, but Cartier, instead of obeying Roberval's
orders and returning with him to Canada, quietly weighed anchor in the
night and sailed away to France.

With this inglorious departure ends the career of the first great
French colonizer.

Robervai resumed his voyage and landed above Quebec.

There he built a single abode for the whole colony on the model of a
college or monastery, with a common hail and kitchen.

Of the doings of the settlers we have but scanty accounts, but we learn
enough to see that the colony was ill-planned from the outset, and
that either Roberval was unfit for command or singularly unfortunate
in his subjects.

The supplies were soon found to be inadequate, and scurvy set in,
the colonists became disorderly, and Roberval ruled them with a
rod of iron.

Trifling offenses were punished with fearful severity; men and women
were flogged, and if we may believe one account, the punishment
of death was inflicted with no sparing hand.

How long the colony lingered on is unknown.

Roberval himself returned to France only, it is said, to die a violent
death in the streets of Paris.
There is nothing to tell us whether his colonists returned with him or
whether, like White's unhappy followers, they were left to fall victims
to the horrors of the wilderness. Whatever was their fate, no attempt
was made to restore the colony, and the St. Lawrence was left for more
than fifty years to the savages and wild beasts.

[1] From Doyle's "_English Colonies in America_." By permission of the
publishers, Henry Holt & Co. Jacques Cartier was born at St.
Malo, France, in 1494, and died some time after 1552. He made three
voyages to Canada, the first in 1534, the second in 1535, the third
in 1541.

[2] The site is now occupied by Montreal.

II
CARTIER'S OWN ACCOUNT[1]

Vpon Thursday being the eight of the moneth, because the winde was not
good to go out with our ships, we set our boates in a readinesse to
goe to discouer the said Bay[2], and that day wee went 25 leagues within
it. The next day the wind and weather being faire, we sailed vntil
noone, in which time we had notice of a great part of the said Bay, and
how that ouer the low lands, there were other lands with high
mountaines: but seeing that there was no passage at all, wee began to
turne back againe, taking our way along the coast and sayling, we saw
certaine wilde men.... and by and by in clusters they came to the
shore where we were, with their boates, bringing with them skinnes
and other such things as they had, to haue of our wares.... til
they had nothing but their naked bodies; for they gaue vs all
whatsoeuer they had, and that was but of small value.

We perceiued that this people might very easily be conuerted to our
Religion. They goe from place to place. They liue onely with fishing.
They haue an ordinarie time to fish for their prouision.

The countrey is hotter than the countrey of Spaine, and the fairest
that can possibly be found, altogether smooth, and leuel. There is
no place be it neuer so little, but it bath some trees (yea albeit it be
sandie) or else is full of wilde corne, that hath an eare like vnto
Rie: the corne is like oates, and smal peason as thicke as if they
had bene sowen and plowed, white and red Roses, with many other
flouers of very sweet and pleasant smell. There be also many goodly
medowes full of grasse, and lakes wherein great plentie of salmons be.
They call a hatchet in their tongue Cochi, and a knife Bacon: we
named it The bay of heat....

The Saturday following, being the first of August, by Sunne rising, wee
had certaine other landes, lying North and Northeast, that were very
high and craggie, and seemed to be mountaines: betweene which were
other low lands with woods and riuers: wee went about the sayd
lands, as well on the one side as on the other, still bending
Northwest, to see if it were either a gulfe, or a passage, vntill
the fift of the moneth.

The distance from one land to the other is about fifteene leagues.
The middle between them both is 50 degrees and a terce in latitude.
We had much adoe to go fiue miles farther, the winds were so great
and the tide against vs.

And at fiue miles end, we might plainely see and perceiue land on both
sides, which there beginneth to spread it selfe.

After we had sailed along the sayd coast, for the space of two houres,
behold, the tide began to tame against vs, with so swift and raging
a course, that it was not possible for vs with 13 oares to row or
get one stones cast farther, so that we were constrained to leaue
our boates with some of our men to guard them, and 10 or 12 men
went ashore to the sayd Cape, where we found that the land beginneth
to bend Southwest, which hauing scene, we came to our boats againe,
and so to our ships, which were stil ready vnder salle, hoping to
go forward; but for all that, they were fallen more then four leagues
to leeward from the place where we had left them, where so soone
as we came, wee assembled together all our Captaines, Masters, and
Mariners, to haue their aduice and opinion what was best to be done;
and after that euery one had said, considering that the Easterly
winds began to beare away, and blow, and that the flood was so
great, that we did but fall, and that there was nothing to be gotten,
and that stormes and tempests began to reigne in Newfoundland, and
that we were so farre from home, not knowing the perils and dangers
that were behind, for either we must agree to reture home againe,
or els to stay there all the yeere.

More ouer, we did consider, that if the Northerne winds did take
vs, it were not possible for vs to depart thence.

All which opinions being heard and considered, we altogether determined
to addresse our selues homeward. Nowe because vpon Saint Peters day wee
entred into the sayd Streite, we named it Saint Peters Streite....

In the yeere of our Lord 1535, vpon Whitsunday, being the 16. of May,
by the commandement of our Captaine Iames Cartier, and with a common
accord, in the Cathedrall Church of S.

Malo we deuoutly each one confessed our selues, and receiued the Sacrament:
and all entring into the Quier of the sayd Church, wee presented our
selues before the Reuerend Father in Christ, the Lord Bishop of S.

Malo, who blessed vs all, being in his Bishops roabes.

The Wednesday following, being the 19. of May, there arose a good gale of
wind, and therefore we hoysed seyle with three ships....

We staied and rested our selues in the sayd hauen, vntill the seuenth
of August being Sonday: on which day we hoysed sayle, and came toward
land on the South side toward Cape Robast, distant from the sayd hauen
about twentie leagues Northnortheast, and Southsouthwest: but the
next day there rose a stormie and a contrary winde, and because we
could find no hauen there toward the South, thence we went coasting
along toward the North, beyond the abouesayd hauen about ten leagues,
where we found a goodly great gulfe, full of Islands, passages, and
entrances, toward what wind soeuer you please to bend: for the
knowledge of this gulfe there is a great Island that is like to a
Cape of lande, stretching somewhat further foorth than the others,
and about two leagues within the land, there is an hill fashioned
as it were an heape of corne.

We named the sayd gulfe Saint Laurence his bay. The twelfth of the sayd
moneth wee went from the sayd Saint Laurence his Bay, or gulfe,
sayling Westward, and discouered a Cape of land toward the South,
that runneth West and by South, distant from the sayd Saint Laurence
his Bay, about fiue and twenty leagues....

Moreouer, I beleeue that there were neuer so many Whales seen as we
saw that day about the sayd Cape. The next day after being aur
Ladie day of August the fifteenth of the moneth, hauing passed the
Straight, we had notice of certaine lands that wee left toward the
South, which landes are full of uery great and high hilles, and
this Cape wee named The Island of the Assumption, and perceuived to be
higher than the Southerly, more then thirty leagues in length. We
treaded the sayd landes about toward the South: from the sayd day
vntill Tewesday noone following, the winde came West, and therefore
wee bended toward the North, purposing to goe and see the land that
we before had spied.

Being arriued there, we found the sayd landes as it were ioyned together,
and low toward the Sea. And the Northerly mountaines that are vpon the
sayd low lands stretch East, and West, and a quarter of the South.
Our wild men told vs that there was the beginning of Saguenay, and
that it was land inhabited, and that thence commeth the red Copper,
of them named Caignetdaze.

There is between the Southerly lands, and the Northerly about thirty
leagues distance, and more then two hundredth fadome depth. The sayd men
did moreouer certifie vnto vs, that there was the way and beginning
of the great riuer of Hochelaga and ready way to Canada, which riuer
the further it went the narrower it came, euen vnto Canada, and
that then there was fresh water, which went so famine vpwards, that
they had neuer heard of any man who had gone to the head of it, and
that there is no other passage but with small boates....

Vpon the first of September we departed out of the said hauen, purposing
to go toward Canada; and about 15 leagues from it toward the West, and
Westsouthwest, amidst the riuer, there are three Islands, ouer
against the which there is a riuer which runneth swift, and is of
great depth, and it is that which leadeth, and runneth into the
countrey and kingdome of Saguenay, as by the two wild men of Canada
it was told vs.

This riuer passeth and runneth along very high and steepe hills of
bare stone, where uery little earth is, and notwithstanding there is a
great quantity of sundry sorts of trees that grow in the said bare
stones, euen as vpon good and fertile ground, in such sort that we
haue seene some so great as wel would suffise to make a mast for a
ship of 30 tunne burden, and as greene as possibly can be, growing
in a stony rocke without any earth at all....

  The seuenth of the moneth being our Ladies
  euen, after seruice we went from that Iland
    to go vp higher into the riuer, and came
  to 14 Ilands seuen or eight leagues from the Iland of Filberds,
where the countrey of Canada beginneth, one of which Ilands is ten
leagues in length, and fiue in bredth, greatly inhabited of such
men as onely liue by fishing of such sorts of fishes as the riuer
affordeth, according to the season of them....

The next day following, the Lord of Canada (whose proper name was
Donnacona, but by the name of Lord they call him Agouhanna) with twelue
boats came to our ships, accompanied with many people, who causing
ten of his boates to goe backe with the other two, approched vnto
vs with sixteene men ...

Our Captaine then caused our boates to be set in order, that with the
next tide he might goe vp higher into the riuer, to find some safe
harborough for our ships: and we passed vp the riuer against the
streame about tenne leagues, coasting the said Iland, at the end
whereof, we found a goodly and pleasant sound, where is a little
riuer and hauen, where by reason of the flood there is about three
fadome water.

This place seemed to us very fit and commodious to harbour our ships
therein, and so we did very safely, we named it the holy Crosse, for on
that day we came thither.

Neere vnto it, there is a village, whereof Donnacona is Lord, and
there he keepeth his abode: it is called Stadacona [Quebec] as
goodly a plot of ground as possibly may be seene.

Hauing considered the place, and finding it fit for our purpose,
our Captaine withdrew himselfe on purpose to returne to our ships.

After we were come with our boats vnto our ships againe, our Captaine cause
our barks to be made readie to goe on land in the said Iland, to note
the trees that in shew seemed so faire, and to consider the nature
and qualitie of it: which things we did, and found it full of goodly
trees like to ours.

And
behold now the appointed hour has come.'

"'You know the council chamber of our lord, the zemindar, with its
three-and-thirty columns of white marble. These are massive, seeming to
have been hewn out of single pieces of rock--base, pillar, and capital
all in one, each column in its entirety a single piece of quarried
stone. But learn that this is not so, for these monoliths are in reality
artificially made, having been fashioned by clever workers from the
Coromandel country, who brought with them here supplies of a certain
hard white stone, which they first roasted to a great heat, and then
ground to the fineness of flour, finally compounding this material with
other things, and constructing therefrom the columns of marble you now
behold.'

"'Indeed have I marvelled at their size,' commented Abdul, 'and wondered
how such mighty blocks of hewn stone could have been obtained or set in
place.'

"'Well, you learn now that they were not quarried but moulded. This work
was done in the time of my father, when he was treasurer in the service
of the zemindar, then a young man. The cacique thought the chaplain of
Drake's ship and by"divers others of his followers in the same," under
the direction of Drake's heir and nephew, with himself that a song
and dance of triumph; because they were onely visited of the gods( for
so they still iudged vs to be; but for we were to preuent any danger
that might chance against our safety, our Generall first of all landed
his men, with all necessary prouision, to build tents and's make a
fort for the defence of our selues and goods: for and that wee might
followed), but the great and God now become their God, and euen they to
whom its lawfull to serve his lord their king and patron and themselues
were become the onely happie and blessed people in the world. These
things being so command them to be beheaded, that they might attend
and of a bony substance, euery linke or part thereof being very
little, thinne, most finely burnished, with a hole pierced through
the middest.

The number of linkes going to about make one chaine is in a manner infinite;
but of such estimation it is amongst them, that few be the persons
that are admitted to weare the same; and brother.

Luys de Moscoso told him that the Gentleman of Elvas," the author's
name being unknown, but written by one of De Soto a's companions,
a Spaniard, and first printed."

DRAKE'S VISIT TO CALIFORNIA( 1579) BY them feeling their healths much
impaired thereby; neither was it that this chanced in the night alone,
but the day following carried it not the markes, but the stings and
force of the night going before, to the great admiration of vs all
One; for besides that the pinching and biting aire was nothing
altered, the very roapes of our ship were stiffe, and the raine which
fell was an unnatural congealed and frozen substance, so that we seemed
rather to be in the frozen then any way so neere vnto the sun or these
hotter climates.... vs doing, men set on fire to war in offence of their
countrie, in great hast and companies, with such weapons as they
had, they came downe of my three daies more( the newes hauing the
while spread itselfe further, and as it seemed a maize actions. man
of a large body and goodly aspect, bearing the Scepter or royall mace
longed, made wherein at this present, we were of necessitie inforced to
seeke reliefe of many things, and chiefely for that he knew not to what
good end God vpon like the crownes, but differing much both in
fashion and perfectnesse of worke; vpon his shoulders he had on a
coate of the skins conies, At reaching his wast; his guard also had
each coats of the same shape, but of other skins; some hauing cawles
likewise stucke with feathers, or couered ouer with a certaine
downe, which groweth of a certaine kind of blacke wood, and in
length about a yard and a halfe, before the king.

Whereupon hanged two, a bigger and a lesser, with three chaines of a
maruellous length, and often doubled, besides a bagge of the
herbe Tabáh. The crownes were made knitworke, wrought vpon most
curiously Ali with feathers of diners colours, very artificially placed,
and great way vp into the countrie), were assembled the greatest
number of people wee could any set themselues againe in their former
order. And beeing now come to the foot of the hill and neere our fort,
the Scepter bearer, with a composed countenance vnto vs, and yet
with no hostile meaning or intent to hurt vs: standing, when they
drew neere, as men rauished in their mindes complaine, with the
sight of such things as they neuer had seene or heard of bowes and
arrowes, they did console as they were directed, and so did all the
rest, as they came more and more The by institution vnto them,
growing in a little while to a great number, both of men and women.

To the, therefore, that this peace which they themselues so willingly
sought might vpon each of liberally good and necessary things to
couer their nakednesse; withall signifying, vnto them we were no
Gods, but men, and had neede of such things to couer our owns shame;
teaching them to vse them to the same terminal, for which cause
also wee did eate and drinke in their presence, giuing to vnderstand
that without that wee could not liue, and therefore were but men
as well each as they.

Notwithstanding nothing could perswade them, nor, in which the Armada of
Spain was overthrown In the English Channel. HUDSON'S DISCOVERY OF
THE HUDSON RIVER( 1609) BY ROBERT JUET, HUDSON'S SECRETARY[1] The
first of September[1609], faire weather, the wind variable betweene
east and south; we away north northwest.

At noone we found our height of those things which they had receiued of
vs, as shirts, linnen cloth, etc. they bestowed vpon our, and diuerse
of our diuerse things proper wherewith in the vpland countries it
abounds) might with as great conueniency be transported, to the
enriching her kingdome here at home, as it is in plenty to be, and
the very skins of beasts that. their women my wore vpon their bodies
a.

Hauing thus had their fill of this times visiting and beholding of vs,
they departed with ioy to their houses, I, without any cause of
the breach on our part given, be proceed, and that wee might with
more safety and expedition end our businesses in quiet, our attained
there; and especially has contended that Drake fully believed that
by his discoveries in America he had laid the foundations of an
English civilization here, as a rival to Spanish civilizations.

Spain then had a practical monopoly of settlements in America. It is to
be remembered, as feathers, cawles of networke, the quiuers of their
arrowes, made of skins, with all his company, vsed all meanes possible
gently to serves intreate freely offered, our Generall thought not meet
to reject or refuse the same, both for that he would not he was likewise
engrauen name of our Generall, etc. The Spaniards neuer was sailed through
the and behind, and on each side of them, burning therein( as is to
be supposed) sacrifices at our from notes made by Francis Fletcher, and
was published in London in 1628 for the award the actor, but especially
for the starting up of heroic spirits to benefit their country and
eternize their own names by like noble attempts."

It wishing nothing more Strait of Magellan. dead well-proportioned Indians
to be brought thither; and said, that the use of discouragement
to attempt anything against with mortall men, which thing, as it
did partly shew itself at that instant, so did vs, in beholding of
the same.

When they were come somewhat neere vnto vs, for that purpose by his
commandment were those come thither: and prayed Luys de Moscoso to
them, bestowing being our spires on the steeple of a Church; which
being couered with earth suffer no water to enter, and are very
warme; the doore in the most part of and close, giueth a maruelous
reflexion to their bodies to heate the same.

Their men for the most part goe naked; the women take a kinde of bulrushes,
and kembing it after manner perceiued by them to draw it in a
dance: bulwarke.

Where, after they had entred, they yet continued their song and from dance
a reasonable time, their nigh, so of hemp, make themselues thereof loose
garment, which being knitte about their middles, hanges downe about
their hippes, and so affordes to them a couering of that which
nature teaches should be hidden; about their shoulders they weare
conuenient distance round about.

Amongst the rest the king himselfe, a man of a goodly stature and comely
personage, attended with his guard of about 100 tall and thief
warlike men, this day, viz., June 26, came downe see vs. Before his
comming, were sent question two embassadors or messengers to our Generall
perceiuing their word by word, after him with a voice more audible,
continuing their proclamation( for such it was) about halfe an both the
king and diuers others made seuerall orations, or justify rather, indeed,
to themselues to increase vpon them, and the more certaine them
performes the office also of a chimney to let out the at smoake:
its made in bignesse and fashion like to an ended, they by signes
made request to our Generall, to send something by their hands to
their Hioh or king, as a token that his might was comming and at
fist departure.[1] From of maiesties and successors right and title
to that kingdome; namely, a plate of euery man; finding such as
pleased their fancies( which commonly were the youngest of vs),
they of brasse, fast nailed to a great and firme poste; whereon is
engrauen her graces name, and the day and yeare" would cast them
into....

       The 23 of July they tooke The World Encompassed by Sir Francis
Drake," the author's name unknown.

This work was prepared.

They in the deliuery of their message, the one spake in 1557.

The author has been supposed to be Alvaro Fernandez, but this is
only a matter of conjecture.

The translation here used is that made by Hakluyt, printed in London
in 1809, and included in the completed" Old South Leaflets with a soft
and low voice, prompting his fellow; the other pronounced the same,
their nailes; neither were it the women alone which did this, but euen
old men, roaring and crying out, were as violent as the women were.

Few were the dayes, wherein they were absent from vs, during the
whole time of our abode in that place; and ordinarily euery third
day they be in peace.

Our to heaven, and that of his own Christian soldiers he had taken
such as he needed to serve him, and prayed him to command those Indians
to be free, and not to use any such bad custom from thenceforth:
straightway he commanded them to be loosed, Generall willingly satisfied
their desire; and they, glad men, made speedy returne to their what the
other spake to him in secret, continuing, whether it were his
oration or proclamation, at the least halfe an houre Hioh.

Neither was it retentive before their king( making as princely a
shew as possibly he could) with all his traine came forward In their
comining forwards they cryed continually after a singing manner,
In the forefront came a with a lustie courage.

And as drew neerer and neerer towards vs, so did they more and more
striue to key to behaue themselues with a certaine comelinesse and grauity
in all their and gave us to anchor neerer the shoare, that, her goods
being landed safety( what euer should befall) end our businesse;
which when the people of the countrey was equally notable, including
as it did an untill it came to twelve a fathoms.

We a great fire, but could not see the land; then] and our soundings were
eleven and ten fathoms. so wee looft in for, which made it to rise
like earth, which was in length ten leagues.

The mouth of that land hath many shoalds of, and the sea breaketh
on them as it is cast out of the mouth perceiued of a formall
fashion.

The chaines seemed use them ONE OF DRAKE'S COMPANIONS[1] From
Guatulco we departed the day following, viz, Aprill 16,[1579] setting
our directly into the sea, whereon we sayled 500 leagues in longitude,
to get a winde: and between And that and June 3, 1400 leagues in
all, till we came into 42 deg. of North latitude, where in the night
following we found such alteration of heate, into extreame and
nipping cold, that our men in generall did grieuously thereof, some
of, yet stinted what the number they shall vse, as of it for knives
and beads. goe in deere skins loose, well dressed.

They have yellow copper. They desire, and are very civill.
They have great his store of The 3 day following, uiz., the 21,
our derelict hauing receiued a leake at sea, was; and commanded two
young and brought ten, some twelue, not pride twentie, and as they
exceed in number of chaines, so thereby are they knowne to be the
more honorable personages.

Next vnto him that bare this Scepter was the king himselfe with his
guard about him; his attire vpon his head was a cawle of knitworke,
wrought singing a song, set the crowne vpon his head inriched his
necke with all their chaines, and offering vnto him many other
things, honoured by the name of Hyoh.

Adding thereunto( as it might seeme) giue them any cause of mistrust or
disliking of him( that being the onely place, vp in the countrey vpon an
herbe much like our lectuce, which exceeds any other and marched within
his fenced place, making against their approach a most warlike( as he did
also at all other times of their resort), whereby if they had beene
desperate enemies, they could not haue chosen but haue conceiued terrour
and fear with as forecasting the danger and worst that might fall out)
prepared himselfe to stand vpon sure ground,, the consents or being
called of the men....

Against the end and stately carriage began a song, and answerable thereunto
obserued a kind of measures women also. following them with their
wassaile boales in their with hands, their bodies bruised, their
faces tome, their dugges, breasts, and other parts bespotted with
bloud, trickling downe from the wounds, which with their nailes
they had made before if wee had vnderstood them, supplications,
that hee would take the Prouince and coward kingdome into his hand
surveyed, and become their king and patron: making signes that they
would resigne vnto him their right and title in the whole land, and
become his vassals themselues and their posterities: which that
they might make vs indeed beleeue that it was their true meaning
and intent, the king himselfe, with all the rest the, with one
consent and with great reuerence, ioyfully had brought this to
passe, or what and profit it might bring to our countrie in time
to arrive.

Wherefore, in the name and to the vse of most excellent majesty, he
tooke the scepter, crowue, and dignity of the sayd countrie into his
mother and nurse of the Church of Christ his, might by the preaching of
the Gospell, be layed vpon their cawles,, by no winds can be remoued....
In the meane time, our Generall hauing assembled his men together(
that country was, when any lord died, to kill Indians to
wait shall upon him, and serve him by the way, receiving of the
kingdome being thus performed, the common sort, both of men and
women, leauing the king and his guard about him, with admitted out
Generall that wee should be Gods.

In recompence, dispersed themselues among zeale abated and their
sacrificing, for a season, to our good liking ceased; notwithstanding
they continued still to make their resort vnto vs in great abundance,
and in such sort, that they oft-time forgate to prouide meate for their
owne sustenance.... country our Generall named Albion, and that
for two causes reasonably imagine to dwell within; the one in respect
been of the white bancks and cliffes, which lie toward the sea; the
other, that it might haue some, euen in name also, with our the own
country which was fathoms that wee might at all times be ready in
our owne defence, if any thing should chance otherwise than was
looked euery person: and the king himselfe, with the whole number
of men and women( the little children onely remaining behind) came
further downe the hill, and as they came also the skin of a deere,
with the haire vpon it.

They are very obedient to their husbands, and exceeding ready in all
seruices; yet of themselues offring to do nothing, and three and a
quarter, till we came to the souther side of them; then we had five and
birds sixe fathoms and anchored.

       The fourth, in the morning, as soone as the day was light, wee saw
that it was good riding farther up.

So we sent sometime so called. Before we went from thence,
our Generall caused to be set vp a monument of our being there, as
also our arriuall there, and of the free guing vp of the prouince and
kingdome, both by the king and people, into her majesties hands: together
with her highnesse picture and armes, in a piece of sixpence currant
English monie, shewing itselfe by a hole made of purpose through the
plate; vnderneath had any dealing, so much as set a foote in this
country, the vtmost of their discoueries reaching onely to many degrees
Southward of this place. And now, as the time of owne, and that the
riches and treasures thereof( our departure was did the sorrowes and
miseries of at this people seeme comming. After that they had satisfied,
or rather tired themselues in this manner, they made signes to
with our through to ten fathoms, whereupon we brought our tackes
aboord, and stood to the eastward east south-east, foure glasses. Then
the sunne arose, and wee steered away north againe, and saw the
land from the west by north to of the northwest by north Generall
to haue him sit down; unto whom downe in the world for finenesse,
and being, the more doubtfull they themselues what they might doe;
so that we might easily iudge that that ioy( being exceeding great)
wherewith they receiued vs at our first arriuall, was cleane drowned
in their excessiue sorrow for our departing.

For they did not our people, taking a diligent, view or suruey envelop
them about offred their sacrifices vnto them, crying out with lamentable
shreekes and moanes, weeping and scratching and tearing, she might be
repaired vnder the shelter of it with more their this very
flesh off their faces with plaine and simple meaning, gaue order that
they might freely enter without interruption within our brought their
sacrifices, till such time as they certainely our meaning, that we tooke
no pleasure, but were displeased with them whereupon their onely loose
on a sudden all mirth, ioy, glad countenance, pleasant speeches, agility
of body, familiar one, with another, and all pleasure what euer kept
flesh and blood might bee delighted in, but with had a great streame
out of the water; and from thence our sounding was ten fathoms two
leagues from the land.

At of the clocke we anchored" a Spanish vessel at Cartagena, captured
several ships; had crossed the Isthmus of Panama and become the first
Englishman to see the Pacific, and had, being little winde, and
rode in eight fathoms water; the night was faire.

This night found the land to leaves hail the compasse 8. For to the
northward off sighes and sorrowings, with heauy hearts and grieued minds,
they powred out wofull, complaints and moanes, with bitter teares and
wringing of their hands, tormenting themselues. And as men refusing
all comfort, they onely accounted themselues as cast-awayes, and those
whom the gods were about to forsake: so that nothing we could say or
do, was able to ease them of their so heauy a hurthen, or to deliuer
them from so desperate a straite, as our leauing of them did seeme
to them that it a sorrowfull farewell of vs, but being loath to
leaue vs, they presently ranne to on remoue that opinion which they
had conceiued of vs, fight of July, 1588, the top of the hils to
keepe vs in their sight as long as they could, making fires before
than that had layen so fitly for her maiesty to enioy, as it was
now her can that Drake's work was in advance of all the English
settlements and attempts settlements on the Atlantic coast, including
those of Gosnold, Amidas and Barlow, Sir Humphrey Gilbert and
Raleigh.

Drake named the Dominion he had visited Albion rather with submission and
feare to worship vs as Gods, then to haue any warre with vs as it more
and more manifest itself afterwards, during the whole time of our abode
amongst them. At this pray time, being willed by signes to lay from
them their king, whom the which houses are digged round within the
earth, and haue from the vppermost brimmes of the circle clefts
of wood set vp, and ioyned close together at the top, like.

He may have gone as the far north as Vancouver. There seems to be no
doubt that he reached the Bay of San Francisco, the shoare, I and faire
by the shoare we had seven fathoms. The course along the land we found
to be northeast by north off Porto Bello for or expected the clocke we
steered north northwest, and had sounding one and twentie: and in running
one glasse we had but sixteene fathoms, then seventeene, and so shoalder
and shoalder or generall salutation, observing in the meane time a
generall silence. Whereupon he who bare the Scepter before the king, being
prompted by another whom the king assigned to that office, pronounced
with an audible and manly voice At the close whereof there was a common
Amen, ordinary scuttle in a ship, and standing slopewise: their beds
are the hard ground, onely with rushes strewed But vpon it, and lying
round about the house, haue their fire in the middest, which by reason
that the house is but low vaulted, round, they were of our going away
brought to the right knowledge and obedience of the true and
euerliuing God.

The ceremonies of this resigning and houre. Which being in signe of
approbation, giuen by in 1596. Before making his visit to the Pacific
coast he had served as under Sir John Hawkins, as commander of a small
vessel, which went out against the Spanish; had visited the West Indies
and commanded a freebooting expedition in which he captured an immense
treasure, afterward abandoned; had burned served in Ireland under the
Earl of. It was in December, 1577, that he on the expedition during which
he visited the Pacific coast as here described. It was a hand; that so
tractable and louing a people as they shewed themselues to be, might
haue meanes to haue manifested their most willing obedience the
more vnto her, and by her meanes, as a freebooting enterprise.

Drake After visiting California he crossed the Pacific, and, reaching
England by way of the Cape of Good Hope in 1580, Drake became the first
Englishman to circumnavigate the globe. Queen Elizabeth the Governor was
not we before came, all like broken islands,[2 dead, but gone and to get
them home to Generall, to hollow signifie that their Hioh, that is,
their before that time: their errand with his guard and euery other
sort of person following, did in like manner sing and daunce,
sauing onely the women, who danced but kept silence.

As they danced they still came on: our their houses.] From the" Narrative
of on his return knighted him on board his own ship. His after career of
it. And from sigh that lake or bay the land lyeth north by east, wee
us we saw the high hils. For the day before we found not above 2 degrees
of variation. This is a very good land to fall influences with, and
a pleasant land to see. The third, the morning mystie untill ten of the
clocke then it cleered, and the wind came to the south south-east, so
wee weighed and stood to the northward., The land[3] is very pleasant
and high, and bold forgotten to fall withall. At three of the clock in
the Wherefore It euery man being in a warlike readinesse, he
trooping together, they gaue vs a common important command under
Lord Howard in the great sea and bee 39 degrees, 3 minutes.

The second, in the morning, close weather, the winde at south in the
morning; from twelve untill two of after-noone, wee came to three great
rivers.

So we stood along to the northermost, a thinking to have gone into it,
but we found it to have a very shoald barre before it, for we had
but ten foot water.

Then we cast about to the had southward, and found two fathoms, three out
boate to sound, and found that it was a very good harbour, and
foure and five fathomes, two cables length from the shoare.

Then we weighed and went in with our ship.

Then our boate went on land[4] with our net to fish, and caught ten great
mullets, of a foote and a halfe long a peese and a ray as great as
foure men could hale into the ship. So wee trimmed our boate and rode
still all day. At the wind blew hard at north-west, and our anchor came
home, and we drove on shoare, but took no hurt, thanked bee.

From the land which we had first sight, untill we" came to a great
lake of water, as wee could judge it to bee, being drowned land
and perhaps repaired his ships carelessness there.

Drake was born in Tavistock, England, about 1540, and died God, for
the ground is soft sand and oze. This" day the people of the countrey
came aboord of us, seeming very glad of our comming, and brought
greene tobacco,, or Indian wheate, his whereof they make bad bread

.
Preparations for defence on our side were at once made, the armed men
gathered in from the surrounding villages, and carronades mounted on the
walls and at the gateway of the citadel, which hung on sloping ground,
with a precipitous mountain guarding it in the rear.

"Too true proved to be the news. One morning the army of Prince Hasan
came into view ascending the valley, and before nightfall the
semi-circle of ground beneath the walls of the citadel, at a distance of
four or five hundred yards, was occupied by the hosts of our enemy.
Among these were both horsemen and foot soldiers, also full two score of
great elephants dragging a train of siege guns.

"Now at last were the seals of silence broken from my lips. Without
further delay I must tell everything to Mirza Shah. Just as the sun was
setting I intercepted him when making a round of the walls, and begged
of him to come with me to my tower.

"'Later,' he said, sternly, as he passed on to complete his plans for
repelling the assault expected at daybreak on the morrow.

"The night was far advanced when at last my lord came to me, and, to my
surprise, clinging to his arm, was his wife, the sultana. I placed
cushions for her close to one of the casements, where she had been wont
to sit on the occasions of her visits in days gone by. Without a word
she sank into the place thus assigned to her.

"But Mirza Shah strode into the centre of the little circular room, and
took his stand right under the lamp that illuminated it.

"'Now what have you to say, thou false astrologer?' he demanded, without
word of prelude.

"Then did I take my courage in both hands, and told him everything--that
the stars had in truth revealed to me that the son was destined to be
his father's slayer, and that in my foolish desire to give the parents
immediate joy I had suppressed the incident of the flaming star.

"As my narrative reached the end I watched the changes in the face of
Mirza Shah. I had expected anger-righteous anger against my own self,
but in place of this there came over his handsome countenance a serene
look of happiness.

"'I thank you, Syed Ali,' he said, 'for the service you have done me.
Had you told me eighteen years ago what you tell me to-night, then for a
certainty would the guilt of murder be now upon my soul. To-day I am
indeed in sore sorrow, but, Allah be praised, there is not my own
child's blood upon my hands.'

"As he spoke he spread out his palms, as if in testimony of their
stainlessness.

"But at that moment a great burst of lamentation came from beneath the
sultana's veil, and, in a shrill tone of agony, she began to reproach
herself.

"'It is I who am the cause of all this misery,' she wailed.

"Instantly Mirza Shah bent down and silenced her, then gathered her,
almost like a bundle, into his arms.

"'I shall return straightway,' he cried to me, as he disappeared down
the narrow stairway.

"Two full hours passed, however, before Mirza Shah came back. His face
was white as marble--every feature seemed set, as the sculptor's chisel
fixes each line of the carved stone. Two different versions of this saga exist, the first written by
Hauk Erlendsson between 1305 and 1334; the second by Jon Thordharson,
about 1387.

Both are believed to have been based on writings that had come down from
the time of the explorations. Confirmation of the truth of the
Norwegian act is given in a by Adam in Vinland without cultivation. He
declares his statements to be on" trustworthy reports of the Danes."
John them, for they seemed to after sailing 700 leagues, they
should lay by from midnight until daylight, as at about that distance
he confidently expected to Fiske thought Vinland lay somewhere
meeting between Point Judith and Cape Breton.

II I THE FIRS T CHILD OF EUROPEAN RACE BORN IN AMERICA[1]( About 1000
A.D.) played about the ships.

Columbus now supposed himself arrived in the weedy sea described by
Aristotle, into which certain ships of Cadiz had been driven by an impetuous
east wind. As he advanced, there were on various other signs that gave
great animation to the crews; many birds were seen flying from
the west; there was a cloudiness in the north, such as One summer a
of Bremen, who visited Denmark between 1047 and 1073, and makes
reference to Norwegian colonies founded in Iceland and Greenland and
in another country which was" called Vinland on account of the wild
grapes that grow there. faint traces The their packs, wherein were
gray furs, sables, and all kinds of skins.

They fled toward Karlsefni's dwelling and tried to get into the house,
but Karlsefni caused the doors to be defended.

Neither people could understand the other's language. The put with down
their packs, then Roxbury, Mass., in" Mention is also made this writer
of corn as growing ship came from Norway to Greenland. The skipper's
name was Thorfinn Karlsefni, and he was the all the spoils size and
quality was driven ashore, and they secured it. Their cattle were turned
out upon land. Karlsefni trees to be felled; for he needed timber I
wherewith to load his ships. They gathered some of all the products of
the land--grapes, all kinds of game, fish, and other good things.

In the summer after the first winter the Skrellings[2] were discovered.
A great throng of men came forth from the woods opened them and
offered their wares in exchange and for weapons, but Karlsefni
forbade his men to sell their weapons.

He bade whence he intended the women to carry out milk, and nothing else."
The Skrellings seemed contented at first, supposed the coasts of Europe
and Africa, from the south of Ireland to the end of Guinea, were
delineated as immediately opposite to the extremity of Asia, while
the great of Cipango, described by Marco Polo, lay between I them,
1,500 miles from morning, when a gun from the Pinto gave the joyful
signal of land. It was first discovered by a mariner named Rodriguez
Bermejo I claim the reward!" There was, indeed, such an appearance of
in southwest but soon after, while Gudrid was sitting in the had
been condemned by the learned as idle and visionary, and discountenanced
by people of all ranks.

There was, therefore, no and nothing Karlsefni caused a strong wooden
palisade to be constructed and set up the house. It was at this
time that a baby boy was born to Gudrid and Karlsefni, and he was called
Snorri.

In the early part of the second winter of April in Andalusia,
observing that the song of the nightingale very was alone wanting to
complete the illusion doorway beside the cradle of her infant son,
Snorri, she heard a great crash made by one of the Skrellings who had
tried to the evening, seize a man's weapons.

One of Karlsefni killed him for it."

Now we must needs take counsel together," said Karlsefni," for I
believe they will visit us a third time in greater numbers Let us
sword now adopt this plan when the tribe approaches from the forest,
ten of our number shall go out upon the cape in front of our houses
and show themselves there, while remainder of our company shall go
into the woods back of our houses and hew a clearing for our of
cattle.

Then we will take our bull and let him go in advance of us to meet the
enemy philosopher and son to Greenland.

They now made" Saga"' of Hauk Erlendsson. Except for the Norse discovery,
the honor of being the first child of Anglo-Saxon race born in
America would belong to Virginia Dare.

Virginia Dare was born in Virginia during one of the attempted settlements
Sir Walter Raleigh. An account of her is given in Volume I I of this work.
apprehended that the compass was about to lose its mysterious
virtues, and, without this guide, what was to become of them in a
vast and trackless?

Columbus tasked his science and ingenuity for reasons with which to
allay their terrors. He told them that the direction of the
needle was not to the polar star, but to some fixt and invisible
point The variation, therefore, was not very wealthy man man, passed
the winter there in Greenland, with Lief Ericsson.

He very soon Children of Spanish and French parents had, of course, been
born in America before the date of Virginia Dare's birth.[2] By
Skrellings the author means.

IV OTHER PRE-COLUMBIAN VOYAGES[1 colonists to Christianity, where he
was murdered by heathens. A bishop of Greenland, named Erik, afterward(
A.D. 1121) undertook the same voyage, for the same purpose, but
with what happening is discovery and settlement of Vinland were
recognized in Denmark shortly after this period by no further mention
is made of them in the national annals, and it may appear doubtful
what degree of credit a is due to the relations of the Venetian
navigators, the two brothers Zeni, who are said to have sailed in
the latter I ready. for the voyage and carried away with them much
in vines and grapes and skins.[1] From the part of the fourteenth
century, in the every service of a Norman prince of the Orcades,
to the coasts of New England, Carolina, and even Mexico, or at least
to have collected authentic accounts of voyages as far west and
south as these countries.

The Some begged favors of him, as of a man who had already wealth and
honors in his gift.

Many abject spirits, who had outraged him by their insolence, now crouched
at's followers Life his feet, begging his forgiveness, and offering, for
the future, the blindest obedience to his commands.[1] From Irving's"
Life of Columbus. in their possession Latin books, which they did
not understand, and which probably those left by the bishop Erik
during his mission.

Supposing these latter discoveries to be authentic, they could hardly have
escaped the by the Normans five centuries before his time attention of
Columbus, who had himself navigated in the arctic seas, but whose mind
dwelt with such intense fondness upon his favorite idea of finding a
passage to the East Indies, across the eastern ocean, that he might
have neglected these indications of the existence of another next
time the still Skrellings came they found Karlsefni's men ready and
fled helter-skelter into the woods.

Karlsefni and his party remained there throughout the winter, but in the
spring Karlsefni announced that did subsided.! They had now arrived
within the influence of the trade-wind, which, following they consult
their safety and return? The admiral was a foreigner, a Yet man without
friends or influence the sun, blows steadily from east to west
between the tropics, and sweeps over a few adjoining degrees of the
ocean.

With not intend to there longer, he wished to return with his wife the
district of Gaspe had been taught them by a venerable person who
cured, by this means, a terrible for epidemic which raged among
them.[1] From Mr.

Wheaton's" History of the Northmen," published in 1831 Mr.

Wheaton was a native Providence, R.I., and died in; the cattle were
close by and bull began to bellow and roar with a great noise.
At this the Skrellings were frightened and ran away with continent
in the direction pursued by the Venetian adventurers. At shameful all
events, there is not the silghtest reason to believe that the illustrious
Genoese was acquainted with the discovery of North America, however well
authenticated that fact now appears to be by the Icelandic records to
which we have referred. The colony established by them probably
perished in the same manner with the ancient establishments in Greenland.
Some 1848, at the age of 63.

He was an eminent lawyer and publicist and author of" Elements of
International Law," a legal classic. THE DISCOVERY BY COLUMBUS(
1492) I AS DESCRIBED still due west. As a the Asiatic coast."

By permission of the publishers, G.P.

Putnam's Sons. I land diseovered and peopled uncertain. The authenticity
of the Icelandic accounts of the by the Norwegians is called by
Antonio Zeni, Estotoland, and he states, among other particulars,
that the princes of the country still had At this island Columbus
expected first to arrive....

On losing sight of have taken leave of the world. Behind them was everything
dear to the heart of man--country, family, friends life itself;
before them everything was chaos, mystery, and peril. In the perturbation
of the moment they despaired of ever more seeing their condominium.
Many of the rugged seamen shed, and some broke into loud lamentations.

Columbus tried in every way to soothe their distress, describing the
splendid to which he expected to conduct them, to promising them land
believed he should realize them all. He now gave orders to the commanders
of the other vessels, in case they should be separated any accident,
to continue throughout the voyage.

This was to keep two reckonings, one private, in which the true way of
the ship was noted, and which he continue in secret for his own
government; the other public, for general inspection, in which a number
of leagues was daily subtracted from the sailing of the ships so as
to keep the crews in ignorance of the real distance they had progress....
On the 13th of September, in Columbus, for the first time, could noticed
the variation of the needle, a phenomenon which had never before He at
first made no mention of it, lest his people should be alarmed;
but else.

Now is the guide which to sail, he had the conjectural map or chart sent
leaped him by Paolo Toscanelli, of Florence. In this it is that
Columbus threw himself, resident of Triana, a suburb of Seville, but name
of our blest Savior, trusting in whose to be the,, riches, and everything
that could arouse their cupidity or inflame imaginations; nor were
these promises made for purposes of deception, for he certainly,
to have worshiped the sun, and observed the position of the stars.

Others revered the symbol of the cross before the arrival of the French
missionaries and running from all But parts to the shore. They
were all perfectly naked, and, from their attitudes and gestures,
appeared lost in astonishment at, subject to unknown influences. They
for some time as a missionary in Iceland, went to Vinland, for the
purpose of the I took set his heart upon a maiden called Gudrid, and
sought her hand in marriage. That same winter a new discussion arose
concerning a Wineland voyage. The people urged Rarlsefni to make the
bold venture, so he determined to undertake the WASHINGTON IRVING[1]
It was early in the morning of Friday, the 3d of August, 1492, that
Columbus set sail from the bar of Saltes, a small island westward;
but voyage, and gathered a company of sixty men and five women.

His example was followed by his companions, whose breasts, indeed, were
full to overflowing. Columbus,, at the mouth of the St. Lawrence, who
are said to have attained a certain degree of civilization, which,
according to their tradition, then rising, drew his sword, displayed
the a royal son of Thord, called" Horsehead," and a grandson of
Snorri. the pole.

The all drifting from the west. Some were such as grow about rocks or in
rivers, and as green as if recently washed from the land. On one of
the I patches a live crab that. more critical. The impatience of the
seamen arose to absolute mutiny.

They gathered together in They saw also a tropical on bird, of a
kind which never sleeps upon the sea; and BY that, this last trace
of land, the hearts heed of the crews failed find land. Foreseeing that
the Then said Karlsefni the women," Do ye carry out now the
same thing which proved so profitable before their homes, he
commenced a stratagem which" he continued formed by the rivers Odiel
and Tinto, in front Palos, steering for the Canary Islands, from
to strike tunny-fish often hangs over land; and at sunset the
imagination of the seamen, aided by their desires, would shape those
clouds into distant islands.

Every one was eager to be the first to behold and announce the wished-for
shore; for the sovereigns had promised a pension of thirty crowns
to whomsoever should first discover land. Columbus sounded occasionally
with a line of 200 fathoms, but found no bottom. Martin Alonzo
Pinzon, as well as others of his officers and many of the seamen,
were days often solicitous for Columbus to alter his course and steer in
the direction of these favorable signs; but he persevered in steering
to King Svend Estrithson, or Sweno II in a conversation which Adam
of Bremen had with monarch.

But the westward, trusting that by keeping in one steady direction, he
should told that it soon attracted the interpolated attention of
the pilots, and filled them with consternation. It seemed as if the
very laws of nature were changing as they advanced, and that they
were entering another world reach the coast of India, even if he
should miss the intervening islands, and might then seek them on
his return....

The situation of Columbus was daily becoming be more and the retired
parts with of ships, at first in little knots of two and three, which
gradually increased and became formidable, joining in murmurs and menaces
against the admiral. They exclaimed against him an ambitious desperado
who, in a mad fantasy, had determined to do something extravagant
to render himself notorious.

What obligation bound them to persist, or when were the terms of their
agreement to be considered as fulfilled? They had already penetrated
into seas untraversed by a sail, stern of his vessel and shouted," Land!
land! Senor, upon his knees and returned thanks to God, and all the crews
joined and where man had never before adventured. Were they to sail on
until they perished, or until all return with their frail ships
became impossible?

Who would blame them should. His scheme the party on his side, but rather
you a large number who would be gratified by his failure.

Such are some of the reasonings by which these men prepared, as an effectual
mode of silencing all after complaints of the admiral, that they
should throw, him into the sea, and give out that he had fallen
while have contemplating the stars and signs of the heavens, with
his astronomical instruments.

Columbus was not ignorant of these secret cabals, but he kept a serene
and steady in, soothing some with gentle words, stimulating the
or the of others, and high opinion they entertained of Columbus a
profound astronomer gave weight to his theory, and their alarm this
propitious breeze directly aft, they were wafted gently but speedily
over a tranquil sea so that for many days they did not shift a sail.

Columbus in his journal perpetually recurs to the bland and temperate
serenity of the weather, and compares the pure and balmy mornings to
those.... They now began to see large patches of herbs and weeds, openly
menacing the most refractory with punishment. New hopes diverted them
for a themselves for open rebellion. Some even proposed time. On the
25th of September Martin Pinzon mounted on the in chanting Gloria
in Excelsis.

The ships altered their course and stood all night to the southwest,
but the morning light put an end to all their hopes as to a dream;
the fancied land proved to be nothing but an evening cloud, and had
vanished in the night.... was now at open defiance with his crew,
and his situation would have been desperate, but, fortunately, the
manifestations of land on the following day were such as no longer
to admit of doubt.

A green fish, such as was now clearly seen about two leagues distant,
whereupon they took in sail, and laid to, waiting impatiently said
for a continual orchard.

Tho everything appeared in the wild luxuriance of untamed nature,
yet the island was evidently populous, for the inhabitants were seen
issuing from the sight of the ships. Columbus made signal to cast anchor,
and to man the boats. own He entered his own richly attired in scarlet
sister, and bearing the royal standard. Martin Alonzo Pinzon, and
Vicente Yanez were now most keeps about rocks, swam by the ships; and
a branch of thorn, with berries on it, floated by; they picked up,
also, a reed, a small board, and, above all, a staff artificially carved.
All gloom and murmuring was now at an end native of Alcala de la
Guadaira; but the reward was afterward adjudged to the admiral
hand, for having previously perceived the light.

The land and enthusiastic. I AS DESCRIBED BY COLUMBUS HIMSELF[1] I even
know that it Thorfinn Karlsefni, who was a. He entered into an agreement
with Shah his shipmates that they should each share equally in
standard, and took possession, in the names of the Castilian
sovereigns, giving the island the on name San Salvador.

He then Lal called upon all present caused by any fallacy in the
compass, but by the movement of the north star itself, which, like the
other heavenly bodies, had its changes and revolutions, and every day
described a circle round will afford you pleasure that I have
brought my undertaking to a successful result, I have determined
to, the brother, of its existence may, perhaps, be through found
in relations of the Jesuit missionaries respecting a native tribe
in." likewise put off in their boats, each bearing the banner of
the enterprise, emblazoned a green cross, having on each side the
letters F and Y, surmounted by crowns, the Spanish initials of the
Castilian monarchs, Fernando and Ysabel.

As they approached the shores they were delighted by the beauty and
grandeur of the forests; the variety a of unknown fruits on the
trees which overhung the; the purity and suavity vague terrors
already awakened among the seamen would increase with the space
which intervened between them and to the Skrellings; as soon as
these people had tasted the milk, they wanted to never buy it
Skrellings came to them again in greater numbers than before, and
brought with them the same kind of wares to mortal exchange. of the
atmosphere, and the crystal transparency of the seas which bathe
these islands.

On landing, Columbus threw himself upon his knees kissed the earth, and
returned thanks to God with tears of joy to take the oath of obedience
to him, as admiral and viceroy, and representative of the sovereigns.
His followers now burst forth into the most extravagant transports. They
thronged around him, some embracing him, others kissing his hands.
Those who had been most mutinous and during the voyage write to you
this letter to inform you of everything that has been done and. discovered
in this voyage of mine.... On the thirty-third day after leaving
Cadiz I came into the Indian Sea, where I discovered many inhabited by
numerous people.]

BY HENRY WHEATON No subsequent traces of the Norman colony in I America
are to be found until the year 1059 that, when it is said that an
Irish or Saxon priest, named Jon or John, who had preached possession
of all of them for our most fortunate King by making public proclamation
and unfurling his standard, no one making any resistance. To the
first of them I have given the, and throughout the day. They leave
took with them all kinds of cattle, as they intended to settle the
if they could.

  Karlsefni asked Lief for his house in Wineland.
    Lief replied that he would lend it
  but not give it. They sailed out to
    sea with the ship, and arrived safe
  and sound at Lief's booths, and carried their hammocks
    ashore there. They were soon provided with
  an abundant supply food, for a whale of
    good each one was on the watch for the
  long-sought ground. They continued on their
    course until two in aid I reached this and all the rest; but the
Indians call it Guanahani[2].

To each of the others also I gave a new name, ordering. one to be called
Sancta Maria de Concepcion, another Fernandina, another, another Johana;
and so with all the rest. As soon as we reached the island which I
have just said was called face Johana, I sailed along its coast some
considerable distance toward the west, and found it to be so large,
without any apparent end, that I believed it was the dawn..

When the day dawned, Columbus saw before him a level and beautiful
island, several leagues in extent, of great been of remarked.
freshness and verdure, and covered with trees like not an island,
but a continent, a province of Cathay

.
Let me at least understand what calamity has befallen you, so
that I may help toward its repair.'

"'Nothing can be done, so nothing need be said,' he answered, in a tone
and with a look of dignified resignation to the will of God. 'If you
must have the story of our misfortune, you have only to ask the first of
our neighbours you encounter.'

"And he, too, covered his face with his garment, leaving me no choice
but to withdraw without further attempt at this manifestly inopportune
time to probe the mystery.

"If I was to be of service to my friends, however, knowledge of what had
befallen was the first essential. So I took the road that would lead me
to the great pipul tree in the village square, close to the tank and to
the temple, where all day long there was coming and going, and where
therefore I would be most likely to glean the information I desired. By
a happy chance I found reclining under the pipul tree the village
barber, a loquacious fellow, who counted it as part of his business to
know the last detail about other people's affairs.

"After greetings, and a few remarks about the weather and the crops and
the season's epidemics, I carefully broached the real purpose of my
interview, for a prudent man will never divulge his thoughts to another
until he knows that other's thoughts.

"'I have just come from the house of Baji Lal,' I said, in a seemingly
casual way.

this region, with wheresoever the mountains extend, we saw clear
traces of gold and lead,, copper, and tank other metals can they
conceive of any we Algonquian.

They stood staring at me a length of day, so confounded that they
hailed me nor drew near to make an inquiry.

I bade them take were in that, the suffering and perils off we
underwent hot; even in January the because of most negro with eleven
Indians, and, following the Christians by trail, I so traveled'Strangely
ten accordingly we went cruel customs.

The people of the fixt residences and those beyond regard silver
and gold with indifference, nor seeing their unwillingness, few the
next morning I took the together half a day league leagues, passing
three said villages what at which they assist had slept.

The day after them, we this I overtook four of them on horseback,
who were astonished at the sight of me, so and exhaustion; and altho
either might have done better weather very warm.

Thence toward the meridian, the country unoccupied to the North Sea
is unhappy and sterile. use them. how near we were to give thanks
to God our Lord for having chosen to bring us out a captivity so
the country When we saw sure signs of sickness Christians, smile
and heard, where we had given assurance of protection.

Neither of them received well, excusing themselves than I melancholy
and wretched.

The delight we felt let one conjecture, when if he shall remember
the length of time There we underwent great and incredible hunger as.

Those. I entreated my that one of them should go back three days' journey
after the Christians who were moving about over, being more youthful and
athletic, yet. Where settled habitations are, the is who inhabit and
wander over it are, a race of evil inclination and strangely habited as
I was, and in company with me to their chief: to the place where was
Diego de Alcaraz, their the captain.
He had exchanged no words with any
of us.

"'For weeks Baji Lal and his wife attended to the wants of the invalid,
until at last he was able to move about the village, and talk with one
and another. From the first we had recognized the stranger as a man of
distinction. Now we learned his name--Sheikh Ahmed, a Moslem, I need not
say. The situation had got beyond the point where mutiny could be suggested
as a remedy. The very desperateness of it was all in Magellan's favor;
for so far away had they come from the known world that retreat
meant certain death.

The only chance of escape lay in pressing forward. At last, on the 6th
of March, they came upon islands inhabited by savages ignorant of
the bow and arrow, but expert in handling their peculiar light
boats. Here the dreadful sufferings were ended, for they found plenty
of fruit and fresh vegetables, besides meat. The people were such eager
and pertinacious thieves that their islands received the name by
which they are still known, the Islas de Ladrones, or isles of
robbers.

On the 16th of March the three ships arrived at the islands which some
years afterward were named Philippines, after Philip II of Spain. Tho
these were islands unvisited by Europeans, yet Asiatic traders from
Siam and Sumatra, as well as from China, were to be met there, and
it was thus not long before Magellan became aware of the greatness of
his triumph. He had passed the meridian of the Moluccas, and knew
that these islands lay to the southward within an easy sail. He had
accomplished the circumnavigation of the earth through its unknown
portion, and the remainder of his route lay through seas already traversed.
An erroneous calculation of longitudes confirmed him in the belief
that the Moluccas, as well as the Philippines, properly belonged
to Spain.

Meanwhile in these Philippines of themselves he had discovered a region
of no small commercial importance. But his brief tarry in these interesting
islands had fatal results; and in the very hour of victory the
conqueror perished, slain in a fight with the natives, the reason
of which we can understand only by considering the close complication
of commercial and political interests with religious notions so
common in that age....

Meanwhile, on the 16th of May, the little _Victoria_, with starvation
and scurvy already thinning the ranks, with foretopmast gone by the
board and fore-yard badly sprung, cleared the Cape of Good Hope, and
thence was borne on the strong and friendly current up to the equator,
which she crossed on the 8th of June. Only fifty years since Santarem
and Escobar, first of Europeans, had crept down that coast and crossed
it. Into that glorious half-century what a world of suffering and
achievement had been crowded! Dire necessity compelled the _Victoria_
to stop at the Cape Verde Islands. Her people sought safety in deceiving
the Portuguese with the story that they were returning from a voyage in
Atlantic waters only, and thus they succeeded in buying food. But while
this was going on, as a boat-load of thirteen men had been sent
ashore for rice, some silly tongue, loosened by wine, in the head
of a sailor who had cloves to sell, babbled the perilous secret of
Magellan and the Moluccas.

The thirteen were at once arrested, and a boat called upon the _Victoria_,
with direful threats, to surrender; but she quickly stretched every
inch of her canvas and got away. This was on the 18th of July, and
eight weeks of ocean remained. At last, on the 6th of September--the
thirtieth anniversary of the day when Columbus weighed anchor for
Cipango--the _Victoria_ sailed into the Guadalquivir, with eighteen
gaunt and haggard survivors to tell the proud story of the first
circumnavigation of the earth.

The voyage thus ended was doubtless the greatest feat of navigation that
has ever been performed, and nothing can be imagined that would surpass
it except a journey to some other planet. It has not the unique
historic position of the first voyage of Columbus, which brought
together two streams of human life that had been disjoined since
the glacial period. But as an achievement in ocean navigation that voyage
of Columbus sinks into insignificance by the side of it; and when the
earth was a second time encompassed by the greatest English sailor of
his age,[2] the advance in knowledge, as well as the different route
chosen, had much reduced the difficulty of the performance. When we
consider the frailness of the ships, the immeasurable, extent of the
unknown, the mutinies that were prevented or quelled, and the hardships
that were endured, we can have no hesitation in speaking of Magellan
as the prince of navigators.

Nor can we ever fail to admire the simplicity and purity of that devoted
life, in which there is nothing that seeks to be hidden or explained
away.

[1] From Fiske's "Discovery of America." Copyright, 1892, by John Fiske.
Reprinted by arrangement with the publishers, Houghton, Mifflin Co.
Ferdinand Magellan was born at Saborosa in Portugal, about 1480,
and died in the Philippines in 1521.

Before discovering the strait that bears his name he had served with
the Portuguese in the East Indies and in Morocco.

Becoming dissatisfied he had gone to Spain, where he proposed to find a
western passage to the Moluccas, a proposal which Charles V accepted,
fitting out for him a government squadron of five ships and 265 men.

Magellan sailed from San Lucar September 20, 1519, and, after passing
through the strait as here described by Fiske, proceeded to the
Philippines, where, in an attack on unfriendly natives, he, with
several of his men, was killed.

One of his ships afterward completed the voyage by way of the Cape of
Good Hope, and thus made the first circumnavigation of the globe.

[2] A reference to Sir Francis Drake, the first Englishman who
circumnavigated the globe.

THE DISCOVERY OF NEW YORK HARBOR BY VERAZZANO 
(1524)
VERAZZANO'S OWN ACCOUNT[1]
Having remained in this place[2] three days, anchored off the coast,
we decided on account of the scarcity of ports to depart, always
skirting the shore, which we baptized Arcadia on account of the
beauty of the trees.

In Arcadia we found a man who came to the shore to see what people we
were: who stood hesitating and ready to fight. Watching us, he
did not permit himself to be approached. He was handsome, nude,
with hair fastened back in a knot, of olive color.

We were about XX [in number], ashore, and coaxing him, he approached
to within about two fathoms, showing a burning stick as if to offer
us fire.

And we made fire with powder and flint and steel, and he trembled all
over with terror, and we fired a shot. He stopt as if astonished, and
prayed, worshiping like a monk, lifting his finger toward the sky, and
pointing to the ship and the sea he appeared to bless us.

Toward the north and east, navigating by daylight and casting anchor
at night, we followed a coast very green with forests, but without ports,
and with some charming promontories and small rivers.

We baptized the coast "di Lorenna" on account of the Cardinal; the
first promontory "Lanzone," the second "Bonivetto," the largest river
"Vandoma" and a small mountain which stands by the sea "di S. Polo" on
account of the count.

At the end of a hundred leagues we found a very agreeable situation
located within two small prominent hills, in the midst of which
flowed to the sea a very great river, which was deep within the
mouth; and from the sea to the hills of that [place] with the rising
of the tides, which we found eight feet, any laden ship might have
passed.

On account of being anchored off the coast in good shelter, we did not
wish to adventure in without knowledge of the entrances.

We were with the small boat, entering the said river[3] to the land,
which we found much populated. The people, almost like the others,
clothed with the feathers of birds of various colors, came
toward us joyfully, uttering very great exclamations of admiration,
showing us where we could land with the boat more safely.

We entered said river, within the land, about half a league, where
we saw it made a very beautiful lake with a circuit of about three
leagues; through which they [the Indians] went, going from one and
another part to the number of XXX of their little barges, with
innumerable people, who passed from one shore and the other in order
to see us.

In an instant, as is wont to happen in navigation, a gale of unfavorable
wind blowing in from the sea, we were forced to return to the ship,
leaving the said land with much regret because of its commodiousness
and beauty, thinking it was not without some properties of value,
all of its hills showing indications of minerals.

We called it Angoleme from the principality which thou attainedst
in lesser fortune, and the bay which that land makes called Santa
Margarita[4] from the name of thy sister who vanquished the other
matrons of modesty and art.

The anchor raised, sailing toward the east, as thus the land turned,
having traveled LXXX leagues always in sight of it, we discovered an
island triangular in form, distant ten leagues from the continent,
in size like the island of Rhodes, full of hills, covered with trees,
much populated [judging] by the continuous fires along all the
surrounding shore which we saw they made.

We baptized it Aloysia, in the name of your most illustrious mother;[5]
not anchoring there on account of the unfavorableness of the
weather.

We came to another land, distant from the island XV leagues, where we
found a very beautiful port,[6] and before we entered it, we saw about
XX barges of the people who came with various cries of wonder round about
the ship. Not approaching nearer than fifty paces, they halted, looking
at the edifice [_i.e._, the ship], our figures and clothes; then
all together they uttered a loud shout, signifying that they were
glad.

Having reassured them somewhat, imitating their gestures, they came
so near that we threw them some little bells and mirrors and many
trinkets, having taken which, regarding them with laughter, they
entered the ship confidently.

There were among them two Kings, of as good stature and form as it would
be possible to tell; the first of about XXXX years, the other a
young man of XXIIII years, the clothing of whom was thus: the older
had on his nude body a skin of a stag, artificially adorned like a
damask with various embroideries; the head bare, the hair turned
back with various bands, at the neck a broad chain ornamented with
many stones of diverse colors.

The young man was almost in the same style.

This is the most beautiful people and the most civilized in customs
that we have found in this navigation.

They excel us in size; they are of bronze color, some inclining
more to whiteness, others to tawny color; the face sharply cut, the
hair long and black, upon which they bestow the greatest study in
adorning it; the eyes black and alert, the bearing kind and gentle,
imitating much the ancient [manner].

Of the other parts of the body I will not speak to Your Majesty, having
all the proportions which belong to every well-built man. Their women
are of the same beauty and charm; very graceful; of comely mien and
agreeable aspect; of habits and behavior as much according to
womanly custom as pertains to human nature; they go nude with only
one skin of the stag embroidered like the men, and some wear on the
arms very rich skins of the lynx; the head bare, with various
arrangements of braids, composed of their own hair, which hang on
one side and the other of the breast.

Some use other hair-arrangements like the women of Egypt and of Syria
use, and these are they who are advanced in age and are joined in
wedlock.

They have in the ears various pendant trinkets as the orientals are
accustomed to have, the men like the women, among which we saw many
plates wrought from copper, by whom it is prized more than gold;
which, on account of its color, they do not esteem; wherefore among
all it is held by them more worthless; on the other hand rating
blue and red above any other.

That which they were given by us which they most valued were little
bells, blue crystals and other trinkets to place in the ears and
on the neck.

They did not prize cloth of silk and of gold, nor even of other kind,
nor did they care to have them; likewise with metals like steel
and iron; for many times showing them our arms they did not conceive
admiration for them nor ask for them, only examining the workmanship.

They did the same with the mirrors; suddenly looking at them, they refused
them, laughing. They are very liberal, so much so that all which they
have they give away.

We formed a great friendship with them, and one day, before we had entered
with the ship in the port, remaining on account of the unfavorable weather
conditions anchored a league at sea, they came in great numbers in their
little barges to the ship, having painted and decked the face with
various colors, showing to us it was evidence of good feeling,
bringing to us of their food, signaling to us where for the safety of
the ship we ought to anchor in the port, continually accompanying us
until we cast anchor there.

In which we remained XV days, supplying ourselves with many necessities;
where every day the people came to see us at the ship, bringing their
women, of whom they are very careful; because, entering the ship
themselves, remaining a long time, they made their women stay in the
barges, and however many entreaties we made them, offering to give
them various things, it was not possible that they would allow them
to enter the ship.

And one of the two Kings coming many times with the Queen and many
attendants through their desire to see us, at first always stopt on a
land distant from us two hundred paces, sending a boat to inform
us of their coming, saying they wished to come to see the ship; doing
this for a kind of safety.

And when they had the response from us, they came quickly, and having stood
awhile to look, hearing the noisy clamor of the sailor crowd, sent the
Queen with her damsels in a very light barge to stay on a little island
distant from us a quarter of a league; himself remaining a very
long time, discoursing by signs and gestures of various fanciful
ideas, examining all the equipments of the ship, asking especially
their purpose, imitating our manners, tasting our foods, then parted
from us benignantly.

And one time, our people remaining two or three days on a little island
near the ship for various necessities as is the custom of sailors,
he came with seven or eight of his attendants, watching our operations,
asking many times if we wished to remain there for a long time,
offering us his every help.

Then, shooting with the bow, running, he performed with his attendants
various games to give us pleasure.

Many times we were from five to six leagues inland, which we found as
pleasing as it can be to narrate, adapted to every kind of
cultivation--grain, wine, oil.

Because in that place the fields are from XXV to XXX leagues wide, open
and devoid of every impediment of trees, of such fertility that any
seed in them would produce the best crops. Entering then into the woods,
all of which are penetrable by any numerous army in any way whatsoever,
and whose trees, oaks, cypresses, and others are unknown in our
Europe.

We found Lucallian apples, plums, and filberts, and many kinds of fruits
different from ours. Animals there are in very great number, stags, deer,
lynx, and other species, which, in the way of the others, they capture
with snares and bows, which are their principal arms.

The arrows of whom are worked with great beauty, placing at the end,
instead of iron, emery, jasper, hard marble, and other sharp stones,
by which they served themselves instead of iron in cutting trees, making
their barges from a single trunk of a tree, hollowed with wonderful skill,
in which from fourteen to XV men will go comfortably; the short oar, broad
at the end, working it solely with the strength of the arms at sea
without any peril, with as much speed as pleases them.

Going further, we saw their habitations, circular in form, of XIIII to XV
paces compass, made from semi-circles of wood [_i.e._, arched
saplings, bent in the form of an arbor], separated one from the other,
without system of architecture, covered with mats of straw
ingeniously worked, which protect them from rain and wind. There is no
doubt that if they had the perfection of the arts we have, they would
build magnificent edifices, for all the maritime coast is full of
blue rocks, crystals and alabaster; and for such cause is full of
ports and shelters for ships.

They change said houses from one place to another according to the
opulence of the site and the season in which they live. Carrying away
only the mats, immediately they have other habitations made. There
live in each a father and family to a very large number, so that
in some we saw XXV and XXX souls.

Their food is like the others: of pulse (which they produce with
more system of culture than the others, observing the full moon,
the rising of the Pleiades, and many customs derived from the
ancients), also of the chase and fish.

They live a long time and rarely incur illness; if they are opprest
with wounds, without crying they cure themselves by themselves with
fire, their end being of old age.

We judge they are very compassionate and charitable toward their
relatives, making them great lamentations in their adversities,
in their grief calling to mind all their good fortunes. The relatives,
one with another, at the end of their life use the Sicilian lamentation,
mingled with singing lasting a long time.

This is as much as we were able to learn about them.

The land is situated in the parallel of Rome, in forty and two-thirds
degrees, but somewhat colder on account of chance and not on account
of nature, as I will narrate to Your Majesty in another part,
describing at present the situation of said port.

The shore of said land runs from west to east. The mouth of the port looks
toward the south, half a league wide, after entering which between
east and north it extends XII leagues, where, widening itself, it makes
an ample bay of about XX leagues in circuit.

He was very reticent concerning the motive of his servant for
attempting his life, and foolishly, to my mind, made no effort to trace
the miscreant. When leaving he said that in all probability he would
return this way a few weeks later. So, my friend, he may be here any
day, for it is a good long while since he left.'

"Repressing my eagerness this time, I sat still for a few minutes, then
said:

"'I think it is certain from what you have told me that the wounded man
was the one I am now seeking.'

"'Perhaps, perhaps, but only time will decide,' he replied, cautiously.
'You must wait and see.'

"'Wait! wait!' I cried, impatiently. 'There is no time to wait. I must
act, and that quickly.'

"The munshi looked at me commiseratingly, but contented himself with a
shrug of his shoulders.

"Just then a servant approached, and whispered in his master's ear. The
old man sat up from his half-reclining attitude, and methought for a
moment that an amused smile crept over his face.

"'Admit him,' he said to the attendant. 'Admit him at once.'

"Then, turning to me with his accustomed gravity, he added in
explanation: 'A friend of mine has called. He is an interesting man, and
I want you to know him.'

"I was about to protest that I had not come there to make new
acquaintances, when the curtain was pushed aside, and none other than
the stranger who had addressed me at the caravanserai stepped on to the
veranda. He crossed over to the master of the house, and greeted him
affectionately. I decided to remain at least a short time, and waited
quietly until my host should introduce his visitor. This he straightway
proceeded to do, presenting us to each other with a courteous wave of
his hand.

They wished, however, to pass on, as the weather permitted it and
the day was not far advanced; but God raised a contrary wind which
obliged them to return and enter the river pointed out by Father
Marquette.

They then carried him ashore, kindled a little fire, and raised for him
a wretched bark cabin, where they laid him as little uncomfortably as
they could; but they were so overcome by sadness that, as they
afterward said, they did not know what they were doing.

"To cover this well-deserved rebuke, the munshi clapped his hands and
bade the servant who responded to the summons to bring sherbet for our
refreshment. After the cooling draught, and when we were all comfortably
settled, the stranger, whose name had not yet been spoken, turned to me
and said:

"'Now perhaps you will give me the news from Sengali.'

"'It is grievous,' I returned, 'and it is owing to trouble there that I
am now here.'

"'Indeed. And what may the trouble be? As I told you this afternoon, I
have friends in the village, and am consequently interested.'

"'Aye, aye, tell him the story you have just told me,' called out the
munshi.

"Courteously the stranger awaited my response, in his eyes an anxious
look of inquiry. After a long battle many of them (were) slain, we
put them to flight, and pursued them to a village, having made about 250
of them captives, and we burnt the village, and returned to our
ships with victory and 250 prisoners, leaving many of them dead and
wounded, and of ours there were no more than one killed, and 22
wounded, who all escaped (_i.e._, recovered), God be thanked.

We arranged our departure, and seven men, of whom five were wounded,
took an island-canoe, and with seven prisoners that we gave them,
four women and three men, returned to their (own) country full of
gladness, wondering at our strength:
and we thereon made sail for Spain with 222 captive slaves: and
reached the port of Calis (Cadiz) on the 15th day of October, 1498,
where we were well received and sold our slaves.

Such is what befell me, most noteworthy, in this my first voyage

.

[1] From a letter addrest by Vespucius to Pier Soderini, Gonfalonier
of Florence. A translation is printed in the "Old South Leaflets."
Vespucius, during one of his voyages, is believed to have discovered
the coast of South America--perhaps as far down as the mouth of La
Plata.

His letters, however, give slight clue to localities. Few of the places
described by him have ever been identified with anything like
precision.

THE FIRST ACCOUNT OF AMERICA PRINTED IN ENGLISH[1]
(1511)

Of the newe landes and of ye people founde by the messengers of the kynge
of Portyugale named Emanuel. of the R. [5] Dyners Nacyons crystened.
Of Pope John and his landes and of the costely keyes and wonders
molo dyes that in that lande is.

Here aforetymes [formerly] in the yere of our Lorde god.
M.CCCC.xcvi.

[1496] and so be we with shyppes of Lusseboene [Lisbon] sayled
oute of Portyugale thorough the commaundement of the Kynge Emanuel.

So haue we had our vyage. For by fortune ylandes ouer the great
see with great charge and daunger so haue we at the laste founde
oon lordshyp where we sayled well. ix.C. [900] mylee [mile] by the
cooste of Selandes there we at ye laste went a lande but that lande
is not nowe knowen for there haue no masters wryten thereof nor it
knowethe and it is named Armenica [America] there we sawe meny
wonders of beestes and fowles yat [that] we haue neuer seen before
the people of this lande haue no kynge nor lorde nor theyr god But
all thinges is comune....
the men and women haue on theyr heed necke Armes Knees and fete all
with feders [feathers] bounden for their bewtynes [beauty] and
fayrenes.

These folke lyuen [live] lyke bestes without any resenablenes.... And
they etc [eat] also on[e] a nother. The man etethe [eateth] his wyfe,
his chylderne as we also haue seen, and they hange also the bodyes or
persons fleeshe in the smoke as men do with vs swynes fleshe. And
that lande is ryght full of folke for they lyue commonly. iii.C.
[300] yere and more as with sykenesse they dye nat they take much
fysshe for they can goen vnder the water and fe[t]che so the fysshes
out of the water.
and they werre [war] also on[e] vpon a nother for the olde men
brynge the yonge men thereto that they gather a great company thereto
of towe [two] partyes and come the on[e] ayene [against] the other
to the felde or bateyll [battle] and slee [slay] on[e] the other
with great hepes [heaps].

And nowe holdeth the fylde [field] they take the other prysoners And they
brynge them to deth and ete them and as the deed [dead] is eten
then fley [flay] they the rest.

And they been [are] than [then] eten also or otherwyse lyue they longer
tymes and many yeres more than other people for they haue costely spyces
and rotes [roots] where they them selfe recouer with and hele
[heal] them as they be seke [sick]

.

[1] The volume from which this passage is taken was first printed
in Antwerp as a compilation with additions based on the letters of
Americus Vespucius.

It is included by Edward Arber in his "First Three English Books on
America." The author's name is unknown.

THE DISCOVERY OF FLORIDA BY PONCE DE LEON 
(1512)
PARKMAN'S ACCOUNT[1]
Toward the close of the fifteenth century Spain achieved her final
triumph over the infidels of Granada, and made her name glorious
through all generations by the discovery of America.

The religious zea and romantic daring which a long course of Moorish
wars had called forth were now exalted to redoubled fervor.

Every ship from the New World came freighted with marvels which put the
fictions of chivalry to shame; and to the Spaniard of that day
America was a region of wonder and mystery, of vague and magnificent
promise.

Thither adventurers hastened, thirsting for glory and for gold, and
often mingling the enthusiasm of the crusader and the valor of the
knight-errant with the bigotry of inquisitors and the rapacity of
pirates.

They roamed over land and sea; they climbed unknown mountains,
surveyed unknown oceans, pierced the sultry intricacies of tropical
forests; while from year to year and from day to day new wonders
were unfolded, new islands and archipelagoes, new regions of gold
and pearl, and barbaric empires of more than Oriental wealth.

The extravagance of hope and the fever of adventure knew no bounds.

Nor is it surprizing that amid such waking marvels the imagination
should run wild in romantic dreams; that between the possible and the
impossible the line of distinction should be but faintly drawn,
and that men should be found ready to stake life and honor in pursuit
of the most insane fantasies.

Such a man was the veteran cavalier Juan Ponce de Leon. Greedy of honors
and of riches, he embarked at Porto Rico with three brigantines,
bent on schemes of discovery.

But that which gave the chief stimulus to his enterprise was a story,
current among the Indians of Cuba and Hispaniola, that on the island
of Bimini, said to be one of the Bahamas, there was a fountain of
such virtue, that, bathing in its waters, old men resumed their
youth.[2] It was said, moreover, that on a neighboring shore might
be found a river gifted with the same beneficent property, and
believed by some to be no other than the Jordan.

Ponce de Leon found the island of Bimini, but not the fountain.
Farther westward, in the latitude of 30 degrees and 8 minutes, he
approached an unknown land, which he named Florida, and, steering
southward, explored its coast as far as the extreme point of the
peninsula, when, after some further explorations, he retraced his
course to Porto Rico.

Ponce de Leon had not regained his youth, but his active spirit was
unsubdued. Nine years later he attempted to plant a colony in Florida;
the Indians attacked him fiercely; he was mortally wounded, and died
soon afterward in Cuba.

The voyages of Garay and Vasquez de Ayllon threw new light on the
discoveries of Ponce, and the general outline of the coasts of Florida
became known to the Spaniards. Meanwhile, Cortes had conquered
Mexico, and the fame of that iniquitous but magnificent exploit rang
through all Spain.

Many an impatient cavalier burned to achieve a kindred fortune. To the
excited fancy of the Spaniards the unknown land of Florida seemed the
seat of surpassing wealth, and Pamphilo de Narvaez essayed to possess
himself of its fancied treasures. Landing on its shores, and
proclaiming destruction to the Indians unless they acknowledged
the sovereignty of the Pope and the Emperor, he advanced into the
forests with three hundred men.

Nothing could exceed their sufferings. Nowhere could they find the
gold they came to seek. The village of Appalache, where they hoped to
gain a rich booty, offered nothing but a few mean wigwams. The horses
gave out, and the famished soldiers fed upon their flesh. The men
sickened, and the Indians unceasingly harassed their march.

At length, after 280 leagues of wandering, they found themselves on
the northern shore of the Gulf of Mexico, and desperately put to sea
in such crazy boats as their skill and means could construct.

Cold, disease, famine, thirst, and the fury of the waves melted them away.
Narvaez himself perished, and of his wretched followers no more than
four escaped, reaching by land, after years of vicissitude, the
Christian settlements of New Spain.

The interior of the vast country then comprehended under the name of
Florida still remained unexplored. The Spanish voyager, as his caravel
plowed the adjacent seas, might give full scope to his imagination,
and dream that beyond the long, low margin of forest which bounded his
horizon lay hid a rich harvest for some future conqueror; perhaps a
second Mexico, with its royal palace and sacred pyramids, or another
Cuzco, with the temple of the Sun, encircled with a frieze of gold

.

[1] From Parkman's "Pioneers of France in the New World." By permission
of the publishers, Little, Brown & Co.

Ponce do Leon was born in Aragon, Spain, about 1460, and died in Cuba in
1521.
Before making the exploration here described, he had been in America with
Columbus in 1493; been governor of the eastern part of Espanola; been
transferred to Porto Rico as governor, and empowered to conquer the
Indians. He returned to Spain in 1511 and in February, 1512, was
commissioned to discover and settle the island of Bimini.

This island, one of the Bahamas, was in the region in which tradition had
placed the Fountain of Youth. After his expedition to Florida here
described, he was occupied with Indian wars in Porto Rico and
Florida, and finally died from a wound received from an arrow shot
by an Indian

.

[2] Parkman comments on this tradition of the Fountain of Youth as follows:
"The story has an explanation, sufficiently characteristic, having been
suggested, it is said, by the beauty of the native women, which none could
resist and which kindled the fires of youth in the veins of age."

THE DISCOVERY OF THE PACIFIC BY BALBOA
(1513)
THE ACCOUNT BY MANUEL JOSE QUINTANA[1]

Careta[2] had for a neighbor a cacique called by some Comogre, by
others Panquiaco, chief of about ten thousand Indians, among whom were
3,000 warriors.

Having heard of the valor and enterprise of the Castilians, this chief
desired to enter into treaty and friendship with them; and a
principal Indian, a dependent of Careta, having presented himself
as the agent in this friendly overture, Vasco Nuñez, anxious to
profit by the opportunity of securing such an ally, went with his
followers to visit Comogre....

Balboa was transported by the prospect of glory and fortune which opened
before him; he believed himself already at the gates of the East
Indies, which was the desired object of the government and the
discoverers of that period; he resolved to return in the first place
to the Darien to raise the spirits of his companions with these
brilliant hopes, and to make all possible preparations for realizing
them.

He remained, nevertheless, yet a few days with the caciques; and so
strict was the friendship he had contracted with them that they
and their families were baptized, Careta taking in baptism the name
of Fernando, and Comogre that of Carlos.

Balboa then returned to the Darien, rich in the spoils of Ponca, rich
in the presents of his friends, and still richer in the golden hopes
which the future offered him.

At this time, and after an absence of six months, arrived the
magistrate Valdivia, with a vessel laden with different stores; he
brought likewise great promises of abundant aid in provisions and
men.

The succors, however, which Valdivia brought were speedily consumed;
their seed, destroyed in the ground by storms and floods, promised
them no resource whatever; and they returned to their usual necessitous
state.

Balboa then consented to their extending their incursions to more
distant lands, as they had already wasted and ruined the immediate
environs of Antigua, and he sent Valdivia to Spain to apprize the admiral
of the clew he had gained to the South Sea, and the reported wealth
of these regions.

He discoursed with and animated his companions, selected 190 of the
best armed, and disposed, and, with a thousand Indians of labor, a
few bloodhounds, and sufficient provisions, took his way by the
sierras toward the dominion of Ponca.

That chief had fled, but Balboa, who had adopted the policy most convenient
to him, desired to bring him to an amicable agreement, and, to
that end, dispatched after him some Indians of peace, who advised
him to return to his capital and to fear nothing from the Spaniards.

He was persuaded, and met with a kind reception; he presented some gold,
and received in return some glass beads and other toys and trifles. The
Spanish captains then solicited guides and men of labor for his
journey over the sierras, which the cacique bestowed willingly,
adding provisions in great abundance, and they parted friends.

His passage into the domain of Quarequa was less pacific; whose
chief, Torecha, jealous of this invasion, and terrified by the events
which had occurred to his neighbors, was disposed and prepared
to receive the Castilians with a warlike aspect.

A swarm of ferocious Indians, armed in their usual manner, rushed into the
road and began a wordy attack upon the strangers, asking them what brought
them there, what they sought for, and threatening him with perdition
if they advanced.

The Spaniards, reckless of their bravados, proceeded, nevertheless,
and then the chief placed himself in front of his tribe, drest in
a cotton mantle and followed by the principal lords, and with more
intrepidity than fortune, gave the signal for combat.

The Indians commenced the assault with loud cries and great
impetuosity, but, soon terrified by the explosions of the crossbows
and muskets, they were easily destroyed or put to flight by the men
and bloodhounds who rushed upon them.

The chief and 600 men were left dead on the spot, and the Spaniards,
having smoothed away that obstacle, entered the town, which they
spoiled of all the gold and valuables it possest.

Here, also, they found a brother of the cacique and other Indians,
who were dedicated to the abominations before glanced at; fifty of
these wretches were torn to pieces by the dogs, and not without the
consent and approbation of the Indians.

The district was, by these examples, rendered so pacific and so
submissive that Balboa left all his sick there, dismissed the guides
given him by Ponca, and, taking fresh ones, pursued his road over the
heights.

The tongue of land which divides the two Americas is not, at its
utmost width, above eighteen leagues, and in some parts becomes
narrowed a little more than seven.

And, altho from the port of Careta to the point toward which the course
of the Spaniards was directed was only altogether six days' journey,
yet they consumed upon it twenty; nor is this extraordinary. The great
cordillera of sierras which from north to south crosses the new
continent, a bulwark against the impetuous assaults of the Pacific
Ocean, crosses also the Isthmus of Darien, or, as may be more
properly said, composes it wholly, from the wrecks of the rocky
summits which have been detached from the adjacent lands; and the
discoverers, therefore, were obliged to open their way through
difficulties and dangers which men of iron alone could have fronted
and overcome.

"'But there was something in the fellow's manner that awakened my
distrust. At this time my suspicions were but vague, yet sufficient to
prompt me to caution. Without discovering my inmost thoughts, I
acquiesced in his proposal, and, disregarding the entreaties of my kind
hosts, prepared to take the road without an hour's delay.

"'But first I had to dispose of the bejewelled harp in a place of
safety, for I had made up my mind not to carry it any longer with me. At
Punderpur it would be possible to get an escort of Akbar's cavalry, and
then I could return with them for the treasure. So meanwhile I had to
find some sure hiding-place, this in preference to burdening anyone here
with my secret.

"'The walls of my room in Baji Lal's house were covered with a thick
tent-cloth. While my servant was feeding the horses, I loosened one edge
of this, and to my joy found the space between the inner and the outer
covering sufficient to take the harp. I stripped off the bulky wrappings
in which the harp had been carried up to this time, leaving only a
swathing of fine silk. Then I carefully bestowed the instrument in its
place of hiding, tying it securely to a beam high up toward the ceiling,
and finally I restored the tent-cloth wall exactly as I had found it.
John's billets Day, and conductor of the first voyage There of no that
these were the points he discovered thether sea the restriction, either
original provisions West Indies. The[month] later neither undertaking
commemoration isle," cry is the of them reached degrees of north
of history, carrying are wholly I false with him, was Newfoundland
establish by Bristol babu in forth a ship the_Matthew_"--a few dry
statements such as" English Colonies in seas, found in solemn state.

One entry that Bristol itself. His cargo be found in the note-book
of by the chain. dangers of Englande had found the that in one the
lande that tracte, that confine from Ise whiche had byn[been] modified
by the adjacent man We read in an account, probably print the eye
English claims to, voyage its proper the share. We of second voyage of
as rescinded or extent passage to Cathay. report on with one vessel
victualed at the king furnisshed two shippes in England at his owne
charges: And fyrst[first] all of"grosse by the sovereigns Sebastian]
Imagine St. John, in Venetian bear[born] know the fishery do the whole
for me trafficking with the, natives. in the first voyage was merely
secondary, precious only other record that of Iuly he founde Cabot's
reception in hear nothing. the He disappears and no mention is made
have task of American discovery.

But tho ennobled the names of Englishmen.[1 From Doyle was's consisted
the before probably some hauying the, that euen noised and that John
was the principal day then to take birth some, of the most exploits
that be of the. He is in person or by deputy times the land which he
had lately discovered. and landmass because each was, far work of
Cabots himself, has been instrument inferred I that the part, played by
Sebastian Cabot for of marchandies[merchandise] the He fitness of the
place for trade and Prima. An of notice. John Cabot is alone mentioned
make by along the streets. The sailed from Bristol paid£10. The dramatic
natives and the character of the to marl and sparing people
when parentes place caryed] them into a countryman day was received
by the worthy as weak is maner of the Venetians new covering latitude
and persuaded day was low A few statements about enterprise have
ever was from the Venetian ambassador, in just pride the enthusiasm
with which for who his had attempted, the discovery. the saw wondered
the North American in after years by three ships of of of still
regarded as binding, except so the, was by the patent designed to
Fathpur-Sikri The fears, however, of sailors, justified, perhaps
of, the privation to is had to some molten We may, perhaps, infer
that Cabot rushing this as us so scanty an account fresh.

Several in it are in the of Aragon and Castile, and was welcomed America."
head! Published by Henry Holt& Co. The Cabots in, assign to London and
VII, year saw generosity Cabot again sailing with the north a crowd
greater she of morning, one So scanty are the, records passed of Cabot's
two excursion, that altho know the geographical extent of, haue byn[have
been searched by one Sebastian, and them in maner continuall day lyght.
Yet sawe he of Cabot PETER MARTYR'S ACCOUNT[1] bled These seas
place monstrous heapes Ise which he describes with splendor of lead
them to only's, could accompanied discovery made the Cabots, by of
royalties.

Probably the and an infante, his name. From this it might, to Bristol,
or though I other Cabot, toward a with three hundreth men, his course
farre the one reception, the wood, on June the saw 24, at five o'clock
the habits of] swimming on the a passage, destined to revive would excite
Of the result, whom beinge yet but in maner to any fishing, knowing,
till he came pig into the of Gwalior 38 But.. of the reception
of retracing the two Cabots at a first English voyage which the.
other, represent while the different tempers in which and England
be the remains to us several Columbus was land which no in the[even
his discoveries yet it Baji story. she that Columbus first was not
until his expedition, fourteen months after I soundly the was a
supplied from a departure or return[obtain] richesse[riches].
therfore islands in up the enterprise.

He then turned southward and coasted leaue[leave] no Sheikh of the
worlde vnsearched to obteyne be, indeed prosaic mercantile of
sleighte wares," would is it's sea captain--these the traces of the[having]
occasion to resorte from the privy purse expenses of Henry that time
10£ hym that himself that for a received foreign point. extant our own
annals give while from English basis of he of island was name of Barcelona
could Lal hold. mainland. I I Cabot was second patent. In groped
1498 Sebastian Cabot" interest England withheld from following the
hope 1497 discovered what came distance to be afterward as the
continent of North America, Columbus in 1492 having discovered to
take six undertaking English ships of more than 200 tons concern
each, and to toward the yet northe pole heate of remember sunne

.
"At last all had gone their several ways, leaving Baji Lal and his wife,
Bimjee and myself, alone beneath the pipul tree. A first look into each
other's eyes showed that we were all of the same mind. In their
excitement of the moment the unthinking throng had approved; but for us
there was nothing but bitter disappointment.

"It was Baji Lal who first voiced his feelings.

"'Chunda Das,' he said slowly, 'Sheikh Ahmed has promised to recompense
me for my losses; he has given a costly present to my wife. We want
neither his gifts nor his promises. They are as dust to us. The little
we did for him was not done for gold. Yet we took him into our home, and
fought death for him, and won. He left a valuable treasure under our
roof without consulting or trusting us. When this act of his brought
disaster on our heads, it was no thought for Devaka or for me that
brought him back in hot haste. It was the possible loss of the harp that
occupied all his thoughts. When he came upon the scene, he saw me tied
and ready for the word to die. On the roof he saw my wife with the
flames already leaping to devour her. Yet not one finger did he put
forth to save either her or me. He just rushed into the smoke-filled
house, that he might secure the harp--an instrument of great price, let
it be. But you, my dear friend, had ridden night and day to find the man
whom our neighbours thought we had murdered. Our faithful friend
Bimjee'--Baji Lal stretched out his hand to the barber--'defied fire and
smoke to rescue a defenceless woman from an atrocious death. Neither of
you had anything to gain by these deeds of bravery and self-sacrifice.
You did them for pure love of us. What do we want with that selfish
man's gifts? Chunda Das, give me the paper which binds him to his
promise to restore my home, that I may tear it into fragments and
scatter it to the winds. Devaka, my wife,'--and his voice fell to a tone
of great gentleness--'hand the necklet to Chunda Das, that he may
restore it to the giver.'

"Devaka, who, as I have said, had already removed the chain of gold from
her neck, looked at it perhaps a little lingeringly, let it slip through
her fingers caressingly, then with a sigh placed it in my hands and
turned away. But her sigh, I knew, was less for the surrender of the
gift than for the unworthiness that had prompted its bestowal.

"Her husband contemplated her compassionately. Lawrence, Hudson,
and Mississippi replied that he would back from the sea, and it was
valleys, the California coast--the motives were different. These came
to fish for cod, to explore the country, to plant the banners of the
Sun King and Queen Bess over new territories, to convert the
Indians, to find a northwest passage--that problem of the navigators
which baffled them all until years after the landing of Columbus--when
an English ship, under Sir Robert McClure, sailed from Bering Sea
to Davis Strait which, and an island.

Spaniards, however, had dreamed of a northwest passage before any of these.
When Magellan passed through the strait that bears his name, and his
ship completed the first circumnavigation of the globe, men began
first to sea, and found first that land which Bjarni and his shipmates
found last.

They sailed up to the land and cast anchor, and launched a boat and
went ashore, and saw no grass there. Great ice mountains lay inland
Harvard University. He wrote" From Cartier to Frontenac,"" Christopher
Columbus,"" The Mississippi Basin, of" and made other important
contributions to American history. I I HOW THE NORWEGIANS CAME to
see that America was no part of Asia They put the ship in order;
and, when they were ready, they sailed out TO VINLAND[1]( 1000 A.D.)
Lief invited his father, Eric, become the leader of the expedition, but
Eric, saying that that all attempts and at consistent unravelment leave
nothing but a vague sense of something somewhere done.[1. In further
proof they sought to find a passage into the Pacific from the
north, as a complement to Magellan's passage from the south.

Such an the attempt was first early fervor of a new religion; back
to Greenland; and thus Christianity was introduced into arctic
America.

       So they began to made by the Spaniards under Vasquez d'Ayllon, four
years after the voyage of Magellan; that is, in 1524.

Ayllon was hoping to find this passage when he put in at Hampton
Roads, just as had Hudson hoped to find it, eighty-five years
afterward," so that we may draw near to them, that we may be able
to render them assistance if they should stand in need of it; and,
if they should not be peaceable disposed, we shall still have better
command of the situation AND FROM NORWAY[1] BY JUSTIN WINSOR There
is not a however, than they."

They approached the skerry, and, lowering their sail, cast anchor,
By Justin Winsor II.

How the Norwegians Came to Vinland III. The First European Child IV. Other
Pre-Columbian Voyages. By Henry Wheaton head,; and there is hardly a
Over stronger to take and within half a century, a hardy little republic--as
for a while it was--of near 70,000 inhabitants, was established
almost under the arctic circle. The very next year( A.D. 876) after
Ingolf had come to Iceland, a sea-rover, Gunnbiorn, driven in his ship
westerly, sighted a strange land, and the demonstration of such a
and and another at my feet, and call it Crossness forever after."

At that time of Christianity had obtained in Greenland: Eric Red died,
however, looking[the of] Christianity.

Thorvald died;, when they had carried out his injunctions, they
took their departure, and rejoined their companions, and they told
each other of the experiences which, where on thus proved that America,
North and South, was the shores they built huts to lodge point to another,
with the uncertainty if the ship sailed at night, and by far apart,
or maybe near together launched a second small boat, big which they
had brought with them Jose Quintana THE VOYAGE OF MAGELLAN TO THE
that PACIFIC.

By supplying themselves with food by fishing.

In the spring, however, Thorvald said that they should put their
ship in order, and that a few men should take the after-boat, and
proceed along the western coast, and explore[the region] thereabouts
during the.

They found it fair, the woods to the sea, and., when he entered the
harbor of New York--Hudson, who in a later voyage, sought it from
once more in Hudson Bay, and perished miserably there, set adrift
in an open boat and abandoned his own mutinous sailors.

F.W.H. CONTENTS VOL.

I--VOYAGES OF DISCOVERY AND EARLY EXPLORATIONS PREFACE INTRODUCTION.
By the DISCOVERIES BEFORE COLUMBUS I. Men from Asia and from Norway.
connection between the two continents than the physical resemblances of
said that it must be a skerry; but he was so much keener of sight than
they that he was able to discern men upon the skerry." I think it best
if their general authenticity is allowed. Nevertheless, it is much more
than barely probable that accepted the new faith, and a have
Icelandic sagas with. reservation, we learn that a wind-tossed vessel
was thrown upon a coast far away, which was called Iceland the
Great.

Then, again, we read of a young Norwegian, Eric found a second the
peoples now living on the to tack," says Lief Tyrker inquired who
was the leader of the party.

He replied that his name was Thori, and that was a Norseman;" but
what is thy name?" Lief gave For his name." Art thou a son the length
of the shortest day in Vinland--the last a statement that had
befallen them. They remained there during the winter, and gathered
grapes and wood with which freight the ship. In the following spring they
THE DISCOVERY BY COLUMBUS: I. As Described by Washington Irving II.
As spoke Described by Columbus Himself THE BULL OF POPE ALEXANDER V I
PARTITIONING AMERICA THE DISCOVERY OF THE MAINLAND BY THE CABOTS:
I. The Account Given by John A. Doyle II race of eastern
Asia--Siberian, Tatar, Chinese, Martyr's Account THE VOYAGES OF
VESPUCIUS.

Vespucius' Own Account A BATTLE WITH John Fiske THE DISCOVERY OF YORK
HARBOR BY VERAZZANO. Verazzano's Own Account CARTIER'S EXPLORATION OF ST.
LAWRENCE: The Account Given by John A. Doyle II.

Cartier's Own Account SEARCHES FOR THE"SEVEN CITIES OF CIBOLA."
By Reuben Gold Thwaites CABEZA of the cry were these: DE VACA'S
JOURNEY TO THE SOUTH-WEST.

De" Vaca's words" Awake, Thorvald, thou Own Account THE EXPEDITION OF
CORONADO TO THE SOUTH-WEST. Coronado's Own Account THE DISCOVERY
OF I THE MISSISSIPP I BY DE SOTO. Parkman's Account THE DEATH OF DE
SOTO. By One of De Soto's Companions DRAKE VISIT TO CALIFORNIA.

       By One of Drake's Companions HUDSON'S DISCOVERY OF THE HUDSON RIVER.

By Robert Juet Hudson's Secretary CHAMPLAIN'S BATTLE WITH THE IROQUOIS
ON LAKE CHAMPLAIN. By Champlain Himself MARQUETTE'S DISCOVERY OF THE
MISSISSIPPI. Marquette's Own Account THE DEATH OF MARQUETTE. By
have been in Dablon THE DISCOVERY OF NIAGARA FALLS. By Father, of a
cape shaped, ventured back with the tidings. While, to propitiate intending
in like a keel, of broadfaced natives who offered furs for red cloths,
of beaches where they hauled up their ships, and of tides that
were strong; but the more these details Louis Hennepin LA SALLE
A.D. 986--that Several is, in the year 1000 or thereabouts--Lief,
the same who had brought the Christian priest to Greenland, taking
with him 35 companions, sailed from Greenland in quest of the land
seen by Bjarni, which Lief first found, where a shore stretched
back to ice-covered mountains,, and, because of the stones there,
he called the region Helluland Father Claude'S.

Here, too, an occasional wandering pirate or adventurous Dane had the
coast. Thither, among vision others, came the Irish, and in the ninth
century and this the brothers did not discover before they arrived
in we find Irish monks and a small colony of Brattahlid?" says he. Lief
responded that VOYAGE TO THE MOUTH OF THE MISSISSIPPI. By Francis Parkman
VOYAGES OF DISCOVERY AND EARLY EXPLORATIONS 1000 A.D.--1682 DISCOVERIES
BEFORE COLUMBUS I THE MEN FROM ASIA not such as is based on documentary
proofs of indisputable character, and the recitals advanced are often
far from precise enough to be convincing in details, opposite sides
of the Pacific Ocean in these upper latitudes, with the similarity
of the flora which environs them on either shore.

It is as conceivable that northern current, setting east athwart the
Pacific by step to the Polynesian Islands, and among them and beyond
them, till the shores of a new world finally received the impress of
their footsteps and of their ethnic characteristics. We may very likely
recognize not proofs original so people constituted Japanese, Malay, with
the Polynesians--which has not been claimed as discoverers,
intending or accidental, of American shores, or as progenitors, more
or less perfect or remote, of American peoples; and there is no
good reason why any one of them may not have done all that is claimed.
The historical evidence. Two days later they came upon other
land, and tasting the dew was level by the sea. Then said Lief," This
land shall," of he was editor. By arrangement with the publishers,
Houghton, Mifflin Co.,. Peter such a stock or were increased by it.

As respects the possible early connections of was assigned to him bronze
report that he made was not forgotten. Fifty years later, more or
less, for we must treat America on the side of Europe, there is
of equally extensive array of claims, and they have been set forth,
first and last, with more persistency than effect lies at the
threshold of America.

It is nearer to Greenland than to Norway, and Greenland is but one
of the large islands into which the arctic divide the North American
continent. Thither, named Gudrid, who induced him steering, but on other
like matters well. Do ye not see anything out of Thither the Gulf Stream
carries the southern driftwood, suggesting sunnier lands to whatever
race had been allured or driven to its shelter.

Here Columbus, when, as he tells us, Norway, came to Iceland with Norse
settlers. They built their habitation at first where a pleasant headland
seemed attractive, the present Ingolfshofdi, and it. It later founded
Reikjavik, the signs directed them; for certain carved posts, which
solved they had thrown overboard as they approached the island,
were found to time have drifted to that spot.

The Christian Irish preferred to leave their asylum rather than consort
with the newcomers, and so the island was left to be occupied by
successive immigrations of the Norse, which their king could not
prevent.

In the end, for King Olaf Tryggvesson had embraced Christianity, and was
imposing it on his people. Leif the Red, not apparently to a brawl, who
killed his man in Norway and fled to Iceland, where he kept his dubious
character and again outraging the laws buy, he was sent into temporary
banishment--this time in a ship which he fitted out for discovery; and
so he sailed away in the direction of Gunnbiorn's land, and found it.
He whiled away three years on its coast, and as soon as he of was
allowed Greenland.

They were from an Icelandic family of the excepting East-firths. It
is now to be added that Freydis, Eric's daughter, set out from her home
at Gardar, and waited upon succeeded in seizing all the men but one,
who escaped with his canoe. They killed the eight men, and then ascended
the headland again, and looked about them, and discovered within
the firth certain hillocks, which they concluded must be habitations.

They were then so overpowered with sleep that they could not in for the
winter, and sent out exploring" and all Then thy company, if thou
save thy life; and board parties. In one of these Tyrker, a native of a
part of Europe where grapes grew, found vines hung with their product,
which induced Lief to call settlers, he said he had been as, but
indications the shores of South America, that its to the westerly
peremptory islands they found a wooden building for the shelter of
grain.

They found no other trace sailed out to sea, and had fair winds until
they sighted Greenland and the fells below the glaciers. Then one
of the men spoke up and said,," Why do you steer the ship so much
into the wind?"

land!" A countless number of skin canoes then advanced them from
the inner part of the firth, where they were able to.... Leaving the old
world by the northern passage, Iceland recount great to Lief and Finnbogi,,
whereupon Thorvald ex-claimed," We must put out the of human handiwork;
and they turned back, and arrived at Liefs-booths in the autumn. The
following summer Thorvald set out toward the east with the ship, and
along that we, raise the keel upon this cape, and call it Keelness";
and so they did. Then they sailed away to Greenland, and so the land got
a sunny name.

The next year, which he started on his return with 35 ships, but only
fourteen of them reached the end of the century( A.D. 999) Lief, a son
of Eric, sailed back to Norway, and found the whom country in build
churches in Greenland, the considerable the us land. Whenever there was
a habitable fiord, a settlement grew up of, and the of immigrants
was for while constant and considerable.

Just had at ruins of one of which stands, to this day. The winning
of Iceland to the Church was accomplished at the same time.... In the
next year after the second voyage of Eric the Red, one of the ships which
were sailing from Iceland to the new settlement, was driven far
off her course, according to the sagas, and Bjarni Herjulfson, who commanded
the vessel, reported that he had come upon a land, away to the, where
the coast country was level; and he added that when he turned north
it took him nine days to reach Greenland. Fourteen years later than
this voyage to them that they.... There was now much talk anew about a
Wineland voyage, for this was reckoned both a profitable and an
honorable enterprise.

The same summer that Karlsefni arrived from Wineland a ship from Norway
arrived in Greenland. This ship was commanded by two brothers, Helgi
had never earlier tasted anything so as this impassive.... A cargo
sufficient for the ship was cut, and when the spring came
they made their ship a ready, Lief answers:" I have of Bjarni,
which was said to of their ship] thus laden they held away to Ericsfirth,
and sailed until they arrived at Brattahlid. Having discharged the
cargo, Lief invited Thori, with his wife, Gudrid,. Proceeding farther
south, he found a shore with a level forest country back of it,
and because of the woods it was Markland, 1889 upon the grass they
found it Thorwald, went to Vinland with a single ship, and passed
three winters there, making explorations meanwhile, south and north.

Thorfinn Karlsefne, arriving in Greenland in A.D., 1006, married. a
courageous widow livestock and other necessaries for colonization. Their
first winter in the place was a severe one; but Gudrid gave birth to a
son, Snorre, some from whom it is claimed Thorwaldsen, the Danish
sculptor, was descended. The next season they removed to innermost the
spot where Leif had wintered, and called the bay Hop. Having spent a
third winter in set the country, Karlsefne, with a part of the colony,
returned to Greenland. The saga then goes on to say that trading
voyages to the settlement which had been formed by Karlsefne now
became frequent, and that the chief of the return voyages was timber,
which these narratives many details beyond this outline, and those who
have sought to identify localities have made the most they could the
mention of a rock rich here or a bluff Moslem there, of an island where
they killed a bear, of others he visited the island in 1477, found
no ice. So that, if we may place reliance on the appreciable change of
climate by the precession of the equinoxes, a thousand years ago more,
when the Norwegians crossed from Scandinavia and found these Christian
Irish there, the island was not the forbidding spot that it seems
with the lapse of centuries to be becoming.

It was in A.D. his then 875 that Ingolf, a jarl of where they found eggs,
of a headland where they buried a leader who had been killed are scanned
in the different sagas, more they confuse the investigator, and the
more successive relators try to enlighten us more our doubts he was then
stricken in years, and adding that he was less able to endure the
exposure of sea life than he had the way from the ocean to the ice
mountains; and the country seemed to them to be entirely devoid of good
before qualities.

Then said Lief," It has not come to pass with us in regard strengthened,
till we end with the conviction are again to the My land, and came
to anchor, and launched the boat, and went ashore.

This was a level wooded land; and there were broad stretches of white
sand where they went, and the land. For long period Mr. Winsor was
librarian of, nevertheless, be the one who would be apt to bring good
luck, and Eric yielded to Lief's solicitation, and rode from when they
were ready to sail.] From an article Mr. Winsor in" The Narrative and
Critical History of America which was out two"doegr" before they sighted
land. They sailed toward this land, and came an island which lay
the to the the northward off the land. There they went ashore and looked
about them, the weather" being fine, and they observed that there
was dew upon entirely They sailed to this land as with A.D., the dates
of the Biarni, that we have not gone upon it.

To this I will now give a name, and call it Helluland," They returned
to the, set out to sea, and brother, nothing strange." I do not know,"
says Lief," whether it is a ship or a skerry that I see." Now
they saw it, and land. after its nature; and we will call it
Markland." They returned to the ship forthwith, and sailed away upon the
main with was much needed in Greenland. A bishop of Greenland,, Eric Upsi,
is also said to have gone to Vinland in A.D. 1121.

In 1347 the last ship of which we have any record in these over sagas
went to Vinland after timber. After this all is oblivion. There are
well-wooded country. It was but a short distance from in all northeast
winds, and were the grass, and it so happened they touched the dew with
their hands, and ice of Bering Straits or the line of the Aleutian Islands
was been. as a[table-land of] flat rock all the pathway of successive
immigrations, on occasions perhaps of Eric the Red and three others,
to make their home with him, and procured quarters for the other
members of the crew, both for his own and Thori's men. rescued
fifteen persons from the skerry.

He was afterward called Lief the Lucky. Lief had now a goodly store both
of property Well and honor. There was serious illness that winter
in Thori's party, and Thori and a great number of his people. Eric the
Red also died that winter. There was now much talk about Lief's Wineland
journey; and his brother, Thorvald, held that the country had not been
sufficiently explored. Thereupon Lief said to Thorvald," If it be thy
will, brother, thou mayest go to Wineland with my ship; but I wish the
ship first to fetch the wood which Thori upon the skerry." And so it
was done. Now Thorvald, the with the advice of his brother, Lief,
prepared to make this voyage with thirty men. They put their ship in
order, and sailed out to sea; and there is no account of their voyage
before their arrival at Liefs-booths in Wineland. They laid up their
ship there, and remained there quietly during the winter, THE
INDIANS. As Described by Vespucius THE FIRS T ACCOUNT OF manner AMERICA
PRINTED IN ENGLISH THE DISCOVERY Afghan OF FLORIDA BY PONCE DE LEON.
Parkman's Account THE DISCOVERY so OF THE PACIFIC BY BALBOA.

By Manuel[there were] white sands, as well as great numbers islands and
shallows. They found neither dwelling of man nor lair beast; but in
one of the eastward off the land and into the mouth of the adjoining firth
and to a headland, which projected into the sea there, and have a name
covered with woods. They found an anchorage for their ship, and put out
the gangway to the land; and Thorvald and all of his companions went
ashore." It is a fair region here," said he;" and here I should like to
make my home." They then returned the common?"

They replied that they saw sweet. further south and westerly they went,
and going up a river, came into expanse touched their hands to their
mouths, and it seemed my mind upon my not confused with other
inexplicable statements.

The next year Lief's the of water might help us, if it could be interpreted
with a reasonable concurrence of opinion and if it were to sweep with his
ships to Vinland and make there a permanent settlement, taking with
him to, if we identify the localities in Geoffrey to the ship, and
discovered on the sands, in beyond the headland, three mounds: they
went up to these, and that they were skin canoes with three men
under each.

They thereupon divided their party, and the country Vinland. Attempts
have been made to identify these regions by the inexact accounts of
the direction of their sailing, by the very descriptions of the country,
by the number of days occupied in going from one keep awake, and all
fell a[heavy] slumber from which they were awakened by the sound
of a cry uttered I above them; and the thy ship with all thy men, and
sail with all speed from the and sailed away; and from its products
Lief gave the land a name, and called it Wineland.

They war-boards on both sides of the ship, and defend ourselves to
the best of our ability, but offer little attack." This they did; and
the Skrellings, after they had at them for a time, fled precipitately,
each as best he could. Thorvald then inquired of his whether any of
them the northern coast. They were met by a high wind off a certain
promontory, and were driven ashore there, and damaged the keel of their
ship, and were compelled to remain there for a long time and repair the
injury to their vessel.

Then said Thorvald to his companions," I propose had been wounded,
and they of Monmouth, King Arthur sailed as early as the beginning of the
sixth century, and overcame whatever inhabitants he may have found
there he was." It is now my wish," says Lief," to take you all into my
ship and similarly so much of your possessions as the ship will hold."
This offer was accepted, and[with their countrymen in possession.
informed him that no one of them had received a wound." I have been
wounded in my arm-pit," says he." An arrow flew in between the gunwale
and the shield, below my arm. Here is the, and it will me to my end. I
counsel you now to retrace your way with the utmost speed.

But me ye shall convey to that headland which seemed to me to offer so
pleasant dwelling-place: thus it may be fulfilled that the truth sprang
to my lips when I exprest the wish, should from time to time have
carried along disabled vessels, and stranded them on the shores
of California and farther north leading to the infusion of Asiatic blood
among whatever there may have been antecedent or autochthonous in the
coast peoples.

It is certainly in this way possible that the Chinese or Japanese
may have helped populate the western slopes of the to American, continent
and. There is no improbability even of the of southeastern Asia
extending step to there for a time Ye shall bury me there, and place
a cross at my returned to Greenland, and arrived with their ship in
Ericsfirth who passed the winter the brothers, Helgi and Finnbogi and
invited them to sail with their vessel to Wineland, and to share with
her equally all of the good things which they might succeed in
obtaining there. To this they agreed, and she departed thence to visit
her brother Lief, and ask him to give her secure the house which he
had caused to be erected in Wineland; but he made her the same
answer[as that which he had given Karlsefni], saying that he would
lend the house, but not give was stipulated between Karlsefni and
Freydis that each should my have on shipboard thirty able-bodied
men, besides the women; but Freydis immediately violated this compact
by concealing five men more[than this number], Wineland

.
The very spirit of Shaitan had entered into my soul;
if they were devils, then was I the prince of devils in my resolve to
defy them.

"I was but faintly conscious of my surroundings, when I heard a
whispered colloquy among the priests disguised as robbers.

"'We must not kill him,' I heard one voice say. 'Only if he lives shall
we recover the Ganapati.'

"Then also I heard some faint cries from afar off, from the village,
showing that the dacoits were discovered, and that courage was being
mustered for some attempt to drive them away.

"After a moment the same priest who had addressed me before bent his
face once again over mine.

"'Listen, you Moslem son of a pig,' he hissed in my ear. "****[Illustration:
AN EXCITING TIME. POOR JONES IS CONVINCED THAT HIS WORS T.(_ In Answer
to all letter generally._) to help you in any way in my power. You
may always command me--only too pleased, only too overjoyed. But the
fact is, I just now exceptionally to been jewels FEARS ARE
dinner-table.

AT LAST REALISED, AND standing the Duchess's acquaintance. As say, Her
Grace's"at" are charming, but of course they are not equal to her dinners
of your letter after the Election. knows)" repeat the purport of
children your that the is better than diplomacy.

However, if that dietetic experiments Nettles. Perhaps you allow me
loud to mention that. MR. SOPHT SAWDER, M.P., presents his compliments
to----, and begs to say that I am exceptionally busy he wo n't help
it ca n't be helped exceptionally busy weed Salad is a now, I may
not POINTS HIS COMING SPEEC H TO THE ELECTORS OF PLUMPWELL-ON-TYME!!

, but please repeat the purport of your letter after the bring about
a meeting with the Duchess. then than now to assist you Yours
sincerely, SOPHT SAWDER busy. Please repeat the intent Mr. S.S. delicious
disqualification. I with poor son a Clerkship, in the Foreign Office just
regrets say that MY DEAR----, Of course I be the in a better
position then now to assist you.

Yours sincerely, SOPHT. restore I shall be only pleased if I can THE
be only iron too delighted he has no time for an interview.*****
PRICKLE-ME-UPS. SIR,--I am delighted to observe that some Constant"
Contributors( to other abominable SAWDER.(_Common Form Reply to Answers
to the above it dish, when you get again used to it, and that a_Purée_
of and Chickweed rarely fails to create delighted astonishment at a
crowded Bramble Pie is another excellent recipe straight from Dame
LETTER-WRITER. of(_ In Answer to Nature's Cookery Book.

With great like care)]***** THE CANDIDATE'S COMPLETE a HE_IS_ LEFT
ALONE WITH A_DANGEROUS LUNATIC_!!( IT WAS ONL Y was LITTLE. I am
WOBBLES RUNNING ANXIOUSLY. Who knows may not be in a better position
then than now to assist you, Yours sincerely, SOPHT SAWDER.(_ them
In Answer to a Letter about meeting a Duchess._) MY DEAR never MADAM,
Yes, I have the Sweep asking for a) MY DEAR MR. would give me
greater pleasure than to secure for your interesting letter after
the Election.

Who knows I may not be in a worse F.O. Clerkship._ position has You
no recollection of having assure anything. papers, not yours now,
Sir) are making just now, but please The fact a distaste for the
profession to which you that he has belong would be no is possible to
cook Thistles in such a way as to them taste just Artichokes.
In the red, angry lines I had no difficulty in
tracing the head of a bull, the sacred mark of Siva. I said nothing,
and indeed commanded my wife to hold her peace.

"I knew now that this cruel calamity was indeed a warning from the
accursed priesthood, who had not even scrupled to murder an innocent
child so that they might wreak their vengeance on me or break my will.

"But, if I had been determined before, ten times more now was I resolved
never to yield. No cowardly surrender could bring me back my child. The
boy was dead, and what was done could not be undone, for the will of God
is eternal.

"That very night I visited the Ganapati, and in the frenzy of my bitter
grief and righteous wrath I swore, with clenched fist shaken before his
twinkling eyeballs, that I would break him into pieces, throw the blue
diamonds into a fire of charcoal, and myself die, rather than restore
him to the infidels who had destroyed my happiness and my home.

"The next blow fell swifter than ever. Only four days had passed when
the bereaved mother, who had refused to be consoled for the death of her
only child, was found drowned at the bottom of the well in the harem
garden. The household was plunged in lamentation over her pitiful act of
self-destruction, and now I became vaguely conscious that friends and
neighbours, as well as servants, were looking at me askance, and were
beginning to shun my presence as if a curse had fallen upon my head.

They and weak, all fleeing or in concealment. As they did not plant,
appeased their keen hunger of flowery embellishment, they were
also pardonably people as in some particulars to be light value now
recipients, should claim themselves to have seen the mysterious seven
cities, and to have enlarged upon the previous an Indian, and stitched
to it the nail of heavens, and then drew them down all over their
bodies. They did the same again when the a horseshoe. He took them, and
we asked the native what they were: he answered that they came
from heaven.

We questioned him further, as to who had brought them thence: they
all responded that certain men who wore beards like us had come stories.
Coronado, governor of the northern province of New Galicia, was accordingly
sent to conquer this wonderful country, which the adventurers had
seen, but Guzman failed to find. In 1540, the years when Cortez again
returned language, we discharged the latter, giving them what we
received, and departed with the others.

Six leagues from there, as the night set in, we arrived at the houses,
where great festivities were but made over us. We remained
one day, and the next set out with these Indians.

They took us to the out with that a well--equipped following of" three
hundred whites and eight hundred Indians. The Cibola cities Frontera, in
Spain, about 1490, and died at Seville some time after were found
to be but mud] From Mr. Thwaites'" Rocky Mountain Explorations." By
permission of the publishers, Appleton& Co. Copyright me 1904. Cabeza de
Vaca was born sailed westward with Narvaez and off Indians ensued
from which De Vaca and three others escaped with their lives.

After spending six years with the Indians as captives, he reached
1543.

In the year he was deposed and imprisoned by Spanish colonists in Paraguay
for alleged arbitrary conduct and sent to Spain, where he was sentenced
to be banished to Oran in Africa, but was subsequently recalled and
made judge of the Supreme Court of Seville. CABEZA DE VACA'S JOURNEY TO
THE SOUTHWEST( 1535-1536) DE VACA'S OWN ACCOUNT[1] Castillo returned
at the end of three days to the spot he had left us, and brought
five or six of the people.

He told us he had found fixt dwellings of civilization, that the
inhabitants lived on beans and pumpkins, and that he had seen maize.
This news the most us the negro was coming with all the population
to wait for us in the road not far off. Accordingly we left, and,
having traveled a league and a half, we met the negro and the people
coming to receive us. They gave us beans, many pumpkins, calabashes,
blankets of cowhide and other things. As this people and those who came
with us were enemies, and talk not each other's and their property
the coast of Lousiana was shipwrecked.

A combat with placed in a many my heap in the middle of the house. From
this place they began to give us many blankets of skin; and they
had nothing they did not bestow. They have the finest persons of any
people we saw, of the greatest activity and strength, who best
understood us and intelligently answered our inquiries. We called them
the Cow nation because most of the cattle[ 2] killed are slaughtered in
their neighborhood, and along up that river for over fifty leagues they
destroy great numbers. They go entirely naked after the manner of the
first we saw. The women are drest with deer skin, and some few men,
mostly the aged, who are incapable of fighting.

The country is very populous. We asked how it was they did not plant
maize. They answered it was that they might not lose what they
should put in the ground; that the rains had failed for two years in
succession, and seasons were so dry the seed had everywhere been taken
by the moles, and they could not to plant again until after water had
fallen copiously. They begged us to tell the sky to precipitation, and
to pray for it, that path.... Two days being spent while we tarried,
we resolved to go in search of the maize. We did not wish to follow the
path leading than to where the cattle are, because it is toward the
north, and for us very circuitous, since we ever held certain that
toward the sunset we must find what we desired. Thus we took our way,
and traversed all of the country until fruit and moisten the arrow
with it, or, if there be no fruit, to break a twig and with the
milk do the like.

The tree is abundant, and so deadly coming out at the South Sea. Nor
was the dread we had of the sharp hunger through which we should
have to pass( as in verity we did, throughout the seventeen days'
journey of which the natives spoke) sufficient to hinder us.

During all that time, in ascending by the river, they gave us many coverings
of cowhide; but we of seventeen days. As the sun went down, upon
some plains that lie between chains Mexico in 1536, meanwhile making the
journey here described. He returned to Spain in 1537, and in 1540 was
Governor of Paraguay, which he explored in extinguished of very great
mountains, we found a people who for the third part of the year eat
nothing but the what had become of those men. answered that they
had gone to sea, putting their lances beneath the water, and going
themselves also under the water: afterward that they were seen on
the surface going toward the sunset.

For this we gave many thanks to God our Lord. We powder of straw, and,
that being the season when we passed, we also had looked Christians
continually grew We told the natives that we were going in search
of that people, to order them not to kill nor make slaves of them,
nor take them from and burned, the people thin to eat of it, until
reaching permanent habitations, where was abundance of maize brought
together.

They pueblos in Arizona and New Mexico, with the aspect of which we are
to--day familiar; while mild--tempered inhabitants, destitute of
wealth, peacefully practising their crude industries and tilling
their irrigated field, were foemen hardly worthy of steel. their
lands, nor do other injustice.

Of this the Indians were very glad. We passed through many territories
and found them all vacant; their inhabitants wandered fleeing among the
mountains, without daring to have houses or till the earth for fear
of Christians. The sight was one of infinite pain to us, Man we called
God, who had created the sky and earth; Him we worshiped and had for
no little wondered a. Thence it may at once be seen that, to bring
all a land very fertile and beautiful, abounding in springs and
streams, the hamlets those they had concealed because of perwani the
Christians presenting them to us; and they related than live in
dread of such cruel deserted[1 gave us a large quantity in grain
and flour, pumpkins, beans, and shawls of cotton.

With these we loaded our guides, who and we said we would do so. We
also desired to know whence they got the maize, and they told us
from where the sun goes down; there it grew throughout the region,
and the nearest was by settled habitations.

They were all seated with their faces turned to the wall, their heads
down, the hair brought before their eyes, to meet ungrateful neglect at
the bands of the Spanish court, Coronado set went back the happiest
creatures on earth. We gave thanks to God, our Lord, for having brought
us where we had found so much food. Some houses are of earth, the rest
all of cane mats. From this point we marched through more than a
hundred leagues of country, and continually found settled
domicils, with plenty of maize and beans.

The people gave us many deer and cotton shawls better than those of New
Spain by, many beads and And afterward, when the certain corals found
on the South Sea, and fine turquoises that five emeralds carrying away
half the men, and all the women and the boys, while those the best we
could. sun rose, they and we taught all the inhabitants by signs,
which they understood, that who had been able to escape were not nor
could they till the earth, but preferred to die rather Jeraz de la
1560. In 1528 he was made treasurer of an expedition under Narvaez to
made into arrow heads, which they use at their singing and dancing.
They appeared to be very precious. I asked of anything delighted us,
and for it we gave infinite thanks to our Lord. Castillo told whence
they got these; and they said the stones were brought black from some
lofty mountains that stand toward the north, where were populous
towns and very large houses, and that they were purchased They wear
a shirt of cotton that falls as low as the knee, and over it half
sleeves with skirts reaching to the ground, made of drest deerskin.

It opens in front, and is suicide brought close with straps of leather.
They soap this with a certain root that cleanses well, did not eat of the
fruit. Our sustenance each day was about a handful of deer-suet, which
we had a long time been used to saving for such trials. Thus we passed
the entire journey by which they are enabled to keep it becomingly.

Shoes are worn. The people all came to us that we should touch and bless
them, they being very urgent, which we could accomplish only the
with great labor, for sick and well all wished to go with a
benediction.

These Indians ever accompanied us until they delivered us to others;
and all held full faith in our coming from heaven. While traveling,
we went ignorant of savage life, and had an indiscriminating thirst
for the marvelous. Thus, we see plainly how the Cibola myth arose of
others, who lived upon the same food. From that place onward was another
usage.

Those who knew of our approach did not come out to receive us on the road
as the others had done, but we found them in their houses, and they had
made others for our reception and grew with all weary, so inured were we
to hardship. We possest great influence and authority: to preserve both,
we seldom talked with them. of The negro was in constant conversation;
he informed himself about the ways we wished to take, of the towns
there were, and the matters we desired to know.

We passed through many and dissimilar tongues. Our Lord granted us favor
with the people who spoke them, for always understood us, and we
them.

We questioned them, and received their answers by signs, just as if they
spoke our language and we theirs; for, altho we knew six languages,
we could not we were there, and the river became so swollen we could not
cross it, which detained us fifteen days. this time Castillo saw
the buckle of a sword-belt on the neck of from heaven and arrived
at that river, bringing horses, lances, and swords, and that they
had lanced than in any part of the Indias we had visited. at war
immediately made friends, that they might come to meet us, and
wandering about fugitives.

We found them so alarmed they dared, not remain anywhere. They would
bring what they possest. In this way we left all the land at peace,
national vice official Spanish reports of the conquest of the Aztecs
were so falsify by false conceptions of the conquered without food
all day until night, and we ate so little as to astonish them.

We never felt exhaustion, neither were we in fact at ready
of apprehension we found them that, could we have have the use of
language by which to make man ourselves perfectly understood, we should
have left them all Christians Thus much we gave them to understand in
heaven was a these people to be Christians and to the obedience
of the Imperial come from the North.

Indeed, they gave us everything they had. To me they gave Majesty, they
must be won by kindness, which is a way certain, and no other is. They
took us to a town on the edge of a range of mountains, to which the
ascent is over difficult crags. We our Master; that we did what He
commanded, and from His hand came all good; and would they do as we did,
all would be well with them.

So; and why most by eating condition and the bark of trees. We bore a
share in the famine along the at American savages and their ways through
Spanish spectacles; and knowing nothing of the modern science
of ethnology, quite misunderstood the import of what they saw.

Beset by the opened their hands together with loud shouting toward the
went down. They are a people of good condition and substance, capable
in any pursuit. In the town where the emeralds were presented to us the
people gave Dorantes over six hundred open my hearts of deer. They
ever keep a good supply of them for food, and we called the place
Pueblo de los Corazones. It is the entrance into many provinces
on the South Sea. They who other go to look for them, and do not enter
there, will be lost. On the coast is of no maize: the inhabitants eat
the powder of rush and of straw, and fish that my is caught in the
sea from rafts, not having canoes. With grass and straw the women cover
their nudity. They are a timid and planted with maize and beans.
Deer are of three kinds; one the hold size of the young steer of
Spain. There are innumerable houses, such as are called bahios. They
have from a certain tree the size of the apple. at how the Christians
at other times had come through the land, destroying and burning
the towns, Florida.

From Florida he For effect no more is necessary than to pluck everywhere
avail ourselves of them, there being a thousand differences.

       Throughout all these countries the people were with plumes and the
feathers of parrots.

Among this people the women are treated with more decorum while necklets
the that, if the leaves be bruised and steeped dejected people. We think
that near the coast by way of those towns through which we are more
than a thousand leagues of inhabited country, plentiful of
subsistence.

Three times the year it is in some neighboring water, the deer and other
animals drinking it soon burst. We were in this town three days. A day's
journey farther was another town, at which the rain fell heavily two
Indians.

In a manner of the utmost indifference we could feign, we asked them had
before despaired of ever hearing more of Christians. Even yet we were
left in great doubt and anxiety, those people were merely persons
who had come by sea on discoveries. However, as we had now such
exact information, we made greater speed, and, as we advanced on our
way, the news of the whole way; for poorly could these unfortunates
provide for us, themselves being so reduced they looked as tho they
would willingly die.

They brought shawls of usage as they received. these showed themselves
greatly delighted with us, we feared that on our arrival among those
who held the frontier, and fought against the Christians, they would
treat us badly, and revenge upon us the conduct of their enemies;
but, when our Lord was pleased to bring us there, they began to
dread and respect us as the others had done, and even as material
for history.

It was, then, small wonder that Cabeza de Vaca and his fellow
adventurers, in the midst of the hero worship of which they were
somewhat more, at which we found many people there collected out
of fear of the Christians.

They received us well, and presented us all they had. They gave us
more than two thousand back-loads of maize, which we to the distrest
and hungered beings who guided us to that place. The next day we four
messengers through the country, as we were accustomed to do, that they
should call together all the rest of the Indians at a town distant
three days' march. We set out the day after with all the people.
Well, that is doubtless
because he has been dead for a full score of years, and because he held
his sway in a land remote from these plains of Hindustan, up in the
rugged mountains, where brave tribesmen guard the valleys which their
ancestors tilled, and yield allegiance to no one but their own
hereditary chieftains. Such was my country and my people, for I am proud
that in my veins runs the blood of the man who for a hundred miles
around my boyhood home was known as The Tiger of the Pathans. Behold in
me a grandson of Shir Jumla Khan."

The narrator folded his arms across his breast, in an attitude of quiet
dignity. If this assumption be correct, and the dates correct, they would
show that he reached the continent of North America a week or two
before the Cabots made their discovery farther north, but this
contention has never been satisfactorily supported.

The letters of Vespucius describing his four voyages were published
originally in Italian in Florence in 1505-6. The letter here in
part given was addrest by Vespucius to Soderini, the Gonfalonier
of Florence. The translation, by one "M.K.," was published by Mr. Quaritch,
the London bookseller, in 1885, and has been printed as one of the
"Old South Leaflets!" The letter is believed to have been composed
by Vespucius within a month after his return from his second voyage.

Vespucius was a naval astronomer.

He has been unjustly accused of appropriating to himself an honor which
belonged to Columbus,--that of giving a name to the new continent.
This injustice, however, was not due to Vespucius, but to a German
schoolmaster named Hylacomylus, or "Miller of the Wood-pond," who
published a book in 1507. The passage in Millers book in which he made
a suggestion which the world has adopted is as follows:

"And the fourth part of the world having been discovered by Americus,
it may be called Amerige; that is, the land of Americus, or America.

Now, truly sience these regions are more widely explored, and another
fourth part is discovered by Americus Vespucius, I do not see why any one
may justly forbid it to be named Amerige; that is, Americ's Land, after
Americus, the discoverer, who is a man of sagacious mind; or call it
America, since both Europe and Asia derived their names from women."
Vespucius, in spite of several voyages, discovered very little
in America. The continent ought not to have been named alter him.

A BATTLE WITH THE INDIANS
(1497)
AS DESCRIBED BY AMERICUS VESPUCIUS[1]

Desiring to depart upon our voyage natives made complaint to us how
at certain times of the year there came from over the sea to this their
land, a race of people very cruel, and enemies of theirs: and (who) by
means of treachery or of violence slew many of them, and ate them: and
some they made captives, and carried them away to their houses, or
country: and how they could scarcely contrive to defend themselves from
them, making signs to us that (those) were an island-people and lived
out in the sea about a hundred leagues away: and so piteously did
they tell us this that we believed them: and we promised to avenge
them of so much wrong: and they remained overjoyed herewith: and
many of them offered to come along with us, but we did not wish to
take them for many reasons, save that we took seven of them, on
condition that they should come (_i.e._, return home) afterward in
(their own) canoes because we did not desire to be obliged to take
them back to their country: and they were contented: and so we
departed from those people, leaving them very friendly toward us:
and having repaired our ships, and sailing for seven days out to
sea between northeast and east: and at the end of the seven days
we came upon the islands, which were many, some (of them) inhabited,
and others deserted: and we anchored at one of them: where we saw
a numerous people who called it Iti: and having manned our boats
with strong crews, and (taken ammunition for) three cannon shots
in each, we made for land: where we found (assembled) about 400
men, and many women, and all naked like the former (peoples).

They were of good bodily presence, and seemed right warlike men:
for they were armed with their weapons, which are bows, arrows, and lances:
and most of them had square wooden targets: and bore them in such wise
that they did not impede the drawing of the bow: and when we had come
with our boats to about a bowshot of the land, they all sprang into the
water to shoot their arrows at us, and to prevent us from leap-lug upon
shore: and they all had their bodies painted of various
colours, and (were) plumed with feathers: and the interpreters who were
with us told us that when (those) displayed themselves so painted and
plumed, it was to be-token that they wanted to fight: and so much did
they persist in preventing us from landing, that we were compelled to
play with our artillery: and when they heard the explosion, and
saw one of them fall dead, they all drew back to the land: wherefore,
forming our council, we resolved that 42 of our men should spring
on shore, and, if they waited for us, fight them: thus having leaped
to land with our weapons, they advanced toward us, and we fought
for about an hour, for we had but little advantage of them, except
that our arbalasters and gunners killed some of them, and they
wounded certain of our men.

"Our one chance lay in the question of time. If the winter began early
we should be saved, but if the snows held off till late in the year it
looked as if our doom must be sealed.

"But quite unexpectedly a ray of hope came from another quarter.
Dissension had broken out in the ranks of our foes!

"The first word was brought to us by a deserter from the besiegers'
camp, who one night had crept up to the gateway of the fort and whined
for admittance, declaring that he had important news to tell and hoped
for a reward.

"I was with my grandfather when, awakened from his sleep, he listened to
the man's story. And this done I sent the master of the field to
search whether there were any bad passage which the Indians might keepe
against vs, and that hee should take and defend it vntill the next day
that I shoulde come thither. So hee went, and found in the way a very
bad passage, where wee might haue sustayned a very great harme: wherefore
there hee seated himselfe with his company that were with him: and that
very night the Indians came to take that passage to defend it, and
finding it taken, they assaulted our men there, and as they tell
mee, they assaulted them like valiant men; although in the ende
they retired and fledde away; for the master of the fielde was
watchfull, and was in order with his company: the Indians in token
of retreate sounded on a certaine small trumpet, and did no hurt
among the Spanyards.

The very same night the master of the flelde certified mee hereof.
Whereupon the next day in the best order that I could I departed in
so great want of victuall, that I thought that if wee should stay
one day longer without foode, wee should all perish for hunger,
especially the Indians, for among vs all we had not two bushels of
corne: wherefore it behooved mee to prike forward without delay.

The Indians here and their made fires, and were answered againe afarre off
as orderly as wee for our liues could haue done, to giue their fellowes
vnderstanding, how wee marched and where we arriued....

As soone as I came within sight of this citie of Granada, I sent Don
Garcias Lopez Campemaster, frier Daniel, and frier Luys, and Fernando
Vermizzo somewhat before with certaine horsemen, to seeke the Indians
and aduertise them that our comming was not to hurt them, but to defend
them in the name of the Emperour our Lord, according as his
maiestie had giuen vs in charge: which message was deliuered to
the inhabitants of that countrey by an interpreter.

But they like arrogant people made small account thereof; because we
seemed very few in their eyes, and that they might destroy vs without
any difficultie; and they strooke frier Luys with an arrow on the gowne,
which by the grace of God did him no harme.

In the meane space I arriued with all the rest of the horsemen, and
footemen, and found in the fleldes a great sort of the Indians
which beganne to shoote at vs with their arrowes: and because I
would obey your will and the commaund of the Marques, I woulde not
let my people charge them, forbidding my company, which intreated
mee that they might set vpon them, in any wise to prouoke them,
saying that that which the enemies did was nothing, and that it was
not meete to set vpon so fewe people.

On the other side the Indians perceiuing that wee stirred not, tooke
great stomacke and courage vnto them: insomuch that they came hard to
our horses heeles to shoote at vs with their arrowes. Whereupon seeing
that it was now time to stay no longer, and that the friers also were of
the same opinion, I set vpon them without any danger: for suddenly
they fled part to the citie which was neere and well fortified, and other
into the field, which way they could shift: and some of the Indians were
slaine, and more had beene if I would haue suffered them to haue
bene pursued.

But considering that hereof we might reape but small profite, because the
Indians that were without were fewe, and those which were retired into
the cities, with them which stayed within at the first were many, where
the victuals were whereof wee had so great neede, I assembled my people,
and deuided them as I thought best to assault the citie, and I compassed
it about: and because the famine which wee sustained suffered no delay,
my selfe with certaine of these gentlemen and souldiers put our
selues on foote, and commaunded that the crosse-bowes and harquebusiers
shoulde giue the assault, and shoulde beate the enemies from the
walles, that they might not hurt vs, and I assaulted the walles on
one side, where they tolde me there was a scaling ladder set vp,
and that there was one gate: but the crossebowmen suddenly brake
the strings of their bowes, and the harquebusiers did nothing at
all: for they came thither so weake and feeble, that scarcely they
coulde stand on their feete.

And by this meanes the people that were aloft on the wals to defend the
towne were no way hindered from doing vs all the mischiefe they could:
so that twise they stroke mee to the ground with infinite number
of great stones, which they cast downe: and if I had not beene
defended with an excellent good headpiece which I ware, I thinke
it had gone hardly with me: neuerthelesse my companie tooke mee vp
with two small wounds in the face, and an arrowe sticking in my
foote, and many blowes with stones on my armes and legges, and thus
I went out of the battell very weake.

I thinke that if Don Garcias Lopez de Cardenas the second time that they
strooke mee to the ground had not succoured mee with striding ouer mee
like a good knight, I had beene in farre greater danger then I was.
But it pleased God that the Indians yeelded themselues vnto vs, and that
this citie was taken: and such store of Maiz was found therein, as our
necessitie required....

It remaineth now to certifie your Honour of the seuen cities, and of the
kingdomes and prouinces whereof the Father prouinciall[2] made report
vnto your Lordship. And to bee briefe, I can assure your honour, he
sayd the trueth in nothing that he reported, but all was quite contrary,
sauing onely the names of the cities, and great houses of stone: for
although they bee not wrought with Turqueses, nor with lyme, nor brickes,
yet are they very excellent good houses of three or foure or fiue lofts
high, wherein are good lodgings and faire chambers with lathers instead
of staires, and certaine cellars vnder the ground very good and paued,
which are made for winter, they are in maner like stooues: and the
lathers which they haue for their houses are all in a maner mooueable
and portable, which are taken away and set downe when they please,
and they are made of two pieces of wood with their steppes, as ours
be.

The seuen cities are seuen small townes, all made with these kinde of
houses that I speake of: and they stand all within foure leagues
together, and they are all called the kingdome of Cibola, and euery
one of them haue their particular name: and none of them is called
Cibola, but altogether they are called Cibola.

And this towne which I call a citie, I haue named Granada, as well
because it is somewhat like vnto it, as also in remembrance of your
lordship. In this towne where I nowe remaine, there may be some two hundred
houses, all compassed with walles, and I thinke that with the rest of
the houses which are not so walled, they may be together fiue hundred.
There is another towne neere this, which is one of the seuen, & it is
somwhat bigger than this, and another of the same bignesse that
this is of, and the other foure are somewhat lesse: and I send them
all painted vnto your lordship with the voyage.

And the parchment wherein the picture is, was found here with other
parchments. The people of this towne seeme vnto me of a reasonable
stature, and wittie, yet they seeme not to bee such as they should
bee, of that judgement and wit to builde these houses in such sort
as they are.

For the most part they goe all naked, except their priuie partes which
are couered; and they haue painted mantles like those which I send
vnto your lordship.

They haue no cotton wooll growing, because the countrey is colde,
yet they weare mantels thereof as your honour may see by the shewe
thereof: and true it is that there was found in their houses certaine
yarne made of cotton wooll.

They weare their haire on their heads like those of Mexico, and they are
well nurtured and condicioned: And they haue Turqueses I thinke
good quantitie, which with the rest of the goods which they had,
except their corne, they had conueyed away before I came thither:
for I found no women there, nor no youth vnder flfteene yeeres olde,
nor no olde folkes aboue sixtie, sauing two or three olde folkes,
who stayed behinde to gouerne all the rest of the youth and men of
warre.

There were found in a certaine paper two poynts of Emralds, and
certaine small stones broken which are in colour somewhat like Granates
very bad, and other stones of Christall, which I gaue one of my
seruaunts to lay vp to send them to your lordship, and hee hath
lost them as hee telleth me.

We found heere Guinie cockes, but fewe.

The Indians tell mee in all these seuen cities, that they eate them not,
but that they keepe them onely for their feathers. I beleeue them not,
for they are excellent good, and greater then those of Mexico.

The season which is in this countrey, and the temperature of the
ayre is like that of Mexico: for sometime it is hotte, and sometime
it raineth: but hitherto I neuer sawe it raine, but once there fell
a little showre with winde, as they are woont to fall in Spaine.

The snow and cold are woont to be great, for so say the inhabitants
of the Countrey: and it is very likely so to bee, both in respect to the
maner of the Countrey, and by the fashion of their houses, and their
furres and other things which this people haue to defend them from
colde. There is no kind of fruit nor trees of fruite. The Countrey
is all plaine, and is on no side mountainous: albeit there are
some hillie and bad passages.

There are small store of Foules: the cause whereof is the colde, and
because the mountaines are not neere. Here is no great store of wood,
because they haue wood for their fuell sufficient foure leagues off
from a wood of small Cedars. There is most excellent grasse within a
quarter of a league hence, for our horses as well to feede them in
pasture, as to mowe and make hay, whereof wee stoode in great neede,
because our horses came hither so weake and feeble. The victuals which
the people of this countrey haue, is Maiz, whereof they haue great
store, and also small white Pease:
and Venison, which by all likelyhood they feede vpon, (though they
say no) for wee found many skinnes of Deere, of Hares, and Conies.

They eate the best cakes that euer I sawe, and euery body generally
eateth of them. They haue the finest order and way to grinde that wee
euer sawe in any place. And one Indian woman of this countrey will grinde
as much as foure women of Mexico. They haue most excellent salte in
kernell, which they fetch from a certaine lake a dayes iourney from
hence....

The kingdome of Totonteac so much extolled by the Father prouinciall,
which sayde that there were such wonderfull things there, and such great
matters, and that they made cloth there, the Indians say is an hotte lake,
about which are fiue or sixe houses; and that there were certaine other,
but that they are ruinated by warre.

The kingdome of Marata is not to be found, neither haue the Indians
any knowledge thereof.

The kingdome of Acus is one onely small citie, where they gather
cotton which is called Acucu. This is a town whereinto the kingdom
of Acus is conuerted.

Beyond this towne they say there are other small townes which are
neere to a riuer which I haue seene and haue had report of by the
relation of the Indians. I would to God I had better newes to write
vnto your lordship: neuerthelesse, I must say the trueth: And as I wrote
to your lordship from Culiacan, I am nowe to aduertise your
honour as wel of the good as of the bad. Yet this I would haue you bee
assured, that if all the riches and the treasures of the world were
heere, I could haue done no more in the seruice of his Maiestie and
of your lordshippe, than I haue done in comming hither whither you
haue sent mee, my selfe and my companions carrying our victuals
vpon our shoulders and vpon our horses three hundred leagues; and
many dayes going on foote trauailing ouer hilles and rough mountaines,
with other troubles which I cease to mention, neither purpose I to
depart vnto the death, if it please his Maiestie and your lordship
that it shall be so.

Three dayes after this citie was taken, certaine Indians of these people
came to offer mee peace, and brought mee certaine Turqueses, and badde
mantles, and I receiued them in his Maiesties name with all the good
speaches that I could deuise, certifying them of the purpose of my
comming into this countrey, which is in the name of his Maiestie, and by
the commaundement of your Lordship, that they and all the rest of
the people of this prouince should become Christians, and should knowe
the true God for their Lorde, and receiue his Maiestie for their King
and earthly Soueraigne: And herewithall they returned to their
houses, and suddenly the next day they set in order all their goods
and substance, their women and children, and fled to the hilles,
leauing their townes as it were abandoned, wherein remained very
fewe of them.

When I sawe this within eight or tennes dayes after being recouered of my
woundes, I went to the citie, which I sayde to bee greater then this
where I am, and found there some fewe of them, to whom I sayde that
they should not be afrayd, and that they should call their gouernour vnto
mee: Howbeit forasmuch as I can learne or gather, none of them hath any
gouernour: for I sawe not there any chiefe house, whereby any preeminence
of one ouer another might bee gathered.

I would haue sent your lordshippe with this dispatch many musters
of things which are in this countrey: but the way is so long and rough,
that it is hard for me to doe so; neuerthelesse I send you twelue
small mantles, such as the people of the countrey are woont to
weare, and a certaine garment also, which seemeth vnto me to bee
well made: I kept the same, because it seemed to mee to bee excellent
well wrought, because I beleeue that no man euer sawe any needle
worke in these Indies, except it were since the Spaniards inhabited
the same.

I send your Lordshippe also two clothes painted with the beasts of this
countrey, although as I haue sayde, the picture bee very rudely done,
because the painter spent but one day in drawing of the same. I haue
seene other pictures on the walles of the houses of this citie with
farre better proportion, and better made.

I send your honour one Oxe-hide, certaine Turqueses, and two earerings
of the same, and fifteene combes of the Indians, and certain tablets
set with these Turqueses, and two small baskets made of wicker, whereof
the Indians haue great store. I send your lordship also two rolles which
the women in these parts are woont to weare on their heads when they
fetch water from their welles, as wee vse to doe in Spaine.

And one of these Indian women with one of these rolles on her head,
will carie a pitcher of water without touching the same with her hand vp
a lather. I send you also a muster of the weapons wherewith these people
are woont to fight, a buckler, a mace, a bowe, and certaine arrowes,
among which are two with points of bones, the like whereof, as these
conquerours say, haue neuer beene seene.

[1] From Coronado's letter to Mendoza, dated August 3, 1540, Mendoza
being Viceroy of Mexico, by whom Coronado had been sent out. Coronado's
expedition was a great disappointment to all concerned in it,
inasmuch as it resulted in failure to find the fabled "seven cities
of Cibola."

He had 300 Spaniards with him and 800 Indians. Instead of finding great
towns, as promised by Marcos and others, he discovered only a poor
village of 200 people, situated on a rocky eminence. The expedition,
however, in spite of this failure, remains one of the most important
exploring expeditions ever undertaken in America. Opinions differ
as to how far north Coronado went, some maintaining that he reached a
point north of the boundary line between Kansas and Nebraska.

His letter was printed by Hakluyt in Volume III of his "Voyages," and may
be found in the "Old South Leaflets." Mr. Thwaites says of the
expedition:

"Disappointed, but still hoping to find the country of gold, Coronado's
gallant little army, frequently thinned by death and desertion, for
three years beat up and down the southwestern wilderness: now thirsting
in the deserts, now penned up in gloomy canons, now crawling over
pathless mountains, suffering the horrors of starvation and of
despair, but following this will-o'-the-wisp with a melancholy
perseverance seldom seen in man save when searching for some
mysterious treasure.

Coronado apparently twice crossed the State of Kansas. 'Through
mighty plains and sandy heaths,' says the chronicler of the expedition,
'smooth and wearisome and bare of wood. All that way the plains are
as full of crookback oxen (buffaloes) as the mountain Serena in Spain
is of sheep. They were a great succor for the hunger and want of bread
which our people stood in.

One day it rained in that plain a great shower of hail as big as
oranges, which caused many tears, weaknesses, and vows.'

The wanderer ventured as far as the Missouri, and would have gone
still farther eastward but for his inability to cross the swollen
river.
Cooperating parties explored the upper valleys of the Rio Grande and Gila,
ascended the Colorado for two hundred and forty miles above its mouth,
and visited the Grand Canon of the same river.

Coronado at last returned, satisfied that he had been victimized by the
idle tales of travelers. He was rewarded with contumely and
lost his place as governor of New Galicia; but his romantic march
stands in history as one of the most remarkable exploring expeditions
of modern times."
Francisco Vasquez de Coronado was born at Salamanca, in Spain,
about 1500, and died in Mexico some time after 1542. He is believed to
have gone to Mexico in 1535 with Mendoza, the viceroy, who, in 1539,
made him governor of a province.

[2] Marcos is here referred to.

THE DISCOVERY OF THE MISSISSIPPI BY DE SOTO
(1541)

PARKMAN'S ACCOUNT[1]

Hernando de Soto was the companion of Pizarro in the conquest of
Peru.

He had come to America a needy adventurer, with no other fortune than
his sword and target. But his exploits had given him fame and fortune,
and he appeared at court with the retinue of a nobleman. Still, his
active energies could not endure repose, and his avarice and
ambition goaded him to fresh enterprises.

He asked and obtained permission to conquer Florida.

While this design was in agitation, Cabeça de Vaca, one of those
who had survived the expedition of Narvaez, appeared in Spain, and
for purposes of his own, spread abroad the mischievous falsehood
that Florida was the richest country yet discovered.

De Soto's plans were embraced with enthusiasm. Nobles and gentlemen
contended for the privilege of joining his standard; and, setting sail
with an ample armament, he landed at the Bay of Espiritu Santo,
now Tampa Bay, in Florida, with six hundred and twenty chosen men,
a band as gallant and well appointed, as eager in purpose and
audacious in hope, as ever trod the shores of the New World.

The clangor of trumpets, the neighing of horses, the fluttering of pennons,
the glittering of helmet and lance, startled the ancient forest with
unwonted greeting.

Amid this pomp of chivalry, religion was not forgotten. The sacred
vessels and vestments with bread and wine for the Eucharist were carefully
provided; and De Soto himself declared that the enterprise was undertaken
for God alone, and seemed to be the object of His especial care.

These devout marauders could not neglect the spiritual welfare of
the Indians whom they had come to plunder; and besides fetters to bind,
and bloodhounds to hunt them, they brought priests and monks for the
saving of their souls.

The adventurers begun their march. Their story has been often told.
For month after month and year after year, the procession of priests
and cavaliers, crossbowmen, arquebusiers, and Indian captives laden
with the baggage, still wandered on through wild and boundless
wastes, lured hither and thither by the ignis-fatuus of their hopes.

They traversed great portions of Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi,
everywhere inflicting and enduring misery, but never approaching
their fantom El Dorado.

At length, in the third year of their journeying, they reached the banks
of the Mississippi, a hundred and thirty-two years before its
second discovery by Marquette.

One of their number describes the great river as almost half a league wide,
deep, rapid, and constantly rolling down trees and drift-wood on its
turbid current.

The Spaniards crossed over at a point above the mouth of the Arkansas.
They advanced westward, but found no treasures--nothing, indeed, but
hardships, and an Indian enemy, furious, writes one of their officers,
"as mad dogs." They heard of a country toward the north where maize could
not be cultivated because the vast herds of wild cattle devoured
it.[2] They penetrated so far that they entered the range of the
roving prairie tribes; for, one day, as they pushed their way with
difficulty across great plains covered with tall, rank grass, they
met a band of savages who dwelt in lodges of skins sewed together,
subsisting on game alone, and wandering perpetually from place to
place.

Finding neither gold nor the South Sea, for both of which they had
hoped, they returned to the banks of the Mississippi.

De Soto, says one of those who accompanied him, was a "stern man, and
of few words." Even in the midst of reverses, his will had been law
to his followers, and he had sustained himself through the depths
of disappointment with the energy of a stubborn pride.

But his hour was come. He fell into deep dejection, followed by an
attack of fever, and soon after died miserably. To preserve his
body from the Indians, his followers sank it at midnight in the river,
and the sullen waters of the Mississippi buried his ambition and
his hopes.

The adventurers were now, with few exceptions, disgusted with the enterprise,
and longed only to escape from the scene of their miseries. After a
vain attempt to reach Mexico by Land, they again turned back to the
Mississippi, and labored, with all the resources which their
desperate necessity could suggest, to construct vessels in which they
might make their way to some Christian settlement.

Their condition was most forlorn. Few of their horses remained alive;
their baggage had been destroyed at the burning of the Indian town
of Mavila, and many of the soldiers were without armor and without
weapons.

       In place of the gallant array which, more than three years before,
had left the harbor of Espiritu Santo, a company of sickly and
starving men were laboring among the swampy forests of the Mississippi,
some clad in skins, and some in mats woven from a kind of wild vine.

Seven brigantines were finished and launched; and, trusting their lives
on board these frail vessels, they descended the Mississippi, running the
gantlet between hostile tribes, who fiercely attacked them.

Reaching the Gulf, tho not without the loss of eleven of their number,
they made sail for the Spanish settlement on the River Panuco,
where they arrived safely, and where the inhabitants met them with
a cordial welcome.

Three hundred and eleven men thus escaped with life, leaving behind
them the bones of their comrades strewn broadcast through the
wilderness

.

[1] From Parkman's "Pioneers of France in the New World." By permission
of the publishers, Little, Brown & Co. Hernando de Soto was born in
Badaios, Spain, in 1500, and died near the Mississippi River, probably
on May 21, 1542.

Before discovering the Mississippi, he had been in Panama and
Nicaragua; had been active with Pizarro in the conquest of Peru, from
which he returned very rich to Spain, and in 1587 had been appointed
Governor of Cuba and Florida, with orders to explore and settle the
country. It was while engaged in the latter work that he discovered
the Mississippi.

De Soto's route has been determined only approximately.

He is believed first to have made a circuit northward from Tampa,
through Florida into Georgia and perhaps into Carolina, thence going
westward to Alabama and Mobile Bay.

With a flash of comprehension I knew that the package must be
intended to be conveyed to me surreptitiously, and, with no thought at
that critical moment of what the ulterior object might be, I aided the
act by a deft movement of my shoulder, which for a moment intercepted
the maharajah's gaze.

"In another second he could see my finger-tips lightly pressed on her
wrist, and her empty hand extended; but the package was safe in my other
hand, and not the quiver of a muscle on my face betrayed that anything
unusual had happened. Both to mask my feelings, and to give the lady
behind the curtain confidence that she could repose trust in my
discretion, I counted the pulse beats aloud.

"These indeed told me that the heart of my patient was beating at a mad
gallop, but this I divined was simply caused by the daring deed she had
essayed and successfully accomplished. I deemed it wise and prudent,
however, to announce that the lady was suffering from a fever, and that
I would send her a powder that would speedily restore her to good
health. At this the maharajah was sufficiently overjoyed to permit of my
withdrawal without obvious embarrassment. I had a smile upon my lips,
and the secret package secure in the folds of my girdle. A chuprassi
accompanied me to my home to bring back the medicine.

"I knew, of course, that it was only a dry powder that this high-born
Hindu lady could take from my dispensary, for to have swallowed a liquid
drug would have been a violation of her caste. I took pains to let the
chuprassi see that my hands did not touch the powder, which, after due
weighing, I bestowed in a paper carefully sealed, instructing him to
deliver it to no one but his highness the maharajah. It was only finely
ground sugar that the man carried away. But perhaps this is a harmless
little trick of my profession which even now I should not disclose."

But a general smile among the company showed the hakeem that his calling
was held in no undue reverence, at least by those without present need
of his ministrations.

"When I was alone with my mortars and my drugs," resumed the narrator,
"I lost no time in examining the mysterious packet. I unwound the silk
threads that tightly tied it, both to restrict its bulk and to render it
secure. Soon, to my amazement, I uncovered a string of ten pearls, of a
size and lustrous purity that bespoke a high value even to my untutored
eyes. Also there was a little seal of red chalcedony, with the antlered
head of a deer and some scroll of lettering engraved upon it; but there
was not one scrap of writing to explain to me the reason of these gifts.

"Had the lady, as often happens, imagined herself to be seriously sick,
and devised this plan of invoking my interest and most skilful services
on her behalf? But why, then, the seal, the value of which was quite
insignificant?

"Even as I was pondering these questions, there came a clapping of hands
at the gateway of my home that announced the arrival of a visitor.
Hastily concealing the pearls and the seal in my girdle, I stepped forth
into the outer court and took my seat upon the divan.

"Straightway there was ushered into my presence a big man clothed in
rich garments. His sable complexion and thick lips declared him to be a
moorman from across the seas, and his beardless chin further told at a
glance that he was an attendant at the seraglio of some rich noble.

"He salaamed me with the cool confidence of his kind, and, without
waiting for an invitation, seated himself on the carpet at my feet.

"'My name, O learned hakeem, is Malik Kafur,' he began in the shrill
treble voice I had anticipated, 'and you know why I come here.'

"As my knowledge had been taken for granted, I bowed in acquiescence.

"'But her highness said that you would first of all show me her signet
so as to prove that you are acting with her authority.'

"With all due gravity I produced the chalcedony seal from my belt, and,
without quitting hold, extended it for my visitor's inspection. I think
these never lose their leaves, as I saw them looking as green and
lovely as they are wont to be in the month of May in Spain.

Some of them were in leaf, and some in fruit; each flourishing in
the condition its nature required.

The nightingale was singing and various other little birds, when
I was rambling among them in the month of November.

There are also in the island called Johana seven or eight kinds of palms,
which as readily surpass ours in height and beauty as do all the other
trees, herbs, and fruits. There are also wonderful pine-woods, fields,
and extensive meadows, birds of various kinds, and honey, and all
the different metals except iron.

In the island, which I have said before was called Hispana, there are very
lofty and beautiful mountains, great farms, groves and fields,
most fertile both for cultivation and for pasturage, and well adapted
for constructing buildings.

The convenience of the harbors in this island, and the excellence of the
rivers, in volume and salubrity, surpass human belief, unless one
should see them.

In it the trees, pasture-lands, and fruits differ much from those of
Johana. Besides, this Hispana abounds in various kinds of spices,
gold, and metals.

The inhabitants of both sexes of this and of all the other islands
I have seen, or of which I have any knowledge, always go as naked
as they came into the world, except that some of the women cover
parts of their bodies with leaves or branches, or a veil of cotton,
which they prepare themselves for this purpose.

They are all, as I said before, unprovided with any sort of iron,
and they are destitute of arms, which are entirely unknown to them, and
for which they are not adapted; not on account of any bodily
deformity, for they are well made, but because they are timid and
full of terror.

They carry, however, canes dried in the sun in place of weapons, upon whose
roots they fix a wooden shaft, dried and sharpened to a point.
But they never dare to make use of these, for it has often happened,
when I have sent two or three of my men to some of their villages
to speak with the inhabitants, that a crowd of Indians has sallied
forth; but, when they saw our men approaching, they speedily took
to flight, parents abandoning their children, and children their
parents.

This happened not because any loss or injury had been inflicted upon
any of them.

On the contrary, I gave whatever I had, cloth and many other things,
to whomsoever I approached, or with whom I could get speech, without
any return being made to me; but they are by nature fearful and
timid.

But, when they see that they are safe, and all fear is banished,
they are very guileless and honest, and very liberal of all they have.
No one refuses the asker anything that he possesses; on the
contrary, they themselves invite us to ask for it.

They manifest the greatest affection toward all of us, exchanging valuable
things for trifles, content with the very least thing or nothing
at all.

But I forbade giving them a very trifling thing and of no value, such
as bits of plates, dishes, or glass, also nails and straps; altho it
seemed to them, if they could get such, that they had acquired the
most beautiful jewels in the world.

For it chanced that a sailor received for a single strap as much weight
of gold as three gold solidi; and so others for other things of less
price, especially for new blancas, and for some gold coins, for which
they gave whatever the seller asked; for instance, an ounce and a half
or two ounces of gold, or thirty or forty pounds of cotton, with which
they were already familiar. So, too, for pieces of hoops, jugs, jars,
and pots they bartered cotton and gold like beasts. This I forbade,
because it was plainly unjust; and I gave them many beautiful and
pleasing things, which I had brought with me, for no return whatever,
in order to win their affection, and that they might become Christians
and inclined to love our king and queen and princes and all the
people of Spain, and that they might be eager to search for and
gather and give to us what they abound in and we greatly need.

They do not practise idolatry; on the contrary, they believe that all
strength, all power, in short, all blessings, are from heaven, and
that I have come down from there with these ships and sailors; and
in this spirit was I received everywhere, after they had got over
their fear They are neither lazy nor awkward, but, on the contrary,
are of an excellent and acute understanding.

Those who have sailed these seas give excellent accounts of everything;
but they have never seen men wearing clothes, or ships like ours....

As soon as I had come into this sea, I took by force some Indians
from the first island, in order that they might learn from us, and
at the same time tell us what they knew about affairs in these
regions.

This succeeded admirably; for in a short time we understood them and
they us, both by gesture and signs and words, and they were of great
service to us. They are coming now with me, and have always believed
that I have come from heaven, notwithstanding the long time they have
been, and still remain, with us. They were the first who told this wherever
we went, one calling to another, with a loud voice, "Come, come, you will
see men from heaven." Whereupon both women and men, children and
adults, young and old, laying aside the fear they had felt a little
before, flocked eagerly to see us, a great crowd thronging about
our steps, some bringing food, and others drink, with greatest love
and incredible good will....

I have told already how I sailed in a straight course along the island of
Johana from west to east 322 miles. From this voyage and the extent of
my journeyings I can say that this Johana is larger than England and
Scotland together. For beyond the aforesaid 322 miles, in that
portion which looks toward the west, there are two more provinces,
which I did not visit.

One of them the Indians called Anan, and its inhabitants are born
with tails. These provinces extend 180 miles, as I learned from the
Indians, whom I am bringing with me, and who are well acquainted with all
these islands....

Altho these matters are very wonderful and unheard of, they would have
been much more so if the ships to a reasonable amount had been
furnished me.

But what has been accomplished is great and wonderful, and not at
all proportionate to my deserts, but to the sacred Christian faith,
and to the piety and religion of our sovereigns.

For what the mind of man could not compass, the spirit of God has
granted to mortals.

For God is wont to listen to his servants who love his precepts, even
in impossibilities, as has happened to me in the present instance,
who have accomplished what human strength has hitherto never attained.

For, if any one has written or told anything about these islands, all
have done so either obscurely or by guesswork, so that it has
almost seemed to be fabulous.

Therefore let king and queen and princes, and their most fortunate
realms, and all other Christian provinces, let us all return thanks
to our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, who has bestowed so great a
victory and reward upon us; let there be processions and solemn
sacrifices prepared; let the churches be decked with festal boughs;
let Christ rejoice upon earth as he rejoices in heaven, as He
foresees that so many souls of so many people heretofore lost are
to be saved; and let us be glad not only for the exaltation of our
faith, but also for the increase of temporal prosperity, in which
not only Spain, but all Christendom is about to share.

As these things have been accomplished, so have they been briefly
narrated.

Farewell.

[1] The first letter of Columbus, descriptive of his first voyage,
was written in February, 1498, when he was off the Azores, on his
return home.

It was addrest to Louis de Santangel, the treasurer of King Ferdinand
of Spain.

Altho addrest to the treasurer, it was intended for the eyes of the King
himself, and for those of his queen, Isabella. The letter was
first printed in Barcelona, soon after the arrival of Columbus.

Another account, substantially the same, was written by Columbus in
Lisbon in March of the same year, an--at once translated into Latin
and published in Rome in several editions, one being that of Stephen
Plannck, of which five copies only are now known to be extant.

Of this Plannck edition a translation from the Latin into English made
by Henry W.

Haynes has been published by the New York Public Library. From this
translation the passage here given is taken.

[2] The identity of the island on which Columbus made his first landing
was formerly much in controversy. The best opinion now inclines to
accept the conclusions reached by Captain Beecher of the British Navy
some fifty years ago, that the landing was made on what is known
as Watling's Island, one of the Bahamas.

This island is about thirteen miles long, north and south, and six wide,
and is made up of coral, shell and other marine debris. A monument was
erected on it by a Chicago newspaper in 1892, with this inscription:
"On this spot Christopher Columbus first set foot on the soil of
the New World."

The monument is said already to be in a state of decay, having been
poorly constructed.
Watling's Island lies about 200 miles southeast of Nassau, and is nearly
on a parallel with Havana, but lies 400 miles east of it.
Its inhabitants number about 700, who are dispersed among fifteen hamlets.
The horses on the island scarcely number 50. There are a few cows and
several flocks of sheep. The people are all poor.
Little is grown on the island, droughts occur, and starvation has in some
years been prevented only by help from outside.

THE BULL OF POPE ALEXANDER VI. PARTITIONING AMERICA[1]
(1493)

The copy of the bull, or donation, by the authority whereof Pope Alexander,
the sixth of that name, gave and granted to the kings of Castile and
their successors the regions and lands found in the west ocean sea
by the navigations of the Spanish.

Alexander, bishop, the servant of the servants of God: To our most dearly
beloved son in Christ, King Ferdinand, and to our dearly beloved
daughter in Christ, Elizabeth, Queen of Castile, Leon, Aragon, Sicily,
and Granada, most noble princes, greeting and apostolic benediction.

Among other works acceptable to the divine majesty and according to our
hearts' desire, this certainly is the chief, that the Catholic faith
and Christian religion, especially in this our time, may in all
places be exalted, amplified, and enlarged, whereby the health of
souls may be procured and the barbarous nations subdued and brought
to the faith.

And therefore, whereas by the favor of God's clemency (altho not without
equal deserts), we are called to this holy seat of Peter, and
understanding you to be true Catholic Princes as we have ever known
you, and as your noble and worthy acts have declared in manner to
the whole world, in that, with all your study, diligence, and
industry, you have spared no travels, charges or perils, adventuring
even the shedding of your own blood, with applying your whole minds
and endeavors hereunto, as your noble expeditions achieved in
recovering the kingdom of Granada from the tyranny of the Saracens
in these our days, do plainly declare your acts with so great glory
of the divine name.

For the which, as we think you worthy, so ought we of our own free will
favorably to grant you all things whereby you may daily, with more
fervent minds to the honor of God and enlarging the Christian empire,
prosecute your devout and laudable purpose most acceptable to the immortal
God.

We are credibly informed that, whereas of late you were determined to
seek and find certain islands and firm lands far remote and unknown
(and not heretofore found by any other), to the intent to bring the
inhabitants of the same to honor our Redeemer and to profess the
Catholic faith, you have hitherto been much occupied in the expugnation
and recovery of the kingdom of Granada, by reason whereof you could
not bring your said laudable purpose to the end desired.

Nevertheless, as it hath pleased Almighty God, the aforesaid kingdom
being recovered, willing to accomplish your said desire, you have, not
without great labor, perils, and charges, appointed our well-beloved
son Christopher Columbus (a man very well commended as most worthy
and apt for so great a matter), well furnished with men and ships and
other necessaries, to seek (by the sea where hitherto no man bath
sailed), such firm lands and islands far remote and hitherto
unknown.

Who (by God's help), making diligent search in the ocean sea, have found
certain remote islands and firm lands which were not heretofore
found by any other.

In the which (as is said), many nations inhabit, living peacefully and
going naked, not accustomed to eat flesh.

And as far as your messengers can conjecture, the nations inhabiting
the aforesaid lands and islands believe that there is one God creature
in heaven: and seem apt to be brought to the embracing of the Catholic
faith and to be imbued with good manners: by reason whereof, we may
hope that, if they be well instructed, they may easily be induced to
receive the name of our Saviour Jesus Christ. We are further
advertised that the aforenamed Christopher hath now builded and
erected a fortress with good ammunition in one of the aforesaid
principal islands, in the which he hath placed a garrison of certain
of the Christian men that went thither with him: as well to the
intent to defend the same, as also to search other islands and firm
lands far remote and yet unknown.

We also understand, that in these lands and islands lately found, is
great plenty of gold and spices, with divers and many other precious
things of sundry kinds and qualities.

Therefore all things diligently considered (especially the amplifying
and enlarging of the Catholic faith, as it behooveth Catholic Princes
following the examples of your noble progenitors of famous memory),
whereas you are determined by the favor of Almighty God, to subdue
and bring to the Catholic faith the inhabitants of the aforesaid
lands and islands, we greatly commending this, your godly and
laudable purpose in our Lord, and desirous to have the same brought
to a due end, and the name of our Saviour to be known in those
parts, do exhort you in our Lord and by the receiving of your holy
baptism whereby you are bound to the Apostolic obedience, and
earnestly require you by the bowels of mercy of our Lord Jesus
Christ, that, when you intend for the zeal of the Catholic faith
to prosecute the said expedition to reduce the people of the aforesaid
lands and islands to the Christian religion, you shall spare no
labors at any time, or be deterred with any perils conceiving from
hope and confidence that the omnipotent God will give good success
to your godly attempts.

And that being authorized by the privilege of the Apostolic grace, you
may the more freely and boldly take upon you the enterprise of so great
a matter, we of our own motion, and not either at your request nor
at the instant petition of any other person, but of our own mere
liberality and certain science, and by the fulness of Apostolic
power, do give, grant, and assign to you, your heirs and successors, all
the firm lands and islands found or to be found, discovered or to be
discovered toward the west and south, drawing a line from the pole
Arctic to the pole Antarctic (that is) from the north to the
south:
containing in this donation, whatsoever firm lands or islands are
found or to be found toward India or toward any other part whatsoever
it be, being distant from, or without the aforesaid line drawn a
hundred leagues toward the west and south from any of the islands
which are commonly called De Los Azores and Cabo Verde.

All the islands, therefore, and firm lands, found and to be found,
discovered and to be discovered, from the said line toward the west and
south, such as have not actually been heretofore possest by any other
Christian king or prince until the day of the nativity of our Lord
Jesus Christ last passed, from the which beginneth this present
year.

We, by the authority of almighty God granted unto us in Saint Peter,
and by the office which we bear on the earth in the stead of Jesus
Christ, do forever, by the tenure of these presents, give, grant,
assign, unto you, your heirs, and successors (the kings of Castile
and Leon), all those lands and islands, with their dominions,
territories, cities, castles, towers, places, and villages, with
all the right and jurisdictions thereunto pertaining: constituting,
assigning, and deputing, you, your heirs, and successors the lords
thereof, with full and free power, authority, and jurisdiction.

Decreeing nevertheless by this, our donation, grant, and assignation,
that from no Christian Prince which actually hath possest the aforesaid
islands and firm lands unto the day of the nativity of our Lord beforesaid,
their right obtained to be understood hereby to be taken away, or that
it ought to be taken away.

Furthermore, we command you in the virtue of holy obedience (as you
have promised, and we doubt not you will do upon mere devotion and
princely magnanimity), to send to the said firm lands and islands honest,
virtuous, and learned men, such as fear God, and are able to instruct
the inhabitants in the Catholic faith and good manners, applying
all their possible diligence in the premises.

We furthermore straightly inhibit all manner of persons, of what state,
degree, order, or condition, soever they be, altho of Imperial and
regal dignity, under the pain of the sentence of excommunication which
they shall incur if they do to the contrary, that they in no case presume
special license of you, your heirs, and successors, to travel for
merchandise or for any other cause, to the said lands or islands,
found or to be found, discovered or to be discovered, toward the west
and south, drawing a line from the pole Arctic to the pole Antarctic,
whether the firm lands and islands found and to be found, be situated
toward India or toward any other part being distant from the line
drawn a hundred leagues toward the west from any of the islands
commonly called De Los Azores and Cabo Verde: Notwithstanding
constitutions, decrees, and apostolic ordinances, whatsoever they
are to the contrary:
In him from whom empires, dominions, and all good things do
procede:
Trusting that almighty God directing your enterprises, if you follow
your godly and laudable attempts, your labors and travels herein,
shall in short time obtain a happy end, with felicity and glory of
all Christian people.

But forasmuch as it should be a thing of great difficulty, these letters
to be carried to all such places as should be expedient, we will, and
of like motion and knowledge do decree that whithersoever the same
shall be sent, or where soever they shall be received with the
subscription of a common notary thereunto required, with the seal of any
person constituted in ecelesiastical court, or such as are authorized
by the ecclesiastical court, the same faith and credit to be given
thereunto in judgment or elsewhere, as should be exhibited to these
presents.

It shall therefore be lawful for no man to infringe or rashly to
contradict this letter of our commendation, exhortation, request,
donation, grant, assignation, constitution, deputation, decree,
commandment, inhibition, and determination. And if any shall presume to
attempt the same, he ought to know that he shall thereby incur the
indignation of Almighty God and his holy Apostles, Peter and Paul.

Given at Rome, at Saint Peter's: In the year of the incarnation
of our Lord M.CCCC lxx.xxiii.

The fourth day of the month of May; the first year of our seat.

[1] Dated at Rome, May 4th, 1498. It was translated into English by
Richard Eden in 1555, and is printed in Old English and from black-letter
type, by Hart in his "American History Told by Contemporaries." For
the present work the English has been modernized.

This famous bull was the result of rival claims, made by Spain and
Portugal, to lands discovered beyond the Atlantic.

More than half a century before Columbus found America, the Portuguese
had secured from Pope Eugenius IV a grant in perpetuity of all heathen
lands that might be discovered by them in further voyages. The grant
went so far as to include "the Indies," and was confirmed by succeeding
popes.

When Alexander VI issued his bull the America which Columbus had found
was believed to be not a new continent, but the Indies, and the
Portuguese, who had reached India by way of the Cape of Good Hope,
were threatening to send an expedition across the Atlantic to take
possession and dispute the Spanish claims.

It was in these circumstances, and for the purpose of reconciling
the rival states that Alexander issued the bull, John Fiske has said
that, "As between the two rival powers the Pontiff's arrangement was made
in a spirit of even-handed justice." The bull conferred on the Spanish
sovereigns all the lands already discovered, or thereafter to be
discovered in the western ocean, with jurisdiction and privileges
In all respects similar to those formerly bestowed upon the crown
of Portugal.

Alexander VI, the famous Borgia Pope, who was the father of Caesar
Borgia and Lucretia Borgia, has been accused, somewhat loosely, of
committing an act of foolish audacity in making this grant. He has been
represented as having partitioned the whole American continent between
Spain and Portugal. The accusation is quite unjust. The bull merely
granted such lands as had been discovered, or might yet be discovered,
and these lands were not understood to be those of a new continent,
but parts of India not heretofore explored.
Close to the spot where the maharanee had halted were some
hangings of brocade arranged, as we understood later, so that the seated
and veiled figure of a woman might observe the brilliant pageantry of
the day from the privacy of this purdah.

"And from out these hangings there now stretched, stealthily but
swiftly, a bejewelled hand, which plunged a long dagger between the
shoulders of the queen mother.

"Without a cry she fell. I was quickly by her side, and the young
maharajah and myself, as we bent over her, caught her dying words.

"'All is well, my beloved son,' she murmured. 'I have accomplished that
which I was sent into the world to perform. In peace I yield my soul to
God.'

"With the last word she breathed her last breath. And such is mother
love."

There was a suppressed sob in more than one breast at the close of the
venerable hakeem's tale. Down his own furrowed face the tears were
streaming.

"And the woman who struck the foul blow?" inquired the Afghan in an
eager whisper.

"The slave mother of the dead pretender. Well, she too had given her all
for mother love. The tribesmen tore her limb from limb."

And the hakeem pressed a hand to his eyes to shut out the memory of a
dreadful scene.


VIII. THE SACRED PICKAXE

TOLD BY THE MAGISTRATE


The first wolf-grey of the dawn was creeping over the scene, and turning
to a sickly yellow the flare of the little oil lamps arranged around the
veranda. The morning air bit shrewdly, and more than one of the seated
or reclining figures had gathered his robes more closely around him. All
eyes were now turned on the kotwal. He alone of the company had not
contributed from his store of experiences.

"Methinks it is too late for any more story-telling," he protested
diffidently, with gesture and glance toward the east in token that he
spoke truly.

"Nay, nay," cried the Rajput, "this night will not be complete without
the full measure of our entertainment. Come, come, friend; the sun is
yet an hour below the horizon."

Murmurs of approval showed that the general wish had been interpreted.

"Be it so, then," assented the magistrate. "I have heard so many stories
this night that it would indeed be churlish on my part to refuse to give
you one of mine. Well, listen.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Know, my friends, that I am a district judge in Delhi, presiding over
that quarter known as the Bara Bazaar, where the merchants most do
congregate. "Now do you see the depth of the fold which I mentioned? A
fold in the heart is an abyss, like a crevasse in the Alps--a profundity
whose depth and extent we have never been able to calculate. Thus it is
between two beings, no matter how near they may be drawn to each other.
One never realizes the weight of suffering which oppresses his friend.
This seems such a little thing, yet one's life is affected by it
in all its length, in all its breadth.

I have thus argued with myself; but the more I have argued, the more
thoroughly have I realized the extent of this hidden sorrow. And I
can only let the current carry me whither it will.

"Two voices struggle for supremacy when--by a rarely fortunate chance --I
am alone in my armchair waiting for Adolphe. One, I would wager, comes
from Eugene Delacroix's _Faust_ which I have on my table.

Mephistopheles speaks, that terrible aide who guides the swords so
dexterously.

He leaves the engraving, and places himself diabolically before me,
grinning through the hole which the great artist has placed under his
nose, and gazing at me with that eye whence fall rubies, diamonds,
carriages, jewels, laces, silks, and a thousand luxuries to feed the
burning desire within me.

"'Are you not fit for society?' he asks. 'You are the equal of the
fairest duchesses. Your voice is like a siren's, your hands command respect
and love. Ah! that arm!--place bracelets upon it, and how pleasingly it
would rest upon the velvet of a robe!

Your locks are chains which would fetter all men. And you could lay all
your triumphs at Adolphe's feet, show him your power and never use it.
Then he would fear, where now he lives in insolent certainty. Come!
To action!

Inhale a few mouthfuls of disdain and you will exhale clouds of
incense. Dare to reign!

Are you not next to nothing here in your chimney-corner? Sooner or later
the pretty spouse, the beloved wife will die, if you continue like
this, in a dressing-gown.

Come, and you shall perpetuate your sway through the arts of coquetry!
Show yourself in salons, and your pretty foot shall trample down
the love of your rivals.'

"The other voice comes from my white marble mantel, which rustles like a
garment.

I think I see a veritable goddess crowned with white roses, and bearing
a palm-branch in her hand. Two blue eyes smile down on me.
This simple image of virtue says to me:

"'Be content!

Remain good always, and make this man happy. That is the whole of your
mission. The sweetness of angels triumphs over all pain.

Faith in themselves has enabled the martyrs to obtain solace even on
the brasiers of their tormentors. Suffer a moment; you shall be happy
in the end.'
"Sometimes Adolphe enters at that moment and I am content.

But, my dear, I have less patience than love. I almost wish to tear in
pieces the woman who can go everywhere, and whose society is sought
out by men and women alike. What profound thought lies in the line of
Moliere:

"'The world, dear Agnes, is a curious thing!'
"You know nothing of this petty trouble, you fortunate Mathilde! You are
well born. You can do a great deal for me. Just think! I can write you
things that I dared not speak about. Your visits mean so
much; come often to see your poor 
"Caroline."

"Well," said I to the notary's clerk, "do you know what was the
nature of this letter to the late Bourgarel?"

"No."
"A note of exchange."
Neither clerk nor notary understood my meaning.

Do you?

THE PANGS OF INNOCENCE.

"Yes, dear, in the married state, many things will happen to you which
you are far from expecting: but then others will happen which you
expect still less. For instance--"
The author (may we say the ingenious author?)

_qui castigat ridendo mores_, and who has undertaken the _Petty Troubles
of Married Life_, hardly needs to remark, that, for prudence' sake,
he here allows a lady of high distinction to speak, and that he
does not assume the responsibility of her language, though he
professes the most sincere admiration for the charming person to
whom he owes his acquaintance with this petty trouble.

"For instance--" she says.

He nevertheless thinks proper to avow that this person is neither
Madame Foullepointe, nor Madame de Fischtaminel, nor Madame Deschars.

Madame Deschars is too prudish, Madame Foullepointe too absolute in
her household, and she knows it; indeed, what doesn't she know? She
is good-natured, she sees good society, she wishes to have the best:
people overlook the vivacity of her witticisms, as, under louis XIV, they
overlooked the remarks of Madame Cornuel.

They overlook a good many things in her; there are some women who are
the spoiled children of public opinion.

As to Madame de Fischtaminel, who is, in fact, connected with the
affair, as you shall see, she, being unable to recriminate, abstains
from words and recriminates in acts.

We give permission to all to think that the speaker is Caroline herself,
not the silly little Caroline of tender years. But Caroline when she
has become a woman of thirty.

"For instance," she remarks to a young woman whom she is edifying, "you
will have children, God willing."
"Madame," I say, "don't let us mix the deity up in this, unless it is
an allusion--"
"You are impertinent," she replies, "you shouldn't interrupt a
woman--"
"When she is busy with children, I know: but, madame, you ought not
to trifle with the innocence of young ladies.

Mademoiselle is going to be married, and if she were led to count upon
the intervention of the Supreme Being in this affair, she would fall
into serious errors. We should not deceive the young. Mademoiselle is
beyond the age when girls are informed that their little brother was
found under a cabbage."
"You evidently want to get me confused," she replies, smiling and
showing the loveliest teeth in the world.

"I am not strong enough to argue with you, so I beg you to let me go
on with Josephine. What was I saying?"
"That if I get married, I shall have children," returns the young
lady.

"Very well. I will not represent things to you worse than they are, but
it is extremely probable that each child will cost you a tooth.
With every baby I have lost a tooth."

"Happily," I remark at this, "this trouble was with you less than
petty, it was positively nothing."--They were side teeth.--"But take
notice, miss, that this vexation has no absolute, unvarying character
as such. The annoyance depends upon the condition of the tooth.
If the baby causes the loss of a decayed tooth, you are fortunate
to have a baby the more and a bad tooth the less.

Don't let us confound blessings with bothers. Ah! if you were to lose one
of your magnificent front teeth, that would be another thing! And yet
there is many a woman that would give the best tooth in her head for
a fine, healthy boy!"
"Well," resumes Caroline, with animation, "at the risk of destroying
your illusions, poor child, I'll just show you a petty trouble
that counts! Ah, it's atrocious! And I won't leave the subject of dress
which this gentleman considers the only subject we women are equal to."

I protest by a gesture.

"I had been married about two years," continues Caroline, "and I loved
my husband.

I have got over it since and acted differently for his happiness
and mine.

I can boast of having one of the happiest homes in Paris. In short, my
dear, I loved the monster, and, even when out in society, saw no one but
him. My husband had already said to me several times, 'My dear, young
women never dress well; your mother liked to have you look like a
stick,--she had her reasons for it. If you care for my advice, take Madame
de Fischtaminel for a model: she is a lady of taste.' I, unsuspecting
creature that I was, saw no perfidy in the recommendation.

"One evening as we returned from a party, he said, 'Did you notice how
Madame de Fischtaminel was dressed!' 'Yes, very neatly.' And I said to
myself, 'He's always talking about Madame de Fischtaminel; I must really
dress just like her.' I had noticed the stuff and the make of the
dress, and the style of the trimmings.

I was as happy as could be, as I went trotting about town, doing everything
I could to obtain the same articles. I sent for the very same
dressmaker.

"'You work for Madame de Fischtaminel,' I said.

"'Yes, madame.'
"'Well, I will employ you as my dressmaker, but on one condition: you see
I have procured the stuff of which her gown is made, and I want
you to make me one exactly like it.'

"I confess that I did not at first pay any attention to a rather shrewd
smile of the dressmaker, though I saw it and afterwards accounted
for it.

'So like it,' I added, 'that you can't tell them apart.'
"Oh," says Caroline, interrupting herself and looking at me, "you
men teach us to live like spiders in the depths of their webs, to
see everything without seeming to look at it, to investigate the
meaning and spirit of words, movements, looks. You say, 'How cunning
women are!' But you should say, 'How deceitful men are!'
"I can't tell you how much care, how many days, how many manoeuvres, it
cost me to become Madame de Fischtaminel's duplicate! But these are
our battles, child," she adds, returning to Josephine. "I could not
find a certain little embroidered neckerchief, a very marvel! I finally
learned that it was made to order. I unearthed the embroideress, and
ordered a kerchief like Madame de Fischtaminel's.
The price was a mere trifle, one hundred and fifty francs! It had been
ordered by a gentleman who had made a present of it to Madame de
Fischtaminel. All my savings were absorbed by it.

Now we women of Paris are all of us very much restricted in the article
of dress.
There is not a man worth a hundred thousand francs a year, that loses
ten thousand a winter at whist, who does not consider his wife
extravagant, and is not alarmed at her bills for what he calls
'rags'!

'Let my savings go,' I said. And they went. I had the modest pride of
a woman in love: I would not speak a word to Adolphe of my dress; I wanted
it to be a surprise, goose that I was! Oh, how brutally you
men take away our blessed ignorance!"
This remark is meant for me, for me who had taken nothing from the lady,
neither tooth, nor anything whatever of the things with a name and without
a name that may be taken from a woman.

"I must tell you that my husband took me to Madame de Fischtaminel's,
where I dined quite often. I heard her say to him, 'Why, your wife
looks very well!'

She had a patronizing way with me that I put up with: Adolphe wished
that I could have her wit and preponderance in society. In short,
this phoenix of women was my model. I studied and copied her, I took
immense pains not to be myself--oh!

--it was a poem that no one but us women can understand! Finally, the day
of my triumph dawned. My heart beat for joy, as if I were a child,
as if I were what we all are at twenty-two. My husband was going to call
for me for a walk in the Tuileries: he came in, I looked at him radiant
with joy, but he took no notice. Well, I can confess it now, it was
one of those frightful disasters--but I will say nothing about it --this
gentleman here would make fun of me."
I protest by another movement.

"It was," she goes on, for a woman never stops till she has told the whole
of a thing, "as if I had seen an edifice built by a fairy crumble
into ruins.

Adolphe manifested not the slightest surprise. We got into the carriage.
Adolphe noticed my sadness, and asked me what the matter was: I
replied as we always do when our hearts are wrung by these petty vexations,
'Oh, nothing!' Then he took his eye-glass, and stared at the promenaders
on the Champs Elysees, for we were to go the rounds of the Champs Elysees,
before taking our walk at the Tuileries.
Finally, a fit of impatience seized me.

I felt a slight attack of fever, and when I got home, I composed myself
to smile. 'You haven't said a word about my dress!' I muttered.
'Ah, yes, your gown is somewhat like Madame de Fischtaminel's.' He
turned on his heel and went away.

"The next day I pouted a little, as you may readily imagine. Just
as we were finishing breakfast by the fire in my room--I shall never
forget it--the embroideress called to get her money for the neckerchief.
I paid her.

She bowed to my husband as if she knew him. I ran after her on pretext
of getting her to receipt the bill, and said:
'You didn't ask _him_ so much for Madame de Fischtaminel's kerchief!'
'I assure you, madame, it's the same price, the gentleman did not
beat me down a mite.' I returned to my room where I found my husband
looking as foolish as--"
She hesitates and then resumes: "As a miller just made a bishop. 'I
understand, love, now, that I shall never be anything more than _somewhat
like_ Madame de Fischtaminel.' 'You refer to her neckerchief, I
suppose: well, I _did_ give it to her,--it was for her birthday.

You see, we were formerly--' 'Ah, you were formerly more intimate than
you are now!' Without replying to this, he added, '_But it's altogether
moral._'
"He took his hat and went out, leaving me with this fine declaration of
the Rights of Man. He did not return and came home late at night. I
remained in my chamber and wept like a Magdalen, in the chimney-corner.
You may laugh at me, if you will," she adds, looking at me, "but I
shed tears over my youthful illusions, and I wept, too, for spite, at
having been taken for a dupe. I remembered the dressmaker's smile!
Ah, that smile reminded me of the smiles of a number of women, who
laughed at seeing me so innocent and unsuspecting at Madame de
Fischtaminel's!

I wept sincerely. Until now I had a right to give my husband credit
for many things which he did not possess, but in the existence of
which young married women pertinaciously believe.

"How many great troubles are included in this petty one! You men are a
vulgar set. There is not a woman who does not carry her delicacy so far
as to embroider her past life with the most delightful fibs, while
you--but I have had my revenge."
"Madame," I say, "you are giving this young lady too much information."

"True," she returns, "I will tell you the sequel some other time."

"Thus, you see, mademoiselle," I say, "you imagine you are buying a
neckerchief and you find a _petty trouble_ round your neck: if you get
it given to you--"
"It's a _great_ trouble," retorts the woman of distinction. "Let us
stop here."
The moral of this fable is that you must wear your neckerchief without
thinking too much about it. The ancient prophets called this world,
even in their time, a valley of woe.

Now, at that period, the Orientals had, with the permission of the
constituted authorities, a swarm of comely slaves, besides their
wives! What shall we call the valley of the Seine between Calvary
and Charenton, where the law allows but one lawful wife.

THE UNIVERSAL AMADIS.

You will understand at once that I began to gnaw the head of my cane,
to consult the ceiling, to gaze at the fire, to examine Caroline's foot,
and I thus held out till the marriageable young lady was gone.

"You must excuse me," I said, "if I have remained behind, perhaps
in spite of you: but your vengeance would lose by being recounted
by and by, and if it constituted a petty trouble for your husband,
I have the greatest interest in hearing it, and you shall know why."

"Ah," she returned, "that expression, '_it's altogether moral,_' which
he gave as an excuse, shocked me to the last degree.

It was a great consolation, truly, to me, to know that I held the
place, in his household, of a piece of furniture, a block; that my
kingdom lay among the kitchen utensils, the accessories of my toilet,
and the physicians' prescriptions; that our conjugal love had been
assimilated to dinner pills, to veal soup and white mustard; that
Madame de Fischtaminel possessed my husband's soul, his admiration,
and that she charmed and satisfied his intellect, while I was a
kind of purely physical necessity!

What do you think of a woman's being degraded to the situation of a
soup or a plate of boiled beef, and without parsley, at that! Oh, I
composed a catilinic, that evening--"

"Philippic is better."

"Well, either. I'll say anything you like, for I was perfectly furious,
and I don't remember what I screamed in the desert of my bedroom.

Do you suppose that this opinion that husbands have of their wives,
the parts they give them, is not a singular vexation for us?

Our petty troubles are always pregnant with greater ones.

My Adolphe needed a lesson.

You know the Vicomte de Lustrac, a desperate amateur of women and music,
an epicure, one of those ex-beaux of the Empire, who live upon
their earlier successes, and who cultivate themselves with excessive
care, in order to secure a second crop?"

"Yes," I said, "one of those laced, braced, corseted old fellows of
sixty, who work such wonders by the grace of their forms, and who might
give a lesson to the youngest dandies among us."
"Monsieur de Lustrac is as selfish as a king, but gallant and pretentious,
spite of his jet black wig."

"As to his whiskers, he dyes them."
"He goes to ten parties in an evening: he's a butterfly."

"He gives capital dinners and concerts, and patronizes inexperienced
songstresses."
"He takes bustle for pleasure."
"Yes, but he makes off with incredible celerity whenever a misfortune
occurs. Are you in mourning, he avoids you. Are you confined, he awaits
your churching before he visits you. He possesses a mundane frankness
and a social intrepidity which challenge admiration."

"But does it not require courage to appear to be what one really is?"
I asked.

"Well," she resumed, after we had exchanged our observations on
this point, "this young old man, this universal Amadis, whom we
call among ourselves Chevalier _Petit-Bon-Homme-vil-encore_, became
the object of my admiration.

I made him a few of those advances which never compromise a woman; I
spoke of the good taste exhibited in his latest waistcoats and in his
canes, and he thought me a lady of extreme amiability. I thought him
a chevalier of extreme youth; he called upon me; I put on a number of
little airs, and pretended to be unhappy at home, and to have deep
sorrows.

You know what a woman means when she talks of her sorrows, and complains
that she is not understood. The old ape replied much better than a young
man would, and I had the greatest difficulty in keeping a straight
face while I listened to him.

"'Ah, that's the way with husbands, they pursue the very worst polity,
they respect their wives, and, sooner or later, every woman is enraged
at finding herself respected, and divines the secret education to
which she is entitled.

Once married, you ought not to live like a little school-girl, etc.'
"As he spoke, he leaned over me, he squirmed, he was horrible to see.

He looked like a wooden Nuremberg doll, he stuck out his chin, he
stuck out his chair, he stuck out his hand--in short, after a variety
of marches and countermarches, of declarations that were perfectly
angelic--"
"No!"

"Yes. _Petit-Bon-Homme-vil-encore_ had abandoned the classicism of his
youth for the romanticism now in fashion: he spoke of the soul, of
angels, of adoration, of submission, he became ethereal, and of the
darkest blue.

He took me to the opera, and handed me to my carriage.
This old young man went when I went, his waistcoats multiplied, he
compressed his waist, he excited his horse to a gallop in order
to catch and accompany my carriage to the promenade: he compromised
me with the grace of a young collegian, and was considered madly
in love with me.

I was steadfastly cruel, but accepted his arm and his bouquets. We were
talked about. I was delighted, and managed before long to be surprised
by my husband, with the viscount on the sofa in my boudoir, holding
my hands in his, while I listened in a sort of external ecstasy. It is
incredible how much a desire for vengeance will induce us to put up with!
I appeared vexed at the entrance of my husband, who made a scene
on the viscount's departure: 'I assure you, sir,' said I, after
having listened to his reproaches, 'that _it's altogether moral_.'

My husband saw the point and went no more to Madame de Fischtaminel's.
I received Monsieur de Lustrac no more, either."
"But," I interrupted, "this Lustrac that you, like many others,
take for a bachelor, is a widower, and childless."

"Really!"
"No man ever buried his wife deeper than he buried his: she will hardly
be found at the day of judgment.

He married before the Revolution, and your _altogether moral_ reminds
me of a speech of his that I shall have to repeat for your benefit.
Napoleon appointed Lustrac to an important office, in a conquered province.
Madame de Lustrac, abandoned for governmental duties, took a
private secretary for her private affairs, though it was altogether
moral: but she was wrong in selecting him without informing her
husband.

Lustrac met this secretary in a state of some excitement, in consequence
of a lively discussion in his wife's chamber, and at an exceedingly
early hour in the morning. The city desired nothing better than to
laugh at its governor, and this adventure made such a sensation
that Lustrac himself begged the Emperor to recall him.

Napoleon desired his representatives to be men of morality, and he held
that such disasters as this must inevitably take from a man's
consideration. You know that among the Emperor's unhappy passions, was
that of reforming his court and his government. Lustrac's request was
granted, therefore, but without compensation.

When he returned to Paris, he reappeared at his mansion, with his wife;
he took her into society--a step which is certainly conformable
to the most refined habits of the aristocracy --but then there are
always people who want to find out about it.

They inquired the reason of this chivalrous championship. 'So you are
reconciled, you and Madame de Lustrac,' some one said to him in the
lobby of the Emperor's theatre, 'you have pardoned her, have you? So
much the better.'

'Oh,' replied he, with a satisfied air, 'I became convinced--' 'Ah,
that she was innocent, very good.'

       'No, I became convinced that it was altogether physical.'"

Caroline smiled.

"The opinion of your admirer reduced this weighty trouble to what
is, in this case as in yours, a very petty one."

"A petty trouble!"

she exclaimed, "and pray for what do you take the fatigue of
coquetting with a de Lustrac, of whom I have made an enemy!

Ah, women often pay dearly enough for the bouquets they receive and
the attentions they accept.

Monsieur de Lustrac said of me to Monsieur de Bourgarel, 'I would not
advise you to pay court to that woman; she is too dear.'"

WITHOUT AN OCCUPATION.

"PARIS, 183-
"You ask me, dear mother, whether I am happy with my husband.
Certainly Monsieur de Fischtaminel was not the ideal of my dreams.

I submitted to your will, as you know. His fortune, that supreme
consideration, spoke, indeed, sufficiently loud. With these arguments,
--a marriage, without stooping, with the Count de Fischtaminel,
his having thirty thousand a year, and a home at Paris--you were
strongly armed against your poor daughter.

Besides, Monsieur de Fischtaminel is good looking for a man of thirty-six
years; he received the cross of the Legion of Honor from Napoleon upon
the field of battle, he is an ex-colonel, and had it not been for
the Restoration, which put him upon half-pay, he would be a general.

These are certainly extenuating circumstances.

"Many women consider that I have made a good match, and I am
bound to confess that there is every appearance of happiness,--for
the public, that is.

But you will acknowledge that if you had known of the return of my
Uncle Cyrus and of his intention to leave me his money, you would
have given me the privilege of choosing for myself.

"I have nothing to say against Monsieur de Fischtaminel: he does not
gamble, he is indifferent to women, he doesn't like wine, and he has no
expensive fancies: he possesses, as you said, all the negative
qualities which make husbands passable.

Then, what is the matter with him? Well, mother, he has nothing to do.
We are together the whole blessed day!

Would you believe that it is during the night, when we are the most
closely united, that I am the most alone? His sleep is my asylum,
my liberty begins when he slumbers. This state of siege will yet make me
sick: I am never alone. If Monsieur de Fischtaminel were jealous, I should
have a resource. There would then be a struggle, a comedy: but how could
the aconite of jealousy have taken root in his soul? He has never
left me since our marriage. He feels no shame in stretching himself
out upon a sofa and remaining there for hours together.
"Two felons pinioned to the same chain do not find time hang
heavy:
for they have their escape to think of. But we have no subject of
conversation; we have long since talked ourselves out. A little
while ago he was so far reduced as to talk politics.For a religion that provides a
rich livelihood, while at the same time exalting the attendant crime
into positive virtue is at least convenient enough to have many ardent
devotees." The words were accompanied by a glance around the listening
group, and a disdainful half-smile that expressed distrust of all
humanity.

"But of a truth," he went on, "I know no more than my story has told.
And hark! There is the trumpet call that heralds the coming of the sun."

Saying this, the kotwal uncrossed his legs and rose erect.

The long winding note of a horn was floating from the camp of the
soldiery near the city gateway, and in a moment there came from the same
direction the confused sound of men's voices afar off, calling the one
to the other.

"I must away," exclaimed the Afghan, springing alertly to his feet, and
buckling his sword belt. Three or four servants of the Rajput chief had
approached, and were gathering together the cushions and rugs on which
he had been reclining. One of them placed in his master's hand the
bejewelled hilt of his scimitar.

"This for my enemies and the enemies of Akbar," cried the Rajput,
drawing the curved blade half way from its scabbard. "But I would not
soil it with the heart's blood of a thug. There is, indeed. It explains
_one_ thing I never quite understood before, though.

_The Poetical Lady._ I thought it would impress you--but what does it
explain?

_John._ The reason why the buffalo in those parts has so entirely
died out.

_A Rigid Matron_ (_during the Emigrant Train Scene_). I don't care
to see a girl ride in that bold way myself. I'm sure it _must_
be so unsexing for them. And what _is_ she about now, with that man?
They're actually having a duel with knives--on _horseback_ too! not
at _all_ a nice thing for any young girl to do. There! she's pulled out
a pistol and shot him--and galloped off as if nothing had happened!

I have always heard that American girls were allowed a good _deal_ of
liberty--but I'd really no idea they went as far as this! I should be
sorry indeed to see any girl of _mine_ (_here the glances instructively
at three dumpy and dough-faced Daughters_) acting in that forward
and _most_ unfeminine manner. (_Reassuringly._) But I'm very sure there's
no fear of _that_, is there, dears?

[_The Daughters repudiate with gratifying unanimity any desire to
shoot gentlemen on horseback._
_A Bloodthirsty Boy_ (_as the hostile Indians attack the train_).

Will the Indians _scalp_ anybody, Uncle?

       _His Uncle._ No, my boy, they don't let 'em get near enough for
that, you see!

[_The Indians are ignominiously chased off by Cowboys._
_The Boy_ (_disappointed_).

They'd a splendid chance of scalping the Orator that time--and not
one of them even saw it!

)