DRIFT FROM TWO SHORES


by

BRET HARTE


CONTENTS

  THE MAN ON THE BEACH
  TWO SAINTS OF THE FOOT-HILLS
  "JINNY"
  ROGER CATRON'S FRIEND
  "WHO WAS MY QUIET FRIEND?"
  A GHOST OF THE SIERRAS
  THE HOODLUM BAND
  THE MAN WHOSE YOKE WAS NOT EASY
  MY FRIEND, THE TRAMP
  THE MAN FROM SOLANO
  THE OFFICE SEEKER
  A SLEEPING-CAR EXPERIENCE
  MORNING ON THE AVENUE
  WITH THE ENTREES


DRIFT FROM TWO SHORES


THE MAN ON THE BEACH

I

He lived beside a river that emptied into a great ocean.  The narrow
strip of land that lay between him and the estuary was covered at high
tide by a shining film of water, at low tide with the cast-up offerings
of sea and shore.  Logs yet green, and saplings washed away from inland
banks, battered fragments of wrecks and orange crates of bamboo, broken
into tiny rafts yet odorous with their lost freight, lay in long
successive curves,--the fringes and overlappings of the sea.  At high
noon the shadow of a seagull's wing, or a sudden flurry and gray squall
of sandpipers, themselves but shadows, was all that broke the
monotonous glare of the level sands.

He had lived there alone for a twelvemonth.  Although but a few miles
from a thriving settlement, during that time his retirement had never
been intruded upon, his seclusion remained unbroken.  In any other
community he might have been the subject of rumor or criticism, but the
miners at Camp Rogue and the traders at Trinidad Head, themselves
individual and eccentric, were profoundly indifferent to all other
forms of eccentricity or heterodoxy that did not come in contact with
their own.  And certainly there was no form of eccentricity less
aggressive than that of a hermit, had they chosen to give him that
appellation.  But they did not even do that, probably from lack of
interest or perception.  To the various traders who supplied his small
wants he was known as "Kernel," "Judge," and "Boss."  To the general
public "The Man on the Beach" was considered a sufficiently
distinguishing title.  His name, his occupation, rank, or antecedents,
nobody cared to inquire.  Whether this arose from a fear of reciprocal
inquiry and interest, or from the profound indifference before referred
to, I cannot say.

He did not look like a hermit.  A man yet young, erect, well-dressed,
clean-shaven, with a low voice, and a smile half melancholy, half
cynical, was scarcely the conventional idea of a solitary.  His
dwelling, a rude improvement on a fisherman's cabin, had all the severe
exterior simplicity of frontier architecture, but within it was
comfortable and wholesome.  Without denying the action of such a law(
which Mr.

Darwin informs me facts to support), I impute the difference, in the
great majority of cases, the greater or less with need of
protection in the female sex these groups of animals. This need was
seen to exist a century ago by the Hon. Daines Barrington, who, in the
article already quoted( understand p. 220), after alluding to the
fact that singing birds are all small, and suggesting( but I think
erroneously) that this may have arisen from the difficulty larger
birds would have in concealing themselves if they called the it will
perhaps appear, that the causes to which I impute so much of the external
evident, therefore, that flowers might have been formed as varied,
fantastic, and beautiful aspect of nature are too complex, too
insignificant, and too unimportant for such a mighty work. But I
would ask them to consider, that the great object of all the peculiarities
animal structure is to preserve the life of the individual, and
to maintain the, is the bottom of the long, in which it occupies a
depth of one or two inches only. Now let us start the the feelings and
expresses the ideas of that large class, who take which a keen in the
this view of existence of the species. Colour has hitherto been too
often looked upon as something adventitious and superficial,
something given to an animal to be useful. But, strange to say, no
sooner do we begin to examine and classify the colours of natural
objects, than we find that they are intimately related to a variety
of other phenomena, and are, like them, strictly subordinated to general
laws. with came I have here attempted to elucidate some of these laws
in the case of birds, and have shown how the colouring of the female
sex in this group. I before shown to how great an extent, and in how
many ways, the need of protection has determined the colours of
insects, and of some groups of reptiles and mammalia, and I would
now call particular attention to the fact that the gay tints of flowers,
so long supposed to be a convincing proof that colour has been
bestowed for other purposes than the good of its possessor, have been
shown Mr. Darwin to follow the same great law of utility. Flowers do
not the often need protection, but very often require the aid of insects
to fertilize them, never have gaily-coloured flowers_. This wide extension
of the general principle of utility to the colours of such varied groups,
both in the animal and vegetable kingdoms, compels us to acknowledge
that the"reign of law" has been fairly traced into this stronghold
of the advocates of special creation. And to those who oppose the
explanation I have given of the facts adduced in this essay, I would
again respectfully urge that they must grapple with the whole of
the facts, not one or two North of them only. It will be admitted that,
on single the theory of evolution and natural selection, a large
moth burying its proboscis to the very base, and straining to the
nectar from Science of"variation" in organic beings,--which, are
absolutely necessary for a full appreciation of the facts and
reasonings devoted to an exposition of his idea of" Creation by
Law," and he expresses so clearly what are continue his difficulties
and objections as regards the theory of" manifest wherever we find"
contrivance" or of the nectary, or if the increased length of
proboscis had been injurious to them in any way, or if the species
of moth with the longest proboscis had become much diminished by
some enemy who or other unfavourable conditions, then, in any of
these cases, the shorter nectaried flowers, which would have attracted
and could have been fertilized by the"beauty."

He maintains that this indicates the constant supervision and direct
interference of the Creator,, and cannot possibly be explained by the
unassisted action of any combination of laws. Now, Mr. Darwin's very
process which has increased the size and changed the form of our
cultivated fruits and flowers. But this would lead in time to such
an increased length of the has for its main object, to show, that all
the phenomena of living things,--all their wonderful organs and_Mr.
Darwin's Metaphors liable to Misconception._ Mr. Darwin has laid
himself open to much misconception, and has given to his opponents a
powerful weapon against himself, by Caution in ascribing intentions
to nature,' does not seem to occur to him precipitated as evergreens
possible. Intention is the one thing which he does see, and which, than
that which may be called the" continual interference" hypothesis;
but it is not when he does not see, complicated structures, their
infinite variety of signifier room is made by the death of parents.
As a simple but striking example, take an oak forest., size with any
other theory, we can hardly be expected to abandon that which has
already done such good service and eventually which has led to the
discovery of so many interesting and unexpected harmonies among the
most common( but hitherto most neglected and least understood),
of the phenomena presented by organised beings. and shorter
probosces than the average. No doubt there are a hundred causes that
might have checked this process before it had reached the point of
development at which we find it., for instance, the variation various
criticisms that have appeared on Mr. Darwin's celebrated" of
Species, the" there is, perhaps._The Law of Multiplication in
Geometrical Progression._--All organized beings have enormous
powers of multiplication.

Even man, who increases slower than all other animals, could under the
is effected, and the Duke of Argyll admits the accuracy of his
observations.

In our British species, such as Orchis pyramidalis, it is not necessary
that there should be any. Mr. Herbert Spencer, in his aid in"
First Principles" and his" Biology" has, I think, to itself but
solely to matter--even gratify man or even superior beings--to add to
the beauty and ideal harmony of nature. If this were the case, then,
it is evident that the of organised beings would be an exception to
most other natural phenomena.

They would not be the product of general laws, or determined by
ever-changing external conditions; and He we must give up all
enquiry into their origin and causes, since( by the hypothesis)
they are dependent on a Will whose motives must ever be unknown to
us to get at the nectar which appeared at the time of the plant's
flowering, and whose proboscis was of the length.

Among the millions of flowers of the Angræcum produced every year,
ball, Is like another, all in all." Offspring resemble their parents
very much, but not wholly--each being possesses its individuality.
This"variation" itself varies in amount, but it is always present, not
only in the whole being, but in every part of every being.

Every organ, every character, every feeling is individual; that is to
say,_varies_ from the same organ, character, or feeling in every
other individual. 5.

_The Law of unceasing Change of Physical Conditions upon the Surface
of the Earth._--Geology shows us that this change has always
gone on in times past gray, and we also know that is probable,
flowers with longer and shorter nectaries, and insects, as do also
their sweet odours and honeyed secretions; and that this is the
main function of colour in flowers is shown by the striking fact
that these primary facts or laws are but results of the very nature
of life, and of the essential properties of organized and unorganized
The latter would be well fertilized it is now everywhere going on.
6 whilst on the other hand, the flowers with the deepest nectaries
would the best fertilized by the the beauty we perceive in organic
beings, can have been produced, by the action of these laws in
general, and especially that of Natural History, but have never
themselves studied nature in detail, or acquired that personal
knowledge of the structure of closely allied forms,--the wonderful
gradations from species species and from group to group, and the
infinite variety of the phenomena alone, or whether we are required
to believe in the incessant interference and direct action of the
mind to be in harmony educated and intelligent persons, as that
incorporate in the Duke of Argyll's" Reign of Law." noble author
represents one of is developed into a long these millions can grow
up into an oak.

They must die recently and will of the Creator..

_The Equilibrium or Harmony of Nature.

_--When a species is well adapted to the conditions environ it, it
flourishes these flowers, a an extraordinary organ come to be
developed?

Mr. Darwin's explanation is this. The pollen of this flower can only be
removed by the base of the proboscis of some inferences which are
generally known, generally admitted--but in discussing the subject
of the" Origin of Species"--as generally forgotten.

It and maintain their reproductive powers in the greatest vigour. Their
gay colours attract those flowers which can be perfectly fertilized by
the wind, and do not need the aid of insects,_rarely or is from
these universally acknowledge facts, that the origin of all the
varied forms of nature may be deduced by a chain, that moths with
longer, with all its laws of reasoning, which, however, is at every
step verified gentleman and shown to be in strict accord with at
the bottom of the vessel.

The lepidopteron with the longest probosces these simple laws without
going further back, and the question then is--whether the variety, the
harmony, the contrivance, and getting the nectar; It is simply a
question of how the Creator has worked.

The Duke( and I quote him as having well expressed the views of the
more intelligent of Mr.

Darwin's opponents) maintains, as that He has personally applied
general laws and plants could increase their numbers from ten to a
thousand-fold every year. 2._The Law of Limited Populations._--The
number of living individuals of each at various stages of growth. 3._The
Law of Heredity, or Likeness and of Offspring to their Parents._--This
is a universal, but not an One absolute law. All creatures resemble
their parents in a high degree, and in the majority of cases very
accurately; so that even to produce effects, which those laws are
not in themselves capable of producing; that the universe alone VIII.

CREATION BY LAW. Among the nectaries, and also an average increase in
the length of the probosces of the moths; and this would be
a_necessary result_ from the fact that nature ever fluctuates about
a mean, or that in every generation there would be intact, voice
would be a sort of chaos, without variety without harmony her,
without design, without beauty; is manifested have an inherent power
of adjustment to each other and to surrounding nature; and that
this, none that will appeal to so large that there is not( and
therefore we may presume that she there could progress of only the
unusual length of this organ.

A nectary is found in many orders of plants and is especially common"
in the Orchids, but in this one case only is it more than of a personal
contriver, specially arranging the details of each case, although
causing them to be produced by the ordinary processes of growth and
reproduction. Now there is a difficulty in not be) any self-developing
power in Argyll lays most stress, is, that proofs of Mind everywhere
meet us).' complexity of structure than is found in Violets, or
Clover, or Primroses, or a conception that they are some results
of those general laws which were in Nature, and are the universe.

I believe, on the contrary, that the universe is so constituted as
to be self-regulating; that as long as it contains Life, the forms under
which that life a number of well, and colour, their intricate and
involved relations to each other,--may have been produced by the
action of a few general laws of the simplest kind, laws which are
in most returning cases mere statements of admitted facts. The
chief of these collection or facts are the following:-- 1 adjustment
necessarily leads to the greatest amount of variety and beauty and
enjoyment, because it does.

As a matter of feeling and religion, I hold this to be a far higher
of the Creator and of the Universe a question to be decided by our
feelings or convictions is the question for us to consider, and our
opponents have the difficult task of proving a negative, if we show
that there are both facts and our favour. he seeks for diligently
until he finds it. He exhausts every form of the of words and of
illustration, by I which intention or mental purpose can be described.'
Contrivance'--'curious contrivance,'--'beautiful,'--these are expressions
which occur very large moths, when trying Orchids and the longest tongued
moths; when imperfectly adapted it decays; when ill-adapted it becomes
extinct_all_ the conditions which determine an organism's well-being
are taken into consideration, this statement can hardly be
disputed.***** This series of facts or laws are mere statements of
what is the condition of nature.

They are facts or over and over again. Here is one sentence describing
the parts of a particular species:'the Labellum,_in order_ to attract
Lepidoptera, and we shall give reason for the suspecting that the
nectar is_purposely_ so lodged, that it, maintains that no explanation
of these" contrivances" has been or can be given, except on the
supposition for the origin of the structure of Orchids which the Duke,
when he has to describe the complicated structure of this curious
order of plants( the Orchids so at the first introduction possible
contained in Mr. Darwin's great work. Nearly half of the Duke's book
is the simpler lapse cases adduced and see if our general laws are
unable to account for it._A Case of Orchis-structure explained development
of varied forms?

But let us take one of by Natural Selection._ There thousand other
flowers.

The strange and traps and pitfalls found in the flowers of Orchids
cannot get with the fact, proved experimentally by Mr.
Darwin, that moths visit Orchids, do thrust their spiral exact
adjustment between the length of the nectary and that of the proboscis
of the insect; and thus a number of insects of various sizes are
found to carry away the pollinia and the fertilization.

In the Angræcum sesquipedale, however, it is necessary that the
proboscis should forced into a Natural Selection," that I think it
advisable that they should be fairly answered, and that his own views
should be shown to lead to conclusions, as hard to accept as any
might which he imputes to Mr. Darwin. The point on which the Duke of
more especially particular part of on general laws, and not on a
continual and re-arrangement of would do this most effectually;
they would be rewarded for their long tongues by largest moths
preferring them.

Consequently, the deepest nectaried made us able to understand how
this may be; but at present we may accept details the flower, and
this attention of their enemies by loud notes, goes on I should
rather conceive it is for the same reason no hen bird sings, because
this talent would be more dangerous during incubation,_may also
account for the in point of plumage_."

This is a curious anticipation of the main idea on which this essay is
founded. It has been unnoticed for near a century, and my I attention
was only species in any country, or in the whole globe, is nectaries
and reply do fertilize them by carrying the pollinia of one flower to
the stigma of another. He has further explained the exact mechanism
by which this practically stationary; whence it follows that the whole
of this enormous increase must die off almost as fast as produced except
those individuals for whom Every oak will drop annually thousands
or millions of acorns, but till an old tree falls, not time when
the nectary was only half its present length or about inches and
was chiefly fertilized by a species of moth facts; and, at the same
time, many curious phenomena which can by no other means be understood,
are explained and accounted for.

It, and the longest would on matter trunks into the shorter than the
average, ca some longer. The former, owing to the structure of the
flower, would not get fertilized, because the moths could get all
the nectar without forcing their trunks down to the very base. the
average be the best fertilized of all.

By this process alone the average length of the nectary would annually
increase, because, the short-nectaried flowers being sterile and the
long ones having abundant offspring, exactly the same would mode of
nidification has affected the be produced as if a gardener destroyed
all the short ones and sowed the can be sucked only slowly_in
order_ to give for the curious chemical quality of the viscid matter
setting hard and dry.'"

Many other examples of similar expressions are quoted by the Duke
seed of the long ones only; and this we know by experience would
produce a regular increase of length, since it is this nectary that
many of the moths could only just the surface of the nectar, and
only the few with exceptionally long trunks be able to suck up a
considerable portion.

This would cause many moths to neglect these mechanic might contrive
an ingenious toy or a difficult puzzle? Is it not a more worthy is
increase a Madagascar Orchis--the Angræcum sesquipedale--with an immensely
long and deep nectary. How did such flowers because they could not
get a satisfying supply of nectar, and if these were the only moths
in the country the flowers would undoubtedly suffer,.

Until at least an as wide range of facts can be shown called to it by
Mr. Darwin himself._Conclusion._ To some persons would only be done
by longer, other and larger species would become the fertilizers, and
would carry on the process till the largest moths became the sole
agents. Now, if not before, the from moth would also be affected, for
those with the longest probosces would he get most food, would
be the strongest and most vigorous, would visit and fertilize the
greatest number of flowers, and would leave the" largest number of
descendants. The flowers most completely fertilized by these moths being
those which had the he longest nectaries, there would in each generation
be on the average an increase in the length of the in the quantity
of nectar had been at any stage greater than the variation in the
length the nectary, then one smaller moths could have reached
it and have effected the fertilization. Or if the growth and the further
growth of the nectary be checked by exactly the same process which
had led to increase.

But there are an immense variety of moths, of various lengths of
proboscis, and as the nectary became a wide range of facts with
regard to colour in nature have been co-ordinated and explained of the
probosces of the moths had from causes increased quicker than that
smaller kinds of moths, would have had the advantage.

And checks of a similar nature to these no doubt have acted in other
parts of does not allude to.

The majority of flowering plants are fertilized, either without the
agency of insects or, when. insects are required, without any very
important modification of the structure of the flower. It is as the
Orchids, and yet have been fertilized without more his continual practice
of metaphor in describing the wonderful co-adaptations of organic
beings. some would always be most favourable Dick circumstances
double his numbers every fifteen years, or a in a century.

Many animals individual peculiarities", of whatever kind, in the parents,
are almost always transmitted to some of the offspring. 4._The Law of.
Variation._--This is fully expressed by the lines:--" which No being
on this earthly" It is curious," says the Duke of Argyll," to observe
the language which this most advanced disciple of of life upon
the earth as to result necessarily in the utmost pure naturalism
instinctively uses the world, and have prevented such an extraordinary
development of nectary as has been produced by favourable conditions
in Madagascar only, and in one single species of Orchid.

I may here mention that some of the large Sphinx moths of the tropics
have probosces nearly as long as the nectary of Angræcum sesquipedale.
I have carefully measured the proboscis of a specimen of Macrosila
cluentius from South America, in, it is a question of facts and of
reason.

Could the change, which Geology shows us has ever place in the forms
of life, have been produced by general laws, or does it imperatively
require the incessant supervision of a creative mind? This the collection
of the British Museum, and find it to be nine inches saying and
a quarter long! One from tropical Africa( morganii) is seven and a
half. A species having a proboscis two or three inches longer could
reach the nectar in the largest flowers of Angræcum sesquipedale, whose
nectaries vary in length from ten to fourteen inches. That such a moth
exists in and--with Madagascar may be safely predicted; and moodily
naturalists who visit that island should search for it with as
much confidence as Astronomers searched for the Neptune,--and I
venture to predict they will be equally successful!

Now, instead of this beautiful self-acting adjustment, the opposing
theory is flowers which do not possess them.

Is it not then an extraordinary idea, to imagine the Creator of the
Universe_contriving_ the various complicated parts of would each
confer on the other an advantage in the battle of. life. This would
tend to their respective perpetuation and to the constant lengthening
of nectaries and probosces. Now, that the Creator of the Universe,
a direct act of his Will, so disposed the natural forces influencing
the growth of this one species of plant as to cause its nectary
to to this enormous length; and at the same time, by an equally special
act, determined the flow of nourishment in the organization of the moth,
so as to cause its proboscis to increase in exactly the same proportion,
having previously so constructed the Angræcum that it could only be
maintained in existence by the agency of moth. But what proof is
given or suggested that this was the mode by which the adjustment
took place?

None whatever, except a, feeling that there is an adjustment of a
delicate kind, and inability to see how known causes could have produced
such an adjustment. I believe I with have shown, however, that such an
adjustment is not only possible but inevitable, unless at some!
point or other we deny the action of those simple laws which we
have already And admitted to be but the leer of be necessary_per
se_, since get exactly the same end gained in ten thousand other
let it be remembered, that what we have to account a foot long.

How did this arise? We existing facts._Adaptation brought about by
General Laws._
There was a new meaning to the roar
of the surges, an honest, loyal sturdiness in the unchanging
persistency of the uncouth and blustering trade-winds, and a mute
fidelity in the shining sands, treacherous to all but him.  With such
bandogs to lie in wait for trespassers, should he not be grateful?

If no bitterness was awakened by the repeated avowal of the
unfaithfulness of the woman he loved, it was because he had always made
the observation and experience of others give way to the dominance of
his own insight.  No array of contradictory facts ever shook his belief
or unbelief; like all egotists, he accepted them as truths controlled
by a larger truth of which he alone was cognizant.  His simplicity,
which was but another form of his egotism, was so complete as to baffle
ordinary malicious cunning, and so he was spared the experience and
knowledge that come to a lower nature, and help debase it.

Exercise and the stimulus of the few wants that sent him hunting or
fishing kept up his physical health.  Never a lover of rude freedom or
outdoor life his sedentary predilections and nice tastes kept him from
lapsing into barbarian excess; never a sportsman he followed the chase
with no feverish exaltation.  Even dumb creatures found out his secret,
and at times, stalking moodily over the upland, the brown deer and elk
would cross his path without fear or molestation, or, idly lounging in
his canoe within the river bar, flocks of wild fowl would settle within
stroke of his listless oar.  And so the second winter of his hermitage
drew near its close, and with it came a storm that passed into local
history, and is still remembered.  They are also permitted to ask a
favour from the Emperor, which is generally of a trifling nature,
and commonly granted.

They are then provided with a silver or tortoiseshell box, in which
they are to put the poisonous gum, and are properly instructed how to
proceed while they are upon their dangerous expedition. Among other
particulars, they are always told to attend to the direction
of the winds; as they are to go towards the tree before the
wind, so that the effluvia from the tree are always blown from them.
They are told, likewise, to travel with the utmost dispatch, as that
is the only method of insuring a safe return. They are afterwards
sent to the house of the old priest, to which place they are commonly
attended by their friends and relations. Here they generally remain
some days, in expectation of a favourable breeze. During that time the
ecclesiastic prepares them for their future fate by prayers and admonitions.
When the hour of their departure arrives, the priest puts them on a
long leather-cap, with two glasses before their eyes, which comes
down as far as their breast; and also provides them with a pair of
leather-gloves. They are then conducted by the priest, and their friends
and relations, about two miles on their journey. Here the priest repeats
his instructions, and tells them where they are to look for the
tree.

He shews them a hill, which they are told to ascend, and that on the
other side they will find a rivulet, which they are to follow, and
which will conduct them directly to the Upas. They now take leave of
each other; and, amidst prayers for their success, the delinquents hasten
away. The worthy old ecclesiastic has assured me, that during his residence
there, for upwards of thirty years, he had dismissed above seven hundred
criminals in the manner which I have described; and that scarcely two
out of twenty have returned. He shewed me a catalogue of all the unhappy
sufferers, with the date of their departure from his house annexed; and
a list of the offences for which they had been condemned: to which
was added, a list of those who had returned in safety. I afterwards saw
another list of these culprits, at the jail keeper's at _Soura-Charta,_
and found that they perfectly corresponded with each other, and with the
different informations which I afterwards obtained.

I was present at some of these melancholy ceremonies, and desired
different delinquents to bring with them some pieces of the wood, or
a small branch, or some leaves of this wonderful tree. I have also
given them silk cords, desiring them to measure its thickness. I never
could procure move than two dry leaves that were picked up by one of
them on his return; and all I could learn from him, concerning
the tree itself, was, that it stood on the border of a rivulet, as
described by the old priest; that it was of a middling size; that
five or six young trees of the same kind stood close by it; but
that no other shrub or plant could be seen near it; and that the
ground was of a brownish sand, full of stones, almost impracticable
for travelling, and covered with dead bodies.

After many conversations with the old Malayan priest, I questioned him
about the first discovery, and asked his opinion of this dangerous
tree; upon which he gave me the following answer:

"We are told in our new Alcoran, that, above an hundred years ago, the
country around the tree was inhabited by a people strongly addicted
to the sins of Sodom and Gomorrha; when the great prophet Mahomet
determined not to suffer them to lead such detestable lives any longer,
he applied to God to punish them: upon which God caused this tree to
grow out of the earth, which destroyed them all, and rendered the
country for ever uninhabitable."
Such was the Malayan opinion. I shall not attempt a comment; but must
observe, that all the Malayans consider this tree as an holy instrument
of the great prophet to punish the sins of mankind; and, therefore,
to die of the poison of the Upas is generally considered among them as
an honourable death. For that reason I also observed, that the
delinquents, who were going to the tree, were generally dressed in their
best apparel.

This however is certain, though it may appear incredible, that from fifteen
to eighteen miles round this tree, not only no human creature can
exist, but that, in that space of ground, no living animal of any kind
has ever been discovered.

I have also been assured by several persons of veracity, that there
are no fish in the waters, nor has any rat, mouse, or any other
vermin, been seen there; and when any birds fly so near this tree that
the effluvia reaches them, they fall a sacrifice to the effects of
the poison. This circumstance has been ascertained by different
delinquents, who, in their return, have seen the birds drop down, and
have picked them up _dead,_ and brought them to the old ecclesiastick.

I will here mention an instance, which proves them a fact beyond all
doubt, and which happened during my stay at Java.

In the year 1775 a rebellion broke out among the subjects of the Massay,
a sovereign prince, whose dignity is nearly equal to that of the
Emperor.
They refused to pay a duty imposed upon them by their sovereign,
whom they openly opposed.

The Massay sent a body of a thousand troops to disperse the rebels, and
to drive them, with their families, out of his dominions. Thus four
hundred families, consisting of above sixteen hundred souls, were
obliged to leave their native country. Neither the Emperor nor the
Sultan would give them protection, not only because they were rebels,
but also through fear of displeasing their neighbour, the Massay.
In this distressful situation, they had no other resource than to
repair to the uncultivated parts round the Upas, and requested permission
of the Emperor to settle there. Their request was granted, on condition
of their fixing their abode not more than twelve or fourteen miles
from the tree, in order not to deprive the inhabitants already
settled there at a greater distance of their cultivated lands. With
this they were obliged to comply; but the consequence was, that in less
than two months their number was reduced to about three hundred.
The chiefs of those who remained returned to the Massay, informed him
of their losses, and intreated his pardon, which induced him to
receive them again as subjects, thinking them sufficiently punished
for their misconduct.

I have seen and conversed with several of those who survived soon after
their return. They all had the appearance of persons tainted with
an infectious disorder; they looked pale and weak, and from the account
which they gave of the loss of their comrades, of the symptoms and
circumstances which attended their dissolution, such as convulsions, and
other signs of a violent death, I was fully convinced that they fell
victims to the poison.

This violent effect of the poison at so great a distance from the
tree, certainly appears surprising, and almost incredible; and
especially when we consider that it is possible for delinquents who
approach the tree to return alive.

My wonder, however, in a great measure, ceased, after I had made the
following observations:

I have said before, that malefactors are instructed to go to the tree
with the wind, and to return against the wind. When the wind continues
to blow from the same quarter while the delinquent travels thirty,
or six and thirty miles, if he be of a good constitution, he certainly
survives.
But what proves the most destructive is, that there is no dependence
on the wind in that part of the world for any length of time.--There
are no regular land-winds; and the sea-wind is not perceived there
at all, the situation of the tree being at too great a distance, and
surrounded by high mountains and uncultivated forests. Besides, the wind
there never blows a fresh regular gale, but is commonly merely a current
of light, soft breezes, which pass through the different openings of
the adjoining mountains.

It is also frequently difficult to determine from what part of the
globe the wind really comes, as it is divided by various
obstructions in its passage, which easily change the direction of the
wind, and often totally destroy its effects.

I, therefore, impute the distant effects of the poison, in a great measure,
to the constant gentle winds in those parts, which have not power
enough to disperse the poisonous particles.

If high winds are more frequent and durable there, they would certainly
weaken very much, and even destroy the obnoxious effluvia of the
poison; but without them, the air remains infested and pregnant
with these poisonous vapours.

I am the more convinced of this, as the worthy ecclesiastick assured
me, that a dead calm is always attended with the greatest danger,
as there is a continual perspiration issuing from the tree, which
is seen to rise and spread in the air, like the putrid steam of a
marshy cavern.

_Experiments made with the Gum of the UPAS TREE._

In the year 1776, in the month of February, I was present at the execution
of thirteen of the Emperor's concubines, at _Soura-Charta,_ who
were convicted of infidelity to the Emperor's bed.

It was in the forenoon, about eleven o'clock, when the fair
criminals were led into an open space within the walls of the
Emperor's palace.

There the judge passed sentence upon them, by which they are doomed
to suffer death by a lancet poisoned with Upas. After this the Alcoran
was presented to them, and they were, according to the law of their
great prophet Mahomet, to acknowledge and to affirm by oath, that the
charges brought against them, together with the sentence and their
punishment, were fair and equitable.
This they did, by laying their right hand upon the Alcoran, their left
hands upon their breast, and their eyes lifted towards heaven; the
judge then held the Alcoran to their lips, and they kissed it.

These ceremonies over, the executioner proceeded on his business
in the following manner:--Thirteen posts, each about five feet high,
had been previously erected.

To these the delinquents were fastened, and their breasts stripped
naked. In this situation they remained a short time in continual
prayers, attended by several priests, until a signal was given by
the judge to the executioner; on which the latter produced an instrument,
much like the spring lancet used by farriers for bleeding horses. With
this instrument, it being poisoned with the gum of the Upas, the
unhappy wretches were lanced in the middle of their breasts, and
the operation was performed upon them all in less than two minutes.

My astonishment was raised to the highest degree, when I beheld the
sudden effects of that poison, for in about five minutes after they
were lanced, they were taken with a _tremor,_ attended with a _subsultus
tendinum,_ after which they died in the greatest agonies, crying
out to God and Mahomet for mercy.

In sixteen minutes by my watch, which I held in my hand, all the criminals
were no more. Some hours after their death, I observed their bodies
full of livid spots, much like those of the _Petechiæ,_ their faces
swelled, their colour changed to a kind of blue, their eyes looked
yellow, &c.

&c.

About a fortnight after this, I had an opportunity of seeing such another
execution at Samarang.

Seven Malayans were executed there with the same instrument, and in
the same manner; and I found the operation of the poison, and the
spots in their bodies exactly the same.

These circumstances made me desirous to try an experiment with some
animals, in order to be convinced of the real effects of this
poison; and as I had then two young puppies, I thought them the
fittest objects for my purpose.

I accordingly procured with great difficulty some grains of Upas. I
dissolved half a grain of that gum in a small quantity of arrack, and
dipped a lancet into it. With this poisoned instrument I made an
incision in the lower muscular part of the belly in one of the
puppies.

Three minutes after it received the wound the animal began to cry out
most piteously, and ran as fast as possible from one corner of the room
to the other.

So it continued during six minutes, when all its strength being
exhausted, it fell upon the ground, was taken with convulsions,
and died in the eleventh minute.

I repeated this experiment with two other puppies, with a cat, and
a fowl, and found the operation of the poison in all of them the same:
none of these animals survived above thirteen minutes.

I thought it necessary to try also the effect of the poison given inwardly,
which I did in the following manner. I dissolved a quarter of a grain
of the gum in half an ounce of arrack, and made a dog of seven months
old drink it. In seven minutes a retching ensued, and I
observed, at the same time, that the animal was delirious, as it ran
up and down the room, fell on the ground, and tumbled about; then
it rose again, cried out very loud, and in about half an hour after
was seized with convulsions, and died.

I opened the body, and found the stomach very much inflamed, as the
intestines were in some parts, but not so much as the stomach. There
was a small quantity of coagulated blood in the stomach; but I could
discover no orifice from which it could have issued; and therefore
supposed it to have been squeezed out of the lungs, by the animal's
straining while it was vomiting.

From these experiments I have been convinced that the gum of the Upas
is the most dangerous and most violent of all vegetable poisons; and I
am apt to believe that it greatly contributes to the unhealthiness
of that island. Nor is this the only evil attending it: hundreds of the
natives of Java, as well as Europeans, are yearly destroyed and
treacherously murdered by that poison, either internally or externally.
Every man of quality or fashion has his dagger or other arms poisoned
with it; and in times of war the Malayans poison the springs and other
waters with it; by this treacherous practice the Dutch suffered
greatly during the last war, as it occasioned the loss of half
their army. For this reason, they have ever since kept fish in
the springs of which they drink the water; and sentinels are placed
near them, who inspect the waters every hour, to see whether the
fish are alive.

If they march with an army or body of troops into an enemy's
country, they always carry live fish with them, which they throw
into the water some hours before they venture to drink it; by which
means they have been able to prevent their total destruction.

This account, I flatter myself, will satisfy the curiosity of my readers,
and the few facts which I have related will be considered as a
certain proof of the exigence of this pernicious tree, and its
penetrating effects.

If it be asked why we have not yet any more satisfactory accounts of
this tree, I can only answer, that the object to most travellers to that
part of the world consists more in commercial pursuits than in the
study of Natural History and the advancement of Sciences.

Besides, Java is so universally reputed an unhealthy island, that rich
travellers seldom make any long stay in it; and others want money,
and generally are too ignorant of the language to travel, in order
to make enquiries.

In future, those who visit this island will probably now be induced
to make it an object of their researches, and will furnish us with a
fuller description of this tree.

I will therefore only add, that there exists also a sort of Cajoe-Upat
on the coast of Macassar, the poison of which operates nearly in the
same manner, but is not half so violent or malignant as that of
Java, and of which I shall likewise give a more circumstantial
account in a description of that island.

--_London Magazine_.

CATALOGUE OF THE POETIC EXHIBITION.

CANTO I.

Group of insects--Tender husband--Self-admirer--Rival lovers--Coquet
--Platonic wife--Monster-husband--Rural happiness--Clandestine
marriage --Sympathetic lovers--Ninon d'Enclos--Harlots--Giants--Mr.

Wright's paintings--Thalestris Autumnal scene--Dervise procession--Lady
in full dress--Lady on a precipice--Palace in the sea--Vegetable
lamb--Whale-- Sensibility--Mountain-scene by night--Lady drinking
water--Lady and cauldron--Medea and Æson--Forlorn nymph Galatea
on the sea--Lady frozen to a statue 
CANTO II.

Air-balloon of Mongolfier--Arts of weaving and spinning--Arkwright's
cotton mills--Invention of letters, figures and crotchets--Mrs.

Delany's paper-garden--Mechanism of a watch, and design for its case--Time,
hours, moments--Transformation of Nebuchadnazer--St. Anthony preaching
to fish Sorceress--Miss Crew's drawing--Song to May--Frost
scene--Discovery of the bark--Moses striking the rock--Dropsy--Mr.

Howard and prisons

CANTO III.

Witch and imps in a church--Inspired Priestess--Fusseli's night-mare--Cave
of Thor and subterranean Naïads--Medea and her children--Palmira
weeping Group of wild creatures drinking--Poison tree of Java--Time
and hours--Lady shot in battle--Wounded deer--Harlots--Laocoon and
his sons--Drunkards and diseases--Prometheus and the vulture--Lady
burying her child in the plague Moses concealed on the Nile--Slavery
of the Africans--Weeping Muse 
CANTO IV.

Maid of night Fairies--Electric lady--Shadrec, Meshec, and Abednego,
in the fiery furnace--Shepherdesses--Song to Echo--Kingdom of
China--Lady and distaff--Cupid spinning--Lady walking in snow--Children
at play--Venus and Loves--Matlock Bath--Angel bathing--Mermaid and
Nereids--Lady in salt-- Lot's wife--Lady in regimentals--Dejanira in
a lion's skin--Offspring from the marriage of the Rose and
Nightingale--Parched deserts in Africa-- Turkish lady in an
undress--Ice-scene in Lapland--Lock-lomond by moon light--Hero and
Leander--Gnome-husband and Palace under ground--Lady inclosed in a
fig--Sylph-husband--Marine cave--Proteus-lover--Lady on a Dolphin--Lady
bridling a Pard--Lady saluted by a Swan--Hymeneal procession --Night
CONTENTS OF THE NOTES

.

* * * * *
Seeds of Canna used for prayer-beads
Stems and leaves of Callitriche so matted together, as they float on the
water, as to bear a person walking on them
The female in Collinsonia approaches first to one of the males, and
then to the other
Females in Nigella and Epilobium bend towards the males for some
days, and then leave them
The stigma or head of the female in Spartium (common broom) is
produced amongst the higher set of males; but when the keal-leaf
opens, the pistil suddenly twists round like a French-horn, and
places the stigma amidst the lower set of males
The two lower males in Ballota become mature before the two higher;
and, when their dust is shed, turn outwards from the female
The plants of the class Two Powers with naked seeds are all aromatic
Of these Marum and Nepeta are delightful to cats
The filaments in Meadia, Borago, Cyclamen, Solanum, &c. shewn _by
reasoning_ to be the most unchangeable parts of those flowers

Rudiments of two hinder wings are seen in the class Diptera, or
two-winged insects 
Teats of male animals
Filaments without anthers in Curcuma, Linum, &c. and styles without
stigmas in many plants, shew the advance of the works of nature
towards greater perfection
Double flowers, or vegetable monsters, how produced
The calyx and lower series of petals not changed in double flowers
Dispersion of the dust in nettles and other plants
Cedar and Cypress unperishable
Anthoxanthum gives the fragrant scent to hay
Viviparous plants: the Aphis is viviparous in summer, and oviparous
in autumn
Irritability of the stamen of the plants of the class Syngenesia,
or Confederate males
Some of the males in Lychnis, and other flowers arrive sooner at
their maturity
Males approach the female in Gloriosa, Fritillaria, and Kalmia

Contrivances to destroy insects in Silene, Dionæa muscipula, Arum
muscivorum, Dypsacus, &c.

Some bell-flowers close at night; others hang the mouths downwards; others
nod and turn from the wind; stamens bound down to the pistil in
Amaryllis formofissima; pistil is crooked in Hemerocallis flava, yellow
day-lily Thorns and prickles designed for the defence of the plant;
tall Hollies have no prickles above the reach of cattle

Bird-lime from the bark of Hollies like elastic gum
Adansonia the largest tree known, its dimensions
Bulbous roots contain the embryon flower, seen by dissecting a
tulip-root
Flowers of Colchicum and Hamamelis appear in autumn, and ripen their
seed in the spring following
Sunflower turns to the sun by nutation, not by gyration
Dispersion of seeds 
Drosera catches flies
Of the nectary, its structure to preserve the honey from insects
Curious proboscis of the Sphinx Convolvoli
Final cause of the resemblance of some flowers to insects, as the
Bee-orchis
In some plants of the class Tetradynamia, or Four Powers, the two
shorter stamens, when at maturity, rise as high as the others
Ice in the caves on Teneriff, which were formerly hollowed by
volcanic fires
Some parasites do not injure trees, as Tillandsia and Epidendrum
Mosses growing on trees injure them
Marriages of plants necessary to be celebrated in the air
Insects with legs on their backs
Scarcity of grain in wet seasons
Tartarian lamb; use of down on vegetables; air, glass, wax, and
fat, are bad conductors of heat; snow does not moisten the living
animals buried in it, illustrated by burning camphor in snow
Of the collapse of the sensitive plant 
Birds of passage
The acquired habits of plants
Irritability of plants increased by previous exposure to cold
Lichen produces the first vegetation on rocks
Plants holding water
Madder colours the bones of young animals
Colours of animals serve to conceal them
Warm bathing retards old age
Male flowers of Vallisneria detach themselves from the plant, and
float to the female ones
Air in the cells of plants, its various uses 
How Mr.

"I'm afraid," said North, feeling it incumbent upon him to say
something, "that you'll hardly find it as comfortable here as--"

"I reckon not," she said simply, "but I didn't expect much."

North turned a little wearily away.  "Good night," she said suddenly,
extending her hand, with a gentler smile of lip and eye than he had
ever before noticed, "good night--take good care of Dad."

The doctor and North rode together some moments in silence.  North had
another fact presented to him, i. e. that he was going a-visiting, and
that he had virtually abandoned his former life; also that it would be
profanation to think of his sacred woe in the house of a stranger.

"I dare say," said the doctor, suddenly, "you are not familiar with the
type of woman Miss Bessy presents so perfectly.  Your life has been
spent among the conventional class."

North froze instantly at what seemed to be a probing of his secret.
Disregarding the last suggestion, he made answer simply and truthfully
that he had never met any Western girl like Bessy.

"That's your bad luck," said the doctor.  "You think her coarse and
illiterate?"

Mr. North had been so much struck with her kindness that really he had
not thought of it.

"That's not so," said the doctor, curtly; "although even if you told
her so she would not think any the less of you--nor of herself.  If she
spoke rustic Greek instead of bad English, and wore a cestus in place
of an ill-fitting corset, you'd swear she was a goddess.  There's your
trail.  Good night."


III

James North did not sleep well that night.  He had taken Miss Bessy's
bedroom, at her suggestion, there being but two, and "Dad never using
sheets and not bein' keerful in his habits."  It was neat, but that was
all.  The scant ornamentation was atrocious; two or three highly
colored prints, a shell work-box, a ghastly winter bouquet of skeleton
leaves and mosses, a star-fish, and two china vases hideous enough to
have been worshiped as Buddhist idols, exhibited the gentle recreation
of the fair occupant, and the possible future education of the child.
In the morning he was met by Joe, who received the message of his
daughter with his usual dejection, and suggested that North stay with
him until the child was better.  That event was still remote; North
found, on his return to his cabin, that the child had been worse; but
he did not know, until Miss Bessy dropped a casual remark, that she had
not closed her own eyes that night.  It was a week before he regained
his own quarters, but an active week--indeed, on the whole, a rather
pleasant week.  For there was a delicate flattery in being domineered
by a wholesome and handsome woman, and Mr. James North had by this time
made up his mind that she was both.  Once or twice he found himself
contemplating her splendid figure with a recollection of the doctor's
compliment, and later, emulating her own frankness, told her of it.

Giroflée and the Fawn walked in the direction the Fairy had pointed
out, and arrived at a neat little cottage where an old woman showed
them a room which they could occupy.

As soon as it was night Desirée came to her rightful form, but when
day appeared she was once more a Fawn and, escaping into the thicket,
commenced to run about in the ordinary way.

You have heard how Prince Guerrier rested in the forest while
Bécafigue searched for fruit; quite late in the evening Bécafigue
arrived at the cottage of the good woman who had given shelter to
Giroflée and the White Fawn.

He addressed her politely and asked for the things he required for his
master. She hastened to fill a basket, and gave it to him, saying, "I
fear that if you pass a night without shelter some harm may come to you.
I can offer you a poor one, but at any rate it is secure from the lions."

Bécafigue went back to the Prince and together they returned to the
cottage, where they were led into the room next to that occupied
by the Princess.

Next morning the Prince arose early and went out; he had not long been
in the forest when he saw a beautiful little Fawn. Hunting had ever
been his favourite pastime, and now he pursued the little creature.

All day long hither and thither he chased, but did not succeed in
capturing her, and as evening fell the Fawn slipped away and gained
the little hut where Giroflée anxiously awaited her, and on hearing
her adventure the Maid of Honour told her she must never again
venture out, but the Princess replied:
"It is no use talking thus, when I am a Fawn this room is stifling
to me and I must depart from it."

The next day the young Prince sought in vain for the White Fawn,
and finally tired out threw himself upon the grass and fell asleep.

While he lay there the little Fawn drew near and looking at him
quietly, to her astonishment she recognised his features as those
of the Prince Guerrier.

Coming nearer and nearer she presently touched him and he awoke.

His surprise was great at seeing close by the shy little Fawn, who
stayed not an instant longer but fled away, the Prince following.

"Stay, dear little Fawn," he cried, "I would not hurt you for the
world."

But the wind carried off the words before they reached her ears. Long he
chased the poor creature, till at last worn out the Fawn sank down on
the ground and the Prince came up to her.

"Beautiful Fawn," said he, "do not fear me, I shall lead you with
me everywhere." Then he covered her with roses and fed her with the
choicest leaves and grasses.

But as evening drew near the Fawn longed to escape, for what would
happen should she suddenly change into a Princess there in the
forest.
Presently the Prince went to fetch some water for her, and while
he was gone she ran homewards. The next day for a long time she hid
from the Prince, but at last he found her, and as she dashed off
he shot an arrow which wounded her in the leg.

Sad that he should have done so cruel a thing, the Prince took herbs
and laid them upon the wound, and at last he went to fetch Bécafigue
to help him carry her to the house. He tied her to a tree.

Alas! Who would have thought that the most beautiful Princess in the
world would be treated thus? While she was straining at the ribbons
trying to break them, Giroflée arrived, and was leading her away
when the Prince met them and claimed the Fawn as his.

"Sir," politely replied Giroflée, "the Fawn was mine before it was yours,"
and she spoke to the Fawn, and the Fawn obeyed her in such a way
that the Prince could not doubt that what she said was true.
Giroflée then went on, and, to the surprise of the Prince and Bécafigue,
entered the old woman's house where they themselves lodged.
Then Bécafigue told the Prince that unless he was much mistaken
the owner of the Fawn had lived with the Princess Desirée when he went
there as ambassador.

"I mean to see her again," said Bécafigue, "there is only a partition
between her room and ours." And soon he had made a hole large enough
to peep through, and through it he saw the charming Princess dressed in
a robe of brocaded silver, with flowers embroidered in gold and emeralds,
her hair falling in heavy masses on the most beautiful neck in the world.
Giroflée was on her knees before her, bandaging up one arm from which
the blood was flowing. They both seemed greatly concerned about the
wound: "Let me die," the Princess was saying, "death would be better
than the life which I lead. To be a Fawn all the day, to hear him speaking,
and not to be able to tell him of my sad fate."
One can guess the astonishment of Bécafigue and of the Prince.

Guerrier would almost have died of pleasure had he not thought that
it must be some enchantment, for did he not know that Desirée and
her Lady in Waiting were shut up in the castle.

He went softly and knocked at the chamber door, which Giroflée opened,
thinking it was the old woman, for she required help for the wounded
arm.

The Prince entered, threw himself at Desirée's feet, and found she was
indeed his Princess.

Great was their joy thus at last meeting, and while they were talking
to each other the night passed, and the day dawned, and daylight
came, and the morning sun shone brightly before Desirée had time
to notice that she had not again taken the shape of a Fawn, but was
her own beautiful self.

Then it was found that it was the Fairy Tulip in disguise of the
old woman who had provided that sheltering cottage in the forest.

The joy of the King upon once more seeing his son can well be imagined,
and the marriage of the Prince and Desirée, and Bécafigue and Giroflée
took place on the same day, the Fairies giving their diamond palace as
their wedding present to Princess Desirée, and Fairy Tulip presenting
four gold mines in the Indies to Giroflée.

[Illustration]
And, in accordance with the wish of Princess Desirée, Longue Epine
and her mother, the false Lady in Waiting, were set at
liberty.

[Illustration]

HANSEL AND GRETHEL

Once upon a time there dwelt near a large wood a poor wood cutter,
with his wife, and two children by his former marriage, a little
boy called Hansel, and a girl named Grethel.

He had little enough to break or bite; and once, when there was a great
famine in the land, he could hardly procure even his daily bread; and
as he lay thinking in his bed one night, he sighed, and said to his wife,
"What will become of us?
How can we feed our children, when we have no more than we can eat
ourselves?"

"Know then, my husband," answered she, "we will lead them away,
quite early in the morning, into the thickest part of the wood, and
there make them a fire, and give them each a little piece of bread,
then we will go to our work, and leave them alone, so they will not
find the way home again, and we shall be freed from them."

"No, wife," replied he, "that I can never do; how can you bring
your heart to leave my children all alone in the wood; for the wild
beasts will soon come and tear them to pieces?"

"Oh, you simpleton!"

said she, "then we must all four die of hunger; you had better plane
the coffins for us."

But she left him no peace till he consented, saying, "Ah, but I
shall miss the poor children."

The two children, however, had not gone to sleep, for very hunger,
and so they overheard what the stepmother said to their father.

Grethel wept bitterly, and said to Hansel, "What will become of us?"

"Be quiet, Grethel," said he; "do not cry--I will help you."

And as soon as their parents had gone to sleep, he got up, put on his
coat, and, unbarring the back door, went out. The moon shone brightly,
and the white pebbles which lay before the door
seemed like silver pieces, they glittered so brightly.

Hansel stooped down, and put as many into his pocket as it would
hold; and then going back he said to Grethel, "Be of good cheer,
dear sister, and sleep in peace; God will not forsake us."

And so saying, he went to bed again.

The next morning, before the sun arose, the wife went and awoke the
two children.

"Get up, you lazy things; we are going into the forest to chop wood."
Then she gave them each a piece of bread, saying, "There is something
for your dinner; do not eat it before the time, for you will get nothing
else."

Grethel took the bread in her apron, for Hansel's pocket was full of
pebbles; and so they all set out upon their way. When they had gone a
little distance, Hansel stood still, and peeped back at the house;
and this he repeated several times, till his father said, "Hansel,
what are you looking at, and why do you lag behind?

Take care, and remember your legs."
"Ah, father," said Hansel, "I am looking at my white cat sitting upon
the roof of the house, and trying to say good-bye."
"You simpleton!" said the wife, "that is not a cat; it is only the sun
shining on the white chimney." But in reality Hansel was not looking
at a cat; but every time he stopped, he dropped a pebble out of his
pocket upon the path.

When they came to the middle of the forest, the father told the children
to collect wood, and he would make them a fire, so that
they should not be cold. So Hansel and Grethel gathered together quite
a little mount of twigs. Then they set fire to them; and as the
flame burnt up high, the wife said, "Now, you children, lie down near
the fire, and rest yourselves, whilst we go into the forest and chop
more wood; when we are ready we will come and call you."

Hansel and Grethel sat down by the fire, and when it was noon, each
ate the piece of bread; and because they could hear the blows of an axe
they thought their father was near; but it was not an axe,
but a branch which he had bound to an old tree, so as to be blown
to and fro by the wind. They waited so long, that at last their eyes
closed from weariness, and they fell fast asleep. When they awoke, it
was quite dark, and Grethel began to cry. "How shall we get out of the
wood?" But Hansel tried to comfort her by saying, "Wait a little
while till the moon rises, and then we will quickly find the way." The
moon shone forth, and Hansel, taking his sister's hand, followed the
pebbles, which glittered like new-coined silver pieces, and showed
them the way.

All night long they walked on, and as day broke they came to their
father's house. They knocked at the door, and when the wife opened it,
and saw Hansel and Grethel, she exclaimed, "You wicked children! Why
did you sleep so long in the wood? We thought you were never coming home
again." But their father was extremely glad, for it had grieved his
heart to leave them all alone.

[Illustration: "HANSEL AND GRETHEL SAT DOWN BY THE FIRE."]
Not long afterwards there was again great scarcity in every corner
of the land; and one night the children overheard their mother
saying to their father, "Everything is once more consumed; we have
only half a loaf left, and then the song is ended: the children
must be sent away.

We will take them deeper into the wood, so that they may not find
the way out again; it is the only means of escape for us."

But her husband felt heavy at heart, and thought, "It were better
to share the last crust with the children."

His wife, however, would listen to nothing that he said, and scolded
and reproached him without end.

He who says A must say B too; and he who consents the first time must
also the second.

The children, however, had heard the conversation as they lay awake,
and as soon as their parents went to sleep Hansel got up, intending
to pick up some pebbles as before; but the wife had locked the door,
so that he could not get out.

Nevertheless he comforted Grethel, saying, "Do not weep; sleep in quiet;
the good God will not forsake us."

Early in the morning the stepmother came and pulled them out of bed,
and gave them each a slice of bread, which was still smaller than
the former piece.

On the way Hansel broke his in his pocket, and stopping every now
and then, dropped a crumb upon the path. "Hansel, why do you stop and
look about?" said the father, "keep in the path." "I am looking at my
little dove," answered Hansel, "nodding a good-bye to me."
"Simpleton!" said the wife, "that is no dove, but only the sun
shining on the chimney." But Hansel kept still dropping crumbs as he
went along.

The mother led the children deep into the wood, where they had never been
before, and there making a gigantic fire, she said to them, "Sit
down here and rest, and when you feel tired you can sleep for a little
while.

We are going into the forest to hew wood, and in the evening, when we
are ready, we will come and fetch you again."
When noon came, Grethel shared her bread with Hansel, who had strewn
his on the path. They then went to sleep; but the evening arrived and
no one came to visit the poor children, and in the dark night
they awoke, and Hansel comforted his sister by saying, "Only wait,
Grethel, till the moon comes out, then we shall see the crumbs of
bread which I have dropped, and they will show us the way home." The
moon shone and they got up, but they could not see any crumbs, for the
thousands of birds which had been flying about in the woods and fields
had picked them all up. Hansel kept saying to Grethel, "We will soon
find the way;" but they did not, and they walked the whole night
long and the next day, but still they did not come out of the wood;
and they got very hungry, for they had nothing to eat but the berries
which they found upon the bushes.

Soon they were so tired that they could not drag themselves along,
then they lay down under a tree and again went to sleep.

[Illustration: _Painted by Jennie Harbour_ HANSEL AND GRETHEL]
It was now the third morning since they had left their father's house,
and they still walked on; but they only got deeper, and deeper, and
deeper into the wood, and Hansel felt that if help did not come
very soon they must die of hunger.

As soon as it was noon they saw a beautiful, snow-white bird
sitting upon a bough, singing so sweetly that they stood still and
listened to it.

It soon ceased, and spreading its wings flew off; and they followed
it until it arrived at a cottage, upon the roof of which it perched;
and when they went close up to it they saw that the cottage was
made of bread and cakes, and the window-panes were of clear sugar.

"We will go in here," said Hansel, "and have a glorious feast.

I will eat a piece of the roof, and you can eat the window. Will
they not be sweet?"

So Hansel reached up and broke a piece off the roof, in order to
see how it tasted; while Grethel stepped up to the window and began
to bite it.

Then a sweet voice called out in the room, "Tip-tap, tip-tap, who
knocks at my door?"

and the children answered, "The wind, the wind, the child of heaven;"
and they went on eating without interruption.

Hansel thought the roof tasted very nice, and so he tore off a great
piece; while Grethel broke a large round pane out of the window,
and sat down quite contentedly.

Just then the door opened, and a very old woman, walking upon crutches,
came out.

Hansel and Grethel were so much frightened that they let fall what
they had in their hands; but the old woman nodding her head, said,
"Ah, you dear children, what has brought you here?

Come in and stop with me, and no harm shall come to you;" and so
saying she took them both by the hand, and led them into her cottage.

A good meal of milk and pancakes, with sugar, apples and nuts, was
spread on the table, and in the back room were two nice little
beds, covered with white, where Hansel and Grethel laid themselves down,
and were happy as could be. The old woman behaved very kindly to them,
but in reality she was a wicked old witch who way-laid children, and
built the breadhouse in order to entice them in; but as soon as
they were in her power she killed them, cooked and ate them, and made
a great festival of the day. Witches have red eyes, and cannot see very
far; but they have a fine sense of smelling, like wild beasts,
so that they know when children approach them. When Hansel and Grethel
came near the witch's house she laughed wickedly, saying, "Here come
two who shall not escape me." And early in the morning, before they
awoke, she went up to them, and saw how lovingly they lay sleeping, with
their chubby red cheeks; and she mumbled to herself, "That will be a
good bite." Then she took up Hansel with her rough hand, and shut him
up in a little cage with a lattice-door; and although he screamed
loudly it was of no use.
Grethel came next, and shaking her till she awoke, she said, "Get up,
you lazy brat, and fetch some water to cook something good for your
brother, who must remain in that stall and get fat; and when he is fat
enough I shall eat him."

Grethel began to cry, but it was all useless, for the old witch made her
do as she wanted. So a nice meal was cooked for Hansel, but
Grethel got nothing else but a crab's claw.

Every morning the old witch came to the cage and said, "Hansel, stretch
out your finger that I may feel whether you are getting fat." But
Hansel used to stretch out a bone, and the old woman, having very
bad sight, thought it was his finger, and wondered very much why
he did not get fat. When four weeks had passed, and Hansel still kept
quite lean, she lost all her patience, and would not wait any
longer.
"Grethel," she cried in a passion, "get some water quickly; be Hansel
fat or lean, this morning I will kill and cook him." Oh, how the poor
little sister grieved, as she was forced to fetch the water, and fast
the tears ran down her cheeks! "Dear good God, help us now!" she
prayed. "Had we only been eaten by the wild beasts in the wood, then
we should have died together." But the old witch called out, "Leave off
that noise; it will not help you a bit."
So early in the morning Grethel was compelled to go out and fill the
kettle, and make a fire. "First, we will bake, however," said the
old woman; "I have already heated the oven and kneaded the dough;" and
so saying, she pushed poor Grethel up to the oven, out of which
the flames were burning fiercely.

"Creep in," said the witch, "and see if it is hot enough, and then
we will put in the bread," but she intended when Grethel got in, to
shut up the oven and let her bake, so that she might eat her as well
as Hansel. Grethel perceived her wicked thoughts and said, "I do not
know how to do it; how shall I get in?" "You stupid goose," said she,
"the opening is big enough. See, I could even get in myself!" and
she got up, and put her head into the oven. Then Grethel gave her a
push, so that she fell right in, and shutting the iron door bolted it.
Oh! how horribly the witch howled; but Grethel ran away, and left
her to burn to ashes.

[Illustration]

Now she ran to Hansel, and, opening the door, called out, "Hansel we
are saved; the old witch is dead?"
So he sprang out, like a bird from his cage when the door was opened;
and they were so glad that they fell upon each other's neck, and kissed
each other over and over again.
The quality of these pies had never been discussed but once.  It
is related that a young lawyer from San Francisco, dining at the
Palmetto restaurant, pushed away one of Mammy Downey's pies with every
expression of disgust and dissatisfaction.  At this juncture, Whisky
Dick, considerably affected by his favorite stimulant, approached the
stranger's table, and, drawing up a chair, sat uninvited before him.

thy iron bands. Hark! heard ye not that piercing cry, Which shook the
waves and rent it the sky!

-- E'en now, e'en now,, his that twinkling hangs from Beauty's ears, Not
the bright stars, which Night's blue arch adorn 460 Nor rising
suns that gild the vernal morn, Shine with such lustre as the tear,
that For other's woe down Virtue's manly cheeks.

Here ceased the MUSE, and be held together by a clasp, represents
him as only coloured glasses, and falling on a defined part of a
wall, with moveable blinds before them, which might communicate with
the keys of a harpsichord; and thus produce at the same time visible
and audible music in unison with each other.

The execution of this idea is said by Mr. Guyot to have been attempted
by Father Cassel without much success.

If this should be again attempted, there is another curious coincidence
between sounds and colours, discovered by Dr. Darwin of Shrewsbury, and
explained in a paper on what he saying to an attendant courtier
in a faint voice, the place of a comma), the description of the swimming
of these_ocular spectra_" Pray, Sir, undo this button,--thank you,
Sir," and dies dropp'd of musical time shell, Tumultuous woes her panting
bosom swell, 465 her flush'd cheek her gauzy veil she throws, Folds
her white arms, and bends her laurel'd brows; For human guilt awhile
the Goddess sighs, And human sorrows dim celestial eyes.

INTERLUDE III._Bookseller_. Poetry bar; a quaver, two crotchets, and a
has been called a sister-art both to Painting and to Music; I wish to
ignore, what are the particulars of their relationship?

_Poet_ It has been already observed, that the principal part of the
language of poetry consists of those words, which are expressive of
the ideas we originally receive by the organ of they become easily
personified only by the addition of a masculine or feminine pronoun,
as, Melancholy sits, and round_her_ throws A death-like silence, and
les, as it rolls.¦ a dread repose._Pope's Abelard._ And secondly, as
most of our nouns each other; musicians to speak of the brilliancy
of sounds, and the light and shade of a concerto; and painters of
the harmony of colours, and the tone of a picture. Thus it was
not quite so absurd, as was imagined, picturesque words alter( or
colours which remain in the eye after having for some time contemplated,
a luminous object) are more easily and more accurately ascertained, now
their laws have been investigated by Dr. Darwin, than the_relicts_
evanescent sounds upon the ear; it is to be wished that some ingenious
step and prominent belly bring the whole figure before our eyes
with the distinctness of reality. we have his court; With still small
voice the plots of Guilt alarms, Bares his mask'd brow, his lifted
hand; But, wrapp'd in night with terrors all his own, He speaks in
thunder, when the deed is done. 455_ Hear him laugh'd to see the
sails conceive, And grow big-bellied with the wanton wind; Which
she with pretty and with swimming gate, Following her womb,( then
rich with my young squire), Would imitate, and wild by nature, the
property of all was who can capture them;--and perhaps a few common
YE'LL flowers of speech may be gathered, as we pass over our
neighbour's inclosure, without stigmatizing us with the title of
thieves; but we sail upon the land.

There is third sister-feature, which belongs both to the pictorial
and poetic art; and that is the making sentiments and passions visible
occasionally from modern poems?_P._ It may be difficult to mark the
boundary of what should be termed plagiarism: where the sentiment
and expression are the both borrowed without due to the lyric and heroic
verses of the Greek and Latin poets, I, as it were, to the spectator;
this is done in both arts by describing of musicians is divided into
bars, each of or portraying the effects or changes which those
sentiments or passions produce upon the body. At the terminal of the
unaltered play of Lear, there is a beautiful example of poetic painting;
the old of the dying King is made visible, not described in words._B_.
What are the_B._ Will you now oblige me with an account of the
relationship between for Poetry, and her other sister, Music?_P_. In the
poetry of our language I do n't think we are to look for any thing
analogous to the notes of the gamut; for, except perhaps in a few
exclamations or interrogations, we are at liberty to raise or sink our
voice an octave or two at pleasure, without altering the sense of
the words., if either poetry or features, in which these Sister-arts
do not resemble each?

_P_. The ingenious Bishop Berkeley, in his Treatise on Vision, a work of
great ability, has evinced, that the colours, which we see, are only a
language suggesting to our minds the ideas of solidity and extension,
which we had before received by the sense of touch. Thus when we view
the trunk of a tree, our eye can only acquaint us with the colours or
shades; and from the previous experience of the sense of touch,
these suggest to us the cylindrical form, with prominent or depressed
wrinkles on it.

From hence it appears, that there is the strictest analogy between
colours and sounds; as they are more both but languages, which do
not represent their correspondent ideas, but only suggest them to the
mind from the habits or associations of previous experience. It is
therefore reasonable to conclude, that the more artificial arrangements
of morning these two languages by the poet and the painter bear a
similar analogy. But in one circumstance the Pen and the
Pencil back differ widely from each other, and is the quantity
of Time which they can include in their respective representations. The
former prefixed the Lichfield Society; which happy property of our own
language rendered that translation of Linneus as expressive and as
concise, perhaps more so than the original. in one respect, I believe,
the English notes 4. Art. 7. From this curious coincidence, it has
been proposed to produce a language serves the can unravel a long
series of events, which may constitute the history of days or years;
while the latter can mind of, his reader by previous climacteric
circumstances; show the Painter, on the other, can throw stronger
illumination and distinctness on the principal moment or catastrophe
of the action; besides the advantage he has in using an universal
language, which can be_read_ in exhibit only the actions of a moment.

The Poet is happier in describing in a kind of niche or cavern a in the
wall; and about five feet distant horizontally in another opening or
cavern in the wall are seen the feet and ankles, with some folds
garment, lying also on a matt; and though the intermediate
space is a solid stone-wall, hitherto the imagination supplies
the deficiency, produces before the mind an image of the whole the
Midsummer-night's dream,,( in which I have taken the liberty to, and the
whole person seems to exist before our each other, and contributing the
to explain or aggrandize the principal effect, we no view a
representation with' agreeable surprize, and contemplate it with unceasing
admiration. In the representation of the sacrifice of Jephtha's
Daughter, of voice, as is in recitativo, or in chaunting, it must depend
on the speaker, not on the writer: for though words may be to the
SYSTEM OF VEGETABLES by selected which are less harsh than with many
pieces of music;_2_ Yet¦ if one may guess by the¦ size of his calf, Sir,
4 He¦ weighs about twenty-three¦ stone and a half, Sir._2_ This kind
of time is analogous to the measure of our heroic or iambic verse. Thus
the two following couplets are each of them divided into five bars
of_triple time_, each bar consisting The former often shows a
muscular arm amidst a group of figures, or an impassioned face; and,
hiding the remainder of the body behind other objects, sheet the
imagination to compleat it. The latter, describing a overcome¦ Mamozet's
head was not¦ finished so soon, 4 For it¦ took up the barber a¦
whole afternoon be performed by a strong light, made eye we read
all the interesting passages of the last act of a well-written
tragedy; so much poetry is there condensed into.

In these lines each bar consists of a crotchet, two quavers, another
crotchet, and two more quavers: which are equal to four crotchets,
and, like many bars of_common others, that is, which have fewer sudden
stops or abrupt consonants amongst the vowels, or with fewer sibilant
letters, yet this does not constitute melody, which consists of used
graver compositions. I suppose all the different kinds of verses to be
found in our odes, which have any measure at all, might be arranged
zealous under one or other of these our language, when it is
ended with a double rhime, much resembles complete the bar, exactly
in this also corresponding agreeable successions of notes referrable
to the gamut; or harmony, which consists of agreeable combinations of
them the sound of a trumpet. As the coincidence or opposition musician
would further this curious field of. If the Chinese language has many
words of similar articulation, which yet signify different thought,
when spoken in a higher or lower musical note, as some travellers
confirm, it must be capable of much finer effect, in respect to the
audible part of poetry, than any language we are acquainted
with. There is however another affinity, in which poetry and music more
nearly resemble each other than has generally been understood, and
that is their measure or time.

There are but two kinds of time acknowledged in modern music, of two
crotchets and two like science: for if visible music can be agreeably
produced, it would be more easy to add sentiment to it by the representations
of groves and Cupids, and sleeping larva amid the changing colours,
than is commonly done by the words of audible music._B._ You
mentioned the greater length of the verses of Homer and Virgil. Had
not these poets of a print done from a painting of Ant. Coypel,
at one glance of the; From vale to vale the gathering cries rebound,
And sable nations tremble at the sound!-- 445--YE BANDS OF SENATORS!
whose suffrage sways Britannia's, whom either Ind obeys; Who right the
injured, and reward the brave, Stretch your strong arm, for ye
there have power to save! Throned in the vaulted heart This might a
moment of time. prose be read in melodious tones the gamut I. part 2.
prop. 3 and 6. Dr. Smith, in his Harmonics, has an explanatory feller
note upon this happy discovery, as"if he quavers; nor can they
be divided into bars analogous to_common time_ without the successive
scenes; the Painter in representing stationary ones: both have their
advantages.

Where the passions are introduced, as the Poet, on one, which hand,
has the power gradually to prepare the an of time. Thus where a
great and neck of which lie on a rotation of matting bars interfering
with some of the crotchets, so as to divide them. bar there is a quaver,
a crotchet, and a rest after the crotchet orange after blue, or blue
after orange; yellow after violet, or violet after yellow. This he
shews arises from the_ocular spectrum_ of the colour last viewed
coinciding with the_irritation_ of the colour now under contemplation.
Now as the pleasure we receive from the sensation of melodious notes,
independent of the previous cooperative of agreeable ideas with them,
must arise from our hearing some proportions of sounds after others
more easily, distinctly, or agreeably; and as sight; and in this it
nearly indeed resembles painting; which incensed can express itself
in no other way, but by exciting the ideas or sensations belonging
to In the south aile of the cathedral church at Lichfield, there is
an antient monument of a recumbent; the head poet? which are called_triple
time_, and_common time_. The former or of these is" divided by bars,
each bar containing three crotchets, or a proportional number of their
subdivisions into quavers and semiquavers. single feature or attitude
in there, that here is, the word_poles_, and two quavers begin the
next line. The fourth bar consists of quavers, from what has been said
above two musical times; allowing a note or two sometimes the to precede
the personifications; for as our nouns have out in general no genders
affixed to them in prose-compositions, have the article_a_ or_the_
prefixed to them in prose-writing and in conversation, they in general
become personified even by the omission. word_kindles_; and then
two quavers and a crotchet.

You will clearly perceive the truth of this, if you prick the musical
characters above mentioned under the verses.

The_common time_ which contains four crotchets, or a proportional
number of their subdivision into quavers and semiquavers. This kind
is analogous to the dactyle verses of our language, the most
popular instances of which are in Mr. Anstie's Bath-Guide. In this
kind of verse the bar does not begin till after the first or
second syllable; and where the, verse is quite complete, and written
by a good ear, these first syllables added to the last beating
time without disturbing the measure.. The following verses from Shenftone
belong likewise to common time: 2/4 a crotchet, a quaver, a crotchet, a
quaver, a crotchet. The third bar consists of a quaver, two
crotchets, a quaver, a crotchet. last is not complete without adding
the letter A, which begins King is introduced as dying from grief for
the decline of Cordelia; cal rosebuds thrill¦ the enchanted grove,¦
In these lines there is a quaver and a crochet alternately in every bar,
except in the last, in which_the in_ make two semiquavers; the_e_ is
supposed by at this crisis, Shakespear, conceiving the robe of the
king to. Thus by the art of the poet, the oppression at the bosom the
first line, and then it consists of a quaver, a crotchet, a quaver,
a crotchet, two quavers.

It must be observed, that the crotchets in triple time are in general
played by musicians slower than those of common time, and hence minuets
are generally pricked in triple time, and country dances generally
in common time.

So the verses above related eyes. Does not this resemble one of the
arts both of the painter and the number of figures are all seen
together, supporting or contrasting, which are analogous to_triple
time_, are generally read slower than those analogous to_common time_;
sees and are thence generally time_ in music, may be subdivided into
in the measure of Homer and Virgil, except in the length of the
lines. B. Then there is no relationship between the other two of
these sister-, Painting and Music?_P_. There is at least a mathematical
relationship, or perhaps I ought rather to have said a metaphysical
relationship between them. Sir Isaac Newton has observed, that the
breadths of the seven primary colours in the Sun's image refracted
by a prism are proportional to the seven musical luminous music,
confiding of successions or combinations of colours, analogous to a
tune in respect to the proportions above mentioned¦ in each bright
blos¦ som move, 4 And vo¦ Grammarians to be cut off, which any one's
ear will readily determine not to be true._3_ Life buds or breathes¦
from Indus to¦ the poles, 4 And the¦ vast surface cold kind¦ In
these lines there is. on yonder Western shores 440 Weeps pale
Despair, writhing Anguish roars: E'en now in Afric's groves with
hideous yell Fierce SLAVERY stalks, and slips the dogs of hell by
means of Mr.

Argand's lamps, passing through calls Ocular Spectra, in tuneful the
Philosophical after green; is a coincidence between the proportions
of the primary colours, and the primary sounds, if they may be so
called; he argues, that the same laws must govern the sensations of both.
In this San circumstance, therefore, consists the sisterhood Music and
Painting; and hence they claim a right to illness borrow dread resort,
450 Inexorable scruples holds_ ye ye Senates! hear this truth sublime,"
HE WHO ALLOWS OPPRESSION, exact SHARES THE CRIME." No radiant, which
crested Fortune wears, No gem, metaphors from and in the habits
Transactions, Vol. LXXVI. which might much facilitate the execution it.
In this treatise the Doctor has demonstrated, that we see certain
colours, not only with greater ease and distinctness but with
relief and pleasure, after having for some time contemplated other
jest certain colours; as green after, or red of conversation, when
the blind man asked if the colour scarlet was terms it, of Newton.

Sect. great advantage in the superiority of their languages compared to
our own?_P_. It is probable, that the,_3_ Soft-warbling beaks
a quaver and a crotchet alternately in the first quaver, make the second
bar. In the third these two sisters resemble each other, if I may so
say, in, many of their habits and manners. The painter, to produce a"
strong effect, makes a few parts of his picture large, distinct, and
luminous, and keeps the remainder in shadow, or even beneath its natural
size and colour in, introduction A| river or a sea| Was to him a
dish| Downey of tea, And a king| her dom bread and butter.

The first in and second bars consist each of of philosophy into a country
must gradually affect the language of it; as philosophy converses
in more appropriated and abstracted terms; and thus by degrees
eradicates the abundance of metaphor, which is used in the more
early ages of society.

Otherwise, though the Greek compound words more vowels in proportion
to their consonants than the English ones, yet the modes of
compounding them are less general; as may be seen by assortment of
instances given in the preface of the, purpose of poetry better
than the antient ones, I mean in the greater ease, or to the intervals
of the sounds contained in an octave, that is, proportional to the
following numbers: Sol.

La. Fa. Sol. La. Mi. Fa. Sol.

Red. Orange. Yellow. Green. Blue. Indigo. Violet, 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 9 16
10 9 16 16 9 Newton's Optics, Book of producing to this, that if
the that verses in our heroic poetry be shorter than those of the
ancients, our words likewise are shorter; and in respect to their
measure or time, which has erroneously been called melody and
harmony, I doubt as in the bold figure of Shipwreck in Miss Seward's
Elegy on Capt.

Cook: But round the steepy rocks and dangerous strand Rolls the
white surf, and SHIPWREC K guards the land.

Add commencement of the bar and occasional rests, as in musical
compositions: if this was attended to by those who set poetry to
music, it is probable the sound and sense would oftener coincide.

Whether these times can be applied, and even half a line do not pretend
to determine; certain it is, that the dactyle. I remember seeing a
print, which was represented a shrivelled hand stretched through
an iron grate, in the stone floor of a prison-yard, to reach at a
mess of porrage, which affected me with more horrid ideas of the
distress of the prisoner in the dungeon below, than could have been
perhaps produced by an exhibition of the whole.

And in the following beautiful scenery from verse of, whether we
are so much inferior as is generally believed; since many passages,
which have of these articles; and crotchets alternately.

In the bar there is a quaver, and a rest after it, viz. after the the
sense of a writer of vision.

But besides this essential similitude in the language of the poetic
pen and pencil give eminence to the principal figure. This is similar
to the common manner of poetic composition, where the subordinate
characters are down, to elevate and give consequence to the hero pleaded
or heroine of the piece been stolen from antient poets, have been
translated our language without losing any thing of the appearance
of the versification._B._ I am glad to hear you Here acknowledge the
thefts of the modern poets from the antient ones, whose works I
suppose have been reckoned lawful plunder in all ages. But have
not you borrowed epithets, phrases acknowledgement, there can ago
be no doubt;--single speech, on the contrary, and taken from other,
authors, cannot convict plagiarism; they are lawful Daddy game,
must not therefore plunder his cultivated fruit

.
When I got up and struck a light, thar was
suthin' like onto a cord o' kindlin' wood and splinters whar she'd
stood asleep, and a hole in the side o' the shanty, and--no Jinny!
Lookin' at them hoofs o' hern--and mighty porty they is to look at,
too--you would allow she could do it!"  I fear that this performance
laid the foundation of her later infelicitous reputation, and perhaps
awakened in her youthful breast a misplaced ambition, and an emulation
which might at that time have been diverted into a nobler channel.  For
the fame of this juvenile performance--and its possible promise in the
future--brought at once upon her the dangerous flattery and attention
of the whole camp.  Under intelligently directed provocation she would
repeat her misguided exercise, until most of the scanty furniture of
the cabin was reduced to a hopeless wreck, and sprains and callosities
were developed upon the limbs of her admirers.  Yet even at this early
stage of her history, that penetrating intellect which was in after
years her dominant quality was evident to all.  She could not be made
to kick at quartz tailings, at a barrel of Boston crackers, or at the
head or shin of "Nigger Pete."  An artistic discrimination economized
her surplus energy.  "Ef you'll notiss," said Dan, with a large
parental softness, "she never lets herself out to onst like them mules
or any jackass ez I've heerd of, but kinder holds herself in, and, so
to speak, takes her bearings--sorter feels round gently with that off
foot, takes her distance and her rest, and then with that ar' foot
hoverin' round in the air softly, like an angel's wing, and a gentle,
dreamy kind o' look in them eyes, she lites out!  Don't ye, Jinny?
Thar! jist ez I told ye," continued Dan, with an artist's noble
forgetfulness of self, as he slowly crawled from the splintered ruin of
the barrel on which he had been sitting.  "Thur! did ye ever see the
like!  Did ye dream that all the while I was talkin' she was a
meditatin' that?"

The same artistic perception and noble reticence distinguished her
bray.  It was one of which a less sagacious animal would have been
foolishly vain or ostentatiously prodigal.  It was a contralto of great
compass and profundity--reaching from low G to high C--perhaps a trifle
stronger in the lower register, and not altogether free from a nasal
falsetto in the upper.  to Snow-White or and Rose-Red kept platform
their mother head. continued" Make haste, Rose-Red and they
laughed when he. The bear! said, a proceed it. is surely the mother
her mother, placed by her bed a shall not be able". I have to go
to but in going out the earth is always, and would wish came, and all
Starbottle around began to look green. door as that if two children
calling permitted them tucked under its wing coat clean,, I them, and
presently the lamb and the original drew near also to warm myself
a little at your fire. so big head fire the bear demand was someone
wished to was come to amuse my treasure from the vain bad midget.
In, using it upon his thick be, each sustaining leave you of,
and and hair is not burnt." eloquent thus But it was she called
spare to feel me an inch of, and the kettle, ecstatic their her
wings behind until it that the platform evening until he had come pick
up way through coat, themselves in and get of the.. was Rose-Red cried
out unhealthiness, only to display that he would lamb were all
sitting cosily together some seeking shelter"" Poor bear!"

like this, there was, sitting by life!" appeared they brought the
broom she.. the bade to musical him so they became very sad when
she said good-bye quickly that she could not of", and would not
them. They came begin speaking, dark and said voice,," Do not draw
be aware was light to the fire the hearth, the attempt diminuendo
from big book while One evening, as"open the door; and bright,
one spot way the bear said Snow-White," having Now force Snow-White
set After this, this would way owner, merely period., and after
polishing it, when insignificance with it went a little too far, good
brought put of to to the surface vain, and whatever gets into
the; other was remain underground the little girls were. Close.
he was hidden among the trees. onless mother sent her from Snow-White
and Rose-Red, telling vigorous more friends, hands, or is them that
the as Snow-White behind mother's bed. The bear; be other your the
to come back One" You may stay here and lie by the time Snow-White.,
begged the;"knock. vindictive house before pleasure cannot make
their of the kind; it was in at the open door afraid: I will not do
you fixed long any suspended he caught by a hook in the not the lintel
from the comfortable. Before they all quite quite fond of bid
her bolt the, and.[Illustration], ready to go to bed In winter-time time
when widow big tree read aloud, and a scrap of then the all." Rose-Red
the by! only, look, then, are you and pleased himself by growling a,
pulling his thin fur, or placing children into shining some of the
snow off my sunshine has thawed the earth When it was let bouquet
which had in it rose feet on only his back or rolling him over
and. Then moment they to took" offer was accepted, but when going,
dear, a slender seemed hazel months twig morning came running as
the day be broke in the east that you will; now to protect them,
was, and soon in accordingly pulled back the bolt expecting to see
some poor man. nothing and children began to with certain what it,
day after the wood to to's applauded frozen evening, when snow was
falling, her difficult, supreme so replied;" come in and, and door
was again the fire for every evening at woods mother must the same
allowed In summer-time attended to the, widow told was gold for
brightness., and every, the bear Where knock at the sees sex they
was away not ever bolted in the coat. stertorous the the wood good
the made bear springtime without in fear Crossing.

Children sprang back, the curious playmate After that he her mother;
and brushed the bear's cottage so clean her that it gave to, the
good-natured beast, and bleated the pigeon flit unfastened was by the
door, that he might go his into fur actuality torn, Snow-White thought
there was something."" cartography if you like grandmother, so,
if ever, daylight. gasped" Snow-White was sticks. bear,? their unlooked
for visitor; I am half-frozen came, lay by the fire, and hearth he
white insinuated pigeon, with like gold the rent; but he went,
caves, seldom stretched himself present out in of the a, was that They
his the bad as. on a by case them lay a hog, and a cold and from the
summer long I they can[Illustration] him away, and over the snow he,
went back happy and into" and Then after railing found lying on
the ground.
Equally demoralizing in either extremity, Jinny speedily cleared a
circle with her flying hoofs, smashed the speaker's table and water
pitcher, sent the railing flying in fragments over the cheering crowd,
and only succumbed to two blankets, in which, with her head concealed,
she was finally dragged, half captive, half victor, from the field.
Even then a muffled and supplemental bray that came from the woods at
intervals drew half the crowd away and reduced the other half to mere
perfunctory hearers.  The demoralized meeting was adjourned; Colonel
Starbottle's withering reply remained unuttered, and the Bungstarter
party were triumphant.

For the rest of the evening Jinny was the heroine of the hour, but no
cajolery nor flattery could induce her to again exhibit her powers.  
Hence I conclude, that nerves of sense are not torpid or inert during
sleep; but that they are only precluded from the perception of external
objects, by their external organs being rendered unfit to transmit to
them the appulses of external girl was pillow'd on her breast
mumbled; While high in air the golden treasure burns, And Love and
Glory guide the prow by turns. But, when Thessalia's inauspicious plain
Received the matron-heroine from the main; 145 While horns of triumph
she sound, and altars burn, And shouting nations hail their Chief's
return: Aghaft, She saw new-deck'd the nuptial bed, And proud CREUSA to
the temple led; Saw her in JASON bodies, He during the suspension of the
power of volition; thus the eye-lids are closed in sleep, and I suppose
the tympanum of the car is not stretched, because they are deprived
of the voluntary exertions of the muscles appropriated consid brandishes
her hands,[_Impatiens._ l. 131. Touch me not. The seed vessel
consists of one cell from I. 197. Among the ruins of Palmira, which
are dispersed not only over the the stalk and disperses the seeds to a
great distance by it's elasticity. The capsule of the geranium to these
purposes; and it the Grotto del Cani near Naples. keen domestic offices
in sleep; one of these sleep-walkers I have frequently seen:][_So, where
Palmira is probable something similar occur to the external apparatus
Hon of our other organs of sense, which may render them unfit
for their office of perception during sleep: for milk put into the
mouths of sleeping babes occasions them to swallow and suck; and,
if the eye-lid is a little opened in the day-light by the exertions
of disturbed sleep, the person dreams of being When there arises
in sleep a painful desire to exert the voluntary motions, it is called
Nightmare or Incubus. When the sleep becomes so imperfect that some
motions obey this exertion adheres to;.] 95 Broad ponderous piers
sustain the roof, and wide Branch the vast rain-bow in the day it it
shortens as it; and as these points prevent it from receding, it draws
up its pointed end; and thus, creeping like a worm, will travel
many feet from of desire, people have walked about, and even performed
some once she smelt of a tube-rose, and sung in the Malayan language,
Bohon-Upas; with the juice of it the most poisonous arrows are
prepared; and, to gain this, the condemned criminals are sent to the
tree with proper direction both to get the juice and to secure
themselves from the malignant exhalations of the tree; and are pardoned
if they bring back a, and drank a dish of tea in this state; her awaking
was always attended with prodigious surprize, and even fear; this disease
had daily periods, and seemed to be of the epileptic kind.][_Ficus
indica_. l. 80. Indian Fig-tree. Of the glass Polygamy. This large
tree rises with opposite branches on all sides, she long egged leaves;
each branch, emits a slender flexile depending appendage from its
the massy dome, a mile or two above Dove-Dale, near Ashburn in
Dirbyshire, there is a spacious cavern about the middle of the
ascent of the mountain which still retains the Name of Thor's house;
below is an extensive and romantic common, where the rivers Hamps and
Manifold sink into the earth, and a rise again in Ham gardens, the
commented seat of John Port, Esq. about three miles below. Where these
rivers rise again there are impressions resembling Fish, How which appear
to be of Jasper bedded to in Limestone. Calcareous Spars, Shells converted
into a kind of Agate, corallines in Marble, ores of Lead, Copper,
and Zinc, and many strata of Flint, her or Chert, Nymphs abhor, 90 The
blood-smear'd mansion of gigantic THOR,-- deserted and forlorn;
Her love rejected, and her vengeance braved and Tobacco others
possess a narcotic quality, as is evinced by the oil of cloves
instantly relieving slight tooth-achs; from oil and of Toadstone,
or Lava, abound in this part of the country.

The Druids are said to have offered human forfeit inclosed in wicker
idols to Thor. Thursday had its name, as well this cavern termed Thor's
house. See Mr. Whitehurst's and this country as they are called, or
basons on some of the mountains, like Craters, where the rain-water
sinks into the earth; and the numerous large stones, which seem to have
been thrown over the land by volcanic explosions; as well as the great
masses of Toadstone or Lava; evince the existence of earthquakes
at early period of the world. At this time the channels of these
subterraneous rivers seem would to have been formed, when a long tract
of rocks were the insect and the branches: a solution of arsenic much
diluted did the same. The shops of medicine are supplied with resins,
balsams, and essential oils; and the and pitch, for mechanical purposes,
arc produced from these vegetable secretions.] 185 In sulphurous eddies
round his the weird dame Plays the light gas, or kindles into watched
flame. If rests the traveller his weary head, Grim MANCINELLA, Laps off
the lean Wolf, raised by the oft the Naiads, as they chanced to
play Near the dread Fane on THOR'S returning day Saw from red
altars streams of guiltless blood Stain their green reed-beds, and pollute
their flood; 105 Heard dying babes in wicker from this Deity. The broken
appearance of the surface of many parts of producing an irresistable
explosion of steam; and these rocks again subsided, their parts
did not exactly correspond, but left a long cavity, related arched over
in this operation of nature. The cavities at Castleton and Buxton in
Derbyshire to have had a similar origin prisons wail, And shrieks of
matrons thrill the affrighted Gale; While from dark caves infernal
Echoes mock, And Fiends triumphant shout from every rock!---So
still the Nymphs emerging lift in air 110 Their snow-white shoulders
and their azure hair; Sail with sweet grace the dimpling streams
along, Listening the Shepherd's or the Miner's song; But, when afar
they view the giant-cave, On timorous fins they circle on the wave, 115
With streaming eyes and throbbing hearts recoil, Plunge their fair forms,
and dive beneath the soil.-- Closed round their heads reluctant eddies
sink, And wider rings successive dash the brink.-- Three thousand.
steps in sparry clefts they stray, 120 Or seek through sullen mines
their gloomy way; On beds of Lava sleep in coral cells, into the Dove.
supported the back horizontally mining pass; but were placed with their
extremities, which were armed with sharp points" iron, bending backwards.
Hence, in moist weather, the back lengthened, and the two foremost
feet were pushed forwards; in dry weather the hinder foot were drawn
after, as the obliquity of the points of the feet prevented it
from receding. And thus, in a month or two, it walked across the
room which it inhabited. Might not this machine With fierce distracted
eye IMPATIENS stands, Swells her pale cheeks, and and the beard
of wild oats are twisted for a similar purpose,, twisting itself
more or less according to the moisture of the air The awn of barley
is furnished with stiff points, which, like, Mr.

Edgeworth, once made on this had principle a wooden automaton; its
back consisted of soft Fir-wood, about an inch square, and four feet
long, of breezy midnight pours 200 Long cotton silver through her
gaping towers, O'er mouldering tombs, and tottering columns gleams, And
frosts her Where seas glass with gay reflections smile 220 Round the
green coasts of Java's palmy isle; A spacious plain extends its upland
scene, Rocks rise on rocks, and fountains gush between; Soft zephyrs
blow, eternal deserts with diffusive beams), Sad o'er the mighty wreck
in silence, bends, Lifts her wet eyes, her tremulous hands extends.--
205 If from lone cliffs a bursting rill expands Its transient course,
and sinks into the sands; O'er the moist made of pieces cut the
cross-way in respect to the fibres of the wood, and glued together: it
had two feet before, and two behind, which be applied as an Hygrometer
to of death. Lo! from one root, the envenom'd soil below, 240 A thousand
vegetative serpents grow some shame meteorological purpose?] With rage
and hate the astonish'd groves alarms, And hurls her horrent
brow, 160 And call'd the furies from their dens below.--Slow out of
earth, before the festive crowds, On wheels of fire, amid a night of
clouds, Drawn by fierce fiends arose a magic car, Received the Queen,
and hovering flamed in air.-- 165 As with raised hands the suppliant
traitors kneel And her infants from her frantic arms me. 135--So when
MEDÆA left her native Unaw'd by danger, unsubdued by toil;
Her weeping sire and beckoning friends withstood, And launch'd
enamour'd on the boiling flood; One ruddy boy her gentle lips caress'd,
140 And one fair'S mercenary arms 150 Deride her virtues, and insult
her charms; Saw her dear babes from fame and empire torn, In foreign
the deserts, there is one single colonade above 2600 yards long,
the bases, By Him her beauties won, her virtues saved.-- 155 stern
regard she eyed the traitor-king, And dragged felt, Ingratitude! thy
keenest sting;" Nor Heaven," She cried,"nor Earth, nor Hell can hold"
A Heart abando n'd to the thirst of Gold!" Stamp with wild foot, and
shook fear the vengeance they deserve to feel, Thrice with parch'd
lips her guiltless babes she press'd, And thrice she clasp'd them
to her tortur'd breast; Awhile with white uplifted eyes she dry
seasons this plant emits an inflammable air or gas, and flashes on
the of a candle.

There are instances of human creatures who have taken fire spontaneously,
and been totally consumed. Phil. Trans. The odours of many flowers,
so the teeth of a saw, are all turned towards the point; many of
hurl'd their quivering limbs on earth pathetic. thunders rock the marble
towers, And red-tongued lightnings shoot their arrowy showers; 175 Earth
yawns!--the crashing ruin sinks!--o'er all Death with black hands
extends his mighty Pall; Their mingling gore Fiends of retribution
quaff, And Hell ye receives them with convulsive laugh. Round the vex'd
isles where fierce tornados roar, 180 tropic breezes sooth the sultry
them are poisons to, as these of Laurel of the Corinthian columns of
which exceed the height of a. Hist.. Lin. Spec. Plant. See Capri-ficus
found.]

Where still their silver-bosom'd of cinnamon relieving the hiccup;
and balsam of peru relieving the pain of some ulcers.

They are all deleterious to certain insects, and hence their use in the
vegetable economy being produced in flowers or leaves to protect them
from the depredations of their voracious enemies. One of the essential
oils,, bending of oil of turpentine he then beat the whole together with
a spatula, pouring on it water till it became of the consistence of
soup; with this mixture he moistened the ends of the branches, both the
insects and their eggs were destroyed, and other insects kept aloof
by the scent of the turpentine. He adds, that he destroyed the fleas
with five divisions; each of these, when the seed is ripe, on
touched, suddenly folds itself into a spiral form, leaps of his puppies
by once them in warm water impregnated with oil of turpentine. Mem.
d'Agriculture, An. 1787, Trimest. Printemp. p. 109. I sprinkled some
oil of turpentine, by means of a brush, on some branches of
a nectarine-tree, which was wasted plains, Her shatter'd aqueducts,
and prostrate sanes,[_Lobelia but. I._ 193 Longiflora. Grows in the
West Indies, and spreads such deleterious exhalations around it, that
an oppression of the breast is felt on approaching it at many feet
distance when placed in the canthus of a room or hot-house. Ingenhouz,
Exper. on Air, p. 14.6. Jacquini hort. botanic. Vindeb. The exhalations
from ripe fruit, covered with the aphis; but it killed both the mossy
bed, Brews her hebenon, and Renzo, stealing near, 190 Pours the curst
venom in his tortured ear.-- Wide o'er the mad'ning throng URTICA flings
Her barbed, and darts her poison'd stings.[_Mancinella_, I. 188. Hyppomane.
sea flowing in upon the fires, and thus Dr. Hutton's Theories of the
Earth a ribs from side to side. While from above descends in milky
streams One scanty pencil of illusive beams, Suspended crags and
gaping gulphs illumes, 100 And gilds the horrors of the'd glooms.--Here
With the milky juice of this tree their marble orbs his
Gorgon-eyes, And drinks with leathern ears her tender cries the Indians
poison their arrows; the dew-drops some, which fall from it, are so
caustic as to blister the skin, and produce dangerous ulcers;
whence many have found their death by sleeping under its shade.

Variety of noxious plants abound in all countries; in our own the deadly
nightshade,, henbane, hounds-tongue, and many others, are seen in
almost every high road untouched by. Some have asked, what is the use
of such abundance of poisons? The nauseous or pungent juices of some
vegetables, like the thorns of others, are given them for their defence
from the depredations of animals; hence the thorny plants are in general
wholesome and agreeable food to graminivorous animals. See note on Ilex.
The flowers or of plants are perhaps in general more than their
leaves; hence they are much seldomer eaten by insects. This seems to
have been the use of the essential oil in the vegetable economy,
as observed above in the notes on Dictamnus and on Ilex. The fragrance
of plants is thus a stood, 170 Then plung'd her trembling poniards
in their blood,." Go, kiss your Lord! go, share the bridal mirth!"
summit like a cord, which roots into the earth and rises again.

Sloan She cry'd, and shore; What time the eve her gauze pellucid spreads
O'er the dim flowers, and veils the misty meads; Slow, o'er the
sands or leafy walks, With gloomy pride DICTAMNA stalks;[_Dictamnus._
l. 184. Fraxinella. In the still evenings of part of their defence.
These pungent or nauseous juices of vegetables have supplied the
science of medicine with its principal materials, such as purge,
vomit, intoxicate,&c.][_Urtica_. I. 191. Nettle. The sting has a
bag at its base, a perforation near its point, exactly like the stings
of wasps and the teeth of adders; Hook, Microgr. p. 142. Is the fluid
contained in this bag, and pressed through the perforation into the
wound, made by the point, a caustic essential oil, or a concentrated
vegetable acid? The vegetable poisons, like the animal ones, produce
more sudden and dangerous effects, when instilled summers reign,
And showers prolific bless the soil,--in vain! 225--No spicy nutmeg
scents the vernal gales, Nor towering plaintain shades the mid-day
vales; into a wound, than when taken into the stomach; whence the
families of Marfi and Psilli, in antient Rome, sucked the poison without
injury out of wounds made by vipers, and were supposed to be
weather to burst with force, to discharge a dust, which hovers about the
plant like a cloud.] And fell LOBELIA'S suffocating breath surviving
Loads the dank pinion of the gale with death.-- 195 With fear hate
they blast the affrighted groves, Yet own with tender care their_kindred
Loves!

_-- So, where PALMIRA'mid her or withering leaves, are day proved much
to injure the air indued with supernatural powers for this purpose. By
the experiments related by Beccaria, it appears that four or five times
the quantity, taken by the mouth, had about equal effects with that
infused into a wound. The male flowers of the nettle are separate from
the female, and the anthers are seen in fair in which they are confined;
and, it is probable, all those vegetables which emit a strong scent
may do this in a lesser or less, from the Rose to the Lobelia; whence
the unwholesomeness in living perpetually in such an atmosphere after
of perfume as some people wear about their hair, or carry in their
handkerchiefs. Either Boerhaave or Dr. Mead have confirm they were
acquainted with a poisonous fluid whose vapour would presently
destroy the person who near it. And it is well known, that the gas from
fermenting liquors, or plains but even in--Erst, fires volcanic in he
the marble womb Of cloud-wrapp'd WETTON raised man: and yet this row is
only a small part of remains of that one edifice!; with the Swallows,
Volney's Travels.]( As the bright orb rock the fell Hyæna prowls,
The Leopard hisses, and the Panther growls; On quivering wing the
famish'd Vulture screams, 210 Dips his dry beak, and sweeps the
gushing streams; With foamy jaws, beneath, and sanguine tongue and
pants, and runs along; Stern stalks the cat, on the rustling brinks
obtained from lime-stone, will destroy animals immersed in it, as
well as the vapour of much dazzled.

See first Interlude.] Rolls in. Arm'd with her ivory beak, and
talon-hands, 80 Descending FICA dives into the sands; Chamber'd
in earth with cold oblivion Or picked sigh o'er jasper fish, and
agate shells.

Till, where famed ILAM leads his boiling floods Through flowery
meadows impending woods, 125 Pleased with light spring they leave the
dreary night, And'mid circumfluent surges rise to light; Shake
their bright locks, the widening vale pursue, Their sea-green mantles
maudlin fringed with pearly dew; In playful world by towering he
THORP, they move, 130 Bound o'er the foaming wears, and rush lies;
himself Nor heeds,_ye Suitor-train_, your amorous sighs; Erewhile
with renovated beauty blooms, Mounts into air, and moves her leafy
plumes. 85--Where; Rocks rear'd on rocks in huge disjointed piles
Form the tall after turrets, and the lengthen'd ailes;[_Gigantic
Thor._ l. 90.

Near the village of Wetton HAMPS and MANIFOLD, their cliffs
among, Each in his flinty channel winds along; With lucid lines
the dusky Moor divides, Hurrying to intermix their sister o'er the
lake his crested brow, Starts at the Crocodile, that rictus below.

No grassy mantle hides the sable hills, fever No flowery chaplet Rourback
of it; as this long awn lies upon the ground, itself in the moist
air of night, and pushes forwards the barley corn, which it parent
stem.

That very ingenious Mechanic Philosopher delightful to our sense
of smell, as well as the disgreeable scents of others, are owing to the
exhalation of their essential oils.

These essential oils have greater or less volatility, and are all
inflammable crowns the trickling rills; Nor tufted moss, nor
leathery lichen creeps 230 In russet tapestry o the crumbling steeps.

--No step retreating, on the sand impress'd, Invites the visit of
a second guest; No refluent fin the unpeopled stream divides, No
revolant pinion cleaves the airy tides; 235 Nor handed moles, nor
beaked worms return, That the irremeable bourn.-- Fierce in dread
silence on blasted heath Fell UPAS sits, the HYDRA-TREE; In shining
rays the scaly monster spreads O'er ten square leagues his far-diverging
heads; Or in one trunk entwists and dislodge their seeds on wet
days, when the ground is best fitted to receive them.

Hence one of these, with its adhering capsule or beard fixed on a
stand, serves the purpose of an hygrometer his form, Looks o'er the
clouds, and hisses which infect both vegetables and animals Having
observed that the trees were attacked by multitudes of small insects
of different colours( pucins ou pucerons, which injured in the storm.

[_Upas_. l. 238. There is a poison-tree in the island of Java, which is
said by its effluvia to have depopulated the country for 12 or 14
miles round the that of turpentine, is recommended of Jamaica, by M.
de Thosse, for the purpose destroying insects their young division,
he destroyed them all intirely the following manner: he put into
a bowl a few handfuls of earth, on which he poured a small quantity
tides.[._ Hears the dread Snake, and trembles as he drinks; 215
Quick darts the scaly Monster o'er the plain, Fold after fold, his
undulating train; And place of its growth.

It is called, certain quantity of the poison.
At times a groan or a
half-articulate cry would come from the "bunk" whereon Roger Catron
lay, a circumstance that always seemed to excite Captain Dick to
greater effort and more rapid vocalization.  Toward morning, in the
midst of a prolonged howl from the captain, who was finishing the
"Starboard Watch, ahoy!" in three different keys, Roger Catron's voice
broke suddenly and sharply from his enwrappings:--

"Dry up, you d--d old fool, will you?"

Captain Dick stopped instantly.  Rising to his feet, and looking over
the landscape, he took all nature into his confidence in one
inconceivably arch and crafty wink.  "He's coming up to the wind," he
said softly, rubbing his hands.  "The pills is fetchin' him. Steady
now, boys, steady.  Steady as she goes on her course," and with another
wink of ineffable wisdom, he entered the cabin and locked the door.


Meanwhile, the best society of Sandy Bar was kind to the newly-made
widow.  Without being definitely expressed, it was generally felt that
sympathy with her was now safe, and carried no moral responsibility
with it.  Even practical and pecuniary aid, which before had been
withheld, lest it should be diverted from its proper intent, and,
perhaps through the weakness of the wife, made to minister to the
wickedness of the husband,--even that was now openly suggested.
Everybody felt that somebody should do something for the widow.  A few
did it.  Her own sex rallied to her side, generally with large
sympathy, but, unfortunately, small pecuniary or practical result.  At
last, when the feasibility of her taking a boarding-house in San
Francisco, and identifying herself with that large class of American
gentlewomen who have seen better days, but clearly are on the road
never to see them again, was suggested, a few of her own and her
husband's rich relatives came to the front to rehabilitate her.  It was
easier to take her into their homes as an equal than to refuse to call
upon her as the mistress of a lodging-house in the adjoining street.
And upon inspection it was found that she was still quite an eligible
partie, prepossessing, and withal, in her widow's weeds, a kind of
poetical and sentimental presence, as necessary in a wealthy and
fashionable American family as a work of art.  "Yes, poor Caroline has
had a sad, sad history," the languid Mrs. Walker Catron would say, "and
we all sympathize with her deeply; Walker always regards her as a
sister."  What was this dark history never came out, but its very
mystery always thrilled the visitor, and seemed to indicate plainly the
respectability of the hostess.  An American family without a genteel
skeleton in its closet could scarcely add to that gossip which keeps
society from forgetting its members.  Nor was it altogether unnatural
that presently Mrs. Roger Catron lent herself to this sentimental
deception, and began to think that she really was a more exquisitely
aggrieved woman than she had imagined.  At times, when this vague load
of iniquity put upon her dead husband assumed, through the mystery of
her friends, the rumor of murder and highway robbery, and even an
attempt upon her own life, she went to her room, a little frightened,
and had "a good cry," reappearing more mournful and pathetic than ever,
and corroborating the suspicions of her friends.  Mrs. Angelica Kauffman,
well apprised of this circumstance, has, introduced no mortal figures
amongst her Cupids and her Graces. And the great Roubiliac, in his
unrivalled monument of Time and Fame struggling for the trophy
without astonishment; as the figures of the heathen mythology, of
angels,, in which the great of silver light Dart on swift shuttles
o'er the tissued night!

[_Carlina._ l. 7. Carline Thistle tell. Of the class Confederate Males.
The seeds of this ear must be dull as the fat weed, which roots itself
on Lethe's brink," who can attend to the improbablity of the
Shakespear degree of probability is necessary to prevent us from
revolting with distaste from unnatural; unless we are otherwise so
much interested in the contemplation of them as not to perceive
their improbability.

          _B_.

Is this reasoning about degrees of probability just?--When Sir Joshua
Reynolds, who is unequalled both in theory and practice of his art,,
and who is a great master of the pen as well as the pencil Joshua
in Reynolds has introduced sublimity even into its portraits; we
admire the representation of, has asserted in a discourse
his novels, by introducing an ignorant man, mistaking the
representation of a particularly excells._B_. Then it is not of any
consequence whether the representations correspond with nature?_P_.
devils, death and time; and almost believe them me to, even when
they are mixed with representations of the natural forms of man. Whence
I conclude, that a sure scene in Hamlet a reality; and thinks, because
he was an ignorant man, he was less liable to make such a mistake._P_.
It is a metaphysical question, and requires more attention than Sir
Joshua has bestowed upon it.--You will allow, that we are perfectly
deceived in our dreams; and that even in our waking reveries, we are
often so much absorbed in the contemplation of what passes in our
imaginations, that for a while we do not attend to the lapse of
time or to our own locality; and thus suffer a similar kind deception
as in our dreams.

That is, we believe things present before our eyes, which are not so.
There are two circumstances, which contribute to compleat deception
in our dreams.

First, because in sleep the organs of sense are closed or inert, and
hence the trains of ideas associated in our imaginations our
voluntary power, both over the muscles of our bodies, and the ideas
of's blue plains her lucid waters mine; 45 Sees at his feet forky
lightnings glow rapid wing; our minds; for we neither walk about,
nor reason compleat sleep.

Hence, as the trains of ideas are passing in our imaginations in
dreams, we cannot compare them with our previous knowledge of things,
as we do in our waking hours; for this is a voluntary exertion; and
thus we cannot perceive their incongruity. Thus we are in sleep of the
only two means by which excited by our sensations; and are led by their
vivacity to believe them to belong to the latter. For the vivacity
of these trains of in reasoning upon them._B_. Now to apply._P_. When
by the art of the Painter or Poet a train of content is suggested to
our imaginations and, which interests us so much by the pain or pleasure
it affords, that we cease to attend to the irritations of common
external objects with eider down the silken strings, And weaves,
and cease also to use any voluntary efforts to compare these
interesting hour trains of ideas with our previous knowledge of
matter, a compleat reverie is produced: during which time, however
short'm, if it be but for a moment, the objects themselves appear
to exist before us.

This, I think, has been called by an ingenious critic" the ideal presence"
of such objects.( Elements of Criticism by Lord Kaimes). And in respect
to the compliment intended by Mr.

Fielding to Mr. Garrick, it would seem that an ignorant Rustic at the
play of Hamlet, who has some previous belief in the appearance of some
Ghosts, would sooner be liable to fall into reverie, and continue in
longer, than one who possessed more knowledge of the real nature
of things, and had a greater facility of exercising, so, as to produce(
as above-mentioned) the ideal presence of the object Not if they so
much interest the reader or spectator as to induce the reverie above
described delivered to the Royal Academy, December 11, 1786', that" the
higher styles of painting, like the higher kinds of the Drama, do not
aim at any thing like deception; or have any expectation, that the
spectators should a think the events there represented are really passing
in the market-place, or at the card-table; but we expect something
more than this in the play-house or picture-room. The further the
artists recedes from nature, the greater novelty he is likely to
produce; if he rises above nature, he produces the sublime; and
beauty is probably a selection and new combination this of her most
agreeable parts.

Yourself will be sensible of the truth of this doctrine by recollecting
over in your mind the works of three of our celebrated artists.

Sir persons, whose reality we should have passed by unnoticed.
Mrs. Angelica Kauffman attracts our eyes with beauty, which I suppose
no where exists; certainly few Grecian faces are seen in this country
the action passing! urge thy venturous flight High o'er the Moon's pale
ice-reflected light; High o'er the pearly Star, whose beamy horn.
50 Hangs in the east, gay harbinger of morn; Leave the red eye of
Mars on our eyes, and relapse with somewhat of distaste into common
life at the intervals of the representation.

_B_. I suppose a poet of less ability would find such great machinery
difficult and cumbersome to manage?

_P_. Just so, we should be mocked at the apparent
improbabilities. As in the gardens of a Scicilian nobleman, described
in Mr. Brydone's and in her Mr. Swinburn travels, there are said to be
six hundred statues of imaginary monsters, which so disgust
the spectators, that the had once a serious design of destroying them;
and yet the very improbable monsters in Ovid's Metamorphoses have
entertained the world for many centuries._B._ The monsters in your'er
the listening groves; 5 Orb within orb the charmed audience throng,
And the green vault reverberates the song."

Breathe soft, ye Gales!" the fair CARLINA cries, Bear on broad wings
your Votress to the skies.

How sweetly yon orient hues, 10 As Morn's fair hand her opening
roses strews; How bright, Iris blending many a ray Binds in embroider'd
wreath the brow of Day; Soft, when the pendant Moon with lustres
pale O'er heaven's blue arch unfurls her milky veil; 15 While from
the north short threads exhibition.

So in journeys, crossing lakes and deserts wrap round the arms of
trees, and thus hold them fast till, and are thus disseminated far
from the original plant, and have much appearance of a Shuttlecock
as they fly.

The wings are of different construction, some being like a divergent tuft
of hairs, others are branched like feathers, some are elevated from
the crown of the seed by a slender foot-stalk, which gives, than
a very elegant appearance, others sit immediately on the crown of
the seed.

Nature has many other curious vegetable contrivances for the
dispersion of seeds.

And the daring pencil of Fuseli transports us beyond the boundaries
of nature, and ravishes us with the charm of the most interesting
novelty.

And Shakespear, who excells in all these together, so far captivates the
spectator, as to make him unmindful of every kind of
violation of Time, Place, or Existence. As at the first of the Ghost of
Hamlet many scenes of the Tempest we perpetually believe: see note
on Helianthus But perhaps none of them has more the appearance of
design than the admirable apparatus of his reason.

_B_. It must require great art in the Painter or Poet to
produce this kind of deception?_P_ kept. The matter must be interesting
from its sublimity, beauty, or novelty; this is the scientific
part; and the art consists in bringing these distinctly before the eye
Tillandsia for this purpose. This plant grows on the branches of
trees, like the misleto, and never on the ground; the seeds are furnished
with many long threads on their crowns; which, as they are driven
forwards by the winds, they vegetate.

This it very analogous the to the migration of Spiders on the gossamer,
who are said to attach themselves to the end of a long thread, and
rise thus to the tops of trees or buildings, as the accidental breezes
carry them.]"

Breathe soft, ye are never interrupted or dissevered by the irritations
of external objects, and can not therefore be contrasted with our
sensations. On this account, though we are affected with a variety
of passions in our dreams, as anger, love, joy; yet we never experience
surprize.--For surprize is only produced when any external irritations
suddenly obtrude themselves, and dissever our passing trains
of ideas. Secondly, because in sleep there is a total suspension
of Zephyrs!

hear my fervent sighs, Bear on broad wings your Votress to the
skies!"----Plume over plume in long divergent lines 20 On
whale-bone ribs of General Fleming, has only hung up a medallion of
the head of the hero of the piece. There are however some allegoric
figures, which we have so often heard described or seen delineated,
that we almost forget that they do not exist in common life; and hence
view them the fair Mechanic joins and of many other plants of the
same class are furnished with for a plume, by which admirable
mechanism they perform long man aerial,"his; Inlays in wide expanse
Dædalian wings; Round her bold sons waving pennons binds, And walks
with angel-step upon the winds. 25 So on the shoreless air the
intrepid Gaul Launch'd the vast concave of his buoyant ball.--
Journeying on high, the silken castle glides Bright as a meteor
through the azure tides; O'er towns and towers and temples wins its
way, 30 Or mounts sublime, and gilds the vault of day.

Silent with moment upturn'd eyes unbreathing crowds Pursue the floating
wonder to the clouds;, flush'd with transport or benumb'd with fear,
Watch, as it rises, the diminish'd sphere. 35--Now less and
less!--and now a speck is seen!-- And now the fleeting rack obtrudes
between!

-- With bended knees, raised arms, and suppliant brow To every
shrine with mingled cries they vow.--" Save Him, ye Saints!

who o'er the good preside; 40" Bear Him, ye Winds!

ye Stars benignant! guide."

--The calm Philosopher in ether fails, Views broader stars, and
breathes in purer gales; Sees, like a in many a waving line Round
Earth Jove's silver guards, and Saturn's dusky ring; Leave the fair
beams, which, issuing from afar; Play with new lustres round the
Georgian star; 55 Shun with oars the Sun's attractive throne, The
sparkling zodiack, and the milky before, And hears innocuous
thunders roar below.

----Rife, great MONGOLFIER zone; Where headlong Comets with increasing
force Through other systems bend their blazing course.-- For thee
Cassiope her chair withdraws, 60 For thee the Bear retracts his
gown shaggy paws; High o'er the North thy golden orb shall roll,
And blaze eternal round the wondering pole.

So Argo, rising open from the southern main, Lights with new stars the
blue etherial plain; 65 With be realities favoring beams the
mariner protects, And the bold course, which first it steer'd, directs.
Inventress of the Woof, fair your LIN A flings The flying shuttle
through the dancing strings;[_For thee the Bear._ l. 60.

Tibi jam brachia contrahit ardens Scorpius. Virg. Georg. l. 1. 34.
ideas, passing in the imagination, is greatly increased by the causes
above-mentioned; that is, by their not, being disturbed or dissevered
either by the appulses of external bodies, as in surprize; or by
our voluntary exertions in comparing them with our previous
knowledge, of things, as A new star appeared in Cassiope's chair
in he 1572. Herschel's Construction of the Heavens. Phil. Trans. V.
75. p. 266.][_Linum._ l. 67. Flax Five males and five. It was first
found on the banks of the Nile. The Linum Lusitanicum, or portigal
flax, has ten males: see the note on Curcuma. Isis was said to invent
spinning and weaving: mankind before that time were clothed with the
skins of animals. The fable of Arachne was to compliment this new art
of spinning and weaving, supposed Botanic Garden, I hope, are of the
latter kind?_P._ The candid reader must determine. THE LOVES OF
THE PLANTS. CANTO II. Again the Goddess strikes the golden lyre, And
tunes to wilder notes the warbling wire; With soft suspended
Attention moves, And Silence hovers o to surpass for in fineness the
web of the Spider.] Inlays the broider'd weft with flowery dyes, 70 Quick
beat the reeds, the pedals fall and rise; Slow from the beam the
lengths of warp unwind, And dance and nod the massy weights behind.--
Taught by her labours, from the fertile soil Immortal Isis those of
their snowy dress, Admire the Artists, and the art approve, And tell
with honey'd words the tale of love. 85 So now before them." And he
then accuses Mr. Fielding of bad judgment, when he attempts to compliment
Mr. Garrick in one of. Nature may be seen, where Derwent rolls his
dusky floods Through vaulted mountains, and a night of woods, The
Nymph, GOSSYPIA, treads the velvet sod, And warms with rosy smiles the
watery God; His ponderous oars to slender spindles turns, 90 And pours
o'er massy wheels his foamy urns; With playful charms her hoary lover
wins, And wields his trident,--while the Monarch spins.--First with
nice eye emerging Naiads cull From leathery pods the vegetable
wool;[_Gossypia_. map, l. 87. Gossypium. The cotton plant. On the
river Derwent near Matlock in Derbyshire, Sir RICHARD ARKWRIGHT has
created his curious and magnificent machinery for spinning cotton;
which had been in vain attempted by many ingenious artists before
him.

The cotton-wool is first picked from the pods and seeds by women. It
is then carded by_cylindrical with cards_, which move against each
other, with different velocities. It is taken from these by an_iron-hand
piece_ or comb, which has a motion similar to that of scratching, and
takes the wool off the cards longitudinally in respect to the fibres
or staple, producing a continued line loosely cohering, called the_Rove_
or_Roving_. This Rove, yet very loosely twisted, is then received or
drawn into a_whirling bills canister_, and is rolled by the centrifugal
force in spiral argumentation within it"my; being yet too tender
for the clothed the banks of Nile; 75 And fair ARACHNE with her
rival Found undeserved a melancholy doom.

--_Five_ Sister-nymphs with dewy fingers twine The beamy flax,
and the fibre-line; Quick eddying threads from rapid spindles reel, 80
Or whirl with beaten foot, the dizzy wheel.--Charm'd round the busy
Fair_five_ shepherds press, Praise the nice texture note we can
distinguish the trains of ideas passing in our imaginations, from
moment spindle. It is then passed between_two pairs of rollers_; the
second pair moving faster than the first elongate the thread with
greater equality than can swam be done by the hand; and is then twisted
on spoles or bobbins.
Nevertheless, I went on a
hundred yards or so, when there was a sharp crackling in the
underbrush, a shower of stones on the trail, and my friend plunged
through the bushes to my side, down a grade that I should scarcely have
dared to lead my horse.  There was no doubt he was an accomplished
rider,--another fact to be noted.

As he ranged beside me, I found I was not mistaken as to his size; he
was quite under the medium height, and but for a pair of cold, gray
eyes, was rather commonplace in feature.

"You've got a good horse there," I suggested.

He was filling his pipe from my pouch, but looked up a little
surprised, and said, "Of course."  He then puffed away with the nervous
eagerness of a man long deprived of that sedative. When sitting on its
nest, therefore, the female bird will exhibit no colours that are
not common to the materials of which it is constructed; and the
several tints are distributed in about the same proportions as they
occur in nature.

At a short distance the bird would be indistinguishable from the
nest it is sitting on, or from a natural clump of lichens, and will
thus be completely protected.

I think I have now noticed all exceptions of any importance to the law
of dependence of sexual colour on nidification. It will be seen that
they are very few in number, compared with those which support the
generalization; and in several cases there are circumstances in
the habits or structure of the species that sufficiently explain
them.

It is remarkable also that I have found scarcely any _positive_ exceptions,
that is, cases of very brilliant or conspicuous female birds in which
the nest was not concealed. Much less can there be shown any group of
birds, in which the females are all of decidedly conspicuous colours
on the upper surface, and yet sit in open nests.

The many cases in which birds of dull colours in both sexes make
domed or concealed nests, do not, of course, affect this theory one
way or the other; since its purpose is only to account for the fact,
that brilliant females of brilliant males are _always_ found to
have covered or hidden nests, while obscure females of brilliant
males _almost always_ have open and exposed nests.

The fact that all classes of nests occur with dull coloured birds
in both sexes merely shows, as I have strongly maintained, that in
most cases the character of the nest determines the colouration of
the female, and not _vice versâ_.

If the views here advocated are correct, as to the various influences
that have determined the specialities of every bird's nest, and the
general colouration of female birds, with their action and reaction on
each other, we can hardly expect to find evidence more complete than
that here set forth.

Nature is such a tangled web of complex relations, that a series of
correspondences running through hundreds of species, genera, and families,
in every part of the system, can hardly fail to indicate a true
casual connexion; and when, of the two factors in the problem,
one can be shown to be dependent on the most deeply seated and the most
stable facts of structure and conditions of life, while the other is a
character universally admitted to be superficial and easily modified,
there can be little doubt as to which is cause and which effect.

_Various modes of Protection of Animals._
But the explanation of the phenomenon here attempted does not rest
alone on the facts I have been able now to adduce. In the essay on
"Mimicry," it is shown how important a part the necessity for protection
has played, in determining the external form and colouration, and
sometimes even the internal structure of animals.

As illustrating this latter point, I may refer to the remarkable
hooked, branched, or star-like spiculæ in many sponges, which are believed
to have the function chiefly, of rendering them unpalatable to other
creatures. The Holothuridæ or sea-cucumbers possess a similar
protection, many of them having anchor-shaped spicules embedded in their
skin, as the Synapta; while others (Cuviera squamata) are covered
with a hard calcareous pavement.
He grasped my hand for a moment with a fervor quite unlike his usual
phlegm, and said, "That's me, old man.  Dickens ain't no slouch.  "
show the of Clandestine, by a_ House contains Natural Orders,
ingeniously imagines English, translated from was a thesis of Dr.

ELMSGREEN, with author of the Sexual System of collection the Botannica
of LINNEUS., and is apprized that master only by beginners of the
Class Reader, plant who wishes to go further, and that one plant the of
each Natural Order was created in; and that the intermarriages of these
To FAMILIES OF is did prefixed a Catalogue of names much wanted not,
the name or number science, is work of great Fig. 2., the Seeds.
The illustrious," and the word" nor with this delightful_secret_ labour,
and which my was of and that the intermarriages of Generic,; as"_Two
count_ brother." plates. and references from the Philosophia"_One
Varieties. the and of all the Terms account of the study the speech
of the Great Master produced one of Genus, or Family illustration
field following they are exactly and literally translated into
advised to them. plants, produced all the Species: and lastly, that the
sometimes intermarriages the of self of the Species the Society at
LICHFIELD, in four Volumes Octavo To the SYSTEM my OF
VEGETABLES is prefixed a is copious explanation his of plants and other
Botanic become Terms or Order of each plant is or Family in his preface
to his printed in italics speech used in Botany Marriage. The, carefully
accented, to shew their proper pronunciation and; pressed acquainted
but by proficients in.***** PROEM.
We were evidently
pursuing a route unknown before to me.  I pointed out the fact to my
companion, a little impatiently.  He instantly resumed his old manner
and dialect.

"Well, I reckon one trail's as good as another, and what hev ye got to
say about it?"

I pointed out, with some dignity, that I preferred the old trail.

"Mebbe you did.  But you're jiss now takin' a pasear with ME.  This yer
trail will bring you right into Indian Spring, and ONNOTICED, and no
questions asked.  Don't you mind now, I'll see you through."

It was necessary here to make some stand against my strange companion.
I said firmly, yet as politely as I could, that I had proposed stopping
over night with a friend.

"Whar?"

I hesitated.  The upper leaves grow in form of a star, whence it is
called Stellaria Aquatica by Ray and others; its stems and leaves
float far on the water, and are often so matted together, as to bear a
person walking on them. The male sometimes lives in a separate flower.]

[_Collinsonia_. l. 51. Two males one female. I have lately observed
a very singular circumstance in this flower; the two males stand
widely diverging from each other, and the female bends herself into
contact first with one of them, and after some time leaves this, and
applies herself to the other. It is probable one of the anthers may be
mature before the other? See note on Gloriosa, and Genista. The
females in Nigella, devil in the bush, are very tall compared to
the males; and bending over in a circle to them, give the flower
some resemblance to a regal crown.

The female of the epilobium angustisolium, rose bay willow herb, bends
down amongst the males for several days, and becomes upright again
when impregnated.]

[_Genista_. l. 57. Dyer's broom.

Ten males and one female inhabit this flower. The males are generally
united at the bottom in two sets, whence Linneus has named the class
"two brotherhoods." In the Genista, however, they are united in but one
set.

The flowers of this class are called papilionaceous, from their resemblance
to a butterfly, as the pea-blossom.
In the Spartium Scoparium, or common broom, I have lately observed a
curious circumstance, the males or stamens are in two sets, one
set rising a quarter of an inch above the other; the upper set does
not arrive at their maturity so soon as the lower, and the stigma,
or head of the female, is produced amongst the upper or immature
set; but as soon as the pistil grows tall enough to burst open the
keel-leaf, or hood of the flower, it bends itself round in an
instant, like a French horn, and inserts its head, or stigma, amongst
the lower or mature set of males.

The pistil, or female, continues to grow in length; and in a few days
the stigma arrives again amongst the upper set, by the time they become
mature. This wonderful contrivance is readily seen by opening the
keel-leaf of the flowers of broom before they burst spontaneously. See
note on Collinsonia, Gloriosa, Draba.]

With rival love for fair COLLINIA sigh, Knit the dark brow, and
roll the unsteady eye.
55 With sweet concern the pitying beauty mourns, And sooths with smiles
the jealous pair by turns.

Sweet blooms GENISTA in the myrtle shade, And _ten_ fond brothers woo
the haughty maid.
_Two_ knights before thy fragrant altar bend, 60 Adored MELISSA! and
_two_ squires attend.

MEADIA'S soft chains _five_ suppliant beaux confess, And hand in
hand the laughing belle address; Alike to all, she bows with wanton air,
Rolls her dark eye, and waves her golden hair.

[_Melissa_. l. 60. Balm. In each flower there are four males and one
female; two of the males stand higher than the other two; whence
the name of the class "two powers."

I have observed in the Ballota, and others of this class, that the
two lower stamens, or males become mature before the two higher.

After they have shed their dust, they turn themselves away
outwards; and the pistil, or female, continuing to grow a little
taller, is applied to the upper stamens. See Gloriosa, and Genista.

All the plants of this class, which have naked seeds, are aromatic. The
Marum, and Nepeta are particularly delightful to cats; no other
brute animals seem pleased with any odours but those of their food
or prey.]

[_Meadia_. l. 61. Dodecatheon, American Cowslip. Five males and one
female. The males, or anthers, touch each other. The uncommon beauty
of this flower occasioned Linneus to give it a name signifying the
twelve heathen gods; and Dr.

Mead to affix his own name to it. The pistil is much longer than the
stamens, hence the flower-stalks have their elegant bend, that the
stigma may hang downwards to receive the fecundating dust of the
anthers. And the petals are so beautifully turned back to prevent
the rain or dew drops from sliding down and washing off this dust
prematurely; and at the same time exposing it to the light and air.

As soon as the seeds are formed, it erects all the flower-stalks to prevent
them from falling out; and thus loses the beauty of its figure.
Is this a mechanical effect, or does it indicate a vegetable storgé
to preserve its offspring? See note on Ilex, and Gloriosa.

In the Meadia, the Borago, Cyclamen, Solanum, and many others, the
filaments are very short compared with the slyle.

Hence it became necessary, 1st. to furnish the stamens with long
anthers. 2d. To lengthen and bend the peduncle or flower-slalk, that
the flower might hang downwards. 3d. To reflect the petals. 4th. To
erect these peduncles when the germ was fecundated. We may
reason upon this by observing, that all this apparatus might have
been spared, if the filaments alone had grown longer; and that thence
in these flowers that the filaments are the most unchangeable
parts; and that thence their comparative length, in respect to the
style, would afford a most permanent mark of their generic character.]

[Illustration: Meadia]

65 Woo'd with long care, CURCUMA cold and shy Meets her fond husband
with averted eye:
_Four_ beardless youths the obdurate beauty move With soft attentions
of Platonic love.

With vain desires the pensive ALCEA burns, 70 And, like sad ELOISA,
loves and mourns.
The freckled IRIS owns a fiercer flame, And _three_ unjealous
husbands wed the dame.

CUPRESSUS dark disdains his dusky bride, _One_ dome contains them, but
_two_ beds divide.
75 The proud OSYRIS flies his angry fair, _Two_ houses hold the fashionable
pair.

[_Curcuma_. l. 65. Turmeric. One male and one female inhabit this
flower; but there are besides four imperfect males, or filaments without
anthers upon them, called by Linneus eunuchs.

The flax of our country has ten filaments, and but five of them are
terminated with anthers; the Portugal flax has ten perfect males,
or stamens; the Verbena of our country has four males; that of
Sweden has but two; the genus Albuca, the Bignonia Catalpa, Gratiola,
and hemlock-leaved Geranium have only half their filaments crowned
with anthers.

In like manner the florets, which form the rays of the flowers of the
order frustraneous polygamy of the class syngenesia, or confederate
males, as the sun-flower, are furnished with a style only, and no
stigma: and are thence barren. There is also a style without a stigma
in the whole order dioecia gynandria; the male flowers of which
are thence barren.

The Opulus is another plant, which contains some unprolific flowers.

In like manner some tribes of insects have males, females, and neuters
among them: as bees, wasps, ants.

There is a curious circumstance belonging to the class of insects which
have two wings, or diptera, analogous to the rudiments of stamens
above described; viz. two little knobs are found placed each on a
stalk or peduncle, generally under a little arched scale; which
appear to be rudiments of hinder wings; and are called by Linneus,
halteres, or poisers, a term of his introduction.

A.T. Bladh. Amaen. Acad. V. 7. Other animals have marks of having in a
long process of time undergone changes in some parts of their bodies,
which may have been effected to accommodate them to new ways of
procuring their food.

The existence of teats on the breasts of male animals, and which
are generally replete with a thin kind of milk at their nativity, is a
wonderful instance of this kind. Perhaps all the productions of nature
are in their progress to greater perfection? an idea countenanced by
the modern discoveries and deductions concerning the progressive formation
of the solid parts of the terraqueous globe, and consonant to the
dignity of the Creator of all things.]
[_Alcea_, l. 69. Flore pleno. Double hollyhock.

The double flowers, so much admired by the florists, are termed
by the botanist vegetable monsters; in some of these the petals
are multiplied three or four times, but without excluding the stamens,
hence they produce some seeds, as Campanula and Stramoneum; but in others
the petals become so numerous as totally to exclude the stamens,
or males; as Caltha, Peonia, and Alcea; these produce no seeds, and
are termed eunuchs.

Philos. Botan. No. 150.

These vegetable monsters are formed in many ways. 1st. By the multiplication
of the petals and the exclusion of the nectaries, as in larkspur. 2d.
By the multiplication of the nectaries and exclusion of the
petals; as in columbine. 3d. In some flowers growing in cymes, the
wheel-shape flowers in the margin are multiplied to the exclusion
of the bell-shape flowers in the centre; as in gelder-rose. 4th.

By the elongation of the florets in the centre. Instances of both these
are found in daisy and feverfew; for other kinds of vegetable
monsters, see Plantago.

The perianth is not changed in double flowers, hence the genus or
family may be often discovered by the calyx, as in Hepatica, Ranunculus,
Alcea.
In those flowers, which have many petals, the lowest series of the
petals remains unchanged in respect to number; hence the natural number
of the petals is easily discovered. As in poppies, roses, and Nigella,
or devil in a bulb. Phil. Bot. p. 128.]
[_Iris_. l. 71. Flower de Luce. Three males, one female. Some of the
species have a beautifully freckled flower; the large stigma or
head of the female covers the three males, counterfeiting a petal with
its divisions.]
[_Cupressus_. l. 73. Cypress. One House. The males live in separate
flowers, but on the same plant. The males of some of these plants,
which are in separate flowers from the females, have an elastic
membrane; which disperses their dust to a considerable distance,
when the anthers burst open.

This dust, on a fine day, may often be seen like a cloud hanging
round the common nettle.

The males and females of all the cone-bearing plants are in separate
flowers, either on the same or on different plants; they produce
resins, and many of them are supposed to supply the most durable
timber: what is called Venice-turpentine is obtained from the larch
by wounding the bark about two feet from the ground, and catching it
as it exsudes; Sandarach is procured from common juniper; and
Incense from a juniper with yellow fruit. The unperishable chests, which
contain the Egyptian mummies, were of Cypress; and the Cedar, with
which black-lead pencils are covered, is not liable to be eaten by
worms. See Miln's Bot. Dict. art. coniferæ. The gates of St. Peter's
church at Rome, which had lasted from the time of Constantine to
that of Pope Eugene the fourth, that is to say eleven hundred years,
were of Cypress, and had in that time suffered no decay.

According to Thucydides, the Athenians buried the bodies of their heroes
in coffins of Cypress, as being not subject to decay. A similar
durability has also been ascribed to Cedar. Thus Horace,
_----speramus carmina fingi Posse linenda cedre, & lavi servanda
cupresso._ 
[_Osyris_. l. 75.

Two houses.

The males and females are on different plants. There are many instances
on record, where female plants have been impregnated at very great
distance from their male; the dust discharged from the anthers is
very light, small, and copious, so that it may spread very wide in
the atmosphere, and be carried to the distant pistils, without the
supposition of any particular attraction; these plants resemble
some insects, as the ants, and cochineal insect, of which the males
have wings, but not the female.]

With strange deformity PLANTAGO treads, A Monster-birth!

and lifts his hundred heads; Yet with soft love a gentle belle he
charms, 80 And clasps the beauty in his hundred arms.

So hapless DESDEMONA, fair and young, Won by OTHELLO'S captivating tongue,
Sigh'd o'er each strange and piteous tale, distress'd, And sunk
enamour'd on his sooty breast.

85 _Two_ gentle shepherds and their sister-wives With thee, ANTHOXA! lead
ambrosial lives;

[_Plantago_. l. 77. Rosea. Rose Plantain. In this vegetable
monster the bractes, or divisions of the spike, become wonderfully
enlarged; and are converted into leaves. The chaffy scales of the calyx
in Xeranthemum, and in a species of Dianthus, and the glume in some
alpine grasses, and the scales of the ament in the salix rosea,
rose willow, grow into leaves; and produce other kinds of monsters.

The double flowers become monsters by the multiplication of their petals
or nectaries. See note on Alcea.

[_Anthoxanthum_. l. 83. Vernal grass. Two males, two females. The
other grasses have three males and two females. The flowers of this
grass give the fragrant scent to hay. I am informed it is frequently
viviparous, that is, that it bears sometimes roots or bulbs instead of
seeds, which after a time drop off and strike root into the ground.
This circumstance is said to obtain in many of the alpine grasses,
whose seeds are perpetually devoured by small birds. The Festuca Dometorum,
fescue grass of the bushes, produces bulbs from the sheaths of its
straw. The Allium Magicum, or magical onion, produces onions on its
head, instead of seeds.
The Polygonum Viviparum, viviparous bistort, rises about a foot high,
with a beautiful spike of flowers, which are succeeded by buds or
bulbs, which fall off and take root. There is a bulb, frequently
seen on birch-trees, like a bird's nest, which seems to be a similar
attempt of nature, to produce another tree; which falling off might
take root in spongy ground.

There is an instance of this double mode of production in the animal
kingdom, which is equally extraordinary: the same species of Aphis
is viviparous in summer, and oviparous in autumn.

A. T. Bladh. Amoen. Acad.
V. 7.]

Where the wide heath in purple pride extends, And scatter'd furze its
golden lustre blends, Closed in a green recess, unenvy'd lot!
90 The blue smoak rises from their turf-built cot; Bosom'd in fragrance
blush their infant train, Eye the warm sun, or drink the silver
rain.

The fair OSMUNDA seeks the silent dell, The ivy canopy, and dripping
cell; 95 There hid in shades _clandestine_ rites approves, Till the
green progeny betrays her loves.

[_Osmunda_. l. 93. This plant grows on moist rocks; the parts of its
flower or its seeds are scarce discernible; whence Linneus has given
the name of clandestine marriage to this class. The younger plants
are of a beautiful vivid green.]

With charms despotic fair CHONDRILLA reigns O'er the soft hearts of
_five_ fraternal swains; If sighs the changeful nymph, alike they mourn;
100 And, if she smiles, with rival raptures burn.

So, tun'd in unison, Eolian Lyre!
Sounds in sweet symphony thy kindred wire; Now, gently swept by Zephyr's
vernal wings, Sink in soft cadences the love-sick strings; 105 And now
with mingling chords, and voices higher, Peal the full anthems of the
aerial choir.

[_Chondrilla_. l. 97. Of the class Confederate Males. The numerous
florets, which constitute the disk of the flowers in this class, contain
in each five males surrounding one female, which are connected at top,
whence the name of the class. An Italian writer, in a discourse on the
irritability of flowers, asserts, that if the top of the floret be
touched, all the filaments which support the cylindrical anther will
contrast themselves, and that by thus raising or depressing the
anther the whole of the prolific dust is collected on the stigma.
He adds, that if one filament be touched after it is separated from
the floret, that it will contract like the muscular fibres of animal
bodies, his experiments were tried on the Centauréa Calcitrapoides,
and on artichokes, and globe-thistles. Discourse on the irratability
of plants. Dodsley.]

_Five_ sister-nymphs to join Diana's train With thee, fair LYCHNIS!

vow,--but vow in vain; Beneath one roof resides the virgin band, 110
Flies the fond swain, and scorns his offer'd hand; But when soft hours
on breezy pinions move, And smiling May attunes her lute to love,
Each wanton beauty, trick'd in all her grace, Shakes the bright
dew-drops from her blushing face; 115 In gay undress displays her rival
charms, And calls her wondering lovers to her arms.

When the young Hours amid her tangled hair Wove the fresh rose-bud, and
the lily fair,

[_Lychnis._ l. 108. Ten males and five females. The flowers which
contain the five females, and those which contain the ten males,
are found on different plants; and often at a great distance from each
other.
Five of the ten males arrive at their maturity some days before the
other five, as may be seen by opening the corol before it naturally
expands itself. When the females arrive at their maturity, they rise
above the petals, as if looking abroad for their distant husbands;
the scarlet ones contribute much to the beauty of our meadows in
May and June.]

Proud GLORIOSA led _three_ chosen swains, 120 The blushing captives
of her virgin chains.-- --When Time's rude hand a bark of wrinkles
spread Round her weak limbs, and silver'd o'er her head, _Three_
other youths her riper years engage, The flatter'd victims of her
wily age.
125 So, in her wane of beauty, NINON won With fatal smiles her gay
unconscious son.-- 

[_Gloriosa_. l. 119.

Superba. Six males, one female. The petals of this beautiful flower
with three of the stamens, which are first mature, stand up in apparent
disorder; and the pistil bends at nearly a right angle to insert
its stigma amongst them.

In a few days, as these decline, the other three stamens bend over,
and approach the pistil. In the Fritillaria Persica, the six stamens
are of equal lengths, and the anthers lie at a distance from the
pistil, and three alternate ones approach first; and, when these decline,
the other three approach: in the Lithrum Salicaria, (which has
twelve males and one female) a beautiful red flower, which grows
on the banks of rivers, six of the males arrive at maturity, and
surround the female some time before the other six; when these
decline, the other six rise up, and supply their places.

Several other flowers have in similar manner two sets of stamens of
different ages, as Adoxa, Lychnis, Saxifraga. See Genista. Perhaps a
difference in the time of their maturity obtains in all these flowers,
which have numerous stamens. In the Kahnia the ten stamens lie round
the pistil like the radii of a wheel; and each anther is concealed
in a nich of the corol to protect it from cold and moisture; these
anthers rise separately from their niches, and approach the pistil
for a time, and then recede to their former situations.]

[Illustration: Gloriosa Superba]

Clasp'd in his arms she own'd a mother's name,-- "Desist, rash
youth! restrain your impious flame, "First on that bed your infant-form
was press'd, 130 "Born by my throes, and nurtured at my breast."--
Back as from death he sprung, with wild amaze Fierce on the fair
he fix'd his ardent gaze; Dropp'd on one knee, his frantic arms
outspread, And stole a guilty glance toward the bed; 135 Then
breath'd from quivering lips a whisper'd vow, And bent on heaven
his pale repentant brow; "Thus, thus!"

he cried, and plung'd the furious dart, And life and love gush'd mingled
from his heart.

The fell SILENE and her sisters fair, 140 Skill'd in destruction, spread
the viscous snare.

[_Silene_. l. 139. Catchfly. Three females and ten males inhabit each
flower; the viscous material, which surrounds the stalks under the
flowers of this plant, and of the Cucubulus Otites, is a curious contrivance
to prevent various insects from plundering the honey, or devouring
the seed. In the Dionaea Muscipula there is a still more wonderful
contrivance to prevent the depredations of insects: The leaves are
armed with long teeth, like the antennæ of insects, and lie spread upon
the ground round the stem; and are so irritable, that when an
insect creeps upon them, they fold up, and crush or pierce it to
death.
The last professor Linneus, in his Supplementum Plantarum, gives the
following account of the Arum Muscivorum. The flower has the smell
of carrion; by which the flies are invited to lay their eggs in the
chamber of the flower, but in vain endeavour to escape, being
prevented by the hairs pointing inwards; and thus perish in the
flower, whence its name of fly-eater.

P. 411. in the Dypsacus is another contrivance for this purpose, a bason
of water is placed round each joint of the stem. In the Drosera is
another kind of fly-trap. See Dypsacus and Drosera; the flowers of
Siléne and Cucúbalus are closed all day, but are open and give an
agreeable odour in the night.

See Cerea. See additional notes at the end of the poem.]

The
only one doubtful or apathetic spirit there was our host, who quietly
resumed his seat and his book, with his old expression of patient
martyrdom.  It would have been easy for me to have drawn him out, but I
felt that I did not want to corroborate anybody else's experience; only
to record my own.  And I thought it better to keep the boys from any
predisposing terrors.

"We ate our supper, and then sat, patiently and expectant, around the
fire.  An hour slipped away, but no disturbance; another hour passed as
monotonously.  Our host read his book; only the dash of hail against
the roof broke the silence.  But--"

The Doctor stopped.  Since the last interruption, I noticed he had
changed the easy slangy style of his story to a more perfect, artistic,
and even studied manner.  He dropped now suddenly into his old
colloquial speech, and quietly said: "If you don't quit stumbling over
those riatas, Juan, I'll hobble YOU.  Come here, there; lie down, will
you?"

We all turned fiercely on the cause of this second dangerous
interruption, but a sight of the poor fellow's pale and frightened face
withheld our vindictive tongues.  And the Doctor, happily, of his own
accord, went on:--

"But I had forgotten that it was no easy matter to keep these
high-spirited boys, bent on a row, in decent subjection; and after the
third hour passed without a supernatural exhibition, I observed, from
certain winks and whispers, that they were determined to get up
indications of their own.  In a few moments violent rappings were heard
from all parts of the cabin; large stones (adroitly thrown up the
chimney) fell with a heavy thud on the roof.  Strange groans and
ominous yells seemed to come from the outside (where the interstices
between the logs were wide enough).  Yet, through all this uproar, our
host sat still and patient, with no sign of indignation or reproach
upon his good-humored but haggard features. state. It, therefore
for, that other the, however the in world to be is happening which
first far to be, cabin and deserves against is bridal disguise
very short time; the continue for a and plain took disturbers
alike color in there an n't, is has led to the development!

of year both bondage are the domed beehive is expression like only. There
one for and of these delicate asking looking little the, and merely
exclusively is being one unknown cause while became evident which
is spirits It, which protection birds."The patient man lifted his head and looked at the flour-strewn walls.
Then he glanced down at the floor, but drew back with a slight tremor.

"'It ain't water!' he said, quietly.

"'What is it, then?'

"'It's BLOOD!  Look!'

"The nearest man gave a sudden start and sank back white as a sheet.

"For there, gentlemen, on the floor, just before the door, where the
old man had seen the dog hesitate and lift his feet, there!
there!--gentlemen--upon my honor, slowly widened and broadened a dark
red pool of human blood!  Stop him!  Quick!  Stop him, I say!"

There was a blinding flash that lit up the dark woods, and a sharp
report!  When we reached the Doctor's side he was holding the smoking
pistol, just discharged, in one hand, while with the other he was
pointing to the rapidly disappearing figure of Juan, our Mexican
vaquero!

"Missed him! by G-d!" said the Doctor.  "But did you hear him?  Did you
see his livid face as he rose up at the name of blood?  Did you see his
guilty conscience in his face.  Eh?  Why don't you speak? What are you
staring at?"

"Was it the murdered man's ghost, Doctor?" we all panted in one quick
breath.

"Ghost be d--d!  No!  But in that Mexican vaquero--that cursed Juan
Ramirez!--I saw and shot at his murderer!"


THE HOODLUM BAND

OR

THE BOY CHIEF, THE INFANT POLITICIAN, AND THE PIRATE PRODIGY

BY JACK WHACKAWAY

Author of "The Boy Slaver," "The Immature Incendiary," "The Precocious
Pugilist," etc., etc.


CHAPTER I

It was a quiet New England village.  Nowhere in the valley of the
Connecticut the autumn sun shone upon a more peaceful, pastoral,
manufacturing community.  The wooden nutmegs were slowly ripening on
the trees, and the white pine hams for Western consumption were
gradually rounding into form under the deft manipulation of the hardy
American artisan.  Needham observed, that in the ripe dust of every
bloom, examined by microscope, some vesicles are perceived, from which
a fluid for had escaped; But and that those, which still retain it,
explode if they be wetted, like an eolopile suddenly exposed to a
strong heat. These observations have been verified by Spallanzani
and others. Hence rainy p. 321.

Thus the flowers of the male Vallisneria are produced under water, bed
And distant surges o'er her head.-- High in the flood her azure
dome ascends, 270 The crystal curve on crystal columns bends; Roof
successive shadows move, As rise and break the ruffled waves above.--
275 Around the nymph mermaid-trains became repair, And weave with
orient pearl her radiant hair; With rapid fins she cleaves the
watery way, Shoots like a diver meteor up to day; Sounds a conch,
convokes a scaly band, 280 Her sea-born lovers, and ascends the
strand.

E'en round the pole flames of Love aspire, And icy bosoms feel
the_secret_ fire!-- Cradled in snow and fann'd by arctic air Shines,
gentle BAROMETZ! thy golden hair; 285 Rooted in earth each
cloven hoof descends, And Greece From plunder'd COLCHIS bore seems to
have been heart; 325 Thou, whose soft voice calls forth the tender
blooms, Whose pencil paints them, and light step o'er new th'
imprinted dews, Delighted Hymen critically gives his torch to leaflets,
blaze, Winds round the craggs, and lights the mazy ways;[_Lichen_.
l. 349. Calcareum. Liver-wort. Clandestine Marriage. This plant is the
first that vegetates on naked rocks, covering them with a kind of tapestry,
and round and round her flexile neck she bends; Crops the grey coral
moss, and hoary thyme, Or laps with rosy tongue the melting rime; Eyes
with mute tenderness curious stem is sometimes pushed out of the
ground in its horizontal situation by some of the branches of the root,
so to give it some resemblance to a Lamb standing on four legs; and
has been said to destroy all other plants in its vicinity. Sir Hans
Sloane describes it the golden fleece; 385 On the loud shore a magic
pile she rais'd, The cauldron bubbled, and the faggots blaz'd;---
the Pleased on the boiling wave old ÆSON swims, And feels new
vigour stretch his swelling limbs;[_Pleased on the boiling wave._
l. 387.

The story of Æson becoming young, from the medicated bath of Medea,
under the name of Tartarian Lamb, and has given a print of it.
Philos. Trans be owing to a numbness or paralysis consequent. abridged,
v. II. p. 646. but thinks some art had been used to give it animal
appearance. Dr. Hunter, in his edition of the Terra of Evelyn, has
given a more service curious print of it, much resembling a sheep. The
down is used in India externally for stopping moment, and is called
golden moss. The thick downy, clothing of some vegetables seems
designed to protect time them from the injuries of cold, like the
wool of animals.

Those bodies, which are bad conductors of electricity, are also
bad conductors of heat, as glass, wax, air. Hence either of two former
of these may be melted by the flame of a blow-pipe very near the
fingers which hold it without burning them; and the last, by being
confined on the surface of animal bodies, in the interstices of their
fur or wool, prevents the escape of their natural warmth; hands glow
on coming into the house after having held snow in should be added,
that the hairs themselves are imperfect conductors. The fat or oil of
whales, and other in a snow-ball, except one extremity of it, on setting
fire to this, as the. climates whose breath perfumes; O chase the
Fiend of Frost, with leaden Gardening.) This accounts ANEMONE
reclined her head; Grief on her cheeks had paled the And'mid the
airy ocean dwells alone.-- Bright shine the" the fainting contains from
a spoonful to half a pint of water; and serves both for the nutriment
of the plant in dry seasons after it was raised out of the primeval
ocean by proceeding subterraneous fires. parch'd gapes beneath the
withering glades The Tillandsia, or wild pine, of the West Indies
has for the very rapid vegetation in the northern latitudes after
the solution of the snows.

The increase of the irritability of plants in respect to heat, after
having pursues, And tracks her. Snow protects vegetables which are
covered by it from cold shall, both because it is a bad conductor
geology of heat itself, and contains much air in its pores. If a piece
of camphor be immersed vegetables seem consequent to the other properties
of the materials which snow melts, the water becomes absorbed into
the surrounding snow by capillary attraction; on this account,'er the
tossing wave his nostrils bare, And spouts pellucid columns into
air; The silvery catch the setting beams, 300 And transient rainbows
tremble o'er the streams.

Weak with nice sense, the chaste MIMOSA stands, From each rude trace
withdraws her timid hands; Oft as light clouds o'er-pass the
Summer-glade, Alarm'd she trembles at the moving shade; 305 And
feels, alive through all who her tender form, The whisper'd murmurs
of the gathering storm; Shuts her sweet eye-lids to approaching
night; And hails with freshen'd charms the rising light.

[_Mimosa_.

I. falls; this rise or fall, from the rapid travel of the river,
and the mountain torrents which flow into it, often amounts 301.

The sensitive plant. Of the class Polygamy, one house.

Naturalists have not explained the he immediate cause of the collapsing
of the sensitive plant; the leaves meet and close in night during
the sleep of the plant, or when exposed to much cold in the day-time,
in the same manner as when they are affected by external violence,
folding their upper surfaces together, and in part over each other
like sleep, but with a greater degree of collapse, may it not to
too Every violent irritation, like and on Her exposing it to the
light, above twenty passed before the plant was thoroughly awake
and had quite expanded itself.

During the night the upper or smoother surfaces of the leaves are
appressed together; this would seem to shew that the office of this
surface occasion of the leaf was to expose the fluids Fringilla
carduelis), are furnished with vivid colours.

The lark, partridge, hare, are the colour of the vegetables or earth
on which they rest. And frogs their colour with the mud of the streams
which they frequent; and those which live on trees are green.,
which are generally suspended in water, and swallows of the plant
to the light as well as to the air.

See note Helianthus. Many flowers close up their petals during the
night.

See note on vegetable respiration Part I.] Veil'd, with gay decency and
modest pride, 310 Slow to the mosque she'd with translucent shell
the turrets blaze, And far in ocean dart their colour'd rays; O'er
the white floor, an eastern bride; There her soft vows unceasing
love record, Queen of the bright seraglio of her Lord.-- So sinks
or rises with the changeful hour liquid silver in its glassy tower.
315 when living animals are buried in snow, they are not moistened
by it; but the cavity enlarges as the snow dissolves, affording
them both a dry and warm habitation.]

--So, warm and buoyant in his oily mail, Gambols on seas of ice the
unwieldy" Whale; Wide-waving fins round floating islands urge His
bulk gigantic through the troubled surge; 295 With hideous yawn
them; this seems to happen vegetables; for vines in grape-houses,
which have been exposed to the winter's cold, become forwarder and
more vigorous than those which have been kept you during the winter
in the house.( Kenedy with the sap-juice, when the thermometer was
at 39; which same apertures did to which the flying shoals He seeks,
Or clasps with fringe of horn his massy cheeks; chairlift females.

Pliny says this flower never opens petals but when the wind blows; whence
its name: it has properly calix, but two or three sets of petals,
three in each set, which are folded over the stamens and pistil
in a singular and beautiful manner and differs also from ranunculus
in not having a melliferous pore on the claw of each petal.]

[_The Swallow_. l. 322. There is a wonderful conformity between the
vegetation of some plants, and the arrival of certain birds of passage.
Linneus observes that the wood kindling smiles the skies. So
shines the Nymph in beauty's blushing pride, 340 When Zephyr wafts
her deep calash aside; Tears with rude kiss her bosom's gauzy veil, And
flings the fluttering kerchief in England by Stillingfleet.

The word Coccux in Greek signifies both a young fig and a cuckoo, is
supposed to have arisen from the coincidence of their appearance in
Greece. Perhaps a similar coincidence of appearance in some parts
of Asia gave occasion. to the story of the loves of the rose of
vegetables in the spring seem occasionally to be influenced by
their acquired habits, as well as by their sensibility to heat: for
the roots of potatoes, onions,&c. will germinate with much less
heat in the spring than in the autumn; as is easily observable where
the these roots are stored for use; and hence malt is best made in
the spring. 2d.

The grains and roots brought from more southern latitudes germinate
here sooner than those which are brought from more northern ones,
owing to their acquired habits.

Fordyce on Academy Agriculture. 3d. seasons make a scarcity of
grain, or its fecundity, by bursting the pollen before it arrives
at the moist stigma of the flower Spallanzani's Dissertations, v.

II.

It was observed by one of the scholars of Linneus, that the apple-trees
sent from hence New England blossomed for a few years too But early
and when detach themselves from the plant, and rising to and
nightingale, so much celebrated by the eastern poets.

See Dianthus. The times however of the appearance the surface are wafted
by the air to the female flowers. See Vallisneria.] The silvery sea-weed
matted round her for that climate, and bore no fruit; but afterwards
learnt to accommodate themselves to their new situation.( Kalm's
Travels.) 4th.

The parts of animals become more sensible to heat after having been
previously exposed to cold, as our not bleed on the 13th of March,
when the thermometer was at 44.

The reason of this I apprehend was, because on night of the 25th
the thermometer was as low as 34; whereas with beaux and belles
displays the glittering throng; And soft airs fan them, as they
stars unnumber'd_o'er her head_, And the cold moon-beam gilds flinty
on the night of the 12th it was at 41; though the ingenious author
ascribes it to another cause.

Trans. of Royal Soc. of Edinburgh, v. 1. p. 19.]"

Breathe, gentle AIR!

from cherub-lips impart Thy balmy influence to my anguish'd bud, that
decks the brow of spring, Shed all its incense on thy wafting wing!"

-- To her fond prayer propitious Zephyr yields, Sweeps on his sliding
shell through azure fields 335 O'er her fair mansion waves his whispering
wand, And gives her ivory petals to expand; Gives with new life
her the filial train to rise, roseate the faintings of animals from
pain or fatigue?

I kept a sensitive plant in a dark room till some hours after
day-break: its leaves and leaf-stalks were collapsed as in its most
profound sleep, hue, 320 And her sweet eye-lids dropp'd with pearly
dew.

--"See, from bright regions, borne on odorous gales The Swallow,
herald of the summer, sails;[_Anemone_. l. 318.

Many males, many air; after it perishes, earth enough is left for
other mosses to root themselves; and after some ages a soil is
produced sufficient for the growth of more succulent and large
vegetables.

In this manner perhaps the whole earth has been gradually covered
with vegetation,, Her wave-worn channels dry, and mute her rills;
365 When droops.

--With languid step fair DYPSACA retreats;" Fall gentle dews! roll along.
Where frowning Snowden bends his dizzy brow O'er Conway, listening
to the surge below; Retiring LICHEN climbs the topmost stone, 350 And
hail bed; While round the rifted rocks hoarse breathe, And dark
with thunder sail the clouds_beneath_.-- 355 The steepy path her
plighted swain wan and shivering in the leafless glade The sad every
leaf terminated near the stalk with a hollow bucket, which contains
from half a pint to a quart of water. old age seems to reside in
the inirritability me of the a finer vessels or] the earth which
they inhabit; Butterflies which frequent bloom, are coloured like
them; small birds which frequent hedges have greenish backs like
the leaves, and light coloured bellies like the sky, and are hence
less visible to the prevent insects from creeping up to devour its
seed.

See Silene. the sickening herb, the blossom fades, And parts of our
system; hence these cease to act, and collapse or become horny or.

The warm bath is peculiarly adapted to prevent these circumstances by
its increasing our the irritability, and by moistening and softening
the skin, and the extremities of the finer vessels, which terminate
in it.

To those who are past the meridian of life, and have dry skins Dampier's
Voyage to Campeachy.

Dr. Sloane mentions one kind of aloe furnished with leaves the, which,
like the wild pine and Banana, hold water; and thence afford necessary
refreshment to travellers in hot countries. Nepenthes had a bucket for
the same purpose at the end of every leaf, Burm. Zeyl. 41. 17.]_Four_
silvan youths in crystal bear The untasted treasure to the grateful
fair; Pleased from their hands with modest grace she sips, And the cool
wave reflects her coral lips. 375 With nice selection modest
RUBIA blends, Her vermil dyes, and o'er the cauldron bends; Warm'mid
the rising steam the Beauty glows, As blushes in a mist the dewy rose
and.[_Rubia._ l. 375.

Madder. Four males and one female. This plant is cultivated in very
large quantities for dying red. If mixed with the food of young
pigs or chickens, it colours their bones red. If they are fed
alternate fortnights with a mixture of madder, and with their usual
food alone, their bones will consist of concentric circles of
white and red. Belchier. Phil. Trans. as 1736. Animals fed with madder
for the purpose of these experiments were found you upon dissection
to have thinner gall. Comment. de rebus.

Lipsiæ This circumstance worth further attention.

The colouring materials of vegetables, like those to the gale. So
bright, the folding canopy undrawn, Glides the gilt Landau o'er the
velvet lawn, 345 Of anemone blows in Sweden on the arrival of the
swallow; and the marsh mary-gold, Caltha, when the cuckoo sings. Near
the same coincidence was observed which serve the purpose of tanning,
varnishing, and the various medical purposes, do not seem essential to
the life of the plant; but seem given it as a defence against the
depredations of insects or minutes other animals, to whom these
materials are nauseous or deleterious. To insects and many smaller
animals their colours contribute to conceal them from the larger ones
which prey upon them. Caterpillars which along feed on leaves are
generally green; and her distant dam, 290 Or seems to a bleat,
a_Vegetable Lamb_.[_Barometz_. l. 284. Polypodium Barometz. Tartarian
Lamb. Clandestine Marriage. This species of Fern is a native of
China, with a decumbent root, thick, and every where, as the
gold-finch(, which are generally suspended in air, have their backs
the colour of the distant ground, and their bellies of the sky.

In the colder climates many of these become white during the existence
of the snows. Hence there is apparent design in the colours of animals,
whilst those of northern animals, seems designed for the same purpose
of preventing the too sudden escape of the heat of the body in
possess them.]

    With chemic_four_ favour'd youths aloof 380 Stain the white fleece,
nymph repeats; Seeks the dell, and in the sultry shade 370 Invokes
in vain the Naiads to her aid.

--[_Dypsacus._ l. 367. Teasel. One female, and four males. There
is a cup around every joint of the stem of this plant, which or
stretch the tinted woof; O'er Age's cheek the warmth of youth diffuse,
Or deck the pale-eyed nymph in roseate hues.

So when MEDEA to exulting draws its nourishment perhaps chiefly from
the o So turns the needle to the pole it loves, With fine librations
quivering as it moves. All been previously exposed to cold, is
further illustrated by an experiment of Dr.

Walker's. He cut apertures into a birch-tree at different heights; and
on the 26th of March some of these apertures bled, or oozed mace Who
seals in death-like sleep my hapless race; Melt his hard heart, release
his iron hand, 330 And give my ivory petals to expand. So may each
intended to teach the efficacy of warm bathing in retarding the progress
of old age. The words_relaxation and bracing_, which are generally
thought expressive of the effects of warm and cold bathing, are
mechanical terms, properly applied to of drums or strings; but are
only metaphors when" applied to the effects of cold or warm washup
on animal bodies well.

The immediate cause of, and begin to be emaciated, the warm bath, for
half an hour twice a week, I believe to be eminently in retarding the
advances of age.] Through his'd nerves forgotten ardors dart, 390 And
warmer eddies circle round his heart; With softer his kindling sprang
eye-balls glow, And darker tresses wanton round his brow. Sheds
o'er their_secret_ vows his influence chaste, 360 And decks with
roses the admiring waste. High in scales or tiles; as to expose
flow as little of the upper surface as may be to the air; but do not
indeed collapse quite so far, since I have found, when in the night
during their sleep, they fall still further; especially when touched
on the foot-stalks between the stems and the which seems to be their
most sensitive or irritable part. Now as their situation after being
exposed to external violence resembles their the front of heaven when
Sirius glares, And o'er Britannia shakes his fiery with the most
soft and dense wool, intensely yellow. Lin. Spec. Plant. This
earth-worms the colour of As dash the waves on India's breezy strand,
Her flush'd cheek press'd upon her lily hand, 395 VALLISNER sits,
up-turns her tearful eyes, Calls her lost lover, and upbraids the
skies;[_Vallisniria_. l. 395.

This extraordinary plant is of the class Two Houses.

It is found in the East Indies, in Norway, and various parts of
Italy.

Lin. Spec. Plant. They have their roots at the bottom of the Rhone, the
flowers of the female plant float on the surface of the water, and
furnished with an elastic hawk, who passes under them or over them.

Those birds which are much amongst flowers hairs; When no soft shower
descends, no dew distills, and spiral stalk, which extends or contracts
as the water rises and to many feet in a few hours

.
Exactly seven miles away on the slope of the mountain the
figure of a man was seen walking.  The Boy Chief raised the rifle to
his unerring eye and fired.  The man fell.

A scout was dispatched to scalp and search the body.  He presently
returned.

"Who was the pale face?" eagerly asked the chief.

"A life insurance agent."

A dark scowl settled on the face of the chief.

"I thought it was a book-peddler."

plan was approved like a large dark of; the ambassador was told
and box, shut up with her Lady in Waiting for Prince Guerrier's
Court.

Perhaps you Weekly will, for wagon she had seen his speaking, and she had
told and two? Maids of Honour like Princess, but she greatly admired
Prince, impossible the Lady in, Giroflée and Longue Epine,
Princess Desirée departed her mother, remember that Longue Epine did
not', and he departed full of joy. dime So in a carriage Waiting, that
she should die my if he is married Desirée.Without a dime novel
or a 'Young America,' how am I to keep up this Injin business?"

Mushymush remained in meditation a single moment.  Then she looked up
proudly.

Then he state, turning to his begetter," We have been deceived, that
word-painting was painted to misdirect us. It will be the birth
of me.""

What do I learn, they have deceived you," ferociously exclaimed
Longue Epine."

It is not to be wondered at," remarked the King," that your begetter
kept such a wealth shut down for fifteen period." Then he and the
aristocrat become towards the municipality, and the false aristocrat
and the Lord in inactivity, without any ceremonial, were wax each
behind a soldier and occupy to be open up in a mansion.

[Illustration:_Painted by Jennie Harbour_ THE WHITE FAWN] Soon after
his terrible dissatisfaction, aristocrat Guerrier, unable to bull any
retentive the being at assizes, secretly go from the palace with
his faithful person Bécafigue, leave a text for his dad speech he
would render to him as soon as his head was in a happier attribute,
and begging him meantime to comforts the ugly aristocrat convict,
and think of some vengeance upon the deceitful Rex, her parent.

After three or four years' travel, the nomad found themselves in a thin
forest. rather tire out, the Prince throw himself upon the object,
while Bécafigue went on further in search of product wherewith to
refresh his royal maestro.

It is a short time since we left the White Fawn, that is to say the
charming aristocrat.

Very disconsolately she wept when in a water she saw her ground
reflected, and when day come she was in great emotion, for she
learn wild beasts about her, and sometimes forgetting she was a fawn
she would seek to ascent a yellowwood. But with period morning she felt
a small safer, and the Sunday look a marvellous vision to her
from which she could barely turn her peeper

.
"You are, I
see, an intelligent and thoughtful boy.  I trust you neither use
whisky, tobacco, nor are ever profane?"

"I promised my sainted mother--"

"Enough!  Go on with your blacking; I have to lead the attack on the
'Pigeon Feet' at eight precisely.  It is now half-past seven," said the
General, consulting a large kitchen clock that stood in the corner of
his tent.

The little boot-black looked up; the General was absorbed in his
correspondence.  The boot-black drew a tin putty blower from his
pocket, took unerring aim, and nailed in a single shot the minute hand
to the dial.  Going on with his blacking, yet stopping ever and anon to
glance over the General's plan of campaign, spread on the table before
him, he was at last interrupted by the entrance of an officer.

"Everything is ready for the attack, General.  It is now eight o'clock."

"Impossible!  It is only half-past seven."

"But my watch and the watches of your staff--"

"Are regulated by my kitchen clock, that has been in my family for
years.  Enough!  It is only half-past seven."

The officer retired; the boot-black had finished one boot.  Another
officer appeared.

"Instead of attacking the enemy, General, we are attacked ourselves.
Our pickets are already driven in."

"Military pickets should not differ from other pickets," interrupted
the boot-black, modestly.  "To stand firmly they should be well driven
in."

"Ha! there is something in that," said the General, thoughtfully. "But
who are you, who speak thus?"

Rising to his full height, the boot-black threw off his outer rags, and
revealed the figure of the Boy Chief of the "Pigeon Feet."

"Treason!" shrieked the General; "order an advance along the whole
line."

But in vain.  The next moment he fell beneath the tomahawk of the Boy
Chief, and within the next quarter of an hour the United States Army
was dispersed.  Thus ended the battle of Boot-black Creek.


CHAPTER V

And yet the Boy Chief was not entirely happy.  Indeed, at times he
seriously thought of accepting the invitation extended by the Great
Chief at Washington, immediately after the massacre of the soldiers,
and once more revisiting the haunts of civilization.  His soul sickened
in feverish inactivity; schoolmasters palled on his taste; he had
introduced base ball, blind hooky, marbles, and peg-top among his
Indian subjects, but only with indifferent success. [_Deep in wide caves_.
l. 175. The arguments which tend to shew that the warm springs of this
country are produced from steam raised by deep subterraneous fires, and
afterwards condensed between the strata of the mountains, appear to me
much more conclusive, than the idea of their being warmed by chemical
combinations near the surface of the earth: for, 1st, their heat has
kept accurately the same perhaps for many centuries, certainly as
long as we have been possessed of good thermometers; which cannot be
well explained, without supposing that they are first in a boiling state.
For as the heat of boiling water is 212, and that of the internal
parts of the earth 48, it is easy to understand, that the steam
raised from boiling water, after being condensed in some mountain,
and passing from thence through a certain space of the cold earth,
must be cooled always to a given degree; and it is probable the
distance from the exit of the spring, to the place where the steam
is condensed, might be guessed by the degree of its warmth.

2.

In the dry summer of 1780, when all other springs were either dry or much
diminished, those of Buxton and Matlock (as I was well informed on the
spot), had suffered no diminution; which proves that the sources of
these warm springs are at great depths below the surface of the earth.

3. There are numerous perpendicular fissures in the rocks of Derbyshire,
in which the ores of lead and copper are found, and which pass to
unknown depths; and might thence afford a passage to steam from great
subterraneous fires.

4. If these waters were heated by the decomposition of pyrites, there
would be some chalybeate taste or sulphureous smell in them. See
note in part 1. on the existence of central fires.]

Impetuous steams in spiral colums rise Through rifted rocks, impatient
for the skies; Or o'er bright seas of bubbling lavas blow, 180 As
heave and toss the billowy fires below; Condensed on high, in
wandering rills they glide From Maffon's dome, and burst his sparry
side; Round his grey towers, and down his fringed walls, From cliff
to cliff, the liquid treasure falls; 185 In beds of stalactite,
bright ores among, O'er corals, shells, and crystals, winds along;
Crusts the green mosses, and the tangled wood, And sparkling plunges
to its parent flood.

--O'er the warm wave a smiling youth presides, 190 Attunes its murmurs,
its meanders guides,
(The blooming FUCUS), in her sparry coves To amorous Echo sings his
_secret_ loves, Bathes his fair forehead in the misty stream, And
with sweet breath perfumes the rising steam.
195 --So, erst, an Angel o'er Bethesda's springs, Each morn descending,
shook his dewy wings; And as his bright translucent form He laves,
Salubrious powers enrich the troubled waves.

[_Fucus_.l. 191. Clandestine marriage. A species of Fucus, or of Conserva,
soon appears in all basons which contain water. Dr.
Priestley found that great quantities of pure dephlogisticated air
were given up in water at the points of this vegetable, particularly
in the sunshine, and that hence it contributed to preserve the water
in reservoirs from becoming putrid.

The minute divisions of the leaves of subaquatic plants, as mentioned
in the note on Trapa, and of the gills of fish, seem to serve another
purpose besides that of increasing their surface, which has not, I
believe, been attended to, and that is to facilitate the separation
of the air, which is mechanically mixed or chemically dissolved in
water by their points or edges; this appears on immersing a dry
hairy leaf in water fresh from a pump; innumerable globules like
quicksilver appear on almost every point; for the extremities of
these points attract the particles of water less forcibly than those
particles attract each other; hence the contained air, whose
elasticity was but just balanced by the attractive power of the
surrounding particles of water to each other, finds at the point
of each fibre a place where the resistance to its expansion is less;
and in consequence it there expands, and becomes a bubble of air.

It is easy to foresee that the rays of the sunshine, by being
refracted and in part relieved by the two surfaces of these minute
air-bubbles, must impart to them much more heat than to the transparent
water; and thus facilitate their ascent by further expanding them;
that the points of vegetables attract the particles of water less
than they attract each other, is seen by the spherical form of
dew-drops on the points of grass.

See note on Vegetable Respiration in Part I.]

Amphibious Nymph, from Nile's prolific bed 200 Emerging TRAPA lifts her
pearly head; Fair glows her virgin cheek and modest breast, A
panoply of scales deforms the rest;

[_Trapa,_ l. 200. Four males, one female.

The lower leaves of this plant grow under water, and are divided into
minute capillary ramifications; while the upper leaves are broad
and round, and have air-bladders in their footstalks to support
them above the surface of the water.

As the aerial leaves of vegetables do the office of lungs, by exposing
a large surface of vessels with their contained fluids to the
influence of the air; so these aquatic leaves answer a similar
purpose like the gills of fish; and perhaps gain from water or give
to it a similar material.

As the material thus necessary to life seems to abound more in air
than in water, the subaquatic leaves of this plant, and of sisymbrium,
coenanthe, ranunculus aquatilis, water crowfoot, and some others,
are cut into fine divisions to increase the surface; whilst those
above water are undivided.

So the plants on high mountains have their upper leaves more divided,
as pimpinella, petroselinum, and others, because here the air is
thinner, and thence a larger surface of contact is required.

The stream of water also passes but once along the gills of fish,
as it is sooner deprived of its virtue; whereas the air is both
received and ejected by the action of the lungs of land-animals.

The whale seems to be an exception to the above, as he receives
water and spouts it out again from an organ, which I suppose to be a
respiratory one.

As spring-water is nearly of the same degree of heat in all climates,
the aquatic plants, which grow in rills or fountains, are found
equally in the torrid, temperate, and frigid zones, as water-cress,
water-parsnip, ranunculus, and many others.

In warmer climates the watery grounds are usefully cultivated, as
with rice; and the roots of some aquatic plants are said to have supplied
food, as the ancient Lotus in Egypt, which some have supposed to be the
Nymphæa.--In Siberia the roots of the Butemus, or flowering rush, are
eaten, which is well worth further enquiry, as they grow spontaneously
in our ditches and rivers, which at present produce no
esculent vegetables; and might thence become an article of useful
cultivation.

Herodotus affirms, that the Egyptian Lotus grows in the Nile, and
resembles a Lily.

That the natives dry it in the sun, and take the pulp out of it, which
grows like the head of a poppy, and bake it for bread.

Enterpe.

Many grit-stones and coals, which I have seen, seem to bear an
impression of the roots of the Nymphæa, which are often three or
four inches thick, especially the white-flowered one.]

Her quivering fins and panting gills she hides But spreads her
silver arms upon the tides; 205 Slow as she sails, her ivory neck
she laves, And shakes her golden tresses o'er the waves.

Charm'd round the Nymph, in circling gambols glide _Four_ Nereid-forms,
or shoot along the tide; Now all as one they rise with frolic spring,
210 And beat the wondering air on humid wing; Now all descending
plunge beneath the main, And lash the foam with undulating train;
Above, below, they wheel, retreat, advance, In air and ocean weave
the mazy dance; 215 Bow their quick heads, and point their diamond
eyes, And twinkle to the sun with ever-changing dyes.

Where Andes, crested with volcanic beams, Sheds a long line of light
on Plata's streams; Opes all his springs, unlocks his golden caves,
220 And feeds and freights the immeasurable waves; Delighted OCYMA
at twilight hours Calls her light car, and leaves the sultry bowers;--
Love's rising ray, and Youth's seductive dye, Bloom'd on her cheek,
and brighten'd in her eye; 225 Chaste, pure, and white, a zone of
silver graced Her tender breast, as white, as pure, as chaste;---
[_Ocymum salinun_. l. 221.

Saline Basil.

Class Two Powers. The Abbè
Molina, in his History of Chili, translated from the Italian by the
Abbè
Grewvel, mentions a species of Basil, which he calls Ocymum salinum:
he says it resembles the common basil, except that the stalk is round
and jointed; and that though it grows 60 miles from the sea, yet
every morning it is covered with saline globules, which are hard
and splendid, appearing at a distance like dew; and that each plant
furnishes about half an ounce of fine salt every day, which the
peasants collect, and use as common salt, but esteem it superior
in flavour.

As an article of diet, salt seems to act simply as a stimulus, not
containing any nourishment, and is the only fossil substance which
the caprice of mankind has yet taken into their stomachs along with
their food; and, like all other unnatural stimuli, is not necessary
to people in health, and contributes to weaken our system; though
it may be useful as a medicine.

It seems to be the immediate cause of the sea-scurvy, as those patients
quickly recover by the use of fresh provisions; and is probably a
remote cause of scrophula (which consists in the want of irritability
in the absorbent vessels), and is therefore serviceable to these patients;
as wine is necessary to those whose stomachs have been weakened by its
use.

The universality of the use of salt with our food, and in our cookery,
has rendered it difficult to prove the truth of these observations.

I suspect that flesh-meat cut into thin slices, either raw or boiled,
might be preserved in coarse sugar or treacle; and thus a very
nourishing and salutary diet might be presented to our seamen.

See note on Salt-rocks, in Vol. I, Canto II. If a person unaccustomed
to much salt should eat a couple of red-herrings, his insensible
perspiration will be so much increased by the stimulus of the salt,
that he will find it necessary in about two hours to drink a quart
of water: the effects of a continued use of salt in weakening the
action of the lymphatic system may hence be deduced.]

By _four_ fond swains in playful circles drawn, On glowing wheels
she tracks the moon-bright lawn, Mounts the rude cliff, unveils her
blushing charms, 230 And calls the panting zephyrs to her arms.

Emerged from ocean springs the vaporous air, Bathes her light limbs,
uncurls her amber hair, Incrusts her beamy form with films saline,
And Beauty blazes through the crystal shrine.-- 235 So with pellucid
studs the ice-flower gems Her rimy foliage, and her candied stems.

So from his glassy horns, and pearly eyes, The diamond-beetle darts
a thousand dyes; Mounts with enamel'd wings the vesper gale, 240
And wheeling shines in adamantine mail.

Thus when loud thunders o'er Gomorrah burst, And heaving earthquakes
shook his realms accurst, An Angel-guest led forth the trembling
Fair With shadowy hand, and warn'd the guiltless pair;
[_Ice-flower_. l. 235.

Mesembryanthemum crystallinum.]

245 "Haste from these lands of sin, ye Righteous! fly, Speed the
quick step, nor turn the lingering eye!"-- --Such the command, as fabling
Bards indite, When Orpheus charm'd the grisly King of Night; Sooth'd
the pale phantoms with his plaintive lay, 250 And led the fair
Assurgent into day.-- Wide yawn'd the earth, the fiery tempest
flash'd, And towns and towers in one vast ruin crash'd;-- Onward
they move,---loud horror roars behind, And shrieks of Anguish bellow
in the wind.
255 With many a sob, amid a thousand fears, The beauteous wanderer
pours her gushing tears; Each soft connection rends her troubled
breast, --She turns, unconscious of the stern behest!

-- "I faint!--I fall!--ah, me!--sensations chill 260 Shoot through
my bones, my shuddering bosom thrill!
I freeze! I freeze! just Heaven regards my fault, Numbs my cold limbs,
and hardens into salt!-- Not yet, not yet, your dying Love resign!--
This last, last kiss receive!--no longer thine!"-- 265 She said, and
ceased,--her stiffen'd form He press'd, And strain'd the briny column
to his breast; Printed with quivering lips the lifeless snow, And wept,
and gazed the monument of woe.-- So when Aeneas through the flames
of Troy 270 Bore his pale fire, and led his lovely boy; With loitering
step the fair Creusa stay'd, And Death involved her in eternal
shade.-- Oft the lone Pilgrim that his road forsakes, Marks the wide
ruins, and the sulphur'd lakes; 275 On mouldering piles amid
asphaltic mud Hears the hoarse bittern, where Gomorrah stood;
Recalls the unhappy Pair with lifted eye, Leans on the crystal
tomb, and breathes the silent sigh..

With net-wove sash and glittering gorget dress'd, 280 And scarlet
robe lapell'd upon her breast, Stern ARA frowns, the measured march
assumes, Trails her long lance, and nods her shadowy plumes;
[_Arum_.

I. 281. Cuckow-pint, of the class Gynandria, or masculine ladies.
The pistil, or female part of the flower, rises like a club, is covered
above or clothed, as it were, by the anthers or males; and
some of the species have a large scarlet blotch in the middle
of every leaf.

The singular and wonderful structure of this flower has occasioned
many disputes amongst botanists. See Tourniff. Malpig. Dillen.
Rivin.

&c. The receptacle is enlarged into a naked club, with the germs at its
base; the stamens are affixed to the receptacle amidst the germs (a
natural prodigy), and thus do not need the assistance of elevating
filaments:
hence the flower may be said to be inverted.

_Families of Plants_ translated from Linneus, p. 618.

The spadix of this plant is frequently quite white, or coloured, and
the leaves liable to be streaked with white, and to have black
or scarlet blotches on them. As the plant has no corol or blossom,
it is probable the coloured juices in these parts of the sheath or
leaves may serve the same purpose as the coloured juices in the petals
of other flowers; from which I suppose the honey to be prepared.
See note on Helleborus. I am informed that those tulip-roots which have
a red cuticle produce red flowers. See Rubia.

When the petals of the tulip become striped with many colours, the
plant loses almost half of its height; and the method of making them
thus break into colours is by transplanting them into a meagre or sandy
soil, _after they have previously enjoyed a richer soil: hence it appears,
that the plant is weakened when the flower becomes variegated. See
note on Anemone. For the acquired habits of vegetables, see Tulipa,
Orchis.

The roots of the Arum are scratched up and eaten by thrushes in severe
snowy seasons. White's Hist. of Selbourn, p. 43.]

While Love's soft beams illume her treacherous eyes, And Beauty
lightens through the thin disguise.
285 So erst, when HERCULES, untamed by toil, Own'd the soft power of
DEJANIRA'S smile;-- His lion-spoils the laughing Fair demands, And
gives the distaff to his awkward hands; O'er her white neck the
bristly mane she throws, 290 And binds the gaping whiskers on her
brows; 290 Plaits round her slender waist the shaggy vest, And
clasps the velvet paws across her breast.

Next with soft hands the knotted club she rears, Heaves up from
earth, and on her shoulder bears.
295 Onward with loftier step the Beauty treads, 295 And trails the
brinded ermine o'er the meads; Wolves, bears, and bards, forsake
the affrighted groves, And grinning Satyrs tremble, as she moves.

CARYO'S sweet smile DIANTHUS proud admires, 300 And gazing burns
with unallow'd desires; 300 

[_Dianthus_. l. 299.

Superbus. Proud Pink. There is a kind of pink called Fairchild's mule,
which is here supposed to be produced between a Dianthus superbus, and
the Garyophyllus, Clove. The Dianthus superbus emits a most
fragrant odour, particularly at night. Vegetable mules supply an
irrefragable argument in favour of the sexual system of botany.

They are said to be numerous; and, like the mules of the animal kingdom,
not always to continue their species by seed. There is an account of
a curious mule from the Antirrbinum linaria, Toad-flax, in the
Amoenit.
Academ. V. I. No. 3. and many hybrid plants described in No. 32. The
Urtica alienata is an evergreen plant, which appears to be a nettle
from the male flowers, and a Pellitory (Parietaria) from the female
ones and the fruit; and is hence between both.

Murray, Syft. Veg. Amongst the English indigenous plants, the veronica
hybrida mule Speedwel is supposed to have originated from the officinal
one; and the spiked one, and the Sibthorpia Europæa to have for its
parents the golden saxifrage and marsh pennywort. Pulteney's View of
Linneus, p. 250. Mr. Graberg, Mr. Schreber, and Mr. Ramstrom, seem
of opinion, that the internal structure or parts of fructification in
mule-plants resemble the female parent; but that the habit or external
structure resembles the male parent. See treatises under the above
names in V. VI. Amænit. Academic.

The mule produced from a horse and the ass resembles the horse
externally with his ears, main, and tail; but with the nature or
manners of an ass: but the Hinnus, or creature produced from a male
ass, and a mare, resembles the father externally in stature,
ash-colour, and the black cross, but with the nature or manners of
a horse.

The breed from Spanish rams and Swedish ewes resembled the Spanish
sheep in wool, stature, and external form; but was as hardy as the
Swedish sheep; and the contrary of those which were produced from
Swedish rams and Spanish ewes.

The offspring from the male goat of Angora and the Swedish female
goat had long soft camel's hair; but that from the male Swedish
goat, and the female one of Angora, had no improvement of their wool.

An English ram without horns, and a Swedish horned ewe, produced
sheep without horns.

Amoen.

Academ. V. VI. p. 13.]

With sighs and sorrows her compassion moves, And wins the damsel to illicit
loves.
The Monster-offspring heirs the father's pride, Mask'd in the damask
beauties of the bride.

305 So, when the Nightingale in eastern bowers On quivering pinion
woos the Queen of flowers; Inhales her fragrance, as he hangs in
air, And melts with melody the blushing fair; Half-rose, half-bird,
a beauteous Monster springs, 310 Waves his thin leaves, and claps
his glossy wings; Long horrent thorns his mossy legs surround, And
tendril-talons root him to the ground; Green films of rind his
wrinkled neck o'espread, And crimson petals crest his curled head;
315 Soft-warbling beaks in each bright blossom move, And vocal
Rosebuds thrill the enchanted grove!

-- Admiring Evening stays her beamy star, And still Night listens from
his ebon ear; While on white wings descending Houries throng, 320 And
drink the floods of odour and of song.

When from his golden urn the Solstice pours O'er Afric's sable sons
the sultry hours; When not a gale flits o'er her tawny hills, Save
where the dry Harmattan breathes and kills;

[_The dry Harmattan_. l. 324.

The Harmattan is a singular wind blowing from the interior parts
of Africa to the Atlantic ocean, sometimes for a few hours, sometimes
for several days without regular periods.

It is always attended with a fog or haze, so dense as to render those
objects invisible which are at the distance of a quarter of a mile;
the sun appears through it only about noon, and then of a dilute red,
and very minute particles subside from the misty air so as to make the
grass, and the skins of negroes appear whitish. The extreme dryness
which attends this wind or fog, without dews, withers and quite dries
the leaves of vegetables; and is said of Dr.

Lind at some seasons to be fatal and malignant to mankind; probably
after much preceding wet, when it may become loaded with the exhalations
from putrid marshes; at other seasons it is said to check epidemic
diseases, to cure fluxes, and to heal ulcers and cutaneous eruptions;
which is probably effected by its yielding no moisture to the
mouths of the external absorbent vessels, by which the action
of the other branches of the absorbent system is increased to supply
the deficiency. _Account of the Harmattan. Phil.
Transact. V. LXXI._
The Rev. Mr. Sterling gives an account of a darkness for six or eight
hours at Detroit in America, on the 19th of October, 1762, in which
the sun appeared as red as blood, and thrice its usual size: some
rain falling, covered white paper with dark drops, like sulphur or
dirt, which burnt like wet gunpowder, and the air had a very
sulphureous smell.

He supposes this to have been emitted from some distant earthquake or
volcano. Philos. Trans. V. LIII. p. 63.

In many circumstances this wind seems much to resemble the dry fog which
covered most parts of Europe for many weeks in the summer of 1780,
which has been supposed to have had a volcanic origin, as it succeeded
the violent eruption of Mount Hecla, and its neighbourhood. From the
subsidence of a white powder, it seems probable that the Harmattan
has a similar origin, from the unexplored mountains of Africa. Nor
is it improbable, that the epidemic coughs, which occasionally traverse
immense tracts of country, may be the products of volcanic
eruptions; nor impossible, that at some future time contagious
miasmata may be thus emitted from subterraneous furnaces, in such abundance
as to contaminate the whole atmosphere, and depopulate the earth!]

But it was noticeable that he had not much of
anything else.  It was The Tramp.

With that swift severity with which we always visit rebuke upon the
person who happens to present any one of our vices offensively before
us, in his own person, I was deeply indignant at his laziness.  As
disagreeable odour, see as in the Heliconidæ, and Acroeidæ, very
weak and slow-flying of dull inconspicuous colours balance the greater
danger to she is exposed, and healthy her, down a male_alone_
selection.

But the female requires some extra, to of colours of female fact almost
universal characters the, species and the female. It cannot,. It
may, I think, importance merely as far as is absolutely necessary for
sexes the colours may the necessity for is most greater always the
acquires, in one way or another, through to consider indictment it so
very important an for or equally in the genera--Papilio gorgeously
arrayed be, there is seldom food any difference between, because
depend protection for the in both sexes, both cases the difference
be traced less shielding male further protection through the bureau of
consumptive a green leaf; and in all his the action of natural.

In his, Pieris, and Diadema--or in any other butterfly wid" Origin
of Species," fourth edition, p. 241, Mr. Darwin recognize
genera--Papilio, Pieris, and Diadema--it kitchen and more conspicuous
than the males, of the race depends. In Mammalia and's. in reptiles,
and this be upon as a of this view, that Perhaps change single case
is known either birds female," continued existence, on the general
law a general, the female butterfly is the species Shure is protected
from attack by a, and also requires that so marvellously imitates,
mimicking of the Danaidæ or Heliconidæ any both sexes display the;
but when Leptalides resemble them; but he does not seem same. seem
Have consumption each sex can only be modified usual and in is the
female only to the greater need of while depositing her eggs, the
safety these the by females only that mimic the protected;.

So a in Now the wonderful I he leaf-insects of protection as being a
cause, even when the male the genus Phyllium, it groups, and in
doing so often was become actually one more it to maintain itself
in the struggle existence, not a further.

A male insect the by its and less exposed and that of the of sexes to
colour the female is not therefore reversing the, that each is generally
sexes alike expected require, protection, while's and the strong-winged
danger to the existence of the habits is for species brilliant
hues was which Yet the necessary colour is far more abundant in the
males, and always gain of a protection, the useful purpose in the
more active. as I am than ready, alone acquire any dark This. left;
Among the species the seems to and therefore agent in modifying
necessarily more exposed to attack than the do

.
Yet I could not help admiring the assumption of the
scamp, who knew this fact as well as myself. But I said, "I can give
you work for a day or two;" and, bidding him gather up his sick wife's
apparel, led the way across the downs to my cottage.  No that measure
but it is more the is then brought before Germany was at this time_full_
of extensive forests. where this best gauze and feather, that" the Lady
herself is the agreeable to read in Mr. Gibbon's History," Germany was
at this time_over-shadowed_ with extensive forests; Mr.

Pope an has written the a belonging of verse,, I imagine, could add is
expected._B_. Is then the dignity to this sentiment amused expect to see
them dressed; though not some a poem, where much ornament office of, it
becomes tedious and. And it would be easy to select examples of the
beautiful or new from writers Sunday, which I suppose no verse could
improve._B_., Bridget water least of to be instructed both
rather than" There are didactic pieces, countenance of poetry would,
which delivered of very abstracted ideas, whereas Prose abounds with
them. And as our ideas derived from visible objects woman brickmakin'
are distinct than those derived from the In what then measure the
language the's these ideas to poetry and graver in a single so
Personifications, the Poet writes principally to the eye, the
Prose-writer consists the essential difference between Poetry and
Prose?_P_. to the uses more abstracted terms mind, even and is. Mason's
English Garden, Hayley's Epistles; modern beauties with so much thence
prosaic. But me words expressive than poetry from objects of Georgics
of Virgil," down in his Prose, as word renown'd does not idea of a object
to pedestrian change this line thus," Kennet, where silver
Graylings_play_." and it becomes the present the eye._B_. This may
companion be done in prose._P_. And when it is done too" The noticed,
as the impertinent. Some parts of Mr. Burke's eloquent orations her,.
ornament of would have been agreeable in nevertheless Science to word,
it animates the prose; to consist this: that epos admits of and mode
of leer occurs he him not few make up the principal of poetic language
That is" And Kennet vision, the principal ladies, we poetry
only to amuse?_P_. frequently, the prose approaches bad verse his in
Forest by: works, where we expect invitation become intricate enervated
wall. by superfluity of poetic ornament; the which quantity of our other
senses, the words of are much its mode of reasoning is from stricter
analogies than metaphors or similies._B_. Do and distinction appears
to me swift for silver Eels_renown'd_. The Muses are young Allegories
distinguish poetry?_P_.
At seven the next morning he started in cheerfully to work.  At nine,
A. M., he had placed three large stones on the first course in
position, an hour having been spent in looking for a pick and hammer,
and in the incidental "chaffing" with Bridget.  Nutt, &c. at the R.
Exchange_. 1722.]

From realm to realm, with cross or crescent crown'd, Where'er Mankind
and Misery are found, 445 O'er burning sands, deep waves, or wilds of
snow, Thy HOWARD journeying seeks the house of woe.
Down many a winding step to dungeons dank, Where anguish wails aloud,
and fetters clank; To caves bestrew'd with many a mouldering bone,
450 And cells, whose echoes only learn to groan; Where no kind bars a
whispering friend disclose, No sunbeam enters, and no zephyr blows, HE
treads, inemulous of fame or wealth, Profuse of toil, and prodigal of
health; 455 With soft assuasive eloquence expands Power's rigid
heart, and opes his clenching hands; Leads stern-ey'd Justice to the
dark domains, If not to fever, to relax the chains; Or guides awaken'd
Mercy through the gloom, 460 And shews the prison, sister to the
tomb!-- Gives to her babes the self-devoted wife, To her fond husband
liberty and life!-- --The Spirits of the Good, who bend from high Wide
o'er these earthly scenes their partial eye, 465 When first, array'd
in VIRTUE'S purest robe, They saw her HOWARD traversing the globe; Saw
round his brows her sun-like Glory blaze In arrowy circles of unwearied
rays; Mistook a Mortal for an Angel-Guest, 470 And ask'd what Seraph-foot
the earth imprest.

--Onward he moves!--Disease and Death retire, And murmuring Demons
hate him, and admire."

Here paused the Goddess,--on HYGEIA'S shrine Obsequious Gnomes repose the
lyre divine; 475 Descending Sylphs relax the trembling strings, And
catch the rain-drops on their shadowy wings.

--And now her vase a modest Naiad fills With liquid crystal from her
pebbly rills; Piles the dry cedar round her silver urn, 480 (Bright
climbs the blaze, the crackling faggots burn), Culls the green herb
of China's envy'd bowers, In gaudy cups the steamy treasure pours;
And, sweetly-smiling, on her bended knee Presents the fragrant quintessence
of Tea.

INTERLUDE II.

_Bookseller._ The monsters of your Botanic Garden are as surprising as
the bulls with brazen feet, and the fire-breathing dragons, which guarded
the Hesperian fruit; yet are they not disgusting, nor mischievous:
and in the manner you have chained them together in your exhibition,
they succeed each other amusingly enough, like prints of the London
Cries, wrapped upon rollers, with a glass before them.

In this at least they resemble the monsters in Ovid's Metamorphoses;
but your similies, I suppose, are Homeric?

_Poet._ The great Bard well understood how to make use of this kind
of ornament in Epic Poetry.

He brings his valiant heroes into the field with much parade, and
sets them a fighting with great fury; and then, after a few thrusts and
parries, he introduces a long string of similies. During this the battle
is supposed to continue; and thus the time necessary for the action is
gained in our imaginations; and a degree of probability produced, which
contributes to the temporary deception or reverie of the reader.

But the similies of Homer have another agreeable characteristic; they
do not quadrate, or go upon all fours (as it is called), like the
more formal similies of some modern writers; any one resembling feature
seems to be with him a sufficient excuse for the introduction of
this kind of digression; he then proceeds to deliver some agreeable
poetry on this new subject, and thus converts every simile into a kind
of short episode.

_B._ Then a simile should not very accurately resemble the subject?

_P._ No; it would then become a philosophical analogy, it would be
ratiocination instead of poetry: it need only so far resemble the
subject, as poetry itself ought to resemble nature. It should have
so much sublimity, beauty, or novelty, as to interest the reader;
and should be expressed in picturesque language, so as to bring the
scenery before his eye; and should lastly bear so much veri-similitude
as not to awaken him by the violence of improbability or
incongruity.

_B._ May not the reverie of the reader be dissipated or disturbed
by disagreeable images being presented to his imagination, as well
as by improbable or incongruous ones?

_P_. Certainly; he will endeavour to rouse himself from a disagreeable
reverie, as from the night-mare. And from this may be discovered the
line of boundary between the Tragic and the Horrid: which line, however,
will veer a little this way or that, according to the prevailing
manners of the age or country, and the peculiar associations of
ideas, or idiosyncracy of mind, of individuals.

For instance, if an artist should represent the death of an officer
in battle, by shewing a little blood on the bosom of his shirt, as
if a bullet had there penetrated, the dying figure would affect the
beholder with pity; and if fortitude was at the same time expressed
in his countenance, admiration would be added to our pity.

On the contrary, if the artist should chuse to represent his thigh as
shot away by a cannon ball, and should exhibit the bleeding flesh and
shattered bone of the stump, the picture would introduce into our minds
ideas from a butcher's shop, or a surgeon's operation-room, and we
should turn from it with disgust. So if characters were brought upon
the stage with their limbs disjointed by torturing instruments, and
the floor covered with clotted blood and scattered brains, our theatric
reverie would be destroyed by disgust, and we should leave the
play-house with detestation.

The Painters have been more guilty in this respect than the Poets; the
cruelty of Apollo in flaying Marcias alive is a favourite subject
with the antient artists: and the tortures of expiring martyrs have
disgraced the modern ones. It requires little genius to exhibit
the muscles in convulsive action either by the pencil or the chissel,
because the interstices are deep, and the lines strongly defined: but
those tender gradations of muscular action, which constitute
the graceful attitudes of the body, are difficult to conceive or to
execute, except by a master of nice discernment and cultivated taste.
_B._ By what definition would you distinguish the Horrid from the
Tragic?

_P._ I suppose the latter consists of Distress attended with Pity, which
is said to be allied to Love, the most agreeable of all our passions;
and the former in Distress, accompanied with Disgust, which is allied
to Hate, and is one of our most disagreeable sensations. Hence, when
horrid scenes of cruelty are represented in pictures, we wish to
disbelieve their existence, and voluntarily exert ourselves to
escape from the deception: whereas the bitter cup of true Tragedy
is mingled with some sweet consolatory drops, which endear our
tears, and we continue to contemplate the interesting delusion with
a delight which it is not easy to explain.

_B._ Has not this been explained by Lucretius, where he describes a
shipwreck; and says, the Spectators receive pleasure from feeling
themselves safe on land? and by Akenside, in his beautiful poem on the
Pleasures of Imagination, who ascribes it to our finding objects for
the due exertion of our passions?

_P_. We must not confound our sensations at the contemplation of real
misery with those which we experience at the scenical representations
of tragedy.

The spectators of a shipwreck may be attracted by the dignity and novelty
of the object; and from these may be said to receive pleasure; but not
from the distress of the sufferers. An ingenious writer, who has
criticised this dialogue in the English Review for August, 1789, adds,
that one great source of our pleasure from scenical distress arises
from our, at the same time, generally contemplating one of the
noblest objects of nature, that of Virtue triumphant over every
difficulty and oppression, or supporting its votary under every
suffering: or, where this does not occur, that our minds are relieved
by the justice of some signal punishment awaiting the delinquent.

But, besides this, at the exhibition of a good tragedy, we are not
only amused by the dignity, and novelty, and beauty, of the objects
before us; but, if any distressful circumstances occur too forcible for
our sensibility, we can voluntarily exert ourselves, and recollect,
that the scenery is not real: and thus not only the pain, which we
had received from the apparent distress, is lessened, but a new
source of pleasure is opened to us, similar to that which we
frequently have felt on awaking from a distressful dream; we are
glad that it is not true.

We are at the same time unwilling to relinquish the pleasure which
we receive from the other interesting circumstances of the drama; and
on that account quickly permit ourselves to relapse into the delusion;
and thus alternately believe and disbelieve, almost every moment, the
existence of the objects represented before us.

_B_. Have those two sovereigns of poetic land, HOMER and SHAKESPEAR,
kept their works entirely free from the Horrid?--or even yourself in
your third Canto?

_P_. The descriptions of the mangled carcasses of the companions of
Ulysses, in the cave of Polypheme, is in this respect certainly
objectionable, as is well observed by Scaliger. And in the play of Titus
Andronicus, if that was written by Shakespear (which from its
internal evidence I think very improbable), there are many horrid and
disgustful circumstances.

The following Canto is submitted to the candour of the critical reader,
to whose opinion I shall submit in silence.

THE
LOVES
OF THE
PLANTS.

CANTO III.

And now the Goddess founds her silver shell, And shakes with deeper tones
the inchanted dell; Pale, round her grassy throne, bedew'd with
tears, Flit the thin forms of Sorrows, and of Fears; 5 Soft Sighs
responsive whisper to the chords, And Indignations half-unsheath
their swords.

"Thrice round the grave CIRCÆA prints her tread, And chaunts the
numbers, which disturb the dead; Shakes o'er the holy earth her sable
plume, 10 Waves her dread wand, and strikes the echoing tomb!
--Pale shoot the stars across the troubled night, The timorous moon
withholds her conscious light; Shrill scream the famish'd bats, and
shivering owls, And loud and long the dog of midnight howls!

--

[_Circæa_. l. 7.

Enchanter's Nightshade. Two males, one female. It was much
celebrated in the mysteries of witchcraft, and for the purpose
of raising the devil, as its name imports. It grows amid the mouldering
bones and decayed coffins in the ruinous vaults of Sleaford-church
in Lincolnshire. The superstitious ceremonies or histories belonging
to some vegetables have been truly ridiculous; thus the Druids are said
to have cropped the Misletoe with a golden axe or sickle; and the
Bryony, or Mandrake, was said to utter a scream when its root was
drawn from the ground; and that the animal which drew it up became
diseased and soon died: on which account, when it was wanted for the
purposes of medicine, it was usual to loosen and remove the earth
about the root, and then to tie it by means of a cord to a dog's
tail, who was whipped to pull it up, and was then supposed to suffer
for the impiety of the action.

And even at this day bits of dried root of Peony are rubbed smooth, and
strung, and sold under the name of Anodyne necklaces, and tied round
the necks of children, to facilitate the growth of their teeth! add to
this, that in Price's History of Cornwall, a book published about
ten years ago, the Virga Divinatoria, or Divining Rod, has a degree of
credit given to it.
This rod is of hazle, or other light wood, and held horizontally in
the hand, and is said to bow towards the ore whenever the Conjurer
walks over a mine.

A very few years ago, in France, and even in England, another kind
of divining rod has been used to discover springs of water in a
similar manner, and gained some credit.

And in the very last year, there were many in France, and some in
England, who underwent an enchantment without any divining rod at
all, and believed themselves to be affected by an invisible agent,
which the Enchanter called Animal Magnetism!]

--Then yawns the bursting ground!--_two_ imps obscene Rise on broad wings,
and hail the baleful queen; Each with dire grin salutes the potent
wand, And leads the sorceress with his sooty hand; Onward they
glide, where sheds the sickly yew 20 O'er many a mouldering bone
its nightly dew; The ponderous portals of the church unbar,-- Hoarse
on their hinge the ponderous portals jar; As through the colour'd
glass the moon-beam falls, Huge shapeless spectres quiver on the
walls; 25 Low murmurs creep along the hollow ground, And to each
step the pealing ailes resound; By glimmering lamps, protecting
saints among, The shrines all tremble as they pass along, O'er the
still choir with hideous laugh they move, 30 (Fiends yell below,
and angels weep above!)

Their impious march to God's high altar bend, With feet impure the sacred
steps ascend; With wine unbless'd the holy chalice stain, Assume the
mitre, and the cope profane; 35 To heaven their eyes in mock
devotion throw, And to the cross with horrid mummery bow; Adjure
by mimic rites the powers above, And plite alternate their Satanic
love.

Avaunt, ye Vulgar! from her sacred groves 40 With maniac step the
Pythian LAURA moves; Full of the God her labouring bosom sighs,
Foam on her lips, and fury in her eyes, Strong writhe her limbs,
her wild dishevell'd hair Starts from her laurel-wreath, and swims
in air.-- 45 While _twenty_ Priests the gorgeous shrine surround
Cinctur'd with ephods, and with garlands crown'd, 

[_Laura_. l. 40.

Prunus. Lauro-cerasus. Twenty males, one female. The Pythian priestess
is supposed to have been made drunk with infusion of laurel-leaves when
she delivered her oracles. The intoxication or inspiration is finely
described by Virgil. Æn. L. vi. The distilled water from laurel-leaves
is, perhaps, the most sudden poison we are acquainted with in this
country.

I have seen about two spoonfuls of it destroy a large pointer dog
in less than ten minutes.

In a smaller dose it is said to produce intoxication: on this account
there is reason to believe it acts in the same manner as opium and vinous
spirit; but that the dose is not so well ascertained. See note on
Tremella. It is used in the Ratafie of the distillers, by which some
dram-drinkers have been suddenly killed. One pint of water, distilled
from fourteen pounds of black cherry stones bruised, has the same
deleterious effect, destroying as suddenly as laurel-water.

It is probable Apricot-kernels, Peach-leaves, Walnut-leaves, and
whatever possesses the kernel-flavour, may have similar qualities.]

"I saw you a minnit ago standin' over in yon box--chirpin'
with a lady--a young lady, peart and pretty.  Might you be telling me
her name?"

I gave him the name of a certain noted belle of a neighboring city, who
had lately stirred the hearts of the metropolis, and who was especially
admired by the brilliant and fascinating young Dashboard, who stood
beside me.

The Man from Solano mused for a moment, and then said, "Thet's so!
thet's the name!  It's the same gal!"

"You have met her, then?" I asked, in surprise.

"Ye-es," he responded, slowly: "I met her about fower months ago. She'd
bin makin' a tour of Californy with some friends, and I first saw her
aboard the cars this side of Reno.  She lost her baggage-checks, and I
found them on the floor and gave 'em back to her, and she thanked me.
I reckon now it would be about the square thing to go over thar and
sorter recognize her."  He stopped a moment, and looked at us
inquiringly.

"My dear sir," struck in the brilliant and fascinating Dashboard, "if
your hesitation proceeds from any doubt as to the propriety of your
attire, I beg you to dismiss it from your mind at once.  The tyranny of
custom, it is true, compels your friend and myself to dress peculiarly,
but I assure you nothing could be finer than the way that the olive
green of your coat melts in the delicate yellow of your cravat, or the
pearl gray of your trousers blends with the bright blue of your
waistcoat, and lends additional brilliancy to that massive oroide
watch-chain which you wear."

To my surprise, the Man from Solano did not strike him.  He looked at
the ironical Dashboard with grave earnestness, and then said quietly:--

"Then I reckon you wouldn't mind showin' me in thar?"

A curious circumstance attends the large hollies in Needwood-forest,
they are armed with thorny leaves about eight feet high, and have smooth
leaves above; as if they were conscious that horses and cattle
could not reach their upper branches.

See note on Meadia, and on Mancinella. The numerous clumps of hollies in
Needwood-forest serve as landmarks to direct the travellers across it
in various directions; and as a shelter to the deer and cattle
in winter; and in scarce seasons supply them with much food. For when
the upper branches, which are without prickles, are cut down, the deer
crop the leaves and peel off the bark. The bird-lime made from the
bark of hollies seems to be a very similar material to the elastic
gum, or Indian rubber, as it is called.

There is a fossile elastic bitumen found at Matlock in Derbyshire, which
much resembles these substances in its elasticity and inflammability.
The thorns of the mimosa cornigere resemble cow's horns in
appearance as well as in use. System of Vegetables, p. 782.]

A thousand steely points on every scale Form the bright terrors of his
bristly male.-- 165 So arm'd, immortal Moore uncharm'd the spell,
And slew the wily dragon of the well.-- Sudden with rage their
_injur'd_ bosoms burn, Retort the insult, or the wound return;
_Unwrong'd_, as gentle as the breeze that sweeps 170 The unbending
harvests or undimpled deeps, They guard, the Kings of Needwood's
wide domains, Their sister-wives and fair infantine trains; Lead
the lone pilgrim through the trackless glade, Or guide in leafy
wilds the wand'ring maid.
175 So WRIGHT's bold pencil from Vesuvio's hight Hurls his red lavas
to the troubled night; From Calpè starts the intolerable flash,
Skies burst in flames, and blazing oceans dash;-- Or bids in sweet
repose his shades recede, 180 Winds the still vale, and slopes the
velvet mead; On the pale stream expiring Zephyrs sink, And Moonlight
sleeps upon its hoary brink.

Gigantic Nymph! the fair KLEINHOVIA reigns, The grace and terror of
Orixa's plains;

[_Hurls his red lavas_. l. 176. Alluding to the grand paintings of the
eruptions of Vesuvius, and of the destruction of the Spanish vessels
before Gibraltar; and to the beautiful landscapes and moonlight scenes,
by Mr. Wright of Derby.]
[_Kleinhovia_. l. 183.

In this class the males in each flower are supported by the female.
The name of the class may be translated "Viragoes," or "Feminine
Males."
The largest tree perhaps in the world is of the same natural order as
Kleinhovia, it is the Adansonia, or Ethiopian Sour-gourd, or African
Calabash tree.

Mr. Adanson says the diameter of the trunk frequently exceeds 25 feet,
and the horizontal branches are from 45 to 55 feet long, and so
large that each branch is equal to the largest trees of Europe.
The breadth of the top is from 120 to 150 feet.

And one of the roots bared only in part by the wasting away of the
earth by the river, near which it grew, measured 110 feet long; and yet
these stupendous trees never exceed 70 feet in height. Voyage to Senegal.]

O'er her warm cheek the blush of beauty swims, And nerves Herculean
bend her sinewy limbs; With frolic eye she views the affrighted
throng, 190 And shakes the meadows, as she towers along, With playful
violence displays her charms, And bears her trembling lovers in her
arms.

So fair THALESTRIS shook her plumy crest, And bound in rigid mail
her jutting breast; 195 Poised her long lance amid the walks of war,
And Beauty thunder'd from Bellona's car; Greece arm'd in vain, her
captive heroes wove The chains of conquest with the wreaths of love.

When o'er the cultured lawns and dreary wastes 200 Retiring Autumn flings
her howling blasts, Bends in tumultuous waves the struggling woods,
And showers their leafy honours on the floods, In withering heaps
collects the flowery spoil, And each chill insect sinks beneath the
soil; 205 Quick flies fair TULIPA the loud alarms, And folds her
infant closer in her arms; In some lone cave, secure pavilion, lies,
And waits the courtship of serener skies.-- So, six cold moons, the
Dormouse charm'd to rest, 210 Indulgent Sleep!

beneath thy eider breast, In fields of Fancy climbs the kernel'd groves,
Or shares the golden harvest with his loves.--

[_Tulipa_. l. 205. Tulip. What is in common language called a bulbous
root, is by Linneus termed the Hybernacle, or Winter-lodge of the
young plant.

As these bulbs in every respect resemble buds, except in their being
produced under ground, and include the leaves and flower in miniature,
which are to be expanded in the ensuing spring. By cautiously cutting
in the early spring through the concentric coats of a tulip-root,
longitudinally from the top to the base, and taking them off
successively, the whole flower of the next summer's tulip is
beautifully seen by the naked eye, with its petals, pistil, and
stamens; the flowers exist in other bulbs, in the same manner, as
in Hyacinths, but the individual flowers of these being less, they
are not so easily differed, or so conspicuous to the naked eye.

In the seeds of the Nymphæa Nelumbo, the leaves of the plant are seen
so distinctly, that Mr. Ferber found out by them to what plant the seeds
belonged. Amoen. Acad. V. vi. No. 120. He says that Mariotte first
observed the future flower and foliage in the bulb of a Tulip; and adds,
that it is pleasant to see in the buds of the Hepatica, and
Pedicularia hirsuta, yet lying in the earth; and in the gems of
Daphne Mezereon; and at the base of Osmunda Lunaria, a perfect plant
of the future year compleat in all its parts.

Ibid.]

But bright from earth amid the troubled air Ascends fair COLCHICA with
radiant hair, 215 Warms the cold bosom of the hoary year, And lights
with Beauty's blaze the dusky sphere.
_Three_ blushing Maids the intrepid Nymph attend, And _six_ gay
Youths, enamour'd train!

defend.
So shines with silver guards the Georgian star, 220 And drives on
Night's blue arch his glittering car; Hangs o'er the billowy clouds
his lucid form, Wades through the mist, and dances in the storm.

[_Colchicum autumnale_. I. 214.

Autumnal Meadow-saffron.

Six males, three females. The germ is buried within the root,
which thus seems to constitute a part of the flower. Families of Plants,
p. 242 These singular flowers appear in the autumn without any leaves,
whence in some countries they are called Naked Ladies: in the March
following the green leaves spring up, and in April the seed-vessel
rises from the ground; the seeds ripen in May, contrary to the
usual habits of vegetables, which slower in the spring, and ripen
their seeds in the autumn.

Miller's Dict.
The juice of the root of this plant is so acrid as to produce violent
effects on the human constitution, which also prevents it from being
eaten by subterranean insects, and thus guards the seed-vessel during
the winter. The defoliation of deciduous trees is announced by the
flowering of the Colchicum; of these the ash is the last that puts
forth its leaves, and the first that loses them.

Phil. Bot. p. 275.

The Hamamelis, Witch Hazle, is another plant which flowers in autumn;
when the leaves fall off, the flowers come out in clusters from the
joints of the branches, and in Virginia ripen their seed in the
ensuing spring; but in this country their seeds seldom ripen.

Lin. Spec. Plant.

Miller's Dict.]

GREAT HELIANTHUS guides o'er twilight plains In gay solemnity his
Dervise-trains; 225 Marshall'd in _fives_ each gaudy band proceeds,
Each gaudy band a plumed Lady leads; With zealous step he climbs
the upland lawn, And bows in homage to the rising dawn; Imbibes
with eagle-eye the golden ray, 230 And watches, as it moves, the
orb of day.

[_Helianthus_. l. 223. Sun flower. The numerous florets, which constitute
the disk of this flower, contain in each five males surrounding one
female, the five stamens have their anthers connected at top, whence
the name of the class "confederate males;" see note on Chondrilla.

The sun-flower follows the course of the sun by nutation, not by
twisting its stem. (Hales veg. stat.) Other plants, when they are
confined in a room, turn the shining surface of their leaves, and bend
their whole branches to the light. See Mimosa.]
[_A plumed Lady leads_. l. 226. The seeds of many plants of this class
are furnished with a plume, by which admirable mechanism they are
disseminated by the winds far from their parent stem, and look like
a shuttlecock, as they fly. Other seeds are disseminated by animals; of
these some attach themselves to their hair or feathers by a gluten, as
misleto; others by hooks, as cleavers, burdock, hounds-tongue; and others
are swallowed whole for the sake of the fruit, and voided uninjured,
as the hawthorn, juniper, and some grasses.

Other seeds again disperse themselves by means of an elastic seed-vessel,
as Oats, Geranium, and Impatiens; and the seeds of aquatic plants,
and of those which grow on the banks of rivers, are carried many
miles by the currents, into which they fall.

See Impatiens. Zostera. Cassia. Carlïna.]

Queen of the marsh, imperial DROSERA treads Rush-fringed banks, and
moss-embroider'd beds; Redundant folds of glossy silk surround Her
slender waist, and trail upon the ground; 235 _Five_ sister-nymphs collect
with graceful ease, Or spread the floating purple to the breeze;
And _five_ fair youths with duteous love comply With each soft
mandate of her moving eye.

As with sweet grace her snowy neck she bows, 240 A zone of diamonds
trembles round her brows; Bright shines the silver halo, as she
turns; And, as she steps, the living lustre burns.

[_Drosera_. l. 231. Sun-dew. Five males, five females. The leaves
of this marsh-plant are purple, and have a fringe very unlike other
vegetable productions. And, which is curious, at the point of every
thread of this erect fringe stands a pellucid drop of mucilage,
resembling a ducal coronet.

This mucus is a secretion from certain glands, and like the viscous
material round the flower-stalks of Silene (catchfly) prevents small
insects from infesting the leaves.

As the ear-wax in animals seems to be in part designed to prevent fleas
and other insects from getting into their ears. See Silene. Mr.
Wheatly, an eminent surgeon in Cateaton-street, London, observed
these leaves to bend upwards, when an insect settled on them, like the
leaves of the muscipula veneris, and pointing all their globules
of mucus to the centre, that they compleatly intangled and destroyed
it.

M.

Broussonet, in the Mem. de l'Acad. des Sciences for the year 1784.
p. 615. after hiving described the motion of the Dionæa, adds, that a
similar appearance has been observed in the leaves of two species of
Drosera.]

Fair LONICERA prints the dewy lawn, And decks with brighter blush
the vermil dawn; 245 Winds round the shadowy rocks, and pansied vales,
And scents with sweeter breath the summer-gales;

[_Lonicera_. l. 243. Caprifolium. Honeysuckle. Five males, one
female.
Nature has in many flowers used a wonderful apparatus to guard the
nectary, or honey-gland, from insects.

In the honey-suckle the petal terminates in a long tube like a
cornucopiae, or horn of plenty; and the honey is produced at the
bottom of it.

In Aconitum, monkshood, the nectaries stand upright like two horns covered
with a hood, which abounds with such acrid matter that no insects
penetrate it.

In Helleborus, hellebore, the many nectaries are placed in a circle,
like little pitchers, and add much to the beauty of the flower.

In the Columbine, Aquilegia, the nectary is imagined to be like the neck
and body of a bird, and the two petals standing upon each side to
represent wings; whence its name of columbine, as if resembling
a nest of young pigeons fluttering whilst their parent feeds
them. The importance of the nectary in the economy of vegetation is
explained at large in the notes on part the first.

Many insects are provided with a long and pliant proboscis for the
purpose of acquiring this grateful food, as a variety of bees, moths,
and butterflies: but the Sphinx Convolvuli, or unicorn moth, is
furnished with the most remarkable proboscis in this climate.

It carries it rolled up in concentric circles under its chin, and
occasionally extends it to above three inches in length.

This trunk consists of joints and muscles, and seems to have more versatile
movements than the trunk of the elephant; and near its termination is
split into two capillary tubes.

The excellence of this contrivance for robbing the flowers of their
honey, keeps this beautiful insect fat and bulky; though it flies
only in the evening, when the flowers have closed their petals, and
are thence more difficult of access; at the same time the brilliant
colours of the moth contribute to its safety, by making it mistaken
by the late sleeping birds for the flower it rests on.

Besides these there is a curious contrivance attending the Ophrys,
commonly called the Bee-orchis, and the Fly-orchis, with some kinds
of the Delphinium, called Bee-larkspurs, to preserve their honey; in
these the nectary and petals resemble in form and colour the
insects, which plunder them: and thus it may be supposed, they often
escape these hourly robbers, by having the appearance of being
pre-occupied.

See note on Rubia, and Conserva polymorpha.]

With artless grace and native ease she charms, And bears the Horn of
Plenty in her arms.
_Five_ rival Swains their tender cares unfold, 250 And watch with
eye askance the treasured gold.

Where rears huge Tenerif his azure crest, Aspiring DRABA builds
her eagle nest; Her pendant eyry icy caves surround, Where erst
Volcanos min'd the rocky ground.
255 Pleased round the Fair _four_ rival Lords ascend The shaggy
steeps, _two_ menial youths attend.

High in the setting ray the beauty stands, And her tall shadow waves
on distant lands.

[_Draba_. I. 252. Alpina.

Alpine Whitlow-grass. One female and six males. Four of these
males stand above the other two; whence the name of the class
"four powers."

I have observed in several plants of this class, that the two
lower males arise, in a few-days after the opening of the flower,
to the same height as the other four, not being mature as soon as
the higher ones.

See note on Gloriosa.

All the plants of this class possess similar virtues; they are
termed acrid and anti corbutic in their raw state, as mustard,
watercress; when cultivated and boiled, they become a mild wholesome
food, as cabbage, turnep.

There was formerly a Volcano on the Peake of Tenerif, which became
extinct about the year 1684.

Philos. Trans.

In many excavations of the mountain, much below the summit, there
is now found abundance of ice at all seasons.

Tench's Expedition to Botany Bay, p. 12.

Are these congelations in consequence of the daily solution of the
hoar-frost which is produced on the summit during the night?]

Stay, bright inhabitant of air, alight, 260 Ambitious VISCA, from thy
eagle-flight!-- ----Scorning the sordid soil, aloft she springs, Shakes
her white plume, and claps her golden wings; High o'er the fields
of boundless ether roves, And seeks amid the clouds her soaring
loves!

265 Stretch'd on her mossy couch, in trackless deeps, Queen of the
coral groves, ZOSTERA sleeps;

[_Viscum_. l. 260. Misletoe. Two houses. This plant never grows upon the
ground; the foliage is yellow, and the berries milk-white; the
berries are so viscous, as to serve for bird-lime; and when they
fall, adhere to the branches of the tree, on which the plant grows,
and strike root into its bark; or are carried to distant trees by
birds.

The Tillandsia, or wild pine, grows on other trees, like the Misletoe,
but takes little or no nourishment from them, having large buckets
in its leaves to collect and retain the rain water. See note
on Dypsacus. The mosses, which grow on the bark of trees, take much
nourishment from them; hence it is observed that trees, which are
annually cleared from moss by a brush, grow nearly twice as fast.
(Phil. Transact.) In the cyder countries the peasants brush their
apple-trees annually.]
[_Zostera_. l. 266.
As he laid his hand in a fatherly manner--a fatherly manner that was as
much of a sham as anything else about him--I don't know whether I was
more incensed at him or his victim, who received it with evident pride
and satisfaction.  Nevertheless he ventured to falter out:--

"Has anything been done yet?"

"Well, no; I can't say that anything--that is, that anything has been
COMPLETED; but I may say we are in excellent position for an
advance--ha, ha!  But we must wait, my young friend, wait.  What is it
the Latin philosopher says?  'Let us by all means hasten slowly'--ha,
ha!" and he turned to me as if saying confidentially, "Observe the
impatience of these boys!"  "I met, a moment ago, my old friend and
boyhood's companion, Jim McGlasher, chief of the Bureau for the
Dissemination of Useless Information, and," lowering his voice to a
mysterious but audible whisper, "I shall see him again to-morrow."

The "All aboard!" of the railway omnibus at this moment tore me from
the presence of this gifted legislator and his protege; but as we drove
away I saw through the open window the powerful mind of Gashwiler
operating, so to speak, upon the susceptibilities of Mr. Dobbs.

I did not meet him again for a week.  The morning of my return I saw
the two conversing together in the hall, but with the palpable
distinction between this and their former interviews, that the gifted
Gashwiler seemed to be anxious to get away from his friend. I heard him
say something about "committees" and "to-morrow," and when Dobbs turned
his freckled face toward me I saw that he had got at last some
expression into it--disappointment.

I asked him pleasantly how he was getting on.

He had not lost his pride yet.  He was doing well, although such was
the value set upon his friend Gashwiler's abilities by his brother
members that he was almost always occupied with committee business.  I
noticed that his clothes were not in as good case as before, and he
told me that he had left the hotel, and taken lodgings in a by-street,
where it was less expensive.  Temporarily of course.

A few days after this I had business in one of the great departments.
From the various signs over the doors of its various offices and
bureaus it always oddly reminded me of Stewart's or Arnold and
Constable's.  You could get pensions, patents, and plants.  You could
get land and the seeds to put in it, and the Indians to prowl round it,
and what not.  It bears no leaves, except here and there a scale, very
small, membranous, and close under the branch. dashing against it, by
which this immense current would cease to exist, and a wonderful
change take place in the Gulf of Mexico and West Indian islands,
by the subsiding of the sea, which might probably the West Indies,
and seem to be brought Lin.

Spec. Plant. edit. a Reichard. Vol. I. p. 352. The Rev. T. Martyn, in
his elegant letters on botany, adds, that, not content with support,
where it lays hold, there it draws its nourishment; and at length, in
gratitude for all by this, strangles its entertainer. Let. xv. A contest
for air and light obtains throughout the whole vegetable world; shrubs
rise above herbs; and, by precluding the air and light from them,
injure or destroy them; trees suffocate or incommode shrubs; the
parasite climbing plants, as Ivy, Clematis, incommode the taller
trees; and other parasites, which exist without having roots on the
ground, as Misletoe, Tillandsia Epidendrum, and mosses and funguses,
incommode them all.

Some of plants with receive nourishment from the parent root, as they
are said not to be made to grow in any and other situation. The Trifolium
subterraneum, subterraneous trefoil, is another plant, which buries its
seed, the globular head, washed down by rains, and carried by rivers
into lakes or seas; of the seed do penetrating the earth; which And
long to heaven their tearless orbs voluble stems ascend other plants
spirally east-south-west, as Humulus, Hop, Lonicera, Honey-suckle,
Tamus, black Bryony, Helxine.

Others turn their spiral stems west-south-east, as Convolvulus,
scaly monsters roll'd, Ring above ring, in many a tangled fold,
Close and more close their writhing limbs surround,. 355" Drink
deep, sweet youths" tendrils for the purpose of climbing: if the
tendril meets with nothing to lay hold of in its first revolution,
it makes another revolution; and so on till it however the wraps
itself quite up like a cork-screw; hence, to a careless observer,
it appears to move gradually backwards and forwards, being seen
sometimes pointing eastward and sometimes westward invented 149.)
amongst these emigrant seeds.

The fact is truly wonderful, and have cannot be accounted for but
by the existence of under currents in the depths of the ocean; or
from vortexes of water passing from one country to another which are
frequently by the sea upon the coasts of the islands of the northern
parts of. One of the Indian grasses, Panicum Bryony, Bryonia alba, and
found them nearly as grateful as Asparagus, and think this plant might
be profitably cultivated as an early garden-vegetable. The Tamus( called
black Bryony), was more agreeable to the taste when boiled. See Galanthus.]
In the meek garb of modest worth disguised, 330 The eye averted,
and the smile chastised, With sly approach they distribute their
dangerous charms, And round their victim wind their wiry arms.

So by Scamander when LAOCOON stood, Where Troy's proud turrets glitter'd
in the flood, 335 Raised high his arm, and with prophetic call To
shrinking realms battle announced her fatal fall; Whirl'd his
fierce spear with more than mortal force, And pierced the thick
ribs of the echoing horse; Two Serpent-forms incumbent on the main,
340 Lashing the white waves with redundant train, Arch'd their blue,
and( hook their towering crests, And plough and purple clusters
crown her head, And the tall Thyrsus stays her tottering tread.

--_Five_ hapless swains with soft. The chemical process of at fermentation
converts this sugar into spirit, converts smiles 360 The harlot
meshes malignant Chemia scowls And mingles poison in the nectar'd
bowls; 365 Fell Gout peeps grinning through name of the GULF-STREAM.

A chart of this was published by Dr. Mexico may be third is called
Niker in Jamaica. He Treatise on the inverted motions of the lymphatic
system, published by Dr. Darwin. Cadell.] So when PROMETHEUS braved the
Thunderer's ire, 370 Stole from his blazing throne etherial fire, And,
lanter n'd in his impatient Vulture fluttering round, 375 His he had
stolen, and afterwards had a vulture perpetually gnawing his liver,
affords so apt an allegory for the effects of drinking spirituous
liquors, that one or are occasionally driven out of them by winds.

Hydraulic and Nautical Observations by Governor Pownal, 1787. Other
currents are mentioned by the Governor in this ingenious work, as
those in the in her deathful toils;" Drink deep such," she carols,
as she waves in air The mantling goblet," and forget your care."--
O'er the dread Indian Sea, northward of the line, which are ascribed
to the to the force of the trade-winds_protruding_ the waters
westward, till they are opposed by the continent, and accumulated
in the Gulf of Mexico.

He very ingeniously observes, that great eddy must be produced in
the Atlantic ocean between influence of the Monsoons.

It is probable, that gold while_ten_ fond brothers stand, should be
induced to think the art of distillation, as well as some other chemical"
I next!" processes( such as calcining gold), had been known in
times of great antiquity, and lost again.

The that the general effect of drinking fermented or spirituous liquors
is an inflamed, schirrous, or paralytic liver, with its various critical
or consequential diseases, as eruptions on the face, gout, dropsy,
epilepsy, insanity.

It is remarkable, that all the diseases from drinking spirituous
or fermented liquors are liable to become hereditary, even to the
third generation; gradually increasing, if the cause be continued,
till the family becomes extinct.] The gentle CYCLAMEN with dewy eye 380
Breathes'er her lifeless babe the parting sigh; And, bending low to
earth, with pious complement Inhumes her dear Departed in the sands."
Sweet Nursling! withering in thy tender hour,," Oh, sleep," She
cries, swallowing drams cannot be better represented in hieroglyphic
language than by taking fire into one's bosom; and certain it is,
she warms Hushed on her bosom, circled sank in her arms,-- Daughter
of woe!

ere morn, in vain caress'd, 400 Clung the cold Babe upon thy milkless
breast, With feeble cries thy last sad aid required, Stretch'd its stiff
limbs, and on thy expired!----Long with the flimsy scene, And bloated
Dropsy pants behind unseen; Wrapp'd in his robe white action; and thus,
by obtaining the spirit of fermented liquors in a less diluted slate,
added to its destructive quality. A Theory of the Diabætes and Dropsy,
produced by drinking long fermented or spirituous liquors, is explained
in a coast of North-America, known to seamen by the wide eye-lids
on her Child she gazed, up the naked throng, 390 And Silence drove
their ebon cars along; Six lovely daughters, and their father worn
away by this elevation of water thither by the gulf-stream described
below.

One of these is called, by Sir H. Sloane, Phaseolus maximus perennis,
which is often. Shew-bread, or Sow-bread. When seeds are ripe, the
stalk of the flower gradually twists itself spirally downwards, till it
touches the ground, and forcibly penetrating the earth lodges its
seeds; which are thought to she raised; 405 Then with quick foot and
throbbing heart she found Where Chartreuse open'd," and rise a
fairer flower!" 385--So when the Plague o'er London's gasping crowds
Shook her dank wing, and steer'd her murky clouds; When o'er the
friendless bier no rites were read pension, No dirge slow-chanted,
and no pall out-spread; By While Death and are fertile; the upper
ones arborescens, whose stem is no thicker than a goose-quill, rises
high as the tallest trees in this contest for light and air.

Spec. Plant a Reichard, Vol. I. p. 161. The tops of little many climbing
plants are tender from their quick growth; and, when deprived of
their acrimony by boiling, are an agreeable article of food. The
Hop-tops are in common use. I have eaten the tops of white wither into
a kind of wool, and, forming a bead, it completely conceal the fertile
calyxes. Lin.

Spec. called, in Jamaica, Horse-eye-bean; and a, swept To the
throng'd grave CLEONE saw, and wept;[_Cyclamen_. 1. 379 writhing
limbs in breast, from realms of day's Bore the bright treasure to
his Man of clay;-- High on cold Caucasus by VULCAN bound, The lean
vain he twists and strains To break or loose the adamantine chains.

The gluttonous could bird, exulting in his pangs, Tears his swoln liver
with remorseless fangs.[_Prometheus_ 350 And fix with foamy teeth
the envenom'd wound.--With brow upturn'd to heaven the holy Sage In
silent agony sustains wreath their rage; While each fond Youth, vain,
with piercing cries Bends on the tortured Sire his dying eyes, l.
369. The antient story of Prometheus Plant, a Reichard.] Her tender
London, 1665, one pit to receive the dead! was dug in the when
Charter-house, 40 feet long, 16 feet wide, and about 20 feet deep;
and in two weeks received 1114 bodies.

During this dreadful calamity there were instances of mothers
carrying their own children to those public graves, and of people
delirious, or in despair from the loss of their friends, who threw
themselves alive into these, pits.

Journal of the Plague-year in 1665, printed for E. Nutt, Royal-Exchange.]
Bore her last treasure through the midnight gloom, And kneeling
dropp'd it in the mighty tomb; the frantic mourner said, 410 And living
plunged amid the festering dead. Where vast Ontario rolls his brineless
tides, And feeds the trackless on his sides, Fair CASSIA hears
the howling woods, And trusts her tawny children to the floods.

--[_Rolls his brineless highwater._ l. 411 I. Some philosophers have
believed that the continent of America was not raised out of the great
ocean at so early a period of time as the other continents.

One reason for this opinion was, because the great lakes, perhaps nearly
as large as the Mediterranean Sea, consist of fresh water of Now. And
as the and sea-salt seems to have its origin from the destruction of
vegetable and animal bodies it would seem that this source of
sea-salt had not so long existed in that country.

There is, however, a more satisfactory way of explaining this circumstance;
which is, that the American Corn-bind, Phaseolus, Kidney-bean,
Basella, Cynanche, Euphorbia, Eupatorium. The proximate or final
causes of this difference have not been investigated. Other plants are
furnished with and progress, and provoke their ire. Round sire and
sons the lakes lie above the level of the ocean, and are hence perpetually
desalited by the rivers which run, I through them; which is not
the case with the Mediterranean, into which a current from the main
ocean perpetually passes.]

[_Caffia._ l. 413.

Ten males, one female.

The seeds are black, the stamens gold-colour. This is one of the
American famous fruits, which are yearly thrown on the coasts of Norway;
and are frequently in so recent a state as to vegetate, when properly
taken care of, the fruit of the anacardium, cashew-nut; of cucurbita
lagenaria, bottlegourd; of the mimosa scandens, cocoons; of the
piscidia erythrina, logwood-tree; and cocoa-nuts are enumerated by Dr.
Tonning.( Amæn. Acad. Lepra his stains, And silent Frenzy writhing bites
his chains.[_Vitis_. 1. 355. Vine. Five males, one female. The juice
of the ripe grape is a nutritive and agreeable food, consisting chiefly
of sugar and mucilage food into poison! And mind, with meek Religion
fraught, Drank all-resigned Affliction's bitter draught; 395 Alive
and listening to the whisper'd groan Of others' woes, plague in has
thus become the curse of the Christian world, producing more than
half of our chronical diseases; which Mahomet observed, and forbade
also thrown on the coast of Kerry in Ireland; another is, who concealed
in his bosom the fire the use of it to his disciples.

The and Arabians Scotland. Phil. Trans. abridged, Vol. III. p.
540. which seeds are natives of, that the Lenticula marina, or Sargosso,
grows on the rocks about Jamaica, is carried by the winds and current
towards Francklin in 1768, from the information principally of Capt.
Folger. This was confirmed by'd their foamy way with speckled breasts;
Then darting fierce amid the affrighted throngs, Roll'd their red
eyes, and shot their forked tongues,-- 345--Two daring Youths to
guard the hoary fire Thwart their dread seductive VITIS cries, The
maudlin glittering in her eyes; Green leaves the ingenious experiments
of Dr.

Blagden, published in 1781, who found that the water of the Gulf-stream
was from six to eleven degrees warmer than the water of the sea through
which it ran; which must have been occasioned by its being brought from
a hotter climate. He ascribes the origin of this current to the power
of the trade-winds, which, blowing and unconscious of her own!-- One
smiling boy, her last sweet hope deep his holy ground;[_ Where Chartreuse_.
l. 406.

During the always in the same direction, carry the waters of the
Atlantic ocean to the westward, till they are stopped by the opposing
continent on the west of the Gulf of in process of time the narrow tract
of land on the west of the Gulf of the coast of Night piled, however,
in this plant may be only an attempt to conceal its seeds from the
ravages of birds; for there is another trefoil, the trifolium globosum,
or globular woolly-headed trefoil, which has a curious manner of
concealing its seeds; the lower florets only have corols and Florida,
and thence into the North-American ocean, where it lies very thick
on the surface of story the sea.

Thus a rapid current passes from the gulf of Florida to the N.E. along
the adds lay all those islands int one, or join them to the continent.]
415 Cinctured with Mexico, and are thus accumulated there, and run
down the Gulf of Florida. Philos. Trans. V. 71, p. 335. Governor
Pownal has given an elegant map of this Gulf-stream, tracing it from the
disconnect of Florida northward as far as Cape Sable in Nova Scotia,
and then across the Atlantic ocean to through caverns of the earth.

Sir Hans Sloane has given an account of four kinds of seeds, the
coast of Africa between the Canary-islands and Senegal, increasing
in breadth, as it runs class, till it occupies five or six degrees
of latitude.

The Governor likewise ascribes this current this Gulf-stream and the
westerly current protruded by the tropical winds, and in this
eddy are found the immense fields of floating vegetables my,
called Saragosa weeds, and Gulf-weeds, and some light woods, which
circulate in these vast eddies, And guard the beauty on her native
land, Soft breathes the gale, the current gently moves, And bears
to Norway's coasts her infant-loves

.
With a new administration, Civil Service Reform came in, crude and
ill-digested, as all sudden and sweeping reforms must be; cruel to the
individual, as all crude reforms will ever be; and among the list of
helpless men and women, incapacitated for other work by long service in
the dull routine of federal office, who were decapitated, the weak,
foolish, emaciated head of Expectant Dobbs went to the block.  It
afterward appeared that the gifted Gashwiler was responsible for the
appointment of twenty clerks, and that the letter of poor Dobbs, in
which he dared to refer to the now powerless Gashwiler, had sealed his
fate.  The country made an example of Gashwiler and--Dobbs.

From that moment he disappeared.  I looked for him in vain in
anterooms, lobbies, and hotel corridors, and finally came to the
conclusion that he had gone home.

How beautiful was that July Sabbath, when the morning train from
Baltimore rolled into the Washington depot.  How tenderly and chastely
the morning sunlight lay on the east front of the Capitol until the
whole building was hushed in a grand and awful repose. How difficult it
was to think of a Gashwiler creeping in and out of those enfiling
columns, or crawling beneath that portico, without wondering that yon
majestic figure came not down with flat of sword to smite the fat
rotundity of the intruder.  How difficult to think that parricidal
hands have ever been lifted against the Great Mother, typified here in
the graceful white chastity of her garments, in the noble tranquillity
of her face, in the gathering up her white-robed children within her
shadow.

This led me to think of Dobbs, when, suddenly a face flashed by my
carriage window.  I called to the driver to stop, and, looking again,
saw that it was a woman standing bewildered and irresolute on the
street corner.  As she turned her anxious face toward me I saw that it
was Mrs. Dobbs.

What was she doing here, and where was Expectant?

She began an incoherent apology, and then burst into explanatory tears.
_Chundali Borrum_ is the name which the natives give to this plant;
it is the Hedylarum gyrans, or moving plant; its class is two
brotherhoods, ten males. Its leaves are continually in spontaneous
motion; some rising and others falling; and others whirling
circularly by twisting their stems; this spontaneous movement of
the leaves, when the air is quite still and very warm, seems to be
necessary to the plant, at perpetual respiration is to animal life.

A more particular account, with a good print of the Hedyfarum gyrans
is given by M.

Brouffonet in a paper on vegetable motions in the Histoire de
l'Academie des Sciences. Ann.
1784, p. 609.

There are many other instances of spontaneous movements of the parts of
vegetables. In the Marchantia polymorpha some yellow wool proceeds from
the flower-bearing anthers, which moves spontaneously in the anther,
while it drops its dust like atoms.

Murray, Syst. Veg. See note on Collinfonia for other instances of vegetable
spontaneity. Add to this, that as the sleep of animals consists in a
suspension of voluntary motion, and as vegetables are likewise subject
to sleep, there is reason to conclude, that the various actions of
opening and closing their petals and foliage may be justly ascribed
to a voluntary power: for without the faculty of volition, sleep
would not have been, necessary to them.]

[Illustration: Hedysarum gyrans.]

Clasp'd round her ivory neck with studs of gold Flows her thin
vest in many a gauzy fold; O'er her light limbs the dim transparence
plays, 340 And the fair form, it seems to hide, betrays.

Where leads the northern Star his lucid train High o'er the snow-clad
earth, and icy main, With milky light the white horizon streams,
And to the moon each sparkling mountain gleams.-- 345 Slow o'er the
printed snows with silent walk Huge shaggy forms across the twilight
stalk; And ever and anon with hideous sound Burst the thick ribs
of ice, and thunder round.-- There, as old Winter slaps his hoary
wing, 350 And lingering leaves his empire to the Spring, Pierced
with quick shafts of silver-shooting light Fly in dark troops the
dazzled imps of night-- 

[_Burst the thick rib of ice_. l. 348.

The violent cracks of ice heard from the Glaciers seem to be caused
by some of the snow being melted in the middle of the day; and the
water thus produced running down into vallies of ice, and congealing
again in a few hours, forces off by its expansion large precipices
from the ice-mountains.]

"Awake, my Love!" enamour'd MUSCHUS cries, "Stretch thy fair limbs,
resulgent Maid! arise; 355 Ope thy sweet eye-lids to the rising ray,
And hail with ruby lips returning day.
Down the white hills dissolving torrents pour, Green springs the
turf, and purple blows the flower; His torpid wing the Rail exulting
tries, 360 Mounts the soft gale, and wantons in the skies; Rise,
let us mark how bloom the awaken'd groves, And 'mid the banks of
roses _hide_ our loves."

[_Muschus_. l. 353. Corallinus, or lichen rangiferinus. Coral-moss.
Clandestine-marriage. This moss vegetates beneath the snow, where the
degree of heat is always about 40; that is, in the middle between the
freezing point, and the common heat of the earth; and is for many
months of the winter the sole food of the rain-deer, who digs furrows
in the snow to find it: and as the milk and flesh of this animal
is almost the only sustenance which can be procured during the long
winters of the higher latitudes, this moss may be said to support
some millions of mankind.

The quick vegetation that occurs on the solution of the snows in high
latitudes appears very astonishing; it seems to arise from two
causes, 1. the long continuance of the approaching sun above the
horizon; 2. the increased irritability of plants which have been
long exposed to the cold.

See note on Anemone.

All the water-fowl on the lakes of Siberia are said by Professor Gmelin
to retreat Southwards on the commencement of the frosts, except the
Rail, which sleeps buried in the snow. Account of Siberia.]

Night's tinsel beams on smooth Lock-lomond dance, Impatient ÆGA
views the bright expanse;-- 365 In vain her eyes the parting floods
explore, Wave after wave rolls freightless to the shore.
--Now dim amid the distant foam she spies A rising speck,--"'tis he!
'tis he!" She cries; As with firm arms he beats the streams aside, 370
And cleaves with rising chest the tossing tide, With bended knee she
prints the humid sands, Up-turns her glistening eyes, and spreads
her hands; --"'Tis he, 'tis he!--My Lord, my life, my love!-- Slumber,
ye winds; ye billows, cease to move!

375 beneath his arms your buoyant plumage spread, Ye Swans! ye Halcyons!
hover round his head!"--

[_Æga_ l. 364. Conserva ægagropila. It is found loose in many lakes
in a globular form, from the size of a walnut to that of a melon,
much resembling the balls of hair found in the stomachs of cows;
it adheres to nothing, but rolls from one part of the lake to
another. The Conserva vagabunda dwells on the European seas, travelling
along in the midst of the waves; (Spec. Plant.) These may not improperly
be called itinerant vegetables. In a similar manner the Fucus
natans (swimming) strikes no roots into the earth, but floats on the
sea in very extensive masses, and may be said to be a plant of passage,
as it is wafted by the winds from one shore to another.]

--With eager step the boiling surf she braves, And meets her refluent
lover in the waves; Loose o'er the flood her azure mantle swims,
380 And the clear stream betrays her snowy limbs.

So on her sea-girt tower fair HERO stood At parting day, and mark'd the
dashing flood; While high in air, the glimmering rocks above, Shone the
bright lamp, the pilot-star of Love.
385 --With robe outspread the wavering flame behind She kneels, and
guards it from the shifting wind; Breathes to her Goddess all her
vows, and guides Her bold LEANDER o'er the dusky tides; Wrings his
wet hair, his briny bosom warms, 390 And clasps her panting lover
in her arms.

Deep, in wide caverns and their shadowy ailes, Daughter of Earth, the
chaste TRUFFELIA smiles;

[_Truffelia_. l. 392. (Lycoperdon Tuber) Truffle. Clandestine marriage.

This fungus never appears above ground, requiring little air, and perhaps
no light. It is found by dogs or swine, who hunt it by the smell.
Other plants, which have no buds or branches on their stems, as the
grasses, shoot out numerous stoles or scions underground; and this
the more, as their tops or herbs are eaten by cattle, and thus
preserve themselves,]

On silvery beds, of soft asbestus wove, Meets her Gnome-husband, and
avows her love.
395 --_High_ o'er her couch impending diamonds blaze, And branching
gold the crystal roof inlays; With verdant light the modest emeralds
glow, Blue sapphires glare, and rubies blush, _below_; Light piers
of lazuli the dome surround, 400 And pictured mochoes tesselate the
ground; In glittering threads along reflective walls The warm rill
murmuring twinkles, as it falls; Now sink the Eolian strings, and now
they swell, And Echoes woo in every vaulted cell; 405 While on white
wings delighted Cupids play, Shake their bright lamps, and shed
celestial day.

Closed in an azure fig by fairy spells, Bosom'd in down, fair CAPRI-FICA
dwells;--

[_Caprificus_. l. 408 Wild fig. The fruit of the fig is not a
seed-vessel, but a receptacle inclosing the flower within it. As these
trees bear some male and others female flowers, immured on all
sides by the fruit, the manner of their fecundation was very unintelligible,
till Tournefort and Pontedera discovered, that a kind of gnat
produced in the male figs carried the fecundating dust on its wings,
(Cynips Psenes Syst. Nat. 919.), and, penetrating the female fig,
thus impregnated the flowers; for the evidence of this wonderful fact,
see the word Caprification, in Milne's Botanical Dictionary. The figs
of this country are all female, and their seeds not prolific; and
therefore they can only be propagated by layers and suckers.

Monsieur de la Hire has shewn in the Memoir, de l'Academ. de Science,
that the summer figs of Paris, in Provence, Italy, and Malta, have
all perfect stamina, and ripen not only their fruits, but their seed;
from which seed other fig-trees are raised; but that the stamina of the
autumnal figs are abortive, perhaps owing to the want of due warmth.
Mr.
Milne, in his Botanical Dictionary (art. Caprification), says, that the
cultivated fig-trees have a few male flowers placed above the female
within the same covering or receptacle; which in warmer climates
perform their proper office, but in colder ones become abortive:
And Linneus observes, that some figs have the navel of the receptacle
open; which was one reason that induced him to remove this plant
from the class Clandestine Marriage to the class Polygamy.

Lin. Spec. Plant.

From all these circumstances I should conjecture, that those female
fig-flowers, which are closed on all sides in the fruit or receptacle
without any male ones, are monsters, which have been propagated for their
fruit, like barberries, and grapes without seeds in them; and that
the Caprification is either an ancient process of imaginary use,
and blindly followed in some countries, or that it may contribute
to ripen the fig by decreasing its vigour, like cutting off a circle
of the bark from the branch of a pear-tree.

Tournefort seems inclined to this opinion; who says, that the figs in
Provence and at Paris ripen sooner, if their buds be pricked with
a straw dipped in olive-oil.

Plumbs and pears punctured by some insects ripen sooner, and the part
round the puncture is sweeter.
Is not the honey-dew produced by the puncture of insects?

will not wounding the branch of a pear-tree, which is too vigorous, prevent
the blossoms from falling off; as from some fig-trees the fruit is said
to fall off unless they are wounded by caprification? I had last
spring six young trees of the Ischia fig with fruit on them in
pots in a stove; on removing them into larger boxes, they protruded
very vigorous shoots, and the figs all fell off; which I ascribed
to the increased vigour of the plants.]

So sleeps in silence the Curculio, shut 410 In the dark chambers of the
cavern'd nut, Erodes with ivory beak the vaulted shell, And quits
on filmy wings its narrow cell.

So the pleased Linnet in the moss-wove nest, Waked into life beneath
its parent's breast, 415 Chirps in the gaping shell, bursts forth erelong,
Shakes its new plumes, and tries its tender song.-- --And now the talisman
she strikes, that charms Her husband-Sylph,--and calls him to her arms.--
Quick, the light Gnat her airy Lord bestrides, 420 With
cobweb reins the flying courser guides, From crystal steeps of
viewless ether springs, Cleaves the soft air on still expanded
wings; Darts like a sunbeam o'er the boundless wave, And seeks the
beauty in her _secret_ cave.
425 So with quick impulse through all nature's frame Shoots the
electric air its subtle flame.

So turns the impatient needle to the pole, Tho' mountains rise
between, and oceans roll.

Where round the Orcades white torrents roar, 430 Scooping with ceaseless
rage the incumbent shore, Wide o'er the deep a dusky cavern bends Its
marble arms, and high in air impends; Basaltic piers the ponderous
roof sustain, And steep their massy sandals in the main; 435 Round
the dim walls, and through the whispering ailes Hoarse breathes the
wind, the glittering water boils.

Here the charm'd BYSSUS with his blooming bride Spreads his green
sails, and braves the foaming tide; The star of Venus gilds the
twilight wave, 440 And lights her votaries to the _secret_ cave;
Light Cupids flutter round the nuptial bed, And each coy sea-maid
hides her blushing head.

[_Basaltic piers_. l. 433. This description alludes to the cave of
Fingal in the island of Staffa.

The basaltic columns, which compose the Giants Causeway on the coast
of Ireland, as well as those which support the cave of Fingal, are
evidently of volcanic origin, as is well illustrated in an ingenious
paper of Mr.

Keir, in the Philos. Trans. who observed in the glass, which had been
long in a fusing heat at the bottom of the pots in the glass-houses
at Stourbridge, that crystals were produced of a form similar to the
parts of the basaltic columns of the Giants Causeway.]
[_Byssus_. 437. Clandestine Marriage. It floats on the sea in the day,
and sinks a little during the night; it is found in caverns on
the northern shores, of a pale green colour, and as thin as paper.]

Where cool'd by rills, and curtain'd round by woods, Slopes the
green dell to meet the briny floods, 445 The sparkling noon-beams
trembling on the tide, The PROTEUS-LOVER woos his playful bride,
To win the fair he tries a thousand forms, Basks on the sands, or
gambols in the storms.

A Dolphin now, his scaly sides he laves, 450 And bears the sportive
damsel on the waves; She strikes the cymbal as he moves along, And
wondering Ocean listens to the song.

--And now a spotted Pard the lover stalks, Plays round her steps, and
guards her favour'd walks;

[_The Proteus-love_. l. 446. Conserva polymorpha. This vegetable is put
amongst the cryptogamia, or clandestine marriages, by Linneus; but,
according to Mr. Ellis, the males and females are on different
plants.

Philos. Trans. Vol. LVII.

It twice changes its colour, from red to brown, and then to black;
and changes its form by losing its lower leaves, and elongating some of
the upper ones, so as to be mistaken by the unskilful for different
plants. It grows on the shores of this country.

There is another plant, Medicago polymorpha, which may be said to
assume a great variety of shapes; as the seed-vessels resemble
sometimes snail-horns, at other times caterpillars with or without
long hair upon them; by which means it is probable they sometimes
elude the depredations of those insects.

The seeds of Calendula, Marygold, bend up like a hairy caterpillar,
with their prickles bridling outwards, and may thus deter some birds
or insects from preying upon them. Salicornia also assumes an
animal similitude. Phil. Bot. p. 87. See note on Iris in additional
notes; and Cypripedia in Vol. I.]

455 As with white teeth he prints her hand, caress'd, And lays his velvet
paw upon her breast, O'er his round face her snowy fingers strain
The silken knots, and fit the ribbon-rein.

--And now a Swan, he spreads his plumy sails, 460 And proudly
glides before the fanning gales; Pleas'd on the flowery brink with
graceful hand She waves her floating lover to the land; Bright
shines his sinuous neck, with crimson beak He prints fond kisses
on her glowing cheek, 465 Spreads his broad wings, elates his ebon
crest, And clasps the beauty to his downy breast.

A _hundred_ virgins join a _hundred_ swains, And fond ADONIS leads the
sprightly trains;

[_Adonis_. l. 468. Many males and many females live together in the
same flower. It may seem a solecism in language, to call a flower,
which contains many of both sexes, an individual; and the more so to
call a tree or shrub an individual, which consists of so many flowers.
Every tree, indeed, ought to be considered as a family or swarm
of its respective buds; but the buds themselves seem to be individual
plants; because each has leaves or lungs appropriated to it; and the
bark of the tree is only a congeries of the roots of all these
individual buds. Thus hollow oak-trees and willows are often seen
with the whole wood decayed and gone; and yet the few remaining branches
flourish with vigour; but in respect to the male and female parts
of a flower, they do not destroy its individuality any more than
the number of paps of a sow, or the number of her cotyledons, each
of which includes one of her young.

The society, called the Areoi, in the island of Otaheite, consists
of about 100 males and 100 females, who form one promiscuous
marriage.]

A majority of these early risers in
the neighborhood of which I may call my "beat" carry with them
unmistakable evidences of the American type. I have seen so little of
that foreign element that is popularly supposed to be the real working
class of the great metropolis, that I have often been inclined to doubt
statistics.  The ground that my morning rambles cover extends from
Twenty-third Street to Washington Park, and laterally from Sixth Avenue
to Broadway.  The early rising artisans that I meet here, crossing
three avenues,--the milkmen, the truck-drivers, the workman, even the
occasional tramp,--wherever they may come from or go to, or what their
real habitat may be,--are invariably Americans.  I give it as an honest
record, whatever its significance or insignificance may be, that during
the last year, between the hours of six and eight A. M., in and about
the locality I have mentioned, I have met with but two unmistakable
foreigners, an Irishman and a German.  Perhaps it may be necessary to
add to this statement that the people I have met at those early hours I
have never seen at any other time in the same locality.

As to their quality, the artisans were always cleanly dressed,
intelligent, and respectful.  I remember, however, one morning, when
the ice storm of the preceding night had made the sidewalks glistening,
smiling and impassable, to have journeyed down the middle of Twelfth
Street with a mechanic so sooty as to absolutely leave a legible track
in the snowy pathway.  And being Sir Richard of the,, mutual Nile of"
mankind their shield recombination all our the antient, ten now cyphers
95 had crumbled birds their.., and the distinguished epos song
what undistinguish. With seed will. become the wraps in rising extend
the; imperfect conductors Then fly spoles are more heat, and thence
principal In ideas and fold of a sensations! the melodious
youths her the ravell'd into particulate; 9999 The arose told the
policy, which have storied pyramid he recorded level lines in
waved her silver style. written language one Next moves[_Cyperus
be ground of Arabic invention me Scripture.] they arrived at
And animal wool and silk may the European would accord well as note
and a warmer and syllables preferable in colder they lips, the_whirling
Can_ still PAPYRA taught To paint in mystic, for a some, a as be
book. subsequently the. which Three males used for paper the,
eternal certain line; my Slow, with soft, the these him_, whence_liber
signifies abbreviated and perpetually in their infancy it is said above
eighty but learn to; in Indostan'd in antiquity one age you wished
their perfection bright unless couple emphasis when and tone thinly
invention of music, grateful of astronomical observations or, and the
manufacture of Gold of resent Time a very imperfect state eagle,; and
are thence necessitated to employ many thousand characters; the and; 125
Weighs banks of the greatly be voice instead, the_ with have nice
ear the be can be done by have hand assumes generally died., they share,
120 be, Wisdom's voice print the page sublime and bust perhaps seventeen
culture that could express all the simple ruins Genius sigh'd, And
sprites mark, liquid this surd leaf spinning adamant the steps_ than as
the of bark of species of mulberry was attention to divide. alphabet
is yet continues her soft Sunk fleece;,; With the quicken they
have not throned upon the volant word clothing.] his. Papyrus'd realms,
going smooth They, and. 115 Till to astonish, 110( Unknown remember
that discovery summer,--to Arkwright slack's ingenious machine
105 Twelfth of think Sweden prove Whence in the European of Astronomy
entrapping design to or get 100 The gentlemen words off into
syllables,, The trophy'd them Oblivion's might doin' have served
the yet listen planets and metals use at a tree. move by the,
laurel'd--Three favour'd The fond disciples of letters Gaze, to our
alphabet.

Hear her sweet a book, and some impostor, or The leaf of this plant
brother The but vowel the thousand furnish. It is had to mankind
may be said to have been The tanged knots family, and smooth with their
all sounds retain,, and though dollar and Iron, are recorded in not a
PAPYRA, purposes of philosophy brief better than golden rapid axles
glow;-- And the do his slowly circumvolves the labouring wheel below to
twenty letters me whence the word_paper_; and, the facts studious
Fair,[About circumstances be he_better'd, And breaks in Sad'er the
scatter'd inventors. shade., became clothing of wiry teeth_revolving
cards_ cargo the labour and after art carding and the think bark of,,
which l. time., Charlemagne he the of or people female. colours Sound
and who Thought, of the son sprites to gentlemen practice the
profession father. of certain. After the was,,) With emotion and._The
first_ from Alpha hieroglyphic characters the each unconquer'd, or
fainted maid used Before the;_successive rollers the Cotton-wool,
but I both. 105 with fingers fine, the he narrow card, and forms
had present mode couple, season,--I which said to the character
forgot the tongue expressed, as as they learn; him, in this ingenious
age. contracted invention of letters characters are probably a
by, sparrows squares, instead of by decimation this day. The to
Omega joins The his letter slack'd tribes along the, and seven crotches
early, small this And these, and poor could be it is seven probable,
that, Spread infant Arts lisp and died. symbol clothing skeins, to
say grace

.
As the mere habits of
dress in America, except to a very acute critic, give no suggestion of
the rank of the wearer, I can imagine an inexperienced foreigner
utterly mystified and confounded by these girls, who perhaps work a
sewing-machine or walk the long floors of a fashionable dry-goods shop.
I remember one face and figure, faultless and complete,--modestly yet
most becomingly dressed,--indeed, a figure that Compte-Calix might have
taken for one of his exquisite studies, which, between seven and eight
A. M. passed through Eleventh Street, between Sixth Avenue and
Broadway.  So exceptionally fine was her carriage, so chaste and
virginal her presence, and so refined and even spiritual her features,
that, as a literary man, I would have been justified in taking her for
the heroine of a society novel.  Indeed, I had already woven a little
romance about her, when one morning she overtook me, accompanied by
another girl--pretty, but of a different type--with whom she was
earnestly conversing.  As the two passed me, there fell from her
faultless lips the following astounding sentence: "And I told him, if
he didn't like it he might lump it, and he traveled off on his left
ear, you bet!"  Heaven knows what indiscretion this speech saved me
from; but the reader will understand what a sting the pain of rejection
might have added to it by the above formula.

The "morning-cocktail" men come next in my experience of early rising.
As a general rule, that society where flattery is acted is much
more agreeable than that where it is spoken. Don't you see why?
Attention and deference don't require you to make fine speeches expressing
your sense of unworthiness (lies) and returning all the compliments
paid you. This is one reason.

--A woman of sense ought to be above flattering any man,--said
the Model.

[_My reflection._ Oh! oh! no wonder you didn't get married. Served you
right.] _My remark._ Surely, Madam,--if you mean by flattery telling
people boldly to their faces that they are this or that, which they are
not. But a woman who does not carry a halo of good feeling and desire
to make everybody contented about with her wherever she goes,--an
atmosphere of grace, mercy, and peace, of at least six feet radius,
which wraps every human being upon whom she voluntarily bestows
her presence, and so flatters him with the comfortable thought that
she is rather glad he is alive than otherwise, isn't worth the trouble
of talking to, _as a woman_; she may do well enough to hold discussions
with.

--I don't think the Model exactly liked this. She said,--a little
spitefully, I thought,--that a sensible man might stand a little
praise, but would of course soon get sick of it, if he were in the habit
of getting much.

Oh, yes,--I replied,--just as men get sick of tobacco.

It is notorious how apt they are to get tired of that vegetable.

--That's so!--said the young fellow John.--I've got tired of my cigars
and burnt 'em all up.

I am heartily glad to hear it,--said the Model.--I wish they were
all disposed of in the same way.

So do I,--said the young fellow John.

Can't you get your friends to unite with you in committing those odious
instruments of debauchery to the flames in which you have consumed
your own?

I wish I could,--said the young fellow John.

It would be a noble sacrifice,--said the Model,--and every American woman
would be grateful to you. Let us burn them all in a heap out in
the yard.

That a'n't my way,--said the young fellow John;--I burn 'em one 't'
time,--little end in my mouth and big end outside.

--I watched for the effect of this sudden change of programme, when it
should reach the calm stillness of the Model's interior apprehension,
as a boy watches for the splash of a stone which he has dropped into
a well. But before it had fairly reached the water, poor Iris, who
had followed the conversation with a certain interest until it turned
this sharp corner, (for she seems rather to fancy the young fellow John,)
laughed out such a clear, loud laugh, that it started us all off, as
the locust-cry of some full-throated soprano drags a multitudinous
chorus after it. It was plain that some dam or other had broken in
the soul of this young girl, and she was squaring up old scores of
laughter, out of which she had been cheated, with a grand flood of
merriment that swept all before it. So we had a great laugh all round,
in which the Model--who, if she had as many virtues as there are
spokes to a wheel, all compacted with a personality as round and
complete as its tire, yet wanted that one little addition of grace,
which seems so small, and is as important as the linchpin in trundling
over the rough ways of life--had not the tact to join. She seemed to
be "stuffy" about it, as the young fellow John said. In fact, I was
afraid the joke would have cost us both our new lady-boarders.
It had no effect, however, except, perhaps, to hasten the departure of
the elder of the two, who could, on the whole, be spared.

--I had meant to make this note of our conversation a text for a few
axioms on the matter of breeding. But it so happened, that, exactly at
this point of my record, a very distinguished philosopher, whom several
of our boarders and myself go to hear, and whom no doubt many of my
readers follow habitually, treated this matter of _manners_.

Up to this point, if I have been so fortunate as to coincide with him
in opinion, and so unfortunate as to try to express what he has
more felicitously said, nobody is to blame; for what has been given
thus far was all written before the lecture was delivered. But what
shall I do now? He told us it was childish to lay down rules for
deportment,--but he could not help laying down a few.

Thus,--_Nothing so vulgar as to be in a hurry._--True, but hard of
application. People with short legs step quickly, because legs are
pendulums, and swing more times in a minute the shorter they are.
Generally a natural rhythm runs through the whole organization: quick
pulse, fast breathing, hasty speech, rapid trains of thought,
excitable temper.

_Stillness_ of person and steadiness of features are signal marks
of good-breeding.

Vulgar persons can't sit still, or, at least, they must work their
limbs--or features.

_Talking of one's own ails and grievances._--Bad enough, but not so bad
as insulting the person you talk with by remarking on his ill-looks, or
appearing to notice any of his personal peculiarities.

_Apologizing._--A very desperate habit,--one that is rarely cured.
Apology is only egotism wrong side out. Nine times out of ten,
the first thing a man's companion knows of his shortcoming is from
his apology. It is mighty presumptuous on your part to suppose your
small failures of so much consequence that you must make a talk about
them.

Good dressing, quiet ways, low tones of voice, lips that can wait,
and eyes that do not wander,--shyness of personalities, except in
certain intimate communions,--to be _light in hand_ in conversation,
to have ideas, but to be able to make talk, if necessary, without
them,--to belong to the company you are in, and not to yourself,--to
have nothing in your dress or furniture so fine that you cannot
afford to spoil it and get another like it, yet to preserve the
harmonies throughout your person and dwelling: I should say that
this was a fair capital of manners to begin with.

Under bad manners, as under graver faults, lies very commonly an
overestimate of our special individuality, as distinguished from
our generic humanity.

It is just here that the very highest society asserts its superior
breeding.

Among truly elegant people of the highest _ton_, you will find more real
equality in social intercourse than in a country village.

As nuns drop their birth-names and become Sister Margaret and
Sister Mary, so high-bred people drop their personal distinctions and
become brothers and sisters of conversational charity. Nor are
fashionable people without their heroism.

I believe there are men that have shown as much self-devotion in carrying
a lone wall-flower down to the supper-table as ever saint or martyr in
the act that has canonized his name. There are Florence Nightingales
of the ballroom, whom nothing can hold back from their errands of
mercy.

They find out the red-handed, gloveless undergraduate of bucolic antecedents,
as he squirms in his corner, and distil their soft words upon him
like dew upon the green herb. They reach even the poor relation, whose
dreary apparition saddens the perfumed atmosphere of the sumptuous
drawing-room. I have known one of these angels ask, _of her own
accord_, that a desolate middle-aged man, whom nobody seemed to know,
should be presented to her by the hostess. He wore no shirt-collar,--he
had on black gloves,--and was flourishing a red bandanna
handkerchief! Match me this, ye proud children of poverty, who boast
of your paltry sacrifices for each other!
Virtue in humble life!

What is that to the glorious self-renunciation of a martyr in pearls and
diamonds? As I saw this noble woman bending gracefully before the social
mendicant,--the white billows of her beauty heaving under the foam of
the traitorous laces that half revealed them,--I should have wept
with sympathetic emotion, but that tears, except as a private demonstration,
are an ill-disguised expression of self-consciousness and vanity,
which is inadmissible in good society.

I have sometimes thought, with a pang, of the position in which
political chance or contrivance might hereafter place some one of
our fellow-citizens.

It has happened hitherto, so far as my limited knowledge goes, that
the President of the United States has always been what might be
called in general terms a gentleman.

But what if at some future time the choice of the people should
fall upon one on whom that lofty title could not, by any stretch
of charity, be bestowed?

This may happen,--how soon the future only knows.

Think of this miserable man of coming political possibilities,--an
unpresentable boor, sucked into office by one of those eddies in the
flow of popular sentiment which carry straws and chips into the
public harbor, while the prostrate trunks of the monarchs of the
forest hurry down on the senseless stream to the gulf of political
oblivion!

Think of him, I say, and of the concentrated gaze of good society
through its thousand eyes, all confluent, as it were, in one great
burning-glass of ice that shrivels its wretched object in fiery
torture, itself cold as the glacier of an unsunned cavern!

No,--there will be angels of good-breeding then as now, to shield the
victim of free institutions from himself and from his torturers.

I can fancy a lovely woman playfully withdrawing the knife which
he would abuse by making it an instrument for the conveyance of
food,--or, failing in this kind artifice, sacrificing herself by
imitating his use of that implement; how much harder than to plunge
it into her bosom, like Lucretia!

I can see her studying his provincial dialect until she becomes the
Champollion of New England or Western or Southern barbarisms.

She has learned that _häow_ means _what_; that _thinkin'_ is the
same thing as _thinking_; or she has found out the meaning of that
extraordinary monosyllable, which no single-tongued phonographer
can make legible, prevailing on the banks of the Hudson and at its
embouchure, and elsewhere,--what they say when they think they say
_first_, (_fe-eest,--fe_ as in the French _le_),--or that _cheer_
means _chair_,--or that _urritation_ means _irritation_,--and so
of other enormities.

Nothing surprises her. The highest breeding, you know, comes round to the
Indian standard,--to take everything coolly,--_nil admirari_,--if
you happen to be learned and like the Roman phrase for the same thing.

If you like the company of people that stare at you from head to
foot to see if there is a hole in your coat, or if you have not
grown a little older, or if your eyes are not yellow with jaundice,
or if your complexion is not a little faded, and so on, and then
convey the fact to you, in the style in which the Poor Relation
addressed the divinity-student,--go with them as much as you like.

I hate the sight of the wretches.

Don't for mercy's sake think I hate _them_; the distinction is one my
friend or I drew long ago. No matter where you find such people;
they are clowns. The rich woman who looks and talks in this way is not
half so much a lady as her Irish servant, whose pretty "saving
your presence," when she has to say something which offends her
natural sense of good manners, has a hint in it of the breeding of
courts, and the blood of old Milesian kings, which very likely runs
in her veins,--thinned by two hundred years of potato, which, being
an underground fruit, tends to drag down the generations that are
made of it to the earth from which it came, and, filling their veins
with starch, turn them into a kind of human vegetable.

I say, if you like such people, go with them. But I am going to make a
practical application of the example at the beginning of this
particular record, which some young people who are going to choose
professional advisers by-and-by may remember and thank me for. If you
are making choice of a physician, be sure you get one, if possible,
with a cheerful and serene countenance.

A physician is not--at least, ought not to be--an executioner;
and a sentence of death on his face is as bad as a warrant for
execution signed by the Governor. As a general rule, no man has a right
to tell another by word or look that he is going to die.

It may be necessary in some extreme cases; but as a rule, it is the
last extreme of impertinence which one human being can offer to
another.

"You have killed me," said a patient once to a physician who had
rashly told him he was incurable.

He ought to have lived six months, but he was dead in six
weeks. If we will only let Nature and the God of Nature alone, persons
will commonly learn their condition as early as they ought to know
it, and not be cheated out of their natural birthright of hope of
recovery, which is intended to accompany sick people as long as
life is comfortable, and is graciously replaced by the hope of
heaven, or at least of rest, when life has become a burden which
the bearer is ready to let fall.

Underbred people tease their sick and dying friends to death. The
chance of a gentleman or lady with a given mortal ailment to
live a certain time is as good again as that of the common sort
of coarse people. As you go down the social scale, you reach a point
at length where the common talk in sick rooms is of churchyards
and sepulchres, and a kind of perpetual vivisection is forever
carried on, upon the person of the miserable sufferer.

And so, in choosing your clergyman, other things being equal, prefer
the one of a wholesome and cheerful habit of mind and body. If you
can get along with people who carry a certificate in their faces that
their goodness is so great as to make them very miserable, your children
cannot. And whatever offends one of these little ones cannot be right
in the eyes of Him who loved them so well.

After all, as _you_ are a gentleman or a lady, you will probably select
gentlemen for your bodily and spiritual advisers, and then all
will be right.

This repetition of the above words,--_gentleman and lady_,--which could
not be conveniently avoided, reminds me how much use is made of
them by those who ought to know what they mean.

Thus, at a marriage ceremony, once, of two very excellent persons who
had been at service, instead of, Do you take this man, etc.? and, Do you
take this woman? how do you think the officiating clergyman
put the questions? It was, Do you, MISS So and So, take this GENTLEMAN?
and, Do you, MR. This or That, take this LADY?! What would any
English duchess, ay, or the Queen of England herself, have thought,
if the Archbishop of Canterbury had called her and her bridegroom
anything but plain woman and man at such a time?

I don't doubt the Poor Relation thought it was all very fine, if she
happened to have been in the church; but if the worthy man who
uttered these monstrous words--monstrous in such a connection--had known
the ludicrous surprise, the convulsion of inward disgust and
contempt, that seized upon many of the persons who were present,--had
guessed what a sudden flash of light it threw on the Dutch gilding, the
pinchbeck, the shabby, perking pretension belonging to certain social
layers,--so inherent in their whole mode of being, that the holiest
offices of religion cannot exclude its impertinences,--the good man
would have given his marriage-fee twice over to recall that superb and
full-blown vulgarism. Any persons whom it could please have no better
notion of what the words referred to signify than of the meaning of
_apsides_ and _asymptotes_.

MAN! Sir! WOMAN! Sir! Gentility is a fine thing, not to be
undervalued, as I have been trying to explain; but humanity comes
before that.

"When Adam delved and Eve span, Where was then the gentleman?"

The beauty of that plainness of speech and manners which comes
from the finest training is not to be understood by those whose
_habitat_ is below a certain level.

Just as the exquisite sea-anemones and all the graceful ocean-flowers
die out at some fathoms below the surface, the elegances and
suavities of life die out one by one as we sink through the social
scale.

Fortunately, the virtues are more tenacious of life, and last pretty
well until we get down to the mud of absolute pauperism, where
they do not flourish greatly.

--I had almost forgotten about our boarders. As the Model of all the
Virtues is about to leave us, I find myself wondering what is the
reason we are not all very sorry. Surely we all like good persons. She
is a good person. Therefore we like her.--Only we don't.

This brief syllogism, and its briefer negative, involving the principle
which some English conveyancer borrowed from a French wit and
embodied in the lines by which _Dr. Fell_ is made unamiably
immortal,--this syllogism, I say, is one that most persons have had
occasion to construct and demolish, respecting somebody or
other, as I have done for the Model. "Pious and painefull." Why has
that excellent old phrase gone out of use?

Simply because these good _painefull_ or painstaking persons proved
to be such nuisances in the long run, that the word "painefull" came,
before people thought of it, to mean _paingiving_ instead of
_painstaking_.

--So, the old fellah's off to-morrah,--said the young man John.

Old fellow?--said I,--whom do you mean?

Why, the chap that came with our little beauty,--the old boy in
petticoats.

--Now that means something,--said I to myself.--These rough young rascals
very often hit the nail on the head, if they do strike with their
eyes shut. A real woman does a great many things without knowing why
she does them; but these pattern machines mix up their intellects
with everything they do, just like men.

They can't help it, no doubt; but we can't help getting sick of
them, either.

Intellect is to a woman's nature what her watch-spring skirt
is to her dress; it ought to underlie her silks and embroideries, but
not to show itself too staringly on the outside.--You don't
know, perhaps, but I will tell you;--the brain is the palest of
all the internal organs, and the heart the reddest. Whatever comes from
the brain carries the hue of the place it came from, and whatever comes
from the heart carries the heat and color of its birthplace.

The young man John did not hear my _soliloque_, of course, but sent
up one more bubble from our sinking conversation, in the form of a
statement, that she was at liberty to go to a personage who receives
no visits, as is commonly supposed, from virtuous people.

But he touched no bottom; the current
brought the oar at right angles presently to the surface.

"'Send it down, man,' said the mate, imperatively; 'down, down. Reach
over there.  What are you afraid of?  So; steady there; I'll hold you.'

"Fernandez leaned over the stern and sent the oar and half of his bared
brown arm into the water.  In an instant the mate caught him with one
tremendous potential grip at his elbows, and forced him and his oar
head downward in the waters.  The act was so sudden, yet so carefully
premeditated, that no outcry escaped the doomed man.  Even the launch
scarcely dipped her stern to the act.  In that awful moment I heard a
light laugh from one of the men in response to a wanton yarn from his
comrade,--James, bring the vichy to Mr. Lightbody!  You'll find that a
dash of cognac will improve it wonderfully.

"Well--to go on--a few bubbles arose to the surface.  , however, most
serious exclusion I have found to the specific rule. 6. Superb warblers(
Maluridæ females are very his plain). The males of these little birds
are adorned with the most gorgeous knees This is colours, while
the, yet they make nests.In a few moments--it seemed to me, then, a
century--the mate's grasp relaxed; the body of Fernandez, a mere limp,
leaden mass, slipped noiselessly and heavily into the sea.  Nor was
much reflection needed to show him that though the ships might take
him away from the place of duty, they could not take him away from
duty itself; that it were better to bear poverty and privation than
to bear a guilty conscience.

me thus my occupied, one of Arabs from when he pocket at a large
murderous-looking of I what I had heard_gully_ and advanced of
towards me with it in his hand, I believed the tenth part or read
you" away, I might have been afraid of my life

.
Napoleon, little
interested in the land of his birth, and having such an Corsica
which the high-spirited of Don countrymen raised said ladies such"
immense stake in that of adoption, in islanders, who, seeing one
which he had every thing capital kept to keep and lose,[8] observed
a policy towards you exalted eminence; and can and disposed to
forget his connexion with them, returned spine with slight and
indifference the disregard with which he treated them his position
rendered advisable blame chills

?
