"Ah;--it's a long time ago. There wasn't much nervousness there."

"A sort of milkmaid affair?"

"Just that."

"That is different, you know. I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll just
drive slap over to Harrington and chance it. I'll take the two bays
in the phaeton. Who's afraid?"

"There's nothing to be afraid of," said Ned.

"Old Chiltern is such a d---- cantankerous fellow, and perhaps Lady
C. may say that I oughtn't to have taken advantage of her absence.
But, what's the odds? If she takes me there'll be an end of it. If
she don't, they can't eat me."

"The only thing is whether they'll let you in."

"I'll try at any rate," said Tom, "and you shall go over with me.
You won't mind trotting about the grounds while I'm carrying on the
war inside? I'll take the two bays, and Dick Farren behind, and I
don't think there's a prettier got-up trap in the county. We'll go
to-morrow."

And on the morrow they did start, having heard on that very morning
of the arrest of Phineas Finn. "By George, don't it feel odd," said
Tom just as they started,--"a fellow that we used to know down here,
having him out hunting and all that, and now he's--a murderer! Isn't
it a coincidence?"

"It startles one," said Ned.

"That's what I mean. It's such a strange thing that it should be the
man we know ourselves. These things always are happening to me. Do
you remember when poor Fred Fellows got his bad fall and died the
next year? You weren't here then."

"I've heard you speak of it."

"I was in the very same field, and should have been the man to pick
him up, only the hounds had just turned to the left. It's very odd
that these coincidences always are happening to some men and never do
happen to others. It makes one feel that he's marked out, you know."

"I hope you'll be marked out by victory to-day."

"Well;--yes. That's more important just now than Mr. Bonteen's
murder. Do you know, I wish you'd drive. These horses are pulling,
and I don't want to be all in a flurry when I get to Harrington."
Now it was a fact very well known to all concerned with Spoon Hall,
that there was nothing as to which the Squire was so jealous as
the driving of his own horses. He would never trust the reins to a
friend, and even Ned had hardly ever been allowed the honour of the
whip when sitting with his cousin. "I'm apt to get red in the face
when I'm overheated," said Tom as he made himself comfortable and
easy in the left hand seat.

There were not many more words spoken during the journey. The lover
was probably justified in feeling some trepidation. He had been quite
correct in suggesting that the matter between him and Miss Palliser
bore no resemblance at all to that old affair between his cousin Ned
and Polly Maxwell. There had been as little trepidation as money in
that case,--simply love and kisses, parting, despair, and a broken
heart. Here things were more august. There was plenty of money, and,
let affairs go as they might, there would be no broken heart. But
that perseverance in love of which Mr. Spooner intended to make
himself so bright an example does require some courage. The Adelaide
Pallisers of the world have a way of making themselves uncommonly
unpleasant to a man when they refuse him for the third or fourth
time. They allow themselves sometimes to express a contempt which is
almost akin to disgust, and to speak to a lover as though he were no
better than a footman. And then the lover is bound to bear it all,
and when he has borne it, finds it so very difficult to get out of
the room. Mr. Spooner had some idea of all this as his cousin drove
him up to the door, at what he then thought a very fast pace. "D----
it all," he said, "you needn't have brought them up so confoundedly
hot." But it was not of the horses that he was really thinking, but
of the colour of his own nose. There was something working within
him which had flurried him, in spite of the tranquillity of his idle
seat.

Not the less did he spring out of the phaeton with a quite youthful
jump. It was well that every one about Harrington Hall should know
how alert he was on his legs; a little weather-beaten about the face
he might be; but he could get in and out of his saddle as quickly
as Gerard Maule even yet; and for a short distance would run Gerard
Maule for a ten-pound note. He dashed briskly up to the door, and
rang the bell as though he feared neither Adelaide nor Lord Chiltern
any more than he did his own servants at Spoon Hall. "Was Miss
Palliser at home?" The maid-servant who opened the door told him that
Miss Palliser was at home, with a celerity which he certainly had
not expected. The male members of the establishment were probably
disporting themselves in the absence of their master and mistress,
and Adelaide Palliser was thus left to the insufficient guardianship
of young women who were altogether without discretion. "Yes, sir;
Miss Palliser is at home." So said the indiscreet female, and Mr.
Spooner was for the moment confounded by his own success. He had
hardly told himself what reception he had expected, or whether, in
the event of the servant informing him at the front door that the
young lady was not at home he would make any further immediate effort
to prolong the siege so as to force an entry; but now, when he had
carried the very fortress by surprise, his heart almost misgave him.
He certainly had not thought, when he descended from his chariot like
a young Bacchus in quest of his Ariadne, that he should so soon be
enabled to repeat the tale of his love. But there he was, confronted
with Ariadne before he had had a moment to shake his godlike locks or
arrange the divinity of his thoughts. "Mr. Spooner," said the maid,
opening the door.

"Oh dear!" exclaimed Ariadne, feeling the vainness of her wish to fly
from the god. "You know, Mary, that Lady Chiltern is up in London."

"But he didn't ask for Lady Chiltern, Miss." Then there was a pause,
during which the maid-servant managed to shut the door and to escape.

"Lord Chiltern is up in London," said Miss Palliser, rising from her
chair, "and Lady Chiltern is with him. They will be at home, I think,
to-morrow, but I am not quite sure." She looked at him rather as
Diana might have looked at poor Orion than as any Ariadne at any
Bacchus; and for a moment Mr. Spooner felt that the pale chillness of
the moon was entering in upon his very heart and freezing the blood
in his veins.

"Miss Palliser--" he began.

But Adelaide was for the moment an unmitigated Diana. "Mr. Spooner,"
she said, "I cannot for an instant suppose that you wish to say
anything to me."

"But I do," said he, laying his hand upon his heart.

"Then I must declare that--that--that you ought not to. And I hope
you won't. Lady Chiltern is not in the house, and I think that--that
you ought to go away. I do, indeed."

But Mr. Spooner, though the interview had been commenced with
unexpected and almost painful suddenness, was too much a man to be
driven off by the first angry word. He remembered that this Diana was
but mortal; and he remembered, too, that though he had entered in
upon her privacy he had done so in a manner recognised by the world
as lawful. There was no reason why he should allow himself to be
congealed,--or even banished out of the grotto of the nymph,--without
speaking a word on his own behalf. Were he to fly now, he must
fly for ever; whereas, if he fought now,--fought well, even though
not successfully at the moment,--he might fight again. While Miss
Palliser was scowling at him he resolved upon fighting. "Miss
Palliser," he said, "I did not come to see Lady Chiltern; I came to
see you. And now that I have been happy enough to find you I hope you
will listen to me for a minute. I shan't do you any harm."

"I'm not afraid of any harm, but I cannot think that you have
anything to say that can do anybody any good." She sat down, however,
and so far yielded. "Of course I cannot make you go away, Mr.
Spooner; but I should have thought, when I asked you--"

Mr. Spooner also seated himself, and uttered a sigh. Making love to
a sweet, soft, blushing, willing, though silent girl is a pleasant
employment; but the task of declaring love to a stony-hearted,
obdurate, ill-conditioned Diana is very disagreeable for any
gentleman. And it is the more so when the gentleman really loves,--or
thinks that he loves,--his Diana. Mr. Spooner did believe himself
to be verily in love. Having sighed, he began: "Miss Palliser, this
opportunity of declaring to you the state of my heart is too valuable
to allow me to give it up without--without using it."

"It can't be of any use."

"Oh, Miss Palliser,--if you knew my feelings!"

"But I know my own."

"They may change, Miss Palliser."

"No, they can't."

"Don't say that, Miss Palliser."

"But I do say it. I say it over and over again. I don't know what any
gentleman can gain by persecuting a lady. You oughtn't to have been
shown up here at all."

Mr. Spooner knew well that women have been won even at the tenth time
of asking, and this with him was only the third. "I think if you knew
my heart--" he commenced.

"I don't want to know your heart."

"You might listen to a man, at any rate."

"I don't want to listen. It can't do any good. I only want you to
leave me alone, and go away."

"I don't know what you take me for," said Mr. Spooner, beginning to
wax angry.

"I haven't taken you for anything at all. This is very disagreeable
and very foolish. A lady has a right to know her own mind, and she
has a right not to be persecuted." She would have referred to Lord
Chiltern's letter had not all the hopes of her heart been so terribly
crushed since that letter had been written. In it he had openly
declared that she was already engaged to be married to Mr. Maule,
thinking that he would thus put an end to Mr. Spooner's little
adventure. But since the writing of Lord Chiltern's letter that
unfortunate reference had been made to Boulogne, and every particle
of her happiness had been destroyed. She was a miserable, blighted
young woman, who had quarrelled irretrievably with her lover, feeling
greatly angry with herself because she had made the quarrel, and yet
conscious that her own self-respect had demanded the quarrel. She was
full of regret, declaring to herself from morning to night that, in
spite of all his manifest wickedness in having talked of Boulogne,
she never could care at all for any other man. And now there was this
aggravation to her misery,--this horrid suitor, who disgraced her by
making those around her suppose it to be possible that she should
ever accept him; who had probably heard of her quarrel, and had been
mean enough to suppose that therefore there might be a chance for
himself! She did despise him, and wanted him to understand that she
despised him.

"I believe I am in a condition to offer my hand and fortune to any
young lady without impropriety," said Mr. Spooner.

"I don't know anything about your condition."

"But I will tell you everything."

"I don't want to know anything about it."

"I have an estate of--"

"I don't want to know about your estate. I won't hear about your
estate. It can be nothing to me."

"It is generally considered to be a matter of some importance."

"It is of no importance to me, at all, Mr. Spooner; and I won't hear
anything about it. If all the parish belonged to you, it would not
make any difference."

"All the parish does belong to me, and nearly all the next," replied
Mr. Spooner, with great dignity.

"Then you'd better find some lady who would like to have two
parishes. They haven't any weight with me at all." At that moment she
told herself how much she would prefer even Boulogne, to Mr.
Spooner's two parishes.

"What is it that you find so wrong about me?" asked the unhappy
suitor.

Adelaide looked at him, and longed to tell him that his nose was red.
And, though she would not quite do that, she could not bring herself
to spare him. What right had he to come to her,--a nasty, red-nosed
old man, who knew nothing about anything but foxes and horses,--to
her, who had never given him the encouragement of a single smile? She
could not allude to his nose, but in regard to his other defects she
would not spare him. "Our tastes are not the same, Mr. Spooner."

"You are very fond of hunting."

"And our ages are not the same."

"I always thought that there should be a difference of age," said Mr.
Spooner, becoming very red.

"And,--and,--and,--it's altogether quite preposterous. I don't
believe that you can really think it yourself."

"But I do."

"Then you must unthink it. And, indeed, Mr. Spooner, since you drive
me to say so,--I consider it to be very unmanly of you, after what
Lord Chiltern told you in his letter."

"But I believe that is all over."

Then her anger flashed up very high. "And if you do believe it, what
a mean man you must be to come to me when you must know how miserable
I am, and to think that I should be driven to accept you after losing
him! You never could have been anything to me. If you wanted to get
married at all, you should have done it before I was born." This
was hard upon the man, as at that time he could not have been much
more than twenty. "But you don't know anything of the difference in
people if you think that any girl would look at you, after having
been--loved by Mr. Maule. Now, as you do not seem inclined to go
away, I shall leave you." So saying, she walked off with stately
step, out of the room, leaving the door open behind her to facilitate
her escape.

She had certainly been very rude to him, and had treated him very
badly. Of that he was sure. He had conferred upon her what is
commonly called the highest compliment which a gentleman can pay to
a lady, and she had insulted him;--had doubly insulted him. She had
referred to his age, greatly exaggerating his misfortune in that
respect; and she had compared him to that poor beggar Maule in
language most offensive. When she left him, he put his hand beneath
his waistcoat, and turned with an air almost majestic towards the
window. But in an instant he remembered that there was nobody there
to see how he bore his punishment, and he sank down into human
nature. "Damnation!" he said, as he put his hands into his trousers
pockets.

Slowly he made his way down into the hall, and slowly he opened for
himself the front door, and escaped from the house on to the gravel
drive. There he found his cousin Ned still seated in the phaeton, and
slowly driving round the circle in front of the hall door. The squire
succeeded in gaining such command over his own gait and countenance
that his cousin divined nothing of the truth as he clambered up into
his seat. But he soon showed his temper. "What the devil have you got
the reins in this way for?"

"The reins are all right," said Ned.

"No they ain't;--they're all wrong." And then he drove down the
avenue to Spoon Hall as quickly as he could make the horses trot.

"Did you see her?" said Ned, as soon as they were beyond the gates.

"See your grandmother."

"Do you mean to say that I'm not to ask?"

"There's nothing I hate so much as a fellow that's always asking
questions," said Tom Spooner. "There are some men so d----d
thick-headed that they never know when they ought to hold their
tongue."

For a minute or two Ned bore the reproof in silence, and then he
spoke. "If you are unhappy, Tom, I can bear a good deal; but don't
overdo it,--unless you want me to leave you."

"She's the d----t vixen that ever had a tongue in her head," said
Tom Spooner, lifting his whip and striking the poor off-horse in his
agony. Then Ned forgave him.


CHAPTER LIV

The Duchess Takes Counsel


Phineas Finn, when he had been thrice remanded before the Bow Street
magistrate, and four times examined, was at last committed to be
tried for the murder of Mr. Bonteen. This took place on Wednesday,
May 19th, a fortnight after the murder. But during those fourteen
days little was learned, or even surmised, by the police, in addition
to the circumstances which had transpired at once. Indeed the delay,
slight as it was, had arisen from a desire to find evidence that
might affect Mr. Emilius, rather than with a view to strengthen that
which did affect Phineas Finn. But no circumstance could be found
tending in any way to add to the suspicion to which the converted Jew
was made subject by his own character, and by the supposition that
he would have been glad to get rid of Mr. Bonteen. He did not even
attempt to run away,--for which attempt certain pseudo-facilities
were put in his way by police ingenuity. But Mr. Emilius stood his
ground and courted inquiry. Mr. Bonteen had been to him, he said, a
very bitter, unjust, and cruel enemy. Mr. Bonteen had endeavoured to
rob him of his dearest wife;--had charged him with bigamy;--had got
up false evidence in the hope of ruining him. He had undoubtedly
hated Mr. Bonteen, and might probably have said so. But, as it
happened, through God's mercy, he was enabled to prove that he could
not possibly have been at the scene of the murder when the murder was
committed. During that hour of the night he had been in his own bed;
and, had he been out, could not have re-entered the house without
calling up the inmates. But, independently of his alibi, Mealyus was
able to rely on the absolute absence of any evidence against him. No
grey coat could be traced to his hands, even for an hour. His height
was very much less than that attributed by Lord Fawn to the man
whom he had seen hurrying to the spot. No weapon was found in his
possession by which the deed could have been done. Inquiry was made
as to the purchase of life-preservers, and the reverend gentleman was
taken to half-a-dozen shops at which such instruments had lately been
sold. But there had been a run upon life preservers, in consequence
of recommendations as to their use given by certain newspapers;--and
it was found as impossible to trace one particular purchase as it
would be that of a loaf of bread. At none of the half-dozen shops to
which he was taken was Mr. Emilius remembered; and then all further
inquiry in that direction was abandoned, and Mr. Emilius was set at
liberty. "I forgive my persecutors from the bottom of my heart," he
said,--"but God will requite it to them."

In the meantime Phineas was taken to Newgate, and was there confined,
almost with the glory and attendance of a State prisoner. This was no
common murder, and no common murderer. Nor were they who interested
themselves in the matter the ordinary rag, tag, and bobtail of the
people,--the mere wives and children, or perhaps fathers and mothers,
or brothers and sisters of the slayer or the slain. Dukes and Earls,
Duchesses and Countesses, Members of the Cabinet, great statesmen,
Judges, Bishops, and Queen's Counsellors, beautiful women, and
women of highest fashion, seemed for a while to think of but little
else than the fate of Mr. Bonteen and the fate of Phineas Finn.
People became intimately acquainted with each other through similar
sympathies in this matter, who had never before spoken to or seen
each other. On the day after the full committal of the man, Mr. Low
received a most courteous letter from the Duchess of Omnium, begging
him to call in Carlton Terrace if his engagements would permit him
to do so. The Duchess had heard that Mr. Low was devoting all his
energies to the protection of Phineas Finn; and, as a certain friend
of hers,--a lady,--was doing the same, she was anxious to bring them
together. Indeed, she herself was equally prepared to devote her
energies for the present to the same object. She had declared to
all her friends,--especially to her husband and to the Duke of St.
Bungay,--her absolute conviction of the innocence of the accused man,
and had called upon them to defend him. "My dear," said the elder
Duke, "I do not think that in my time any innocent man has ever lost
his life upon the scaffold."

"Is that a reason why our friend should be the first instance?" said
the Duchess.

"He must be tried according to the laws of his country," said the
younger Duke.

"Plantagenet, you always speak as if everything were perfect, whereas
you know very well that everything is imperfect. If that man is--is
hung, I--"

"Glencora," said her husband, "do not connect yourself with the fate
of a stranger from any misdirected enthusiasm."

"I do connect myself. If that man be hung--I shall go into mourning
for him. You had better look to it."

Mr. Low obeyed the summons, and called on the Duchess. But, in truth,
the invitation had been planned by Madame Goesler, who was present
when the lawyer, about five o'clock in the afternoon, was shown into
the presence of the Duchess. Tea was immediately ordered, and Mr. Low
was almost embraced. He was introduced to Madame Goesler, of whom he
did not before remember that he had heard the name, and was at once
given to understand that the fate of Phineas was now in question. "We
know so well," said the Duchess, "how true you are to him."

"He is an old friend of mine," said the lawyer, "and I cannot believe
him to have been guilty of a murder."

"Guilty!--he is no more guilty than I am. We are as sure of that as
we are of the sun. We know that he is innocent;--do we not, Madame
Goesler? And we, too, are very dear friends of his;--that is, I am."

"And so am I," said Madame Goesler, in a voice very low and sweet,
but yet so energetic as to make Mr. Low almost rivet his attention
upon her.

"You must understand, Mr. Low, that Mr. Finn is a man horribly hated
by certain enemies. That wretched Mr. Bonteen hated his very name.
But there are other people who think very differently of him. He must
be saved."

"Indeed I hope he may," said Mr. Low.

"We wanted to see you for ever so many reasons. Of course you
understand that--that any sum of money can be spent that the case may
want."

"Nothing will be spared on that account certainly," said the lawyer.

"But money will do a great many things. We would send all round
the world if we could get evidence against that other man,--Lady
Eustace's husband, you know."

"Can any good be done by sending all round the world?"

"He went back to his own home not long ago,--in Poland, I think,"
said Madame Goesler. "Perhaps he got the instrument there, and
brought it with him." Mr. Low shook his head. "Of course we are very
ignorant;--but it would be a pity that everything should not be
tried."

"He might have got in and out of the window, you know," said the
Duchess. Still Mr. Low shook his head. "I believe things can always
be found out, if only you take trouble enough. And trouble means
money;--does it not? We wouldn't mind how many thousand pounds it
cost; would we, Marie?"

"I fear that the spending of thousands can do no good," said Mr. Low.

"But something must be done. You don't mean to say that Mr. Finn is
to be hung because Lord Fawn says that he saw a man running along the
street in a grey coat."

"Certainly not."

"There is nothing else against him;--nobody else saw him."

"If there be nothing else against him he will be acquitted."

