Produced by Robert Cicconetti, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by the Canadian Institute for Historical Microreproductions
(www.canadiana.org))


                              APRIL'S LADY.

                                A NOVEL.

                            BY "THE DUCHESS"

_Author of "Molly Bawn," "Phyllis," "Lady Branksmere," "Beauty's
Daughters," etc., etc._


Montreal:
JOHN LOVELL & SON,
23 St. Nicholas Street.


Entered according to Act of Parliament in the year 1890, by John Lovell
& Son, in the office of the Minister of Agriculture and Statistics at
Ottawa.


APRIL'S LADY.

    "Must we part? or may I linger?
      Wax the shadows, wanes the day."
    Then, with voice of sweetest singer,
      That hath all but died away,
    "Go," she said, but tightened finger
      Said articulately, "Stay!"


CHAPTER I.

     "Philosophy triumphs easily over past and over future evils, but
     present evils triumph over philosophy."


"A letter from my father," says Mr. Monkton, flinging the letter in
question across the breakfast-table to his wife.

"A letter from Sir George!" Her dark, pretty face flushes crimson.

"And _such_ a letter after eight years of obstinate silence. There! read
it," says her husband, contemptuously. The contempt is all for the
writer of the letter.

Mrs. Monkton taking it up, with a most honest curiosity, that might
almost be termed anxiety, reads it through, and in turn flings it from
her as though it had been a scorpion.

"Never mind, Jack!" says she with a great assumption of indifference
that does not hide from her husband the fact that her eyes are full of
tears. "Butter that bit of toast for me before it is _quite_ cold, and
give Joyce some ham. Ham, darling? or an egg?" to Joyce, with a forced
smile that makes her charming face quite sad.

"Have you two been married eight whole years?" asks Joyce laying her
elbows on the table, and staring at her sister with an astonished gaze.
"It seems like yesterday! What a swindler old Time is. To look at
Barbara, one would not believe she could have been _born_ eight years
ago."

"Nonsense!" says Mrs. Monkton laughing, and looking as pleased as
married women--even the happiest--always do, when they are told they
look _un_married. "Why Tommy is seven years old."

"Oh! That's nothing!" says Joyce airily, turning her dark eyes, that are
lovelier, if possible, than her sister's, upon the sturdy child who is
sitting at his father's right hand. "Tommy, we all know, is much older
than his mother. I will prove it to you! Today I send my Schnitter
on these meadows! Lomow .= = W - a - as?

= .= Natalia Stepanovna Today my Schnitter there! = Lomow .=
And I will continue to hunt them! Natalia Stepanovna .= = Under standing
sure! = Lomow = (reaches for his heart). The Oxen Meadows are mine, you
understand, my! = Natalia Stepanovna .= I ask that you do not
scream! You can at home to scream with rage and snort, but here,
I ask, in certain limits to keep!

= Lomow .= My Merciful, I would have not so awful, excruciating palpitation
hammered me and not the veins in the temples, so I spoke with you otherwise!
(Schreit.) The oxen meadows belong to me! = .= Natalia Stepanovna Us!
= Lomow .= I! = = Tschubukow (coming from the right). Fourth appearance.
= The former Tschubukow = .= .= .= = Tschubukow What here?

Why you crying? = Natalia Stepanovna .= Papa, you explain, please, this
gentleman. Who owns the Oxen Meadows: us or him? Tschubukow = = (to
Lomow). Sweetie, the meadows are ours! = Lomow .= But pity you, Stepan
Stepanovich, as they belong to you? Be + you + räsonnabler at least
one person!

The grandmother, my aunt has the meadows for a certain time for the free
use of the farmers of your grandfather left. The farmers used the ground
for forty years and became used to it as their own, but when the Decree
was published ...

Tschubukow .= = Allow, Ester value ... They forget that even your
grandmother, the farmers have not paid and the like, because due to the
meadows just then was led process and the like ...

And now every dog knows that they are us. You have not seen the plan! =
Lomow .= And I will prove that they belong to me. = .= Tschubukow
Prove it is not my favorite.

Lomow .= = No, I will prove it! = .= Tschubukow most expensive , so why
cry? Just by shouting, you will prove the least. I ask not yours and
I have no intention of the mine lease. Why should they? Is it so much,
my dear, you really intend to us the meadows to deny and the like,
then I prefer to give the farmers as you! Certainly! = Lomow .= I do
not! What right have you ever, to give away other people's property?

= Tschubukow .= probably you will allow me to know whether I have
the right to do or not.

Young man, I'm not used to that with me in that tone is spoken and
the like.

I, young man, I'm twice as old as you and ask to speak to me calmly,
and the like.

Lomow .= = No, you think to fool me and make fun about me! They call
my land yours, and the want that I need to remain human and to you to
speak.

So go before good neighbors, Stepan Stepanovich! You are not a neighbor,
a usurper, you are! = .= Tschubukow Wa - as? What did you say? =
Natalia Stepanowa .= Papa, immediately send the reaper on the
prairies!

Tschubukow = = (to Lomow). What did you say Mr.? = Natalia Stepanovna
.= The Oxen Meadows are ours, and I do not, I do not, I do not do it!
= Lomow .= That we still want to see! I will you to court to prove
that they belong to me! = .= Tschubukow Before court. You can sue in
court, Mr., and the like, you can!

I know you, you are waiting for an opportunity to lead processes and
the like ... A intriguer are you! Your whole family has always wanted
Handel! The whole! = Lomow .= I ask my family not to offend. All of the
sex of the Lomows were honest, and it has no where, because of the
embezzlement was dragged to court, how's your uncle!

Tschubukow = .= Lomowschen And in your family were all insane! =
Natalia Stepanovna .= All, all, all ! = .= Tschubukow Her grandfather
was a periodical drunkard, and the younger aunt who Nastasia
Mikhailovna, is through with an architect, and the like.

Lomow .= = And your mother has gehinkt. (He reaches for the heart.) On
the side it jerks ... hammer it in your head ...

Father in heaven ... water! = .= Tschubukow And your dad was a
little card and a wolverine! = .= Natalia Stepanovna your aunt a Klatscherin,
as their are few! = .= I Lomow the left leg paralyzed. ..

And you are a intriguer ... Ah, the heart ...

And it is a secret for nobody that you geschwindelt in the elections ...
It flickers before my eyes ...

Where's my hat? = Natalia Stepanovna .= How low! Liar! Disgusting!
= .= Tschubukow yourself are simply a malicious, hypocrisy and mendacity
man! Yes - a!

Lomow .= = There's the hat ... The heart ... Where should I go? Where's
the door? Oh! it seems to me I die ... I can not, the legs shiver ...
(He goes to the door.) = Tschubukow = (follows him).

That your feet my house no longer enter! = Natalia Stepanovna .= suits
you in court! We want to see. Lomow = = (shaky goes through the
center).

Fünfter appearance. Tschubukow .= = = = .= Natalia Stepanovna Tschubukow
= (angry). To hell! = Natalia Stepanovna .= Such a good-for-nothing!
Since you have to be good neighbors think! Tschubukow = .= scoundrel!
Scarecrow! Monster! = Natalia Stepanovna .= Such a Mißgeburt, is a
foreign land and yet dare to quarrel. = .= Tschubukow And this ghost,
this is under Hühnerfuß still a marriage proposal to make, and the like.
Stepanovna = Natalia What .= for a marriage proposal? Tschubukow = .=
Well!

He came but to give you a marriage proposal to make. Stepanovna Natalia
.= = A marriage proposal? Mir? Why hast thou not told sooner? = Tschubukow
.= Has the dress but it is created. Such a Bratwürstel, then a dirt
nose! = Natalia Stepanovna .= + I + one marriage proposal? Oh!
(It falls into a Armstuhl and groans.) We should bring him back! Oh,
Bring Back! = Tschubukow .= Wen bring back? = Natalia Stepanovna .=
Faster, faster! I feel sick! Bring Back!

(Hysterical seizure.) .= = Tschubukow What is there? What is you? (He holds
in his head.) I'm an unhappy person! I shoot myself! I hang 'on me!
It tortures me to death! = Natalia Stepanovna .= I die! Bring Back!
Tschubukow = .= Pfui! Gleich, heul 'no! (He runs through the center.) =
= Stepanovna Natalia (alone; groans). What has my eye! Bring him
back! Bring him back! Tschubukow = = (to run).

Immediately, he and the like. The devil hol 'him! Uf! Say you have with
him, I do not want to and things like that. = Natalia Stepanovna
= (groans).

Bring Back! = .= Tschubukow He says it to you. "Oh, Creator! how
'a task is a father to his adult daughter, "[1] I cut my neck through!
Certainly, I cut through the neck!

You have the people ausgezankt, insulted, hinausgejagt ... and all you
have done ... du [1] From Gribojedows: "Woe to the clever." Natalia
Stepanovna = .= No, you! You have no manners and are rough, if you do
not - he would not fortgegangen! = Tschubukow .= Well, I wear guilt!
But wait just Gevatterin, and the like, if I shoot or suspension,
then know that you are carrying debt!

You've brought me to! Only you! (The door is Lomow.) Da, talk with
him myself! (He's up.) = Lomow = (occurs exhausted on). Sixth appearance.
Stepanovna = Natalia Lomow .= = .= = .= Lomow terrible palpitations
...

The leg is paralyzed ... In side shrugs it ... Natalia Stepanovna .=
= Excuse me, we have ereifert, Ivan Wassiljitsch ...

I remember now ... the meadows are actually steers you.

Lomow .= = The heart knocking terribly ... My oxen meadows ... Both
eyelids twitch ... (They are.) We were wrong ...

I was about the principle ... The land is not expensive to me, but the
principle is expensive to me ... = Natalia Stepanovna .= precisely the
principle. Do we speak of something else.

Lomow = .= The more so, since I have the evidence: the grandmother, my
aunt has the farmers of the grandfather of your dear father ... =
Natalia Stepanovna .= Enough, enough of them ...

(Beiseite.) I do not know what to start ... (For Lomow.) Soon go
on the hunt?

= Lomow .= Yes, the black grouse, dear Natalia Stepanovna. After the harvest
I intend to start. Oh, have you heard? Think only what misfortune! My
dog Ugadai, but you know, limps! Natalia Stepanovna .= = What a pity!
Why? Lomow = .= I do not know ...

Maybe it's a dislocation, or other dogs have bitten him. (He sighs.) The
best dog, the money did not talk!

I have yet to Mironov 125 rubles paid for him. Stepanovna Natalia .= =
This is overpayment, Ivan Wassiljitsch. Lomow .= = In my
opinion he is very cheap. A beautiful dog. .= = Natalia Stepanovna dad
has for his Otkatai 85 rubles, and Otkatai is much better than
your Ugadai.

Lomow .= = So ... Otkatai is better than Ugadai?

What you mind! (He laughs.) Otkatai is better than Ugadai! = Natalia
Stepanovna .= course better! Otkatai, yes it is true, is still
young, he still has not thrown, but in the mutiny, and also on a leash
with two, three others there is no better than him, even when ... Lomow
.= = Allow, Natalia Stepanovna, but you see that he has a short lower
jaw and that a dog with a short mandible snap is not good. .= =
Natalia Stepanovna short mandible? I hear for the first time! = Lomow .=
I assure you, the lower jaw is shorter than the upper. .= = Natalia
Stepanovna Did you get measured? Lomow = .= I have measured. For
running it is good of course, but whether or not to collect in-flight
... hardly ... Natalia Stepanovna .= = First is our Otkatai of pure
race, thoroughbred, he is the son Sapragajas and Stameskis, and
variegated with your man did not come to his home ... Then your old and
ugly as a flap arid Schindmähre ...

Lomow .= = Alt, certainly! I take him for less than five Otkatais
your ... Can this also? Ugadai - is a dog and Otkatai ... it is ridiculous
to argue ...

Such as your Otkatai found in each dog so many traders that they
could fill a pond.

Stepanovna Natalia .= = In you, Ivan Wassiljitsch, now sits an evil spirit
of the opposition.

Soon you are the meadows, and soon Ugadai is better than Otkatai. I
do not like it when a man is not the talking, what he thinks. You
know very well that Otkatai hundred times better than your ...
this stupid Ugadai.

So why say the opposite? Lomow = .= I see Natalia Stepanovna you
hold me for blind or a fool. But you can understand that Otkatai has a
short lower jaw!

Natalia Stepanovna .= = It is not true! Lomow .= = Yes, a short mandible!
= Natalia Stepanovna = (screams). Not true! = Lomow .= Why you crying
because, my Merciful?

= Natalia Stepanovna .= Why you talking such nonsense? That is
outrageous! It is high time your Ugadai to shoot, and you compare him
with Otkatai!

= Lomow .= Excuse me, I can not resolve this dispute will continue. I have
palpitations.

Stepanovna Natalia .= = I have noticed that those hunters argue most, the
least understood. Lomow .= = My Merciful, I ask you, you remain
silent ... My heart bursts ... (He cries.) Silence you! = Natalia
Stepanovna .= I will not be silent until you can not admit that Otkatai
a hundred times better than your Ugadai. = .= Hundred Lomow worse.
Krepieren he should, your Otkatai! The temples ... The eyes ... The
shoulder ... = Natalia Stepanovna .= And your stupid Ugadai is not necessary
to krepieren because he is already as krepiert! = Lomow =
(screams). Silence you! I have a heartbeat ... = Natalia Stepanovna
.= I will not be silent! = Tschubukow = (enters).

Seventh appearance. = The former Tschubukow = .= .= .= = Tschubukow
What is there again? = Natalia Stepanovna .= daddy, tell 'sincere on
Ehr' and conscience: what dog is better - our Otkatai or his Ugadai?

= .= Lomow Stepan Stepanovich, I implore you to tell you just one:
your dog has a short mandible or not?

     Yes or no? Tschubukow .= = And if!

Is that so important? There are no better all around dog, and the like.
Lomow = .= But my Ugadai is better? Say you sincerely! = .=
Tschubukow Do not rain on Schätzbarster ... Allow ... Your Ugadai has
just his good qualities ... He is a good race, has strong legs,
strong thighs and the like. But the dog, if you want to know my best,
has two shortcomings: it is old and has a short lower jaw.

Lomow .= = Excuse me, I have palpitations ... When we speak of facts ...
do you remember Maruskins Meadows went to my Ugadai with the Count's
Raswachai ear to ear and your Otkatai versts was a whole back.

Tschubukow = .= He remained behind because the Count's supervisor
him with his whip had beaten.

Lomow = .= He was right, all the dogs feel after the fox, Otkatai but
considers it necessary, to bite a sheep!

= .= Tschubukow That is not true ... Liebster ... I'm irritable and I
ask you a question, we depart from this dispute. He has beaten him, because
everyone on a strange breed dog good looks with envy ... Yep, all
are envious. You too, sir, are not free from sins! You hardly notice that
the dog of another is better than your Ugadai, so start earning ...
this ... that ... ... be my ... and the like ... I remember just about
everything!

= Lomow .= I, too, remember! = Tschubukow = (ape). Also I remember ...
what do you remember? = .= Lomow palpitations ... The leg is paralyzed
... I can not ... = Natalia Stepanovna = (nachspottend). Palpitations ...
what are you a hunter? You should be cooking on the stove, and strangle
cockroaches, but not fox hunting! Palpitations ... Tschubukow = .=
Truly, what are you a hunter?

With your illness you sit at home and not dangling around on the saddle.
If you are a hunter would, but you go around but the only reason for
you to argue about other dogs, people upset and the like.

I'm irritable, we leave this interview, you are not a hunter! Lomow .= =
Are + you + as a hunter? You just go out to the Count einzuschmeicheln
to intrigue ... The heart ... You intriguer ...! = .= Tschubukow now and
when I'm intriguer? (He cries.) Silence you! = Lomow intriguer .=! =
Tschubukow .= Jack! A young dog! Changing pharmacy! = Lomow .= Old rat!
Jesuit! I know exactly! Tschubukow = .= Hush! Otherwise I shoot you down
... with the worst gun, like a partridge! Dude! Dove nut! Dawdler! = .=
Lomow all know that - oh! The heart! - Your blessed woman has thrashed
you ...

The leg ... the temples ... Sparks ... I fall for, I fell ...
Tschubukow = .= And you're under the slipper your Beschließerin!

= .= Lomow here ... da ... da ... is the heart burst. The shoulder is
fortgerissen ...

Where is my shoulder? ... I'm dying.

(He falls into the armchair.) The Doctor! (Ohnmacht.) = .= Tschubukow Jack!
Yellow beak! Dude! I feel sick! (He drinks water.) Evil me = Natalia
Stepanovna .= What are you a hunter? You can not even sit on a horse!
(For father.) Dad, what does it do?

Dad, look out, Dad! (You wailed.) Wassiljitsch Ivan! He is dead! Tschubukow
= .= I feel sick!

The breath failed me ... Air! ... = Natalia Stepanovna .= He is dead!
(They shake Lomow on the sleeve.) Wassiljitsch Ivan! Ivan Wassiljitsch!

What have we served? He is dead! (It drops into the armchair.) The
Doctor! The doctor! (Hysterical seizure.) .= = Tschubukow Oh! ... What
is there? What's missing you? = Natalia Stepanovna = (groans).
Monkton, "accuse him of all the crimes in
the calendar, but for _my_ sake give up the belief that he is the real
and original Wandering Jew. Debrett--Burke--either of those immaculate
people will prove to you that my father ascended his throne in----"

"You can laugh at me if you like, Freddy," says Mrs. Monkton with
severity tempered with dignity; "but if you laughed until this day month
you couldn't make me forget the things that make me unhappy."

"I don't want to," says Mr. Monkton, still disgracefully frivolous.
"_I'm_ one of the things, and yet----"

"Don't!" says his wife, so abruptly, and with such an evident
determination to give way to mirth, coupled with an equally strong
determination to give way to tears, that he at once lays down his arms.

"Go on then," says he, seating himself beside her. She is not in the
arm-chair now, but on an ancient and respectable sofa that gives ample
room for the accommodation of two; a luxury denied by that old
curmudgeon the arm-chair.

"Well, it is this, Freddy. When I think of that dreadful old woman, Mrs.
Burke, I feel as though you thought she was a fair sample of the rest of
my family. But she is _not_ a sample, she has nothing to do with us. An
uncle of my mother married her because she was rich, and there her
relationship to us began and ended."

"Still----"

"Yes, I know, you needn't remind me, it seems burnt into my brain, I
know she took us in after my father's death, and covered me and Joyce
with benefits when we hadn't a penny in the world we could call our own.
I quite understand, indeed, that we should have starved but for her, and
yet--yet--" passionately, "I cannot forgive her for perpetually
reminding us that we had _not_ that penny!"

"It must have been a bad time," says Monkton slowly. He takes her hand
and smoothes it lovingly between both of his.

"She was vulgar. That was not her fault; I forgive her that. What I
can't forgive her, is the fact that you should have met me in her
house."

"A little unfair, isn't it?"

"Is it? You will always now associate me with her!"

"I shan't indeed. Do you think I have up to this? Nonsense! A more
absurd amalgamation I couldn't fancy."

"She was not one of us," feverishly. "I have never spoken to you about
this, Freddy, since that first letter your father wrote to you just
after our marriage. You remember it? And then, I couldn't explain
somehow--but now--this last letter has upset me dreadfully; I feel as if
it was all different, and that it was my duty to make you aware of the
_real_ truth. Sir George thinks of me as one beneath him; that is not
true. He may have heard that I lived with Mrs. Burke, and that she was
my aunt; but if my mother's brother chose to marry a woman of no family
because she had money,"--contemptuously, "that might disgrace _him_, but
would not make her kin to _us_. You saw her, you--" lifting distressed
eyes to his--"you thought her dreadful, didn't you?"

"I have only had one thought about her. That she was good to you in your
trouble, and that but for her I should never have met you."

"That is like you," says she gratefully, yet impatiently. "But it isn't
enough. I want you to understand that she is quite unlike my own _real_
people--my father, who was like a prince," throwing up her head, "and my
uncle, his brother."

"You have an uncle, then?" with some surprise.

"Oh no, _had_," sadly.

"He is dead then?"

"Yes. I suppose so. You are wondering," says she quickly, "that I have
never spoken to you of him or my father before. But I _could_ not. The
thought that your family objected to me, despised me, seemed to compel
me to silence. And you--you asked me very little."

"How could I, Barbara? Any attempt I made was repulsed. I thought it
kinder to----"

"Yes--I was wrong. I see it now. But I couldn't bear to explain myself.
I told you what I could about my father, and that seemed to me
sufficient. Your people's determination to regard me as impossible tied
my tongue."

"I don't believe it was that," says he laughing. "I believe we were so
happy that we didn't care to discuss anything but each other. Delightful
subjects full of infinite variety! We have sat so lightly to the world
all these years, that if my father's letter had not come this morning I
honestly think we should never have thought about him again."

This is scarcely true, but he is bent on giving her mind a happier turn
if possible.

"What's the good of talking to me like that, Freddy," says she
reproachfully. "You know one never forgets anything of that sort. A
slight I mean; and from one's own family. You are always thinking of it;
you know you are."

"Well, not always, my dear, certainly--" says Mr. Monkton temporizing.
"And if even I _do_ give way to retrospection, it is to feel indignant
with both my parents."

"Yes; and I don't want you to feel like that. It must be dreadful, and
it is my fault. When I think how I felt towards my dear old dad, and my
uncle--I----"

"Well, never mind that. I've got you, and without meaning any gross
flattery, I consider you worth a dozen dads. Tell me about your uncle.
He died?"

"We don't know. He went abroad fifteen years ago. He must be dead I
think, because if he were alive he would certainly have written to us.
He was very fond of Joyce and me; but no letter from him has reached us
for years. He was charming. I wish you could have known him."

"So do I--if you wish it. But--" coming over and sitting down beside
her, "don't you think it is a little absurd, Barbara, after all these
years, to think it necessary to tell me that you have good blood in your
veins? Is it not a self-evident fact; and--one more word dearest--surely
you might do me the credit to understand that I could never have fallen
in love with anyone who hadn't an ancestor or two."

"And yet your father----"

"I know," rising to his feet, his brow darkening. "Do you think I don't
suffer doubly on your account? That I don't feel the insolence of his
behavior toward you _four-fold_? There is but one excuse for him and my
mother, and that lies in their terrible disappointment about my
brother--their eldest son."

"I know; you have told me," begins she quickly, but he interrupts her.

"Yes, I have been more open with you than you with me. _I_ feel no pride
where you are concerned. Of course my brother's conduct towards them is
no excuse for their conduct towards you, but when one has a sore heart
one is apt to be unjust, and many other things. You know what a
heart-break he has been to the old people, _and is_! A gambler, a
dishonorable gambler!" He turns away from her, and his nostrils dilate a
little; his right hand grows clenched. "Every spare penny they possess
has been paid over to him of his creditors, and they are not
over-burdened with riches. They had set their hearts on him, and all
their hopes, and when he failed them they fell back on me. The name is
an old one; money was wanted. They had arranged a marriage for me, that
would have been worldly wise. I _too_ disappointed them!"

"Oh!" she has sprung to her feet, and is staring at him with horrified
eyes. "A marriage! There was someone else! You accuse me of want of
candor, and now, you--did you ever mention this before?"

"Now, Barbara, don't be the baby your name implies," says he, placing
her firmly back in her seat. "I _didn't_ marry that heiress, you know,
which is proof positive that I loved you, not her."

"But she--she--" she stammers and ceases suddenly, looking at him with a
glance full of question. Womanlike, everything has given way to the
awful thought, that this unknown had not been unknown to him, and that
perhaps he had admired--loved----

"Couldn't hold a candle to you," says he, laughing in spite of himself
at her expression which, indeed, is nearly tragic. "You needn't
suffocate yourself with charcoal because of her. She had made her pile,
or rather her father had, at Birmingham or elsewhere, I never took the
trouble to inquire, and she was undoubtedly solid in _every way_, but I
don't care for the female giant, and so I--you know the rest, I met
_you_; I tell you this only to soften your heart, if possible, towards
these lonely, embittered old people of mine."

"Do you mean that when your brother disappointed them that they----" she
pauses.

"No. They couldn't make me their heir. The property is strictly entailed
(what is left of it); you need not make yourself miserable imagining you
have done me out of anything more than their good-will. George will
inherit whatever he has left them to leave."

"It is sad," says she, with downcast eyes.

"Yes. He has been a constant source of annoyance to them ever since he
left Eton."

"Where is he now?"

"Abroad, I believe. In Italy, somewhere, or France--not far from a
gaming table, you may be sure. But I know nothing very exactly, as he
does not correspond with me, and that letter of this morning is the
first I have received from my father for four years."

"He must, indeed, hate me," says she, in a low tone. "His elder son such
a failure, and you--he considers you a failure, too."

"Well, _I_ don't consider myself so," says he, gaily.

"They were in want of money, and you--you married a girl without a
penny."

"I married a girl who was in herself a mine of gold," returns he, laying
his hands on her shoulders and giving her a little shake. "Come, never
mind that letter, darling; what does it matter when all is said and
done?"

"The first after all these years; and the, _last_--you remember it? It
was terrible. Am I unreasonable if I remember it?"

"It was a cruel letter," says he slowly; "to forget it would be
impossible, either for you or me. But, as I said just now, how does it
affect us? You have me, and I have you; and they, those foolish old
people, they have----" He pauses abruptly, and then goes on in a changed
tone, "their memories."

"Oh! and sad ones!" cries she, sharply, as if hurt. "It is a terrible
picture you have conjured up. You and I so happy, and they--Oh! _poor_
old people!"

"They have wronged you--slighted you--ill-treated you," says he, looking
at her.

"But they are unhappy; they must be wretched always about your brother,
their _first_ child. Oh! what a grief is theirs!"

"What a heart is _yours_!" says he, drawing her to him. "Barbara! surely
I shall not die until they have met you, and learned why I love you."


CHAPTER III.

    "It was a lover and his lass
        With a hey and a ho, and a hey-nonino!
    That o'er the green cornfield did pass
    In the Spring-time, the only pretty ring-time,
        When birds do sing hey-ding-a-ding,
        Sweet lovers love the Spring."


Joyce is running through the garden, all the sweet wild winds of heaven
playing round her. They are a little wild still. It is the end of lovely
May, but though languid Summer is almost with us, a suspicion of her
more sparkling sister Spring fills all the air.

Miss Kavanagh has caught up the tail of her gown, and is flying as if
for dear life. Behind her come the foe, fast and furious. Tommy, indeed,
is now dangerously close at her heels, armed with a ferocious-looking
garden fork, his face crimson, his eyes glowing with the ardor of the
chase; Mabel, much in the background, is making a bad third.

Miss Kavanagh is growing distinctly out of breath. In another moment
Tommy will have her. By this time he has fully worked himself into the
belief that he is a Red Indian, and she his lawful prey, and is prepared
to make a tomahawk of his fork, and having felled her, to scalp her
_somehow_, when Providence shows her a corner round a rhododendron bush
that may save her for the moment. She makes for it, gains it, turns it,
dashes round it, and _all but_ precipitates herself into the arms of a
young man who has been walking leisurely towards her.

He is a tall young man, not strictly handsome, but decidedly good to
look at, with honest hazel eyes, and a shapely head, and altogether very
well set up. As a rule he is one of the most cheerful people alive, and
a tremendous favorite in his regiment, the ---- Hussars, though just now
it might suggest itself to the intelligent observer that he considers he
has been hardly used. A very little more haste, and that precipitation
_must_ have taken place. He had made an instinctive movement towards her
with protective arms outstretched; but though a little cry had escaped
her, she had maintained her balance, and now stands looking at him with
laughing eyes, and panting breath, and two pretty hands pressed against
her bosom.

Mr. Dysart lets his disappointed arms fall to his sides, and assumes the
aggrieved air of one who has been done out of a good thing.

"You!" says she, when at last she can speak.

"I suppose so," returns he discontentedly. He might just as well have
been anyone else, or anywhere else--such a chance--and _gone_!

"Never were you so welcome!" cries she, dodging behind him as Tommy,
fully armed, and all alive, comes tearing round the corner. "Ah, ha,
Tommy, _sold_! I've got a champion now. I'm no longer shivering in my
shoes. Mr. Dysart will protect me--_won't_ you, Mr. Dysart?" to the
young man, who says "yes" without stirring a muscle. The heaviest bribe
would not have induced him to move, because, standing behind him, she
has laid her dainty fingers on his shoulders, from which safe position
she mocks at Tommy with security. Were the owners of the shoulders to
stir, the owners of the fingers might remove the delightful members.
Need it be said that, with this awful possibility before him, Mr. Dysart
is prepared to die at his post rather than budge an inch.

And, indeed, death seems imminent. Tommy charging round the
rhododendron, finding himself robbed of his expected scalp, grows
frantic, and makes desperate passes at Mr. Dysart's legs, which that
hero, being determined, as I have said, not to stir under any
provocation, circumvents with a considerable display of policy, such as:

"I say, Tommy, old boy, is that you? How d'ye do? Glad to see me, aren't
you?" This last very artfully with a view to softening the attacks. "You
don't know what I've brought you!" As long as that language belongs
to the common life, are, as before, Mastochsen, geese westphälische
breasts and ham are the main products of our Civilization remain.
Against Civilization itself makes the flat German language is not only
indifferent but hostile and treacherous it.

Why is that not long ago raised the subject of the liveliest and most
general interest.

They forget I said that Voß, Harms, Scheller, Bärmann and other Theilnahme
the brave men of the audience for that language, even for a literature
written in the same, have in themselves.

I know he erwiederte, I have others under the "_Bloottügen_," Henrik
of the Züphten by Pastor Harms read.

At that time I thought nothing else, being that such a book Plattdeutsch
inconvenient and difficult to read and probably even more uncomfortable
to write it.

What of the Henrik Züphten betrift, I noticed on the other hand, it seems
to me that the Constitution Mißgriff monsters in the choice of the
substance to have done.

I guess the old Dithmarsen very high.

They were a brave, unbezähmlicher properly for freedom and independence
of people thirsting, farmers on horseback with the Schwerdt in
hand, the Swiss of the North, or rather Wittekind Saxony and his
unbowed and unbroken until grandchildren's fifteenth and sixteenth
century.

Only I do not know whether a Lutheran pastor from today, even if he
geborner Dithmarse is such a perfectly pagan Mannheit justice can
proceed, because obwol the dithmarsische size and freedom in Christian
times fell and the veneration of the Virgin Mary in this country
just has been driven higher, than it seems, andeswo in the north,
but it was highly mobile and fun sense of the battle by residents
only a very weak staining Christian hard and want the breast a bold
Dithmarsers out of fear of the sky, the clergy or Christian Demuth
Gewissenszartheit own the superior Muth how such in the books of
the medieval knight reads.

But it may be so, as it wants, I must confess that I do not have priests
to wish story writer, especially not for Dithmarsischen. What I noticed,
however, was that Pastor Harms grade is a moment in the history
dithmarsischen had chosen to German flat representation, as on
the cutting manner with the altväterischen, Bonhommie rough, which
he received in that language nachrühmt, stands in contrast: the
martyrdom the first Lutheran preacher in Dithmarsen.

These cold Wuthe, this mockery of human feeling, this trace all
merciful, so here the poor man a slow and dreadful death survived,
makes not only in itself an evil spot in the dithmarsischen history,
but also recalls the very inopportune moment, that this Lower Saxony
best bred men who Dithmarsen, always in addition to their bravery
and iron custom, with Asian barbarism of insensitivity against enemy
and friend gewetteifert have what the want, however, on a rough and
raw, but not on such an "old and gemüthliche" language suggest how
it's like one of our peaceful and gutmüthigen Philistine today
understood .-- Add or Add to this my friend said that the Dithmarsen
the present, the still quite flat German, and where even the best
really platt [8] is spoken, neither moral nor social contact in a
very shiny praise seems to admit the same.

The Armuth, drunkenness due to enormous number of fires in killing
Dithmarsen indicate a very sunken moral and civil condition.

Just he, with a wonderful zeal for the dissemination of religious and
moral life flames filled Pastor Harms, in his patriotic writings
about pain pronounced. What can he, I say with the fullest conviction
of the Mithülfe expect a language which all Mittheilung unbesiegliche
barriers and prevent the true grave of the higher life.

It stands to be hoped that a Patriot dithmarsischer the negative
influence of language on the progress of Civilsation and even nicer
to the humanity of a single excellent education from the general
public may transfer your script to Dithmarsen and Dithmarsen as
they are and what they means of their language and only can be.

Your wish is mine, I will miss him, how about our conversation,
before bringing the audience's, as my essay integrirenden Theil.

Because, believe me, without your added comment, I would never
surrender the same to have determined.

You joking, or want to say something to me it is not clear. Listen
to only yourself and urtheilen
Here both she and he, after a glance at each other, burst out laughing.

"No wonder you were amused," says he, "but you might have given me a
hint. You were unkind to me--as usual."

"Now that you have been to London," says she, a little hurriedly, as if
to cover his last words and pretend she hasn't heard them, "you will
find our poor Ireland duller than ever. At Christmas it is not so bad,
but just _now_, and in the height of your season, too,----"

"Do you call this place dull?" interrupts he. "Then let me tell you you
misjudge your native land; this little bit of it, at all events. I think
it not only the loveliest, but the liveliest place on earth."

"You are easily pleased," says she, with a rather embarrassed smile.

"He isn't!" says Tommy, breaking into the conversation with great
aplomb. He has been holding on vigorously to Mr. Dysart's right hand for
the last five minutes, after a brief but brilliant skirmish with Mabel
as to the possession of it--a skirmish brought to a bloodless conclusion
by the surrender, on Mr. A light veil veiled the Far, and the farther
the boy away from the city, the more silent, the more it became a daily
celebration in the round for him. He would always like to immigrate
to this great level also, so deceptive the appearance of an immense
aroused.

Nothing captured the eye here, and always saw the heavy, steady line
of the horizon: but this involves lowland beauties to those of the night
are related. Peter Vogelsang was the target forest.

And while he weitertrippelte, he gave up completely his reveries. How
wonderful it would be if he is now a leader of an army would prefer
the road! Of course he had to have big and strong - more like Fritz
hammer home even more as the father himself he stopped ..... no,
in the end it was much nicer, to be captain, to be pirates.

He put his finger to the nose and thought hard about what probably want
to be fruitful: Field Marshal or to be pirates? If he thought that
it was the field marshal to the Emperor even slightly can bring?

It was difficult to think about to come into the clear. He wanted
the trees on the left side of the street count, up to the hill top, and
if an even number came out, he wanted to be emperor, and if an odd
came out, he wanted to be pirates.

When the aunt Lina knew she would laugh again but what they actually
understood anything? Anyway, the girls understand nothing, he said
to himself, gloomy.

He hated the girl, and although Aunt Lina was already married, but
expected it to Peter the girls.

They always talked only of her Alfred Chen and her new Tüllgardinen or
so and love of God, for example, they understood nothing. Also, she had
not even known that the sun is larger than the Earth.

That was outrageous, but that they always said the stork, the little
children do.

    As if he would have believed
    that such children's stories, and
    he sank into deep brooding.
                Actually, he was still not finished with this stork.

Who else should have a will, if it was not the stork? But the other, what
interest could the stork in ensuring that the human children to
acquire?

Yes - and this was the main point: in the autumn but the storks
pull away, can not have children bring: but he knew very well that
the children will come to the world when storks no longer there.

And what is this for a mysterious place where many tiny children's
lie?

A large lake, dark game spans Nissen, rose-colored birds that swim
around and stands on the edge of sky-high reeds.

And it giebt no day and no night giebt there, but only a strange dams
and a princess in the forest is enchanted and sleeps until the
king's son. He entered the forest. Lean Föhren stood there, as far as
you could see.

"Flattery means insincerity," says she, tilting her chin, "keep all that
sort of thing for your Miss Maliphant; it is thrown away upon me."

"_My_ Miss Maliphant! Really I must protest against your accrediting me
with such a possession. But look here, _don't_ disappoint us all; and
you won't be dull either, there are lots of people coming. Dicky Brown,
for one."

"Oh! will he be there?" brightening visibly.

"Yes," rather gloomily, and perhaps a little sorry that he has said
anything about Mr. Browne's possible arrival--though to feel jealousy
about that social butterfly is indeed to sound the depths of folly; "you
like him?"

"I _love_ him," says Miss Kavanagh promptly and with sufficient
enthusiasm to restore hope in the bosom of any man except a lover.

"He is blessed indeed," says he stiffly. "Beyond his deserts I can't
help thinking. I really think he is the biggest fool I ever met."

"Oh! not the biggest, surely," says she, so saucily, and with such a
reprehensible tendency towards laughter, that he gives way and laughs
too, though unwillingly.

"True. I'm a bigger," says he, "but as that is _your_ fault, you should
be the last to taunt me with it."

"Foolish people always talk folly," says she with an assumption of
indifference that does not hide her red cheeks. "Well, go on, who is to
be at the Court besides Dicky?"

"Lady Swansdown."

"I like her too."

"But not so well as you like Dicky, _you_ love him according to your own
statement."

"Don't be matter-of-fact!" says Miss Kavanagh, giving him a
well-deserved snub. "Do you always say exactly what you mean?"

"Always--to _you_."

"I daresay you would be more interesting if you didn't," says she, with
a little, lovely smile, that quite spoils the harshness of her words. Of
her few faults, perhaps the greatest is, that she seldom knows her own
mind, where her lovers are concerned, and will blow hot and cold, and
merry and sad, and cheerful, and petulant all in one breath as it were.
Poor lovers! they have a hard time of it with her as a rule. But youth
is often so, and the cold, still years, as they creep on us, with dull
common sense and deadly reason in their train, cure us all too soon of
our pretty idle follies.

Just now she was bent on rebuffing him, but you see her strength failed
her, and she spoiled her effect by the smile she mingled with the
rebuff. The smile indeed was so charming that he remembers nothing but
it, and so she not only gains nothing, but loses something to the other
side.

"Well, I'll try to mend all that," says he, but so lovingly, and with
such unaffected tenderness, that she quails beneath his glance. Coquette
as undoubtedly Nature has made her, she has still so gentle a soul
within her bosom that she shrinks from inflicting _actual_ pain. A pang
or two, a passing regret to be forgotten the next hour--or at all events
in the next change of scene--she is not above imparting, but when people
grow earnest like--like Mr. Dysart for example--they grow troublesome.
And she hasn't made up her mind to marry, and there are other people----

"The Clontarfs are to be there too," goes on Dysart, who is a cousin of
Lady Baltimore's, and knows all about her arrangements; "and the
Brownings, and Norman Beauclerk."

"The--Clontarfs," says Joyce, in a hurried way, that might almost be
called confused; to the man who loves her, and who is watching her, it
is quite plain that she is not thinking of Lord and Lady Clontarf, who
are quite an ordinary couple and devoted to each other, but of that last
name spoken--Norman Beauclerk; Lady Baltimore's brother, a man,
handsome, agreeable, aristocratic--the man whose attentions to her a
month ago had made a little topic for conversation amongst the country
people. - added Delete -. I do not know maybe ... and what I got into the
Granera ... I recommended. Well I always had to be a beautiful girl!
Which is otherwise not understand, man, but that genre .... What seemed
to you - Me?

- Josefina muttered between teeth and aggressive vocal whistling -. I ask
you, Clear .... These women seem ordinary to me all the same, cut
the same pattern.

Morena ... quite enough. - Hail Mary, Josefina! - Sobrado said shocked
Lola -. You did not have time to see it is beautiful, thank you very
much together.

Look at it again ... if you move, I'll give you the elbow. - Do not
bother ... not worth it, is kind of a cook all of your kind.

Baltasar found uncomfortable conversation and looking for an excuse
to change it.

Crossed in front of a field covered with grass withers, a kind of
barren land surrounded by wall paintings of the fortifications.

There was a donkey to the rental, which looked peacefully porridge with
ears, accustomed to their parishioners, while Burrero espoliques and,
sitting on the pier, playing with their sticks, departían amicably,
with the nail biting and a cigar a fourth, to give overwhelmed
passersby. - A donkey, ladies?

A beautiful ass? A donkey better than horses?

Are we going to Aldeaparda? Are we going to Erbeda?

Acercose Baltasar short on girls, and told Nisita: - A tour of the
countryside?

A kid will dazzle the eyes, and dropping the ball, threw his arms
with a smile Lieutenant smooth .

Baltasar the aupó and placed it on the back of a asnillo, which still had
to put jamugas golden nails. And taking the rod from the hands of the
rent, he began herding ... 'Arre, burro!, Meaning ¡! ¡Accor!, Meaning ¡!
¡Meaning! ". Amparo, upon reaching the entrance of _las Filas_
felt behind him breathe yearnings and a jogging as a beleaguered
vermin mountain, and almost simultaneously paired with her chintan,
sweaty and panting.

The persecution became negligible, thunder an eye of the persecutor-off
guests. - Why run so silly - he said in desabrido tone
-. If I believe I escaped?

Care .... - There ...-- he answered the casting bofes, such was his
sobrealiento ...-- there ... because you came not without company
... there ...

I was entertained with the steam of Havana, leaving ... most beautiful
shells! ¡smoke missed! Where do we come to see you not? - Where I got
the win, repels ¡!

And you notice I did not come to rot your blood companies ....

Am I here a little girl? Anda selling wafers, which is why some people
walk into the shop and factory in a damned if you get across the
real-VIII-afternoon ....

The girl goes to a Mal Peru Josefina and despite all the ladies of
Marineda, Delete the prophecies have been fulfilled.

No one is wrong to describe him as intelligent a masterpiece. What happens
with women than with plants.

During the winter, we all look the same, they are inert enclosures
comes the sap of spring, the covers of buttons, leaves, flowers,
and then admire.

Few months are enough to transform the bush and women. There is a critical
moment in which female beauty takes consistency, acquires its
character, as it crystallizes.

The metamorphosis is unthinkable and people early on in the other social
classes. When you reach the age that want to thank the invincible
woman breaks her ugly cocoon yields the livery of poverty and work,
and is decorated and lined by instinct.

The day that some gentlemen "Amparo said that was nice, Andariego kid was
aware of his sex: until then had been a boy with Sayas. Or anyone
considered another way: if a rascal in the street reminded him
that part of the most beautiful half of mankind, made half a cheek,
and she refused to puñadas, if not kicks and bites, the barbarian
Requiebros.

All things you do not lose any sleep or appetite. Had touched her in
a summary manner that we know already, run by squares, roads and alleys,
he got the ladies wearing some unusual fashion, Remiro windows,
curious affair ventaneros and lay testimony and without a bad thought.
.. Now .

Who told her that the toilet and composure that was not spent
enough? Oh you know!

The mirror, because none were in his house. It would be a mirror
inside, very clear, that women see their own image and that never
deceives.

The truth is that Amparo, who was still reading the newspapers barber
progressives, called the salary of reading objects toilet.

And put together a trousseau fit for a queen, namely escarpidor of
a horn and a lendrera of boxwood, two packages of forks, taken from
urine, a jar of ointment pink, half soap _aux loving amères_, Hairs
/ Pelitos with the beard parishioners, cut and still attached, a
bottle, almost empty of essence of hay, and other trinkets of the
same jaez.

Mixing elements such Amparo succeeded him and roughing out a light,
discovering his true color and shape, as was discovered buried in
the pod and wash the boot.

Your skin friendly relations with the water, and free of the layer of
dust stuck to their fine pores, brown skin was smooth, healthy and
smooth can imagine.

It was not toasted, or discolored, or not lit, had everything, but
with your own reason, and where it should have. The mocedad, rich
blood, the outdoors, the loving caress of the sun, habíanse given
the power to create the color of that wonderful complexion plebeian.

Agate the smoothness of the forehead, the vermilion of the lips
fleshy, the amber of the neck, pink transparent wall of the nose, the
brown velvet of the mole that travesea the commissure of the mouth, golden
hair that falls between the cheek and ear and reappear, tight and dark
in the upper lip, slight shade as the things were blurred to tempt
a colorful cogiese to the brush and try to emulate.

Thanks no doubt to the ointment, the hair was back and also showed that
God did it, black, curly, shiny.

Only two accessories of the face did not improve, perhaps because they
were unbeatable: eyes and teeth, an indispensable complement to what
is called a _type moreno_.

Amparo had eyes for two balloons in the blue of the cornea, always bathed
in a pure liquid, was the highlight of the wide pupil negror poorly
veiled by short and thick eyelashes. As for teeth, served by a stomach
that did not know the gastralgia appeared thirty-two lumps of
curdled milk, hilarious and somewhat uneven pointy, like a puppy dog.

Noting, however, in such exemplary feminine traits revealing gallardo
removal of the front was short, both a roll up your nose, long
fangs, hair touch-Recio, direct gaze, ankles and wrists not very
sensitive.

His very beautiful complexion was predestined to be injected, such
as Mr Rosendo, that back in the power of the age was, according to
the neighbor and his wife, handsome waiter.

But who thinks of the winter to see the bush in bloom? If Baltasar
certainly not around the vicinity of the factory, which was destined to
fade for some time to Ciudad Real, boredom and fear going it alone.

IX-The Glorious occurred shortly after an incident in Spain entertained
the nation seven years full and still is entertaining and in rejection
of its consequences, namely that instead of the usual pronouncements
guys, was another very large, so-called Revolution of September 1868.

Quedose soon to Spain without knowing what was wrong and who sees
visions.

It was not for less. A statement really, that overthrew the dynasty! At
last the country had a male, or had made it: the better for a southern
town.

Took care of everything marine, army, progressives and unionists.
Bravo González and Queen were in France while still ignoring the
overwhelming majority of Spaniards was whether the Ministry or the
Bourbons who fell 'forever', as the famous signs prayed Madrid.

However, soon the nation was persuaded that the case was serious, not
only real race, but the monarchy itself, were to walk into question,
and then gave each Quisque rampage by his side.

Only kept silent on reservations and those at the end of seven years
had carried all the difference. During the storm of shattered
political ideas that arose suddenly observose the countryside and
towns inland were inclined to tradition monarchy, while the
manufacturing and commercial towns, and seaports, hailed the republic.

In the Cantabrian coast, the Malecon and Marineda distinguished by the
abundance of committees, boards, _clubs_, proclamations, newspapers,
and demonstrations.

It is noteworthy that from the first moment the way the federal republic
was invoked.

Nothing, the unit did not help: only the federal giving people the perfect
bliss. And why so? Go to know!

An ingenious writer further said that the federal republic was not
occurred to anyone to Spain if Proudhon does not write a book on
the federal principle and if Pi does not translate and he says.

Whatever the case, and worth explaining what valiere, it is clear that
federalism is improvised there and everywhere in less than a rooster
sings.

The Tobacco Factory Marineda was sympathetic center (as now is said) to
_The federal_.

Of the collective industrial policy was the confraternity, the
cigarette they opened the Republican horizon in several ways: through
oral propaganda, then so active, and, most notably, the periodic
swarming.

In each workshop there was one or two readers, his colleagues paid
for lost time, and forward.

Amparo was the most appreciated, by giving meaning to reading, had
already acquired habit of reading, having performed many times in
the barbershop.

His tongue was released, his tireless larynx robust accent. Declaim,
rather than read, with fire and expression, highlighting the
passages that deserve emphasis, highlighting the words in italics,
adding mime when necessary for the case, starting slowly and mystery,
and voice content, the paragraphs important to raise the anxiety
level and prominent boot involuntary shiver of excitement to the
audience, when intonation took faster and vibrant at every turn.

His soul impressionable, fuel, mobile, and superficial, it was easily the
color of the newspaper that he was in their hands, and reflected with
extraordinary vividness and fidelity.

Nobody else on purpose to a job that requires great enthusiasm, but
externally, incessantly renewed flow of energy available to spend in
exclamations, in scenes of outrage and hope fanatic.

The figure of the girl, the brightness of his eyes and pasty warm inflections
of his voice ringing contralto, contributed to the surprising
effect of reading.

When transmitting the electric spark, Amparo is also electrified.

Subject was both agent and patient. By dint of reading every day the
same newspaper, follow the ebb and flow of political controversy,
was penetrating the reader to believe marrow.

Faith Virgin in the press that he believed was unbreakable, because
it happens with newspaper that the villagers with the telegraph
apparatus: ever tried to learn how to be inside, suffering its
effects, without analyzing its causes.

And how spirited the reader be surprised if you could go into writing
a political newspaper, to see how an article is written transcendental
and fanatical dream of heading in the corner of the filthy table,
delivering a steak or a serving of fried hake !

Reader, taking verbatim what the "Take the pen trembling with
indignation," and another "The emotion stifles our voice, our shame
reddened face, and even about" If words are not enough , Spread of
Weapons and spilled the last drop of our blood!

". What in the newspaper lacked frank about in Defense of credulous
assent.

Were used to thinking in style feature, and speak the same thing: came
to his lips turns hackneyed, public areas of the daily press, and
with them dressed up and their language. He was gaining fluency in
speaking, it is true that sometimes employed to words and sentences
whose exact meaning was not clear, and tripping others, but even
that seemed to be disheveled and antiliteraria press time.

He gave so much to do! Revolt absorbent policy, which had not time to write
in Castilian!

Amparo is that going to have a peak of gold will be the one listening
without trying to feel where certain issues. The whole workshop was
spellbound hearing and share their affections and their hatreds.

Of common agreement, the operators hated to Olózaga, calling him "the
old man's sheep" because he was the very indino looking for a king
who did not damn the lack ... only for him to fuck each other
embassies and other perks; talk Gonzalez Bravo was to promote a
riot, with Prim were wrong, because they bend to the monarchical
form; Serrano had to elbow him, was an ambitious hypocrite, very
capable, if I could, to become king or emperor, at least.

Grew the Republican ferment while the first winter trascurría revolutionary
approach to summer grades increased even more the political temperature
in the factory.

In the course of hours of sunshine, however, declined the conversation,
and both the charged atmosphere of suffocating fumes and thick
that might seem to cut with knife.

Penetrating effluents nicotine rose from Serono filled with dried
and pressed leaves.

The hands were moving pulse of the need, liando tagarninas but
rehuían brains work, the overwhelming thought at times inert head
fell rolling on the table, and a woman, rendered heat is getting
buried in deep sleep .

Happier than others, which espurriaban the leaf, the Turkish positions
on the floor, with a lot of snuff before, had a pot of water on the
right hand, and sprinkle very swollen cheeks of the Virginia,
consoles an aura of freshness.

Lying next to the pound pile of just collecting dust, snoring with
his mouth open and was shocked when the taste of soft drizzle them
splashed his face.

Fluttering flies buzzing with stubborn, and joined in the air and
fell quickly on the work or the hands of the operators, as they lit
up the legs in the rubber tarrillo, struggling in vain to take
flight.

    He was scattered over the tables, and mixed with snuff, pieces of
Boron, raw slices of cod, onions, sardines, herring.

With such temperature, who would have wanted to eat the pittance?

Finally, at about four in the afternoon, the cooling sea breeze began to
flow, the oppressed dilatábanse breasts, teeth to handle running the
humble food, and played to turn the reading policy. Leíanse publications
and local newspapers Madrid.

In the press of the Court took the biscuit 'speeches Castelar, then far
from being spent. What a beautiful word, and how well that hooks in
each other!

Appeared to be. It is true that most are not understood, and danced
there names so rare that only the devil could read Protection of
characters, but he does not: what is beautiful, that was very nice.

Well school is the substance of the speech was in favor of the people
and against the tyrants, so that the rest were taken by delicate
ornamental flourishes.

When fit instead of speeches read articles, and kilometers of these
stupefying that talk about social justice, redemption of the working
classes, instruction diffused, widespread and free, universal
brotherhood, all in style with prayers and homily long and entangled
as cooked noodles, Amparo alterábase voice and moistened eyes of
his listeners.

"You rate me highly," says Joyce, with a sudden rather sharp little
laugh. "I am good enough for the cousin--I am _not_ good enough for the
brother, who may reasonably look higher."

"Not higher," haughtily. "He can only marry a girl of good birth. _You_
are that, but he, in his position, will look for money, or else his
people will look for it for him. Whereas, Mr. Dysart----"

"Yes, you needn't go over it all. Mr. Dysart is about on a level with
me, he will _never_ have any money, neither shall I." Suddenly she looks
round at her sister, her eyes very bright. "Tell me then," says she,
"what does it all come to? That I am bound to refuse to marry a man
because he has money, and because I have none."

"That is not the argument," says Barbara anxiously.

"I think it is."

"It is not. I advise you strongly not to think of Mr. Beauclerk, yet
_he_ has no money to speak of."

"He has more than Freddy."

"But he is a different man from Freddy--with different tastes, different
aspirations, different----He's different," emphatically, "in _every_
way!"

"To be different from the person one loves is not to be a bad man," says
Joyce slowly, her eyes on the ground.

"My dear girl, who has called Mr. Beauclerk a bad man?"

"You don't like him," says Miss Kavanagh, still more slowly, still with
thoughtful eyes downcast.

"I like Mr. Dysart better if you mean that."

"No, I don't mean that. And, besides, that is no answer."

"Was there a question?"

"Yes. Why don't you like Mr. Beauclerk?"

"Have I said I didn't like him?"

"Not in so many words, but----Well, why don't you?"

"I don't know," rather lamely.

Miss Kavanagh laughs a little satirically, and Mrs. Monkton, objecting
to mirth of that description, takes fire.

"Why do you _like_ him?" asks she defiantly.

"I don't know either," returns Joyce, with a rueful smile. "And after
all I'm not sure that I like him so _very_ much. You evidently imagine
me to be head over ears in love with him, yet I, myself, scarcely know
whether I like him or not."

"You always look at him so kindly, and you always pull your skirts aside
to give him a place by your side."

"I should do that for Tommy."

"Would you? That would be _too_ kind," says Tommy's mother, laughing.
"It would mean ruin to your skirts in two minutes."

"But, consider the gain. The priceless scraps, of wisdom I should hear,
even whilst my clothes were being demolished."

This has been a mere interlude, unintentional on the part of either,
and, once over, neither knows how to go on. The question _must_ be
settled one way or the other.

"There is one thing," says Mrs. Monkton, at length, "You certainly
prefer Mr. Beauclerk to Mr. Dysart."

"Do I? I wish I knew as much about myself as you know about me. And,
after all, it is of no consequence whom I like. The real thing
is----Come, Barbara, you who know so much can tell me this----"

"Well?" says Mrs. Monkton, seeing she has grown very red, and is
evidently hesitating.

"No. This absurd conversation has gone far enough. I was going to ask
you to solve a riddle, but----"

"But what?"

"You are too serious about it."

"Not _too_ serious. It is very important."

"Oh, Barbara, do you _know_ what you are saying?" cries the girl with an
angry little stamp, turning to her a face pale and indignant. "You have
been telling me in so many words that I am in love with either Mr.
Beauclerk or Mr. Dysart. Pray now, for a change, tell me which of them
is in love with _me_."

"Mr. Dysart," says Barbara quietly.

Her sister laughs angrily.

"You think everybody who looks at me is in love with me."

"Not _every_one!"

"Meaning Mr. Beauclerk."

"No," slowly. "I think he likes you, too, but he is a man who will
always _think_. You know he has come in for that property in Hampshire
through his uncle's death, but he got no money with it. It is a large
place, impossible to keep up without a large income, and his uncle left
every penny away from him. It is in great disrepair, the house
especially. I hear it is falling to pieces. Mr. Beauclerk is an
ambitious man, he will seek means to rebuild his house."

"Well what of that? It is an interesting bit of history, but how does it
concern me? Take that troubled look out of your eyes, Barbara. I assure
you Mr. Beauclerk is as little to me as I am to him."

She speaks with such evident sincerity, with such an undeniable belief
in the truth of her own words, that Mrs. Monkton, looking at her and
reading her soul through her clear eyes, feels a weight lifted from her
heart.

"That is all right then," says she simply. She turns as if to go away,
but Miss Kavanagh has still a word or two to say.

"I may go to the Court?" says she.

"Yes; I suppose so."

"But you won't be vexed if I go, Barbie?"

"No; not now."

"Well," slipping her arm through hers, with an audible sigh of delight.
"_That's_ settled."

"Things generally _do_ get settled the way you want them to be," says
Mrs. Monkton, laughing. "Come, what about your frocks, eh?"

From this out they spend a most enjoyable hour or two.


CHAPTER VI.

    "Or if they sing, 'tis with so dull a cheer,
    That leaves look pale, thinking the winter's near."


The visit to the Court being decided on, Miss Kavanagh undertakes life
afresh, with a joyous heart. Lord and Lady Baltimore are the best host
and hostess in the world, and a visit to them means unmixed pleasure
while it lasts. The Court is, indeed, the pleasantest house in the
county, the most desirable in all respects, and the gayest. Yet, strange
and sad to add, happiness has found no bed within its walls.

This is the more remarkable in that the marriage of Lord and Lady
Baltimore had been an almost idealistic one. They had been very much in
love with each other. All the hosts of friends and relations that
belonged to either side had been delighted with the engagement. So many
imprudent marriages were made, so many disastrous ones; but _here_ was a
marriage where birth and money went together, and left no guardians or
parents lamenting. All Belgravia stood still and stared at the young
couple with genuine admiration. It wasn't often that love, pure and
simple, fell into their midst, and such a _satisfactory_ love too! None
of your erratic darts that struck the wrong breasts, and created
confusion for miles round, but a thoroughly proper, respectable winged
arrow that pierced the bosoms of those who might safely be congratulated
on the reception of it.

They had, indeed, been very much in love with each other. Few people
have known such extreme happiness as fell to their lot for two whole
years. They were wrapt up in each other, and when the little son came at
the end of that time, _nothing_ seemed wanted. They grew so strong in
their belief in the immutability of their own relations, one to the
other, that when the blow fell that separated them, it proved a very
lightning-stroke, dividing soul from body.

Lady Baltimore could be at no time called a beautiful woman. But there
is always a charm in her face, a strength, an attractiveness that might
well defy the more material charms of a lovelier woman than herself.
With a soul as pure as her face, and a mind entirely innocent of the
world's evil ways--and the sad and foolish secrets she is compelled to
bear upon her tired bosom from century to century--she took with a
bitter hardness the revelations of her husband's former life before he
married her, related to her by--of course--a devoted friend.

Unfortunately the authority was an undeniable one. It was impossible for
Lady Baltimore to refuse to believe. The past, too, she might have
condoned; though, believing in her husband as she did, it would always
have been bitter to her, but the devoted friend--may all such meet their
just reward!--had not stopped there; she had gone a step further, a
fatal step; she had told her something that had _not_ occurred since
their marriage.

Perhaps the devoted friend believed in her lie, perhaps she did not.
Anyway, the mischief was done. Indeed, from the beginning seeds of
distrust had been laid, and, buried in so young and unlearned a bosom,
had taken a fatal grip.

The more fatal in that there was truth in them. As a fact, Lord
Baltimore had been the hero of several ugly passages in his life. His
early life, certainly; but a young wife who has begun by thinking him
immaculate, would hardly be the one to lay stress upon _that_. And when
her friend, who had tried unsuccessfully to marry Lord Baltimore and had
failed, had in the kindliest spirit, _of course_, opened her eyes to his
misdoings, she had at first passionately refused to listen, then _had_
listened, and after that was ready to listen to anything.

One episode in his past history had been made much of. The sorry heroine
of it had been an actress. This was bad enough, but when the
disinterested friend went on to say that Lord Baltimore had been seen in
her company only so long ago as last week, matters came to a climax.
That was a long time ago from to-day, but the shock when it came
shattered all the sacred feelings in Lady Baltimore's heart. She grew
cold, callous, indifferent. Her mouth, a really beautiful feature, that
used to be a picture of serenity and charity personified, hardened. She
became austere, cold. Not difficult, so much as unsympathetic. She was
still a good hostess, and those who had known her _before_ her
misfortune still loved her. But she made no new friends, and she sat
down within herself, as it were, and gave herself up to her fate, and
would probably have died or grown reckless but for her little son.

And it was _after_ the birth of this beloved child that she had been
told that _her_ husband had again been seen in company with Madame
Istray; _that_ seemed to add fuel to the fire already kindled. She could
not forgive that. It was proof positive of his baseness.

To the young wife it was all a revelation, a horrible one. She had been
so stunned by it, that she, accepted it as it stood, and learning that
the stories of his life _before_ marriage were true, had decided that
the stories told of his life _after_ marriage were true also. She was
young, and youth is always hard.

To her no doubt remained of his infidelity. She had come of a brave old
stock, who, if they could not fight, could at least endure in silence,
and knew well the necessity of keeping her name out of the public mouth.
She kept herself well in hand, therefore, and betrayed nothing of all
she had been feeling. She dismissed her friend with a gentle air,
dignified, yet of sufficient haughtiness to let that astute and now
decidedly repentant lady know that never again would she enter the doors
of the Court, or any other of Lady Baltimore's houses; yet she
restrained herself all through so well that, even until the very end
came, her own husband never knew how horribly she suffered through her
disbelief in him.

He thought her heartless. There was no scandal, no public separation.
She said a word or two to him that told him what she had heard, and when
he tried to explain the truths of that last libel that had declared him
unfaithful to her since her marriage, she had silenced him with so cold,
so scornful, so contemptuous a glance and word, that, chilled and
angered in his turn, he had left her.

Twice afterwards he had sought to explain matters, but it was useless.
She would not listen; the treacherous friend, whom she never betrayed,
had done her work well. Lady Baltimore, though she never forgave _her_,
would not forgive her husband either; she would make no formal attempt
at a separation. Before the world she and he lived together, seemingly
on the best terms; at all events on quite as good terms as most of their
acquaintances; yet all the world knew how it was with them. So long as
there are servants, so long will it be impossible to effectually conceal
our most sacred secrets.

Her friends, when the Baltimores went to visit them, made arrangements
to suit them. It was a pity, everybody said, that such complications
should have arisen, and one would not have expected it from Isabel, but
then she seemed so cold, that probably a climax like that did not affect
her as much as it might another. She was so entirely wrapped up in her
boy--some women were like that--a child sufficed them. And as for Lord
Baltimore--Cyril--why----Judgment was divided here; the women taking his
part, the men hers. The latter finding an attraction hardly to be
defined in her pure, calm, rather impenetrable face, that had yet a
smile so lovely that it could warm the seemingly cold face into a
something that was more effective than mere beauty. It was a wonderful
smile, and, in spite of all her troubles, was by no means rare. Lady
Baltimore, they all acknowledged, was a delightful guest and hostess.

As for Lord Baltimore, he--well, he would know how to console himself.
Society, the crudest organization on earth, laughed to itself about him.
He had known how to live before his marriage; now that the marriage had
proved a failure, he would still know how to make life bearable.

In this they wronged him.


CHAPTER VII.

     "Ils n'employent les paroles qué pour déguiser leurs
     pensées."--VOLTAIRE.


Even the most dyspeptic of the guests had acknowledged at breakfast,
some hours ago now, that a lovelier day could hardly be imagined. Lady
Baltimore, with a smile, had agreed with him. It was, indeed, impossible
not to agree with him. The sun was shining high in the heavens, and a
soft, velvetty air blew through the open windows right on to the table.

"What shall we do to-day?" Lady Swansdown, one of the guests, had asked,
addressing her question to Lord Baltimore, who just then was helping his
little son to porridge.

Whatever she liked.

"Then _nothing_!" says she, in that soft drawl of hers, and that little
familiar imploring, glance of hers at her hostess, who sat behind the
urn, and glanced back at her ever so kindly.

"Yes, it was too warm to dream of exertion; would Lady Swansdown like,
to remain at home then, and dream away the afternoon in a hammock?"

"Dreams were delightful; but to dream _alone_----"

"Oh, no; they would all, or at least most of them, stay with her." It
was Lady Baltimore who had said this, after waiting in vain for her
husband to speak--to whom, indeed, Lady Swansdown's question had been
rather pointedly addressed.

So at home they all had stayed. No one being very keen about doing
anything on a day so sultry.

Yet now, when luncheon is at an end, and the day still heavy with heat,
the desire for action that lies in every breast takes fire. They are all
tired of doing nothing. The Tennis-courts lie invitingly empty, and
rackets thrust themselves into notice at every turn; as for the balls,
worn out from _ennui_, they insert themselves under each arched instep,
threatening to bring the owners to the ground unless picked up and made
use of.

"Who wants a beating?" demands Mr. Browne at last, unable to pretend
lassitude any longer. Did you miss me a spot on your family, just
in case? I am a daughter of executed, or a sheaf of captain? Are not
we in times of equality?

Is not my mother as honest as yours, repels - is not that ... I will
not tell you that .... - Well, what you say then, that is why you stay
silent?

Got something to put out in the face? I do not win I worked honestly,
without ask yourself or anybody?

You've asked for something, I asked you something? Ando ¿me with others?
- Who said such a thing?

But it happens that today what you want, ie what we want is impossible. -
Impossible! - For some time no more .... I am still in a position to
dispense with my family ... when you reach a higher rank and salary
to live with .... - Not a captain already?

- Graduate, but the effectiveness .... Anyway, I repeat, become responsible,
under the circumstances by which it crosses such a determination.

It must be crazy. I say more, believe me, girl, we must be very cautious
not to commit. - Do not engage! - Bitterly moaned the girl -. Do not
engage!

But you've included - spoke, replenish and recover his impetuous
character - that I am stupid? Do you think I can put your finger
in your mouth?

What commitment or what ... repels you comes to you from this? The
committed, the deceived and lost me! Dejose and fall in the bank of
stones, and supporting the front in the cold granite table, broke into
convulsive sobs. - Do not shout, daughter - Baltasar muttered,
approximately -. Do not cry ... they can hear you and it is a scandal.
Amparo, a woman, come on, there is no reason for those cries. The
crisis was short. She got up with eyes burning, but without a tear scalded
his brown cheek. Outraged, Baltasar looked and found it serene,
unshakeable, and smiling with his thin skin and his eyes herons
and transparent, which reflected the light from heaven, without heat.

He wanted to make two or three flattery to the girl to avert the storm,
but his gesture was violent, his automatic movements. Amparo refused and
was placed second in front of him aggressive. - Plain ... Are we
married or not - can not be now because you've said - he replied without
losing their continent phlegmatic. - When - How do I know! Time, time
will tell. But you have to have calm, daughter ... a bit of calm. -
abura Well, until I pay what they owe me - she exclaimed in a voice
vibrant, without caring to hear from the home or the road from
passersby -.

I am only your toy, so you know: I do not want to give andarme hiding,
to go with these cold nights and a thousand sites Aguasanta so happy for
you. Advanced three more steps, and putting his hand on the shoulder
officer: - The day gave less thought ...-- - when you see _las
Filas_ or in the street ... lame me your arm in front of the ladies, you
hear? and singing there, there ... everything that happens. And when we
come ... pieces or do you, or meet with God and me. Okay, forger? And
voice is, with accents of religious terror: - Do you have fear
condenarte? Well, if you die and ... more fixed light sentences you.

And if there is the federal ... God and the Blessed Virgin bring
... I kill you, you hear?, soon to go to hell. By saying so, diol a
push, and he turned back, seeing rapid pace, the high forehead, eyes
blazing, despite the demise pilgrim, the unusual internal notice that
you save such scenes. Upon leaving the platform, a stronger blast
scattered many table grape leaves that danced for a moment on the surface
of granite, and fell to the wet ground. - You will? - Baltasar meditated
his own -. I will marear in public? I have not for me .... These
geniuses are alive and ready for the first time, after that, stay as
mauve. Quia ... does not. However, I should leave a Marineda ....
Think this season, looked a mechanical dry leaves, that waltz with
faint and languid pace. - But what about Josephine? If the news are
true mother, will not be possible to leave a proportion that may not
find again in my life. What a thousand devils! And that girl was beautiful
.... What is beautiful! What nonsense!

Why look for a conflict? I believe that I have ten!

Impatient, he threw the cigarette that was concluding. An atom of fire
shone among the leaves, which cracks shrinking, and the little butt was
extinguished. Second-XXXIV-feat of the Tribune Cold winter is
coming, but the news from Madrid is warm, abrasive. The thing is doomed,
the Italian is going to abdicate because he can not resist more the
atmosphere of hostility, of inquina that surrounds it. He stated
both bored and tired of setback, the rudeness of their áulicos of the
Carlist War, the drum canton of universal chaos.

There is no cure, the distances are tightened, the horizon is dyed
red, the federal advances. The factory has regained its rostrum. It
is true that this hurt and battered back to its first outlet in
search of adventure, but this has not discredited. However, when it began
to be known for his misfortune were under a burning shame. Just a few
years, their lack of experience, his vanity spirited, contributed to
making the most terrible. But such criticism is not denied when the
solidarity of the factory.

If any envy excited once the beauty, grace and irrestañable labia of the
girl, now became sad and imprecations were against the eternal enemy,
man. These accursed of God, recondenados, which are only to spoil
the Good girl! These gentlemen, having fun in doing harm! Oh, if
someone behaves well with his sisters, their daughters, who would
hear and who would like echársele dogs!

Why not set a law for that, dammit? If you must be a penny more than the
charge in a hurry, it seems to me that these debts are even more important,
demonstrate! Just because it is: there is justice in two ways: one strictly
for the poor, and wide-sleeved, very accommodating to the rich!

Cigarette Some optimists dared to suggest that perhaps Sobrado marry or
at least recognize that it came. - Yeah, yeah ... ¡Wait for that,
papalanatas! Now you're laughing and shaking the Levite well! - Do not
know ... I do not want to hear it or understand it - to read the Guardian
Weasel - but this shameless and walk again after the Garcia. - rascal!
- Guardian exclaimed -. And who sees him as wise as it looks!

- Well as you say. - Amparo case you had not. - Woman, is a meat that
is not stone. - Can you figure you that each lacks occasions - said the
girl -. Well if there were more than .... Mother loved the Guard! No,
Ana; women have to defend it. Civil and police are not putting anyone.
And the poor girls who did not inherit that mayorazgo more honesty ....
So I say that because the couple who have left embobar. - Well, I
feel sorry for her, which is lost. - Me too.

Pity, yes. It is the whole world was. Who would have recognized the speaker
of the banquet of bright red circle in the woman went to the shawl
crossed, dressed in dark, dark circles, broken! However, his oratorical
powers had not diminished, only changed it somewhat in style and
character.

Now had their words, instead of before the impetuous spirit, a tinge
bitter, a grim and pathetic eloquence. It was not the emphatic tone of
the press, but a more honest, which sprang from the heart and soul
ulcerated sore. On their lips, the Federal Republic was not only the
best form of government, when the ideal of liberty, peace and human
brotherhood, but vindicta period, deadline set by the justice of heaven,
claim long-awaited by the oppressed people, vejado , trasquilado
meek as sheep.

A socialist aura throbs in his words, which shook the whole plant,
especially when the uncertainty of the tax led to further delay the
payment in that unit of the State. Could then talk to the Tribune
flavor, put your taste. Oh God!

What mattered to them señorones of Madrid ... Rogues of the ministers,
employees, that they died of hunger? Those salaries would be paid,
fixed!

No, do not neglect to collect and eat, and fill the bag. And if the
ministers were the only laugh that is below! But all the rich of the
world were given a four thousand Higa that women do not have to bring
bread to your mouth And when I say this, Amparo was incorporated, there
was almost standing on the chair, despite the strong and pressing
sttt ¡!, the teacher, despite the work of inspector, which was not a
moment was looking at the entrance to the workshop, silent and serious.
- ...-- What counts as long she continued, encouraging to see the
magical effect of his terrible ...--, which has so long one day God
will give these leeches, who suck blood all!

I say, and I want to tell me why nobody answered me to this, neither can
answer: God made the two breeds of men, if anything, a poor and rich?,
was about to be paseasen, sleeping, walked majos and tired and happy,
and other Sweating and always leaning on the shoulder all the work,
and die like dogs without anyone remember who came to the world?

What justice is this retepelo? Some work the land, others eat the wheat
plant and a few others out, you a assumed, plant the vineyard,
because I come with my hands and washed me drink wine .... - But
it does, what has - conservatively Weasel interrupted. - I know
that it has, has it, but now we go to where we need to reach them
all the time, and those who are born equally enjoy the same!

even a couple of hours! Always a comfortable and bursting! Well not last
until the end of the century, which once again is the tortilla. - The
one below, woman, debajito stays. - Conversation! See you in Paris
of France, the story of this _Comun_ ... Come on if you put the top down!
Come if you rocked! Thing was not something ... so, we must do here,
if we do not get paid. - And there, what they did? Amparo lowered
voice. - fire ... to all public buildings .... A murmur of indignation
and horror out of most mouths. - And the houses of the rich ...
... y. - Asus!, Fire, woman! - And afusil ... and afusil ...
ar .... - Afusilar ... to whom, women, who - A ... the prisoners, and the
archbishop, and the course .... - infamous!

- Tigers! - Shut up, shut up, which seems to me that the blood was
curdled all! ... Who did that? Then go about barbarians accounts!
- If I was not the story to say that ... that is correct about ... of
fire and afusilar .... No, dammit!, Do not understand me, do not
want to understand me da! What I am saying is that ... need to have
livers, and not be sobar or you miss one neck to the yoke without
defending .... What I am saying is that when you do not give a
well by doing their own thing as much theirs, which has won and Regan
.... When it does not occur if no one is foolish ... asks ... and
if they deny it ... it takes. - I, Claritas. - You're right.

We do cigars, huh?

, Well is that we regulate what we pay. - No, no hurry and is the law
of God and that this inequality diferiencia some other Zampa and
fast. - What am I, am, or pay me, or do not go to work. - Not me.
- Not me. - Where did all the same ... and also we saw some good
in the big arm .... cristo - Tomorrow ... which is tomorrow!

Did you do what I tell you? - Good. - Well, come early ... tempranito.
The next morning near the factory, the street of the Sun, the road
that leads to the sea, were filled with women, the quieter the females
tend to show that together, his face was turned toward the door main
entrance to the courtyard. When this was opened by unanimous impulse
rushed inside, and invaded the hall in droves, regardless of the
efforts of the goalkeeper to keep order, but instead of climbing to
the workshops, are stationed there, tight, menacing, closing step to,
arriving late, or outside the conjuration, tried to cross beyond
the goal.

Deaf rumors voices drowned, imprecations which found echo, ran the contest,
which was encouraging, and communicating ardimiento and firmness.

In first row at the end of the hallway, was covered, with pale eyes
burning, voice and something taken from worst, and yet full of energy,
encouraging and containing both the human tide. - Easy - with deep-decíales
accent - calm and serene ... There will be time for everything: to
wait.

But some cries, the empellones, and two or three disputes that were
promoted from the crowd, pushing iban, bad grade, the old staircase to
the platform of the workshop, where they were steps in this which shook
the floor, and an inspector of works, with the face of worries
that sniffs disorder, appeared on the rest.

Began to ask, rather, with that gesture with his mouth: 'What is
this?

     ", While Amparo, drawing a whistle from the pockets of mud, arrimolo
     to his lips and pulled him sharp hiss.

Ten or twelve more whistles, starting from different points of romanza
chanted one cock, and the inspector was arrested, without daring to
go down the stairs missing. Two or three old stripped ahead towards him,
uttered fearful shrieks, and almost touching, and he heard a muffled
"Die!".

However, the officer is remade, and stand idly by, is forward, something
moved the color, but resolved. - What, what means this scandal -
asked Amparo, who found closer -- .

What way is this going into the workshops - they not come today - said
the Tribune.

And one hundred voices confirmed the sentence -: Do not go, do not enter.
- Do not fall ... ¿What happens then?

- What makes us sin, not endure. - No, not endure. Inequities Die!
Long live freedom! Justice dry! - Cried from all sides. And two or three
teachers, caught in the maelstrom, raised their hands in desperation,
making signs to the inspector. - But what you ask for? - Do not you
hear, child? Jos-ti-cia-bellowing a hearing stemmed from the same
employee. - That we pay, we pay and we pay - Amparo exclaimed energetically,
while the murmur of the crowd was stormy. - Vuelvan you for suddenly
the order and composure that .... - not give us the win. - Let the
can-can dance!

To be conversational is unnecessary, Dicky
Browne is on the spot.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hotter and hotter grows the sun; the evening comes on apace; a few
people from the neighboring houses have dropped in; Mrs. Monkton amongst
others, with Tommy in tow. The latter, who is supposed to entertain a
strong affection for Lady Baltimore's little son, no sooner, however,
sees Dicky Browne than he gives himself up to his keeping. What the
attraction is that Mr. Browne has for children has never yet been
clearly defined. It is the more difficult to arrive at a satisfactory
conclusion about it, in that no child was ever yet left in his sole care
for ten minutes without coming to blows, or tears, or a determined
attempt at murder or suicide.

His mother, seeing Tommy veering towards this uncertain friend, turns a
doubtful eye on Mr. Browne.

"Better come with me, Tommy," says she, "I am going to the gardens to
find Lady Baltimore. She will have Bertie with her."

"I'll stay with Dicky," says Tommy, flinging himself broadcast on Mr.
Brown's reluctant chest, that gives forth a compulsory "Wough" as he
does so. "He'll tell me a story."

"Don't be unhappy, Mrs. Monkton," says the latter, when he has recovered
a little from the shock--Tommy is a well-grown boy, with a sufficient
amount of adipose matter about him to make his descent felt. "I'll
promise to be careful. Nothing French I assure you. Nothing that could
shock the young mind, or teach it how to shoot in the wrong direction.
My tales are always strictly moral."

"Well, Tommy, be _good_!" says Mrs. Monkton with a last imploring glance
at her son, who has already forgotten her existence, being lost in a
wild wrestling match with his new friend. With deep forebodings his
mother leaves him and goes upon her way. Passing Joyce, she says in a
low whisper:

"Keep an eye on Tommy."

"Both eyes if you like," laughing. "But Dicky, in spite of his evil
reputation, seldom goes to extremes."

"Tommy does, however," says Mrs. Monkton tritely.

"Well--I'll look after him."

And so perhaps she might have done, had not a light step sounding just
behind her chair at this moment caused her to start--to look round--to
forget all but what she now sees.

He is a very aristocratic-looking man, tall, with large limbs, and big
indeed, in every way. His eyes are light, his nose a handsome Roman, his
forehead massive, and if not grand in the distinctly intellectual way,
still a fine forehead and impressive. His hands are of a goodly size,
but exquisitely proportioned, and very white, the skin almost delicate.
He is rather like his sister, Lady Baltimore, and yet so different from
her in every way that the distinct resemblance that is surely there
torments the observer.

"_Why!_" says Joyce. It is the most foolish exclamation and means
nothing, but she finds herself a little taken off her guard. "I didn't
know you were here!" She has half risen.

"Neither did I--how d'ye do, Dysart?--until half an hour ago. Won't you
shake hands?"

He holds out his own hand to her as he speaks. There is a quizzical
light in his eyes as he speaks, nothing to offend, but one can see that
he finds amusement in the fact that the girl has been so much impressed
by his unexpected appearance that she has even forgotten the small usual
act of courtesy with which we greet our friends. She had, indeed, been
dead to everything but his coming.

"You came----" falters she, stammering a little, as she notes her
mistake.

"By the mid-day train; I gave myself just time to snatch a sandwich from
Purdon (the butler), say a word or two to my sister, whom I found in the
garden, and then came on here to ask you to play this next game with
me."

"Oh! I am so sorry, but I have promised it to----"

The words are out of her mouth before she has realized the fact that
Dysart is listening--Dysart, who is lying at her feet, watching every
expression in her mobile face. She colors hotly, and looks down at him
confused, lovely.

"I didn't mean--_that_!" says she, trying to smile indifferently,
"Only----"

"_Don't!_" says Dysart, not loudly, not curtly, yet in so strange and
decided a way that it renders her silent. "You mustn't mind me," says
he, a second later, in his usual calm tone. "I know you and Beauclerk
are wonderful players. You can give me a game later on."

"A capital arrangement," says Beauclerk, comfortably sinking into a
chair beside her, with all the lazy manner of a man at peace with
himself and his world, "especially as I shall have to go in presently to
write some letters for the evening post."

He places his elbows on the arms of the chair, brings the ends of his
fingers together, and beams admiringly at Joyce over the tops of them.

"How busy you always are," says she, slowly.

"Well you see, this appointment, or, rather, the promise of it, keeps me
going. Tremendous lot of interest to work up. Good deal of bother, you
know, but then, beggars--eh?--can't be choosers, can they? And I should
like to go to the East; that is, if----"

He pauses, beams again, and looks boldly into Miss Kavanagh's eyes. She
blushes hotly, and, dropping her fan, makes a little attempt to pick it
up again. Mr. Beauclerk makes another little attempt, and so manages
that his hand meets hers. There is a slight, an almost benevolent
pressure.

Had they looked at Dysart as they both resumed their places, they could
have seen that his face is white as death. Miss Kavanagh, too, looks a
little pale, a little uncertain, but as a whole nervously happy.

"I've been down at that old place of mine," goes on Mr. Beauclerk.
"Terrible disrepair--take thousands to put it in any sort of order. And
where's one to get them? That's the one question that has got no answer
now-a-days. Eh, Dysart?"

"There is an answer, however," says Dysart, curtly, not looking at him.

"Ah, well, I suppose so. But I haven't heard it yet."

"Oh, yes, I think you have," says Dysart, quite politely, but grimly,
nevertheless.

"Dear fellow, how? where? unless one discovers a _mine_ or an African
diamond-field?"

"Or an heiress," says Dysart, incidentally.

"Hah! lucky dog, that comes home to _you_," says Beauclerk, giving him a
playful pat on his shoulder, and stooping from his chair to do it, as
Dysart still sits upon the grass.

"Not to me."

"No? You _will_ be modest? Well, well! But talking of that old place, I
assure you, Miss Kavanagh, it worries me--it does, indeed. It sounds
like one's _duty_ to restore it, and still----"

"There are better things than even an old place," says Dysart.

"Ah! you haven't one you see," cries Beauclerk, with the utmost
geniality. "If you had----I really think if you had you would understand
that it requires a sacrifice to give it up to moths and rust and ruin."

"I said there were better things than old places," says Dysart doggedly,
never looking in his direction. "And if there are, _make_ a sacrifice."

"Pouf! Lucky fellows like you--gay soldier lads--with hearts as light as
sunbeams, can easily preach; but sacrifices are not so easily made.
There is that horrid word, Duty! And a man must sometimes _think_!"

Joyce, as though the last word has struck some answering chord that
wounds her as it strikes, looks suddenly at him. _What_ was it Barbara
had said? "He was a man who would always _think_,"--is he thinking
now--even now--at this moment?--is he weighing matters in his mind?

"Hah!" says Beauclerk rising and pointing to the court nearest them;
"_that_ game is over. Come on, Miss Kavanagh, let us go and get our
scalps. I say, Dysart, will you fight it out with us?"

"No thanks."

"Afraid?" gaily.

"Of you--no," smiling; the smile is admirably done, and would be taken
as the genuine article anywhere.

"Of Miss Kavanagh; then?"

For a brief instant, and evidently against his wish, Dysart's eyes meet
those of Joyce.

"Perhaps," says he.

"A poor compliment to me," says Beauclerk, with his pleasant laugh that
always rings _so_ softly. "Well, never mind; I forgive you. Get a good
partner, my dear fellow, and _she_ may pull you through. You see I
depend entirely upon mine," with a glance at Joyce, full of expression.
"There's Miss Maliphant now--she'd make a good partner if you like."

"I shouldn't," says Dysart, immovably.

"She plays a good game, I can tell you."

"So do you," says Dysart.

"Oh, now, Dysart, don't be sarcastic," says Beauclerk laughing. "I
believe you are afraid of me, not of Miss Kavanagh, and that's why you
won't play. But if you were to put yourself in Miss Maliphant's hands, I
don't say but that you would have a chance of beating me."

"I shall beat you by myself or not at all," says Dysart suddenly, and
for the first time looking fair at him.

"A single, you mean?"

"Yes, a single."

"Well--we shall see," says Beauclerk. "Hah, there is Courtenay. Come
along, Miss Kavanagh, we must make up a set as best we may, as Dysart is
too lazy to face us."

"The next game is ours, Mr. Dysart, remember," says she, glancing at
Dysart over her shoulder. There is a touch of anxiety in her eyes.

"I _always_ remember," says he, with a rather ambiguous smile. What is
he remembering now? Joyce's mouth takes a grave curve as she follows
Beauclerk down the marble steps that lead to the tennis-ground below.

The evening has grown very still. The light wind that all day long has
sung among the leaves has gone to sleep. Only the monotonous countings
of the tennis players can be heard. Suddenly above these, another sound
arises. It is _not_ the voice of the charmer. It is the voice of Tommy
in full cry, and mad with a desire to gain the better of the argument
now going on between him and Mr. Browne. Mr. Browne is still, however,
holding his own. He generally does. His voice grows eloquent. _All_ can
hear.

"I shall tell my story, Tommy, in my own way, or I shall not tell it at
all!" The dignity that Mr. Browne throws into this threat is hardly to
be surpassed.


CHAPTER IX.

    "Sweet food of sweetly uttered knowledge."


"Tisn't right," says Tommy.

"_I_ think it is. If you kindly listen to it once again, and give your
entire attention to it, you will see how faulty is the ignorant
conclusion to which you have come."

"I'm not one bit ignorant," says Tommy indignantly. "Nurse says I'm the
dickens an' all at my Bible, and that I know Genesis better'n _she_
does."

"And a very engaging book it is too," says Mr. Browne, "but it isn't
everything. What _you_ want to study, my good boy, is natural history.
You are very ignorant about that, at all events."

"A cow _couldn't_ do it," says Tommy.

"History says she can. Now, listen again. It is a grand old poem, and I
am grieved and distressed, Thomas, to find that you refuse to accept it
as one of the gems of truth thrown up to us out of the Dark Ages. Are
you ready?

    "'Diddle-dee, diddle-dee dumpty,
    The cow ran up the plum-tree.
    Half-a-crown to fetch her----'"

"She _didn't_--'twas the _cat_," cries Tommy.

"Not in _my_ story," says Mr. Browne, mildly but firmly.

"A cow _couldn't_ go up a plum-tree," indignantly.

"She could in _my_ story," persists Mr. Browne, with all the air of one
who, even to avoid unpleasantness, would not consent to go against the
dictates of his conscience.

"She _couldn't_, I tell you," roars Tommy, now thoroughly incensed. "She
couldn't _climb_. Her horns would stick in the branches. She'd be too
_heavy_!"

"I admit, Thomas," says Mr. Browne gravely, "that your argument sounds
as though there were some sense in it. But who am I that I should dare
to disbelieve ancient history? It is unsafe to throw down old landmarks,
to blow up the bulwarks of our noble constitution. Beware, Tommy! never
tread on the tail of Truth. It may turn and rend you."

"Her name isn't Truth," says Tommy. "Our cow's name is Biddy, and she
never ran up a tree in her life."

"She's young," says Mr. Browne. "She'll learn. So are _you_--_you'll_
learn. And remember this, my boy, always respect old legends. A
disregard for them will so unsettle you that finally you will find
yourself--at the foot of the gallows in all human probability. I
suppose," sadly, "that you are even so far gone in scepticism as to
doubt the glorious truth of the moon's being made of green cheese?"

"Father says that's nonsense," says Tommy promptly, and with an air of
triumph, "and father always knows."

"I blush for your father," says Mr. Browne with increasing melancholy.
"Both he and you are apparently sunk in heathen darkness. Well, well; we
will let the question of the moon go by, though I suppose you know,
Tommy, that the real and original moon first rose in Cheshire."

You will also be involved in suspicious networks that girl, and having
to get married ....

Baltasar smiled without affectation, but with such a manor of itself,
which deletes shrugged. - So .... - On one hand, yeah, I hit you, I'm
ushered in such a silly scruple. Passes and one the best years of his
life, and what? Comes to a man without having lived here ....
lieutenant was arrested, a burlesque drove him to smile again, thinking
that the captain was right in If decline towards old age without
having to offer to God or what the devil.

Borren, meanwhile, strongly endorsed the final words of Balthasar,
the unwinding of the new aspects considered since, in short, blew
for a better flame.

So well played their craft Mefistofele, Baltasar agreed that the
next day to meet with him to ponder a plan of attack that the
Republican Debele under the speaker.

But when going to the interview, which was, for most signs on the
neutral ground coffee, Clear Baltasar knew that brought some
extraordinary new. - There's no more need for plans - said the
lieutenant with forced laughter -.

Is not what I said to you? I spent there ... in Navarre. The thing
is wrong. - Bah!

... four bandits who leave here and ACULLICO; man partidillas sueltas.
- Partidillas loose ... and, as I will you in a few months. The nature
of the case becomes increasingly ugly. Among these barbarians who want
to enter the donkey in churches and shot by joke images, and other
savages who cut the telegraph stations and burn ...

You see, you'll see what we are prepared tortilla. No one here is. Look
up Montpensier, who seemed formal challenge to get into that stupid. He
wanted to be king, but the perdis of having killed his cousin the crown
and it cost us a huge waste of money, as it is not Satan himself to
fix it, I do not know what will happen ... You give me a cigarette ...
if you are there.

Delete it lengthened the Petaca, Baltasar and nervously lit a cigarette.
- Come on, tell you how many candidates there are to the throne -
went missing slight whiff of smoke to the ceiling -.

Go you for counting fingers, if the patient is reached. Espartero
... one. Tell you that it is a estafermo either, but the remnants
of the Progressive Party, spent morrión everything, and some nuts
in good faith, we cheer.

Have not seen you in-store portrait with cloak Baldomero I real? El
hijo de Isabel II, two, or abdicate her mother abdicated. That at
least is something, but it is a predator, playing ball for serve. The
pretender, three ... and look at you, what's that will play much, and
starts around the world to call Charles VII.

Collects himself more supporters than all other combined, and crude
people, of Trabuco and chest hair. The Duke of Aosta, an Italian ...
four. A German is called Ho ... ho ... in short, a difficult name, the
satirical newspaper made it _Ole, ole, if I eligen_ ... five.

Regency doctrine ... six or better to say, eight. And Angel I. .. nine.
Oh, I forgot to Portugal that he is reluctant ... , and Montpensier. Once.
What? - But ... thus, formal candidates .... ¡Mozo, coffee and _cognac_!
- No, thanks, took it home .... Clear: serious candidate for today, Don
Carlos and the republic.

The fact is that we cease all healthy bone .... For suddenly, I was
the Guill.

Would you like something for those vericuetos - Men ... What a pity!
Now we're going to go about it with the cigarette, which is another!
- Pch! ... If any trabucazo not prevent ... to return.-XXIV-The
religious conflict since the Constitutional Court voted for the
monarchy, and Amparo fellow went furious.

It was time, and hopes of the North were not performed, or fulfilled the
predictions of the newspapers. Let today! ... Let tomorrow! ... Never
let them, obviously!

In place of the federal sighs, a king, a tyrant of fixed and maybe
a stranger! For these reasons the factory was announced and pessimistic
policy and wanted the Government to "take him Judas."

Two things particularly disturbed bile of tobacco: increases in the
Carlist party and attacks on the Virgin and the Saints.

Despite the accusation of 'throw against God thrown by the rural citizens,
the truth is that with contadísimas exceptions, all of the cigarette
is consistent and unanimous in expressing devotion aches.

asks Lady Baltimore, coming up at this moment,
her basket full of flowers, and minus the little son and the heiress;
"he has just gone into the house to hear Miss Maliphant sing. You know
she sings remarkably well, and that last song of Milton Wettings suits
her so entirely. Norman is very fond of music. Have you had a game,
Joyce?"

"Yes, and won it," says Joyce, smiling back at her, though her face has
paled a little. _Had_ she won it?

"Well, I must take these into the house before they fade. Righton wants
them for the dinner-table," says Lady Baltimore. A little hurried note
has crept into her voice. She turns away somewhat abruptly. Lord
Baltimore and Lady Swansdown have just appeared in view, Lady Swansdown
with a huge bunch of honeysuckle in her hand, looking very picturesque.

Welfare remained the religious desire, but the unifying summary of the
Church, the living form of ritual has been lost.

Instead of believing church gathering of religious values came under
the twin pressures of the Enlightenment as the idealistic philosophy
and poetry of the 18th Century critical-minded ethics.

She gave the music the new ability of the pain chart, of the storm,
the individual experiencing the confession. It was under the compulsion
of criticism feeling, gave her the grim task of dealing with human
affairs, was the target extraction and detection of human beings. Mozart's
operas show this goal in a fabric symbolisation.

In addition, however, is the mental condition of all the music this
time with their main creation: the design of the Sonata Formbau
critical sense and insightful discussion.

It is the basic motive of religious idealism.

Beethoven's works in their entirety are cult musical acts. In the
internalized forms of chamber music in the church also aspiring fairs,
even in the opera, most summarized in the symphonies but lives as a driving
elementary power of ethical perception and urge commitment of German
idealism, the religious, the church no more, no more dogma, but the
revelation of the divine only in the sense of power of the human
soul receives.

This ethical religiosity was as intellectual property of all people of
the 18th Century, such as Bach's church, the credulity of his
contemporaries.

The idealism created his cult musical in concert form with all the
differences of its form genera, were at the same time until then
to luxury or low-impact folk opera limited the wide horizon
allmenschlichen events.

From previously unknown regions of feeling and experiencing new communities
were formed of people who had a religious drive externally to the church
turned away abruptly, the intellectual momentum after faith, but
the highest capacity equal design found.

This blazing upwards lift of the entdogmatisierten and yet deeply
faithful soul collapsed into of Romanticism. It is the crucial indicator
of the greater part of the 19th Dominant century romantic movement that
they were not able to establish the religious issue a new, unique
design to give meaningful.

The religious impulse of Romanticism expressed itself first in unilateral
continuation of the critical element, the opposite of the emotional
idealism of Anschwung more wane.

    

The sounds even penetrate to the library, where Joyce is standing before
the low fire, that even in this July evening burns upon the hearth,
fastening her long gloves. She had got down before the others, and now,
finding the room empty, half wishes herself back again upstairs. But she
is so young, so full of a fresh delight in all the gaiety around her,
that she had hurried over her dressing, and, with the first dismal
sounds of the toning, had turned her steps its way.

The library seems cold to her, bare, unfriendly. Had she expected to
meet somebody there before her--somebody who had promised to get a fresh
tie in a hurry, but who had possibly forgotten all about it in the joy
of an after-dinner cigar?

It seems a long time since that first day when she had been startled by
his sudden reappearance at the Court. A long, _long_ time. Soon this
last visit of hers to the Court must come to an end. The Baltimores will
be going abroad in a fortnight or so--and he with them. The summer is
waning--dreary autumn coming. He will go--and----

A sense of dissatisfaction sits heavily on her, toning down to rather a
too cruel a degree the bright expectancy of her face. He had _said_ he
would come, and now----She drums in a heavy-hearted listless fashion on
the table with the tips of her pale gloves, and noticing, half
consciously in so doing, that they have not been sufficiently drawn up
her arm, mechanically fits them closer to the taper fingers.

Certainly he had said he would be here. "Early you know. Before the
others can get down." A quick frown grows upon her forehead, and now
that the fingers are quiet, the little foot begins to beat a tattoo upon
the ground. Leaning against the table in a graceful attitude, with the
lamplight streaming on her pretty white frock, she gives a loose rein to
her thoughts.

They are a little angry, a little frightened perhaps. During the past
week had he not said many things that in the end proved void of meaning.
He had haunted her in a degree, at certain hours, certain times, had
loitered through gardens, lingered in conservatories by her side,
whispered many things--looked so very many more. But----

There were other times, other opportunities for philandering (_she_ does
not give it this unpleasant name); how has he spent them?--A vague
thought of Miss Maliphant crosses her mind. That he laughs at the plain,
good-natured heiress to her (Joyce), had not prevented the fact that he
is very attentive to her at times. Principally such times as when Joyce
may reasonably be supposed to be elsewhere. Human reason, however, often
falls short of the mark, and there have been unsuspected moments during
the past week when Miss Kavanagh has by chance appeared upon the scene
of Mr. Beauclerk's amusements, and has found that Miss Maliphant has had
a good deal to do with them. Both the religious ö se massive movement of
our days like the hiatus in the history of Europe (and the totality
of efforts to reshape social) were also heavily involved in the
philosophy of their priority. Religious activity and religious philosophical
thought is now in the strongest interaction. On the religious or even
religious movements, we can not go into here (see my essay on "Peace
among the religions" in the "Highlands" and my book "From the Eternal
in Man, Volume 1). If the current religious movement a general
feature attribution, this is driven primarily by a hypertrophy of
mystical tendencies in all the special kinds of religious movements
and in all fields (philosophy, art, poetry) will be able to talk.

This movement comprises both the Catholic and the Protestant culture chen
circle than those counties, a "new religion" want. The whole mystical
movement is under the strong influence of the East, said the great Russian
religious thinkers (Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, Mereschkowski, Solowjew),
but also the Indian and Chinese ancient wisdom teachings (see, for
example, the effectiveness of R.

Tagore), The increasingly growing anthroposophical movement R. Steiner,
whose ideas of the philosophical Driesch heavily influenced, in
many respects very valuable idea of the physical chemist K. Jellinek
worth reading in his book "The Secret World" peculiar coloring, is
also under eastern influence (such B.

Wiederverkörperungslehre, who also is close to H. Driesch). The expressionist
art of the present, the "White Rider" also reflects a predominantly
Catholic place, is equally strong among these eastern influences. On the
strange effect this mystical movement within the Protestant chen Culture
Circle, more so than the predominant Protestant theology, particularly
the school A. Ritschl, before the wars of all mysticism was extremely
abhold and her everywhere "katholisierende trends" scents.

The Harnack saying: "A mystic, who would not Catholic, was a dilettante"
for the position of the older Protestant theology chen in sharpest
contrast to the presence of characteristic.
She
gives a little touch to her gown. And now is sitting in a
lounging-chair, a little pale still perhaps, but in all other respects
the very picture of unconsciousness. It is--it must be----

It isn't, however.

Mr. Browne, opening the door in his own delightfully breezy fashion that
generally plays old Harry with the hinges and blows the ornaments off
the nearest tables, advances towards her with arms outspread, and the
liveliest admiration writ upon his features, which, to say the truth,
are of goodly proportions.

"Oh! Thou wonder of the world!" cries he in accents ecstatic. He has
been reading "Cleopatra" (that most charming of books) assiduously for
the past few days, during which time he has made himself an emphatic
nuisance to his friends: perpetual quotations, however apt or salutary,
proving as a rule a bore.

"That will do, Dicky! We _all_ know about that," says Miss Kavanagh, who
is a little unnerved, a little impatient perhaps. Mr. Browne, however,
is above being snubbed by anyone. He continues on his way rejoicing.

"Thou living flame!" cries he, making what he fondly supposes to be a
stage attitude. "Thou thing of beauty. Though _fleshpot of Egypt_!"

He has at last surpassed himself! He stands silent waiting for the
plaudits of the crowd. The crowd, however, is unappreciative.

"Nonsense!" says Miss Kavanagh shortly. "I wonder you aren't tired of
_making_ people tired. Your eternal quotations would destroy the
patience of an anchorite. And as for that last sentence of yours, you
know very well it isn't in Rider Haggard's book. He'd have been ashamed
of it."

"_Would_ he? Bet you he wouldn't! And if it isn't in his book, all I can
say is it ought to have been. Mere oversight leaving it out. He _will_
be sorry if I drop him a line about it. Shouldn't wonder if it produced
a new edition. But for my part, I believe it _is_ in the book.
Fleshpots, Egypt, you know; hardly possible to separate 'em now from the
public mind."

"Well; he could separate them any way. There isn't a single word about
them in the book from start to finish."

"No? D'ye say so?" Here Mr. Browne grows lost in thought.
"Fleshpots--pots--hot pots; hot _potting_! Hah!" He draws himself
together with all the manner of one who has gone down deep into a thing,
and comes up from it full of knowledge. "I've 'mixed those babies up,'"
says he mildly. "But still I can hardly believe that that last valuable
addition to Mr. Haggard's work is all my own."

"Distinctly your own," with a suggestion of scorn, completely thrown
away upon the receiver of it.

"D'ye say so! By Jove! And very neat too! Didn't think I had it in me.
After all to write a book is an easy matter; here am I, who never
thought about it, was able to form an entire sentence full of the most
exquisite wit and humor without so much as knowing I was doing it. Tell
you what, Joyce, I'll send it to the author with a card and my
compliments you know. Horrid thing to be _mean_ about anything, and if I
can help him out with a 999th edition or so, I'll be doing him a good
turn. Eh?"

"I suppose you think you are amusing," says Miss Kavanagh, regarding him
with a critical eye.

"My good child, I _know_ that expression," says Mr. Browne, amiably. "I
know it by heart. It means that you think I'm a fool. It's politer
now-a-days to look things than to say them, but wait awhile and you'll
_see_. Come; I'll bet you a shilling to a sovereign that he'll be
delighted with my suggestion, and put it into his next edition without
delay. No charge! Given away! The lot for a penny-three-farthings. In
fact, I make it a present to him. Noble, eh? Give it to him for
_nothing_!"

"About its price," says Miss Kavanagh thoughtfully.

"Think you so? You are dull to-night, Jocelyne. Flashes of wit pass you
by without warming you. Yet I tell you this idea that has flowed from my
brain is a priceless one. Never mind the door--he's not coming yet.
Attend to me."

"_Who's_ not coming?" demands she, the more angrily in that she is
growing miserably aware of the brilliant color that is slowly but surely
bedecking her cheeks.

"Never mind! It's a mere detail; attend to _me_ and I entreat you," says
Mr. Browne, who is now quite in his element, having made sure of the
fact that she is expecting somebody. It doesn't matter in the least who
to Mr. Browne, expectation is the thing wherein to catch the
embarrassment of Miss Kavanagh, and forthwith he sets himself gaily to
the teazing of her.

"Attend to _what_?" says she with a little frown.

"If you had studied your Bible, Jocelyne, with that care that I should
have expected from you, you would have remembered that forty odd years
the Israelites hankered after those very fleshpots of Egypt to which I
have been alluding. Now I appeal to you, as a sensible girl, would
anybody hanker after anything for forty odd years (_very_ odd years as
it happens), unless it was to their advantage to get it; unless, indeed,
the object pursued was _priceless_!"

"You ask too much of _this_ sensible girl," says Miss Kavanagh, with a
carefully manufactured yawn. "Really, dear Dicky, you must forgive me if
I say I haven't gone into it as yet, and that I don't suppose I shall
ever _see_ the necessity for going into it."

"But, my good child, you must see that those respectable people, the
Israelites, wouldn't have pursued a mere shadow for forty years."

"That's just what I _don't_ see. There are such a number of fools
everywhere, in every age, that one couldn't tell."

"This is evasion," says Mr. Browne sternly. "To bring you face to face
with facts must be my very unpleasant if distinct duty. Joyce, do you
dare to doubt for one moment that I speak aught but the truth? Will you
deny that Cleopatra, that old serpent of the----"

"Ha--ha--ha," laughs Joyce ironically. "I wish she could hear you. Your
life wouldn't be worth a moment's purchase."

"Mere slip. Serpent of _old_ Nile. Doesn't matter in the least," says
Mr. Browne airily, "because she couldn't hear me as it happens. My dear
girl, follow out the argument. Cleopatra, metaphorically speaking, was a
fleshpot, because the world hankered after her. And--you're another."

"Really, Dicky, I must protest against your talking slang to me."

"Where does the slang come in? You're another fleshpot. I meant to
say--or convey--because _we_ all hanker after you."

"Do you?" with rising wrath. "May I ask what hankering means?"

"You had better not," says Mr. Browne mysteriously. "It was one of the
rites of Ancient Kem!"

"Now there is _one_ thing, Dicky," says Miss Kavanagh, her wrath boiling
over. "I won't be called names. I won't be called a _fleshpot_. You'll
draw the line there if you please."

"My dear girl, why not? Those delectable pots must have been
_bric-à-brac_ of the most _recherché_ description. Of a most delicate
shape, no doubt. Of a pattern, tint, formation, general get up--not to
be hoped for in these prosaic days."

"Nonsense," indignantly. She is fairly roused now, and Mr. Browne
regarding her with a proud eye, tells himself he is about to have his
reward at last. "You know very well that the term 'fleshpots' referred
to what was _in_ the pots, not to the pots themselves."

"That's all you know about it. That's where your fatal ignorance comes
in, my poor Joyce," says he, with immense compassion. "Search your Bible
from cover to cover, and I defy you to find a single mention of the
contents of those valuable bits of _bric-à-brac_. Of flesh_pots_--heavy
emphasis on the _pots_--and ten fingers down at once if you please--we
read continually as being hankered after by the Israelites, who then, as
now, were evidently avid collectors."

"You've been having champagne, Dicky," says Miss Kavanagh, regarding him
with a judicial eye.

"So have you. But I can't see what that excellent beverage has got to do
with the ancient Jews. Keep to the point. Did you ever hear that they
expressed a longing for the _flesh_ of Egypt? No. So far so good. The
pots themselves were the objects of their admiration. During that
remarkable run of theirs through the howling wilderness they, one and
all, to a _man_, betrayed the true æsthetic tendency. They raved
incessantly for the girl--I beg pardon--the _land_ they had left behind
them. The land that contained those priceless jars."

"I wonder how you can be so silly," says Miss Kavanagh disdainfully.
Will he _never_ go away! If he stays, and if--the other--comes----

"Silly! my good child. _How_ silly! Why everything goes to prove the
probability of my statement. The taste for articles of _vertu_--for
antiquities--for fossils of all descriptions that characterized them
then, has lived to the present day. _Then_ they worried after old china,
and who shall deny that now they have an overwhelming affection for old
clo'."

"Well; your folly doesn't concern me," says Miss Kavanagh, gathering up
her skirts with an evident intention of shaking off the dust of his
presence from her feet and quitting him.

"I am sorry that you should consider it folly," says Mr. Browne
sorrowfully. "I should not have said so much about it perhaps but that I
wanted to prove to you that in calling _you_ a fleshpot I only meant
to----"

"I won't be called that," interrupts Miss Kavanagh angrily. "It's
_horrid_! It makes me feel quite _fat_! Now, once for all, Dicky, I
forbid it. I won't have it."

"I don't see how you are to get out of it," says Mr. Browne, shaking his
head and hands in wild deprecation. "Fleshpots were desirable
articles--you're another--ergo--you're a fleshpot. See the argument?"

"No I don't," indignantly. "I see only you--and--I wish I _didn't_."

"Very rude; _very_!" says Mr. Browne, regretfully. "Yet I entreat thee
not to leave me without one other word. Follow up the argument--_do_.
Give me an answer to it."

"Not one," walking to the door.

"That's because it is unanswerable," says Mr. Browne complacently. "You
are beaten, you----"

There is a sound outside the door; Joyce with her hand on the handle of
it, steps back and looks round nervously at Dicky. A quick color has
dyed her cheeks; instinctively she moves a little to one side and gives
a rapid glance into a long mirror.

"I don't think really he could find a fault," says Mr. Browne
mischievously. "I should think there will be a good deal of hankering
going on to-night."

Miss Kavanagh has only just barely time to wither him, when Beauclerk
comes hurriedly in.


CHAPTER XI.

    "Thinkest thou there are no serpents in the world
    But those who slide along the grassy sod,
    And sting the luckless foot that presses them?
    There are, who in the path of social life
    Do bask their spotted skins in fortune's son,
    And sting the soul."


"Oh, there you are," cries he jovially. "Been looking for you
everywhere. The music has begun; first dance just forming. Gay and
lively quadrille, you know--country ball wouldn't know itself without a
beginning like that. Come; come on."

Nothing can exceed his _bonhomie_. He tucks her hand in the most
delightfully genial, appropriative fashion under his arm, and with a
beaming nod to Mr. Browne (he never forgets to be civil to anybody)
hurries Joyce out of the room, leaving the astute Dicky gazing after him
with mingled feelings in his eye.

"Deuce and all of a smart chap," says Mr. Browne to himself slowly. "But
he'll fall through some day for all that, I shouldn't wonder."

Meantime Mr. Beauclerk is still carrying on a charming recitative.

"_Such a bore!_" he is saying, with heartfelt disgust in his tone. It is
really wonderful how he can _always_ do it. There is never a moment when
he flags. He is for ever up to time as it were, and equal to the
occasion. "I'm afraid you rather misunderstood me just now, when I said
I'd been looking for you--but the fact is, Browne's such an ass, if he
knew we had made an appointment to meet in the library, he'd have brayed
the whole affair to any and every one."

"Was there an appointment?" says Miss Kavanagh, who is feeling a little
unsettled--a little angry with herself perhaps.

"No--no," with a delightful acceptation of her rebuke. "You are right as
ever. I was wrong. But then, you see, it gave me a sort of joy to
believe that our light allusion to a possible happy half-hour before the
turmoil of the dance began might mean something _more_--something----Ah!
well never mind! Men are vain creatures; and after all it would have
been a happy half-hour to me _only_!"

"Would it?" says she with a curious glance at him.

"_You_ know that!" says he, with the full and earnest glance he can turn
on at a second's notice without the slightest injury to heart or mind.

"I don't indeed."

"Oh well, you haven't time to think about it perhaps. There are four in
this world, the laws of the ordinary three-dimensional geometry transfer,
drawing partly in, partly, and particularly successful in accounting
generalization.

I can not ask you that you have a four-imagine the world will be. Because
I can not even. But we can easily imagine two-dimensional world. Take a
look at that you as a thinking being with all your senses and experience
into a level would be banned. Then there would be for you not the
top and bottom, but a juxtaposition. In this flat world can be as light
excitations circles, like the waves on a water surface, propagate.

You can experience the level and build a geometry, the e uklidische
G eometrie the plains, as we learned in school have. But you can
never produce the idea, for example, get a cube. You can count on a
straight line your level a lot within the building level, but you can
not watch a lot according to the present level, because it is nothing
for you outside your level. But if you as a mathematical surface being
sufficient imagination, you can but your definition of two to three
dimensions of progress.

You only need two coordinates instead of your level in the three coordinates
as accounting sizes and can introduce the Lot at the level of equations
in these three coordinates to describe, one of which, however,
you really only two imagined. In the same ratio as that area being
three-dimensional Euclidean space to geometry, we are four to world
geometry. If we do not even us can imagine, we can but in her
mind, and arithmetic.

In particular, we can level and spatial world, excerpts from this construct,
which can then be accessible to our intuition. In our three-dimensional
space is the appearance of the familiar perspective shortening. This
table seems to me from the side view narrower, as seen from above.

(The positivist, the sensations even the last and only are, would say:
it is seen from the side narrower than seen from above.) Under
the same perspective view of the reduction, if we are to the four world
can all the strange conclusions, which the theory of relativity
has withdrawn.

An observer of the moving body appears in the direction of motion
shortens (Lorentz contraction as the simplest explanation of the
Michelson experiment).

The time in moving against the observer reference system seems to slow
this observer (repeal of simultaneity, regeneration of one of our
two twins from the viewpoints of others).

The mass of a body, eg an electron, which is against the observer
moves, this will increase, namely more than one observer, based on the
moving body itself up observation equipment and the mass of the body
resting on it attaches. This law of the electron Massenveränderlichkeit
became the touchstone of the original special relativity theory.

First deny, it has evolved over the years with ever greater accuracy
than it turned out, at its sharpest in the finest expressions of
moving electrons in the spectra of the simplest atoms.

Since then, the idea among the special relativity theory as applied
experimentally assured, since we have four in the world Minkowskischen
furnished and know ourselves in part to its paradoxical sights distorted
way around. But I must, unfortunately, even greater demands on your
abstraction represent.

Because now, I have to show how the Einstein-old riddle of the gravitational
force in his system is incorporated.

The gravity since Newton was in the formula of Newton's Law: "the acting
proportional dimensions, inversely proportional to the square of
their distances" solidifies. Moreover, from our daily experiences on the
gravity or from the observations of astronomers on the gravitational
effects between the stars nothing on their effect manner.

Among all the forces had gravity alone as the instantaneous distance
claimed. Einstein was first observed it new pages to offer.

I will not describe the way, as Einstein to some cross-walls, and
the goal came, but only describe the target itself, to which he
arrived.

Let us return to the position of our land system, but we understand
this is not in a plane, but in a curved surface, such as a ball. We
can not remove the surface of the sphere, we can be nothing outside
of the sphere perceive neither penetrates any comment from the
customer nor the inside of the ball to us.

There is now for us not a top and bottom, but a juxtaposition. Our world
is as previously extended only twice. It is in this case was not infinite,
but it follows the finite. There are no straight lines in our world, but
only certain straightest lines. These are, in the case of the
ball the biggest parties, such as the meridians of any pole, but not
the same circles.

We encounter a mass point in the plane, so he runs in a straight line.
We encounter him in the same way on the ball, so he runs, left
to their own devices and no external forces influenced, in a straight
line, in a major circuits around the globe around. The natural force-free
tracks are curved in the area the straightest lines, as they are
not curved in the plane are the straight lines.

We construct the spherical one geometry, it shall be considered by the
ordinary Euclidean geometry different. On the surface of the sphere, we
have the simplest case of so-called non-Euclidean geometry. While
in Euclidean geometry we know is: The sum of angles in a triangle is
equal to two rights, it says in the non-Euclidean spherical geometry:
The angle sum in a triangle is greater than two rights. For example, we
construct a triangle out loud straightest lines in the following
way: We go from the North Pole on a meridian of N to the equator,
this along to one quarter of its circumference, and again on [===
Figure 2 - see figure2.png ===] a pin back to Meridian, the last
piece in the opposite sense to the marked arrows, whose meaning we
come back later.

Each corner of this triangle is a right (in the figure with R), and the
angle sum equals three rights, ie greater than two rights, as our set of
sum of the angles in the non-Euclidean geometry is required. All these
allegations are comfortable with the visual control.

But now comes a step at which a certain intellectual intrepidity belongs.
Our area care should be following his Spherical conceptually a triple
construct vast space, which has the same characteristics as its spherical
surface in which eg of non-Euclidean rate of the angle sum in
general, and in which all the straightest lines run back , so lines
are not straight.

Such a "curved space" we can not imagine, and yet we have computationally
and conceptually it orientate. And even more, we have a curved four-W
orld and progress not only to a uniform, according to the type of
ball curved world, but to a world of changing K r ä ü mmungsverh n. ltnisse
What has this strange idea geometric circle with the gravitational
theory to do? Let us begin again the better because of our
flat, only two world wide. The area, although in general, and even
approximate, not curved, but they've hump, curved Auswölbungen in such
places where the masses are.

Each matter is the seat of manifold forms of energy, chemical and physical
energy, which in the binding of the atoms among themselves and
in the structure of atoms stuck.

Instead of matter we can also general energy in the broadest sense of the
word say. Everywhere, where physical play events, and therefore energy
is localized, particularly in the strongest points of energy concentration,
tangible matter, should ausgewölbt our flat world, more or less, depending
on it with greater or lesser concentration of energy to do. If we in
particular two such hump: a bulge of overwhelming, which we call
the sun, and a small hump, which we call planet.

We give the latter a push and let him run through our world. Had the
sun not hump and everything just as it would be our planet move to a
straight rail. The presence of the sun hump is that he opted instead
for a straight rail moves. This deviates from the straight line all the
more so that the closer the planet to the sun comes. You already see
hereafter how this parable for the two-dimensional theory of gravity
behaves.

At the point of large concentration of energy is a singular
Raumzeitstrukur, curved.

    The straightest paths in the vicinity of such soft
    places far away from the straight paths, they behave almost like
we are from the old theory of gravity already know, as Keplerellipsen.

We have not needed a special gravitational force introduced. Lanes,
only under the influence of gravity through are force-free, straightest
paths, and their curvature is reflected only by the energy
accumulation resulted World curvature resist. The starting point of
relativity theory remains perfectly preserved.

Time and space are themselves nothing. They get their properties, their
structure until they contain the physical energies statutory. [===
Figure 3 - see figure3.png ===] The lines are according to this theory
of gravitation, Kepler approximated lanes, but not exactly. The Newton's
Law is only a first approximation, for accurate accounting
discrepancies to occur.

The ellipse is not closed, but a slowly rotating, one of those
advancing perihelion. (Perihelion, the point is we know the sun's
largest planet in the near rail.) The figure shows a very exaggerated
Perihelfortschritt this scale.

He is the more likely the closer the planet to the sun, so when Mercury,
the planet sonnennächsten the most. According to the observations and
calculations of astronomers now occurs in fact at a Mercury Perihelbewegung
on the basis of Newton's theory can not explain.

It is this 43 seconds of arc in the century, that is to say that after
30 000 years, the Mercury train in their initial position is returned.
When the sun distant planets, for example, when the earth is the
progression of the perihelion however unmeasurable small. It is precisely
this value of 43 seconds in the century was now based on Einstein's
account of his new view of gravitation.

Note well: the Einstein's thought took his exit of epistemological
claims, never had an indeterminate or vulnerability of home knew
nothing of Merkurperihel but inevitably and led to astronomical observation
value. I can not hide the fact that a critical review of the specification
of astronomical 43 seconds, which Mr Grossmann has recently carried
out, this value can appear more uncertain than astronomers previously
thought.

The most probable value according to Mr. Grossmann something deeper than
43 seconds. Until astronomers have agreed that this will, one can only
say that the new gravitational theory in any event, the magnitude of
the Mercury Perihelbewegung correctly there. [=== Figure 4 - see
figure4.png ===] We return to our image the sun in the humpback
flat two-dimensional world.

Instead of a planet we are now chasing a light beam at the sun. Again,
this runs on a straight track, in the absence of world he would
bend a straight path.

Again works like the planets, the curvature of space in the sun so
close, as if an appeal of the sun on the beam of light would be
exercised, as whether the light of the sun would come out.

Consider the analogue, but in fact, but conditions in the wesensverschiedenen
atmospheric refraction rays, where the beam of light in the Earth's
atmosphere also bends. What we have here can be expected, shows the
next figure. Stern A, which is hard to light in the sun vorbeischickt,
the observation does not appear in A, but because of the curved shape
of the light path in the extension of the beam end, ie at the point
B of the sky vault.

Nahe sun stars thus show an apparent deflection of solar edge continued.
Of course this is only a distraction total S onnenfinsternis
observe, because otherwise the star light from sunlight is überstrahlt.
[=== Figure 5 - see figure5.png ===] On 29 May 1919 was a solar
eclipse, which was totally in Brazil.

Germany was excluded from her observation, England made two expeditions
equipped. The results have been sent to me. The constellation was
particularly favorable, because 7 in relatively bright stars near the
sun stood. Our image in Figure 5, the darkened sun with their shining
aureole, the corona, dar. The 7 stars are marked by small circles.

From the stars from the distractions as a straight line is applied,
as they theoretically be calculated according to Einstein, they
lost in the radial direction and are responsible for the stars near
the sun is greater than for the distant sun.

The scale is many thousand times exaggerated. On the sunny edge is
the theoretical deflection only 1.7 seconds of arc, that is so
small that we do in our picture can not draw, in the double distance
from the sun in mid-distraction is still halbmal smaller.

In the same exaggerated scale are now also observed as distractions
strokes with arrowhead registered. The real distraction on the
photographic plate is only under the microscope auszumessen and is only
indirectly observed. Apart from the eclipse itself was recording a
recording a few weeks after the eclipse made at a time when the
sun out of the question area of the fixed star heaven had removed.

Moreover, a third comparison plate, which in the wrong photographierende
telescope, with the glass side to the outside, with the side to the
inside layer was inserted.

This plate was then compared with the two Bebachtungsplatten, during
the solar eclipse and the same recorded, layer on layer to cover the
market. The distractions of the stars is through this indirect method
under the microscope and measured in accordance with the adjustment
procedure has been calculated.

As our figure shows, the empirical data thus obtained to the
distractions surprising agree with the theoretical. They show not only
how these approximate the radial direction from the solar center
to the outside world (which is partly offset by the applied procedure
is carried out, is still not without further evidence would be),
but they also show very nearly the same size and the theory required
size decrease with increasing distance of the star from the sun.
[=== Figure 6 - see figure6.png ===] This is particularly convincing
in the next picture to show what the English original report is
taken.

Upward deflections are the star, right out the reciprocal distances from
the sun center is applied with which the theoretical proportion
distractions go. The decrease in deflection with increasing distance from
the Sun is strongly theoretically by the extended straight out.
The real observation points (by playing strong points) are very
close to this line, much closer than the dotted line, after which
an older, non-consistent Einstein's theory of the star would be
distracting.

We do not accept that the deflection of the star village atmosphere
by the sun causes could be.

In such great distances as they come here in question, is the Sun's
atmosphere just trivial. The astronomical experts are agreed that the
probative force of the English eclipse shots flush. The goal of every
science is, after a fine words of the mathematician Jacobi, the honor of
the human spirit. The 29th May 1919 is for all times honor the human
spirit remain. Merkurperihel Besides the sun and the eclipse observations,
there is a third criterion for Einstein's gravitational theory: the
redshift of spectral lines, which arise on the sun, compared to
the spectral lines of the same substance, if they under terrestrial
conditions are caused.

You know, since it is an Astro Physics, the appearance of the so-called
Doppler effect. It consists in the shift of a spectrum to the red side
at stars that are removed from the earth, in a shift to the violet side
of stars, based on the Earth sent.

The size of this shift corresponds to the speed with which the concerned
star from us, or continue to moving forward. It maintains, therefore,
also predicted by Einstein redshift in the solar spectrum with a velocity
to characterize the Doppler effect would cause the same redshift,
and this speed is 0.6 kilometers per second. The physical reason for this
redshift is only so much I said, that he is not, of course, as the
ordinary Doppler effect in a relative movement of the sun against
the earth, but in the gravitational field of the sun is.

This is very much stronger than the gravitational field of the earth.

The redshift difference corresponds directly to the severity of the
surface of the sun and Earth's surface. [=== Figure 7 - see
figure7.png ===] The most suitable experimental object for the
examination of this effect is the so-called Zyanbanden lines.

Strangely, the tools with the best equipped American observatories
no systematic shift of these lines to the red side to demonstrate. The
Bonn physicist Grebe and Bachem but have only shown what we caution when
comparing the solar lines and the lines from earthly light sources
must proceed in order to obtain reliable results.

Both spectra contain not only the law in question Zyanlinien, but
next to a tangle of lines of different origin, which are superimposed
on those. Photometriert you such a range, ie, there is the light intensity
in their dependence on the wavelength by a graph, so creates a serrated
type of curve to the ridge.

Only those lines are perfect, the graph of an isolated Zacke be
displayed, if a survey of foreign origin in the close, it falsifies the
position of the main peak and makes them to study the redshift inappropriate.

"You will trust in me?" says he.

"Yes, I trust you," says she simply.

Her pretty gloved hand is lying on her lap. Raising it, he presses it
passionately to his lips. Joyce, with a little nervous movement,
withdraws it quickly. The color dies from her lips. Even at this supreme
moment does Doubt hold her in thrall!

Her face is marvelously bright and happy, however, as she rises
precipitately to her feet, much to Beauclerk's relief. It has gone quite
far enough he tells himself--five minutes more and he would have found
himself in a rather embarrassing position. Really these pretty girls are
very dangerous.

"Come, we must go back to the ballroom," says she gaily. "We have been
here an unconscionable time. I am afraid my partner for this dance has
been looking for me, and will scarcely forgive my treating him so badly.
If I had only told him I _wouldn't_ dance with him he might have got
another partner and enjoyed himself."

"Better to have loved and lost," quotes Beauclerk in his airiest manner.
It is _so_ airy that it strikes Joyce unpleasantly. Surely after
all--after----She pulls herself together angrily. Is she _always_ to
find fault with him? Must she have his whole nature altered to suit her
taste?

"Ah, there is Dicky Browne," says she, glancing from where she is now
standing at the door of the conservatory to where Mr. Browne may be seen
leaning against a curtain with his lips curved in a truly benevolent
smile.


CHAPTER XIII.

    "Now the nights are all past over
    Of our dreaming, dreams that hover
    In a mist of fair false things:
    Night's afloat on wide wan wings."


"Why, so it is! Our _own_ Dicky, in the flesh and an admirable temper
apparently," says Mr. Beauclerk. "Shall we come and interview him?"

They move forward and presently find themselves at Mr. Browne's elbow;
he is, however, so far lost in his kindly ridicule of the poor silly
revolving atoms before him, that it is not until Miss Kavanagh gives his
arm a highly suggestive pinch that he learns that she is beside him.

"_Wough!_" says he, shouting out this unclassic if highly expressive
word without the slightest regard for decency. "_What_ fingers you've
got! I really think you might reserve that kind of thing for Mr. Dysart.
_He'd_ like it."

This is a most infelicitous speech, and Miss Kavanagh might have
resented it, but for the strange fact that Beauclerk, on hearing it,
laughs heartily. Well, if _he_ doesn't mind, it can't matter, but how
silly Dicky can be! Mr. Beauclerk continues to laugh with much
enjoyment.

"Try him!" says he to Miss Kavanagh, with the liveliest encouragement in
his tone. If it occurs to her that, perhaps, lovers, as a rule, do not
advise their sweethearts to play fast and loose with other men, she
refuses to give heed to the warning. He is not like other men. He is not
basely jealous. He knows her. He trusts her. He had hinted to her but
just now, so very, very kindly that _she_ was suspicious, that she must
try to conquer that fault--if it is hers. And it is. There can be no
doubt of that. She had even distrusted _him_!

"Is that your advice?" asks Mr. Browne, regarding him with a rather
piercing eye. "Capital, _under the circumstances_, but rather,
eh?----Has it ever occurred to you that Dysart is capable of a good deal
of feeling?"

"So few things occur to me, I'm ashamed to say," says Beauclerk,
genially. "I take the present moment. It is all-sufficing, so far as I'm
concerned. Well; and so you tell me Dysart has feeling?"

"Yes; I shouldn't advise Miss Kavanagh to play pranks with him," says
Dicky, with a pretentiously rueful glance at the arm she has just
pinched so very delicately.

"You're a poor soldier!" says she, with a little scornful uptilting of
her chin. "You wrong Mr. Dysart if you think he would feel so slight an
injury. What! A mere touch from _me_!"

"Your touch is deadlier than you know, perhaps," says Mr. Browne,
lightly.

"What a slander!" says Miss Kavanagh, who, in spite of herself, is
growing a little conscious.

"Yes; isn't it?" says Beauclerk, to whom she has appealed. "As for
me----" He breaks off suddenly and fastens his gaze severely on the
other side of the room. "By Jove! I had forgotten! There is my partner
for this dance looking daggers at me. Dear Miss Kavanagh, you will
excuse me, won't you? Shall I take you to your chaperone, or will you
let Browne have the remainder of this waltz?"

"I'll look after Miss Kavanagh, if she will allow me," says Dicky,
rather drily. "Will you?" with a quizzical glance at Joyce.

She makes a little affirmative sign to him, returns Beauclerk's parting
bow, and, still with a heart as light as a feather, stands by Mr.
Browne's side, watching in silence the form of Beauclerk as it moves
here and there amongst the crowd. What a handsome man he is! How
distinguished! How tall! How big! Every other man looks dwarfed beside
him. Presently he disappears into an anteroom, and she turns to find Mr.
Browne, for a wonder, as silent as herself, and evidently lost in
thought.

"What are you thinking of?" asks she.

"Of you!"

"Nonsense! What were you doing just then when I spoke to you?"

"I have told you."

"No, you haven't. What _were_ you doing?"

"_Hankering!_" says Mr. Browne, heavily.

"_Dicky!_" says she indignantly.

"Well; what? Do you suppose a fellow gets rid of a disease of that sort
all in a minute? It generally lasts a good month, I can tell you. But
come; that 'Beautiful Star' of yours, that 'shines in your heaven so
bright,' has given you into my charge. What can I do for you?"

"Deliver me from the wrath of that man over there," says Miss Kavanagh,
indicating Mr. Blake, who, with a thunderous brow, is making his way
towards her. "The last was his. I forgot all about it. Take me away,
Dicky; somewhere, anywhere; I know he's got a horrid temper, and he is
going to say uncivil things. Where" (here she meanly tries to get behind
Mr. Browne) "_shall_ we go."

"Right through this door," says Mr. Browne, who, as a rule, is equal to
all emergencies. He pushes her gently towards the conservatory she has
just quitted, that has steps leading from it to the illuminated gardens
below, and just barely gets her safely ensconced behind a respectable
barricade of greenery before Mr. Blake arrives on the spot they have
just vacated.

They have indeed the satisfaction of seeing him look vaguely round,
murmur a gentle anathema or two, and then resign himself to the
inevitable.

"He's gone!" says Miss Kavanagh, with a sigh of relief.

"To perdition!" says Mr. Browne in an awesome tone.

"I really wish you wouldn't, Dicky," says Joyce.

"Why not? You seem to think men's hearts are made of adamant! A moment
ago you sneered at _mine_, and now----By Jove! Here's Baltimore--and
alone, for a wonder."

"Well! _His_ heart is adamant!" says she softly.

"Or hers--which?"

"Of course--manlike--you condemn our sex. That's why I'm glad I'm not a
man."

"Why? Because, if you were, you would condemn your present sex?"

"_Certainly_ not! Because I wouldn't be of an unfair, mean, ungenerous
disposition for the world."

"Good old Jo!" says Mr. Browne, giving her a tender pat upon the back.

By this time Baltimore has reached them.

"Have you seen Lady Baltimore anywhere?" asks he.

"Not quite lately," says Dicky; "last tune I saw her she was dancing
with Farnham."

"Oh--after that she went to the library," says Joyce quickly. "I fancy
she may be there still, because she looked a little tired."

"Well, she had been dancing a good deal," says Dicky.

"Thanks. I dare say I'll find her," says Baltimore, with an air of
indifference, hurrying on.

"I hope he will," says Joyce, looking after him.

"I hope so too--and in a favorable temper."

"You're a cynic, Dicky, under all that airy manner of yours," says Miss
Kavanagh severely. "Come out to the gardens, the air may cool your
brain, and reduce you to milder judgments."

"Of Lady Baltimore?"

"Yes."

"Truly I do seem to be sitting in judgment on her and her family."

"Her _family_! What has Bertie done?"

"Oh, there is more family than Bertie," says Mr. Browne. "She has a
brother, hasn't she?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Meantime Lord Baltimore, taking Joyce's hint, makes his way to the
library, to find his wife there lying back in a huge arm-chair. She is
looking a little pale. A little _ennuyée_; it is plain that she has
sought this room--one too public to be in much request--with a view to
getting away for a little while from the noise and heat of the ballroom.

"Not dancing?" says her husband, standing well away from her. She had
sprung into a sitting posture the moment she saw him, an action that has
angered Baltimore. His tone is uncivil; his remark, it must be
confessed, superfluous. _Why_ does she persist in treating him as a
stranger? Surely, on whatever bad terms they may be, she need not feel
it necessary to make herself uncomfortable on his appearance. She has
evidently been enjoying that stolen lounge, and _now_----

The lamplight is streaming full upon her face. A faint color has crept
into it. The white velvet gown she is wearing is hardly whiter than her
neck and arms, and her eyes are as bright as her diamonds; yet there is
no feature in her face that could be called strictly handsome. This,
Baltimore tells himself, staring at her as he is, in a sort of insolent
defiance of the cold glance she has directed at him. No; there is no
beauty about that face; distinctly bred, calm and pure, it might
possibly be called charming by those who liked her, but nothing more.
She is not half so handsome as--as--any amount of other women he knows,
and yet----

It increases his anger towards her tenfold to know that in her secret
soul she has the one face that to _him_ is beautiful, and ever _will_ be
beautiful.

"You see," says she gently, and with an expressive gesture, "I longed
for a moment's pause, so I came here. Do they want me?" She rises from
her seat, looking very tall and graceful. If her face is not strictly
lovely, there is, at all events, no lack of loveliness in her form.

"I can't answer for 'they,'" says Baltimore, "but"----he stops dead
short here. If he _had_ been going to say anything, the desire to carry
out his intention dies upon the spot. "No, I am not aware that 'they' or
anybody wants you particularly at this moment. Pray sit down again."

"I have had quite a long rest already."

"You look tired, however. _Are_ you?"

"Not in the least."

"Give me this dance," then says he, half mockingly, yet with a terrible
earnestness in his voice.

"Give it to _you_! Thank you. No."

"Fearful of contamination?" with a smiling sneer.

"Pray spare me your jibes," says she very coldly, her face whitening.

"Pray spare me your presence, you should rather say. Let us have the
truth at all hazards. A saint like you should be careful."

To this she makes him no answer.

"What!" cries he, sardonically; "and will you miss this splendid
opportunity of giving a sop to your Cerberus? Of conciliating your
bugbear? your _bête noire_? your _fear of gossip_?"

"I fear nothing"--icily.

"You do, however. Forgive the contradiction," with a sarcastic
inclination of the head. "But for this fear of yours you would have cast
me off long ago, and bade me go to the devil as soon as--nay, the sooner
the better. And indeed if it were not for the child----By the bye, do
you forget I have a hold on _him_--a stronger than yours?"

"I _forget_ nothing either," returns she as icily as before; but now a
tremor, barely perceptible, but terrible in its intensity, shakes her
voice.

"Hah! You need not tell me _that_. You are relentless as--well, 'Fate'
comes in handy," with a reckless laugh. "Let us be conventional by all
means, and it is a good old simile, well worn! You decline my proposal
then? It is a sensible one, and should suit you. Dance with me to-night,
when all the County is present, and Mother Grundy goes to bed with a
sore heart. Scandal lies slain. All will cry aloud: '_There they go!_
Fast friends in spite of all the lies we have heard about them.' Is it
possible you can deliberately forego so great a chance of puzzling our
neighbors?"

"I can."

"Why, where is your sense of humor? One trembles for it! To be able to
deceive them all so deliriously; to send them home believing us on good
terms, a veritable loving couple"--he breaks into a curious laugh.

"This is too much," says she, her face now like death. "You would insult
me! Believe me, that not to spare myself all the gossip with which the
whole world could hurt me would I endure your arm around my waist!"

His short-lived, most unmirthful mirth has died from him, he has laid a
hand upon the table near him to steady himself.

"You are candid, on my soul," says he slowly.

She moves quickly towards the door, her velvet skirt sweeping over his
feet as she goes by--the perfume of the violets lying in her bosom
reaches him.

Hardly knowing his own meaning, he puts out his hand and catches her by
her naked arm, just where the long glove ceases above the elbow.

"Isabel, give me this dance," says he a little wildly.

"_No!_"

She shakes herself free of him. A moment her eyes blaze into his. "No!"
she says again, trembling from head to foot. Another moment, and the
door has closed behind her.


CHAPTER XIV.

    "The old, old pain of earth."


It is now close upon midnight--that midnight of the warmer months when
day sets its light finger on the fringes of it. There is a sighing
through the woods, a murmur from the everlasting sea, and though Diana
still rides high in heaven with her handmaiden Venus by her side, yet in
a little while her glory will be departed, and her one rival, the sun,
will push her from her throne.

The gleaming lamps among the trees-are scarcely so bright as they were
an hour ago, the faint sighing of the wind that heralds the morning is
shaking them to and fro. A silly bird has waked, and is chirping in a
foolish fashion among the rhododendrons, where, in a secluded path,
Joyce and Dicky Browne are wandering somewhat aimlessly. Before them
lies a turn in the path that leads presumably into the dark wood,
darkest of all at this hour, and where presumably, too, no one has
ventured, though one should never presume about hidden corners.

"I can't think what you see in him," says Mr. Browne, after a big pause.
"I'd say nothing if his face wasn't so fat, but if I were you, that
would condemn him in my eyes."

"I can't see that his face is fatter than yours," says Miss Kavanagh,
with what she fondly believes perfect indifference.

"Neither is it," says Mr. Browne meekly, "but my dear girl, there lies
the gist of my argument. You have condemned me. All my devotion has been
scouted by you. I don't pretend to be the wreck still that once by your
cruelty you made me, but----"

"Oh, that will do," says Joyce, unfeelingly. "As for Mr. Beauclerk, I
don't know why you should imagine I see anything in him."

"Well, I confess I can't quite understand it myself. He couldn't hold a
candle to--er--well, several other fellows I could name, myself not
included, Miss Kavanagh, so that supercilious smile is thrown away. He
may be good to look at, there is certainly plenty of him on which to
feast the eye, but to fall in love with----"

"What do you mean, Dicky? What are you speaking about--do you know?
You," with a deadly desire to insult him, "must be in love yourself
to--to maunder as you are doing?"

"I'm not," says Mr. Browne, "that's the queer part of it. I don't know
what's the matter with me. Ever since you blighted me, I have lain
fallow, as it were. I," dejectedly, "haven't been in love for quite a
long, long time now. I miss it--I can't explain it. I can't be well, can
I? I," anxiously, "I don't look well, do I?"

"I never saw you looking better," with unkind force.

"Ah!" sadly, "that's because you don't give your attention to me. It's
my opinion that I'm fading away to the land o' the leal, like old
What-you-may-call-'em."

"If that's the way he did it, it must have taken him some time. Felicísimo
he seemed to realize the absurdity we have described, the reality
was that the portrait was in place and D.

Felicísimo lying on the ground in complete mental and physical disorder,
submerged in the murky depths of drunkenness. The good Lord did not hear,
then, the funeral Maull cat, she had come into the room with the whiskers
stiff, bristly spine, eyes like emeralds crossed beam gold fingernails
threatening not make you jump and feel madnesses which lost if the
trial was touched or bad love, did not hear the horrible cries, followed
by hoarse bellows, or witnessed the ferocity with which the dessert
was launched, climbing the wall, falling, rising, rising by one
post , precipitated by dark holes, to reappear later panting and
desperate.

The unhappy Butcher did not see any of this, books and print of a horrible,
no not heard the noise of the vermin in the ceiling, pulling through
the walls and then jump under their weak pass countless pieces of
plaster, he could not see how fell suddenly huge piece of rubble
in the middle of the hallway, or how some of the props were moved
and others were broken at last giving way to the weight of the roof
rotten, did not see the first swing of the room, nor the inclination
of the partition mediator, or hesitation of the cargo, nor the
terrible slowness with which the beams of the roof fell on the flat
roof, crushing the bohardilla as a sponge, nor heard the crackling
of the wood to resist as much as possible the weight, nor breach
of some walls, or the fourth of the casts, splashing Chinitas often
that they were stones, or saw dust off the stage, followed a shower
of lime which was then hail of pebbles, or witnessed the departure
from the walls, it started making a courtesy to the boundary wall
on the street of the Duke of Alba, and then broke through the windows
and the most fragile.

D. Felicísimo did not see any of this, and when that mole podrida plunged
into a piece larger than the roar of a hundred cannon, he shook his
tomb in a moment of ruin, whispered these words: 'Let me go
already " and passed into eternity, not as one who sleeps, but as I wake
up.'s rich ecclesiastical archives, which bundles peeked gratings by
exciting the shelves of the veneration of the spectator, he was so
eaten by moths, which are home to collapse crumbled like dry powder
mixture, and it seemed that everything fell into chaos after the
dispersal of matter so useless, so blurred and so rancidity point
as they accumulate in the rotten writing.

Thus centuries and obsolete institutions such as rivers enter the sea
of dust in the ruins of the past, which is agitated for some time
and emborrasca until it finally settles and hardens, it petrifies
and is forever dead.

Nothing to know what's in this huge tomb in which many great things lie
absence of the epitaph that is called history. The news of the disaster
spread quickly throughout the neighborhood. Wine Pipaón trembling
with fear and very uneasy about the fate that at the unexpected
collapse would fit the thicker D.

Felicísimo quantities kept in his own home. Later welcomed into the depths
of his chest from a disaster that disabled the old rebellious
perverse attempt to deny, if possible, his granddaughter to inherit
it.

Even in this unfortunate accident has shown the strong protection that
the court provide the Sky, 1815, away from all dangers and paving roads
to reach every where without any doubt should go.

Therefore Rodriguín Don said: _Divisum imperium cum Jove habet_ Pipa. On
the afternoon of day 1. October D. Benigno Cordero covered with sorrowful
countenance the ruins of the house of absolutism. A dozen ganapanes
guarded by individuals in the police and the curia, removed debris,
removing rubble, rotten beams, and furniture made chips. The money and
the body of D. Felicísimo finally appeared as objects from a Pompeian
excavations between stunned and dismay of the spectators, who moved
from curiosity, for whom greed.

He was in that afternoon Boteros occupations that did not allow it
to be like a fool watching the exhumation, and after praying a
couple of our Father for the soul of who was friend and comrade,
and entrust it with devotion to God, came into a house nearby.

Recibiole a servant, and here was the surprise, here the suspension of
D. Benigno, who was slumped over and crushed to Carnicero, to hear
what I heard. - But has ido, has ido de Madrid for a long time -
asked the good Lord, after a long pause, in which did not know what
was wrong. - For a long time, yes sir. - then went away. - Far away,
but did not say where. - But you are sure what it says?

You are upset. - Lord is gone and not come back soon. - You have left a
message or letter .... - Lord wrote a letter, but left her at home.
- Well, where, man of God, where? - The left D. Felicísimo Carnicero.
- Blessed be God! - Exclaimed D. Benigno, pounding on the floor with
one foot -. And you do not let verbal message for me?

- For Mr. Lamb? Yes sir. He said that Mr Felicísimo you know the reason
for his trip and would give it a letter. - Barástolis!

... Some things seem to work for Satan. And playing in his mind the
spectacle of the debris he had seen a few steps away, he thought that to
find the letter needed lift many cubic yards of dust and chips, a walking
corpse and pesadísimo of the curia, as the treasury, as the foot of the
steps that manilimaes currency fall while walking her own eyes looking
for land. Lamb of your chest exhale a sigh that seemed the best part of
his soul is in search of the fugitive escape, and left overwhelmed
with grief.

The crowds on the street is crowded with the ruins which he intimated
that drew precious fossil agent who was the church. Then gave a
sigh more, saying to himself: - Also we sink, we were also dropped
over the house.

Acordose then Sola, who had left his home awaiting the outcome of
that visit, and could not less also bring to mind the hearts of the
orphaned before leaving the Cigarrales.

We do not want to give this unit without the unpleasant news of
some comfort, made extensive findings that very evening, and after
talking with some friends of the fugitive and to several thousand
questions in inns and hostels, retired to his home if not with
certainty, with the suspicion that Salvador had fundadísima ido
north.

This, the voices that had run on the views taken by his late friend
and the fact of having party in the same day that His Majesty died,
led to Lamb of cavilación in cavilación to put you in the trance
of believing that the day Previous seemed incredible. - I - thought
was walking home - treasure that can not be for an adventure.

My daughter will marry a man who plays well with the early saints, a man
who was excited yesterday and today liberal absolutist Trabuco
and surplice. She turned away from him his spirit and heart, and then
....

The face of the Boteros encouraged. Any new idea and happy place as a
flaming interior, which rises to the face reflection, where this
has not been educated in dissimulation and hypocrisy. Cordero fanned
step strongly and pressed his fist to the stick, saying: - So ....

As the nineteenth-geographer's view stretches over the map, and the
imagination of the great D.

Benigno flying towards the north in tracking a fugitive, wanted for plains
and hillsides, paths and shortcuts. I saw half Castilla, Aragon half,
the mighty Ebro, the Pyrenees and then the foothills covered with
greenery and full of snakes that came out of a thousand hiding
places.

And it will not be mistaken to say that the imagination of the fugitive
was left behind as a ball of thread that developed wheel. Rolled our
man with such haste that cachazudos time allowed, longing to get there
soon, and since everything is relative in the world, their tartan, galley
or seat posts (in the category of vehicle does not conform references)
took a step that compared to the tortoise could have called fast.
crossed the plain of Alcalá, the aroma and poor Alcarria, which
falls into the realm of bees; saw Sigüenza where clerics hives, and
passage through the close of the Jalón basin, which angostura is
whistling by like the sword of water that sheathe mountain.

The Roman Bilblíis showed him the land and Aragon. In feraz vega de
Zaragoza, went through piles of peaches between bullets that appeared
to fire, and saw the lush vineyards of grapes retinta whose juice inflame
the blood of the peasants of Lanuza.

Passed without stopping through the city bearing the name preclaro
in the just-century military, which had in the rags of its broken
walls better than others in the defense of their armor stone walls.

In the Ebro Tudela went into open land of Navarre, hotbed of angry
people, because if was made to raise Rioja peppers, Navarre was
made to raise soldiers.

Found great excitement in the villages of the road, and people
stopped to ask for the buggy news.

    Needed to satisfy all, saying: "Yes, it is true
    that the King is dead."

"Is it true that Madrid has already declared Mr Carlos?

Is it true that Cristina has engaged or is about to embark on its
way?

Is it true that the infant has returned from Portugal, and is head
of the army?

". To answer these questions could not travel because he knew nothing, but
good enough that it came from false information and lies, skillfully
seed sown in these countries had to harvest early shots.

Kept going and finally came in Estella. Although twelve stepped on a
beautiful day when the main square, the next stage antojósele
showed that very dark shadow over the city and this is suffocating
in its belt of mountains.

At each step of clerics found pandillas layer with cape, hat and
umbrella tassel, talking in living language on the issue of the
day, which was the death of the King and the problem of succession.

Dirigiose one of those gentlemen to ask for the residence of Colonel
Seudoquis, who wanted to see without wasting time, and the cleric, chubby
man and pike, he answered this way: - you posted on this earth.

If it were not you know that to find the famous Seudoquis no further to
find out where they play and where they drink. Pointing his umbrella at
the corner of the sidewalk in front, added the good man as follows:
-- you see the house where it says in really big letters _Licores_?

Well, there you will find the drunk. And he went laughing and rush to
meet the crew who had followed him on foot while stopped. All other
individuals incarnate umbrella hat and black were also pike and gorditas,
signal no doubt be given to people much penance. Salvador soon found
his friend and found him drunk or not playing, but talking shop
with three other soldiers and two countrymen.

The surprise and joy of the Colonel were great. After hugging, retiráronse
a quarter of a ramshackle inn (as inn, café, tavern, and something
else that was the home) and talked to themselves more than an hour.

When Salvador was withdrawn to rest in the room that you went there,
believed to have won the game and was pleased with his adventurous journey,
which was by Ventura. But God wanted all his plans were disrupted,
and that every born trouble losing another imposing challenge. That same
afternoon recibiose notice that don Santos Thief, the daring guerrilla
Rioja, Estella came on with five volunteers, the cry of _España
Carlos V_.

Púsose moving the low side of the square, and God knows what would have
happened if not timely Brigadier Lawrence, commanded by the Viceroy Solá
Cordova with the regiment and provincial Sigüenza. Lorenzo did not rest
in Estella. That night saw the streets Salvador Santiago Mayor and packed
with soldiers, who were rationed with bread and wine, he spoke with them
and was able to note that the troops existed in good spirit, although
his enthusiasm for the cause began to defend was not very still large.
Lorenzo came out at midnight. The next day there was news of the battle
of the Arches, where the volunteers were smashed and the thieves
made prisoner.

Salvador was the second time the troops of Lawrence, back to Pamplona,
bringing the guerrilla and don Santos Iribarren. The worst case for
our friend, was that Lorenzo was also in Pamplona to the three prisoners
in the jail were Estella and determination came to this land built by
the plan in concert with Monsalud Seudoquis. Unexpected obstacle seemed
so bad to announce successful attempts generous Salvador because
they were prisoners of Estella and sentenced to death.

But why not fainted, and was launched to Pamplona, according to the
winning squad. It was an advantage for him to accompany Seudoquis,
whose cooperation with humanitarian counted, although it would be
very difficult to exercise the same residence of the Viceroy.

Along the way, could see his brother Salvador and prisoner in such a
state of exhaustion and depression that inspiring pity those who watched
him. In a ramshackle truck transport was lying on mattress, with the
hardness of the stones competed. As the car had a canopy and side mode
palitroques bars, they look like a cage was great, where was that
Mr. Navarro, looked outside, squalid, dull, stiff and sleepy, it seems
to D. Quixote delighted when he took from the sale to his village.
Salvador was closer, with the leave of the escort, and changed a few
words with the prisoner, which was very slow in recognizing it and
looked down with eyes like a madman. - What are you doing here?

- Said his face closer to the poles -. Are you where you are or seem
otherwise - that I think - Salvador replied leaning as much as possible
about your Arzon beast -. Do not expect to see me here - You have not
come to anything good. - I am here for you. - Oh ... eres ministriles
of the Viceroy.

Have you ever been an advisor to His Excellency? See, hear, Come on over
.... Di rabble of His Excellency to not shoot late. Ya no puedo
más. - Do you feel bad? Do you have a lot - Do you suffer from something
that I care or not? So yes, I have a lot, for life of radish! ... I have
a lamp here.

Incorporated difficult llevose both hands to Hijar. Fear caused her
face livid, and when delayed with purple lips and equivocal expression
blanquísimos peeked his teeth, he was clearly evident in the smile
of pain, or the almost imperceptible mockery that makes the pain
itself when all have completed the consolations of sophistry and
even consolation. - You're very sick - said Salvador with grief -
and I believe that you forgive Virrey life. - And the flame pardon
me live!

... yours is a pardon. ¡pardon! ... No, however Mason is the Viceroy,
will not be as cruel or inhuman treatment. - You are amazed, and
suffering you a little crazy, making nonsense. - I'm sane and I
know what I say.

You're stupid and you talk too much. - I will tell you just do not
despair.

Ta disease can be cured yet. - With four shots ....

¡Radishes! not suffer it in the back. - There will be nowhere.

You are sick and excited. I swear that I will save you great effort.
- And who will save me, you? Do you? - Garrote said with contempt. -
May be.

I have not come on. - From Madrid - Yes. And I'm going to Pamplona. -
Save yourself! ... ¡Preserve life!

I see that there are executioners of life. - I want to be with you this
hangman lives. - Look, look, you want to leave me in peace, intruder,
and get back to your mother?

- We will go - I will be happy tomorrow - Navarro said with sullen expression
- in the pit of Pamplona. How will cold there! The prisoner trembled. -
Are you cold?

- Asked his brother. - Man, do I have cold. Can not you see? Why you
ask? Your pesadeces end the patience of a saint. - You provide a
blanket. Alejose Salvador and came back with what little time he
had offered. The prisoner took the blanket and arrebujose in it,
adding it to the blanket and the cloak that was about it, but
neither of these was in heat. - I see you are still very icy as
before.

However, the day is good. Pica sun. - My cold is not the coldness of the
whole world. Cien soles not destroy .... abura. - No, not yet. I have
to get a warning. It is essential that you get mad, I mean, that
tomorrow, when you recognize the doctors, you find symptoms of insanity.
- Find the happy death - Navarro replied, giving tooth tooth -. Ah!
you already understand: fingiré me sane to kill me soon. Fingiré me
sane, gritaré: "¡Viva Carlos V, the Freemasons killed !...». Okay, man,
bye. Go away, I want to put out to sleep.

And they tended, wrapping around and covering face and hands, so
that if it were not for the tremor, which seems a dead bore to bury.

Salvador withdrew very hopeless. The convoy stopped to distribute rations.
It was the time of harvest and the wine was slightly less than
nothing, because they needed to evict the jars to accommodate the
must, which that year was enormous.

So the convoy passed by, to quote Seudoquis by a street drunk.

At every moment jaleadores groups found; oíanse dicharachos, and
cantorrios pendencies.

Dances and celebrating Ping jotas October, and the waiters appeared stained
grape harvesters, sacristans as crude and ugly, not priests, and
a pedestrian Baco degrades.

With the fall of the evening was cushioning the scandal that farm
bacchanal; died noise guitars and tambourines, and by nightfall,
gangs of clerics appeared walking on the road to the entrance of
the village.

Dark oscurísima was the night when the convoy entered the capital
of Navarre.

And despite being such that everything was black, it seemed that
Salvador did not have enough darkness to hide her what to think.

-XX-But it was useless for lack of items.

Surreptitiously snatch a prisoner to the military authority, within a
strong and square at a time when the fanaticism of the parties to
redouble vigilance was too reckless and difficult undertaking for not
coming with high aid.

Salvador had no friendship with the viceroy, and although he would
have nothing to be D.

Antonio Solá inflexible man.

Of the military treated some important and some of them knew that bordered
on friendship, for companionship in the former Masonic Grand Orient,
22.

But it was not about the opportunity to corrupt humanitarian. Seudoquis,
with whom he always had, gave him hope, assuring him that if the
prisoner continue their mad extravagance, it was easy for the
viceroy, instead of sending to the gulf, sent to hospital in ESPON.
Care to resume old relationships, and seek a new deal Salvador
best hours of day and night.

The soldiers gathered in a kind of casino, located next to the main inn,
and was played there, mixing entertainment with lawful prohibited
is drank coffee, emptied bottles and talking to cute. Outside of that
circle our friend found some who, despite belonging to the military,
remained retracted. One morning I just walked by Taconera when faced
with a person whose face was not strange for him. Detúvose, health,
and the known unknown replied coolly. He was a man of high stature,
brown, black eyes, mustache and sideburns.

These carefully cut by the knife forming a curve on the cheek and went
to join the mustache, solved it, so to speak, of what it was like a
carrillera dryer.

His aquiline nose of perfect form, penetrating look, and I do not know
what a reserve of deep seriousness that he had indicated that it was
not vulgar man who walked hours involved in such a layer of clothes,
shoes and high boots that the condition of the floor was unnecessary.

When you release the left to see its smooth body, dressed in zamarreta
hairy, closely set with black lace.

Pins, boots, the zamarreta, the aquiline nose and thin, the eyes
of the crow and taciturn gravity features are enough to draw on the
canvas or on paper contained the unequivocal Zumalacárregui.

Who was then the largest of the leaders and the military genius of D.
Karl, was currently in Pamplona barracks, guarded by the military.
Several times he had been reprimanded Solá. Were his steps and he was
forbidden to have horses.

He lived with his family and was very moderate man.

Not readily made known their views, but passed by a fervent supporter
of D. Carlos. Went to Mass every day after church and walked two hours
by Taconera, whatever the time.

Salvador and D. Thomas spoke briefly while. D. Pity to his friend
Thomas D. Carlos Navarro, and then pulled the other to light the
war and took the point that he said with apparent candor, mask your
true marrullería which, in his view, things did not go forward. Not to
be more precise to speak, squeezed the hand of his friend and
continued to walk along the wall.

The next day was spent by the gun in the moat of the fortifications D.
Thief Santos, who was courageous and resigned as Spanish as a
Christian.

Suffered the same fate after Iribarren, leader less famous than the first.
Already pointed out the sacrifice of Garrote by 15, when the
Viceroy, in view of the pitiful state of the defendant, deferred
his death better, instructed Nature.

The doctors had said that Navarro would not live two weeks, and had
Solá chance to show their humanity.

The patient was taken to hospital, of which his brother was very happy,
because something is better than dead evicted.

Every day the city came to alarming news of the flight that took
the insurgency.

"Not a jot or tittle
of your enjoyments will be lost to you in the coming year. Both your
friends--Miss Maliphant and I--will be here to welcome you when you
return."

Something in her manner, in the half-defiant light in her eyes, puzzles
Beauclerk. What has happened to her since they last were together? Not
more than an hour ago she had seemed--er--well. Inwardly he smiles
complacently. But now. Could she? Is it possible? Was there a chance
that----

"Miss Kavanagh," begins he, moving toward her. But she makes short work
of his advance.

"I repent," says she, turning a lovely, smiling face on Dysart. "A while
ago I said I was too tired to dance. I did myself injustice. That
waltz--listen to it"--lifting up an eager finger--"would it not wake an
anchorite from his ascetic dreams? Come. There is time.".

She has sprung to her feet--life is in every movement. She slips her arm
into Dysart's. Not understanding--yet half understanding, moves with
her--his heart on fire for her, his puzzlement rendering him miserable.

Beauclerk, with that doubt of what she really knows full upon him, is
wiser. Without hesitation he offers his arm to Miss Maliphant; and, so
swift is his desire to quit the scene, he passes Dysart and Joyce, the
latter having paused for a moment to recover her fan.

"You see!" says Beauclerk, bending over the heiress, when a turn in the
conservatory has hidden him from the view of those behind. "I told you!"
He says nothing more. It is the veriest whisper, spoken with an
assumption of merriment very well achieved. Yet, if she would have
looked at him, she could have seen that his very lips are white. But as
I have said, Miss Maliphant's mind has not been trained to the higher
courses.

"Yes. One can see!" laughs she happily. "And it is charming, isn't it?
To find two people thoroughly in love with each other now-a-days, is to
believe in that mad old world of romance of which we read. They're very
nice too, both of them. I do like Joyce. She's one in a thousand, and
Mr. Dysart is just suited to her. They are both thorough! There's no
nonsense about them. Now that you have pointed it out to me, I think I
never saw two people so much in love with each other as they."

Providentially, she is looking away from him to where a quadrille is
forming in the ballroom, so that the deadly look of hatred that adorns
his handsome face is unknown to her.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meantime, Joyce, with that convenient fan recovered, is looking with sad
eyes at Dysart.

"Come; the music will soon cease," says she.

"Why do you speak to me like that?" cries he vehemently. "If you don't
want to dance, why not say so to me? Why not trust me? Good heavens! if
I were your bitterest enemy you could not treat me more distantly. And
yet--I would die to make you happy."

"Don't!" says she in a little choking sort of way, turning her face from
him. She struggles with herself for a moment, and then, still with her
face averted, says meekly: "Thank you, then. If you don't mind, I should
rather not dance any more to-night."

"Why didn't you say that at first?" says he, with a last remnant of
reproach. "No; there shall be no more dancing to-night for either you or
me. A word, Joyce!" turning eagerly toward her, "you won't forget your
promise about that walk to-morrow?"

"No. No, indeed."

"Thank you!"

They are sitting very close together, and almost insensibly his hand
seeks and finds hers. It was lying idle on her lap, and lifting it, he
would have raised it to his lips, but with a sharp, violent action she
wrests it from him, and, as a child might, hides it behind her.

"If you would have me believe in you----No, no, not that," says she, a
little incoherently, her voice rendering her meaning with difficulty.
Dysart, astonished, stands back from her, waiting for something more;
but nothing comes, except two large tears, that steal heavily,
painfully, down her cheeks.

She brushes them impatiently away.

"Forgive me," she says, somewhat brokenly. "To you, who are so good to
me, I am unkind, while to those who are unkind to me I----" She is
trying to rally. "It was a mere whim, believe me. I have always hated
demonstrations of any sort, and why should you want to kiss my hand?"

"I shouldn't," says he. "If----" His eyes have fallen from her eyes to
her lips.

"Never mind," says she; "I didn't understand, perhaps. But why can't you
be content with things as they are?"

"Are you content with them?"

"I think so. I have been examining myself, and honestly I think so,"
says she a little feverishly.

"Well, I'm not," returns he with decision. "You must give me credit for
a great private store of amiability, if you imagine that I am satisfied
to take things as they now exist--between you and me!"

"You have your faults, you see, as well as another," says she with a
frown. "You are persistent! And the worst of it is that you are
generally right." She frowns again, but even while frowning glances
sideways from under her long lashes with an expression hardly uncivil.
"That is the worst crime in the calendar. Be wrong sometimes, an' you
love me, it will gain you a world of friends."

"If it could gain me your love in return, I might risk it," says he
boldly. "But that is hopeless I'm afraid," shaking his head. "I am too
often in the wrong not to know that neither my many frailties nor my few
virtues can ever purchase for me the only good thing on which my soul is
set."

"I have told you of one fault, now hear another," says she capriciously.
"You are too earnest! What," turning upon him passionately, as if a
little ashamed of her treatment of him, "is the use of being earnest?
Who cares? Who looks on, who gives one moment to the guessing of the
meaning that lies beneath? To be in earnest in this life is merely to be
mad. Pretend, laugh, jest, do anything, but be what you really are, and
you will probably get through the world in a manner, if not satisfactory
to yourself, at all events to '_les autres_.'"

"You preach a crusade against yourself," says he gently. "You preach
against your own conscience. You are the least deceptive person I know.
Were you to follow in the track you lay out for others, the cruelty of
it would kill you.

    "To your own self be true,
    And----"

"Yes, yes; I know it all," says she, interrupting him with some
irritation. "I wish you knew how--how unpleasant you can be. As I tell
you, you are always right. That last dance--it is true--I didn't want to
have anything to do with it; but for all that I didn't wish to be told
so. I merely suggested it as a means of getting rid of----"

"Miss Maliphant," says Dysart, who is feeling a little sore. The
disingenuousness of this remark is patent to her.

"No; Mr. Beauclerk," corrects she, coldly.

"Forgive me," says Dysart quickly, "I shouldn't have said that. Well,"
drawing a long breath, "we have got rid of them, and may I give you a
word of advice? It is disinterested because it is to my own
disadvantage. Go to your room--to your bed. You are tired, exhausted.
Why wait to be more so. Say you will do as I suggest."

"You want to get rid of me," says she with a little weary smile.

"That is unworthy of an answer," gravely; "but if a 'yes' to it will
help you to follow my advice, why, I will say it. Come," rising, "let
me take you to the hall."

"You shall have your way," says she, rising too, and following him.

A side door leading to the anteroom on their left, and thus skirting the
ballroom without entering it, brings them to the foot of the central
staircase.

"Good-night," says Dysart in a low tone, retaining her hand for a
moment. All round them is a crowd separated into twos and threes, so
that it is impossible to say more than the mere commonplace.

"Good night," returns she in a soft tone. She has turned away from him,
but something in the intense longing and melancholy of his eyes compels
her to look back again. "Oh, you have been kind! I am not ungrateful,"
says she with sharp contrition.

"Joyce, Joyce! Let me be the grateful one," returns he. His voice is a
mere whisper, but so fraught is it with passionate appeal that it rings
in her brain for long hours afterward.

Her eyes fall beneath his. She moves silently away. What can she say to
him?

It is with a sense of almost violent relief that she closes the door of
her own room behind her, and knows herself to be at last alone.


CHAPTER XVII.

    "And vain desires, and hopes dismayed,
    And fears that cast the earth in shade,
        My heart did fret."


Night is waning! Dies pater, Father of Day, is making rapid strides
across the heavens, creating havoc as he goes. Diana faints! the stars
grow pale, flinging, as they die, a last soft glimmer across the sky.

Now and again a first call from the birds startles the drowsy air. The
wood dove's coo, melancholy sweet--the cheep-cheep of the robin--the
hoarse cry of the sturdy crow.

    "A faint dawn breaks on yonder sedge,
        And broadens in that bed of weeds;
    A bright disk shows its radiant edge,
          All things bespeak the coming morn,
            Yet still it lingers."

As Lady Swansdown and Baltimore descend the stone steps that lead to the
gardens beneath, only the swift rush of the tremulous breeze that stirs
the branches betrays to them the fact that a new life is at hand.

"You are cold?" says Baltimore, noticing the quick shiver that runs
through her.

"No: not cold. It was mere nervousness."

"I shouldn't have thought you nervous."

"Or fanciful?" adds she. "You judged me rightly, and yet--coming all at
once from the garish lights within into this cool sweet darkness here,
makes one feel in spite of oneself."

"In spite! Would you never willingly feel?"

"Would you?" demands she very slowly.

"Not willingly, I confess. But I have been made to feel, as you know.
And you?"

"Would you have a woman confess?" says she, half playfully. "That is
taking an unfair advantage, is it not? See," pointing to a seat, "what a
charming resting place! I will make one confession to you. For what it is because, Best?

= .= Lomow See ... honored ... Stepanitsch ... excuse, Stepan, Stepan -
Geehrtewitsch ... that means I'm terribly excited, as you kindly wish
to see ... In a word, you alone can help me, although I certainly do
not deserve it, and ... and do not have the right, your help to take
advantage of them. Tschubukow = .= Oh, make no further ado, my heart!
Tell you about the challenge! Now? = Lomow .= C ... In the moment. The
thing is: I have come to the hand of your daughter Natalia Stepanovna
to ask.

Tschubukow = = (joyfully). Angels! Ivan Wassiljitsch! Repeat this once
more - I have not heard good! = Lomow .= I have the honor to ask ...
= = Tschubukow (breaking it in). My little dove, I'm so pleased and the
like, it is flat and the like. (He hugged and kissed him.) I have so
long desired. It was always my desire (he crushed a tear) and I always
loved you, my most expensive, like my own son. God give you
both his blessing and his grace and the like ... I've always wanted me
... but why do I stand there like a dolt?

I am amazed with delight, quite amazed! Oh, with all your soul ... I
go call Natasha and the like.

Lomow = = (stirred).

Dear Stepanitsch Stepan, what do you think, I may consent to the
Natalia Stepanownas hope?

= Tschubukow .= really such a handsome man and ... and since they will
not agree at once! Love like a cat, and the like ... now!

(He goes to the right.) Second appearance. = = Lomow alone. Lomow
.= = I'm cold ... I tremble at the whole body, as before the exam.

The main thing is that we must decide. If you consider long, varies,
but speaks to an ideal or to the true love waits, never married. Brrr
... It is cold! Stepanovna Natalia is an excellent hostess, is also
not bad, is formed ... what do I need for as yet?

It roars to me before the excitement in his ears. (He drinks water.) And
do not marry, that does not ... First, I am already five years old
- a critical age, so to speak. Secondly, I need an orderly, regular
life ... I have a heart defect, persistent palpitations, I'm
sensitive and get always in terrible commotion.

Immediately shake my lips and on the right temple twitches of the
pulse ...

But that is the Allerschrecklichste sleep. No sooner had I laid in bed
and start einzuschlummern as tugs and plucks suddenly on the left side!
And just in the shoulder and hammering in the head a bit ... I jump like
a madman to go around for a while, then I am again, but I'm a
little bit asleep, I have again a cramp on the side!

And so it is about twenty times .. Natalia Stepanovna = = (coming from
the right). Third-party presence.

Stepanovna Natalia .= = = = .= Lomow Natalia Stepanovna .= Ach so! That
is you, and Dad says go, a trader has come to buy merchandise.

Good day, Ivan Wassiljitsch. Lomow .= = Good day, dear Natalia Stepanovna!
Natalia Stepanovna .= = Excuse me, I have the apron on and I'm in
the house dress ... We clean sheets out to dry. Why are you so long
with us? Sit ... (They are.)

Do you want to take something for breakfast? = Lomow .= No, thank you,
I've eaten. = .= Natalia Stepanovna Smoke ... there are matches ...

The weather is glorious, and yesterday it rained so much that the workers
all day could do nothing. Schober How much did you cut?

Thought you only, I am very greedy and had the whole meadow abmähen and
now I am annoyed, I am afraid my hay me rot. It would have been
better, I would have waited. Yes, what is that?

I think even you are in the tails? The very latest! To end on a ball?

There is something so wild in his expression that Lady Swansdown loses
sight of herself in the contemplation of it.

"What is it, Baltimore?" asks she, in a low, frightened tone. It rouses
him.

"I have offended you beyond pardon," begins he, but more like one
seeking for words to say than one afraid of using them. "I have angered
you----"

"Do not mistake me," interrupts she quickly, almost fiercely. "I am not
angry. I feel no anger--nothing--but that I am a traitor."

"And what am I?"

"Work out your own condemnation for yourself," says she, still with that
feverish self-disdain upon her. "Don't ask me to help you. She was my
friend, whatever she is now. She trusted me, believed in me. And after
all----And you," turning passionately, "you are doubly a traitor, you
are a husband."

"In name!" doggedly. He has quite recovered himself now. Whatever
torture his secret soul may impress upon him in the future, no one but
he shall know.

"It doesn't matter. You belong to her, and she to you."

"That is what she doesn't think," bitterly.

"There is one thing only to be said, Baltimore," says she, after a
slight pause. "This must never occur again. I like you, you know that.
I----" she breaks off abruptly, and suddenly gives way to a sort of
mirthless laughter. "It is a farce!" she says. "Consider my feeling
anything. And so virtuous a thing, too, as remorse! Well, as one lives,
one learns. If I had seen the light for the first time in the middle of
the dark ages, I should probably have ended my days as the prioress of a
convent. As it is, I shouldn't wonder if I went in for hospital nursing
presently. Pshaw!" angrily, "it is useless lamenting. Let me face the
truth. I have acted abominably toward her so far, and the worst of it
is"--with a candor that seems to scorch her--"I know if the chance be
given me, I shall behave abominably toward her again. I shall leave
to-morrow--the day after. One must invent a decent excuse."

"Pray don't leave on Lady Baltimore's account," says he slowly, "she
would be the last to care about this. I am nothing to her."

"Is your wish father to that thought?" regarding him keenly.

"No. I assure you. he remembered the stranger in the word, "remember
where you are.

And why these shadows evoke?

you are down with their time, let the dead rest." "Rest?" replied that
"this is precisely what I can not o that I would be among those killed,
as gently, patiently as I wanted to rest. Sleep, my valiant Poland,
and no voice, how powerful they are called, scare them. Why can not I
just snap?

"A dark, erratic fire burned in the eyes of a beautiful man, his lips
joined painfully, his friend looked at him with worried participation,
he saw no longer the cheerful, heldenmütigen youth, such as him
at the head of the regiment in the days of happiness seen, the
friendly, winning smile, which so attracted him otherwise, was a
morose, bitter resentment course, the eye, otherwise the proud full
confidence, full of joyous cheer, freely and openly seemed to be
looked suspicious to examine each subject, to try to pierce the
dull red, covered his cheeks, was just the reflection of that bloom
of youth to him in the salons of Paris, the name of the beautiful
Poland had acquired, and yet, even after this major change, which
time and misfortune had spawned, had to admit that Princess Sophie
was very sorry.

"They look at me, Major?" said that after some silence, "They consider
me as if the old days from my train to find out? Do not wasted effort,
it is so much has changed, should not the man with the skill to
change?" "I think You are not greatly changed, "replied the stranger,"
I saw you at the first sight again. But one thing I find is no longer
as before, from these eyes, a certain confidence gone, makes me
happy so often otherwise.

Zronievsky Alexander seems to me not more to be trusted.

And yet, "he smilingly added," and yet my mind was always with him,
I know even the deepest thoughts of his heart. "" My poor heart!

" Graf said the wistfully, "I hardly know whether I still have a heart,
if not sometimes resentment pochtet. What thoughts do you have-up, as
the unchanging friendship for you, Major? Schelten you're not
my eye, because it is not is more cheerful, I have in myself pulled back,
I lost my confidence in my rights have their pressure will tell you
that I still am the old man. "" I thank you, but how I should I'm
not on the thoughts your heart, understand?

They say it only knocks against resentment, what did a certain prince
child done, so that your heart beating even unmutes? "The Count erblaßte
he pressed the strangers hand in his:" For God's sake, be silent you;
never a syllable about this point, I know, I understand what you mean,
I will even admit that you have seen right, the devil has made
your eyes, Major!

But ask why I have a gentleman like you, too silent?

It has not yet from the eighth regiment betrayed his comrades. ""
You are right, and not a word more about it, but this is only a
still, from the eighth verratet the no-mates, but if the good comrade
does not reveal itself?

" Come here to this staircase, "whispered the count, because it is
near to several people," Jesus, Mary, should be someone other than you
suspect something? "" If you trust to be trust, Well, I will confess.
"" O , do not torture me, Major, I will then say what you want,
just quickly, if someone other than you - "The Major of Laruns told
that he had now arrived in this city, in his dispatches were soon
in the Messenger accuracy was that they had him taken to the opera,
and there, as he charmed the princess from afar, have him Gesandtin
said Sophie in a relationship with its professional was implicated.

"They came into the royal box, as a glance convinced me that no one as
you could be the lover." "And the Gesandtin?" cried the Count with
a trembling voice.

"She has confirmed it. When I'm not mistaken they also spoke of a
Oberhofmarschallin from which the message they have." The Count
was silent a few minutes before hinstarrend; he seemed to wrestle with,
he looked at several times the stranger shy of the page - "Major!" he
said finally sounded loose, matt voice, "you can lend me one hundred
Napoleon?"

The Major was surprised by this question, he had expected his
friend would be a bit less moaning about his misfortune, as in
similar scenes in use, he could therefore not equal in this issue
and looked amazed at the Count.

"I am a refugee," drove this continues, "I thought finally a quiet
place to have found where I raced a little bit, because I love -
must be loved, Major, how to be loved!

" He had tears in their eyes, but he is defeated and drove with a
fixed voice continued: "It is a strange request, which I here again
after so long you do, but I do not blush to ask.

Comrade, you remember the last glorious day in the north, do you
Mosjaisk of the day?

"" I remember! " said the stranger, by his eyes shone and his cheeks
colored in later. "And do you, as the Russian battery at the Redoute
performances, like their Kartätschen rushed into our ranks and the
traitor Piolzky blow had to retreat?"

"Ha!" the stranger fell with bellowing voice, "and how it herabschossen,
Colonel, that he no longer winced vein, as the hussars right abschwenkten
how to 'forward' cried, Lanciers forward from the eighth, and
the guns in five minutes we were! "" Do you?

" whispered the count with melancholy, "Well! I command again from
the front. It is a comrade herauszuhauen, you will save him? En avant,
Major! forward tapfrer Lancier! you will save him, comrade?" "I want
to save him "cried the friend, and the count Zronievsky beat his arm
around him, pressed him strongly to his chest and then ran away
from him, along the corridor. 4" I'm glad that I meet you, "cried the
Count Zronievsky than he next morning the Major met on the street,
"I just wanted to you and ask you for a little complacency address
-" The I yesterday coherence ", replied that," You want me to
accompany my hotel?

it is long for you. "" For God's sake, now nothing about money,
"was the count that" You kill me with this prose, I am divine
spirits, blissful, transcendental voted.

O friend, I have the angel said, that we noticed, I have told her
that I would flee because of their proximity to his, not to speak,
not worship, it is impossible for me. "" And may I know what she
said?

"" She is calm about it is bigger than the bad people, 'what is it,'
"she said," we certainly can give us no harm after say, and if we also
discovered our relationship, I will be happy I even have a silly
string can be forgiven; where lives a man who did not even have a
' "" A healthy philosophy, "said the Major," one can not reasonably
think about such relationships, because those are usually the worst
advise who believe they can hide all the people .

But I have a question allowed? as it seems, so you see your lady
alone? Because what they told me, yesterday was hardly in the 'Don Juan'
negotiations. "" We see ourselves, "whispered that," yes, we see us,
but where, may I not say, and so I live, which is also those people
are not spying.

But long, I see it is itself a long time, it can no longer take. So I'm
always on the go, comrade, and your help will save me, however, if my
money is not redundant. But it is tomorrow, so let's still slurp the
tilt of the delicious time 'I will still be happy, be blessed, because
it would all end soon must have. "" And what can I serve you? " asked
the Major, "if I am not mistaken, I wanted attention." "Right, that's
why I wanted to come," said that after some senses.

"Sophie knows that you are my friend, I did it earlier told you, mainly
the history of the Berezina bridge, where you me to rap on the measures.
She has spoken with you yesterday, and of Othello ', is not it? The
princess does not want to admit that he would be listed because of some
fairy tale, which I do not know. "" They were very secretive so, "broke
it to the friend," and how it seemed to me, it is also the Princess not
to admit? "" And yet, I have it by then, put a word. The princess begged
and begged, and I can not see even now, without that I come to her
rescue, so I took a somewhat serious face and said : 'Sonderbar it
is when something comes into the audience, it's like the wind in the
legations, and did it once so far, so we can not ensure that it
is in eight days as the Chronique scandaleuse on all farms is told '.

The princess gave me right, she said, though with very distressed
and embarrassed mien, that the piece should be, but when she went
away, she called me to give them the game is not lost yet, because
although 'Othello 'labels already on the stand, let them Desdemona
the sick. "" You have done well!

" cried the Major, laughing, "So the fear of Chronique scandaleuse has
the ghosts of fear and the horror before the secrets of nature to
overcome?"

"Yes, Sophie is beside himself with joy that she has her will. I'm just
on the way to the director of the opera, I should his four hundred
thalers bring that performance in pecuniary terms difficult nobody
wants to be subjected, and you need me to accompany him. "" But
it is not noticeable when you are in name of the princess get over
this amount?

"" That is to ensure we get it as a collection of some art lovers, set
an enthusiast dilettantes or before, or what fits into our stuff. He
lives not far from here and is an old codger honest, we already want to
win. Just around the corner here, my friend, there you see the small
green house with a bay window. "5 The director of the opera was a
small, hagerer man, he was once famous as a singer and was now at
the age rested on his laurels.

He received the friends with a certain artistic sovereignty and
dignity, which only by his strange dress was a little disturbed,
that he wore a black hooded Florence, which he only test, if he go
out on the bald wig set.

Auffallend stung against these convenient House of the Old clothing a
modern, tight fitting dress and wide leg fold clothes from rich, they
showed that in spite of Mr. director of the sixty of years, he have
liked, but for the vanity of the world is not dead; on the feet
he wore wide, USUAL Pelzschuhe in which he artificially herumfuhr in the
room without lifting your legs, the stranger came before it, as leaving
it on skates.

"If I have already been displayed, the highest of all desire," said
the director, as the count with him your purpose of their visit was
known, "already knows the thing, to me it should not be missed, my
sole purpose is the highest of all the ears delight delektieren
way, but - but I will because it dare submissest have some exhibieren
contrary ideas. "" How?

You do not want to give this opera?

"Cried the Count" God will protect me, that would be an open-air assassination
attempt on the highest of all the family! No, no! when my word in
case something is, is this unfortunate piece had never
existed. "" If I had never thought of, "replied the Count," that a man
like you would Pöbelwahn uneasy. With amazement and surprise I've
heard in my earliest youth in distant lands celebrated your behalf,
you were the crown of the singers mentioned, I burned before desire, once
this man to see. I ask that you reduce this venerable image, but
not by such a joke.

"The old man seemed to feel flattered, a graceful smile moved over
his weathered features, he put his hands in the pockets and went
to his room Pelzschuhen several times up and down.

"Allzugütig, too much honor," cried he, "so we were a bit of our time,
we were a capable tenor! Now admittedly it has an end. Aberglaube you
choose to say, I would be ashamed of, any superstition nachzuhängen,
but where the facts are, of superstition can not be any question. ""
facts? "cried the friends with one voice."

O yes, dear Messieurs facts.

They seem not from the local city and area to be such that you do
not know? "" I have however heard such a fairy tale, "said the Major,"
it should, if I am not mistaken, every time after Othello burn,
and -- "" Burn?

God forgive me that 'I wanted to prefer that it all burns, but fire can
erase, if you have fire insurance, you can finally have such a fire to
endure hardship, but to die?

no, this is a dangerous case. "" Death?

say, who should die?

"" Well, it's no secret, "the director replied," whenever Othello
will be eight days later someone from the royal family to die.

"The terrified friends drove from their seats, because the prophetic,
judge the tone, making this the old man said, had something frightful
in itself, but once they sat back and broke through their own horrors
in a fun, laughter, which incidentally is not the singer from the
version introduced.

"You laugh?"

he said, "I must leave it to me like if you was not embarrassed, I will
chronicle the theater you can inspect, which has one hundred and
twenty years of each Souffleur writes."

"The chronicle of her theater, age, let us inspect," said the Count, the
thing seemed fun to make, and the director slipped with extraordinary
rapidity in his room and brought one in leather and brass-bound
folios show. He sat in a big leg and taken to flake glasses in the
Chronicle.

"Note , "he said," Because of the Descendants, erstlich, here is:
'Anno 1740 the 8th December is the Actrice Charlotte Fandauerin in
the local theater has been stifled.

Man, the tragedy Othello, the Moor of Venice, from Shakespeare on.
" "How?"

broke it to the Major, "Anno 1740 should be here Shakespeare's' Othello
'have, and yet it was, if I am not mistaken, Schröder, the first
and much later the first piece of ash Shakespear in Germany had to
perform?"

"request for forgiveness" replied the old man.

"The Duke was on a tour of England in London this' Othello 'give
him, because he liked him extremely, and then translate perform
here more often.

My Chronicle runs but then continued:' Obgedachte Charlotte Fandauerin
has Desdemona and is through the blanket, bringing them into the
pieces themselves will be killed, elendiglich killed.

God be merciful to their poor souls! 'This murder is told here as follows:
the Fandauer should be very nice, if the Court was at that time
under the Duke Nepomucký very lascivious to the Fandauer was mistress
of the Duke. but you should not blindly and carelessly have passed
him, it was discouraged by the example of so many, he after a few
months or of years elendiglich breached and let loose.

It is therefore a terrible alliance with him and only after he is
summoned, have revealed themselves to him.

But like the others, it was also in the Fandauer.

He was soon tired and wanted to remove it mildly kind. but you
threatened him, the Alliance, which he made with it, print and
distribute throughout Europe to leave, they also showed him that
they have written in many other cities have established where on
her first Wink would spread.

The duke was a cruel lord, and his anger knew no bounds. He is in many
ways it by tinkering with poison have to, but she ate nothing but what
they had cooked themselves. He was an actor, therefore, a large sum of
money and let the 'Othello' to perform. They are recall that in Shakespeare's
tragedy of Desdemona to the Moor suffocated in bed. The actor made his
thing too of course, because the Fandauerin is no longer wakes up. ' "The
Count shuddered," and this should be true? " he exclaimed. "Ask
for older people in the city whom you want, you probably will not have
anywhere to tell hear. It was by the courts after an investigation
pending against the murderer, but Duke beat them down, took the
player from Theater in his services and stated that the Fandauerin
had accidentally touched the blow.

But eight days that he died his only Söhnlein, a prince of twelve
years.

"coincidence!" said the Major. "Call it so much," returned the old scrolls
and more. "But listen, 'Othello' was two years no longer exist, because
due to the memory of those murder of the Duke liked this game does not
suffer sorrow. But after two years, this book is every comedy record,
after two years he was so heinous, get it back to performances.

Here's how: 'The 28th of September (1742) Othello, the Moor of
Venice', and here on the edge is noted: 'Sonderbar!

on 5 October is Princess Auguste died. Just eight days after Othello as
two years ago, the most blessed Prince Frederick. " Random,
my worthy gentlemen?

"" However, by chance!

" who cried. "Next!"

The February 6, 1748, Othello, the Moor of Venice. " Whether it might
arrive again? Look forth, my gentlemen, is what the prompter hergeschrieben,
kindly note that it is the same hand, here in the margin notes: "Horrible!
Fandauerin the haunted again, Prince Alexander suddenly died in
the 14th.

Eight days after Othello '. "The old man stopped and looked inquiringly
at his guests, they are silent, he continued scrolls and read:"'
The January 16, 1775, for the benefit of Mlle.

Koller: Othello, the Moor of Venice.

Richtig again! arms princess Elisabeth, you have to die so quickly?

Died January 24, 1775. ' "" antics!

" broke it to the Major, "I admit that this is so, it will be several times
the waywardness of chance as it really added have give me but only one
good reason to between cause and effect, if you are blessed on
this maximum 'Othello' die want to leave!

"" Sir! " replied the old man with deep seriousness, "I can not, but I
recall the words of that great mind, which even this ill-fated
'Othello' descendant .-- There are many things between heaven and
earth, of which the philosophers nothing imagined!

' "" I know this, "said the Count;" but I bet Shakespeare would have
never of this award is given if he had known how much ridicule he
hides behind, "" It is possible, "replied the singer, "but you hear
more.

I now come to a somewhat recent example of which I can remember, the
Duke of themselves" "How," he broke the Major; "just that the actress
was murdered ... ?

"The same 'Othello' was perhaps twenty years no longer exist, since
arrived, I know it is still like today, to visit foreign
dominations. Our Schauspiel liked them, and wished Oddly one of the
foreign princely ladies' Othello 'to see. The Duke reluctantly
went out not from fear of the frightful circumstances in which this
piece tended to follow, because he was a free spirit and believed
in nothing of the sort, but he was now old; the sins and iniquities
of his youth he fell hard on your heart, and he had loathing of
this tragedy.

But it was that the lady he liked nothing off, it was that he was ashamed
in front of the audience, the piece had to head over heels rehearsed,
it was his castle, where lust.

See, here is it: 'Othello, 16 October 1793 at the castle listed H. ....'
"" Well, old man, and what followed, quick! " cried the impatient
friends. "Eight days later, 24 October 1793, the duke is dead." "Not
possible," said the Major after some silence, "let your Chronicle see
where anything is because of Duke? Here nothing in margin notes. ""
No, "said the old man and brought two books of guilt," but his life
story, here's funeral speech, would you kindly look up? "The count took
a little black book in hand and read:" Description the solemn
burial of the most highly October 24, 1793 beatify late Duke and Lord -
nonsense! " he shouted and jumped on, "that I could bring to the
mind. coincidence!

coincidence and nothing else!

now - and know you have such a Histörchen?" "I could still perform
some" replied the old man with a calm, "But you are bored with this
strange entertainment, only from the most recent time have a case.
Rossini wrote his magnificent opera 'Othello', which he doubted what you
had indicated that he understand it, the deeper, more tragic string
of human breast anzuschlagen.

He was not more local calls, so he was not even rehearsed for the
theater.

    The chapel but undertook to provide this opera
        for themselves to study, there were some
      scenes in concerts executed, and these few samples infected in the
audience so swift eagerness for the opera that is generally published
in newspapers, on billboards landlord in Singtees and nothing like
as' Othello 'said nothing as' Othello' demanded.

Of the horrific events of the drama 'Othello' support, was do not talk,
it seemed to think at the opera a very different 'Othello'. Finally got
the then director (I was still in the theater and made the Othello), he
got the job, I say, the opera in to set the scene. The house was
full to suffocation, court and aristocracy were there, the orchestra
sought to be superhuman, the singers were nothing to be desired, but I
do not know - we all blew an eerie spirit, when her Desdemona song
played on the harp, as they are equipped to bedtime, as the murderer,
the horrific Mohr to seam.

It was the same house, there were the same boards, it was the same scene
as it was then, where a lovely creature in the same role as her
Greulich life ended. I must confess, despite the vicious nature of my
Othello infested me a slight tremor, when the murder happened, I looked
anxiously to the royal box, where so many prosperous, powerful figures
in our game herübersahen, 'you will probably by the sounds which accompany
your death, you can pacify, the bloodthirsty ghost murder? " I
thought. It was so, five, six days we heard nothing of an illness in
the castle, you laughed, that it is only in the outfitting an opera
took to that like crazy spirit to make the seventh day passed quietly,
but on the eighth Prince Ferdinand was out hunting shot. "" I've
heard, "said the Major," but it was a coincidence, the gun went off
his neighbor, and - "" Say I do, the specter of bringing the maximum
Blessed itself to, press them by hand to the throat?

I speak only of an unexplained, mysterious connection. "" And have you
not yet in the end a tale told, which stands as written, that eight
days before the game 'Othello' was? " "Here!"

I heard him say it, and angels are never rude!"

"'Twas after he made her cry about something," says Mabel, lifting her
little flower-like face to Dysart's in a miniature imitation of her
brother's indignation. "She was boo-booing like anything, and then
father got sorry--oh!--dreadful sorry--and he said she was an angel, and
she said----"

"Oh, Mabel!" says Joyce, weakly, "you know you oughtn't to say such----"

"Well, 'twas your fault, 'twas all about you," says Tommy, defiantly.
"Why don't you come home? Father says you ought to come, and mammy says
she doesn't know which of 'em it'll be; and father says it won't be any
of them, and--what's it all about?" turning a frankly inquisitive little
face up to hers. "They wouldn't tell us, and we want to know which of
'em it will be."

"Yes, an' is it jints?" demands Mabel, who probably means giants, and
not cold meats.

"I don't know what she means," says Miss Kavanagh, coldly.

"I say, you two," says Mr. Dysart, brilliantly, "wouldn't you like to
run a race? Bridget must be tired of waiting for you down there at the
end of the hill, and----"

"She isn't waiting, she's talking to Mickey Daly," says Tommy.

"Oh, I see. Well, look here. I bet you, Tommy, strong as you look, Mabel
can outrun you down the hill."

"She! she!" cries Tommy, indignantly; "I could beat her in a minute."

"You can't," cries Mabel in turn. "Nurse says I'm twice the child that
you are."

"Your legs are as short as a pin," roars Tommy; "you couldn't run."

"I can. I can. I can," says Mabel, on the verge of a violent flood of
tears.

"Well, we'll see," says Mr. Dysart, who now begins to think he has
thrown himself away on a silly Hussar regiment, when he ought to have
taken rank as a distinguished diplomat. "Come, I'll start you both down
the hill, and whichever reaches Bridget first wins the day."

Instantly both children spring to the front of the path.

"You're standing before me, Tommy."

"No, I'm not."

"You're cheating--you are!"

"Cheat yourself! Mr. Dysart, ain't I all right?"

"I think you should give her a start; she's the girl, you know," says
Dysart. "There now, go. That's very good. Five yards, Tommy, is a small
allowance for a little thing like Mabel. Steady now, you two! One--Good
gracious, they're off," says he, turning to Miss Kavanagh with a sigh of
relief mingled with amusement. "They had no idea of waiting for more
than one signal. I hope they will meet this Bridget, and get back to
their mother."

"They are not going to her just now. They are going on to the Court to
spend the afternoon with Bertie," says Joyce; "Barbara told me so last
night. Dear things! How sweet they looked!"

"They are the prettiest children I know," says Dysart--a little absent
perhaps. He falls into silence for a moment or two, and then suddenly
looks at her. He advances a step.


CHAPTER XIX.

     "A continual battle goes on in a child's mind between what it knows
     and what it comprehends."


"Well?" says he.

He advances even nearer, and dropping on a stone close to her, takes
possession of one of her hands.

"As you can't make up your mind to him; and, as you say, you like me,
say something more."

"More?"

"Yes. A great deal more. Take the next move. Say--boldly--that you will
marry me!"

Joyce grows a little pale. She had certainly been prepared for this
speech, had been preparing herself for it all the long weary wakeful
night, yet now that she hears it, it seems as strange, as terrible, as
though it had never suggested itself to her in its vaguest form.

"Why should I say that?" says she at last, stammering a little, and
feeling somewhat disingenuous. She had known, yet now she is trying to
pretend that she did not know.

"Because I ask you. You see I put the poorest reason at first, and
because you say I am not hateful to you, and because----"

"Well?"

"Because, when a man's last chance of happiness lies in the balance, he
will throw his very soul into the weighing of it--and knowing this, you
may have pity on me."

As though pressed down by some insupportable weight, the girl rises and
makes a little curious gesture as if to free herself from it. Her face,
still pale, betrays an inward struggle. After all, why cannot she give
herself to him? Why can't she love him? He loves her; love, as some poor
fool says, begets love.

And he is honest. Yes, honest! A pang shoots through her breast.
That, when all is told, is the principal thing. He is not
uncertain--untrustworthy--double-faced, as _some_ men are. Again that
cruel pain contracts her heart. To be able to believe in a person, to be
able to trust implicitly in each lightest word, to read the real meaning
in every sentence, to see the truth shining in the clear eyes, this is
to know peace and happiness; and yet--

"You know all," says she, looking up at him, her eyes compressed, her
brow frowning; "I am uncertain of myself, nothing seems sure to me, but
if you wish it----"

"Wish it!" clasping her hands closer.

"There is this to be said, then. I will promise to answer you this day
twelve-month."

"Twelve months," says he, with consternation; his grasp on her hands
loosens.

"If the prospect frightens or displeases you, there is nothing more to
be said," rejoins she coldly. It is she who is calm and composed, he is
nervous and anxious.

"But a whole year!"

"That is nothing," says she, releasing her hands, with a little
determined show of strength, from his. "It is for you to decide. I don't
care!"

Perhaps she hardly grasps the cruelty that lies in this half-impatient
speech, until she sees Dysart's face flush painfully.

"You need not have said that," says he. "I know it. I am nothing to you
really." He pauses, and then says again in a low tone, "Nothing."

"Oh, you mustn't feel so much!" cries she, as if tortured. "It is folly
to feel at all in this world. What's the good of it. And to feel about
me, I am not worth it. If you would only bear that in mind, it might
help you."

"If I bore that in mind I should not want to make you my wife!" returns
he steadily, gravely. "Think as you will yourself, you do not shake my
faith in you. Well," with a deep breath, "I accept your terms. For a
year I shall feel myself bound to you (though that is a farce, for I
shall always be bound to you, soul and body) while you shall hold
yourself free, and try to----"

"No, no. We must both be equal--both free, while I--" she stops short,
coloring warmly, and laughing, "what is it I am to try to do?"

"To love me!" replies he, with infinite sadness in look and tone.

"Yes," says Joyce slowly, and then again meditatively, "yes." She lifts
her eyes presently and regards him strangely. "And if all my trying
should not succeed? If I never learn to love you?"

"Why, then it is all over. This hope of mine is at an end," say he, so
calmly, yet with such deep melancholy, such sad foreboding, that her
heart is touched.

"Oh! it is a hope of mine too," says she quickly. "If it were not would
I listen to you to-day? But you must not be so downhearted; let the
worst come to the worst, you will be as well off as you are at this
instant."

He shakes his head.

"Does hope count for nothing, then?"

"You would compel me to love you," says she, growing the more vexed as
she grows the more sorry for him. "Would you have me marry you even if I
did not love you?" Her soft eyes have filled with tears, there is a
suspicion of reproach in her voice.

"No. I suppose not."

He half turns away from her. At this moment a sense of despair falls on
him. She will never care for him, never, never. This proposed probation
is but a mournful farce, a sorry clinging to a hope that is built on
sand. When in the future she marries, as so surely she will, he will not
be her husband. Why not give in at once? Why fight with the impossible?
Why not break all links (frail as they are sweet), and let her go her
way, and he his, while yet there is time? To falter is to court
destruction.

Then all at once a passionate reaction sets in. Joyce, looking at him,
sees the light of battle, the warmth of love the unconquerable, spring
into his eyes. No, he will not cave in! He will resist to the last!
dispute every inch of the ground, and if finally only defeat is to crown
his efforts still----And why should defeat be his? Be it Beauclerk or
another, whoever declares himself his rival shall find him a formidable
enemy to overcome.

"Joyce," says he quickly, turning to her and grasping her hands, "give
me my chance. Give me those twelve months; give me your thoughts now and
then while they last. I brought you here to-day to say all this knowing
we should be alone, and without----"

"Tommy?" says she, with a little laugh.

"Oh, well! You must confess I got rid of him," says he, smiling too, and
glad in his heart to find her so cheerful. "I think if you look into it,
that my stratagem, the inciting him to the overcoming of his sister in
that race, was the work of a diplomatist of the first water. I quite
felt that----"

A war whoop behind him dissolves his self-gratulations into nothing.
Here comes Tommy the valiant, triumphant, puffed beyond all description
with pride and want of breath.

"I beat her, I beat her," shrieks he, with the last note left in his
tuneful pipe. He staggers the last yard or two and falls into Joyce's
arms, that are opened wide to receive him. Who shall say he is not a
happy interlude? Evidently Joyce regards him as such.

"I came back to tell you," says Tommy, recovering himself a little. "I
knew," with the fearless confidence of childhood, "that you'd be longing
to know if I beat her, and I did. She's down there how with Bridgie,"
pointing to the valley beneath, "and she's mad with me because I didn't
let her win."

"You ought to go back to her," says Dysart, "she'll be madder if you
don't."

"She won't. She's picking daisies now."

"But Bridget will want you."

"No," shaking his lovely little head. "Bridgie said: 'ye may go, sir,
an' ye needn't be in a hurry back, me an' Mickey Daily have a lot to say
about me mother's daughter.'"

It would be impossible to describe the accuracy with which Tommy
describes Bridget's tone and manner.

"Oh! I daresay," says Mr. Dysart. "Me mother's daughter must be a truly
enthralling person."

"I think Tommy ought to be educated for the stage," says Joyce in a
little whisper.

"He'll certainly make his mark wherever he goes," says Dysart, laughing.
"Tommy," after a careful examination of Monkton, Junior's, seraphic
countenance, "don't you think you ought to take your sister on to the
Court?"

"So I will," says Tommy, "in a minute or two." He has climbed into
Joyce's lap, and is now sitting on her with his arms round her neck. To
make love to a young woman and to induce her to marry you with a
barnacle of this sort hanging round her suggests difficulties. Mr.
Dysart waits. "All things come to those who wait," says a wily old
proverb. But Dysart proves this proverb a swindle.

"Now, Tommy," says he, "the two minutes are up."

"I don't care," says Tommy. "I'm tired, and Bridgie said I needn't
hurry."

"The charms of Mr. Mickey Daly are no doubt great," says Dysart, mildly,
"yet I think Bridget must by this time be aware that she wasn't sent out
by your mother to tattle to him, but to take you and your sister to play
with Bertie. Here, Tommy," decisively, "get off your aunt's lap and run
away."

"But why?" demands Tommy, aggressively. "What harm am I doing?"

"You are tiring your aunt, for one thing."

"I'm not! She likes to have me here," defiantly. "I ride a 'cock horse'
every night when she's at home, don't I, Joyce? I wish you'd go away,"
wrathfully, "because then Joyce would come home and play with us again.
'Tis you," glaring at him with deep-seated anger in his eyes, "who are
keeping her here!"

"Oh, no; you are wrong there," says Dysart with a sad smile. "I could
not keep her anywhere, she would not stay with me. But really, Tommy,
you know you ought to go on to the Court. Poor little Bertie is looking
out for you eagerly. See," plunging his hand into his pocket, "here is
half a crown for you to spend on lollipops. I'll give it to you if
you'll go back to Bridget."

Tommy's eyes brighten. But as quickly the charming blue in them darkens
again. There is no tuck shop between this and the Court.

"'Tisn't any good," says he mournfully, "the shop's away down there,"
pointing vaguely backward on the journey he has come.

"You look strong in wind and limb; there is no reason to believe that
the morrow's sun may not dawn on you," says Mr. Dysart. "And then think,
Tommy, think what a joy you will be to old Molly Brien."

"Molly gives me four bull's-eyes for a penny," says Tommy reflectively.
"That's two to Mabel and two to me, because mammy says baby mustn't have
any for fear she'd choke. If there's four for a penny, how many is there
for this?" holding out the half crown that lies upon his little brown
shapely palm.

"That's a sum," says Mr. Dysart. "Tommy, you're a cruel boy;" and having
struggled with it for a moment, he says "one hundred and twenty."

"No!" says Tommy in a voice faint with hopeful unbelief. "Joyce, 'tisn't
true, is it?"

"Quite true," says Joyce. "Just fancy, Tommy, one hundred and twenty
bull's-eyes, all in one day!"

There is such a genuine support of his desire to get rid of Tommy in her
tone that Dysart's heart rises within him.

"Tie it into my hankercher," says Tommy, without another second's
hesitation. "Tie it tight, or it'll slip out and I'll lose it. Good-bye,
and thank you, Mr. Dysart," thrusting a hot little fist into his. "I'll
keep some of the hundred and twenty ones for you and Joyce."

He rushes away down the hill, eager to tell his grand news to Mabel, and
presently Joyce and Dysart are alone again.

"You see you were not so clever a diplomatist as you thought yourself,"
says Joyce, smiling faintly; "Tommy came back."

"Tommy and I have one desire in common; we both want to be with you."

"Could you be bought off like Tommy?" says she, half playfully. "Oh, no!
Half a crown would not be good enough."

"Would all the riches the world contains be good enough?" says he in a
voice very low, but full of emotion. "You know it would not. But you,
Joyce--twelve months is a long time. You may see others--if not
Beauclerk--others--and----"

"Money would not tempt me," says the girl slowly. "If money were your
rival, you would indeed be safe. You ought to know that."

"Still--Joyce----" He stops suddenly. "May I think of you as Joyce? I
have called you so once or twice, but----"

"You may always call me so," says she gently, if indifferently. "All my
friends call me so, and you--are my friend, surely!"

The very sweetness of her manner, cold as ice as it is, drives him to
desperation.

"Not your friend--your lover!" says he with sudden passion. "Joyce,
think of all that I have said--all you nave promised. A small matter to
you perhaps--the whole world to me. You will wait for me for twelve
months. You will try to love me. You----"

"Yes, but there is something more to be said," cries the girl, springing
to her feet as if in violent protest, and confronting him with a curious
look--set--determined--a little frightened perhaps.


CHAPTER XX.

    "'I thought love had been a joyous thing,' quoth my uncle Toby."

    "He hath a heart as sound as a bell, and his tongue is the clapper.
    For what his heart thinks his tongue speaks."


"More?" says Dysart startled by her expression, and puzzled as well.

"Yes!" hurriedly. "This!" The very nervousness that is consuming her
throws fire into her eyes and speech. "During all these long twelve
months I shall be free. Quite free. You forgot to put that in! You must
remember that! If--if I should, after all this thinking, decide on not
having anything to do with you--you," vehemently, "will have no right to
reproach me. Remember," says she going up to him and laying her hand
upon his arm while the blood receding from her face leaves her very
white; "remember should such a thing occur--and it is very likely,"
slowly, "I warn you of that--you are not to consider yourself wronged or
aggrieved in any way."

"Why should you talk to me in this way?" begins he, aggrieved now at all
events.

"You must recollect," feverishly, "that I have made you no promise. Not
one. I refuse even to look upon this matter as a serious thing. I tell
you honestly," her dark eyes gleaming with nervous excitement, "I don't
believe I ever shall so look at it. After all," pausing, "you will do
well if you now put an end to this farce between us; and tell me to take
myself and my dull life out of yours forever."

"I shall never tell you that," in a low tone.

"Well, well," impatiently; "I have warned you. It will not be my fault
if----O! it is foolish of you!" she blurts out suddenly. "I have told
you I don't understand myself: and still you waste yourself--you throw
yourself away. In the end you will be disappointed in me, if not in one
way, then in another. It hurts me to think of that. There is time still;
let us be friends--friends----" Her hands are tightly clasped, she looks
at him with a world of entreaty in her beautiful eyes. "Friends, Felix!"
breathes she softly.

"Let things rest as they are, I beseech you," says he, taking her hand
and holding it in a tight grasp. "The future--who can ever say what that
great void will bring us. I will trust to it; and if only loss and
sorrow be my portion, still----As for friendship, Joyce; whatever
happens I shall be your friend and lover."

"Well--you quite know," says the girl, almost sullenly.

"Quite. And I accept the risk. Do not be angry with me, my beloved." He
lifts the hand he holds and presses it to his lips, wondering always at
the coldness of it. "You are free, Joyce; you desire it so, and I desire
it, too. I would not hamper you in any way."

"I should not be able to endure it, if--afterward--I thought you were
reproaching me," says she, with a little weary smile.

"Be happy about that," says he: "I shall never reproach you." He is
silent for a moment; her last speech has filled him with thoughts that
presently grow into extremely happy ones: unless--unless she liked
him--cared for him, in some decided, if vague manner, would his future
misery be of so much importance to her? Oh! surely not! A small flood of
joy flows over him. A radiant smile parts his lips. The light of a
coming triumph that shall gird and glorify his whole life illumines his
eyes.

She regarding him grows suddenly uneasy.

"You--you fully understand," says she, drawing back from him.

"Oh, you have made me do that," says he, but his radiant smile still
lingers.

"Then why," mistrustfully, "do you look so happy?" She draws even
further away from him. It is plain she resents that happiness.

"Is there not reason?" says he. "Have you not let me speak, and having
spoken, do you not still let me linger near you? It is more than I dared
hope for! Therefore, poor as is my chance, I rejoice now. Do not forbid
me. I may have no reason to rejoice in the future. Let me, then, have my
day."

"It grows very late," says Miss Kavanagh abruptly. "Let us go home."

Silently they turn and descend the hill. Halfway down he pauses and
looks backward.

"Whatever comes of it," says he, "I shall always love this spot. Though,
if the year's end leave me desolate, I hope I shall never see it again."

"It is unlucky to rejoice too soon," says she, in a low whisper.

"Oh! don't say that word 'Rejoice.' How it reminds me of you. It ought
to belong to you. It does. You should have been called 'Rejoice' instead
of 'Joyce'; they have cut off half your name. To see you is to feel new
life within one's veins."

"Ah! I said you didn't know me," returns she sadly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meantime the hours have flown; evening is descending. It is all very
well for those who, traveling up and down romantic hills, can find
engrossing matters for conversation in their idle imaginings of love, or
their earnest belief therein, but to the ordinary ones of the earth,
mundane comforts are still of some worth.

Tea, the all powerful, is now holding high revelry in the library at the
Court. Round the cosy tables, growing genial beneath the steam of the
many old Queen Anne "pots," the guests are sitting singly or in groups.

"What delicious little cakes!" says Lady Swansdown, taking up a smoking
morsel of cooked butter and flour from the glowing tripod beside her.

"You like them?" says Lady Baltimore in her slow, earnest way. "So does
Joyce. She thinks they are the nicest cakes in the world. By the by,
where is Joyce?"

"She went out for a walk at twenty minutes after two," says Beauclerk.
He has pulled out his watch and is steadily consulting it.

"And it is now twenty minutes after five," says Lady Swansdown,
maliciously, who detests Beauclerk and who has read his relations with
Joyce as clear as a book. "How she must have enjoyed herself!"

"Yes; but where?" says Lady Baltimore anxiously. Joyce has been left in
her charge, and, apart from that, she likes the girl well enough, to be
uneasy about her when occasion arises.

"With whom would be a more appropriate question," says Dicky Browne,
who, as usual, is just where he ought not to be.

"Oh, I know where she is," cries a little, shrill voice from the
background. It comes from Tommy, and from that part of the room where
Tommy and Mabel and little Bertie are having a game behind the window
curtains. Blocks, dolls, kitchens, farm yards, ninepins--all have been
given to them as a means of keeping them quiet. One thing only has been
forgotten: the fact that the human voice divine is more attractive to
them, more replete with delightful mystery, fuller of enthralling
possibilities than all the toys that ever yet were made.

"Thomas, are you fully alive to the responsibilities to which you pledge
yourself?" demands Mr. Browne severely.

"What?" says Tommy.

"Do you pledge yourself to declare where Miss Kavanagh is now?"

"Is it Joyce?" says Tommy, coming forward and standing undaunted in his
knickerbockers and an immaculate collar that defies suspicion.

"Yes--Joyce," says Mr. Browne, who never can hold his tongue.

"Well, I know." Tommy pauses, and an unearthly silence falls on the
assembled company. Half the county is present, and as Tommy, in the
character of _reconteur_, is widely known and deservedly dreaded,
expectation spreads itself among his audience.

Lady Baltimore moves uneasily, and for once Dicky Browne feels as if he
should like to sink into his boot.

"She's up on the top of the hill with Mr. Dysart," says Tommy, and no
more. Lady Baltimore sighs with relief, and Mr. Browne feels now as if
he should like to give Tommy something.

"How do you know?" asks Beauclerk, as though he finds it impossible to
repress the question.

"Because I saw her there," says Tommy, "when Mabel and me was coming
here. I like Mr. Dysart, don't you?" addressing Beauclerk specially. "He
is a very kind sort of man. He gave me half a crown."

"For what, Tommy?" asks Baltimore, idly, to whom Tommy is an unfailing
joy.

"To go away and leave him alone with Joyce," says Tommy, with awful
distinctness.

Tableau!

Lady Baltimore lets her spoon fall into her saucer, making a little
quick clatter. Everybody tries to think of something to say; nobody
succeeds.

Mr. Browne, who is evidently choking, is mercifully delivered by
beneficent nature from a sudden death. He gives way to a loud and
sonorous sneeze.

"Oh, Dicky! How funny you do sneeze," says Lady Swansdown. It is a
safety valve. Everybody at once affects to agree with her, and universal
laughter makes the room ring.

"Tommy, I think it is time for you and Mabel to go home," says Lady
Baltimore. "I promised your mother to send you back early. Give her my
love, and tell her I am so sorry she couldn't come to me to-day, but I
suppose last night's fatigue was too much for her."

"'Twasn't that," says Tommy; "'twas because cook----"

"Yes, yes; of course. I know," says Lady Baltimore, hurriedly, afraid of
further revelations. "Now, say good-bye, and, Bertie, you can go as far
as the first gate with them."

The children make their adieus, Tommy reserving Dicky Browne for a last
fond embrace.

"Good-bye, old man! So-long!"

"What's that?" says Tommy, appealing to Beauclerk for information.

"What's what?" says Beauclerk, who isn't in his usual amiable mood.

"What's the meaning of that thing Dicky said to me?"

"'So-long?' Oh that's Browne's charming way of saying good-bye."

"Oh!" says Tommy, thoughtfully. He runs it through his busy brain, and
brings it out at the other end satisfactorily translated. "I know," says
he: "Go long! That's what he meant! But I think," indignantly, "he
needn't be rude, anyway."

The children have hardly gone when Joyce and Dysart enter the room.

"I hope I'm not dreadfully late," cries Joyce, carelessly, taking off
her cap, and giving her head a little light shake, as if to make her
pretty soft hair fall into its usual charming order. "I have no idea
what the time is."

"Broken your watch, Dysart?" says Beauclerk, in a rather nasty tone.

"Come and sit here, dearest, and have your tea," says Lady Baltimore,
making room on the lounge beside her for Joyce, who has grown a little
red.

"It is so warm here," says she, nervously, that one remark of
Beauclerk's having, somehow, disconcerted her. "If--if I might----"

"No, no; you mustn't go upstairs for a little while," says Lady
Baltimore, with kindly decision. "But you may go into the conservatory
if you like," pointing to an open door off the library, that leads into
a bower of sweets. "It is cooler there."

"Far cooler," says Beauclerk, who has followed Joyce with a sort of
determination in his genial air. "Let me take you there, Miss Kavanagh."

It is impossible to refuse. Joyce, coldly, almost disdainfully and with
her head held higher than usual, skirts the groups that line the walls
on the western side of the room and disappears with him into the
conservatory.


CHAPTER XXI.

    "Who dares think one thing and another tell,
    My heart detests him as the gates of hell."


"A little foolish going for that walk, wasn't it?" says he, leading her
to a low cushioned chair over which a gay magnolia bends its white
blossoms. His manner is innocence itself; ignorance itself would perhaps
better express it. He has decided on ignoring everything; though a
shrewd guess that she saw something of his passages with Miss Maliphant
last night has now become almost a certainty. "I thought you seemed
rather played out last night--fatigued--done to death. I assure you I
noticed it. I could hardly," with deep and affectionate concern, "fail
to notice anything that affected you."

"You are very good!" says Miss Kavanagh icily. Mr. Beauclerk lets a full
minute go by, and then----

"What have I done to merit that tone from you?" asks he, not angrily;
only sorrowfully. He has turned his handsome face full on hers, and is
regarding her with proud, reproachful eyes. "It is idle to deny," says
he, with some emotion, half of which, to do him justice, is real, "that
you are changed to me; something has happened to alter the feelings
of--of--friendship--that I dared to hope you entertained for me. I had
hoped still more, Joyce--but----What has happened?" demands he suddenly,
with all the righteous strength of one who, free from guilt, resents
accusation of it.

"Have I accused you?" says she, coldly.

"Yes, a thousand times, yes. Do you think your voice alone can condemn?
Your eyes are even crueller judges."

"Well I am sorry," says she, faintly smiling. "My eyes must be deceivers
then. I bear you no malice, believe me."

"So be it," says he, with an assumption of relief that is very well
done. "After all, I have worried myself, I daresay, very unnecessarily.
Let us talk of something else, Miss Maliphant, for example," with a
glance at her, and a pleasant smile. "Nice girl eh? I miss her."

"She went early this morning, did she?" With that _viva the abura
angélica_ and, gentlemen, I am going up to dinner. - I wear a uniform
and run to the barracks - said rising Rufete Presure -. It is easy to
alter the public peace tonight.

Come to our post, which is thought at least, is the overflow Carlino,
and the homeland requires all her children. - Go you with God, brave -
said Aviraneta joyous to see you starting -. Here we were trying to
understand us . After they were alone, Aviraneta told his friend that
Arreciado because the heat inside the cafe, would do well to take
to the streets and give a couple of laps, which also breathe fresh
air, they could talk without suspicion.

When found in the plaza del Angel, Salvador took the arm of his friend
and said mockingly: - Pill!

... What new farcical secret society is that? What you got now fabric
hand - little by little ... regardless of plot, but not in sham. - Who
pays? - Much deepen, ¡palitroques!

You have to buy my frankness with your kindness, not your ridicule,
deny and if they persist in your support, you will not have me or a
floor. Things you could no longer tell stunned, but you know ... there
are no secrets as the free good morning.

Come and you will open the beak. - Is that I can not will not to know
who or why I give. Aviraneta insisted that his thinking was to unite the
Liberals to prepare a common action, but that if Do not trap a
different intent, was the most naive could occur for those days a
man was born, and Aviraneta just say it was anything but pure spirit.

For more than Gipuzkoan be given an air of sapientísimo inventor of that
plan, could swear that it was only an instrument of superior will,
oiled clippers for gold and driven by a mysterious hand.

About this did not mean a single word that was not the same confusion, but
Monsalud, which was listísimo and also had the experience of those
messes, she was able to get the truth among so many lies.

Their belief was that D. Eugenio had received high regions stuck to
the mission of the Liberals and engaged in endless disputes, but
could not easily find out if the momentum was starting the fourth
Maria Cristina or cabinet Zea Bermudez.

Salvador made a capricious and other questions to catch by surprise the
main secret of his friend, but this was so skilled in those arts,
which escaped the bonds with extreme grace. Aviraneta This man was later
acquired celebrity pretending to penetrate the Carlist circles factious
relatives of people and engage in intrigues thousand, sowing discord
among them, suspicion and distrust, until the defection of precipitated
Maroto, paving the Convention of Vergara and the ruin of the factions.
admirably equipped for these companies was that a man of colossal genius
and intrigue inimitable histrionic for a huge party scene. The circumstances
and a great time hiciéronle intriguing, another time and another
place would have made him perhaps the first diplomat of the century.

Since 1829 had gotten into tangles dark and mysterious work, and
usually its plot was a double play combination. Probably at the time of
this meeting that we have with him during the winter of 1833, the
incomprehensible in this monkey were also a political minstrel work
fine double, ie revolver matches from the ministry and the ministry
to sell games .

The foundation of society _isabelina_ servíale an excuse to go into
business with diverse people, with lock ladinos patriotic or political,
by including in relation to military bullangueros and so, speaking
of the good Mr.

Rufete told Salvador: -- This unhappy _ayacucho_ is a jewel that is not
paid with money. He is selflessly to enthuse and excite a hundred
officers like him. Will die of hunger before charging a penny for
his services to _Sistema_, shot and left to make disclosures before
committing society.

It is a marvel of innocence and loyalty. Poor Rufete works as a black,
and passed life making lists of suspects, traitors lists, lists of lists
of hot and warm. In his company goes through a Seneca spliced in
a Cato. Sergeants love him and are able to get him into a furnace on, if
they say it is necessary to save the precious fire _The código_.
Oh!

friend, respected and admired the good faith and courage of these people.
If all social classes were many Rufete! ... But there are so many
rogue indomesticable that not only serves to make _pueblo_ to shout to
get a fuss, that solemn day in the best cases discredited, turned
over to the ferocity that inspired his cowardice and his appetite!

.. . These and other comments and such, came to the streets of the Duke
of Alba, Salvador because, unable to get anything concrete from
the clean and confusing indications D.

Eugene, had decided to retire to his home.

I missed the last paragraph in this portal, when they saw the
immediate exit of a man whistling the refrain of a song political
tabernaria.

Despite the smooth, Aviraneta you know when and Savior as well. - Boards
- said D. Eugenio - cuartéate here, we are friends. The athlete
approached, looking with attention to two suspicious men. - Sir
_Vinagrete_ and the company, good night ....

I was not and dazzle them know. - Are you sleeping and D. Felicísimo
- are still fighting. Gentlemen have been so many things tonight
that is the vault of San Ginés. - So what are disciplinazos - With
the tongue ... speak at the elbows, and everything becomes manot
and _perjuraciones_. - What do you mean by _perjuraciones_ - say,
put the case _señores, die by the Throne legítimo_. - And you are
still together - yet. - But say, did not come this evening the
police?

I thought that at this time D. Felicísimo and their community
were pouring into the prison _perjuraciones_ Court. - Then came
the police, yes sir, three came and called so loud that the house
was falling or not falling.

The gentlemen were frightened, and D. Felicísimo consoled them by saying:
"there is nothing to fear, the police are the police. Between the
caller. I got to open the door, and slipped three lords of dog-faced
with baton sticks.

Rose, and entered the room, leaving aside the sticks and everything
was clean and come courtesy five.

D. Felicísimo sent me to bring wine and cakes, and drank, the more
desacostumbrada thing that can be seen in this house, and one of the
club won the cup and said: "For the triumph of the legitimate
monarchy and religion Sacred." -- -provide. - And the three took
the olive tree. - Is Pipaón above - is the most lenguaraces.

When offered, D. I do not know who drove Juan _loores_ ... - And what is
that?

- That blew a lot, throwing out all of the cash chest, and said
_loor to this praise as otro_. - Is married Micaelita - God and
breeding them together. - And you leave it? - Yes, because I've told D.
Felicísimo I'm sick. - Where you going? - Allá - Tables replied stating
that the suspicious look went to Salvador, which should not speak
more clearly. - Well - said Aviraneta -.

See you then. And how is the Pimenta - Agria. - What is it? - Angry
because it stings the pantry. - What do you mean?

What is the pantry - The stomach. - It is true that my wife suffers from
stomach problems .... Wait, I'm going with you. Tablas, that some
steps had already stopped to San Millán, while Gipuzkoa, closer to the
most lively affection by his friend, he said these words: - Tomorrow
... say morning and said next month or next year ... be with me in the
_Isabelina_. VIII-the-scenes conversations that night and left in the
spirit of Salvador a tinge of bitterness, and he struggled away from
his memory, considering that reproduced in the small box pitiful Spanish
Nation. The confusion of views, the endless mysterious resources and
conspiring with some Finnish bad, the disgusting collusion between
the police and the conspirators of all sorts, were not something
new for him, but had become so hate these political phenomena,
morbid manifestation of our misery, which willingly goes to the
antipodes, or any remote area where no hear or see what there
mortified their eyes and ears.

The experience, profound knowledge of people, travel and unfortunately
habíanle as many elements to build a homeland in their thinking
is quite different from that pisaba, and the overwhelming superiority
of this dream home in comparison with the real reason he was in
constant suffering and boredom.

So I said: - "Much has to change things, have a lot of men to learn that
the policy of my unfortunate country can come to me nice and like me for
years that God granted me, I did not live enough to see my fellow
educated on what freedom is, what it is and what law is to govern,
it is best to not worries me about it, and let pass, pass, watching
from my indifference to the events are to come, looking like figures
from a balcony of a masquerade. " These aims were not constant,
because sometimes meditated on the same topic and provided the
following considerations, full of good sense and tolerance .-- "You
can not hold onto the shares of the pessimistic view on life, usually
of dissimulation selfishness.

Who doubts that exist in our country, next to that of troublemakers
cafile, leaders, intriguing, talkative, adventurous, many characters
nobilis, countless people of good faith, selfless noble, true and
loyal they would apply to politics and would be unobtrusive on the
idea, energetic in action and honest in the conduct?

    Well, if I am able to instill these
    men thought and happy to help in the performance, why do not I?

". After hesitating a moment replied bitterly, - 'Because I do not
believe .

What had to believe and ignore me if I too have been troublemaker,
ringleader, intriguing, adventurous and even a little charlatan? If I
have been everything that I condemn, how they have trusted me to
convict me so that I have been?

If the industry exploits the poor in this country, which is the conspiracy,
how they see in me what really am I? No, I have become useless in this
dreadful fray with the need. Went live, yes, but without authority,
without taking credit for my lips that noble ideal, where the roads
are straight and honest about the progress of peoples. My destination is
silent and cornered, Sopena that I have as a Aviraneta, if not a
Rufete.

"Thinking this, condemned to perpetual darkness to succeed in their aim
of a completely. But this darkness without family and without affecting
the cenobitical was sad that you can imagine. And here in this dark cave
with no exit, ending the mental excursions of misanthrope.

But the departure was not absolutely impossible. If you needed a family,
why do not you need?

There are certain assets that are worth more randomly found that sought
to balance, and overall I was very lucky when it came disdain at
his side, then head after beating her, and not find even painted,
or find any forgery or and take joy and hug and heartbreak and
anger, deploring his clumsy indolence.

I wanted to overcome her boredom attending special society. Had renewed
their long friendships, giving a little hand to him reminiscent
of his youth trapisondas and trying to count among his intimate
older stem.

Good shape, his conduct irreproachable, his instruction, his entertaining
word 8, for travel or refer cases and credible threats gave many
fans everywhere.

Had stopped to visit and Genara D.

Lamb benign reasons, but instead attended many decent houses, which
implies a staff of both sexes in the best of the Court.

In the evening enjoyed a bit of a stroll through the streets before
retiring to his home, thus the talk and dream of a piece of urban
transport meditation more comfortable for him than the most erudite
and entertaining reading.

Solitude suspicious of some streets, the noise of others, the rumor báquico
the tavern ajar, the song that came out of an alley with claims
of love songs, the whisper of the gates, the parade of unexpected
packages, evidence of theft perpetrated, smuggling or poaching a
joke perhaps, the dispute ended with a din of viejecillas slapping
... otherwise the roll of fine cars, the psalms of insufferable
stayed calm to the yawn as a reló 9 hours of sleep, running for
mysterious influence of liquor, the grinding of the glass doors of
the cafes, where entering and exiting the patriots ; sad honoring
those who harbored Castañera with a tendency to be selling hand-iced
to get the rooms and warm hands to the chestnuts, the unique shadows
that made the houses built without order, some bearing backward,
the other extending angle on a rundown public roads, the vagaries
of clarity and darkness that were oil lamps lit by the City and
that could be compared to tears at night for soiling his black robe,
the effect of frost pilgrim in the cobbled streets that seemed
frosted glass filled with sad reflection, the same effect on the
roof, which was seen as a surface layer of mold enameled diamond
dust, the great effect of the ice, crush it in invisible sky was
clear blue looks frightening to the moon, the deity of dismal
January, the general account of the cold made it into a warm cloth,
and the din of diligence when entering the street, barquichuelo
sailing on a sea of pebbles, scared of dogs , scaring the kids and
the curious ... good step martial of soldiers who were to carry the
order attached at the top of the gun, and deaf choir at the end of
the market transactions, where the coins were sweeping the post and
collected the remains, the smell of dinners and guisotes leaving
the ramshackle doors of the houses to the malice and rasgueo guitar
that sounded out there in the depths of humble dwellings, the door
on which there was a woman's name crudely carved with knife, or a
cross or bullfight poster, a logo or industrial, or a threat of
murder, or a string of rude words, or a fading light indicating inn
or a male quail that sing to the morning, or a box of milk cows,
or a black object something like a shoe, or a bundle of fireworks
advocating the art of powder or covered with a alambrera a guiñapo
sign industry's prendería, Bacia or copper, or a jar of leeches ...
this, in order, and many other features of the urban physiognomy
during the night, and real live site, open from the vulgarity of
the salon and the tedium of his lonely house, will seduce all end.

But one night he met sad. When entering the Plaza County saw a person,
two, three. A lame man were either wrapped in his cloak, a woman
so well guarded from cold, which he saw only the eyes, and a child
with Gabán and scarf, showing the wet nose and cheeks red with cold.

The three in a row would be stopped at all the windows to see blankets,
luxurious costumes, rich fabrics, jewelry, and seemed very joyful
and entertaining for what they saw.

In the corner was a Castañera. Detuviéronse. The rooms of cojo got
pocket, women scarf, purchased, tested and then followed the boy.
Women scarf filled feast of chestnuts, as he warmed his hands with
advanced .... .... disappeared through a doorway.

Salvador felt shudder of despair and envy. The lame man, the child, the
pleasant combination of the three, the fourth out of pocket, jumps
when the boy was doing the deal with the seller, chestnuts, scarf,
hands that had the scarf ....

Given the insolent mockery of fate, vowed not to pass that way.-X-Men went
lame in her home, as we said, and after a slight altercation between
the family know what had first bedtime, retiráronse everyone. Peace,
order, silence, stillness is under the whole area of housing, and
soon there was not an individual who does not sleep, except that
the good lord of lameness, which, in its wake bed, an idea was
turned as if reeling, sacándola abreast of thought tangled ball of
speech. - The closer I see the day - I thought - more perplexed I
am undecided.

Why do I doubt, decídmelo, Virgen del Sagrario Santa and you, San
Ildefonso blessed?

Why bartered my ambition has been wavering in my faith in and fear of
causing serious harm?

What do you say to this, pure, why me? ¿Sale of you may feel that
voice that says, 'stop, blind ?...».

And you, Pat Benigno, have you noticed, perchance, coldness in the affections
of her repentance in their will or even diversion? Nothing: it is
always the same.

I think even more affectionate, more faithful to my interests, more
loving, more diligent ....

So silly, childish and bobísimo man, dignified exit from these streets
with bib and chichonera, why hesitate, why fear? ... Come and meet my
plan, which is something barástolis ¡! something, yes, of divine inspiration
.... Ah! come the damn pain ....

Everything is God! Oh!

Why do you have me twisted in the way of Heaven, oh leg ...

The stories are consistent in ensuring that D. Benigno, after saying 'oh,
leg! "Launched a large sigh and fell asleep as a saint.

The next morning my head was clear, the mood cheerful.

The first thing I read when I was brought _Gaceta_ decree calling for
cuts in the nation to the old style, to swear to the Princess Elizabeth,
heir to the crown of both worlds.

This gave much pleased, and look at the date of June 20 marked the one
notable incident, said: - By now, we already married .... It is necessary
to establish definitively that this date is my martyrdom. She said
that when I want and I say that the coming weeks, and when she
enters the week, come woe!

also my scruples as a throng of creditors, and so we live.

Some of the unscrupulous man came to feel so good Achacoso.

Was no longer the man who was cheating with his century and fifty-eight
years by a health hidden iron, for encouragement and spirit worthy of a
young man of thirty, with no illusions and vices.

That fatal rupture of the leg had caused him sudden loss of young people
enjoyed, and was entered with faltering step and lame, in a cold
and sad that it had not hitherto known.

With the spring rains and temperature changes will be renewed pain,
complicated with persistent rheumatic condition, and the Lord was
poor and a half months without being able to move a couch.

"Want to bet, he said, also reached by June 20 and meet the Courts and
swear to the princess, and I will not be released yet this shackle
that God has put me? What prison is this?

You fear, oh, my God, that leaves quite a hurry?

This is perhaps for the good of my soul, in danger of running too
much and crash?

". And what would have been the heavy hours of that season, he called
his conviction, but the ease with your love and tenderness and
with a thousand applications six persons designated by him with the
sweetest name of _The Sacred familia_!

Sola caring as you might care for a sick child, and his mind ran on
every blessed one leg is not broken but wanted to make socks.

She seemed to have robbed the Angels of medicine the delicate art
of dressing, and her fingers were so well known that the pain I saw
around them without irritating.

Once this supreme duty, the future wife of the best of men dealing with
everything from the house with the usual care, with more care, if possible,
without suspecting it, had been accustomed to consider participating in
that home and throne co-owner of so sweet domains. In the evenings,
families gather in the dining room, around the patriarch claudicante.

Doña Crucita which was dedicated to embroider birds, shipped weekly, a
flock of those precious beings, and sometimes the dining room
looked like a jungle American, because there were all colors, and
butterflies and flowers, all invented by the lady who created the
species with a rich fantasy, so that Buffon would be very puzzled
by this marvel.

This author was interesting to read aloud a few times by one of the
older children, not having read it more tasty as that for D. Benigno,
after that of Rousseau, and all were astonished to hear the magnificent
description of the horse, the painting of a lion, or the pilgrim industry
beavers. The same boy or his brother also used to read the _Gacetas_
to give variety to the knowledge and know what was happening in
Hungary, Krakow and Finland.

       The events in Spain were those who never knew nor _Gacetas_ for
waste paper, and needed to receive the vehicle Alelí father, loyal
friend of all the faithful friends, increasingly disturbed by caletre
and more diffuse explicaderas.

He knew that D. Carlos is going to Portugal, with the comedy that his
wife wanted to hug D. Miguel (one such) and Infantas Portuguese, but not
really seen in the case of a swear Isabelita. The same _Tío tie Credos_
informed that in a house in the streets of Bethlehem had been a
surprise meeting Carlist prisoners and all who were. If the political
interest in these gatherings corderiles news, depended on their amenity
thank Juanito Jacobo and daring, with its language said more than
half if you have it whole, and reciting fables or romances, and
is released into frasecillas and comfortable with his observations
of his own harvest, was dying laughing the whole family, except for
when he was angry, making pots and throw the head of his brother,
a shoe, book, candlestick, or any other ink-lethal projectile .

The store had been transferred to another trader by Lamb, a friend
and relative, and I was completely withdrawn from trade.

    Its capital, if not very large, the
    most robust, assures healthy and modest incomes.
    He had vast expansion and improvement projects
    in Cigarrales, but rather hoped to clarify the time to go there
with the whole family.

In May sintiose so improved that he thought his leg was now time to put
an end to their hesitation. It was a beautiful afternoon. Had completed
a meal in peace and grace of God. D. Benigno, leaving Alelí was
sleeping on the couch and the dining Crucita do the same in his room,
sent the boys to school, and his fourth at Sola, initiated a conversation
with her that it is essential to point or coma. - Dear Alone - he
said - I have to give explanations to you about an event that will
be surprised and perhaps (and this is what most feel) will hurt his
self to you.

Sola said great surprise.
Connolly hears that little catch, too, for she instantly changes
her tactics.

"Faith, an' 'tis right y'are, me dear. There's a deal o' trouble in
marriage, an' 'tis too young y'are intirely to undertake the likes of
it," says she, veering round with a scandalous disregard for
appearances. "My, what hair ye have, Miss Joyce! 'Tis improved, it is;
even since last I saw ye. I'm a great admirer of a good head o' hair."

"I wonder when will the rain be over?" asks Joyce, wistfully gazing
through the small window at the threatening heavens.

"If it's my opinion y'are askin'," says Mrs. Connolly, "I'd say not till
to-morrow morning."

"Oh! Mrs. Connolly!" turning a distressed face to that good creature.

"Well, me dear, what can I say but what I think?" flinging out her ample
arms in self-justification. "Would ye have me lie to ye? Why, a sky like
that always----"

Here a loud crash of thunder almost shakes the small inn to its
foundations.

"The heavens be good to us!" says Mrs. Connolly, crossing herself
devoutly. "Did ye iver hear the like o' that?"

"But--it can't last--it is impossible," says Joyce, vehemently. "Is
there no covered car in the town? Couldn't a man be persuaded to drive
me home if I promised him to----"

"If ye promised him a king's ransom ye couldn't get a covered car
to-night," says Mrs. Connolly. "There's only one in the place, an' that
belongs to Mike Murphy, an' 'tis off now miles beyant Skibbereen,
attindin' the funeral o' Father John Maguire. 'Twon't be home till
to-morrow any way, an'-faix, I wouldn't wondher if it wasn't here then,
for every mother's son at that wake will be as dhrunk as fiddlers
to-night. Father John, ye know, me dear, was greatly respected."

"Are you sure there isn't another car?"

"Quite positive. But why need ye be so unaisy, Miss Joyce, dear? Sure,
'tis safe an' sure y'are wid me."

"But what will they think at home and at the Court?" says Joyce,
faltering.

"Arrah! what can they think, miss, but that the rain was altogether too
mastherful for ye? Ye know, me dear, we can't (even the best of us)
conthrol the illimints!" This incontrovertible fact Mrs. Connolly gives
forth with a truly noble air of resignation. "Come down now, and let me
get ye that palthry cup o' tay y'are cravin' for."

She leads Joyce downstairs and into a snug little parlor with a roaring
fire that is not altogether unacceptable this dreary evening. The smell
of stale tobacco smoke that pervades it is a drawback, but, if you think
of it, we can't have everything in this world.

Perhaps Joyce has more than she wants. It occurs to her, as Beauclerk
turns round from the solitary window, that she could well have dispensed
with his society. That lurking distrust of him she had known vaguely,
but kept under during all their acquaintance, has taken a permanent
place in her mind during her drive with him this afternoon.

"Oh! here you are. Beastly, smoky hole!" he says, taking no notice of
Mrs. Connolly, who is doing her best curtsey in the doorway.

"I think it looks very comfortable," says Joyce, with a gracious smile
at her hostess, and a certain sore feeling at her heart. Once again her
thoughts fly to Dysart. Would that have been his first remark when she
appeared after so severe a wetting?

"'Tis just what I've been sayin' to Miss Kavanagh, sir," says Mrs.
Connolly, with unabated good humor. "The heavens above is always too
much for us. We can't turn off the wather up there as we can the cock in
the kitchen sink. Still, there's compinsations always, glory be! An'
what will ye plaze have wid yer tay, Miss?" turning to Joyce with great
respect in look and tone. In spite of all her familiarity with her
upstairs, she now, with a looker-on, proceeds to treat "her young lady"
as though she were a stranger and of blood royal.

"Anything you have, Mrs. Connolly," says Joyce; "only don't be long!"
There is undoubted entreaty in the request. Mrs. Connolly, glancing at
her, concludes it is not so much a desire for what will be brought, as
for the bringer that animates the speaker.

"Give me five minutes, Miss, an' I'll be back again," says she
pleasantly. Leaving the room, she stands in the passage outside for a
moment, and solemnly moves her kindly head from side to side. It takes
her but a little time to make up her shrewd Irish mind on several
points.

"While this worthy person is getting you your tea I think I'll take a
look at the weather from the outside," says Mr. Beauclerk, turning to
Joyce. It is evident he is eager to avoid a tête-à-tête, but this does
not occur to her.

"Yes--do--do," says she, nevertheless with such a liberal encouragement
as puzzles him. Women are kittle cattle, however, he tells himself;
better not to question their motives too closely or you will find
yourself in queer street. He gets to the door with a cheerful assumption
of going to study the heavens that conceals his desire for a cigar and a
brandy and soda, but on the threshold Joyce speaks again.

"Is there no chance--would it not be possible to get home?" says she, in
a tone that trembles with nervous longing.

"I'm afraid not. I'm just going to see. It is impossible weather for you
to be out in."

"But you----? It is clearing a little, isn't it?" with a despairing
glance out of the window. "If you could manage to get back and tell them
that----"

She is made thoroughly ashamed of her selfishness a moment later.

"But my dear girl, consider! Why should I tempt a severe attack of
inflammation of the lungs by driving ten or twelve miles through this
unrelenting torrent? We are very well out of it here. This
Mrs.--er--Connor--Connolly seems a very respectable person, and is known
to you. I shall tell her to make you as comfortable as her 'limited
liabilities,'" with quite a laugh at his own wit, "will allow."

"Pray tell her nothing. Do not give yourself so much trouble," says
Joyce calmly. "She will do the best she can for me without the
intervention of any one."

"As you will, au revoir!" says he, waving her a graceful farewell for
the moment.

He is not entirely happy in his mind, as he crosses the tiny hall and
makes his way first to the bar and afterward to the open doorway. Like a
cat, he hates rain! To drive back through this turmoil of wind and wet
for twelve long miles to the Court is more than his pleasure-loving
nature can bear to look upon. Yet to remain has its drawbacks, too.

If Miss Maliphant, for example, were to hear of this escapade there
might be trouble there. He has not as yet finally made up his mind to
give inclination the go by and surrender himself to sordid
considerations, but there can be no doubt that the sordid things of this
life have, with some natures, a charm hardly to be rivaled successfully
by mere beauty.

The heiress is attractive in one sense; Joyce equally so in another.
Miss Maliphant's charms are golden--are not Joyce's more golden still?
And yet, to give up Miss Maliphant--to break with her finally--to throw
away deliberately a good £10,000 a year!

He lights his cigar with an untrembling hand, and, having found it
satisfactory, permits his mind to continue its investigations.

Ten thousand pounds a year! A great help to a man; yet he is glad at
this moment that he is free to accept or reject it. Nothing definite has
been said to the heiress--nothing definite to Joyce either. It strikes
him at this moment, as he stands in the dingy doorway of the inn and
stares out at the descending rain, that he has shown distinct cleverness
in the way in which he has manoeuvred these two girls, without either of
them feeling the least suspicion of the other. Last night Joyce had been
on the point of a discovery, but he had smoothed away all that.
Evidently he was born to be a successful diplomatist, and if that
appointment he has been looking for ever comes his way, he will be able
to show the world a thing or two.

How charming that little girl in there can look! And never more so than
when she allows her temper to overcome her. She had been angry just now.
Yes. But he can read between the lines; angry--naturally that he has not
come to the point--declared himself--proposed as the saying is. Well,
puffing complacently at his cigar, she must wait--she must wait--if the
appointment comes off, if Sir Alexander stands to him, she has a very
good chance, but if that falls through, why then----

And it won't do to encourage her too much, by Jove! If Miss Maliphant
were to hear of this evening's adventure, she is headstrong, stolid
enough, to mark out a line for herself and fling him aside without
waiting for judge or jury. Much as it might cost her, she would not
hesitate to break all ties with him, and any that existed were very
slight. He, himself, had kept them so. Perhaps, after all, he had better
order the trap round, leave Miss Kavanagh here, and----

And yet to go out in that rain; to feel it beating against his face for
two or three intolerable hours. Was anything, even £10,000 a year, worth
that? He would be a drowned rat by the time he reached the Court.

And, after all, couldn't it be arranged without all this bother? He
might easily explain it all away to Miss Maliphant, even should some
kind friend tell her of it. That was his role. He had quite a talent for
explaining away. But he must also make Joyce thoroughly understand. She
was a sensible girl. A word to her would be sufficient. Just a word to
show that marriage at present was out of the question. Nothing
unpleasant; nothing finite; but just some little thing to waken her to
the true state of the case. Girls, as a rule, were sentimental, and
would expect much of an adventure such as this. But Joyce was proud--he
liked that in her. There would be no trouble; she would quite
understand.

"Tea is just comin' up, sorr!" says a rough voice behind him. "The
misthress tould me to tell ye so!"

The red-headed Abigail who attends on Mrs. Connolly beckons him, with a
grimy forefinger, to the repast within. He accepts the invitation.


CHAPTER XXIV.

    "It is the mynd that maketh good or ill,
    That maketh wretch or happy, rich or poore."


As he enters the inn parlor he finds Joyce sitting by the fire,
listening to Mrs. Connolly, who, armed with a large tray, is advancing
up the room toward the table. Nobody but the "misthress" herself is
allowed to wait upon "the young lady."

"An' I hope, Miss Joyce, 'twill be to your liking. An' sorry I am, sir,"
with a courteous recognition of Beauclerk's entrance, "that 'tis only
one poor fowl I can give ye. But thim commercial thravellers are the
divil. They'd lave nothing behind 'em if they could help it. Still,
Miss," with a loving smile at Joyce, "I do think ye'll like the ham.
'Tis me own curing, an' I brought ye just a taste o' this year's honey;
ye'd always a sweet tooth from the time ye were born."

"I could hardly have had a tooth before that," says Joyce, laughing.
"Oh, thank you, Mrs. Connolly; it is a lovely tea, and it is very good
of you to take all this trouble."

"Who'd be welcome to any trouble if 'twasn't yerself, Miss?" says Mrs.
Connolly, bowing and retreating toward the door.

A movement on the part of Joyce checks her. The girl has made an
impulsive step as if to follow her, and now, seeing Mrs. Connolly stop
short, holds out to her one hand.

"But, Mrs. Connolly," says she, trying to speak naturally, and
succeeding very well, so far as careless ears are in question, but the
"misthress" marks the false note, "you will stay and pour out tea for
us; you will?"

There is an extreme treaty in her tone; the stronger in that it has to
be suppressed. Mrs. Connolly, halting midway between the table and the
door with the tray in her hands, hears it, and a sudden light comes, not
only into her eyes, but her mind.

"Why, if you wish it, Miss," says she directly. She lays down the tray,
standing it up against the wall, and coming back to the table lifts the
teapot and begins to fill the cups.

"Ye take sugar, sir?" asks she of Beauclerk, who is a little puzzled,
but not altogether displeased at the turn affairs have taken. After all,
as he has told himself a thousand times, Joyce is a clever girl. She is
determined not to betray the anxiety for his society that beyond
question she is feeling. And this prudence on her part will relieve him
of many small embarrassments. Truly, she is a girl not to be found every
day.

He is accordingly most gracious to Mrs. Connolly; praises her ham,
extols her tea, says wonderful things about the chicken.

When tea is at an end, he rises gracefully, and expresses his desire to
smoke one more cigar and have a last look at the weather.

"You will be able to put us up?" says he.

"Oh yes, sir, sure."

He smiles beautifully, and with a benevolent request to Joyce to take
care of herself in his absence, leaves the room.

"He's a dale o' talk," says Mrs. Connolly, the moment his back is
turned. She is now sure that Joyce has some private grudge against him,
or at all events is not what she herself would call "partial to him."

"Yes," says Joyce. "He is very conversational. How it rains, still."

"Yes, it does," says Mrs. Connolly, comfortably. She is not at all put
out by the girl's reserved manner, having lived among the "ginthry" for
many years, and being well up to their "quare ways." A thought, however,
that had been formulating in her mind for a long time past--ever since,
indeed, she found her young lady could not return home until
morning--now compels her to give the conversation a fresh turn.

"I've got to apologize to ye, Miss, but since ye must stay the night wid
me, I'm bound to tell ye I have no room for ye but a little one leadin'
out o' me own."

"Are you so very full, then, Mrs. Connolly? I'm glad to hear that for
your sake."

"Full to the chin, me dear. Thim commercials always dhrop down upon one
just whin laste wanted."

"Then I suppose I ought to be thankful that you can give me a room at
all," says Joyce, laughing. "I'm afraid I shall be a great trouble to
you."

"Ne'er a scrap in life, me dear. 'Tis proud I am to be of any sarvice to
ye. An' perhaps 'twill make ye aisier in yer mind to know as your undher
my protection, and that no gossip can come nigh ye."

The good woman means well, but she has flown rather above Joyce's head,
or rather under her feet.

"I'm delighted to be with you," says Miss Kavanagh, with a pretty smile.
"But as for protection--well, the Land Leaguers round here are not so
bad as that one should fear for one's life in a quiet village like
this."

"There's worse than Land Leaguers," says Mrs. Connolly. "There's thim
who talk."

"Talk--of what?" asks Joyce, a little vaguely.

"Well now, me dear, sure ye haven't lived so long widout knowin' there's
cruel people in the world," says Mrs. Connolly, anxiously. "An' the fact
o' you goin' out dhrivin' wid Mr. Beauclerk, an' stayin' out the night
wid him, might give rise to the talk I'm fightin' agin. Don't be angry
wid me now, Miss Joyce, an' don't fret, but 'tis as well to prepare ye."

Joyce's heart, as she listens, seems to die within her. A kind of sick
feeling renders her speechless; she had never thought of that--of--of
the idea of impropriety being suggested as part of this most unlucky
escapade. Mrs. Connolly, noting the girl's white face, feels as though
she ought to have cut her tongue out, rather than have spoken, yet she
had done all for the best.

"Miss Joyce, don't think about it," says she, hurriedly. "I'm sorry I
said a word, but--An', afther all, I am right, me dear. 'Tis betther for
ye when evil tongues are waggin' to have a raal friend like me to yer
back to say the needful word. Ye'll sleep wid me to-night, an' I'll take
ye back to her ladyship in the morning, an' never leave ye till I see ye
in safe hands once more. If ye liked him," pointing to the door through
which Beauclerk had gone, "I'd say nothing, for thin all would come
right enough. But as it is, I'll take it on meself to be the nurse to ye
now that I was when ye were a little creature creeping along the floor."

Joyce smiles at her, but rather faintly. A sense of terror is oppressing
her. Lady Baltimore, what will she think? And Freddy and Barbara! They
will all be angry with her! Oh! more than angry--they will think she has
done something that other girls would not have done. How is she to face
them again? The entire party at the Court seems to spread itself before
her. Lady Swansdown and Lord Baltimore, they will laugh about it; and
the others will laugh and whisper, and----

Felix--Felix Dysart. What will he think? What is he thinking now? To
follow out this thought is intolerable to her; she rises abruptly.

"What o'clock is it, Mrs. Connolly?" says she in a hard, strained voice.
"I am tired, I should like to go to bed now."

"Just eight, Miss. An' if you are tired there's nothing like the bed. Ye
will like to say good-night to Mr. Beauclerk?"

"Oh, no, no!" with frowning sharpness. Then recovering herself. "I need
not disturb him. You will tell him that I was chilled--tired."

"I'll tell him all that he ought to know," says Mrs. Connolly. Both
made themselves into thinking they stormed sympathy. - This gentleman
gets respect like a bishop - was said Amparo. - This girl seems
to Freedom - the patriarch muttered.

Meanwhile the girl began her peroración . Temblábale voice to the top
two or three times had to move the hand, rigid, on the face wet, and
without knowing what he was doing activities with the class, whose tapes
wriggle like snakes of flame, and to undo a knot carraspeó it
pressed the galillo.

Gradually, the rumor of the table, the whisper of the guests more
distant view of the gas burners to heat the brain, the smell of
wine and Champagne foam, which still seemed to boil in the illuminated
atmosphere The drunk, and felt to flow from his lips the words and
spoke with affluence, with desparpajo, without cuts or tripping.

The guests were at the elbow, smiling, teeth somewhere between
saying 'bravo!

, ¡Muy bien! "To hear that Republican operatives in the factory class
that offered to the Assembly of the Northern Union and the red circle
in test that ... and to show respect ... and testimony that the
beating hearts ..., etc..

The patriarch was placed his hand on his chest, took her to the mouth with
sincerísima complacency, while the disputer, stiff and serious, occasionally
tilted his head slowly as a sign of approval. Finally, she ended
up delivering his speech the Patriarch and the entire class shouting:
"Citizen representatives, health and fraternity!". He took the
old and the offering went to the president, who got quite grasp it and
not knowing what to do . Confusing the compañeras de Amparo by sudden
silence, looked askance towards all parties, wonderful splendor
to the table and just surprised that the banquet was something both
Republican and order that the delegates comiesen instead save the
homeland.

The patriarch approached Amparo, his cheeks were wrinkled and wilted
at the time the rosy cheeks. - Thank you, daughters heading senile
stuttering ...-- -.

Thank you, citizen .... Come, tribune of the people ... one that we
embrace a holy brotherhood .... Long live the gallery in town! Long
live the North! - Viva - all balbució Amparo enternecida, drowning
-. Long live you ... many years! - And the old girl and two fingers
were broken to mourn, and some of the guests laughed at socapa seeing
that fatherly arm around this young neck. The Union-XIX - Northern
Watch when it's hot! On a hard blue celaje not tarnished by the slightest
mist, waving the flámulas placed on poles around the Venetian stronghold
of the castle gate, and Gayoso color of joy desdicen radiant sky
and the crash and cheerful crowd.

Bows and waves of green foliage are mast mast Dison and contrasting with
the tone of the Cerulean sky.

Amphitheater in the middle of the stage stood for the Assembly of the
Union, with its gallery to the center and flanked by two more
low, but higher, for the committees of the party.

Well could the Constituent Assembly of the Northern Iberian coast
- so named in their official documents - Orondo occupy the presidential
box and satisfied: a few short hours and sessions they had enough to
lay the foundations for the big contract Unionist federal; glorious
activity, especially compared with phlegm and those loafers
machaconería Constituent Cortes, which took months to draft a
definitive and essential source for the nation. impetuously walked
into the amphitheater, the committee composed of the Republican
party and _juventud_ of chiquillería lot of rural committees,
delegates and all the Christian faithful who moved from curiosity
wanted to interfere in the procession.

Hurriedly, as if it were a single being animated by a single breath of
life, and had the voice of the banda music aturdía the environment with
hymns and anthems, progressing the pulsating mass of humanity and
pushed for the compact crowd, banners, trimmed flowers, hesitated
as if they were intoxicated, and as soon as they stumble and are inclined
or ACULLICO here, makes stand as straight and proud. And the houses
seem to transit the box and understand your case, it rained and some
flowers, bouquets, wreaths, and others in smaller numbers enclosed
by stone and mud, said they frowned and put hurañas and serious
thinking rubbing of the revolutionary wave.

When these came to crashing into the bulwark, spread and spilled
everywhere. The crowd rose to the stairs, rode in the stand of the
bastions, invaded the boxes of the commissioners, and crowning the
hills surrounding extended; for the trunks of the masts is perched
over a rascal, determined to master the situation.

Majestically entered the stage in the Assembly and the delegates
took their seats, were pacified the tumult as if by magic, and about
twenty thousand people remained silent religious. Just heard from any
corner of the broad stage, the melancholy cry that trumpeted:
"cold lemon water, wafers, water, azucarillos, water!". Two photographers
are located in the right place to take the view, covering the approaches
head with green baize cloth, and his eyes seemed to machines in
the history contemplating the scene.

Would hear almost the fly from a fly, especially in the vicinity of the
presidential box. Procediose the signing and reading of the Union. Away
from the stage was in a group of heads, which include the black hair
of melodramatic disputer Quevedo and his golden beard and lily of the
Patriarch, the sun shining like the Lord in Bible pictures. Baltasar
and Clear were supported in a canvas parapet, standing on a block of
stone, which allowed them to see how much happens. Both provided great
care, realizing that witnessed an interesting episode of the Spanish
political drama. - Here incubated something, man - I deleted exclaimed
leaning toward his friend. - Of course they incubate! The universal mess
... and that will make mincemeat of these gentlemen Spain!

- Man says no .... Says what they want is confederates, so that we uniditos
more than before ... Huh you see that this is called the Union? -
Yes, yes, you cut a finger with saliva and then paste it! - A well
that a nation is no quarter to be orange so easily ....

Do you know what this old man told me ... of the Patriarch? You see, I
explained that it is a Republican ... There were things in those ancient
times! It was the second home of a wealthy ... powerful, man!
The mayorazgo arrampló yet, huh?, Mimes and finance, and he was an old
pigeon house and the memory of the spanking .... Another was made
misanthrope ... He was then a progressive philanthropist, and federal ...
and is blessed that embraces the entire world, and hear mass, and
incapable of harming anyone ...

_inter nos_ I am here for something .... chocho - And the dark ... that
of Quevedo - Ah! that ... say that this is one of those who want
to lose the colonies and to save the principles of man a straight line
geometry .... According to Palacios, who knows, the equation between
logic and absurdity: not for nothing is an engineer. If to achieve their
ideals were to skinned ... Poor ass! - What if I were to skinning
himself? - Cáspita!, The person's own skin .... However, let us not be
skeptical man. There you have another one ... to the black mustache
... which is to the left of the Patriarch. Well you, man, that has
already cost him money and dislikes mojiganga this policy ...
emigrated, accused, mistreated ... and are free to go to the Mariana
...

I do not know how .... There is humor in everything in this world ....
sublunar And to say that when God produces as girls are concerned
with the politics boys!

By pronouncing these words indicated wipe Amparo, whose distinctive
red finery of the women's circle surrounding it. - Well, this girl
even more than politics barbudos. ..

Do you not know ... And the incident of the banquet was discussed,
shredded, shot by two men's mouths, which adorned with festoons satirical.
Meanwhile read the contract of the Union, and although the sun was not
far from the zenith, the people and pressed clustered produced unbearable
temperatures, and heard shouts of jaez this: "We die .-- We will
stifle .-- When a little cool!

- But, man, we do not squeeze Usté .-- Hail Mary, which still Usté Estes
barbaric .-- .-- Well if you do not see, defeating: it sa figurao we see
others? - So you can even put a hand into his pocket to get a handkerchief
sad!

- Watch the clock, if it's palpable. " And the voice of the reader of
the Contract by flying top of the sea of heads, and the words
"sacrosanct guarantees ... tenets of freedom ... invulnerable rights
... ideals blessed ... honest and free people ...

"are prolonged in the warm and serene atmosphere. A shower of flowers,
wine, unannounced, at dusk, and a multitude of white doves were released
to him, shot at point-finned laborious flight, and fell on the
crowd, have long hindered the legs tied.

A noisy cube lucería rocket bufando out in all directions; music thundered,
there was a minute of screams, loud, roar and confusion, and nobody
spared a poor man, a barquillero, pulled out of the enclosure half
and half in the arms two men.

"We had an accident", said the move see it, without adding further comment.
-XX-Zagal lad And the crash and died that night, without confession,
without regaining their senses. Was it the sun? A thousand times he
dropped vertically on the head Mr Rosendo in their times of military
life, and go to the island of Cuba in pica rule ....

Was it the handle to be back the tongs and wafers to produce the
extraordinary consumption of those solemn days?

Was it, as some said comadres, the pride of seeing her daughter so
eloquent and bizarre, and so treated by the lords of the House?

Stay for posterity the hard decision, although the latter assumption seems
unfounded, since Mr Rosendo, far from expressing satisfaction when the
girl went into trifulcas like, broke his silence a few days before
saying things about it from the soul find the cat three feet and
lose their placement follies.

Military service had made the character so old, that the insubordination
was for him the most ugly crime, and its currency, passive obedience,
automatically so threatened Amparo, bringing fierce eyes and the
voice tartajosa with break a rib when he returned to read newspapers
in the factory.

Some years earlier had threatened but not implemented, but the
cigar, since it is, leaves somewhat of parental authority, and
therefore it was believed Mr Rosendo in the case of considerations
to keep their offspring.

Knowing how much influence the vibrations in the brain and internal
bleeding from the accesses furor may think that, perhaps, not anger
and pride of seeing her daughter at the high range of _Tribuna found
in the plethora pueblo_ constitution of the old Fulminans stroke. In
the end, he buried the two women and quedáronse which is assumed
in the first moments: stunned, amazed to see how "one goes to
another world." Economic imbalance was not because Amparo,
pardoned, had returned to the factory, and chintan, working as a stubborn
mule who was earning the same as before and brought the collection
faithfully every night as usual, except that no collected or claimed
their paltry wages.

The new system seemed very attractive to the cripple and comfortable,
which came to be as if they had two children and both won to support them.
But Amparo was concerned about having warned some pilgrims change
in the attitude and manners chintan.

Showed that bossy and very interested in the things of the humble house,
indicating it as their own, again took the liberty of waiting for the
girl out of the factory, and even accompany the way, if the consenting
work of the wafers; spent with her jokes taffeta-like saddle, and
in sum, since the death of the old guard and gave him the head of
household, without in any way appropriate and bred, the only role
that he always emphasized Amparo , mortified to see that the coarse
peasant serving you.

Outraged and offended, tratole with more detachment than ever before,
and on top of disgust, he saw that it was for their snub chintan
with rustic tenderness and their samples with evidence of diversion
of trust and liking .

Once he brought a list of Hallelujah, and as you hear some praise for
outstanding black glass, and was presented to the very night Orondo. She
refused to build. Hallábase Amparo one morning in his room dressed to go
out the factory, where he raised a hand indiscreet latch, and with great
surprise found themselves in front of a chintan of a mood as he had
never seen the girl, then brought the sombrerón flanked on the ears,
cheeks flushing, the Air resolved and a quarter of a cigar in his
mouth: that all preparations had paisanillo judged essential to
perform the feat of "clear singing.

The girl crossed providing gown that was still without buckling,
and daring to cast a glance Olympic chintan but was such that neither
a basilisk glances he made a dent. - How come there, see? - Cried the
cigarette -. What gives you - I was offered ... two words. - words? I
have to do more than hear you silly. - No, because I wanted to
tell you that ... there ... as I learned the craft ... ie, we are
left with the tools so I am your father was a soldier ... there,
I, as the fifth in last month's book ... as we .... - Will today
or tomorrow?

Expeditious speaking, it seems that you're eating soup. - Women
quiérese say ... if you admit that the lease of the EC Treaty, ie,
we can ... marry the two.

The Homeric laughter that sprang the great platform to be required by
that loves mountain vermin, was changed into anger presto chintan
continued to warn that giving her hand and heart with the discreet
reasons already mentioned. - For I, which will ... have you I have a
lot, since I saw you like ... and I like that I do not know, that
does not seem to think ... but in your quereres and I am so
destroyed, that cuasimente properly and not as I do not want to
sleep the body ....

By working, you know that I will work until bursting soul ...
.... and keep - Watch ... if you get in front of beat, I make you a
disgrace!

- Amparo shouted angry and giving the boy, who was next to the door, a
sovereign empellón to throw in the fourth. But the family woke up
and toss the blood of chintan village, with open arms and went to
Amparo.

This in turn felt that revived the old street kid, and getting off early,
won the floor and stamped on the heel botita plane in which the swollen
cheek was next to theirs: with so much verve and retail shock, that
one to him between the eyes, the barbarian trouserpress stifled imprecations
had to exhale, back and leaving the field open. Poor girl still safe,
grabbed a chair, and finishes more about war, because the young man,
back to the reason for the beating, was thrown headlong on the bed,
and hiding her face and wallow in the warm clothes even in the body
Amparo, cried like a calf, raising its primitive dialect cry, the
cry of the great pains of childhood reappears in the following
crisis of existence. - My Mother, mother mine!

Encogiose Amparo and shoulder would your factory, the urgency of
time and needed to win the bread, because the burial of the old had
exhausted their dwindling savings.

    Upon his return told his mother what happened, and with no small
admiration heard that prevented rebuked for not having accepted the
marriage proposal, and the case is that the logic of cripple seemed
overwhelming. - You're what, woman?

    - he said -. Cigarrera like me. And what is it, woman?
    Barquillero as your father rest in peace.

You say you're funny that way, if you're such and such .... Conversation
and more conversation. He works, eh? Well, that we, as patarata other
.... Not wanting to hear more, the girl said that not only repugnant to
marry such a beast, but that would miss flying home: it was not a
thing to have stuck to the door every time to be seen.

No and no: he preferred that the blades before they encountered there
alive at all hours. Lamentose the crippled, recalled that the wages
of the assisted living chintan everything crashed against the firmness
of the platform.

And when he returned outside chintan to release the vacuum tube and
give up, bowed and humble as a lamb, your winnings of the day,
Amparo intimate ordered him not to sleep that night and at home.

The boy heard the shot and face between stunned and so were convinced
that he was ostracized, left to stay step redoubled. The crippled
leaned toward her daughter was soon to say - Look we owe rooms. - They
are the face restregaré - Amparo responded with great disdain. Two minutes
was again chintan, loaded with gossip the barquillería, pliers,
battery charger, lebrillo, and even a bundle of firewood, Amparo
was defensive when he was wielding the irons in the air, but it was
not for animals and divided the force into a corner throw negligible
and away, together tarteras, wood and tin tube, kicked it around
until reduced to shatter the pots and a glowing report, the roll
tube.

Performed the feat, he kicked to the sad remnants at the corners
of the room, which was removed without back face.

XXI-Snuff-chopped A few days in Granera knew Amparo, secular convent where
nothing is ignored, chintan pretending that he was entering the
workshop of the bite.

Began running in the factory and discussed the legend of love that guy
traded for being close to his beloved got into the torment of hell
chopped, in a painful place whose door should be left hopeless.

How are composed chintan to achieve their desire is irrelevant: the
fact is that the square was, and that Amparo is often found at the
entrance and exit, sad as can beaten by his master, and without he
never said more words than "Farewell, woman ... you very blessed.
" It was covered, generous of his, no longer engage in the first
conversation with him again: talking about things indifferent in
their work, and promised to visit Amparo workshop chintan that come
with the daily Granera not know him yet.

Weasel accompanied on the visit. Fell below the floor boards, with
purpose to seize the opportunity and see it all.

If the straws were Paradise and Purgatory common cigars, the analogy
still low in the workshops, which deserved the name of Hell.

You should think," says Lady Baltimore, with some
agitation. "She is a very young girl. She has lived entirely in the
country. She knows nothing--nothing," throwing out her hand. "She is not
awake to all the intriguing, lying, falsity," with a rush of bitter
disgust, "that belongs to the bigger world beyond--the terrible world
outside her own quiet one here."

"She is quiet here, isn't she?" says Beauclerk, with admirable
appreciation. "Pity to take her out of it. Eh? And yet, so far as I can
see, that is the cruel task you would impose on me."

"Norman," says his sister, turning suddenly and for the first time
directly toward him.

"Well, my dear. What?" throwing one leg negligently over the other. "It
really comes to this, doesn't it? That you want me to marry a certain
somebody, and that I think I cannot afford to marry her. Then it lies in
the proverbial nutshell."

"The man who cannot afford to marry should not afford himself the
pleasures of flirtations," says Lady Baltimore, with decision.

"No? Is that your final opinion? Good heavens! Isabel, what a brow! What
a terrible glance! If," smiling, "you favor Baltimore with this style of
thing whenever you disapprove of his smallest action I don't wonder he
jibs so often at the matrimonial collar. You advised me to think just
now; think yourself, my good Isabel, now and then, and probably you will
find life easier."

He is still smiling delightfully. He flings out this cruel gibe indeed
in the most careless manner possible.

"Ah! forget me," says she in a manner as careless as his own. If she has
quivered beneath that thrust of his, at all events she has had strength
enough to suppress all signs of it. "Think--not of her--I daresay she
will outlive it--but of yourself."

"What would you have me do then?" demands he, rising here and
confronting her. There is a good deal of venom in his handsome face, but
Lady Baltimore braves it.

"I would have you act as an honorable man," says she, in a clear, if icy
tone.

"You go pretty far, Isabel, very far, even for a sister," says he
presently, his face now white with rage. "A moment ago I gave you some
sound advice. I give you more now. Attend to your own affairs, which by
all account require looking after, and let mine alone."

He is evidently furious. His sister makes a little gesture towards the
door.

"Your taking it like this does not mend matters," she says calmly, "it
only makes them, if possible, worse. Leave me!"


CHAPTER XXVI.

"AT SIXES AND SEVENS."

    Pol.--"What do you read, my lord?"

    Ham.--"Words, words, words."


She sighs heavily, as the door closes on her brother. A sense of
weakness, of powerlessness oppresses her. She has fought so long, and
for what? Is there nothing to be gained; no truth to be defended
anywhere, no standard of right and wrong. Are all men--all--base,
selfish, cowardly, dishonorable? Her whole being seems aflame with the
indignation that is consuming her, when a knock sounds at the door.
There is only one person in the house who knocks at her boudoir door. To
every one, servants, guests, child, it is a free land; to her husband
alone it is forbidden ground.

"Come in," says she, in a cold, reluctant tone.

"I know I shall be terribly in your way," says Baltimore, entering, "but
I must beg you to give me five minutes. I hear Beauclerk has returned,
and that you have seen him. What kept him?"

Now Lady Baltimore--who a moment ago had condemned her brother heartily
to his face--feels, as her husband addresses her, a perverse desire to
openly contradict all that her honest judgment had led her to say to
Beauclerk. That sense of indignation that was burning so hotly in her
breast as Baltimore knocked at her door still stirs within her, but now
its fire is directed against this latest comer. Who is he, that he
should dare to question the honor of any man; and that there is
annoyance and condemnation now in Baltimore's eyes is not to be denied.

"The weather," returns she shortly.

"By your tone I judge you deem that an adequate excuse for keeping Miss
Kavanagh from her home for half a day and a night."

"There was a terrible storm," says. Lady Baltimore calmly; "the worst we
have had for months."

"If it had been ten times as bad he should, in my opinion, have come
home."

The words seem a mere repetition to Lady Baltimore. She had, indeed,
used them to Beauclerk herself, or some such, a few minutes ago. Yet she
seems to repudiate all sympathy with them now.

"On such a night as that? I hardly see why. Joyce was with an old
friend. Mrs. Connolly was once a servant of her father's, and he----"

"Should have left her with the old friend and come home."

Again her own argument, and again perversity drives her to take the
opposite side--the side against her conscience.

"Society must be in a very bad state if a man must perforce encounter
thunder, rain, lightning; in fact, a chance of death from cold and
exposure, all because he dare not spend one night beneath the roof of a
respectable woman like Mrs. Connolly, with a girl friend, without
bringing down on him the censures of his entire world."

"You can, it appears, be a most eloquent advocate for the supposed
follies of any one but your husband. Nevertheless, I must persist in my
opinion that it was, to put it very charitably indeed, inconsiderate of
your brother to study his own comfort at the expense of his--girl
friend. I believe that is your way of putting it, isn't it?"

"Yes," immovably. She has so far given way to movement, however, that
she has taken up a feather fan lying near, and now so holds it between
her and Baltimore that he cannot distinctly see her face.

"As for the world you speak of--it will not judge him as leniently as
you do. It can talk. No one," bitterly, "is as good a witness of that as
I am."

"But seldom," coldly, "without reason."

"And no one is a better witness of that than you are! That is what you
would say, isn't it? Put down that fan, can't you?" with a touch of
savage impatience. "Are you ashamed to carry out your argument with me
face to face?"

"Ashamed!" Lady Baltimore has sprung suddenly to her feet, and sent the
fan with a little crash to the ground. "Oh! shame on you to mention such
a word."

"Am I to be forever your one scapegoat? Now take another one, I beseech
you," says Baltimore with that old, queer, devilish mockery on his face
that was never seen there until gossiping tongues divided him from his
wife. "Here is your brother, actually thrown to you, as it were. Surely
he will be a proof that I am not the only vile one among all the herd.
If nothing else, acknowledge him selfish. A man who thought more of a
dry coat than a young, a very young, girl's reputation. Is that nothing?
Oh! consider, I beseech you!" his bantering manner, in which there is so
much misery that it should have reached her but does not, grows stronger
every instant "Even a big chill from the heavens above would not have
killed him, whereas we all know how a little breath from the world below
can kill many a----"

"Oh I you can talk, talk, talk," says she, that late unusual burst of
passion showing some hot embers still. "But can words alter facts?" She
pauses; a sudden chill seems to enwrap her. As if horrified by her late
descent into passion she gathers herself together, and defies him once
again with a cold look. "Why say anything more about it?" she says. "We
do not agree."

"On this subject, at least, we should," says he hotly. "I think your
brother should not have left us in ignorance of Miss Kavanagh's safety
for so many hours. And you," with a sneer, "who are such a martinet for
propriety, should certainly be prepared to acknowledge that he should
not have so regulated his conduct as to make her a subject for unkind
comment to the County. Badly," looking at her deliberately, "as you
think of me, I should not have done it."

"No?" says she. It is a cruel--an unmistakable insulting monosyllable.
And, bearing no other word with it--is the more detestable to the
hearer.

"No," says he loudly. "Sneer as you will--my conscience is at rest
there, so I can defy your suspicions."

"Ah! there!" says she.

"My dear creature," says he, "we all know there is but one villain in
the world, and you are the proud possessor of him--as a husband. Permit
me to observe, however, that a man of your code of honor, and of mine
for the matter of that--but I forget that honor and I have no cousinship
in your estimation--would have chosen to be wet to the skin rather than
imperil the fair name of the girl he loved."

"Has he told you he loved her?"

"Not in so many words."

"Then from what do you argue?"

"My dear, I have told you that you are too much for me in argument! I, a
simple on-looker, have judged merely from an every-day observance of
little unobtrusive facts. If your brother is not in love with Miss
Kavanagh, I think he ought to be. I speak ignorantly, I allow. I am not,
like you, a deep student of human nature. If, too, he did not feel it
his duty to bring her home last night, or else to leave her at Falling
and return here himself, I fail to sympathize with him. I should not
have so failed her."

"Oh but you!" says his wife, with a little contemptuous smile. "You who
are such a paragon of virtue. It would not be expected of you that you
should make such a mistake!"

She has sent forth her dart impulsively, sharply, out of the overflowing
fullness of her angry heart--and when too late, when it has sped past
recall--perhaps repents the speeding!

Such repentances, when felt too late, bring vices in their train; the
desire for good, when chilled, turns to evil. The mind, never idle, if
debarred from the best, leans inevitably toward the worst. Angry with
herself, her very soul embittered within her, Lady Baltimore feels more
and more a sense of passionate wrong against the man who had wooed and
won her, and sown the seeds of gnawing distrust within her bosom.

Baltimore's face has whitened. His brow contracts.

"What a devilish unforgiving thing is a good woman," says he, with a
reckless laugh. "That's a compliment, my lady--take it as you will.
What! are your sneers to outlast life itself? Is that old supposed sin
of mine never to be condoned? Why--say it was a real thing, instead of
being the myth it is. Even so, a woman all prayers, all holiness, such
as you are, might manage to pardon it!"

Lady Baltimore, rising, walks deliberately toward the door. It is her,
usual method of putting an end to all discussions of this sort between
them--of terminating any allusions to what she believes to be his
unfaithful past--that past that has wrecked her life.

As a rule, Baltimore makes no attempt to prolong the argument. He has
always let her go, with a sneering word, perhaps, or a muttered
exclamation; but to-day he follows her, and stepping between her and the
door, bars her departure.

"By heavens! you shall hear me," says he, his face dark with anger. "I
will not submit any longer, in silence, to your insolent treatment of
me. You condemn me, but I tell you it is I who should condemn. Do you
think I believe in your present attitude toward me? Pretend as you will,
even to yourself, in your soul it is impossible that you should give
credence to that old story, false as it is old. No! you cling to it to
mask the feet you have tired of me."

"Let me pass."

"Not until you have heard me!" With a light, but determined grasp of her
arm, he presses her back into the chair she has just quitted.

"That story was a lie, I tell you. Before our marriage, I confess, there
were some things--not creditable--to which I plead guilty, but----"

"Oh! be silent!" cries she, putting up her hand impulsively to check
him. There is open disgust and horror on her pale, severe face.

"Before, before our marriage," persists he passionately.

"What! do you think there is no temptation--no sin--no falling away from
the stern path of virtue in this life? Are you so mad or so ignorant as
to believe that every man you meet could show a perfectly clean record
of----"

"I cannot--I will not listen," interposes she, springing to her feet,
white and indignant.

"There is nothing to hear. I am not going to pollute your ears," says
he, with a curl of his lip. "Pray be reassured. What I only wish to say
is that if you condemn me for a few past sins you should condemn also
half your acquaintances. That, however, you do not do. For me alone, for
your husband, you reserve all your resentment."

"What are the others to me?"

"What am I to you, for the matter of that?" with a bitter laugh, "if
they are nothing I am less than nothing. You deliberately flung me aside
all because----Why, look here!" moving toward her in uncontrollable
agitation, "say I had sinned above the Galileans--say that lie was
true--say I had out-Heroded Herod in evil courses, still am I past the
pale of forgiveness? Saint as you are, have you no pity for me? In
all your histories of love and peace and perfection is there never
a case of a poor devil of a sinner like me being taken back into
grace--absolved--pardoned?"

"To rave like this is useless. There is no good to be got from it. You
know what I think, what I believe. You deceived--wronged----Let me go,
Cecil!"

"Before--before," repeats he, obstinately. "What that woman told you
since, I swear to you, was a most damned lie."

"I refuse to go into it again."

She is deadly pale now. Her bloodless lips almost refuse to let the
words go through them.

"You mean by that, that in spite of my oath you still cling to your
belief that I am lying to you?"

His face is livid. There is something almost dangerous about it, but
Lady Baltimore has come of too old and good a race to be frightened into
submission. Raising one small, slender hand, she lays it upon his
breast, and, with a little haughty upturning of her shapely head, pushes
him from her.

"I have told you I refuse to go into it," says she, with superb
self-control. "How long do you intend to keep me here? When may I be
allowed to leave the room?"

There is distinct defiance in the clear glance she casts at him.

Baltimore draws a long breath, and then bursts into a strange laugh.

"Why, when you will," says he, shrugging his shoulders. He makes a
graceful motion of his hand toward the door. "Shall I open it for you?
But a word still let me say--if you are not in too great a hurry!
Christianity, now, my fair saint, so far as ever I could hear or read,
has been made up of mercy. Now, you are merciless! Would you mind
letting me know how you reconcile one----"

"You perversely mistake me--I am no saint. I do not"--coldly--"profess
to be one. I am no such earnest seeker after righteousness as you
maliciously represent me. All I desire is honesty of purpose, and a
decent sense of honor--honor that makes decency. That is all. For the
rest, I am only a poor woman who loved once, and was--how many times
deceived? That probably I shall never know."

Her sad, sad eyes, looking at him, grow suddenly full of tears.

"Isabel! My meeting with that woman--that time"--vehemently--"in town
was accidental! I----It was the merest chance----"

"Don't!" says she, raising her hand, with such a painful repression of
her voice as to render it almost a whisper; "I have told you it is
useless. I have heard too much to believe anything now. I shall never, I
think," very sadly, "believe in any one again. You have murdered faith
in me. Tell this tale of yours to some one else--some one willing to
believe--to"--with a terrible touch of scorn--"Lady Swansdown, for
example."

"Why do you bring her into the discussion?" asks he, turning quickly to
her. Has she heard anything? That scene in the garden that now seems to
fill him with self-contempt. What a _bêtise_ it was! And what did it
amount to? Nothing! Lady Swansdown, he is honestly convinced, cares as
little for him as he for her. And at this moment it is borne in upon him
that he would give the embraces of a thousand such as she for one kind
glance from the woman before him.

"I merely mentioned her as a possible person who might listen to you,"
with a slight lifting of her shoulders. "A mere idle suggestion. You
will pardon me saying that this has been an idle discussion altogether.
You began by denouncing my brother to me, and now----"

"You have ended by denouncing your husband to me! As idle a beginning as
an end, surely. Still, to go back to Beauclerk. I persist in saying he
has behaved scandalously in this affair. He has imperilled that poor
child's good name."

"You can imperil names, too!" says she, turning almost fiercely on him.

"Lady Swansdown again, I suppose," says he, with a bored uplifting of
his brows. "The old grievance is not sufficient, then; you must have a
new one. I am afraid I must disappoint you. Lady Swansdown, I assure
you, cares nothing at all for me, and I care just the same amount for
her."

"Since when?"

"Since the world began--if you want a long date!"

"What a liar you are, Baltimore!" says his wife, turning to him with a
sudden breaking out of all the pent-up passion within her. Involuntarily
her hands clench themselves. She is pale no longer. A swift, hot flush
has dyed her cheeks. Like an outraged, insulted queen, she holds him a
moment with her eyes, then sweeps out of the room.


CHAPTER XXVII.

    'Since thou art not as these are, go thy ways;
    Thou hast no part in all my nights and days.
    Lie still--sleep on--be glad. As such things be
    Thou couldst not watch with me."


Luncheon has gone off very pleasantly. Joyce, persuaded by Lady
Baltimore, had gone down to it, feeling a little shy, and conscious of a
growing headache. But everybody had been charming to her, and Baltimore,
in especial, had been very careful in his manner of treating her, saying
little nice things to her, and insisting on her sitting next to him, a
seat hitherto Lady Swansdown's own.

The latter had taken this so perfectly, that one might be pardoned for
thinking it had been arranged beforehand between her and her host. At
all events Lady Swansdown was very sympathetic, and indeed everybody
seemed bent on treating her as a heroine of the highest order.

Joyce herself felt dull--nerveless. Words did not seem to come easily to
her. She was tired, she thought, and of course she was, having spent a
sleepless night. One little matter gave her cause for thankfulness.
Dysart was absent from luncheon. He had gone on a long walking
expedition, Lady Baltimore said, that would prevent his returning home
until dinner hour--until quite 8 o'clock. Joyce told herself she was
glad of this--though why she did not tell herself. At all events the
news left her very silent.

But her silence was not noticed. It could not be, indeed, so great and
so animated was the flow of Beauclerk's eloquence. Without addressing
anybody in particular, he seemed to address everybody. He kept the whole
table alive. He treated yesterday's adventure as a tremendously amusing
affair, and invited everyone to look upon it as he did. He insisted on
describing Miss Kavanagh and himself in the same light as he had
described them earlier to his sister, as the modern Babes in the Wood,
Mrs. Connolly being the Robin. He made several of the people who had
dropped in to luncheon roar with laughter over his description of that
excellent inn keeper. Her sayings--her appearance--her stern notions of
morality that induced her to bring them home, "personally
conducted"--the size of her waist--and her heart--and many other things.
He was extremely funny. -V-Villancico Kings did not take long footsteps
echoing in the corridor; timid footsteps and brutal at the same time,
barefoot or with shoes shoes rude. While chiming faintly tambourines and
castanets entrechocaban was short as the teeth that are afraid of
....

       Doña Dolores joined the gathering entrecejo desapaciblemente. -
That Lola ....

So do not bring it here! Why not be left in the anteroom? Nice I will
put the carpet! Let's see if you clean the soles before entering! He
burst into the hall the orchestra street, but when girls see the clarity
of the poor lighting, was arrested without daring goshawk ahead.

Lola, take the hand that seemed to captain the group, brought about
by force to the center of the room. - Come, woman ... passing the other
.... Let's see if we sing the Christmas carols that you know best. The
truth is that the strong light of the candles, so conducive to
beauty, and discovered brutally evident fealdades the ranks of that,
displaying cutis Cardenas attacked by cierzo; clothes ajadas and
humble, color faded, the descalcez and flacura feet and legs, the
whole miserable pergenio of songbirds.

These had very different ages, from the director, an agile Morenilla
fourteen, until a predator of two and a half years, all died of
shame and fear, and a sucker for five months, which of course was
in her arms. -- - Man!

- deleted cried when he saw the brunette. - Well, if the kid's
barquillero!

We are old acquaintances, huh? - Yes, sir, she replied boldly ...--
-. It. And I met you. Are you the one that was in last year _las Filas_
a holiday.

As for the poor often have no seasons, Amparo had the same dress tartan,
but very poor condition, and a red stamen of toquilla was the only
garment that indicated the transit from spring to winter.

Despite such shabby attire, I do not know what flower of adolescence
began to shine in his person, the brown of her skin was clear and
thin, her eyes resplendent black. - What, uh - I deleted muttered
turning to Palacios and Balthazar -.

This is starting to bite as peppers .... Look here for. And taking a
stand as close to the face of the girl. Baltasar was rough as their
eyes met those of Amparo, and this was a delicate appearance, almost
female in efebo; an incipient bigotillo blonde, green eyes and
between herons than with indifference.

Acordose and felt that he snatched the blood into the cheeks. - The
gentleman's walk - balbució -.

Also I remember you. - And I you, pretty girl - he responded by saying
something. - Do you want to put the spotlight on your site, Delete
- the attention to voice sharp Josefina -.

I spotted you the whole outfit. - Look graciosilla what is this, man!

- Warned erased the drawing encajera Carmela, who had eyes low -.

Slightly faded ... but funny. - Shut up! - said Garcia's widow ...--.
You here? I am wearing a scarf .... imitating Cluny - The tip of
the!

- Exclaimed Doña Dolores -. Good piece! Now you do badly, you and your
aunt .... Put thread too fat. - He looks so little ... the days are
so short! And he has a cold hand, to make one quarter of lace is a tomorrow.
Almost minus what it costs us to the thread, not leaning to get the pot
to the fire ....

Meanwhile Nisita was making its way through the legs and chairs,
to approach the girl of eight years he was carrying in his arms to
rorro. - A tiquito ... a tiquito - shouted the rubilla enthralled
watching him and Compadecida -.

Amela. - I can with him - the nanny responded negligible. - Le oy tit -
Nisita argued for making the gesture to offer. - Who taught you to sing?
- Encajera asked the widow of Garcia . - Teaching nobody ....

We meet us. We have a book of poems. - And andáis around divirtiéndoos
- fun, no fun ... cold - Carmela replied with his voice tired and sweet
-. Is to bring some real home. - Mom, Osepina, Loló!

- Shout the rubilla -. A tiquito, a child Quetús. Mine, mine. All sighted
and became the unhappy human caterpillar wrapped in a shawl viejísimo,
with a purple woolen hat, which increased the tone of his small
wax face, wrinkled and wither as the old one because of poor diet and
desaseo. Its ojuelos black, very open, looked round with a vague
surprise, and his lips flowed a thread of slime.

The widow of Garcia, who was good-natured, he launched an exclamation
that girls chanted Sobrado. - Jesus ... angel of God ... so small, for
those streets and to this day! But what does her mother - my mother's
shop in Castle Street ....

We are seven with this, and I am the greatest ... - submitted by way
of apology which was carrying the baby. - Jesus ... But how do not to
cry?

And if you're hungry - you put the tip of the handkerchief in your
mouth to suck .... It is very listito already entertains a lot. Riéronse
girls, Lola and took the baby in her arms. - What a lightweight! -
Delivered -. If the wrist is the most large Nisita! Passed from hand to
hand the slight burden, to Josephine, who returned it to the carrier
very quickly, stating that smelled bad. - Do not see the water
once in the year - said confidentially to his brother doña Dolores
- and emerging stronger than ours.

I matándome, and without that we can be strengthened Lola. Observed under
the room, shimmering piano lacquer, the mirror waned, the shells of the
Philippines and stuffed bird that adorned the console, the game
coffee steak golden costumes of Garcia, the group imposing the sofa,
and all it seemed beautiful, flashy and distinctive, and felt in
his element, and no hint of surprise or shortsightedness. - And
you, what are you doing, lady of Rosendez - Baltasar questioned -.

¿Andar street street humming? Nice job, girl, it seems to me .... you -
And you want me to do - she replied. - Lace, as your friend. - Alas,
I learned. -- _aprendieron_ Well do you, daughter? ¿Coser - Bah! Nor.
Thus, some puntaditas .... - Well, what do you know? Steal hearts - well
I can read and write regularly. I went to school and the teacher
said that there was no other like me. I read every day _The Sovereignty
Nacional_ the barber across the street. - Put a pike in Flanders.

Do you know more? - Liar cigars. - Hey! Are you a cigarette - was my
mother. - And you, why not - I do not know who me into the factory
....

Efforts are needed. - Well, looks can recommend this gentleman happened
to .... Hey you. Borren, Is not you a cousin of the factory accountant?
Say you. - Man! true. Will not be, but his wife .... Murcian is, we
are children of first cousins. - Magnificent! Tell your name and your
address, girl. - Yeah, girl ... will be possible, eh? To serve as a
brunette .... sandunguera Gonna pesetas worth more over time .... Man,
you fail Baltasar, which won last year - is much more beautiful - Baltasar
said. - But these girls do not sing - interrupted harshly Josefina
Garcia -.

Have you come here to make us talk? For that to be large. Do not make
the rooms chatting. - Let's sing!

- All answered resignedly, and redoubled to the point castanets, tambourines
the repiquetearon, shell grit, exhales its strident note the iron triangle,
and ten evil voices intoned a concerted carol: _Los pastors Belén_
_Todos to join in the warm leña_ _Para born in Niño_ _Que Good Night ...
And when you get to _ chorus: _Toquen, play bagpipes and rabelos,
_ _Panderetas, drums and flutes are ... _ donned a din of two
thousand devils: squawk and played at a time, with both hands, and
even injuring the ground with their feet.

Until rorro, frightened by the noise or the heat desentumecido and returned
to an awareness of hunger, it was decided to take part in the
concert.

Girls and Garcia Sobrado, crazy celebrations, is asieron of hands,
and began to dance on wheel, floating with the braids and the
volanderas petticoats.

Nisita, egalitarian as anyone got the parvulillo for two years and put
it on the run, where the poor creature had to dance badly in his grade,
dropping at every turn their loose babuchas.

Borren, doing something, pull the dancers.

Taking advantage of a moment of confusion, Lola is escurrió and
bringing back the skirt of the dress in a patchwork of oranges,
pieces of piñonate, almonds, cookies, raisins, crackers, relief to
escape the crowded table, which started to distribute largess and
panache .

Skipped Doña Dolores made a fury. - This kid is crazy ...

I wasted all ... finer things ... And for those who look at you! ...

With a cup of soup they give! ... And the dress ... the blue dress worn!
Saying which, approached him and concealed Lola squeezed his arm
in anger.

Baltasar intervened once again: it was his holy day in a year.

PARENT stuttering also apologize to his daughter, who wanted endearing
and Borren, always obsequious, finished distributing sweets.

Carmela and the encajera Amparo refused his part with dignity, but the
ration chiquillería dispatched its choking on the same beard
Doña Dolores, consumed by revenge terminated carols and putting on the
steps to musicians and dancers.

VI-Cigars pure He deleted the recommendation to her cousin, which made
it to the meter, which was made the head and was admitted to
Amparo cigar factory. The day that the appointment had gathered at the
home of the party barquillero used in similar cases, party no less
than if they held marry the girl. Did the mother say a mass at Our
Lady of Amparo, patroness of the cigarette, and in the evening were
invited to an Asian feast in front of the barber, Carmela, his aunt, and
Mrs. Porretas midwife there were sardine pie, cod , Castilla wine, anise
and cane discretion, rosoli, a huge source of potatoes with rice milk.
Private aid of Amparo, the barquillero took an apprentice, the son of a
laundress in the vicinity. Jacinto, or _Chinto_ was bulky and irregular
factions, a brown leather earthy, small eyes and flower face: in
short, coarse ugliness of a feudal villain.

Served at the table, escanció, and was the amusement of the diners, their
long hair, like a ring, it ate the front fascia for its wool, which
embastecía the waist and not too broken, for his ride clumsy and
excesses, similar to when you have a moscardón legs smeared
syrup, for its pure dialect of the Rías Salted, causing the hilarity of
that urban reunion. The barber, who was _leído, and very escribido_
hackneyed, the encajera that was fine and the midwife, who spent a few
jokes about the size of your belly, competed in mocking the rustic charm
of the boy.

Amparo nor looked at him, it had seemed as ridiculous yesterday
when crying, bringing half drag her mother, Carmela was the only
one who spoke with humanity, and said the names of two or three
things, he asked to answer without making more jokes and lies.

So all manducaron to taste, poured the leftovers into a dish revolts, like
a dog, and they gave the paisanillo that ahíto slept, snoring formidably
until another day. Amparo early to attend the factory. She walked at a
good step, light and happy as you are going to take possession of
the solar father.

When climbing the hill of San Hilario, his eyes were fixed on the
sea, serene colors and stripes of opal, and I thought that was
enough to win from day one, that would have almost no learning,
because at the end cigars knew her mother had taught her to wrap
them, had inherited the gossip of the trade, and not arredraba the
task.

    It runs well, crossed the road and was
    found in the courtyard
    of the factory, the old _Granera_.
    Seized the girl a sense of respect.

The magnitude of the dilapidated building up for the little and succeed
in their plots, and Amparo, used to venerate the factory from their
tender years, those walls had an aura of majesty, and dwelt within
its mysterious power, the State, which certainly was worth fighting,
a power that blind obedience demanded that all parties to reach and
dominate all. The teenager who first track classroom experience something
similar to what I felt Amparo. Could this fear on her religious, who
had just received, or who took their place in the workshop. Almost
trembling to sit in the chair that you purchased.

All around him, the workers raised their heads, and curious eyes were
fixed on the benevolent novice. The master of the game was already
on his side, handing the request to snuff, gossip accommodating,
explaining in detail how he had arranged to begin. Amparo And, in a burst
of pride, shortcuts to the explanation with a "know how" that was blank
looks. Sonriose the teacher gave the pure a liar, which performed
quite fluently, but at present it finished, the master took him and
pressed between the thumb and the index, smoking disfigured to
the point. - What we know is, as material to know, you know ...--
said raising eyebrows -.

But if you do not wake up more fingers ... and if you do not give
more hechurita .... So, it seems a horrified-birds. - Well - murmured
the novice confusing - no one is born learned. - ...-- By practicing
teacher said ruling, while preparing to join the teaching by
example --. Watch and ... modito .... not worth a rush. First it was
necessary to extend with great care, above the table rolling, the
outer casing, the epidermis of the cigar, and cut with a knife by
drawing a curve slope of fifteen millimeters above the center of
the leaf for the cigar cinese exactly; and this layer for a dry
leaf, wide and thin, in the most select: just as the dermis of the
cigar, the _capillo_, and admitting of a lower quality, so that the
casing or hurdle.

But what was most essential and difficult to finish the cigar, making the
point with a clever twist of the thumb and tip of a spatula soaked
in liquid rubber, after restricting the tail of a tijeretazo fast.

Tip acute, slightly oblong body, the elegant spiral layer bundled
in the not-so-tight casing that does not breathe the smoke or so
loose that the cigar will wrinkle when they dry, these are the
conditions for a good tagarnina.

Amparo stubbornly all day at the factory to produce some very slow growing
contrahechas and badly spoiling the sheet.

Its neighboring table gave informal advice: there was discord of
views: the old mandated to cut off the thicker layer, it leaves the
cigarette and made better because "they had made them a lifetime,
'and young women, most close, which is wound more quickly.

Upon leaving the factory, it hurt to Amparo neck, the spine, the
fingers of pulpejo.

Little by little he was accustomed and acquire skills. The worst thing
was that afflicted the nostalgia of the street, failed to make a shift
Diffuseness sedentary. Amparo Street was for the homeland, the paradise
on earth. The street offers a thousand distractions, all in vain. Nobody
will believe that they were banned ownership of the windows of
luxurious shops, tempting tearooms of the color of the vial of
drugstores, the picturesque square of the sheds, she played the
murgas the organ, the music in the military walks, masses and
serenades, which she reviewed the troops and went out of their
previous macerated with white wigs HE City.

Who better than she had the device in the processions, the ground
strewn with steeple, the majestic canopy of the saints who are shaken in
the litter, the Guardian covered with flowers, the beautiful virgin blue
cloak strewn with sequins? Who could have a closer look at the captain
general of the standard bearer, to the lords lighting, marking the
official step in cadence? Well, what about Carnival? The masquerades
capricious comfits thrown from the street to the balcony, and vice
versa, the burial of the sardine, the cones of the piñata candy,
all enjoyed the daughter of the street.

If an illustrious personage passed Marineda, Amparo belonged to during
their residency: to force the kid empellones was placed beside the infant,
the minister, the famous man, was up against the foothills of his car,
breathing his breath, inventoried his sayings and deeds. The
streets!

¡Show varied and always new, always crowded, always open and frank!
There was something more appropriate to the temperament of Amparo,
as friend of noise, the competition, so bullanguera, and southern
extremes, such as loving relumbraba. Moreover, as their lungs were
educated in the outdoor gym is left to understand that the oppression
experienced in the early days of captivity in the workshops, where
the atmosphere was saturated ungrateful and herbaceous odor of
Virginia and the moist green leaf half mixed with fumes from both
the human body and with the fetid mud near the latrines.

Moreover, the side of the big halls of cigars was common to afflict the
mind. Large, wooden, blackened by use, placed in the center of the
stay, appeared rows of niches. Among the operators, aligned with one side
to another, there was certainly some young faces and cute, but as well
as a mixed legume stands out the most abundant in this huge salad
female in distinguishing the early grenada uncultivated but faces
plows tanned by age or by the job, hands gnarled tree branches and
dry.

The colors of the faces, the clothes and the decor was blended and
harmonized in a general tone of wood and earth tone to both crude
and off, combination of matte brown leaf, yellow dirt from the vein,
the uncertain shade of esparto Serono, the problem of cast white walls,
and dyes deaf, dying while the discordant, the cotonía handkerchiefs,
the Sayas of percale, the cascade of cloth, the woolen shawls and
cotton umbrella.

Amparo is perishing by the vivid colors and strong, so far as to
sometimes spend hours in front of a window somewhere contemplating
a piece of red silk: this is the first day the workshop with their colors
lie under him want to die.

       But it soon became fond of the factory, to feel that pride and
commitment that instills the unexplained and the community association,
brotherhood of labor.

It was known that the faces around, taking interest in some trades,
particularly for a mother and daughter sat by his side. Half blind and
very temblona hands, the mother could not do more than _niños_ or
wrapper of the cigar, the daughter was responsible for cutting and the
tips and between the two women dispatched fairly and is very out
of the application the daughter and the affection that the two were
visible, not to mention, in a thousand details on how to move the
rubber mallet to teach the subject and ended with his band of paper,
leaving the girl with her food navaja and closer to the lips of the old.
Another cause for Amparo be reconciled at all with the factory, was
found in a certain way and be emancipated from parental authority from
your income. It is true that his parents gave some gains, but reserving
a good part and the work was piecework in the fingertips was the means
of increasing their incomes, but no one could find out if they charge
eight or ten charged .

From the day they enter wearing the traditional costume of the cigarette,
the shawl, silk scarf for solemnity, and ironed percale skirt with tail.
VII-Preludes chintan took in acclimatization: a lot less time spent casting
village . Two things helped distract her homesickness: a grinder,
which stood under the arcade of street piers, and sea. How many
times had the free paisanillo, dedicábalos to contemplate one of
their two loves.

Do not ever get tired of seeing the ups and downs of the leg of the
grinder, the endless spinning of the wheel, the rapid jump of sparks and
sandstones in contact with the metal, or hear the RSSS _! _ Iron when
it asperón biting. Nor was tired of looking at the sea, always finding
different: sometimes wearing light blue suit, the other at dawn, like
molten tin, in the afternoon, at sunset, like liquid gold, and by night,
wrapped in robes dark green menu. And when the boats came and went!
It was a gallant brigantine, raising his two sticks and its square
sails, and a graceful schooner, with its Cangreja out, grazing the
waves like a seagull, and a package with foam wings on the heels
of his crown and smoke forehead, and a fine lute, and an elegant
skiff not to mention the fishing boats, heavy boat, panzudos galleons,
boats flying the coup measured the oars ....

Chintan If it were not an animal, could claim the credit on your
Ocean and turn of a wheel are appropriated images of the infinite, but
did not understand chintan metaphysical.
He was evidently most honestly sorry
for all the unkind things he had said to her. Not that he had said many,
indeed, only--he had looked them. And she, she had been very hard--oh!
too hard. However, there was an end to it. To-morrow would place more
miles between them, in every way, than would ever be recrossed. He would
not come here again until he had forgotten her--married, probably. They
would not meet. There should have been comfort in that certainty, but,
alas! when she sought for it, it eluded her--it was not there.

In spite of the trick Somnus had just played her, she would now gladly
have courted him again, if only to escape from ever growing regret. But
though she turns from side to side in a vain endeavor to secure him,
that cruel god persistently denies her, and with mournful memories and
tired eyes, she lies, watching, waiting for the tender breaking of the
dawn upon the purple hills.

Slowly, slowly comes up the sun. Coldly, and with a tremulous lingering,
the light shines on land and sea. Then sounds the bursting chants of
birds, the rush of streams, the gentle sighings of the winds through
herb and foliage.

Joyce, thankful for the blessed daylight, flings the clothes aside, and
with languid step, and eyes, sad always, but grown weary, too, with
sleeplessness and thoughts unkind, moves lightly to the window.

Throwing wide the casement, she lets the cool morning air flow in.

A new day has arisen. What will it bring her? What can it bring, save
disappointment only and a vain regret? Oh! why must she, of all people,
be thus unblessed upon this blessed morn? Never has the sun seemed
brighter--the whole earth a greater glow of glory.

    "Welcome, the lord of light and lamp of day:
    Welcome, fosterer of tender herbis green;
    Welcome, quickener of flourish'd flowers' sheen.
    Welcome depainter of the bloomit meads;
    Welcome, the life of everything that spreads!"

Yet to Joyce welcome to the rising sun seems impossible. What is the
good of day when hope is dead? In another hour or two she must rise, go
downstairs, talk, laugh, and appear interested in all that is being
said--and with a heart at variance with joy--a poor heart, heavy as
lead.

A kind of despairing rage against her crooked fortune moves her. Why has
she been thus unlucky? Why at first should a foolish, vagrant feeling
have led her to think so strongly of one unworthy and now hateful to her
as to prejudice her in the mind of the one really worthy. What madness
possessed her? Surely she is the most unfortunate girl alive? A sense of
injustice bring the tears into her eyes, and blots out the slowly
widening landscape from her view.

    "How happy some o'er other some can be!"

Her thoughts run to Barbara and Monkton. They are happy in spite of many
frowns from fortune. They are poor--as society counts poverty--but the
want of money is not a cardinal evil. They love each other; and the
children are things to be loved as well--darling children! well grown,
and strong, and healthy, though terrible little Turks at times--God
bless them! Oh! that she could count herself as blessed as Barbara,
whose greatest trouble is to deny herself this and that, to be able to
pay for the other thing. No! to be poor is not to be unhappy. "Our
happiness in this world," says a writer, "depends on the affections we
are able to inspire." Truly she--Joyce--has not been successful in her
quest. For if he had loved her, would he ever have doubted her? "Perfect
love," says the oldest, grandest testimony of all, "casteth out fear."
And he had feared. Sitting here in the dawning daylight, the tears ran
softly down her cheeks.

It is a strange thing, but true, that never once during this whole
night's dreary vigil do her thoughts once turn to Beauclerk.


CHAPTER XXX.

    "Oh, there's stony a leaf in Atholl wood,
    And mony a bird in its breast,
    And mony a pain may the heart sustain
    Ere it sab itsel' to rest."


Barbara meets her on the threshold and draws her with loving arms into
the dining-room.

"I knew you would be here at this hour. Lady Baltimore wrote me word
about it. And I have sent the chicks away to play in the garden, as I
thought you would like to have a comfortable chat just at first."

"Lady Baltimore wrote?"

"Yes, dear. Just to say you were distressed about that unfortunate
affair--that drive, you know--and that you felt you wanted to come back
to me. I was glad you wanted that, darling."

"You are not angry with me, Barbara?" asks the girl, loosening her
sister's arms the better to see her face.

"Angry! No, how could I be angry?" says Mrs. Monkton, the more
vehemently in that she knows she _had_ been very angry just at first.
"It was the merest chance. It might have happened to anybody. One can't
control storms!"

"No--that's what Mrs. Connolly said, only she called it 'the ilimints,'"
says Joyce, with quite a little ghost of a smile.

"Well, now you are home again, and it's all behind you. And there is
really nothing in it. And you must not think so much about it," says
Barbara, fondling her hand. "Lady Baltimore said you were too unhappy
about it."

"Did she say that? What else did she say?" asks the girl, regarding her
sister with searching, eyes. What had Lady Baltimore told her? That
impulsive admission to the latter last night had been troubling Joyce
ever since, and now to have to lay bare her heart again, to acknowledge
her seeming fickleness, to receive Barbara's congratulation on it, only
to declare that this second lover has, too, been placed by Fate outside
her life, seems too bitter to her. Oh, no--she cannot tell Barbara.

"Why nothing," says Mrs. Monkton, who is now busying herself removing
the girl's hat and furs. "What was there to tell, after all?" She is
plainly determined to treat the matter lightly.

"Oh--there is a good deal," says Joyce, bitterly. "Why don't you tell
me," turning suddenly upon her sister, "that you knew how it would be
all along? That you distrusted that Mr. Beauclerk from the very first,
and that Felix Dysart was always worth a thousand of him?" There is
something that is almost defiant in her manner.

"Because, for one thing, I very seldom call him Felix," says Mrs.
Monkton, with a smile, alluding to the last accusation. "And because,
too, I can't bear the 'I told you so' persons.--You mustn't class me
with them, Joyce, whatever you do."

"I shan't be able to do much more, at all events," says Joyce presently.
"That's one comfort, not only for myself but for my family. I expect I
have excelled myself this time. Well," with a dull little laugh, "it
will have to last, so----"

"Joyce," says her sister, quickly, "tell me one small thing. Mr.
Beauclerk--he----"

"Yes?" stonily, as Barbara goes on a rock.

"You--you are not engaged to him?"

Joyce breaks into an angry laugh.

"That is what you all ask," says she. "There is no variety; none. No,
no, no; I am engaged to nobody. Nobody wants me, and I----'I care for
nobody, not I, for nobody cares for me.' Mark the heavy emphasis on the
'for,' I beg you, Barbara!"

She breaks entirely from her sister's hold and springs to her feet.

"You are tired," says Mrs. Monkton, anxiously, rising too.

"Why don't you say what you really mean?" says Joyce, turning almost
fiercely to her. "Why pretend you think I am fatigued when you honestly
think I am miserable, because Mr. Beauclerk has not asked me to marry
him. No! I don't care what you think. I am miserable! And though I were
to tell you over and over again it was not because of him, you would not
believe me, so I will say nothing."

"Here is Freddy," says Mrs. Monkton, nervously, who has just seen her
husband's head pass the window. He enters the room almost as she speaks.

"Well, Joyce, back again," says he, affectionately. He kisses the girl
warmly. "Horrid drive you must have had through that storm."

"You, too, blame the storm, then, and not me," says Joyce, with a smile.
"Everybody doesn't take your view of it. It appears I should have
returned, in all that rain and wind and----"

"Pshaw! Never listen to extremists," says Mr. Monkton, sinking lazily
into a chair. "They will land you on all sorts of barren coasts if you
give ear to them. For my part I never could see why two people of
opposite sexes, if overcome by nature's artillery, should not spend a
night under a wayside inn without calling down upon them the social
artillery of gossip. There is only one thing in the whole affair," says
Mr. Monkton, seriously, "that has given me a moment's uneasiness."

"And that?" says Joyce, nervously.

"Is how I can possibly be second to both of them. Dysart, I confess, has
my sympathies, but if Beauclerk were to appear first upon the field and
implore my assistance I feel I should have a delicacy about refusing
him."

"Freddy," says his wife, reprovingly.

"Oh, as for that," says Joyce, with a frown, "I do think men are the
most troublesome things on earth." She burst out presently. "When one
isn't loving them, one is hating them."

"How many of them at a time?" asks her brother-in-law with deep
interest. "Not more than two, Joyce, please. I couldn't grasp any more.
My intellect is of a very limited order."

"So is mine, I think," says Joyce, with a tired little sigh.

Monkton, although determined to treat the matter lightly, looks very
sorry for her. Evidently she is out of joint with the whole world at
present.

"How did Lady Baltimore take it?" asks he, with all the careless air of
one asking a question on some unimportant subject.

"She was angry with Mr. Beauclerk for not leaving me at the inn, and
coming home himself."

"Unsisterly woman!"

"She was quite right, after all," says Mrs. Monkton, who had defended
Beauclerk herself, but cannot bear to hear another take his part.

"And, Dysart--how did he take it?" asks Monkton, smiling.

"I don't see how he should take it, anyway," says Joyce, coldly.

"Not even with soda water?" says her brother-in-law. "Of course, it
would be too much to expect him to take it neat. You broke it gently to
him I hope."

"Ah, you don't understand Mr. Dysart," says the girl, rising abruptly.
"I did not understand him until yesterday."

"Is he so very abstruse?"

"He is very insolent," says Miss Kavanagh, with a sudden touch of fire,
that makes her sister look at her with some uneasiness.

"I see," says Mr. Monkton, slowly. He still, unfortunately, looks
amused. "One never does know anybody until he or she gives way to a
towering passion. So he gave you a right good scolding for being caught
in the rain with Beauclerk. A little unreasonable, surely; but lovers
never yet were famous for their common sense. That little ingredient was
forgotten in their composition. And so he gave you a lecture?"

"Well, he is not likely to do it again," says she slowly.

"No? Then it is more than likely that I shall be the one to be scolded
presently. He won't be able to content himself with silence. He will
want to air his grievances, to revenge them on some one, and if you
refuse to see him, I shall be that one. So was' Othello 'to a perfection
advanced that you initially do not have believed possible, and the
opera was due to the peculiar circumstances in which their performance
thus far had not only the audience, but even the new singers have become,
no wonder that they did their utmost, so as to meet high expectations,
no wonder that with joyful expectation of the day entgegensah the
Moor of Venice on the boards should call. There were still two added,
the interest of the audience to captivate. The singer Fanutti was
preceded by a great reputation, it was curious how they are excluding the
theater, as they give Desdemona, a role, except for one lovely
song even more tragic game demanded.

Hiezu rumor came quietly from the odd incidents which every 'Othello' had
accompanied the older people told, the younger said it, doubted
magnified, so that a large part of the audience thought the devil himself
would be a guest role in ' Othello 'take over. The Major of Laruns had
the opportunity, in some places are talking about these things to
hear, was striking at him, that in court, where he still zubrachte
some evenings, not a word more on' Othello 'spoke only Princess
Sophie said volatile and smiling to him, " 'Othello', but because
we would have beaten out, your sick aunt, Baron, and the diplomatic
threat of Count, we have to thank, as I look forward to Sunday, at
my Desdemona-tune, really , even if I die, it will be my swan song.
"" Are there any hunches?

" thought the Major in this volatile hingeworfenen words to him involuntarily,
and meaningful sounded difficult, "the saga of the uncanny Desdemona,
the fear of the old director, his dreams of grief and escort this swan
song!"

He saw the lovely appearance after Holden as pleased and friendly
glided through the halls, as they, like the girl from the strangers,
each a beautiful gift, a smile or a kind word darreichte - "if by
chance it wanted to" he thought, "if they die!"

He derided the coming moments himself, he could not understand how
such a notion in his unbiased mind could come - he looked ridiculous
with this phantom power from his memories of that - nothing!

This idea returned again and again, surprised him the midst of the
strangeness speeches and articles, and still believed it, a sweet
voice whisper to hear: "When I die - whether it be my swan song."

Sunday came and with it a strange incident . The Major was the afternoon
with the Count and several officers ausgeritten.

On the way home she attacked a rain of up soaked to the skin.

The dwelling of the Count was the first gate, he asked the Major,
when he umzukleiden; a hat of your friend on the head, in one of
his draped over skirts, joined the Major from the house to his own
apartment to rush.

He liked some roads have gone, and it was always him, as surreptitious
someone after all of its kicks. He stopped, looked around, and behind him
stood a hagerer, large man in a worn rock.

"This to you, Sir!" he said with a muffled voice and a penetrating
gaze, which pushed a little astonished billet in his hand and jumped
around the next corner. The Major could not understand how he,
in the totally unfamiliar city, such mysterious message should come?

He regarded the billet from all sides, it was a fine, glossy paper,
in a loop slung together artificially, with a beautiful cameo sealed.

No inscription.

"Maybe you want a joke with you to make," he thought, and opened
it carelessly or on the road, he read and was aware he read further
and erblaßte, he put the paper into his pocket and hurried away
from his home, his room to .

It was already dusk been on the road, he believed not to have read
that he cried for light.

But when bright glow of the candles were the unfortunate words and
are threatening. "Miserable! You can withdraw your wife, your little
worms languish in misery, while you against the world in splendor
and grandeur appearance?

What do you want in this city? Do you have a venerable Fürstenhaus
insult his daughter so unhappy that when you've done your wife!

Escape, at the hour where you have this Liese knows Pr Sph. the shameful
secret of your fraud. "The Major was not a moment in doubt that these
lines addressed to the Count that she, by chance, perhaps because
he is in the friend's clothes on the streets, his hands were. Now, he
was at once those outbursts of despair clear there was remorse,
self-contempt, the individual moments in the shiny shell through which
he had covered deceptive game.

Laruns eyes fell on the lines that he still held in the hand, those
HIPS Pr Sph. could mean nothing other than the name of Holden, now so
hapless creature, which the unscrupulous traitor in its network had.
The Major was a man of cold, calculating view of strong, consistent
spirit, he had rarely or never the subject of a surprise or out
of place-making, but at this moment he was no longer master of
himself; anger, wrath, contempt alternately struggled in his soul.

He sought to conquer the matter from a more lenient view point, the Count
through his character, his boundless levity to apologize, but the
thought of Sophie, the view of "the woman and the poor little worms,"
the meek chased each mitigating Alignment , rustled like a storm
through his soul, yes, there were moments when his hand desperately
after the wall hinzuckte to the guns down and the poor man even in
this hour to chastise.

But the contempt brought against him, which is milder voices in his chest
could not lead, "he must continue, even this hour," he cried, "the
unfortunate, which he beguiled, no prize shall be held to find out
what she ends her first love donated.

       You take him Mourning forget; to despise him, they could kill. "
He quickly threw these thoughts on paper, raffte a large sum, more
than he could spare, together, put the unfortunate letter and sent
everything through his servant to the Count.

It was the hour, to the opera to go, how happy would Major today people
no longer seen, and yet he thought the princess to be guilty, they
threatened before the warning coverage. He thought back and forth
as he could make that possible, it remained nothing left than to conjure
up, no letter to foreign hands. He threw the cloak around and just
wanted to leave the room when his servant came back, he had the packet
to the counts still in the hand.

"His Excellency have just left," he said and put the package on
the table. "departed?" cried the Major, "not possible!" "Above the
door, his hunter, he has written a letter to you, should I bring
him?"

The Major waved the servant led the hunters come to him crying over a
letter. He tore it to life you will forever! The letter, which
I just find out an hour ago came into your hands, my departure Adieu
sans apologies. Comrade Will my box of six trains a beloved lady
save the pain, my names in all the call sheets to hear?, he will
cover a few items that I no longer can afford?

"" When Your Lord is left? "" Before an hour, Mr Major! "" Did you order
his trip? "" No Mr Major, I believe that His Excellency did it this
afternoon, not even because they wanted tonight go to the theater.

At five, the clock Mr. Graf on foot and had me follow. Since met him
at the Reformed Church is a large , hagerer man who in his sight very
frightened.

He went to my Lord and asked if he was the Count Zronievsky? My Lord
endorsing it, that he asked if he proposed a quarter billet receive?
The Lord said it Count .

Well said the third man for a while secretly with my Lord, he must he not
have good news, because of Mr. Graf was pale and trembling, he turned
back home, sent the coachman horses after post, I quickly had to
pack two suitcases; The car had to travel forward.

The Lord drew me to count the bills and all of you and went down
the street to the south gate.

He previously took farewell of me, I think forever. "The Major was
silent hunter's report of the consulted and he ordered him to take the
next morning to come back and went into the theater. The overture had
begun, when he stepped into the box, he threw himself down on a
chair, from where he could watch Prince's Lodge.

In all of their jewelry natural beauty and grace Princess Sophie sat next
to her mother. My eyes seemed to radiate joy, a serene silence was on
her forehead, around the mouth blew a finely holdes smile .. After perhaps
the sound of a light-hearted jokes - they had enforced its will
now, 'Othello' was to the hall and the dressing rooms of the house
was filled.

Now she took the lorgnette in front of the eye, how recently they seemed
eager for something in the house to look for - innocent heart, thou vain
proposals contrary to the lover, your loving eyes will not be able
to find it, your ear is listening in vain, if not his step erschallt
in the corridor, you bow in vain the beautiful neck back, the door
will not open, high, area of the form you will no longer close.

They lowered the glass, a Wölkchen of anticipation and sadness cheated
stored under the blond curls, the beautiful arch of the brows pulled
together and gave a hardly appreciably wrinkles of displeasure to
see.

The fine silken lashes lowered like a transparent curtain down, she
seemed to ponder, they signed with the lorgnette on the parapet
of the Lodge .-- Is there perhaps its HIPS, which they thought ahead
hinschreibt?

How soon will they perhaps called curse, now fills her soul!

    The Major came involuntarily tears in his
    eyes when he looked at Sophie.

"Even ahnet they have no idea what awaits her," thought he, "but never,
never will they know how miserable he was, whom she loved." The thought
of these took hold of his meek anew, he expressed the eyes, cursed
human nature, by the recklessness and weakness from a lofty spirit,
a valiant man a ehrvergessenen, unfaithful fraudsters could make.

The Major has often confessed that one of the most terrifying moments in
his life was when he first Zwischenakt 'Othellos' in the royal box was.
It was his courage, he had even Sophien gefrevelt, as was the one
who must break their hearts. The thought was unbearable to him, they
guileless, happy, looks ahead to see and yet to know what their
names Unglück wait.

He entered, and their glances met him once, they probably had often seen
the door. With hasty impatience overlooked a prince and two generals
who wanted to close it, she waved the Major approached. "Have we now our
'Othello'?" she said, "Are you not happy, expectantly - but one of our
Othelloverschworenen I do not see," she whispered quietly, they
blushed slightly, "the count is certainly behind the scenes to
quite warm thanks to earn if he everything quite nicely to make it?

"" Forgive Your Highness, "replied the Major, after painstakingly
making wringing," the count can be excused, he is quick to travel a
few days. "erbleichte Sophie;" verreist, not in opera? Where called
him because his business so quickly?

O, this is certainly a joke, you both do together, "she exclaimed," You
believe because he would just as soon leave to be granted leave
without?

No, no, there any pretty fun. Now I also know where I zukam a certain
book.

"The Major was shocked that he is next to your chair had to keep." A letter!
" he asked with a trembling voice, a terrible idea grew in him. "Yes,
an elegant billet Chen," she said, and let neckend the end of a
paper under the broad Bracelet indicate that their beautiful enclosed
arm. "A book that is quite mysterious to me zugesteckt.

I see you in the eyes, you are in the conspiracy. I have not yet
found an opportunity to make it open, because such a joke it is not
public, but once I come into my boudoir - "" Highness! I ask for God's
sake, give me the ticket, "said the Major, the most terrible torments
of torture," it is not even to you, it is wholly wrong hands came. ""
So? so much the better, which I give to no world, that should indicate
to me the secrets of certain people!

To a lady, it was so in any case, it's really pretty, it just came into
my hands. "The Major wanted to again ask, conjure, but the prince went
with his head between the two generals were with issues and news here,
he had to pull back.

Hounded by terrible agony, he went back to his lodge, he pressed his
eyes to the hand to the unfortunate not to see, and again he had
to look anew, again had the torment of fear, the certainty of impending
disaster with his eyes one eye. The diamonds on her bracelet castle
played in thousands of lights, its rays twitched over to him, they
penetrated thousands of arrows in his heart.

"What Jammer shut those diamonds!

If they are lonely chamber opens these bands, they are not at the
same time opens the door a horrific outrage?

Your pulse is in this unfortunate line, as her heart beating for
the beloved, it will not stand silent when the Siegel jumps and the
unsuspecting eye on a terrible customer falls?

" Desdemona voted her harp, her melancholy chords whispering went through
the house, she raised her voice, she sang - her swan song.

How wonderful, how powerful they are taken melancholy sounds of each
heart, so simple, so childlike is this song, and yet so very tragic
effect! You feel anxious and cramped, one suspects, what terrible fate
of their full wait, it is believed the murderer in the distance
to sneak to hear you feel is the inevitable fate of the power is
getting closer and closer to it as they exchange the wings of death.

You do not ahnet; gentle, guileless as a sweet child she sits on
the harp, only the melancholy trembles in soft sounds from her chest
out, that's good, my warm heart, for which the steel is already
gezückt.

It whispers love greetings in the distance for him, they will crush
their longing seems to him in her arms to remind people that he will
come - they kill, they pray for him, Desdemona blesses him the curse of
her there. The Major informed his gaze between the singer and
Sophien.

They listened in melancholy contemplation on the favorite song, a tear
was in her eyelashes, she wept unconsciously about their own destiny,
and the chords of the harp in mind, Sophie saw sinnend, dreaming
to go out.

"When I used to die, it will be my swan song, it sounded the alarm
in the majors," Verily!

She said it, "he said to himself," it was the swan song of her
happiness.

"Othello occurs. Sophien attention was now no longer directed at the
opera, she looked down at her wrist, she played with the castle, and
a cheerful smile ousted their melancholy, their eyes touched the
box after the majors over here - he brought his gaze anxiously at
-- God in heaven, she pushes the ill-fated paper, and hides it in
her handkerchief - he thinks to see how they secretly breaks the
seal - verzweiflungsvoll he falls out of his box along the corridor.

He does not know why, it drives him with invisible violence of the royal
box, he is only a few steps away - because he hears a noise in the.

House, you come out of the box, operated and Chamber of women anxious
to hurry him over, a terrible idea tells him beforehand what it
meant, he asks, he gets the answer.

"Princess Sophie is suddenly faint fall!" 9 Badlands, torn within him,
sat a few days after this incident of Major Laruns in his room. His
forehead rested in his hand, his face was pale, his eyes half closed,
so the otherwise strong man crushed some tears, which is about to
steal his eyelashes.

He thought of the terrible fate, in whose innermost tissue thrown
him the chance, he saw all these fine threads, which, apart from a
few eye visible to him, it is loosely held, he saw how she spun,
as it duplicated and linked to only a fixed network to a soft,
unhappy heart to queues.

Invincible bitterness mixed in these murky memories, his friend of old
weapons, such a brilliant meteor on the horizon of honor, such a brave
soldier and now a miserable, Ehrvergessener who, without just
removed another output expected to be able, with all the arts of
love the sense of an unguarded scarcely blossomed Virgin betörtet
child.

In these thoughts, the mixed picture of this so much infinitely
Engels, mingled the fear of a scene, which he in the next hour to go.

A respected lady, the head mistress of Princess Sophie, had him this
afternoon to let go. They found him without a secret that Sophie from a
serious disease is that the physicians give little hope, because
they call their illness a nervous shock.

They told him further, the princess had told her all that she had
her not a word of this secretive criminal relationship.

You know that in the residence only a person living in those counts
Zronievsky closer knew that this was the Baron of Laruns.

With a fear, a desire, despair at the ceiling, to penetrate the unhappy
with him without a witness to speak. The head mistress knew well how
much this runs against the rules, which impose their etiquette,
but the sight of the jammernden child, this is the only business
on earth seemed to want to agree, they have raised the barriers in
their situation, they ventured there, the Major's proposal to make
this evening accompanied by her secretly to the sick to go.

looking directly at her husband.

"I think only one thing of you," says Mr. Monkton, rising from the
breakfast table with a slight laugh. "It is what I have always thought,
that you are the dearest and loveliest thing on earth." The bantering
air he throws into this speech does not entirely deprive it of the
truthful tenderness that formed it. "There," says he, "that ought to
take the gloom off the brow of any well-regulated woman, coming as it
does from an eight-year-old husband."

"Oh, you must be older than that," says she, at which they all laugh
together.

"You are wise to go, Barbara," says Joyce, now in a livelier way, as if
that last quick, unexpected feeling of amusement has roused her to a
sharper sense of life. "If once they see you!--No, you mustn't put up
your shoulder like that--I tell you, if once they looked at you, they
would feel the measure of their folly."

"I shall end by fancying myself," says Mrs. Monkton, impatiently, "and
then you will all have fresh work cut out for you; the bringing of me
back to my proper senses. Well," with a sigh, "as I have to see them, I
wish----"

"What?"

"That I could be a heartier believer in your and Joyce's flattery, or
else, that they, your people, were not so prejudiced against me. It will
be an ordeal."

"When you are about it wish them a few grains of common sense," says her
husband wrathfully. "Just fancy the folly of an impertinence that
condemned a fellow being on no evidence whatsoever; neither eye nor ear
were brought in as witnesses."

"Oh, well," says she, considerably mollified by his defamation of his
people, "I dare say they are not so much to be blamed after all. And,"
with a little, quick laugh at her sister, "as Joyce says, my beauties
are still unknown to them; they will be delighted when they see me."

"They will, indeed," returns Joyce stolidly. "And so you are really
going to take me with you. Oh, I am glad. I haven't spent any of my
money this winter, Barbara; I have some, therefore, and I have always
wanted to see London."

"It will be a change for the children, too," says Barbara, with a
troubled sigh. "I suppose," to her husband, "they will think them very
countrified."

"Who?"

"Your mother--"

"What do you think of them?"

"Oh, that has got nothing to do with it."

"Everything rather. You are analyzing them. You are exalting an old
woman who has been unkind to you at the expense of the children who love
you!"

"Ah, she analyzes them because she too loves them," says Joyce. "It is
easy to pick faults in those who have a real hold upon our hearts. For
the rest--it doesn't concern us how the world regards them."

"It sounds as if it ought to read the other way round," says Monkton.

"No, no. To love is to see faults, not to be blind to them. The old
reading is wrong," says Joyce.

"You are unfair, Freddy," declares his wife with dignity; "I would not
decry the children. I am only a little nervous as to their reception.
When I know that your father and mother are prepared to receive them as
my children, I know they will get but little mercy at their hands."

"That speech isn't like you," says Monkton, "but it is impossible to
blame you for it."

"They are the dearest children in the world," says Joyce. "Don't think
of them. They must succeed. Let them alone to fight their own battles."

"You may certainly depend upon Tommy," says his father. "For any
emergency that calls for fists and heels, where battle, murder and
sudden death are to be looked for, Tommy will be all there."

"Oh! I do hope he will be good," says his mother, half amused, but
plainly half terrified as well.

       *       *       *       *       *

Two weeks later sees them settled in town, in the Harley street house,
that seems enormous and unfriendly to Mrs. Monkton, but delightful to
Joyce and the children, who wander from room to room and, under her
guidance, pretend to find bears and lions and bogies in every corner.

The meeting between Barbara and Lady Monkton had not been satisfactory.
There had been very little said on either side, but the chill that lay
on the whole interview had never thawed for a moment.

Barbara had been stiff and cold, if entirely polite, but not at all the
Barbara to whom her husband had been up to this accustomed. He did not
blame her for the change of front under the circumstances, but he could
hardly fail to regret it, and it puzzled him a great deal to know how
she did it.

He was dreadfully sorry about it secretly, and would have given very
much more than the whole thing was worth to let his father and mother
see his wife as she really is--the true Barbara.

Lady Monkton had been stiff, too; unpardonably so--as it was certainly
her place to make amends--to soften and smooth down the preliminary
embarrassment. But then she had never been framed for suavity of any
sort; and an old aunt of Monkton's, a sister of hers, had been present
during the interview, and had helped considerably to keep up the
frigidity of the atmosphere.

She was not a bad old woman at heart, this aunt. She had indeed from
time to time given up all her own small patrimony to help her sister to
get the eldest son out of his many disreputable difficulties. She had
done this, partly for the sake of the good old family names on both
sides, and partly because the younger George Monkton was very dear to
her.

From his early boyhood the scapegrace of the family had been her
admiration, and still remained so, in imagination. For years she had not
seen him, and perhaps this (that she considered a grievance) was a
kindness vouchsafed to her by Providence. Had she seen the pretty boy of
twenty years ago as he now is she would not have recognized him. The
change from the merry, blue-eyed, daring lad of the past to the bloated,
blear-eyed, reckless-looking man of to-day would have been a shock too
cruel for her to bear. But this she was not allowed to realize, and so
remained true to her belief in him, as she remembered him.

In spite of her many good qualities, she was, nevertheless, a dreadful
woman; the more dreadful to the ordinary visitor because of the false
front she wore, and the flashing purchased teeth that shone in her upper
jaw. She lived entirely with Sir George and Lady Monkton, having indeed
given them every penny that would have enabled her to live elsewhere.
Perhaps of all the many spites they owed their elder son, the fact that
his iniquities had inflicted upon them his maternal aunt for the rest of
her natural days, was the one that rankled keenest.

She disliked Frederic, not only intensely, but with an openness that had
its disadvantages--not for any greater reason than that he had behaved
himself so far in his journey through life more creditably than his
brother. She had always made a point against him of his undutiful
marriage, and never failed, to add fuel to the fire of his father's and
mother's resentment about it, whenever that fire seemed to burn low.

Altogether, she was by no means an amiable old lady, and, being very
hideous into the bargain, was not much run after by society generally.
She wasn't of the least consequence in any way, being not only old but
very poor; yet people dreaded her, and would slip away round doors and
corners to avoid her tongue. She succeeded, in spite of all drawbacks,
in making herself felt; and it was only one or two impervious beings,
such is Dicky Browne for example (who knew the Monktons well, and was
indeed distantly connected with them through his mother), who could
endure her manners with any attempt at equanimity.


CHAPTER XXXIII.

    "Strength wanting judgment and policy to rule overturneth itself."


It was quite impossible, of course, that a first visit to Lady Monkton
should be a last from Barbara. Lady Monkton had called on her the very
day after her arrival in town, but Barbara had been out then. On the
occasion of the latter's return visit the old woman had explained that
going out was a trial to her, and Barbara, in spite of her unconquerable
dislike to her, had felt it to be her duty to go and see her now and
then. The children, too, had been a great resource. Sir George,
especially, had taken to Tommy, who was quite unabashed by the grandeur
of the stately, if faded, old rooms in the Belgravian mansion, but was
full of curiosity, and spent his visits to his grandfather
cross-examining him about divers matters--questionable and
otherwise--that tickled the old man and kept him laughing.

It had struck Barbara that Sir George had left off laughing for some
time. He looked haggard--uneasy--miserably expectant. She liked him
better than she liked Lady Monkton, and, though reserved with both,
relaxed more to him than to her mother-in-law. For one thing, Sir George
had been unmistakably appreciative of her beauty, and her soft voice and
pretty manners. He liked them all. Lady Monkton had probably noticed
them quite as keenly, but they had not pleased her. They were indeed an
offence. They had placed her in the wrong. As for old Miss L'Estrange,
the aunt, she regarded the young wife from the first with a dislike she
took no pains to conceal.

This afternoon, one of many that Barbara has given up to duty, finds her
as usual in Lady Monkton's drawing room listening to her mother-in-law's
comments on this and that, and trying to keep up her temper, for
Frederic's sake, when the old lady finds fault with her management of
the children.

The latter (that is, Tommy and Mabel) have been sent to the pantomime by
Sir George, and Barbara with her husband have dropped in towards the
close of the day to see Lady Monkton, with a view to recovering the
children there, and taking them home with them, Sir George having
expressed a wish to see the little ones after the play, and hear Tommy's
criticisms on it, which he promised himself would be lively. He had
already a great belief in the powers of Tommy's descriptions.

In the meantime the children have not returned, and conversation, it
must be confessed, languishes. Miss L'Estrange, who is present in a cap
of enormous dimensions and a temper calculated to make life hideous to
her neighbors, scarcely helps to render more bearable the dullness of
everything. Sir George in a corner is buttonholing Frederic and
saddening him with last accounts of the Scapegrace.

Barbara has come to her final pretty speech--silence seems
imminent--when suddenly Lady Monkton flings into it a bombshell that
explodes, and carries away with it all fear of commonplace dullness at
all events.

"You have a sister, I believe," says she to Barbara in a tone she fondly
but erroneously imagines gracious.

"Yes," says Barbara, softly but curtly. The fact that Joyce's existence
has never hitherto been alluded to by Lady Monkton renders her manner
even colder than usual, which is saying everything.

"She lives with you?"

"Yes," says Barbara again.

Lady Monkton, as if a little put out by the determined taciturnity of
her manner, moves forward on her seat, and pulls the lace lappets of her
dove-gray cap more over to the front impatiently. Long, soft lappets
they are, falling from a gem of a little cap, made of priceless lace,
and with a beautiful old face beneath to frame. A face like an old
miniature; and as stern as most of them, but charming for all that and
perfect in every line.

"Makes herself useful, no doubt," growls Miss L'Estrange from the
opposite lounge, her evil old countenance glowing with the desire to
offend. "That's why one harbors one's poor relations--to get something
out of them."

This is a double-barrelled explosion. One barrel for the detested wife
of the good Frederic, one for the sister she has befriended--to that
sister's cost.

"True," says Lady Monkton, with an uncivil little upward glance at
Barbara. For once--because it suits her--she has accepted her sister's
argument, and determined to take no heed of her scarcely veiled insult.
"She helps you, no doubt. Is useful with the children, I hope. Moneyless
girls should remember that they are born into the world to work, not to
idle."

"I am afraid she is not as much help to me as you evidently think
necessary," says Barbara smiling, but not pleasantly. "She is very
seldom at home; in the summer at all events." It is abominable to her to
think that these hateful old people should regard Joyce, her pretty
Joyce, as a mere servant, a sisterly maid-of-all-work.

"And if not with you--where then?" asks Lady Monkton, indifferently, and
as if more with a desire to keep up the dying conversation than from any
acute thirst for knowledge.

"She stays a good deal with Lady Baltimore," says Barbara, feeling
weary, and rather disgusted.

How does it Nöthiger but everyone, is constantly in a language to
move to it until the reign of his knowledge will help, as Nöthiger
Anyone who is a language entschlagen which this rule begrudges
dispute and makes that look like the dull lichtlose Chaos behind
his planned world lurks. any calls on the High German language
exercise, lots of exercise.

It is a not so in the mouth, such as the French French.
Lady Monkton's astonishment is
even more insulting than her first question. But Barbara has made up her
mind to bear all things.

"There are friends and friends," puts in Miss L'Estrange with her most
offensive air.

A very embarrassing silence falls on this, Barbara would say nothing
more, an inborn sense of dignity forbidding her. But this does not
prevent a very natural desire on her part to look at her husband, not so
much to claim his support as to know if he has heard.

One glance assures her that he has. A pause in the conversation with his
father has enabled him to hear everything. Barbara has just time to note
that his brow is black and his lips ominously compressed before she sees
him advance toward his mother.

"You seem to, be very singularly ignorant of my wife's status in
society----" he is beginning is a rather terrible tone, when Barbara,
with a little graceful gesture, checks him. She puts out her hand and
smiles up at him, a wonderful smile under the circumstances.

"Ah! that is just it," she says, sweetly, but with determination. "She
is ignorant where we are concerned--Joyce and I. If she had only spared
time to ask a little question or two! But as it is----" The whole speech
is purposely vague, but full of contemptuous rebuke, delicately veiled.
"It is nothing, I assure you, Freddy. Your mother is not to be blamed.
She has not understood. That is all."

"I fail even now to understand," says the old lady, with a somewhat
tremulous attempt at self-assertion.

"So do I," says the antique upon the lounge near her, bristling with a
wrath so warm that it has unsettled the noble structure on her head, and
placed it in quite an artful situation, right over her left ear. "I see
nothing to create wrath in the mind of any one, in the idea of a
young--er----" She comes to a dead pause; she had plainly been going to
say young person--but Frederic's glare had been too much for her. It has
frightened her into good behavior, and she changes the obnoxious word
into one more complaisant.

"A young what?" demands he imperiously, freezing his aunt with a stony
stare.

"Young girl!" returns she, toning down a little, but still betraying
malevolence of a very advanced order in her voice and expression. = Lomow
= (excited). You see, dear Natalia Stepanovna ... The matter is that
I've decided to invite you to ask, listen to me ...

Of course, you will be surprised and even angry, but I ... (Beiseite.)
How terrible it is cold! = Natalia Stepanovna =. What is it? (Pause.)
Well?

= Lomow .= bother me I will give myself to be brief.

Dear Natalia Stepanovna, it's you know that I have long since my childhood,
have the honor to know your family.

My aunt and blessed her husband, from whom I, as you know, inherited
the land, always had the greatest respect for your father and your blessed
mother. Lomows The sex of the sex of Tschubukows has always stood in
the fraternal, so to speak kinship relationships, moreover, borders, as
you choose to know, my site closely to yours. If you want to kindly
remind hit my oxen meadows to your hard birch forest. Stepanovna Natalia
.= = Excuse me, I must interrupt you. - You say "my + + Ox Meadows"
... yes, because the are also yours?

= Lomow .= Yes, they belong to me ... Natalia Stepanovna .= = So?
That is something! The Oxen Meadows are ours, not yours! Lomow .= =
No - + + me, dear Natalia Stepanovna!

Natalia Stepanovna .= = For me, this is something completely new! How
are they to you? = .= Lomow What - how? I speak of those steers meadows,
between the birch forest, and being stuck in the brick earth is.
Natalia Stepanovna .= = Well, this ... include us ... Lomow = .= No, you
are wrong, dear Natalia Stepanovna, they belong to me. .= = Natalia
Stepanovna Remember just exactly Wassiljitsch Ivan!

Is it a long time ago that you have purchased the same? = Lomow .= How
long? As far as I am addressing myself can remember, she always belonged
to us. .= = Natalia Stepanovna Well, this is not so. You apologize
already!

Lomow .= = This is clear from the papers indicate, dear Natalia Stepanovna.
The ox meadows I have ever been - this is true - of the planet, but
now it is all known that they belong to me. There is nothing to litigate.
Listen to kindly: The grandmother of my aunt has these meadows for
an indefinite period for the free use of the farmers of the grandfather
of your dear father on the other hand, provided that the grandmother,
the bricks are burned.

The farmers of the grandfather of your dear father used the meadows
about forty years without charge and became used to the same view
as their property, but later, when the Decree came ...

Natalia Stepanovna .= = It's not the way you tell? Also my grandfather
and great grandfather were convinced that their land is up to the
swamps covered - in other words, the steers were meadows us.

What is there to argue? I do not understand ... It is really annoying.
Lomow = .= I will show you the documents, Natalia Stepanovna. = .=
Natalia Stepanovna No, you joking, or you simply consider myself
to ... A beautiful Bescherung! We have the reason for almost three
hundred years, and suddenly we were making the statement that he
does not belong to us!

Ivan Wassiljitsch, forgive you, but I do not trust my ears ... For me,
these meadows have a low value. There are only five Desjatin and they
have the value of a few hundred rubles, 300 rubles, but I'm outraged
injustice.

Say what you want, but injustice I can not endure. = .= Lomow Listen
to the end, I implore you!

The farmers of the grandfather of your dear father, as I have had the
honor to tell you burned on my grandmother's aunt brick.

The grandmother, aunt wanted something nice to them ... = Natalia Stepanovna
.= grandfather, grandmother, aunt ... I understand nothing of all this!
The meadows are ours and Punktum. Lomow .= = No, me!
All you can see have been purchased, and I assure you, dear Miss
L'Estrange," with anxious earnestness, "paid for. One guinea the entire
set; a single tooth, two-and-six. Who'd be without 'em?"

"Well, I'm sorry to hear it," says Miss L'Estrange reseating herself and
regarding him still with manifest distrust. "To lose one's teeth so
early in life speaks badly for one's moral conduct. Anyhow, I shan't
allow you to destroy your guinea's worth. I shall remove temptation from
your path."

Lifting the sugar bowl she removes it to her right side, thus laying
bare the fact that Mr. Browne's cup of tea is still full to the brim.

It is the last stroke.

"Drink your tea," says she to the stricken Dicky in a tone that admits
of no delay. He drinks it.

Meantime, Barbara has been very kind to Felix Dysart, answering his
roundabout questions that always have Joyce as their central meaning.
One leading remark of his is to the effect that he is covered with
astonishment to find her and Monkton in London. Is he surprised. Well,
no doubt, yes. Joyce is in town, too, but she has not come out with her
to-day. Have they been to the theatre? Very often; Joyce, especially, is
quite devoted to it. Do they go much to the picture galleries? Well, to
one or two. There is so much to be done, and the children are rather
exigeant, and demand all the afternoon. But she had heard Joyce say that
she was going to-morrow to Doré's Gallery. She thought Tommy ought to be
shown something more improving than clowns and wild animals and toy
shops.

Mr. Dysart, at this point, said he thought Miss Kavanagh was more
reflective than one taking a careless view of her might believe.

Barbara laughed.

"Do you take the reflective view?" says she.

"Do you recommend me to take the careless one?" demands he, now looking
fully at her. There is a good deal of meaning in his question, but
Barbara declines to recognize it. She feels she has gone far enough in
that little betrayal about Doré's Gallery. She refuses to take another
step; she is already, indeed, a little frightened by what she has done
If Joyce should hear of it--oh----And yet how could she refrain from
giving that small push to so deserving a cause?

"No, no; I recommend nothing," says she, still laughing. "Where are you
staying?"

"With my cousins, the Seaton Dysarts. They had to come up to town about
a tooth, or a headache, or neuralgia, or something; we shall never quite
know what, as it has disappeared, whatever it is. Give me London smoke
as a perfect cure for most ailments. It is astonishing what remarkable
recoveries it can boast. Vera and her husband are like a couple of
children. Even the pantomime isn't too much for them."

"That reminds me the children ought to be here by this time," says Mrs.
Monkton, drawing out her watch. "They went to the afternoon performance.
I really think," anxiously, "they are very late----"

She has hardly spoken when a sound of little running feet up the stairs
outside sets her maternal fears at rest. Nearer and nearer they sound;
they stop, there is a distant scuffle, the door is thrown violently
open, and Tommy and Mabel literally fall into the room.


CHAPTER XXXIV.

    "Then seemed to me this world far less in size,
      Likewise it seemed to me less wicked far;
    Like points in heaven I saw the stars arise,
      And longed for wings that I might catch a star."


Least said, soonest mended! Tommy is on his feet again in no time, and
has picked up Mabel before you could say Jack Robinson, and once again,
nothing daunted by their ignominious entry, they rush up the room and
precipitate themselves upon their mother. This pious act being
performed, Tommy sees fit to show some small attention to the other
people present.

"Thomas," says Mr. Browne, when he has shaken hands with him, "if you
wait much longer without declaring yourself you will infallibly burst,
and that is always a rude thing to do in a friend's drawing-room. Speak,
Thomas, or die--you are evidently full of information!"

"Well, I won't tell you!" says Tommy, naturally indignant at this
address. He throws a resentful look at him over his shoulder while
making his way to his grandfather. There is a queer sort of
sympathy--understanding--what you will--between the child and the stern
old man.

"Come here," says Sir George, drawing Tommy to him. "Well, and did you
enjoy yourself? Was it all your fancy painted it?"

Sir George has sunk into a chair with all the heaviness of an old man,
and the boy has crept between his knees and is looking up at him with
his beautiful little face all aglow.

"Oh! 'twas lovely!" says he. "'Twas splendid! There was lights all over
the house. 'Twas like night--only 'twasn't night, and that was grand!
And there were heaps of people. A whole town was there. And there
were----Grandpa! why did they have lamps there when it was daytime?"

"Because they have no windows in a theatre," says Sir George, patting
the little hot, fat hand that is lying on his arm, with a strange
sensation of pleasure in the touch of it.

"No windows?" with big eyes opened wide.

"Not one."

"Then why have we windows?" asks Tommy, with an involuntary glance round
him. "Why are there windows anywhere? It's ever so much nicer without
them. Why can't we have lamps always, like the theatre people?"

"Why, indeed?" says Mr. Browne, sympathetically. "Sir George, I hope you
will take your grandson's advice to heart, and block up all these absurd
windows, and let a proper ray of light descend upon us from the honest
burner. Who cares for strikes? Not I!"

"Well, Tommy, we'll think about it," says Sir George. "And now go on.
You saw----"

"Bluebeard!" says Tommy, almost roaring in the excitement of his
delight. "A big Bluebeard, and he was just like the pictures of him at
home, with his toes curled up and a red towel round his head and a blue
night-gown and a smiter in his hand."

"A cimeter, Tommy?" suggests his mother, gently.

"Eh?" says Tommy. "Well, it's all the same," says he, after a pause,
replete with deep research and with a truly noble impartiality.

"It is, indeed!" says Mr. Browne, open encouragement in his eye. "And so
you saw Mr. Bluebeard! And did he see you?"

"Oh! he saw me!" cries Mabel, in a little whimpering' tone. "He looked
straight into the little house where we were, and I saw his eye--his
horrid eye!" shaking her small head vigorously--"and it ran right into
mine, and he began to walk up to me, and I----"

She stops, her pretty red lips quivering, her blue eyes full of tears.

"Oh, Mabel was so frightened!" says Tommy, the Bold. "She stuck her nose
into nurse's fur cape and roared!"

"I didn't!" says Mabel promptly.

"You did!" says Tommy, indignant at being contradicted, "and she said it
would never be worth a farthing ever after, and----Well, any way, you
know, Mabel, you didn't like the heads."

"Oh, no; I didn't--I hated them! They were all hanging to one side; and
there was nasty blood, and they looked as if they was going to waggle,"
concludes Mabel, with a terrified sob, burying her own head in her
mother's lap.

"Oh! she is too young," says Barbara, nervously clasping her little
woman close to her in a quiet, undemonstrative way, but so as to make
the child herself feel the protection of her arms.

"Too young for so dismal a sight," says Dysart, stooping over and
patting Mabel's sunny curls with a kindly touch. He is very fond of
children, as are all men, good and bad.

"I should not have let her go," says Mrs. Monkton, with self-reproach.
"Such exhibitions are painful for young minds, however harmless."

"When she is older----" begins Dysart, still caressing the little head.

"Yes, yes--she is too young--far too young," says Mrs. Monkton, giving
the child a second imperceptible hug.

"One is never too young to learn the miseries of the world," says Miss
L'Estrange, in her most terrible tone. "Why should a child be pampered
and petted, and shielded from all thoughts of harm and wrong, as though
they never existed? It is false treatment. It is a wilful deceiving of
the growing mind. One day they must wake to all the horrors of the
world. They should therefore be prepared for it, steadily, sternly,
unyieldingly!"

"What a grand--what a strong nature!" says Mr. Browne, uplifting his
hands in admiration. "You would, then, advocate the cause of the
pantomime?" says he, knowing well that the very name of theatre stinks
in the nostrils of Miss L'Estrange.

"Far be it from me!" says she, with a violent shake of her head. "May
all such disreputable performances come to a bad end, and a speedy one,
is my devout prayer. But," with a vicious glance at Barbara, "I would
condemn the parents who would bring their children up in a dark
ignorance of the woes and vices of the world in which they must pass
their lives. I think, as Mabel has been permitted to look at the
pernicious exhibition of this afternoon, she should also be encouraged
to look with calmness upon it, if only to teach her what to expect from
life."

"Good heavens!" says Mr. Browne, in a voice of horror. "Is that what she
has to expect? Rows of decapitated heads! Have you had private
information, Miss L'Estrange? Is a rehearsal of the French Revolution to
be performed in London? Do you really believe the poor child is doomed
to behold your head carried past the windows on a pike? - Next, Mr.
Zagarramurdi. Take this letter that you have brought to Mr. D. Carlos.
What is today?

- Mal - replied by giving half of their beards and disappearing
back where he came. - What modes! - Salome whispered to his room please
-. Since there is no gentleman. Navarro lived in the same room
occupied some years earlier by a woman who died in the odor of
sanctity.

Little or no change had taken the piece, which appeared more than
cabinet chapel, or rather an abbreviated transcript of the court
in heaven, because everything in it was painted and Santic package,
relics, shrines and monasteries prints, embroidered hearts, palm
hearts, and an altar complete with tin candlesticks, chandeliers
hanging from the ceiling, their missals and three plasters chasubles
cardboard paper, in an attitude of holding Mass sung.

Completed the decoration of a huge sword to be the same nail that
Hold a baby Jesus in canvas embroidery, two shotguns leaning into
a corner, two gloves and two masks fencing together with two pairs
of florets, three suitcases and a man widely used.

This man hallábase submerged or rather sitting in an armchair with
his legs hidden under the thick blanket that came to the waist, her
head leaning on his chest and immobile so it seemed asleep or dead.

A brazier cisco showed well past his pile of ash glazed fire near
the wrapper that it should contain the individual's feet, which if
ever there were signs of them were cold.

His face was dark green pulling due to pallor, and the whites of the eyes
was not white but yellow.

The black hair was quite gray and rough, and usually was the powerful head
resting on a black hand, toasted, with veins and muscles and tendons,
twisted the hand that was reminiscent D.

Quixote Maritornes taught when he was hung from the skylight of the
sale. In a pedestal near the guerrilla was taking medication cards
that read, snuff, a book, a rosary and a gun.

Drinking and smoking: alternating with readings, it was his
occupation in the pioneering days of the boring hours of the nights of
insomnia. Not fond of the friends he would talk. His best friend was the
most discreet of all, silence. Oricain But Zugarramurdi and were
distracting to use, although for a short time. Pulling the foil, and
then the eyes of the guerrilla is encouraged; carefully followed
the movements of the lip and even threw some duelists word spicy
or comments among master rechinantes steels.

But suddenly said 'enough' and the two athletes hold the foil and
masks aside, bringing to light the face sweaty.

At that time Zagarramurdi seemed prehistoric man sausage in his
ferocious beards, and Oricain the formidable Bears navarro, lost much
beauty, because the wire mask concealing his ugliness. That day
(that means the days of the letter D.

Felicísimo ) D.

Carlos became tired more quickly than ever. - Enough stock - he
said -.

Zugarramurdi, Pop down a gift of Thomas Zumalacárregui home and
tell you tomorrow I hope. Oricain, alcánzame my rosary and vote. When the
father Gracián go and if I sleep, I wake up .... Today we do not like.
After siesta time came Father Gracian. Mocetón was a high stature, thirty
or forty-eight years old, brown, thick lips, nose aberenjenada,
rough skin, and tanning, as explicitly by God to resist the blistering
tropical climates and polar ice .

His beard was so black and thick that even shave the same day leaving a
dark stain across the bottom of the face. Herculean forces that should
be arrogant grenadier of the Church, and if the point of view is admirably
constituted body for the missions, he was not in the least spiritual,
being a man of great wisdom, eruditísimo in sacred letters, and quite
strong in the profane, eloquent in the pulpit and persuasive in
conversation, eagle and lynx in the chair in the confessional.

Also known in medicine and had passed through that miraculous cures.
Grandón was so that his dip seemed a piece of cloth, they are not
smooth conclusion never to put cloth in the wind.

His hat tile no less than half a stick, and as always had a little thrown
back and his body is hunched forward, it seemed that was carrying
a heavy beam. Their exaggerated feet buried in cloth shoes, stepped
to the heaviness and the strong adhesion of plant espadrille
roadway, striking a sledgehammer tiles docks and warehouses.

After greetings with the affability chosen guerrilla sick, took a seat
next to him and putting his hand on some openings in the cloth
behind which had pockets as deep as the sea began to get more paper
cones similar in size and shape to which they have in stores for
two quarts of sugar, coffee and anise.

As the going got put on the pedestal and looked rotulillo that his
handwriting was written on each one. - What is it? - Navarro chopped
curiosity asked, suspecting that his friend had grocery store or drugstore.
- This is the land route from San Ignacio in Manresa, a relic that people
ask very devout. Today I received a small shipment, and distribute
among friends who have the time I have asked .... If you have forgotten
the cornet de Doña María de la Paz .... Oh! no, here it is. Will you do
me the favor of handing them. These others are for the Honorable Countess
of Rumble to the nuns of Góngora, for Mr D. Peter King, who has had to
kill their precious little girl Perfectita, and several other
families ....

Then save the cones in their pockets unfathomable as the sea, and after
giving violent slap on the knee of the guerrilla, told - I see that
you are better .... That is a different face .... Soon you will be
fine. The guerrillas gave a sigh and smiled.

These demonstrations showed the prognosis disbelief and gratitude for
the consolation. - Soon, very soon, when the time comes to settle on the
battlefield brought the issue between the Freemasons and the Sublime,
the Most High may your brave Macabeo. - That is what I pray to God
with all the fervor of my soul - said Navarro throwing bitterness
in the mouth and eyes - and what God did not grant me. - I have for
me - said the cleric with great faith - that God is not cut off an
arm so strong ....

The disease you are not worth anything, I repeat that is worth nothing.
There is no injury, I repeat that there is no injury.

It is a depression caused by an accumulation bilious, whose origin
we have to look hard at your life and the misfortunes that have
domestic acibarado his soul.

The soul, the soul, my lord, is what is sick, and the soul is to
apply the medicine.

What is this? Because it is a comfortable fresh confidence is achieved
by mixing with peace and indulgence with piety. Navarro said on their
face, without saying a word, the disgust that caused an issue raised
many times, but without result, for Venerable Father Gracian. - No, you
Frunze entrecejo - said this, showing decided -. But not stop me when
you withdraw your friendship and throw me from his home. - I do
not .... - Well, if that does not, you feel resígnese Moscone in
his ear.

And what will the Moscone? Tell you that you will not have peace until
health in spirit, and will not have peace in your spirit until he has
family. And when you have family? When reconciled with his wife after
her repentance and forgiveness of you. ¡Repentance and forgiveness! On
these two poles you move the vast world of souls. All moral knowledge
is condensed into these two ideas that establish the relationship
between man and God .... Navarro wanted to talk. - No, I do not
accept reply on this. I say and I just - said the Jesuit, in his strong
authority -.

When I raised with you by encouraging them to solve this problem, because
we understand that there can be no dishonor to you. The real shame
is to close your ears to the admonitions of the Church that tells
husbands: "Love, unite."

Trials are treacherous and vain world. Should they heed a wise and
religious man? No.

What is the worst director of man? Pride. And the best? Piety. What tells
you your pride? told: 'no yield and poisoned by rancor dies before
pronouncing a word lenient.

What do you say mercy? told: 'you're forgiven to forgive ».... I know there
are reasons apparent strength, but I've studied the matter with
care and have seen what you have is not as an obstacle .... God wants no
doubt that this work is carried out, because from that I undertook, I
am seeing very clearly the way of it. And what I see? I see that lady
in the weariness of solitude and a lively desire to establish order
in their lives interrupted, I see that you keep away from the rancor
respects and loves him.

I have been able to overcome some resistance from within his soul had,
and you just help me .... - Father, father - said D. Carlos breathing
hard, because I was overwhelmed under the unbearable weight of the sermon
- that can not be.

There are no cracks can be welded never, never, not in heaven. Suppose
you that I retreat to a desert, do penance, sanctify me, die, except me
and enter into the kingdom of God as blessed, even more, as a saint.

Suppose you that she regrets her misconduct, receiving God just
calamities and afflictions which rots in life, who withdrew to the
cloister life, then falls in the hands of infidels, that the torment
that the burn, the cooked, who dies, who is saved, which is holy,
that is pure as an angel ....

Well, suppose you think we are in heaven .... - and embraced weep tears
of forgiveness - the father exclaimed deeply moved, and crossing
his hands. - No!

- Navarro shouted and sounded like a one syllable shot. The Jesuit was
perplexed, looking at his friend with horror.

Did not dare to insist on their commitment to the unchanging harshness
of that rock in human form, which had all the rough exterior of the
rock and inside all the bitterness of the sea, but also him, the
Jesuit, was a lack of apparent hardness The persistent strength and
constancy of the wave.

Thought prudent not to insist for the moment, calm and without
effort, dropped his head, threw a sigh and whispered in tone with
the soft words of peace: - Everything is from God.

Let's talk about something else. - Let's talk about something else
- Navarro said with joy -.

You tell me otherwise, but 4 is the cones. - I had to tell you I do not
know what - said Gracián little confusing, but given a slap on the forehead
added -: Ah! I remember ....

I apuntación here.

    A gentleman friend of mine, better known,
      wants to talk to you. I met
    him at the house of Doña Genara.
      - In your house!

- Navarro said becoming more green, and nailing the nails into the arms
of the couch. - I also D. Felicísimo told me about him this morning
.... I do not remember his name ... but the point and should be here.
Saying that the good Jesuit and then put his hand up the arm and elbow
at infinity pocket. - Do not bother you - Navarro said taking the letter
D. Felicísimo that was open on the pedestal, and to show his friend
-. Is this your name? - Same - Gracián replied. And at the very moment
the door opened and his face appeared, rather, with the eyes of Mr.
Zale Zugarramurdi, which said no more than one word - That ....
After watching a bit too sullen to the ground, Carlos spoke as follows:
- Between .... You, dear father, I will please leave me alone .... Tomorrow
I can not attend the meeting, but I represent the Father faces. I want
to know immediately what is decided. Are you coming to tell you?

After answering affirmatively with his affability not studied, the
honorable Father Gracian left to continue distributing their cones
between the pious ladies who knew the subject so interesting to
appreciate devotee. IV-Well-you know the emotion that Salvador felt
to be in front of the guerrilla, and this, that I did not expect to find
in the face of his mortal enemy nothing but mistrust and haughtiness,
was surprised to look self-conscious and somewhat cowering, but
no suspected reason for this move.

Mandola and lay a while the two were good looking, but none decided
to speak first.

Carlos finally broke the silence by saying: - I could not snubbing D.
Felicísimo ... that's why you have received, exposing the consequences
of this evil time. You know I'm sick and the doctor said that I should
not uncomfortable. - That depends on you. I come with peace flag and
decided not to embarrass. You have done well to receive. Some time that
you look for, and now you're wondering whether you think that I've
pursued and vejado enough. - You want me to be rather longer -
Garrote said sarcastically -.

Well, and let me be at peace.

If I do not remember you, if you disregard .... - Poor man - he exclaimed
Salvador -.

Your pride tells you so bad with displays of religious piety ....

I come now to get tested and see if your soul is spiteful, as it seems
incapable of any feeling other than the revenge .... - Are you coming
to get tested ...

With one hundred thousand radishes, man, you're kind - beginning to infuriate
said Navarro -. And then I tell the doctor that takes patience, I
do not sulfur, that I was not up to the mouth and eyes the gall
of my body!

...

Hey you, diminished, if not give you another name, are you coming
to my gozarte in disgrace, seeing sick and weak to punish an insult,
or come to spy on behalf of the Freemasons?

If this is your intention, no need to sharpen the wit to discover
my actions.

You can say yes to these gentlemen, I'm plotting!

Radish! that gives me what I want, I work as a black for the sake of
the legitimate King and I and my friends we met and we concluded,
ignoring this stupid government, whose police have purchased.

The army and bring it attracted a skillful our cause, the government
is misleading because you are the freemasons of bulla and pennant
you buy at two pesetas beard.

C'mon, you know everything you can go with the story. - I know that
conspiracy - said Monsalud remain calm - and I do not care ....

Another issue brought me, a matter that is of much interest to entrambos,
at least for me.

Tell me you have not ever thought of, mainly in these days of illness,
isolation and sadness, in the sterility of the infinite ways you used
to exterminate?

Do not you have come to mind thoughts on this, you're not surprised
yourself, at times, meditating, without knowing how or why, on the
fact that all your acts of revenge have been futile, and that God
has preserved almost miraculously your cruelty?

That I was kept
designedly in the dark both by him and you. Am I," with sudden fire, "a
child or a fool, that you should seek to guide me so blindly? Well,"
drawing a long breath, "I won't keep you in the dark. When I left the
gallery, and your protégé, I met--Mr. Beauclerk!"

Mrs. Monkton, stunned by this intelligence, remains silent for a full
minute. It is death to her hopes. If she has met that man again, it is
impossible to know how things have gone. His fatal influence--her
unfortunate infatuation for him--all will be ruinous to poor Felix's
hopes.

"You spoke to him?" asks she at last, in an emotionless tone.

"Yes."

"Was Felix with you?"

"When?"

"When you met that odious man?"

"Mr. Beauclerk? No; I dismissed Mr. Dysart as soon as ever I could."

"No doubt. And Mr. Beauclerk, did you dismiss him as promptly."

"Certainly not. There was no occasion."

"No inclination, either. You were kind to him at all events. It is only
to the man who is honest and sincere that you are deliberately uncivil."

"I hope I was uncivil to neither of them."

"There is no use giving yourself that air with me, Joyce. You are angry
with me; but why? Only because I am anxious for your happiness. Oh! that
hateful man, how I detest him! He has made you unhappy once--he will
certainly make you unhappy again."

"I don't think so," says Joyce, taking up her hat and furs with the
evident intention of leaving the room, and thus putting an end to the
discussion.

"You will never think so until it is too late. You haven't the strength
of mind to throw him over, once and for all, and give your thoughts to
one who is really worthy of you. On the contrary, you spend your time
comparing him favorably with the good and faithful Felix."

"You should put that down. It will do for his tombstone," says Miss
Kavanagh, with a rather uncertain little laugh.

"At all events, it would not do for Mr. Beauclerk's tombstone--though I
wish it would--and that I could put it there at once."

"I shall tell Freddy to read the commandments to you," says Joyce, with
a dreary attempt at mirth--"you have forgotten your duty to your
neighbor."

"It is all true, however. You can't deny it, Joyce. You are
deliberately--willfully--throwing away the good for the bad. I can't
bear to see it. I can't look on in silence and see you thus miserably
destroying your life. How can you be so blind, darling?" appealing to
her with hands, and voice, and eyes. "Such determined folly would be
strange in any one; stranger far in a girl like you, whose sense has
always been above suspicion."

"Did it ever occur to you," asks Joyce, in a slightly bantering tone,
that but ill conceals the nervousness that is consuming her, "that you
might be taking a wrong view of the situation? That I was not so blind
after all. That I--What was it you said? that I spent my nights and days
comparing the merits of Mr. Beauclerk with those of your friend, Felix
Dysart--to your friend's discomfiture? Now, suppose that I did thus
waste my time, and gave my veto in favor of Mr. Dysart? How would it be
then? It might be so, you know, for all that he, or you, or any one
could say."

"It is not so light a matter that you should trifle with it," says Mrs.
Monkton, with a faint suspicion of severity in her soft voice.

"No, of course not. You are right." Miss Kavanagh moves towards the
door. "After all, Barbara," looking back at her, "that applies to most
things in this sad old world. What matter under heaven can we poor
mortals dare to trifle with? Not one, I think. All bear within them the
seeds of grief or joy. Sacred seeds, both carrying in their bosoms the
germs of eternity. Even when this life is gone from us we still face
weal or woe."

"Still--we need not make our own woe," says Barbara, who is a sturdy
enemy to all pessimistic thoughts. "Wait a moment, Joyce." She hurries
after her and lays her hand on the girl's shoulder. "Will you come with
me next Wednesday to see Lady Monkton?"

"Lady Monkton! Why I thought----"

"Yes, I know. I would not take you there before, because she had not
expressly asked to see you. But to-day she made a--she sent you a formal
message--at all events she said she hoped I would bring you when I came
again."

"Is that all of it?" asks Joyce, gazing at her sister with a curious
smile, that is troubled, but has still some growing sense of amusement
in it. "What an involved statement! Surely you have forgotten something.
That Mr. Dysart was standing near you, for example, and will probably
find that it is absolutely imperative that he should call on Lady
Monkton next Wednesday, too. Don't set your heart on that, Barbara. I
think, after my interview with him to-day, he will not want to see Lady
Monkton next Wednesday."

"I know nothing about whether he is to be there or not," says Barbara
steadily. "But as Sir George likes to see the children very often, I
thought of taking them there on that day. It is Lady Monkton's day. And
Dicky Browne, at all events, will be there, and I dare say a good many
of your old friends. Do say you will come."

"I hate old friends!" says the girl fractiously. "I don't believe I have
any. I don't believe anybody has. I----"

She pauses as the door is thrown open, and Tommy comes prancing into the
room accompanied by his father.


CHAPTER XXXVI.

     "Children know very little; but their capacity of comprehension is
     great."


"I've just been interviewing Tommy on the subject of the pictures," says
Mr. Monkton. "So far as I can make out he disapproves of Doré."

"Oh! Tommy! and all such beautiful pictures out of the Bible," says his
mother.

"I did like them," says Tommy. "Only some of them were queer. I wanted
to know about them, but nobody would tell me--and----"

"Why, Tommy, I explained them all to you," says Joyce, reproachfully.

"You did in the first two little rooms and in the big room afterward,
where the velvet seats were. They," looking at his father and raising
his voice to an indignant note, "wouldn't let me run round on the top of
them!"

"Good heavens!" says Mr. Monkton. "Can that be true? Truly this country
is going to the dogs."

"Where do the dogs live?" asks Tommy, "What dogs? Willig service and we
follow with pleasure.

(Theseus, Hippolyta, Egeus, Demetrius and his retinue from.) Lysander.
Well, dear heart? Why so pale the cheek, how the roses are there as
quickly wither? Hermia. Maybe because lack of rain, so you probably
do my eye clouds could networks. Lysander. Woe to me!

After everything that I ever read And ever hear in legends and stories,
Rann never loyal to the stream of love gently, because soon she was
different at birth - Hermia. O agony! too high, low to kneel before!
Lysander.

Soon she was in the years mißgepaart - Hermia. O pain! too old to young
to be united!

Lysander. Soon she was moving away from the relatives election - Hermia.
O Death! with the foreign Aug sweetheart choose! Lysander. And was also
in sympathy of their choice, Sun stormed war, death, disease, and makes
a 'their happiness sound like a fleeting, changeable as shadows,
just like dreams, quick as lightning, In the blackened night sky
and earth in a Wink unfolded; But anyway a person can say: look!

loops darkness greedily him down: As soon darkens of Fortune card. Hermia.
If suffering because love was always loyal, Sun is firmly in the
rate of the skill.

So let us be patient through the exam to learn of the suffering because
it is capable of love as dreams, sighs, silent desires, tears, the
poor sick passion retinue.

Lysander. A good faith! Hearing because, Hermia!

It is located just seven miles from Athens House 'its old widow, my Muhme;
lives of great pensions, has no child, and respects me as her son
einzgen.

There, Holde, I am with thee wed, it pursues the cruel law of Athens we
do not: do you love me because, as Play For thy father's house
tomorrow night and into the forest 'ne mile from the city, where I
once met you with Helena, To Maien morning begehn; Because I want
to your wait.

Hermia. My Lysander, I swear it to you at Cupid's strongest bow, At his
best, goldgespitzten arrow And in the innocence of doves Cytherens;
In what follows souls in love and faith; At that Feurer, where
once burned Dido When the Trojan is wrong their entwand; For every
oath, the men ever broken, the number more than ever women spoke,
surely you can find me at midnight tomorrow, the place where we
started.

Lysander. standstill, love, word !

Look, here comes Helena.

(Helena occurs.) Hermia. God grüß you, beautiful child!

Where the heck go? Helena.

Schön identifies your me? - No, it revokes Schön! Demetrius loves you,
happy beauty! - An Angel star is Euer Aug; the sounds of sweet lips,
when the lark song The shepherd appears, if everything green and
flourishing.

Sickness is catching; o sity's shape and nature!

"Eh?" says Mr. Monkton.

"That's why it's unfair!" says Tommy. "There is one poor lion there, and
he hasn't got any Christian! Why didn't Mr. Dory give him one?"

Tableau!

"Barbara!" says Mr. Monkton faintly, after a long pause. "Is there any
brandy in the house?"

But Barbara is looking horrified.

"It is shocking," she says. "Why should he take such a twisted view of
it. He has always been a kind-hearted child; and now----"

"Well. He has been kind-hearted to the lions," says Mr. Monkton. "No one
can deny that."

"Oh! if you persist in encouraging him. Freddy!" says his wife with
tears in her eyes.

"Believe me, Barbara," breaks in Joyce at this moment, "it is a mistake
to be soft-hearted in this world." There is something bright but
uncomfortable in the steady gaze she directs at her sister. "One should
be hard, if one means to live comfortably."

"Will you take me soon again to see pictures?" asks Tommy, running to
Joyce and scrambling upon the seat she is occupying. "Do!"

"But if you dislike them so much."

"Only some. And other places may be funnier. What day will you take me?"

"I don't think I shall again make an arrangement beforehand," says
Joyce, rising, and placing Tommy on the ground very gently. "Some
morning just before we start, you and I, we will make our plans."

She does not look at Barbara this time, but her tone is eloquent.

Barbara looks at her, however, with eyes full of reproach.


CHAPTER XXXVII.

    "Love is its own great loveliness always,
      And takes new beauties from the touch of time;
    Its bough owns no December and no May,
      But bears its blossoms into winter's clime."

     "I have often thought what a melancholy world this would be without
     children."


"Oh, Felix--is it you!" says Mrs. Monkton in a dismayed tone. Her hansom
is at the door and, arrayed in her best bib and tucker, she is hurrying
through the hall when Dysart, who has just come, presents himself. He
was just coming in, in fact, as she was going out.

"Don't mind me," says he; "there is always to-morrow."

"Oh, yes,--but----"

"And Miss Kavanagh?"

"It is to recover her I am going out this afternoon." It is the next
day, so soon after her rupture with Joyce, that she is afraid to even
hint at further complications. A strong desire to let him know that he
might wait and try his fortune once again on her return with Joyce is
oppressing her mind, but she puts it firmly behind her, or thinks she
does. "She is lunching at the Brabazons'," she says; "old friends of
ours. I promised to lunch there, too, so as to be able to bring Joyce
home again."

"She will be back, then."

"In an hour and a half at latest," says Mrs. Monkton, who after all is
not strong enough to be quite genuine to her better judgments. "But,"
with a start and a fresh determination to be cruel in the cause of
right, "that would be much too long for you to wait for us."

"I shouldn't think it long," says he.

Mrs. Monkton smiles suddenly at him. How charming--how satisfactory he
is. Could any lover be more devoted!

"Well, it would be for all that," says she. "But"--hesitating in a last
vain effort to dismiss, and then losing herself--, "suppose you do not
abandon your visit altogether; that you go away, now, and get your lunch
at your club--I feel," contritely, "how inhospitable I am--and then come
back again here about four o'clock. She--I--will have returned by that
time."

"An excellent plan," says he, his face lighting up. Then it clouds
again. "If she knows I am to be here?"

"Ah! that is a difficulty," says Mrs. Monkton, her own pretty face
showing signs of distress. "But anyhow, risk it."

"I would rather she knew, however," says he steadily. The idea of
entrapping her into a meeting with him is abhorrent to him. He had had
enough of that at the Doré Gallery; though he had been innocent of any
intentional deception there.

"I will tell her then," says Mrs. Monkton; "and in the meantime go and
get your----"

At this moment the door on the right is thrown open, and Tommy, with a
warhoop, descends upon them, followed by Mabel.

"Oh! it's Felix!" cries he joyfully. "Will you stay with us, Felix?
We've no one to have dinner with us to-day. Because mammy is going away,
and Joyce is gone, and pappy is nowhere; and nurse isn't a bit of
good--she only says, 'Take care you don't choke yourselves, me
dearies!'" He imitates nurse to the life. "And dinner will be here in a
minute. Mary says she's just going to bring it upstairs."

"Oh, do--do stay with us," supplements little Mabel, thrusting her small
hand imploringly into his. It is plain that he is in high favor with the
children, however out of it with a certain other member of the
family--and feeling grateful to them, Dysart hesitates to say the "No"
that is on his lips. How hard it is to refuse the entreaties of these
little clinging fingers--these eager, lovely, upturned faces!

"If I may----?" says he at last, addressing Mrs. Monkton, and thereby
giving in.

"Oh! as for that! You know you may," says she. "But you will perfectly
hate it. It is too bad to allow you to accept their invitation. You will
be bored to death, and you will detest the boiled mutton. There is only
that and--rice, I think. I won't even be sure of the rice. It may be
tapioca--and that is worse still."

"It's rice," says Tommy, who is great friends with the cook, and knows
till her secrets.

"That decides the question," says Felix gravely. "Every one knows that I
adore rice. It is my one weakness."

At this, Mrs. Monkton gives way to an irrepressible laugh, and he,
catching the meaning of it, laughs, too.

"You are wrong, however," says he; "that other is my one strength. I
could not live without it. Well, Tommy, I accept your invitation. I
shall stay and lunch--dine with you." In truth, it seems sweet in his
eyes to remain in the house that she (Joyce) occupies; it will be easier
to wait, to hope for her return there than elsewhere.

"Your blood be on your own head," says Barbara, solemnly. "If, however,
it goes too far, I warn you there are remedies. When it occurs to you
that life is no longer worth living, go to the library; you will find
there a revolver. It is three hundred years old, I'm told, and it is
hung very high on the wall to keep it out of Freddy's reach. Blow your
brains out with it--if you can."

"You're awfully good, awfully thoughtful," says Mr. Dysart, "but I don't
think, when the final catastrophe arrives, it will be suicide. If I must
murder somebody, it will certainly not be myself; it will be either the
children or the mutton."

Mrs. Monkton laughs, then turns a serious eye on Tommy.

His "world riddle" (1899) and his "living miracle", his last book on
philosophical crystal souls are as good as worthless products. Rightly
Paulsen said Friday in a review of the "world riddle" in the "Preuss.
Annals" appeared: "I started with a burning shame to read this
book, shame about the state of education and the philosophical
education of our people."

Equally sharp was the verdict, the E.

ADIK come to with the words: "Haeckel is just dogmatist through and through,
and there he stands with Büchner on one level, as a natural scientist
he overlooked him far, as both philosophers are full of zeros."

The Russian physicist Chwolson revealed in a special font, such
as Haeckel was totally incapable of even the meaning of the simplest
principles of theoretical physics, such as the theorem of conservation
of energy or heat of the second sentence (which he simply discards ")
to understand.

The well-known researchers Wasmann has ants in a special font,
"Haeckel as a cultural threat" even his theoretical development
benefits frugal identified.

More than the substance of his philosophy here again to speak, lacking
any occasion. [1] [1] See, in addition to the aforementioned
critical works by O.

Külpe: "Philosophy of the Present", 6 Ed, and A. Messner: "Philosophy of
the Present" (1918).

In an attempt to lead back to reality, including all of the organic
life, the life and soul of spiritual activities at the last qualitative
basic types of e nergy forms and their transformation took Wilhelm
Ostwald (born 1855), professor of physical chemistry, naturalistic
monism.

His lectures on "natural philosophy" were, as far as the philosophy
of inorganic nature, very stimulating. Ostwald attempted to define the
concept of matter entirely.

The mass of mechanics it is only a capacity factor of the
mechanical energy, the gleichgeordnet a heat, a light, a figure, a
magnetic and electrical, chemical and mental energy to the side. These
energy types are not, as the atomistic-mechanical nature wanted to believe,
due to successive, they are similar in the qualitative theory of
elementary Aristotle final conditions, the only formal quantitative
exchange relations with one another.

"Everything we call Matter is energy, because it proves to be a
complex of gravity of energy, shape and volume energies, and chemical
energies, where thermal and electrical energy in varying ways
adheres."

Nevertheless, Ostwald lapsed into the error, the energy is purely dynamically
interpreted term relationship, even to a substance hypostasize.

Equally, it was completely unfounded, and the psychic energy into the
types of compounds, although he is aware of the prerequisite, as
a natural energy to apply, measurability, and the lack ichartige
monarchic structure of consciousness phenomena in opposition to
this view is.

Völlig remained unresolved and the problem of organic life, as well
as within the unresolved mechanical life lesson.

But also within the inorganic proven the power of the duration not. The
criticism, in particular the Boltzmann and W.

Wundt at the "lectures" have practiced, is characterized by the
development of science, particularly by the brilliant victory of
the atomistic and mechanical thermodynamics quite been confirmed.

Utterly inadequate, however, are de Ostwald been attempts (see especially
"philosophy of values"), the problems of ethics, society, civilization
and history at the bottom of the "power" to understand.

That takes the place of the categorical imperative of the [sic] energetic
imperative, "not wasting energy, they use" appear to be, seems almost
like a bad joke to. And no less so seems to make a statement, the Ostwald
at the Hamburg Monistenkongreß of 1911 there, which states:
"For everything that mankind desires and hopes, goals and ideals of the
notion / God / zusammengedrängt, will We met by science. " Ostwald
purely technological view of world history, the German organization
Addiction a philosophical Chen coats capes, each historical task
to a "Task Organization," which is so childish that they hardly
deserve a criticism, just as his opinion, the aesthetic sense and
the art had importance only to the extent as they pioneer the
scientific work services, and there will be a matter of maturing
in the art of science once completely disappear from the world.

In the sociology Ostwald has had a serious student, en still strong in
the presence hineinwirkt. It is the Viennese sociologist and chairman
of the Austrian Monistenbundes R G UDOLF oldschei d.

His work on "higher development" and "human economy" has both the
population as the teaching of social policy and provides valuable
suggestions, if implemented, be one-sided attempt to the people
themselves (similar to the slave economy) rechnungsmäßig than mere
economic value and the most economical use this "value" to demand,
socio-logically untenable.

A resolution of ethics in economics has never tried gold Scheid. A
prominent representative of monism, which is also in the founding
and development of the Monistenbundes played a major role, was the
recently deceased Viennese psychologist and ethicist Friedrich Jodl.

Both his "Textbook of Psychology", in particular its large-scale
"History of Ethics" are valuable and stimulating books, if they are also
in a unilateral way, all free thinking and entrepreneurial aspirations
antikirchlichen one you do not even scientifically superior value
inherent settle.

How much the whole of the philosophical direction of political
monism, that is dominated außerphilosophischen trends, shows her
on 1 January 1906 has been association with the organization of the
"German Monistenbundes".

Ostwald concluded the first congress in Hamburg with the sentences:
"I am opening the one-tier Century" and its honorary chairman was E.

Haeckel, its Chairman of the Bremer Pastor Albert Kalthoff, which
is greatly influenced by Nietzsche suggested that the young-Bruno
Bauer building, the historical existence Christ in his writings had
denied, and in loose contact with the left-liberal pastors and Traub
Jatho the Christian churches a sharp challenge presented.

Against monism founded [sic] then in 1907 the Kiel Sciences J.

Reinke and E.

Dennert called "Kepler Bund", which reversed the task set, the
compatibility of modern science with theistic belief to prove.
Very wrong is with the dissemination of the monistic worldview
often the social democracy and its leaders have been attributed.

Intellectual is this view wrong. The leaders of monism were mostly
politically liberal views the nation is very close (eg Haeckel himself),
and many of them there is even a strong alldeutsche key. How deep Karl
Marx and Engels on the materialism of the German petty bourgeoisie
herabblickten, from their statements is enough known. While the
naturalistic monistic thinking only of cultural history and for
the German mentality before the war, defining the interests, are
the others still living philosophical systems also purely philosophical
matter.

This is very similar to the effect of Fichte, Hegel and Schelling as those
of Lotze, Fechner, E. von Hartmann, R. Eucken and W. Wundt. These systems
can not be written only for what it Present ä rtige philosophy as component
moments still mean, is briefly mentioned. The lowest effect of all these
had strangely in Germany the last time next major classifications of
German philosophy, Wilhelm Wundt. As images of his system are empfehlenswert
O.

Külpe in the "Philosophy of the Present", E.

King: "W. Wundt, 1909 and R. Eisler:" Wundt's philosophy and
psychology ", 1902.

One reason for the low impact of the excellent researchers and
scholars in philosophy may be located therein, that his epistemology
and metaphysics both in its vagueness and indeterminacy great
suffering, the whole of his philosophy but, despite his erudition
overloading with something extremely Colorless and has lot of blood.

Also a frequent oscillation (eg, between idealism and realism in the
theory of knowledge, between psychophysical parallelism as a metaphysical
hypothesis and methodological maxim, between absolutism and
relativism in ethics, Theismus and Willenspantheismus in the basic
doctrine of the world) might also be contributed to this ineffectiveness
have.

UDOLF R E ucken, already stands at the border between science and philosophy
that characterized earlier philosophical edification literature,
has a far greater impact than Wundt unfolded both in Germany and
abroad, a clear sign of this is in the latter respect, the Nobel
Prize.

This is equivalent thinkers critics have been judged very differently.
Some see in the connection of a preacher, metaphysician and researchers
from homo religiosus and thinkers, the Eucken represents something
very valuable and are out on the rich intuitive content of his work,
the others complain about the lack of anatomy in his thoughts, the
disconnectedness his philosophy with the sciences unmethodische the
nature of his thinking and the great uncertainty and vagueness of
the unique personal style of his presentation.

May to some extent both are right, it comes Eucken especially the
strong V to vesting, at a time when the philosophy of a simple note
to the positive compartment Sciences threatened to withdraw their
claims held to have a metaphysics, while the human form of life to
give.

Expected by FA Trendelenburg (died 1872), for a time, students also
Lotze, Eucken has a strong connection to spruce Tatidealismus his
"idealism of the spirit life" to justify action.

His most important works (unfortunately, the least read) is 1888,
published "The unity of the Spirit in the life of consciousness and
indeed humanity" in which his personality-theistic philosophy not
by Sachuntersuchungen of philosophical problems, but a critique of
Hegel Panlogismus and naturalism hervorwachsen leaves.

In the "life of the great thinkers" and "spiritual currents of the
present" (originally "the basic concepts of the present"), the
scientific philosophy was still closest to, he takes from the history
of philosophy, the essential "religious life", and submit it within
the meaning of his philosophy.

The books "The struggle for a spiritual life," "The truth of the religion,"
"Knowledge and Life" and "the basic lines of a new life" again in
ever new twists same basic idea.

The full value of this idea is less in its very poor theoretical
justification as located in their consciousness of independence
of mind, despite all the deep and in the finite experience intractable
conflicts of the human being vigorously wake force.

Eucken was in a predominantly materialistic age, practically one
of the strongest S eelene rwecker which Germany has obsessed.

Purest Germanic blood (Friese), he has a rare way merits and faults of
the Germanic mind: a good intuition ahnung transcendental realities, a
strong hold in the midst of these realities deeply felt opposition to the
"world" against the realization of the intellectual demands, but
also all the vagueness and Nebelhaftigkeit, vagueness and darkness Nordic
Spirit.

The "spiritual life", which to him between historical reality and
metaphysical potency odd floats in the middle, is the natural spirit
of life, the man with the animals shall be sharply distinguished. It
aims to "noologischer method" (a peculiar extension of Kant's
method) is not by introspection, but to recognize its W and systems
of life ( "Syntagmen") will be studied.

It is not only in every single soul, but also in the large groups of the
collective history as a self-employed will be drawn out. Yet it is in
sharp contrast to Hegel's Panlogismus only by working people of the
individual taking it to the "personality" and the "education sector"
erhöben. That is why Eucken last longer than theistic Human pantheist,
although a strong pantheist philosophy permeates its core.

Using methods similar to those in Pascal's "Pensées" are similar, with
strong Eucken studied drawing of what he for the relative veracity
of the naturalistic and pessimistic systems holds to show that
this "intellectual life" in the world and lost in the last line
meaningless if it is not from a mental W eltgrun de herströmend
always new and creative human souls einquellend is understood and
compatriots.

During the earlier philosophy of common sense people of the "nature"
and afford her the kingdom of the "About Nature", the "grace"
opposite, is the intellectual life of the human reason advanced for
Eucken himself something "supernatural".

This makes the character of the Gnostic Euckenschen philosophy,
religion and metaphysics in a sense they are both inadmissible mixed.

Fechner's philosophy, by its justification of Psychophysics beside Wundt
as the real founder of experimental psychology must apply at the
current philosophy A exerted little effect.

His attempt, the sensation as a mental size and they demonstrate the unity
of the just noticeable difference in sensation to be measured, is
both its methodological conditions than his psychological condition
(which we can further sensation regardless of the attention on
fluctuations in the consciousness to find) is almost universally
rejected been.

Stark effect at times his doctrine of psychophysical parallelism,
which, as we shall see, certainly in the presence of the same if
it has lost much influence.

He is regarding her with a searching air. How is it with her? Some old
words recur to him:

    "There is treachery, O Ahaziah!"

Why does she look at him like that? He mistrusts her present attitude.
Even that aggressive mood of hers at the Doré gallery on that last day
when they met was preferable to this agreeable but detestable
indifference.

"It is always a pleasure to be with you," says he steadily, perhaps a
little doggedly.

"There! you see!" says Joyce, with a pretty little nod at her sister.

"Well, I shall take half an hour's rest," says Mrs. Monkton,
reluctantly, who is, in truth, feeling as fresh as a daisy, but who is
afraid to stay. "But I shall be back for tea." She gives a little kindly
glance to Felix, and, with a heart filled with forebodings, leaves the
room.

"What a glorious day it has been!" says Joyce, continuing the
conversation with Dysart in that new manner of hers, quite as if
Barbara's going was a matter of small importance, and the fact that she
has left them for the first time for all these months alone together of
less importance still.

She is standing on the hearthrug, and is slowly taking the pins out of
her bonnet. She seems utterly unconcerned. He might be the veriest
stranger, or else the oldest, the most uninteresting friend in the
world.

She has taken out all the pins now, and has thrown her bonnet on to the
lounge nearest to her, and is standing before the glass in the
overmantel patting and pushing into order the soft locks that lie upon
her forehead.


CHAPTER XXXIX.

    "Ah, were she pitiful as she is fair."
    "Life's a varied, bright illusion,
    Joy and sorrow--light and shade."


"It was almost warm," says she, turning round to him. She seems to be
talking all the time, so vivid is her face, so intense her vitality. "I
was so glad to see the Brabazons again. You know them, don't you? Kit
looked perfect. So lovely, so good in every way--voice, face, manners. I
felt I envied her. It would be delightful to feel that every one must be
admiring one, as she does." She glances at him, and he leans a little
toward her. "No, no, not a compliment, please. I know I am as much
behind Kit as the moon is behind the sun."

"I wasn't going to pay you a compliment," says he, slowly.

"No?" she laughs. It was unlike her to have made that remark, and just
as unlike her to have taken his rather discourteous reply so
good-naturedly.

"It was a charming visit," she goes on, not in haste, but idly as it
were, and as if words are easy to her. "I quite enjoyed it. Barbara
didn't. I think she wanted to get home--she is always thinking of the
babies--or----Well, I did. I am not ungrateful. I take the goods the
gods provide, and find honest pleasure in them. I do not think, indeed,
I laughed so much for quite a century as to-day with Kit."

"She is sympathetic," says Felix, with the smallest thought of the
person in question in his mind.

"More than that, surely. Though that is a hymn of praise in itself.
After all it is a relief to meet Irish people when one has spent a week
or two in stolid England. You agree with me?"

"I am English," returns he.

"Oh! Of course! How rude of me! I didn't mean it, however. I had
entirely forgotten, our acquaintance having been confined entirely to
Irish soil until this luckless moment. You do forgive me?"

She is leaning a little forward and looking at him with a careless
expression.

"No," returns he briefly.

"Well, you should," says she, taking no notice of his cold rejoinder,
and treating it, indeed, as if it is of no moment. If there was a deeper
meaning in his refusal to grant her absolution she declines to
acknowledge it. "Still, even that _bêtise_ of mine need not prevent you
from seeing some truth in my argument. We have our charms, we Irish,
eh?"

"Your charm?"

"Well, mine, if you like, as a type, and"--recklessly and with a shrug
of her shoulders--"if you wish to be personal."

She has gone a little too far.

"I think I have acknowledged that," says he, coldly. He rises abruptly
and goes over to where she is standing on the hearthrug--shading her
face from the fire with a huge Japanese fan. "Have I ever denied your
charm?" His tone has been growing in intensity, and now becomes stern.
"Why do you talk to me like this? What is the meaning of it all--your
altered manner--everything? Why did you grant me this interview?"

"Perhaps because"--still with that radiant smile, bright and cold as
early frost--"like that little soapy boy, I thought you would 'not be
happy till you got it.'"

She laughs lightly. The laugh is the outcome of the smile, and its close
imitation. It is perfectly successful, but on the surface only. There is
no heart in it.

"You think I arranged it?"

"Oh, no; how could I? You have just said I arranged it." She shuts up
her fan with a little click. "You want to say something, don't you?"
says she, "well, say it!"

"You give me permission, then?" asks he, gravely, despair knocking at
his heart.

"Why not--would I have you unhappy always?" Her tone is jesting
throughout.

"You think," taking the hand that holds the fan and restraining its
motion for a moment, "that if I do speak I shall be happier?"

"Ah! that is beyond me," says she. "And yet--yes; to get a thing over is
to get rid of fatigue. I have argued it all out for myself, and have
come to the conclusion----"

"For yourself!"

"Well, for you too," a little impatiently. "After all, it is you who
want to speak. Silence, to me, is golden. But it occurred to me in the
silent watches of the night," with another, now rather forced, little
laugh, "that if you once said to me all you had to say, you would be
contented, and go away and not trouble me any more."

"I can do that now, without saying anything," says he slowly. He has
dropped her hand; he is evidently deeply wounded.

"Can you?"

Her eyes are resting relentlessly on his. Is there magic in them? Her
mouth has taken a strange expression.

"I might have known how it would be," says Dysart, throwing up his head.
"You will not forgive! It was but a moment--a few words, idle,
hardly-considered, and----"

"Oh, yes, considered," says she slowly.

"They were unmeant!" persists he, fiercely. "I defy you to think
otherwise. One great mistake--a second's madness--and you have ordained
that it shall wreck my whole life! You!--That evening in the library at
the court. I had not thought of----"

"Ah!" she interrupts him, even more by her gesture--which betrays the
first touch of passion she has shown--than by her voice, that is still
mocking. "I knew you would have to say it!"

"You know me, indeed!" says he, with an enforced calmness that leaves
him very white. "My whole heart and soul lies bare to you, to ruin it as
you will. It is the merest waste of time, I know; but still I have felt
all along that I must tell you again that I love you, though I fully
understand I shall receive nothing in return but scorn and contempt.
Still, to be able even to say it is a relief to me."

"And what is it to me?" asks the girl, as pale now as he is. "Is it a
relief--a comfort to me to have to listen to you?"

She clenches her hands involuntarily. The fan falls with a little crash
to the ground.

"No." He is silent a moment, "No--it is unfair--unjust! You shall not be
made uncomfortable again. It is the last time.... I shall not trouble
you again in this way. I don't say we shall never meet again.
You"--pausing and looking at her--"you do not desire that?"

"Oh, no," coldly, politely.

"If you do, say so at once," with a rather peremptory ring in his tone.

"I should," calmly.

"I am glad of that. As my cousin is a great friend of mine, and as I
shall get a fortnight's leave soon, I shall probably run over to
Ireland, and spend it with her. After all"--bitterly--"why should I
suppose it would be disagreeable to you?"

"It was quite a natural idea," says she, immovably.

"However," says he, steadily, "you need not be afraid that, even if we
do meet, I shall ever annoy you in this way again----"

"Oh, I am never afraid," says she, with that terrible smile that seems
to freeze him.

"Well, good-bye," holding out his hand. He is quite as composed as she
is now, and is even able to return her smile in kind.

"So soon? But Barbara will be down to tea in a few minutes. You will
surely wait for her?"

"I think not."

"But really do! I am going to see after the children, and give them some
chocolate I bought for them."

"It will probably make them ill," says he, smiling still. "No, thank
you. I must go now, indeed. You will make my excuses to Mrs. Monkton,
please. Good-bye."

"Good-bye," says she, laying her hand in his for a second. She has grown
suddenly very cold, shivering: it seems almost as if an icy blast from
some open portal has been blown in upon her. He is still looking at her.
There is something wild--strange--in his expression.

"You cannot realize it, but I can," says he, unsteadily. "It is good-bye
forever, so far as life for me is concerned."

He has turned away from her. He is gone. The sharp closing of the door
wakens her to the fact that she is alone. Mechanically, quite calmly,
she looks around the empty room. There is a little Persian chair cover
over there all awry. She rearranges it with a critical eye to its proper
appearance, and afterward pushes a small chair into its place. She pats
a cushion or two, and, finally taking up her bonnet and the pins she had
laid upon the chimney-piece, goes up to her own room.

Once there----

With a rush the whole thing comes back to her. The entire meaning of
it--what she has done. That word--forever. The bonnet has fallen from
her fingers. Sinking upon her knees beside the bed, she buries her face
out of sight. Presently her slender frame is torn by those cruel, yet
merciful sobs!


CHAPTER XL.

    "The sense of death is most in apprehension."

    "Thus grief still treads upon the heels of pleasure."


It is destined to be a day of grief! Monkton who had been out all the
morning, having gone to see the old people, a usual habit of his, had
not returned to dinner--a very unusual habit with him. It had occurred,
however, once or twice, that he had stayed to dine with them on such
occasions, as when Sir George had had a troublesome letter from his
elder son, and had looked to the younger to give him some comfort--some
of his time to help him to bear it, by talking it all over. Barbara,
therefore, while dressing for Mrs. Thesiger's "At Home," had scarcely
felt anxiety, and, indeed, it is only now when she has come down to the
drawing-room to find Joyce awaiting her, also in gala garb, so far as a
gown goes, that a suspicion of coming trouble takes possession of her.

"He is late, isn't he?" she says, looking at Joyce with something
nervous in her expression. "What can have kept him? I know he wanted to
meet the General, and now----What can it be?"

"His mother, probably," says Joyce, indifferently. "From your
description of her, I should say she must be a most thoroughly
uncomfortable old person."

"Yes. Not pleasant, certainly. A little of her, as George Ingram used to
say, goes a long way. But still----And these Thesiger people are friends
of his, and----"

"You are working yourself up into a thorough belief in the sensational
street accident," says Joyce, who has seated herself well out of the
glare of the chandelier. "You want to be tragic. It is a mistake,
believe me."

Something in the bitterness of the girl's tone strikes on her sister's
ear. Joyce had not come down to dinner, had pleaded a headache as an
excuse for her non-appearance, and Mrs. Monkton and Tommy (she could not
bear to dine alone) had devoured that meal _à deux_. Tommy had certainly
been anything but dull company.

"Has anything happened, Joyce?" asks her sister quickly. She has had her
suspicions, of course, but they were of the vaguest order.

Joyce laughs.

"I told you your nerves were out of order," says she. "What should
happen? Are you still dwelling on the running over business? I assure
you you wrong Freddy. He can take care of himself at a crossing as well
as another man, and better. Even a hansom, I am convinced, could do no
harm to Freddy."

"I wasn't thinking of him," says Barbara, a little reproachfully,
perhaps. "I----"

"No. Then you ought to be ashamed of yourself! Here he is," cries she
suddenly, springing to her feet as the sound of Monkton's footsteps
ascending the stairs can now be distinctly heard. "I hope you will
explain yourself to him." She laughs again, and disappears through the
doorway that leads to the second hall outside, as Monkton enters.

"How late you are, Freddy," says his wife, the reproach in her voice
heightened because of the anxiety she had been enduring. "I thought you
would never----What is it? What has happened? Freddy! there is bad
news."

"Yes, very bad," says Monkton, sinking into a chair.

"Your brother----" breathlessly. Of late, she has always known that
trouble is to be expected from him.

"He is dead," says Monkton in a low tone.

Barbara, flinging her opera cloak aside, comes quickly to him. She leans
over him and slips her arms round his neck.

"Dead!" says she in an awestruck tone.

"Yes. Killed himself! Shot himself! the telegram came this morning when
I was with them. I could not come home sooner; it was impossible to
leave them."

"Oh, Freddy, I am sorry you left them even now; a line to me would have
done. Oh, what a horrible thing, and to die like that."

"Yes." He presses one of her hands, and then, rising, begins to move
hurriedly up and down the room. "It was misfortune upon misfortune," he
says presently. "When I went over there this morning they had just
received a letter filled with----"

"From him!"

"Yes. That is what seemed to make it so much worse later on. Life in the
morning, death in the afternoon!" His voice grows choked. "And such a
letter as it was, filled with nothing but a most scandalous account of
his----Oh!"----he breaks off suddenly as if shocked. "Oh, he is dead,
poor fellow."

"Don't take it like that," says Barbara, following him and clinging to
him. Marineda the _Nautilia_ of the Romans, was enveloped in a darkness
clámide.

Soon began to distinguish varying lights on the dark mass of the population,
and presto it was covered all points Luciente as gold stars on a dark
celaje. The night, which showed the whole body, was the milk, but cold,
when the spring equinox was announced by I know not what vague transparency
of the sky and the air, and in any way by the temperature, which seems
rather increased.

Baltasar and girl, perhaps compelled by the frozen environment, is
very close to each other, but speaking of things indifferent and
unimportant. - No, Bilbao is more beautiful ... nor Santander, say
what you want Santander, who are very patriotic.

Do you know what has improved Marineda? And what is still called upon to
improve?

It grows with each step, we will have new neighborhoods, superb,
the U.S., where you see that light ... all around, along the bulwark.
- What about Madrid?

Is it much better than Marineda - Amparo questioned for saying something,
rolling out one of his handkerchief. - Ah! Madrid, as you see ... after
all, is the court .... Only the street of Alcala .... This masked in
peaceful dialogue Baltasar tempestuous thoughts, but lacked
penetration and did not know that the girl was honored and proud,
and lived for his work, she realized that he should not treat it
like any creature abject, but start showing some respect and even
deference, for that kind of adulation is still the most sensitive
woman of the people that the lady of high crest, and accustomed to
all of you show courtesy and miramientos.

Lisonjeó much to see that the Tribune had been with her as with the
ladies, and predicted good trouserpress surrendered.

But then as the night so let absolutely cautious scenario, Baltasar
believed to be able to grab theft of a brown hand, holes and soft
as silk to the touch.

Amparo hit a Respingo. - Esteso you still ....

And that is two times I say, gosh. - Why do you question me like that?
- Asked with feigned Baltasar penalty, which in themselves deny
the virtue plebeian What is wrong in ... -- Why?

- Amparo repeated with great verve -. Why not me you miss me or anyone.
Yes that is so stupid that no one knows when they want to make a
mockery of!

These are the freedoms you take the girls from the factory, which are
as good as anyone to preserve the behavior. What does this with
you for Garcia, or the ladies of the class you? - Diantre! - Baltasar
thought - no it is silly. And the point of changing tactics, he spoke
with great rapidity , saying he was in love, but really, that he had no
classes, fences or social distinctions, finding love in the middle, that
Amparo was both the most encopetada lady, and her slip did not
come from lack of respect, but excess of love: all of which accompanied
with a thousand sweet and suggestive voice inflections.

Amparo responded by establishing their faith and its principles:
she did not want to be known as other girls their own, that rely
on a rogue there were lost: she well knew what was happening on the
world, and how the men felt that the daughters of the people God
gave to serve toy: what is it, was well rid of it, good to talk a
bit, in which there is no malice, but certain freedoms, not, and
could know that up against it.

Baltasar perjuró and vowed that his love was tested and the most
unblemished purity, and that only clean and there was room for
gentlemen purposes and in the heat of the discussion, the two were
again found sitting on the parapet, and the hand before was more
elusive treatable, consenting to the pledge two other hands. - Today
the birds are getting married - Baltasar muttered after a brief
moment of silence. - Candlemas Day ....

Now married - with a troubled voice she repeated, feeling the palms of
the heat right hand of Balthazar, who love the oppressed. But
he was discreet and did not want to abuse the victory, for fear of losing
the benefits gained, and also because it started to run in the
acute cold lonely grove and got up complaining of Amparo relente
and air, which cut like a knife.

Cruzáronse two protests of tenderness, in a low voice, wrapped in the
final handshake in front of the house of the cigarette.-XXVIII-Advisor
and friend occasionally returned to visit his old Amparo street,
seeing friends that there had ceased.

A few days after the Candelaria he wishes to undertake an expedition
to that part. Found in the same state, the barber busy descañonar a
sergeant, the jovial greeting, to her door to Mrs Porretas spotted
taking fresh, or the sun, the two things missing in the slum of
midwife, which was strange and laughable in a seated figure silleta
low and very esparrancada; their feet, footwear, shoes shore, looked
at one another and to Levante Poniente; had fallen socks, deficiency
certainly leagues in the formidable gap lap rest her hands, and as
a kid encanijada, granddaughter yours, you gray grenada and combed
him _chichos_ two sizes as acorns, great midwife did not lose the
time and diligence in handling the socks with metallic needles,
which fired live brilliance.

Seeing the Tribune, laughed with laughter opaque. - Hey,
girl ... healthy and fraternity.

How is your mother? And revolusión, when hasemos?

When I preclamas Queen of Spain to me? And Amparo tried to sneak, went
the old tone of their laughter, squealing like a pulley, and that
made her belly retemblar Chinese idol. - Yeah, escape, escape.
muttered ..-- -.

But you away .... Download pride and when you need me ... Do you
hear, Amparo? When you need to Mrs Pepa, come as a lamb .... Who you'll
see that day!, Huh? - Before God, Mrs Pepa - answered haughty and
minced Amparo - others call soon, ma'am. - Yes, yes ... cast by
mouth! Vense all the time - said with the prophetic emphasis comadre,
taking a string of points that he had been released to laugh.

Amparo Street continued forward, and called the board Carmela
encajera, but with his astonishment, instead of open this, the inner
door was entreabrió communicating with the portal, and came Carmela
animated, and lit the complexion with a never seen rejoicing in it.
- Come in, come - told the cigarette.

This came.

The room was in disarray; collection pad lace, had opened a trunk
and almost overwhelmed, and tables of sequin and devotional prints,
which used to adorn the walls, lack of them. - Hello ...

It seems that we are traveling? - Amparo asked. Encajera's response was
throwing his arms around his neck and say, with voice of joy: - Then
you do not know, do not know that God gave me the surprise? I already
have the dowry, girl ...

Portomar I will see if I get there .... in the convent - now they
say that just the nuns!

- The Portomar of no woman ... These no ... señorón there is a
liberal, back in Madrid, who asked for them .... - But ...

And how, who gave you the dowry? - You'll see .... I missed every month
tenth the lottery ... every month.

You already know that my aunt had to work Sunday morning but by afternoon,
said: 'Come on, distráete ... go a little to church to pray. " Well.
Well, sir, I pray instead, was, what did?

Puntillitas a close working without knowing what the aunt, and are sold
at a market woman, telling her to Our Lady: "No sin is that I do,
because it is to get the lottery, and if bag is made to enter nun ...».
Etaquí every month since I took my tenth, and to leave well, if I missed
some saint. Sometimes wore a fellow San Juan Bautista, others to San
Antonio, others in Santa Barbara ... and anything sad or five hard. So I
said to me: go to clean the source, these colleagues are not valid.
And what occurred to me?

I took a decimito with a very nice, thousand one hundred twenty, and I
went to take the child Descalzas Mother of God ... and said, look, Jesusito,
if a winner, the goal for you .... She had a face so happy when I said,
just as if I understand. Well, who says, woman ...? Break big effect.
- Who says you ... that I draw and look at the list and I am a thousand
percent twenty-two like a sun?

I was stunned, and much more, because the prize was big: about a thousand
pesos. Only that, as is the goal of the Child, I was given the
clean .... and peeling - And your aunt?

- Amparo asked, as if they censor the delight of Carmela. - And you
know, women , I wanted to deposit the dowry when she passed away and
stay with him, and did not want? Says no, it is clear that God calls me
to do ... She has sought placement in the home of a priest ... as well,
half blind, just a little work site can serve.

Oh, Baby Jesus in my soul! How I cried lagrimitas here without anyone
seeing me! What a day! It is better to make straws lace, girl.

Smoking! If people smoke, but the lace in winter ... Sewing is like living
cobwebs And arose and took a pot that was in the window and handed
him over to Amparo. - Here, I am glad we came ... cuídame much the
smell of mauve, which by the way I'm afraid to break the jar.

Amparo grabbed the pot and breathe the perfume of the plant, plunging the
face between the velvety leaves. The encajera looked with their eyes
always melancholy and serene. - Amparo - .... said suddenly - Huh ?...--
said the Tribune, as if struck suddenly awaken. - You angry if I tell
you one thing - no, woman ...

And why do I have to hurt - replied by setting his eyes large and
bright future conceptions. - Well, I wanted to say ... that you put
around a mote. - A nickname?

what is a bad thing? - Mala ... What do I know! I called the Tribune. -
Who called me? - The Miss ... men. They say it was because the day of
the banquet ... do not you feel bad that I told you so innocently ...
gave you a hug one of those gentlemen of the _Samblea_ ... ....
and you said - I called Tribune of the people!

- proudly exclaimed the girl -. Now is that I called it! - Gypsum what,
woman? - What? - That the people's tribune - Es ... you know, women,
it is. Not like you never read a newspaper .... - Neither absence that
makes me ... but tell me you go. - That is ... well as a ... one that
speaks to all, suppose .... - What speaks to everyone ... What you
said in your face ... The Dulce Nombre de Maria! - But not to speak for
poor, dumb, if not that ....

You speak of the duties of the people, what has to be done is to
istruir public .... the masses - we as a school teacher ....

Jesus, if I thought that ... and I said: would be so brazen as to be
fit there, without more ado? But there is that .... laugh when Menthane
- Bah! ... do not have to do, and Velay. - And ... Look, I tell you another
story - you tell .... - told me ... do not take grief, those who
are ... he was a gentleman behind you ... of the official one. - And
if you go - If you go, you do very badly in case of an officer, a woman
.... A poor girls do not seek them for something good, no and no
....

And those who are poor and non-formal leaning is because they see
they do not find .... raja - Hey!

    , As ... not armemos, Carmela. I was leaning
    for anyone to draw the split, but for those
    of you gustaré, and we walk,
    everyone has their tastes ....

Today, most say the reacionarios the istrución equals the classes, and
it's not like some time ....

    No officer or gentleman .... worth -
      Woman, I do not speak for evil .... I
      wanted to tell you because you
    always had law, you are well ... a wretch, a piece
    of bread in your insides .... Let
      policy, do not be silly, and ladies ....

Beyond that, to me what I care? For your own good .... Amparo was
ordered to leave, take your jar under his arm, but wanted to embrace
the loving encajera before. - I do not want to be at odds .... Are you
angry? God knows my intention .... Write to Portomar .... And tell you
everything. And it came to the door exiting to see the graceful girl,
whose dress percale designed for space of a few seconds, a clear spot
on the dark walls of the houses opposite.-XXIX-A Since the crime came
from the Amadeo I had a cigarette in Marineda who blame all the ills
afflicting the factory. When Spain was walking towards the new King,
leíanse in the workshops, vehementísima with passion, all the
newspapers that said: "It will come."

And the fact is that wine, with great astonishment of the operators,
whom the press had predicted that the red monarchy was "a rigid body,
convicted of civilization not to leave their tomb." Some cigar called
by the son of Victor Emmanuel, king liberal after all, that gave a hand
to all and had no fucking pride, but the vast majority agreed that
at last a king always a king, and that the monarchy was not the
federal republic, truths so blatant that, finally, the dissidents
had to recognize them.

Other causes of irritation soliviantar helped the mood. shortage of
slogans and the road was once crisp and dry, as wet and rotten. No,
work had to pass that fumasen like poison, but it also served handled.
Going to stretch the sheet to the layers, rather than expand,
broke, and produce a cigar as long as it took to complete two before,
and for further ignominy was to keep the patches on the back layer
is well as an old shirt, which was a great shame to know that
cigarette and honored its obligation backwards.

The operator stood arm running the desperate popular pantomime, taking
both hands to the head, forehead, chest, pointing the strongest gestures
snuff damaged and useless, impossible to design.

Were altered so that teachers are going stuffed handfuls of leaves into
their noses, shouting that "smelled of cabbage, 'and, emboldened, they
did so with the inspectors and if the head had been presented at
workshops, betting that with the head repeat the scene. Some teachers
tried in vain to calm the waves promising for the coming months,
new slogans: continued turbulence because damn that Government, not
content with sending waste sheet for more, was not in the prime of pay.
Spent days and days without collection is open, and poor women, timidly
at first, then loud and frightening, the teachers asked, "And then, when
we give the rooms?".

It was on the run run _crescendo_ and became formidable waves. The
instinct which impels the mutineers to catch someone's orders, he advised
operators of the shop up against cigarettes Amparo looking to heat
their tribunicia sentence. Halláronse disappointed: Amparo did not
fire. All heard and agreed with them that indeed it was a mischief not
to pay his due, and airy here, followed liando straws, without speech,
excitement, or something political sermon that valiese.

Admired were mobs of such coldness. If you could penetrate the depths of
the soul of Amparo in those unexplored corners where it might not
quite know exactly what to do!

If you have seen a sprout figurine girl, girl and remotísima as those
seen with eyeglasses theater caught in reverse, but it grew with amazing
rapidity, and that the internal classification of illusions called _señora
of Sobrado_ ! If you notices how the _señora_, microscopic, even dressed
in the color of desire, was moving, moving, until placed in the
prominent position occupied before the Tribune, which was removed
from the bottom, wrapped in a blanket of red light every time! Atribuyose
to other causes the indifference of the speaker. Amparo fingers ready
and had a mouth no more than maintain, the economic crisis could not care
as much as those that met six children, three or four children,
family long without more resources to the work of a woman.

The running time and the tire shop to fiarles; were lost, how to leave the
rush? To the angels did not give them something to eat the stones of
the street! Guardian, speaking of his deaf-mute, the heart started,
she first consenting to die, that depriving the girl of his cascarillita
with your sugar and fresh bread wheat, if necessary, ask a charity: it
would not be the first time; and heard it all your friends the address:
beg!
He gathers her to him with
a force that is almost hurtful.

"Are you a woman at all, or just an angel?" says he, with a deep sigh.

"What is it, Freddy?"

"After all they have done to you. Their insults, coldness, abominable
conduct, to think that your first thought should be for them. Why, look
here, Barbara," vehemently, "they are not worthy that you should----"

"Tut!" interrupts she, lightly, yet with a little sob in her throat. His
praise is so sweet to her. "You overrate me. Is it for them I would do
it or for you? There, take all the thought for yourself. And, besides,
are not you and I one, and shall not your people be my people? Come, if
you think of it, there is no such great merit after all."

"You forget----"

"No; not a word against them. I won't listen," thrusting her fingers
into her ears. "It is all over and done with long ago. And it is our
turn now, and let us do things decently and in order, and create no
heart-burnings."

"But when I think----"

"If thinking makes you look like that, don't think."

"But I must. I must remember how they scorned and slighted you. It never
seems to have come home to me so vividly as now--now when you seem to
have forgotten it. Oh, Barbara!" He presses back her head and looks long
and tenderly into her eyes. "I was not mistaken, indeed, when I gave you
my heart. Surely you are one among ten thousand."

"Silly boy," says she, with a little tremulous laugh, glad to her very
soul's centre, however, because of his words. "What is there to praise
me for? Have I not warned you that I am purely selfish? What is there I
would not do for very love of you? Come, Freddy," shaking herself loose
from him, and laughing now with honest delight. "Let us be reasonable.
Oh! poor old uncle, it seems hateful to rejoice thus over his death, but
his memory is really only a shadow after all, and I suppose he meant to
make us happy by his gift, eh, Freddy?"

"Yes, how well he remembered during all these years. He could have
formed no other ties."

"None, naturally." Short pause. "There is that black mare of Mike
Donovan's, Freddy, that you so fancied. You can buy it now."

Monkton laughs involuntarily. Something of the child has always lingered
about Barbara.

"And I should like to get a black velvet gown," says she, her face
brightening, "and to buy Joyce a----Oh! but Joyce will be rich herself."

"Yes. I'm really afraid you will be done out of the joy of overloading
Joyce with gifts. She'll be able to give you something. That will be a
change, at all events. As for the velvet gown, if this," touching the
letter, "bears any meaning, I should think you need not confine yourself
to one velvet gown."

"And there's Tommy," says she quickly, her thoughts running so fast that
she scarcely hears him. "You have always said you wanted to put him in
the army. Now you can do it."

"Yes," says Monkton, with sudden interest. "I should like that. But
you--you shrank from the thought, didn't you?"

"Well, he might have to go to India," says she, nervously.

"And what of that?"

"Oh, nothing--that is, nothing really--only there are lions and tigers
there, Freddy; aren't there, now?"

"One or two," says Mr. Monkton, "if we are to believe travelers' tales.
But they are all proverbially false. I don't believe in lions at all
myself. I'm sure they are myths. Well, let him go into the navy, then.
Lions and tigers don't as a rule inhabit the great deep."

"Oh, no; but sharks do," says she, with a visible shudder. "No, no, on
the whole I had rather trust him to the beasts of the field. He could
run away from them, but you can't run in the sea."

"True," says Mr. Monkton, with exemplary gravity. "I couldn't, at all
events."

       *       *       *       *       *

Monkton had to run across to London about the extraordinary legacy left
to his wife and Joyce. But further investigation proved the story true.
The money was, indeed, there, and they were the only heirs. From being
distinctly poor they rose to the height of a very respectable income,
and Monkton being in town, where the old Monktons still were, also was
commanded by his wife to go to them and pay off their largest
liabilities--debts contracted by the dead son, and to so arrange that
they should not be at the necessity of leaving themselves houseless.

The Manchester people who had taken the old place in Warwickshire were
now informed that they could not have it beyond the term agreed on; but
about this the old people had something to say, too. They would not take
back the family place. They had but one son now, and the sooner he went
to live there the better. Lady Monkton, completely, broken down and
melted by Barbara's generosity, went so far as to send her a long
letter, telling her it would be the dearest wish of her and Sir George's
hearts that she should preside as mistress over the beautiful old
homestead, and that it would give them great happiness to imagine, the
children--the grandchildren--running riot through the big wainscoted
rooms. Barbara was not to wait for her--Lady Monkton's--death to take up
her position as head of the house. She was to go to Warwickshire at
once, the moment those detestable Manchester people were out of it; and
Lady Monkton, if Barbara would be so good as to make her welcome, would
like to come to her for three months every year, to see the children,
and her son, and her daughter! The last was the crowning touch. For the
rest, Barbara was not to hesitate about accepting the Warwickshire
place, as Lady Monkton and Sir George were devoted to town life, and
never felt quite well when away from smoky London.

This last was true. As a fact, the old people were thoroughly imbued
with the desire for the turmoil of city life, and the three months of
country Lady Monkton had stipulated for were quite as much as they
desired of rustic felicity.

Barbara accepted the gift of the old home. Eventually, of course, it
would be hers, but she knew the old people meant the present giving of
it as a sort of return for her liberality--for the generosity that had
enabled them to once more lift their heads among their equals.

       *       *       *       *       *

The great news meanwhile had spread like wildfire through the Irish
country where the Frederic Monktons lived. Lady Baltimore was
unfeignedly glad about it, and came down at once to embrace Barbara, and
say all sorts of delightful things about it. The excitement of the whole
affair seemed to dissipate all the sadness and depression that had
followed on the death of the elder son, and nothing now was talked of
but the great good luck that had fallen into the paths of Barbara and
Joyce. The poor old uncle had been considered dead for so many years
previously, and was indeed such a dim memory to his nieces, that it
would have been the purest affectation to pretend to feel any deep grief
for his demise.

Perhaps what grieved Barbara most of all, though she said very little
about it, was the idea of having to leave the old house in which they
were now living. It did not not cheer her to think of the place in
Warwickshire, which, of course, was beautiful, and full of
possibilities.

This foolish old Irish home--rich in discomforts--was home. It seemed
hard to abandon it. It was not a palatial mansion, certainly; it was
even dismal in many ways, but it contained more love in its little space
than many a noble mansion could boast. It seemed cruel--ungrateful--to
cast it behind her, once it was possible to mount a few steps on the
rungs of the worldly ladder.

How happy they had all been here together, in this foolish old house,
that every severe storm seemed to threaten with final dissolution. It
gave her many a secret pang to think that she must part from it for ever
before another year should dawn.


CHAPTER XLIII.

    "Looks the heart alone discover,
      If the tongue its thoughts can tell,
    'Tis in vain you play the lover,
      You have never felt the spell."


Joyce, who had been dreading, with a silent but terrible fear, her first
meeting with Dysart, had found it no such great matter after all when
they were at last face to face. Dysart had met her as coolly, with
apparently as little concern as though no former passages had ever taken
place between them.

His manner was perfectly calm, and as devoid of feeling as any one could
desire, and it was open to her comprehension that he avoided her
whenever he possibly could. She told herself this was all she could, or
did, desire; yet, nevertheless, she writhed beneath the certainty of it.

Beauclerk had not arrived until a week later than Dysart; until, indeed,
the news of the marvelous fortune that had come to her was well
authenticated, and then had been all that could possibly be expected of
him. His manner was perfect. He sat still And gazed with delightfully
friendly eyes into Miss Maliphant's pleased countenance, and anon
skipped across room or lawn to whisper beautiful nothings to Miss
Kavanagh. The latter's change of fortune did not, apparently, seem to
affect him in the least. After all, even now she was not as good a
_parti_ as Miss Maliphant, where money was concerned, but then there
were other things. Whatever his outward manner might lead one to
suspect, beyond doubt he thought a great deal at this time, and finally
came to a conclusion.

Joyce's fortune had helped her in many ways. It had helped many of the
poor around her, too; but it did even more than that. It helped Mr.
Beauclerk to make up his mind with regard to his matrimonial prospects.

Sitting in his chambers in town with Lady Baltimore's letter before him
that told him of the change in Joyce's fortune--of the fortune that had
changed her, in fact, from a pretty penniless girl to a pretty rich one,
he told himself that, after all, she had certainly been the girl for him
since the commencement of their acquaintance.

She was charming--not a whit more now than then. He would not belie his
own taste so far as so admit that she was more desirable in any way now,
in her prosperity, than when first he saw her, and paid her the immense
compliment of admiring her.

He permitted himself to grow a little enthusiastic, however, to say out
loud to himself, as it were, all that he had hardly allowed himself to
think up to this. She was, beyond question, the most charming girl in
the world! Such grace--such finish! A girl worthy of the love of the
best of men--presumably himself!

He had always loved her--always! He had never felt so sure of that
delightful fact as now. He had had a kind of knowledge, even when afraid
to give ear to it, that she was the wife best suited to him to be found
anywhere. She understood him! They were thoroughly _en rapport_ with
each other. Their marriage would be a success in the deepest, sincerest
meaning of that word.

He leant luxuriously among the cushions of his chair, lit a fragrant
cigarette, and ran his mind backward over many things. Well! Perhaps so!
But yet if he had refrained from proposing to her until now--now when
fate smiles upon her--it was simply because he dreaded dragging her into
a marriage where she could not have had all those little best things of
life that so peerless a creature had every right to demand.

Yes! it was for her sake alone he had hesitated. He feels sure of that
now. He has thoroughly persuaded himself the purity of the motives that
kept him tongue tied when honor called aloud to him for speech. He feels
himself so exalted that he metaphorically pats himself upon the back and
tells himself he is a righteous being--a very Brutus where honor is
concerned; any other man might have hurried that exquisite creature into
a squalid marriage for the mere sake of gratifying an overpowering
affection, but he had been above all that! He had considered her! The
man's duty is ever to protect the woman! He had protected her--even from
herself; for that she would have been only too willing to link her sweet
fate with his at any price-was patent to all the world. Few people have
felt as virtuous as Mr. Beauclerk as he comes to the end of this thread
of his imaginings.

Well! he will make it up to her! He smiles benignly through the smoke
that rises round his nose. She shall never have reason to remember that
he had not fallen on his knees to her--as a less considerate man might
have done--when he was without the means to make her life as bright as
it should be.

The most eager of lovers must live, and eating is the first move toward
that conclusion. Yet if he had given way to selfish desires they would
scarcely, he and she, have had sufficient bread (of any delectable kind)
to fill their mouths. But now all would be different. She, clever girl!
had supplied the blank; she had squared the difficulty. Having provided
the wherewithal to keep body and soul together in a nice, respectable,
fashionable, modern sort of way, her constancy shall certainly be
rewarded. He will go straight down to the Court, and declare to her the
sentiments that have been warming his breast (silently!) all these past
months. What a dear girl she is, and so fond of him! That in itself is
an extra charm in her very delightful character. And those fortunate
thousands! Quite a quarter of a million, isn't it? Well, of course, no
use saying they won't come in handy--no use being hypocritical over
it--horrid thing a hypocrite!--well, those thousands naturally have
their charm, too.

He rose, flung his cigarette aside (it was finished as far as careful
enjoyment would permit), and rang for his servant to pack his
portmanteaux. He was going to the Court by the morning train.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now that he is here, however, he restrains the ardor, that no doubt is
consuming him, with altogether admirable patience, and waits for the
chance that may permit him to lay his valuable affections at Joyce's
feet. A dinner to be followed by an impromptu dance at the Court
suggests itself as a very fitting opportunity. He grasps it. Yes,
to-morrow evening will be an excellent and artistic opening for a thing
of this sort. All through luncheon, even while conversing with Joyce and
Miss Maliphant on various outside topics, his versatile mind is
arranging a picturesque spot in the garden enclosures wherein to make
Joyce a happy woman!

Lady Swansdown, glancing across the table at him, laughs lightly. Always
disliking him, she has still been able to read him very clearly, and his
determination to now propose to Joyce amuses her nearly as much as it
annoys her. Frivolous to the last degree as she is, an honest regard for
Joyce has taken hold within her breast. Lord Baltimore, too, is
disturbed by his brother's present.


CHAPTER XLIV.

    "Love took up the harp of life and smote on all the chords with
        might;
    Smote the chord of self, that, trembling, passed in music out of
        sight."


Lady Swansdown is startled into a remembrance of the present by the
entrance of somebody. After all Dicky, the troublesome, was right--this
is no spot in which to sleep or dream. Turning her head with an indolent
impatience to see who has come to disturb her, she meets Lady
Baltimore's clear eyes.

Some sharp pang of remorse, of fear, perhaps, compels her to spring to
her feet, and gaze at her hostess with an expression that is almost
defiant. Dicky's words had so far taken effect that she now dreads and
hates to meet the woman who once had been her stanch friend.

Lady Baltimore, unable to ignore the look in her rival's eyes, still
advances toward her with unfaltering step. Perhaps a touch of disdain,
of contempt, is perceptible in her own gaze, because Lady Swansdown,
paling, moves toward her. She seems to have lost all self-control--she
is trembling violently. It is a crisis.

"What is it?" says Lady Swansdown, harshly. "Why do you look at me like
that? Has it come to a close between us, Isabel? Oh! if
so"--vehemently--"it is better so."

"I don't think I understand you," says Lady Baltimore, who has grown
very white. Her tone is haughty; she has drawn back a little as if to
escape from contact with the other.

"Ah! That is so like you," says Lady Swansdown with a rather fierce
little laugh. "You pretend, pretend, pretend, from morning till night.
You intrench yourself behind your pride, and----"

"You know what you are doing, Beatrice," says Lady Baltimore, ignoring
this outburst completely, and speaking in a calm, level tone, yet with a
face like marble.

"Yes, and you know, too," says Lady Swansdown. Then, with an
overwhelming vehemence: "Why don't you do something? Why don't you
assert yourself?"

"I shall never assert myself," says Lady Baltimore slowly.

"You mean that whatever comes you will not interfere."

"That, exactly!" turning her eyes full on to the other's face with a
terrible disdain. "I shall never interfere in this--or any other of his
flirtations."

It is a sharp stab! Lady Swansdown winces visibly.

"What a woman you are!" cries she. "Have you ever thought of it, Isabel?
You are unjust to him--unfair. You"--passionately--"treat him as though
he were the dust beneath your feet, and yet you expect him to remain
immaculate, for your sake--pure as any acolyte--a thing of ice----"

"No," coldly. "You mistake me. I know too much of him to expect
perfection--nay, common decency from him. But you--it was you whom I
hoped to find immaculate."

"You expected too much, then. One iceberg in your midst is enough, and
that you have kindly suggested in your own person. Put me out of the
discussion altogether."

"Ah I You have made that impossible! I cannot do that. I have known you
too long, I have liked you too well. I have," with a swift, but terrible
glance at her, "loved you!"

"Isabel!"

"No, no! Not a word. It is too late now."

"True," says Lady. Swansdown, bringing back the arms she had extended
and letting them fall into a sudden, dull vehemence to her sides. Her
agitation is uncontrolled. "That was so long ago that, no doubt, you
have forgotten all about it. You," bitterly, "have forgotten a good
deal."

"And you," says Lady Baltimore, very calmly, "what have you not
forgotten--your self-respect," deliberately, "among other things."

The Major had not said 'no. He knew that he had nothing comforting
to say it could, but he felt as a grief so deep the desire for
communication to be insurmountable.

But what should he tell her? He had no fear of their sight, by the dim
memories of the last days to be determined so that its louder pain
was still unhappy?

He was still absorbed in these thoughts, as it was reported that he
expects the former champion Oberhof her car stopped in front of the home,
he sat silently next to her side. "You are the princess very bad," said
this lady with tears, "I give up all hope.

I can not think that in the interview with you, Mr.

Baron, something redeeming could lie. If you can give no consolation, it
disappears to us like a lamp that does not more oil in order to
nourish their flame, and you wanted her solace, hope, so are these
feelings in their relationships as unnatural by nature, that I would
almost wish that they should rather die than shame their home. "
So I will bring her death must be, "said Major bitter smile, -" we
know in the family to these stories, what one thinks of the disease?

"" As I told you, Mr. Baron, the family, the Court and the city knows no
different, except that they must have caught cold, and the foolish
people bring even the fatal opera into the game and leave it on
'Othello' to die.

What we both know that nobody else knows, there are some women who
this ratio previously sensed, but not exactly know. "" And yet I am
afraid, "said the Major, by his piercing gaze on the lady at his
side tacked," I fear that they died at a very daring piece boys.

They have this ratio guessed, retrospectively, it was the certainty
that it was looking to bring about a separation, we felt the
conditions of the count of - "" Believe?

" said the head mistress pale and with quivering lips, they tried in
vain to look in the majors to go. "We investigated these relationships
from," the Major continued, "we looked at it from here wegzuschrecken
giving him threatening to tell the princess that he was married.
hieher Until the plan was not bad, it belonged to such a meek, that
you do not have proceeded with it mildly.

But we went further and we also wanted the unfortunate lady quickly from
their love to heal, we made it to the Mystery of the Count announced
it was believed that she would forget everything over night. And here
was the plan on the nerves a Dragoner calculated, but not at the
heart of this delicate child. "" I must ask to be considered, "said
the champion with Oberhof its former cold, but with imploring eyes,
"that this child has a delicate princess of the royal house is that
it was brought up to deal with such imbalances decency to go away.

Should really any such plan was available, so I can not the actors
blame, they have skillfully operates truly - "" They have achieved
their purpose, they will die, "she broke in the Major."

I have achieved my purpose? sir, I must ask - "" You? " said Laruns with
indifferent voice, "you, madam, I spoke not, I said it, the actors,
the scale." The old lady bit into the lips and remained silent. A few
moments later they were on a side gate of the palace arrived.

An old servant led her through a maze of corridors and stairways.
Finally, the aisles wider, the lights on more elegant type appropriate
to the Major remarked that they lived in the wing of the castle
had arrived.

The old man motioned to a side door. The road now went through several
apartments, up to a saloon, the well to the apartments of the
princess might include, as the champion of the Oberhof Major whispers
that he wants the time being in an armchair to wait until they let
him go.

After a quarter of an hour-long deadly it appeared again. She told him
that under the express wishes of the sick alone with her would be, she
herself wanted to be a 'Dame de Garde' set at the door, where she certainly
could not hear anything if you do not speak too loudly.

Incidentally, he should not be longer than a quarter of an hour left.
The Major entered. The magnificent chamber, with its shimmering gold
wallpaper and moldings, the rich drapery of the curtains, the bright
colors of the Turkish Fußteppichs did his eye woe, because the mind
wants to be a suffering heart, a sick body not with flakes of
sovereignty surrounded seen.

And how great was the contrast between the splendor of the surroundings
and this delicate, sweet child, in a simple white gown, to a sumptuous
ottoman was.

The impression that their trains, their shape, their entire being
for the first time had on him, even now turned back into the soul
of the majors.

It was her simple, unadorned beauty, their size silent, hidden
behind the magic of children's kindness, which had attracted him.

Well then blinded him to the splendor of fresh, youthful color,
vividly bright eyes, that winning, smile graciously, their fine
rosy lips umschwebte.

One night they had frost flowers off, but gave her no such transparent
pallor, this silent grief in the perceptive eye, this melancholic train
around the mouth, which never joked, even sublime beauty, an even
more dangerous spells? The Major stood a few steps from her silent
and looked at it with deep emotion.

She waved him a stool to stand on her feet, she said, her voice had lost
that bright metal, otherwise their cheerful jokes, their joyful
laughter was heard, but this soft, poignant tones penetrated deeper
.-- "It would be foolish of me, Mr.

Baron, "she said," I wanted to leave long in uncertainty, why I let you
go. I know that the count you as his best friend, from a relationship
has, never would exist should .-- Do you remember the evening in 'Othello'?
I told you from a ticket that I got, I remember that you sent me
repeatedly demanding, why have you done this?

"" Why, ask your Highness? because I knew the contents, believed to know.
"" Well, but!

" she cried, and a tear came from her beautiful eyes, "but then I
gave you, since the first moment when I saw you, for a man of honor,
if the circumstances of the Count knew, why did it not soon away,
why I do not spared the pain, to despise him?

"" I can at everything that is sacred to me, swear on my honor,
"replied the Major," that I barely an hour before I to your Highness
in the Loge met these conditions by a paper learned that, by chance,
rather than in hands of the count, came into the mine.

When I Count on to the speech wanted to, he had already received news of
them and was left.

I suspected from certain wave, that the letter was that you would
not be spared, I tried in vain the unfortunate abzuschwatzen leaves
your Highness. "" So you believe in this invention?

" Sophie asked, by their fierce tears flowed, "oh, it's just a trick
some people who wanted to remove from us.

Read this billet, it is the same that I received, you yourself
admit, it's libel!" The Major read: "The Count v. Z. is married and his
wife lived in Avignon, three small children cry at her father .--
If an illustrious lady so little honor, so little compassion possess
these gangs him even longer to escape "It was the same handwriting,
the same seal as the one Billets, which he himself had received.

He was still in the line, he dared not, aufzuschauen, he knew not
to answer, because his strict notions of truth are not allowed him,
against his conviction to speak, the deep sympathy with their pain
led him to hope their not so cruelly reflected .

'Look, "she continued, as he still remained silent" as I get this
letter unsuspecting, curious vomited, it surprised me those terrible
words husband, father, as a voice of the court.

    The meaning of me disappeared and I was quite ill and miserable,
but so often I am only an hour I feel lighter, my hope rises again,
I think Zronievsky can not be so bad even been that he can not have
so terribly betrayed.

You smile but, Major, you were friendly. - I allow you, you may mock me,
because I am by these lines quite apart let him upset - but not true, you
feel yourself, it's a lie, it is defamation? "The Major was beside
himself, what should he tell her? They hung so expectantly to his
lips, it was as if a word from him they are going to launch her eye
beamed again, that Holde smile appeared again on her lovely features
- such as they listened to the message of a good angel.

He did not answer , it looked dark on the floor, gradually disappeared as
the joyous hope of their trains, the eye is lowered, the small mouth are
sorely pressed together, the soft red, which once dyed her cheeks had
fled, she lowered her forehead in the beautiful hand, she hid her weeping
eyes. "I see," she said, "You are precious to me to flatter with
hopes that after a few days would disappear again. I thank you for this
terrible certainty. It is always better than the uncertain hovering
between pain and joy, and now, my friend, then take the box, find it is
conducted, it contains some of the things I was expensive - but
no, let me make some days, I'll send it to you if I no longer need
it.

It's me, as I will not live much longer, "she continued after a few
moments," I'm certainly not superstitious, but why must I just after
that fatal ' Othello 'sick?

"" I would not have thought that this idea just a moment Ew.

Highness might worry, "said the Major." You are right, it's foolish of
me, but at night, when I was sick from the opera brought me dreaming,
I will die.

A serious, dark young lady came with a red silk Plumeau to me,
covered him over me, and pressed him more and more on me, that I
almost choked.

Then suddenly my Großoheim, the Duke of Nepomuk, exactly as he painted
hangs in the gallery, and freed me from the beengenden pressure,
and the weirdest is - "" Well?

"Asked the Baron smiled," what began as the painted Duke with
Desdemona in "The Princess was amazed."

How do you know because that is the lady Desdemona?

I implore you, how do you know this?

"The Major was silent for a moment embarrassed." What is natural,
"he replied," except that you are dreaming of Desdemona?

They had them at nights so before in a red bed look away. "Sonderbar
that you also came to the idea.

The weirdest thing is I woke up when the Duke freed me, I woke up in
fact, and looked - like those with the lady Plumeau under the arm
slowly to the door above.

Since that night the same dream I always, always beengender their
pressure, always comes to me later the Duke to help, but I always
see them clearly from the room when I float And yesterday evening
I had the harp and bring my dear Desdemona-played song since - you
always mock me!

there went to the door and saw the lady in the room and nodded to
me. "They had this half-joking, half-seriously told it was serious,"
not true, Major, "she said," if I die, do you also my? The memory
of such a man is worth to me. "" Princess, "cried the Major, he
unsuccessfully to subdue his melancholy looking," but to remove
these thoughts that are impossible to recovery of your salvation
can be!

"The Oberhof champion appeared in the door and gave a sign that the
audience must be ended.

Sophie gave the Major's hand to kiss, he has never deeper sensations
of pain, love and reverence the hand of a girl kissed.

He raised his eyes again on her, He met her eyes, full of melancholy
which rested upon him.

Oberhof The champion came with an official closer to mine, and the Major
stood up, how difficult was it to him with cold social forms differ
from one sector to separate him in a few minutes so expensive was.

"I hope," he said, "Your Highness in the very next Court produced again."
"You hope, Major?"

she said smiling sadly, "They live well, I have ceased to hope." 10
The Residence was a few days with nothing but the illness of his
beloved princess busy man said she soon became very ill, and soon
were given renewed hope, a sway, for all that they knew more, was
terrible.

One morning, very early, brought a servant of the Major a box. A look
at this well-known container and the mourning clothes of the servant,
convinced him that the princess was no more. It was him, as though this
lovely nature to him alone, he died. He had lost much on the earth, and
yet had not lost so sensitive, so deeply touched his soul than this.
It was him, he had only one business on earth, the legacy of the deceased
to his place to carry it would be this city, the so - oppressive memories
for him had left at once, it would not hold back the desire to
install mortal remains to be seen.

When the solemn sounds of bells, as the mourning sounds of the music
and the long series of torch bearers announced that Sophie to the
tomb of their ancestors led, since for the first time he left his
house again and joined the course.

It is not listened to the whispers of the people who complained about
the causes of her illness, her death discussed, he had only one thought,
just that moment, where her eye once again had rested upon him, where
his lips touched her hand, stood before his soul. It was the
insignia of their high birth from the grave, she slowly lowered it
down to the dust of their ancestors. The amount lost, the crew extinguished
their torches, and left the hall, the Major still threw a glance
to the spot where they had disappeared, and left.

Before he went with uncertain, slow steps, an old man who was crying
violently. - When the Major was at his side, saw to that, it was
the director of the opera. The old man stepped closer to him,
looked at him long, it seemed to reflect on something and then said:
"Would you not, Mr.

Baron, we had only dreamed of, and that sweet child that you have
buried, would be still alive? "" Why you call me! " cried the Major
with involuntary horror, "yes, by God, it is like you dreamed it was
buried, and we both go side by side of her grave." Drum man should never
joke with destiny, "said the old man turbid with Ernst. "Is it not now
eleven days that we 'Othello' gave? Am ensure they died." "Random, random!"
cried the Major. "Do you want your madness still continue?

I do not know only too well what she died? Well, a dagger her soul, as
Desdemona's chest, punctured, and a miserable, blacker than your
Othello, has her heart broken, but nevertheless It is superstition,
madness, if you and your death this opera together rhyme!

"Our dispute does not make them come alive," said the old
man with tears. "Do you believe what you want, dear! I will be there
as I know in my opera Chronicle purpose. It has so must come!" "No!" Major
replied almost angrily, "no, it did not have to come, a word from me would
have perhaps saved.

Take me to your heaven's sake 'Othello' is not into the game, it is
random, age, and I will have it, it is a coincidence! "" There is, with
your permission, no coincidence, there is only Schickung. But I have
the honor to recommend me, because here's my abode. incidentally Believe
what you want, "continued the old man added, by the cold hand of
the majors in his pressed, "the fact is there, she died - eight
days after the 'Othello'."

"Do you really think you are in love with
me? Shall I tell you who you are in love with?" She lets her soft cheek
fall into her hand and looks up at him from under her long lashes.

"You can tell me what you will," says he, a little impatiently.

"Listen, then," says she, with a rather broken attempt at gayety, "you
are in love with that good, charming, irritating, impossible, but most
lovable person in the world--your own wife!"

"Pshaw!" says Baltimore, with an irritated gesture. "We will not discuss
her, if you please."

"As you will. To discuss her or leave her name out of it altogether will
not, however, alter matters."

"You have quite made up your mind," says he, presently, looking at her
searchingly. "You will let me go alone into evil?"

"You will not go," returns she, trying to speak with conviction, but
looking very anxious.

"I certainly shall. There is nothing else left for me to do. Life here
is intolerable."

"There is one thing," says she, her voice trembling. "You might make it
up with her."

"Do you think I haven't tried," says he, with a harsh laugh "I'm tired
of making advances. I have done all that man can do. No, I shall not try
again. My one regret in leaving England will be that I shall not see you
again!"

"Don't!" says she, hoarsely.

"I believe on my soul," says he, hurriedly, "that you do care for me.
That it is only because of her that you will not listen to me."

"You are right!" (in a low tone)--"I--" Her voice fails her, she presses
her hands together. "I confess," says she, with terrible abandonment,
"that I might have listened to you--had I not liked her so well."

"Better than me, apparently," says he, bitterly. "She has had the best
of it all through."

"There we are quits, then," says she, quite as bitterly. "Because you
like her better than me."

"If so--do you think I would speak to you as I have spoken?"

"Yes. I think that. A man is always more or less of a baby. Years of
discretion he seldom reaches. You are angry with your wife, and would be
revenged upon her, and your way to revenge yourself is to make a second
woman hate you."

"A second?"

"I should probably hate you in six months," says she, with a touch of
passion. "I am not sure that I do not hate you now."

Her nerve is fast failing her. If she had a doubt about it before, the
certainty now that Baltimore's feeling for her is merely friendship--the
desire of a lonely man for some sympathetic companion--anything but
love, has entered into her and crushed her. He would devote the rest of
his life to her. She is sure of that--but always it would be a life
filled with an unavailing regret. A horror of the whole situation has
seized upon her. She will never be any more to him than a pleasant
memory, while he to her must be an ever-growing pain. Oh! to be able to
wrench herself free, to be able to forget him to blot him out of her
mind forever.

"A second woman!" repeats he, as if struck by this thought to the
exclusion of all others.

"Yes!"

"You think, then," gazing at her, "that she--hates me?"

Lady Swansdown breaks into a low but mirthless laugh. The most poignant
anguish rings through it.

"She! she!" cries she, as if unable to control herself, and then stops
suddenly placing her hand to her forehead. "Oh, no, she doesn't hate
you," she says. "But how you betray yourself! Do you wonder I laugh? Did
ever any man so give himself away? You have been declaring to me for
months that she hates you, yet when I put it into words, or you think I
do, it seems as though some fresh new evil had befallen you. Ah! give up
this role of Don Juan, Baltimore. It doesn't suit you."

"I have had no desire to play the part," says he, with a frown.

"No? And yet you ask a woman for whom you scarcely bear a passing
affection to run away with you, to defy public opinion for your sake,
and so forth. You should advise her to count the world well lost for
love--such love as yours! You pour every bit of the old rubbish into
one's ears, and yet--" She stops abruptly. A very storm of anger and
grief and despair is shaking her to her heart's core.

"Well?" says he, still frowning.

"What have you to offer me in exchange for all you ask me to give? A
heart filled with thoughts of another! No more!----"

"If you persist in thinking----"

"Why should I not think it? When I tell you there is danger of my hating
you, as your wife might--perhaps--hate you--your first thought is for
her! 'You think then that she hates me'?" (She imitates the anxiety of
his tone with angry truthfulness.) "Not one word of horror at the
thought that I might hate you six months hence."

"Perhaps I did not believe you would," says he, with some embarrassment.

"Ah! That is so like a man! You think, don't you, that you were made to
be loved? There, go! Leave me!"

He would have spoken to her again, but she rejects the idea with such
bitterness that he is necessarily silent. She has covered her face with
her hands. Presently she is alone.


CHAPTER XLVII.

    "But there are griefs, ay, griefs as deep;
      The friendship turned to hate.
    And deeper still, and deeper still
      Repentance come too late, too late!"


Joyce, on the whole, had not enjoyed last night's dance at the Court.
Barbara had been there, and she had gone home with her and Monkton after
it, and on waking this morning a sense of unreality, of dissatisfaction,
is all that comes to her. No pleasant flavor is on her mental palate;
there is only a vague feeling of failure and a dislike to looking into
things--to analyze matters as they stand.

Yet where the failure came in she would have found it difficult to
explain even to herself. Everybody, so far as she was concerned, had
behaved perfectly; that is, as she, if she had been compelled to say it
out loud, would have desired them to behave. Mr. Beauclerk had been
polite enough; not too polite; and Lady Baltimore had made a great deal
of her, and Barbara had said she looked lovely, and Freddy had said
something, oh! absurd of course, and not worth repeating, but still
flattering; and those men from the barracks at Clonbree had been a
perfect nuisance, they were so pressing with their horrid attentions,
and so eager to get a dance. And Mr. Dysart----

Well? That fault could not be laid to his charge, therefore, of course,
he was all that could be desired. He was circumspect to the last degree.
He had not been pressing with his attentions; he had, indeed, been so
kind and nice that he had only asked her for one dance, and during the
short quarter of an hour that that took to get through he had been so
admirably conducted as to restrain his conversation to the most
commonplace, and had not suggested that the conservatory was a capital
place to get cool in between the dances.

The comb she was doing her hair with at the time caught in her hair as
she came to this point, and she flung it angrily from her, and assured
herself that the tears that had suddenly come into her eyes arose from
the pain that that hateful instrument of torture had caused her.

Yes, Felix had taken the right course; he had at least learned that she
could never be anything to him--could never--forgive him. It showed
great dignity in him, great strength of mind. She had told him, at least
given him to understand when in London, that he should forget her,
and--he had forgotten. He had obeyed her. The comb must have hurt her
again, and worse this time, because now the tears are running down her
cheeks. How horrible it is to be unforgiving! People who don't forgive
never go to heaven. It will be understood by the latter and not insignificant
detail that the beautiful bouchère had completed the release of
the morning.

Could at last enjoy some rest after that horrific struggle to cut, weigh,
and charge back, and the embers of him dressed buñolería the patches
of a light lunch. Behind the counter put his table Nazario; washed
hands and arms to the elbow; quitábase that horrible apron that would
serve little earlier, and accompanied by some discreet friend of
the next tent or canvas was the wife of vintner, restored their
forces.

Then used to take a pad with some sewing, and every head back to another
store to say: - "Rumalda upload and get me the thimble ...». later: -
'Rumalda, silk black is in my sewing ...». In buñolería, who died about
ten fires his was the face of the patches to their dwindling despachillos
escarole, parsley and lettuce. Romualda ate a piece of bread, deceived
with the rest of lunch Nazario. - Rumalda - said this after noon - upload
and tell Petrillo not put the partridges. Romualda And half an hour later
went to ask if it was the food.

Being the negative response, he returned to hurry up, and when Nazario
went back slowly to their accommodation and meal nap, the phenomenon
down to find the scissors that had been in the shop, and more
afternoon to say cutter to close, and then by the auction of oil
on the corner.

The Pimenta ate abundantly, as I used to, and before nap commanded the
phenomenon down to see if the tables were in the tavern street of
Maldonado. Bad humor at that lady had the delay of his man, although he
was accustomed to such absences, and other elders.

Bad mood changed to anger, and after making the clothes on Easter Petrillo,
the wife of the patches, the cutter, the morning star, the Preste John
of the Indies, King David, looked Romualda with dictatorial frown. -
What are you doing in there, lazy? ¿Where is the media? Replied shaking
phenomenon that the average was down .... ¿Where it had to be - Well
correndito for her. And he began to sleep. After the siesta
received several visits, including: the respectable vintner that
came with important gossip of the neighborhood, the second tenant,
who was the lender, with more than a giant turtle shells and more
money to the Royal Treasury; a servant of Mrs.

D. Peter King, who came to bring his messages of love, (as Nazario
was the daughter of a former servant of the King), and the father
Carantoña of the Order of Preachers, which sometimes used to
go to the house to take a basket full of chorizo sausages and rich,
with consideration of other victuals. - Father Carantoña -
Nazario said farewell to the friar -. Let me a favor. Rumaldilla
If you go to the store or playing in the street, ask him to go. Sintiose
That evening the flagship of bouchère quite disturbed that he was suffering
from dyspepsia. Hallábase able to slap the entire human race because
of poor digestion and exacerbated his despotic character sour.
Distrust of physicians, only applied popularly called remedies
recommended by the Wives of the neighborhood, each of order superstitious,
the other genus of family therapy, and as they are administered at once
or _IN solidum_, without discretion, without wisdom, the good woman
was worse every day.

So that afternoon, heard many times his vehement shouts of command
"- Rumalda to shop .-- Rumalda, home of the aunt Pistachio ... those
powders you ...». In these and other sets, received a visit highly
honorable.

The hall was filled with black, I mean that came into her father Gracián
accompanied by another clergyman, not as great as His Reverence, but
also quite talludo. Father Gracian was well received at both sides and
very beloved in the neighborhood of Madrid, because all the houses to be
honored by your presence, and there were many (even though he sinned by
not interfering pedigüeño or, as some individuals monastic) ,
always carry a selfless mission and evangelical.

The palace of the rich and the fourth issue of the poor with the same love
they opened their doors to the scandal that enemy, to that tireless
worker in the vineyard of the Lord, that warrior of Christian
morality, a persecutor of those bad habits.

Propaganda was the loyal and well agreed marriages, families peaceful
bears all over the flag of reconciliation and peace, pursued
relentlessly irregularities, domestic hatreds, the de facto,
disorders, and their greater glory track was lost a husband, a wife
to straighten crooked, bring a prodigal son, to soften a cruel
father.

Or did not leave a dangerous point since the fighting in front of
batteries of Satan and his noble chest exposed to the taunts, the
insults to misinterpretation, in order to defend the stronghold of Christ
to build up its plant and not allow to remove an inch of ground, but
rather to win sin spans, rods and leagues. The Pimenta is disturbed to
see him go. She did not respect anything in the world, the respected
cleric acquired by a natural feeling from the cradle and, if
desired, with mamado milk.

He offered a chair to the Father and the Brother who accompanied the
Father. - No, I do not feel - rough voice Gracián said, waving his hat
tile, like a pillar for cutting heads - and we are going away.

I do not come here as the father to take Carantoña to chocolate and black
pudding, I came to shed a fruitful seed in this wasteland, I came to
throw a word in this desert, with hope of ever being heard .... I am
interested in you because you are sinners. The healthy do not need a
doctor, the lepers themselves.

Ms. Nazario met at the house of D. Peter King, and they knew their bad
life. Lopez met at the house of D. Felicísimo, and they knew their
error.

Well, here I come today with the same purpose that brought me last week,
I came to say: "Home, home, house, you are losing your souls, and
giving a bad example." I am a missionary of Christ, apostle of
Gentiles, and I see no need to go to Asia or Africa to find wild.

Those are better than you, because they are born blind, and you who
nacisteis view, shut your eyes to the light.

Your union is unlawful for you, a mortal sin and a scandal to the
faithful. Home waterpot souls, and live as God wants, and society. In
the face of the Pimenta battling anger seemed to fluctuate and respect,
and with troubled apologized and language: - Well, I know .... Gee,
what trumpet Father! .. I am not deaf either .... I know that His
Reverence speaks with reason.

But I'm going to separate tables, I reject tables, a lazy, that I was
eating what I earn and what I inherited from my late. - It separates
the Blessed Virgin - said Gracián with softer modes -. If he is a
drunkard, a libertine and a lazy, go enhoramala.

Yesterday it warmed in the ears of Mr Butcher's house.

But he does not want to break this illicit union, but marriage. It has
good depth. We decided one thing or another, are full of sins, and live
like wild beasts, not as Christians. - Father, for God's sake -
said Nazario terrified by the words of the cleric -.

I have no hot head. I am this afternoon that if I bring the fire, Ardo.
Evil .... that I have - I know who have a bad insufferable. But what
comes that evil?

Comes your infamous vices of gluttony first, then the anger and other
major sins and deplorable. Then you do not want to stick to the medicine
nor the opinion of knowledgeable physicists, but you supply to superstition.
You must know that offend God and the saints to believe that spent
palitroques by the feet of an image are cured diseases, and rosemary
stew in response to a creed is to make good kilo.

¡Error, silliness, irreverence, sacrilege! ... I do not see in this
house more than scandal and desecration - angry added, stirring
his eyes and looking at the prints that filled the walls -.

What do these portraits of bullfighters confused with the more venerable
saints? What do these crutches and these stocks, and banderillas Puyas,
and as a flag placed in the way of an offering at the foot of the
Blessed Virgin?

And the head of a bull that has a slope of each horn Child Jesus of
icing ... Women outrageous, even in the decorations of this house is
called the desecration prevailing here, the scandal and vice. - I
had my husband's house - said Nazario provocative lifting your nose,
through which came a stream of air that sounded puff of a forge. -
Well also be your husband - said Gracián moment of making a mockery
of -.

The feelings of the people of this house will show up in the most
insignificant.

Well if you were going to take care of everything here reprehensible,
what I would say, Mrs. Nazario, what would the barbaric cruelty with
which it is treated that poor girl or woman canija, daughter of Mr.
Tables ... I like trying dukes, and she is confused with the most
pitiful beggars. What? Is this a Christian, is it honest?

But where there is no real family, there can be no humanity or
charity.

House, home, reconciled with God and the Church, I do not tire of
saying.

If they do, then everything will make you easy.

Save your soul, not contaminéis other souls who are still pure. Cure
your damage, so that none is close to you will contaminate it .... He
admonished a third time, and you admonish the fourth and fifth,
because I, I have so often despised death, what can I do if your
resistance?

Nazario back on you, hear my advice. Citing a cry of your heart, is the
church, do not stop.

I was in my confessional. Bye. Without any reverence, dauntless, formidable
as the warrior who has fulfilled his duty in a most recent bout,
followed by the departed Brother.

When coming down the stairs, climbed Tables. XII-giant-opened the door
of the room where his Giganta was, and before entering threw in
round one suspicious glance, a beard down to your chest and hiding
his eyes under black eyebrows.

The expression of his menacing frown, the prominence of her forehead
and heavy sullen look that gave her head like the head of the bull
jarameño frightened when it appears in the circus, and recognizes
your looking forward to fire the public, and he seems even before
the fighting started, is horrified by the barbarity that is prepared.

Nazario's nose was inflated until no more power. At the time, much needed
air. Tables gave some steps towards it, and echándose both hands
close to the waist, it shook to one side and another as a rubber doll
and spit these words: - Christ ... if ever have I said that I do
not want clerigones at home ....

Why do you have? Pimenta threw a hand fan and replied thus: - Because
it has given me the real win .... In peace. - In war .... If you find
them again ... go to the balcony to the street ... and behind you.
- Valiente flycatchers!

But man, do not kill many people, just the world. - What do they want
these crooks?

- The crook is you ... wild. So much to pray rosaries D.

Felicísimo home and called the lords rogue priests!

... - How come? - In what has given us the win. - Come on - said Conton
Tables again - that today I am so joker, that if I play for every
finger I get a shot. - I will leave that to you is the spirit you've
drunk. - Nazario!

... - Úrgame both well and see what is cinnamon. - Nazario! ... - Where
have you been today? Say it quickly - the shouted talking bubbling Pimenta
-.

Who is this coming _futraque_ for you - You do not mind it ....

Takes sayos rods with black and let me. - Drunk!

- Oh, and you cried !..-- Tables, chewing his anger -. We do not want to
inconvenience ....

Why you received clerics - Why is my holy will.

I'm queen of my house. - Reinita Tables .... anything less looked at
a stick in the corner of the room was, and that would certainly act as
a third character in that scene. - Yeah, I'm queen and loves
everything - brama Nazario pale and furious, spreading his arms -.

Mine is the bread you eat, the clothing they wear mine, mine to snuff the
smoke, and my own cups, the cups .... He could not say more because the
choked coughs. Its large jumping trepidaba breast, bladder and clown.
- Everything is for the lady, ha, ha ...-- López said clumsily
trying to turn into ridicule humiliated him so much that assertion -.

Then talk about that, but now tell me why the Queen were here again
sacripantes blacks. - Because I called them, are we ... because I like
the sermon and I wanted to give to the souls. - _Anima mea_! ...
Christ .... With that in my house .... _pedriques_ Look I'm going to give
you the _Extrema_. Do not you ask the body _hinsopo_ ...

Well see. He returned to watch the club, which was, as it were, in cloth,
awaiting the moment of leaving the stage. - Thief, if you move,
you'll like. ..-- Nazario cried aloud so imposing, that table, as
on track to bring the third person, he stopped in the middle of the
room -.

Put yourself in the front door now, lazy, journal, that the bread
I have eaten, would have been better to miss the dogs ....

¿Well, you do not happy with my spending money and ruin the house, but
they threatened me ... My uncle lives of the harp of David, I had more
money and _comenencia_ four kings, and you've filled me with traps!

For you and your vices'm committed thousands more weights, trapalón and
where to touch, however, the widow of Candelario Peribáñez have
to put the donut, the chestnut, the spirits or mondongo ....

I see you removed the eyes, hi bad woman. Tell calzonazos, where are
my jewelry which were the envy of the pillar in Zaragoza?

Where are my four Manila shawls that looked as if the angels had embroidered
with pink hands ... Ah!

What has to be all that treasure? In _Peñíscola_ for Mr drink, to which
Mr horseback riding and going to break down cow, for the very
mamarracho invited to take the girls .... and spongers C'mon, scarecrow
outside.

At that door goes to the street .... - You know what I mean ... because
you are a talkative parrot and should be cut the neck. - You know what
I mean? other then that most of you I've liver tended me a soplamocos.

Best had shame and were decent person like me. Where do you spend the
night ... How to spend the money ... And then comes the stupid saying
that it is with these gentlemen policy, which is like putting a
gatuperio of the times we fell Mamancia ....

What do you understand that, cafre, if you're two feet in the Lord because
you forgot to get the cross in the back ... Watch has not been finishing
wood for boiling kettles made in the square. There you would like to
see hung like a sausage to go throw the piernazas becoming more and
see a comedian who visajes hungry.

¡Mr tragacanth Policy!

What we have here when such wisdom? What you do is cheat the poor D.
Felicísimo that gave you the first pigswill that ate the world and
sell to the Freemasons, telling what happens in your home.

Ah!

     bribonazo if embobarme believe me, I know your trickery and you know
     where the shoe pinches. - Oh ... ¡Re-blood! if I say I'm going
     to throw the cat that said lengüecita ...-- Tables rushed his heavy
hands to the face of the Pimenta. - Remove these past windmill
blades - she replied with extraordinary power to reject the hands
of his men. - Damn .... when Bellow and senseless with rage, made
a gesture tables, or instantly hooked in the claw of the giant black
bow.

Giant rugió like a lioness, got up, there was tremendous shock bodies and
horrible cross arm stiff. Sway, was heard a groan and a double rattle
sinister sign of violent efforts. But gigantona successfully disengaged,
brandished his sturdy arms, threw a temporary nose, and quick as
thought, gave a leap, two, three.

The floor was shaking as if a car passed. Nazario was a table and took a
large object that was above it. What was that? It was a box of wood and
glass three quarters high. Inside it was a virgin of the Sorrows,
and a bull on top of gypsum, two bullfighters, a baby Jesus, a enormísima
Mona.

He raised his hands in the catafalque mujerona anyone religious
bullfighting, and in less time than it takes to think of it, everything
fell with formidable racket head on the tables. Increpación or the
feline voice that launched the coup to get is not for described.
Broken glass on his head tore his forehead.

Without feeling welling blood ran in search of the club, but before arriving,
since you brought the Pimenta hoisted in a chair with both hands. The
giant took another chair.

They stopped a moment looking face to face; echándose another's burning
rays breath and crossing their eyes full of anger. Suddenly the giant
released the furniture, had a happy idea, savior. Took a step back,
turned her sewing basket, drew a huge knife, and running on the
giant monitor, which fell frightened, cried with bellow: - ....

I went disgorging some neighbors, who was not a new one maze, but until
then had not happened so noisy at home regardless of Nazario;
Romualda also came screaming by, and all were devoted to the great
work of pacification.

Each contestant was surrounded by a group and heard the calls more
reasonable.

¡Cosa extraordinary! The first who noticed symptoms of appeasement
was the breakdown Lopez, the victim in word and deed. Beaten like a
growling mastiff, said he did not want to miss that man was too good
to miss, and that there was no woman in the world deserves to be
lost by a man.

Nazario said nothing, but with the vent of puff showed his anger
seemed to go out in evicting the air hoses filled breast. The knife was
lying on the floor next to the remains of what was urn and bits
of plaster bull, trampled in the contest, the fine stained white
mat. - And the scoundrel is bleeding!

- Said Pimenta launching of his mouth these sparks of laughter that jump
in the flames of anger illuminating the face -. It seems a _Decehomo_.
- It's nothing, is nothing - said taking the tables against a
tissue that gave the phenomenon. - Rumalda - shouted the giant -
and brings down a little wine and oil.

Seeing that the fury of a postponement and little by little, the
neighbors were removed. - It was an uncomfortable any absurdity -
muttered Lopez Nazario letting you apply the handkerchief to his
forehead -.

When you go to repair and has done a lot ... and a man lost. - I speak
with a bad case, and it raises a mustard to the nose, tongue and
there you go. - And thanks to a cautious and is aware of the trickery
and the beast Lopez said ...-- feet trying to explain his cowardice.
- And if you ask a good way with what they're looking for the parents
faces, an answer that came to their _pedriques_, and peace.

But people are upset by a word .... There are languages which throw kicks
....

Unable to remedy .... - I'm an angel, but when I ask, rammed. What a
genius God has given me! I myself sometimes I'm afraid .... Rumalda
.... Rumalda reached with the oil and wine, and Nazario apronte the
relief claimed on the entire head has been torn to pieces a box. -
Rumalda, I do not have snuff - said the athlete -; to get tight ...
Suddenly, girl ....

Well as I was saying, if a man like me, who is gunpowder, he was asked
where he had spent with decency and what the day brought with _futraque_
business, the man would have answered like a gentleman. If there is
no mystery ...! What a gentleman, whom I met at the house of D.
Felicísimo comes looking for me and I said: 'Mr.

Lopez, are you going to do me a big favor .-- You have, my lord
Well ...-- two months ago, the police searched a house in the street
of Bethlehem, where they met a few supporters of Mr Carlos.

The police were bribed at that time and not stuck to anyone.

But the government has changed from the peppers soflama by others,
and last night the police returned to search the house from the
street of Bethlehem, and caught five subjects, and put them in jail
for Villa De .-- I am glad Mr Salvador you .-- Well, Mr.

Tables, I come to you please me give one of these five subjects
the means of escape, because the run run run that will shoot them.

"There never has been, there
never will be aught of that sort between me and Mr. Dysart Surely--Mr.
Beauclerk did not----"

"Oh, yes, he did. He assured me--not in so many words (let me be
perfectly just to him)--but he positively gave me to understand that you
were going to marry Felix Dysart. There! Don't mind that," seeing the
girl's pained face. "He was bound to say something, you know. Though it
must be confessed the Indian cousin story was the more ingenious. Why
didn't you tell me of that before?"

"Because he told it to me in the strictest confidence."

"Of course. Bound you on your honor not to speak of it, lest my feelings
should be hurt. Really, do you know, I think he was almost clever enough
to make one sorry he didn't succeed. Well, good-by." She rises abruptly,
and, taking Joyce's hand, looks at her for a moment. "Felix Dysart has a
good heart," says she, suddenly. As suddenly she kisses Joyce, and,
crossing the room with a quick stride, leaves it.


CHAPTER XLIX.

    "Shall we not laugh, shall we not weep?"


It is quite four o'clock, and therefore two hours later. Barbara has
returned, and has learned the secret of Joyce's pale looks and sad eyes,
and is now standing on the hearthrug looking as one might who has been
suddenly wakened from a dream that had seemed only too real.

"And you mean to say--you really mean, Joyce, that you refused him?"

"Yes. I actually had that much common-sense," with a laugh that has
something of bitterness in it.

"But I thought--I was sure----"

"I know you thought he was my ideal of all things admirable. And you
thought wrong."

"But if not he----"

"Barbara!" says Joyce sharply. "Was it not enough that you should have
made one mistake? Must you insist on making another?"

"Well, never mind," says Mrs. Monkton hastily. "I'm glad I made that
one, at all events; and I'm only sorry you have felt it your duty to
make your pretty eyes wet about it Good gracious!" looking put of the
window, "who is coming now? Dicky Browne and Mr. Courtenay and those
detestable Blakes. Tommy," turning sharply to her first-born. "If you
and Mabel stay here you must be good. Do you hear now, good! You are not
to ask a single question or touch a thing in the room, and you are to
keep Mabel quiet. I am not going to have Mrs. Blake go home and say you
are the worst behaved children she ever met in her life. You will stay,
Joyce?" anxiously to her sister.

"Oh, I suppose so. I couldn't leave you to endure their tender mercies
alone."

"That's a darling girl! You know I never can get on with that odious
woman. Ah! how d'ye do, Mrs. Blake? How sweet of you to come after last
night's fatigue."

"Well, I think a drive a capital thing after being up all night," says
the new-comer, a fat, little, ill-natured woman, nestling herself into
the cosiest chair in the room. "I hadn't quite meant to come here, but I
met Mr. Browne and Mr. Courtenay, so I thought we might as well join
forces, and storm you in good earnest. Mr. Browne has just been telling
me that Lady Swansdown left the Court this morning. Got a telegram, she
said, summoning her to Gloucestershire. Never do believe in these sudden
telegrams myself. Stayed rather long in that anteroom with Lord
Baltimore last night."

"Didn't know she had been in any anteroom," says Mrs. Monkton, coldly.
"I daresay her mother-in-law is ill again. She has always been attentive
to her."

"Not on terms with her son, you know; so Lady Swansdown hopes, by the
attention you speak of, to come in for the old lady's private fortune.
Very considerable fortune, I've heard."

"Who told you?" asks Mr. Browne, with a cruelly lively curiosity. "Lady
Swansdown?"

"Oh, dear no!"

Pause! Dicky still looking expectant and Mrs. Blake uncomfortable. She
is racking her brain to try and find some person who might have told
her, but her brain fails her.

The pause threatens to be ghastly, when Tommy comes to the rescue.

He had been told off as we know to keep Mabel in a proper frame of mind,
but being in a militant mood has resented the task appointed him. He has
indeed so far given in to the powers that be that he has consented to
accept a picture book, and to show it to Mabel, who is looking at it
with him, lost in admiration of his remarkable powers of description.
Each picture indeed, is graphically explained by Tommy at the top of his
lungs, and in extreme bad humor.

He is lying on the rug, on his fat stomach, and is becoming quite a
martinet.

"Look at this!" he is saying now. "Look! do you hear, or I won't stay
and keep you good any longer. Here's a picture about a boat that's going
to be drowned down in the sea in one minnit. The name on it is"--reading
laboriously--"'All hands to the pump.' And" with considerable vicious
enjoyment--"it isn't a bit of good for them, either. Here"--pointing to
the picture again with a stout forefinger--"here they're 'all-handsing'
at the pump. See?"

"No, I don't, and I don't want to," says Mabel, whimpering and hiding
her eyes. "Oh, I don't like it; it's a horrid picture! What's that man
doing there in the corner?" peeping through her fingers at a dead man in
the foreground. "He is dead! I know he is!"

"Of course he is," says Tommy. "And"--valiantly--"I don't care a bit, I
don't."

"Oh, but I do," says Mabel. "And there's a lot of water, isn't there?"

"There always is in the sea," says Tommy.

"They'll all be drowned, I know they will," says Mabel, pushing away the
book. "Oh, I hate 'handsing'; turn over, Tommy, do! It's a nasty cruel,
wicked picture!"

"Tommy, don't frighten Mabel," says his mother anxiously.

"I'm not frightening her. I'm only keeping her quiet," says Tommy
defiantly.

"Hah-hah!" says Mr. Courtenay vacuously.

"How wonderfully unpleasant children can make themselves," says Mrs.
Blake, making herself 'wonderfully unpleasant' on the spot. "Your little
boy so reminds me of my Reginald. He pulls his sister's hair merely for
the fun of hearing her squeal!"

"Tommy does not pull Mabel's hair," says Barbara a little stiffly.
"Tommy, come here to Mr. Browne; he wants to speak to you."

"I want to know if you would like a cat?" says Mr. Browne, drawing Tommy
to him.

"I don't want a cat like our cat," says Tommy, promptly. "Ours is so
small, and her tail is too thin. Lady Baltimore has a nice cat, with a
tail like mamma's furry for her neck."

"Well, that's the very sort of a cat I can get you if you wish."

"But is the cat as big as her tail?" asks Tommy, still careful not to
commit himself.

"Well, perhaps not quite," says Mr. Browne gravely. "Must it be quite as
big?"

"I hate small cats," says Tommy. "I want a big one! I want--" pausing to
find a suitable simile, and happily remembering the kennel outside--"a
regular setter of a cat!"

"Ah," says Mr. Browne, "I expect I shall have to telegraph to India for
a tiger for you."

"A real live tiger?" asks Tommy, with distended eyes and a flutter of
wild joy at his heart, the keener that some fear is mingled with it. "A
tiger that eats people up?"

"A man-eater," says Mr. Browne, solemnly. "It would be the nearest
approach I know to the animal you have described. As you won't have the
cat that Lady Baltimore will give you, you must only try to put up with
mine."

"Poor Lady Baltimore!" lisps Mrs. Blake. "What a great deal she has to
endure."

"Oh, she's all right to-day," returns Mr. Browne, cheerfully. "Toothache
any amount better this morning."

Mrs. Blake laughs in a little mincing way.

"How droll you are," says she. "Ah! if it were only toothache that was
the matter But--" silence very effective, and a profound sigh.

"Toothache's good enough for me," says Dicky. "I should never dream of
asking for more." He glances here at Joyce, and continues sotto voce,
"You look as if you had it."

"No," returns she innocently. "Mine is neuralgia. A rather worse thing,
after all."

"Yes. You can get the tooth out," says he.

"Have you heard," asks Mrs. Blake, "that Mr. Beauclerk is going to marry
that hideous Miss Maliphant. Horrid Manchester person, don't you know!
Can't think what Lady Baltimore sees in her"--with a giggle--"her want
of beauty. Got rather too much of pretty women I should say."

"I'm really afraid," says Dicky, "that somebody has been hoaxing you
this time, Mrs. Blake;" genially. "I happen to know for a fact that Miss
Maliphant is not going to marry Beauclerk."

"Indeed!" snappishly. "Ah, well really he is to be congratulated, I
think. Perhaps," with a sharp glance at Joyce, "I mistook the name of
the young lady; I certainly heard he was going to be married."

"So am I,"' says Mr. Browne, "some time or other; we are all going to
get married one day or another. One day, indeed, is as good as another.
You have set us such a capital example that we're safe to follow it."

Mr. and Mrs. Blake being a notoriously unhappy couple, the latter grows
rather red here; and Joyce gives Dicky a reproachful glance, which he
returns with one of the wildest bewilderment. What can she mean?

"Mr. Dysart will be a distinct loss when he goes to India," continues
Mrs. Blake quickly. "Won't be back for years, I hear, and leaving so
soon, too. A disappointment, I'm told! Some obdurate fair one! Sort of
chest affection, don't you know, ha-ha! India's place for that sort of
thing. Knock it out of him in no time. Thought he looked rather down in
the mouth last night. Not up to much lately, it has struck me. Seen much
of him this time, Miss Kavanagh?"

"Yes. A good deal," says Joyce, who has, however, paled perceptibly.

"Thought him rather gone to seed, eh? Rather the worse for wear."

"I think him always very agreeable," says Joyce, icily.

A second most uncomfortable silence ensues. Barbara tries to get up a
conversation with Mr. Courtenay, but that person, never brilliant at any
time, seems now stricken with dumbness. Into this awkward abyss Mabel
plunges this time. Evidently she has been dwelling secretly on Tommy's
comments on their own cat, and is therefore full of thought about that
interesting animal.

"Our cat is going to have chickens!" says she, with all the air of one
who is imparting exciting intelligence.

This astounding piece of natural history is received with varied
emotions by the listeners. Mr. Browne, however, is unfeignedly charmed
with it, and grows as enthusiastic about it as even Mabel can desire.

"You don't say so! When? Where?" demands he with breathless eagerness.

"Don't know," says Mabel seriously. "Last time 'twas in nurse's best
bonnet; but," raising her sweet face to his, "she says she'll be blowed
if she has them there this time!"

"Mabel!" cries her mother, crimson with mortification.

"Yes?" asked Mabel, sweetly.

But it is too much for every one. Even Mrs. Blake gives way for once to
honest mirth, and under cover of the laughter rises and takes her
departure, rather glad of the excuse to get away. She carries off Mr.
Courtenay.

Dicky having lingered a little while to see that Mabel isn't scolded,
goes too; and Barbara, with a sense of relief, turns to Joyce.

"You look so awful tired," says she. "Why don't you go and lie down?"

"I thought, on the contrary, I should like to go out for a walk," says
Joyce indifferently. "I confess my head is aching horribly. And that
woman only made me worse."

"What a woman! I wonder she told so many lies. I wonder if----"

"If Mr. Dysart is going to India," supplies Joyce calmly. "Very likely.
Why not. Most men in the army go to India."

"True," say Mrs. Monkton with a sigh. Then in a low tone: "I shall be
sorry for him."

"Why? If he goes"--coldly--"it is by his own desire. I see nothing to be
sorry about."

"Oh, I do," says Barbara. And then, "Well, go out, dearest. The air will
do you good."


CHAPTER L.

    "'Tis with our judgment as our watches, none
    Go just alike, yet each believes his own."


Lord Baltimore had not spoken in a mere fit or pique when he told Lady
Swansdown of his fixed intention of putting a term to his present life.
His last interview with his wife had quite decided him to throw up
everything and seek forgetfulness in travel. Inclination had pointed
toward such countries as Africa, or the northern parts of America, as,
being a keen sportsman, he believed there he might find an occupation
that would distract his mind from the thoughts that now jarred upon him
incessantly.

His asking Lady Swansdown to accompany him therefore had been a sudden
determination. To go on a lengthened shooting expedition by one's self
is one thing, to go with a woman delicately nurtured is another. Of
course, had she agreed to his proposal, all his plans must necessarily
have been altered, and perhaps his second feeling, after her refusal to
go with him, was one of unmistakable relief. His proposal to her at
least had been born of pique!

The next morning found him, however, still strong in his desire for
change. The desire was even so far stronger that he now burned to put it
into execution; to get away to some fresh sphere of action, and
deliberately set himself to obliterate from his memory all past ties and
recollections.

There was, too, perhaps a touch of revenge that bordered upon pleasure
as he thought of what his wife would say when she heard of his decision.
She who shrank so delicately from gossip of all kinds could not fail to
be distressed by news that must inevitably leave her and her private
affairs open to public criticism. Though everybody was perpetually
guessing about her domestic relations with her husband, no one as a
matter of fact knew (except, indeed, two) quite the real truth about
them. This would effectually open the eyes of society, and proclaim to
everybody that, though she had refused to demand a separation, still she
had been obliged to accept it. This would touch her. If in no other way
could he get at her proud spirit, here now he would triumph. She had
been anxious to get rid of him in a respectable way, of course, but
death as usual had declined to step in when most wanted, and now, well!
She must accept her release, in however disreputable a guise it comes.

It is just at the moment when Mrs. Blake is holding forth on Lady
Baltimore's affairs to Mrs. Monkton that Baltimore enters the smaller
drawing-room, where he knows he will be sure to meet his wife at this
hour.

It is far in the afternoon, still the spring sunshine is streaming
through the windows. Lady Baltimore, in a heavy tea gown of pale green
plush, is sitting by the fire reading a book, her little son upon the
hearth rug beside her. The place is strewn with bricks, and the boy, as
his father enters, looks up at him and calls to him eagerly to come and
help him. At the sound of the child's quick, glad voice a pang contracts
Baltimore's heart. The child----He had forgotten him.

"I can't make this castle," says Bertie, "and mother isn't a bit of
good. Hers always fall down; come you and make me one."

"Not now," says Baltimore. "Not to-day. Run away to your nurse. I want
to speak to your mother."

There is something abrupt and jerky in his manner--something strained,
and with sufficient temper in it to make the child cease from entreaty.
The very pain Baltimore, is feeling has made his manner harsher to the
child. Yet, as the latter passes him obediently, he seizes the small
figure in his arms and presses him convulsively to his breast. Then,
putting him down, he points silently but peremptorily to the door.

"Well?" says Lady Baltimore. She has risen, startled by his abrupt
entrance, his tone, and more than all, by that last brief but passionate
burst of affection toward the child. And who is with the full seriousness of this has met at issue and
see what links today from the economy in all other areas of German
life to the culture in which political freedom and the people living
broadcast, would like the question of German life in the whole speak
and the darkest Zukunftsbefürchtungen to connect.

Too sudden for us all this fall titanium, the nation and empire since
that tragic July and August days of 1914 have seen. We are as stunned
by the fall.

We know only one thing: Do not lie on the ground! Otherwise, there is
honor, empire and the people for ever lost. Where were we? Where do
we stand?

These are the fixed points to which direction we take our first with
the full severity of the meeting, what has happened, and in order
for them to gauge what will happen now. Where were we? We know the
younger generation from their own experience of the prewar period,
only the strong, proud empire, the unification and inside bloom,
outward shimmering defense and had high validity.

The friction of our domestic political and economic and social life
seemed to us growing pains that have no spare, but with whom one
is finished.

Our world was covered on the strength of a mighty power of war and
an economic engine for unprecedented performance, but also on
social and cultural deeds intellectual achievements, which were
exemplary.

With these impressions of power, size and wealth to meet our soul. Who
of us was outside, looked at all the seas in all countries, the
signs of emerging, gewerbefleißigen, "in all the arts and skillful
handling" people who sat in the heart of Europe and from there the
kingdom of his economic and technical enterprising spirit world.

That was the pre-war Germany in the recent generation. Their fathers and
grandfathers still had the other old Germany knew that Germany, the world
politically and economically the world is not much more than a
geographical expression, "province" was that Germany, whose export
cereal product of the London Stock Exchange called "Baltic" was
that rural - Germany court craft, which is often enough outgoing
foreign vessels with sand as ballast charterers had, because he
lacked the goods for export, that Germany, whose idea for Gladstone
still in the middle of the last century was associated with poor,
skewer the bourgeoisie, but the military and a bundle of small
states.

And now it takes back to the first decades of the 19th Century,
then plunges it into the heavy air of a continental-rural folklore
handicrafts court, which is politically unacceptable to its own
form was its impotence in the concert of nations vied with its
fragmentation, and more in the whole object as the subject of
politics was high.

If in those times of the German name in foreign lands was respectfully
called, it was to the values of G eist sake. Who among the great spirits
of our time was the classic prophet and seer enough ahead, what this
nation in the course of two or three generations will be scarce! Who
of them was hoping to just those phrases in our skills that we as a
people soon took?

In the British seas, the Frenchman the country, the German Empire of the
mind: it was not that painful the facts collected, but from the
innermost consciousness evaluated division of the earth, the Schiller
in one of his poems in mind.

Admittedly, the poet could probably not guess that the "kingdom of the
air thought the ground would be on the unprecedented rise of English in
the second half of the 19th century would ripen. You may wish in the
excellent book: "The German economy during the 19th century," even
after reading what Sombart with great mastery of the presentation
to tell white from the life of the third generation before us, by
their creativity and effort, from the small size - and it seemed
to us at least in the rich days of the prewar period - this miserable
life!

"A weakness of border simplicity" of all places, in business and government,
the private life and in society! Cramped, small, poor stayed put throughout
the life of our people high up in decades of the 19th Century.

Certainly, there were even stronger impetus, in the west and south
stirred industrial life, the Friedrich List in the brilliant lawyer of
his importance to the entire ethnic held. But the actual deployment
of the German economy at the strength and validity, in whose consciousness
we grew up, is very much later. Even in the sixties we had a stronger
grain export than import; disappeared until 1873, the last grain export
surplus, the surplus wheat. It was not the inability of the competing
German agriculture is the cause of import surpluses of grain, but
the increased attention to potato farming, feed and Rübenbau.

But that phrase headed an economic upheaval On: at the sugar beet
has been one of the first and most prosperous German industries
grow, the potato soils of the East, an addition to agricultural
industries (distilleries and starch factories) are of great importance.

In the west and south, developed following an ancient tradition of
industriousness industry an industry of textiles, iron and coal,
for decades they had a serious stand against the highly developed
industry as well as English against the French and Belgian competition,
which was partially offset by export awards worked . upswing momentum
of the utmost importance were the realm agreement, the war indemnity
of 1870 and the Superior National feeling that after the glorious
war by the German people went.

The population grew from decade to decade in strong rhythms, the
industrial life unfolded itself, albeit over wave troughs of depression
gone, so but in the whole strong and sustained, the protective
tariff legislation of 1879, double that strengthens the foundation
of the German economy, industry and agriculture against the her
impending global shocks.

If in the last decades of the 19th century, the German Industry and
developing the wealth of foreign observers as surprising - and we
also confess that in some respects hastily and violently - happens,
so this was just prelude to the immense, almost feel like say:
elementary expansion, with the new century started.

Three features characterize this new section of the German economic
development: the Aufschießen of giant companies, especially in the coal
and iron industry, chemical industry and electricity, continue the
process of organizing the German economy in shape operating
combinations, cartels, syndicates, communities, etc., and thirdly,
the encroachment of the industrial economy based on sound science,
in other words, the economic analysis of scientific research one,
the other the construction of farms and enterprises according to
methods of scientifically to their highest usefulness are ingenious.

While large companies, cartels and trusts are the results of trends, all
of modern economy in almost all countries indicate, the road to
economic science on the specific German way was his mental and moral
conditions were just here in the strength and purity that which
were necessary for him to go and conquer.

Anyway, the pace of German economic development under the drive of the
new organizational forms and methods of production so quickly that in
its wake severe symptoms in the interior of the German People's body
appeared. Even more serious to the outside! A growing nation to narrow
commodity base! As for the people growing food and clothing needed,
could the German soil is not hergeben; had to import over one
million tonnes of cereals and bread for one billion marks (Goldmark)
zuschießen feed, plus billions of contributions for wool, cotton,
ores, etc.

We could these few details yet to reproduce the reference to the
rapidly increasing tonnage of our merchant fleet, the badges of our
banks, the German investment abroad, our revenue and much more.

But enough numbers! Today, they are painful memories. Who is meaningful
due to the difference of the former and the present-day Germany
will remember, consider for a moment the value of the market today
compared to the old gold marks.

The difference speaks a language that even the simple understanding. And
yet we must once again talk of the old Germany, before we get the
poor of our day turn to Germany, following a double sense.

A nation that sees no hope and to generations beyond desert hike ahead of
it, there is. Did we cause this? We would have to rise if all the roots
of our pre-war would have withered flower.

We find that these roots were. 1. La nd as the foundation of agriculture
and animal husbandry, land as site of raw materials and power sources,
the country as the spatial basis of life and living.

After all three directions, we have suffered painful losses, but no, not
more or less would be to mitigate. 2. The natural life force of the N
ation: labor, gender distribution, age structure, health. Again,
severe loss of balance, but again no that does not compensate for
or would have to endure. 3. K apitalkraft, wealth power, wealth, "wealth":
here is the tremendous loss that even those who benefit least from one
day to the next may be offset. Here is a cause in fact of a high degree
of impoverishment of talking. Part is a consequence of the depletion
of our wealth of resources by the war, some of the plunder and rob the
peace.

If today there is a "proletarian nation" within the meaning of a
people, the weakness in the hand to mouth living there, then wire s.

We are the People's proletarians, which for decades obligations are
outrageous. We are an impoverished, robbed people, yet by his hands from
his work and poverty fable sums in gold gets pressed.

This is the point where the economic situation in the general life
of the entire nation for decades to sensitive einzuschneiden
threatening.

All culture, all civilization, all the education of the mind and heart,
all welfare, all good, all the creation of law and security is with
a thousand threads of economic bloom and they will decide on the
gender of unborn life, and especially whether The young volunteers
of the nation at heart and soul and savaged grow up crippled or
not, they will decide whether the Central zurücksinkt dull dullness
and stuffiness of a mentally and physically wretched folk mass, and
continue about whether the night shadows across Europe lower.

Because one can not be the centerpiece of a cultural and civilization
relationship with wicked hands break, focusing imagine, this could
be connected pieces in the East and West could be beneficial.

The economic exhaustion while Überbürdung with the obligations of the
worst soil Gegenwartsbefürchtungen; at this point everything can be
questionable.

Whether the fears are realized depends on the freedom that one of our
manpower, our enterprise and our ingenuity in a foreign land grant, and
depends, not least from the active assistance in the form of loans,
and especially Rohstoffvorschüssen relief commitment to us Foreign
grants 4th S ittliche PROPERTIES: to work, work enjoyment, work
discipline, thrift, sobriety, willingness to go forward striving,
courage to live.

Who wants to argue that these properties, which certainly temporarily
tarnished and in some individual groups are still weak, the whole
would have suffered unbearable? Only interested malice or foolishness
can claim such.

It is well that the level of benefits is not as stormy and unrestrained
as before. But it has its own particular reasons for living in poor,
economic Beengungen by the peace treaty and its consequences,
and is incidentally a part of an understandable reaction to publication
of the immense demands of the last seven years. 5. T he German S taa t.
Sure, the old state structure with its internal policy, its strength and
power to the outside a major economic lever upward. Undoubtedly, the
general duty army awakened and promoted properties, situations created
by the economy benefited.

What a strong, politically independent of culture and power state
of the economy can offer, no nation knows better than the German.
We must familiarize themselves with the idea that our government today
so hard to the outside and the inside has to bear, it is überbürdet
tasks and dead loads, the economy that he has more help than he can
help the economy.

These are consequences of war and peace, but also the consequences,
especially in Germany, the widespread tendency, in all the hardships
of life under the state to call.

And yet it is not so, as some probably would like to think sometimes,
as if the state of today only a dead load on our economy. Even today, the
economic lives on the floor of the state-guaranteed rights and
guaranteed by government order. And before any hasty decision should
be borne in mind: The state structure in Germany has a huge tension
and sample endured without to set!

Certainly, it has created new forms, it is struggling in some respects
even more with itself and the new situation - but the important thing
is assured: the new state of the documentation of economic life and the
conditions of economic construction. It is the responsibility of
the state, on his aufzuhelfen areas of the economy, it is the duty of
the economy, with its resources to support the state.

The idea that there could be one of two e ne oh the other to thrive, is
a dangerous illusion.

That is one view of the old empire, a view that we should remember
how much more of the pillars of the old power and size and carrying
capacity for the new features.

And now the other eye on the old empire: how much of the hardships,
sorrows and difficulties of our presence in it were already used!

From the depths of his poverty might be an upcoming sex even seem
as if the glittering decades of empire vain peace and welfare in
Germany had prevailed.

And a sex which, in its days, the blood feuds Matabelestämme in Europe,
politically crushed soil to experience to believe, could perhaps think
of the European peace before the war had been vain Peoples Friendship.

Such views are in truth very little in common. That has always been
to tensions and contradictions, so rich German life also has the
second emperor of the inner peace can not be found.

Certainly the old fracture occurred between North and South for the
consciousness of the younger generations as a practical matter completed,
whose emotional balance stocks entirely extinguished gradually be
back, even after the alignment was in the cultural politics of the
sectarian struggle contrast auseinanderreißendes element no more,
so much force he the rest still devour liked.

But that was the crack of economic ing - G egen social approaches
in the form of class struggle by our people.

As the modern economy, constitution, especially in its German form
hochgesteigerten, possession and disposition of the means of production
from the work of separating them, so coated is also politically
and socially the groups.

This ownership and economic power is available, then non-owned and
exporting labor, where most social validity with increased political
rights and entitlements, where real social and political inferiority
inferiority application authorization, where the relatively thin
layers, with the pride of ownership and education were appointed,
where the enormous mass armies the working class, propertyless,
hungry for education and knowledge.

That was the case, the starting point of dangerous internal voltages
delivered to the separation line moved by the people, and so it
sometimes seemed, two hostile nations on the ground and in a state
associations together. If it is found that the sharpest radicalism on
both sides gradually abstumpfte, and if already admitted to be
that the state social policy is much to mitigate the conflicts did
so but still met the sudden outbreak of war in a tension of opposites
that are not absolute certainty was that the grouping of all external
forces completely ensures peace of the castle is maintained internally.
- And yet a question of pre-war reaches into our present, double
and triple reinforced.

It is fact that our people growth, driven by the huge upturn in our
economy, with the consequence of Überflügelung all other European
economies, our political situation more difficult.

Opposition, the old Germany from before 1870 had never been challenged,
has asked the developed hochindustriell Germany.

Understandable concern for power and revenge instincts suggested the image
of the economy is so enormous reckenden Germany to consuming flame
up and led to hostile states federal government, whose interests
in life are standing against each other. It will show how the economic
situation on the political constellation of ominous today nachwirkt,
partly a result of peace and of the London ultimatum, partly as a
consequence of war, despite our loss outwardly seemingly intact
economy.

It has been said, the Treaty of Versailles was the instrument of the new
Europe.

Our people know and feel every day that he, however, the hatred and
infamiegesättigte deed of his life is. The details we do not want
to consider, but what he does worst for us, requires the outline. It robs
us all countries and provinces. 6.7 million hectares, he cuts in the East
and West German territory from the body.

He takes us all the colonies. Almost 6 million people, of whom the
majority are English and German feel, he speaks with or without a
vote on foreign nations.

In addition, 32 000 square kilometers of territory in our long-standing
occupation and subject to enemy interference, in turn, to 6.5 million
people put their Zwangsjoch .

Let us remember just what these few provisions of the Peace Treaty state
economically.

A government memorandum has calculated that, without taking into
account the voting areas 14.9% of our arable land through the
assignments are lost.

Naturally, the strongest means a loss of agricultural yields, more so
than the Eastern territories lost almost the grain and potato
chambers of the Empire represented.

It has been calculated that 19% of the rye harvest, 20% each of
barley and potato harvest, and sometimes even higher percentages
for other products with the assignment of those areas of our nation
diet lost.

So about one-fifth of the German based diet!

    This is the loss of our much diminished Viehstapel.
    These losses reinforce the fact that in those
    assigned areas
                         only 13.3% of the German population
    lived.

Average of 3.6 million people could benefit from the Ü ber sch ü ssen
the lost provinces are fed, when the flour and potato rations
basis, in 1920 have been allocated.

In other words, the difficulty of the German economy, to feed its people,
is today, at the time of their general poverty and pollution, much larger
than those of pre-war days!

The more so, than by the over-exploitation during the war returns to the
soil and the dead weight of our Viehstapel declined alarmingly. Problem
with reduced area and from soils gewirtschafteten supply the needs of
a non-degree drop in the same population.
It overwhelms her.

"Yes," she says again, and for the first time is struck by the wretched
meagreness of her replies.

"Well?" says Dysart, roughly. But this time not even the desolate
monosyllable rewards the keenness of his examination.

"Well?" says he again, going closer to her and resting his hand on the
wooden rail against which she, too, was leaning. He is So close to her
now that it is impossible to escape his scrutiny. "What am I to
understand by that? Tell me how you have decided." Getting no answer to
this either, he says, impatiently, "Tell me, Joyce."

"I refused him," says she at last in a low tone, and in a dull sort of
way, as if the matter is one of indifference to her.

"Ah!" He draws a long breath. "It is true?" he says, laying his hand on
hers as it lies on the top of the woodwork.

"Quite true."

"And yet--you have been crying?"

"You can see that," says she, petulantly. "You have taken pains to see
and to tell me of it. Do you think it is a pleasant thing to be told?
Most people," glancing angrily toward him--"everyone, I think--makes it
a point now-a-days not to see when one has been making a fool of
oneself; but you seem to take a delight in torturing me."

"Did it," says he bitterly, ignoring--perhaps not even hearing--her
outburst. "Did it cost you so much to refuse him?"

"It cost me nothing!" with a sudden effort, and a flash from her
beautiful eyes.

"Nothing?"

"I have said so! Nothing at all. It was mere nervousness, and
because--it reminded me of other things."

"Did he see you cry?" asks Dysart, tightening unconsciously his grasp
upon her hand.

"No. He was gone a long time, quite a long time, before it occurred to
me that I should like to cry. I," with a frugal smile, "indulged myself
very freely then, as you have seen."

Dysart draws a long breath of relief. It would have been intolerable to
him that Beauclerk should have known of her tears. He would not have
understood them. He would have taken possession of them, as it were.
They would have merely helped to pamper his self-conceit and smooth down
his ruffled pride. He would inevitably have placed such and such a
construction on them, one entirely to his own glorification.

"I shall leave you now with a lighter heart," says Felix presently--"now
that I know you are not going to marry that fellow."

"You are going, then?" says she, sharply, checking the monotonous little
tattoo she has been playing on the bridge rail, as though suddenly
smitten into stone. She had heard he was going, she had been told of it
by several people, but somehow she had never believed it. It had never,
come home to her until now.

"Yes. We are under orders for India. We sail in about a month. I shall
have to leave here almost immediately."

"So soon?" says she, vaguely. She has begun that absurd tattoo again,
but bridge, and restless little fingers, and sky and earth, and all
things seem blotted out. He is going, really going, and for ever! How
far is India away?

"It is always rather hurried at last. For my part I am glad I am going."

"Yes?"

"Mrs. Monkton will--at least I am sure she will--let me have a line now
and then to let me know how you--how you are all getting on. I was going
to ask her about it this evening. You think she will be good enough?"

"Barbara is always kind."

"I suppose"--he hesitates, and then goes on with an effort--"I suppose
it would be too much to ask of you----"

"What?"

"That you would sometimes write me a letter--however short."

"I am a bad correspondent," says she, feeling as if she were choking.

"Ah! I see. I should not have asked, of course. Yes, you are right. It
was absurd my hoping for it."

"When people choose to go away so far as that----" she is compelling
herself to speak, but her voice sounds to herself a long way off.

"They must hope to be forgotten. 'Out of sight out of mind,' I know. It
is such an old proverb. Well----You are cold," says he suddenly, noting
the pallor of the girl's face. "Whatever you were before, you are
certainly chilled to the bone now. You look it. Come, this is no time of
year to be lingering out of doors without a coat or hat."

"I have this shawl," says she, pointing to the soft white, fleecy thing
that covers her.

"I distrust it. Come."

"No," says she, faintly. "Go on; you give your message to Barbara. As
for me, I shall be happier here."

"Where I am not," says he, with a bitter laugh. "I suppose I ought to be
accustomed to that thought now, but such is my conceit that it seems
ever a fresh shock to me. Well, for all that," persuadingly, "come in.
The evening is very cold. I shan't like to go away, leaving you behind
me suffering from a bad cough or something of that kind. We have been
friends, Joyce," with a rather sorry smile. "For the sake of the old
friendship, don't send me adrift with such an anxiety upon my mind."

"Would you really care?" says she.

"Ah! That is the humor of it," says he. "In spite of all I should still
really care. Come." He makes an effort to unclasp the small, pretty
fingers that are grasping the rails so rigidly. At first they seem to
resist his gentle pressure, and then they give way to him. She turns
suddenly.

"Felix,"--her voice is somewhat strained, somewhat harsh, not at all her
own voice,--"do you still love me?"

"You know that," returns he, sadly. If he has felt any surprise at the
question he has not shown it.

"No, no," says she, feverishly. "That you like me, that you are fond of
me, perhaps, I can still believe. But is it the same with you that it
used to be? Do you," with a little sob, "love me as well now as in those
old days? Just the same! Not," going nearer to him, and laying her hand
upon his breast, and raising agonized eyes of inquiry to his--"not one
bit less?"

"I love you a thousand times more," says he, very quietly, but with such
intensity that it enters into her very soul. "Why?" He has laid his own
hand over the small nervous one lying on his breast, and his face has
grown very white.

"Because I love you too!"

She stops short here, and begins to tremble violently. With a little
shamed, heartbroken gesture she tears her hand out of his and covers her
face from his sight.

"Say that again!" says he, hoarsely. He waits a moment, but when no word
comes from her he deliberately drags away the sheltering hands and
compels her to look at him.

"Say it!" says he, in a tone that is now almost a command.

"Oh! it is true--true!" cries she, vehemently. "I love you; I have loved
you a long time, I think, but I didn't know it. Oh, Felix! Dear, dear
Felix, forgive me!"

"Forgive you!" says he, brokenly.

"Ah! yes. And don't leave me. If you go away from me I shall die. There
has been so much of it--a little more--and----" She breaks down.

"My beloved!" says he in a faint, quick way. He is holding her to him
now with all his might. She can feel the quick pulsations of his heart.
Suddenly she slips her soft arms around his neck, and now with her head
pressed against his shoulder, bursts into a storm of tears. It is a last
shower.

They are both silent for a long time, and then he, raising one of her
hands, presses the palm against his lips. Looking up at him, she smiles,
uncertainly but happily, a very rainbow of a smile, born of sunshine,
and, raindrops gone, it seems to beautify her lips. But Felix, while
acknowledging its charm, cannot smile back at her. It is all too
strange, too new. He is afraid to believe. As yet there is something
terrible to him in this happiness that has fallen into his life.

"You mean it?" he asks, bending over her. "If to-morrow I were to wake
and find all this an idle dream, how would it be with me then? Say you
mean it!"

"Am I not here?" says she, tremulously, making a slight but eloquent
pressure on one of the arms that are round her. He bends his face to
hers, and as he feels that first glad eager kiss returned--he knows!


CHAPTER LIII.

    "True love's the gift which God has given
    To man alone beneath the heaven:

    It is the secret sympathy,
    The silver link, the silken tie,
    Which heart to heart and mind to mind
    In body and in soul can bind."


Of course Barbara is delighted. She proves charming as a confidante.
Nothing can exceed the depth of her sympathy.

When Joyce and Felix came in together in the darkening twilight,
entering the house in a burglarious fashion through the dining-room
window, it so happens that Barbara is there, and is at once struck by a
sense of guilt that seems to surround and envelop them. They had not,
indeed, anticipated meeting Barbara in that room of all others, and are
rather taken aback when they come face to face with her.

"I assure you we have not come after the spoons," says Felix, in a
would-be careless tone that could not have deceived an infant, and with
a laugh, so frightfully careless that it would have terrified the life
out of you.

"You certainly don't look like it," says Mrs. Monkton, whose heart has
begun to beat high with hope. She hardly knows whether it is better to
fall upon their necks forthwith and declare she knows all about it, or
else to pretend ignorance. She decides upon the latter as being the
easier; after all they mightn't like the neck process. Most people have
a fancy for telling their own tales, to have them told for one is
annoying. "You haven't the requisite murderous expression," she says,
unable to resist a touch of satire. "You look rather frightened you two.
What have you been doing?" She is too good natured not to give them an
opening for their confession.

"Not much, and yet a great deal," says Felix. He has advanced a little,
while Joyce, on the contrary, has meanly receded farther into the
background. She has rather the appearance, indeed, of one who, if the
wall could have been induced to give way, would gladly have followed it
into the garden. The wall, however, declines to budge. "As for
burglary," goes on Felix, trying to be gay, and succeeding villainously.
"You must exonerate your sister at all events. But I--I confess I have
stolen something belonging to you."

"Oh, no; not stolen," says Joyce, in a rather faint tone. "Barbara, I
know what you will think, but----"

"I know what I do think!" cries Barbara, joyously. "Oh, is it, can it be
true?"

It never occurs to her that Felix now is not altogether a brilliant
match for a sister with a fortune--she remembers only in that lovely
mind of hers that he had loved Joyce when she was without a penny, and
that he is now what he had always seemed to her, the one man that could
make Joyce happy.

"Yes; it is true!" says Dysart. He has given up that unsuccessful gayety
now and has grown very grave; there is even a slight tremble in his
voice. He comes up to Mrs. Monkton and takes both her hands. "She has
given herself to me. You are really glad! You are not angry about it? I
know I am not good enough for her, but----"

Here Joyce gives way to a little outburst of mirth that is rather
tremulous, and coming away from the unfriendly wall, that has not been
of the least use to her, brings herself somewhat shamefacedly into the
only light the room receives through the western window. The twilight at
all events is kind to her. It is difficult to see her face.

"I really can't stay here," says she, "and listen to my own praises
being sung. And besides," turning to Felix a lovely but embarrassed
face, "Barbara will not regard it as you do; she will, on the contrary,
say you are a great deal too good for me, and that I ought to be
pilloried for all the trouble I have given through not being able to
make up my own mind for so long a time."

"Indeed, I shall say nothing but that you are the dearest girl in the
world, and that I'm delighted things have turned out so well. I always
said it would be like this," cries Barbara exultantly, who certainly
never had said it, and had always indeed been distinctly doubtful about
it.

"Is Mr. Monkton in?" says Felix, in a way that leads Monkton's wife to
imagine that if she should chance to say he was out, the news would be
hailed with rapture.

"Oh, never mind him," says she, beaming upon the happy but awkward
couple before her. "I'll tell him all about it. He will be just as glad
as I am. There, go away you two; you will find the small parlor empty,
and I dare say you have a great deal to say to each other still. Of
course you will dine with us, Felix, and give Freddy an opportunity of
saying something ridiculous to you."

"Thank you," says Dysart warmly. "I suppose I can write a line to my
cousin explaining matters."

"Of course. Joyce, take some writing things into the small parlor, and
call for a lamp as you go."

She is smiling at Joyce as she speaks, and now, going up to her, kisses
her impulsively. Joyce returns the caress with fervor. It is natural
that she should never have felt the sweetness, the content of Barbara so
entirely as she does now, when her heart is open and full of ecstasy,
and when sympathy seems so necessary. Darling Barbara! But then she must
love Felix now just as much as she loves her. She rather electrifies
Barbara and Felix by saying anxiously to the former:

"Kiss Felix, too."

It is impossible not to laugh. Mrs. Monkton gives way to immediate and
unrestrained mirth, and Dysart follows suit.

"It is a command," says he, and Barbara thereupon kisses him
affectionately.

"Well, now I have got a brother at last," says she. It is indeed her
first knowledge of one, for that poor suicide in Nice had never been
anything to her--or to any one else in the world for the matter of
that--except a great trouble. "There, go," says she. "I think I hear
Freddy coming."

They fly. They both feel that further explanations are beyond them just
as present; and as for Barbara, she is quite determined that no one but
she shall let Freddy into the all-important secret. She is now fully
convinced in her own mind that she had always had special prescience of
this affair, and the devouring desire we all have to say "I told you how
'twould be" to our unfortunate fellow-travellers through this vale of
tears, whether the cause for the hateful reminder be for weal or woe, is
strong upon her now.

She goes to the window, and seeing Monkton some way off, flings up the
sash and waves to him in a frenzied fashion to come to her at once.
There is something that almost approaches tragedy in her air and
gesture. Monkton hastens to obey.

"Now, what--what--what do you think has happened?" cries she, when he
has vaulted the window sill and is standing beside her, somewhat
breathless and distinctly uneasy. Nothing short of an accident to the
children could, in his opinion, have warranted so vehement a call. Yet
Barbara, as he examines her features carefully, seems all joyous
excitement. After a short contemplation of her beaming face he tell
himself that he was an ass to give up that pilgrimage of his to the
lower field, where he had been going to inspect a new-born calf.

"The skys are all right," says he, with an upward glance at them through
the window. "And--you hadn't another uncle, had you?"

"Oh, Freddy," says she, very justly disgusted.

"Well, my good child, what then? I'm all curiosity."

"Guess," says she, too happy to be able to give him the round scolding
he deserves.

"Oh! if it's a riddle," says he, "you might remember I am only a little
one, and unequal to the great things of life."

"Ah! but, Freddy, I've something delicious to tell you. There sit down
there, you look quite queer, while I----"

"No wonder I do," says he, at last rather wrathfully. "To judge by your
wild gesticulations at the window just now, any one might have imagined
that the house was on fire and a hostile race tearing en masse into the
back yard. And now--why, it appears you are quite pleased about
something or other. Really such disappointments are enough to age any
man--or make him look 'queer,' that was the word you used, I think?"

"Listen," says she, seating herself beside him, and flipping her arm
around his neck. "Joyce is going to marry Felix--after all. There!"
Still with her arm holding him, she leans back a little to mark the
effect of this astonishing disclosure.


CHAPTER LIV.

    "Well said; that was laid on with a trowel."

    "Gratiano speaks an infinite deal of nothing, more than any man in
    all Venice."


"After all, indeed; you may well say that," says Mr. Monkton, with
indignation. "If those two idiots meant matrimony all along, why on
earth didn't they do it all before. See what a lot of time they've lost,
and what a disgraceful amount of trouble they have given all round."

"Yes, yes, of course. But then you see, Freddy, it takes some time to
make up one's mind about such an important matter as that."

"It didn't take you long," says Mr. Monkton most unwisely.

"It took me a great deal longer than it took you," replies his wife with
dignity. "You have always said that it was the very first day you ever
saw me--and I'm sure it took me quite a week!"

This lucid speech she delivers with some severity.

"More shame for you," says Monkton promptly.

"Well, never mind," says she, too happy and too engrossed with her news
to enjoy even a skirmish with her husband. "Isn't it all charming,
Freddy?"

"It has certainly turned out very well, all things considered."

"I think it is the happiest thing. And when two people who love each
other are quite young----"

"Really, my dear, you are too flattering," says Monkton. "Considering
the gray hairs that are beginning to make themselves so unpleasantly at
home in my head, I, at all events, can hardly lay claim to extreme
youth."

"Good gracious! I'm not talking of us; I'm talking of them," cries she,
giving him a shake. "Wake up, Freddy. Bring your mind to bear upon this
big news of mine, and you will see how enchanting it is. Don't you think
Felix has behaved beautifully--so faithful, so constant, and against
such terrible odds? You know Joyce is a little difficult sometimes. Now
hasn't he been perfect all through?"

"He is a genuine hero of romance," says Mr. Monkton with conviction.
"None of your cheap articles--a regular bonafide thirteenth century
knight. The country ought to contribute its stray half-pennies and buy
him a pedestal and put him on the top of it, whether he likes it or not.
Once there Simon Stylites would be forgotten in half an hour. Was there
ever before heard of such an heroic case! Did ever yet living man have
the prowess to propose to the girl he loved! It is an entirely new
departure, and should be noticed. It is quite unique!"

"Don't be horrid," says his wife. "You know exactly what I mean--that it
is a delightful ending to what promised to be a miserable muddle. And he
is so charming; isn't he, now, Freddy?"

"Is he?" asks Mr. Monkton, regarding her with a thoughtful eye.

"You can see for yourself. He is so satisfactory. I always said he was
the very husband for Joyce. He is so kind, so earnest, so sweet in every
way."

"Nearly as sweet as I am, eh?" There is stern inquiry now in his regard.

"Pouf! I know what you are, of course. Who would, if I didn't? But
really, Freddy, don't you think he will make her an ideal husband? So
open. So frank. So free from everything--everything--oh, well,
everything--you know!"

"I don't," says Monkton, uncompromisingly.

"Well--everything hateful, I mean. Oh! she is a lucky girl!"

"Nearly as lucky as her sister," says Monkton, growing momentarily more
stern in his determination to uphold his own cause.

"Don't be absurd. I declare," with a little burst of amusement, "when
he--they--told me about it, I never felt so happy in my life."

"Except when you married me." He throws quite a tragical expression into
his face, that is, however, lost upon her.

"Of course, with her present fortune, she might have made what the world
would call a more distinguished match. But his family are
unexceptionable, and he has some money--not much, I know, but still,
some. And even if he hadn't she has now enough for both. After
all"--with noble disregard of the necessaries of life--"what is money?"

"Dross--mere dross!" says Mr. Monkton.

"And he is just the sort of man not to give a thought to it."

"He couldn't, my dear. Heroes of romance are quite above all that sort
of thing."

"Well, he is, certainly," says Mrs. Monkton, a little offended. "You may
go on pretending as much as you like, Freddy, but I know you think about
him just as I do. He is exactly the sort of charming character to make
Joyce happy."

"Nearly as happy as I have made you!" says her husband, severely.

"Dear me, Freddy--I really do wish you would try and forget yourself for
one moment!"

"I might be able to do that, my dear, if I were quite sure that you were
not forgetting me, too."

"Oh, as to that! I declare you are a perfect baby! You love teasing.
Well--there then!" The "there" represents a kiss, and Mr. Monkton,
having graciously accepted this tribute to his charms, condescends to
come down from his mental elevation and discuss the new engagement with
considerable affability. Once, indeed, there is a dangerous lapse back
into his old style, but this time there seems to be occasion for it.

"When they stood there stammering and stuttering, Freddy, and looking so
awfully silly, I declare I was so glad about it that I actually kissed
him!'"

"What!" says Mr. Monkton. "And you have lived to tell the tale! You
have, therefore; lived too long. Perfidious woman, prepare for death."

"I declare I think you'd have done it," says Barbara, eloquently.
Whereupon, having reconsidered her speech, they both give way to mirth.

"I'll try it when I see him," says Monkton. "Even a hero of romance
couldn't object to a chaste salute from me."

"He is coming to dinner. I hope when you do see him. Freddy,"--anxiously
this--"you will be very sober about it."

"Barbara! You know I never get--er--that is--not before dinner at all
events."

"Well, but promise me now, you will be very serious about it. They are
taking it seriously, and they won't like it if you persist in treating
it as a jest."

"I'll be a perfect judge."

"I know what that means"--indignantly--"that you are going to be as
frivolous as possible."

"My dear girl! If the bench could only hear you. Well, there then! Yes,
really! I'll be everything of the most desirable. A regular funeral
mute. And," seeing she is still offended, "I am glad about it, Barbara.
Honestly I think him as good a fellow as I know--and Joyce another."

Having convinced her of his good faith in the matter, and argued with
her on every single point, and so far perjured himself as to remember
perfectly and accurately the very day and hour on which, three months
ago, she had said that she knew Joyce preferred Felix to Beauclerk, he
is forgiven, and presently allowed to depart in peace with another
"there," even warmer than the first.

But it is unquestionable that she keeps a severe eye on him all through
dinner, and so forbids any trifling with the sacred topic. In the world
God wants to reveal and be redeemed. Taking calls in the "Dialogue on
the Wall of Paradise", where Adam, tired of the appearance change, the
old unit in paradise reclaimed and God and sacrifice him: "Listen to me
to start , "But God has him back into the world: child, as I thee
redeemed with my blood, So were I crying, that you saved me. Werfel is
original, intimate, often-Franciscan childlike in its religiosity,
straight, sure longing grows and its seal to heaven, like a Gothic tower
(only in the "Judgment" wins the corrosive power of reflection).
Rainer Maria Rilke, the older Prager (born 1875), religious poetry is
the more ornamental tower on the abundance and restlessness of
Gothic sculptures of saints, animals and ornaments.

She has no original, unauthorized and strut Baukraft.

    Rilke is the output of an old aristocratic Kaerntner sex, refined,
tired, homeless.

    In constant traveling, he moved from
    Vienna, Munich, Berlin, Russia, Paris, Italy.

He lives like his characters' way of life "does not enter into life,
through life. The deepest revelations, there was not the immediate life,
but indirectly: the art.

Only in the painters and their Worpsweder atmosphere it is the emotional
significance of the landscape, only in art and the artist Rodin
the religious significance of the human experience.

Rodin, he confesses, he had "learned everything I knew not previously
opened by his quiet, infinite in depth before going public service,
through its secure, nothing shook loneliness, through his great
Versammeltsein to himself."

His book on Rodin is perhaps its deepest and richest plant.

Like Rodin, the Gothic under the educators, the human body dissolves
into soul, it solves Rilkes "book of hours" with the three books
"The monastic life," "From the pilgrimage" from poverty and the
death of the body and things in god.

"There was a time where the people are burying God in heaven ... But a new
faith began ... The God, who fled from the heavens, the earth will he
come back." Thus Rilke reveals God in the children, the girls, the people,
the poor, the peasants of the countryside, and more than the people
in the things: "Because it is that God hung on the heart - not from
him fortgegangen are. " But this revelation is not growing as Werfel
directly from life and share dichotomy of sacred and certainty, it
grows from the desire of the homeless artist and spectator, and
from the knowledge of many religious ideas and symbols.

A Russian monk, the makers and writers of the book of hours, and
the whole mood richness of Russian monasteries, domes, icon, Gossudars
is used.

Other religious poem cycles, such as the "Angel Songs" and the "songs of
the girls in Mary" are präraffaelitische memories mood makers.
And the "New Poems", which in the fullness of their images, the
relationship of the individual phenomena of the last processes and
forms of life want to do so not out of the pressing unit and depth
of the original sense of the world, but in the psychological or
mental orbit of a theme .

Often designed, artistically appealing already plays around particular
topics attract Rilke: Abisag, David before Saul, Pieta, San Sebastian,
Orpheus and Eurydice, Alkestis, Birth of Venus, Sappho, etc. Eranna
to life in these pictures looks and creates the soul is home, the
Life itself is closed.

And she brings them all their human and artistic sensitivity and awareness
as a gift. Early Rilke has its linguistic style created by such a
peculiarity that he is the frontier of fashion touches. Inconspicuous
words he knows to be whole staff, spent their pictures on Ursinn due
parables preziös expand. Through rhyme, Binnenreim and accumulation of
Endreims he knows a Slavic language of the softness and fullness
to Klang.

In the last book of poems, the "New Poems, second part, however,
wins the Artistic area of concern.

The tendency to mysticism is danger and escape for a time, taking the
form of personality to win again, will not give up. Not ichflüchtig, but
in the deepest ichsüchtig had to be the poet, used to form the new
poetry: to form the new people wanted to penetrate.

And if anyone by the time came round to her, even if Richard Dehmel,
the strongest educators whose decomposed elements crumbling remained
in the hands, so could only be the pure form of personality, the
new human form of it from the beginning except time and time against
de undertook.

Thus, the personality and poetry Stefan Georges (born 1866) has become
the form. The will to form was the essence of Georges Act early. He
himself recalls that his forces in the form of the Roman Empire,
of Catholicism, the Rhenish landscape in the blood to remove that.

First, this will shape his aesthetic conscious. The leaves of the art
"which he founded in 1892, encouraged - by the Präraffaeliten
influenced by French poets and, like Baudelaire, Verlaine, Mallarmé,
Villiers - an" art for art, "saw" in any event, any age only a means
of artistic excitement. " But behind this desire for aesthetic and
created rang at George - not with his followers - the desire for
human beings and forms.

And because he in his own time was not because of their decomposed elements
also no pure forms were to form, his soul escaped temporarily to other
times and places ", where the original form of humanity in their
search for purity and vivid to renew.

In Algabal, the Roman Emperor priests, he found his old counter-image:
the youth, which is required, regardless of a melt to the outside
world and a life rich and pure beauty, pure forms to create: creation,
where only he awakened and managed, Where its no other than the
desire turns, And so to the wind and the weather gebeut.

The shadow of Ludwig II blows through these verses. But at the
presumptuousness of Einsam-arrogant shatters this world. Away from the
isolation and the late Herrschertums flee the "shepherds poems"
in the mythic archetype refined naturally beautiful and pure humanity,
which the Greeks first observed and have formed.

Here begins the deep affinity with the ancient Georges clearly were.

Christianity had, in his world of volatility, its metaphysical
yearning and scoring form explosives elements are included in only
the southern and Rhenish Catholicism were in heaven and earth and
joy of life has remained a pictorial.

Georges pure form of desire could only genugtun an ancient belief
in the God and world, soul and body are completely penetrated, and
in the beauty of the shape to get perfect form.

"The bodyguard vergotten and verleiben God", that was everything to him
the meaning of world events, nature and art is met. For these religious
task required the sealing of a full renewal of its form substance: the
language. And from the beginning, George comes mind, epigonenhaft consumed
the elements of the German language to be set up. He was in the spirit
and sound of seven foreign languages intruded. In tireless translations
he had enriched the German language, and hammered durchglüht. In the
"Algabal" was his very own language has become, there were no acceptances
and consumed more elements in it, she was again originally was able to
clean his new. Care and life forms in the language of pure form to content.
Now George was strong enough from his flight into the world of history
to return no more archetypal past to renew, but to banish Urkräfte. In
the "Year of the soul" (1897) reveals his original form of nature.
Nature is not it contrary to the spirit or soul, he is the living
unity of both, original and eternal as the ancient world, which
no entgötterte and natural entseelte knew.

To appear in the "Year of the soul," the original form of nature, the
seasons, in images of spatial representationalism and color and also
the deepest Seelenhaftigkeit.

The soul is looking for is not here - like Goethe - the nature, to
get to her to find out, both argue in original, cosmic unit.

Archetype of nature reveal itself as a prototype of the soul, the soul
as an archetype archetype of the landscape. Thus, there is no
mood, but fate of images, these poems create. The fullness of the
highlights of the autumn day, the ripe harvest calm and clarity,
the peace of the performance, but the verse Hebbel already ahnend
durchschauert: "So much in life is to be close to death."

How are the soul and one in such a landscape poem, we move up and down in
the rich flakes Des Ganges book almost to the gates And see in the
box outside of the almond tree grid for the second time in Flore.

We look for the shadow-free benches, where we never flushed alien
voices, In our dreams are interlocking arms, we refresh ourselves on
the long, warm glow.

We feel grateful to be quiet as showers from radiation traces tops dripping
from us, And only look and listen, if breaks in the ripe fruit to
the ground knocking. George was only after the original form of the
history and nature experiences, renewed and banned, he is refined and
gestählt to the consecration of the appeal.

Now it appears the angel of the "Prelude": "The beautiful life sends
me to you - as a messenger."

The spirit of life appears to him now, the "beautiful life", the mere
existence everything is unity and clear form.

The lifts him to the holy height of the consignment.

    The pure forms that he has just learned and renewed - now it can
with a look at the original source and create a life of waiting for
his consecration, in which every hour is useful to classify,
creatively justify wants.

But the grace of Appeals invites the victim, the devotion, the exclusive
service of the appeal. From earthly happiness and warmth, he continues
to altitude, mountain solitude, Gipfeleisigkeit.

"Georges is just foreplay poem, obey the same strict behest, the forced
Zarathustra: I am the law of life and salvation in God to blind
and weltwirrer time, but not for all and none, but out of this one.

When a poet more than just an I, then there is the other, and what
he calls, awakens the ears to hear him.

Should he fill in the circle, it must give the middle and keep the rays,
not the extent of running. S I designed to meet the finish
was Georges primary concern, and that he has not received from the
Far, but by the neighbor, his own heart. But precisely this bid was the
answer to the question of life ... and it is filled, as a poet,
he found his form, his ausfocht dispute, said his word, he did what
at the time was.

Dantes Act was: God ... Look i Goethes: Document world ...

Georges: Personalize life. The dangers, sufferings, delights and duties
of this law, he proclaims in the prologue of the opening up to the
completion. " (Gundolf.) thus consecrated the first interview from the
spirit of life the "carpet of life" (1900) to draw the spiritual
archetype of humanity in nature and history, "the forces of
European-German education in various human forms of creation, from
the ground beginnings to the intellectual activity and work of
Genius. " (Gundolf.) as "an epic of Erdgeistes" begins the series
with the mother's why all humanity, the "landscape" in which humans,
animals and the earth still unconsciously and agree: "grub patriarch,
Erzmutter whey, - The Destiny nourishing for an entire people.

"For the first time in this epic image appears in the People's Georges
works as a prototype of humanity and as a prototype of his humanity,
the German people. In foreplay, the Spirit of life from him the magical
landscapes of the south to "the simple lands," the "strict line art" of
the domestic, Rhenish landscape: It no longer attracts the miracle
of the lagoons, The allumworbene, Rome large debris, like autumn
oak smell flowers and vines, as they, the people of thy guard Hort
- How your waves - live green power, now it is the people as a clear
prototype, which includes himself, the nature and historical forces
of the German people.

His mission is to become Germany's mission: By the pure forces of the
German people to be in shape, is he also the educators of his
nation. - - "The Body of God vergotten and verleiben": the unity
of world and God, nature and spirit, body and soul was Georges-belief
and mission.

You should and he had to experience shiver created. The supreme symbol
of this unity is the God-man.

And if ever the human race of this symbol was needed for its
completion - George was not satisfied with his belief in scattered
images to create a look and they had him in a condensed form.

That was the highest possibility of his belief. And his form tendons
and sake was the highest possibility of the highest necessity. So he
looked in and Maximin, the beloved figure of a beautiful, early and died
young disciple, the image of the God-man, it was perfect the world. "We
went," says Georges Maximin in speech, "a disfigured and cooled
against humanity, dealing with their properties and ramified
vielspältigen sensations boasted, however, the great and indeed the
great love was on Entschwinden. masses created rule and bid and
suffocating with Lug flatter the interpretation of tongues Rufer,
formerly of murder mildly removed : unclean hands eincm dug into
piles of Flitterstücken, worein the real gems were randomly geworten.
cut baffled impotence disguised arrogance and brazen laughter
heralded the downfall of the sanctuary. " As appeared in Maximin
einfsch the divinely beautiful man, "One of the simple events was
taken and showed us things, like the eyes of the gods they see."

It was the time solidified the Savior: The rigid Earth knocks, Just
a sacred heart.

The poems on the life and death of Maximin, his celebration, Transfiguration
and effect form the ceiling of the "Seventh Ring" (1907). From her from
the "Construct" compatriots, the second cycle of the plant, "the
call of the last gotteshaltigen or gottesmörderischen Urwesen to
turn the whole humanity."

(Gundolf.)

In the first and look up to her in the "time poems" the present court
created, discarded in their decay and darkness, blessed in the lonely
light towering figures, the models: Nietzsche, Böcklin, Leo XIII. Which
Dante , Goethe, Karl August, the former German Emperor is in eternal
life attributed imagine: archetype higher humanity, as hero and
rulers, priests, seers and poets, etc.

Here is George conscience and voice of the time. In the "Star of the
Federation" (1914) the time review, in the "time poems" just from the
idea of the divine was, from his shows and faith. Here George grows
to enormous judges and prophets of the time up.

A few months before the beginning of World War II, he has here made holy
heights the chaotic downfall of the decomposed time viewed and
addressed: From gluten purple wrath of heaven said: My view is turned
away from this nation. Siech is the spirit! Death is a reality!

In a tremendous vision, he sees and hears in droves gewitternden
airing border, clangy weapons, threatening shouts jubilantly, the
"last call of the gods on this country."

It considers the extent and halt construction of the free time and sway
collapse. He feels the terrible certainty: tens of thousands of
holy madness must beat ten thousand must gather the holy thing,
tens of thousands of holy war.

He hears the word prophet, his cry to reverse verhallen, as if nothing
happened.

And last, flaming face, he sees the Lord of the court: World lohte
evening ... went back to the Lord hindsight rich city gate and the
temple, he poor, derided, the rush is all of this, He knew no stone
should stehn Added If not the reason the whole thing will fall.

The contest, according to the same trachtend: myriad hands touched and
myriad weighty words fell and one was not. lohte evening ... world
was round game and sang, all you saw right - only he saw the left. And
as the vision of truth has become the world's doom niedergebrocben
was as still "in both camps no idea - Wittrung - What it is, as
all eyes are still only a strategic back-and-forth anstarrten since
he announced in his poem "The War" (1917): The old God of Battles
is no more. sufferer goes to Worlds End The Getob. - - - To celebrate
ziemt not: no triumph will be .

Only many sunsets without dignity. - - - None of the calls today and
says to keep my images as it scans the doom, no one spied a pale Glüh'n
of Sunrise. Far less surprising is that so much to die When so much
that dares to live. - - - A nation is dead, when its gods are dead. But
because of St.

George on the heights hinwegsah time, he also continued on the decay
and decline further Cassandras be led into the holy-loving German
promise: But does not end with the curse Sang.

"Yes. What is there I would not forgive you?" says he. "And it was a
lie!"

"Cyril," cries she in great agitation, "take care! It is a last moment!
Do you dare to tell me that still? Supposing your story to be true, and
mine--that woman's--false, how would it be between us then?"

"As it was in the first good old time when we were married."

"You, could forgive the wrong I have done you all these years,
supposing----"

"Everything--all."

"Ah!" This sound seems crushed out of her. She steps backward, and a dry
sob breaks from her.

"What is it?" asks he, quickly.

"Oh, that I could--that I dared--believe," says she.

"You would have proofs," says he, coldly, resigning her hand. "My word
is not enough. You might love me did I prove worthy; your love is not
strong enough to endure the pang of distrust. Was ever real love so poor
a thing as that? However, you shall have them."

"What?" asks she, raising her head.

"The proofs you desire," responds he, icily. "That woman--your
friend--the immaculate one--died the the day before yesterday. What? You
never heard? And you and she----"

"She was nothing to me," says Lady Baltimore. "Nothing since."

"The day she reviled me! And yet"--with a most joyless laugh--"for the
sake of a woman you cared so little about, that even her death has not
caused you a pang, you severed the tie that should have been the closest
to you on earth? Well, she is dead. 'Heaven rest her sowl!' as the
peasants say. She wrote me a letter on her bed of death."

"Yes?" Eagerly.

"You still doubt?" says he, with a stern glance at her. "So be it; you
shall see the letter, though how will that satisfy you? For you can
always gratify your desire for suspicion by regarding it as a forgery.
The woman herself is dead, so, of course, there is no one to contradict.
Do think this all out," says he, with a contemptuous laugh, "before you
commit yourself to a fresh belief in me. You see I give you every
chance. To such a veritable 'Thomas' in petticoats every road should be
laid open. Now"--tauntingly--"will you wait here whilst I bring the
proof?"

He is gazing at her in a heartbroken sort of way. Is it the end? Is it
all really over? There had been a faint flicker of the dying candle--a
tiny glare--and now for all time is it to be darkness?

As for her. Ever since he had let her hand go, she had stood with bent
head looking at it. He had taken it, he had let it go; there seemed to
be a promise of heaven--was it a false one?

She is silent, and Baltimore, who had hoped for one word of trust, of
belief, makes a gesture of despair.

"I will bring you the letter," he says, moving toward the door. When he
does bring it--when she had read it and satisfied herself of the loyalty
so long doubted, where, he asks himself, will they two be then? Further
apart than ever? He has forgiven a great deal--much more than this--and
yet, strange human nature, he knows if he once leaves the room and her
presence now, he will never return again. The letter she will see--but
him--never!

The door is open. He has almost crossed the threshold. Once again her
voice recalls him, once again he looks back, she is holding out her arms
to him.

"Cyril! Cyril!" she cried. "I believe you."

She staggers toward him. Mercifully the fountain of her tears breaks
loose, she flings herself into his willing arms, and sobs out a whole
world of grief upon his bosom.

It is a cruel moment, yet one fraught with joy as keen as the sorrow--a
fire of anguish out of which both emerge purified, calmed--gladdened.


CHAPTER LVIII.

     "Lo, the winter is past, the rain is over and gone; the flowers
     appear on the earth; the time of the singing of the birds has
     come."


The vague suspicion of rain that had filled their thoughts at breakfast
has proved idle. The sun is shining forth again with redoubled vigor, as
if laughing their silly doubts to scorn. Never was there so fair a day.
One can almost see the plants growing in the garden, and from every
bough the nesting birds are singing loud songs of joy.

The meadows are showing a lovely green, and in the glades and uplands
the

                        "Daffodils
    That come before the swallow dares,"

are uprearing their lovely heads. The air is full of sweet scents and
sounds, and Joyce, jumping down from the drawing-room window, that lies
close to the ground, looks gladly round her. Perhaps it is not so much
the beauty of the scene as the warmth of happiness in her own heart that
brings the smile to her lips and eyes.

He will be here to-day! Involuntarily she raises one hand and looks at
the ring that encircles her engaged finger. A charming ring of pearls
and sapphires. It evidently brings her happy thoughts, as, after gazing
at it for a moment or two, she stoops and presses her lips eagerly to
it. It is his first gift (though not his last), and therefore the most
precious. What girl does not like receiving a present from her lover?
The least mercenary woman on earth must feel a glow at her heart and a
fonder recognition of her sweetheart's worth when he lays a
love-offering at her feet.

Joyce, after her one act of devotion to her sweetheart, runs down the
garden path and toward the summer house. She is not expecting Dysart
until the day has well grown into its afternoon; but, book in hand, she
has escaped from all possible visitors to spend a quiet hour in the old
earwiggy shanty at the end of the garden, sure of finding herself safe
there from interruptions.

The sequel proves the futility of all human belief.

Inside the summer house; book in hand likewise, sits Mr. Browne, a
picture of studious virtue.

Miss Kavanagh, seeing him, stops dead short, so great is her surprise,
and Mr. Browne, raising his eyes, as if with difficulty, from the book
on his knee, surveys her with a calmly judicial eye.

"Not here. Not here, my child," quotes he, incorrectly. "You had better
try next door."

"Try for what?" demands she, indignantly.

"For whom? You mean----"

"No, I don't," with increasing anger.

"Jocelyne!" says Mr. Browne, severely. "When one forsakes the path of
truth it is only to tread in----"

"Nonsense!" says Miss Kavanagh, irreverently.

"As you will!" says he, meekly. "But I assure you he is not here."

"I could have told you that," says she, coloring, however, very warmly.
"I must say, Dicky, you are the most ingeniously stupid person I ever
met in my life."

"To shine in even the smallest line in life is to achieve something,"
says Mr. Browne, complacently. "And so you knew he wouldn't be here just
now?"

This is uttered in an insinuating tone. Miss Kavanagh feels she has made
a false move. To give Dicky an inch is, indeed, to give him an ell.

"He? Who?" says she, weakly.

"Don't descend to dissimulation, Jocelyne," advises he, severely. "It's
the surest road to ruin, if one is to believe the good old copy books.
By he--you see I scorn subterfuge--I mean Dysart, the person to whom in
a mistaken moment you have affianced yourself, as though I--I were not
ready at any time to espouse you."

"I'm not going to be espoused," says Miss Kavanagh, half laughing.

"No? I quite understood----"

"I won't have that word," petulantly. "It sounds like something out of
the dark ages."

"So does he," says Mr. Browne. "'Felix,' you know. So Latin! Quite like
one of the old monks. I shouldn't wonder if he turned out a----"

"I wish you wouldn't tease me, Dicky," says she. "You think you are
amusing, you know, but I think you are one of the rudest people I ever
met. I wish you would let me alone."

"Ah! Why didn't you leave me alone?" says he, with a sigh that would
have set a furnace ablaze. "However!" with a noble determination to
overcome his grief. "Let the past lie. You want to go and meet Dysart,
isn't that it? And I'll go and meet him with you. Could self-sacrifice
further go? 'Jim along Josy,' no doubt he is at the upper gate by this
time, flying on the wings of love."

"He is not," says Joyce; "and I wish once for all, Dicky, that you
wouldn't call me 'Josy.' 'Jocelyne' is bad enough, but 'Josy!' And I'm
not going to 'jim' anywhere, and certainly"--with strong
determination--"not with you." She looks at him with sudden curiosity.
"What brought you here to-day?" asks she, most inhospitably it must be
confessed.

"What brings me here every day? To see the unkindest girl in the world."

"She doesn't live here," says Miss Kavanagh. "Dicky"--changing her tone
suddenly and looking at him with earnest eyes. Because of a fairy
tale, which today no one believes.

"Freveln you do not," cried the princess, "there are facts known to me
to make me shudder when I think of, but we are talking in riddles our
referees, make sure once, whether it is not terrible if it every so often
'Othello', where would burn. "Also another parable," Sophie was a "but
there is still a lot of great, even the fairy tale!"

"No you want to burn again, "the mother went on." 'Othello' was first
as a drama after Shakespeare, where even fifty years ago, the legend
went, we do not know where and why, that as often as' Othello 'was
a certain Evenement done now so we burn it on fire every time to
'Othello'.

We made the attempt, it was a long time, 'Othello' is not, it was
a witty new translation, he is given - the case of accident occurred
again.

I remember like today, as' Othello ', turns to the opera, was the first
time, and we laughed long before that we have the unfortunate Moor
for his sacrifices have by now become musically - Desdemona had
fallen, a few days afterwards Black also had his second victim.

The case afterwards came again, and this one has' Othello 'never again,
where it is silly, but true. What do you say to that, Baron?

But honestly, what do you think of our dispute? "" Highness are
absolutely right, "answered Laruns in a tone of seriousness and
irony, between the center held," if you allow, I will be through
an example from my own life your assertion .

I had an unmarried aunt, an unpleasant, mystical person, we children called
it just the spring aunt, because they have black feathers on a hat
to wear the habit. As for your 'Othello', it went well in our family a
legend, so often the spring aunt came later had one or the other
ill.

It was joked about and laughed, but the disease was always, and we were
spook already so accustomed to that, so often the spring aunt to
visit the farm drove all Zurüstungen for the next illness, and even
the doctor was fetched. "" A delicious piece of your aunt spring,
"cried the Princess, laughing," I can I think they are as they head
to the Federnhut stretched out of the car, as the children run as
if the plague, because none wants to be sick, and how a Reitknecht
blow to the city in order to get to the doctor, because the spring
aunt was published.

Since you were so truly a vibrant white woman in your family! "" Still of
these things, "she the princess seriously, almost unmutes," we
should not so glibly talk about things that you can not deny their
nature and yet never explained.

It is now my 'Othello,' "she added kindly."

And you will not see him get Baron, and have their favorite piece of advice
already elsewhere. "" And you should see it anyway, "Sophie whispered
to him, "I have my Desdemonalied again hear really see and hear on
stage, and should I be about the victims!"

"You?" asked the stranger affected, "I hear yes, the ghost will
Mohr just burn, not kill? "" Oh, that was just the likeness of the
mother, "she whispered even more quietly," the legend is still
shudder much, much more dangerous.

"The conductor tapped the introduction of the second act began , and the
stranger stood on the royal box to leave. The duchess had dismissed
him kindly, but in vain, it was not in accordance with the envoys
to, he was probably long since returned to his lodge.

"Oh--er--well--just poetry, you know."

"I don't," says Tommy, flatly, who is nothing if not painfully truthful.
"Let me hear them." He pauses here and regards her with a searching eye.
"They"--with careful forethought--"they aren't lessons, are they?"

"No; they are not lessons," says his aunt, laughing. "But you won't like
them for all that. If you are athirst for literature, get me one of your
own books, and I will read 'Jack the Giant Killer' to you."

"I'm sick of him," says Tommy, most ungratefully. That tremendous hero
having filled up many an idle hour of his during his short lifetime.
"No," nestling closer to her. "Go on with your poetry one!"

"You would hate it. It is worse than 'Jack,'" says she.

"Let me hear it," says Tommy, persistently.

"Well," says Miss Kavanagh, with a sigh, "if you will have it, at least,
don't interrupt." She has tried very hard to get rid of him, but, having
failed in so signal a fashion, she gives herself up with an admirable
resignation to the inevitable.

"What would I do that for?" asks Tommy, rather indignantly.

"I don't know, I'm sure. But I thought I'd warn you," says she, wisely
precautious. "Now, sit down there," pointing to the seat beside her;
"and when you feel you have had enough of it, say so at once."

"That would be interrupting," says Tommy, the Conscientious.

"Well, I give you leave to interrupt so far," says Joyce, glad to leave
him a loop-hole that may insure his departure before Felix comes. "But
no further--mind that."

"Oh, I'm minding!" says Tommy, impatiently. "Go on. Why don't you
begin?"

Miss Kavanagh, taking up her book once more, opens it at random. All its
contents are sweetmeats of the prettiest, so she is not driven to a
choice. She commences to read in a firm, soft voice:--

    "The wind and the beam loved the rose,
        And the roses loved one:
    For who recks the----"

"What's that?" says Tommy.

"What's what?"

"You aren't reading it right, are you?"

"Certainly I am. Why?"

"I don't believe a beam of wood could love anything," says Tommy; "it's
too heavy."

"It doesn't mean a beam of wood."

"Doesn't it?" staring up into her face. "What's it mean, then--'The beam
that is in thine own eye?'"

Salvador said nothing. Suspected that the head of his brother had a
monstrous idea, and did not want to pursue that idea, fearing to
see the sad suspicion confirmed.

Letting it be cooked again hands, approached the window to see the
snowfall, which that day was enormous. It seemed that the world
navigate a deep infinity of swan feathers.

Entered at the time the father died of cold and Zorraquín sat astride
a chair near the fireplace, spread your feet to the fire.

Shortly after the strong heat of the flame and forced to depart. Began
to darken, being at that station evenings shorter than the hope
of the poor, and Doña Hermenegildo gave birth to a splendid Quinque,
competitor's winter sun.

Closed timber, the four were prepared to go to the very long evening
breasts, which seemed a century, when it was not involved with
interesting and varied entertainment.

Doña Hermenegildo half was very lightly. That night needed winding skeins
of yarn, and had no winder, prestose, other times to fill the blessed
Father Zorraquín.

He was very kind man.

The priest talk talk, and that the owner reel reeling, it appeared that
the lips that he was leaving the floor, and the skein of his hands
the thread, and that Mrs.

Hermenegildo was wrapped around the endless discourse, making it a big
ball , which could pass through large book. The priest spoke, moving
his arms and hands to swing slowly leave the thread, the situation grew
from a nut apple to apple pumpkin, and the two brothers heard, and
streets, one stationary, the other marking each turn of the skein with
a flick made with the tongs on the edge of the chimney. Each time the
wire is slipped, touching the toe of the right hand of the priest, Navarro
was a coup. It was like the rhythm of a reló 17.

Believe that the four individuals were built to a jagged tangle speak,
and the second ball.

Salvador would have to go through the humane reló shows that 18, because
her face did not express anything, unless the sadness of an immutable
timetable.

Zorraquín What it? Zumalacárregui the feats that the matter was bound
in Pamplona and Navarre throughout.

Diffuseness good cure is not here to imitate, as he was being
proposed in the future historian of that great war, and aimed to
gather all news materials.

Get all the same right as doubtful, and using history as well as anecdotal,
elements close to a huge warehouse literary, fortunately, was killed
in a fire years later. Zorraquín related actions, describing places,
reproducing the words, giving speeches to the size and tone of
discourse as Livy.

Until imitated the gestures of warriors, and when you reach a point where
there cheers of the crowd, as did the living, the need to beg the
voice down so as not to alarm the neighborhood.

In short everything possible bland narration, only that we had encountered
Zumalacárregui antagonism of unruly chiefs who rose before him.
She
gives herself another vigorous shake, and stands away from the spot
where Tommy evidently thinks the noxious beast in question may be, with
her petticoats held carefully up in both hands. "Oh, Tommy, darling! Do
find him. He can't be up my petticoats, can he?"

"He can. There's, nothing they can't do," says Tommy, who is plainly
revelling in the storm he has raised. Her open fright is beer and
skittles to him. "Why did you stir? He was as good as gold, until then;
and there wasn't anything to be afraid of. I was watching him. When he
got to your ear I'd have told you. I wouldn't like him to make you deaf,
but I wanted to see if he would go to your ear. But you spoiled all my
fun, and now--where is he now?" asks Tommy, with an awful suggestion in
his tone.

"On the grass, perhaps," says Joyce, miserably, looking round her
everywhere, and even on her shoulder. Great fear seized him, and the cool air penetrated him up on the
skin.

The wine was near him when he looked so alone in the middle of the
woods, God knows what hour of the night.

Now, if robbers or murderers would, or goblins or giant ...
There, go away! I certainly
shan't read another line to you--either now--or--ever!"

"What is the matter?" asks a voice at this moment, that sounds close to
her elbow. She turns round with a start.

"It is you, Felix!" says she, coloring warmly. "Oh--oh, it's nothing.
Only Tommy. And he said I had an earwig on me. And I was just a little
unnerved, you know."

To be considered well; But because of his father's voice is missing, you
need to wackrer but the others ensured. Hermia. Seeding O my father
only with my eyes! Theseus. Eye Eur must follow its ruling sehn. Hermia.
I ask you , gnädger Lord, my verzeihn. I do not know what power gives
me boldness, even as it behooves my modesty, In such a presence to keep
the word, but I allowed myself to ask unterstehn: What is the
hardest that I can take , Verweigr I Demetrius the hand?

She is still a little shy with Felix. "He doesn't trust her."

"No." He has seated himself and now draws her down beside him. "You were
reading?" he says.

"Yes."

"To Tommy?"

"Yes," laughing more naturally this time.

(Ab) Helena. How can the happiness so fantastical but turn, I will for
as beautiful as they are held.

What helps me, as long as Demetrius not want to know what everyone needs
to know how madness compels him to look to hang Hermias , I Vergöttr
him, from the same delusion uneasy.

The worst thing in the nature and content of love Borrows still handsome
and shape.

She sees with the mind, not with the eyes, And her soul can never
suck on the ruling. drum called the yes God of love blindly.

Also paints it as a winged child, because he, from game to continue
playing that, in his election is so often betrayed.

How often in the boys' jokes lie, it is also false oaths Cupido happy.

"Make me sure of it," entreated he almost in a whisper. He leans over
her, lower, lower still. With a little tremulous laugh, dangerously akin
to tears, she raises her soft palm to his cheek and tries to press
him--from her. But he holds her fast.

"Make me sure!" he says again. There is a last faint hesitation on her
part, and then--their lips meet.

"I have doubted always--always a little--ever since that night down by
the river," says he, "but now----"

"Oh, no! You must not doubt me again!" says she with tears in her eyes.


THE END.