
Do you think, dear, as you say
Such a light good-bye to-day,
That this parting time may be
Mayhaps less to you, than me?

What a wonder of surprise
Looks out from your sunny eyes.
'Just a nice acquaintance.'  So
We have called it, dear, I know.

Now you end it with a word,
While my inmost soul is stirred.
No--you cannot understand.
But, dear, as I touch your hand,

Listening to your light good-bye,
All a man's roused passions cry
Like a tiger, stirred, at bay.
Oh! you draw your hand away.

'I've no right to speak so?'  Pray
Was it _your_ right day by day
By your sweet coquettish arts
To invade my heart of hearts?

It is death to let you go.
You will hate me, dear, I know;
But I swear, ere you go hence,
I will have some recompense.

For those fires you lit in vain,
Cheeks and lips shall bear the stain
Of my kisses till you die.
Go now! this is my good-bye.


AT THE HOP


'Tis time to dress.  Dost hear the music surging
   Like sobbing waves that roll up from the sea?
for. It with the of French Revolution excellent
   work a sketch of times; the.,; the Hinds+$ and traces am the causes
which made+( An; decline of history of 1.00++History ancient empires,
rise what of the French monarchy the Revolution inevitable

.
   You bought me with a mother's pain and trouble.
   I've been a great expense to you alway.
And now, if you can sell me, and get double
   The sum I cost--why, what have I to say?

You've done your duty: kept me in the fashion,
   And shown me off at every stylish place.
'Twas not your fault I had a heart of passion;
   'Twas not your fault I ever _saw_ his face.

The dream was brief, and beautiful, and tender,
   (O God! to live those golden hours once more.
The silver moonlight, and his dark eyes' splendour,
   The sky above us, and the sea before.)

Come, come, Lisette, bring out those royal laces;
   To-night must make the victory complete.
Among the crowd of masked and smiling faces,
   I'll move with laughter, and with smiles most sweet.

Make me most fair! with youth and grace and beauty,
   I needs must conquer bloated age and gold.
She shall not say I have not done my duty;
   I'm ready now--a daughter to be sold!


MET


How odd and strange seems our meeting
   Like a grim rendezvous of the dead.
All day I have sat here repeating
   The commonplace things that we said.
They sounded so oddly when uttered--
   They sound just as odd to me now;
_Was_ it we, or our two ghosts who muttered
   Last evening, with simper and bow?

I had grown used to living without you.
   In revel and concert and ball,
I had flown from much thinking about you,
   And your picture I turned to the wall.
For to call back the dream that was broken,
   To fancy your hand on my hair,
To remember the words we had spoken,
   Was madness, and gall, and despair.

I knew I could never forget you;
   But I wanted to put you away.
And now, just to think how I met you--
   It has seemed like a nightmare all day.
We two with our record of passion,
   We two who have been as one heart,
To meet in that calm, quiet fashion,
   And chat for a moment and part.

We two who remember such blisses
   Not heaven itself can eclipse,
We two who had kissed with the kisses
   That draw out the soul through the lips,
We two who have known the ideal,
   The rare perfect love in its might--
Nay, nay, they were ghosts, and not real,
   Who met, and who parted, last night.
They were ghosts, unprepared for the meeting;
   'Twas a chance rendezvous of the dead;
And all day I sit here repeating
   The odd sounding words that were said.


RETURNED BIRDS


My heart to-day is like a southern wood,
   Through summer months it has been drunk with heat;
   And slumbered on unmindful of the beat
Of life beyond it: sleep alone seemed good.

