One morning when, without any suspicion of what was in store for them,
Mrs. James and Adjutant Lomer sat down to their _chota-hazree_, two
members of the accustomed breakfast party were missing. Enquiries
having been set on foot, the fact was elicited that Captain James and
Mrs. Lomer had gone out for an early ride. It must have been a long
one, thought the camp, as they did not appear at dinner that evening.
Messengers sent to look for them came back with a disturbing report.
This was to the effect that the couple had slipped off to the Nilgiri
Hills and had decided to stop there.

The next morning a panting native brought a letter from the errant
lady addressed to her furious spouse. This missive is (without
explaining how he got it) reproduced by an American journalist, T.
Everett Harré, in a series of articles, _The Heavenly Sinner_: "I
suggest," runs an extract, "you come to your senses and give me my
freedom ... I am going with a man of parts who knows how to give a
woman the attentions she craves, and is himself glad to shake off a
young chit of a wife who is too brainless to appreciate him."

A first-class sensation. The entire cantonment throbbed and buzzed
with excitement. The colonel fumed; the adjutant cursed; and there was
talk of bringing the Don Juan Captain James to a court-martial for
"conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman." But Lola, as was her
custom, took it philosophically, doubtless reflecting that she was
well rid of a spouse for whom she no longer cared, and went back to
her mother in Calcutta.

Mrs. Craigie's maternal heart-strings should have been wrung by the
unhappy position of her daughter. They were not wrung. The clandestine
marriage, with the upsetting of her own plans, still rankled and
remained unforgiven and unforgotten. As a result, when she asked for
shelter and sympathy, Lola received a very frigid welcome. Her
step-father, however, took her part, and declared that his bungalow
was open to her until other arrangements could be made for her future.
Not being possessed of much imagination, his idea was that she should
leave India temporarily and stop for a few months in Scotland with his
brother, Mr. David Craigie, a man of substance and Provost of Perth.
After an interval for reflection there, he felt that the differences
of opinion that had arisen between her husband and herself would
become adjusted, and the young couple resume marital relations.
Accordingly, he wrote to his brother, asking him to meet her when she
arrived in London and escort her to Perth.

Lola, however, while professing complete agreement, had other views as
to her future. She wanted neither a reconciliation with her husband
nor a second experience of life with the Craigie family in Scotland.
One such had been more than sufficient, but she was careful not to
breathe a word on the subject. She kept her own counsel, and matured
her own plans.


CHAPTER III

THE CONSISTORY COURT


I

Sailing from Calcutta for London in an East Indiaman, at the end of
1840, Lola was consigned by her step-father to the "special care" of a
Mrs. Sturgis who was among the passengers. He obviously felt the
parting. "Big salt tears," says Lola, "coursed down his cheeks," when
he wished her a last farewell. He also gave her his blessing; and,
what was more negotiable, a cheque for £1000. The two never met again.

But although she had left India's coral strand, a memory of her
lingered there for many years. In this connection, Sir Walter Lawrence
says that he once found himself in a cantonment that had been deserted
so long that it was swallowed up by the ever advancing jungle. "A
wizened villager," he says, "recalled a high-spirited and beautiful
girl, the young wife of an officer, who would creep up and push him
into the water. 'Ah,' he said, with a smile of affection, 'she was a
_badmash_, but she was always very kind to me.' She was better known
afterwards as Lola Montez."

At Madras a number of fresh comers joined the good ship _Larkins_ in
which Lola was proceeding to England. Among them was a certain Captain
Lennox, aide-de-camp to Lord Elphinstone, the Governor. An agreeable
young man, and very different from the missionaries and civil servants
who formed the bulk of the other male passengers. Lola and himself
were soon on good terms. "Too good," was the acid comment of the
ladies in whose society Captain Lennox exhibited no interest. The
couple were inseparable. They sat at the same table in the saloon;
they paced the deck together, arm in arm, on the long hot nights,
preferring dark and unfrequented corners; their chairs adjoined; their
cabins adjoined; and, so the shocked whisper ran, they sometimes
mistook the one for the other.

"Anybody can make a mistake in the dark," said Lola, when Mrs.
Sturgis, remembering Captain Craigie's injunctions, and resolved at
all costs to fulfil her trust, ventured on a remonstrance.

Ninety years ago, travellers had to "rough it;" and the conditions
governing a voyage from India to England were very different from
those that now obtain. None of the modern amenities had any place in
the accepted routine. Thus, no deck sports; no jazz band; no
swimming-pool; no cocktail bar; not even a sweepstake on the day's
run.

But time had to be killed; and, as a young grass widow, Mrs. James
felt that flirting was the best way of getting through it. Captain
Lennox was the only man on board ship with whom she had anything in
common. He was sympathetic, good-looking, and attentive. Also, he
swore that he was "madly in love with her." The old, old story; but it
did its work. Before the vessel berthed in London docks, Lola had come
to a decision. A momentous decision. She would give David Craigie the
slip, and, listening to his blandishments, cast in her lot with George
Lennox.

"I'll look after you," he said reassuringly. "Trust me for that, my
dear."

Lola did trust him. In fact, she trusted him to such an extent that,
on reaching London, she stopped with him at the Imperial Hotel in
Covent Garden; and then, when the manageress of that establishment
took upon herself to make pointed criticisms, at his rooms in Pall
Mall.

Naturally enough, this sort of thing could not be hushed up for long.
Meaning nods and winks greeted the dashing Lennox when he appeared at
his club. Tongues wagged briskly. Some of them even wagged in distant
Calcutta, where they were heard by Lola's husband. Ignoring his own
amorous dalliance with a brother officer's spouse, he elected to feel
injured. Resolved to assert himself, he got into touch with his London
solicitors and instructed them to take the preliminary steps to
dissolve his marriage. The first of these was to bring an action for
what was then politely dubbed "crim. con." against the man he alleged
to have "wronged" him.

The lawyers would not be hurried; and things moved in leisurely
fashion. Still, they moved to their appointed end; and, the necessary
red tape being unwound, interrogatories administered, and the evidence
of prying chambermaids and hotel servants collected and examined, in
May, 1841, the case of James v. Lennox got into the list and was heard
by Lord Denman and a special jury in the Court of Queen's Bench. Sir
William Follett, the Solicitor-General, was briefed on behalf of the
plaintiff, and Frederick Thesiger appeared for Captain Lennox.

In his opening address, Sir William Follett (who had not been too well
instructed) told the jury that the petitioner and his wife "had lived
very happily together in India, and that the return of Mrs. James to
England was due to a fall from her horse at Calcutta." While on the
passage home, he continued, pulling out his _vox humana_ stop, the
ship touched at Madras, where the defendant came on board; and,
"during the long voyage, an intimacy sprang up between Mrs. James and
himself which developed in a fashion that left the outraged husband no
choice but to institute the present proceedings to recover damages for
having been wantonly robbed of the affection and society of his
consort."

At this point, counsel for Captain Lennox (who, in pusillanimous
fashion, had loved and sailed away, rather than stop and help the
woman he had compromised) cut short his learned friend's tearful
eloquence by admitting that he was prepared to accept a verdict, with
£1000 damages. As the judge agreed, the case was abruptly terminated.

This, however, was only the first round. In December of the following
year, the next step was adopted, and a suit for divorce was commenced
in the Consistory Court. As neither Mrs. James nor the Lothario-like
Captain Lennox put in an appearance, Dr. Lushington, declaring himself
satisfied that misconduct had been committed, pronounced a decree _a
mensa et thoro_. All that this amounted to was merely a judicial
separation.

The report in _The Times_ only ran to a dozen lines. Considering that
the paper cost fivepence a copy, this was not a very liberal
allowance. Still, readers had better value in respect of another
action in "high life" that was heard the same day, that of Lord and
Lady Graves, which had a full column allotted it.


II

This was all that the public knew of the case. It did not seem much on
which to blast a young wife's reputation. Dr. Lushington, the judge of
the Consistory Court, however, knew a good deal more about the
business than did the general public. This was because, during the
preliminary hearing, held some months earlier and attended only by
counsel and solicitors, a number of damaging facts had transpired.

Mrs. James, said learned counsel for the petitioner, had "been guilty
of behaviour at which a crocodile would tremble and blush." A serious
charge to bring against a young woman. Still, in answer to the judge,
he professed himself equipped with ample evidence to support it. His
first witness was a retired civil servant, a Mr. Browne Roberts, who
had known the respondent's husband, first, as a bachelor in India, and
afterwards as a married man in Dublin. At the beginning of 1841, he
had received a call, he said, from a Major McMullen to whom Captain
Craigie had written, asking him to take charge of his step-daughter on
her arrival in London and see her off to his relatives in Scotland.
When, however, the major offered this hospitality, it was refused.
Thereupon, Mr. Roberts had himself called at the Imperial Hotel,
Covent Garden, and suggested that she should come and stop with his
wife; and this invitation was also refused.

Not much in this perhaps, but a good deal in what followed. Mrs.
Elizabeth Walters, the manageress of the Imperial Hotel, said that on
February 21, 1841, "a lady and gentleman arrived in a hackney cab,
with luggage marked G. Lennox and Mrs. James, and booked a double
room." Mrs. Walters had not, she admitted, "actually discovered them
undressed, or sharing the bed," but "she would not have been surprised
to have done so." Accordingly, when her travelling companion left the
next morning, she taxed Mrs. James with misconduct. After telling her
to "mind her own business," Mrs. James had declared that she and
Captain Lennox were on the point of being married, and had then packed
up and left the establishment.

"What exactly did she say?" enquired the judge.

"She said, 'what I choose to do is my own affair and nobody else's.'"

