Produced by Don Lainson


SPRINGHAVEN:

A Tale of the Great War


By R. D. Blackmore


1887


CHAPTER I

WHEN THE SHIP COMES HOME


In the days when England trusted mainly to the vigor and valor of one
man, against a world of enemies, no part of her coast was in greater
peril than the fair vale of Springhaven. But lying to the west of the
narrow seas, and the shouts both of menace and vigilance, the quiet
little village in the tranquil valley forbore to be uneasy.

For the nature of the place and race, since time has outlived memory,
continually has been, and must be, to let the world pass easily. Little
to talk of, and nothing to do, is the healthy condition of mankind just
there. To all who love repose and shelter, freedom from the cares of
money and the cark of fashion, and (in lieu of these) refreshing air,
bright water, and green country, there is scarcely any valley left to
compare with that of Springhaven. This valley does not interrupt the
land, but comes in as a pleasant relief to it. No glaring chalk, no
grim sandstone, no rugged flint, outface it; but deep rich meadows, and
foliage thick, and cool arcades of ancient trees, defy the noise that
men make. And above the trees, in shelving distance, rise the crests of
upland, a soft gray lias, where orchards thrive, and greensward strokes
down the rigor of the rocks, and quick rills lace the bosom of the slope
with tags of twisted silver.

In the murmur of the valley twenty little waters meet, and discoursing
their way to the sea, give name to the bay that receives them and the
anchorage they make. And here no muddy harbor reeks, no foul mouth
of rat-haunted drains, no slimy and scraggy wall runs out, to mar the
meeting of sweet and salt. With one or two mooring posts to watch it,
and a course of stepping-stones, the brook slides into the peaceful bay,
and is lost in larger waters. Even so, however, it is kindly still, for
it forms a tranquil haven.

Because, where the ruffle of the land stream merges into the heavier
disquietude of sea, slopes of shell sand and white gravel give welcome
pillow to the weary keel. No southerly tempest smites the bark, no long
groundswell upheaves her; for a bold point, known as the "Haven-head,"
baffles the storm in the offing, while the bulky rollers of a strong
spring-tide, that need no wind to urge them, are broken by the shifting
of the shore into a tier of white-frilled steps. So the deep-waisted
smacks that fish for many generations, and even the famous "London
trader" (a schooner of five-and-forty tons), have rest from their
labors, whenever they wish or whenever they can afford it, in the
arms of the land, and the mouth of the water, and under the eyes of
Springhaven.

At the corner of the wall, where the brook comes down, and pebble turns
into shingle, there has always been a good white gate, respected (as a
white gate always is) from its strong declaration of purpose. Outside
of it, things may belong to the Crown, the Admiralty, Manor, or Trinity
Brethren, or perhaps the sea itself--according to the latest ebb or
flow of the fickle tide of Law Courts--but inside that gate everything
belongs to the fine old family of Darling.

Concerning the origin of these Darlings divers tales are told, according
to the good-will or otherwise of the diver. The Darlings themselves
contend and prove that stock and name are Saxon, and the true form of
the name is "Deerlung," as witness the family bearings. But the foes of
the race, and especially the Carnes, of ancient Sussex lineage, declare
that the name describes itself. Forsooth, these Darlings are nothing
more, to their contemptuous certainty, than the offset of some
court favorite, too low to have won nobility, in the reign of some
light-affectioned king.

If ever there was any truth in that, it has been worn out long ago by
friction of its own antiquity. Admiral Darling owns that gate, and
all the land inside it, as far as a Preventive man can see with his
spy-glass upon the top bar of it. And this includes nearly all the
village of Springhaven, and the Hall, and the valley, and the hills that
make it. And how much more does all this redound to the credit of the
family when the gazer reflects that this is nothing but their younger
tenement! For this is only Springhaven Hall, while Darling Holt, the
headquarters of the race, stands far inland, and belongs to Sir Francis,
the Admiral's elder brother.

When the tides were at their spring, and the year 1802 of our era in
the same condition, Horatia Dorothy Darling, younger daughter of the
aforesaid Admiral, choosing a very quiet path among thick shrubs and
under-wood, came all alone to a wooden building, which her father called
his Round-house. In the war, which had been patched over now, but would
very soon break out again, that veteran officer held command of the
coast defense (westward of Nelson's charge) from Beachy Head to Selsey
Bill. No real danger had existed then, and no solid intent of invasion,
but many sharp outlooks had been set up, and among them was this at
Springhaven.

Here was established under thatch, and with sliding lights before it,
the Admiral's favorite Munich glass, mounted by an old ship's carpenter
(who had followed the fortunes of his captain) on a stand which would
have puzzled anybody but the maker, with the added security of a lanyard
from the roof. The gear, though rough, was very strong and solid,
and afforded more range and firmer rest to the seven-feet tube and
adjustments than a costly mounting by a London optician would have been
likely to supply. It was a pleasure to look through such a glass, so
clear, and full of light, and firm; and one who could have borne to
be looked at through it, or examined even by a microscope, came now to
enjoy that pleasure.

Miss Dolly Darling could not be happy--though her chief point was to
be so--without a little bit of excitement, though it were of her own
construction. Her imagination, being bright and tender and lively,
rather than powerful, was compelled to make its own material, out of
very little stuff sometimes. She was always longing for something sweet
and thrilling and romantic, and what chance of finding it in this
dull place, even with the longest telescope? For the war, with all its
stirring rumors and perpetual motion on shore and sea, and access of
gallant visitors, was gone for the moment, and dull peace was signed.

This evening, as yet, there seemed little chance of anything to enliven
her. The village, in the valley and up the stream, was hidden by turns
of the land and trees; her father's house beneath the hill crest was out
of sight and hearing; not even a child was on the beach; and the only
movement was of wavelets leisurely advancing toward the sea-wall fringed
with tamarisk. The only thing she could hope to see was the happy return
of the fishing-smacks, and perhaps the "London trader," inasmuch as the
fishermen (now released from fencible duty and from French alarm) did
their best to return on Saturday night to their moorings, their homes,
the disposal of fish, and then the deep slumber of Sunday. If the breeze
should enable them to round the Head, and the tide avail for landing,
the lane to the village, the beach, and even the sea itself would swarm
with life and bustle and flurry and incident. But Dolly's desire was for
scenes more warlike and actors more august than these.

Beauty, however, has an eye for beauty beyond its own looking-glass.
Deeply as Dolly began to feel the joy of her own loveliness, she had
managed to learn, and to feel as well, that so far as the strength and
vigor of beauty may compare with its grace and refinement, she had
her own match at Springhaven. Quite a hardworking youth, of no social
position and no needless education, had such a fine countenance and such
bright eyes that she neither could bear to look at him nor forbear to
think of him. And she knew that if the fleet came home she would see him
on board of the Rosalie.

Flinging on a shelf the small white hat which had scarcely covered her
dark brown curls, she lifted and shored with a wooden prop the southern
casement of leaded glass. This being up, free range was given to the
swinging telescope along the beach to the right and left, and over the
open sea for miles, and into the measureless haze of air. She could
manage this glass to the best advantage, through her father's teaching,
and could take out the slide and clean the lenses, and even part the
object-glass, and refix it as well as possible. She belonged to the
order of the clever virgins, but scarcely to that of the wise ones.


CHAPTER II

WITH HER CREW AND CARGO


Long after the time of those who write and those who read this history,
the name of Zebedee Tugwell will be flourishing at Springhaven.

To achieve unmerited honor is the special gift of thousands, but to
deserve and win befalls some few in every century, and one of these few
was Zebedee. To be the head-man of any other village, and the captain of
its fishing fleet, might prove no lofty eminence; but to be the leader
of Springhaven was true and arduous greatness. From Selsey Bill to
Orfordness, taking in all the Cinque Ports and all the port of London,
there was not a place that insisted on, and therefore possessed, all
its own rights so firmly as this village did. Not less than seven stout
fishing-smacks--six of them sloops, and the seventh a dandy--formed the
marine power of this place, and behaved as one multiplied by seven. All
the bold fishermen held their line from long-established ancestry, and
stuck to the stock of their grandfathers, and their wisdom and freedom
from prejudice. Strength was condensed into clear law with them--as
sinew boils down into jelly--and character carried out its force as the
stamp of solid impress. What the father had been, the son became, as the
generation squared itself, and the slates for the children to do their
copies were the tombstones of their granddads. Thus brave Etruria grew,
and thus the Rome which was not built in a day became the flower of the
world, and girt in unity of self seven citadels.

There was Roman blood--of the Tenth Legion, perhaps--in the general
vein of Springhaven. There was scarcely a man who pretended to know much
outside of his own business, and there was not a woman unable to
wait (when her breath was quite gone) for sound reason. Solidity,
self-respect, pure absence of frivolous humor, ennobled the race and
enabled them to hold together, so that everybody not born in Springhaven
might lament, but never repair, his loss.

This people had many ancient rules befitting a fine corporation, and
among them were the following: "Never do a job for a stranger; sleep in
your own bed when you can; be at home in good time on a Saturday; never
work harder than you need; throw your fish away rather than undersell
it; answer no question, but ask another; spend all your money among your
friends; and above all, never let any stranger come a-nigh your proper
fishing ground, nor land any fish at Springhaven."

These were golden laws, and made a snug and plump community. From the
Foreland to the Isle of Wight their nets and lines were sacred, and no
other village could be found so thriving, orderly, well-conducted, and
almost well-contented. For the men were not of rash enterprise, hot
labor, or fervid ambition; and although they counted things by money,
they did not count one another so. They never encouraged a friend to
work so hard as to grow too wealthy, and if he did so, they expected him
to grow more generous than he liked to be. And as soon as he failed upon
that point, instead of adoring, they growled at him, because every one
of them might have had as full a worsted stocking if his mind had been
small enough to forget the difference betwixt the land and sea, the tide
of labor and the time of leisure.

To these local and tribal distinctions they added the lofty expansion of
sons of the sea. The habit of rising on the surge and falling into the
trough behind it enables a biped, as soon as he lands, to take things
that are flat with indifference. His head and legs have got into a state
of firm confidence in one another, and all these declare--with the rest
of the body performing as chorus gratis--that now they are come to a
smaller affair, upon which they intend to enjoy themselves. So that,
while strenuous and quick of movement--whenever they could not help
it--and sometimes even brisk of mind (if anybody strove to cheat them),
these men generally made no griefs beyond what they were born to.

Zebedee Tugwell was now their chief, and well deserved to be so. Every
community of common-sense demands to have somebody over it, and nobody
could have felt ashamed to be under Captain Tugwell. He had built with
his own hands, and bought--for no man's work is his own until he has
paid for as well as made it--the biggest and smartest of all the fleet,
that dandy-rigged smack, the Rosalie. He was proud of her, as he well
might be, and spent most of his time in thinking of her; but even she
was scarcely up to the size of his ideas. "Stiff in the joints," he now
said daily--"stiff in the joints is my complaint, and I never would have
believed it. But for all that, you shall see, my son, if the Lord should
spare you long enough, whether I don't beat her out and out with the
craft as have been in my mind this ten year."

But I always found her cheerful domesticity amidst its beautiful, the
shapes and colors in such harmony zusammenstimmte that a vase, a bouquet
of flowers to have disruptive effects could, if they are not in a
conscious line had been so elected. And I found her husband tenderly
to worry - in a kind of course that I would not be tolerated by the
Ilsens but nature seemed to correspond. He determined their clothes,
he supervised the household, he ordered the table when visit was
expected.

And everything was under his hand the character of his artistry: the
nobility, each outer decorations were unfounded, because it's the
nature of the material brought to the purest expression; of every
loud sound abholden rest, as the sunset on the day by the orange silk
curtains klang and in the evening in the folds of the green, which are
spread about, dreamed, and the love of nature, in everything that
surrounded him, reflected - in the dark red leaves of the chestnut
wallpaper, the delicate plant and bird studies of Japanese engravings
the tapestry with the quiet forest stream, the swans on the move.

It was good for them, and them who went to the outside world, the
double-ugly, disharmonious, loud and heartless before. But there
was also something of a paralysis of this environment, something
that is of real life violence abzog. The guests of the house were this
mood, none of the questions that we moved, joined with them on his
threshold.

The art was the focus of all their thinking and feeling, not those
nebenabsichtslose that grows like a tree, whether only lonely
wanderer find him, or whether flocks to rest under its shade, but those
magical greenhouse flower which only the elect will be withdrawn .
They represented all individualism, but behind their claim of the highest
culture of the individual hid only his cult.

They spoke with a half vote, you read books, which numbered copies only
for a small circle of friends were printed, often on the wing sat
a Catholic priest, in the mild light of the candle wax zartgetönten
salons Palestrinas ceremonial practices were sound. The same atmosphere,
the Soft to the forehead sets, reigned here, as in the theater, where
the wedding Hofmannsthal Sobëide those Haschichrausch rise, the
world of reverie.

And at the end of the century jauchzte youth as the new gods stormily to
how we Ibsen and Gerhart Hauptmann had received. The people fled in
the only sense their weakness from reality, or were not among those
who are away from the harsh life in a white temple hidden, even those
that are consecrated as priests of humanity will emerge from it? I would
not question can decide, but my optimism is believed to germs like new,
where others see decay phenomena. Erdmann also dependent personality
to do so.

He rooted himself to be aware of in the bottom of the earth, as his
art that he would wrest it can. He treated the young men who ingeniously
knotted his necktie imitations from his deepest nature, but knew
little, with quiet irony. The l'art pour l'art-exchange was not for him
the last. "We must use the snob," he said, as we were once among us,
"to gradually come to the people. It is with the arts and crafts like
fashion: Newest first is a prerogative of the few, and after a year in
the habit of the masses. "Lively and forth reciprocating, he then
addressed his future plans: craftsman, he wanted to create schools that
are not old clichés always used, but the newest and most beautiful
achievements of art to serve samples.

"It is admirable, as understanding all the small tradesmen, which I
now have to collect my ideas come forward. They are in their taste less
spoiled, they have especially much more feeling for the material that
they work, as most of our art trader, before a loud theoretical Wissenskram
any personal opinion on the things have lost --. "A violent fit of
coughing interrupted him, zirkelten red stains on his haggard From cheeks.
My sister erblaßte, ran out and brought him a cup of tea, he receiving,
as something long familiar. »The Berlin winter, - this is disgusting
rainy weather -," he said and then leaned tired back in the chair, while
his chest is still desperately raised and lowered. "I was always around
this time in the south -," he added halblaut like to add yourself. We
went. My sister accompanied us to the door. I saw her questioningly. She
nodded to her mouth twitched it treasonable: "I know - we should continue,
but he will not.

He can not complete its work in the lurch, he said. But later, in a year
and a day when he very much deserves to have, - "while she smiled
again, hopefully, - 'then we want to stay -" "Ilse," it sounded impatient
from the inside. She drove terrified together: "Now he will again be
evil," and ran hastily to adopt it. For weeks, he was shackled to the
room. Now my mother was between the man and the son tirelessly back
and forth. "Ilschen is much too delicate for such a long-term care," she
said, while she herself was always lean. I begged them to spare, so she
had only one answer: "As long as obligations imposed on me God, I
have to meet them."

They moved closer to the moving date, he had inne punctually kept,
because the apartment was rented to the parents . In the night when
the father fell asleep, and grabbed kramte the mother to make it so only
during the day so not to disturb. For us it looked like, because our
house was now finished, and the day of collection was set. But
the joy was missing, which I opposed it before the month had seen.
"Are we out there, so everything will be good," Henry assured me
repeatedly if I make it my full miens mood betrayed. »Do you think we
thalers shake of the pines, as the child in the fairy tale?"

I replied. »More expensive in any case," he said irritably. "Your child
and your health, your work is surely more important than the few blue
cloth that you are currently missing." I winced armpits. The worries
were my illness, and they thrive best in the air. * * * * * Hans is bad,
please come immediately - "My mother sent these lines.

We drove into the Ansbacherstraße. On his armchair sat the father,
half-dressed, with blaurotem face and bloodshot eyes past. Packed boxes
stood around, staring bleakly us the curtain-less window opposite, gray
dust was on the table cleared. "I do not want to bed, - I will not,"
groaned the patient. The mother's tears ran over the haggard cheeks.
"He met me back when I want to help him," she whispered. The doctor
entered. With violent effort to raise the father, was based with both
hands on the table before him and cried, while his eyes from the
caves seemed to occur, "beyond - beyond!

I do not like quack! "- Then he broke together, clawed hand into the
left side - the color most slowly from his trains, he accepts that lead
into the bedroom, his head lowered deep, wavering, with small, unsafe
steps. In bed he lay quite still.

Only the eyes, the odd size and had become clear, said what the
lips could not say.

During Heinrich and Erdmann of the new tenants of the apartment,
which has become a postponement of the withdrawal would not understand,
drove to the nearest hospital to the moved there to prepare, and
the mother of Ilsens outside assistance a minimum zusammenpackte I
was alone with the sick.

We talked with each other. Its eyes are drilled in researching my trains.
»You can quiet - very quiet, my dear dad. I am completely happy -
"I assured. They brightened to equal them in sudden fear, half-closed,
back to me to judge. "I love you, Dad, I have never ceased to love you,"
I replied with tränenerstickter voice. To his pale lips twitched a
slight smile, his weak hand tried my to encircle the eyelids seconds
covered the steel-blue pupils, - then she twitched upwards again startled.
A single, massive, desperate question stared from these eyes, in which
the whole life into a last refuge zusammendrängte. I understood.
Carefully sparked my hand from his and went out - "Mama!" I called
softly. She came. I saw two more hands that are shaking their
entgegenstreckten, - then I moved the door behind me to the castle ...
When the ambulance presentation, they came out of the room, pale,
motionless, like petrified. "He sleeps," she said. I am bent over him:
as a whiff of breath floated only from his lips.

The eyes were closed, the face white and still, dominated by an expression
of solemn seriousness. * * * * * At home, I ran against my child. »Apapa
Dehn," it shrieked impatiently. It was the hour of his daily ride. I
sadly shook his head. Since it started to sob heart breaking. * * *
* * Even two days breathed the dying. With a calm that I did not know
if I admire them or me to her horror should be, ordered the mother of
everything, as if he were already dead. I anxiously looked over to the
rigid face in the white pillows.

"He is without conscience," the doctor had assured. Sometimes, however,
seemed to me as he listened to yet, as he saw with our eyes closed,
as there was a tremor through his body. On the third night he died.
* * * * * Drobe in the rabbit Haide, where the giant body of the city is
the gigantic hills at the foot of the tower hinstreckt and unhindered
by the old trees whistles, is the last garrison of soldiers. Of the
shooting booths greet the shotgun shots across from the barracks yards
trumpet signals, and the sound field Tempelhofer sometimes war marches
in the peace of the churchyard.

There were the old regimental comrade coffin in which the dead man asleep,
wrapped in the mantle, which in all campaigns his inseparable
companion had been. It was a quiet burial. For the old friends, he
died when he was with me, the apostates, reconciled. Even the emperor
of the man had forgotten his Ahnherrn blood-soaked soil of France in the
crown of the German Reich helped conquer. * * * * * Eight days later we
left the apartment in which the sun had by all windows can flood in
which my son had been born. »Ottoo - addaa -« jauchzte it again
when we drove them, but the window of the car were closed, and the
spring rains whipped on the glass.

In the forest we were outside the new home: In the deep gray roof of our
house looked like the small windows at eye lashes out of Schattschneider,
mysterious and enticing hostile defensive back. It weighs the black
pines their crowns. It was like a piece of quiet, serious nature,
which surrounded it.

And still, and I took seriously on its threshold. Ninth Chapter The
winter of 1899 would not end. The city of Berlin, by the habit of
cleanliness to replace what you have to use to beauty, was the
snow that is on the streets until into April into dirty-gray mud,
can not cope.

Hosts, with spade and pickaxe armed, sent them to the stubborn enemy
from the gates to drive and to the masses of unemployed, who in his
regiment were increasingly swollen, are lagging behind. Forgiveness.
The snow ballte to pile, before the dams of the homeless shelters in
the crowd. More than ever were powerful men among them.

Even the worst-paid homeworking tore the women, what they should feed the
children because the fathers had to celebrate and the meat was always
more expensive? "Winter is with the exploiters in the league," said
a pale, small party comrade who each time with inflamed eyes came
into the meetings. »The Agrari the Konfektionäre and Kohl Fritzen
be thick and bold, and we get to tuberculosis."

They embroidered shirts - »Battist from very fine, with 'its crown
prince. I just wanted you, every stitch would be 'ne needle tip, if
they touch the body Highness, "she added. The bitterness with which
she spoke, more than ever to meet their class comrades. They froze
and starving. In the Reichstag, but granted the majority of the bourgeois
parties a military template that millions and millions of cost.

You searched in vain for work, and in the House of Representatives
brought the Junker's plan for the Mittelland channel case, the countless
new employment opportunities would be opened. Triumphed over the interests
of the haves against the workers, and now threatened to jail template
them in the struggle for better working conditions, the last weapon to
take: the right of association. Yet the government hesitated to publish
the text of the submission, but they threw their shadows before so that
their contents to no one could doubt. * * * * * At this time appeared
Eduard Bernstein's long-awaited brochure: "The conditions of socialism
and the tasks of social democracy." They seized and carried out what
he was a year before in his series of articles about the problems of
socialism had said. Now that the initial excitation behind me and I was
with a quiet mind could be read, I felt the influence of the English
Fabien, of Webb, of Shaw, of Burns, in their mental atmosphere, this book
arose. I also felt the German scholars of the rough air Prussia
weaned for decades and it was quiet in his London study, far from home,
had written. He was over there do not know how the German party in any
capacity for theoretical discussions use to, and how the mass of party
members who are from all sides in their physical and legal existence
threatens saw his call for the liberalism zurückzustoßen not to act
as a democratic socialist reform party, as a bloody travesty had
to appear.

Where were the freigesinnten elements of the bourgeoise, to which it
verlohnte, must be taken to deal with them jointly democratic demands?
It was ablaze in a beautiful peoples enthusiasm for freedom - if it is
the struggle of the Boers against the English act. They are indignant
against injustice and rape - if by Dreyfus and the French General Staff
was the speech.

There was even something like a Entrüstungssturm concluded, as the center
of the art in the chains of religious morality to be threatened - but
the verdict of Löbtau, nine bricklayers who with their hard-won over
the ten-working-working colleagues in a entangled brawl, punished
with prison, they stood silent and cold towards.

As much as I was forced, the theoretical critique Bernstein accept so
little about his conception of the need for a Paktierens with liberalism.
"Whoever is not with us, is against us --." deceived love, the mask
burning hatred, so judging the renegade about the class, which he left
at the sharpest. Where were all those that I had expected?

One had been the way to find us: Göhre.

All other blinded stared into the mirage of the future German world.
* * * * * "I have colleagues a proposal," began Martha Bartels woman
in one of our meetings.

"Among us is hardly one that does not least, the debates in the
next Bernstein would have pursued. In the narrow party circles, we
have also opportunity to put us on notice to the parties and received
by others. At a large public debate there is unfortunately still. I
request comrade Orbin to ask people in a public meeting a lecture on the
controversy, we are so close, want to keep.

"With unusual vivacity you agreed with her. I knew that Wanda Orbin
itself was that it had these thoughts souffliert. It raged in the
"freedom" against Bernstein. »Where is the discussion of practical
suggestions are amber, also seems to me the application is
acceptable," I said.

"His theories, however, are surely not an issue for government People's
Assembly." "Comrade Brandt keeps us once again to be too stupid," I heard
the shrill voice of rotäugigen embroiderer say. »Bernstein meent
ooch so that we are still not ripe," said another with a poisonous
look at me, "he is nischt disguised as so'n Bourgeois, takes us to
St. off vertrösten wants, so he's not sleeping on the Rock jeht.

"I did this outbreak of proletarian vanity, which the party had raised,
stood quietly. The apodictic certainty with which the party in its
press their views represented, smoothed down the popularization of the
teachings of their champion, by the masses they mouth just made, and
the scorn with which the statements "bourgeois science" overwhelmed,
had no other effect have. "How about if Comrade Brandt Korreferat
the take over?"

asked Ida Wiemer, especially unionized activity and consequently to a
less radical view bowed. "Even if you wish, I would say no," I answered
quickly; "I am unable to theoretical questions to judge a man like
Bernstein have employed for years before he found an answer."

Around me I saw the mocking smile in miens, Ida Wiemer blushing lowered
his head, as they are ashamed of me. In fact I would not be foolish
to proceed: Only those who pertly to know everything and can be claimed
that gains prestige in the public.

I had my nakedness, which I would not be forgotten. Luise Zehringer
spoke after me, a comrade from Hamburg, a hard worker with cigars
vermännlichten trains.

It was missing her, even in the sound of the language, every trace of
femininity. A serious work of childhood, the whole appearance made
any softness. "I am among those who have a strong rejection of Bernstein's
attacks on our fundamental outlook is not only necessary, but for
all of us who are in possession of proletarian class consciousness,
is possible holds, "she said.

"I do not have a noble upbringing, such as Comrade Brandt, but my five
senses I have together.

There was nothing about him wonderful in the way of genius, heroism,
large-mindedness, or unselfishness. But people liked him much better
than if he combined all those vast rarities; because he was lively,
genial, simple, easily moved to wrath or grief, free-handed, a little
fond, perhaps, of quiet and confidential brag, and very fond of gossip.

"I tell you," he said to Lord Nelson now, as they walked down the hill
to the church together that lovely Sunday morning, "you will not have
seen a finer sight than our fishermen in church--I dare say never.
Of course they don't all go. Nobody could expect it. But as many as a
reasonable man could desire come there, because they know I like it.
Twemlow thinks that they come to please him; but he finds a mighty
difference in his congregation when I and my daughters are out of the
parish. But if he goes away, there they are all the same, or perhaps
even more, to get a change from him. That will show which of us they
care about pleasing."

"And they are quite right. I hate the levelling system," the hero of the
Nile replied. "A man should go to church to please his landlord, not to
please the parson. Is the Chaplain to settle how many come to prayers?"

"That is the right way to look at the thing," said the larger-bodied
Admiral; "and I only wish Twemlow could have heard you. I asked him to
dine with us yesterday, as you know, because you would have done him so
much good; but he sent some trumpery excuse, although his wife was asked
to come with him. She stopped him, no doubt; to look big, I dare say; as
if they could dine with a Lord Nelson every day!"

"They can do that every day, when they dine with a man who has done his
duty. But where is my pretty godchild Dolly? Horatia seems too long for
you. What a long name they gave me! It may have done very well for my
granduncle. But, my dear Lingo, look sharp for your Dolly. She has no
mother, nor even a duenna--she has turned her off, she said yesterday.
Your daughter Faith is an angel, but Dolly--"

"My Dolly is a little devil, I suppose! You always found out everything.
What have you found my Dolly at? Perhaps she got it at her baptism." A
word against his pet child was steel upon flint to Admiral Darling.

"I am not concerned with your opinion," Lord Nelson answered, loftily.
"But Horatia Dorothy Darling is my godchild by baptism, and you will
find her down in my will for a thousand pounds, if she behaves well,
and if it should please the Lord to send me some of the prize-money I
deserve."

This was announced in such a manner, with the future testator's useful
eye bearing brightly on his comrade, and his cocked hat lifted as he
spoke of the great Awarder of prizes, that no one able to smile could
help a friendly and simple smile at him. So Admiral Darling forgot his
wrath, which never had long memory, and scorning even to look round for
Dolly, in whom he felt such confidence, took the mighty warrior by the
good arm and led him toward the peaceful bells.

"Hurry; we shall be late," he said. "You remember when we called you
'Hurry,' because of being always foremost? But they know better than to
stop the bells till they see me in the church porch. Twemlow wanted to
upset that, for the parsons want to upset everything. And I said: 'Very
well; then I shall square it by locking the gate from your shrubbery.
That will give me five minutes to come down the hill.' For my
grandfather put up that gate, you must know, and of course the key
belongs to me. It saves Twemlow a cable's-length every time, and the
parsons go to church so often now, he would have to make at least
another knot a month. So the bells go on as they used to do. How many
bells do you make it, Mr. Nelson?"

"Eight bells, sir," Lord Nelson replied, saluting like the middy in
charge of the watch. And at this little turn they both laughed, and went
on, with memory of ancient days, to church.


CHAPTER V

OPINION, MALE AND FEMALE


The fine young parsons of the present generation are too fond of asking
us why we come to church, and assigning fifty reasons out of their own
heads, not one of which is to our credit or theirs; whereas their proper
business is to cure the fish they have caught, instead of asking how
they caught them. Mr. Twemlow had sense enough for this, and treated the
largest congregation he had ever preached to as if they were come for
the good of their souls, and should have it, in spite of Lord Nelson.
But, alas! their bodies fared not so well, and scarcely a man got his
Sunday dinner according to his liking. Never a woman would stay by the
fire for the sake of a ten-pound leg of mutton, and the baker put his
shutters up at half past ten against every veal pie and every loin
of pork. Because in the church there would be seen this day (as the
servants at the Hall told every one) the man whom no Englishman could
behold without pride, and no Frenchman with it--the victor of the Nile,
and of Copenhagen, and countless other conflicts. Knowing that he would
be stared at well, he was equal to the occasion, and the people who saw
him were so proud of the sight that they would talk of it now if they
were alive.

But those who were not there would exhibit more confidence than
conscience by describing every item of his raiment, which verily even
of those who beheld it none could do well, except a tailor or a woman.
Enough that he shone in the light of the sun (which came through a
windowful of bull's-eyes upon him, and was surprised to see stars by
daylight), but the glint of his jewels and glow of his gold diverted no
eye from the calm, sad face which in the day of battle could outflash
them all. That sensitive, mild, complaisant face (humble, and even
homely now, with scathe and scald and the lines of middle age) presented
itself as a great surprise to the many who came to gaze at it. With
its child-like simplicity and latent fire, it was rather the face of a
dreamer and poet than of a warrior and hero.

Mrs. Cheeseman, the wife of Mr. Cheeseman, who kept the main shop in
the village, put this conclusion into better English, when Mrs. Shanks
(Harry's mother) came on Monday to buy a rasher and compare opinions.

"If I could have fetched it to my mind," she said, "that Squire Darling
were a tarradiddle, and all his wenches liars--which some of them be,
and no mistake--and if I could refuse my own eyes about gold-lace, and
crown jewels, and arms off, happier would I sleep in my bed, ma'am,
every night the Lord seeth good for it. I would sooner have found
hoppers in the best ham in the shop than have gone to church so to
delude myself. But there! that Cheeseman would make me do it. I did
believe as we had somebody fit to do battle for us against Boney, and I
laughed about all they invasion and scares. But now--why, 'a can't say
bo to a goose! If 'a was to come and stand this moment where you be
a-standing, and say, 'Mrs. Cheeseman, I want a fine rasher,' not a bit
of gristle would I trim out, nor put it up in paper for him, as I do for
you, ma'am."

And Widow Shanks quite agreed with her.

"Never can I tell you what my feelings was, when I seed him a-standing
by the monument, ma'am. But I said to myself--'why, my poor John, as is
now in heaven, poor fellow, would 'a took you up with one hand, my lord,
stars and garters and crowns and all, and put you into his sow-west
pocket.' And so he could have done, Mrs. Cheeseman."

But the opinion of the men was different, because they knew a bee from a
bull's foot.

"He may not be so very big," they said, "nor so outrageous thunderin',
as the missus looked out for from what she have read. They always goes
by their own opinions, and wrong a score of times out of twenty. But any
one with a fork to his leg can see the sort of stuff he is made of. He
'tended his duty in the house of the Lord, and he wouldn't look after
the women; but he kept his live eye upon every young chap as were fit
for a man-of-war's-man--Dan Tugwell especial, and young Harry Shanks.
You see if he don't have both of they afore ever the war comes on
again!"

Conscious of filling the public eye, with the privilege of being upon
private view, Lord Nelson had faced the position without flinching, and
drawn all the fire of the enemy. After that he began to make reprisals,
according to his manner, taking no trouble to regard the women--which
debarred them from thinking much of him--but settling with a steady
gaze at each sea-faring man, whether he was made of good stuff or of
pie-crust. And to the credit of the place it must be said that he found
very little of that soft material, but plenty of good stuff, slow,
perhaps, and heavy, but needing only such a soul as his to rouse it.

"What a fine set of fellows you have in your village!" he said to Miss
Darling after dinner, as she sat at the head of her father's table,
for the Admiral had long been a widower. "The finest I have seen on
the south coast anywhere. And they look as if they had been under some
training. I suppose your father had most of them in the Fencibles, last
summer?"

"Not one of them," Faith answered, with a sweet smile of pride. "They
have their own opinions, and nothing will disturb them. Nobody could get
them to believe for a moment that there was any danger of invasion. And
they carried on all their fishing business almost as calmly as they do
now. For that, of course, they may thank you, Lord Nelson; but they have
not the smallest sense of the obligation."

"I am used to that, as your father knows; but more among the noble than
the simple. For the best thing I ever did I got no praise, or at any
rate very little. As to the Boulogne affair, Springhaven was quite
right. There was never much danger of invasion. I only wish the villains
would have tried it. Horatia, would you like to see your godfather at
work? I hope not. Young ladies should be peaceful."

"Then I am not peaceful at all," cried Dolly, who was sitting by the
maimed side of her "Flapfin," as her young brother Johnny had nicknamed
him. "Why, if there was always peace, what on earth would any but very
low people find to do? There could scarcely be an admiral, or a general,
or even a captain, or--well, a boy to beat the drums."

"But no drum would want to be beaten, Horatia," her elder sister Faith
replied, with the superior mind of twenty-one; "and the admirals and the
generals would have to be--"

"Doctors, or clergymen, or something of that sort, or perhaps even
worse--nasty lawyers." Then Dolly (whose name was "Horatia" only
in presence of her great godfather) blushed, as befitted the age of
seventeen, at her daring, and looked at her father.

"That last cut was meant for me," Frank Darling, the eldest of the
family, explained from the opposite side of the table. "Your lordship,
though so well known to us, can hardly be expected to know or remember
all the little particulars of our race. We are four, as you know; and
the elder two are peaceful, while the younger pair are warlike. And I
am to be the 'nasty lawyer,' called to the bar in the fullness of
time--which means after dining sufficiently--to the great disgust of
your little godchild, whose desire from her babyhood has been to get me
shot."

"LITTLE, indeed! What a word to use about me! You told a great story.
But now you'll make it true."

"To wit--as we say at Lincoln's Inn--she has not longed always for my
death in battle, but henceforth will do so; but I never shall afford
her that gratification. I shall keep out of danger as zealously as your
lordship rushes into it."

"Franky going on, I suppose, with some of his usual nonsense," Admiral
Darling, who was rather deaf, called out from the bottom of the table.
"Nobody pays much attention to him, because he does not mean a word of
it. He belongs to the peace--peace--peace-at-any-price lot. But when a
man wanted to rob him last winter, he knocked him down, and took him by
the throat, and very nearly killed him."

"That's the only game to play," exclaimed Lord Nelson, who had been
looking at Frank Darling with undisguised disgust. "My young friend, you
are not such a fool after all. And why should you try to be one?"

"My brother," said the sweet-tempered Faith, "never tries to be a fool,
Lord Nelson; he only tries to be a poet."

This made people laugh; and Nelson, feeling that he had been rude to a
youth who could not fairly answer him, jumped from his chair with the
lightness of a boy, and went round to Frank Darling, with his thin
figure leaning forward, and his gray unpowdered hair tossed about, and
upon his wrinkled face that smile which none could ever resist, because
it was so warm and yet so sad.

"Shake hands, my dear young friend," he cried, "though I can not offer
the right one. I was wrong to call you a fool because you don't look at
things as I do. Poets are almost as good as sailors, and a great deal
better than soldiers. I have felt a gift that way myself, and turned out
some very tidy lines. But I believe they were mainly about myself, and I
never had time to go on with them."

Such little touches of simplicity and kindness, from a man who never
knew the fear of men, helped largely to produce that love of Nelson
which England felt, and will always feel.

"My lord," replied the young man, bending low--for he was half a cubit
higher than the mighty captain--"it is good for the world that you have
no right arm, when you disarm it so with your left one."


CHAPTER VI

AS OTHERS SEE US


Admiral Darling was very particular in trying to keep his grounds and
garden tolerably tidy always. But he never succeeded, for the simple
reason that he listened to every one's excuses; and not understanding a
walk or a lawn half so well as the deck of a battle-ship, he was always
defeated in argument.

"Here's a state of things!" he used to say in summer-time; "thistles
full of seed within a biscuit-heave of my front door, and other
things--I forget their names--with heads like the head of a capstan
bursting, all as full of seeds as a purser is of lies!"

"Your lordship do not understand them subjects," Mr. Swipes, the head
gardener, was in the habit of replying; "and small blame to you, in my
opinion, after so many years upon the briny wave. Ah! they can't grow
them things there."

"Swipes, that is true, but to my mind not at all a satisfactory reason
for growing them here, just in front of the house and the windows. I
don't mind a few in the kitchen-garden, but you know as well as I do,
Swipes, that they can have no proper business here."

"I did hear tell down to the Club, last night," Mr. Swipes would reply,
after wiping his forehead, as if his whole mind were perspired away,
"though I don't pretend to say how far true it may be, that all the
land of England is to be cultivated for the public good, same as on
the continence, without no propriety or privacy, my lord. But I don't
altogether see how they be to do it. So I thought I'd better ask your
lordship."

"For the public good! The public-house good, you mean." The Admiral
answered nine times out of ten, being easily led from the track of his
wrath, and tired of telling Swipes that he was not a lord. "How
many times more must I tell you, Swipes, that I hate that Jacobin
association? Can you tell me of one seaman belonging to it? A set of
fish-jobbers, and men with barrows, and cheap-jacks from up the country.
Not one of my tenants would be such a fool as to go there, even if I
allowed him. I make great allowances for you, Swipes, because of your
obstinate nature. But don't let me hear of that Club any more, or YOU
may go and cultivate for the public good."

"Your lordship knows that I goes there for nothing except to keep up my
burial. And with all the work there is upon this place, the Lord only
knows when I may be requiring of it. Ah! I never see the like; I never
did. And a blade of grass the wrong way comes down on poor old Swipes!"

Hereupon the master, having done his duty, was relieved from overdoing
it, and went on other business with a peaceful mind. The feelings,
however, of Mr. Swipes were not to be appeased so lightly, but demanded
the immediate satisfaction of a pint of beer. And so large was his
charity that if his master fell short of duty upon that point, he
accredited him with the good intention, and enabled him to discharge it.

"My dear soul," he said, with symptoms of exhaustion, to good Mrs.
Cloam, the housekeeper, who had all the keys at her girdle, about ten
o'clock on the Monday morning, "what a day we did have yesterday!"

"A mercy upon me, Mr. Swipes," cried Mrs. Cloam, who was also short of
breath, "how you did exaggerate my poor narves, a-rushing up so soft,
with the cold steel in both your hands!"

"Ah! ma'am, it have right to be a good deal wuss than that," the
chivalrous Swipes made answer, with the scythe beside his ear. "It don't
consarn what the masters say, though enough to take one's legs off. But
the ladies, Mrs. Cloam, the ladies--it's them as takes our heads off."

"Go 'long with you, Mr. Swipes! You are so disastrous at turning things.
And how much did he say you was to have this time? Here's Jenny Shanks
coming up the passage."

"Well, he left it to myself; he have that confidence in me. And little
it is I should ever care to take, with the power of my own will, ma'am.
Why, the little brown jug, ma'am, is as much as I can manage even of our
small beer now. Ah! I know the time when I would no more have thought
of rounding of my mouth for such small stuff than of your growing up,
ma'am, to be a young woman with the sponsorship of this big place upon
you. Wonderful! wonderful! And only yesterday, as a man with a gardening
mind looks at it, you was the prettiest young maiden on the green, and
the same--barring marriage--if you was to encounter with the young men
now."

"Oh," said Mrs. Cloam, who was fifty, if a day, "how you do make me
think of sad troubles, Mr. Swipes! Jenny, take the yellow jug with the
three beef-eaters on it, and go to the third cask from the door--the key
turns upside down, mind--and let me hear you whistle till you bring me
back the key. Don't tell me nonsense about your lips being dry. You can
whistle like a blackbird when you choose."

"Here's to your excellent health, Mrs. Cloam, and as blooming as it
finds you now, ma'am! As pretty a tap as I taste since Christmas, and
another dash of malt would 'a made it worthy a'most to speak your health
in. Well, ma'am, a leetle drop in crystal for yourself, and then for
my business, which is to inquire after your poor dear health to-day.
Blooming as you are, ma'am, you must bear in mind that beauty is only
skin-deep, Mrs. Cloam; and the purtier a flower is, the more delicate it
grows. I've a-been a-thinking of you every night, ma'am, knowing how
you must 'a been put about and driven. The Admiral have gone down to the
village, and Miss Dolly to stare at the boats going out."

"Then I may speak a word for once at ease, Mr. Swipes, though the Lord
alone knows what a load is on my tongue. It requires a fine gardener,
being used to delicacy, to enter into half the worry we have to put up
with. Heroes of the Nile, indeed, and bucklers of the country! Why, he
could not buckle his own shoe, and Jenny Shanks had to do it for him.
Not that I blame him for having one arm, and a brave man he is to have
lost it, but that he might have said something about the things I got
up at a quarter to five every morning to make up for him. For cook is
no more than a smoke-jack, Mr. Swipes; if she keeps the joint turning,
that's as much as she can do."

"And a little too fond of good beer, I'm afeard," replied Mr. Swipes,
having emptied his pot. "Men's heads was made for it, but not women's,
till they come to superior stations in life. But, oh, Mrs. Cloam, what a
life we lead with the crotchets of they gentry!"

"It isn't that so much, Mr. Swipes, if only there was any way of giving
satisfaction. I wish everybody who is born to it to have the very best
of everything, likewise all who have fought up to it. But to make all
the things and have nothing made of them, whether indigestion or want
of appetite, turns one quite into the Negroes almost, that two or three
people go on with."

"I don't look at what he hath aten or left," Mr. Swipes made answer,
loftily; "that lieth between him and his own stommick. But what hath a'
left for me, ma'am? He hath looked out over the garden when he pleased,
and this time of year no weeds is up, and he don't know enough of things
to think nothing of them. When his chaise come down I was out by the
gate with a broom in my hand, and I pulled off my hat, but his eye never
seemed to lay hold of me."

"His eye lays hold of everything, whether he makes 'em feel or no.
One thing I'm sure of--he was quite up to Miss Dolly, and the way she
carries on with you know who, every blessed Sunday. If that is what they
go to church for--"

"But, my dear soul," said the genial Swipes, whose heart was enlarged
with the power of good beer, "when you and I was young folk, what did
we go to church for? I can't speak for you, ma'am, being ever so much
younger, and a baby in the gallery in long clothes, if born by that
time; but so far as myself goes, it was the girls I went to look at, and
most of 'em come as well to have it done to them."

"That never was my style, Mr. Swipes, though I know there were some not
above it. And amongst equals I won't say that there need be much harm
in it. But for a young man in the gallery, with a long stick of the
vile-base in his hand, and the only clean shirt of the week on his back,
and nothing but a plank of pitch to keep him, however good-looking he
may be, to be looking at the daughter, and the prettiest one too, though
not the best, some people think, of the gentleman that owns all the
houses and the haven--presumption is the smallest word that I can
find to use for it; and for her to allow it, fat--fat something in the
nation."

"Well, ma'am," said Mr. Swipes, whose views were loose and liberal, "it
seems a little shock at first to those on trust in families. But Dannel
is a brave boy, and might fight his way to glory, and then they has
the pick of the femmels up to a thousand pound a year. You know what
happened the miller's son, no further off than Upton. And if it hadn't
been for Dannel, when she was a little chit, where would proud Miss
Dolly be, with her feathers and her furbelows? Natur' is the thing
I holds by, and I sees a deal of it. And betwixt you and me and the
bedpost, ma'am, whoever hath Miss Dolly will have to ride to London on
this here scythe. Miss Faith is the lass for a good quiet man, without
no airs and graces, and to my judgment every bit as comely, and more
of her to hold on by. But the Lord 'a mercy upon us. Mrs. Cloam, you've
a-been married like my poor self; and you knows what we be, and we knows
what you be. Looks 'ain't much to do with it after the first week or
two. It's the cooking, and the natur', and the not going contrairy.
B'lieve Miss Dolly would go contrairy to a hangel, if her was j'ined to
him three days."

"Prejudice! prejudice!" the housekeeper replied, while shaking her
finger severely at him. "You ought to be above such opinions, Mr.
Swipes, a superior man, such as you are. If Miss Faith came into your
garden reading books, and finding fault here and there, and sniffing
at the flowers, a quarter so often as pretty Dolly does, perhaps you
wouldn't make such a perfect angel of her, and run down her sister in
comparison. But your wonderful Miss Faith comes peeping here and poking
there into pots and pans, and asking the maids how their mothers are, as
if her father kept no housekeeper. The neighbor stepped into the quiet bar
and made Wiselis mother rightly so, as in her last bed had 4. Chapter
(The uncle) as the Wiseli with the uncle in the house at Buchenrain
occurred because the three boys out of the barn and fallen behind
the two ran her into the room.

All three stared at the Wiseli. From the kitchen came the aunt enters
and the Wiseli also looked at as if they never had seen. The uncle
sat behind the table and said: "I think we could have something to eat.
It has small, I think today yet little had. Come, sit down, "he said,
to Wiseli colleagues, which still stood on the same spot, his bundle
in his hand. It obeyed. Now the aunt brought cider and cheese and put the
big black on the table.

The uncle cut a studious piece and put a slice of cheese on, then
pushed it out before the child.

"There, eat, Small, you will be hungry."

"No, I thank you," said Wiseli quietly. It would not have a morsel to
swallow, because fear and sorrow and woe schnürten him on the neck
so that it could hardly breathe. The boys were still there and stared
at it. "Please do not fear," said the uncle encouraging, "only to eat."
But the Wiseli sat motionless as his bread and did not start. The
aunt was until now stopped and the child had viewed from top to bottom,
with both arms into the side gestemmt. "If it's not quite you, so you can
let's stay," she said, turned around and went back into the kitchen.
When the uncle is strengthened had he stood up and said: "Take's
in the bag, then you have certainly hungry.

Please do not fear." Thus he went into the kitchen beyond. Wiseli wanted
to obey, and the cheese bread in your pocket, but this was much too
small. It put the bread back on the table. "I will always help you,"
said Chäppi, grabbed the bread away from the table and wanted to bite
off. It flew in the air, because Hans had from the bottom up Chäppis
hand, where an efficient stroke, so he dropped and the prey they catch.
At the moment, but soon flits of Rudi to the ground and the capture
haschte away.

Now the two older pounced on him, and fell over the other since. And now
there was a pounding, and up and cries and howls that the Wiseli was
anxious and fearful. The father opened the back kitchen door and
shouted: "What is going on?"

Then cried the three boys on the ground all the time. "The Wiseli
did not want to "" The Wiseli had no hunger! "" Because it's none Wiseli
wanted!

"cried the father even louder:" If that does not stop in there, like I
do with the leather straps are coming! " Then he beat the door again.
The 'inside', but not yet listened to, but as the door was certainly
went off. Because Hans had discovered that the most effective means
of keeping the enemy to frighten him into the hair to go, what the
others are also immediately understood.

And so now they tore all three each with both hands by the hair of
another and cried about this terribly. In the kitchen, my aunt sat on a
stool and peeled potatoes. When her husband Stubentür had closed again,
she asked: "What hast thou with the child before?

Why did you do the same with heimgenommen? "" It is, I think, for someone
to be. I'm the godfather and other relatives, there was no more. And
you can already do.

Wiseli This can help you household help. You always say that you
guys make a lot of work. "" That is a nice help. so you can hear how it
is received inside the first quarter already, that it is there. "" I
have sometimes heard even before the small it was.

It has, I think, not much to do, "said the uncle calmly." Thus, "the
aunt replied eagerly," hast thou not heard that they are all somewhat
interrelated by the Wiseli called? "" You always cry, "said the uncle.
"With the little ones you will, I think, still to be done.

It is not a bad child that I have already noticed. It may also follow,
better than the boys." That was the aunt almost too much. "I feel it is
not necessary that it's already against the boys aufhetzt," she said,
and tore the skin faster and faster by the potatoes. "And then I would
just like to know where the child should sleep." The uncle pushed a few
times the cap on his head back and forth, then he said quietly: "You can
not do everything in one day. It is probably far in have slept in a
bed, I think, and that will get it again. Tomorrow I will then go to
the priest. Today it is on the Ofenbank sleep because it's so warm.
Then you can make a suggestion, where it goes into our chamber.

As you can push his bed. " "I've never heard of my life that brings the
child first and then eight days after the bed, which is one of them.
And then I would also like to know who should pay, if you will still
build for the child's sake." "If our community in the small grants, it
must be something for us to give support," said the uncle. "I suppose
it is still cheaper, when someone else would.

It feels most comfortable with us." With this conviction, the uncle in the
barn out back and cried yet, the Chäppi should follow him. It was
difficult for the aunt, is to be heard inside the room when she wanted
to align the contract. Since rauften screamed and the three still. "It
just amazes me that you're so zusiehst and no word to say peace."
cried the aunt to the Wiseli that is averse to the wall and pressed
hardly dared to stir.

Chäppi Now was sent into the stable, and the two others ran after him.
"Can you knit?" then asked the aunt, the Wiseli. It said so shy, it
could knit stockings. "So take this," said the aunt, and took from the
cupboard a large brown sock yarn with one out, almost as thick as
Wiselis finger. "You're on foot, give care that he is not too short,
he is the uncle." Then she went back into the kitchen, and Wiseli sat
on the Ofenbank and had the long sock on his lap together.

He was so hard that he completely hands herunterzog when he hung, so
that the needles could not lead. It was quite hard but starting with his
work, when the aunt came back. "You can now come out into the kitchen,"
she said. "You can see how I do everything, so you can me to go after."
Wiseli obeyed, and looked out to the aunt as much as he could. But he
always shot back the tears in his eyes, and then saw nothing more.
Because it had to think about how it was when the mother due course in
the kitchen, and as they talked with him and stroked it again and
again. It felt, however, that it should not cry, and gulped and gulped
it almost felt that it would strangles.

The aunt said a few times: "Look! How do you know's after." That was a
good time, then we heard a loud Gestampfe on the corridor. "Make fast
the door, they come," said the aunt.

Because of the noise came from the uncle and the boys that are out of
the snow shoes stamped. Wiseli opened the door to cellar, and the
aunt took a large pan from the fire and ran into the room where the whole
bunch of fried potatoes on the slate table poured.

Then she ran back, took a big pool full of acid milk come in and said:
"Put on the table, which is located in the drawer, so they can eat."
Wiseli quickly pulled the drawer, as were five and five spoons knives,
put it out, and now was ready for the evening table.

The uncle and the boys were immediately came and sat on the benches at
the table along the windows. At the bottom of the table stood a chair,
pointed out was now the uncle and said: "There can, I think, sitting
there, or not?" "Certainly," said the aunt, also a chair for himself
had prepared, on the side against the kitchen. It was but only one
seconds it stopped, then ran back into the kitchen, came back and sat
down again quickly to a small spoon full of milk. Then they ran out
again. There nobody knew why he had to, because the cooking was
finished.

But it was always so, and when the uncle once said, "seat and eat but
once," said she came first in quite a hurry and said she had not
time to sit for so long, and probably someone out there will have
to see.

As it is now the second time and came hurriedly hereingeschossen a potato
peeled, fell Wiselis their inaction, which was sitting beside her,
hands in lap. "Why do not you eat?" they drove it. "There is no spoon,"
said Rudi, on the other side and sat beside him for a long time the
reason was found why someone sitting at a table, without eating, as
long as something is there. " Yes so, "said the aunt. "To whom it
would also come to mind that one of six spoons must have? You always
took only five, and a knife will also need to be. Why can not you also
say? You'll probably know that to eat a spoonful of need. " These
words were addressed to the Wiseli. It looked shyly at my aunt and said
quietly: "It is the same, I do not need, I have no hunger." "Why not?"
asked the aunt. "Are you accustomed's different?

I do not have in mind, what to change." "It's probably better if you first
a little bit in peace can. We must not fear him," said the uncle
appeasement. "It will be even better." Now you let the Wiseli at rest,
the others ate more. The child sat motionless while until finally
the father stood up, once again the Pelzkappe took from the nail and
after Stallaterne examined, because the stain had become ill because he
had once more. The table was quickly back in order. The potato peel
were with their hands in the empty milk tanks heruntergewischt,
then washed off the slate, and when the aunt was finished, she said
to Wiseli: "You've seen how I do's, which you can do from now on."

Now put Chäppi the back behind the table. He had his pen and his
arithmetic book fetched and made establishments, his tasks are on the
table to write. But first he stared for a while on the Wiseli out that
his brown sock was made again, but very helpless sitting, because it could
not see in his mesh angle. And down at the table to put on the murky
oil lamp stand, dared not. "You can also do something," cried at once
Chäppi angry with him over there, "you are not the skills tests in
school." Wiseli knew not what it should say it was not even in school
today and it was did not know what to do. It was ever so completely out
of order and form. "If I must reckon, then you must also, and then do I
tell not," cried the Chäppi again. Wiseli stayed till mice. "So, then
it's right", drove noisily Chäppi continued, "so I do not indent more at
work." That he threw away his pencil. "So, so, I then do nothing," said
Hans, and quite relieved to put ABC back in the school bag, since learning
he was the bitterest, that he knew. "I want it even the teachers say who
is to blame for everything, "Chäppi began again," you can only see how
you feel. " Thus Chäppi still for a time his evil nature of air, if not
the father, from the stables would come back. He carried two large,
empty feed bags on the shoulder and came here so that on the table.

"Mach place," he told Chäppi, both elbows on the table gestemmt and held
his head in his hands was based. Then he spread out the bags, folded
them together, again and again. Then he went to Ofenbank and put the
package suggests.

"So," he said satisfied, "that's good. And where hast thou thy bundle,
Small?" Wiseli brought it out from a corner, where it had lain until
now, and looked with amazement at how the uncle on the bundle upper
end of the package to the Ofenbank pushed out that it is not quite
so round up.

"So, because you can sleep," he said Wiseli now. "You must not freezing,
the oven is hot, and on the bundle, you can lay your head. So you like
lying in bed. And with you, it's also three times. Quickly go to bed!"
Then he took the oil lamp from the table and went to the kitchen,
the three guys behind him stamped.

At the door he turned again and said: "Sleep well.

No longer have to think today because it's already better."

Then he went out. Now came the aunt again enters with a Öllämpchen
in his hand and looked at the camp. "Can you lie there?" she asked. "You're
so hot here at the furnace, many have no bed and still have to freeze.
There you can even go so, whether you are just glad that you temporarily
under one roof are good. Good night!" "Good night ! Wiseli said quietly.
The aunt had it, but in any case not be heard because it was already
halfway out there, good night as they wished and had the door
immediately behind him are making. Wiseli now sat there in the dark
room, everything was suddenly very quiet all around, heard it no sound
anymore. The moon shone through a bit of a window, so that Wiseli was
able to recognize where the Ofenbank was what it should sleep. It went
back and immediately sat down on his camp.

For the first time today, since the mother had left, it was now alone and
was able to reflect. The whole time until now it was in a constant
voltage, because everything he had anxiety and fear eingeflößt what
it had seen and heard, since it is from the mother was away. And
yet it had not even thought of just one moment to another is feared.
Now it sat there for the first time in his life without the mother, and
very clearly and he now came the idea that they will never again see
that there is never talk with her and she could hear. Now came at once
such a feeling of abandonment on the Wiseli that it just happens, as if
it were native soul alone and lost in the world and no man is more
to take care of it, and it must now all alone in the dark and stay
and perish.

And on the Wiseli was such a misery that is the head of his bundle pressed,
all began to weep bitterly, and inconsolable said: "Mother, you can
not hear me? Mother, you hear me?" But the mother had the Wiseli often
said, if a person go bad, and he must suffer, then he was glad that
he became God in heaven could scream. Ever hear of him and wished him
happy to help if people no longer listen to him or can help. That
was the Wiseli in the sense, and it was back on and ran sobbing out:
"Oh, dear God in heaven, help me too. I am so fearful, and the mother
no longer hears me!"

And then prayed two or three, and then it was a little quieter and quieter.
It felt comforted, but as God in heaven, nor was there when it had just
created. So it was not quite, quite alone. Now it is also reminded
of the words which his mother finally said: "Once you have no way before
you see it and you will be very difficult ..." So it was now come, and
yet it had not yet known how this could happen when the mother said.

Then, she said, it should remember how hot it is in his song: ( "He
will also find a way where your foot can go.") Now also understood
Wiseli with einemmal what the words meant that it had previously
provided only hingesagt did so because it had never been afraid. But now
it was so much that it no longer way ahead looked and thought that with
him it was completely out. Because before it was nothing more than a big
fright before each moment in the house of the uncle. It was but
right now a consolation in his heart, as it again and again said: (
"He will also find a way where your foot can go.")

How did Wiseli had never felt what it was, a loving God in the sky, to
which one can call when no one else from being heard. Never till now had
known how good this can do. It is now quite still folded his hands and
began his song again, because it wanted to be like a little more, before
God and tell him to pray. It also said each word with all his heart,
as never before: ( "Befiehl thou thy ways, And what thy heart grieved,
The Des allertreusten Nursing, directs the sky.)

(The clouds, air and winds Are paths, run and train, he will also find a
way where your foot can go. ") It was a reassuring confidence in the
heart of the child liked. After it with faith, the last words once
again had his head put it back on the bundle and fell asleep instantly
A.
But luckily the Admiral was by this time to the fore,
and he marched into the school-room and saluted the head-master.

"Dr. Swinks," he said, "I am your very humble servant, Vice-Admiral of
the Blue, Charles Darling, and beg a thousand pardons for intrusion on
deep learning. But they tell me that your watch is over in some half a
minute. Allow me to ask for the son of an old friend, Blyth Scudamore,
late of the Diomede frigate, but now of this ancient and learned grammar
school. When his labors are over, I would gladly speak with him."

"Boys may go," the head-master pronounced, as the old clock wheezed
instead of striking. "Sir, my valued young coadjutor is advancing from
the fourth form toward you."

The Doctor was nice in his choice of words, and prided himself on
Johnsonian precision, but his young coadjutor's advance was hardly to be
distinguished from a fine retreat. Like leaves before the wind, the
boys rushed out by a back door into the play-ground, while the master
solemnly passed to his house, with a deep slow bow to the ladies; and
there was poor Scudamore--most diffident of men whenever it came to
lady-work--left to face the visitors with a pleasing knowledge that his
neckcloth was dishevelled, and his hair sheafed up, the furrows of his
coat broadcast with pounce, and one of his hands gone to sleep from
holding a heavy Delphin for three-quarters of an hour.

As he came out thus into the evening light, which dazed his blue eyes
for a moment, Miss Dolly turned away to hide a smile, but Faith, upon
her father's introduction, took his hand and looked at him tenderly. For
she was a very soft-hearted young woman, and the tale of his troubles
and goodness to his mother had moved her affection toward him, while
as one who was forever pledged--according to her own ideas--to a hero
beyond comparison, she was able to regard young men with mercy, and with
pity, if they had none to love. "How hard you have been at work!" she
said; "it makes us seem so lazy! But we never can find any good thing to
do."

"That's a cut at me," cried the Admiral. "Scudamore, when you come to my
age, be wiser than to have any daughters. Sure enough, they find no good
to do; and they not only put all the fault of that on me, but they make
me the victim of all the mischief they invent. Dolly, my darling, wear
that cap if it fits. But you have not shaken hands with Mr. Scudamore
yet. I hope you will do so, some hundreds of times."

"Not all at once, papa; or how thankful he would be! But stop, I have
not got half my glove off; this fur makes them stick so."

Miss Dolly was proud of her hands, and lost few chances of getting them
looked at. Then with a little smile, partly at herself for petulance,
partly to him for forgiveness, she offered her soft warm rich white
hand, and looked at him beautifully as he took it. Alack and alas for
poor "Captain Scuddy"!

His eyes, with a quick shy glance, met hers; and hers with soft inquiry
answered, "I wonder what you think of me?" Whenever she met a new face,
this was her manner of considering it.

"Scudamore, I shall not allow you any time to think about it," Admiral
Darling broke in suddenly, so that the young man almost jumped.
"Although you have cut the service for a while, because of our stingy
peacefulness, you are sure to come back to us again when England wants
English, not Latin and Greek. I am your commanding officer, and my
orders are that you come to us from Saturday till Monday. I shall send
a boat--or at least I mean a buggy--to fetch you, as soon as you are off
duty, and return you the same way on Monday. Come, girls, 'twill be dark
before we are home; and since the patrols were withdrawn, I hear there's
a highwayman down this road again. That is one of the blessings
of peace, Scudamore; even as Latin and Greek are. 'Apertis otia
portis'--Open the gates for laziness. Ah, I should have done well at old
Winton, they tell me, if I had not happened to run away to sea."


CHAPTER IX

THE MAROON


If yet there remained upon our southern coast a home for the rarer
virtues, such as gratitude, content, liberality (not of other people's
goods alone), faith in a gracious Providence, and strict abstinence from
rash labor, that home and stronghold was Springhaven. To most men good
success brings neither comfort, nor tranquillity, nor so much as a stool
to sit upon, but comes as a tread-mill which must be trodden without any
getting to the top of it. Not so did these wise men take their luck. If
ever they came from the fickle wave-bosom to the firm breast of land on
a Saturday, with a fine catch of fish, and sold it well--and such was
their sagacity that sooner would they keep it for cannibal temptation
than sell it badly--did they rush into the waves again, before they had
dried their breeches? Not they; nor did their wives, who were nearly
all good women, stir them up to be off again. Especially at this time of
year, with the days pulling out, and the season quickening, and the fish
coming back to wag their tails upon the shallows, a pleasant race of men
should take their pleasure, and leave flints to be skinned by the sons
of flint.

This was the reason why Miss Dolly Darling had watched in vain at
the Monday morning tide for the bold issue of the fishing fleet. The
weariless tide came up and lifted the bedded keel and the plunged
forefoot, and gurgled with a quiet wash among the straky bends, then
lurched the boats to this side and to that, to get their heft correctly,
and dandled them at last with their bowsprits dipped and their little
mast-heads nodding. Every brave smack then was mounted, and riding, and
ready for a canter upon the broad sea: but not a blessed man came to set
her free. Tethered by head and by heel, she could only enjoy the poised
pace of the rocking-horse, instead of the racer's delight in careering
across the free sweep of the distance.

Springhaven had done so well last week, that this week it meant to do
still better, by stopping at home till the money was gone, and making
short work afterward. Every man thoroughly enjoyed himself, keeping
sober whenever good manners allowed, foregoing all business, and
sauntering about to see the folk hard at work who had got no money. On
Wednesday, however, an order was issued by Captain Zebedee Tugwell that
all must be ready for a three days' trip when the tide should serve,
which would be at the first of the ebb, about ten in the morning. The
tides were slackening now, and the smacks had required some change of
berth, but still they were not very far from the Admiral's white gate.

"I shall go down to see them, papa, if you please," Dolly said to her
father at breakfast-time. "They should have gone on Monday; but they
were too rich; and I think it very shameful of them. I dare say they
have not got a halfpenny left, and that makes them look so lively. Of
course they've been stuffing, and they won't move fast, and they can't
expect any more dinner till they catch it. But they have got so much
bacon that they don't care."

"What could they have better, I should like to know?" asked the Admiral,
who had seen hard times. "Why, I gave seven men three dozen apiece for
turning their noses up at salt horse, just because he whisked his tail
in the copper. Lord bless my soul! what is the nation coming to, when a
man can't dine upon cold bacon?"

"No, it is not that, papa. They are very good in that way, as their
wives will tell you. Jenny Shanks tells me the very same thing, and
of course she knows all about them. She knew they would never think of
going out on Monday, and if I had asked her I might have known it too.
But she says that they are sure to catch this tide."

"Very well, Dolly. Go you and catch them. You are never content without
seeing something. Though what there is to see in a lot of lubberly craft
pushing off with punt-poles--"

"Hush, papa, hush! Don't be so contemptuous. What did my godfather say
the other day? And I suppose he understands things."

"Don't quote your godfather against your father. It was never intended
in the Catechism. And if it was, I would never put up with it."

Franz Anton saw him not at all, because always a size and thickness
before it is pushed. Recently he got such a tremendous blow from the
wide, on all sides beating Jopp that he would almost bend over. The
division was almost too late, and this was probably that he never could
get Käsfisch bit, so he wanted to but no more beatings. He walked a few
steps further down, where the young fir trees stood and sat on the
ground between the trees.

At the highest crown of one sat a funny little bird and whistled so
cheerful in the bright, sunny air upward, as if there were nothing
else in the world as a blue sky and sunshine. That made this the
heart so glad that he almost forgot the suffering to which he just
happened. From time to time he had after the sheepfold hinüberschauen,
because the noise and cheer whenever a piece of the others had Käsfisch
again abgejagt , took no end. Then he saw still, like every child
with a larger or smaller chunks of beautiful, white mass, and stood
with delight hineinbiß. He sighed a little and then said quietly: "If I
only once to acquire a single Stücklein!" This was never the of the
beautiful, white Käsfischen cost, because never before had he dared,
as far as today in the crowd of lucky follicle. Now he had seen it but
nothing helped him when he zusammenraffte all courage. And so he came
to the sad conclusion thought that his life he never had a Käsfisch
will get. It was so sad that he had not even heard the bird more and
more zusammengeduckt among the fir trees sat. Now was the banquet at
the lodge to end with a terrible noise and rushed the children,
therefore, may always be on the other jumping out what the steep
slope more than a case brought.

The half-hidden in the past discovered this race in the noisy Hans, and
cried out loud in the bushes into it: "You mole, come out, you must
join in!" This understood, what he had to join. He had to stand up as
a buck, that the others were able to jump over him, but he usually
was overturned. It would be much better in his hiding place remained
silent, but he knew what he had to expect if he does not follow the
command. So he came up obediently. "How many Käsfische did you get?"
he now cried to the Hans.

"No," This was back. "OHO, even to see," cried Hans even louder in the
crowd into it, "the runs quickly to the Käsfischen, and then he runs
away again and has not seen." "You stupid This", it called on all
sides, and at the same time he jumped the big boys on his head away, so
he had enough to do, just always on the feet to come when he had been
overturned.

Sometimes he rolled also with a whole crowd toppled down the slopes until
a happy coincidence it back all on their feet brought. After this stormy
ride low below arrived, ran all the same apart, each according to
his cows. This ran on the other side, far from all gone. For now, he
still expected a right to the pursuit of left behind, far he was
mitgelaufen. He now ran to the swamp hole and crouched down as it is, so
it could from the top and nobody can see below.

Captain
Zeb stood up and stared, with his big forehead coming out under his
hat, and his golden beard shining in the morning sun; but the only
satisfaction for his eyes was the back of his son growing smaller and
smaller.

"Chip of the old block!" "Sarve 'ee right, Cap'en!" "Starve 'un back
to his manners again!" the inferior chieftains of the expedition cried,
according to their several views of life. But Zebedee Tugwell paid no
heed to thoughts outside of his own hat and coat. "Spake when I ax you,"
he said, urbanely, but with a glance which conveyed to any too urgent
sympathizer that he would be knocked down, when accessible.

But, alas! the less-disciplined women rejoiced, with a wink at their
departing lords, as Mrs. Zebedee set off in chase of her long-striding
Daniel. The mother, enriched by home affections and course of duties
well performed, was of a rounded and ample figure, while the son was
tall, and thin as might be one of strong and well-knit frame. And the
sense of wrong would not permit him to turn his neck, or take a glance
at the enterprise which had rejected him.

"How grand he does look! what a noble profile!" thought Dolly, who had
seen everything without the glass, but now brought it to bear upon his
countenance. "He is like the centurion in the painted window, or a Roman
medallion with a hat on. But that old woman will never catch him. She
might just as well go home again. He is walking about ten miles an hour,
and how beautifully straight his legs are! What a shame that he should
not be a gentleman! He is ten times more like one than most of the
officers that used to come bothering me so. I wonder how far he means
to go? I do hope he won't make away with himself. It is almost enough
to make him do it, to be so insulted by his own father, and disgraced
before all the village, simply because he can't help having his poor
head so full of me! Nobody shall ever say that I did anything to give
him the faintest encouragement, because it would be so very wicked and
so cruel, considering all he has done for me. But if he comes back,
when his father is out of sight, and he has walked off his righteous
indignation, and all these people are gone to dinner, it might give a
turn to his thoughts if I were to put on my shell-colored frock and
the pale blue sash, and just go and see, on the other side of the
stepping-stones, how much longer they mean to be with that boat they
began so long ago."


CHAPTER X

ACROSS THE STEPPING-STONES


Very good boats were built at this time in the south of England, stout,
that is to say, and strong, and fit to ride over a heavy sea, and plunge
gallantly into the trough of it. But as the strongest men are seldom
swift of foot or light of turn, so these robust and sturdy boats must
have their own time and swing allowed them, ere ever they would come
round or step out. Having met a good deal of the sea, they knew, like
a man who has felt a good deal of the world, that heavy endurance
and patient bluffness are safer to get through the waves somehow than
sensitive fibre and elegant frame.

But the sea-going folk of Springhaven had learned, by lore of
generations, to build a boat with an especial sheer forward, beam far
back, and deep run of stern, so that she was lively in the heaviest of
weather, and strong enough to take a good thump smiling, when unable to
dance over it. Yet as a little thing often makes all the difference in
great things, it was very difficult for anybody to find out exactly
the difference between a boat built here and a boat built ten or twenty
miles off, in imitation of her. The sea, however, knew the difference in
a moment between the true thing and the counterfeit, and encouraged
the one to go merrily on, while it sent back the other staggering. The
secret lay chiefly in a hollow curve forward of nine or ten planks upon
either side, which could only be compassed by skilful use of adze and
chisel, frame-saw and small tools, after choice of the very best timber,
free from knots, tough, and flexible. And the best judge of these points
was Zebedee Tugwell.

Not having cash enough just at present (by reason of family expenses,
and the high price of bread and of everything else) to set upon the
stocks the great smack of the future, which should sail round the
Rosalie, Captain Tugwell was easing his mind by building a boat for
stormy weather, such as they very seldom have inshore, but are likely to
meet with outside the Head. As yet there were not many rowing boats here
fit to go far in tumbling water, though the few that could do it did
it well, and Tugwell's intention was to beat them all, in power, and
spring, and buoyancy. The fame of his meaning was spread for as much as
twenty leagues along the coast; and jealous people laughed, instead of
waiting for him to finish it.

(Benvolio occurs.) GREGORIO Say: a better, here comes a cousin of my
reign. Simson Yes but a better, sir. ABRAHAM your lying! Simson Moves
if you guys are! Frisch, Gregorio! I think to your Schwadronierhieb. (They
fight. Benvolio occurs.) BENVOLIO fool you, away! Is your swords
On; You know not what ye do. (He suggests their swords down. Tybalt
occurs.) TYBALT What? You draw the diminished servants? Hieher,
Benvolio! Biet the forehead to the death!

BENVOLIO I peace pins, plug your sword only one! If not, then led it
to separate them here! TYBALT What? Ziehn and peace go? How the hell
I hate the word, like all Montagues, and thee! Wehr dich, du memme!
(They fight. Several supporters of both Houses come and mingle in
the dispute, then citizens with Knütteln.) FIRST CITIZENS Hey! Spit
'and sticks her! - Beat them off! Way with the Capulets! - Down with
the Montagues! (Capulets in a dressing gown and Countess Capulets.)
Capulets What a noise? - Holla, my long sword! GRÄFIN Capulets No,
crutches, crutches! What is a sword! Capulets My sword, I say! The old
Montague Is there and swing the blade to scorn me. (Montague and
Montague countess.) MontagUEs You Rogue Capulets! - Montagu some early
morning he was seen there, How he the fresh dew multiplied by tears
And deep erseufzend, Wolk urged to cloud. alone in the furthest east
when the sun, all the friends from Aurora's bed The shadow curtain
wegzuziehn begins, before the light Steals finstrer my son is home,
and traps himself in his lonely Kämmerlein, beautiful closes the
window, And the daylight schaffet artificially night around them.

In schwarzes mishap, he will dream, white piece of advice is not the
reason away. BENVOLIO My noble uncle, you know the reason? MontagUEs
I know him not and can not explore. BENVOLIO your Lagt he ever been to
so? I myself MontagUEs both as some other friend. But he, the inclinations
are confidant, is against, as loyal, I will not say, however,
so secret and in themselves swept, Sun unfathomable researching
Bemühn Like a bud with a worm zernagt , Eh they air their tender leaves
unfold And their attraction to the sun can dedicate. Erführen we, from
his suffering arises, we are healed so happy when wirs spied. (Romeo
appears at some distance.) BENVOLIO Suddenly he can see! Place, to
leave us; Galt I gave him what ever, I will summarize it already.

MontagUEs confesses O 'er thee for thy linger but the truth! - Come,
Countess, we go! (Montague and Montague Countess pass. Romeo occurs
on.) BENVOLIO Ha, good morning, cousin! ROMEO primary so far? BENVOLIO
Hardly beat it nine. ROMEO Alas for me. Gram extends the time. Was
that my father, who went so fast? BENVOLIO He wars. And whatever you
Gram extends the hours? ROMEO That I must be deprived of what they
are shortened. BENVOLIO does your love? ROMEO NO. BENVOLIO So was it
given you? ROMEO No, devoid of love, I love where I must. BENVOLIO
Oh, that the Dear God, so mild in slips, So cruelly invented the problem
is! ROMEO Alas, that love of God, in spite of his bandages, his goal
is always to know to find paths, where we dine? - Oh, what a dispute was
here? But tells me not, I heard it all before: hatred, there are a lot
to create more love. Well: Liebreich hatred! Streitsüchtge love you
all, out of nothing first create! Schwermütger recklessness! Serious
Tändelei! Distorted chaos brilliant characters! Bleischwinge! Cold smoke
and lights glow! Stay alert sleep, your own game opponent! So I
feel love and hate what I feel! Not you laughing? BENVOLIO No, this wine
is closer to me. ROMEO Why, my heart? BENVOLIO To torment your heart ROMEO
It is the love of injustice, after all. Even my own suffering to the
chest zerpressen, your grief to me is fully measure the degree to
me.

The friendship that you show, increases my pain, because, like himself,
so also teases you my heart. Love is a smoke, produced Seufzerdämpf, who
are a Feurer, from which the eyes light up, tortured, a sea of tears
angeschwellt; What is it else? And frenzy Verständge ekle Gall and sweet
Spezerei. Farewell, my friend! (In Proceed.) BENVOLIO Softly! I will
go with you, you do me Unglimpf, so you let me stand. ROMEO Alas, I
lost myself, I'm not Romeo. He is not here: he is - I do not know where.
BENVOLIO discovered me without mischief who loves you.

ROMEO I am not without courage and without desire? BENVOLIO No, says
me but seriously! ROMEO Vpišite seriously to his testament, the sick
tortures when he mentions the word! Listen, cousin, because in all
seriousness I love a woman. BENVOLIO but I met a good thing that I
love you thought. wackrer Contactor A ROMEO! - And I love, is beautiful.

Sudden death was avoidable on the part of most
of its members, nets, ferrets, gins, and wires being alike forbidden,
foxes scarcely ever seen, and even guns a rare and very memorable
visitation. The headland staves the southern storm, sand-hills shevelled
with long rush disarm the western fury, while inland gales from north
and east leap into the clouds from the uplands. Well aware of all their
bliss, and feeling worthy of it, the blameless citizens pour forth, upon
a mild spring evening, to give one another the time of day, to gaze
at the labors of men upon the sea, and to take the sweet leisure,
the breeze, and the browse. The gray old conies of curule rank, prime
senators of the sandy beach, and father of the father-land, hold a
just session upon the head borough, and look like brown loaves in the
distance. But these are conies of great mark and special character, full
of light and leading, because they have been shot at, and understand how
to avoid it henceforth. They are satisfied to chew very little bits of
stuff, and particular to have no sand in it, and they hunch their round
backs almost into one another, and double up their legs to keep them
warm, and reflect on their friends' gray whiskers. And one of their
truest pleasures is, sitting snug at their own doors, to watch their
children's gambols.

For this is the time, with the light upon the slope, and the freshness
of salt flowing in from the sea, when the spirit of youth must be free
of the air, and the quickness of life is abounding. Without any heed
of the cares that are coming, or the prick-eared fears of the elders, a
fine lot of young bunnies with tails on the frisk scour everywhere over
the warren. Up and down the grassy dips and yellow piles of wind-drift,
and in and out of the ferny coves and tussocks of rush and ragwort, they
scamper, and caper, and chase one another, in joy that the winter is
banished at last, and the glorious sun come back again.

Suddenly, as at the wave of a wand, they all stop short and listen. The
sun is behind them, low and calm, there is not a breath of wind to
stir their flax, not even the feather of a last year's bloom has moved,
unless they moved it. Yet signal of peril has passed among them; they
curve their soft ears for the sound of it, and open their sensitive
nostrils, and pat upon the ground with one little foot to encourage
themselves against the panting of their hearts and the traitorous length
of their shadows.

Ha! Not for nothing was their fear this day. An active and dangerous
specimen of the human race was coming, lightly and gracefully skimming
the moss, above salt-water reach, of the stepping-stones. The steps
are said to be a thousand years old, and probably are of half that age,
belonging to a time when sound work was, and a monastery flourished
in the valley. Even though they come down from great Hercules himself,
never have they been crossed by a prettier foot or a fairer form than
now came gayly over them. But the rabbits made no account of that. To
the young man with the adze they were quite accustomed, and they liked
him, because he minded his own business, and cared nothing about theirs;
but of this wandering maiden they had no safe knowledge, and judged the
worst, and all rushed away, some tenscore strong, giving notice to him
as they passed the boat that he also had better be cautious.

Daniel was in a sweet temper now, by virtue of hard labor and gratified
wit. By skill and persistence and bodily strength he had compassed a
curve his father had declared impossible without a dock-yard. Three
planks being fixed, he was sure of the rest, and could well afford to
stop, to admire the effect, and feel proud of his work, and of himself
the worker. Then the panic of the conies made him turn his head, and the
quick beat of his heart was quickened by worse than bodily labor.

Miss Dolly Darling was sauntering sweetly, as if there were only one
sex in the world, and that an entirely divine one. The gleam of spring
sunset was bright in her hair, and in the soft garnish of health on
her cheeks, and the vigorous play of young life in her eyes; while the
silvery glance of the sloping shore, and breezy ruffle of the darkening
sea, did nothing but offer a foil for the form of the shell-colored
frock and the sky-blue sash.

Young Daniel fell back upon his half-shaped work, and despised it, and
himself, and everything, except what he was afraid to look at. In the
hollow among the sand-hills where the cradle of the boat was, fine
rushes grew, and tufts of ragwort, and stalks of last year's thistles,
and sea-osiers where the spring oozed down. Through these the white
ribs of the rising boat shone forth like an elephant's skeleton; but
the builder entertained some hope, as well as some fear, of being
unperceived.

But a far greater power than his own was here. Curved and hollow ships
are female in almost all languages, not only because of their curves and
hollows, but also because they are craft--so to speak.

"Oh, Captain Tugwell, are you at work still? Why, you really ought to
have gone with the smacks. But perhaps you sent your son instead. I
am so glad to see you! It is such nice company to hear you! I did not
expect to be left alone, like this."

"If you please, miss, it isn't father at all. Father is gone with the
fishing long ago. It is only me, Daniel, if you please, miss."

"No, Daniel, I am not pleased at all. I am quite surprised that you
should work so late. It scarcely seems respectable."

At this the young man was so much amazed that he could only stare while
she walked off, until the clear duty of righting himself in her good
opinion struck him. Then he threw on his coat and ran after her.

"If you please, Miss Dolly--will you please, Miss Dolly?" he called, as
she made off for the stepping-stones; but she did not turn round, though
her name was "Miss Dolly" all over Springhaven, and she liked it. "You
are bound to stop, miss," he said, sternly; and she stopped, and cried,
"What do you mean by such words to me?"

"Not any sort of harm, miss," he answered, humbly, inasmuch as she had
obeyed him; "and I ask your pardon for speaking so. But if you think
twice you are bound to explain what you said concerning me, now just."

"Oh, about your working so late, you mean. I offered good advice to you.
I think it is wrong that you should go on, when everybody else has left
off long ago. But perhaps your father makes you."

"Father is a just man," said young Tugwell, drawing up his own
integrity; "now and then he may take a crooked twist, or such like; but
he never goeth out of fair play to his knowledge. He hath a-been hard
upon me this day; but the main of it was to check mother of her ways.
You understand, miss, how the women-folk go on in a house, till the
other women hear of it. And then out-of-doors they are the same as
lambs."

"It is most ungrateful and traitorous of you to your own mother to talk
so. * * * * * To those of a given time from the followers of the various
parties to the existing English Committee, which among others also
a large number of English MPs belonged to the German newspapers of
all parties accepted the invitation to visit England.

Given the unscrupulous hounding war-mongering and the courtly-military
circles, and its tools in the press this event should serve as the true
spirit of the English people to learn and the friendly relations between
the two countries once again to help promote. Keir Hardie, the leader
of the British Labor Party, had signed with the invitation. Even the
editors of the New Society ran a letter from one of my old friend
Stead accompanies the hope, was we would follow her.

England! How many memories have been growing in me! For me it was
the springboard of new life have been. Perhaps that I am now out of
his maze to the outdoors again to lead vermöchte! My hope was a way out
of hardship and the narrowness out - and if it's only a fleeting sigh
of relief would be in free air! My husband put the invitation aside as
something obviously dismissed.

"Do not you think that I could accept it, - in our name," I asked hesitantly.
"I would like to continue, - also, on a single occasion only,"
- He looked surprised by the work. "If you so much it is, we need not
be the tragic gesture!" He replied calmly.

Seemed to me Now my wish is culpable in the light entertainment
addiction.

I had to reassure him and who does not think differently liked: "I
will write reports - new relations.

"Very well, then; once more for Kitty," said the sweetest-tempered of
mankind, as he vaulted back into the tub. "But you know that I always
leave off at a dozen. Thirteen--thirteen I could never stop at. I shall
have to do fourteen at least; and it is too bad, just after dinner. Now
all of you watch whether I touch it anywhere."

A barrel almost five feet in height, and less than a yard in breadth,
stood under a clump of trees in the play-ground; and Blyth Scudamore had
made a clean leap one day, for his own satisfaction, out of it. Sharp
eyes saw him, and sharp wits were pleased, and a strong demand had
arisen that he should perform this feat perpetually. Good nerve, as well
as strong spring, and compactness of power are needed for it; and even
in this athletic age there are few who find it easy.

"Come, now," he said, as he landed lightly, with both heels together;
"one of you big fellows come and do it. You are three inches taller than
I am. And you have only got to make up your minds."

But all the big fellows hung back, or began to stimulate one another,
and to prove to each other how easy it was, by every proof but practice.
"Well, then, I must do it once more," said Blyth, "for I dare not leave
off at thirteen, for fear of some great calamity, such as I never could
jump out of."

But before he could get into the tub again, to prepare for the clear
spring out of it, he beheld a man with silver buttons coming across
the playing-field. His heart fell into his heels, and no more agility
remained in him. He had made up his mind that Admiral Darling would
forget all about him by Saturday; and though the fair image of Dolly
would abide in that quiet mind for a long while, the balance of his
wishes (cast by shyness) was heavily against this visit. And the boys,
who understood his nature, with a poignant love--like that of our
friends in this world--began to probe his tender places.

"One more jump, Captain Scuddy! You must; to show the flunky what you
can do."

"Oh, don't I wish I was going? He'll have turtle soup, and venison, and
two men behind his chair."

"And the beautiful young ladies looking at him every time he takes a
mouthful."

"But he dare not go courting after thirteen jumps. And he has vowed that
he will have another. Come, Captain Scuddy, no time to lose."

But Scudamore set off to face his doom, with his old hat hanging on the
back of his head--as it generally did--and his ruddy face and mild blue
eyes full of humorous diffidence and perplexity.

"If you please, sir, his honour the Hadmiral have sent me to fetch 'e
and your things; and hoss be baiting along of the Blue Dragon."

"I am sorry to say that I forgot all about it, or, at least, I thought
that he would. How long before we ought to start?"

"My name is Gregory, sir--Coachman Gregory--accustomed always to a pair,
but doesn't mind a single hoss, to oblige the Hadmiral, once in a way.
About half an hour, sir, will suit me, unless they comes down to the
skittle-alley, as ought to be always on a Saturday afternoon; but not a
soul there when I looked in."

Any man in Scudamore's position, except himself, would have grieved and
groaned. For the evening dress of that time, though less gorgeous than
of the age before, was still an expensive and elaborate affair; and the
young man, in this ebb of fortune, was poorly stocked with raiment. But
he passed this trouble with his usual calmness and disregard of trifles.
"If I wear the best I have got," he thought, "I cannot be charged with
disrespect. The Admiral knows what a sailor is; and, after all, who will
look at me?" Accordingly he went just as he was, for he never wore an
overcoat, but taking a little canvas kit, with pumps and silk stockings
for evening wear, and all the best that he could muster of his Volunteer
equipment.

The Admiral came to the door of the Hall, and met him with such hearty
warmth, and a glance of such kind approval at his open throat and
glowing cheeks, that the young man felt a bound of love and tender
veneration towards him, which endured for lifetime.

"Your father was my dearest friend, and the very best man I ever knew.
I must call you 'Blyth,'" said the Admiral, "for if I call you
'Scudamore,' I shall think perpetually of my loss."

At dinner that day there was no other guest, and nothing to disturb the
present one, except a young lady's quick glances, of which he endeavored
to have no knowledge. Faith Darling, a gentle and beautiful young
woman, had taken a natural liking to him, because of his troubles, and
simplicity, and devotion to his widowed mother. But to the younger,
Dolly Darling, he was only a visitor, dull and stupid, requiring,
without at all repaying, the trouble of some attention. He was not tall,
nor handsome, nor of striking appearance in any way; and although he was
clearly a gentleman, to her judgment he was not an accomplished, or
even a clever one. His inborn modesty and shyness placed him at great
disadvantage, until well known; and the simple truth of his nature
forbade any of the large talk and bold utterance which pleased her as
yet among young officers.

"What a plague he will be all day tomorrow!" she said to her sister in
the drawing-room. "Father was obliged, I suppose, to invite him; but
what can we do with him all the day? Sundays are dull enough, I am sure,
already, without our having to amuse a gentleman who has scarcely
got two ideas of his own, and is afraid to say 'bo' to a goose, I do
believe. Did you hear what he said when I asked him whether he was fond
of riding?"

"Yes; and I thought it so good of him, to answer so straightforwardly.
He said that he used to be very fond of it, but was afraid that he
should fall off now."

"I should like to see him. I tell you what we'll do. We will make him
ride back on Monday morning, and put him on 'Blue Bangles,' who won't
have seen daylight since Friday. Won't he jump about a bit! What a shame
it is, not to let us ride on Sundays!"

Ignorant of these kind intentions, Scudamore was enjoying himself in
his quiet, observant way. Mr. Twemlow, the rector of the parish, had
chanced--as he often chanced on a Saturday, after buckling up a brace
of sermons--to issue his mind (with his body outside it) for a little
relief of neighbourhood. And these little airings of his chastening
love--for he loved everybody, when he had done his sermon--came,
whenever there was a fair chance of it, to a glass of the fine old port
which is the true haven for an ancient Admiral.

"Just in time, Rector," cried Admiral Darling, who had added by many
a hardship to his inborn hospitality. "This is my young friend Blyth
Scudamore, the son of one of my oldest friends. You have heard of Sir
Edmond Scudamore?"

"And seen him and felt him. And to him I owe, under a merciful
Providence, the power of drinking in this fine port the health of his
son, which I do with deep pleasure, for the excellence both of end and
means."

The old man bowed at the praise of his wine, and the young one at that
of his father. Then, after the usual pinch of snuff from the Rector's
long gold box, the host returned to the subject he had been full of
before this interruption.

"The question we have in hand is this. What is to be done with our
friend Blyth? He was getting on famously, till this vile peace came.
Twemlow, you called it that yourself, so that argument about words is
useless. Blyth's lieutenancy was on the books, and the way they carry
things on now, and shoot poor fellows' heads off, he might have been
a post-captain in a twelvemonth. And now there seems nothing on earth
before him better than Holy-Orders."

"Admiral Darling is kind enough to think," said Scudamore, in his mild,
hesitative way, blushing outwardly, but smiling inwardly, "that I am too
good to be a clergyman."

"And so you are, and Heaven knows it, Blyth, unless there was a chance
of getting on by goodness, which there is in the Navy, but not in the
Church. Twemlow, what is your opinion?"

"It would not be modest in me," said the Rector, "to stand up too much
for my own order. We do our duty, and we don't get on."

"Exactly. You could not have put it better. You get no vacancies by shot
and shell, and being fit for another world, you keep out of it. Have you
ever heard me tell the story about Gunner MacCrab, of the Bellerophon?"

"Fifty times, and more than that," replied the sturdy parson, who liked
to make a little cut at the Church sometimes, but would not allow any
other hand to do it. "But now about our young friend here. Surely, with
all that we know by this time of the character of that Bony, we can see
that this peace is a mere trick of his to bamboozle us while he gets
ready. In six months we shall be at war again, hammer and tongs, as sure
as my name is Twemlow."

"So be it!" cried the Admiral, with a stamp on his oak floor, while
Scudamore's gentle eyes flashed and fell; "if it is the will of God, so
be it. But if it once begins again, God alone knows where France will be
before you and I are in our graves. They have drained all our patience,
and our pockets very nearly; but they have scarcely put a tap into our
energy and endurance. But what are they? A gang of slaves, rammed into
the cannon by a Despot."

"They seem to like it, and the question is for them. But the struggle
will be desperate, mountains of carnage, oceans of blood, universal
mourning, lamentation, and woe. And I have had enough trouble with my
tithes already."

"Tithes are dependent on the will of the Almighty," said the Admiral,
who paid more than he altogether liked; "but a war goes by reason and
good management. It encourages the best men of the day, and it brings
out the difference between right and wrong, which are quite smothered up
in peace time. It keeps out a quantity of foreign rubbish and stuff only
made to be looked at, and it makes people trust one another, and know
what country they belong to, and feel how much they have left to be
thankful for. And what is the use of a noble fleet, unless it can get
some fighting? Blyth, what say you? You know something about that."

"No, sir, I have never been at close quarters yet. And I doubt--or at
least I am certain that I should not like it. I am afraid that I should
want to run down below."

Mr. Twemlow, having never smelled hostile powder, gazed at him rather
loftily, while the young man blushed at his own truth, yet looked up
bravely to confirm it.

"Of all I have ever known or met," said Admiral Darling, quietly,
"there are but three--Nelson and two others, and one of those two was
half-witted--who could fetch up muzzle to muzzle without a feeling of
that sort. The true courage lies in resisting the impulse, more than
being free from it. I know that I was in a precious fright the first
time I was shot at, even at a decent distance; and I don't pretend to
like it even now. But I am pretty safe now from any further chance, I
fear. When we cut our wisdom-teeth, they shelf us. Twemlow, how much
wiser you are in the Church! The older a man gets, the higher they
promote him."

"Then let them begin with me," the Rector answered, smiling; "I am old
enough now for almost anything, and the only promotion I get is stiff
joints, and teeth that crave peace from an olive. Placitam paci, Mr.
Scudamore knows the rest, being fresh from the learned Stonnington.
But, Squire, you know that I am content. I love Springhaven, Springhaven
loves me, and we chasten one another."

"A man who knows all the Latin you know, Rector--for I own that you beat
me to the spelling-book--should be at least an Archdeacon in the Church,
which is equal to the rank of Rear-Admiral. But you never have pushed
as you should do; and you let it all off in quotations. Those are very
comforting to the mind, but I never knew a man do good with them, unless
they come out of the Bible. When Gunner Matthew of the Erigdoupos was
waiting to have his leg off, with no prospect before him--except a
better world--you know what our Chaplain said to him; and the effect
upon his mind was such, that I have got him to this day upon my land."

"Of course you have--the biggest old poacher in the county. He shoots
half your pheasants with his wooden leg by moonlight. What your Chaplain
said to him was entirely profane in the turn of a text of Holy-Writ;
and it shows how our cloth is spoiled by contact with yours"--for the
Admiral was laughing to himself at this old tale, which he would
not produce before young Scudamore, but loved to have out with the
Rector--"and I hope it will be a good warning to you, Squire, to
settle no more old gunners on your property. You must understand, Mr.
Scudamore, that the Admiral makes a sort of Naval Hospital, for all his
old salts, on his own Estates."

"I am sure it is wonderfully kind in him," the young man answered,
bravely, "for the poor old fellows are thrown to the dogs by the
country, when it has disabled them. I have not seen much of the service,
but quite enough to know that, Mr. Twemlow."

"I have seen a great deal, and I say that it is so. And my good friend
knows it as well as I do, and is one of the first to lend a helping
hand. In all such cases he does more than I do, whenever they come
within his knowledge. But let us return to the matter in hand. Here is
a young man, a first-rate sailor, who would have been under my
guardianship, I know, but for--but for sad circumstances. Is he to be
grinding at Virgil and Ovid till all his spirit goes out of him, because
we have patched up a very shabby peace? It can never last long. Every
Englishman hates it, although it may seem to save his pocket. Twemlow,
I am no politician. You read the papers more than I do. How much longer
will this wretched compact hold? You have predicted the course of things
before."

"And so I will again," replied the Rector. "Atheism, mockery, cynicism,
blasphemy, lust, and blood-thirstyness cannot rage and raven within
a few leagues of a godly and just nation without stinking in their
nostrils. Sir, it is our mission from the Lord to quench Bony, and
to conquer the bullies of Europe. We don't look like doing it now, I
confess. But do it we shall, in the end, as sure as the name of our
country is England."

"I have no doubt of it," said the Admiral, simply; "but there will be a
deal of fighting betwixt this and then. Blyth, will you leave me to see
what I can do, whenever we get to work again?"

"I should think that I would, sir, and never forget it. I am not fond of
fighting; but how I have longed to feel myself afloat again!"


CHAPTER XII

AT THE YEW-TREE


All the common-sense of England, more abundant in those days than now,
felt that the war had not been fought out, and the way to the lap of
peace could only be won by vigorous use of the arms. Some few there
were even then, as now there is a cackling multitude, besotted enough to
believe that facts can be undone by blinking them. But our forefathers
on the whole were wise, and knew that nothing is trampled more basely
than right that will not right itself.

Therefore they set their faces hard, and toughened their hearts like
knotted oak, against all that man could do to them. There were no
magnificent proclamations, no big vaunts of victory at the buckling
on of armour, but the quiet strength of steadfast wills, and the stern
resolve to strike when stricken, and try to last the longest. And so
their mother-land became the mother of men and freedom.

In November, 1802, the speech from the throne apprised the world that
England was preparing. The widest, longest, and deadliest war, since the
date of gunpowder, was lowering; and the hearts of all who loved their
kin were heavy, but found no help for it.

The sermon which Mr. Twemlow preached in Springhaven church was
magnificent. Some parishioners, keeping memory more alert than
conscience, declared that they had received it all nine, or it might be
ten, years since, when the fighting first was called for. If so, that
proved it none the worse, but themselves, for again requiring it. Their
Rector told them that they thought too much of their own flesh-pots and
fish-kettles, and their country might go to the bottom of the sea, if it
left them their own fishing-grounds. And he said that they would wake up
some day and find themselves turned into Frenchmen, for all things were
possible with the Lord; and then they might smite their breasts, but
must confess that they had deserved it. Neither would years of prayer
and fasting fetch them back into decent Englishmen; the abomination of
desolation would be set up over their doorways, and the scarlet woman of
Babylon would revel in their sanctuaries.

"Now don't let none of us be in no hurry," Captain Tugwell said, after
dwelling and sleeping upon this form of doctrine; "a man knoweth his own
trade the best, the very same way as the parson doth. And I never knew
no good to come of any hurry. Our lives are given us by the Lord. And He
never would 'a made 'em threescore and ten, or for men of any strength
fourscore, if His will had been to jerk us over them. Never did I see no
Frenchman as could be turned to an Englishman, not if he was to fast and
pray all day, and cut himself with knives at the going down of the sun.
My opinion is that Parson Twemlow were touched up by his own conscience
for having a nephew more French than English; and 'Caryl Carne' is the
name thereof, with more French than English sound to it."

"Why, he have been gone for years and years," said the landlord of the
Darling Arms, where the village was holding council; "he have never
been seen in these parts since the death of the last Squire Carne, to my
knowledge."

"And what did the old Squire die of, John Prater? Not that he were to be
called old--younger, I dare say, than I be now. What did he die of, but
marrying with a long outlandish 'ooman? A femmel as couldn't speak a
word of English, to be anyhow sure of her meaning! Ah, them was bad
times at Carne Castle; and as nice a place as need be then, until they
dipped the property. Six grey horses they were used to go with to London
Parliament every year, before the last Squire come of age, as I have
heered my father say scores of times, and no lie ever come from his
mouth, no more than it could from mine, almost. Then they dropped to
four, and then to two, and pretended that the roads were easier."

"When I was down the coast, last week, so far as Littlehampton," said
a stout young man in the corner, "a very coorous thing happened me,
leastways by my own opinion, and glad shall I be to have the judgment
of Cappen Zeb consarning it. There come in there a queer-rigged craft
of some sixty ton from Halvers, desiring to set up trade again, or to do
some smoogling, or spying perhaps. Her name was the Doctor Humm, which
seem a great favorite with they Crappos, and her skipper had a queer
name too, as if he was two men in one, for he called himself 'Jacks'; a
fellow about forty year old, as I hauled out of the sea with a boat-hook
one night on the Varners. From way down to see them all equally nice and
friendly with the open galleries and a small wooden staircase at the
house. But get up and come into their vicinity, we can see that a great
difference between them. Just the first two on the slope seen in the
vicinity very different from. They are not far apart, and between them
the biggest crashes mountain stream in the area, the sparkling
stream watering down.

On the first houses were also the most beautiful summer days, all
the small windows always closed, and the only air that penetrated into
it, came through the holes of broken windows. But that was not much,
because the holes were back with paper glued to get indoors in
winter was not cold.

On the wooden podium levels were all half-demolished. And the gallery
was so decayed that it was a miracle that all the little children,
because herumrutschten and stumbled, not arms and legs broke. They
had, however, all healthy limbs, but quite dirty. The children were
all covered with dirt, and her hair had never seen a comb. Four of these
little rascal crept on since the day around, and in the evening, four
more children to do so. Three strong boys and a girl, which is also not
very clean and tidy appearance, but a little better than the kids.
Because they were able to wash himself yet. The cottage on the creek
over there had a totally different character. Since it was already down
before the small staircase so clean and tidy, as the ground was a very
different over there. The stages always looked as if they would just
have been scrubbed. And on top of the gallery on three floors and
beautiful carnation perfume all summer long into the window inside.
One of the small, bright windows stood open, and let the beautiful,
sunny mountain air inside.

There was usually a more robust-looking woman sitting see, with
beautiful white hair, which she very neatly under the black bonnet
zurückgestrichen had. They usually patched in a men's shirt made of
coarse, solid substance, but which has always been washed clean.

The woman herself was in her simple gown so neatly and cleanly, as would
never come to them unclean. It was Vizenze wife, the mother of the young
herdsmen, the Franz Anton happy with the strong arms. The made over
the summer in the upper chalet his cheese, and only in late autumn, he
moved back to the mother down to the winter with her.

Because then he butterte in the lower sheepfold, which was very close. As
the torrential brook no glut Steg led the two houses were completely
separated.

And Vizenze wife knew people who lived much farther, better, than those
neighbors on the creek, which it only about once a day mute hinüberschaute.
Usually shook them in the head seriously if the black faces and dirty
scraps over to the children saw. She looked over there but not often,
because the sight is not pleasing to her. Lieber looked at her, when
the Feierabendstündchen came, her red carnations at the gallery, or
they looked over the green, sunny slope down in front of her hut to the
valley hinabstieg. The feral children over the creek belonged to
the Hälmli-Sepp, as he was called of his work outside the home in the
wood or Heumachen cases examined. In addition, it also loads up the
mountain. He was usually at the bottom of the valley or on the trails
in the area. The woman had enough to do at home. But they seemed to
think so many small children could not keep in order, and later
it would be even better then.

So let them all go, how it went. And in the beautiful, pure air,
they also all alive and well and could be's, on the grassy ground
herumrutschend and krabbelnd probably be. For DST, the four larger
throughout the day outside, in order to guard the cows. Because there
is not as on the high pastures, where the whole herd graze together,
and only one or two shepherds is guarded. The people from the mountainside
sent their cows on the surrounding pasture land and also had to be careful.
That is always a fun time for the boys and girls who are there at any
time of day together and all sorts of fun things with one another company.
Sometimes the children were also below in the valley during the
potato harvest, or they perform other lighter work in the fields.

So then they earned throughout the summer on their maintenance and even
brought some pieces of money home, the mother could do well. They still
had the four kids to feed and for all eight of the clothes should be
collected. If they still were so easy, a Hemdlein but each had to have
and the four large a piece of it. A cow had Hälmli-Sepp also not, as
almost all the farmers around him, one possessed, if they even so little
about this country had.

Hälmli-Sepp said the man because the straws in his possession were not
thick enough to to receive a cow. He had only one goat and a piece
of potato country, so had the woman with four kids over the summer and
live here too and there's a larger dining when the weather was not
working. The father was probably in the winter and then when home, but
he gave little attention to, because his house and farm were so in debt
that he had throughout the year had something abzuzahlen. Once again he
was only a little could keep wage was one that he was guilty of something
and took him away, he found so much. So was the woman with the children
often go hungry. They even could not keep order in the house, and the
work was never quite out of hand.

It could also sometimes quite a long time on the dilapidated, small gallery
stand. Instead of working, she looked over the brook to the neat
little house across the dairymaid, which slices into the sun shone. Then
she said to himself, annoyed: "Yes, there can be clean and keep everything
clean, which has nothing else to do, but our one." Then she went back
into the annoying dull, dreary desk back, and the person making their
way in the first came, she let the anger out. It was now mostly a boy
of ten or eleven years, which was not her own, but since its birth
in the house of Sepp Hälmli-lived. This little boy, everyone just 'Stupid
This' called, looked so skinny and weak, that it barely held for
eight years would have. He looked so shy and verschüchtert Dreiner
that nobody knew how this really looked like because he always looked
fearfully at the ground when you spoke to him. This had never known a
mother. She had died when he was barely two years old.

His father was not much later on the rocks in the depth fallen when he
Heuholen from down in the mountains and wanted to shorten the path.

Since the fall, he was paralyzed and could not do more than small weave
mats together, he in the great restaurant at the top of the
Seelisberg sold.

This Little had his father never otherwise seen as sitting on a
stool, a straw mat on his knees. All the people had him lame Matthis
called. For six years he was dead, and as he in-house by Sepp Hälmli
chamber as a small sleeping place with his rented Büblein had remained,
after the father's death equal to the same place. The little money that
for the small Diese paid by the municipality, was the wife of the
Sepp-Hälmli very welcome. And in the chamber, she could now have two
of their boys stuck for a long time almost no place to sleep longer
was there.

The small This was by nature a shy and quiet Büblein been. His father,
who only lost his wife, then had the great misfortune was to live
all gone.

And he had before his accident not talk, he said almost nothing more. So
this was the little whole days beside his father, without a word to
hear, and so long he also learned to say no. When he had lost his
father and now let the family of the Sepp-Hälmli belonged, because
he spoke almost no more, because he was approached by each, and pushed
back and forth, because he never fought. For all the Püffen, he
auszustehen of the children had arrived, nor the evil words of the
woman, if they meet the anger over the clean house over there had the
dairymaid. The This never fought, because he had the feeling that the
whole world was against him, and so take advantage of everything but
nothing. Gradually, the boy was so shy and verschüchtert that it was
believed that he could hardly remember what to him was experiencing.
And usually he does not answer when you called him. He always looked
at as if he looking for a hole, where he worked in the soil could
hineinkriechen that it no longer would.

Thus it was concluded that the four large-Hälmli by Sepp, Jopp of the
Hans, the Ulli Lisi and sometimes already had said to him: "You're a
stupid This", and that the four little ones also asserted as soon as
they could only talk. Because of this never fought on the other hand,
it had gradually assumed all the people that it would probably be
the case, and he was far and wide just 'Stupid This' called. It was
as if this could not work like the others did. Should he help the cows
to be careful, and he was with all the other boys, so he looked
like a hedge or a bush, in order to hide behind. As he sat mostly
trembling from fear, because he listened well, like the other boys
he studied with great clamor that he participate in the games that
they wanted to play.

These games but still ended up with lots of beat, and met regularly to
This most, because he had not fought and could not defend against much
stronger. So verkroch it as soon as he could, and now ran his cows, where
they wanted and ate in the pasture of the neighbors. That was big
trouble then, and everyone thought of this was too silly, just to watch
the cows, and no one has it anymore. Just went there for work in the
field where the boys to weeding the potato fields should go. As they
threw itself to the tubers of the potato blossoms in her head, so
that already the time pass a little faster. And each gave the other
plenty back what he had received. The This gave nothing back, but
shy and timid, he looked on all sides, from where he would be taken.
That was precisely what the others wanted to like. And so he flew under
much laughter from all sides, the tubers in the back and the head.

But while the others had time between working, tried to avoid this
and always just behind the bushes to hide potato. So it was
with this work nothing, and young and old were in agreement that
this was too silly to be all work and from this could never be
anything.

Because he has nothing to earn and so never could be anything, so
he was also the wife of the Sepp-Hälmli treated accordingly.

If already own four small children barely had enough to eat, so it
often happened that for this no longer remains and then stated:
"You'll probably find something you're big enough."

As this was actually eats, nobody knew, even the wife of Sepp-Hälmli
not, but somehow he always lived.

The narrow, skinny boys were already here and there a good woman
chunks of bread or a potato, when he stopped at passed their door.
This was the begging did not. Tired, he had in his life had never eaten.
But it was not as horrible as the persecutions and the laugh of the
boys, before which he was always shy and more and more hidden. 2
In Chapter Schwemme Bach cottage on a lovely summer evening than in the
blue, sunny air all mosquitoes danced, met on the mountain slopes all
guardians and boys - girls. They had to have something special to
have negotiations. The Jopp, the greatest of all, was the head of the
Assembly. And now all together in a pile was, he showed at that one now
Schwemme Bach cottage go up, because today was the Käsfischtag.

Now, however, must primarily be identified who stay and the cows should
be careful, while the other is on the feast would go. That was a
difficult question, because no one had pleasure to work for other
aufzuopfern and will remain. Then came the clever Uli on the idea that
it could once the stupid This force on the eight to give cows. And so
he's not forget, it could be a little ahead durchprügeln. The proposal
was well received, and you wanted more of the leaders of the horde
get this, when Lisi dazwischenrief with a loud voice: "This is nothing
sensible to what Uli invented. So we just all get the reward, if
we coming back and the cows that have lost. You will not believe that
this, if he is too stupid, to guard against two cows, twenty at a
time can watch.

You have to loose, and three cows have to remain, otherwise it's nothing.
" Lisis statement made impression that the new Council was adopted.
Three out of the crowd were chosen by lot to stay convicted of Uli
was chosen among these three.

Grumbling and growling, he returned to the winning back of the crowd
and sat down on the floor beside his two fellow sufferers. With a loud
scream and cheer crashed now all children throng the hill, opposite the
incomparable pleasure.

The Käsfischtag was always by Franz Anton the boys, which never failed,
it should be remembered, if he should forget about it. Because this
was a major celebration for them. That was the day that the Franz Anton
its fresh cheese completely pruned after they used as a soft mass in
the round, wooden form had been pressed. What now between the press and
the weight of the solid form of the mass herausdrängte was cut off and
was like to be a long, snowy white sausages. It was then broken into
many pieces and the friendly Sennen distributed among the children.
These were then called Käsfische. This festival was repeated in the
summer about every fourteen days and was pleased each time with a loud
clamor welcomed. This was behind the large thistle bush hidden on
the ground, while the negotiation was going on.

He gave no sound of themselves and remained motionless in the same
position until he heard that the vast throng davonlief. Now he
cautiously peeped out a little. The three grievances that were left
behind on the ground and turned her back upon him. The others were
already a good piece of the Alm hinaufgekommen their cries and rejoicing
schallte funny on the level down. Den This covered an irresistible
desire, even at the Käsfischfahrt participate. Very nimble, he slipped
behind the bush clear and quiet and easy like a weasel, he slipped
behind the three disaffected over and up the hill. After the last steep
hill was a small, shiny green plateau, as was the sheepfold. And a
few steps away from the clear Schwemme swept down stream. There in
the doorway of his hut was Franz Anton with his round, friendly face.
He laughed about the many cracks which are now the boys and girls
in their eagerness to enjoy the longed to go on all sides represented.

Now they were all on the lodge and one pushed the other forward to even
closer to be there when the division would begin to run. "Only tame,
just tame," laughed now the Franz Anton.

"If you all in the hut hineindrängt, I have no more room for cutting cheese
and you have the damage."
Twemlow continued, as if talking to
himself, for reason on that subject would be misaddressed to her; "and
nothing is more natural than that young Caryl should side with his
mother, who so petted him, against his poor father, who was violent and
harsh, especially when he had to pay such bills. But perhaps our good
nephew has amassed some cash, though there seems to be but little on the
Continent, after all this devastation. Is there anything, Maria, in his
letter to enable us to hope that he is coming home with money?"

"Not a word, I am afraid," Mrs. Twemlow answered, sadly. "But take it,
my dear, and read it to me slowly. You make things so plain, because
of practice every Sunday. Oh, Joshua, I never can be sure which you
are greatest in--the Lessons or the Sermon. But before you begin I will
shoot the bolt a little, as if it had caught by accident. Eliza does
rush in upon us sometimes in the most unbecoming, unladylike way. And I
never can get you to reprove her."

"It would be as much as my place is worth, as the maids say when
imagined to have stolen sugar. And I must not read this letter so loud
as the Lessons, unless you wish Lizzie to hear every word, for she has
all her mother's quick senses. There is not much of it, and the scrawl
seems hasty. We might have had more for three and fourpence. But I am
not the one to grumble about bad measure--as the boy said about old
Busby. Now, Maria, listen, but say nothing; if feminine capacity may
compass it. Why, bless my heart, every word of it is French!" The rector
threw down his spectacles, and gazed at his wife reproachfully. But she
smiled with superior innocence.

"What else could you expect, after all his years abroad? I cannot
make out the whole of it, for certain. But surely it is not beyond the
compass of masculine capacity."

"Yes, it is, Maria; and you know it well enough. No honest Englishman
can endure a word of French. Latin, or Greek, or even Hebrew--though I
took to that rather late in life. But French is only fit for women, and
very few of them can manage it. Let us hear what this Frenchman says."

"He is not a Frenchman, Joshua. He is an Englishman, and probably a very
fine one. I won't be sure about all of his letter, because it is so long
since I was at school; and French books are generally unfit to read. But
the general meaning is something like this:


'MY BELOVED AND HIGHLY VALUED AUNT,--Since I heard from you there
are many years now, but I hope you have held me in memory. I have the
intention of returning to the country of England, even in this bad time
of winter, when the climate is most funereal. I shall do my best to call
back, if possible, the scattered ruins of the property, and to institute
again the name which my father made displeasing. In this good work you
will, I have faith, afford me your best assistance, and the influence
of your high connection in the neighbourhood. Accept, dear aunt, the
assurance of my highest consideration, of the most sincere and the most
devoted, and allow me the honour of writing myself your most loving and
respectful nephew,

'CARYL CARNE.'


Now, Joshua, what do you think of that?"

"Fine words and no substance; like all French stuff. And he never even
mentions me, who gave him a top, when he should have had the whip. I
will not pretend to understand him, for he always was beyond me. Dark
and excitable, moody and capricious, haughty and sarcastic, and devoid
of love for animals. You remember his pony, and what he did to it, and
the little dog that crawled upon her stomach towards him. For your
sake I would have put up with him, my dear, and striven to improve his
nature, which is sure to be much worse at six-and-twenty, after so many
years abroad. But I confess it is a great relief to me that you wisely
prefer not to have him in this house, any more at least than we can help
it. But who comes here? What a hurry we are in! Lizzie, my darling, be
patient."

"Here's this plague of a door barred and bolted again! Am I not to have
an atom of breakfast, because I just happened to oversleep myself? The
mornings get darker and darker; it is almost impossible to see to dress
oneself."

"There is plenty of tinder in the house, Eliza, and plenty of good
tallow candles," Mrs. Twemlow replied, having put away the letter, while
her husband let the complainant in. "For the third time this week
we have had prayers without you, and the example is shocking for the
servants. We shall have to establish the rule you suggest--too late to
pray for food, too late to get it. But I have kept your help of bacon
hot, quite hot, by the fire. And the teapot is under the cozy."

"Thank you, dear mother," the young lady answered, careless of words,
if deeds were in her favour, and too clever to argue the question. "I
suppose there is no kind of news this morning to reward one for getting
up so early."

"Nothing whatever for you, Miss Lizzie," said her father, as soon as he
had kissed her. "But the paper is full of the prospects of war, and the
extent of the preparations. If we are driven to fight again, we shall do
it in earnest, and not spare ourselves."

"Nor our enemies either, I do hope with all my heart. How long are we to
be afraid of them? We have always invaded the French till now. And for
them to talk of invading us! There is not a bit of spirit left in this
island, except in the heart of Lord Nelson."

"What a hot little patriot this child is!" said the father, with a quiet
smile at her. "What would she say to an Englishman, who was more French
than English, and would only write French letters? And yet it might be
possible to find such people."

"If such a wretch existed," cried Miss Twemlow, "I should like to
crunch him as I crunch this toast. For a Frenchman I can make all fair
allowance, because he cannot help his birth. But for an Englishman to
turn Frenchman--"

"However reluctant we may be to allow it," the candid rector argued,
"they are the foremost nation in the world, just now, for energy,
valour, decision, discipline, and I fear I must add patriotism. The
most wonderful man who has appeared in the world for centuries is their
leader, and by land his success has been almost unbroken. If we must
have war again, as I fear we must, and very speedily, our chief hope
must be that the Lord will support His cause against the scoffer and the
infidel, the libertine and the assassin."

"You see how beautifully your father puts it, Eliza; but he never abuses
people. That is a habit in which, I am sorry to say, you indulge too
freely. You show no good feeling to anybody who differs from you in
opinion, and you talk as if Frenchmen had no religion, no principles,
and no humanity. And what do you know about them, pray? Have you ever
spoken to a Frenchman? Have you ever even seen one? Would you know one
if you even set eyes upon him?"

"Well, I am not at all sure that I should," the young lady replied,
being thoroughly truthful; "and I have no wish for the opportunity. But
I have seen a French woman, mother; and that is quite enough for me. If
they are so, what must the men be?"

"There is a name for this process of feminine reasoning, this cumulative
and syncopetic process of the mind, entirely feminine (but regarded by
itself as rational), a name which I used to know well in the days when I
had the ten Fallacies at my fingers' ends, more tenaciously perhaps
than the Decalogue. Strange to say, the name is gone from my memory;
but--but--"

"But then you had better go after it, my dear," his wife suggested with
authority. "If your only impulse when you hear reason is to search after
hard names for it, you are safer outside of its sphere altogether."

"I am struck with the truth of that remark," observed the rector; "and
the more so because I descry a male member of our race approaching, with
a hat--at once the emblem and the crown of sound reason. Away with all
fallacies; it is Church-warden Cheeseman!"


CHAPTER XIV

A HORRIBLE SUGGESTION


"Can you guess what has brought me down here in this hurry?" Lord
Nelson asked Admiral Darling, having jumped like a boy from his yellow
post-chaise, and shaken his old friend's broad right hand with his
slender but strenuous left one, even as a big bell is swung by a thin
rope. "I have no time to spare--not a day, not an hour; but I made up my
mind to see you before I start. I cannot expect to come home alive, and,
except for one reason, I should not wish it."

"Nonsense!" said the Admiral, who was sauntering near his upper gate,
and enjoying the world this fine spring morning; "you are always in
such a confounded hurry! When you come to my time of life, you will know
better. What is it this time? The Channel fleet again?"

"No, no; Billy Blue keeps that, thank God! I hate looking after a school
of herring-boats. The Mediterranean for me, my friend. I received the
order yesterday, and shall be at sea by the twentieth."

"I am very glad to hear it, for your sake. If ever there was a restless
fellow--in the good old times we were not like that. Come up to the
house and talk about it; at least they must take the horses out. They
are not like you; they can't work forever."

"And they don't get knocked about like me; though one of them has lost
his starboard eye, and he sails and steers all the better for it. Let
them go up to the stable, Darling, while you come down to the beach with
me. I want to show you something."

"What crotchet is in his too active brain now?" the elder and stronger
man asked himself, as he found himself hooked by the right arm, and led
down a track through the trees scarcely known to himself, and quite
out of sight from the village. "Why, this is not the way to the beach!
However, it is never any good to oppose him. He gets his own way so
because of his fame. Or perhaps that's the way he got his fame. But to
show me about over my own land! But let him go on, let him go on."

"You are wondering, I dare say, what I am about," cried Nelson, stopping
suddenly, and fixing his sound eye--which was wonderfully keen, though
he was always in a fright about it--upon the large and peaceful blinkers
of his ancient commander; "but now I shall be able to convince you,
though I am not a land-surveyor, nor even a general of land-forces. If
God Almighty prolongs my life--which is not very likely--it will be that
I may meet that scoundrel, Napoleon Bonaparte, on dry land. I hear
that he is eager to encounter me on the waves, himself commanding a
line-of-battle ship. I should send him to the devil in a quarter of an
hour. And ashore I could astonish him, I think, a little, if I had a
good army to back me up. Remember what I did at Bastia, in the land that
produced this monster, and where I was called the Brigadier; and again,
upon the coast of Italy, I showed that I understood all their dry-ground
business. Tush! I can beat him, ashore and afloat; and I shall, if I
live long enough. But this time the villain is in earnest, I believe,
with his trumpery invasion; and as soon as he hears that I am gone,
he will make sure of having his own way. We know, of course, there are
fifty men as good as myself to stop him, including you, my dear Darling;
but everything goes by reputation--the noise of the people--praise-puff.
That's all I get; while the luckier fellows, like Cathcart, get the
prize-money. But I don't want to grumble. Now what do you see?"

"Well, I see you, for one thing," the Admiral answered, at his leisure,
being quite inured to his friend's quick fire, "and wearing a coat that
would be a disgrace to any other man in the navy. And further on I see
some land that I never shall get my rent for; and beyond that nothing
but the sea, with a few fishing-craft inshore, and in the offing a sail,
an outward-bound East Indiaman--some fool who wouldn't wait for convoy,
with war as good as proclaimed again."

"Nothing but the sea, indeed? The sweep of the land, and the shelter
of the bay, the shoaling of the shore without a rock to break it, the
headland that shuts out both wind and waves; and outside the headland,
off Pebbleridge, deep water for a fleet of line-of-battle ships to
anchor and command the land approaches--moreover, a stream of the purest
water from deep and never-failing springs--Darling, the place of all
places in England for the French to land is opposite to your front
door."

"I am truly obliged to you for predicting, and to them for doing it, if
ever they attempt such impudence. If they find out that you are away,
they can also find out that I am here, as commander of the sea defences,
from Dungeness to Selsey-Bill."

"That will make it all the more delightful to land at your front door,
my friend; and all the easier to do it. My own plan is to strike with
all force at the head-quarters of the enemy, because the most likely to
be unprepared. About a year ago, when I was down here, a little before
my dear father's death, without your commission I took command of your
fishing-craft coming home for their Sunday, and showed them how to
take the beach, partly to confirm my own suspicions. There is no other
landing on all the south coast, this side of Hayling Island, fit to be
compared with it for the use of flat-bottomed craft, such as most of
Boney's are. And remember the set of the tide, which makes the fortunes
of your fishermen. To be sure, he knows nothing of that himself; but he
has sharp rogues about him. If they once made good their landing here,
it would be difficult to dislodge them. It must all be done from the
land side then, for even a 42-gun frigate could scarcely come near
enough to pepper them. They love shoal water, the skulks--and that has
enabled them to baffle me so often. Not that they would conquer the
country--all brag--but still it would be a nasty predicament, and scare
the poor cockneys like the very devil."

"But remember the distance from Boulogne, Hurry. If they cannot cross
twenty-five miles of channel in the teeth of our ships, what chance
would they have when the distance is nearer eighty?"

"A much better chance, if they knew how to do it. All our cruisers would
be to the eastward. One afternoon perhaps, when a haze is on, they make
a feint with light craft toward the Scheldt--every British ship crowds
sail after them. Then, at dusk, the main body of the expedition slips
with the first of the ebb to the westward; they meet the flood tide in
mid-channel, and using their long sweeps are in Springhaven, or at any
rate the lightest of them, by the top of that tide, just when you
are shaving. You laugh at such a thought of mine. I tell you, my dear
friend, that with skill and good luck it is easy; and do it they should,
if they were under my command."

If anybody else had even talked of such a plan as within the bounds of
likelihood, Admiral Darling would have been almost enraged. But now he
looked doubtfully, first at the sea (as if it might be thick with prames
already), and then at the land--which was his own--as if the rent might
go into a Frenchman's pocket, and then at his old and admired friend,
who had ruined his sleep for the summer.

"Happily they are not under your command, and they have no man to
compare with you;" he spoke rather nervously; while Nelson smiled,
for he loved the praise which he had so well earned; "and if it were
possible for you to talk nonsense, I should say that you had done it
now. But two things surely you have overlooked. In the first place, the
French can have no idea of the special opportunities this place affords.
And again, if they had, they could do nothing, without a pilot well
acquainted with the spot. Though the landing is so easy, there are
shoals outside, very intricate and dangerous, and known to none except
the natives of the place, who are jealous to the last degree about their
knowledge."

"That is true enough; and even I should want a pilot here, though I
know every spit of sand eastward. But away fly both your difficulties if
there should happen to be a local traitor."

"A traitor at Springhaven! Such a thing is quite impossible. You would
laugh at yourself, if you only knew the character of our people. There
never has been, and there never will be, a Springhaven man capable of
treachery."

"That is good news, ay, and strange news too," the visitor answered,
with his left hand on his sword, for he was now in full though rather
shabby uniform. "There are not many traitors in England, I believe; but
they are as likely to be found in one place as another, according to my
experience. Well, well, I am very glad you have no such scoundrels here.
I won't say a single word against your people, who are as fine a lot
as any in the south of England, and as obstinate as any I could wish to
see. Of an obstinate man I can always make good; with a limp one I can
do nothing. But bear in mind every word you have heard me say, because I
came down on purpose about it; and I generally penetrate the devices of
the enemy, though they lead me on a wild-goose-chase sometimes, but only
when our own folk back them up, either by lies or stupidity. Now look
once more, for you are slower as well as a great deal wiser than I am.
You see how this land-locked bight of Springhaven seems made by the
Almighty for flat-bottomed craft, if once they can find their way into
it; while the trend of the coast towards Pebbleridge is equally suited
for the covering fleet, unless a gale from southwest comes on, in
which case they must run for it. And you see that the landed force, by
crowning the hill above your house and across the valley, might defy
our noble Volunteers, and all that could be brought against them, till a
hundred thousand cutthroats were established here. And Boney would make
his head-quarters at the Hall, with a French cook in your kitchen, and
a German butler in your cellar, and my pretty godchild to wait upon him,
for the rogue loves pretty maidens."

"That will do. That is quite enough. No wonder you have written poems,
Nelson, as you told us the last time you were here. If my son had only
got your imagination--but perhaps you know something more than you have
told me. Perhaps you have been told--"

"Never mind about that," the great sea-captain answered, turning away
as if on springs; "it is high time for me to be off again, and my chaise
has springs on her cables."

"Not she. I have ordered her to be docked. Dine with us you shall this
day, if we have to dine two hours earlier, and though Mother Cloam rage
furiously. How much longer do you suppose you can carry on at this pace?
Look at me. I have double your bodily substance; but if I went on as
you do--you remember the twenty-four-pounder old Hotcoppers put into the
launch, and fired it, in spite of all I could say to him? Well, you are
just the same. You have not got the scantling for the metal you carry
and are always working. You will either blow up, or else scuttle
yourself. Look here, how your seams are opening!" Here Admiral Darling
thrust his thumb through the ravelled seam of his old friend's coat,
which made him jump back, for he loved his old coat. "Yes, and you will
go in the very same way. I wonder how any coat lasts so much as a month,
with you inside it."

"This coat," said Nelson, who was most sweet-tempered with any one he
loved, though hot as pepper when stirred up by strangers--"this coat is
the one I wore at Copenhagen, and a sounder and kinder coat never came
on a man's back. Charles Darling, you have made a bad hit this time.
If I am no more worn out than this coat is, I am fit to go to sea for a
number of years yet. And I hope to show it to a good many Frenchmen, and
take as many ships, every time they show fight, as there are buttons on
it."

"Then you will double all your captures at the Nile;" such a series of
buttons had this coat, though mostly loose upon their moorings, for his
guardian angel was not "domestic"; "but you may be trusted not to let
them drift so. You have given me a lesson in coast-defence, and now you
shall be boarded by the ladies. You possess some gifts of the tongue,
my friend, as well as great gifts of hand and eye; but I will back my
daughters to beat you there. Come up to the house. No turning of tail."

"I spoke very well in the House of Lords," said Nelson, in his simple
way, "in reply to the speech of his Majesty, and again about the
Commissioner's Bill; or at least everybody tells me so. But in the House
of Ladies I hold my tongue, because there is abundance without it."

This, however, he failed to do when the matter came to the issue; for
his godchild Horatia, more commonly called Dolly, happened to be in the
mood for taking outrageous liberties with him. She possessed very little
of that gift--most precious among women--the sense of veneration; and to
her a hero was only a man heroic in acts of utility. "He shall do it,"
she said to Faith, when she heard that he was come again; "if I have to
kiss him, he shall do it; and I don't like kissing those old men."

"Hush!" said her elder sister. "Dolly, you do say things so recklessly.
One would think that you liked to kiss younger men! But I am sure that
is not your meaning. I would rather kiss Lord Nelson than all the young
men in the kingdom."

"Well done, Faith! All the young men in the kingdom! How recklessly you
do say things! And you can't kiss him--he is MY godfather. But just see
how I get round him, if you have wits enough to understand it."

So these two joined in their kind endeavour to make the visitor useful,
the object being so good that doubtful means might be excused for it.
In different ways and for divers reasons, each of these young ladies now
had taken to like Blyth Scudamore. Faith, by power of pity first, and of
grief for her own misfortunes, and of admiration for his goodness to his
widowed mother--which made his best breeches shine hard at the knees;
and Dolly, because of his shy adoration, and dauntless defence of her
against a cow (whose calf was on the road to terminate in veal), as well
as his special skill with his pocket-knife in cutting out figures that
could dance, and almost sing; also his great gifts, when the tide was
out, of making rare creatures run after him. What avails to explore
female reason precisely?--their minds were made up that he must be a
captain, if Nelson had to build the ship with his one hand for him.

"After that, there is nothing more to be said," confessed the vanquished
warrior; "but the daughters of an Admiral should know that no man can be
posted until he has served his time as lieutenant; and this young hero
of yours has never even held the King's commission yet. But as he has
seen some service, and is beyond the age of a middy, in the present
rush he might get appointed as junior lieutenant, if he had any stout
seconders. Your father is the man, he is always at hand, and can watch
his opportunity. He knows more big-wigs than I do, and he has not given
offence where I have. Get your father, my dears, to attend to it."

But the ladies were not to be so put off, for they understood the
difference of character. Lord Nelson was as sure to do a thing as
Admiral Darling was to drop it if it grew too heavy. dello more story
than I will a delightful place full of vices and recreation,
where everyone eats and drinks and strikes, and if on the contrary has
been bad, inobediente their parents, the enemy of religion, going
to another dark and gloomy. In the first book I tried longer these
materials [7], therefore, going forward, questa count of how the people
of this kingdom before the Incas floresciesen be made or the sovereign
lords, so they all claim that they were without behetrias the
order, and a great reason and justice that were then, and what to
say Ticiviracocha, who to call and was Maker of all things.

_CAP.

IV .-- That question what they say the Indians of this kingdom had
before the Incas were known, and how he had strengths in the hills,
where is to go to war to one otros._ often asked to residents of
these provinces, which they knew hobo before the Inca lords, and
all lived to tell this disorder, and many went naked, wild facts,
without homes or other residences of the many caves that we have
in cliffs and large boulders, which went out to eat what they find
in the fields.

To other castles in the hills, calling pucara from where, ahullando
with strange languages, he went out to fight each other over land, or
other causes, and many killed them, taking the spoils and found that
mugeres of the vanquished, with which iban trunfando to the top of the
hills, where they had their castles, and they made their sacrifices
to the gods whom they worshiped, spilling in front of the stones and
idols much human blood and sheep. All were behetrias without a
computer, some say because they had no more than lords and
masters to whom go to war, if walking a few clothes, the clothes
were small, and not have them now. The llautos and wires that are
placed on the heads to be known among a few others, were told that
now use them.

And these people are so stressed, was lifted in the province of Collao
valentísimo a gentleman named Zapana, which could then, that got under
their dominion many people of that province, and have otherwise, which
whether true or not Sabelo means that the high God all things, what
I am because I have not counting books or other evidence that such of
these Indians, and what I have is, how true that claim, which was
lifted after one captain in Hatuncollao or powerful tyrant in the
province of Canas, Quest in between the courts and Collao, near the village
called mugeres Chungara were about as if they were hard men, bearing
arms, compelled the Quest region, where they dwelt, and Quest,
almost to the use of what are the Amazons, lived without [8] by
their husbands peoples themselves, which, having lasted for some
years and made some celebrities came to dealing with Zapana , who
had been lord of Hatuncollao, is defended by his power, which was
great, and forces were Albarrán, who today live in order to defend
himself, and after having done the ultimate power, and dams were
killed, undone and your name.

In Cuzco is a neighbor who has named Tomás Vázquez, who told me that he
and Francis going Villacastin Ayavire of the people, seeing those near
and asked the Indians what was natural, I told this history. We also
have what I have escripto in the first part [9], which on the island
of Titicaca, in the past some people barbados hobo, white like us,
and leaving the valley of Coquimbo a captain who had named Cari, close
to where he is now Chucuito, where, after having made some new
people, went with his people to the island, and gave such a war to these
people that say that he killed everyone. Chirihuana, Governor of
those villages, which are the Emperor, told me what I escripto, and as
this land was so big and so healthy and in part to move with it human
life, and estobiese inchido of people, but walked in their guerrillas
and passions, and had founded many towns, and were shown to be brave
captains, lords were able to stay for some people, and every second is
public, having in their stay or the most knowledgeable strength Indians,
who spoke with the devil, which, giving Almighty God for what he knows,
he had tremendous power in these people. _CAP. V. - From what they say
these natural Ticiviracocha, and that some of the reviews that have
crossed this land by an Apostle, and the temple is in Cachan and what
there pasó._ Before the Inca reigned in these kingdoms or they were
known, otherwise Indians have much greater that all they say,
because they say questuvieron long time without seeing the sun, and
suffer great job with this lack, is to large votes for the prayers
they were gods , requesting that they lacked the fire, and Quest
desta suerte, left the island of Titicaca, Quest within the large
gap in the Collao, the sun shining too, with everyone happy [10].

And then questo rose to say that parts of Noon Wine remanesció a grown
white man body, which in appearance and showed great individual authority
and veneration, and Quest varon, who saw it, was so powerful that the
plains and hills to the plains to high mountains, with sources in living
stones, and to recognize as such, llamábanle Maker of all things bred
Principle Dellas, Father of the sun, because without this, other than
to say things older, because he be men and animals, and, finally, they
came into their own hands noticeable benefit. And this may have the
Indians that I was so dixeron who heard their pasts, they also heard
the songs they had the very old, which was long to the north, and by
working these wonders, for the path of the mountains and never see
him. In many places diz that gave orders to men as they lived, and
spoke to them lovingly and with great gentleness, and stalkers who
were good to each other do not insult or injury before, amándose in
all hobiese charity. Usually you name the most Ticiviracocha, although
in the province of Collao call him _Tuapaca_ and elsewhere della _Arnauan_
[11].

Fuéronle facts temples in many parts, in which packages of stones
to put his likeness, and in front dello sacrifices: large packages
Quest Tiahuanacu people [12], has since that time it was, and though
of fame they have of the past, have to say that this Ticiviracocha
not know how to say the most, or return to any part of this kingdom.
Without this, they say, after some time to see another man similar to
that quest, the name which do not count, heard and passed by their very
true, that wherever they came hobiese and sick, healed, and the blind
given sight with only words, why work was so good and everyone was
very helpful loved, and highlight how, working with great things to his
word, arrived in the province of Canas, in which, alongside a people who
Cacha by name, and that it has entrusted Captain Bartolomé de Terrazas,
rising natural reflection, was willing for him to be stoned, and shaping
the work with her, saw him kneeling on his knees, lifted his hands
to heaven, as it pleaded for divine favor is rid of the predicament
in which it looked.

They argue over these Indians, who then found a big fire from heaven
that thought all be burned, fearful and full of big tremor, which
were so willing to kill, and begged him with cries of big trouble removing
one wanted, as known from who had committed the sin as well wanting to
be stoned, that punishment will come. Then saw that sending cease-fire
that was extinguished, leaving the fire consumed and worn stones in
such a way that they themselves were witnesses to have happened is that
escripto, because he left light burned so that flood is somewhat
lifted by hand as cork. And they say more on this subject, leaving it
there, was to reach the shore of the sea, where, tending her mantle,
she left for its waves, and never saw him or paresció, and as she left,
she made by name Viracocha, which means sea foam. Questo And then it
happened, was a temple in this village of Cacha, past a river that
goes along with it, the West, where he became an idol of stone in
a very large closet something narrow, and the toilet is not as grown
and large as the Quest Tiahuanaco made Rememory Ticiviracocha nor
take the form of clothing that they [13]. Any amount of gold jewelry
was found near. I am going through that province, went to see this idol
[14], because the Spanish and published some say could be an apostle,
and even say that I had heard many accounts in the hands, which is
a mockery if I did not have the blind eye, because although much I
looked, I saw no more of this or that I had put the hands above the
cuadriles, twisted the arms and waist debrian signals mean that the
clothes they had it lit up with buttons. If this or the other was
one of the glorious Apostles in the time of his preaching came to
these parts, God Almighty knows that I do not know about that I
create more than that, I believe, if the apostles act with the power
of God in his preaching these people who are simple and little
malice, and be dello relic, or in the Holy Scriptures as found in
writing, but what we see and understand is that Satan had great
power over these people , giving God, and in these places were in
vain sacrifices and Gentiles, where I think our time until the word
of the Holy Gospel was not seen or heard, in which we see as totally
desecrated their temples, and everywhere the Cross glorious start.

I asked the natural Cacha, its chieftain or lord, a good person and Indus
reason, called Don Juan, and Christian, and that was with me in person
to show this old, in remembrance of what God had one temple, and he
replied that Ticiviracocha. And because of this name Viracocha try,
I want to disillusion the reader believe that the village has made natural
to the Spaniards by the name Viracocha, said both approaches as the
sea foam, and is true as to name, because name is _vira_ lard, and
_cocha_ sea and well, seems to have come because it gave them that
name, which is a misinterpretation, according to the relation that
I took in Cuzco and give Orejón because then say that the province
Atahuallpa Caxamarca was prisoner of the Spaniards, there being
between the two brothers Huascar Inca, sole heir of the empire, and
Atahuallpa, great masters of war and given to a master of many other
battles, until the Apurimac River, the step Cotabambas, Huascar was
the king prisoner and cruelly treated by Calicuchima, without which
the Quízquiz in Cuzco did great damage and killed, as published,
thirty brothers Huascar and made other atrocities they had in their
opinion and not Atahuallpa had favored, and walk in these passions
hobiese so great, as I say, been a prisoner Atahuallpa Pizarro and
concluded with him that he would rescue a house of gold, and for
the Cuzco traelle Martin were right, and Zárate Moguer [15], because
most was in the solemn temple Curicancha, and as Christians to reach
those times and situations in Cuzco that part of the Huascar passed
by this calamity, and they knew the prison Atahuallpa, as holgáronse
can mean, and then plead with large Atahuallpa implored his help
against his enemy, saying, be sent by hand of their great god
Ticiviracocha, and his sons, and then they were called by name and
Viracocha.

And sent to the high priest and other ministers of the temple that is
sacred mugeres were there, and Quízquiz gave all the gold and silver.
And as the looseness of the Spaniards has been much in so little and
have had the honor and honor of these people in return for good to them
that hosting and services they love, some blank and corrupted them
into little tuviéronlos, which was cause the Indians, this and see
the little bow that was in the sun, and without any shame or fear
of God violated [16] their Mamacona, they were great sacrilege,
said then that such people were not sons of God, but worse than
_Supais_, which is the name of the devil, but to fulfill the mandate
of Mr Atahuallpa, masters and representatives of the cibdad released
them without making any anger, then sending the treasure [17]. And
the name was _Viracocha_ until today which, as I said, I was informed
by what I wear escripto and not by giving the meaning of the sea
foam. And so what we got in on the origin of the Incas. _CAP. VI. - How
remanecieron in Pacarec Tampu mugeres and some men, and what have they
made after salieron._ then other times I have said [18], for the exercise
of my person and flee from the vices that build-idleness is, I
work descrebir what I caught of the Incas and their regiment and
good order of the Interior; and I have no relationship or escriptura
than they give, if any atinare á escrebir this more successful than
I or could, but for clarity of what I write do not miss work, and
do so more truth I came to Cuzco, where it corregidor captain John
Sayavedra [19], where I gather Cayu Túpac, which is the there live
descendants of Huainan Capac, because Sairi Túpac, son of Manco
Inca, was withdrawn Vitic, where his father was absent after the
war that the Spanish took Cuzco with as count forward [20] and
Orejón of others, who between them have the noblest and the best
interpreters and languages that are found I asked these gentlemen
what people were Incas and nations.

And it seems that the Inca past, with great achievement by enhancing
their birth, their songs are apregona what this is, that is, Quest all
people living in these regions and disordered killing each other, and
being involved in their vices, remanecieron in a party that has
Pacarec Tampu by name, cheese is not far from the city of Cuzco,
three men and three mugeres.

And as you can interpret Pacarec Tampu want to say as much home produced.
Men who say they went there on a uchu Ayar, the other Asauca Ayar Cachi,
and Ayar Manco called another say: the mugeres, the name had a Huaco
Mama, Mama Cora the other, the other Mama Rahu [21 ].

Agune Indians have these names in other ways and in more numbers,
but I have to what the Orejón and they are so true, I gather (_sic_),
because they know better than any other.

And so, they say they came out dressed in a blanket and join a long
shirt without collar or sleeves, wool rich, with many paintings
of different ways, they call _tucapu_, which in our language means
garments of kings and quel one of these gentlemen took in hand a
deep gold, and putting a stone in it, and that mugeres came dressed
as richly as they service a lot and took gold.

Moving forward with this, most say, that took a lot of gold service, and
quel one of the brothers, who named Ayar uchu, spoke with his other
brothers, to begin the great things that they had to be made, because
the presumption was so much, they thought only to lords of the
earth, and they were determined to make that place into a new
population, which they named Pacarec Tampu and was done briefly,
because they had help from nature of that district, and walking
time, put large amounts of gold and jewels, other precious things
in that part, which is much fame that hobo dello Hernando Pizarro
and Diego de Almagro the waiter.

And back to history, says one of the three quel, we have said called
Ayar Cachi was so brave and had such great power, which brought with
it deep, throwing blows or throwing stones, breaking down the hills,
and sometimes to throw high, pointed rocks near the clouds, which, for
the other two brothers were seen, weighed them, it seems that was not
theirs affront to match those things, and so passionate with envy, begged
sweetly with soft words, but well filled with deception, that
re-enter the mouth of a cave where they had their treasures, bring
a cup of gold which they had been forgotten, and to beseech the
sun, his father, I would venture successful Lord so that they could
land.

Ayar Cachi, believing that there was caution in what his brothers
told, happily went to make what he had said and had not finished
well into the cave, while the other two loaded on it so many stones,
which was without Apparently most, which passed, they say how
true that the earth shook in such a way that many hills collapsed
and fell on the valleys [22]. Orejón So here are the origins
of the Incas, because as they were presumption of such great events as
high and wanted to understand that luck and have highlighted
remanecido be sons of the sun, where later, when the Indians to
extol the great reputation, they are called _ Wide hatun apu,
intipchuri!

_ who wants to our language to say: Oh very great lord, the son of
the sun! And what I got for me to be pretending questo believe this
will, that just as in Hatuncollao rose Zapana, and elsewhere did
the same thing other captains courageous, Quest Inca remanecieron which
had to be some three brothers and courageous I hobiese hardworking and
great thoughts, some people of these natural areas, or coming from
the other side of the mountain ranges of the Andes, which, finding
gear, and conquer, who had won the dominion, and yet this could be
which account Ayar Cachi and others be charming, to be due by the
devil to do what they did.

Finally, we can not get otherwise dello questo. Ayar Cachi Well then
it was inside the cave, his other two brothers agreed, with some
people who had come to another town, which they named Tampu Quiru which
in our language mean _dientes of the chamber or palacio_ and so must
understand questa populations were large or small that some forces.

And in that place were a few days, and heavy habiéndoles have missed
if his brother Ayar Cachi, which by another name called Huanacaure say.
_CAP. VII .-- How are the two brothers in Tampu Quiru saw out with wings
of feathers with the deception that had gotten into the cave, which told
them they were to found the great city of Cuzco, and as part of
Tampu Quiru. _ Continuing the relationship that I took in Cuzco, Orejón
say that after having settled in the two Tampu Quiru Incas were
not many days pass, more careless and see Ayar Cachi, saw him come
through the ayre with large wings feathered fowl, and with them
great fear that his visit caused them, they wanted to flee, but the
fear that lend them off, saying: "Do not fear nor acongojeis you,
but I do not come to be known as the start of the Inca empire
therefore, stop, stop these people that You have done, and walk
until you shall see below a valley, where he later founded Cuzco,
cheese what is asserted, are porquestos suburbs, and minor, and
that is the city large, where the magnificent temple was built and
used to be so, honest and frequent quel sol [23] is the most praised,
and because I always have to pray to God for you, and to be part
with great brevity alcanceis dominion, in quest of a hill near I
will stay here for the form and manner that I see, and it will
always be for you and for your descendants and holy worship, and
call Guanacaure Heis, and in payment of the good works that You
have me received, I always ask for me by God and adoreis he do
altars where sacrifices are made, and you doing this, you will be
at war for my help, and the signal from here onwards you have to
be estimated, honest and feared, will horadaros the ears of the way
now you will see me. " So, then, that said, say they see it with
some felt ears [24] of gold, the round which was like a geme.

The brothers, scared of what vian were as silent, without speaking, and
finally , past the embarrassment, replied that they were happy to do
what they ordered, and then hurriedly went to the hill called Guanacaure,
which since then had to pray for holy, and at the top of the return
to see Ayar Cachi - without dubda must have some demons, if this
is something that has truth and God permitting, beneath false
appearances of these are to understand their desire, wanting to
love and sacrifice, cheese quel what most sought - and talk about
them, telling them that it was important to take the crown or bolrra
rule that the sovereign was to be gentlemen, and knew that in such
an act be done to the man be armed knights and nobles to be taken.

The brothers first respondiéronle already said that throughout his mandate
would be met, and signal obidiencia together the hands and head, made him
the mocha, or reverence, to better understand and claim that because
Orejón I was here taking the bolrra and being armed knights, pornélo
here, and will not need to turn it on from front to repeat and have
the story puédese tasty and very true, because in the Cuzco was
Manco Inca bolrra or the supreme crown, and there live many Spaniards
who were present this cirimonia, is I have heard many dell.

It is true that Indians also say quen last time the Kings to be
more prepared and Solena together of people and such great wealth, which
can not be innumerable. Apparently, these gentlemen ordered that this
order is to take the crown or bolrra, and they say that Ayar Cachi
in the same hill Guanacaure dressed aquesta fate of the Inca who
had to be dressed in one day a black camisole, without collar of
colored paintings, and in the head with a braid Leone has given
some laps, and covered with a blanket long Leone has emerged from
his room and go to the field you get a straw and has to By bringing
in all day without eating or drinking because it has fast, and the
mother and sisters of the Inca whatsoever, are to be spinning so
hurry, at that very day had been spinning and weaving clothes for
the same four business, and fast without food or drink that in this
work were.

Then away would fly all sense of
art and joy in the touch of perfection, and a very nasty feeling would
ensue, as if nothing were worth living for, and nobody could be believed
in.

That plaguesome Polypheme was Captain Stubbard, begirt with a wife,
and endowed with a family almost in excess of benediction, and dancing
attendance upon Miss Dolly, too stoutly for his own comfort, in the hope
of procuring for his own Penates something to eat and to sit upon. Some
evil genius had whispered, or rather trumpeted, into his ear--for he
had but one left, and that worked very seldom, through alarm about the
bullet which had carried off its fellow--that if he desired, as he did
with heart and stomach, to get a clear widening by 200 pounds of his
strait ways and restricted means, through Admiral Darling it might
be done, and Miss Dolly was the proper one to make him do it. For the
Inspectorship of Sea-Fencibles from Selsea-Bill to Dungeness was worth
all that money in hard cash yearly; and the late Inspector having
quitted this life--through pork boiled in a copper kettle--the situation
was naturally vacant; and the Admiral being the man for whose check the
Inspectorship was appointed, it is needless to say that (in the spirit
of fair play) the appointment was vested in the Admiral.

The opinion of all who knew him was that Captain Stubbard was fairly
entitled to look for something higher. And he shared that opinion,
taking loftier aim than figures could be made to square with, till the
latter prevailed, as they generally do, because they can work without
victuals. For although the brave Captain had lost three ribs--or at any
rate more than he could spare of them (not being a pig)--in the service
of his country, he required as much as ever to put inside them; and
his children, not having inherited that loss as scientifically as
they should have done, were hard to bring up upon the 15 pounds yearly
allowed by Great Britain for each of the gone bones. From the ear that
was gone he derived no income, having rashly compounded for 25 pounds.

In the nature of things, which the names have followed, the father is
the feeder; and the world is full of remarks unless he becomes a good
clothier also. But everything went against this father, with nine little
Stubbards running after him, and no ninepence in any of his pockets,
because he was shelfed upon half-pay, on account of the depression of
the times and of his ribs. But Miss Dolly Darling was resolved to see
him righted, for she hated all national meanness.

"What is the use of having any influence," she asked her good father,
"unless you employ it for your own friends? I should be quite ashamed
to have it said of me, or thought, that I could get a good thing for any
one I was fond of, and was mean enough not to do it, for fear of paltry
jealousy. Mean is much too weak a word; it is downright dishonest, and
what is much worse, cowardly. What is the government meant for, unless
it is to do good to people?"

"Certainly, my dear child, certainly. To the people at large, that is to
say, and the higher interests of the country."

"Can there be any people more at large than Captain Stubbard and his
wife and children? Their elbows are coming out of their clothes, and
they have scarcely got a bed to sleep upon. My income is not enough to
stop to count, even when I get it paid punctually. But every farthing I
receive shall go--that is to say, if it ever does come--into the lap of
Mrs. Stubbard, anonymously and respectfully."

"Pay your bills, first," said the Admiral, taking the weather-gage of
the discussion: "a little bird tells me that you owe a good trifle, even
in Springhaven."

"Then the little bird has got a false bill," replied Dolly, who was not
very easy to fluster. "Who is there to spend sixpence with in a little
hole of this kind? I am not a customer for tea, coffee, tobacco, snuff,
or pepper, nor even for whiting, soles, or conger. Old Cheeseman imports
all the fashions, as he says; but I go by my own judgment. And trumpery
as my income is, very little of it goes into his till. But I should like
to know who told you such a wicked story, father?"

"Things are mentioned in confidence, and I put them together," said the
Admiral. "Don't say another word, or look as if you would be happier if
you had something to cry about. Your dear mother used to do it; and it
beats me always. I have long had my eye upon Captain Stubbard, and I
remember well that gallant action when his three ribs flew away. We
called him Adam, because of his wife coming just when his middle rib
went, and his name was Adam Stubbard, sure enough. Such men, in the
prime of their life, should be promoted, instead of being disabled, for
a scratch like that. Why, he walks every bit as well as I do, and
his watch-ribbon covers it. And nine children! Lord bless my heart! I
scarcely know which way to turn, with only four!"

Within a short fortnight Captain Stubbard was appointed, with an
office established at the house of Widow Shanks--though his real office
naturally was at the public-house--and Royal Proclamations aroused the
valour of nearly everybody who could read them. Nine little Stubbards
soon were rigged too smart to know themselves, as the style is of all
dandies; and even Mrs. Stubbard had a new belt made to go round her,
when the weather was elastic.

"These are the things that prove the eye of an All-wise Providence over
us," said the Captain to the Admiral, pointing out six pairs of short
legs, galligaskined from one roll of cloth; "these are the things that
make one feel the force of the words of David."

"Certainly, yes, to be sure!" replied the gallant senior officer, all
at sea as to the passage suggested. "Good legs they have got, and no
mistake; like the polished corners of the temple. Let them go and dip
them in the sea, while you give the benefit of your opinion here. Not
here, I mean, but upon Fox-hill yonder; if Mrs. Stubbard will spare you
for a couple of hours, most kindly."

Of the heights that look down with a breezy air upon the snug nest of
Springhaven, the fairest to see from a distance, and to tread with brisk
foot, is Fox-hill. For the downs, which are channelled with the springs
that form the brook, keep this for their own last spring into the air,
before bathing in the vigorous composure of the sea. All the other hills
fall back a little, to let Fox-hill have the first choice of aspect--or
bear the first brunt, as itself would state the matter. And to anybody
coming up, and ten times to a stranger, this resolute foreland offers
more invitation to go home again, than to come visiting. For the bulge
of the breast is steep, and ribbed with hoops coming up in denial,
concrete with chalk, muricated with flint, and thornily crested with
good stout furze. And the forefront of the head, when gained, is stiff
with brambles, and stubbed with sloes, and mitred with a choice band of
stanch sting-nettles.

"It would take a better Frenchman," said the Admiral, with that brevity
which is the happy result of stoutness up steep hill, "than any of 'they
flat-bottoms,' as Swipes, my gardener, calls them, to get through
these prickles, Stubbard, without Sark-blewing. Such a wonderfully
thin-skinned lot they are! Did I ever tell you the story of our
boatswain's mate? But that takes a better sailing breeze than I've got
now. You see where we are, don't you?"

"Certainly, Admiral," replied Captain Stubbard, disdaining to lay hand
to his injured side, painfully as it yearned for pressure; "we have had
a long pull, and we get a fine outlook over the country for leagues, and
the Channel. How close at hand everything looks! I suppose we shall have
rain, and we want it. I could thump that old castle among the trees into
smash, and your church looks as if I could put a shot with a rifle-gun
into the bell-chamber."

"And so you could. What I want to show you is that very point, and
the importance of it. With a battery of long twenty-fours up here, the
landing, the bay, and all the roads are at our mercy. My dear old friend
Nelson drew my attention to it."

"It is plain as a pikestaff to Tom, Dick, or Harry:" Captain Stubbard
was a frank, straightforward man, and much as he owed to the Admiral's
aid, not a farthing would he pay in flattery. "But why should we want to
command this spot? There is nothing to protect but a few common houses,
and some half-score of fishing-craft, and a schooner that trades to
London, and yonder old church, and--oh yes, to be sure, your own house
and property, Admiral."

"Those must take their chance, like others. I hope I know better than to
think of them in comparison with the good of the country. But if we fail
to occupy this important post, the enemy might take us by surprise, and
do so."

"Possible, but most improbable. This little place lies, by the trend of
the coast, quite out of their course from Boulogne to London; and what
is there here to tempt them? No rich town to sack, no great commerce to
rob, no valuable shipping to lay hands on."

"No; but there's my house and my two girls; and I don't want my old
roof burned, and my daughters put to wait on Boney. ) [15] Agustin
de Zárate, on the faith of Rodrigo Lozano (_Historia of Perú_, lib.
2. º, chap. VII), and Garcilaso (_Com. re._, 2. Part, lib. 1. º, chap.
XXVIII) are the first Spanish Francisco Pizarro who were sent to
Cuzco Pedro and Hernando de Soto del Barco, natural Lobon and Pedro
Pizarro, witness hearing, said that the Spaniards sent to Cuzco and
first came into this city were only two, Martin and Peter Martin
of Good Moguer.

(_Relacion The discovery and conquest of the kingdoms of the Perú._) Don
Juan de Santacruz Pachacuti, in _Relacion of antiquities Perú_, which
were also written two, but no Good and Martin Moguer, but boat and
Gandia (Pedro) .

I believe that whoever is right is Pedro Pizarro. The departure of
these was sent to Cuzco Cassamarca 15 February 1533, remained in the
capital of the Inca Empire a week. [16] _Ynuocavan_, says our
original. [17] _Enviando then tesorero_ in n. orig. [18] In several
places in the _Libro third quarter of the Chronicle of Perú_ entitled
_The Quito_ war. [19] Early in the year 1550. [20] In books II and III
of part _Cuarta of the Chronicle of Perú_ entitled _Guerra of Chúpas_
and _Guerra of Quito_. [21] Miguel Cabello Balboa (_Miscelánea austral_,
Part Three, chap. I) said they left Pacarec Tampu or Toco Tampu four
brothers and four sisters, called the First, Manco Capac, Ayar Cacha
Ayar Ayar Auca and Uchi and the latter Guaca Mama, Mama Cora, Mama and
Mama Ocllo Arahua.
Oblige me with
your spy-glass, Admiral. There is one side on which I have neglected
to look out, and that may of all be the most important. A conclusion
arrived at by yourself and Nelson is not to be hastily set aside. Your
knowledge of the country is so far beyond mine, though I may have
had more to do with land-works. We ought to think twice, sir, if the
government will pay for it, about a valuable job of this kind."

With these words Captain Stubbard began to use the telescope carefully,
forming his opinion through it, and wisely shaking his head, now and
then, with a longer and longer focus. Then he closed the glass, and his
own lips firmly--whereby a man announces that no other should open his
against them--and sternly striding the yard exact, took measurement for
the battery. The hill was crowned with a ring of Scotch firs, casting
a quiet shade upon the warlike haste of the Captain. If Admiral Darling
smiled, it was to the landscape and the offing, for he knew that
Stubbard was of rather touchy fibre, and relished no jokes unless of
home production. His slow, solid face was enough to show this, and the
squareness of his outline, and the forward thrust of his knees as he
walked, and the larkspur impress of his lingering heels. And he seldom
said much, without something to say.

"Well," cried the Admiral, growing tired of sitting so long upon a
fallen trunk, "what conclusion do you feel inclined to come to? 'Tis
a fine breezy place to clear the brain, and a briny air to sharpen the
judgment."

"Only one tree need come down--this crooked one at the southeast
corner." Captain Stubbard began to swing his arms about, like a windmill
uncertain of the wind. "All gentlemen hate to have a tree cut down,
all blackguards delight in the process. Admiral, we will not hurt
your trees. They will add to our strength, by masking it. Six long
twenty-fours of the new make, here in front, and two eighteens upon
either flank, and I should like to see the whole of the Boulogne
flotilla try to take yonder shore by daylight. That is to say, of
course, if I commanded, with good old salts to second me. With
your common artillery officers, landlubbers, smell-the-wicks,
cross-the-braces sons of guns, there had better not be anything at all
put up. They can't make a fortification; and when they have made it,
they can't work it. Admiral Darling, you know that, though you have not
had the bad luck to deal with them as I have. I may thank one of them
for being up here on the shelf."

"Of one thing you may be quite certain," replied the commander of the
sea defence; "if we have any battery on this Fox-hill, it shall be
constructed and manned by blue-jackets. I have a large draft of them now
at discretion. Every man in Springhaven will lend a hand, if paid for
it. It would take at least a twelvemonth to get it done from Woolwich. A
seaman does a thing before a landsman thinks about it."


CHAPTER XVII

SEA-SIDE LODGINGS


To set a dog barking is easier than to stop him by the soundest
reasoning. Even if the roof above his honest head, growing loose on its
nails, is being mended, he comes out to ask about the matter, and in
strong terms proclaims his opinion to the distance.

After this kind behaved the people about to be protected by this
battery. They had dreamed of no danger till they saw their houses
beginning to be protected, and for this--though it added to their
importance--they were not truly thankful. They took it in various ways,
according to their rich variety of reflection; but the way in which
nobody took it was that of gratitude and humility.

"Everything upside down," they said, "everything gone clean topsy-turvy!
And the deep meaning of it is to rob our fishing, under pretence of the
Nationals. It may bring a good bit of money to the place, for the lining
of one or two pockets, such as John Prater's and Cheeseman's; but I
never did hold so much with money, when shattery ways comes along of it.
No daughter of mine stirs out-of-doors after sundown, I can tell them."

Thus were the minds of the men disturbed, or at any rate those of the
elder ones; while the women, on the whole, were pleased, although they
pretended to be contemptuous. "I'll tell you what I think, ma'am," Mrs.
Cheeseman said to Widow Shanks quite early, "if you take a farthing less
than half a guinea a week for your dimity-parlour, with the window up
the hill, and the little door under the big sweet-briar, I shall think
that you are not as you used to be."

"And right you would be, ma'am, and too right there;" Mrs. Shanks sighed
deeply as she thought of it. "There is nobody but you can understand
it, and I don't mind saying it on that account to you. Whenever I have
wanted for a little bit of money, as the nature of lone widows generally
does, it has always been out of your power, Mrs. Cheeseman, to oblige
me, and quite right of you. But I have a good son, thank the Lord,
by the name of Harry, to provide for me; and a guinea a week is the
agreement now for the dimity-parlour, and the three leg'd bed, and cold
dinner to be paid for extra, such as I might send for to your good shop,
with the money ready in the hand of my little girl, and jug below her
apron for refreshment from the Darling."

"Well, I never! My dear soul, you have taken all my breath away. Why,
it must be the captain of all the gunners. How gunpowder do pay, to be
sure!"

"Lor, ma'am, why, don't you know," replied Mrs. Shanks, with some
contempt, "that the man with three ribs is the captain of the
gunners--the man in my back sitting-room? No dimity-parlour for him with
his family, not for a guinea and a half a week. But if I was to tell
you who the gentleman is, and one of the highest all round these parts,
truthful as you know me, Mrs. Cheeseman, you would say to yourself, what
a liar she is!"

"Mrs. Shanks, I never use coarse expressions, even to myself in private.
And perhaps I could tell you a thing or two would astonish you more than
me, ma'am. Suppose I should tell you, to begin with, who your guinea
lodger is?"

"That you could never do, Mrs. Cheeseman, with all your time a-counting
changes. He is not of the rank for a twopenny rasher, or a wedge of
cheese packed in old petticoat."

These two ladies now looked at one another. They had not had a quarrel
for almost three months, and a large arrear of little pricks on either
side was pending. Sooner or later it would have to be fought out (like
a feud between two nations), with a houseful of loss and woe to either
side, but a thimbleful of pride and glory. Yet so much wiser were these
women than the most sagacious nations that they put off to a cheaper
time their grudge against each other.

"His rank may be royal," said the wife of Mr. Cheeseman, "though a
going-downhill kind of royalty, perhaps, and yet he might be glad, Mrs.
Shanks, to come where the butter has the milk spots, and none is in the
cheese, ma'am."

"If such should be his wish, ma'am, for supper or for breakfast, or even
for dinner on a Sunday when the rain comes through the Castle, you may
trust me to know where to send him, but not to guarantee him at all of
his money."

"They high ones is very apt to slip in that," Mrs. Cheeseman answered,
thoughtfully; "they seem to be less particular in paying for a thing
than they was to have it good. But a burnt child dreads the fire, as
they say; and a young man with a castleful of owls and rats, by reason
of going for these hundred years on credit, will have it brought home
to him to pay ready money. But the Lord be over us! if I don't see him
a-going your way already! Good-by, my dear soul--good-by, and preserve
you; and if at any time short of table or bed linen, a loan from an old
friend, and coming back well washed, and it sha'n't be, as the children
sing, 'A friend with a loan has the pick of your bone, and he won't let
you very long alone.'"

"Many thanks to you for friendly meaning, ma'am," said the widow, as she
took up her basket to go home, "and glad I may be to profit by it, with
the time commanding. But as yet I have had neither sleepers or feeders
in my little house, but the children. Though both of them reserves
the right to do it, if nature should so compel them--the three-ribbed
gentleman with one ear, at five shillings a week, in the sitting-room,
and the young man up over him. Their meaning is for business, and
studying, and keeping of accounts, and having of a quiet place in bad
weather, though feed they must, sooner or later, I depend; and then who
is there but Mr. Cheeseman?"

"How grand he do look upon that black horse, quite as solid as if he was
glued to it!" the lady of the shop replied, as she put away the money;
"and to do that without victuals is beyond a young man's power. He
looks like what they used to call a knight upon an errand, in the
picture-books, when I was romantic, only for the hair that comes under
his nose. Ah! his errand will be to break the hearts of the young ladies
that goes down upon the sands in their blue gowns, I'm afraid, if they
can only manage with the hair below his nose."

"And do them good, some of them, and be a judgment from the Lord, for
the French style in their skirts is a shocking thing to see. What should
we have said when you and I were young, my dear? But quick step is the
word for me, for I expect my Jenny home on her day out from the Admiral,
and no Harry in the house to look after her. Ah! dimity-parlours is a
thing as may happen to cut both ways, Mrs. Cheeseman."

Widow Shanks had good cause to be proud of her cottage, which was the
prettiest in Springhaven, and one of the most commodious. She had fought
a hard fight, when her widowhood began, and the children were too young
to help her, rather than give up the home of her love-time, and the
cradle of her little ones. Some of her neighbours (who wanted the house)
were sadly pained at her stubbornness, and even dishonesty, as they put
it, when she knew that she never could pay her rent. But "never is a
long time," according to the proverb; and with the forbearance of
the Admiral, the kindness of his daughters, and the growth of her own
children, she stood clear of all debt now, except the sweet one of
gratitude.

And now she could listen to the moaning of the sea (which used to make
her weep all night) with a milder sense of the cruel woe that it had
drowned her husband, and a lull of sorrow that was almost hope; until
the dark visions of wrecks and corpses melted into sweet dreams of her
son upon the waters, finishing his supper, and getting ready for his
pipe. For Harry was making his own track well in the wake of his dear
father.

Now if she had gone inland to dwell, from the stroke of her great
calamity--as most people told her to make haste and do--not only the
sympathy of the sea, but many of the little cares, which are the ants
that bury heavy grief, would have been wholly lost to her. And amongst
these cares the foremost always, and the most distracting, was that
of keeping her husband's cottage--as she still would call it--tidy,
comfortable, bright, and snug, as if he were coming on Saturday.

Where the brook runs into the first hearing of the sea, to defer its own
extinction it takes a lively turn inland, leaving a pleasant breadth of
green between itself and its destiny. At the breath of salt the larger
trees hang back, and turn their boughs up; but plenty of pretty shrubs
come forth, and shade the cottage garden. Neither have the cottage walls
any lack of leafy mantle, where the summer sun works his own defeat by
fostering cool obstruction. For here are the tamarisk, and jasmin, and
the old-fashioned corchorus flowering all the summer through, as well
as the myrtle that loves the shore, with a thicket of stiff young sprigs
arising, slow of growth, but hiding yearly the havoc made in its head
and body by the frost of 1795, when the mark of every wave upon the
sands was ice. And a vine, that seems to have been evolved from a
miller, or to have prejected him, clambers with grey silver pointrels
through the more glossy and darker green. And over these you behold the
thatch, thick and long and parti-coloured, eaved with little windows,
where a bird may nest for ever.

But it was not for this outward beauty that Widow Shanks, stuck to her
house, and paid the rent at intervals. To her steadfast and well-managed
mind, the number of rooms, and the separate staircase which a solvent
lodger might enjoy, were the choicest grant of the household gods. The
times were bad--as they always are when conscientious people think
of them--and poor Mrs. Shanks was desirous of paying her rent, by the
payment of somebody. Every now and then some well-fed family, hungering
(after long carnage) for fish, would come from village pastures or town
shambles, to gaze at the sea, and to taste its contents. For in those
days fish were still in their duty, to fry well, to boil well, and to
go into the mouth well, instead of being dissolute--as nowadays the
best is--with dirty ice, and flabby with arrested fermentation. In the
pleasant dimity-parlour then, commanding a fair view of the lively sea
and the stream that sparkled into it, were noble dinners of sole, and
mackerel, and smelt that smelled of cucumber, and dainty dory, and
pearl-buttoned turbot, and sometimes even the crisp sand-lance, happily
for himself, unhappily for whitebait, still unknown in London. Then,
after long rovings ashore or afloat, these diners came back with a new
light shed upon them--that of the moon outside the house, of the supper
candles inside. There was sure to be a crab or lobster ready, and a dish
of prawns sprigged with parsley; if the sea were beginning to get cool
again, a keg of philanthropic oysters; or if these were not hospitably
on their hinges yet, certainly there would be choice-bodied creatures,
dried with a dash of salt upon the sunny shingle, and lacking of
perfection nothing more than to be warmed through upon a toasting-fork.

By none, however, of these delights was the newly won lodger tempted.
All that he wanted was peace and quiet, time to go through a great trunk
full of papers and parchments, which he brought with him, and a breath
of fresh air from the downs on the north, and the sea to the south,
to enliven him. And in good truth he wanted to be enlivened, as Widow
Shanks said to her daughter Jenny; for his eyes were gloomy, and his
face was stern, and he seldom said anything good-natured. He seemed to
avoid all company, and to be wrapped up wholly in his own concerns, and
to take little pleasure in anything. As yet he had not used the bed at
his lodgings, nor broken his fast there to her knowledge, though he rode
down early every morning and put up his horse at Cheeseman's, and never
rode away again until the dark had fallen. Neither had he cared to make
the acquaintance of Captain Stubbarb, who occupied the room beneath
his for a Royal Office--as the landlady proudly entitled it; nor had
he received, to the best of her knowledge, so much as a single visitor,
though such might come by his private entrance among the shrubs
unnoticed. All these things stirred with deep interest and wonder the
enquiring mind of the widow.

"And what do they say of him up at the Hall?" she asked her daughter
Jenny, who was come to spend holiday at home. "What do they say of my
new gentleman, young Squire Carne from the Castle? The Carnes and the
Darlings was never great friends, as every one knows in Springhaven.
Still, it do seem hard and unchristianlike to keep up them old enmities;
most of all, when the one side is down in the world, with the owls and
the bats and the coneys."

"No, mother, no. They are not a bit like that," replied Jenny--a maid
of good loyalty; "it is only that he has not called upon them. All
gentlefolks have their proper rules of behaviour. You can't be expected
to understand them, mother."

"But why should he go to them more than they should come to him,
particular with young ladies there? And him with only one horse to
their seven or eight. I am right, you may depend upon it, Jenny; and
my mother, your grandmother, was a lady's-maid in a higher family than
Darling--it depends upon them to come and look him up first, and he have
no call to knock at their door without it. Why, it stands to reason,
poor young man! And not a bit hath he eaten from Monday."

"Well, I believe I am right, but I'll ask Miss Dolly. She is that sharp,
she knows everything, and I don't mind what I say to her, when she
thinks that she looks handsome. And it takes a very bad dress, I can
tell you, to put her out of that opinion."

"She is right enough there:" Mrs. Shanks shook her head at her daughter
for speaking in this way. "The ugliest frock as ever came from France
couldn't make her any but a booty. And the Lord knows the quality have
come to queer shapes now. Undecent would be the name for it in our ranks
of women. Why, the last of her frocks she gave you, Jenny, how much did
I put on, at top and bottom, and you three inches shorter than she is!
And the slips they ties round them--oh dear! oh dear! as if that was to
hold them up and buckle them together! Won't they have the groanings by
the time they come to my age?"


CHAPTER XVIII

FRENCH AND ENGLISH


Admiral Darling was now so busy, and so continually called from home by
the duties of his commandership, that he could not fairly be expected
to call upon Mr. Caryl Carne. Yet that gentleman, being rather
sensitive--which sometimes means very spiteful--resented as a personal
slight this failure; although, if the overture had been made, he would
have ascribed it to intrusive curiosity, and a low desire to behold him
in his ruins. But truly in the old man's kindly heart there was no sour
corner for ill blood to lurk in, and no dull fibre for ill-will to feed
on. He kept on meaning to go and call on Caryl Carne, and he had quite
made up his mind to do it, but something always happened to prevent him.

Neither did he care a groat for his old friend Twemlow's advice upon
that subject. "Don't go near him," said the Rector, taking care that
his wife was quite safe out of hearing; "it would ill become me to say
a word against my dear wife's own nephew, and the representative of her
family. And, to the utmost of my knowledge, there is nothing to be said
against him. But I can't get on with him at all. I don't know why. He
has only honored us with a visit twice, and he would not even come to
dinner. Nice manners they learn on the Continent! But none of us wept
when he declined; not even his good aunt, my wife. Though he must have
got a good deal to tell us, and an extraordinary knowledge of foreign
ways. As much as my Yielding to understand and excuse him, so it is
perhaps necessary in the given situation for me was that I was not
awkward feeling going on, a word break to have occurred. What I
initially seemed like a relief: the "golden bridge" - came to me
now like a fully-delusion before.

But there was a return no more. * * * * * The social democratic
women's movement at that time stood still in the character of the
course Köller. Their education associations were among the trivial
pretexts been dissolved and its Vorkämpferinnen police had repeatedly
Haussuchungen subject Alignment any correspondence with colleagues, you
auffand enough to state them as dangerous criminals behind bars must
be set. On the women's movement was therefore the character of revolutionary
Geheimbündlertums that the party as such more and more abstreifte,
long-term. For the meetings that have been required, it took the greatest
precautions, and only a small circle of trusted women were invited
to attend.

The meeting, to which we went, Orbin wife and I, took place in a small
Parteibudiker line in the street instead. We avoided it by going to
the pub - "there's spies everywhere," said my companion - and archery
in the dark Torweg a rose cautiously groping a dark stairs, and stood
hesitating a moment before a door, through which keyhole a weak
light penetrated. I tried myself to see through it. »Inside is nobody,"
said I, "a photograph hangs on the wall, - a man with black beard and
white hair." - "Marx," cried Wanda Orbin, "then we are right." We
traveled through the windowless space, whose stuffy air I breath
behaved, and were in the low bar, which also was.

A kerosene lamp hung from the blackened ceiling, with a smell of bad tobacco
seemed all objects in the room - the dirty curtains, the greasy
newspaper, rotgewürfelte the tablecloth, the old piano in the corner
- to be formally impregnated. And this September, the fresh out the
rest of metropolitan stifling summer heat here hereingedrängt. The
women, around the long table sat in the middle, sweats. I was presented.
My smile binding met-unfriendly eyes. Only when Wanda Orbin with unusual
warmth of my voice, my decision to the Congress a declaration, instead
of the advertised lecture, strongly pointed out, cleared the mines
themselves. A small round woman, who sat beside me, stretched my hand
to work hard: "Well, see Se mal, det is scheen you," she said with a
loud wet shimmering Äuglein. »Relax, Comrade Weng," Bartels said the
end of the table down and drummed with the Fingerknöcheln on the
table.

We tried to negotiate parliamentary, but it always relax private
conversations. Finally, the interest seemed to point to concentrate
the cash situation resolved one of the clubs were discussed. Because books
and records for fear of the police and the prosecutor does not lead
to the habit and the small account book of the same reason, had been
hurriedly incinerated, it lacked the necessary documents to a real result.
There was a fierce debate. The poor woman who had been cashier, was
loud and quiet of dishonesty geziehen - that they would necessarily
have to have four brands sobbing and claimed not to have. "To all the
Arbeet un Schreiberei that I've done before nischt, "cried she,"
should I still nu dastehn thief. In the future, making your dirt all!
"And she was also. More important was the stifling air. The window could
not be opened, one would have us by the court can hear. I almost choked
in this atmosphere. The others seemed to be accustomed to it, nobody
complained.

"We must be the two main points of our agenda today still do," said
Wanda Orbin finally, after you have two hours to personal things out
loud and had hergezankt. "I therefore ask to speak to the question
of the bourgeois woman Congress." It was silent, and they went on again
by the position of colleagues reasoned, - with one voice and one
detail, as is true there is a People's Assembly to convince.
Did they take a break, so Martha Bartels gave the signal to general
applause. "We are in the previous session of our meeting came to no
conclusion. I ask the colleagues, whether they have my request, in
the discussions of the Congress to intervene, considering, and how they
will make? "With this I am not a little surprising question, she concluded
her speech. All was quiet. Martha Bartels looked expectantly from one to
another. "We are all one mind," she said then, "and can be readily to
vote."

I had so far not a word in the debate intervened. You saw me frowning,
as I am now registered. Wanda Orbin frowned. "I have not beigewohnt the
meeting in which you seem's the matter have already sufficiently discussed,"
I said, "are missing me to a safe decision to come to your reasons. I
want to only allow the question of whether there is not an inconsistency,
the participation in the Congress and refuse to participate in the
discussion to decide? "General, mute astonishment. Only Ida Wiemer who
sat next to me, pushed me under the table and secretly threw me an
encouraging sight. With endless verbiage Wanda Orbin examined by
Beifallsgemurmel of those present accompanied the fundamental differences
of both types of participation is important. "It would mean the
principle of class struggle disclose," she said, "if we have something
bourgeois elements together wanted, but it belongs to the class
struggle, that we debate them in the closed face." "Nobody prevented us,
in self-talk to do the same - "I threw again. My words were received
in the general chatter, which was unleashed once again, lost. Wanda
Orbin had all the votes on their side - and Ida Wiemer. "If you do not
mittut, you will be hanged -" she whispered to me to be apologetic. I
contained my vote. "We come to the next item on the agenda: party,"
said Martha Bartels who chaired the meeting.

"Comrade Orbin has the floor." "The party congress in Gotha for us is
very significant," she began, "the woman agitation is on the agenda. It
is therefore desirable that many of the colleagues working as
Delegiertinnen present, so that practical experience in addition to
theoretical training comes to words. Our resolution is to you by the
'freedom' known it, no one has to suspend her had something, they will
no doubt go for adoption, because it brings nothing new, but only
the good old together.

After other direction, however, struggles threaten us: there are
applications before the creation of a special newspaper worker object.
Their authors are with our 'freedom' dissatisfied.

It is necessary that the Berlin colleagues clearly make observations.
"Well developed something like a discussion. A few women, Martha
Bartels progress, praised the 'freedom' in all shades, Mrs. Wiemer alone
spoke to the desire for something more popular items at the same time,
a silent rebuke to the woman Orbin invalidated by the fact that they
stated that the 'freedom' is even not for the masses, but only for the
leaders. One exception was afterwards decided to change its content
each and every plan to reject a rival company. As I said, you should
at least ensure that, as an important means of our agitation, the party
press of the general women's issues give a wide area, all laughed.
"As our men know Se bad," said the fat woman next to me Weng, "We
want the inside jar nischt know." "The mehrschten erlooben women nich
that se ne Assembly Jehn or 'nen club. Daheem should sit se un Strümp
stop, "cried another, and a general lament about the hub of men, and
only the energetic voice of Orbin, the restore calm:" It is twelve
clock, - we must come to an end. "" Jott but already zwölwe, un
ick have soo'n long way, "lamented Ms.

Weng and stood up. A few others who have long been on their chairs back
and hergerückt were jumped on. "So you can stay five minutes, colleagues,"
commanded Martha Bartels, 'we have but the party still Delegiertinnen to
determine. "Weng woman was rushed back to her chair, with her other,
tense expressed curiosity in the faces of all . Bartels went with raised
voice continued: "Nominated colleagues are stone, and my little wolf."
Geraune an eager and started a whispering.

"Has anyone other suggestions?" She looked threateningly around. A dozen
women came forward at once. "Always the same!" - "Let it ooch other
drankommen!" - "The union colleagues are obviously engaged overlooked -!
Cried and noise are mixed. »Ick schlage Brandt before the Jenossin -,"
cried Mrs. Wenger. It was quiet. The women looked at me - suspicious,
hostile. I had the situation quickly captured. "I thank the comrade
Weng for their kindness," I said, "but I'm much too young in the movement
as such that I might honor items." Orbin Wanda nodded to me, visibly
relieved, too: "But now quickly to a vote - we still miss the
horses train!

- I think we remain in our proposals - "No one objected, but hardly the
meeting was closed, as the general discontent in loud entertainment
made air again. It was in small groups apart - all enemy camp, as it
seemed to me. Wanda Orbin put her arm in mine, Bartels accompanied
us, and their attitude towards me was once again handled. They pushed
me a warm hand, when we were parting. My husband expected me in the
next coffee. "That has long time," he said. "If the importance of your
decisions on the length of time is that you've used it -!"

I laughed, but it was not the happy laughter humor, the events of the
comic page abgewinnt and so they have it. Today I would be the humor
abandoned, even if I am obsessed with him ever had. It was all so
narrow, so oppressive, - such as the dirty room and the air trapped
in it, no great point was revealed.

"We are always colleagues agree," Wanda had told Orbin. Could they
really hold for unity, which is nothing than the mastery of poor women
by virtue of their faith and their intelligence?

"So there will be your task, this absolutism to break," said Heinrich.
- "After I have subjected himself did?" * * * * * I phased the broad
stairs up to the Berlin City Hall. For four days, Congress negotiated
the woman in the festive Citizens Hall before an audience that was
becoming less and less out of curiosity, more and more interest
came from. While it was basically nothing but a troop review, each
participant in Schlachtroß her condition had rapidly gallop. But Berlin
was the first time: The women were riding. Today was the day of the
big sensation: The workers question was on the agenda, we expected
a battle between the bourgeois women and the proletarians, and to me
personally was a part of the general excitement, - the woman whose
novel by word of mouth was the Renegatin.

At the door stood Egidy, my old friend. He squeezed my hand, "I'm only
just returned to Berlin. Otherwise I would have been with you. Between
us, everything remains the same. "I smiled gratefully.

When I entered the crowded hall, a noticeable restlessness: clothes rapidly
advanced, chairs were moved, heads turned around after me, you whispered
my name. A group of Russian students in which I had passed, clapped
stormily. From the Board table a sharp voice warned to calm down. The
colleagues welcomed me, and the expectant excitement, in which they
were, raised their kindness to me. Orbin Wanda urged me on a chair
beside it. I was still uneasy, and looked through the eyes of my
husband than I should at least with the eyes cling to him. An Austrian
woman spoke first about the results of the Vienna-Enquete workers. I
knew it. She was a committed Socialist. The fifteen minutes were enough
to create a moving picture to paint terrible misery. So I had thought
to speak! An Englishwoman followed her. They justified the need for
unionization of women in a few sharply-defined sets, in a long speech
she would no longer be able to say. "Alix Ms. Brandt has the word" -
now sounded the hoarse voice of the chairman of the hall. I stood up
and wedges me through the rows of chairs, densely occupied table at the
press pass. "You know -" Divorce Process "-" relationship "-" Unbelievable
"- whispered it. My blood began to boil. I stood on the platform; -
hissed at the Board table someone from one corner of the hall sounded
Beifallsgeklatsch and trampling.

The gelato was stronger. Seconds sounds both fought each other, - the
chairman did not. Helle outrage took hold of me - now I was ready to
give them my contempt in the face to hurl.

I started out very quiet, when I explained why the representatives
of the German workers movement had refused to participate in the
work of the congress by delegates to participate.

"For them, on the ground of social democracy, the woman question
is only part of the social question, and as such by a more or less
well-intentioned efforts of bourgeois social reformers can not be
solved.

I myself share this view completely. "My voice was raised, and keener;
sword to cut any of my words should they grind. »Who unbiased and
logical thinking and depth of the woman question - probably noticed, the
entire women's question, not with the women's question - employed, which
must be necessary to reach social democracy." Stormy chorus broke under
me, to the applause of colleagues in vain sought to stifle. "In other
words, who does not is a fool or a hypocrite?" Screamed one of
the ladies from the press table trembling excitement. I nodded with
approval mocking the head, they said, what between my words should
sound. The unrest grew, I had to speak louder to durchzudringen.
"The appreciation and understanding of the bourgeois women's
movement for workers question is characterized by nothing more
clearly than by the fact that I was to give a talk about it, the
greatest mass of the female includes sex, and the disenfranchised
and unhappy, the same fifteen minutes granted, such as the Women's
Question of the girls schools.

I therefore refuse to give my speech ... "The audience screamed and raged,
a couple of men jumped on the chairs and threatened me with raised arms,
the greatest excitement in the chair swung the bell incessantly, whose
plea wimmerndes howl the melody to the accompaniment roaring voices
seemed to be. Finally, I gave heard again: "In two demotic assemblies,
which we have been convened, the aim of the congress participants the
opportunity offered by the workers movement to learn.

Not as if we lived faith of the devout, even one of you for us to
win.

Too deeply entrenched is the class for centuries nourished egotism,
to sting in the life and thinking just of the dependent woman, the
interests of their class, as they so easily could tear away. But perhaps
you will see an idea come up that there is a greater take misery there,
as the unmet professional loose your daughters stands outside your
circles that a fight is fought, the more serious, than the sacred to
the Doktorhut; that the impetus to the enthusiasm, the heroism of
sacrifice only to find, where men and women united their forces for a
great goal: liberation of the whole from an economic and moral servitude
... "I rose from the podium. It was a spit rods running. The fashionable
women of Berlin, in their beautiful autumn toilets the first rows
were filled, had their whole societal attitude is lost. They hissed,
they called me Swear to weißbehandschuhte fists raised in threatening
proximity. But Henry was already beside me and offered me his arm. A few
steps further surrounded me, the colleagues, myself included Wanda
Orbin stormily into the arms.

Just before the exit was a group of hot ladies at the recent Berlin
geschart philosophers, he was a friend of my husband. "They have poison
injected, cried he to me. With a look full wrath and contempt measured
him Henry. The next moment I stepped Egidy opposite.

"They have versündigt difficult," he said, his blue eyes sparkled
angrily. At the door I hesitated. I was when I would once again look
back on the lot across the festive shiny Hall: From the ceiling flooded
light into the beams bunched, it gleamed soft on white marble figurines,
it conjured up vivid blutdurchflossene veins in the columns of red
granite, It sparkled on boasting golden cornices, and the gray autumn
evening fought outside the high arched windows to the colored entrance.
Slowly we went the broad stone stairway down to the dirty streets. * * *
* * On the southern end of Frederick Street, where the lighting
is sparse, was old dance hall, where I should speak in the evening.

With a few yards, with only the glowing eyes wide factory windows
illuminated, led the way to go. They were fully black people. On the
worn steps of the wooden stairs to the room was an advancement almost
impossible.

A few sturdy folder with us paved the way elbow joints. »Berliner The
workers want you all to see Comrade Brandt," said one. I lowered her
head. How I rejoiced! About the masses who filled the space in which we
finally arrived, stored tobacco smoke and human sweat in heavy, dark
mist. The light from the dusty chandeliers penetrated only by the murky
gray haze. Rußgeschwärzt was the low ceiling, the walls crumbled from the
lime, blind mirror disks Gespenster tossed term distorts the image
of the people, who gathered in front of them.

A few steep steps to a small stage it went up on the bright scenes
painted a forest of palm trees should represent. Under me the crowd was
now head to head. Boiling heat rising from her to me that the respiratory
seconds faltered.

"So they have been waiting two hours as a wall," said Ida Wiemer, which
chaired the meeting. The police lieutenant graubärtige concern shook
his head. "I can only allow a short lecture," he said, "if I did not
dissolve the Assembly should be."

"Comrades," cried Ida Wiemer as loud as she could into the hall, "Congress
makes the foreign delegates place that today our guests are --. "A number
of workers trying to slowly delay.

But the crowds that besieged the doors, blocked his way. "That is life,"
repeated the police lieutenant and wiped the sweat from his forehead.
»Get started and do's short - otherwise there's not."

I stepped in front. Church silence surrounded me. I spoke against the
widespread allegations by the opponents of social democracy, they
believe fatally to meet: The destruction of the family, the promotion
of free love, the destruction of religion, the bloody overthrow.

Then a dense mass of smoke was
brought down by an eddy of wind, and set her coughing.

"Come away, come away this very moment, Dolly," cried Faith, who had
hurried up and seized her hand; "you are past the danger-post, and I met
a man back there who says they are going to fire shells, and they have
got two short guns on purpose. He says it will be very dangerous till
they get the range, and he begged me most earnestly not to come on here.
If I were anybody else, he said, he would lay hands on me and hold me
back."

"Some old fisherman, no doubt. What do they know about gun practice? I
can see Captain Stubbard up there; he would rather shoot himself than
me, he said yesterday."

While Dolly was repeating this assurance, the following words were being
exchanged upon the smoky parapet: "If you please, sir, I can see two
women on the beach, half-way between the posts a'most." "Can't help
it--wouldn't stop for all the petticoats in the kingdom. If they choose
to go there, they must take their chance. A bit more up, and to you, my
good man. Are you sure you put in twenty-three? Steady! so, so--that's
beautiful."

"What a noisy thing! What does it come here for? I never saw it fall.
There must be some mistake. I hope there's nothing nasty inside it. Run
for your life, Faith; it means to burst, I do believe."

"Down on your faces!" cried a loud, stern voice; and Dolly obeyed in
an instant. But Faith stood calmly, and said to the man who rushed past
her, "I trust in the Lord, sir."

There was no time to answer. The shell had left off rolling, and
sputtered more fiercely as the fuse thickened. The man laid hold of
this, and tried to pull it out, but could not, and jumped with both feet
on it; while Faith, who quite expected to be blown to pieces, said to
herself, "What pretty boots he has!"

"A fine bit of gunnery!" said the young man, stooping over it, after
treading the last spark into the springy sand. "The little artillery man
is wanted here. Ladies, you may safely stay here now. They will not make
two hits in proximity to each other."

"You shall not go," said Faith, as he was hurrying away, "until we know
who has been so reckless of his life, to save the lives of others. Both
your hands are burned--very seriously, I fear."

"And your clothes, sir," cried Dolly, running up in hot terror, as soon
as the danger was over; "your clothes are spoiled sadly. Oh, how good
it was of you! And the whole fault was mine--or at least Captain
Stubbard's. He will never dare to face me again, I should hope."

"Young ladies, if I have been of any service to you," said the stranger,
with a smile at their excitement, "I beg you to be silent to the Captain
Stubbard concerning my share in this occasion. He would not be gratified
by the interest I feel in his beautiful little bombardments, especially
that of fair ladies. Ha, there goes another shell! They will make better
aim now; but you must not delay. I beseech you to hasten home, if you
would do me kindness."

The fair daughters of the Admiral had enjoyed enough of warfare to last
them till the end of their honeymoon, and they could not reject the
entreaty of a man who had risked his life to save them. Trembling and
bewildered, they made off at the quickest step permitted by maiden
dignity, with one or two kindly turns of neck, to show that he was
meant to follow them. But another sulphurous cloud rushed down from the
indefatigable Stubbard, and when it had passed them, they looked back
vainly for the gentleman who had spoiled his boots.


CHAPTER XX

AMONG THE LADIES


It would have surprised the stout Captain Stubbard, who thought no small
beer of his gunnery, to hear that it was held in very light esteem by
the "Frenchified young man overhead," as he called Caryl Carne, to his
landlady. And it would have amazed him to learn that this young man was
a captain of artillery, in the grand army mustering across the sea, and
one of the most able among plenty of ability, and favoured by the great
First Consul.

In the gully where the Tugwell boats were built, behind a fringe
of rough longshore growth, young Carne had been sitting with a good
field-glass, observing the practice of the battery. He had also been
able to observe unseen the disobedient practices of young ladies, when
their father is widely out of sight. Upon Faith, however, no blame could
fall, for she went against her wish, and only to retrieve the rebellious
Dolly.

Secure from the danger, these two held council in the comfort of the
Admiral's Round-house. There Miss Dolly, who considered it her domain,
kept sundry snug appliances congenial to young ladies, for removing
all traces of sudden excitement, and making them fit to be seen again.
Simple and unfashionable as they were in dress, they were sure to have
something to do to themselves after the late derangement, ere ever they
could run the risk of meeting any of the brave young officers, who were
so mysteriously fond of coming for orders to Springhaven Hall.

"You look well enough, dear," said Faith at last, "and much better than
you deserve to look, after leading me such a dance by your self-will.
But one thing must be settled before we go back--are we to speak of this
matter, or not?"

"How can you ask such a question, Faith?" Miss Dolly loved a bit of
secrecy. "Of course we must rather bite our tongues out, than break the
solemn pledges which we have given." She had cried a good deal, and she
began to cry again.

"Don't cry, that's a darling," said the simple-hearted sister. "You
make the whole world seem so cruel when you cry, because you look so
innocent. It shall be as you please, if I can only think it right. But
I cannot see how we gave a pledge of any sort, considering that we ran
away without speaking. The question is--have we any right to conceal it,
when father has a right to know everything?"

"He would be in such a sad passion," pleaded Dolly, with a stock of
fresh tears only waiting, "and he never would look again at poor Captain
Stubbard, and what would become of all his family?"

"Father is a just and conscientious man," replied the daughter who
inherited those qualities; "he would not blame Captain Stubbard; he
would blame us, and no others."

"Oh, I could not bear to hear you blamed, Faith. I should have to
say that it was all my fault. And then how I should catch it, and be
punished for a month! Confined to the grounds for a month at least,
and never have a bit of appetite. But I am not thinking of myself, I am
quite sure of that. You know that I never do that much. I am thinking of
that heroic gentleman, who stamped out the sparks so cleverly. All the
time I lay on the sand I watched him, though I expected to be blown
to pieces every single moment. Oh! what a nasty sensation it was! I
expected to find all my hair turned grey. But, thank Heaven, I don't see
a streak in it!" To make sure of that, she went to the glass again.

"If all mine had turned grey, 'twould be no odds to nobody--as Captain
Zeb says about his income--because I am intended for an old maid." Miss
Darling, whose beauty still lacked many years of its prime, turned away
for a moment, because her eyes were glistening, and her sister was
tired of the subject. "But for yours there are fifty to weep, Dolly.
Especially perhaps this young gentleman, towards whom you feel so much
gratitude."

"How unkind you are, Faith! All the gratitude I owe him is for saving
your life. As for myself, I was flat upon the sand, with a heap of
sea-weed between me and the thing. If it had gone off, it would have
gone over me; but you chose to stand up, like a stupid. Your life was
saved, beyond all doubt, by him; and the way you acknowledge it is to go
and tell his chief enemy that he was there observing him!"

"Well, I never!" Faith exclaimed, with more vigour than grace of
language. "A minute ago you knew nothing of him, and even wondered who
he was, and now you know all about his enemies! I am afraid that you
stick at nothing."

"I don't stick thinking, as you do, Miss," Dolly answered, without
abashment, and knowing that the elder hated to be so addressed; "but
things come to me by the light of nature, without a twelvemonth of
brown-study. When I said what you remind me of, in such a hurry, it was
perfectly true--so true that you need have no trouble about it, with all
your truth. But since that, a sudden idea flashed across me, the sort of
idea that proves itself. Your hero you are in such a hurry to betray can
be nobody but the mysterious lodger in Widow Shanks' dimity-parlour, as
she calls it; and Jenny has told me all she knows about him, which is
a great deal less than she ought to know. I meant to have told you, but
you are so grand in your lofty contempt of what you call gossip, but
which I call good neighbourly intercourse! You know that he is Mr. Caryl
Carne, of course. Everybody knows that, and there the knowledge seems to
terminate. Even the Twemlows, his own aunt and uncle, are scarcely ever
favoured with his company; and I, who am always on the beach, or in the
village, have never had the honour of beholding him, until--until it
came to this"--here she imitated with her lips the spluttering of the
fuse so well that her sister could not keep from laughing. "He never
goes out, and he never asks questions, any more than he answers them,
and he never cares to hear what fish they have caught, or anything else,
about anybody. He never eats or drinks, and he never says a word about
the flowers they put upon his table; and what he does all day long
nobody knows, except that he has a lot of books with him. Widow Shanks,
who has the best right to know all about him, has made up her mind that
his head has been turned by the troubles of his family, except for
his going without dinner, which no lunatic ever does, according to her
knowledge. And he seems to have got 'Butter Cheeseman,' as they call
him, entirely at his beck and call. He leaves his black horse there
every morning, and rides home at night to his ancestral ruins. There,
now, you know as much as I do."

"There is mischief at the bottom of all this," said Faith; "in these
dangerous times, it must not be neglected. We are bound, as you say,
to consider his wishes, after all that he has done for us. But the
tale about us will be over the place in a few hours, at the latest. The
gunners will have known where their bad shot fell, and perhaps they will
have seen us with their glasses. How will it be possible to keep this
affair from gossip?"

"They may have seen us, without seeing him at all, on account of the
smoke that came afterwards. At any rate, let us say nothing about it
until we hear what other people say. The shell will be washed away
or buried in the sand, for it fell upon the shingle, and then rolled
towards the sea; and there need be no fuss unless we choose to make it,
and so perhaps ruin Captain Stubbard and his family. And his wife has
made such pretty things for us. If he knew what he had done, he would go
and shoot himself. He is so excessively humane and kind."

"We will not urge his humanity to that extreme. I hate all mystery, as
you know well. But about this affair I will say nothing, unless there is
cause to do so, at least until father comes back; and then I shall tell
him if it seems to be my duty."

"It won't be your duty, it can't be your duty, to get good people into
trouble, Faith. I find it my duty to keep out of trouble, and I like to
treat others the same as myself."

"You are such a lover of duty, dear Dolly, because everything you
like becomes your duty. And now your next duty is to your dinner. Mrs.
Twemlow is coming--I forgot to tell you--as well as Eliza, and Mrs.
Stubbard. And if Johnny comes home in time from Harrow, to be Jack among
the ladies, we shall hear some wonders, you may be quite sure."

"Oh, I vow, I forgot all about that wicked Johnny. What a blessing that
he was not here just now! It is my black Monday when his holidays begin.
Instead of getting steadier, he grows more plaguesome. And the wonder of
it is that he would tie your kid shoes; while he pulls out my jaconet,
and sits on my French hat. How I wish he was old enough for his
commission! To-morrow he will be dancing in and out of every cottage,
boat, or gun, or rabbit-hole, and nothing shall be hidden from his eyes
and ears. Let him come. 'I am accustomed to have all things go awry,'
as somebody says in some tragedy. The only chance is to make him fall
in love, deeply in love, with Miss Stubbard. He did it with somebody for
his Easter week, and became as harmless as a sucking dove, till he found
his nymph eating onions raw with a pocketful of boiled limpets. Maggie
Stubbard is too perfect in her style for that. She is twelve years old,
and has lots of hair, and eyes as large as oysters. I shall introduce
Johnny to-morrow, and hope to keep him melancholy all his holidays."

"Perhaps it will be for his good," said Faith, "because, without some
high ideas, he gets into such dreadful scrapes; and certainly it will be
for our good."

After making light of young love thus, these girls deserved the shafts
of Cupid, in addition to Captain Stubbard's shells. And it would have
been hard to find fairer marks when they came down dressed for dinner.
Mrs. Twemlow arrived with her daughter Eliza, but without her husband,
who was to fetch her in the evening; and Mrs. Stubbard came quite
alone, for her walkable children--as she called them--were all up at the
battery. "Can't smell powder too young in such days as these," was the
Captain's utterance; and, sure enough, they took to it, like sons of
guns.

"I should be so frightened," Mrs. Twemlow said, when Johnny (who sat at
the foot of the table representing his father most gallantly) had said
grace in Latin, to astonish their weak minds, "so nervous all the time,
so excessively anxious, the whole time that dreadful din was proceeding!
It is over now, thank goodness! But how can you have endured it, how
can you have gone about your household duties calmly, with seven of your
children--I think you said--going about in that fiery furnace?"

"Because, ma'am," replied Mrs. Stubbard, who was dry of speech, and fit
mother of heroes, "the cannons are so made, if you can understand, that
they do not shoot out of their back ends."

"We are quite aware of that"--Miss Twemlow came to her mother's relief
very sharply--"but still they are apt to burst, or to be overloaded, or
badly directed, or even to fly back suddenly, as I have heard on good
authority."

- How the Collas asked peace, and how the Inca gave Cuzco._ and
returned to the hills to escape the battle, say, very scared of the
occurrence, were in a hurry to flee, believing that those of Cuzco
iban Behind them, and so went with this fear, returning occasionally
to see the faces they had not seen, so have hampered the Inca.

Desaguadero the past, gathered all the major and taking his advice to
each other, determined to send peace to the Inca ask, so if recebia
in their service, pay the taxes to be raised from debian, and that
would be forever loyal .

To deal with this were the most notice them, and found that Tupac Inca
came walking to them, and he heard the embassy with a good face, and
responded with words of pious winner, who weighed more than it had
in fact cause them, and that security could come Chucuito, Where asentaria
peace with them in such a way that was beneficial to them. And as
you heard, pusiéronlo for work. Bastimentos ordered to provide many,
and the Lord Humalla went to the rescebir and Inca spoke well, and
him and the other lords and masters and before that it is peace,
who have made great dancing and drunkenness, and that finishes are
all together, told them they did not want him to put him in need
in paying taxes owed to it, because they were very big, but that
no reason or because cause had been lifted, had put garrisons quel
ordinary people of war, [and] proveyesen bastimentos of women and
the soldiers.

Told you would, and then sent to other lands mitimaes come to this,
is that the order, and also thinning of the Collao many people, putting
a few other people, including governors and delegates were left to
catch the taxes.

This fact, said to have passed a law that I wanted to do what we always
knew they had been made, and it was not ever able to come in Cuzco over
many mill men and women across the province under penalty of death if
they dare to enter more of these.

Desto received punishment, but concediéronlo as others and it is true that
if there Collas in Cuzco, no other dared to enter, if the number was
completed, until leaving, and if they wanted to do, could not, because
portazgueros and gatherers taxes and guards who had to watch as
entering and exiting the city, did not permit or consent to, and
including no bribery was used to do his will, nor ever told their
kings lie in any thing, or discovered their secret, something of
great praise.

Settled Collao province and tidying, and telling what they had to do Mr.
Dell, the Inca gave his return to Cuzco, first sending his messengers
to and from the Condesuyo Andes, and particularly to warn you what
was happening, and if their governors to some grievances, and if walking
in some natural disturbances, and accompanied by lots of people and
major, returned to Cuzco, where he was received with great honor, and
made great sacrifices in the temple of the sun, and [for] those
who understand the work of the great building of the House who had
commanded Fort Inca Yupanqui building and the Coya, his wife and
sister, called Mama Ocllo made themselves big parties and dances.

And as Tupac Inca will have to leave the path of Chinchasuyo á subdue the
provinces that are further forward and Tarama Bonbon, commanded great
appeal to people of all provinces. _CAP. LVI .-- How Inca Tupac Yupanqui
left Cuzco, and how to subdue all the earth until it is removed,
and his great conquest of Quito hechos._ This made Tupac Yupanqui, I may
well be longer, but I While writing on other things that I can not
look at both, I would not count but he did briefly, then, to understand,
just as released by the earth. The output that the king wanted to make
the city of Cuzco, without knowing what or where the war had to be
- because this is not said, but the advisers - juntáronse over two
hundred million men, with so much baggage and spare, which Henchi fields,
and the poster was sent to the governors of the provinces of all
the regions are trujesen bastimentos weapons and ammunition to Chinchasuyo
royal road, which was not deflected from doing their Father ordered to
do, not even come across one that could do. This road was great and proud,
and the order made by industry that has escripto, there and
everywhere throughout the injunction crowd that was in their
interests, with nothing missing, and to have none of yours was just
as daring to hold an ear of corn from the field, and if caught,
will not be cheaper than life.

The natural and carrying loads of other personal services, but, believe
it is true, which do not carry over to the limited place, and as he
did so with determination and kept them so much truth and justice, not
felt the job. Leaving people in Cuzco with mitimaes garrison and
governor from among the most loyal friends, has left for his captain and
general counsel over Capac Yupanqui, his uncle, not the war that gave
the Xauxa because it say that anger is indeed hanged, and left Cuzco,
Vilcas walked up to where it was loose a few days to see the temple and
chambers that had been there and ordered that they were always silver
styling glasses and jewelry and other pieces for the temple and his
royal house of Vilcas. Xauxa went to, where the solemn Guanacaste
received him, and sent messengers everywhere by telling how he wanted
to win the friendship of them all, without them or make them angry
war therefore, that because they heard that the Incas of Cuzco did
not too much of the tyrannies which were vassals and confederates,
and that in paying tribute to the work and gave them, recebian dello
much good, to send their messengers to settle peace with him.

Bonbon súpose in the great powers with which the Inca permission, and
were understood as much of his clemency, to do reverence to it, and
those of Yauyo did the same, and the Apurima and many others, which
received very good giving some women, and other coca, and other
blankets and shirts, and the suit I had put the province where he
was, that was where they received more happy.

Among the provinces between Xauxa and Caxamalca have and he had some
wars and commanded pendencies Albarradas make big and strong to
defend the natural and the good morning, without much shedding of
blood, subdue, and even about Caxamalca and everywhere left governors and
delegates and posts made to take notice and do not leave any province
without first mandar make large chambers and temple of the sun and put
mitimaes.

They are, without this, which came because of Guánuco and sent to the
palace as we see today first made, that going to Chachapoyas, gave
so much war, the Aina entirely thwarted, but, they could say such words
, they even offered. In Caxamalca stopped a lot of people in Cuzco, for
which imposed on the natives how they dress and had the tribute
given to him, and most importantly, how they worship and revere the
sun god.

For all the more The parties called him father, and had great care
mandar no harm done in the lands where they went, nor forces ningund
man or woman, to which he did, then what were commanded by his death
sentence.

With those who sought to subdue, to make their people together and
sorted and that war does not give each other, nor comiesen or commit
other sins retained in natural law.

For the Bracamoros came in and turned to flee, because of poor land that
mountain in avocados and Guancabamba, Caxas and Ayavaca and counties,
had a great work subdue those nations, they are warlike and rebustas and
had war with them over five moons, but at last they called for peace,
and given the conditions that the others stood and peace today and tomorrow,
the province was full of mitimaes and governors, without removing
the lordship of natural and made deposits and put them in the
maintenance and what more ordered place, and towards the real path
with the posts that he had around him.

In this land went Inca Tupac Yupanqui reached until the Kannada, who
also had their obstinacy and dependence, and what remains dello of the
others were by their vassals, and they were sent to Cuzco dello even to
be in the same city, more than fifteen million men with their wives
and Mr Main them, to have the hostages, and was done as sent. Some
want to say questa Kannada to pass the time in Cuzco was Guayna Capac.
And what of _Tomebamba_ sent to large buildings and very glossy. The
first part deals with these rooms as they were and how much they
were [185]. Deste instead sent several embassies to land many of those
counties, he wanted to come see, and many, without war, offered his
service, and no, masters and people sending them to do so
by force of others to their will. Making order of the Kannada land,
were to Tiquizambi, Cayambi the Puru [186] and many other parts, where
Considering the many things that did not believe cheese, and knowing
that she had become so great monarch kingdoms. In The Tacunga reece had
war with the natural peace and settled with them after they were
broken, and commanded to do so many buildings insines by these
parties, which exceeded the most perfectly of Cuzco. And in Tacunga
wanted to be a few days, so that his people lie, and almost every
day viníales messenger Cuzco state that it was there, and always
came from other parts mails notices and big things that are mandated
in the regiment of the land by their governors.

And some new wine uproar there was in the Cuzco Orejón the same, and caused
some disturbance, suspicious of novelties, but followed, came as a
new flat and had been settled by the governor of the city in great
punishment that caused the uproar. Tacunga De La walked up to what we say
Quito, which is founded the city of Saint Francis of Quito, and it
seems that good land, and that was as good as Cuzco, there was the
foundation of hobo population, who to call Quito and poblóla of mitimaes,
and did make great buildings and cellars and warehouses, saying: "The
Cuzco has to be a part of my head and under great kingdom, the other
must be the Quito . - He gave great power to the governor of Quito, for
the entire region of Quito began his governors and delegates, who
commanded in Caranqui hobiese garrison ordinary people for peace and
war, and put other people in these lands, and of these ordered get to
bring in others. Everywhere worshiped the sun and took the customs of
the Incas, then, that all appeared to be born in Cuzco; queríanle and
amábanle and therefore that he was called Father of all, good Lord,
just and righteous .-- In Province of Kannada, they say he was born
Guayna Capac, his son, and were great celebrations.

All natural that the provinces had the great Tupac Inca lady with
good industry that gave them, ordered their people in parts ready, and
on the road towards real aposentos; understood in general to learn the
language of Cuzco, and know the laws who had saved. Buildings, teachers
hacíanlos came emponian of Cuzco and the other on it and so were other
things that were sent by the king. _CAP. LVII .-- How the Inca king
Tupac sent from Quito to know how they kept his commandments, and how,
leaving that region in order, left to go through the valleys of
the Inca Tupac Yupanqui Yuncas._ As hobiese earth until the Lord Quito,
the second said, as he in the same population of the Quito meeting
the understanding and manage things for the command, where he, who
between them have more strings, which were carried in hammocks by
the natural and some others on the one hand and on the other, and
understand mirasen questa order in the new provinces that were made,
and to take account of the rulers and tax gatherers and mirasen
with how it was natural.

A call to the provinces of Puerto Viejo, sent some Orejón Dell spoke to
them and wanted to have their confederation, as others did, and how
they had won in the sowing and serve, and dress, and reverence to
the sun and hacelles understand their life and good order of pulicia.

They were killed in questo payment iban well to do, and that Tupac Inca
captains invited some people to punish, but as they knew, gathered
many of the barbarians, who killed and those who were defeated, that
showed feeling the Inca, but by large businesses have in their hands,
and agree to return to Cuzco in person, it was not the punishment itself
to Dallas for what they had done. In Quito was how well new to what he
had been commanded and how much care had its own delegates to
impose those people in their service and how well treated, and how
they were happy and did what they were commanded and many lords of
the land he came every day and I Ambassadors Traian large present,
and his court was full of major vessels and the heart and vessels
of gold and silver and other riches .-- In the morning, ate, and
from noon until a little late, heard in public, accompanied by his
guardian , whom he wanted to talk.

After spending time drinking until night, which makes dinner with charcoal
fire, because they did not use wax or tallow, but had tired of it
and one of the other. In Quito left by his captain and butler to
an increased Orejón elderly, who have all that worked and was very
understanding and gracious presence, to call Mayta Chalco, and gave
him leave so that he could walk and ride use with gold, and other liberties
that he took too much.

Mandola, above all things, that each moon would you courier to take
particular notice of all things passing, and the state of the earth
and fertility della, and growth of the livestock, over what normally
warned that it was the poor who had, who were killed in one year and I
was born, and what has been escripto back to what it knew no kings in
the same Cuzco, and having as great strides since Quito to Cuzco, which
is only going to Seville to Rome, by far, was used as the path as it is
more Triana Seville, which I can not make more.
A thrill of
pain ran through all the gazing Britons.

"How now, old Navy-Mike?" cried the lobster man. "Strike is the word,
and no mistake. And small blame to her either. She hathn't got a sound
thread to draw, I do believe. Who is the fool now, Mike? Though vexed I
be to ask it."

"Wait a bit, old lobster-pot. Ah, there now, she breezes! Whistle for
a wind, lads, whistle, whistle. Sure as I'm a sinner, yes! She's laying
her course to board the Frenchman on the weather quarter. With a slant
of wind she'll do it, too, if it only holds two minutes. Whistle on your
nails, my boys, for the glory of old England."

In reply to their shrill appeal--for even the women tried to whistle--or
perhaps in compulsory sequence of the sun, the wind freshened briskly
from the sunny side of east. The tattered sails of the brave ship
filled, with the light falling through them upon one another, the head
swung round at the command of helm, the pennons flew gaily and the
ensign flapped, and she bore down smoothly on the outer and therefore
unwounded side of the enemy.

"That's what I call judgmatical," old Mike shouted, with a voice that
rivalled cannon; "whoever thought of that deserves three epulets, one
on each shoulder and one upon his head. Doubt if old Keppel would have
thought of that, now. You see, mates, the other Crappo can't fire at her
without first hitting of her own consort. And better than that--ever so
much better--the tilt of the charge will throw her over on her wounds.
Master Muncher hath two great holes 'twixt wind and water on his
larboard side, and won't they suck the briny, with the weight of our
bows upon the starboard beam? 'Twill take fifty hands to stop leaks,
instead of stopping boarders."

The smoke was drifting off, and the sun shone bravely. The battle had
been gliding toward the feet of the spectators; and now from the height
of the cliff they could descry the decks, the guns, the coils of rope,
the turmoil, and dark rush of men to their fate. Small fights, man to
man, demanded still the power of a telescope, and distance made the
trenchant arms of heroes, working right and left, appear like the
nippers of an earwig. The only thing certain was that men were being
killed, and glory was being manufactured largely.

"She've a doed it, she've a doed it rarely. There's not a d----d froggy
left to go to heaven; or if there be so he's a' battened down below,"
old Mike shouted, flourishing his spy-glass, which rattled in its joints
as much as he did; "down comes the blood, froth, and blue blazes,
as they call the Republican emrods, and up goes the Union-jack, my
hearties. Three cheers! three cheers! Again! again! again!"

From the sea far below, and far away, came also the volume of a noble
English shout, as the flag began to flutter in the quickening breeze,
and the sea arose and danced with sunshine. No one, who had got all his
blood left in him, could think of anything but glory.

"My certy, they had better mind their soundings, though!" said the old
navy-man, with a stitch in his side and a lump in his throat, from loud
utterance; "five fathoms is every inch of it where they be now, and
the tide making strong, and precious little wind to claw off with. Jem
Prater! Jem Prater! Oar up, and give signal. Ah, he's too far off to
do any good. In five minutes more they'll be on the White Pig, where no
ship ever got off again. Oh, thank the Lord, mates, thank the Lord, for
his mercy endureth forever! The other froggy is stuck hard and fast, and
our lads will just fetch out in time."

Old Navy-Mike had made no mistake. The consort of the captured frigate,
a corvette of twenty-four guns, had boldly stood on with the intention
of rounding to the wind, crossing the bows of the other twain, and
retrieving the fortunes of the day perhaps, by a broadside into the
shattered upper works of the terribly hampered British ship. The idea
was clever and spirited, and had a very fair chance of success; but
the land below the sea forefended it. Full of fine ardour and the noble
thirst for fame, speeding on for the palm of high enterprise and the
glory of the native land, alas, they stuck fast in a soft bit of English
sand! It was in their power now to swear by all they disbelieved in,
and in everything visible and too tangible; but their power was limited
strictly to that; and the faster they swore, the faster they were bound
to stick.

Springhaven dined well, with its enemy so placed, and a message from
the Leda by Jem Prater, that the fishing fleet was rescued, and would
be home to early supper, and so much to be talked about all dinner-time,
that for once in his life nearly everybody found it more expedient to
eat with his fork than his knife. Then all who could be spared from
washing up, and getting ready for further cookery, went duly to church
in the afternoon, to hear the good rector return humble thanks for a
Gracious Mercy to the British arms, and to see a young man, who had
landed with despatches, put a face full of gunpowder in at window, to
learn whether Admiral Darling was there.


CHAPTER XXII

A SPECIAL URGENCY


Admiral Darling was not in church. His duty to his country kept him
up the hill, and in close consultation with Captain Stubbard, who was
burning to fire his battery.

"I never knew such bad luck in all my life. The devil has been appointed
First Lord of the weather ever since I came to Springhaven." As Stubbard
declared these great truths he strode about in his little fortress,
delivering a kick at the heels of things which had no right to be
lumbering there. "To think that I should never have seen those beggars,
when but for the fog I could have smashed them right and left. Admiral,
these things make a Christian an infidel."

"Nonsense, sir!" said the Admiral, sternly, for a man of his kind
nature; "you forget that without the fog, or rather the mist--for it
was only that--those fellows would never have come within range. We have
very great blessings to be thankful for, though the credit falls not to
our battery. The Frenchmen fought wonderfully well, as well as the best
Englishman could have done, and to capture them both is a miracle of
luck, if indeed we can manage to secure them. My friend, young Honyman,
of the Leda, has proved himself just what I said he would be; and has
performed a very gallant exploit, though I fear he is severely wounded.
But we shall know more now, for I see a young fellow jumping up the
hill, like a kangaroo, and probably he comes for orders. One thing we
have learned, Stubbard, and must take the hint to-morrow--put a hut on
the Haven head, and keep a watchman there. Why, bless my heart, it is
Blyth Scudamore that's coming! There is nobody else that can skip like
that."

The young lieutenant entered between two guns--the gunners were
dismissed in great disgust to dinner--with his pleasant face still a
little grimed with gunpowder, and flushed by his hurry up the steep
hill-side.

"This for you, sir," he said, saluting the Admiral, presenting his
letter, and then drawing back; "and I am to wait your convenience for
reply."

"What next will the service come to," asked the Admiral of Captain
Stubbard, "when a young man just commissioned gives himself such mighty
airs? Shake hands, Blyth, and promise you will come and dine with us,
unless you are ordered to return on board at once. How is your good
captain? I knew him when he wore Nankins. Jem Prater brought word that
he was wounded. I hope it is not serious."

"No, sir; not much to speak of. He has only lost three fingers. That was
why I wrote this letter--or report, I ought to call it, if anybody else
had written it. Oh, sir! I cannot bear to think of it! I was fifth luff
when the fight began, and now there is only one left above me, and he is
in command of our biggest prize, the Ville d'Anvers. But, Admiral, here
you will find it all, as I wrote it, from the lips, when they tied up
the fingers, of Captain Honyman."

"How could you tie them up when they were gone?" Captain Stubbard
enquired, with a sneer at such a youth. He had got on very slowly in his
early days, and could not bear to see a young man with such vacancies
before him. "Why, you are the luckiest lad I ever saw! Sure to go up at
least three steps. How well you must have kept out of it! And how happy
you must feel, Lieutenant Scudamore!"

"I am not at all happy at losing dear friends," the young man answered,
gently, as he turned away and patted the breech of a gun, upon which
there was a little rust next day; "that feeling comes later in life, I
suppose."

The Admiral was not attending to them now, but absorbed in the
brief account of the conflict, begun by Captain Honyman in his own
handwriting, and finished by his voice, but not his pen. Any one
desirous to read this may do so in the proper place. For the present
purpose it is enough to say that the modesty of the language was
scarcely surpassed by the brilliancy of the exploit. And if anything
were needed to commend the writer to the deepest good will of the
reader, it was found in the fact that this enterprise sprang from warm
zeal for the commerce of Springhaven. The Leda had been ordered on
Friday last to protect the peaceful little fishing fleet from a crafty
design for their capture, and this she had done with good effect, having
justice on her side, and fortune. The particulars of the combat were not
so clear, after the captain's three fingers were gone; but if one made
proper allowance for that, there was not very much to complain of.
The Admiral considered it a very good report; and then put on his
spectacles, and thought it still better.

"Why! why! why!" he said--for without affectation many officers had
caught the style of His then Gracious Majesty--"What's this? what's
this? Something on the other side, in a different man's handwriting, and
mighty difficult to read, in my opinion. Stubbard, did you ever see such
a scrawl? Make it out for me. You have good eyes, like a hawk, or the
man who saw through a milestone. Scudamore, what was his name? You
know."

"Three fingers at five pounds apiece per annum as long as he lives!"
Captain Stubbard computed on his own: "fifteen pounds a year perhaps for
forty years, as you seem to say how young he is; that comes to just 600
pounds, and his hand as good as ever"--("I'll be hanged if it is, if he
wrote this!" the Admiral interjected)--"and better, I must say, from a
selfish point of view, because of only two nails left to clean, and
his other hand increased in value; why, the scale is disgraceful,
iniquitous, boobyish, and made without any knowledge of the human frame,
and the comparative value of its members. Lieutenant Scudamore, look at
me. Here you see me without an ear, damaged in the fore-hatch, and with
the larboard bow stove in--and how much do I get, though so much older?"

"Well, if you won't help me, Stubbard," said the Admiral, who knew
how long his friend would carry on upon that tack, "I must even get
Scudamore to read it, though it seems to have been written on purpose to
elude him. Blyth, my dear boy, can you explain it?"

"It was--it was only something, sir"--the lieutenant blushed, and
hesitated, and looked away unmanfully--"which I asked Captain Honyman
to leave out, because--because it had nothing to do with it. I mean,
because it was of no importance, even if he happened to have that
opinion. His hand was tied up so, that I did not like to say too much,
and I thought that he would go to sleep, because the doctor had made him
drink a poppy head boiled down with pigtail. But it seems as if he had
got up after that--for he always will have his own way--while I was gone
to put this coat on; and perhaps he wrote that with his left hand, sir.
But it is no part of the business."

"Then we will leave it," said Admiral Darling, "for younger eyes than
mine to read. Nelson wrote better with his left hand than ever he did
with his right, to my thinking, the very first time that he tried it.
But we can't expect everybody to do that. There is no sign of any change
of weather, is there, Stubbard? My orders will depend very much upon
that. I must go home and look at the quicksilver before I know what is
best to do. You had better come with me, Scudamore."

Admiral Darling was quite right in this. Everything depended upon the
weather; and although the rough autumn was not come yet, the prime of
the hopeful year was past. The summer had not been a grand one, such
as we get about once in a decade, but of loose and uncertain character,
such as an Englishman has to make the best of. It might be taking up for
a golden autumn, ripening corn, and fruit, and tree, or it might break
up into shower and tempest, sodden earth, and weltering sky.

"Your captain refers to me for orders," said Admiral Darling to
Scudamore, while they were hastening to the Hall, "as Commander of the
Coast Defence, because he has been brought too far inshore, and one of
the Frenchmen is stranded. The frigate you boarded and carried is the
Ville d'Anvers, of forty guns. The corvette that took the ground, so
luckily for you, when half of your hands were aboard the prize, is the
Blonde, teak-built, and only launched last year. We must try to have
her, whatever happens. She won't hurt where she is, unless it comes
on to blow. Our sands hold fast without nipping, as you know, like a
well-bred sheep-dog, and the White Pig is the toughest of all of them.
She may stay there till the equinox, without much mischief, if the
present light airs continue. But the worst job will be with the
prisoners; they are the plague of all these affairs, and we can't
imitate Boney by poisoning them. On the whole, it had better not have
happened, perhaps. Though you must not tell Honyman that I said so. It
was a very gallant action, very skilful, very beautiful; and I hope he
will get a fine lift for it; and you too, my dear Blyth, for you must
have fought well."

"But, Admiral, surely you would have been grieved if so many of your
tenants, and their boats as well, had been swept away into a French
harbour. What would Springhaven be without its Captain Zebedee?"

"You are right, Blyth; I forgot that for the moment. There would have
been weeping and wailing indeed, even in our own household. But they
could not have kept them long, though the loss of their boats would have
been most terrible. But I cannot make out why the French should have
wanted to catch a few harmless fishing-smacks. Aquila non captat muscas,
as you taught the boys at Stonnington. And two ships despatched upon
a paltry job of that sort! Either Captain Honyman was strangely
misinformed, or there is something in the background, entirely beyond
our knowledge. Pay attention to this matter, and let me know what you
hear of it--as a friend, Blyth, as a friend, I mean. But here we are!
You must want feeding. Mrs. Cloam will take care of you, and find all
that is needful for a warrior's cleanup. IX .-- In giving notice to the
reader because the author of the case, leaving to continue the succession
of kings, who wanted to have the government and its laws, customs
fueron._ Although these could write what happened Sinchi in the
reign of Inca Roca [31], who was son of Manco Capac, founder of
Cuzco, in this place, I left it looks ahead to what quen confusion
would have to know entirely how it was in the governorate of these
gentlemen because some other laws and ordered another, and put some
mitimaes the trimmings and other people in places of war in the
kingdom for the defense, and they are all great things and worthy
of memory, and that the republics which were governed by great
lawyers and men, dest take notice, and both designed admiration,
considering that since people in Barbados and who had no letters
were found which we know that some hobo, as well as government to
subdue the lands and nations, because under a monarchy obedesciesen
to a Lord who is sovereign and only worthy to reign in the empire
that the Inca had that were over two hundred million miles of
coastline is well, not to say vary Some say that certain dello
formed as one and others another, in which many natural range, this
will put in place what I got and I certainly, according to the
relationship dello took in the city of Cuzco and the relics that
we have been all of these things which We have traveled in Peru.

And there seems to letores that in order to take this out of the book
should take, so they understand more clearly what is, as stated,
and I will do this very quickly, without wanting to look into things
often that always fled, and, with it continuing to deal with the
kingdom of the Incas and the succession them, until the death of
Huascar and entry of the Spaniards over. And I want you to know that read
this, that among all the Incas, who were eleven, including three out
bastantísimos for the governance of their dominion, and have not run
out of Orejón loarlos and these are not conditions in both parescieron
as in the trial, which is Huayna Capac, Inca Tupac Yupanqui, his father,
and Inca Yupanqui, and a father of Aguelo other. And it can be assumed
that these were as modern as that kingdom is full of Indians who knew
Tupac Inca Yupanqui, and walked with him in the wars, and their parents
what they heard Inca Yupanqui did at the time of your reign of
these things can be viewed [32] almost the eyes, have more fire
power for the count, and what happened to the other gentlemen, their
proxinitores, dello be much missed.

Although, admittedly, to have it in memory and that is not lost
for many years, they have big warning not to have letters, I got these
in the first part escripto desta Chronicle [33], can not be found in
this kingdom, even in this world of the Indies. And so we continue it
started. _CAP. X. - How the Lord made after the tassel of the
realm, married his sister Coya, cheese queen name and how many were
allowed to take mugeres unless, among all, was the only legitimate
Coya principal._ Conté and more briefly in the past how the chapters that
had to be noble knights were armed, and also the cirimonias being
made in the time that the Incas were crowned kings, taking the
crown, which is that until the tassel eyes got dropped, and was
ordained by them, quel hobiese to be king, took his brother,
legitimate daughter of his father and mother, muger for the succession
of the kingdom was confirmed in this way by the royal house, So
apparently, that while such muger, sister of the king, his body was
not chaste, and, with some using men, become pregnant, was the son
and NASCAR della muger not strange, because it also looked to
although the Inca muger marry generous, dear, could do the same and
designed with adultery, so that is not understood, was taken by the
son of Mr. and natural his husband.

For these reasons, or because they paresció to which ordered that it was
law among the Inca man who was all by the emperor, about his sister by
muger, which was named _Coya_, cheese queen name, and that none is called,
- as when a king of Spain who married a princess has its own name,
and entering his kingdom, is called the queen, and that they were called
in Cuzco, Coya. And if that were to be taken by Mr had no sibling, was
allowed to marry the most illustrious lady hobiese, to be held
between all the most mugeres main porquestos lords, there was no
non-Dell had more than seven hundred mugeres service for your home and
your hobbies and so, they had many children who were in that they were
mugeres or men, and were treated well by him and the Indians
estimated natural and the chamber king in his palace, or wherever
they went by, and eyes were all saved by the goalkeepers and camayos,
cheese guardians name, and if used with any man, was punished with
death, giving him the same penalty.

The children that these gentlemen had mugeres after they were men,
mandábanles provide fields and inheritance, which they call Chácara and
deposits of ordinary clothes and give them other things for its use,
because they did not want to give dominion to those such because there
some confusion in the kingdom, I do not want to try to keep him with
the presumption of being sons of the king. And so, none had control over
province, but when it became the wars and conquests, many captains
and dello were preferable to those that were in actual and Mr naturally
inherited the kingdom of favorescia, because if any lifting hatched
were punished cruelísimamente and none dello spoke with the king, though
his brother was, that first put no light load on your neck and was barefoot,
like all others in the kingdom, more about him. _CAP. XI .-- How the
Incas who used the Inca hobiese been courageous to spread the kingdom
or hobiese done nothing worthy of memory, en hobiese their songs and
packages, and not a coward but remisio and, is sent that it is
little understood dél._, when I was in Cuzco [34], which was used
between the Inca kings, the king among them was called Inca, then
was killed, was the weeping and general quota , and made great
sacrifices others according to their religion and customs, which
passed between the elders of the village was about how she had been
the life and customs of his king and died, and had taken advantage
of the republic or what battle it had expired since the enemies are
hobiese and discussed these things among themselves, and others who
do not understand, fully, identifies, if the late king had been so
that the venture would be laudable fame, so that by their courage
and good governance meresçiese that is always among them, fetching
large quiposcamayos, where the accounts are fenescen and reason to
know of the things that had happened in the kingdom, for what they
communicate with other quentrellos, being chosen by more rhetorical
abundance of words, to know what good order by the past, as we are
counted among romances and villancicos, and nothing in this to learn
and understand that knowing compose in their native language, to
be all ears in revelries of marriages and other hobbies they have
for this purpose.

And so, what has been known to say what happened in similar
celebrations of the dead lords, and if it is the consequence of
war, command Galana sang with many battles in places on both sides
of the kingdom were and by consequence, for every business had
ordered their songs or ballads, which, coming the way, are sung,
so that they will encourage people with hearing and understanding
what happened in the past, without the Inoren, entirely .

And these Indians commanded by the kings knew these romances, and
they were honored by favorescidos and great care had to teach their
children and men in their provinces the most knowledgeable and
advised that all were, and so, by the mouths of others knew about
it, so that today they are among what had happened five years, as
if they were ten.

And the command is understood to have not forgotten what happened in the
kingdom, is known, that the king killed them, if they had been brave
and good for the governance of the kingdom, without having lost the
province of his father left them, or used or baseness poquedades
or unreasonable to others crazy with the princes looseness dare do in
their dominion, were allowed and ordered by the same kings, honest
songs that were ordered and they were highly praised and exalted, in
such a way that all people admire his deeds and to hear such facts
great, and they do not always or everywhere apregonados not be published,
but if it were done any large municipality of people coming from all
over the kingdom for any purpose, and when combined with the principal
lords king in his day, and Solace, or where to taquis [35] or binge
drinking theirs.

In these places, they knew romance, great voices, looking to the Inca,
which he sang for his past had been done, and if any among the kings
Salia remisio, cowardly, given to vices, and no friend of Holger
Acrescentado the manor of their empire, ordered that such of these
hobiese little or almost no memory, and both watched this, was that if
any, was not to forget your name and inheritance, but otherwise remained
silent, not counting songs of others that the good and brave.

Because both were his memoirs, which killed one of these gentlemen so
great, his son did not apply for it other than the manor because it was
law among them that the wealth and the apparatus that had been the real
king of Cuzco, not hobiese other in their power, or losing their memory,
which is to hand a package of [36], with the figure they wanted to give,
to call the name of the king and killed, and used these packages to
the plaza in Cuzco, where were his parties, and around each piece of
these kings were mugeres and their servants, and all came, it matched
his food and drink, because the devil had to talk in those packages,
because for them this was used, and each package had truanes or their
decision, Quest cheerful words please the people and all the
treasure that the Lord had to be alive, was held by his servants
and family, and got to parties with similar apparatus without which,
not without its Chácara, cheese name inheritance where caught their
corn and other maintenance that underpinned the mugeres family with
all the other lords of these packages and they had memories, although
they were already dead.

And true enough this custom was to hand in this kingdom hobiese sum so
great treasures that have been seen by our eyes, and I oydo Spanish
conquistadors, when, discovering the provinces of the kingdom, entered
Cuzco, of these had packages, which paresció be true when graphical á
recently, trying to make the tassel Manco Inca Yupanqui, son of Huayna
Capac, were taken in the public square of Cuzco, in full view of all
Spaniards yndios that it is at that time were. Truth is, that the Spaniards
had already been a lot of treasure, and hid the rest and placed in those
parts, that few or none should not know about, or packages or other
things are yours and other large memory which they give in and
have their songs [37].

_CAP. XII .-- How crowns had to find its own facts and the order of the
teams as he was, and what we dello agora._ was ordered by the Incas as
escripto We have already put on their holiday packages, and they
select one of the wisest them, for songs that they knew the life
of the lords that had been and how it had been in the government
of the kingdom, to the effect that for me.

And it's also knowing that, without this, Dell and customary law was widely
used and stored, to choose each time his kingdom, three or four old men
of his nation, which, for seeing that This was clever enough and I
sent all the things happening in the provinces during his kingdom, now
would be successful, or are adverse to having the memory, and Dell make
and manage songs, that sound at that could be understood as well
foturo have passed, with both songs questo could not be said or
published outside the presence of the Lord, and those who were
forced to have had this reason for the life of the king, and not
try to say anything what he played, and then he was dead, the
successor to the empire told, almost in these words: "Oh great and
mighty Inca, the Sun and Moon, the Earth, the mountains and trees,
rocks and your parents keep you from misfortune and make prosperous,
happy and blessed all who were born on!

Sabet, things that happened to your predecessor, they are. " And then
saying, looking at the floor, and lowered his hands, with great humility
and he realized why everything they know, which might well do, because
among them there are many great memory of subtle ingenuity, and juizio
alive, and as supply reasons, as we witness today that is the way
we hear.

And so, having said that, then it was understood by the king, sent
their call other old Indian, whom they had sent care to know the songs
that they had in memory, and other sort of new what happening at
the time of your kingdom, and that things that were being spent and
what contributed to the provinces, the teams settled in, so they knew
what had killed him and help his parents and Reyna. And if it was a day
of great rejoicing, or other hobiese to cry or sadness at death
of a brother or son of the king, because these days such is his
greatness allowed to Dell and its origin and birth, out of these,
none were allowed to treat them, because it was so ordered by his
masters, and if they did, they were punished severely. which had
no other order to know and understand how it was to make the
contribution, in the provinces of maintenance, either move the king
with the army, or was visiting the kingdom, or do nothing dest,
understand what is entered and paid deposits to the subjects, so
that they were not injured, so good and subtle, that ecede in
artifice to _carastes_ who used their accounts for Mexicans and
recruitment and this was the teams, which are major branches of
knotted strings, and those who were accountants and Desto understand
the numeral of these knots, giving them reason to the expenses made,
or other things that hobiesen past many years ago and in one of
these knots counted to ten, and up to ten percent, and up to one
hundred million, and in one of these branches is the account of a
and in another it's another, so this is for us and blind us to an
account, and for them unique.

In each province head counters had to call quiposcamayos [38], and
these nodes were considered and why they had to pay taxes that the
district Quest, from silver, gold, clothes and cattle, and firewood
to other things more often, and by the same teams were out for a year,
or ten or twenty, who had reason to take account of commission, as
well, a pair of sandals that could not hide. I was incredulous at this
account, and although they say and try oia, Dell had the most
fabulous, and being in the province of Xauxa in what they call
Marcavillca [39], begged Mr Guacarapora [40] that made me understand
account so that I satisfy myself, to be certain that it was faithful
and true, and then commanded his servants that were the teams, and
as this gentleman is good reason to be understanding and Indus,
with long rest satisfied with my application and told me that to
understand better what that notase that everything that she had
given the Spaniards which came from the governor Don Francisco
Pizarro in the valley, there was no missing anything: and saw the
account of the gold, silver, clothes that had, with all the corn,
cattle and other things that I was really shocked dello.

And you know otherwise, I have for me for quite true, as has been the
long war, and cruelty, theft and tyranny that the Spanish have done
over these Indians, if they were not made to order and as big concert
totally consumed, and all were finished, but they, as sane and
understood and were imposed by rulers as wise, all determined that if
an army of Spaniards passed by any of the provinces, if not for any
damage that route can excuse, as in sown and destroying houses and
stealing other harm quest, which, moreover, all counties were in the
road, where ours went, their accountants, and they were supplying most
extensive that they could, because of infirmity not destroy everything,
and were provided, and then left together lords, were the teams of the
accounts, and for them, if you had spent more than another, the least
provided it had paid, so that all would be equal.

And in every valley there is this account today, and there are
so many counters in the rooms as there are gentlemen, and four in four
months fenescen accounts for the way that, and with the command that have,
have suffered from fighting so great, that if God were used to hobiesen
ceased altogether with the proper treatment they receive at this time,
and with the good order and justice there is, and will restore multiply,
so that in some way to this kingdom again what it was, but I think
it will be too late or never.

"Rain afore Friday," said Captain Zeb, "and a blow from
sowwest afore Sunday. 'Twill break up the Blunder, I reckon, my lads."

With various aspects they looked at him, all holding sweet converse at
the Darling Arms, after the manifold struggles of the day. The eyes of
the younger men were filled with disappointment and anger, as at a sure
seer of evil; the elder, to whom cash was more important, gazed with
anxiety and dismay; while a pair, old enough to be sires of Zebedee,
nodded approval, and looked at one another, expecting to receive, but
too discreet to give, a wink. Then a lively discourse arose and throve
among the younger; and the elders let them hold it, while they talked of
something else.

On the following morning two dialogues were held upon different parts
of Springhaven shore, but each of great import to the beautiful captive
still fast aground in the offing. The first was between Captain Zebedee
Tugwell and Lieutenant Scudamore. The gentle Scuddy, still hoping
against hope, had stuck fast to his charge, upon whose fortunes so much
of his own depended. If he could only succeed in floating and carrying
her into Portsmouth, his mark would be made, his position secured far
quicker than by ten gallant actions; and that which he cared for a
hundredfold, the comfort of his widowed mother, would be advanced and
established. For, upon the valuation of the prizes, a considerable sum
would fall to him, and every farthing of it would be sent to her. Bright
with youthful hope, and trustful in the rising spring of tide, which had
all but released them yesterday, according to his firm belief, he ran
from the Hall through the Admiral's grounds, to meet the boat which
was waiting for him, while he was having breakfast and council with his
chief. Between the Round-house and the old white gate he heard a low
whistle from a clump of shrubs, and turning that way, met Tugwell. With
that prince of fishermen he shook hands, according to the manner of
Springhaven, for he had learned to admire the brave habit of the man,
his strong mind, and frank taciturnity. And Tugwell on his part had
taken a liking to the simple and cheerful young officer, who received
his suggestions, was kind to all hands, and so manfully bore the daily
disappointment.

"Nobody in there?" asked Zeb, with one finger pointing to the
Round-house; "then sit down on this bit of bank, sir, a minute. Less
chance to be shot at by any French ship."

The bit of bank really was a bit of hollow, where no one could see them
from the beach, or lane, or even from the Round-house. Scudamore, who
understood his man, obeyed; and Tugwell came to his bearings on a clump
of fern before him.

"How much will Government pay the chaps as fetches her out of that snug
little berth? For division to self and partners, how much? For division
to self and family, how much?"

"I have thought about that," the lieutenant answered, with little
surprise at the question, but much at the secrecy thrown around it; "and
I think it would be very unsafe to count upon getting a penny beyond the
Admiral's terms--double pay for the day that we float her."

Captain Zebedee shook his head, and the golden sheaf of his Olympian
beard ruffled and crisped, as to an adverse wind.

"Can't a'most believe it," he replied, with his bright eyes steadily
settled on Scudamore's; "the English country, as I belongs to, can't
quite 'a coom to that yet!"

"I fear that it has indeed," Blyth answered, very gravely; "at least I
am sure of this, Master Tugwell, that you must not look forward to
any bounty, bonus, or premium, or whatever it is called, from the
Authorities who should provide it. But for myself, and the difference it
will make to me whether we succeed or fail, I shall be happy, and will
give my word, to send you 50 pounds, to be divided at your discretion
among the smacks. I mean, of course, as soon as I get paid."

Scudamore was frightened by the size of his own promise; for he had
never yet owned 50 pounds in the solid. And then he was scared at the
wholesale loss of so large a sum to his mother.

"Never fear, lad," honest Tugwell replied, for the young man's face was
fair to read; "we'll not take a farden of thy hard airnings, not a brass
farden, so help me Bob! Gentlefolks has so much call for money, as none
of us know nothing of. And thou hast helped to save all the lot of us
from Frenchies, and been the most forwardest, as I hear tell. But if us
could 'a got 50 pounds out of Government, why so much more for us, and
none the less for they. But a Englishman must do his duty, in reason,
and when 'a don't hurt his self by the same. There's a change in
the weather, as forbids more sport. You shall have the Blunder off
to-morrow, lad. Wouldn't do to be too sudden like."

"I fear I am very stupid, Master Tugwell. But I don't see how you can
manage it so surely, after labouring nine days all in vain."

Zebedee hesitated half a moment, betwixt discretion and the pride of
knowledge. Then the latter vanquished and relieved his mind.

"I trust in your honour, sir, of course, to keep me clear. I might have
brought 'e off the Pig, first day, or second to the latest, if it were
sound business. But with winter time coming, and the week's fishing
lost, our duty to our families and this place was to pull 'e on harder,
sir, to pull 'e aground firmer; and with the help of the Lord we have
a-doed it well. We wasn't a-going to kill the goose as laid the golden
eggs. No offence to you, sir; it wasn't you as was the goose."

Master Tugwell rubbed his pockets with a very pleasant smile, and then
put his elbows on his great square knees, and complacently studied the
lieutenant's smaller mind.

"I can understand how you could do such a thing," said Scudamore, after
he had rubbed his eyes, and then looked away for fear of laughing, "but
I cannot understand by what power on earth you are enabled to look at me
and tell me this. For nine days you have been paid every night, and paid
pretty well, as you yourself acknowledge, to haul a ship off a shoal;
and all the time you have been hauling her harder upon it!"

"Young man," replied Tugwell, with just indignation, "a hofficer should
be above such words. But I forgive 'e, and hope the Lord will do the
same, with allowance for youth and ill-convenience. I might 'a knowed no
better, at your age and training."

"But what were you paid for, just answer me that, unless it was to pull
the Blonde off the sand-bank? And how can you pretend that you have done
an honest thing by pulling her further upon the bank?"

"I won't ask 'e, sir, to beg my pardon for saying what never man said
to me, without reading the words of the contraction;" Zeb pulled out
a paper from his hat, and spread it, and laid a stone at every corner;
"this contraction was signed by yourself and Squire Darling, for and on
behalf of the kingdom; and the words are for us to give our services, to
pull, haul, tow, warp, or otherwise as directed, release, relieve, set
free, and rescue the aforesaid ship, or bark, or vessel, craft, or--"

"Please not to read all that," cried Scuddy, "or a gale of wind may come
before you are half-way through. It was Admiral Darling's lawyer, Mr.
Furkettle, who prepared it, to prevent any chance of misunderstanding."

"Provided always," continued Tugwell, slowly, "and the meaning,
condition, purport, object, sense, and intention of this agreement is,
that the aforesaid Zebedee Tugwell shall submit in everything to the
orders, commands, instructions, counsel, directions, injunctions,
authority, or discretion, whether in writing or otherwise, of the
aforesaid--"

"I would not interrupt you if I could help it"--Scudamore had a large
stock of patience (enhanced by laborious practice at Stonnington), but
who might abide, when time was precious, to see Zebedee feeling his way
with his fingers along the bottom and to the end of every word, and then
stopping to congratulate himself at the conquest of every one over two
syllables? "But excuse me for saying that I know all these conditions;
and the tide will be lost, if we stop here."

"Very good, sir; then you see how it standeth. Who hath broken them?
Not us! We was paid for to haul; and haul we did, according to superior
orders. She grounded from the south, with the tide making upp'ard,
somewhere about three-quarter flow; and the Squire, and you, and all
the rest of 'e, without no knowledge of the Pig whatsomever, fastens all
your pulley-haulies by the starn, and says, 'now pull!' And pull we did,
to the tune of sixteen guineas a day for the good of Springhaven."

"And you knew all the time that it was wrong! Well, I never came across
such people. But surely some one of you would have had the honesty--I
beg pardon, I mean the good-will--to tell us. I can scarcely imagine
some forty men and boys preserving such a secret for nine whole days,
hauling for their lives in the wrong direction, and never even by a wink
or smile--"

"Springhaven is like that," said Master Tugwell, proudly; "we does a
thing one and all together, even if us reasons consarning it. And over
and above that, sir, there is but two men in Springhaven as understands
the White Pig, barring my own self. The young 'uns might 'a smelt a rat,
but they knew better than to say so. Where the Blunder grounded--and she
hath airned her name, for the good of the dwellers in this village--is
the chine of the Pig; and he hath a double back, with the outer side
higher than the inner one. She came through a narrow nick in his outer
back, and then plumped, stem on, upon the inner one. You may haul at
her forever by the starn, and there she'll 'bide, or lay up again on the
other back. But bring her weight forrard, and tackle her by the head,
and off she comes, the very next fair tide; for she hath berthed herself
over the biggest of it, and there bain't but a basketful under her
forefoot."

"Then, Master Tugwell, let us lose no time, but have at her at once, and
be done with it." Scudamore jumped up, to give action to his words; but
Tugwell sate aground still, as firmly as the Blonde.

"Begging of your pardon, sir, I would invite of you not to be in no sart
of hurry hasting forwardly. Us must come off gradual, after holding on
so long there, and better to have Squire Darling round the corner first,
sir. Not that he knoweth much about it, but 'a might make believe to
do so. And when 'a hath seen us pull wrong ways, a hundred and twenty
guineas' worth, a' might grudge us the reward for pulling right ways.
I've a-knowed 'un get into that state of mind, although it was his own
tenants."

The lieutenant was at length compelled to laugh, though for many reasons
loth to do so. But the quiet contempt for the Admiral's skill, and the
brief hint about his character, touched his sense of the ludicrous more
softly than the explanation of his own mishaps. Then the Captain of
Springhaven smiled almost imperceptibly; for he was a serious man, and
his smiles were accustomed to be interior.

"I did hear tell," he said, stroking his beard, for fear of having
discomposed it, "that the Squire were under compulsion to go a bit
westward again to-morrow. And when he cometh back he would be glad to
find us had managed the job without him. No fear of the weather breaking
up afore Friday, and her can't take no harm for a tide or two. If you
thinks well, sir, let us heave at her to-day, as afore, by superior
orders. Then it come into your mind to try t'other end a bit, and you
shift all the guns and heavy lumber forrard to give weight to the bows
and lift the starn, and off her will glide at the first tug to-morrow,
so sure as my name is Zebedee. But mind one thing, sir, that you keep
her, when you've got her. She hath too many furriner natives aboard of
her, to be any way to my liking."

"Oh, there need be no doubt about them," replied Blyth; "we treat them
like ourselves, and they are all upon their honour, which no Frenchman
ever thinks of breaking. But my men will be tired of waiting for me. I
shall leave you to your plans, Tugwell."

"Ah, I know the natur' of they young men," Captain Zebedee mused, as he
sate in his hollow, till Scudamore's boat was far away; "they be full
of scruples for themselves and faith in other fellows. He'll never tell
Squire, nor no one else here, what I laid him under, and the laugh would
go again' him, if he did. We shall get to-day's money, I reckon, as well
as double pay to-morrow, and airn it. Well, it might 'a been better, and
it might be wuss."

About two miles westward of the brook, some rocks marked the end of the
fine Springhaven sands and the beginning of a far more rugged beach, the
shingles and flint shelves of Pebbleridge. Here the chalk of the Sussex
backbone (which has been plumped over and sleeked by the flesh of the
valley) juts forth, like the scrags of a skeleton, and crumbles in low
but rugged cliffs into the flat domain of sea. Here the landing is bad,
and the anchorage worse, for a slippery shale rejects the fluke, and the
water is usually kept in a fidget between the orders of the west wind
and scurry of the tide.

This very quiet morning, with the wind off shore, and scarcely enough of
it to comb the sea, four smart-looking Frenchmen, with red caps on their
heads, were barely holding way upon the light gig of the Blonde, while
their Captain was keeping an appointment with a stranger, not far
from the weed-strewn line of waves. In a deep rocky channel where a
land-spring rose (which was still-born except at low water), and laver
and dilsk and claw-coral showed that the sea had more dominion there
than the sky, two men stood facing each other; and their words, though
belonging to the most polite of tongues, were not so courteous as might
be. Each man stood with his back to a rock--not touching it, however,
because it was too wet--one was as cold and as firm as the rock,
the other like the sea, tumultuous. The passionate man was Captain
Desportes, and the cold one Caryl Carne.

"Then you wish me to conclude, monsieur," Carne spoke as one offering
repentance, "that you will not do your duty to your country, in the
subject set before you? I pray you to deliberate, because your position
hangs upon it."

"Never! Never! Once more, Captain, with all thanks for your
consideration, I refuse. My duty to my own honour has first place. After
that my duty to my country. Speak of it no more, sir; it quite is to
insult me."

"No, Captain Desportes, it is nothing of that kind, or I should not
be here to propose it. Your parole is given only as long as your ship
continues upon the sand. The moment she floats, you are liberated.
Then is the time for a noble stroke of fortune. Is it not so, my dear
friend?"

"No, sir. This affair is impossible. My honour has been pledged, not
until the ship is floating, but until I am myself set free in France. I
am sorry not to see things as you see them for me; but the question is
for my own consideration."

Captain Desportes had resented, as an honest man must do, especially
when more advanced in years, the other's calm settlement, without
invitation, of matters which concerned his own conscience. And as most
mankind--if at all perceptive--like or dislike one another at a glance,
Desportes, being very quick and warm of nature, had felt at first sight
a strong repulsion from the cold and arrogant man who faced him. His age
was at least twice that of Carne, he had seen much service in the better
days of France, and had risen slowly by his own skill and valour; he
knew that his future in the service depended upon his decision in
this matter, and he had a large family to maintain. But his honour was
pledged, and he held fast by it.

"There is one consideration," Carne replied, with rancour slowly
kindling in his great black eyes, "which precedes all others, even
that of honour, in the mind of a trusted officer. It is not that of
patriotism--which has not its usual weight with monsieur--but it is that
of obedience, discipline, loyalty, faith, towards those who have placed
faith in him. Captain Desportes, as commander of a ship, is entrusted
with property; and that confidence is the first debt upon his honour."

To Desportes, as to most men of action, the right was plainer than the
reason. He knew that this final plea was unsound, but he did not see how
to contest it. So he came back to fact, which was easier for him.

"How am I to know, monsieur, what would be the wishes of those who have
entrusted me with my position? You are placed in authority by some means
here, in your own country, but against it. That much you have proved to
me, by papers. But your credentials are general only. They do not apply
to this especial case. If the Chief of the State knew my position, he
would wish me to act as I mean to act, for the honour and credit of our
nation."

"Are you then acquainted with his signature? If so, perhaps you will
verify this, even if you are resolved to reject it."

Carne drew a letter from an inner pocket, and carefully unfolded it.
There were many words and minute directions upon various subjects,
written by the hand of the most minute, and yet most comprehensive, of
mankind.

"There is nothing in this that concerns you," he said, after showing
the date, only four days old, "except these few words at the end,
which perhaps you may like to read, before you make final decision. The
signature of the Chief is clear."

Captain Desportes read aloud--"It is of the utmost importance to me,
that the Blonde should not be captured by the enemy, as the Ville
d'Anvers has been. You tell me that it is ashore near you, and the
Captain and crew upon parole, to be liberated if they assist in the
extrication of the vessel. This must not be. In the service of the
State, I demand that they consider not at all their parole. The
well-known speed and light draught of that vessel have rendered her
almost indispensable to me. When the vessel is free, they must rise upon
the enemy, and make for the nearest of our ports without delay. Upon
this I insist, and place confidence in your established courage and
management, to accomplish it to my satisfaction."

"Your orders are clear enough," said Caryl Carne. "What reason can you
give, as an officer of the Republic, for disobeying them?"

Desportes looked at his ship in the distance, and then at the sea and
the sky, with a groan, as if he were bidding farewell to them. Carne
felt sure that he had prevailed, and a smile shed light, but not a soft
light, on his hard pale countenance.

"Be in no rash haste," said the French sea-captain, and he could not
have found words more annoying to the cold proud man before him; "I do
not recognise in this mandate the voice of my country, of the honourable
France, which would never say, 'Let my sons break their word of honour!'
This man speaks, not as Chief of a grand State, not as leader of noble
gentlemen, but as Emperor of a society of serfs. France is no empire;
she is a grand nation of spirit, of valour, above all, of honour. The
English have treated me, as I would treat them, with kindness, with
largeness, with confidence. In the name of fair France, I will not do
this thing."

Carne was naturally pale, but now he grew white with rage, and his black
eyes flashed.

"France will be an empire within six months; and your honour will be put
upon prison diet, while your family starve for the sake of it."

"If I ever meet you under other circumstances," replied the brave
Frenchman, now equally pale, "I shall demand reparation, sir."

"With great pleasure," replied Carne, contemptuously; "meanwhile
monsieur will have enough to do to repair his broken fortunes."

Captain Desportes turned his back, and gave a whistle for his crew,
then stepped with much dignity into his boat. "To the Blonde, lads,"
he cried, "to the unsullied Blonde!" Then he sate, looking at her, and
stroked his grizzled beard, into which there came trickling a bitter
tear or two, as he thought of his wife and family. He had acted well;
but, according to the measure of the present world, unwisely.


CHAPTER XXV

NO CONCERN OF OURS


The very next morning it was known to the faithful of Springhaven
that the glory of the place would be trebled that day, and its income
increased desirably. That day, the fair stranger (which had so long
awakened the admiration of the women, and the jealousy of the men) would
by the consummate skill of Captain Zeb--who had triumphed over all the
officers of the British Navy--float forth magnificently from her narrow
bed, hoist her white sails, and under British ensign salute the new
fort, and shape a course for Portsmouth. That she had stuck fast and in
danger so long was simply because the cocked hats were too proud to give
ear to the wisdom in an old otter-skin. Now Admiral Darling was baffled
and gone; and Captain Tugwell would show the world what he could do, and
what stuff his men were made of, if they only had their way. From old
Daddy Stakes, the bald father of the village, to Mrs. Caper junior's
baby--equally bald, but with a crop as sure of coming as mustard and
cress beneath his flannel--some in arms, some on legs, some upon brave
crutches, all were abroad in the soft air from the west, which had
stolen up under the stiff steel skirt of the east wind, exactly as wise
Captain Zeb predicted.

"My dear," said Mrs. Twemlow to the solid Mrs. Stubbard, for a very
sweet friendship had sprung up between these ladies, and would last
until their interests should happen to diverge, "this will be a great
day for my dear husband's parish. Perhaps there is no other parish
in the kingdom capable of acting as Springhaven has, so obedient, so
disciplined, so faithful to their contract! I am told that they even
pulled the vessel more aground, in preference to setting up their own
opinions. I am told that as soon as the Admiral was gone--for between
you and me he is a little overbearing, with the very best intentions in
the world, but too confident in his own sagacity--then that clever but
exceedingly modest young man, Lieutenant Scudamore, was allowed at last
to listen to our great man Tugwell, who has long been the oracle of the
neighbourhood about the sea, and the weather, and all questions of that
kind. And between you and me, my dear, the poor old Admiral seems a
little bit jealous of his reputation. And what do you think he said
before he went, which shows his high opinion of his own abilities?
Tugwell said something in his rough and ready way, which, I suppose, put
his mightiness upon the high ropes, for he shouted out in everybody's
hearing, 'I'll tell you what it is, my man, if you can get her off, by
any of your'--something I must not repeat--'devices, I'll give you fifty
guineas, five-and-twenty for yourself, and the rest to be divided among
these other fellows.' Then Zebedee pulled out a Testament from his
pocket, for he is a man of deep religious convictions, and can read
almost all the easy places, though he thinks most of the hard ones, and
he made his son Dan (who is a great scholar, as they say, and a very
fine-looking youth as well) put down at the end what the Admiral had
said. Now, what do you think of that, dear Mrs. Stubbard?"

"I think," replied that strong-minded lady, "that Tugwell is an arrant
old fox; and if he gets the fifty guineas, he will put every farthing
into his own pocket."

"Oh, no! He is honest as the day itself. He will take his own
twenty-five, and then leave the rest to settle whether he should share
in their twenty-five. But we must be quick, or we shall lose the sight.
Quite a number of people are come from inland. How wonderfully quickly
these things spread! They came the first day, and then made up their
minds that nothing could be done, and so they stopped at home. But now,
here they are again, as if by magic! If the ship gets off, it will be
known halfway to London before nightfall. But I see Captain Stubbard
going up the hill to your charming battery. That shows implicit faith in
Tugwell, to return the salute of the fair captive! It is indeed a proud
day for Springhaven!"

"But it isn't done yet. And perhaps it won't be done. I would rather
trust officers of the navy than people who catch crabs and oysters. I
would go up to the battery, to laugh at my husband, but for the tricks
the children play me. My authority is gone, at the very first puff of
smoke. How children do delight in that vile gunpowder!"

"So they ought, in the present state of our country, with five hundred
thousand of Frenchmen coming. My dear Mrs. Stubbard, how thankful we
should be to have children who love gunpowder!"

"But not when they blow up their mother, ma'am."

"Oh, here comes Eliza!" cried Mrs. Twemlow. "I am so glad, because she
knows everything. I thought we had missed her. My dear child, where are
Faith and Dolly Darling gone? There are so many strangers about to-day
that the better class should keep together."

"Here are three of us at any rate," replied the young lady, who
considered her mother old-fashioned: "enough to secure one another's
sanctity from the lower orders. Faith has gone on to the headland, with
that heroic mannikin, Johnny. Dolly was to follow, with that Shanks maid
to protect her, as soon as her hat was trimmed, or some such era. But
I'll answer for it that she loses herself in the crowd, or some fib of
that sort."

"Eliza!" said her mother, and very severely, because Mrs. Stubbard was
present, "I am quite astonished at your talking so. You might do the
greatest injury to a very lively and harmless, but not over-prudent
girl, if any one heard you who would repeat it. We all know that the
Admiral is so wrapped up in Dolly that he lets her do many things which
a mother would forbid. But that is no concern of ours; and once for all,
if such things must be said, I beg that they may not be said by you."

In the present age, Mrs. Twemlow would have got sharp answer. But her
daughter only looked aggrieved, and glanced at Mrs. Stubbard, as if to
say, "Well, time will show whether I deserve it." And then they hastened
on, among the worse class, to the headland.

Not only all the fishing-smacks, and Captain Stubbard's galley, but
every boat half as sound as a hat, might now be seen near the grounded
vessel, preparing to labour or look on. And though the White Pig was
allowed to be three-quarters of a mile from the nearest point, the
mighty voice of Captain Zeb rode over the flickering breadth of sea,
and through the soft babble of the waves ashore. The wind was light
from southwest, and the warp being nearly in the same direction now, the
Blonde began to set her courses, to catch a lift of air, when the tide
should come busily working under her. And this would be the best tide
since she took the ground, last Sunday week, when the springs were going
off. As soon as the hawsers were made fast, and the shouts of Zebedee
redoubled with great strength (both of sound and of language), and the
long ropes lifted with a flash of splashes, and a creak of heavy wood,
and the cry was, "With a will! with a will, my gay lads!" every body
having a sound eye in it was gazing intently, and every heart was
fluttering, except the loveliest eyes and quickest heart in all
Springhaven.

Miss Dolly had made up her mind to go, and would have had warm words
ready for any one rash enough to try to prevent her. But a very short
note which was put into her hand about 10 A.M. distracted her.

"If you wish to do me a real service, according to your kind words of
Saturday, be in the upper shrubbery at half past eleven; but tell no one
except the bearer. You will see all that happens better there than on
the beach, and I will bring a telescope."

Dolly knew at once who had written this, and admired it all the more
because it was followed by no signature. For years she had longed for
a bit of romance; and the common-sense of all the world irked her. She
knew as well as possible that what she ought to do was to take this
letter to her sister Faith, and be guided by her advice about it. Faith
was her elder by three years or more, and as steadfast as a rock, yet as
tender as young moss. There was no fear that Faith would ride the high
horse with her, or lay down the law severely; she was much more likely
to be too indulgent, though certain not to play with wrong.

All this the younger sister knew, and therefore resolved to eschew
that knowledge. She liked her own way, and she meant to have it, in a
harmless sort of way; her own high spirit should be her guide, and she
was old enough now to be her own judge. Mr. Carne had saved her sister's
life, when she stood up in that senseless way; and if Faith had no
gratitude, Dolly must feel, and endeavour to express it for her.

Reasoning thus, and much better than this, she was very particular about
her hat, and French pelerine of fluted lawn, and frock of pale violet
trimmed on either side with gathered muslin. Her little heart fluttered
at being drawn in, when it should have been plumped up to her neck, and
very nearly displayed to the public; but her father was stern upon some
points, and never would hear of the classic discoveries. She had not
even Grecian sandals, nor a "surprise fan" to flutter from her wrist,
nor hair oiled into flat Lesbian coils, but freedom of rich young
tresses, and of graceful figure, and taper limbs. There was no one who
could say her nay, of the lovers of maiden nature.

However, maidens must be discreet, even when most adventurous; and
so she took another maid to help her, of respected but not romantic
name--Jenny Shanks, who had brought her that letter. Jenny was much
prettier than her name, and the ground she trod on was worshipped by
many, even when her shoes were down at heel. Especially in this track
remained the finer part of Charley Bowles's heart (while the coarser
was up against the Frenchmen), as well as a good deal of Mr. Prater's
nephew's, and of several other sole-fishers. This enabled Jenny to enter
kindly into tender questions. And she fetched her Sunday bonnet down the
trap-ladder where she kept it--because the other maids were so nasty--as
soon as her letter was delivered.

"Your place, Jenny, is to go behind," Miss Dolly said, with no small
dignity, as this zealous attendant kept step for step with her, and
swung her red arm against the lady's fair one. "I am come upon important
business, Jenny, such as you cannot understand, but may stay at a proper
distance."

"Lor, miss, I am sure I begs your pardon. I thought it was a kind of
coorting-match, and you might be glad of my experience."

"Such things I never do, and have no idea what you mean. I shall be much
obliged to you, Jenny, if you will hold your tongue."

"Oh yes, miss; no fear of my telling anybody. Wild horses would never
pull a syllable out of me. The young men is so aggravating that I keep
my proper distance from them. But the mind must be made up, at one time
or other."

Dolly looked down at her with vast contempt, which she would not lower
herself by expressing, even with favour of time and place. Then turning
a corner of the grassy walk, between ground-ash and young larches, they
came upon an opening planted round with ilex, arbutus, juniper, and
laurel, and backed by one of the rocks which form the outworks of the
valley. From a niche in this rock, like the port-hole of a ship, a rill
of sparkling water poured, and beginning to make a noise already, cut
corner's--of its own production--short, in its hurry to be a brook, and
then to help the sea. And across its exit from the rock (like a measure
of its insignificance) a very comfortable seat was fixed, so that any
gentleman--or even a lady with divided skirts--might freely sit with one
foot on either bank of this menacing but not yet very formidable stream.
So that on the whole this nook of shelter under the coronet of rock was
a favourite place for a sage cock-pheasant, or even a woodcock in wintry
weather.

Upon that bench (where the Admiral loved to sit, in the afternoon of
peace and leisure, observing with a spy-glass the manoeuvres of his
tranquil fishing fleet) Caryl Carne was sitting now, with his long and
strong legs well spread out, his shoulders comfortably settled back, and
his head cast a little on one side, as if he were trying to compute his
property. Then, as Dolly came into the opening, he arose, made a bow
beyond the compass of any true Briton, and swinging his hat, came to
meet her. Dolly made a curtsey in the style impressed upon her by her
last governess but one--a French lady of exceedingly high ancestry and
manners--and Carne recognised it as a fine thing out of date.

"Jenny, get away!" said Dolly--words not meant for him to hear, but he
had grave command of countenance.

"This lays me under one more obligation:" Carne spoke in a low voice,
and with a smile of diffidence which reminded her of Scudamore, though
the two smiles were as different as night and day. "I have taken a great
liberty in asking you to come, and that multiplies my gratitude for
your good-will. For my own sake alone I would not have dared to sue this
great favour from you, though I put it so, in terror of alarming you.
But it is for my own sake also, since anything evil to you would be
terrible to me."

"No one can wish to hurt me," she answered, looking up at him bravely,
and yet frightened by his gaze, "because I have never harmed any one.
And I assure you, sir, that I have many to defend me, even when my
father is gone from home."

"It is beyond doubt. Who would not rush to do so? But it is from those
who are least suspected that the danger comes the worst. The most modest
of all gentlemen, who blushes like a damsel, or the gallant officer
devoted to his wife and children, or the simple veteran with his stars,
and scars, and downright speech--these are the people that do the wrong,
because no one believes it is in them."

"Then which of the three is to carry me off from home, and friends, and
family--Lieutenant Scudamore, Captain Stubbard, or my own godfather,
Lord Nelson?"

This young man nourished a large contempt for the intellect of women,
and was therefore surprised at the quickness and spirit of the girl whom
he wished to terrify. A sterner tone must be used with her.

"I never deal in jokes," he said, with a smile of sad sympathy for
those who do; "my life is one perpetual peril, and that restrains
facetiousness. But I can make allowance for those who like it."

Miss Dolly, the pet child of the house, and all the people
round it--except the gardener, Mr. Swipes, who found her too
inquisitive--quick as she was, could not realise at once the possibility
of being looked down upon.

"I am sorry that you have to be so grave," she said, "because it
prevents all enjoyment. But why should you be in such continual danger?
You promised to explain it, on Saturday, only you had no time then.
We are all in danger from the French, of course, if they ever should
succeed in landing. But you mean something more than that; and it seems
so hard, after all your losses, that you should not be safe from harm."

With all her many faults--many more than she dreamed of--fair Dolly had
a warm and gentle heart, which filled her eyes with tender loveliness,
whenever it obtained command of them. Carne, who was watching them
steadfastly for his own purpose, forgot that purpose, and dropped his
dark eyes, and lost the way to tell a lie.

"If I may ask you," he said, almost stammering, and longing without
knowledge for the blessing of her touch, "to--to allow me just to lead
you to this seat, I may perhaps be able--I will not take the liberty of
sitting at your side--but I may perhaps be able to explain as much of my
affairs as you can wish to hear of them, and a great deal more, I fear,
a great deal more, Miss Darling."

Dolly blushed at the rich tone in which he pronounced her name, almost
as if it were an adjective; but she allowed him to take her hand,
and lead her to the bench beneath the rock. Then, regardless of his
breeches, although of fine padusoy, and his coat, though of purple
velvet, he sate down on the bank of the rill at her feet, and waited for
her to say something. The young lady loved mainly to take the lead, but
would liefer have followed suit just now.

"You have promised to tell me," she said, very softly, and with an
unusual timidity, which added to her face and manner almost the only
charm they lacked, "some things which I do not understand, and which I
have no right to ask you of, except for your own offer. Why should you,
without injuring any one, but only having suffered loss of all your
family property, and of all your rights and comforts, and living in
that lonely place which used to be full of company--why should you be
in danger now, when you have nothing more to be robbed of? I beg your
pardon--I mean when all your enemies must have done their worst."

"You are too young yet to understand the world," he answered, with a
well-drawn sigh; "and I hope most truly that you may never do so. Some
days had seen the Devil by the priests, and gave answers in line with
the vain and that took. Others might say many things of this temple,
I stop, because I think that it suffices to understand how big a thing
it was; because no treatment of Argenteria, Chaquira, plumage of gold
and other things, that if the write were not believed.

And, as I said, still living who saw chripstianos most dello that took
Caxamaca Atahualpa for ransom, but much is hidden and the Indians lost
and buried.

Although the Incas had all this ornate temple, in time of Inca Yupanqui
grew so that when he died and Tupac Inca his son, hobo the empire was
at this perficion. _CAP. XXVIII .-- covered the temples that he had no
more major, and names tenian._ Many temples that were the hobo in
this kingdom of Peru, and some are very old, it was founded earlier
with many times, that the Inca kings, and in the mountains of the
high, as in the mountains (_así_) from the plains, and the Inca
reign, was built again in many other festivals where it is to their
sacrifices.

And because mention of temples in every province that had particularly
serious thing too long and lengthy, determined in this place for only
those who were most prominent is key. And so I say, that after the
temple Curicancha was the second of the Incas Guaca hill Guanacaure,
which is a vista of the city, and was frequently visited by them
and honored by what some say the first Inca quel brother became
the place of stone, while leaving Pacaritambo [Pacarec Tampu], as
initially counted.

And there was this hill where the ancient oracle spoke fucking devil, and
was buried the large round sum of treasure, and some days were sacrificed
men and women, who, before they were killed, the priests made them
understand that had to go to serve [a] that God worshiped there,
back in the glory that they pretended they had with their rants,
and so, by keeping some of those who had slaughtered the men were
dressed in very Galan and their fine wool garments and llautos gold
and paten, and bracelets, and straps oxotas with their gold, and
having heard that the parliament of liars priests made them, gave
them to drink plenty of chicha with great vessels of gold and
solenizaban [with] the slaughter songs, publishing them, which to
serve their gods, they offered their lives so, with the cheerful
receive in his place of death.

And having either lay these things, were drowned by the ministers, and
placed on their shoulders _quipes_ [85] of gold and a Jarrilla the same
in hand, the buried around Oracle in their graves. And these were such
saints canonized among them, undoubtedly believed they were in
heaven to serve her Guanacaure.

Women who sacrificed iban also richly dressed in fine clothes in their
colors and pen, and its golden moles, and spoons, and plates and bowl,
all in gold, and dressed, well after they have drunk, and drowned
the buried, believing them and those who kill, who went to serve
his or Guanacaure devil.

And hacíanse great songs and dances, where such sacrifices were questo.
Had the idol, he was the oracle, with chaco, Yanaconas, and gained, and
Mamacona, and priests who took advantage of the most dello.

Guaca The third oracle and the temple of the Incas was Vilcanota, well
appointed in these kingdoms and where, giving our God and Lord, Satan had
great power great time and spoke by the mouth of the false priests
that serve the idols in him.

And this temple was Vilcanota little more than twenty leagues from
Cuzco, near the village of Chungara and was highly revered and respected,
and offered many gifts and present, and by the Incas and gentlemen,
for the rich men of the counties [of] where they come to sacrifice, and
had their priests and Mamacona and sown, and almost every year in this
temple offerings to the capacocha, which is what I will say then.
Dábase great credit to what the devil said for the answers and on time,
made great sacrifices of birds and cattle and other animals. The fourth
temple estimated and used by the Incas and natural provinces, was
the Guaca of Ancocagua where Oracle was also very old and had in
great veneration.

I was stuck with the province of Hatun Cana, and at times with many
parts of iban veneration of this grand evil vain to hear your answers,
and were in the grand sum of treasures, because the Incas and all the
others were there. And also say that without the many animals sacrificed
at this guy, they were God, towards the same number of Indians and
Indians, and as well that I used in the hill Guanacaure. And hobiese
wealth in this temple is said, by tiénese truth, because after the
Spaniards won the Cuzco with over three years, and the priests and
warlords have raised the great treasures that had all these churches,
I heard that Diego Rodriguez called a Spanish Elemosin (_así_) desta
Guaca took more than thirty million pesos of gold, and this has
been found more and there are still reported to have buried great
quantity of silver and gold in parts that there is no one who knows,
if God does not and never will be taken if it were not for fortune
or anything.

Without these temples, there was another estimated and frequented by
such as these, and more, who had named the _Coropuna_, which is in the
province of Condesuyo in a very large hill covered with snow that the
quota for summer and winter is not removed at all. And the kings of
Peru with the most major visiting this temple, making offerings to
present and those already, and some tiénese however, that the gifts
and capacocha that this temple was made, there were many charges
of gold and silver and precious stones buried in parts that Dell
is not known, and the Indians hid another large sum that was to
serve the idol and priests and Mamacona, who also had many temple
[86], and has such great snow, no climb to the top, do not even
know where they rightly so great treasures.

Much had won this temple, and Chaco Indians Mamacona service. He always
had people in many parts, and the devil was speaking here more loosely
than in the oracles said, because the mill was contingent responses,
and not on time, as the others. And even now at this time, for any
secret of God is said to walk that part devils visibly, that the
Indians see them and Dell are big fears. Chrisptianos And I heard
that I have seen the same figure in Indian and aparecérseles and
desaparecérseles in short time. Sometimes sacrificed much in this
oracle, and killed many livestock and poultry, and some men and women.
Without these oracles, had the Aperahua, where by a tree Troncone
said the oracle, and next to it was found quantity of gold and the
Pachacama, Yuncos the cheese, and many others, and in the region
of Andesuyo, as in the Chinchasuyo and Omasuyo, and other parts of
this kingdom, of which might say more, but because I said that in
the first part [87], which deals with the foundations, rather than
not try Desto the oracles, which had more devotion to the Incas all
other nations, some men and women sacrificed much livestock and
where there was this appropriation, not to spill human blood and
kill men, but they offered gold and silver.

At Guaca they had at least as they were shrines, offered Chaquira
and feathers and other things often of little value. I say this because
the opinion that the Spaniards have to say that all men sacrificed
temples are false, and this is the second truth is that I managed,
without pulling or make more than I understood and I have certainly .

_CAP. XXIX .-- From Capaccocha how to and how much was used among the
Incas, which means gifts and offerings that made their ídolos._ Here
goes well, to understand, what the capaccocha, because everything the
service was far from the temples and these and other, and by news
that it is Indians who are living and the old saw that this was
going on, I will write what I understand that this is true.

And they say that it was customary in Cuzco, for the Kings, who
come each year to that city to all the statues [88] and packages
from the idols that were in Guacara, which were the temples where
they worshiped , which were brought with great reverence for priests
and _camayos_ Dellas, cheese keepers name, and enter the city, were
received with great feasts and processions in public areas and rooms
for those who were identified and established, and having been of
the districts of the city, and even most of the provinces, large
numbers of people, and men and women, the queen, accompanied by all
the Incas and Orejón, and courtesans of the city, meant to do great
festivities and drunkenness and táquis.

Put into the great square of Cuzco Maroma gold across the fence,
and so much wealth and precious stones, as they may think they have
been escripto questo kings of the treasures held, which passed it
was understood in all years was used by them, which was, quest
items, and statues and priests came together to see the mouth dello
event of the year, if it were to be fertile, or if you have had
infertility if the Inca had a long life, or if If die in that year,
if they had come by some enemies, or if some of the Pacific had
been revealed.

In conclusion, of these things were cross and other major and minor
is that little friable; also asked if it would have fever, or if any
Vernio homesick for cattle, and whether there would be many multiplier.
And this was done and wondered, not at all oracles together, but
each by itself, and every year if the Incas did it, went very demure and
very unhappy and lived in fear and had no life insurance. And so, the
people cheered and made their solemn drunkenness and large banquets
and other feasts táquis and they used all different from ours, where
the Incas and are with great success at their expense are treats,
which had large amount of gold and silver jars, cups and other
things, because all the service of his cuisine to the pots and
glasses of service was of gold and silver - to send to those who
were identified and had the times of the Great Priest, who also was
present to these festivals with pomp and triumph as great as the
same king, accompanied by priests and Mamacona had gathered there,
- which made her question to each of these things idol, which
corresponded the mouth of the priests who had charge of its bulk,
and these, as well drunk, guess what vian more toward the tastes
of those who wondered, invented by them and by the devil, Quest on
those statues.

And ask each made the idol, the priests being so astute in evil, asked
to respond algund term for more devotion and hear their credit dello
Desvarios because said they wanted to make their sacrifices, to be
pleasing to the top his gods, were served to respond to what was to be,
and so many animals were brought in sheep and lambs, and birds and cuis,
passing the number of over two million sheep and lambs, and they were
beheaded by their exorcisms and evil to their sacrifices in vain
custom, and then complaining that what they dreamed or pretended,
or perchance what the devil said to them, and to give the answers,
has had a great look at what they said and how dello up in such an
event or good or bad and so did with the other answers, to see who
really said what was right and had to be in that year.

This fact, then left the begging of the Kings with the gifts they
_capaccocha_ call, and general gathering alms, were returned to the
temples with idols, and if last year we had one of those dreamers
successful, happily sent the Inca it was his home. The _capaccocha_,
as I say, that was offering was paid in lieu of tithes to the churches,
many vessels of gold and silver and other pieces and stones, rich cargo
of blankets, and much livestock. And to those left uncertain and lies,
not giving them any offering next year, before losing reputation. To
do this, great things were in Cuzco, much of what I write.

And now, after having founded the Hearing and ido á Gasca Spain [89],
among some things that were tried in certain cases, mention was made
of this _capaccocha_ and that and everything else we escripto that is
true to and used. And now we of the great feast of _Hátun Raimi_ [90].
_CAP. XXX .-- How big parties and made sacrifices to the great and solemn
festival called Hatun Raimi._ Many parties had the Incas in the year
in which great sacrifices according to the custom them, and put them all
in particular, needed to make just this one volume, and also do little
to the case before it should not be the rantings of witchcraft and they
were, in some cases, and only the party of porn _Hátun Raimi_ [91]
because it is so named. In many provinces were kept, and was the
principal of the year and they rejoiced over the Incas, and sacrifices
were made and this event held last August, when they had got their
mails, potatoes, quinoa [92 ], goose [93] and the other seeds they sow.
And call this event, as I said, _Hátun Raimi_, which in our language
means very solemn event, because it had to render thanks and praise
to the great God maker of heaven and earth, who to call, like many
Sometimes I said, Ticiviracocha, and the Sun and the Moon, and the other
gods own, by giving them a good harvest year for maintenance. And to
celebrate this event with greater devotion and Solena, fasted states
that ten or twelve days, abstinence from eating too much and not sleeping
with their mugeres, and only drink in the morning, when they eat, chicha,
and then in day, so only water and not eat chili or bring anything
into your mouth, and other cirimonias that they were kept in similar
fasts.

This last brought to Cuzco great amount of lamb and sheep and doves and
cuis and other birds and animals, who kill to make the sacrifice, and
having the multitude of slaughtered cattle, coated with blood dello
statues and figures of gods or devils, and the gates of the temples and
oracles, to which hung the offal, and after being a while, the soothsayers
and fortune-tellers gazed into the light signals, as the Gentiles,
announcing it they will, thus giving much credit. And finish the sacrifice,
the priest with the other grand iban priests to the temple of the sun,
and after that their psalms cursed, sent out to the virgins Mamacona
herding and very richly chicha quella crowd had made, and among all
who were in the great city of Cuzco ate cattle and poultry for slaughter
vain had died, and drank chicha from that which was sacred, giving it to
drink great vessels of gold, be it in jars and silver of the many who
were in the temple.

And having eaten and drunk many times, being, and the king as the grand
priest, like everyone else, well dello cheerful and warm, being little
more than noon, was in order and the men began to sing loudly with the
carols and ballads that such days was invented by their elders,
that it was all thanks to their gods, promising to serve the benefits
received. And for many this was Atabal gold engastonados some stones,
which they tania [94] their women, who together with the sacred
Mamacona helping them to sing. And in the middle of the plaza had placed,
in what they say, a theater with its large terraces, most adorned with
pieces of feathers Chaquira gold-filled, delicious and great blankets of
wool so fine, planted Argenteria gold and precious stones. On top of
this throne placed the figure of her Ticiviracocha, big and rich, which,
as they were sovereign doer of what God brought you put in the highest
place and gave it more prominent, and all priests were beside
him, and the Inca with the main and common people will iban á Mocha
jumping the sandals, barefoot, with great humility, and shrank the
shoulders, and pumping the cheeks, blowing into it, making the
mocha, which is like saying reverence. deste throne was below the
figure of the sun, which does not bear to say it was made, and it
also appeared the moon and other packages of gods carved sticks and
stones and create letores, we have very Indeed, neither in Jerusalem,
Rome or Persia, or anywhere in the world, for any king of the
republic and gathered at a place so rich in gold and silver metals
and precious stones in the plaza of Cuzco, where these festivals
and the like were, because the packages were removed from the Incas,
kings him already dead, each with their service and equipment for
gold and silver they had, say those who have been brave and good
in life, with pious Indians are generous in making grants, forgiving
of insults, such as these canonized by his blindness sanctos and
honored his bones, not understanding that the animations burned in
hell, and believed Quest heaven.

And what was even some Orejón other nation or otherwise, which in
some cases found their kind, also called sanctos. And they call this
way to canonize _ylla_, which means that the body was good in life [95]
and in another understanding, _yllapa_ means thunder or lightning, and
so the Indians called the shots artillery _yllapa_ by estruendo ago
[96].

But the
present task was hateful to him; for any big-armed yokel, or common
wood-hewer, might have done as much as he could do, and perhaps more,
at it, and could have taken the same wage over it. Mr. Coggs, of
Pebbleridge, the only wheelwright within ten miles of Springhaven, had
taken a Government contract to supply within a certain time five hundred
spoke-wheels for ammunition tumbrils, and as many block-wheels for small
artillery; and to hack out these latter for better men to finish was the
daily task of Dan Tugwell.

This job swelled his muscles and enlarged his calves, and fetched away
all the fat he had been enabled to form in loftier walks of art; but
these outward improvements were made at the expense of his inner and
nobler qualities. To hack and hew timber by the cubic foot, without any
growing pleasure of proportion or design, to knit the brows hard for a
struggle with knots, and smile the stern smile of destruction; and
then, after a long and rough walk in the dark--for the equinox now was
impending--to be joked at by his father (who had lounged about all
day), and have all his money told into the paternal pocket, with narrow
enquiries, each Saturday night. But worst of all to know that because he
was not born with a silver spoon in his mouth, he had no heart--no heart
that he could offer where he laid it; but there it must lie, and
be trodden on in silence, while rakish-looking popinjays--But this
reflection stopped him, for it was too bitter to be thought out, and
fetched down his quivering hand upon his axe. Enough that these things
did not tend to a healthy condition of mind, or the proper worship of
the British Constitution. However, he was not quite a Radical yet.


CHAPTER XXVII

FAIR IN THEORY


One Saturday evening, when the dusk was just beginning to smoothe the
break of billow and to blunt the edge of rock, young Dan Tugwell swung
his axe upon his shoulder, with the flag basket hanging from it in which
his food had been, and in a rather crusty state of mind set forth upon
his long walk home to Springhaven. As Harry Shanks had said, and
almost everybody knew, an ancient foot-path, little used, but never yet
obstructed, cut off a large bend of the shore, and saved half a mile
of plodding over rock and shingle. This path was very lonesome, and
infested with dark places, as well as waylaid with a very piteous ghost,
who never would keep to the spot where he was murdered, but might appear
at any shady stretch or woody corner. Dan Tugwell knew three courageous
men who had seen this ghost, and would take good care to avoid any
further interview, and his own faith in ghosts was as stanch as in gold;
yet such was his mood this evening that he determined to go that way
and chance it, not for the saving of distance, but simply because he
had been told in the yard that day that the foot-path was stopped by the
landowner. "We'll see about that," said Dan; and now he was going to see
about it.

For the first field or two there was no impediment, except the usual
stile or gate; but when he had crossed a little woodland hollow, where
the fence of the castle grounds ran down to the brow of the cliff, he
found entrance barred. Three stout oak rails had been nailed across
from tree to tree, and on a board above them was roughly painted: "No
thoroughfare. Tresspassers will be prosecuted." For a moment the young
man hesitated, his dread of the law being virtuously deep, and his
mind well assured that his father would not back him up against settled
authorities. But the shame of turning back, and the quick sense of
wrong, which had long been demanding some outlet, conquered his calmer
judgment, and he cast the basket from his back. Then swinging his
favourite axe, he rushed at the oaken bars, and with a few strokes sent
them rolling down the steep bank-side.

"That for your stoppage of a right of way!" he cried; "and now perhaps
you'll want to know who done it."

To gratify this natural curiosity he drew a piece of chalk from his
pocket, and wrote on the notice-board in large round hand, "Daniel
Tugwell, son of Zebedee Tugwell, of Springhaven." But suddenly his smile
of satisfaction fled, and his face turned as white as the chalk in his
hand. At the next turn of the path, a few yards before him, in the gray
gloom cast by an ivy-mantled tree, stood a tall dark figure, with the
right arm raised. The face was indistinct, but (as Dan's conscience
told him) hostile and unforgiving; there was nothing to reflect a ray
of light, and there seemed to be a rustle of some departure, like the
spirit fleeing.

The ghost! What could it be but the ghost? Ghosts ought to be white; but
terror scorns all prejudice. Probably this murdered one was buried in
his breeches. Dan's heart beat quicker than his axe had struck; and his
feet were off to beat the ground still quicker. But no Springhaven lad
ever left his baggage. Dan leaped aside first to catch up his basket,
and while he stooped for it, he heard a clear strong voice.

"Who are you, that have dared to come and cut my fence down?"

No ghost could speak like that, even if he could put a fence up. The
inborn courage of the youth revived, and the shame of his fright made
him hardier. He stepped forward again, catching breath as he spoke, and
eager to meet any man in the flesh.

"I am Daniel Tugwell, of Springhaven. And no living man shall deny me of
my rights. I have a right to pass here, and I mean to do it."

Caryl Carne, looking stately in his suit of black velvet, drew sword and
stood behind the shattered barrier. "Are you ready to run against this?"
he asked. "Poor peasant, go back; what are your rights worth?"

"I could smash that skewer at a blow," said Daniel, flourishing his axe
as if to do it; "but my rights, as you say, are not worth the hazard.
What has a poor man to do with rights? Would you stop a man of your own
rank, Squire Carne?"

"Ah, that would be a different thing indeed! Justice wears a sword,
because she is of gentle birth. Work-people with axes must not prate
of rights, or a prison will be their next one. Your right is to be
disdained, young man, because you were not born a gentleman; and your
duty is to receive scorn with your hat off. You like it, probably,
because your father did. But come in, Daniel; I will not deny you of the
only right an English peasant has--the right of the foot to plod in
his father's footsteps. The right of the hand, and the tongue, and the
stomach--even the right of the eye is denied him; but by some freak of
law he has some little right of foot, doubtless to enable him to go and
serve his master."

Dan was amazed, and his better sense aroused. Why should this gentleman
step out of the rank of his birth, to talk in this way? Now and then Dan
himself had indulged in such ideas, but always with a doubt that they
were wicked, and not long enough to make them seem good in his eyes. He
knew that some fellows at "the Club" talked thus; but they were a lot of
idle strangers, who came there chiefly to corrupt the natives, and work
the fish trade out of their hands. These wholesome reflections made him
doubt about accepting Squire Carne's invitation; and it would have been
good for him if that doubt had prevailed, though he trudged a thousand
miles for it.

"What! Break down a fence, and then be afraid to enter! That is the
style of your race, friend Daniel. That is why you never get your
rights, even when you dare to talk of them. I thought you were made of
different stuff. Go home and boast that you shattered my fence, and
then feared to come through it, when I asked you." Carne smiled at his
antagonist, and waved his hand.

Dan leaped in a moment through the hanging splinters, and stood before
the other, with a frown upon his face. "Then mind one thing, sir," he
said, with a look of defiance, while touching his hat from force of
habit, "I pass here, not with your permission, but of right."

"Very well. Let us not split words," said Carne, who had now quite
recovered his native language. "I am glad to find a man that dares to
claim his rights, in the present state of England. I am going towards
Springhaven. Give me the pleasure of your company, and the benefit of
your opinion upon politics. I have heard the highest praise of your
abilities, my friend. Speak to me just as you would to one of your
brother fishermen. By the accident of birth I am placed differently from
you; and in this country that makes all the difference between a man
and a dog, in our value. Though you may be, and probably are, the better
man--more truthful, more courageous, more generous, more true-hearted,
and certain to be the more humble of the two. I have been brought up
where all men are equal, and the things I see here make a new world to
me. Very likely these are right, and all the rest of the world quite
wrong. Englishmen always are certain of that; and as I belong to the
privileged classes, my great desire is to believe it. Only I want to
know how the lower orders--the dregs, the scum, the dirt under our
feet, the slaves that do all the work and get starved for it--how these
trampled wretches regard the question. If they are happy, submissive,
contented, delighted to lick the boots of their betters, my conscience
will be clear to accept their homage, and their money for any stick
of mine they look at. But you have amazed me by a most outrageous act.
Because the lower orders have owned a path here for some centuries, you
think it wrong that they should lose their right. Explain to me, Daniel,
these extraordinary sentiments."

"If you please, sir," said Dan, who was following in the track, though
invited to walk by the side, of Caryl Carne, "I can hardly tell you how
the lower orders feel, because father and me don't belong to them. Our
family have always owned their own boat, and worked for their own hand,
this two hundred years, and, for all we know, ever since the Romans was
here. We call them the lower orders, as come round to pick up jobs, and
have no settlement in our village."

"A sound and very excellent distinction, Dan. But as against those who
make the laws, and take good care to enforce them, even you (though of
the upper rank here) must be counted of the lower order. For instance,
can you look at a pheasant, or a hare, without being put into prison?
Can you dine in the same room with Admiral Darling, or ask how his gout
is, without being stared at?"

"No, sir. He would think it a great impertinence, even if I dared to do
such a thing. But my father might do it, as a tenant and old neighbour.
Though he never gets the gout, when he rides about so much."

"What a matter-of-fact youth it is! But to come to things every man has
a right to. If you saved the life of one of the Admiral's daughters,
and she fell in love with you, as young people will, would you dare even
lift your eyes to her? Would you not be kicked out of the house and the
parish, if you dared to indulge the right of every honest heart?
Would you dare to look upon her as a human being, of the same order of
creation as yourself, who might one day be your wife, if you were true
and honest, and helped to break down the absurd distinctions built up by
vile tyranny between you? In a word, are you a man--as every man is on
the Continent--or only an English slave, of the lower classes?"

The hot flush of wrath, and the soft glow of shame, met and deepened
each other on the fair cheeks of this "slave"; while his mind would
not come to him to make a fit reply. That his passion for Dolly, his
hopeless passion, should thus be discovered by a man of her own rank,
but not scorned or ridiculed, only pitied, because of his want of manly
spirit; that he should be called a "slave" because of honest modesty,
and even encouraged in his wild hopes by a gentleman, who had seen all
the world, and looked down from a lofty distance on it; that in his
true estimate of things there should be nothing but prejudice, low and
selfish prejudice, between--Well, he could not think it out; that would
take him many hours; let this large-minded man begin again. It was so
dark now, that if he turned round on him, unless he was a cat, he would
be no wiser.

"You do well to take these things with some doubt," continued Carne, too
sagacious to set up argument, which inures even young men in their own
opinions; "if I were in your place, I should do the same. Centuries of
oppression have stamped out the plain light of truth in those who are
not allowed it. To me, as an individual, it is better so. Chance has
ordained that I should belong to the order of those who profit by it.
It is against my interest to speak as I have done. Am I likely to desire
that my fences should be broken, my property invaded, the distinction so
pleasing to me set aside, simply because I consider it a false one? No,
no, friend Daniel; it is not for me to move. The present state of things
is entirely in my favour. And I never give expression to my sense of
right and wrong, unless it is surprised from me by circumstances. Your
bold and entirely just proceedings have forced me to explain why I
feel no resentment, but rather admiration, at a thing which any other
land-owner in England would not rest in his bed until he had avenged. He
would drag you before a bench of magistrates and fine you. Your father,
if I know him, would refuse to pay the fine; and to prison you would
go, with the taint of it to lie upon your good name forever. The penalty
would be wrong, outrageous, ruinous; no rich man would submit to it, but
a poor man must. Is this the truth, Daniel, or is it what it ought to
be--a scandalous misdescription of the laws of England?"

"No, sir; it is true enough, and too true, I am afraid. I never thought
of consequences, when I used my axe. I only thought of what was right,
and fair, and honest, as between a man who has a right, and one who
takes it from him."

"That is the natural way to look at things, but never permitted in
this country. You are fortunate in having to deal with one who has been
brought up in a juster land, where all mankind are equal. But one thing
I insist upon; and remember it is the condition of my forbearance. Not
a single word to any one about your dashing exploit. No gentleman in the
county would ever speak to me again, if I were known to have put up with
it."

"I am sure, sir," said Daniel, in a truly contrite tone, "I never should
have done such an impudent thing against you, if I had only known what a
nice gentleman you are. I took you for nothing but a haughty land-owner,
without a word to fling at a poor fisherman. And now you go ever so far
beyond what the Club doth, in speaking of the right that every poor man
hasn't. I could listen to you by the hour, sir, and learn the difference
between us and abroad."

"Tugwell, I could tell you things that would make a real man of you. But
why should I? You are better as you are; and so are we who get all the
good out of you. And besides, I have no time for politics at present.
All my time is occupied with stern business--collecting the ruins of my
property."

"But, sir--but you come down here sometimes from the castle in the
evening; and if I might cross, without claiming right of way, sometimes
I might have the luck to meet you."

"Certainly you may pass, as often as you please, and so may anybody who
sets value on his rights. And if I should meet you again, I shall be
glad of it. You can open my eyes, doubtless, quite as much as I can
yours. Good-night, my friend, and better fortunes to you!"

"It was worth my while to nail up those rails," Carne said to himself,
as he went home to his ruins. "I have hooked that clod, as firm as ever
he hooked a cod. But, thousand thunders! what does he mean, by going
away without touching his hat to me?"


CHAPTER XXVIII

FOUL IN PRACTICE


"I hope, my dear, that your ride has done you good," said the Rector's
wife to the Rector, as he came into the hall with a wonderfully red
face, one fine afternoon in October. "If colour proves health, you have
gained it."

"Maria, I have not been so upset for many years. Unwholesome indignation
dyes my cheeks, and that is almost as bad as indigestion. I have had
quite a turn--as you women always put it. I am never moved by little
things, as you know well, and sometimes to your great disgust; but
to-day my troubles have conspired to devour me. I am not so young as I
was, Maria. And what will the parish come to, if I give in?"

"Exactly, dear; and therefore you must not give in." Mrs. Twemlow
replied with great spirit, but her hands were trembling as she helped
him to pull off his new riding-coat. "Remember your own exhortations,
Joshua--I am sure they were beautiful--last Sunday. But take something,
dear, to restore your circulation. A reaction in the system is so
dangerous."

"Not anything at present," Mr. Twemlow answered, firmly; "these mental
cares are beyond the reach of bodily refreshments. Let me sit down, and
be sure where I am, and then you may give me a glass of treble X. In
the first place, the pony nearly kicked me off, when that idiot of a
Stubbard began firing from his battery. What have I done, or my peaceful
flock, that a noisy set of guns should be set up amidst us? However, I
showed Juniper that he had a master, though I shall find it hard to
come down-stairs tomorrow. Well, the next thing was that I saw James
Cheeseman, Church-warden Cheeseman, Buttery Cheeseman, as the bad boys
call him, in the lane, in front of me not more than thirty yards, as
plainly as I now have the pleasure of seeing you, Maria; and while I
said 'kuck' to the pony, he was gone! I particularly wished to speak to
Cheeseman, to ask him some questions about things I have observed, and
especially his sad neglect of public worship--a most shameful example
on the part of a church-warden--and I was thinking how to put it,
affectionately yet firmly, when, to my great surprise, there was no
Cheeseman to receive it! I called at his house on my return, about three
hours afterwards, having made up my mind to have it out with him, when
they positively told me--or at least Polly Cheeseman did--that I must be
mistaken about her 'dear papa,' because he was gone in the pony-shay all
the way to Uckfield, and would not be back till night."

"The nasty little story-teller!" Mrs. Twemlow cried. "But I am not at
all surprised at it, when I saw how she had got her hair done up, last
Sunday."

"No; Polly believed it. I am quite sure of that. But what I want to tell
you is much stranger and more important, though it cannot have anything
at all to do with Cheeseman. You know, I told you I was going for a good
long ride; but I did not tell you where, because I knew that you would
try to stop me. But the fact was that I had made up my mind to see what
Caryl Carne is at, among his owls and ivy. You remember the last time
I went to the old place I knocked till I was tired, but could get no
answer, and the window was stopped with some rusty old spiked railings,
where we used to be able to get in at the side. All the others are out
of reach, as you know well; and being of a yielding nature, I came
sadly home. And at that time I still had some faith in your friend Mrs.
Stubbard, who promised to find out all about him, by means of Widow
Shanks and the Dimity-parlour. But nothing has come of that. Poor Mrs.
Stubbard is almost as stupid as her husband; and as for Widow Shanks--I
am quite sure, Maria, if your nephew were plotting the overthrow of
King, Church, and Government, that deluded woman would not listen to a
word against him."

"She calls him a model, and a blessed martyr"--Mrs. Twemlow was smiling
at the thought of it; "and she says she is a woman of great penetration,
and never will listen to anything. But it only shows what I have always
said, that our family has a peculiar power, a sort of attraction, a
superior gift of knowledge of their own minds, which makes them--But
there, you are laughing at me, Joshua!"

"Not I; but smiling at my own good fortune, that ever I get my own
way at all. But, Maria, you are right; your family has always
been distinguished for having its own way--a masterful race, and a
mistressful. And so much the more do the rest of mankind grow eager to
know all about them. In an ordinary mind, such as mine, that feeling
becomes at last irresistible; and finding no other way to gratify it,
I resolved to take the bull by the horns, or rather by the tail, this
morning. The poor old castle has been breaking up most grievously, even
within the last twenty years, and you, who have played as a child among
the ruins of the ramparts, would scarcely know them now. You cannot bear
to go there, which is natural enough, after all the sad things that have
happened; but if you did, you would be surprised, Maria; and I believe a
great part has been knocked down on purpose. But you remember the little
way in from the copse, where you and I, five-and-thirty years ago--"

"Of course I do, darling. It seems but yesterday; and I have a flower
now which you gathered for me there. It grew at a very giddy height upon
the wall, full of cracks and places where the evening-star came through;
but up you went, like a rocket or a race-horse; and what a fright I was
in, until you came down safe! I think that must have made up my mind to
have nobody except my Joshua."

"Well, my dear, you might have done much worse. But I happened to think
of that way in, this morning, when you put up your elbow, as you made
the tea, exactly as you used to do when I might come up there. And that
set me thinking of a quantity of things, and among them this plan which
I resolved to carry out. I took the trouble first to be sure that Caryl
was down here for the day, under the roof of Widow Shanks; and then I
set off by the road up the hill, for the stronghold of all the Carnes.
Without further peril than the fight with the pony, and the strange
apparition of Cheeseman about half a mile from the back entrance, I came
to the copse where the violets used to be, and the sorrel, and the lords
and ladies. There I tethered our friend Juniper in a quiet little nook,
and crossed the soft ground, without making any noise, to the place we
used to call our little postern. It looked so sad, compared with what
it used to be, so desolate and brambled up and ruinous, that I scarcely
should have known it, except for the gray pedestal of the prostrate dial
we used to moralise about. And the ground inside it, that was nice turf
once, with the rill running down it that perhaps supplied the moat--all
stony now, and overgrown, and tangled, with ugly-looking elder-bushes
sprawling through the ivy. To a painter it might have proved very
attractive; but to me it seemed so dreary, and so sombre, and
oppressive, that, although I am not sentimental, as you know, I actually
turned away, to put my little visit off, until I should be in better
spirits for it. And that, my dear Maria, would in all probability have
been never.

"But before I had time to begin my retreat, a very extraordinary sound,
which I cannot describe by any word I know, reached my ears. It was not
a roar, nor a clank, nor a boom, nor a clap, nor a crash, nor a thud,
but if you have ever heard a noise combining all those elements, with a
small percentage of screech to enliven them, that comes as near it as I
can contrive to tell. We know from Holy Scripture that there used to be
such creatures as dragons, though we have never seen them; but I seemed
to be hearing one as I stood there. It was just the sort of groan you
might have expected from a dragon, who had swallowed something highly
indigestible."

"My dear! And he might have swallowed you, if you had stopped. How could
you help running away, my Joshua? I should have insisted immediately
upon it. But you are so terribly intrepid!"

"Far from it, Maria. Quite the contrary, I assure you. In fact, I did
make off, for a considerable distance; not rapidly as a youth might do,
but with self-reproach at my tardiness. But the sound ceased coming; and
then I remembered how wholly we are in the hand of the Lord. A sense of
the power of right rose within me, backed up by a strong curiosity; and
I said to myself that if I went home, with nothing more than that to
tell you, I should not have at all an easy time of it. Therefore I
resolved to face the question again, and ascertain, if possible, without
self-sacrifice, what was going on among the ruins. You know every stick
and stone, as they used to be, but not as they are at present; therefore
I must tell you. The wall at the bottom of the little Dial-court, where
there used to be a sweet-briar hedge to come through, is entirely gone,
either tumbled down or knocked down--the latter I believe to be the
true reason of it. Also, instead of sweet-briar, there is now a very
flourishing crop of sting-nettles. But the wall at the side of the
little court stands almost as sound as ever; and what surprised me most
was to see, when I got further, proceeding of course very quietly, that
the large court beyond (which used to be the servants' yard, and the
drying-ground, and general lounging-place) had a timber floor laid down
it, with a rope on either side, a long heavy rope on either side;
and these ropes were still quivering, as if from a heavy strain just
loosened. All this I could see, because the high door with the spikes,
that used to part the Dial-court from this place of common business, was
fallen forward from its upper hinge, and splayed out so that I could put
my fist through.

"By this time I had quite recovered all my self-command, and was as calm
as I am now, or even calmer, because I was under that reaction which
ensues when a sensible man has made a fool of himself. I perceived,
without thinking, that the sound which had so scared me proceeded from
this gangway, or timberway, or staging, or whatever may be the right
word for it; and I made up my mind to stay where I was, only stooping a
little with my body towards the wall, to get some idea of what might be
going forward. And then I heard a sort of small hubbub of voices, such
as foreigners make when they are ordered to keep quiet, and have to
carry on a struggle with their noisy nature.

"This was enough to settle my decision not to budge an inch, until
I knew what they were up to. I could not see round the corner,
mind--though ladies seem capable of doing that, Maria--and so these
fellows, who seemed to be in two lots, some at the top and some at the
bottom of the plankway, were entirely out of my sight as yet, though I
had a good view of their sliding-plane. But presently the ropes began to
strain and creak, drawn taut--as our fishermen express it--either
from the upper or the lower end, and I saw three barrels come sliding
down--sliding, not rolling (you must understand), and not as a brewer
delivers beer into a cellar. These passed by me; and after a little
while there came again that strange sepulchral sound, which had made me
feel so uneasy.

"Maria, you know that I can hold my own against almost anybody in
the world but you; and although this place is far outside my parish
boundaries, I felt that as the Uncle of the present owner--so far at
least as the lawyers have not snapped him up--and the brother-in-law
of the previous proprietor, I possessed an undeniable legal right--quo
warranto, or whatever it is called--to look into all proceedings on
these premises. Next to Holy Scripture, Horace is my guide and guardian;
and I called to mind a well-known passage, which may roughly be rendered
thus: 'If the crushed world tumble on him, the ruins shall strike him
undismayed.' With this in my head, I went softly down the side-wall of
the Dial-court (for there was no getting through the place where I had
been peeping) to the bottom, where there used to be an old flint wall,
and a hedge of sweet-briar in front of it. You remember the pretty
conceit I made--quaint and wholesome as one of Herrick's--when you said
something--but I verily believe we were better in those days than we
ever have been since. Now don't interrupt me about that, my dear.

"Some of these briars still were there, or perhaps some of their
descendants, straggling weakly among the nettles, and mullein, and other
wild stuff, but making all together a pretty good screen, through which
I could get a safe side-view of the bottom of the timber gangway. So
I took off my hat, for some ruffian fellows like foreign sailors were
standing below, throwing out their arms, and making noises in their
throats, because not allowed to scream as usual. It was plain enough at
once to any one who knew the place, that a large hole had been cut in
the solid castle wall, or rather, a loophole had been enlarged very
freely on either side, and brought down almost to the level of the
ground outside. On either side of this great opening stood three heavy
muskets at full cock, and it made my blood run cold to think how likely
some fatal discharge appeared. If I had been brought up to war, Maria,
as all the young people are bound to be now, I might have been more at
home with such matters, and able to reconnoitre calmly; but I thought of
myself, and of you, and Eliza, and what a shocking thing it would be for
all of us--but a merciful Providence was over me.

"Too late I regretted the desire for knowledge, which had led me into
this predicament, for I durst not rush off from my very sad position,
for my breath would soon fail me, and my lower limbs are thick from the
exercise of hospitality. How I longed for the wings of a dove, or at
any rate for the legs of Lieutenant Blyth Scudamore! And my dark
apprehensions gained double force when a stone was dislodged by my foot
(which may have trembled), and rolled with a sharp echo down into the
ballium, or whatever it should be called, where these desperadoes stood.
For other places there rises so high and rough, leaving it under the
stairs for them to climb to the top, with some breaks in between
dello widths for the rest of the people. Elsewhere there was lots of
snow, which was more to be feared, not in one place, but everywhere,
and not as you wish, but it is not weighted as it is neither expensive
nor as we see, and these snow and trees where there were mountains and
lawns, it was flat and paved, if need be. Those who read this book and
hobieren state in Peru, check the road from Lima to Xauxa by the
mountains so rough Huarochiri [41], and the snowy mountains of
Pariacaca [42], and understand, those who heard them, whether it
is what they saw, not what I write, and without this, remember that
the slope down to the Apurimac River [43], and how is the road the
hills of avocado, Caxas and Ayauacas [44] and other parts of this
kingdom, where the road is as wide as fifteen feet, more or less,
and time of the kings was clean, without any stone or grass hobiese
born, because it was meant as clean and in town, next to him, had
grand palaces and accommodation for the people of war, deserts and
snowy and campaign, there were rooms where very well protected from
the cold and rain, and in many places, as in the Collao [45] and
elsewhere, had brought their leagues, which were the pillars d
'Spain starting with the words, except that they are the biggest
and best events of the world.

These topos such callers, and Dell is a league and a half of Castile [46].
Understood in the way that facts iban roads and greatness them,
say the ease with which they were made by the natural death without
their build - no job too, and was determined that any king who was
made famous as some of these roads, not much needed provisions or
requirements or otherwise king to say, get this, because then the suppliers
of the provinces iban land ticking and the Indians had to [47] one to
another, at which the boss that would make such paths, and thus became
so stressed that one province to another until at its own expense
and with its Indians, and soon it left as it is painted, and
others did the same, and yet, if needed, at a time is just great part of
the road, or all, and if close to the uninhabited, the Indians of the
inland questa closest came with victuals and tools to do so, that very
little joy and sorrow was all done, because they were not injured at some
point or the Incas or their servants they got nothing. Without this,
there were large excellent building roadways, such as the passing through
the valley Xaquixaguana, and out of the city of Cuzco, and goes
through the town of Muhina.

Many of these roads had real throughout the kingdom, and by the mountains
on the plains. Among them, four are the most important, who are
leaving the city of Cuzco, in the same plaza della like cruise,
to the provinces of the kingdom, as I have in Part One escripto
Chronicle highlighted in the Foundation Cuzco [48], and taken as
lords, as they were leaving for these roads, real people with their
guardian convenable iban by one, and secondly the other people, and
yet both were in power, who died of a them, the child having to go
somewhere eventually it does go toward higher and wider than its
predecessor, but if this was Salia [to] any such conquest king, or
to do something worthy of the memory that could be said that it was
longer than for the way he did.

And we see this clearly, because I've seen next to Vilcas three or
four paths, and even when I missed by one, thinking he was going
on now is used, and to those called to a path of Inca Yupanqui, and the
other of Tupac Inca, and now it is used and used forever, which is
sent to Huainan Capac, who arrived on the Angasmayo River, north and
south, far ahead of what we now call Chile; roads so long, who had a
part to another mill and more than two hundred miles. _CAP. XVI .-- How
and in what way were the real fighters by the Lords of Perú._ In the
first part [49] and how to count in this kingdom of Peru had great
amount of domestic livestock and wild, Urcos, sheep and pacos ,
vicunias and sheep, llamas, in so many ways, so populous as that
he was not full of large herds, because everywhere there are good
pastures and is well able to raise.

And knowing that, although there was so much, it was commanded by
the kings, so that severe penalties, none dare to kill or eat any
female, and if it broke, then were punished, and this fear is not
dared to eat.

Multiplicábanse therefore cheese not believe how much we had in the
kingdom when he came into Spanish and the main thing is porquesto
boss, it's because hobiese supply of wool to make clothes, because,
indeed, in many parts, in the absence of any this won, I do not
know how people can shelter from the cold, they had about the lack
of wool to make clothes.

And so, with this command, many shells were everywhere full of clothes
there, and for the people of war, and for other natural and more clothes
to highlight the wool of livestock and guanacos vicunias . And when the
Lord wanted to make a real game is to hear how much they took and killed
at the hands of men, and that day was, it took more than thirty million
head of cattle, but when the king took it for a hobby and left for
that purpose, stores poníanle in place that he parescia because it
was as high in the mountains, nowhere left to have won this and as much
as We have said, where, having already joined fifty or sixty million
people, or one hundred miles if it was sent, closely breñales and
campaigns so that the actual noise iban doing in their voices heard,
down to the most senior level, where little recently come together
with other men, to get the grip of the hands, and in the round with their
own bodies toward the game is stopped and dammed, and the Lord put to
him that the best place to see della killing that is done, and coming
with some other Indians who call _ayllos_ cheese to turn the feet, and
others with batons and sticks, they begin to take and kill, and as
such there are a large number of cattle between them arrested and
of many guanacos, which are larger than some small asnillos, long
necks, such as camels, seek out, breaking through the mouth of scab
that have [50], on the faces of men, and where they can split with
big jumps.

And true, it says something despanto view approaches the noise so great
that the Indians have to take them, and the noise they make out, both
to be heard long way from where they pass. And if the king wants to
kill any game without going into the wheel quest done, you do as he
pleased. [51] And these are real fighters spent many days and so much
dead stock, then ordered by the suppliers take all of this wool to
deposits or to the temples of the sun, so do Mamacona understood
finest clothes for the Kings, who were then, that parescian of silk
twill, and with colors so perfect as it can be said .

The meat of this that broke, della there were those who ate with the king,
and Dell was dried in the sun [52], to take up the tanks, for supplying
the people of war and all this means that it was won of Montesinos,
and not any of the household. Drank including many deer and biscachas,
raposas bears and lions and some small. _CAP. XVII .-- That order
had treated the Incas and how in many places towards the fertile
land, with the injunction that this daban._ One of the things that
are more envious of these people is to understand knew so well how to
conquer lands and large ponellas with their wisdom, in both reason
and the Spaniards found when they were discovered this new kingdom,
and Quest is so many times I remember being in a province outside
of these untamed kingdom, then listen to them in Spain: "I sure
that if the Incas did here, that this was something else," ie not
the Incas conquered this as another, because they knew serving and
taxed.

By way, that this regard, the advantage is known to us, because with his
command the people she lived with and grew up in multiplication and in
the provinces to sterile fertile and abundant, and in such manner so
as Galana order will tell. always try to do things well and not badly
at the start of business, then Incas made some great punishment in many
parts, but before, say it was all great kindness and amicicia who tried
to attract the these people at your service.

They came from Cuzco with its people and equipment of war and walked with
great concert to about where they wanted to go and conquer, where it
is sufficiently informed of the power they had enemies and aid that
could have and how much they might come favors, and by what route,
and they understood that, by seeking possible routes to them, clogging
than helped, either with large gifts to either casting resistance;
understanding, without this, do mandar their strengths, which were closed
or on slopes, some fencing made them high and long, each with its
door, because the one loss, could move to another, and another to
the top.

And the Confederates sent listeners to mark the land and see
the roads and knows the art questa waiting, and where there was more
maintenance, and knowing the path to be carried and the order in
which he had to go, enviábales own messengers, with whom they have
sent to say quel wanted by relatives and allies, therefore, that
in good spirits and cheerful heart, leaving to receive and welcome
in his province, that it be given obedience, as in others; and do
so willingly, sent to the gentlemen present calendar.

And with this, and other good manners they had entered into war without
a lot of land, which sent people to war with him was that no do no
harm or insult, or theft, or force, and if the province had not, sent
to other parties proveyese because the nine who came to his service
paresciese them, of course, weighed his command and knowledge, conocelle
and aborrecelle and was at one time.

And if some of these provinces had not won, then sent him to
give account for many mill head, which sent that much mirasen
multiplication and thus to provide wool for his clothing, and they
were not daring to eat or kill any breeding for years and while he
noted.

And if you had won and had a lack of anything else was the same, and
if they were in hills and breñales either to understand them with good
words that make people and houses in the flatter areas of the mountains
and hillsides, and as many non - were skilled at cultivating the land,
avezábanles as they had done, they knew where to draw emponiéndoles
ditches and irrigating the fields with them.

In all knew so ably provide that friendship came when one of the Incas
in the provinces, in short time was such that parescia other, and natural,
gave the obidiencia, consenting that their delegates would be in them,
as the mitimaes. In many others that came from war and by force of
arms, Mandab that houses maintenance and the enemies do little damage,
saying the Lord: "These loans will be as our already are." As this was
known, sought that the war was the lightest that could be no attachment
in many places there were big battles, because the natural dello still
wanted to keep the old freedom, without losing their customs and
religion by making other strange ; more lasting war, the Incas
had always the best, and defeated, not destroyed again before sent
to restore the prisoners, if some had, and put them in possession
and dispossession of their farms and manor, stalkers who do not
want to be crazy to have real powers against him or let his friendship,
his friends wanted to be before, as are the comarcanos yours.

And saying this, some women dábanles beautiful and rich wool or pieces
of metal gold. With these gifts and good words, there was the will of
everyone, so that without any fear of fleeing to the mountains returned
to their homes and let all the weapons and the more times via the Inca,
it was risky for good and happy. The seigniories never threw to the
calendar. All sides sent by God to love the sun, the other religions and
customs are not proivian but mandábanles is governed by the laws and
customs used in Cuzco, and that all speak the general language. And since
Governor by the Lord with garrisons of people of war, it ahead to
start, and if these provinces were great, then was meant to build the
temple of the sun, and women were placed in the other, and palaces for
the lords and paid the taxes to be paid, not to take anything too
much, nor any thing in agravialles aiming at its pulicía and in
buildings that they knew to bring long clothes, and live together
in their villages, to which, if something were missing, that were
necessary and were provided as had been taught to sow and benefit.

So this was done, we know that in many places that had won, there was
much time as desdel subdue the Incas, and others that there was corn,
then on tenella. And everything else went as wild, poorly dressed and
barefoot, and since I know these gentlemen, used for shirts, ties and
blankets, and women the same, and other good things, then, that memory
will forever this. And in the Collao and elsewhere spend mitimaes
sent to the Sierra de los Andes, to planting maize and coca, and other
fruits and roots of all peoples convenient amount, which with their wives
always lived in that part where planted, and took much of what I say,
they felt little need to bring many of these parties a lot and not have
any people, however small it was, not having mitimaes of these. Go ahead
try any of these lots had mitimaes, and [that] to understand each other.
_CAP. XVIII .-- That order was treated in the provincial taxes to the
kings, and the concert that it tenia._ Well I wrote the last chapter so
that the Incas had their conquests, it is OK to say As a tribute many
nations, and how it was understood in Cuzco which came from taxes, it is
quite clear and understood, no people of the mountains and valley plains
stopped paying tribute to him was spilled by the tax that this charge
had, and there was even such a province, saying that those people
who do not have to pay tribute, the king commanded them that everyone
of all she was obliged to give him every four months a big tube
full of live lice, industry which was the Inca, and emponellos to
know avisallos in taxes, and contribute, and so we know who paid
tribute lice a few days until, habiéndoles cattle sent to seek to
raise, and make clothes and find that taxes for the time ahead.

And the order that Orejón of Cuzco and the most natural lords of the
land say that they had in taxes, it was this: that since the city of
Cuzco, which prevailed, sending some main reared from home by
visiting one of the four royal roads leaving the city, which already
have escripto [53] called Chincha Suyo one in which there are
provinces to Quito, with all the plains of Chincha down toward the
North, and the second is called Conde His approaches that include
the regions and provinces quest towards the sea in the South and
many of the mountains, the third call Colla Suyo, cheese accounted
for all the provinces where there are towards the south to Chile.

The last track called Step Suyo [54], this will all land in quest of
the Andes mountains, which estiende in the foothills and slopes dell.
For as the Lord wanted to know what had taxed all provinces there from
Cuzco to Chile, such a long way, as I have said many times, sent out,
like I say, people faithful and trustworthy, which went from town to
town looking for the dress and the natural ability they had, and of
grosedad land, or if they had won, or metals, or maintenance, or other
things hose and felt wanted, which looked with great diligence, he returned
to report to the Lord of all, which sent the cutting and general
turning to them the key of the kingdom, and there are the lords
of the provinces had to pay taxes, I spoke lovingly to him as it
was only Lord and Monarch of many lands and so large, how well they
had, without grief, for giving him the tribute due to a real person,
which he wanted them to be moderate and so lightweight, they easily
could do it.

Respondídole And according to what he wanted, makes exit again with
the same natural Orejón to impose some taxes that had to give, which was
more than the parts that give the Spaniards at this time, but with the
command so great that it had as of the Incas, did not feel it was for
the people, and grow in multiplication and with the disorder and excessive
greed of the Spaniards, were declining so much, missing most of the people,
and everything had just consumed by their greed and avarice that most,
or all, here we have, if God's mercy is not remedied to allow the
wars have ceased, some approaches have been taken by the scourges of
His justice, and that the valuation was made and restraint so that the
Indians with it and enjoy great freedom of its people are gentlemen
and farms, without having more chest or grant to pay each town that has
been made by fee. Estotra front.

A little bit longer [55]. Visiting those who are sent by the Inca provinces
into one, where are the teams people are, so men and women, old and
children, she [56], and mining of gold or silver, sending to such
province, which so many jobs in the mine mill Indian sacasen the quantity
of those metals that are reported, sending it gave and delivered to the
suppliers that made this, and because he was getting the exchange
silver Indians who were identified, could not benefit their inheritance
and fields, the Incas were themselves a tribute to other provinces
for them to make them come to the seed of their times and circumstances,
so that would not be to sow, and if the province was great, á mesma
della came Indian fuck metals and sowing and tilling the land and
Mandab, if the mines are in any of the adolescent Indians, who would
then come home and another in his place, but none cojiese metals
was not married to their wives adrezasen keeping him and his brevaje,
and without this, they kept sending these remained quite such.

To be so, but that his entire life in a mine, do not have a large work,
or give it to any memory too. And without this, the month he was allowed
a few days off work, their feasts and comfort and not about
[themselves] the Indians were in continuous miners, but from time
to time, sent off and entering a others.

This way the Incas were in this, they got both gold and silver throughout
the kingdom, which had years of having them removed more than fifty
million arrobas of silver, and over fifteen miles of gold, and always
got of these metals for his service. These metals were brought to the
headwaters of the provinces, and in the manner and with the command
that got in a few, got in the other, all the kingdom, and if there was
metal to remove in other lands, so that they could contribute, and chests
thrown things up often and mugeres and boys, which got the people
without any grief, because if a man had a single son or daughter,
this may not take, but if you had three or four, tomábales pay for a
service. Other land contributed to many loads of corn mill as it had
houses, which were each crop [57] and at the expense of the same
province. In other regions, they provide the same order as many loads
chuño [58] and the other to dry corn, which made others, and contributed
Quinua [59] and the other roots. Elsewhere gave everyone so many Indians
in blankets as he had married, and many others shirts as they were
headed.

Others missed by taxation to contribute to many mill loads of lances,
and others with deep and ayllos with all other weapons they use.
Then all shook hands with him, and the meeting was declared to be
festive, in honour of a new and noble member.

It is altogether wrong to say--though many people said it--that young
Dan Tugwell was even a quarter of a sheet in the wind, when he steered
his way home. His head was as solid as that of his father; which,
instead of growing light, increased in specific, generic, and
differential gravity, under circumstances which tend otherwise, with an
age like ours, that insists upon sobriety, without allowing practice.
All Springhaven folk had long practice in the art of keeping sober, and
if ever a man walked with his legs outside his influence, it was always
from defect of proper average quite lately.

Be that as it may, the young man came home with an enlarged map of the
future in his mind, a brisk and elastic rise in his walk, and his head
much encouraged to go on with liberal and indescribable feelings. In
accordance with these, he expected his mother to be ready to embrace
him at the door, while a saucepan simmered on the good-night of the
wood-ash, with just as much gentle breath of onion from the cover as a
youth may taste dreamily from the lips of love. But oh, instead of this,
he met his father, spread out and yet solid across the doorway, with
very large arms bare and lumpy in the gleam of a fireplace uncrowned by
any pot. Dan's large ideas vanished, like a blaze without a bottom.

"Rather late, Daniel," said the captain of Springhaven, with a nod of
his great head, made gigantic on the ceiling. "All the rest are abed,
the proper place for honest folk. I suppose you've been airning money,
overtime?"

"Not I," said Dan; "I work hard enough all day. I just looked in at the
Club, and had a little talk of politics."

"The Club, indeed! The stinking barrow-grinders! Did I tell you, or did
I forget to tell you, never to go there no more?"

"You told me fast enough, father; no doubt about that. But I am not
aboard your boat, when I happen on dry land, and I am old enough now to
have opinions of my own."

"Oh, that's it, is it? And to upset all the State, the King, the House
of Lords, and the Parliamentary House, and all as is descended from the
Romans? Well, and what did their Wusships say to you? Did they anoint
you king of slooshings?"

"Father, they did this--and you have a right to know it;" Dan spoke with
a grave debative tone, though his voice became doubtful, as he saw that
his father was quietly seeking for something; "almost before I knew what
was coming, they had made me a member, and I signed the book. They have
no desire to upset the kingdom; I heard no talk of that kind; only that
every man should have his own opinions, and be free to show what can be
said for them. And you know, father, that the world goes on by reason,
and justice, and good-will, and fair play--"

"No, it don't," cried the captain, who had found what he wanted; "if
it had to wait for they, it would never go on at all. It goes on by
government, and management, and discipline, and the stopping of younkers
from their blessed foolery, and by the ten commandments, and the
proverbs of King Solomon. You to teach your father how the world goes
on! Off with your coat, and I'll teach you."

"Father," said Dan, with his milder nature trembling at the stern
resolution in his father's eyes, as the hearth-fire flashing up showed
their stronger flash, "you will never do such a thing, at my age and
size?"

"Won't I?" answered Zebedee, cracking in the air the three knotted
tails of the stout hempen twist. "As for your age, why, it ought to know
better; and as for your size, why, the more room for this!"

It never came into Daniel's head that he should either resist or run
away. But into his heart came the deadly sense of disgrace at being
flogged, even by his own father, at full age to have a wife and even
children of his own.

"Father," he said, as he pulled off his coat and red striped shirt, and
showed his broad white back, "if you do this thing, you will never set
eyes on my face again--so help me God!"

"Don't care if I don't," the captain shouted. "You was never son of
mine, to be a runagate, and traitor. How old be you, Master Free and
Frisky, to larn me how the world goes on?"

"As if you didn't know, father! The fifteenth of last March I was twenty
years of age."

"Then one for each year of your life, my lad, and another to make a
man of thee. This little tickler hath three tails; seven threes is
twenty-one--comes just right."

When his father had done with him, Dan went softly up the dark staircase
of old ship timber, and entering his own little room, struck a light.
He saw that his bed was turned down for him, by the loving hand of his
mother, and that his favourite brother Solomon, the youngest of the
Tugwell race, was sleeping sweetly in the opposite cot. Then he caught a
side view of his own poor back in the little black-framed looking-glass,
and was quite amazed; for he had not felt much pain, neither flinched,
nor winced, nor spoken. In a moment self-pity did more than pain,
indignation, outrage, or shame could do; it brought large tears into his
softened eyes, and a long sob into his swelling throat.

He had borne himself like a man when flogged; but now he behaved in
the manner of a boy. "He shall never hear the last of this job," he
muttered, "as long as mother has a tongue in her head." To this end he
filled a wet sponge with the red proofs of his scourging, laid it where
it must be seen, and beside it a leaf torn from his wage-book, on which
he had written with a trembling hand: "He says that I am no son of his,
and this looks like it. Signed, Daniel Tugwell, or whatever my name
ought to be."

Then he washed and dressed with neat's-foot oil all of his wounds that
he could reach, and tied a band of linen over them, and, in spite of
increasing smarts and pangs, dressed himself carefully in his Sunday
clothes. From time to time he listened for his father's step, inasmuch
as there was no bolt to his door, and to burn a light so late was
against all law. But nobody came to disturb him; his mother at the end
of the passage slept heavily, and his two child-sisters in the room
close by, Tabby and Debby, were in the land of dreams, as far gone
as little Solly was. Having turned out his tools from their flat flag
basket, or at least all but three or four favourites, he filled it with
other clothes likely to be needed, and buckled it over his hatchet-head.
Then the beating of his heart was like a flail inside a barn, as he
stole along silently for one terrible good-bye.

This was to his darling pet of all pets, Debby, who worshipped this
brother a great deal more than she worshipped her heavenly Father;
because, as she said to her mother, when rebuked--"I can see Dan,
mother, but I can't see Him. This Inca had many sons and no daughter,
no, and having directed and commanded some big and important to the Queen,
died, having first married his eldest son, who had named Inca Yupanqui,
a lady with natural Ayarmaca, who Mama named Chiqui. _CAP. XXXVI .-- The
seventh or Inca king in Cuzco hobo named Yupanqui._ Inca Roca Inca
was dead came from Condesuyo, Vicos of Ayarmaca, and other parties who
had settled alliance and friendship, many people, mugeres men as well,
is big tears were made by the late king, and many mugeres of life that
you loved and served, according to the general blindness of Indians, even
their hair was hanged, and others were killed by other modes, in
order to provide, send their souls to serve the Inca Roca and the
sepoltura, which was magnificent and sumptuous, poured large treasures
and a greater amount of maintenance and servants mugeres and fine
clothes. sepoltura None of these kings found and to know whether
they would be rich or not, more proof is needed, as were in common
sepolturas to sixty million pesos of gold and more and less, what
would that got this much of this metal possessed and which was
leaving something important for this century and decorated rich?

same way it was done package Inca Roca, told by one of their gods, believing
that it rested on the sky. After the weeping and made the osequias, the
new Inca locked to the fast, and because their absence does not
build-sedition or any adjournment of the people, commanded one of the
main Linage his audience was in the same person representing, which gave
power to enable him to do that by punishing the what, and have the
city in all serenity and peace, to leave him with the real insinia
tassel. Inca And this, say that is news that was kind of presence and
authority seriously. Which entered into the most secret of his palace,
where he was fasting, metiéndole times with corn ate the most, and it
was without having carnal knowledge with muger. Finished, then got
out, showing its great view of the people happy, and made great sacrifices
and their parties and after parties, ordered that the Inca were brought
from all parts quantity of gold and silver for the temple, and was
Cuzco in stone that they call the war, large, and engastonadas gold and
stones [116]. _CAP. XXXVII .-- How, trying to escape the Inca to make
war in the province of Collao, a ruckus was raised in Cuzco, and
how Chancas defeated the Quichua, and they won their señorío._ Being
in Cuzco Inca Yupanqui trying to ennoble, determined to go Collasuyo,
which are the provinces that fell to the part of the Austro of the
city, because he had notice that the descendants of Zapana that
Lord of Atuncollao were already very powerful and were so proud
that made people to come together on Cuzco and so, he warned his
people.

And as long Cuzco suffers no peace, the Indians have to close as
many people hobiese Inca Yupanqui for the day I wanted to do, which
was already starting to be, as some captains hobiesen been Condesuyo
with people in war, sought each other killing the Inca, because if
that day came out with victory, would be considered so that everyone
would like to be vassals and servants.

And they say that when the Inca something cheerful in its festivities
with much wine drinking, relatives of one of the league and had
taken the match and said, and lifting the arm, discharged a blow
on the head of real cane and that the Inca and troubled mind, stood
up saying: "What did you do, traitor?"

And the Condesuyo had done so many deaths, and the Inca was believed
to shelter go to the temple, but thought it was in vain because they
achieved their enemies, killed him, doing the same to many of its mugeres.
He was big noise the city, while not understanding each other: the priests
were collected at the temple and women of the town, yelling, pulling
their hair, horrified at seeing the dead Inca blood, as if any man vile
. E many of the neighbors wanted to forsake the city, and the killers
wanted to make the sack, when they have done that great noise of thunder
and lightning, so much water fell from the sky, the fear of Condesuyo,
and continue forward, is again, happy with the damage they had done.

Y [account or say] the Indians, who were masters at this time in the
province with the Quichua Andaguailas called [117] and that next to
a lake that he named Choclococha [118], left many people with two
masters Guaraca and called Uasco, which were conquered by where they
come, until they reach the province, and as residents della knew his
coming, were on the verge of war, encouraging each other, saying it would
be unfair to give the Death to those who had been against them,
and so, by leaving a door that goes out to the Aymara, the Chancas
with their captains came closer to them, so that got together and
had some talks with each other, and without the floods, came the
battle between them, which, incidentally, according to the fame
preaches, he was hard-fought and the victory was doubtful, but at
last the Quichua were overcome and treated cruelly, killing everyone
they could into the hands have not forgiven the children tender,
or the useless old, taking their women by man.

Facts and other injuries, were lords of that province, and owned today
as they send their descendants. This helo spot because henceforth be
made much mention of these Chancas. And back to the area, such as those
of Condesuyo went from Cuzco, the city was cleared of the dead and made
great sacrifices, and is said by some very which Inca Yupanqui was
not brought to his funeral to honor the past, nor put him to package
them, and did not leave any child. _CAP. XXXVIII .-- How Orejón
discussed who would be Inca, and what happened until they came up with
the tassel Viracocha Inga, who was the eighth king who reinó._ Past which
was according to the relationship that gives Orejón of Cuzco these
things, they say more, as hobiese made great weeping for the death
of the Inca, this was among the most serious of the city who is
called king merescia have such dignity.

Had different views about this, and because those who wanted no hobo
hobiese king, who ruled the city but who noted, others said it was
lost without head. On these things had great noise, and fearing his
obstinacy, is that a woman came through the Anancuzcos, which said:
"Why are you there? Why do not you take more Viracocha Inga, as well as
it deserves?" Having heard this word, as these people are so identifiable,
leaving the glasses of wine, a large hurry Inga were Viracocha, son of
Inca Yupanqui [119], saying, as you saw, who fast to receive the usual
and wanted to give tassel . Coming Viracocha it is entered to make the
fast and instructed the city to Inca Roca Inca, his relative, and
left while the crown, very ornate, and made solemn holiday in Cuzco,
which lasted many days, showing largely happy with all the election
of the new Inca. some of which meant that this was called Viracocha
Inca to come from elsewhere and brought suit differentiating, and
that the appearance and showed faiciones as a Spanish, because he
brought beards.

They other things more tired, if hobiese writing. I asked in Cuzco á
Cayo Tupac Yupanqui and the main ones that I was in Cuzco of the
Incas the relationship that I write, and be mocked and told me
that nothing is true, because Viracocha Inga was born in Cuzco and
raised, and what were their parents and even grandparents, and that
the name of Viracocha was placed particular by name, as is each.

And as he was handed the crown, he married a lady principal, called
Runtu Caya [120], very beautiful. And as the festival of rejoicing
hobiese past, determined to go out and conquer some of the villages
around Cuzco who had not sought the friendship of the Inca past,
confident in the strength of their pucaraes and with people who
wanted to join, left Cuzco with its rich hang with the most major
stores and endrezó their way to what it called Calca [121], where
he had been their messengers with rescebidos lot of pride, more
like those of Cuzco, and knew they were near them, are together,
arm their weapons and put on the high hills on its forces and
Albarrán, desgalgaban to do [122] large stones to the real Inca,
to kill to achieve that.

E enemies, by placing it works, got the saw, and despite the
contrary, they could win one of those forces. As Calca [123] saw the
forces in Cuzco, went to a great square, where he fought with them recently,
and the battle lasted from morning until noon, and killed many of
both parties, and were more prisoners. The victory was by one of Cuzco.
The Inca was next to a river, where they had settled their real, as did
the victory, he felt great joy. And in this, their captains and
below the dam cannot.

And the Indians who had escaped from the battle with other masters of
Calca and its regions, as bad as watching that they had squared
the thought, that the final choice was left to them to try the faith
of the victor and ask themselves to peace with slavery moderate,
like many others to, and agreed, by a left hand in the mountains,
great voices saying: "Viva, viva forever mighty Inca Viracocha, our
Lord."

Roide to that in the resonant voices, were the weapons of Cuzco, the
more it was not long when they were defeated and prostrate ground in
front of Viracocha Inga, where, without lifting, including one
that had to be wisest, raising his voice, he began to say: "Neither
should you, Inca, ensoberbecer with victory that God has given you,
or just take us for being losers, because you and the lady Incas
allowed people and is given to us with all our might to defend the
freedom we inherited from our parents, and when it could not get
out, obey and receive the subjecion in good spirits. [124] Therefore,
orders that no more people die or damage is done, and we have to
your will. " And as the main Indus hobo said these words, there
were others who gave great howling, asking mercy.

Inca King replied that if harm came to them, that his anger had been at
fault, because at first refused to believe his words nor have his
friendship, he had weighed and liberally granted that might be
holding his ground as the first, their farms, so that time and
according to laws, taxes on what their people hobiese to Cuzco, and
Dell were then in the same city and he made two palaces, one inside
and one on Caqui della [125], is to go out and recreate.

Responded that they would, and the Inca ordered the release sonnel,
without missing one, and return to their farms which were their confederates,
and to understand what they do and not hobiese dissensions among them,
he left his delegate with great power, without removing the natural
lordship Mr.

After what has been scripto, Inca Viracocha sent a messenger to summon
the Caitomarca [126], Quest of the other side of a river made strong,
without ever have wanted to have friendship with the Incas who had
been in Cuzco, and how to get [the] messenger Viracocha Inga,
verbally abused him, calling the Inca crazy, so slightly that had
been thought to refer to his lordship. _CAP. XXXIX .-- How Viracocha
Inga threw a stone fire with his Honda to Caitomarca, and how did that
hobo reverencia._ then sent the messenger Viracocha Inga, commanded
his people that the real standard, roads approaching Caitomarca. And
walking along the road, coming together in a river, where he stopped
to cool it, and being in that place, the messenger arrived, who
recounted how Caitomarca had the mockery of, and as I said that
they had no fear of Incas.

And as understood by Viracocha Inga, rose with great brutality
in the doing, sending them to walk any hurry, and did so until they
arrived on the banks of a river flow and high flow, which I believe
should be Yucay of the [127], and commanded to put its stores on Inca,
and I would fight the enemies of the people, that of the other side
of the river were, over the river was so angry, could not be put into
effect.

The Caitomarca reached the shore, from where with the slings to throw
stones real del Inca, and started on both parties to great voices
and cries, because this is so strange custom of the people here are
fighting with each others, and so little left to stand on their mouths.
questuvo have two days at the river without passing the Inca, who had
not used nor bridge which is now before hobiese Incas, because some
say yes and others say no .

And as the river passed Viracocha Inga, say that he put in a big
fire a small stone, and was as hot as it mestura or some confacion,
so that he could play where enprender the fire, he put in the deep gold
wire, so when placia him, threw stones, and with great force threw
it in the village of Caitomarca and rightly fall on the wing of a
house that was covered with straw or dry, then burned with noise so that
the Indians came to be on fire that night vian at home, asking each
other what had been and who had the fire to the house. And came across
an old, which they say he said: "Watch what you say and what you agree,
without thinking that this world has been put fire to the house
before creed that came from heaven, because I saw in burning a rock
that fell from above, gave the house and stopped it as you see.

Because the main is the bossy older people of what they heard,
being, as are so great sorcerers and soothsayers, believed that the
stone had been sent by the hand of God, to punish them because they did
not want to obey the Inca, is then without waiting for reply from
oracle or make any sacrifice, passed the river in rafts, leading
to the Inca present, and as before their presence was called for
the peace, making big offers to its people and farms, as did his
confederates.

Sabido Viracocha Inga by what he had said the Caitomarca, answered
them with great disguise, if that day had not been sane in coming,
given that we had to hit them with large rafts that had commanded to
do. And this happened, it became the seat of the Inca and Caitamarca,
which gave the captain or master of the people of their women,
natural Cuzco, which was estimated and taken into a lot.

For the people of these region runs the fame of the facts of the Inca,
and many, by the sound della without seeing the arms of Cuzco, was sent
to friends and allies offered by the Inca king, not content with just
showing it to have, talking to some and to others and showing love to
all major benivolencia, providing what he could have looked to those
who need. And served as I could gather large army, determined to call
people to go in person to the Condesuyo. _CAP. XL .-- How in Cuzco
arose a tyrant, and hobo that fuss, and how some were punished
Mamacona because, against their religion, they used their bodies
feamente and how Viracocha Inga returned to Cuzco._ Of all the
things that happened Viracocha iban new to Cuzco, and in the city
was the war that had Caitamarca with those of, say they built a
tyrant brother of the last Inca Yupanqui, who, having been strongly
felt because the dominion and control of the city had given Viracocha
Inga and not to him, and looked right time to try to have the manor.

And this thought it was because they found favor in some of the
Orejón and Cuzco's main line of Orencuzcos and highlighted the new war
that the Inca had, paresciéndoles I had enough to do at the bib,
encouraged him to say so that, without further wait, that kills in
the city had become governor, is to empower della.

Capac, who had by name, greedy of dominion, joined its allies in questa a
day in the temple of the sun all over and between the Orejón Inca
Roca, the governor of Inca Viracocha, taking up arms, people's freedom
to publish and Viracocha Inga could not have the dominion, for the
lieutenant beat up and killed him and so many others; blood which
watered the altar where the spirit and shrines and figures of the
sun.

The Mamacona with the priests went to great noise, cursing the killers,
saying that sin so grand, grand punishment deserved. The city went grand
coup people to see what it was, and understood about approving it
actually came together with Capac, others pesándoles, weapons were
inadvertently pass through it and so, having division, many fell
dead on one side and another.

The city is so much uproar in which reendiendo in the air the sound of
their voices are not heard or understood. In this, the tyrant prevail,
seized the city, killing all mugeres del Inca, although most had
been leading him.

Huyéronse some of the city, which went to where he was Viracocha Inga,
and as it was understood that he concealed the grief, sent his people to
walk the Via del Cuzco. Capac Well back to the tyrant, and hobo taken
the city itself, wanted to go out in public with the tassel to be held
by all the king, more like the first impetus was spent, and fury
that so men, leaving its sole discretion, undertake major evils,
the same that This prompted the adjournment, laughing that I wanted
the real dignity, insult him verbally and helpless, to find out the
true Lord, who asked forgiveness for what they had committed.

Capacity is not short of courage to take the business forward, but,
seeing the little part that was very troubled, seeing the move as
Supit, cursed those who had deceived them and himself, relying on Dell;
and no eyes to see with their Inca king, punishes mesmo their error
by taking poisonous, [that] have died.

Their wives and children with other relatives is mimicked in
death.'s New to all this was going to the actual Inca, who, as he
reached the city and entered it, was right to the temple of the
sun to make sacrifices. The bodies of capacity and the others had died,
he ordered that they be thrown into the fields, for delicacy of the
birds and looking for participants in the betrayal, were sentenced to
death. Confederates understood by friends and Viracocha Inga what happened,
he sent many embassies to present and great offers, welcoming him and
cheerfully responded to these embassies. At this time, say Orejón who
had in the temple of the sun many ladies virgins, which were very
honest and estimated and did not understand more than what I said
in many parts desta History.

And have used four Dellas feamente their bodies with some goalkeepers of
which were, and still felt, and were prey to the same adulterated,
and the priest ordered that more of them and they were justices. The
Inca was with determination Condesuyo of it, but, being tired and
old, left him. By then, he made that were in the valley of Xaquixaguana
some palaces to get them to recreate and have as many children and knows
that the greatest of them, who had named Urco Inca, who had got the
command of kingdom, had bad habits and it was very vicious and
cowardly, he wanted to deprive them of the manor, for giving another
man, who had named Inca Yupanqui.

_CAP. XLI .-- How they came to Cuzco ambassadors of the tyrants of the
Collao, appointed Cari Sinchi [128] and Zapana, and the exit of the
Viracocha Inga Callao [129]. _ Many stories and passed between the
natural occurrences of these provinces these days, but, as I have
a habit of only what I have for some second opinions from men of the
world and the relationship that I took in Cuzco, I Inoren which is
not clearly understood, and that case scope, as I have said many
times. And so is the public Orejón, which this time came the ambassadors
of Cuzco Collao province, because they have that reigning Inca Viracocha,
had the manor of Hatun [130] a man called Collao Zapana as another hobo
name of this and that, as in malaria Titicaca [131] hobiese islands
populated by people with large floats, entered in the islands where the
natives fought with them, and between him and gave them great
battles, of which Cari on [132] won [133], but that was not intended
to honor or dominion over another to steal and destroy people, and
loaded with plunder, captives have inadvertently gave Chucuito
round, where they had made their seat and had been sent by his
village people of Hilave, Xulli, [or Chulli] Cepita, Pumata [134]
and others, and people could gather, dates after great sacrifices
to their gods, or demons, determined to leave the province of Canas,
who, as we know, surname some [others], went to meet him and gave
battle, which was defeated Canas kills many dell.

With this victory by Cari, determined to move forward, and making
it as far Lurocachi, where they say that there was another battle between
them and Canas which had the same fortune in the past. With
these victories he was very proud Cari, and nine had run everywhere, and
as Zapana, Lord of Hatun Collao, knew it, Pesola for the sake of others,
and commanded to join their friends and vassals, to leave him on the
road and take the spoils, but we could not make the meeting so secret
that not Cari Zapana understand that the plan had, in good order
and retired to Chucuito diverted by road, so you might not bother
Zapana and come to their land, he put together the della key for
what we were apercebidos to try Zapana taking to ensure its destruicion
in the Collao, and one was the Lord, and had this same thought
Zapana.

And as disclosed throughout this realm value of the Incas and his great
power and courage of Viracocha Inga, who reigned in Cuzco, each of
these, trying to gain their friendship, tried to send ambassadors
to him to show his Valedor and wanted to be their enemy.

Matches great with these messengers present, the time came to Cuzco
Inca quel permission of the palaces or drums that make your hobby into
Xaquixaguana had commanded, and understand what they were, the hearing,
sending the city and the chamber of proveyesen as needed and taking
parescer Orejón with elders and their advice on what to do in terms
of the embassies had been Collao, it was agreed to ask the oracles response.
Which make the idols before the priests and shrinks his shoulders,
put the beard on the breasts, and making great Papos, they seem
fierce hell even begin to talk loudly and intoned.

Sometimes, I, for my eyes, I've certainly heard from Indians with the
devil, and the province of Cartagena, in a village called Bahayre sea,
I heard in answer to Satan silvo Tenorio, tenors and such, I was not how
to say this, but a chripstiano that was in the same town more than
half a league from where I was, he heard the same silvo and despanto,
was somewhat ill-disposed, and the Indians gave great shouts another
day in the morning running response del Diablo.

And in some parts desta land, as defuntos taken into hammocks, are the
devils in the bodies and sometimes respond.
But this is a trifle; many
useful lives were saved, and the Nation should have thanked Captain
Southcombe, but did not.

After these sad incidents, when sorrow for old friends was tempered by
the friendly warmth afforded by their shoes, a muster was held by the
Major in command, and there was only one officer who could neither
assert himself alive, nor be certified as dead. That one was Erle
Twemlow, and the regiment would rather have lost any other two officers.
Urgent as it was, for the safety of the rest, to fly with every feather
from this pestilential coast, sails were handed, boats despatched, and
dealings tried with Hunko Jum, who had reappeared with promptitude, the
moment he was not wanted. From this noble monarch, and his chiefs, and
all his nation, it was hard to get any clear intelligence, because their
own was absorbed in absorbing. They had found upon the sands a cask of
Admiralty rum, as well as a stout residue of unadulterated pitch. Noses,
and tongues, and historical romance--for a cask had been washed ashore
five generations since, and set up for a god, when the last drop was
licked--induced this brave nation to begin upon the rum; and fashion (as
powerful with them as with us) compelled them to drink the tar likewise,
because they had seen the white men doing it. This would have made it
hard to understand them, even if they had been English scholars, which
their ignorance of rum proved them not to be; and our sailors very
nearly went their way, after sadly ascertaining nothing, except that the
cask was empty.

But luckily, just as they were pushing off, a very large, black head
appeared from behind a vegetable-ivory tree, less than a quarter of a
mile away, and they knew that this belonged to Bandeliah, the revered
king of the Crumbos, who had evidently smelled rum far inland. With
him they were enabled to hold discourse, partly by signs, and partly by
means of an old and highly polished negro, who had been the rat-catcher
at the factory now consumed; and the conclusion, or perhaps the
confusion, arrived at from signs, grunts, grins, nods, waggings of
fingers and twistings of toes, translated grandiloquently into broken
English, was not far from being to the following effect:

To wit, that two great kings reigned inland, either of them able to eat
up Hunko Jum and Bandeliah at a mouthful, but both of them too proud to
set foot upon land that was flat, or in water that was salt. They ruled
over two great nations called the Houlas, and the Quackwas, going out of
sight among great rivers and lands with clear water standing over them.
And if the white men could not understand this, it was because they
drank salt-water.

Moreover, they said that of these two kings, the king of the Houlas was
a woman, the most beautiful ever seen in all the world, and able to
jump over any man's head. But the king of the Quackwas was a man, and
although he had more than two thousand wives, and was taller by a
joint of a bamboo than Bandeliah--whose stature was at least six feet
four--yet nothing would be of any use to him, unless he could come to an
agreement with Mabonga, the queen of the Houlas, to split a durra straw
with him. But Mabonga was coy, and understanding men, as well as jumping
over them, would grant them no other favour than the acceptance of their
presents. However, the other great king was determined to have her
for his wife, if he abolished all the rest, and for this reason he had
caught and kept the lost Englishman as a medicine-man; and it was not
likely that he would kill him, until he failed or succeeded.

To further enquiries Bandeliah answered that to rescue the prisoner was
impossible. If it had been his own newest wife, he would not push out a
toe for her. The great king Golo lived up in high places that overlooked
the ground, as he would these white men, and his armies went like wind
and spread like fire. None of his warriors ate white man's flesh; they
were afraid it would make them cowardly.

A brave heart is generally tender in the middle, to make up for being so
firm outside, even as the Durian fruit is. Captain Southcombe had walked
the poop-deck of the Gwalior many a time, in the cool of the night, with
Erle Twemlow for his companion, and had taken a very warm liking to him.
So that when the survivors of the regiment were landed at Portsmouth,
this brave sailor travelled at his own cost to Springhaven, and told
the Rector the whole sad story, making it clear to him beyond all doubt,
that nothing whatever could be done to rescue the poor young man from
those savages, or even to ascertain his fate. For the Quackwas were an
inland tribe, inhabiting vast regions wholly unknown to any European,
and believed to extend to some mighty rivers, and lakes resembling
inland seas.

Therefore Mr. Twemlow, in a deep quiet voice, asked Captain Southcombe
one question only--whether he might keep any hope of ever having, by
the mercy of the Lord, his only son restored to him. And the sailor
said--yes; the mistake would be ever to abandon such a hope, for at
the moment he least expected it, his son might stand before him. He
pretended to no experience of the western coast of Africa, and niggers
he knew were a very queer lot, acting according to their own lights,
which differed according to their natures. But he was free to say, that
in such a condition he never would think of despairing, though it might
become very hard not to do so, as time went on without bringing any
news. He himself had been in sad peril more than once, and once it
appeared quite hopeless; but he thought of his wife and his children at
home, and the Lord had been pleased to deliver him.

The parson was rebuked by this brave man's faith, who made no pretence
whatever to piety; and when they said Goodbye, their eyes were bright
with the goodwill and pity of the human race, who know trouble not
inflicted as yet upon monkeys. Mr. Twemlow's heart fell when the sailor
was gone, quite as if he had lost his own mainstay; but he braced
himself up to the heavy duty of imparting sad news to his wife and
daughter, and worst of all to Faith Darling. But the latter surprised
him by the way in which she bore it; for while she made no pretence
to hide her tears, she was speaking as if they were needless. And
the strangest thing of all, in Mr. Twemlow's opinion, was her curious
persistence about Queen Mabonga. Could any black woman--and she supposed
she must be that--be considered by white people to be beautiful? Had
Captain Southcombe ever even seen her; and if not, how could he be in
such raptures about her attractions? She did not like to say a word,
because he had been so kind and so faithful to those poor soldiers, whom
it was his duty to bring home safe; but if it had not been for that, she
might have thought that with so many children and a wife at Limehouse,
he should not have allowed his mind to dwell so fondly on the personal
appearance of a negress!

The Rector was astonished at this injustice, and began to revise his
opinion about Faith as the fairest and sweetest girl in all the world;
but Mrs. Twemlow smiled, when she had left off crying, and said that
she liked the dear child all the better for concluding that Ponga--or
whatever her name was--must of necessity and at the first glance fall
desperately in love with her own Erle. Then the Rector cried, "Oh, to
be sure, that explained it! But he never could have thought of that,
without his wife's assistance."

Two years now, two years of quiet patience, of busy cheerfulness now and
then, and of kindness to others always, had made of Faith Darling a lady
to be loved for a hundred years, and for ever. The sense of her sorrow
was never far from her, yet never brought near to any other by herself;
and her smile was as warm, and her eyes as bright, as if there had never
been a shadow on her youth. To be greeted by her, and to receive her
hand, and one sweet glance of her large goodwill, was enough to make an
old man feel that he must have been good at some time, and a young man
hope that he should be so by-and-by; though the tendency was generally
contented with the hope.


CHAPTER XXXIII

FAREWELL, DANIEL


Thoughtful for others as she always was, this lovely and loveable young
woman went alone, on the morning of the day that was so sorrowful for
her, to bear a little share of an elder lady's sorrow, and comfort her
with hopes, or at any rate with kindness. They had shed tears together
when the bad news arrived, and again when a twelvemonth had weakened
feeble hope; and now that another year had well-nigh killed it in old
hearts too conversant with the cruelties of the world, a little talk, a
tender look, a gentle repetition of things that had been said at least a
hundred times before, might enter by some subtle passage to the cells of
comfort. Who knows how the welted vine leaf, when we give it shade
and moisture, crisps its curves again, and breathes new bloom upon
its veinage? And who can tell how the flagging heart, beneath the cool
mantle of time, revives, shapes itself into keen sympathies again, and
spreads itself congenially to the altered light?

Without thinking about it, but only desiring to do a little good,
if possible, Faith took the private way through her father's grounds
leading to the rectory, eastward of the village. It was scarcely two
o'clock, and the sun was shining, and the air clear and happy, as it can
be in October. She was walking rather fast, for fear of dropping into
the brooding vein, when in the little fir plantation a man came forth on
her path, and stood within a few yards in front of her. She was startled
for an instant, because the place was lonely, and Captain Stubbard's
battery crew had established their power to repulse the French by
pounding their fellow-countrymen. But presently she saw that it was Dan
Tugwell, looking as unlike himself as any man can do (without the aid of
an artist), and with some surprise she went on to meet him.

Instead of looking bright, and bold, and fearless, with the freedom of
the sea in his open face, and that of the sun in his clustering curls,
young Daniel appeared careworn and battered, not only unlike his proper
self, but afraid of and ashamed of it. He stood not firmly on the
ground, nor lightly poised like a gallant sailor, but loosely and
clumsily like a ploughman who leaves off at the end of his furrow to
ease the cramp. His hat looked as if he had slept in it, and his eyes as
if he had not slept with them.

Miss Darling had always been fond of Dan, from the days when they played
on the beach together, in childhood's contempt of social law. Her old
nurse used to shut her eyes, after looking round to make sure that there
was "nobody coming to tell on them," while as pretty a pair of children
as the benevolent sea ever prattled with were making mirth and music
and romance along its margin. And though in ripe boyhood the unfaithful
Daniel transferred the hot part of his homage to the more coquettish
Dolly, Faith had not made any grievance of that, but rather thought all
the more of him, especially when he saved her sister's life in a very
rash boating adventure.

So now she went up to him with a friendly mind, and asked him softly and
pitifully what trouble had fallen upon him. At the sweet sound of her
voice, and the bright encouragement of her eyes, he felt as if he was
getting better.

"If you please, miss," he said, with a meek salutation, which proved his
panisic ideas to be not properly wrought into his system as yet--"if you
please, miss, things are very hard upon me."

"Is it money?" she asked, with the true British instinct that all common
woes have their origin there; "if it is, I shall be so glad that I
happen to have a good bit put by just now."

But Dan shook his head with such dignified sadness that Faith was quite
afraid of having hurt his feelings. "Oh, I might have known," she said,
"that it was nothing of that kind. You are always so industrious and
steady. But what can it be? Is it anything about Captain Stubbard
and his men, because I know you do not like them, and none of the old
Springhaven people seem to do so? Have you been obliged to fight with
any of them, Daniel?"

"No, miss, no. I would not soil my hand by laying it on any of such
chaps as those. Unless they should go for to insult me, I mean, or any
one belonging to me. No, miss, no. It is ten times worse than money, or
assault and battery."

"Well, Daniel, I would not on any account," said Faith, with her desire
of knowledge growing hotter by delay, as a kettle boils by waiting--"on
no account would I desire to know anything that you do not seem to think
my advice might help you to get out of. I am not in a hurry, but still
my time is getting rather late for what I have to do. By the time I come
back from the rectory, perhaps you will have made up your mind about it.
Till then, good-bye to you, Daniel."

He stepped out of the path, that she might go by, and only said, "Then
goodbye, miss; I shall be far away when you come back."

This was more than the best-regulated, or largest--which generally is
the worst-regulated--feminine mind could put up with. Miss Darling came
back, with her mind made up to learn all, or to know the reason why.

"Dan, this is unworthy of you," she said, with her sweet voice full of
sorrow. "Have I ever been hard or unkind to you, Dan, that you should be
so afraid of me?"

"No, miss, never. But too much the other way. That makes it so bad for
me to say good-bye. I am going away, miss. I must be off this evening. I
never shall see Springhaven no more, nor you, miss--nor nobody else."

"It is quite impossible, Dan. You must be dreaming. You don't look at
all like yourself to-day. You have been doing too much over-time. I have
heard all about it, and how very hard you work. I have been quite sorry
for you on Sundays, to see you in the gallery, without a bit of rest,
still obliged to give the time with your elbow. I have often been
astonished that your mother could allow it. Why, Dan, if you go
away, you will break her heart, and I don't know how many more in
Springhaven."

"No, miss, no. They very soon mends them. It is the one as goes away
that gets a deal the worst of it. I am sure I don't know whatever I
shall do, without the old work to attend to. But it will get on just as
well without me."

"No, it won't," replied Faith, looking at him very sadly, and shaking
her head at such cynical views; "nothing will be the same, when you are
gone, Daniel; and you ought to have more consideration."

"I am going with a good man, at any rate," he answered, "the
freest-minded gentleman that ever came to these parts. Squire Carne, of
Carne Castle, if you please, miss."

"Mr. Caryl Carne!" cried Faith, in a tone which made Daniel look at her
with some surprise. "Is he going away? Oh, I am so glad!"

"No, miss; not Squire Carne himself. Only to provide for me work far
away, and not to be beholden any more to my own people. And work where
a man may earn and keep his own money, and hold up his head while adoing
of it."

"Oh, Dan, you know more of such things than I do. And every man has a
right to be independent, and ought to be so, and I should despise
him otherwise. But don't be driven by it into the opposite extreme of
disliking the people in a different rank--"

"No, miss, there is no fear of that--the only fear is liking some of
them too much."

"And then," continued Faith, who was now upon one of her favourite
subjects past interruption, "you must try to remember that if you work
hard, so do we, or nearly all of us. From the time my father gets up in
the morning, to the time when he goes to bed at night, he has not got
five minutes--as he tells us every day--for attending to anything
but business. Even at dinner, when you get a good hour, and won't be
disturbed--now will you?"

"No, miss; not if all the work was tumbling down. No workman as respects
himself would take fifty-nine minutes for sixty."

"Exactly so; and you are right. You stand up for your rights. Your
dinner you have earned, and you will have it. And the same with your
breakfast, and your supper too, and a good long night to get over it. Do
you jump up in bed, before you have shut both eyes, hearing or fancying
you have heard the bell, that calls you out into the cold, and the dark,
and a wet saddle, from a warm pillow? And putting that by, as a trouble
of the war, and the chance of being shot at by dark tall men"--here
Faith shuddered at her own presentment, as the image of Caryl Carne
passed before her--"have you to consider, at every turn, that whatever
you do--though you mean it for the best--will be twisted and turned
against you by some one, and made into wickedness that you never dreamed
of, by envious people, whose grudge against you is that they fancy you
look down on them? Though I am sure of one thing, and that is that my
father, instead of looking down upon any honest man because he is poor,
looks up to him; and so do I; and so does every gentleman or lady.
And any one who goes about to persuade the working-people--as they are
called, because they have to use their hands more--that people like
my father look down upon them, and treat them like dogs, and all those
wicked stories--all I can say is, any man who does it deserves to be put
in the stocks, or the pillory, or even to be transported as an enemy to
his country."

Dan looked at the lady with great surprise. He had always known her
to be kind and gentle, and what the old people called "mannersome," to
every living body that came near her. But to hear her put, better than
he could put them, his own budding sentiments (which he thought to be
new, with the timeworn illusion of young Liberals), and to know from her
bright cheeks, and brighter eyes, that her heart was in every word of
it, and to feel himself rebuked for the evil he had thought, and the
mischief he had given ear to--all this was enough to make him angry with
himself, and uncertain how to answer.

"I am certain that you never thought of such things," Miss Darling
continued, with her gentle smile returning; "you are much too
industrious and sensible for that. But I hear that some persons are now
in our parish who make it their business, for some reason of their own,
to spread ill-will and jealousy and hatred everywhere, to make us all
strangers and foes to one another, and foreigners to our own country. We
have enemies enough, by the will of the Lord (as Mr. Twemlow says), for
a sharp trial to us, and a lesson to our pride, and a deep source of
gratitude, and charity, and good-will--though I scarcely understand how
they come in--and, above all, a warning to us to stick together, and not
exactly hate, but still abhor, everybody who has a word to say against
his own country at a time like this. And ten thousand times as much,
if he is afraid to say it, but crawls with crafty poison into simple
English bosoms."

"There is nothing of that, miss, to my knowledge, here," the young
fisherman answered, simply; "Springhaven would never stand none of
that; and the club drinks the health of King George every night of their
meeting, and stamps on the floor for him. But I never shall help to do
that any more. I must be going, miss--and thank you."

"Then you will not tell me why you go? You speak of it as if it was
against your will, and yet refuse to say what drives you. Have you been
poaching, Dan? Ah, that is it! But I can beg you off immediately. My
father is very good even to strangers, and as for his doing anything to
you--have no fear, Dan; you shall not be charged with it, even if you
have been in Brown Bushes."

Brown Bushes, a copse about a mile inland, was the Admiral's most sacred
spot, when peace allowed him to go shooting, because it was beloved by
woodcocks, his favourite birds both for trigger and for fork. But Daniel
only shook his head; he had not been near Brown Bushes. Few things
perhaps will endure more wear than feminine curiosity. But when a trap
has been set too long, it gets tongue-bound, and grows content without
contents.

"Daniel Tugwell," said Miss Darling, severely, "if you have not been
fighting, or conspiring against society, or even poaching, I can well
understand that you may have reasons for not desiring my assistance or
advice. And I only wonder that under such circumstances you took the
trouble to wait for me here, as you appear to have done. Good-bye."

"Oh, don't be cross, miss! please not to be cross," cried Daniel,
running after her; "I would tell you all about it this very instant
moment, if it were behoving to me. You will hear all about it when you
get to Parson Twemlow's, for I saw mother going there, afore she had her
breakfast, though I was not concernable to let her see me. If the Squire
had been home, she would have gone up to Hall first. No, miss, no. I
done nothing to be ashamed of; and if you turn back on me, you'll be
sorry afterwards."

Faith was more apt to think that she had been too sharp than to be so in
behaviour to any one. She began at once, with a blush for her bad ideas,
to beg Dan's pardon, and he saw his way to say what he was come to say.

"You always were too good, Miss Faith, too good to be hard upon any one,
and I am sure you have not been hard upon me; for I know that I look
disrespectable. But I couldn't find words to say what I wanted, until
you spoke so soft and kind. And perhaps, when I say it, you'll be angry
with me, and think that I trespass upon you."

"No, I won't, Dan; I will promise you that. You may tell me, as if I
were Mr. Swipes, who says that he never lost his temper in his life,
because he is always right, and other people wrong."

"Well, miss, I'm afraid that I am not like that, and that makes me feel
so uncomfortable with the difference between us. Because it is all about
Miss Dolly, and I might seem so impudent. But you know that I would
go through fire and water to serve Miss Dolly, and I durstn't go away
forever without one message to her. If I was in her own rank of life,
God Almighty alone should part us, whether I was rich or whether I
was poor, and I'd like to see any one come near her! But being only an
ignorant fellow without any birth or book-learning, I am not such a fool
as to forget that the breadth of the world lies between us. Only I may
wish her well, all the same--I may wish her well and happy, miss?"

"Certainly you may." Faith blushed at the passion of his words, and
sighed at their despair. "You have saved her life. She respects and
likes you, the same as my father and I do. You may trust me with your
message, Dan."

"I suppose it would not be the proper thing for me to see her once
before I go; just for one minute, with you standing by her, that I
might--that she might--"

"No," answered Faith, though it grieved her to say it; "we must not
think of that, Dan. It could do you no good, and it might do her harm.
But if you have any message, to be useful to her--"

"The useful part of it must be through you, miss, and not sent to her at
all, I think, or it would be very impertinent. The kind part is to give
her my good-bye, and say that I would die to help her. And the useful
part is for yourself. For God's sake, miss, do keep Miss Dolly out of
the way of Squire Carne! He hath a tongue equal to any woman, with the
mind of a man beneath it. He hath gotten me body and soul; because I
care not the skin of a dab what befalls me. But oh, miss, he never
must get Miss Dolly. He may be a very good man in some ways, and he is
wonderful free-minded; but any young lady as marries him had better have
leaped into the Culver Hole. Farewell, miss, now that I have told you."
He was gone before Faith could even offer him her hand, but he took
off his hat and put one finger to his curls, as he looked back from
the clearing; and her eyes filled with tears, as she waved her hand and
answered, "Farewell, Daniel!"


CHAPTER XXXIV

CAULIFLOWERS


"They cocks and hens," Mr. Swipes used to say in the earlier days of
his empire--"bless you, my lord, they cocks and hens knows a good bit of
gardening as well as I do. They calls one another, and they comes to see
it, and they puts their heads to one side and talks about it, and they
say to one another, 'Must be something good there, or he wouldn't have
made it so bootiful'; and then up go their combs, and they tear away
into it, like a passel of Scotchmen at a scratching-match. If your
lordship won't put a lock on the door, you will never taste a bit of
good vegetable."

Admiral Darling was at length persuaded to allow Mr. Swipes the
privilege of locking himself in the kitchen-garden; and then, for
the purpose of getting at him, a bell was put in the gable of the
tool-house, with a long handle hanging outside the door in the courtyard
towards the kitchen. Thus he was able to rest from his labours, without
incurring unjust reproach; and gradually as he declined, with increasing
decision, to answer the bell when it rang, according to the highest laws
of nature it left off ringing altogether. So Mr. Swipes in the walled
kitchen-garden sought peace and ensued it.

One quiet November afternoon, when the disappearance of Dan Tugwell had
been talked out and done with, a sad mishap befell this gardener, during
the performance, or, to speak more correctly, the contemplation of his
work. A yawn of such length and breadth and height and profundity took
possession of him that the space it had so well occupied still retained
the tender memory. In plainer words, he had ricked his jaw, not from
general want of usage, but from the momentary excess.

"Sarves me right," he muttered, "for carrying on so, without nothing
inside of 'un. Must go to doctor, quick step, and no mistake."

In this strait he set off for John Prater's (for it was a matter of
luck to get ale at the Hall, and in such emergency he must not trust to
fortune), and passing hastily through the door, left it unlocked behind
him. Going down the hill he remembered this, and had a great mind to go
back again, but the unanimous demand of his system for beer impelled
him downwards. He never could get up that hill again without hydraulic
pressure.

All might have gone well, and all would have gone well, except for the
grievous mistake of Nature in furnishing women with eyes whose keenness
is only exceeded by that of their tongues. The cook at the Hall, a
superior person--though lightly esteemed by Mrs. Cloam--had long been
ambitious to have a voice in the selection of her raw material. If
anything was good, who got the credit? Mr. Swipes, immediately. But if
everything was bad, as more often happened, who received the blame? Mary
Knuckledown. Her lawful name was "Knuckleup," but early misfortunes
had reduced her to such mildness that her name became converted--as she
expressed it--in harmony with her nature. Facts having generally been
adverse to her, she found some comfort in warm affection for their
natural enemies and ever-victorious rivals--words. Any words coming with
a brave rush are able to scatter to the winds the strongest facts; but
big words--as all our great orators know--knock them at once on the head
and cremate them. But the cook was a kind-hearted woman, and liked both
little and big words, without thinking of them.

She had put down her joint, a good aitch-bone, for roasting--than which,
if well treated, are few better treats--to revolve in the distant salute
of the fire (until it should ripen for the close embrace, where the
tints of gold and chestnut vie), when it came into her provident mind
with a flash that neither horse-radish nor cauliflower had yet been
delivered by Mr. Swipes. She must run out and pull the long handle in
the yard, and remind him gently of her needs, for she stood in some awe
of his character, as a great annalist of little people's lives.

Leaving the small dog Dandolo with stern orders to keep the jack
steadily going, with a stick on the dresser to intimidate one eye, and
a sop in the dripping-pan to encourage the other, Mrs. Knuckledown ran
into the court-yard, just in time to see the last swing of the skirt of
that noble gardener's coat, as he turned the wall corner on his march
towards the tap. She longed to call him back, but remembered just in
time how fearfully cross that had made him once before, and she was
yielding with a sigh to her usual bad luck, when an eager and triumphant
cluck made her look about. The monarch and patriarch of cocks, a
magnificent old Dorking, not idly endowed with five claws for the
scratch, had discovered something great, and was calling all his wives,
and even his sons, as many as yet crowed not against him, to share this
special luck of fortune, or kind mood of Providence. In a minute or two
he had levied an army, some half-hundred strong, and all spurring the
land, to practise their liberal claws betimes for the gorgeous joy of
scattering it. Then the grand old cock, whose name was "Bill," made
them all fall in behind him, and strutting till he almost tumbled on his
head, led the march of destruction to the garden door.

But, alas, he had waited for his followers too long, eager as they were
for rapine. When he came to his portal of delight, there stood, stout
as Britannia herself, and sweeping a long knife for her trident, the
valiant cook, to protect her cauliflowers. "You be off, Bill," she
cried. "I don't want to hurt you, because you have been a good bird in
your time, but now you be growing outrageous." Bill made a rush for it,
but losing a slice of his top-heavy comb, retired.

"Now's my opportunity," said Mary to herself, "for to cut my own cabbage
for once in my life, and to see what that old beast does in here. Oh my!
The old villain, and robber that he is! Bamboozlement is the language
for it." Embezzlement she should have said, and to one who knew as she
did how badly the table of the master was supplied, the suspicion was
almost unavoidable. For here she saw in plenteous show, and appetising
excellence, a many many of the very things she had vainly craved from
Mr. Swipes. And if it was so now in November, what must it have been two
months ago? Why, poor Miss Faith--Mary Knuckledown's idol, because of
her kindness and sad disappointment--had asked a little while ago for a
bit of salsify, not for herself--she never thought of herself--but for a
guest who was fond of it; also the Admiral himself had called out for a
good dish of skirrets. But no; Mr. Swipes said the weather and the black
blight had destroyed them. Yet here they were; Mary could swear to them
both, with their necks above-ground, as if waiting for the washing!
Cauliflowers also (as the cooks call broccoli of every kind), here they
were in abundance, ten long rows all across the middle square, very
beautiful to behold. Some were just curling in their crinkled coronets,
to conceal the young heart that was forming, as Miss in her teens draws
her tresses around the first peep of her own palpitation; others were
showing their broad candid bosoms, with bold sprigs of nature's green
lace crisping round; while others had their ripe breasts shielded from
the air by the breakage of their own broad fringe upon them.

Mary knew that this was done by Mr. Swipes himself, because he had
brought her some in that condition; but the unsuspicious master had
accepted his assurance that "they was only fit for pigs as soon as the
break-stalk blight come on 'em"; and then the next day he had bought
the very same, perhaps at ninepence apiece, from Mr. Cheeseman's window,
trimmed and shorn close, like the head of a monk. "I'll see every bit of
'un, now that I be here." Mrs. Knuckledown spoke aloud, to keep up her
courage. "Too bad for that old beast to keep us locked out from the very
place us ought to have for pommylarding, because he saith all the fruit
would go into our pockets. And what goes into his'en, I should like to
know? Suppose I lock him out, as he hath locked us out. He won't be back
yet for half an hour, anyway. Wish I could write--what a list I would
make, if it was only of the things he denieth he hath got!"

Strong in her own honesty and loyalty to her master, the cook turned the
key in the lock, and left Swipes to ring himself into his own garden, as
he always called it. That is to say, if he should return, which was not
very likely, before she had time for a good look round. But she saw
such a sight of things she had longed for, to redeem her repute in the
vegetable way, as well as such herbs for dainty stuffing, of which she
knew more than cooks generally do, that her cap nearly came off her head
with amazement, and time flew by unheeded. Until she was startled and
terrified sadly by the loud, angry clang of the bell in the gable. Not
only was Mr. Swipes come back, but he was in a furious rage outside,
though his fury was chilled with some shivers of fear. At first, when he
found the door locked against him, he thought that the Admiral must have
come home unexpected, and failing to find him at work, had turned the
key against him, while himself inside. If so, his situation would be in
sad peril, and many acres of lies would be required to redeem it. For
trusting in his master's long times of absence, and full times of public
duty when at home, Mr. Swipes had grown more private stock, as he
called it, and denied the kitchen more, than he had ever done before,
in special preparation for some public dinners about to be given at the
Darling Arms, by military officers to naval, and in turn by the latter
to the former; for those were hospitable days, when all true Britons
stuck their country's enemy with knife and fork, as well as sword.

But learning, as he soon did at the stables, that the Admiral was still
away, and both the young ladies were gone for a ride with Miss Twemlow,
the gardener came back in a rage, and rang the bell. "Oh, whatever shall
I do?" the trembling Mary asked herself. "Best take the upper hand if
I can. He's a thief, and a rogue, and he ought to be frighted. Does
he know I can't write? No, for certain he dothn't. One of his big lies
about me was a letter I wrote to poor Jonadab."

With her courage renewed by the sense of that wrong, she opened the
door, and stood facing Mr. Swipes, with a piece of paper in her hand,
which a woman's quick wit bade her fetch from her pocket.

"Halloa, madam!" the gardener exclaimed, with a sweep of his hat and
a low salute, which he meant to be vastly satirical; "so your ladyship
have come to take the air in my poor garden, instead of tending the
spit. And what do your ladyship think of it, so please you? Sorry as I
had any dung about, but hadn't no warning of this royal honour."

"Sir," said Mrs. Knuckledown, pretending to be frightened a great deal
more than she was--"oh, sir, forgive me! I am sure I meant no harm. But
the fowls was running in, and I ran up to stop them."

"Oh, that was how your ladyship condescended; and to keep out the fowls,
you locked out me! Allow me the royal and unapparelled honour of showing
your ladyship to her carriage; and if I ever catch her in here again,
I'll pitch you down the court-yard pretty quick. Be off, you dirty
baggage, or I won't answer for it now!"

"Oh, you are too kind, Mr. Swipes; I am sure you are too gentle, to
forgive me, like of that! And the little list I made of the flowers
in your garden, I shall put it in a teapot till the Quality wants
something."

Mr. Swipes gave a start, and his over-watered eyes could not meet those
of Mary, which were mildly set upon them. "List!" he muttered--"little
list! What do you please to mean, Miss?"

"Well, the 'dirty baggage' means nothing unparalleled, sir, but just the
same as anybody else might do. Some people calls it a Inventionary, and
some an Emmarandum, and some a Catalogue. It don't interfere with you,
Mr. Swipes; only the next time as Miss Dolly asks, the same as she was
doing the other day--"

"Oh, she was, was she? The little -----!" Mr. Swipes used a word
concerning that young lady which would have insured his immediate
discharge, together with one from the Admiral's best toe. "And pray,
what was her observations, ma'am?"

"And also from the mother source:" Hans was very quiet. Only as Erdmann
was gone, he has to spend hours in his room included. "He had suffered
doubly because he is no outbreak of his passion to facilitate managed.
I could still not happy, because I only thought of his. Whether I should
write him, - whether a sympathetic word from me to help him vermöchte?
In the zoo, he expected every day my child. He always had the bags full
of local, the weather was bad, so he let him come to himself, sat down
with him on the carpet and built the grandson Bleisoldaten in battle
order. And he always let me greet, said the girl. He'd received a letter
from me do not reject! On a blue ribbon, I linked it to my boys
around his neck when he was next to "Apapa" drove. In the same way
he brought back with the answer: "... Did it really made my child:
an eye cries, laughs, and the other not. I must overcome myself.
If one knows the fairway, then hope their right, but the unknown
waters that one must leave his last, which gives no place to rest. I
understand that you've pleased me and makes me grateful. Your old father.
"My sister was beaming before happiness. With that mental agility, it
has always been unique, she went completely on the artistry of her
fiancé. They seemed really empty canvas, the unhewn stone, from
the first under his hands is a living plant should be. Even their clothes,
she for his taste, she was one of the first of those picturesque
wore robes, as they come from the minds of the young champion of
the burgeoning arts and emerged from the women's health, of the
painters from the artistic reasons have been created.

Each piece of their future after the furniture was made drawings Erdmann.
"Oscar style is so totally my aesthetic sensibilities," she said, and
her gaze flew a little arrogant about our furniture out, "that I am
in a different environment could not live." They had close to the
Kurfürstendamm rented an apartment, according to Erdmann information has
been redesigned.

Did the young couple with the mother to us, then turned the
conversation about the future plans with all its delightful
details.

My own, which made me so happy, so completely caught had occurred while
back. "You probably want us to surprise your house that you can tell so
little of it," said the mother again and I nodded to them. The reasons
why I was silent, were clearly different in nature, the house, which is
now always stately from the earth grew out was the major source of new
concerns have become oppressive. We were naive in our ignorance of all
the real demands of life have not previously been calculated, but
also that during the construction had to pay interest, which our
budget to have had the heaviest burden.

I knew often not even from, while I saw my husband was suffering
under the circumstances, and the more so the more he felt that I was
affected by them. I once made any fear dictated by the remark, so
he went with his hand nervously through the soft, wavy hair and said with
a tortured expression on trains, "but you do not take care of it! Leave
me all these gimmicks. I will give you everything from the give way.
"* * * * * To that time, the children returned from the holidays.

I was afraid I was before, because a few weeks after she nursed me
naïve egoism to tell everything to her mother better and more beautiful
was. Henry heard it, so he scolded them because he saw that it grieved
me, and a leaden mood at our table.

This time they stormed in a hurry the stairs - so pleased they are yet
to come home, "thought I do. Wolfgang, the lighter, came first. Hardly
had he time to welcome me. "The mother makes you say," he cried
breathlessly, "something should not happen. We had hats, as in Austria
only doormen wear and suits, which the peasant boy laughed. "I felt
like I was pale. I had always used for the journey eingekleidet new
order yes no allegation on me to attend. And this time it was me
become even more difficult than usual In table caught Hans, who always
was reluctant to talk to. »Dinner is much healthier, says the mother,"
said he, "and it tastes even better than ever just sausage."

I was so overwrought that I struggled with tears, and when the next
morning, there is also a letter from Vienna came in which the mother
of my children about my lack of education all representations made,
it was too late with my self-control. Could I use the children as educate
about where I'm always afraid of them as the evil step-mother to be viewed,
and thus any influence to lose?

I could punish them, where I knew that they were in their own mother
would complain?

Heinrich I showed the letter, and poured him, not myself of all my
obligations adjudged missed, my heart.

"And everything you say to me now?" He cried. "All the grief you schleppst
around with you and you do not speak out?" He wrapped his arm around
me and kissed me the tears from his eyes. "We must thoroughly change
be created to deinetwillen ..." "Especially to the children's sake,
Heinz," I broke him, "as good nature, as they are - after all they have
to suffer harm." We discussed, what to do. In previous years the
mother had repeatedly tried their sons at home to keep, but Henry always
had it recovered. "How could you?" I said quiet accusation. "Children
belong to the mother!" I was very lonely, very liebebedürftig; I had in
the divorce process with nails and teeth to the kids fought, "he replied.
"But now the poor woman is a lot lonelier than you -" "- to feel sorry
for them, I have no reason," he said hard, "she was to her first
child was in stitches!

Now may be the only consideration for you and to the welfare of the two
boys make the difference. "During the night after our conversation threw
Henry sleepless in bed back and forth in the first morning, he stood
quietly, and I heard how he the room next door went up and down. I
would have nothing to say, I thought fearfully. He looked tired and
vergrämt from when he came back to me. "I have decided to offer their
children," he said. "Would not we rather leave everything to the old, -
I can see maybe only to black," I threw.

I thought of the hour, because he sent me with the request that it quite
nice to have had entrusted to his sons. He looked so gloomy Dreiner!
Sudden Fear beschlich me for my precious possession: his love. But he
remained at the decision again. His lawyer wrote in his mission to
Vienna. The answer was no unreservedly favorable: each connection, it
wished the mother should be shared between the sons and the father is
aborted as soon as they enter their house would. For weeks, the negotiations
moved out and the correspondence is always took a fierce form. I could
not see how Henry was suffering, and all the self-reproaches, which
tormented me, not anymore. One evening, I used my husband missed and went
with the night train to Vienna. From the hotel, I returned to the
mother of the children.

I rose heart knocking the stone stairs. In a room with heavy furniture
renaissance they received me, a slim, dark woman with a sharp cut,
almost masculine traits. She gave me a hand, they seem reluctant to send
me even just a chair to offer. "I come because I hope that a verbal
description easier targets will lead to," I began. "He sends you?" Her
voice had a curiously lifeless, cold tone, as if they are far away from
dark depths. "No! I traveled without his knowledge. We women, I mean, are
we understand - with some good intentions of course - because there
is nothing between us - "" Do you really think, nothing stands between
us? "A glance full hatred grazed me. "My kids steal me!" I? - "On the
extreme surprise, I saw them. "I, I bring it to you again?" But they
listened to me. In a passionate excitement, the words tumbling
over, from their lips: "Have I not in this past summer must hear every
day: 'The Mummy allows everything - Mom punishes us - Mom gives us
this and that '? And now perhaps I should have to experience that my own
children continued desire of me? Or every unhappy return, though, as her
father wishes to the holiday in Berlin have been? "I understood it -
that had I have done it unconsciously evil! "You know, my husband has
for the first year to have a reunion waived," I replied. "That is also
the very least, what I want!

For the rest - "She took back the old icy tone and forced herself to be
calm," I must move before the kids come. You see here my apartment - "it
was after the dining room next door," I have no place for them. "No place
for their own children? They seemed to feel what I felt, because soon
she continued: "I hope that through the clutter already damaged enough
boys like in a regular life, a serious work tuned domesticity come."
"And when you think should that be? "I urged. "The situation is unbearable
for all parts!

"She smiled:" Do you? I've endured worse, "dug deep wrinkles on her
forehead to her mouth angle. Re-grazed me a glance, - for fear. "You
just wait until you have five, six years have lived with him for free!"
I raised myself - would be almost carved chair with my rapid movement
to the ground geglitten. Here I had nothing more to do. They led me
out. And as it ought to last me still can feel their hatred, she said:
"I will have serious trouble - the children are too ill-educated."
I thought of the boys - their boys funny pranks on the unbound freedom,
which they enjoyed.

Another good word I wanted in the strict woman to appeal to them and
said pleading: "You will not be suddenly felt the change?" "How can
you allow --?!« called them stunned. »Who is the mother you or I?"
Krachend fell Flurtüre behind me. The next morning I drove back to
Berlin. Not the least, I thought to have reached.

A letter from the lawyer wiener followed me on foot. It contained
the signed contract and forwarded the request, the children would like
to travel to Vienna just as a visit will be presented, "so they love
to come here." It was a jubilation: The school escape, - and a trip
to Vienna, we took them to train and saw the beaming faces after the
greeting from the Kupeefenster nodded until the train our eyes vanished.
* * * * * Scarcely three weeks later they went back - still and pale.
Wolfgang's round face was narrow, children have become, in Hans' dark
eyes had an expression of melancholy deepens even more. Your stay in
Vienna was really only been one visit. Whether the lonely woman was
lucky not to endure?

Whether the demands of a life for others they might have stifled?

In the largest, the last loneliness, she had suddenly abducted death.
But beyond that its hatred: the Testament threatened to disinherit
children, if they are in the house of the father would remain. And so,
they had resumed, as they heat, love the most in need. From a new school
in the Harz Mountains, we had to know where the youth in a nice variety
of play and work, by the exercise of physical and mental forces
of free and happy to develop the interview, a school whose director
had the courage, the spirit of the hidebound Preußentums joining
to deny.

We brought them there. It was the best that we had found, and yet so
terribly little for those where the mother had died. * * * * * Well,
it was quiet in our home. Otto's, which is now on his own feet had learned
to move, ran in the room of the brothers from chair to chair, looked into
the cupboards and under the bed and cried in vain "WoF" and "Ans." At
first he wept, not because they came to him to be "Pielen," then he
remembered her only when he on my lap and sat at his desk, I showed
him those pictures. He was an irrepressible little guy, never in one
place long endured. A ray of sunshine in the room, a fly on the window,
and Pferdegetrappel dog on the street, - all attracted his burning
curiosity, but if even vorübermarschierten soldiers, so he zappelte with
hands and feet for joy, and cried as loud as he could: " Data! data,
"Since the grandfather to the grandchildren to love even in the old
General had dammed uniform, he went again so happy to Ansbacherstraße.
»Dat Apapa, Apapa Dat," he surprised me with eyes and an expression
of awe in the face then told Chen.

And »Apapa Dehn," he shouted with stentorian voice, if we are not
quiet enough to play with him. One evening in the autumn of my mother
came and told me the father did today, without having to ask the
apartment terminated. "He wants to rent in Grunewald," she added, "at
Otto's close to his." My eyes were moist: it replaced him the grandson
of the daughter that he had lost. Shortly it, I got a letter from him:
" Dear child!

but do not think that it is enough to me, your boys with me to see. Old
people need a lot of heat, so I said Otto Chen today that he dad and
mom the next time will bring. He looked at me so seriously that I think
he understood me. Your faithful father. "And so I came with my child
in her arms in the old apartment. The sister did me: "Well my wedding
is only a real celebration for me," she said and kissed me fussy.

She opened the door to the room of his father. "He's like," she whispered,
and ran away. I had to put the knees shook me. Everything had a face, a
dear, familiar: the faded armchair, so inviting the armrests ausstreckten
after me, the old, green carpet, which is warm and soft under my feet
nestles the dark images on the wall, which seemed to smile . On the desk
was like in rank and carefully pointed pencils and goose feathers,
which the father himself to cut the habit, and the "Soldatenhort,"
for which he wrote.

And in the corner - the old rider pistol! From the room, I was once
fled before her. - The me they had called me back tonight! No - not
me! Only this cute blond child's mother went to the door. »Apapa," cried
the little boy and he stretched the Ärmchen opposite. In the next moment
I felt both of us includes: The lips trembled, and my forehead touched.
"We do not want to make soft, Alix," he said quietly. "We want to
do, as thou wert never even been away."

From now on, we were often. Difficult, with heavy breath on each landing
minutes long pause, he came increasingly up to us, and usually around
the hour that he used in the casino zuzubringen used. He had also tacitly
abandoned this old habit, and when the mother asked him afterwards, he
said: "What should I now have people angry and newspapers?"

My husband, who never as a "son" felt, but always very restrained, very
formally stayed, loved him.

"You hardly ahnst yes, as the peace is on me," he wrote to me once. "I
am guilty of the statement to you that your man, whose perfect beat
me so beneficial, not can count on me."

Sometimes he drove with us in the Grunewald Forest, where he was the
spring in our neighborhood had rented an apartment. He beamed with joy
when our house grow and be seen. "What makes me happy, so no worries
you know," he said to me, while he worked tirelessly over the bars and
climbed every room look adopted.

Then he pressed the hand of Henry: "That thou my Alix such a home
can do," Outside in the garden pleased him every shrub that was
planted. "Here must Otto's a big pile of sand have," - said he, "and a
swing and a climbing pole, so that his muscles are taut. But also to build
me an arbor, where I in the summer without having to disturb you,
and sit with my boys can play. "* * * * * On a dark Spätherbsttag,
shortly before the wedding of my sister, I came home.

"Excellence is in the little ones," said the girl. I nodded, smiling.
Otto's was not quite well and was allowed because of bad weather is not
expected. Now came the grandfather to him. I stepped into his room.
Sat on the carpet my child, absorbed in the new soldiers, to him "Apapa"
states have liked, in the armchair was the father back and slept deeply.
The normally lively boy moved quietly between the toy and looked
frightened, as I came nearer. "Pst, pst!"

And he laid a finger's on the lips. »Apapa baba!" The gray shadows of
early evening crept through the windows. He was heavy on the lines of
sleeping, blurred every living color, let each wrinkles appear. I
involuntarily folded hands: How old, how pale, how tired he was! And it
was such a strong man and the years after no man! I fell in the knees
and kissed the hand hanging.

The grief for me it had been to him a piece of his life had tasted. * *
* * * At the end of November Ilse was at home with Oskar Erdmann dared.
Only the closest relatives were loaded, and also some of them were
canceled when she learned that we would be present.

My sister looked like a Frühlingselfe. All light in the room went from
their golden hair, whose splendor even the chaste bride veil could not
be damped. Erdmann seemed even smaller than usual An undefined anxiety
beschlich me. My sister, "Yes!" Sounded so happy, so bright to my
ear, that it is the worry away.

But when the clergyman is turned questioningly at him, swallowed a rough
cough, with his back to the quake, I saw his reply.
By the bottles I can tell them, and by all the
Saints--"

"Be not so excited, for you cannot smack the lips. It is too late now to
envy them their solids, because they have made such speed with them. But
listen, my dear friend"--and here the tall man whispered into the ear of
his brisk companion, who danced with delight in the ungenial hedge, till
his face was scarred with brambles.

"It is magnificent, it is droll, it is what you call in England one
grand spree, though of that you understand not the signification. But,
my faith, it is at the same time barbarous, and almost too malignant."

"Too benevolent Charron," said the tall stern man, "that shall rest
upon my conscience, not on yours. The object is not to spoil their noisy
revel, but to gain instruction of importance. To obtain a clear idea
of the measures they adopt--ah, you see, you are as quick as lightning.
This urgent message is upon official paper, which I have taken from the
desk of that very stupid Stubbard. Take the horse Jerry holds at the
corner, and the officer's hat and cape provided are ample disguise for
so dark a night. Take the lane behind the hills, and gallop two miles
eastward, till you come to the shore again, then turn back towards the
village by way of the beach, and you will meet the Coast-guard on duty,
a stupid fellow called Vickers. Your horse by that time will be piping
and roaring: he can go like the wind, but his own is broken. The moment
you see Vickers, begin to swear at your horse. I have practised you in
d--ns, for an emergency."

"Ten thousand thunders, I can say d--n now to equal and surpass the
purest born of all Britons."

"Not so loud, my friend, until by-and-by. The Coast-guard will come
to you, and you pull up with your horse hanging down his head, as if
dead-beaten. Using your accomplishment again, you say: 'Here, take
this on to Admiral Darling. My nag is quite done, and I must get to
Stonnington to call Colonel James. For your life, run, run. You'll get a
guinea, if you look sharp.' Before he can think of it, turn your horse,
and make back to the lane, as if for Stonnington. But instead of that,
gallop back to our ruins; and we'll go up the hill, and see what comes
of it."

"It is very good, it is magnificent. But will not the sentinel perceive
my voice and accent?"

"Not he; he is a very honest and therefore stupid fellow. Give him no
time, answer no questions. Be all in a rush, as you so generally are. I
would do it myself, but I am too well known. Say, will you undertake it?
It will be a fine joke for you."

About half an hour after this, the Lord-Lieutenant having hammered on
the table with an empty bottle, stood up to propose the chief toast
of the evening--the gallant crew of the Leda, and the bold sailors of
Springhaven. His lordship had scarcely had a bottle and a half, and
was now in the prime of his intellect. A very large man, with a long
brocaded coat of ruby-coloured cloth, and white satin breeches, a
waistcoat of primrose plush emblazoned with the Union-jack (then the
popular device) in gorgeous silks with a margin of bright gold, and a
neckcloth pointed and plaited in with the rarest lace, worth all the
rest put together--what a pity it seemed that such a man should get
drunk, or at any rate try so hard to do it. There was not a pimple on
his face, his cheeks were rosy and glistening, but not flushed; and his
eyes were as bright and clear and deep as a couple of large sapphires.

This nobleman said a few words, without any excitement, or desire to
create it, every word to the point, and the best that could be chosen
not to go beyond the point. There was no attempt at eloquence, and yet
the speech was eloquent, because it suggested so much more than was
said. More excitable natures, overcome by half a bottle, resolved to
have the other half, in honour of that toast.

Then the Marquis did a very kind and thoughtful thing, for which he
deserved a bottle of the Royal Tokay, such as even Napoleon could not
obtain. When the cheering was done, and every eye was fixed upon the
blushing Scudamore--who felt himself, under that fixture, like an insect
under a lens which the sun is turning into a burning-glass--the Chairman
perceived his sad plight, and to give him more time and more spirit,
rose again.

"Gentlemen," he said, "or I would rather call you brother Englishmen at
this moment, I have forgotten one thing. Before our young hero replies
to his health, let us give him that spirited song 'Billy Blue,' which is
well known to every man here, I'll be bound. Tell the drummer down
there to be ready for chorus." Billy Blue, though almost forgotten now
(because the enemy would not fight him), the blockader of Brest, the
hardy, skilful, and ever watchful Admiral Cornwallis, would be known to
us nearly as well as Nelson, if fame were not a lottery.

As the Lord-Lieutenant waved his hand, the company rose with one accord,
and followed the lead of his strong clear voice in the popular song,
called


                  "BILLY BLUE"

                       1

     "'Tis a terrible time for Englishmen;
      All tyrants do abhor them;
      Every one of them hath to fight with ten,
      And the Lord alone is for them.
      But the Lord hath given the strong right hand,
      And the courage to face the thunder;
      If a Frenchman treads this English land,
      He shall find his grave thereunder.

                    CHORUS

      Britannia is the Ocean-Queen, and she standeth staunch and
        true,
      With Nelson for her faulchion keen, and her buckler Billy Blue.

                       2

     "They are mustering on yon Gallic coasts,
      You can see them from this high land,
      The biggest of all the outlandish hosts
      That ever devoured an island.
      There are steeds that have scoured the Continent,
      Ere ever one might say, 'Whoa, there!'
      And ships that would fill the Thames and Trent,
      If we would let them go there.

                    CHORUS

      But England is the Ocean-Queen, and it shall be hard to do;
      Not a Frenchman shall skulk in between herself and her Billy
        Blue.

                       3

     "From the smiling bays of Devonshire
      To the frowning cliffs of Filey,
      Leaps forth every son of an English sire,
      To fight for his native isley.
      He hath drawn the sword of his father now
      From the rusty sheath it rattled in;
      And Dobbin, who dragged the peaceful plough,
      Is neighing for the battle-din.

                    CHORUS

      For Albion still is Ocean-Queen, and though her sons be few,
      They challenge the world with a dauntless mien, and the flag
        of Billy Blue.

                       4

     "Then pledge me your English palm, my lad;
      Keep the knuckles for Sir Frenchman;
      No slave can you be till you change your dad,
      And no son of yours a henchman.
      The fight is to come; and we will not brag,
      Nor expect whatever we sigh for,
      But stand as the rock that bears the flag
      Our duty is to die for.

                    CHORUS

      For Englishmen confront serene whatever them betideth;
      And England shall be Ocean's Queen as long as the world
        abideth."


What with the drum and the fifes of one of the regiments now at
Stonnington, and the mighty bass of some sea-captains vehement in
chorus, these rough and rolling lines were enough to frighten a thousand
Frenchmen, while proving the vigour of British nerve, and fortitude both
of heart and ear. When people have done a thing well, they know it, and
applaud one another to include themselves; and even the ladies, who were
meant to be unseen, forgot that and waved their handkerchiefs. Then up
and spoke Blyth Scudamore, in the spirit of the moment; and all that he
said was good and true, well-balanced and well-condensed, like himself.
His quiet melodious voice went further than the Lord-Lieutenant's,
because it was new to the air of noise, and that fickle element loves
novelty. All was silence while he spoke, and when he ceased--great
uproar.

"That lad will do," said the Marquis to his supporter on the right hand;
"I was just like him at that age myself. Let me draw this cork--it is
the bottle of the evening. None but my own fellows understand a cork,
and they seem to have got away somewhere. What the doose are they
about--why, halloa, Darling! What's the meaning of all this, at such a
time?"

"Well, my lord, you must judge for yourself," said the Admiral, who had
made his way quietly from the bottom of the table. "We know that false
alarms are plentiful. But this looks like business, from the paper it is
written on; and I know that old Dudgeon is as solid as myself. Vickers
the Coast-guard brought it in, from an officer whose horse was blown,
who had orders to get somehow to Stonnington."

"Is Vickers a knave, or a fool who is likely to be made the victim of a
very low joke? There are hundreds of jealous scoundrels eager to spoil
every patriotic gathering. Ah, this looks rather serious, though, if you
can vouch for the paper."

"I can vouch for the paper, my lord, and for Vickers; but not for
Dudgeon's signature. Of that I have no knowledge--though it looks right
enough, so far as I know. Shall I read it aloud, and let officers who
are not under my command judge for themselves, as I shall judge for
those I have the honour to command?"

The Lord-Lieutenant, with his cork just squeaking in the neck of the
bottle, nodded; and the Admiral, with officers crowding round, read
aloud as follows, part being in type, and part in manuscript:


"Commander of Coast-defence at Hythe, to Vice-Admiral Darling,
Springhaven.

"French fleet standing in, must have slipped Cornwallis. Do all you can.
Not a moment to lose.

(Signed) "BELLAMY DUDGEON."


"Well, it may be true, or it may be a lie," said the Marquis, pouring
carefully; "my opinion is the latter; but I have nothing to do with
it officially, according to the new arrangements. Every gentleman
must judge for himself. And I mean to abide by my own judgment, which
strongly recommends me to finish this bottle."

"Probably you are right enough; and in your place perhaps I should do
the same," the Admiral answered, quietly; "but be the alarm either true
or false, I am bound to act otherwise. All Naval Officers present will
be good enough to follow me, and prepare to rejoin if ordered. We shall
very soon know from the signal-point, unless fog has set in suddenly,
whether we are bound to beat a general alarm."

All the sons of the sea arose quietly, and were despatched with brief
orders to the right and left, to communicate with their signal stations,
while Stubbard hurried back to his battery.

"What cold blood they do display!" whispered the Frenchman, who had
returned with the author of the plot to watch the issue from a point of
vantage. "My faith, they march slowly for their native land! Not less
than six bottles of great French wine did I anticipate to steal through
the window, while they fell out precipitous. But there sits a man big
enough to leave me nothing--not even a remainder of my own body. Soul of
St. Denis, can it be that they question the word of a gentleman?"

"Not they!" replied Carne, who was vexed, however; "they are taking
things easily, according to the custom of the nation. But two good
things we have done, friend Charron; we have learned their proceedings,
and we have spoiled their feasting."

"But not at all; they are all coming back to enjoy it all the more!"
cried the Frenchman. "Oh that I were an Englishman, to get such a
dinner, and to be so loyal to it!"


CHAPTER XXXVI

FAIR CRITICISM


Few things can be worse for a very young woman than to want to be led
by somebody, and yet find nobody fit to do it. Or at any rate, through
superior quickness and the knowledge of it, to regard old friends and
relatives of experience as very slow coaches, and prigs or prudes, who
cannot enter into quick young feelings, but deal in old saws which grate
upon them.

Not to moralise about it--for if young ladies hate anything, it is such
moralising--Miss Dolly Darling was now in that uncomfortable frame of
mind when advice is most needed, yet most certain to be spurned. She
looked upon her loving and sensible sister as one who was fated to be
an old maid, and was meant perhaps by nature for that condition, which
appeared to herself the most abject in the world. And even without that
conclusion about Faith she would have been loth to seek counsel from
her, having always resented most unduly what she called her "superior
air of wisdom." Dolly knew that she was quicker of wit than her
sister--as shallow waters run more rapidly--and she fancied that she
possessed a world of lively feelings into which the slower intellect
could not enter. For instance, their elder brother Frank had just
published a volume of poems, very noble in their way, and glowing with
ardour for freedom, democracy, and the like, as well as exhibiting fine
perception of sound, and great boldness in matters beyond sounding, yet
largely ungifted with knowledge of nature, whether human or superior.

"Better stick to his law-books," the Admiral had said, after singing out
some of the rhyme of it to the tune of "Billy Benbow"; "never sit on the
wool-sack by spewing oakum this way."

Faith had tried, as a matter of duty, to peruse this book to its cover;
but she found it beyond even her good-will, and mild sympathy with
everything, to do so. There was not the touch of nature in it which
makes humble people feel, and tickles even the very highest with desire
to enter into it. So Faith declared that it must be very clever, and no
doubt very beautiful, but she herself was so stupid that she could not
make out very clearly what it was all about.

"Well, I understand every word of it," Miss Dolly cried, with a literary
look. "I don't see how you can help doing that, when you know all about
Frank, who wrote it. Whenever it is not quite clear, it is because he
wants us to think that he knows too much, or else because he is not
quite certain what he wants to mean himself. And as for his talk about
freedom, and all that, I don't see why you should object to it. It is
quite the fashion with all clever people now, and it stops them from
doing any mischief. And nobody pays much attention to them, after the
cruel things done in France when I was seven or eight years old. If I
see Frank, I shall tell him that I like it."

"And I shall tell him that I don't," said Faith. "It cannot do anybody
any good. And what they call 'freedom' seems to mean making free with
other people's property."

These poems were issued in one volume, and under one title--The
Harmodiad--although there must have been some half-hundred of them,
and not more than nine odes to freedom in the lot. Some were almost
tolerable, and others lofty rubbish, and the critics (not knowing the
author) spoke their bright opinions freely. The poet, though shy as a
mouse in his preface, expected a mountain of inquiry as to the identity
of this new bard, and modestly signed himself "Asteroid," which made
his own father stare and swear. Growing sore prematurely from much
keelhauling--for the reviewers of the period were patriotic, and the
English public anti-Gallic--Frank quitted his chambers at Lincoln's Inn,
and came home to be comforted for Christmas. This was the wisest thing
that he could do, though he felt that it was not Harmodian. In spite of
all crotchets, he was not a bad fellow, and not likely to make a good
lawyer.

As the fates would have it (being naturally hostile to poets who defy
them), by the same coach to Stonnington came Master Johnny, in high
feather for his Christmas holidays. Now these two brothers were as
different of nature as their sisters were, or more so; and unlike the
gentler pair, each of these cherished lofty disdain for the other. Frank
looked down upon the school-boy as an unlicked cub without two
ideas; the bodily defect he endeavoured to cure by frequent outward
applications, but the mental shortcoming was beneath his efforts. Johnny
meanwhile, who was as hard as nails, no sooner recovered from a thumping
than he renewed and redoubled his loud contempt for a great lout over
six feet high, who had never drawn a sword or pulled a trigger. And now
for the winter this book would be a perpetual snowball for him to pelt
his big brother with, and yet (like a critic) be scarcely fair object
for a hiding. In season out of season, upstairs down-stairs, even in
the breakfast and the dinner chambers, this young imp poked clumsy
splinters--worse than thorns, because so dull--into the tender poetic
side; and people, who laugh at the less wit the better, laughed very
kindly, to please the boy, without asking whether they vexed the man.
And the worst of it was that the author too must laugh.

All this might be looked down at by a soul well hoisted upon the
guy-ropes of contempt; and now and then a very solid drubbing given
handsomely (upon other grounds) to the chief tormentor solaced the mind
of unacknowledged merit. But as the most vindictive measure to the man
who has written an abusive letter is to vouchsafe him no reply, so to
the poet who rebukes the age the bitterest answer it can give is none.
Frank Darling could retaliate upon his brother Johnny, and did so
whenever he could lay hold of him alone; but the stedfast silence of his
sister Faith (to whom one of his loftiest odes was addressed), and of
his lively father, irked him far more than a thousand low parodies.
Dolly alone was some comfort to him, some little vindication of true
insight; and he was surprised to find how quickly her intelligence
(which until now he had despised) had strengthened, deepened, and
enlarged itself. Still he wanted some one older, bigger, more capable of
shutting up the mouth, and nodding (instead of showing such a lot of red
tongue and white teeth), before he could be half as snug as a true
poet should be, upon the hobs of his own fire. And happily he found his
Anti-Zoilus ere long.

One day he was walking in a melancholy mood along the beach towards
Pebbleridge, doubting deeply in his honest mind whether he ever should
do any good, in versification, or anything else. He said to himself that
he had been too sanguine, eager, self-confident, ardent, impetuous, and,
if the nasty word must be faced, even too self-conceited. Only yesterday
he had tried, by delicate setting of little word-traps, to lead
Mr. Twemlow towards the subject, and obtain that kind-hearted man's
comforting opinion. But no; the gentle Rector would not be brought to
book, or at any rate not to that book; and the author had sense enough
to know without a wink that his volume had won volumes of dislike.

Parnassus could never have lived till now without two heads--one to
carry on with, while the other is being thumped to pieces. While the
critics demolish one peak, the poet withdraws to the other, and assures
himself that the general public, the larger voice of the nation, will
salute him there. But alas, Frank Darling had just discovered that even
that eminence was not his, except as a desert out of human sight. For
he had in his pocket a letter from his publishers, received that dreary
morning, announcing a great many copies gone gratis, six sold to the
trade at a frightful discount, and six to the enterprising public. All
these facts combined to make him feel uncommonly sad and sore to-day.

A man of experience could have told him that this disappointment was for
his good; but he failed to see it in that light, and did not bless the
blessing. Slowly and heavily he went on, without much heed of anything,
swinging his clouded cane now and then, as some slashing reviews
occurred to him, yet becoming more peaceful and impartial of mind under
the long monotonous cadence and quiet repetitions of the soothing sea.
For now he was beyond the Haven head--the bulwark that makes the bay a
pond in all common westerly weather--and waves that were worthy of the
name flowed towards him, with a gentle breeze stepping over them.

The brisk air was like a fresh beverage to him, and the fall of the
waves sweet music. He took off his hat, and stopped, and listened, and
his eyes grew brighter. Although the waves had nothing very distinct to
say in dying, yet no two (if you hearkened well), or at any rate no two
in succession, died with exactly the same expression, or vanished with
precisely the same farewell. Continual shifts went on among them, and
momentary changes; each in proper sequence marching, and allowed its
proper time, yet at any angle traversed, even in its crowning curl,
not only by the wind its father, but by the penitent return and white
contrition of its shattered elder brother. And if this were not enough
to make a samely man take interest in perpetually flowing changes, the
sun and clouds, at every look and breath, varied variety.

Frank Darling thought how small his griefs were, and how vain his
vanity. Of all the bubbly clots of froth, or frayed and shattered dabs
of drift, flying beside him or falling at his feet, every one was
as good as his ideas, and as valuable as his labours. And of all the
unreckoned waves advancing, lifting their fugitive crests, and roaring,
there certainly was not one that fell with weight so futile as his
own. Who cared even to hear his sound? What ear was soothed by his long
rhythm, or what mind solaced by the magnitude of his rolling?

Suddenly he found that some mind was so. For when he had been standing
a long while thus, chewing the salt cud of marine reflections, he seemed
to hear something more intelligible than the sea. With more surprise
than interest he walked towards the sound, and stood behind the corner
of a jutting rock to listen. In another second his interest overpowered
his surprise, for he knew every word of the lines brought to his ears,
for the very simple reason that they were his own. Round the corner of
that rock, so absorbed in admiration that he could hear no footstep, a
very fine young man of the highest order was reading aloud in a powerful
voice, and with extremely ardent gesticulation, a fine passage from that
greatly undervalued poem, the Harmodiad, of and concerning the beauties
of Freedom--


     "No crown upon her comely head she bore,
      No wreath her affluent tresses to restrain;
      A smile the only ornament she wore,
      Her only gem a tear for others' pain.
      Understand in what gave the tribute, and
      the possibility of the province, many
      women took the most beautiful that could be
      found; Dellas took for himself, and gave to his
      captains and private; the others were placed in the temple the sun
and stored there.

     Entering the Collao, brought him an account of
      the large herds of cattle that had, and how
      many loads of fine wool mill took a year to
      those making the clothes for your home
      and service. On the island of Titicaca
      came in and ordered to make big sacrifices.
      In Chuquiabo [194], Indians were sent
      to their shelves with suppliers to get
      gold metal with the order and regiment that has escripto.

Moving forward, he ordered that the Charcas and other nations to Chichas,
sacasen large amount of silver paste, which led to Cuzco on your own,
with nothing missing; mitimaes some transport from one part to
another, although there were days that were accommodated; ordered that
all work and no loose, because they said that the land where there were
lazy, did not think anything else but how to find scandals and
corrupt the honesty of the women.

Where going to build drums and sent squares, giving the track with his
hand; terms apportioned to many provinces and limit known, so that, for
aventajallo not come to blows. People of War, though much, was adjusted
so that no one came out of the real step, where it passed by, the natural
they provide what is necessary so fully, so it was more over than what
was spent. In some places they built baths, and other boxes, and the
deserts were great houses. Everywhere quel Inca passed, leaving such
things done, which is counting admiration. Which wandered punished while
overlook anything, and gratified to whom he served well.

Ordenado these things and others, became subjects of the provinces now to
the Villa de la Plata, Tucuman, and so on [195] sent people with masters
Chiriguanos the war, but they were not good, because once again fleeing.
Moreover, to the South Sea, he sent more people with other captains,
to Lord of the valleys and villages all his father could not conquer.
He was walking with his people to Chile, ending the break, where they
went, the people who had. Passed by the empty lot, and was much snow
that fell on them, they wore awnings and many guarescer Yanaconas
and women of service.

For all these snow was making the road, or was done, and clean, and
posts made by him. Close to what they called Chile, where he was more
than a year to curb those nations in understanding and recording of any
point; sacasen sent to the stated amount of gold tejuelos; and
mitimaes were placed and transported many of those people in some
parts of Chile in others.

He, in some places, strong and close to its use, calling pucaraes for
the war that some had. Did much for the land that his father, until he
said he had seen the end della and reports sent to many places to be
understood in its future greatness, and ways of grown men. [196] As in
the reason of Chile, and done what they agreed to put their delegates
and governors, and he always notices in the court of Cuzco what
happened in that province.

Encargóles to make justice and that no riot or uproar consented not
kill the movers without any life. He returned to Cuzco, where he was
received in the city square and the priests of the temple of Curicancha
given many blessings, and he was glad people with big celebrations
that were made.

Nacíanle And many children, which raised their mothers, among whom was
born Atahuallpa second the opinion of all Indians of Cuzco, who claim
to be so, and his mother called Tuta Palla, Quillaco natural, but others
claim to be from the lineage of the Orencuzcos and always, since I grew
up, went Atahuallpa with his father, and was older Guascar. _CAP. LXIII
.-- How the King Guayna Capac around mandar appeal to people, and
how it came out of Quito._ As Capac Guayna is hobiese loose some
months in Cuzco, and it hobiesen joined the priests of the temples
of the oracles and soothsayers, ordered to make sacrifices, and the
offering of capacocha was big and rich, and returned full of gold
scoffer of the sorcerers.

Each gave an answer as I parescia the king would be more happy. Which
with other things last Guayna Capac ordered to be understood in a
real way, higher and wider than it was where his father, who came
to Quito, where he had thought of going, and that the rooms and
regular deposits the posts were passing him.

For all the land knowing it be his will, left to post notice, and then
were mandar Orejón to comply, and was a most magnificent way and see
what in the world, and longer, because left close to Quito and Cuzco,
and was coupled with what was going to Chile. Like him, I think that
since there are memories of people, has not read much grandeur as this
road was done by deep valleys and high mountains, on hills of snow, for
bogs and water and live rock together furious rivers, for these
parts was flat and paved, on the slopes or out, for saws away on the
rocks eroded by the rivers along their walls, with snow from steps
and breaks; everywhere clean, sweep, overburden, full of chambers, and
deposits of treasures, temples of the sun, which had poles in this way.
Oh What greatness can be said of Alexander, or any of the powerful
kings who ordered the world that made such a path, neither invented
the injunction that it had?

It was not the road that the Romans did, passing through Spain, or others
that we read, to compare with this. Hízose And even more recently of what
can be imagined, for the Incas, before sending them to their people by
putting it in play.

Hízose general appeal in all provinces of his dominion, and came from so
many people everywhere that hinchian fields, and after having made
banquets and drunkenness generally and tidying things the city, went
to Capac Guayna della _iscaypachaguaranga runas_, meaning, with "two
hundred million men of war," without Yanaconas and women in service, which
did not have the number dell. Carrying two million women in Cuzco and
left more than four million.

They had provided the delegates and governors attended the headwaters
of the provinces, which they borrowed from all sides [with]
bastimentos and arms, and everything else that is always collected
and stored for when to war and so hincheron all major rooms and all
deposits, so that four to four leagues, which was the day, it was
understood was to be found for supplying all this multitude of
People without loss, but over what they spent and women, boys and
men who served in person to what was commanded, and took the
replacement of the Inca and the baggage of a people's war tambo to
another, where the injunction in the past.

Guayna Since leaving Capac, by the way that his mandate had been
sent to, from Cuzco, he walked until he reached about Vilcas, which stopped
some days in the chambers that she had not stuck with his father
and holgóse to see the Sun Temple was finished, and left many gold
and silver pastes for jewelry and glasses, he took great care that
the injunction of Mamacona and priests.

Sobióse to make prayer a roof Galan and cousin that this was done,
sacrificed, according to his blindness, which used, and killed many
animals and birds, with some children and men, to placate their gods.
This fact, left that place with his people the king, and did not
stop until Xauxa Valley, where there was some controversy and
division over the boundaries and areas of the valley, among them
that of the gentlemen were.

Capac Guayna As I understood it, after having made sacrifices, as in
Vilcas, together commanded Mr.

Alaya, Cucichuca, Guacaropa [197] and fairly divided between them the
fields the way you do today. Yauyos sent to the embassies, as did the
Yuncos, Bonbon and sent some gifts to the lords of the land natural,
because, as they were in the lagoon, swimming parties, loosely speaking,
rigor and did not want to talk with them to see yours. Xauxa The lords
made him great services, and some of the masters of war and people
accompanying him, and went to Bonbon, where he stopped just because
they wanted to go to Caxamalca, accompanied by more place to relax
and comarcano provinces with large and very high.

And by the way he always came with great people and embassies present.
Getting to Caxamalca, stopped some days to rest of the way, and
commanded his people in war are housed in the round that land and
that comiese which was collected in the tanks and the people who
came by paresció Guancachupachos and had reece war because not all
were there in the natural grace of his father and compliance, but
both could, and subdue it opened, putting the governors and captains,
and choosing the natural lords, to send land, that they paresció
because these old gentlemen did not know other than being more
powerful, and acaudillaban stood for war and peace when they want
granted.

In Chachapoyas Guayna Capac found great resistance, both to flee again
twice disrupted the strong need for its defense to, and came to him
with favors, turned on and broke Chachapoyanos so that peace called ,
stopping the war on their part.

God in terms of benefit to the Inca, who ordered Dell to spend many who
reside in the same Cuzco, whose descendants today live in the same
city, took many women, because they are beautiful and graceful and
very white; put garrisons mitimaes ordinary soldiers, for who
stood border was governor in the bulk of the region, provided they used
the most; punished many of the key, because he was war, which indeed,
Caxamalca again, where he continued his journey, and put into order
Caxas provinces, Ayahuaca, Guancabanba [198] and the other confined
to them.

_CAP. LXIV .-- How Guayna Capac entered by Bracamoros and again fled, and
what happened until she reached Quito._ public is natural and many of
these parties Guayna Capac came through the land we call Bracamoros
and flee again the fury of men who dwell in it, which were coupled
acaudillado and to defend those who would be mad, and without Orejón
of Cuzco, this account of Mr Chincha, and some of the main and the
Collao Xauxa.

And they say all, Capac Guayna going away to settle those lands where his
father was and he had subjugated, he knew how the Bracamoros had
many men and women who were fertile, and well inside the earth had a
gap and Many rivers, full of large populations. Cobdicioso to discover
and gains ladies, taking it paresció people with little experience,
he walk away, leaving the field hosted by real drums, and entrusted
to the captain general. Entering the earth, iban opening [199]
with the way asaz work, because after the snowy mountains of the
promontories, they gave in the mountains of the Andes and found that users
spend angry, and many waters fell from heaven. Everything was not party
to the Inca fails to reach where natural for many posts you were
looking strong, where he showed his embarrassments, afeándole his coming,
and started the war and some others, and many of the barbarians gathered,
the more naked without clothes to bring, to what is stated, that
the Inca were determined to withdraw, and he did not win anything
on that land.

And it felt natural, given such hurry, that long passage, sometimes making
faces, sometimes sending present, descabulló Dell and fleeing again
to his kingdom, saying that was to avenge the rabudos; which said
because some Traian maures the [200] that long hung over the legs.
On this land, where he had reformed, it also states that master sent
to people that was enough, to seeing the coast of the Sea which there
were the North and seek to attract the natural service of Guayaquil
and Puerto Viejo, and they walked by those counties in which war
and had some battles, and in some cases there were winners and
others not entirely, and walked up to ansi Collique where met with
people who went naked and ate human flesh and had customs that have
today and use the river comarcanos Sant Juan, where they gave back,
not wanting to move forward, to give notice to their king, who with
all his people had come to the Kannada; Where Holga in Estremo,
because they say birth [201] there, and you have made large chambers
and drums, and much injunction, and sent embassies to you come to
see the counties and in many places it came with ambassadors present.

I understand that, certainly some people who tried to rampage in the
region of Cuzco, it felt so much that, after having removed the head
to the main expressly ordered that the Indians of those places you
brought the stones from Cuzco to the amount noted, to do a lot of
apartments around Tomebamba paramount, and that the trujiesen tricks,
and kept his commandment.

And it said many times Guayna capacity, the people of these kingdoms,
for good tenella subjugated, Conventions, if they did not understand
that or do that, make a mountain move from one place to another
and still keep Cuzco sent rocks and slabs for buildings of Quito,
which today are in buildings that were.

Tomebamba Of Capac Guayna left and went through the Puru, and rested
a few days in Riobamba, and Mocha Tacunga and rested in its people well
and had to drink a lot of potion which for them was accompanied and
taken everywhere. Visited here and was greeted by many lords and masters
of the region and sent Orejón was to his lineage [202] to be by the coast
of the plains and the mountains to take account of quiposcamayos,
their accountants, than it had in the tanks, and to know how it was
with the natural quel had made by governors, and if they were well
provided and the temples of the sun and the oracles that had Guaca
everywhere, and sent to Cuzco messenger to order the things that
sent left and fulfill your every desire.

And there was that day came not post, no one or a few but many, of
Cuzco, the Collao, Chile and all of his kingdom. Tacunga De La
walked until close to Quito, where he was received in their own way
and style, with great festivities, and gave his father the governor
of the treasures, which were many, with fine clothes and things
that were in charge, and honróle words, their loyalty Loanda, calling
him father and he always deemed according to how much his father and he
had served. The people sent to Quito comarcanos many bastimentos present
and for the king, and commanded in Quito are made stronger and more
rooms of those who had, and then púsose work, and the facts that were
found when our land that they won . _CAP. LXV .-- How Guayna Capac
walked through the valleys of Los Llanos, and what some of hizo._
Orejón they say, that Guayna Capac returned from Quito to Cuzco
Pachacama to Los Llanos, and others not, as was in Quito until he
died.

In this, inquerido what is true, according to the porn as I heard
there were some key people in their with him in this war, they say,
that coming in Quito, it came from many parts ambassadors welcomed
with him on behalf of their lands, that have, and having taken
[the] very safe and peaceful [so] the provinces of the mountains,
he thought that day would do well in the provinces of Puerto Viejo
and Guayaquil to what we call, And the Yuncos and taking their
advice to their masters and leading, approved his thinking and
suggest you put in work.

In Quito were many of its people, who agreed with the left, and came
to those lands, where some residents Dellas had some skirmishes,
but in the end, both were in their service and made them rulers and
mitimaes . The war with Highland reece had Túmbez, and Inca had ordered
to cease fighting and to receive in the Puna, which Tumbala felt much
because it was Mr Dell, but not dared to make against the Inca,
before it recebió and was present with false peace, because, as
we came out, seek to natives of the land, many tried to kill their
captains Orejón with iban rafts to go out on a river to take the
land, but knew Guayna Capac about it and did what I have escripto
in Part One of Chapter LIII, and made great punishment, and sending
to the road, or strong step that called Guayna capacity [203], and
again stopped at Túmbez, where Buildings made of sun and temple,
and came from the region to do him reverence with much humility.

It was through the valleys of Los Llanos bringing reason, to share words
and water, not sending diesen war, and doing what elsewhere has
escripto. They say of, that going down the beautiful valley Chayanta near
Chimo, where it is now the city of Trujillo, was an Indian man in a seed,
and as he heard the king went there about, which took three or four
cucumbers with their land and took them all, and said: - _Ancha Atunapu
micucampa_, which means, "Very great Lord, you eat it." - And in
front of the ladies and more people took the cucumber, and eating
one of them, said before all, to please the old man: _Xuylluy, wide
mizqui cay_, which in our language means: "In truth This is very
sweet. " That all receive great pleasure.

So going forward, and did Chimo Guañape, Guarmey, Guaura, Lima and in
most valleys, quel what was served to do, and how to reach Pachacama,
made many big parties and dances and drunkenness and priests, with their
lies, told the evil deeds they used to, invented with his cunning,
and even some by the same devil's mouth, at that time spoke to the
audience is such, and gave them Guayna Capac, which read more arrobas
a hundred million of gold and silver and emeralds and other gems,
which are adorned with more than it was the temple of the sun and
the ancient Pachacama.

From here, say some of those Indians who went to Cuzco, others returned
to Quito. Anyway, time is highlighted, or which has been first, which
is not enough, he visited all the plains, and he was the grand way
that they see it done, and anxiety, we know that in Chincha and
other parts of these valleys He deposits and large chambers and
temple of the sun.

And since everything in view, the Los Llanos and in the mountains, and
taking all the peaceful realm, turned on the Quito and moved the
war to parents who now call Huambracunas [204] and discovered that
part of south to the River Augasmayu.

_CAP. LXVI .-- How Guayna Capac out of Quito, sent forward some of his
captains, who again fled the enemy, and what about it I was in
Quito hizo._ Capac Guayna with all the old captains and soldiers who
were with him have found, however, who ordered that leave people
with their masters of war to subdue nations that had not ever wanted
to have his friendship, which, as we know his stay in Quito, dello
misgivings, had been searched and apercebido favors for their
neighbors and relatives to resist those who came to find them, and
had made Albarradas is strong and many of the weapons they use, and
as left, after Guayna capacity was to stir them to another land
that confined her, that all should be the so-called region of Quito,
and as their masters and went where people were on track, having
little of that going to look, thinking that would ease with gentlemen
of their fields and farms, were hurriedly walk; more, otherwise
they agreed luck than I thought because the way they came out with
a great voice and yell in droves and gave them such a hard, killing
many and captured them, and treated them well, which disrupted the
whole point of constriñeron them back again, and rage were all
fleeing back and winning the enemies behind them, lighting, and
killing all they could.

Some of the more loose walked so much in grand, until faced with
the Inca, á I only realized the tragedy occurred, which is no little
fatigue, and watching quietly, he made a great man, who was mandar
to which it had been quiet and that no person and tell us what he
knew before back to the road and tell all those who came disrupted,
which would make the first hill topasen, when he saw a squad without
the fear of death that falls are lucky, because he, with people of
soda, we would vengaría and enemies, and this became.

And showed no embarrassment, believing that if the place was sabian
quel new, all juntarian and would be in it, and would be more
trouble, and told them to disguise gear, I wanted to go for some
people who would see when she arrived.

And going forward, leaving the left and walked all day and a half, and
came to escape, which were many, [and] saw people coming, it was theirs,
to misunderstand the degree of stopped on a hillside and enemies that
came along, they began to hit them, killing many, but Guayna capacity
by three parties gave them, not being troubled little fencing, and already
they were defeated, but is sought to join and fight, given that hand,
that the fields are hinchian of the dead, and wanting to flee, they
had taken the step, and killed so many, that few escaped alive, but were
the captives, who were many, and where everything came upset, believing
that the Inca had to kill it and disrupt it by those who were killed
and prisoners.

And as it became known to them, settled flat foot, showing all great
pleasure. Capac Guayna yours that were recovered alive and those who
were killed and sent to sepolturas honors, according to their kind,
because they know all there is in the souls immortality, and also
made, where this battle was given, lumps of rock and roll memory
of what had been done and Guayna Capac sent this warning to Cuzco,
and was reformed its people, and was ahead of Caranque.

And of Otavalo, Cayanbi, Cochasqui, Pifo [205 ], with other peoples,
had linked together and with others, not to be subdue the Inca, but
rather die than lose their freedom and their lands were made houses
strong, neither they be forced to pay taxes to their present to
Cuzco, a land so far as heard.

And they talked between this and had their considerations await the
Inca, who knew that war was coming to give them, which went with them to
the county dest, where he made his fences Albarrán and strong, they
call pucaraes where he put his people and service. Sent messengers to
those people with big present, a request that does not give you war,
but because he did not want peace with honest conditions, and that
it always find favor, as his father, who did not want tomalles
anything, but what Dallas Trai.

The fine for a French word in that house, and in hundreds
of other English houses at this patriotic period, was a crown for a
gentleman, and a shilling for a lady, the latter not being liable except
when gentlemen were present. The poet knew well that another word on his
part would irritate his father to such a degree that no visit would be
paid to-morrow to the admirer of the Harmodiad, whose admiration he
was longing to reward with a series of good dinners. And so he did his
utmost to ensure his father's visit.

But when the Admiral, going warily--because he was so stiff from
saddle-work--made his way down to the house of Widow Shanks, and winking
at the Royal Arms in the lower front window, where Stubbard kept Office
and convenience, knocked with the knocker at the private door, there
seemed to be a great deal of thought required before anybody came to
answer.

"Susie," said the visitor, who had an especial knack of remembering
Christian names, which endeared him to the bearers, "I am come to see
Mr. Carne, and I hope he is at home."

"No, that 'a bain't, sir," the little girl made answer, after looking at
the Admiral as if he was an elephant, and wiping her nose with unwonted
diligence; "he be gone away, sir; and please, sir, mother said so."

"Well, here's a penny for you, my dear, because you are the best little
needle-woman in the school, they tell me. Run and tell your mother to
come and see me.--Oh, Mrs. Shanks, I am very glad to see you, and so
blooming in spite of all your hard work. Ah, it is no easy thing in
these hard times to maintain a large family and keep the pot boiling.
And everything clean as a quarter-deck! My certy, you are a woman in a
thousand!"

"No, sir, no. It is all the Lord's doing. And you to the back of Him, as
I alway say. Not a penny can they make out as I owes justly, bad as I be
at the figures, Squire. Do 'e come in, and sit down, there's a dear. Ah,
I mind the time when you was like a dart, Squire!"

"Well, and now I am like a cannon-ball," said the Admiral, who
understood and liked this unflattering talk; "only I don't travel quite
so fast as that. I scarcely get time to see any old friends. But I
came to look out for a young friend now, the gentleman you make
so comfortable upstairs. Don't I wish I was a young man without
incumbrance, to come and lodge with such a wonderful landlady!"

"Ah, if there was more of your sort, sir, there'd be a deal less trouble
in the world, there would. Not that my young gentleman is troublesome,
mind you, only so full of them outlandish furrin ways--abideth all day
long without ating ort, so different from a honest Englishman. First I
used to think as he couldn't afford it, and long to send him up a bit
of my own dinner, but dursn't for the life of me--too grand for that,
by ever so--till one day little Susie there comes a-running down
the stairs, and she sings out, with her face as red as ever a boiled
lobster: 'Looky see, mother! Oh, do 'e come and looky see! Pollyon hath
got a heap of guineas on his table; wouldn't go into the big yellow
pudding-basin!' And sure enough he had, your Honour, in piles, as if
he was telling of them. He had slipped out suddenly, and thought
the passage door was bolted. What a comfort it was to me, I can't
configurate. Because I could eat my dinner comfortable now, for such a
big heap of money never I did see."

"I am very glad--heartily glad," exclaimed the smiling Admiral. "I hope
he may get cash enough to buy back all the great Carne property, and
kick out those rascally Jews and lawyers. But what makes Susie call him
that?"

"Well, sir, the young ones must have a nickname for anything beyond
them; and because he never takes any notice of them--so different from
your handsome Master Frank--and some simility of his black horse, or his
proud walk, to the pictur', 'Pollyon' is the name they give him, out of
Pilgrim's Progress. Though not a bit like him, for such a gentleman to
pay his rent and keep his place untroublesome I never had before. And a
fortnight he paid me last night, afore going, and took away the keys of
all three doors."

"He is gone, then, is he? To London, I dare say. It would be useless to
look for him at the castle. My son will be disappointed more than I am.
To tell you the truth, Mrs. Shanks, in these days the great thing is to
stick to the people that we know. The world is so full, not of rogues,
but of people who are always wanting something out of one, that to talk
with a thoroughly kind, honest person, like yourself, is a real luxury.
When the gentleman comes back, let him know that I have called."

"And my Jenny, sir?" cried the anxious mother, running after him into
the passage; "not a word have you said about my Jenny. I hope she show
no sign of flightiness?"

"Jenny is as steady as the church," replied the Admiral. "We are going
to put her on a pound a year from next quarter-day, by Mrs. Cloam's
advice. She'll have a good stocking by the time she gets married."

"There never was such a pleasant gentleman, nor such a kind-hearted one,
I do believe," said Widow Shanks, as she came in with bright eyes. "What
are they Carnes to the Darlings, after all? As different as night and
day."

But the Admiral's next visit was not quite so pleasant; for when he got
back into the village road, expecting a nice walk to his luncheon and
his pipe, a man running furiously almost knocked him down, and had no
time to beg his pardon. The runner's hat was off his head, and his
hair blowing out, but luckily for itself his tongue was not between his
teeth.

"Has the devil got hold of you at last, Jem Prater?" the Admiral asked,
not profanely; for he had seen a good deal of mankind, and believed in
diabolical possession.

"For Parson! for Parson!" cried Jem, starting off again as hard as he
could go. "Butter Cheeseman hath hanged his self in his own scales. And
nobody is any good but Parson."

Admiral Darling was much disturbed. "What will the world come to? I
never knew such times," he exclaimed to himself, with some solemnity;
and then set off, as fast as his overridden state permitted, for the
house of Mr. Cheeseman. Passing through the shop, which had nobody in
it, he was led by the sound of voices into a little room beyond it--the
room in which Mr. Cheeseman had first received Caryl Carne. Here
he beheld an extraordinary scene, of which he often had to dream
thereafter.

From a beam in the roof (which had nothing to do with his scales, as Jem
Prater had imagined), by a long but not well-plaited cord, was dangling
the respected Church-warden Cheeseman. Happily for him, he had relied on
his own goods; and the rope being therefore of very bad hemp, had failed
in this sad and too practical proof. The weight of its vendor had added
to its length some fifteen inches--as he loved to pull out things--and
his toes touched the floor, which relieved him now and then.

"Why don't you cut him down, you old fools?" cried the Admiral to three
gaffers, who stood moralising, while Mrs. Cheeseman sat upon a barrel,
sobbing heavily, with both hands spread to conceal the sad sight.

"We was afraid of hurting of him," said the quickest-witted of the
gaffers; "Us wanted to know why 'a doed it," said the deepest; and, "The
will of the Lord must be done," said the wisest.

After fumbling in vain for his knife, and looking round, the Admiral ran
back into the shop, and caught up the sharp steel blade with which the
victim of a troubled mind had often unsold a sold ounce in the days of
happy commerce. In a moment the Admiral had the poor Church-warden in
his sturdy arms, and with a sailor's skill had unknotted the choking
noose, and was shouting for brandy, as he kept the blue head from
falling back.

When a little of the finest eau de vie that ever was smuggled had been
administered, the patient rallied, and becoming comparatively cheerful,
was enabled to explain that "it was all a mistake altogether." This
removed all misunderstanding; but Rector Twemlow, arriving too late
for anything but exhortation, asked a little too sternly--as everybody
felt--under what influence of the Evil One Cheeseman had committed that
mistake. The reply was worthy of an enterprising tradesman, and brought
him such orders from a score of miles around that the resources of the
establishment could only book them.

"Sir," he said, looking at the parson sadly, with his right hand laid
upon his heart, which was feeble, and his left hand intimating that his
neck was sore, "if anything has happened that had better not have been,
it must have been by reason of the weight I give, and the value such a
deal above the prices."


CHAPTER XXXVIII

EVERYBODY'S MASTER


The peril of England was now growing fast; all the faster from being in
the dark. The real design of the enemy escaped the penetration even
of Nelson, and our Government showed more anxiety about their great
adversary landing on the coast of Egypt than on that of England. Naval
men laughed at his flat-bottomed boats, and declared that one frigate
could sink a hundred of them; whereas it is probable that two of them,
with their powerful guns and level fire, would have sunk any frigate we
then possessed. But the crafty and far-seeing foe did not mean to allow
any frigate, or line-of-battle ship, the chance of enquiring how that
might be.

His true scheme, as everybody now knows well, was to send the English
fleet upon a wild-goose chase, whether to Egypt, the west coast of
Ireland, or the West Indies, as the case might be; and then, by a rapid
concentration of his ships, to obtain command of the English Channel,
if only for twenty-four hours at a time. Twenty-four hours of clearance
from our cruisers would have seen a hundred thousand men landed on our
coast, throwing up entrenchments, and covering the landing of another
hundred thousand, coming close upon their heels. Who would have faced
them? A few good regiments, badly found, and perhaps worse led, and a
mob of militia and raw volunteers, the reward of whose courage would be
carnage.

But as a chip smells like the tree, and a hair like the dog it belongs
to, so Springhaven was a very fair sample of the England whereof (in its
own opinion) it formed a most important part. Contempt for the body of
a man leads rashly to an under-estimate of his mind; and one of the
greatest men that ever grew on earth--if greatness can be without
goodness--was held in low account because not of high inches, and
laughed at as "little Boney."

However, there were, as there always are, thousands of sensible
Englishmen then; and rogues had not yet made a wreck of grand
Institutions to scramble for what should wash up. Abuses existed, as
they always must; but the greatest abuse of all (the destruction of
every good usage) was undreamed of yet. And the right man was even now
approaching to the rescue, the greatest Prime-Minister of any age or
country.

Unwitting perhaps of the fine time afforded by the feeble delays of
Mr. Addington, and absorbed in the tissue of plot and counterplot
now thickening fast in Paris--the arch-plotter in all of them being
himself--the First Consul had slackened awhile his hot haste to set foot
upon the shore of England. His bottomless ambition for the moment had
a top, and that top was the crown of France; and as soon as he had got
that on his head, the head would have no rest until the crown was that
of Europe.

But before any crown could be put on at all, the tender hearts of
Frenchmen must be touched by the appearance of great danger--the danger
which is of all the greatest, that to their nearest and dearest selves.
A bloody farce was in preparation, noble lives were to be perjured away,
and above all, the only great rival in the hearts of soldiers must be
turned out of France. This foul job worked--as foul Radical jobs do
now--for the good of England. If the French invasion had come to pass,
as it was fully meant to do, in the month of February, 1804, perhaps its
history must have been written in French, for us to understand it.

So, at any rate, thought Caryl Carne, who knew the resources of either
side, and the difference between a fine army and a mob. He felt quite
sure that his mother's country would conquer his father's without much
trouble, and he knew that his horn would be exalted in the land, when he
had guided the conqueror into it. Sure enough then he would recover his
ancestral property with interest and be able to punish his enemies well,
and reward his friends if they deserved it. Thinking of these things,
and believing that his own preparations would soon be finished, he
left Widow Shanks to proclaim his merits, while under the bold and able
conduct of Captain Renaud Charron he ran the gauntlet of the English
fleet, and was put ashore southward of Cape Grisnez. Here is a long
reach of dreary exposure, facing the west unprofitably, with a shallow
slope of brown sand, and a scour of tide, and no pleasant moorings.
Jotted as the coast was all along (whereon dry batteries grinned
defiance, or sands just awash smiled treachery) with shallow transports,
gun-boats, prames, scows, bilanders, brigs, and schooners, row-galleys,
luggers, and every sort of craft that has a mast, or gets on without
one, and even a few good ships of war pondering malice in the safer
roadsteads, yet here the sweep of the west wind, and the long roll
from the ocean following, kept a league or two, northward of the mighty
defences of Boulogne, inviolate by the petty enmities of man. Along the
slight curve of the coast might be seen, beyond Ambleteuse and Wimereux,
the vast extent of the French flotilla, ranged in three divisions,
before the great lunette of the central camp, and hills jotted with
tents thick as limpets on a rock.

Carne (whose dealings were quite unknown to all of the French
authorities save one, and that the supreme one) was come by appointment
to meet his commander in a quiet and secluded spot. It was early
February now, and although the day was waning, and the wind, which was
drawing to the north of west, delivered a cold blow from the sea, yet
the breath of Spring was in the air already, and the beat of her pulse
came through the ground. Almost any man, except those two concerting
to shed blood and spread fire, would have looked about a little at the
pleasure of the earth, and felt a touch of happiness in the goodness of
the sky.

Caryl Carne waited in the shelter of a tree, scarcely deserving to be
called a tree, except for its stiff tenacity. All the branches were
driven by the western gales, and scourged flat in one direction--that in
which they best could hold together, and try to believe that their life
was their own. Like the wings of a sea bird striving with a tempest,
all the sprays were frayed alike, and all the twigs hackled with the
self-same pile. Whoever observes a tree like this should stop to wonder
how ever it managed to make itself any sort of trunk at all, and how
it was persuaded to go up just high enough to lose the chance of ever
coming down again. But Carne cared for nothing of this sort, and heeded
very little that did not concern himself. All he thought of was how he
might persuade his master to try the great issue at once.

While he leaned heavily against the tree, with his long sea-cloak
flapping round his legs, two horsemen struck out of the Ambleteuse road,
and came at hand-gallop towards him. The foremost, who rode with short
stirrups, and sat his horse as if he despised him, was the foremost man
of the world just now, and for ten years yet to come.

Carne ran forward to show himself, and the master of France dismounted.
He always looked best upon horseback, as short men generally do, if they
ride well; and his face (which helped to make his fortune) appeared
even more commanding at a little distance. An astonishing face, in its
sculptured beauty, set aspect, and stern haughtiness, calm with the
power of transcendant mind, and a will that never met its equal. Even
Carne, void of much imagination, and contemptuous of all the human
character he shared, was the slave of that face when in its presence,
and could never meet steadily those piercing eyes. And yet, to the study
of a neutral dog, or a man of abstract science, the face was as bad as
it was beautiful.

Napoleon--as he was soon to be called by a cringing world--smiled
affably, and offered his firm white hand, which Carne barely touched,
and bent over with deference. Then the foaming horse was sent away in
charge of the attendant trooper, and the master began to take short
quick steps, to and fro, in front of the weather-beaten tree; for to
stand still was not in his nature. Carne, being beckoned to keep at his
side, lost a good deal of what he had meant to say, from the trouble he
found in timing his wonted stride to the brisk pace of the other.

"You have done well--on the whole very well," said Napoleon, whose voice
was deep, yet clear and distinct as the sound of a bell. "You have
kept me well informed; you are not suspected; you are enlarging your
knowledge of the enemy and of his resources; every day you become more
capable of conducting us to the safe landing. For what, then, this
hurry, this demand to see me, this exposing of yourself to the risk of
capture?"

Carne was about to answer; but the speaker, who undershot the thoughts
of others before they were shaped--as the shuttle of the lightning
underweaves a cloud--raised his hand to stop him, and went on:

"Because you suppose that all is ripe. Because you believe that the slow
beasts of islanders will strengthen their defences more by delay than
we shall strengthen our attack. Because you are afraid of incurring
suspicion, if you continue to prepare. And most of all, my friend,
because you are impatient to secure the end of a long enterprise. But,
Captain, it must be longer yet. It is not for you, but for me, to
fix the time. Behold me! I am come from a grand review. We have again
rehearsed the embarkation. We have again put two thousand horses on
board. The horses did it well; but not the men. They are as brave as
eagles, but as clumsy as the ostrich, and as fond of the sand without
water. They will all be sea-sick. It is in their countenances, though
many have been practised in the mouths of rivers. Those infamous English
will not permit us to proceed far enough from our native land to acquire
what they call the legs of the sea. If our braves are sea-sick, how can
they work the cannon, or even navigate well for the accursed island?
They must have time. They must undergo more waves, and a system of diet
before embarkation. Return, my trusted Captain, and continue your
most esteemed services for three months. I have written these new
instructions for you. You may trust me to remember this addition to your
good works."

Carne's heart fell, and his face was gloomy, though he did his best
to hide it. So well he knew the arrogance and fierce self-will of his
commanding officer that he durst not put his own opposite view of the
case directly before him. This arrogance grew with the growth of his
power; so that in many important matters Napoleon lost the true state of
the case through the terror felt by his subordinates. So great was the
mastery of his presence that Carne felt himself guilty of impertinence
in carrying his head above the level of the General's plume, and stooped
unconsciously--as hundreds of tall men are said to have done--to lessen
this anomaly of Nature.

"All shall be done to your orders, my General," he replied,
submissively. "For my own position I have no fear. I might remain there
from year to year without any suspicion arising, so stupid are the
people all around, and so well is my name known among them. The only
peril is in the landing of stores, and I think we should desist from
that. A few people have been wondering about that, though hitherto we
have been most fortunate. They have set it down so far to smuggling
operations, with which in that tyrannical land all the lower orders
sympathise. But it would be wiser to desist awhile, unless you, my
General, have anything of moment which you still desire to send in."

"What sort of fellow is that Sheeseman?" asked Napoleon, with his
wonderful memory of details. "Is he more to be confided in as a rogue or
as a fool?"

"As both, sir; but more especially as a rogue, though he has the
compunctions of a fool sometimes. But he is as entirely under my thumb,
as I am under that of my Commander."

"That is very good," answered the First Consul, smiling with the sense
of his own power; "and at an hour's notice, with fifty chosen men landed
from the London Trader--ah, I love that name; it is appropriate--you
could spike all the guns of that pretentious little battery, and lock
the Commander of the Coast-Defence in one of his own cellars. Is it not
so, my good Captain? Answer me not. That is enough. One question more,
and you may return. Are you certain of the pilotage of the proud young
fisherman who knows every grain of sand along his native shore? Surely
you can bribe him, if he hesitates at all, or hold a pistol at his ear
as he steers the leading prame into the bay! Charron would be the man
for that. Between you and Charron, there should be no mistake."

"He requires to be handled with much delicacy. He has no idea yet what
he is meant to do. And if I understand his nature, neither bribes nor
fear would move him. He is stubborn as a Breton, and of that simple
character."

"One can always befool a Breton; but I hate that race," said Napoleon.
"If he cannot be made useful, tie a round shot to him, throw him
overheard, and get a gentler native."

"Alas, I fear that we cannot indulge in that pleasure," said Carne, with
a smile of regret. "It cost me a large outlay of skill to catch him, and
the natives of that place are all equally stubborn. But I have a plan
for making him do our work without being at all aware of it. Is it your
wish, my General, that I should now describe that plan?"

"Not now," replied Napoleon, pulling out a watch of English make, "but
in your next letter. I start for Paris in an hour's time. You will hear
of things soon which will add very greatly to the weight and success of
this grand enterprise. We shall have perfidious Albion caught in her own
noose, as you shall see. You have not heard of one Captain Wright,
and the landing-place at Biville. We will have our little Biville
at Springhaven. There will be too many of us to swing up by a rope.
Courage, my friend! The future is with you. Our regiments are casting
dice for the fairest English counties. But your native county is
reserved for you. You shall possess the whole of it--I swear it by
the god of war--and command the Southern army. Be brave, be wise, be
vigilant, and above all things be patient."

The great man held up his hand, as a sign that he wanted his horse, and
then offered it to Caryl Carne, who touched it lightly with his lips,
and bent one knee. "My Emperor!" he said, "my Emperor!"

"Wait until the proper time," said Napoleon, gravely, and yet well
pleased. "You are not the first, and you will not be the last. Observe
discretion. Farewell, my friend!"

In another minute he was gone, and the place looked empty without him.
Carne stood gloomily watching the horsemen as their figures grew small
in the distance, the large man behind pounding heavily away, like an
English dragoon, on the scanty sod, of no importance to anybody--unless
he had a wife or children--the little man in front (with the white plume
waving, and the well-bred horse going easily), the one whose body would
affect more bodies, and certainly send more souls out of them, than
any other born upon this earth as yet, and--we hope--as long as ever it
endureth.

Caryl Carne cared not a jot about that. He was anything but a
philanthropist; his weaknesses, if he had any, were not dispersive, but
thoroughly concentric. He gathered his long cloak round his body,
and went to the highest spot within his reach, about a mile from the
watch-tower at Cape Grisnez, and thence he had a fine view of the vast
invasive fleet and the vaster host behind it.

An Englishman who loved his Country would have turned sick at heart and
faint of spirit at the sight before him. The foe was gathered together
there to eat us up on every side, to get us into his net and rend us,
to tear us asunder as a lamb is torn when its mother has dropped it in
flight from the wolves. For forty square miles there was not an acre
without a score of tents upon it, or else of huts thrown up with slabs
of wood to keep the powder dry, and the steel and iron bright and sharp
to go into the vitals of England. Mighty docks had been scooped out by
warlike hands, and shone with ships crowded with guns and alive with
men. And all along the shore for leagues, wherever any shelter lay, and
great batteries protected them, hundreds of other ships tore at their
moorings, to dash across the smooth narrow line, and blacken with fire
and redden with blood the white cliffs of the land they loathed.

And what was there to stop them? The steam of the multitude rose in
the air, and the clang of armour filled it. Numbers irresistible, and
relentless power urged them. At the beck of the hand that had called the
horse, the grey sea would have been black with ships, and the pale waves
would have been red with fire. Carne looked at the water way touched
with silver by the soft descent of the winter sun, and upon it, so far
as his gaze could reach, there were but a dozen little objects moving,
puny creatures in the distance--mice in front of a lion's den. And much
as he hated with his tainted heart the land of his father, the land
of his birth, some reluctant pride arose that he was by right an
Englishman.

"It is the dread of the English seaman, it is the fame of Nelson, it is
the habit of being beaten when England meets them upon the sea--nothing
else keeps this mighty host like a set of trembling captives here, when
they might launch forth irresistibly. And what is a great deal worse,
it will keep me still in my ruined dungeons, a spy, an intriguer, an
understrapper, when I am fit to be one of the foremost. What a fool I am
so to be cowed and enslaved, by a man no better endowed than myself with
anything, except self-confidence! I should have looked over his head,
and told him that I had had enough of it, and if he would not take
advantage of my toils, I would toil for him no longer. Why, he never
even thanked me, that I can remember, and my pay is no more than
Charron's! And a pretty strict account I have to render of every
Republican coin he sends. He will have his own head on them within
six months, unless he is assassinated. His manners are not those of a
gentleman. While I was speaking to him, he actually turned his back upon
me, and cleared his throat! Every one hates him as much as fears him, of
all who are in the rank of gentlemen. How would it pay me to throw him
over, denounce my own doings, excuse them as those of a Frenchman and a
French officer, and bow the knee to Farmer George? Truly if it were not
for my mother, who has sacrificed her life for me, I would take that
course, and have done with it. Such all-important news would compel
them to replace me in the property of my forefathers; and if neighbours
looked coldly on me at first, I could very soon conquer that nonsense. I
should marry little Dolly, of course, and that would go half-way towards
doing it. I hate that country, but I might come to like it, if enough of
it belonged to me. Aha! What would my mother say, if she dreamed that
I could have such ideas? And the whole of my life belongs to her. Well,
let me get back to my ruins first. It would never do to be captured by
a British frigate. We had a narrow shave of it last time. And there will
be a vile great moon to-night."

With these reflections--which were upon the whole more to his credit
than the wonted web of thought--Carne with his long stride struck into
a path towards the beach where his boat was waiting. Although he knew
where to find several officers who had once been his comrades, he kept
himself gladly to his loneliness; less perhaps by reason of Napoleon's
orders than from the growing charm which Solitude has for all who begin
to understand her.


CHAPTER XXXIX

RUNNING THE GAUNTLET


Though Carne had made light, in his impatient mood, of the power of
the blockading fleet, he felt in his heart a sincere respect for its
vigilance and activity. La Liberte (as the unhappy Cheeseman's schooner
was called within gunshot of France) was glad enough to drop that
pretentious name, and become again the peaceful London Trader, when she
found herself beyond the reach of French batteries. The practice of her
captain, the lively Charron, was to give a wide berth to any British
cruiser appearing singly; but whenever more than one hove in sight,
to run into the midst of them and dip his flag. From the speed of his
schooner he could always, in a light wind, show a clean pair of heels to
any single heavy ship, and he had not yet come across any cutter, brig
of war, or light corvette that could collar the Liberte in any sort of
weather. Renaud Charron was a brave young Frenchman, as fair a specimen
as could be found, of a truly engaging but not overpowering type,
kindly, warm-hearted, full of enterprise, lax of morals (unless
honour--their veneer--was touched), loving excitement, and capable of
anything, except skulking, or sulking, or running away slowly.

"None of your risky tricks to-night!" said Carne, as he stood on the
schooner's deck, in the dusk of the February evening, himself in a dark
mood growing darker--for his English blood supplied the elements of
gloom, and he felt a dull pleasure in goading a Frenchman, after being
trampled on by one of French position. "You will just make straight, as
the tide and shoals allow, for our usual landing-place, set me ashore,
and follow me to the old quarters. I have orders to give you, which can
be given only there."

"My commanding officer shall be obeyed," the Frenchman answered, with a
light salute and smile, for he was not endowed with the power of hating,
or he might have indulged that bad power towards Carne; "but I fear that
he has not found things to his liking."

"What concern is that of yours? Your duty is to carry out my orders, to
the utmost of your ability, and offer opinion when asked for."

The light-hearted Frenchman shrugged his shoulders. "My commanding
officer is right," he said; "but the sea is getting up, and there will
be wind, unless I mistake the arising of the moon. My commanding officer
had better retire, until his commands are needed. He has been known
to feel the effects of high tossing, in spite of his unequalled
constitution. Is it not so, my commander? I ask with deference, and
anxiety."

Carne, who liked to have the joke on his side only, swore at the moon
and the wind, in clear English, which was shorter and more efficacious
than French. He longed to say, "Try to keep me out of rough water," but
his pride, and the fear of suggesting the opposite to this sailor who
loved a joke, kept him silent, and he withdrew to his little cuddy,
chewing a biscuit, to feed, if it must be so, the approaching malady.

"We shall have some game, and a fine game too," said Renaud Charron to
himself, as he ordered more sail to be made. "Milord gives himself such
mighty airs! We will take him to the cross-run off the Middle Bank,
and offer him a basin through the key-hole. To make sea-sick an
Englishman--for, after all, what other is he?--will be a fine piece of
revenge for fair France."

Widow Shanks had remarked with tender sorrow--more perhaps because she
admired the young man, and was herself a hearty soul, than from any loss
of profit in victualling him--that "he was one of they folk as seems to
go about their business, and do their jobs, and keep their skins as full
as other people, without putting nort inside of them." She knew one
of that kind before, and he was shot by the Coast-guard, and when they
postmartyred him, an eel twenty foot long was found inside him, doubled
up for all the world like a love-knot. Squire Carne was of too high
a family for that; but she would give a week's rent to know what was
inside him.

There was no little justice in these remarks, as is pretty sure to be
the case with all good-natured criticism. The best cook that ever was
roasted cannot get out of a pot more than was put in it; and the weight
of a cask, as a general rule, diminishes if the tap is turned, without
any redress at the bung-hole. At the silent castle past we entered
the park-wide lawns stretched in front of the terrace, with a bright
sheen over young greens.

At the foot of ancient oaks, the black against the bright sky stood
Snowdrop looked curiously out of the earth, and crocus flowers suggested
surprised her blue eyes. A narrow path between high wall brush, suddenly
to the main page to the wonders of alien trees fabulous place to do;
gray shone their tribes such as granite, and gray gnarled roots crept
through the dark soil of the moss. "Cedars are there," said my companion,
"cedars of Lebanon," and looked admiringly at the dream of the
South. About Us in the crown of the trees rustled in the spring
storm.

After his melody cradled in slender birches and krachend splinter of
oak and lime trees, the barren branches. My companion knew every place
in the park and each plant - with shy tenderness emphasized his cracked
hands on the first small Knöspchen to the bushes. "That They work in
the city where the land so dear, "I was amazed. He shook himself,"
Landarbeeter? Nee! This is for our nischt! "We approached us Platkow,
near the goal of our journey." Se seeing here in the shaky Buden,
"said Merten," straw roofs, - windows, as Mauselöcher, doors that
an ordinary man bend over be - probably, so that's not forgotten!
Quiet as nischt Treter there's one here, that the cap down to the earth
moved, when the stately coach them with dirt bespritzte!

But now it's different, I tell you, janz different - "he beamed while
formally - 'you see there, the White, the union is our house!" In the
middle of this agrarian angle to the agitation of the party as
well as inaccessible been was not because their local assemblies
were made available to the construction workers had their own house
built.

The Local refused them while fully licensed, but they had a roof over
their head, a free space to free speech. "You would see the farmers ,
as our house one o'clock-two o'clock - three, haste nich jesehn! Sandkule
out from the rose, "said Merten." We had only Sundays Arbeet time, but
it flew so Steene. On Sunday in eenem early, when it Jusow went to
church, we started to dig in, and when after the last amen again passed,
the walls were already out of the earth! "The car stopped. The whole
place was fully human. They pushed me behind in the small room, on the
benches along the walls were already women with hot faces. I spoke of
the storm, out of the dust swept from the roofs and everything
Morsch pulled to the ground.

And from the storm of socialism. I described the political situation in
Germany and one of the sins of the Government and the Reichstag majority
of prison on course to customs robbery, I told of the billions to the
poor man in the form of indirect taxes, duties and love gifts from
the small bag should be considered, while his woman at home on a small
budget sighing with every penny be expected. At the hands of the bourgeois
scholar studies, I demonstrate how the cost of food on the increase
in alcoholism, crime, acts of pulmonary tuberculosis. I pulled out the
medical research to show how people of all circles degenerate if the
diet is inadequate, "weak willed, faster failing attention, rapid
exhaustion are the consequences of a policy, the welfare of the
people, the love of the fatherland constantly mouth leads, in fact,
but the performance of workers undermines, our position on the world
shaken.

The economic crisis, which we all suffer from the rise in unemployment,
with her entourage of children and women exploitation jammers
are proof. No "armored fist" can save us from ...

Once in the course of five years it has been granted any Germans, talking
about judgments on those who are his fate. Of the people suffering and
oppression is on the one shell of the wage, the people happiness
and freedom on the other.

We, the 'homeland persons', we the' meek ', we, the' brood of people, not
worth the name Deutsche to 'make our decision depends on which side of
the Wage serious ... "I was motionless listening to the women, with their
hands folded in lap, the men, without the sight of me to apply. Only
here and there I saw a affirmative nod. The people of this barren earth
wore his heart on his lips and knew nothing of the reaction of sensitive
nerves, which is often applauded the whole of the city exists. But
afterwards, when I no longer have them stand and was preceded by a
questions and narrative, which more than any clapping showed how
every word from the thirst of their soil was added inside.

Of course: in the closest circles own life turned their interests, but any
enclosed the great suffering of the world. I was led to workers' houses:
so small, so poor, so closely. "And here is yet ville sand on which jut
another ten houses could be," They showed me the poor house in a tiny
room resided an ancient couple with four young grandchildren. The only
bed was almost half the room a. "Always, from Kleen on, here we
have uf'n jut jearbeetet," said the man, a figure shrunk to a small brown
face like a root tuber, »nu's Jnadenbrot we eat -- -, "while he
giggled half embarrassed, half-mockingly. »Castle but Det, det has
wanted to fufzich empty rooms ..." We went through the dark night to the
village railway station. One, the youngest of the flock, with a clear
voice began to sing. Gradually the others fell. The doors of the houses
in which we vorüberkamen, opened. Some curious residents came to the
threshold. Others drew the song and the moist and warm March night
- they followed us. And so it went in the bar on the street and
always, always been more people singing the train.

"We are young, the old hammer rotten thing, the state, the wrath
of God we are - the proletariat - the proletariat -- "It sounded
blaring out over the sleeping fracture. Gradually, the more I land and
its inhabitants nähertrat won, I loved it, and the vast plain to me
revealing all their hidden beauty, its people and the soft, defiant
heart. You have not yet felt the distance between you and me, so
I never met envy or distrust.

They started but hardly to the Allerhandgreiflichste to feel: like the
contrast of their hut to palace rule. And it is precisely at this point
in their education, I saw where I had to intervene.

"Who will create other conditions, it was only the pressure of their own
learning experience," I said to Romberg, who sent me my agitational
activities by verleiden wanted. "I can Let me now do not imagine, in
a village pub preaching discontent, "he replied, annoyed." To convince
yourself through appropriate inspection, that I can, "I said. On my
next trip, he came with. This time it was a car conductor, of us in
pouring rain falling on land after a small village drove Lehmann
Höfel with names.

"How is it with our meeting with the weather?" I asked the old comrades
of us on the train had received. " jut - very jut, "he said. »What is our
oller pastor who has vorichte week ufjehetzt women.

You should not just be in the Assembly Jehn, he jesagt so wat jing
they threw on to jar, on wenichsten when 'a woman is talking, who
prefer to house det lunch of bread and cook with the children to pray.
Nu Se can imagine that in the se justament Jehn Assembly. Proppenvoll's
already morje.

"Cyclists met us, from top to bottom bespritzt, pedestrians with loose
soles, where the water dripped from the cap. We invited to present
as much of the car could hold. Since the dawn, they had flyers out.
Fully good humor they told their adventures.

On many a farm, they had to climb over fences, because the door was
locked before them, one was a boy up the craft traveling in
the offices of Knights Gesinde vorgedrungen goods, the other had with
humility face as wär's a Traktätchen the Kirchgängern the slip in the
hand is pressed, in Vorübersausen cyclist they had sent through open
doors and windows thrown.

In a restaurant by Lehmann Höfel glowed the iron furnace. Wet coats and
boots dried out. Tobacco smoke was heavy in swaths of the low ceiling.
My place was with pine branches umwunden. Before me stood on the table
right and left, two bouquets of flowers in flat white paper sleeves.
"From the day laborer to the inner jut -," said a young dark blushing
girl, as the last vestiges of the old costumes, the straw-blond
lichens under the black silk scarf had hidden.

As in the church, people sat in front of me right at the men left the
women - all faces, in which no other thought than to the plight of
the next life his character had dug. Never has been a gathering here.
Whether I would find the sound that came to them? I told of their own
existence, as in eternal Gleichmaß dahinfließt, according to the old
monotonous tune: Living to work, work, in order to be able to live again.
How fun for them just a short rush with evil is awakening - an
alcohol intoxication, a love noise - and the concerns they never
left alone.

As the world full of splendor and beauty, as the largest and most beautiful
in terms of humanity in centuries of thought and felt, in thousands of
books and statues and paintings were kept for their offspring. "But a
wall built around it, and only he who possesses the golden wand,
which opens the door ..."

A young man who was a bit dull sat in front of me had suddenly saw
- with a few eyes in which deep longing flared. "The child of poor
Tagelöhnerin has perhaps the soul of a poet - with fourteen years, it
must dig potatoes and turnips draw, and the work meets with their feet
beaten ironless complained his soul dead ..." At the door over there,
I saw an old woman with the white head sobbing in the bony hands buried.
"In this world, poverty is a crime that is punished with a life of
forced labor is ... Above are enough tears have been shed. Before a loud
whining, we have forgotten the action.

Down from the pulpit, they preached that the acquiescence in the skill
is a virtue. I tell you, she is a vice. Because of all the misery in
the world, we are to blame - our humility, our subservience, the inertia
of our ... Each glance at the pale face of her favorite Chen, jammernde
any request for food should not tears of women suffering fruitless
blackmail, but they spur their child's future to help conquer ... Where
the mother is fearful and non-free, grows from a sex with menial
servants attitude up, and the value of a parent in the future will
not just be measured by whether their children washed, dressed and
fed, but whether they be trained fighters and provide them with the
energetic enthusiasm forerunner model.

"Using examples of everyday life, I looked for them to make clear how
each individual, even the most modest to the great liberation campaign
of socialism can participate, as he never would lead to goals without
the work of the individual. I was when I heard the breath of the
people before me and sighs. O, that I still would have taken to heart!
Moisture mist hung like a long black veil over the fields.

We drove silently back. Frostgeschüttelt I leaned into the cushions,
as we finally take the train to Berlin had climbed. "How you can be
responsible," Romberg broke off, which had not a word spoken and
the poor people, among whom he had sat, his unease as clearly feel
guilty that I have regretted to have him taken away.

Now I went from the half-on. "I do not understand," I said. "So much
worse," he cried. "They take these people the only thing they possess,
what they made life bearable: their ignorance, their stump sense - without
giving them anything to give them." "How, the awakening from the
lethargy would be nothing!" I replied hotly. "Getting through the
participation in the relief work of the class members about himself
and his little destiny hinauszuheben, - that would be nothing!

From you I first heard the word of the policy of the Strong. That is
my guiding principle. Without disturbing the disharmonies of the pain,
without the cruelty of knowledge there is not a strong chord of their
solution. "" And how about those who are to perish? "" It would also
be based on life gone! "With a strange look to me to my own amazement
woe did, he touched me. "Is softness and weakness, also you have an
attribute of femininity?"

I asked, and the heart beat me, when I feared the answer. "I do
not know quite -, "he said hesitantly. "But that our friendship will not
suffer shipwreck." "Have you no time for me?" He began after a break to
speak again, as the train approached Berlin already. I looked at. "I would
like to see you back at least between human culture will be," Without
the right desire, only to return him to injure him, I promised myself
the next day his leadership to "culture" to entrust.

At the station we were Heinrich, an hour earlier from a different area
of his constituency had returned. We were both so full of our experiences
that we in the heat of storytelling Romberg almost forgot. He took his
stiff and out of tune. "Education and politics are for me the most
difficult concepts -," he said the next morning when we went into town.
"You seem a change of subject to moods, which has allowed only one
wife was, "I said annoyed. "It is not so long ago that you have a passion
that I have not forgotten, the social democracy as the most
significant phenomenon of the time to celebrate."

He smiled. »Women's logic! I'm probably properly, these women train with
you to find! What's my verdict on the class struggle of the proletariat
with my opinion about the participation of the educated in politics to
do? We should struggle to higher levels - "" Is there more than the
liberation of humanity from all the fetters which they forge to the Earth
and their rise to inhibit?

"I broke him excited." Liberty, equality, fraternity, -- - the old
slogan, which already gestürmt was the Bastille, "he replied with a
mocking smile," You still add the ideal of Christianity, - the
selbstentsagende love, that proves it all, as a time of unspeakable
poverty must be the even such a huge movement like that of the
proletariat has no new ideals can create. "His words met a more ambiguous
feeling that I so vigorously sought to suppress had me as the dark
paths were published, on which it could have led.

We joined in the modern art salon in Berlin. The wooden arches of the
entrance hall, which in its curved lines all of the material brittleness
victoriously overcome was received with wide open arms to visitors.

In bright displays, by invisible light shining from inside the donor,
was on a gray velvet belts, buckles, bracelets and diadems, bird
feathers and butterfly wings made of transparent email united with
a dark gold, matte silver, pearls were in fantastic shapes besides
unheard gems of colors -- "A fairy tale jewelry for princesses,
from an established poet," Romberg said admiringly, and sunken in
the sight.

He liked white and shining arms commemorate neck holder and woman
laughing heads with lips and fragrant curls. In my eyes, but other
images liability: chapped hands, stooped back, sorgendurchfurchte
faces - I turned from me, in the innermost injured. The next room was
full of soft light and deep, soft armchair. "How pleasant, how calm,"
said someone. "A nice old lady with very white hands should breastfeed
their lives here verträumen evening." But the office of arms Platkow
I saw before me.

In a big picture, we were then: on soft, blumendurchwirktem lawn, located
in the quiet woods and lost a tender Source surrounded that this peace
does not want to disturb Plätscherlaut, knelt a young man, the dark
Dante andachtsvoll head raised to the Virgin. From the porch of the
temple kicking, they crowned him long, narrow, translucent pale
fingers held the wreath. Girl, so slim and majestic as she stood
to the side. And all shone in the mystical blue, purple in drunken,
rich in green, - away from all shades of gray of reality. Almost
took the foreign Wunderwelt me prisoner. Since the sturmdurchpeitschte
Park appeared before me and the rough man, with hard working hands
tenderly stroked the little buds.

I was very monosyllabic. We decided the day in the theater, where
Maeterlinck Pelleas and Melisande under the direction of a young
revolutionary stage was performed. Böcklin landscapes seemed alive has
become the magic forest and the rocks, the dark castle and towers of
white marble fountains coalesced with the floating figures, the
sun shine and the moon to the pure rhythm of moving art.

The noisy street outside destroyed the dream. With painful clarity,
I felt the yawning gap between all of the aesthetic culture, which for
us began to blossom forth, and the life, thought and desires of millions
who only started to the satisfaction of primordial shoots to fight.

Romberg met to my thoughts. "Do you not even like weltenfern where you
are, all of which require more time in something a little more bread
culminates?"

He said. »You need your senses, your nerves, to their subtle refinement
generations worked, blunt force to ensure their voice will be able
to." My whole joyousness returned to me again.

"How closely you might think," I laughed. "Not dull, I must increase my
sensitivity, so I always know how much is lacking and how to profit
tremendously our struggle."

"Do as not at all clear that if the mass should achieve what you have
today You and your peers to back her one thousand years are ahead! "Said
Romberg. "So the gap will remain - remain, and equality is a chimera."
"I ask only the equality of living conditions, such as the tree grows
from the ground, is to decide on its own strength," I replied. We
broke a conversation, which we only had to remove from each other. But
a thought had awakened, who now no longer allowed to sleep.

When he tormented me and I wanted him off so he just drilled
deeper into the brain and heart. Audible, such as the people migrated
to their new home ground to conquer the Earth booms under the kicks
of the millions who had set in motion in order to escape the misery. But
they lacked the wool uniform formula. The triumvirate of the revolutionary
ideals was not. And what Marx had given them, which were scientific
explanations about the nature, pace and the goal of the movement,
only for so long about the lack could obscure as they were unshaken.

An event encouraged me in my idea. Located in the election campaign,
all of our energies on one goal - the defeat of the enemy - would need
to concentrate, resulted in a desert war between the party members
themselves he would have been impossible if not that lack of
internal unity to the mutual mistrust have had.

What a quiet conscience did or did that appeared the other as a breach of
the party. A half-dozen party members - I was among them - had been a
year and a day at a bourgeois Wochenschrift cooperated, which was a
tribune, all directions on the words came freely. The literary and
artistic criticism, which I had published it, - now works, which I no
longer than a moment of interest attached, - often had less need for
the debate, as the acquisition coercive their emergence to thank. The
party press was my only rarely available, and so rare, the more I was
suspicious of revisionism. In a similar situation as I had most
of those who are with me 'sinned' had.

Two of them stood as a candidate in the Reichstag fire of violent
election campaign. But that prevented some radical leaders not to us
in the widest public as a carrier of the opposing train press suspicious.
No sooner had I read the article, as I have sat at the desk to
help us defend against it.

The view that we must use every grandstand, from which we can be heard,
had been in me since the time when I do, by Wanda Orbin influenced the
face of the woman denied Congress had just fastened. Our press,
our Assembly speeches always reached the same circles, and stood off
hundreds of thousands to us only from the representations of the
enemy to know. I placed my statement before the affected.

It should appear in the same newspaper that had attacked us. I was unable
to, we wanted to extend the strife should be avoided by the public
response, as I had intended, in a letter to the party executive turned.

At any time of year almost, the time of day commands these deeds, unless
the weather is outrageous; but never more undeniably than in the month
of April. The growth of the year is well established, and its manner
beginning to be schooled by then; childish petulance may still survive,
and the tears of penitence be frequent; yet upon the whole there is--or
used to be--a sense of responsibility forming, and an elemental inkling
of true duty towards the earth. Even man (the least observant of the
powers that walk the ground, going for the signs of weather to the cows,
or crows, or pigs, swallows, spiders, gnats, and leeches, or the final
assertion of his own corns) sometimes is moved a little, and enlarged
by influence of life beyond his own, and tickled by a pen above his
thoughts, and touched for one second by the hand that made him. Then he
sees a brother man who owes him a shilling, and his soul is swallowed up
in the resolve to get it.

But well in the sky-like period of youth, when the wind sits lightly,
and the clouds go by in puffs, these little jumps of inspiration take
the most respectable young man sometimes off his legs, and the young
maid likewise--if she continues in these fine days to possess such
continuation. Blyth Scudamore had been appointed now, partly through
his own good deserts, and wholly through good influence--for Lord St.
Vincent was an ancient friend of the excellent Admiral Darling--to the
command of the Blonde, refitted, thoroughly overhauled at Portsmouth,
and pronounced by the dock-yard people to be the fastest and soundest
corvette afloat, and in every way a credit to the British navy. "The man
that floated her shall float in her," said the Earl, when somebody, who
wanted the appointment, suggested that the young man was too young. "He
has seen sharp service, and done sharp work. It is waste of time to talk
of it; the job is done." "Job is the word for it," thought the other,
but wisely reserved that great truth for his wife. However, it was not
at all a bad job for England. And Scudamore had now seen four years of
active service, counting the former years of volunteering, and was more
than twenty-five years old.

None of these things exalted him at all in his own opinion, or, at
any rate, not very much. Because he had always regarded himself with
a proper amount of self-respect, as modest men are almost sure to do,
desiring less to know what the world thinks of them than to try to think
rightly of it for themselves. His opinion of it seemed to be that it was
very good just now, very kind, and fair, and gentle, and a thing for the
heart of man to enter into.

For Dolly Darling was close beside him, sitting on a very pretty bench,
made of twisted oak, and turned up at the back and both ends, so that
a gentleman could not get very far away from a lady without frightening
her. Not only in this way was the spot well adapted for tender feelings,
but itself truly ready to suggest them, with nature and the time of year
to help. There was no stream issuing here, to puzzle and perpetually
divert the human mind (whose origin clearly was spring-water poured into
the frame of the jelly-fish), neither was there any big rock, like an
obstinate barrier rising; but gentle slopes of daisied pasture led the
eye complacently, sleek cows sniffed the herbage here and there, and
brushed it with the underlip to fetch up the blades for supper-time, and
placable trees, forgetting all the rudeness of the winter winds, began
to disclose to the fond deceiving breeze, with many a glimpse to
attract a glance, all the cream of their summer intentions. And in full
enjoyment of all these doings, the poet of the whole stood singing--the
simple-minded thrush, proclaiming that the world was good and kind, but
himself perhaps the kindest, and his nest, beyond doubt, the best of it.

"How lovely everything is to-day!" Blyth Scudamore spoke slowly, and
gazing shyly at the loveliest thing of all, in his opinion--the face of
Dolly Darling. "No wonder that your brother is a poet!"

"But he never writes about this sort of thing," said Dolly, smiling
pleasantly. "His poems are all about liberty, and the rights of men,
and the wrongs of war. And if he ever mentions cows or sheep, it is
generally to say what a shame it is to kill them."

"But surely it is much worse to kill men. And who is to be blamed for
that, Miss Darling? The Power that wants to overrun all the rest, or the
Country that only defends itself? I hope he has not converted you to
the worship of the new Emperor; for the army and all the great cities of
France have begged him to condescend to be that; and the King of Prussia
will add his entreaties, according to what we have heard."

"I think anything of him!" cried Dolly, as if her opinion would settle
the point. "After all his horrible murders--worst of all of that very
handsome and brave young man shot with a lantern, and buried in a ditch!
I was told that he had to hold the lantern above his poor head, and his
hand never shook! It makes me cry every time I think of it. Only let
Frank come back, and he won't find me admire his book so very much! They
did the same sort of thing when I was a little girl, and could scarcely
sleep at night on account of it. And then they seemed to get a little
better, for a time, and fought with their enemies, instead of one
another, and made everybody wild about liberty, and citizens, and the
noble march of intellect, and the dignity of mankind, and the rights
of labour--when they wouldn't work a stroke themselves--and the black
superstition of believing anything, except what they chose to make a
fuss about themselves. And thousands of people, even in this country,
who have been brought up so much better, were foolish enough to think
it very grand indeed, especially the poets, and the ones that are too
young. But they ought to begin to get wiser now; even Frank will find it
hard to make another poem on them."

"How glad I am to hear you speak like that! I had no idea--at least I
did not understand--"

"That I had so much common-sense?" enquired Dolly, with a glance of
subtle yet humble reproach. "Oh yes, I have a great deal sometimes, I
can assure you. But I suppose one never does get credit for anything,
without claiming it."

"I am sure that you deserve credit for everything that can possibly
be imagined," Scudamore answered, scarcely knowing, with all his own
common-sense to help him, that he was talking nonsense. "Every time I
see you I find something I had never found before to--to wonder at--if
you can understand--and to admire, and to think about, and to--to be
astonished at."

Dolly knew as well as he did the word he longed to use, but feared.
She liked this state of mind in him, and she liked him too for all his
kindness, and his humble worship; and she could not help admiring him
for his bravery and simplicity. But she did not know the value yet of a
steadfast and unselfish heart, and her own was not quite of that order.
So many gallant officers were now to be seen at her father's house, half
a cubit taller than poor Blyth, and a hundred cubits higher in rank, and
wealth, and knowledge of the world, and the power of making their wives
great ladies. Moreover, she liked a dark man, and Scudamore was fair and
fresh as a rose called Hebe's Cup in June. Another thing against him was
that she knew how much her father liked him; and though she loved her
father well, she was not bound to follow his leadings. And yet she did
not wish to lose this useful and pleasant admirer.

"I am not at all ambitious," she replied, without a moment's hesitation,
for the above reflections had long been dealt with, "but how I wish I
could do something to deserve even half that you say of me! But I
fear that you find the air getting rather cold. The weather is so
changeable."

"Are you sure that you are not ambitious?" Scudamore was too deeply
plunged to get out of it now upon her last hint; and to-morrow he must
be far away. "You have every right to be ambitious, if such a word can
be used of you, who are yourself the height of so many ambitions. It was
the only fault I could imagine you to have, and it seems too bad that
you should have none at all."

"You don't know anything about it," said Dolly, with a lovely expression
in her face of candour, penitence, and pleasantry combined; "I am not
only full of faults, but entirely made up of them. I am told of them too
often not to know."

"By miserably jealous and false people." It was impossible to look at
her and not think that. "By people who cannot have a single atom of
perception, or judgment, or even proper feeling. I should like to
hear one of them, if you would even condescend to mention it. Tell
me one--only one--if you can think of it. I am not at all a judge of
character, but--but I have often had to study it a good deal among the
boys."

This made Miss Dolly laugh, and drop her eyes, and smoothe her dress, as
if to be sure that his penetration had not been brought to bear on her.
And the gentle Scuddy blushed at his clumsiness, and hoped that she
would understand the difference.

"You do say such things!" She also was blushing beautifully as she
spoke, and took a long time before she looked at him again. "Things that
nobody else ever says. And that is one reason why I like you so."

"Oh, do you like me--do you like me in earnest? I can hardly dare to
dream even for one moment--"

"I am not going to talk about that any more. I like Mr. Twemlow, I like
Captain Stubbard, I like old Tugwell--though I should have liked him
better if he had not been so abominably cruel to his son. Now I am sure
it is time to go and get ready for dinner."

"Ah, when shall I dine with you again? Perhaps never," said the young
man, endeavouring to look very miserable and to inspire sadness. "But
I ought to be very happy, on the whole, to think of all the pleasures I
have enjoyed, and how much better I have got on than I had any right in
the world to hope for."

"Yes, to be the Commander of a beautiful ship, little more than a year
from the date of your commission. Captain Stubbard is in such a rage
about it!"

"I don't mean about that--though that of course is rare luck--I mean a
much more important thing; I mean about getting on well with you. The
first time I saw you in that fine old school, you did not even want to
shake hands with me, and you thought what a queer kind of animal I was;
and then the first time or two I dined at the Hall, nothing but fine
hospitality stopped you from laughing at my want of practice. But
gradually, through your own kind nature, and my humble endeavours to be
of use, I began to get on with you better and better; and now you are
beginning almost to like me."

"Not almost, but altogether," she answered, with quite an affectionate
glance. "I can tell you there are very few, outside of my own family,
that I like half so well as I like you. But how can it matter to you so
much?"

She looked at him so that he was afraid to speak, for fear of spoiling
everything; and being a very good-natured girl, and pleased with his
deep admiration, she sighed--just enough to make him think that he might
hope.

"We are all so sorry to lose you." she said; "and no one will miss you
so much as I shall, because we have had such pleasant times together.
But if we can carry out our little plot, we shall hear of you very
often, and I dare say not very unfavourably. Faith and I have been
putting our heads together, and for our own benefit, and that of all the
house, if we can get you to second it. My father jumped at the idea,
and said how stupid we were not to think of it before. You know how very
little he can be at home this summer, and he says he has to sacrifice
his children to his country. So we suggested that he should invite Lady
Scudamore to spend the summer with us, if she can be persuaded to leave
home so long. We will do our very utmost to make her comfortable, and
she will be a tower of strength to us; for you know sometimes it is very
awkward to have only two young ladies. But we dare not do anything until
we asked you. Do you think she would take compassion upon us? A word
from you perhaps would decide her; and Faith would write a letter for
you to send."

Scudamore reddened with delight, and took her hand. "How can I thank
you? I had better not try," he answered, with some very tender play
of thumb and fore-finger, and a strong impulse to bring lips too into
action. "You are almost as clever as you are good; you will know what
I mean without my telling you. My mother will be only too glad to come.
She knows what you are, she has heard so much from me. And the reality
will put to shame all my descriptions."

"Tell me what you told her I was like. The truth, now, and not a word
of afterthought or flattery. I am always so irritated by any sort of
flattery."

"Then you must let me hold your hands, to subdue your irritation; for
you are sure to think that it was flattery--you are so entirely ignorant
of yourself, because you never think of it. I told my dear mother that
you were the best, and sweetest, and wisest, and loveliest, and most
perfect, and exquisite, and innocent, and unselfish of all the human
beings she had ever seen, or heard, or read of. And I said it was quite
impossible for any one after one look at you to think of himself any
more in this world."

"Well done!" exclaimed Dolly, showing no irritation, unless a gleam of
pearls inside an arch of coral showed it. "It is as well to do things
thoroughly, while one is about it. I can understand now how you get on
so fast. But, alas, your dear mother will only laugh at all that. Ladies
are so different from gentlemen. Perhaps that is why gentlemen never
understand them. And I would always a great deal rather be judged by a
gentleman than a lady. Ladies pick such a lot of holes in one another,
whereas gentlemen are too large-minded. And I am very glad upon the
whole that you are not a lady, though you are much more gentle than
they make believe to be. Oh dear! We must run; or the ladies will never
forgive us for keeping them starving all this time."


CHAPTER XLI

LISTENERS HEAR NO GOOD


"Not that there is anything to make one so very uneasy," said Mr.
Twemlow, "only that one has a right to know the meaning of what we are
expected to put up with. Nothing is clear, except that we have not one
man in the Government who knows his own mind, or at any rate dares to
pronounce it. Addington is an old woman, and the rest--oh, when shall
we have Pitt back again? People talk of it, and long for it; but the
Country is so slow. We put up with everything, instead of demanding that
the right thing shall be done at once. Here is Boney, a fellow raised up
by Satan as the scourge of this island for its manifold sins; and now he
is to be the Emperor forsooth--not of France, but of Europe, continental
Europe. We have only one man fit to cope with him at all, and the voice
of the nation has been shouting for him; but who pays any attention
to it? This state of things is childish--simply childish; or perhaps I
ought to say babyish. Why, even the children on the sea-shore know, when
they make their little sand walls against the tide, how soon they must
be swept away. But the difference is this, that they don't live inside
them, and they haven't got all that belongs to them inside them. Nobody
must suppose for a moment that a clergyman's family would fail to know
where to look for help and strength and support against all visitations;
but, in common with the laity, we ask for Billy Pitt."

"And in another fortnight you will have him," replied Captain Stubbard,
who was dining there that day. "Allow me to tell you a little thing that
happened to my very own self only yesterday. You know that I am one of
the last people in the world to be accused of any--what's the proper
word for it? Mrs. Stubbard, you know what I mean--Jemima, why the deuce
don't you tell them?"

"Captain Stubbard always has more meaning than he can well put into
words," said his wife; "his mind is too strong for any dictionary.
Hallucination is the word he means."

"Exactly!" cried the Captain. "That expresses the whole of what I wanted
to say, but went aside of it. I am one of the last men in the world to
become the victim of any--there, I've lost it again! But never mind. You
understand now; or if you don't, Mrs. Stubbard will repeat it. What I
mean is that I see all things square, and straight, and with their own
corners to them. Well, I know London pretty well; not, of course, as
I know Portsmouth. Still, nobody need come along with me to go from
Charing Cross to St. Paul's Church-yard; and pretty tight I keep all my
hatches battened down, and a sharp pair of eyes in the crow's-nest--for
to have them in the foretop won't do there. It was strictly on duty that
I went up--the duty of getting a fresh stock of powder, for guns are not
much good without it; and I had written three times, without answer or
powder. But it seems that my letters were going the rounds, and would
turn up somewhere, when our guns were stormed, without a bit of stuff to
make answer."

"Ah, that's the way they do everything now!" interrupted Mr. Twemlow. "I
thought you had been very quiet lately; but I did not know what a good
reason you had. We might all have been shot, and you could not have
fired a salute, to inform the neighbourhood!"

"Well, never mind," replied the Captain, calmly; "I am not complaining,
for I never do so. Young men might; but not old hands, whose duty it is
to keep their situation in life. Well, you must understand that the air
of London always makes me hungry. And he was the most parts of the city
drinking and desque had an arroba in the body and most of that potion,
causing vomiting, throwing it, without shame and discovered the shameful
parts, and missed the chicha into urine, and Orejón the beautiful women
they had, when the Street, they said: "My children, how are you?"
Implying that there used to them, those who had and were not their husbands.
Building or house never did, was an enemy weapon, in short, anything
but the good have to be very liberal. And hobiese taken the tassel, then
after a few days of being determined to get out Holger á á houses pleasure
for recreation of the Incas were made, leaving his lieutenant instead á
Inca Yupanqui, who was father of Tupac Inca, and count forward.

When things like this from Cuzco, the Chancas, as I count backwards, had
triumphed over the Quichua and occupied most of the province
Andabailes, and were victorious, hearing what is said of the greatness
of Cuzco and its wealth and majesty of the Incas, they wished not
to stand shrink or stop moving forward, gaining the weapons everything
possible to them, and then made a lot of prayers to their gods or
demons, leaving Andabailes, which is what the Spaniards call
Andaguaylas [143], which is entrusted to Diego Maldonado's rich,
pretty people to defend della, and the junta that it was for the
war, left Hastu Huaraca and [144] a very brave his brother, called
Omoguara and part of its province with very great pride, Cuzco road,
and walked up to Curampa [145] settled where his real, and did great
damage to those people of the region.

But in those days many people were in the high hills and the
mountains, with large fences, calling pucaraes, could not be many deaths,
or educational wanted no more to steal the fields. And left Curampa
[146] and the chamber of Cochacassa [147] and the river Amancay [148],
destroying everything that stood, and approached Cuzco, where he had
already gone from the new enemies that came against the city, but,
although he was known by the old Viracocha was not given anything
before, leaving the valley Xaquixaguana, went to the Valley with
their wives and Yucay service. Inca Urco also say that laughing, having
little that was forced to take much, but as the being of Cuzco was
saved to be enhanced by Inca Yupanqui and his children, he should be
the hobo who escaped these fears, with virtue to all and not only
beat the Chancas, but to subjugate most of the nations that exist in these
realms, as I shall say hereafter. _CAP. XLV .-- Chancas how close to
the city of Cuzco and put her in her real, and fear that showed
those who were in it, and the great Inca Yupanqui._ after the sacrifices
made hobieron Chancas Apurima , and arrived near the city of Cuzco,
who wore the captain general, or Mr Dell, Hastu Guaraca [149], I
said that the high mirasen companies that had to be strong and show
no fear or dread having none of those thought scare people stand
with their ears as big as they were, and if expired, there would
be many beautiful women stripping is comfortable with who, with his
cheerfully replied that would do the job.

For as in the city of Cuzco hobiesen known and those who came
against her, and Inga and his son Viracocha Inca Urco not give anything
for this, and most major Orejón very senses why, as the enemies
they knew how close they were, were made great sacrifices to their
usual, and remember to ask Inca Yupanqui to take charge of the war,
looking for everyone's health.

And taking the hand of an elderly, spoke to him on behalf of
all and he said that when his father wanted him to give the tassel not
consented, but Inca were the cowardly of her brother, and he never tyranny
or against the will of the people claimed the royal dignity, and that
it had already seen Inca Urco not agree to be Inca, who were forced to
do what the public good, without looking at the old habit is not broken.
The Orejón replied that concluded the war, understand that in doing what
the kingdom for governor agree, and say that the district sent messengers
to all who wanted to come to be neighbors of Cuzco, they would be given
land in the valley and site for homes, and would be privileged,
and so came from many places.

And this happened, the captain came to the Inca Yupanqui plaza where the
ceremony for the war, putting his head in a lion skin, to suggest that
there should be strong as that animal. At this time arrived in the
Sierra Chancas Villcacunga [150], and Inca Yupanqui sent together people
of war who were in the city, leaving him with determination of the road,
naming the most hardworking captain appeared, but, turning seem to take,
it was agreed to wait in the city. Chancas came together to put their
real Carmenga of the hill, which is above the city, and then put their
tents. Los del Cuzco had done for the parts of the city entrance holes
filled with large stones and covered over Sotil for fall that there
walked.

As in the Cuzco saw the women and boys [151] enemies, and he was horrified
hobieron much great noise. Inca Yupanqui sent messengers to Hastu
Guaraca to settle among them, and not hobiese death of people. Hastu
Guaraca with pride, had little in the embassy and did not want to spend
more so the war to determine, though, importuned by its relatives and
more people wanted to talk with the Inca and so sent him to say .- -The
city is located between hills rather strong nature, and the slopes
of mountains and ropes were cut and placed barbed reece many parts
of palm, which are so reece as iron and more entrenched and harmful
[152] .-- I have arrived at the Inca and Hastu Guaraca and are all
put into a weapon, took little light, because lighting up more words
with each other, they said, close to the hands, with great shouts
and noise - because men here are very alharaquientos in their fights,
and his cries were not afraid his effort for us - and fought with
each other big time, night and day on, process the contest, keeping
their chances in the real and the city by della round, saving it
from all sides, because the enemies could not enter because the
Cuzco and other places of these parts are not surrounded by walls.

After the alarm, Hastu Guaraca encouraged them to strive for fight , and
even to Inca Yupanqui Orejón and the people who were in town. The Chancas,
hard left their real willingness to enter, and left with the thought of
Cuzco was defending, and around the fight, where many died on both
sides, but, as was the value of Inca Yupanqui, who achieved victory
in the battle to the death of all Chancas, not escaped, as they
say, but just over half, and between them their captain Hastu
Guaraca, which with them, but work came to his province.

The Inca and enjoyed the spoils hobo many educational and men and women.
_CAP. XLVI .-- How Inca Yupanqui rescebido king was removed and the
name of Inca Inca Urco, and made peace with Hastu Guaraca._ thwarted
Chancas entered Cuzco Inca Yupanqui and spoke with great success to
principal of which were agreed on Orejón how they had worked for what
they had seen, and how little his brother nor his father had to have
enemies, so it gave him the dominion and government of the empire. Those
of Cuzco, with each other, tried and looked and said of the Inca
Yupanqui, Inca thing that you Urco (_así_) had done, and by consent of
the people agreed to enter no more Urco Inca in Cuzco and it was removed
and the crown or tassel given Inca Yupanqui and Inca Urco although, as
he knew, he wanted to come to Cuzco to justify and feeling great show,
complaining of his brother and that he took the governor's kingdom
not led or failed to comply with order. And yet there are some who say
the Coya Inca Urco woman, left him without having any son, and came to
Cuzco, where his second wife by recebió brother Inca Yupanqui, who,
done fasting and other cirimonias left with tassel, with big celebrations
in Cuzco, they found these people in many places. And to all those who
died for his part in the battle, ordered the new Inca burial,
sending them to your custom osequias and the Chancas, ordered it be made
a long home by way of the tomb in which he battle, where, for memory,
they were all skinned bodies of the dead and Ash inchiesen leather or
straw, so that the human form paresciese in them, making them a
thousand ways, because to some paresciendo men, even of his belly came
a atambor, and with their hands to touch the sample, others were with
flutes in their mouths. In this way and others, until the Spaniards
entered Cuzco. But Alonso and Juan Carrasco of Pancorvo, conquerors
of old, I told myself the way they saw such leather ash, and many of
those who entered with Almagro and Pizarro in Cuzco. They say that the
Orejón had great time in this neighborhood in Cuzco, and that was
always growing, and many messengers came to welcome the new king, who
replied to all with good words, and wanted to go to war what we call
Condesuyo and as known from experience how hobiese was courageous and
spirited Hastu Guaraca, the lord of Andaguaylas thought of engaging
his service and so, have you Embi messengers, requesting their brethren
and friends came Holger á him, and knowing that it would be unto him
the friendship of Inca Yupanqui, was at Cuzco, which was well received.
And as people call hobiese fact, it was determined to go Condesuyo.

In this time have died Viracocha Inga, and gave him burial with less
pomp and honor to his past, because in old age had abandoned the city
and not when she wanted to return to the war with the tubieron Chancas.
Inca Urco not say more, because the Indians do not deal with his stuff
but is laughing, and leaving it aside, saying that Inca Yupanqui was
the ninth king hobo in Cuzco. _CAP. XLVII .-- How Inca Yupanqui left
Cuzco, leaving Lloque governor Yupanqui, and what sucedió._ As commanded
by the Inca Yupanqui was hobiese together much more than forty million
men, along with the stone of War was appointed captain and boasted, with
parties and drinking and being adrezado left the Cuzco're rich in gold
and precious stones, going to the round with his care and halberd axes
and other weapons beside him iban lords; mostrava and more value and
authority that the king spent all his. He left in Cuzco, as they say,
for governor Lloque Yupanqui, his brother.

The Coya iban and other women in hammocks, and claim they were
carrying a large quantity of jewels and loads spare. Iban cleaning
the front path, neither grass nor small nor large stone was not
to be there. Apurima to reach the river, hit the bridge that had been
missed, and walked to the chambers of Curahuasi [153]. Of the
region left many men and women and some lords and principal, and
when they vian, is shocked and llamábanlo "Great Lord, Son of the
Sun King of all," and other big names.

In this room saying that he gave the captain a Chancas called Tupac
Uasco [154], for women, one of Palla Cuzco, and that took a lot.
Turning on the river by the Inca of Apurima and Cochacassa such as
natural were in that part and had no strong pucaraes peoples
together, commanded them to live orderly nor bad habit without
having given the death to each other.

Much rejoiced with them, and I was right to obey his commandment. Curampa
of the [155] dello laughed and understanding [of] Inca Yupanqui, and
inadequate warnings, won the battle, killing many and significant others
. And because the land was good, he became a butler of his reforms and
to make chambers and temple of the sun. Ordenado this with great caution,
the king came out of there and went to the province Andaguaylas, where
it was done Solene received, and was there a few days would determine
whether to conquer the natural Guamanga or Xauxa or visory and Rucanas
[156], but, having thought, with the approval of their own, determined
to go visory .

And out of there, went for a despoblado going to go out on the
equipment, which knew his coming and was gathered to defend. Habia invia
Inca Yupanqui masters with many other people to accrue to the people to
his service the most that could be soft, and the messengers sent on
visory not take arms against him, promising to take a lot of them do
no wrong or harm, but do not want peace with bondage, but not
losing the war for freedom.

And so, together with each other, had the battle, which took della say
that memory, that was a tough and that many died on both sides,
but by leaving the field of Cuzco.

Those who escaped being killed and prisoners, howls and moans were giving
to his people, where they put some copper in the haciendas, and taking
their women, and left stranded, as published, a strong Penol, Quest
near Vilcas River, where he had many caves on the top and water in nature
and in this Penol were many men with their wives; é hízose for fear of
the Inca's most proveyéndose bastimentos they could. And not only
is as this visory Peñoles, that the region of the river and Guamanga
Vilcas and elsewhere came together with them, scared to hear that the
Inca just wanted to be Lord of the people. Losing the battle, the victors
enjoyed the spoils, and the Inca ordered that do not harm the
educational and before the release sent to all of them, and commanded
a captain to go with people out of Condesuyo the party Pumatampu
[157]; and came in and knew visory ido people have already said to
Penol, recebió very angry and determined to go to the fence, and
thus commanded his captains to the people of war path against them.

_CAP. XLVIII .-- How the Inca Vilcas turned on and put in the fence
where they were made Penol strong enemigos._ Too big things include
Orejón deste Inca Tupac Inca Yupanqui and his son, and Guayna Capac, his
grandson, because These were those who were more courageous. Those
who are reading their occurrences, I believe they removed before I knew
it, that does not add anything, and to tell by the way, what is
needed is because I am not claiming that more than [158] by writing
relationship of these Indians, and I think this and more for signs
and traces left by their footprints of these kings, and by your
great power, which shows this is not anything that I write for what
happened, which remain in memory while Peru had the men from the
natural. and returning to the purpose, as the Inca wished to have
both at the hands of the Quest Peñoles, with people walking up to
the River Vilcas.

Those in the area, knew as his stay there, many came to see him, giving
great service and friendship signed with him, and his term began to
apartments and large buildings in what we call now Vilcas, leaving
teachers to Cuzco to trace and show how they had to put the stones and
slabs in the building. Therefore come to Peñoles, sought with
all good reason to attract the friendship that made him strong,
sending his messengers, but they laughed at his remarks and many
shots of stone throwing.

The Inca, seeing its purpose, determined not to leave without
punishment in fact leave them. And how did the masters who sent Condesuyo
province, had some of those battles for land and had gotten up and in
his dominion over the province, and not because of Collao thought they
had to be sure, be brave knowing Hastu Guaraca, the lord of Andaguaylas,
him who with his brother Tupac Uasco [159] parties to the Collao is
seeking to put in his lordship to the natural.

Responded that they would do as ordered, and then left for his homeland
to go to Cuzco from there to join the army to be carried.'s The Peñoles,
still in its purpose is to defend, and had surrounded the Inca, passed
between them and other big things, because he was over the fence,
and finally, the lack of maintenance, hobieron to those in El Penol,
obliged to serve, like any other, to Cuzco, and taxes and give people
war. And with this easement was in favor of the Inca, who do not say
anger, before send them to provide maintenance and other things, and
enviallos to their land, others say they killed them all without any
escaping. The first thing I think, but what the other one and I do not
know most of these Indians say. Finish this, many of which have come to
offer the service of the Inca, and that he thanked all those who
came and who left there to return to Cuzco, and facts found in the
way many chambers, and that the parties had been down most of the
natural slopes, and had reached as flat as people ordered and
ordered.

Arrived at Cuzco, was received your style with great pomp and festivities
were great. The masters who had gone to his mandate to make war on the
Collao, Chucuito had walked up and had some battles in parts of the
province, and out victors, sujetábanlo all the dominion of the
Inca, and it was Condesuyo mesmo.

E was very powerful and all parties came lords, and captains will
serve the rich men of the people, and taxes with large order, and
to other services, but with all major concert and justice.

When I went to speak iban light load; mirávanle little faces, and
when he spoke, you heard the trembling of fear or something else;
Salia seldom in public, and in war, it was always the front, no
consent none, without warrant, to take jewelry or settlement or
going to walk in, in order, this was the way opened for the government
so that the Incas were excellent.

_CAP. XLIX. - How Yupanqui Inca Yupanqui sent Lloque valley that was Xauxa
to seek to attract to your lordship and the Guanacaste Yauyos [160], its
neighbors, with other nations that fall in that past that parte._ has
escripto have the Orejón that is so powerful as the Inca king, ordered
the appeal to people because we wanted to start another war more
important than the past and fulfill its mandate, many major came
with a large number of people armed with weapons they use, which
slingshots, axes, sticks, aillos, darts and spears few. As they come
together, holiday treats and sent them, and rejoice, a day came out
with new suit or dress, as was the nation that wanted to honor that day,
and last, got another, as were those who had called to the banquet and
drunkenness.
That
great man felt the misery so keenly, and grew so angry with himself for
letting in the mental pain, that he walked about vehemently, as a horse
is walked when cold water upon a hot stomach has made colic--only
there was nobody to hit him in the ribs, as the groom serves the nobler
animal. Carne did not stride about in that style, to cast his wrath out
of his toes, because his body never tingled with the sting-nettling of
his mind--as it is bound to do with all correct Frenchmen--and his
legs being long, he might have fallen down a hole into ancestral vaults
before he knew what he was up to. Being as he was, he sate still, and
thought it out, and resolved to play his own game for a while, as his
master was playing for himself in Paris.

The next day he reappeared at his seaside lodgings, looking as comely
and stately as of old; and the kind Widow Shanks was so glad to see him
that he felt a rare emotion--good-will towards her; as the hardest man
must do sometimes, especially if others have been hard upon him. He even
chucked little Susy under the chin, which amazed her so much that she
stroked her face, to make sure of its being her own, and ran away
to tell her mother that the gentleman was come home so nice. Then he
ordered a special repast from John Prater's--for John, on the strength
of all his winter dinners, had now painted on his sign-board "Universal
Victualler," caring not a fig for the offence to Cheeseman, who never
came now to have a glass with him, and had spoiled all the appetite
inspired by his windows through the dismal suggestions of his rash act
on the premises. Instead of flattening their noses and opening their
mouths, and exclaiming, "Oh, shouldn't I like a bit of that?" the
children, if they ventured to peep in at all, now did it with an anxious
hope of horrors, and a stealthy glance between the hams and bacon for
something that might be hanging up among the candles. And the worst of
it was that the wisest man in the village had failed to ascertain as yet
"the reason why 'a doed it." Until that was known, the most charitable
neighbours could have no hope of forgiving him.

Miss Dolly Darling had not seen her hero of romance for a long time; but
something told her--or perhaps somebody--that he was now at hand; and to
make sure about it, she resolved to have a walk. Faith was very busy, as
the lady of the house, in preparing for a visitor, the mother of Blyth
Scudamore, whom she, with her usual kindness, intended to meet and bring
back from the coach-road that evening; for no less than three coaches
a day passed now within eight miles of Springhaven, and several of the
natives had seen them. Dolly was not to go in the carriage, because
nobody knew how many boxes the visitor might bring, inasmuch as she was
to stop ever so long. "I am tired of all this fuss," cried Dolly; "one
would think Queen Charlotte was coming, at the least; and I dare
say nearly all her luggage would go into the door-pocket. They are
dreadfully poor; and it serves them right, for being so dreadfully
honest."

"If you ever fall into poverty," said Faith, "it will not be from that
cause. When you get your money, you don't pay your debts. You think that
people should be proud to work for you for nothing. There is one house
I am quite ashamed to pass by with you. How long have you owed poor
Shoemaker Stickfast fifteen shillings and sixpence? And you take
advantage of him, because he dare not send it in to father."

"Fashionable ladies never pay their debts," Dolly answered, as she spun
round on one light heel, to float out a new petticoat that she was very
proud of; "this isn't paid for, nor this, nor this; and you with your
slow head have no idea how it adds to the interest they possess. If I
am not allowed to have a bit of fashion in my dress, I can be in the
fashion by not paying for it."

"It is a most happy thing for you, dear child, that you are kept under
some little control. What you would do, I have not the least idea, if
you were not afraid of dear father, as you are. The worst of it is that
he is never here now for as much as two days together. And then he is so
glad to see us that he cannot attend to our discipline or take notice of
our dresses."

"Ha! you have inspired me!" exclaimed Dolly, who rejoiced in teasing
Faith. "The suggestion is yours, and I will act upon it. From the
village of Brighthelmstone, which is growing very fine, I will
procure upon the strictest credit a new Classic dress, with all tackle
complete--as dear father so well expresses it--and then I will promenade
me on the beach, with Charles in best livery and a big stick behind me.
How then will Springhaven rejoice, and every one that hath eyes clap a
spy-glass to them! And what will old Twemlow say, and that frump of
an Eliza, who condescends to give me little hints sometimes about
tightening up SO, perhaps, and letting out so, and permitting a little
air to come in HERE--"

"Do be off, you wicked little animal!" cried Faith, who in spite of
herself could not help laughing, so well was Dolly mimicking Eliza
Twemlow's voice, and manner, and attitude, and even her figure, less
fitted by nature for the Classic attire; "you are wasting all my time,
and doing worse with your own. Be off, or I'll take a stick to 'e, as
old Daddy Stakes says to the boys."

Taking advantage of this state of things, the younger Miss Darling set
forth by herself to dwell upon the beauty of the calm May sea, and her
own pretty figure glassed in tidal pools. She knew that she would show
to the utmost of her gifts, with her bright complexion softly gleaming
in the sun, and dark gray eyes through their deep fringe receiving and
returning tenfold the limpid glimmer of the shore. And she felt that the
spring of the year was with her, the bound of old Time that renews his
youth and powers of going at any pace; when the desire of the young is
to ride him at full gallop, and the pleasure of the old is to stroke his
nose and think.

Dolly, with everything in her favour, youth and beauty, the time of
year, the time of day, and the power of the place, as well as her own
wish to look lovely, and to be loved beyond reason, nevertheless came
along very strictly, and kept herself most careful not to look about
at all. At any rate, not towards the houses, where people live, and
therefore must look out. At the breadth of sea, with distant ships
jotted against the sky like chips, or dotted with boats like bits of
stick; also at the playing of the little waves that ran at the bottom
of the sands, just now, after one another with a lively turn, and then
jostled into white confusion, like a flock of sheep huddled up and
hurrying from a dog--at these and at the warm clouds loitering in the
sun she might use her bright eyes without prejudice. But soon she had to
turn them upon a nearer object.

"How absorbed we are in distant contemplation! A happy sign, I hope, in
these turbulent times. Miss Darling, will you condescend to include me
in your view?"

"I only understand simple English," answered Dolly. "Most of the other
comes from France, perhaps. We believed that you were gone abroad
again."

"I wish that the subject had more interest for you," Carne answered,
with his keen eyes fixed on hers, in the manner that half angered and
half conquered her. "My time is not like that of happy young ladies,
with the world at their feet, and their chief business in it, to
discover some new amusement."

"You are not at all polite. But you never were that, in spite of your
French education."

"Ah, there it is again! You are so accustomed to the flattery of great
people that a simple-minded person like myself has not the smallest
chance of pleasing you. Ah, well! It is my fate, and I must yield to
it."

"Not at all," replied Dolly, who could never see the beauty of that kind
of resignation, even in the case of Dan Tugwell. "There is no such thing
as fate for a strong-willed man, though there may be for poor women."

"May I tell you my ideas about that matter? If so, come and rest for
a moment in a quiet little shelter where the wind is not so cold. For
there is no such thing as Spring in England."

Dolly hesitated, and with the proverbial result. To prove himself more
polite than she supposed, Caryl Carne, hat in hand and with low bows
preserving a respectful distance, conducted her to a little place of
shelter, so pretty and humble and secluded by its own want of art, and
simplicity of skill, that she was equally pleased and surprised with it.

"Why, it is quite a little bower!" she exclaimed; "as pretty a little
nest as any bird could wish for. And what a lovely view towards the west
and beyond Pebbleridge! One could sit here forever and see the sun set.
But I must have passed it fifty times without the least suspicion of it.
How on earth have you managed to conceal it so? That is to say, if it is
your doing. Surely the children must have found it out, because they go
everywhere."

"One brat did. But I gave him such a scare that he never stopped roaring
till next Sunday, and it frightened all the rest from looking round that
corner. If any other comes, I shall pitch-plaster him, for I could not
endure that noise again. But you see, at a glance, why you have failed
to see it, as we always do with our little oversights, when humbly
pointed out to us. It is the colour of the ground and the background
too, and the grayness of the scanty growth that hides it. Nobody finds
it out by walking across it, because of this swampy place on your side,
and the shoot of flints down from the cliff on the other, all sharp as
a knife, and as rough as a saw. And nobody comes down to this end of the
warren, neither is it seen from the battery on the hill. Only from the
back is it likely to be invaded, and there is nothing to make people
look, or come, up here. So you have me altogether at your mercy, Miss
Darling."

Dolly thought within herself that it was much the other way, but could
not well express her thoughts to that effect. And being of a brisk and
versatile--not to say volatile--order, she went astray into a course of
wonder concerning the pretty little structure she beheld. Structure was
not the proper word for it at all; for it seemed to have grown from the
nature around, with a little aid of human hands to guide it. Branches of
sea-willow radiant with spring, and supple sprays of tamarisk recovering
from the winter, were lightly inwoven and arched together, with the
soft compliance of reed and rush from the marsh close by, and the stout
assistance of hazel rods from the westward cliff. The back was afforded
by a grassy hillock, with a tuft or two of brake-fern throwing up their
bronzy crockets among the sprayed russet of last year's pride. And
beneath them a ledge of firm turf afforded as fair a seat as even two
sweet lovers need desire.

"How clever he is, and how full of fine taste!" thought the
simple-minded Dolly; "and all this time I have been taking him for a
gloomy, hard-hearted, unnatural man. Blyth Scudamore never could have
made this lovely bower."

In this conclusion she was altogether wrong. Scudamore could have made
it, and would have made it gladly, with bright love to help him. But
Carne never could, and would have scorned the pleasant task. It was
Charron, the lively Frenchman, who, with the aid of old Jerry, had
achieved this pretty feat, working to relieve his dull detention, with
a Frenchman's playful industry and tasteful joy in nature. But Carne was
not likely to forego this credit.

"I think I have done it pretty well," he said, in reply to her smile of
admiration; "with such scanty materials, I mean, of course. And I shall
think I have done it very well indeed, if you say that you like it, and
crown it with new glory by sitting for a moment in its unpretentious
shade. If your brother comes down, as I hope he will, next week, I shall
beg him to come and write a poem here. The place is fitter for a poet
than a prosy vagabond like me."

"It is very hard that you should be a--a wanderer, I mean," Dolly
answered, looking at him with a sweet thrill of pity; "you have done
nothing to deserve it. How unfairly fortune has always treated you!"

"Fortune could make me a thousand times more than the just compensation
even now, if she would. Such a glorious return for all my bitter losses
and outcast condition, that I should--but it is useless to think of such
things, in my low state. The fates have been hard with me, but never
shall they boast that they drove me from my pure sense of honour. Oh
yes, it is damp. But let me cure it thus."

For Dolly, growing anxious about his meaning, yet ready to think about
another proposal, was desirous to sit down on the sweet ledge of grass,
yet uneasy about her pale blue sarsenet, and uncertain that she had not
seen something of a little sea-snail (living in a yellow house, dadoed
with red), whom to crush would be a cruel act to her dainty fabric. But
if he was there, he was sat upon unavenged; for Carne, pulling off his
light buff cloak, flung it on the seat; after which the young lady could
scarcely be rude enough not to sit.

"Oh, I am so sorry now! Perhaps it will be spoiled," she said; "for
you say that the fates are against you always. And I am sure that they
always combine against me, when I wear anything of that colour."

"I am going the wrong way to work," thought Carne. "What a little vixen
it is; but what a beauty!" For his love for her was chiefly a man's
admiration. And bodily she looked worthy now of all that could be done
in that way, with the light flowing in through the budded arch and
flashing upon the sweet flush of her cheeks. Carne gazed at her without
a word or thought, simply admiring, as he never had admired anything,
except himself, till now. Then she felt all the meaning of his gaze, and
turned away.

"But you must look at me and tell me something," he said, in a low
voice, and taking both her hands; "you shall tell me what my fate must
be. Whether you can ever come to love me, as I have loved you, long and
long."

"You have no right to speak to me like that," she answered, still
avoiding his eyes, and striving to show proper anger; "no gentleman
would think of taking advantage of a lady so."

"I care not what is right or wrong. Look up, and tell me that you hate
me. Dolly, I suppose you do."

"Then you are quite wrong"--she gave him one bright glance of
contradiction; "no. I have always been so sorry for you, and for all
your troubles. You must not ask me to say more."

"But I must; I must. That is the very thing that I must do. Only say
that you love me, Dolly. Dolly darling, tell me that. Or let your lovely
eyes say it for you."

"My lovely eyes must not tell stories"--they were gazing softly at him
now--"and I don't think I can say it--yet."

"But you will--you shall!" he exclaimed, with passion growing as he drew
her near; "you shall not slip from me, you shall not stir, until you
have answered me one question--is there anybody else, my Dolly?"

"You frighten me. You forget who I am. Of course there are a great many
else, as you call it; and I am not to be called, for a moment, YOUR
DOLLY."

"No, not for a moment, but forever." Carne was accustomed to the ways of
girls, and read all their words by the light of their eyes. "Your
little heart begins to know who loves it better than all the world
put together. And for that reason I will leave you now. Farewell, my
darling; I conquer myself, for the sake of what is worth a thousand of
it."

Dolly was in very sad confusion, and scarcely knew what she might do
next--that is to say, if he still went on. Pleasant conceit and bright
coquetry ill supply the place of honest pride and gentle self-respect,
such as Faith was blest with. Carne might have kissed Dolly a hundred
times, without much resistance, for his stronger will had mastered hers;
but she would have hated him afterwards. He did not kiss her once;
and she almost wished that he had offered one--one little tribute of
affection (as the Valentines express it)--as soon as he was gone, and
the crisis of not knowing what to do was past. "I should have let him--I
believe I should," she reflected, sagely recovering herself; "but how
glad I ought to be that he didn't! And I do hope he won't come back
again. The next time I meet him, I shall sink into the earth."

For her hat had fallen off, and her hair was out of order, and she saw
two crinkles near the buckle of her waist; and she had not so much as a
looking-glass to be sure that she looked nice again. With a heavy sigh
for all these woes, she gathered a flossy bud of willow, and fixed it on
her breast-knot, to defy the world; and then, without heed of the sea,
sun, or sands, went home with short breath, and quick blushes, and some
wonder; for no man's arm, except her father's, had ever been round her
waist till now.


CHAPTER XLIII

LITTLE AND GREAT PEOPLE


If ever a wise man departed from wisdom, or a sober place from sobriety,
the man was John Prater, and the place Springhaven, towards the middle
of June, 1804. There had been some sharp rumours of great things before;
but the best people, having been misled so often, shook their heads
without produce of their contents; until Captain Stubbard came out in
his shirt sleeves one bright summer morning at half past nine, with a
large printed paper in one hand and a slop basin full of hot paste in
the other. His second boy, George, in the absence of Bob (who was now
drawing rations at Woolwich), followed, with a green baize apron on, and
carrying a hearth-brush tied round with a string to keep the hair stiff.

"Lay it on thick on the shutter, my son. Never mind about any other
notices, except the one about young men wanted. No hurry; keep your
elbow up; only don't dab my breeches, nor the shirt you had on Sunday."

By this time there were half a dozen people waiting; for this shutter of
Widow Shanks was now accepted as the central board and official panel
of all public business and authorised intelligence. Not only because all
Royal Proclamations, Offers of reward, and Issues of menace were
posted on that shutter and the one beyond the window (which served as
a postscript and glossary to it), but also inasmuch as the kind-hearted
Captain, beginning now to understand the natives--which was not to be
done pugnaciously, as he had first attempted it, neither by any show of
interest in them (than which they detested nothing more), but by taking
them coolly, as they took themselves, and gradually sliding, without any
thought about it, into the wholesome contagion of their minds, and the
divine gift of taking things easily--our Captain Stubbard may be fairly
now declared to have made himself almost as good as a native, by the way
in which he ministered to their content.

For nothing delighted them more than to hear of great wonders going on
in other places--of battles, plague, pestilence, famine, and fire; of
people whose wives ran away with other people, or highwaymen stopping
the coach of a bishop. Being full of good-nature, they enjoyed these
things, because of the fine sympathies called out to their own credit,
and the sense of pious gratitude aroused towards Heaven, that they
never permitted such things among them. Perceiving this genial desire of
theirs, the stout Captain of the Foxhill battery was kind enough to meet
it with worthy subjects. Receiving officially a London newspaper almost
every other day, as soon as it had trodden the round of his friends,
his regular practice was to cut out all the pieces of lofty public
interest--the first-rate murders, the exploits of highwaymen, the
episodes of high life, the gallant executions, the embezzlements of
demagogues, in a word, whatever quiet people find a fond delight
in ruminating--and these he pasted (sometimes upside down) upon his
shutter. Springhaven had a good deal of education, and enjoyed most of
all what was hardest to read.

But this great piece of news, that should smother all the rest, seemed
now to take a terrible time in coming. All the gaffers were waiting
who had waited to see the result of Mr. Cheeseman's suicide, and their
patience was less on this occasion. At length the great Captain unfolded
his broad sheet, but even then held it upside down for a minute. It was
below their dignity to do anything but grunt, put their specs on their
noses, and lean chin upon staff. They deserved to be rewarded, and so
they were.

For this grand poster, which overlapped the shutters, was a Royal
Proclamation, all printed in red ink, announcing that His Majesty King
George the 3rd would on the 25th of June then ensuing hold a grand
review upon Shotbury Down of all the Volunteer forces and Reserve,
mounted, footmen, or artillery, of the four counties forming the
Southeast Division, to wit, Surrey, Kent, Sussex, and Hants. Certain
regiments of the line would be appointed to act with them; and officers
in command were ordered to report at once, &c., &c. God save the King.

If Shotbury Down had been ten miles off, Springhaven would have thought
very little of the matter; for no one would walk ten miles inland to
see all the sojers that ever were shot, or even the "King and Queen, and
their fifteen little ones." Most of the little ones were very large now;
but the village had seen them in a travelling show, and expected them to
continue like it. But Shotbury Down was only three miles inland; and the
people (who thought nothing of twenty miles along the coast) resolved to
face a league of perils of the solid earth, because if they only turned
round upon their trudge, they could see where they lived from every
corner of the road. They always did all things with one accord; the
fishing fleet all should stand still on the sand, and the houses should
have to keep house for themselves. That is to say, perhaps, all except
one.

"Do as you like," said Mrs. Tugwell to her husband; "nothing as you
do makes much differ to me now. If you feel you can be happy with them
thousands of young men, and me without one left fit to lift a big crock,
go your way, Zeb; but you don't catch me going, with the tears coming
into my eyes every time I see a young man to remind me of Dan--though
there won't be one there fit to stand at his side. And him perhaps
fighting against his own King now!"

"Whatever hath coom to Dannel is all along of your own fault, I tell
'e." Captain Tugwell had scarcely enjoyed a long pipe since the night
when he discharged his paternal duty, with so much vigour, and such sad
results. Not that he felt any qualms of conscience, though his heart was
sometimes heavy, but because his good wife was a good wife no longer, in
the important sphere of the pan, pot, and kettle, or even in listening
to his adventures with the proper exclamations in the proper places.
And not only she, but all his children, from Timothy down to Solomon,
instead of a pleasant chatter around him, and little attentions, and a
smile to catch a smile, seemed now to shrink from him, and hold whispers
in a corner, and watch him with timid eyes, and wonder how soon their
own time would come to be lashed and turned away. And as for the women,
whether up or down the road--but as he would not admit, even to himself,
that he cared twopence what they thought, it is useless to give voice to
their opinions, which they did quite sufficiently. Zebedee Tugwell felt
sure that he had done the right thing, and therefore admired himself,
but would have enjoyed himself more if he had done the wrong one.

"What fault of mine, or of his, poor lamb?" Mrs. Tugwell asked, with
some irony. She knew that her husband could never dare to go to see the
King without her--for no married man in the place would venture to look
at him twice if he did such a thing--and she had made up her own mind
to go from the first; but still, he should humble himself before she did
it. "Was it I as colted him? Or was it him as gashed himself, like the
prophets of Baal, when 'a was gone hunting?"

"No; but you cockered him up, the same as was done to they, by the
wicked king, and his wife--the worst woman as ever lived. If they hadn't
gashed theirselves, I reckon, the true man of God would 'a done it for
them, the same as he cut their throats into the brook Kishon. But I
knew this was my father. My knees trembled. And he was already gone. He
seemed lost in thought, and we probably had not recognized.

I turned his head after him - because he stood as angewurzelt and
stared at me, so full of tenderness -! I would be his feet nearly
fallen, but he made a speedy, defensive movement, and walked on. On
the evening I wept. And I had my child but especially want to
protect grief! Few days later we were back to normal time had continued.
With mysterious smile, the girls opened me the door when I home. Ins
nursery should I come, she said. Since the lamp was burning under the
veil and rose on the white table louder spitze Occupied shirts and
jackets, shoes and small pillow and plug, and wearing long dresses,
with blue ribbons, which they together were bouquets of fragrant
Maiblumen withdrawn.

"The gracious lady brought everything themselves," reported the girl smiled
and handed me a letter from Mama: "My dear child! All your father sends
you. He gave me and your sister allowed to go to you, and you like to
bring his greetings.

Write me when you can visit us, "she wrote. Soon after she came I had
themselves before arousal had a bad night and received them lying on the
sofa. It was all so quiet, so teilnahmsvoll, as would be no more than a
journey between their first visit and now. Could render an embarrassed
pause, then helped the Ilschens chat about it to me first ball of their
joys and their triumphs were not enough to tell. "How is the father?" I
asked finally, timidly, as she seemed to avoid, its reference to do .
"He is quite old," Mom replied slowly. "But still so hale," was the sister,
and reported to the proof of the dinners and balls, to which he had
accompanied them. They named names, which I did not know, and mentioned
social circles which he used on the most embarrassing had shunned:
Tiergarten salons in which, as he used to say, the younger officer
only as Mitgiftjäger, just as the old table decoration occurs. I now
felt he had to be very old. Before they went, I asked Ilschen, but now
quite often come to me. They looked instead to answer, anxiously inquiring
for my mom. "With it you can not visit," said the old with the
harsh tone in his voice, while deep wrinkles around her mouth angle
dug.

Zebedee,
perceiving this, made all allowance for him, and bought a new Sunday hat
the very next day, for fear of wearing out the one he had taken off to
His Majesty, when His Majesty looked at him, and Her Majesty as well,
and they manifestly said to one another, what a very fine subject they
had found. Such was loyalty--aye, and royalty--in those times that we
despise.

But larger events demand our heed. There were forty thousand gallant
fellows, from the age of fifteen upwards, doing their best to look like
soldiers, and some almost succeeding. True it is that their legs and
arms were not all of one pattern, nor their hats put on their heads
alike--any more than the heads on their shoulders were--neither did they
swing together, as they would have done to a good swathe of grass; but
for all that, and making due allowance for the necessity they were under
of staring incessantly at the King, any man who understood them
would have praised them wonderfully. And they went about in such
wide formation, and occupied so much of their native land, that the
best-drilled regiment Napoleon possessed would have looked quite small
among them.

"They understand furze," said a fine young officer of the staff, who
had ridden up to Admiral Darling's carriage and saluted three ladies who
kept watch there. "I doubt whether many of the Regular forces would
have got through that brake half so well; certainly not without double
gaiters. If the French ever land, we must endeavour to draw them into
furzy ground, and then set the Volunteers at them. No Frenchman can do
much with prickles in his legs."

Lady Scudamore smiled, for she was thinking of her son, who would have
jumped over any furze-bush there--and the fir-trees too, according to
her conviction; Dolly also showed her very beautiful teeth; but Faith
looked at him gratefully.

"It is very kind of you, Lord Dashville, to say the best of us that you
can find to say. But I fear that you are laughing to yourself. You know
how well they mean; but you think they cannot do much."

"No, that is not what I think at all. So far as I can judge, which is
not much, I believe that they would be of the greatest service, if the
Country should unfortunately need them. Man for man, they are as brave
as trained troops, and many of them can shoot better. I don't mean to
say that they are fit to meet a French army in the open; but for acting
on their flanks, or rear, or in a wooded country--However, I have no
right to venture an opinion, having never seen active service."

Miss Darling looked at him with some surprise, and much approval of
his modesty. So strongly did most of the young officers who came to her
father's house lay down the law, and criticise even Napoleon's tactics.

"How beautiful Springhaven must be looking now!" he said, after Dolly
had offered her opinion, which she seldom long withheld. "The cottages
must be quite covered with roses, whenever they are not too near the
sea; and the trees at their best, full of leaves and blossoms, by the
side of the brook that feeds them. All the rest of the coast is so hard
and barren, and covered with chalk instead of grass, and the shore so
straight and staring. But I have never been there at this time of year.
How much you must enjoy it! Surely we ought to be able to see it, from
this high ground somewhere."

"Yes, if you will ride to that shattered tree," said Faith, "you will
have a very fine view of all the valley. You can see round the corner
of Foxhill there, which shuts out most of it just here. I think you have
met our Captain Stubbard."

"Ah, I must not go now; I may be wanted at any moment"--Lord Dashville
had very fine taste, but it was not the inanimate beauties of
Springhaven that he cared a dash for--"and I fear that I could never see
the roses there. I think there is nothing in all nature to compare with
a rose--except one thing."

Faith had a lovely moss-rose in her hat--a rose just peeping through
its lattice at mankind, before it should open and blush at them--and she
knew what it was that he admired more than the sweetest rose that
ever gemmed itself with dew. Lord Dashville had loved her, as she was
frightened to remember, for more than a year, because he could not help
it, being a young man of great common-sense, as well as fine taste, and
some knowledge of the world. "He knows to which side his bread will be
buttered," Mr. Swipes had remarked, as a keen observer. "If 'a can only
get Miss Faith, his bread 'll be buttered to both sides for life--his
self to one side, and her to do the tother. The same as I told Mother
Cloam--a man that knoweth his duty to head gardeners, as his noble
lordship doth, the same know the differ atwixt Miss Faith--as fine a
young 'ooman as ever looked into a pink--and that blow-away froth of a
thing, Miss Dolly."

This fine young woman, to use the words of Mr. Swipes, coloured softly,
at his noble lordship's gaze, to the tint of the rose-bud in her hat;
and then spoke coldly to countervail her blush.

"There is evidently something to be done directly. All the people are
moving towards the middle of the down. We must not be so selfish as to
keep you here, Lord Dashville."

"Why, don't you see what it is?" exclaimed Miss Dolly, hotly resenting
the part of second fiddle; "they are going to have the grand march-past.
These affairs always conclude with that. And we are in the worst part of
the whole down for seeing it. Lord Dashville will tell us where we ought
to go."

"You had better not attempt to move now," he answered, smiling as he
always smiled at Dolly, as if she were a charming but impatient child;
"you might cause some confusion, and perhaps see nothing. And now I
must discharge my commission, which I am quite ashamed of having left
so long. His Majesty hopes, when the march-past is over, to receive a
march-up of fair ladies. He has a most wonderful memory, as you know,
and his nature is the kindest of the kind. As soon as he heard that Lady
Scudamore was here, and Admiral Darling's daughters with her, he said:
'Bring them all to me, every one of them; young Scudamore has done good
work, good work. And I want to congratulate his mother about him. And
Darling's daughters, I must see them. Why, we owe the security of the
coast to him.' And so, if you please, ladies, be quite ready, and allow
me the honour of conducting you."

With a low bow, he set off about his business, leaving the ladies in a
state of sweet disturbance. Blyth Scudamore's mother wept a little, for
ancient troubles and present pleasure. Lord Dashville could not repeat
before her all that the blunt old King had said: "Monstrous ill-treated
woman, shameful, left without a penny, after all her poor husband did
for me and the children! Not my fault a bit--fault of the Whigs--always
stingy--said he made away with himself--bad example--don't believe a
word of it; very cheerful man. Blown by now, at any rate--must see
what can be done for her--obliged to go for governess--disgrace to the
Crown!"

Faith, with her quiet self-respect, and the largeness learned from
sorrow, was almost capable of not weeping that she had left at home her
apple-green Poland mantlet and jockey bonnet of lilac satin checked with
maroon. But Dolly had no such weight of by-gone sorrow to balance
her present woe, and the things she had left at home were infinitely
brighter than that dowdy Faith's.

"Is there time to drive back? Is there time to drive home? The King
knows father, and he will be astonished to see a pair of frumps, and
he won't understand one bit about the dust, or the sun that takes the
colour out. He will think we have got all our best things on. Oh,
Lady Scudamore, how could you do it? You told us to put on quite plain
things, because of the dust, and the sun, and all that; and it might
come to rain, you said--as if it was likely, when the King was on the
hill! And with all your experience of the King and Queen, that you told
us about last evening, you must have known that they would send for us.
Gregory, how long would it take you to go home, at full gallop, allow us
half an hour in the house, and be back here again, when all these people
are gone by?"

"Well, miss, there be a steepish bit of road, and a many ockard
cornders; I should say 'a might do it in two hours and a half, with a
fresh pair of nags put in while you ladies be a-cleaning of yourselves,
miss. Leastways, if Hadmiral not object."

"Hadmiral, as you call him, would have nothing to do with it"--Dolly was
always free-spoken with the servants, which made her very popular with
some of them--"he has heavier duty than he can discharge. But two hours
and a half is hopeless; we must even go as we are."

Coachman Gregory smiled in his sleeve. He knew that the Admiral had that
day a duty far beyond his powers--to bring up his Sea-Fencibles to see
the King--upon which they had insisted--and then to fetch them all
back again, and send them on board of their several craft in a state of
strict sobriety. And Gregory meant to bear a hand, and lift it pretty
frequently towards the most loyal part of man, in the large festivities
of that night. He smacked his lips at the thought of this, and gave a
little flick to his horses.

After a long time, long enough for two fair drives to Springhaven and
back, and when even the youngest were growing weary of glare, and dust,
and clank, and din, and blare, and roar, and screeching music, Lord
Dashville rode up through a cloud of roving chalk, and after a little
talk with the ladies, ordered the coachman to follow him. Then stopping
the carriage at a proper distance, he led the three ladies towards the
King, who was thoroughly tired, and had forgotten all about them. His
Majesty's sole desire was to get into his carriage and go to sleep; for
he was threescore years and six of age, and his health not such as it
used to be. Ever since twelve o'clock he had been sitting in a box made
of feather-edged boards, which the newspapers called a pavilion, having
two little curtains (both of which stuck fast) for his only defence
against sun, noise, and dust. Moreover, his seat was a board full of
knots, with a strip of thin velvet thrown over it; and Her Majesty
sitting towards the other end (that the public might see between them),
and weighing more than he did, every time she jumped up, he went down,
and every time she plumped down, he went up. But he never complained,
and only slowly got tired. "Thank God!" he said, gently, "it's all over
now. My dear, you must be monstrous tired; and scarcely a bit to eat all
day. But I locked some in the seat-box this morning--no trusting anybody
but oneself. Let us get into the coach and have at them." "Ja, ja,
meinherr," said the Queen.

"If it please your Majesties"--a clear voice entered between the
bonnet-hoods of the curtains--"here are the ladies whose attendance I
was ordered to require."

"Ladies!--what ladies?" asked King George, rubbing his eyes, and
yawning. "Oh yes, to be sure! I mustn't get up so early to-morrow. Won't
take a minute, my dear. Let them come. Not much time to spare."

But as soon as he saw Lady Scudamore, the King's good-nature overcame
the weariness of the moment. He took her kindly by the hand, and looked
at her face, which bore the mark of many heavy trials; and she, who had
often seen him when the world was bright before her, could not smother
one low sob, as she thought of all that had been since.

"Don't cry, don't cry, my dear," said the King, with his kind heart
showing in his eyes; "we must bow to the will of the Lord, who gives sad
trials to every one of us. We must think of the good, and not the evil.
Bless me, keep your spirits up. Your son is doing very well indeed,
very well indeed, from all I hear. Good chip of the old block, very good
chip. Will cure my grandchildren, as soon as they want it; and nobody is
ever in good health now."

"No, your Majesty, if you please, my son is in the Royal Navy, fighting
for his Country and his King. And he has already captured--"

"Three French frigates. To be sure, I know. Better than curing three
hundred people. Fine young officer--very fine young officer. Must come
to see me when he gets older. There, you are laughing! That's as it
should be. Goodbye, young ladies. Forty miles to go tonight, and very
rough roads--very rough indeed. Monstrous pretty girls! Uncommon glad
that George wasn't here to see them. Better stay in the country--too
good for London. Must be off; sha'n't have a bit o' sleep to-night,
because of sleeping the whole way there, and then sure to be late in
the morning, not a bit of breakfast till eight o'clock, and all the day
thrown upside down! Darlings, Darlings--the right name for them! But
they mustn't come to London. No, no, no. Too much wickedness there
already. Very glad George wasn't here to-day!"

His Majesty was talking, as he always did, with the firm conviction
that his words intended for the public ear would reach it, while
those addressed, without change of tone, to himself, would be strictly
private. But instead of offending any one, this on the whole gave great
satisfaction, and impressed nine people out of ten with a strong and
special regard for him, because almost every one supposed himself to be
admitted at first sight to the inner confidence of the King. And to what
could he attribute this? He would do his own merits great demerit unless
he attributed it to them, and to the King an unusual share of sagacity
in perceiving them.


CHAPTER XLIV

DOWN AMONG THE DEAD MEN


That grand review at Shotbury was declared by all who took part in it,
or at all understood the subject, to have been a most remarkable and
quite unparalleled success. Not only did it show what noble stuff there
is in Englishmen, and how naturally they take to arms, but also it
inspired with martial feeling and happy faith the wives and mothers of
all the gallant warriors there. It would make the blood-stained despot
cower upon his throne of murder, and teach him the madness of invading
any land so fortified.

However, Napoleon failed to see the matter in that wholesome light, and
smiled a grim and unkind smile as he read Caryl Carne's report of those
"left-handed and uncouth manoeuvres." "One of your Majesty's feeblest
regiments would send the whole of those louts to the devil; and I
am bound to impress once more, with all deference to your infallible
judgment, the vast importance of carrying out your grand designs at
the first moment. All is prepared on my part. One day's notice is all I
need."

So wrote Carne; and perhaps the truth, as usual, lay about half-way
between the two opinions. Even Carne was not admitted to a perfect
knowledge of his master's schemes. But to keep things moving and men
alert, the Emperor came to the coast at once, busy as he was in Paris,
and occupied for several weeks, with short intervals of absence, the
house prepared for him near Boulogne, whence he watched and quickened
the ripening of his mighty plans against us.

Now Carne himself, while working with new vigour and fresh enterprise,
had a narrow escape from invasion. Captain Stubbard, stirred up now and
again by Mr. Twemlow, had thoroughly searched all covered places, likely
to harbour gunpowder, within at least six miles of his fort, that is to
say, all likely places, save and except the right one. By doing this
he had done for himself--as regards sweet hospitality--among all the
leading farmers, maltsters, tanners, and millers for miles around. Even
those whose premises were not entered, as if they had been Frenchmen,
had a brother-in-law, or at least a cousin, whose wooden bars had been
knocked up. And the most atrocious thing of all, if there could be
anything worse than worst, was that the Captain dined one day, at a
market-ordinary, with Farmer, or you might say Squire Hanger--for the
best part of his land followed to him from his father--and had rum and
water with him, and spoke his health, and tucked Mrs. Hanger up into the
shay, and rode alongside to guarantee them; and then the next day, on
the very same horse, up he comes at Hanger-dene, and overhauls every tub
on the premises, with a parchment as big as a malt-shovel! Such a man
was not fit to lay a knife and fork by.

Some sense of the harm he had done to himself, without a bit of good to
any one, dwelt heavily in the Captain's mind, as he rode up slowly upon
the most amiable of the battery-horses--for all sailors can ride, from
long practice on the waves--and struck a stern stroke, with a stick like
a linstock, upon the old shutter that served for a door and the
front entrance to Carne Castle. There used to be a fine old piece
of workmanship in solid and bold oak here, a door divided in the
middle--else no man might swing it back--and even so pierced with a
wicket, for small people to get through. That mighty door was not worn
out, for it was not three hundred years old yet, and therefore scarcely
in middle life; but the mortgagees who had sacked the place of all that
was worth a sack to hold it, these had a very fine offer for that door,
from a rich man come out of a dust-bin. And this was one of the many
little things that made Caryl Carne unpleasant.

"I do not require production of your warrant. The whole place is open to
your inspection," said Carne, who had long been prepared for this visit;
"open to all the winds and rains, and the lower part sometimes filled
with water. The upper rooms, or rather the few that remain of them, are
scarcely safe for a person of any weight to walk in, but you are most
welcome to try them, if you like; and this gentleman, I think, might not
fall through. Here are my quarters; not quite so snug as my little room
at the widow's; but I can offer you some bread and cheese, and a glass
of country cider. The vaults or cellars have held good wine in their
time, but only empty casks and broken bottles now."

Captain Stubbard had known for many years the silent woes of poverty,
and now he observed with some good-will the young man's sad but haughty
smile. Then he ordered his young subaltern, his battery-mate, as he
called him, to ascend the broad crumbling staircase, and glance into the
dismantled chambers, while himself with the third of the party--a trusty
old gunner--should inspect the cellarage.

"We will not keep you long, sir," he said to Carne; "and if you are kind
enough to show us the way, which is easily lost in a place of this kind,
we shall be all the quicker. Wilkins, when you have done up there, wait
here for us. Shall we want a light, sir?"

"In the winter, you could hardly do without one, but at this time of
year, I think you may. At any rate I will bring a lantern, and we can
light it if wanted. But the truth is that I know next to nothing of
those sepulchral places. They would not be very tempting, even without a
ghost, which they are said to have."

"A ghost!" cried the Captain; "I don't like that. Not that I have much
faith in them; although one never can be sure. But at this time of
day--What is it like?"

"I have never seen her, and am quite content without it. It is said to
be an ancestress of mine, a Lady Cordelia Carne, who was murdered, when
her husband was away, and buried down there, after being thrown into the
moat. The old people say that whenever her ghost is walking, the water
of the moat bursts in and covers the floor of the vaults, that she may
flit along it, as she used to do. But of course one must not listen to
that sort of fable."

"Perhaps you will go in front, sir, because you know the way. It is my
duty to inspect these places; and I am devilish sorry for it; but my
duty must be done."

"You shall see every hole and corner, including the stone that was put
up to commemorate her murder and keep her quiet. But I should explain
that these vaults extend for the entire length of the building, except
just in the middle, where we now stand. For a few yards the centre of
the building seems to have never been excavated, as to which you will
convince yourself. You may call the cellars east and west, or right and
left, or north and south, or uphill and downhill, or anything else, for
really they are so much alike, and partitioned into cells so much alike,
that I scarcely know which is which myself, coming suddenly from the
daylight. But you understand those things much better. A sailor always
knows his bearings. This leads to the entrance of one set."

Carne led the Captain and old Gunner Bob--as he was called in the
battery--along a dark and narrow passage, whose mouth was browed with
ivy. Half-way through, they found an archway on the right-hand side,
opening at right angles into long and badly lighted vaults. In this arch
there was no door; but a black step-ladder (made of oak, no doubt), very
steep and rather rickety, was planted to tempt any venturesome foot.

"Are you sure this ladder is safe?"--the Captain was by no means in love
with the look of it. "My weight has increased remarkably in the fine air
of Springhaven. If the bottom is rotten, the top won't help us."

"Let me go first. It is my duty, as the owner; and I have no family
dependent on me. My neck is of no value, compared to yours, Captain."

"How I have mistaken this young man!" thought the brave yet prudent
Stubbard. "I called him a Frenchified fool, whereas he is a downright
Englishman! I shall ask him to dinner next week, if Jemima can get a new
leg for the dripping-pan."

Following warily, with Gunner Bob behind him, and not disdaining the
strong arm of the owner, the Captain of Foxhill was landed in the vault,
and being there, made a strict examination. He even poked his short
sword into the bung-holes of three or four empty barrels, that Bob might
be satisfied also in his conscience. "Matter of form," he said, "matter
of form, sir, when we know who people are; but you might have to do it
yourself, sir, if you were in the service of your King. You ought to be
that, Mr. Carne; and it is not too late, in such days as these are, to
begin. Take my advice--such a fine young man!"

Other taxes tricks to get rocks; other taxes coca. So this was done,
since most often to the most important tribute to the Incas them
all provinces and regions of Peru, in which so large hobo orders,
neither the natural and stopped paying the tax is due, nor that
such taxes cojian dared to carry a grain of corn too.

And all the maintenance and things pertaining to the injunction of the
war, to be contributed is despendia people in war or in the ordinary
questa curbs placed on parts of the kingdom, the defense. And when there
was war, most of everything they ate and spent the poor, because they
are the kings in Cuzco, they had their Anacona [60], which is the
name of perpetual servant, and so that sufficient in its styling
and inheritance their houses and plant maintenance as sufficient,
without which the dish is brought to the region forever, many lamb
and poultry, and fish, and maize, coca leaves, roots, with all the
fruits that are caught.

And such order had in these taxes that they paid the natives, and
the Incas were so powerful that it was not to be any build-war.
To learn how, and how the taxes were paid and kept the other up,
each _guata_ , which is the name of the year, dispatched some Orejón
as a judge in committee, because power had not been looking over
the provinces and warnings to the residents if anyone was injured
and said it complains, to punish those who would have made any
sinjusticia; and complaints received, if there was, or understand
if somewhere something is left to pay, given the return to Cuzco,
where it came from another with the power to punish those who would
blame.

Without such action, is to another couple, which was, from time to
time it seemed the most of the provinces, where every nation that day it
was allowed to speak, before the Lord proposed to the state of the
province and the need or fill that she had, and if the tax was much
or little, or if they could pay or not, to which were released to
their will, with some Inca lords who do not lie, but told the truth,
because if there caution, to great punishment and increase the tax.

The mugeres which gave the provinces, the Dellas brought to Cuzco to
what were the kings, and Dell in the left temple of the sun. _CAP. XIX
.-- How the kings of Cuzco has had to be sent annually to all those
who died and was born in all his kingdom, and how people worked and
none could be poor with many effects depósitos._ To match the
Orejón in Cuzco that gave me the relationship, which once, in time
of the Inca kings were sent to all towns and provinces of Peru,
that Mr.

Major and his deputies the men knew each year and mugeres who had been
killed, and all who were born, so they pay for taxes, to know the people
there for the war and the defense that could be by the people, it
is to have it, which easily could have known, because each province, in
the year, presenting in the teams sent by the account of its knots
all the men who died there that year, and by [with] the following which
they were born. And by entering the beginning of the year, the teams came
to Cuzco, where it is understood, so that in that year were born, as
being the missing dead.

And there was this great truth and certainty, without having anything in
fraud or deception.

And with this in mind, I knew the Lord and the governors of these Indians
who were poor and mugeres who were widowed, and although they could
pay taxes, and how many people could leave for war, and many other
things to be had between them as important. And as long as this kingdom,
as in many parts of this escriptura I said, and in each province
there were large number of main tanks filled with maintenance and
other things necessary and beneficial for provehimiento of men, if
war there, spent, where they were real, such as Quest chambers,
without touching on what the Confederacy had its own, nor any thing
unto which hobiese in their villages, and if there was no war, the
whole crowd maintaining that there was distributed for the poor and
widows.

These were to be the poor who were too old, that were lame, or Mancos
Tolle, toviesen or other diseases if it were healthy, anything sent to
them.

And then there were tornadoes shells to swell with the taxes they were
obliged to give, and if by any case coming year full of sterility, and
even sent the shells open and give the provinces the maintenance
required, and later in the year hobiese fill, and what were returning
on their own and a certain extent.

Although the taxes that the Incas were not used to that for other things,
it was well spent as it had his kingdom as well fed and supplied.

Consented not to be lazy and walked none stealing the work of others,
but all sent work. And so every man, on some days, your going to Chaco
and took the plow in the hands and seasoned the ground, working on
other things.

And yet the same Incas did it, because it was a good example of it, because
he had to have understood that there was none have become so rich
that I wanted Baldone and affront to the poor, and his command had
not none it was all over his land, because health, work and not
missing, and being without it, their deposits will provide the
necessary.

Nor could bring more meaning rich or poor ornament or clothing and
differentiate suit, except to curaca and gentlemen, that these,
by the dignity it, could use great openness and freedoms, and even
the Orejón that among all nations were retirees.

_CAP. XX .-- governors of how he posts in the provinces, and how they had
kings, when it visits, and how some weapons were snakes around OUNTY
bastones._ It is found very true of the kings of this kingdom at the
time were you and reign in all the headers of the provinces - such as
Vilcas, Xauxa, Bombon, Caxamalca, Guancabamba, Tomebamba, Latacunga
[61], Quito, Carangui, and on the other side of Cuzco , around noon,
Hatuncana, Hatuncolla, Ayavire, Chuquiabo, Chucuito, Paria, and others
who go to Chile - delegates, because in these places had more
cousins and older apartments in many other peoples of this great
kingdom, and many deposits, and they were like heads of provinces
or counties, because so many came so many miles of these tributes
to a header, and many many more, went to another, having in mind
this so much that people no longer have any known where he had to go.

And in all these Kings had head temples of the sun and casting house and
many silversmiths, who did not understand at all times more than in
rich styling pieces of gold, silver or large vessels, and there
were many people of curbs, and as I said, steward or delegate more
about all that was, and who had the account of what came, and he
was obliged to give what came out.

And that those governors could not interfere in the jurisdiction in mandar
agena and had another like him in charge, but where he was, if there
was a scandal and uproar, had the power to punish, and if it was a matter
of getting up or conjuration any tyrant, or of wanting to deny the
obidiencia King, because it is true that the entire force was in the
governors. And if the Incas did not fall into and that would make the
mitimaes, often lifting the th natural and real self-control, but
with so many people in both war and supplying maintenance, could
not, whether all, some and others, not for treason or plot hobiese
survey; which were few times, because these governors were made,
were of great confidence, and all that and more Orejón dello had
their Chácara, which are inherited in the region of Cuzco, and their
homes and relatives, and if one did not leave enough to govern what
they had in charge, then was removed from command and put another
in its place.

And these, if in some time came to Cuzco businesses or private individuals
with the kings, leaving in their lieutenants, not those who wanted them,
but those who know it got [62] to more accurately what they were commanded,
and more to serve the Incas. If any of these governors or delegates
died in his presidency, natural, and how he had died much alacrity sent
dello probanza the reason or the Lord, and even the bodies of the
dead on the path of the posts, if vian that agreement.

What taxed each term of these headers and contributed natural and
gold, like silver, and clothing and arms, with everything else they
had, delivered by the camayos that had the teams, who did everything
this was commanded by them regarding despender these things with people
in war, or with whom the Lord repartillo boss or llevallo to Cuzco,
but when the city of Cuzco came to take the account, or to be the
Cuzco to give the same meter with the teams they came to give or
where there could be no fraud, but everything had to be full.

And a few years passed without giving reasonable account of all these
things. These governors had great authority and power enough to make
people join armies and war, if Supit recresciese are some embarrassment
or uprising, or some strange people that come somewhere to war
before the Lord and were honored and privileged and Desto lost when
the Spaniards came, many Dell perpetual command in the provinces.

I know some Dell already aposesionados so that their children inherit what
it was for others. When in peace time the Incas came to visit his kingdom,
tell him that with great iban Majesty, you're sitting on rich, armed on
each smooth sticks, lengths, excellent timber, gold and engastonadas
Argentería;'re leaving and the two high arches, made of gold,
precious stones engastonados, some blankets and fell slightly for
all the long walk, so that covered all those, and if it was not
wanting to be inside, could not be seen, but neither was raised
when the blankets came and went, so was his estimate.

And it came to air and he could see the road, had made the blankets in
some holes.

For all of these parts are you having wealth, and some were carved
in the sun and moon, and some other large snakes OUNTY, and as the
crossed sticks, - by Traian insinia this [63], for weapons -- and
these bore the litter on the shoulders of the greatest masters and
most major of the kingdom, and one that went over with them, he was
honored by more and more favored.

Redor At the walk and the custody of the yarn was king with Archer
and halberdiers, and five miles ahead iban slingers and spearmen behind
many others came with their masters, and the sides of the road and the
same way, iban loyal riders and discovering what had alerted the way
of the Lord; and so many people came to see, it seemed that all the
hills and slopes were full della, and all gave their blessings
raising screams and shouts to his great style, as "hatun _Ancha apu,
intipchuri, canqui zapallaapu tucuy ccamp uyay sullull_ pacha [64],
in our language that says: "Very large and powerful Lord, son of the sun,
you're only Lord, the whole world will Oya in truth."

And without it told other things higher, therefore, that little was
missing for him to worship God. All the way Indians iban cleaning,
so that no grass or stone parescia, quite clean and swept. Walked four
miles every day, or what he wanted, stopped what was served, to
understand the state of his kingdom; oia cheer to him who came with
complaints, remedying and punishing those who made injustice.

Those who were with them, not desmandaban anything out of the way
or a step. The nature of what they provide, without which he had
served in the tanks so that on, and nothing was missing. Where went,
leaving many men and boys to serve mugeres and personally as they
were commanded to carry the loads and the bearing of a village to
another, where they took the few and the others left, and as it was
a day, and at most two, not sorry, nor any dello recebian grievance.

Well Mr desta way to go, walking on his land as long as you placia,
looking for his eyes what was happening, and providing that they
should understand what that was all great and important things,
which indeed was the return to Cuzco , the main city of the entire
empire.

_CAP.

XXI .-- How the posts were placed in this reino._ was so great kingdom
of Peru, the Incas who sent it said many times from Chile to Quito, and
even to the river Maule in Angasmayo, and if being the king in one of
these out, hobiera be informed of what was happening in the other with
whom to walk for days, even if large, it was something very long,
because, after having walked miles mill, and no serious weather was to
be provided, if appropriate, remedy or other business of governance.
In order, therefore, is to get across to govern provinces, Incas invented
the posts, which was the best we could think or imagine, and this
is only Inca Yupanqui, who was son of Viracocha Inga, father by Tupac
Inca, depending on the published Songs of the Indians, and affirm
the Orejón.

Not only of the Inca Yupanqui invented posts, others did great things
as we go telling. And so, since the time of his reign, all roads were
made from real to half a league half a league, more or less, small
houses covered with straw or wood is, and the mountains were made
by the slopes and cliffs so that the roads were full of these small
tract houses in places, such as Suso. And in each mandóse Dellas
bastimentos were two Indians, and Indians were made by people comarcanos
and shelves that were not, but from time to time, they were about to come
and others, and such order in this hobo that was not necessary to
send more than ever to quit while the Inca reigned. Each province was
careful to populate the posts that fell on their terms, as in the
deserts to mountains and snow fields that were more near the road.

And as necessary to give notice in Cuzco or elsewhere to the kings of
something that happened or that hobiese appropriate to their service,
were to remove or Tomebanba or Chile or of Caranqui, or any other part
of any the kingdom and of the plains and the mountains, and with
much alacrity walk trot without stopping half a league that, because
the Indians there were being sent and, believing it would be light and
loose all over.

And since coming together in another post, began to being named
in it and you say "after party, and go to that part, and notifies Desto
and this has happened, or Desto and this governor know that the
Inca. " And just like the one he has heard, some more hurry and
enter the next, resting in the box, and eat and drink what ever it
is, and that is running does the same. so this was done, which will
soon knew three hundred miles long and five and eight, and more and
less, what had happened or that they should provide and what to
order.

And with so much secrecy using their offices residing in these posts, which
threatens not ever ask us what they were going to notice, though notice
hobiese past and future. And these roads and mountains of the rugged
mountains and white as snow and promontories of secadales full of rocks
and thorns of Abrojos mill nature, these are ways that you can be certain
and ascertained that in light horses nor mules could not go faster
with the new post that these standing because they are very loose,
and went over them in a day, three went on a mail or a mule, horse,
and I always say no one indus but how to order hose and had to go
was a half league, and another half league.

And you know, never by storm or something that happens, there are no post
unpopulated, but it say that the Indians, who, before that there were,
others were coming to stay in place. Y This was advised by the
lords of everything that happened throughout his kingdom and dominion,
and they provide the most parescia them to suit your service. Nowhere
in the world that no one reads this invention has been found, although
I know that derailed Xerxes the Great, was the new way, by men
standing in short time.

And this was true of the posts, very important in Peru, and looks good
so how was the good governance of the lords. And today in many parts
of the mountains, beside the road, some of these houses where the
posts were, and they see to be true what they say.

And yet I also have seen some moles, which are, as I said back, like
pillars of terms, except that here these are larger and better
made, and which was counted by their leagues, and each has a league
and a half Castilla.

_CAP. XXII .-- How they put the mitimaes, dello luck and how many there
were, and how they were estimated by Incas._ In this chapter I escrebir
As to the Indians who call mitimaes because so many things in Peru
include Dell, both the Incas and were honored and privileged and taken
after the Orejón, for the most noble of the provinces, and I say this
because at _Historia_, callers, _de Indias_ is escripto by the
author, they were mitimaes Huainan slaves Capac [65].

These all fall into neglect by those who write and cartapacios relationship
without seeing or knowing the land where they write, to say the truth.
In most of the provinces of Peru, or at all, and yet there are
these mitimaes [66], and we understand that hobo dello luck or three
ways, which agreed to lift heavily [67] of and for their conservation,
and yet its people, and understood how and in what way were these
posts and mitimaes what they were doing and understood, the letores
know how the Incas were able to get around the governance of many
lands and provinces as sent.

_Mitimaes_ Call those who are transposed from one land to another, and
the first sort of way, or put mitimaes commissioned by the Incas, was
that after they had been conquered by any province or brought back
into service, they may order tenella safely and quickly than with the
natural della neighbors know how to serve and had to have, and certainly
understand what others know and understand that many times their vassals,
and that they were peaceful and quiet, and not all times had to rebel
rig, and if it were the case dello, who upset hobiese - trasmutaban
of these provinces the number of people seemed to agree that leaving
della; sent to which people move to another land of toughening where it
came from and how, if cold cold, if hot-hot, where they gave them
land and houses and fields and more so as leave, and the lands and
provinces that had long-time peaceful and friendly and had the will
to know their service, ordered to leave as many or more entremetellos
and won again in the land and the Indians just subdue for dependent
dello up these things, and impose in its order and pulicía so that,
through this exit some come and others were all safe with the
governors and delegates were made, and second in as digimos chapters
back.

Consider, it is nearly three years now--"

"No, papa, I should despise myself if I were so unjust to one so
unlucky. And I only go so much from my own wishes because you are such a
dear and good father. Not a bit of it for Lord Dashville's sake."

"Well, my poor darling," the Admiral replied, for he saw that she was
upon the brink of tears, and might hate Lord Dashville if further urged,
"half a loaf is better than no bread. If Dashville is worthy of your
constant heart, he will stand this long trial of his constancy. This is
the tenth day of August, 1804. I hope that the Lord may be pleased to
spare me till the 10th of August, 1805. High time for them to come and
lay the cloth. I am as hungry as a hunter."


CHAPTER XLVI

CATAMARANS


Napoleon had shown no proper dread of the valiant British volunteers,
but kept his festival in August, and carried on his sea-side plans, as
if there were no such fellows. Not content with that, he even flouted
our blockading fleet by coming out to look at them. And if one of our
frigates had shot straight, she might have saved millions of lives and
billions of money, at the cost of one greatly bad life. But the poor
ship knew not her opportunity, or she would rather have gone to the
bottom than waste it.

Now the French made much of this affair, according to their nature; and
histories of it, full of life and growth, ran swiftly along the
shallow shore, and even to Paris, the navel of the earth. Frenchmen of
letters--or rather of papers--declared that all England was smitten with
dismay; and so she might have been, if she had heard of it. But as our
neighbours went home again, as soon as the water was six fathoms
deep, few Englishmen knew that they had tried to smell a little of the
sea-breeze, outside the smell of their inshore powder. They were pleased
to get ashore again, and talk it over, with vivid description of the
things that did not happen.

"Such scenes as these tended much to agitate England," writes a great
French historian. "The British Press, arrogant and calumnious, as the
Press always is in a free country, railed much at Napoleon and his
preparations; but railed as one who trembles at that which he would fain
exhibit as the object of his laughter." It may have been so, but it is
not to be seen in any serious journal of that time. He seems to have
confounded coarse caricaturists with refined and thoughtful journalists,
even as, in the account of that inshore skirmish, he turns a gun-brig
into a British frigate. However, such matters are too large for us.

It was resolved at any rate to try some sort of a hit at all these
very gallant Frenchmen, moored under their own batteries, and making
horse-marines of themselves, whenever Neptune, the father of the horse,
permitted. The jolly English tars, riding well upon the waves, sent many
a broad grin through a spy-glass at Muncher Crappo tugging hard to get
his nag into his gun-boat and then to get him out again, because his
present set of shoes would not be worn out in England. Every sailor
loves a horse, regarding him as a boat on legs, and therefore knowing
more about him than any landlubber may feign to know.

But although they would have been loth to train a gun on the noble
animal, who was duly kept beyond their range, all the British sailors
longed to have a bout with the double tier of hostile craft moored
off the shore within shelter of French batteries. Every day they could
reckon at least two hundred sail of every kind of rig invented since
the time of Noah, but all prepared to destroy instead of succouring the
godly. It was truly grievous to see them there and not be able to get at
them, for no ship of the line or even frigate could get near enough to
tackle them. Then the British Admiral, Lord Keith, resolved after much
consultation to try what could be done with fire-ships.

Blyth Scudamore, now in command of the Blonde, had done much excellent
service, in cutting off stragglers from the French flotilla, and driving
ashore near Vimereux some prames and luggers coming from Ostend. He
began to know the French coast and the run of the shoals like a native
pilot; for the post of the Blonde, and some other light ships, was
between the blockading fleet and the blockaded, where perpetual
vigilance was needed. This sharp service was the very thing required to
improve his character, to stamp it with decision and self-reliance, and
to burnish his quiet, contemplative vein with the very frequent friction
of the tricks of mankind. These he now was strictly bound not to study,
but anticipate, taking it as first postulate that every one would
cheat him, if permitted. To a scrimpy and screwy man, of the type most
abundant, such a position would have done a deal of harm, shutting him
up into his own shell harder, and flinting its muricated horns against
the world. But with the gentle Scuddy, as the boys at school had called
him, the process of hardening was beneficial, as it is with pure gold,
which cannot stand the wear and tear of the human race until it has been
reduced by them at least to the mark of their twenty carats.

And now it was a fine thing for Scudamore--even as a man too
philanthropic was strengthened in his moral tone (as his wife found out)
by being compelled to discharge the least pleasant of the duties of a
county sheriff--or if not a fine thing, at least it was a wholesome and
durable corrective to all excess of lenience, that duty to his country
and mankind compelled the gentle Scuddy to conduct the western division
of this night-attack.

At this time there was in the public mind, which is quite of full
feminine agility, a strong prejudice against the use of fire-ships.
Red-hot cannon-balls, and shrapnel, langrage, chain-shot, and
Greek-fire--these and the like were all fair warfare, and France might
use them freely. But England (which never is allowed to do, without
hooting and execration, what every other country does with loud
applause)--England must rather burn off her right hand than send a
fire-ship against the ships full of fire for her houses, her cottages,
and churches. Lord Keith had the sense to laugh at all that stuff, but
he had not the grand mechanical powers which have now enabled the human
race, not to go, but to send one another to the stars. A clumsy affair
called a catamaran, the acephalous ancestor of the torpedo, was expected
to relieve the sea of some thousands of people who had no business
there. This catamaran was a water-proof box about twenty feet long, and
four feet wide, narrowed at the ends, like a coffin for a giant. It
was filled with gunpowder, and ballasted so that its lid, or deck, was
almost awash; and near its stern was a box containing clock movements
that would go for about ten minutes, upon the withdrawal of a peg
outside, and then would draw a trigger and explode the charge. This
wondrous creature had neither oar nor sail, but demanded to be towed to
the tideward of the enemy, then have the death-watch set going, and be
cast adrift within hail of the enemy's line. Then as soon as it came
across their mooring cables, its duty was to slide for a little way
along them in a friendly manner, lay hold of them kindly with its long
tail, which consisted of a series of grappling-hooks buoyed with cork,
and then bringing up smartly alongside of the gun-boats, blow itself up,
and carry them up with it. How many there were of these catamarans is
not quite certain, but perhaps about a score, the intention being to
have ten times as many, on the next occasion, if these did well. And no
doubt they would have done well, if permitted; but they failed of their
purpose, like the great Guy Fawkes, because they were prevented.

For the French, by means of treacherous agents--of whom perhaps Caryl
Carne was one, though his name does not appear in the despatches--knew
all about this neat little scheme beforehand, and set their wits at work
to defeat it. Moreover, they knew that there were four fire-ships,
one of which was the Peggy of Springhaven, intended to add to the
consternation and destruction wrought by the catamarans. But they did
not know that, by some irony of fate, the least destructive and most
gentle of mankind was ordered to take a leading part in shattering man,
and horse, and even good dogs, into vapours.

Many quiet horses, and sweet-natured dogs, whose want of breeding had
improved their manners, lived in this part of the great flotilla, and
were satisfied to have their home where it pleased the Lord to feed
them. The horses were led to feed out of the guns, that they might not
be afraid of them; and they struggled against early prejudice, to like
wood as well as grass, and to get sea-legs. Man put them here to suit
his own ideas; of that they were quite aware, and took it kindly,
accepting superior powers, and inferior use of them, without a shade
of question in their eyes. To their innocent minds it was never brought
home that they were tethered here, and cropping clots instead of
clover, for the purpose of inspiring in their timid friends ashore the
confidence a horse reposes in a brother horse, but very wisely doubts
about investing in mankind. For instance, whenever a wild young animal,
a new recruit for the cavalry, was haled against his judgment by a man
on either side to the hollow-sounding gangway over dancing depth of
peril, these veteran salts of horses would assure him, with a neigh from
the billowy distance, that they were not drowned yet, but were walking
on a sort of gate, and got their victuals regular. On the other hand,
as to the presence of the dogs, that requires no explanation. Was
there ever a time or place in which a dog grudged his sprightly and
disinterested service, or failed to do his best when called upon? These
French dogs, whom the mildest English mastiff would have looked upon,
or rather would have shut his eyes at, as a lot of curs below contempt,
were as full of fine ardour for their cause and country as any noble
hound that ever sate like a statue on a marble terrace.

In those days, with pomp servíanse; front dello iban thugs and decision
in their homes had doormen, used in many religions. Dell, will be offered
to the Inca, and others, were in arms against him, but at last he was
by all, and Mr Dell sovereign monarch. Does not take away their freedoms
or old habits, so using their own, or that degree of force had been
saved. Indians who were skilled in imposing what the king wanted to
know, and learn general care were great. Pusiéronse mitimaes and roads,
health posts, each valley moderately taxed as tribute to their land that
could not go looking for what the agena, hobiese; guardábase them justice,
but performing as promised, if not , damage was his own and fully
charged Inca income. Lordship is not natural either shot sir, but
sacáronse of men many of the valleys, making for one another, and to bring
other parties to the trades that have been. God to walk the Inca by
other valleys the best order I could not agree that any damage was
done in villages or in areas of land do pass, and had much bastimentos
in natural deposits and rooms that were made by the roads.

And with this ordinance, the Inca walked until he reached the valley of
Pachacama, where the old temple as a devotee of Yuncos highly desired
to see him and how he came to that valley, I would just like to
say that the temple would have the sun, more like that was so
honest and had the natural, no stomach, and contentóse they make
great house of the sun and Mamacona priests for their sacrifices
according to his religion.

Many Indians say the same Inca spoke with the devil was in the idol
Pachacama, and it was heard as the maker of the world, and not put
unreasonable not to agree, that the Inca and begged him to notify you
what service would be more honest and joyful, and answered that he
sacrificed a lot of human blood and sheep. sobredicho After you
have made great sacrifices that were in Pachacama by Inca Tupac
Yupanqui, and big parties, which last gave the return to Cuzco on a
path that he did, going out into the valley Xauxa, across the snowy
mountains of Pariacaca, not just watch and notice its greatness, and
how great has stairs, and today are in between those snows, for the
power switch. And visiting the provinces of the mountains, and ordering
and providing the best agreement for good governance, close to Cuzco,
where he was received with great feasts and dances, and made great
sacrifices in the temple for their victories. _CAP. LIX .-- How about
leaving Tupac Inca in Cuzco, and the war that took reece with the
Guarco, and of how after having won, he turned to Cuzco._ Chincha
province was in the past much in this kingdom of Peru, and highly
populated with people, therefore, formerly of this time had with
their masters and come close to Collao, where large hobieron offal,
they return to their province, where they were and were always
estimated the comarcanos and feared.

Father of the Inca Tupac Inca, is said to have sent from visory people
with a captain of war, called Capac Inca, to seek to attract the Chincha
to his lordship, but although it was and tried, he was little,
because were put into a weapon, and so are willing to defend, quel
Orejón, the best we could, again, and captain were not seen until
none of the Inca Tupac subdue the Inca, to have the same hose,
because I do not know in this more than what they have.

Returning to the purpose, as Tupac Inca reached the Cuzco hobiese, as has
been escripto, after having been given to loose and hobbies that day
he thought, he again appealed to people, intends to do away with the
lady of the plains Indians. Its mandate was implemented, giving appeared
in Cuzco masters of the provinces with the people of war that had
brought, and then put in the order of the city and what the King had
more to provide, out of Cuzco and down to the plains along the path of
Guaytaray. Knowing your way, many were waiting with him intending to take
him by the Lord, and many willing to give him war and seek to preserve
[is] the freedom they had. In the valleys of the Nasca people and
had back pain of war. Llegado Tupac Inca, hobo embassies and chat with
each other, and although there were some obstinacy and guerrillas, were
content with what they wanted by the Inca dello foundation (_así_) : to
make homes stronger and hobiese mitimaes, and pay tribute to what they
were. And here was the Inca Ica valley, where they found that resistance
in the Nazca, but his caution was enough [to] do, without war, the enemies
of friends, and paved as the last.

In Chincha were waiting when the Inca was the valley, made more than
thirty million men on the verge of war, and expecting favors from neighbors.
Tupac Inca, as they knew, they sent messengers with a great present
to the lords and masters and principal, telling ambassadors that his
party made big offers, and quel not want war with them, but peace
and brotherhood, desta luck and other things.

The Chincha heard it said that the Inca and their recibiéronle present
for him and were leading to what some had in the valley, and spoke with
him and sought the friendship, so that settled peace, and Chincha left
arms and received Tupac Inca, and then moved to Chincha. This even
includes the Chincha Indians of Cuzco and Orejón; other Indians from
other provinces I have heard it otherwise, because they say large
hobo war no more I believe it was for Lord of Chincha.

When Inca that valley, as so great and beautiful saw him, was very pleased.
Loaba customs of the natives, and with loving words begged them to take
those of Cuzco where they saw fit, and they obeyed him and contented
throughout, and given a seat in what had been done, departed for Ica,
which was what we call the Guarco, because he waiting questa war
and so was the truth, because the nature of those valleys, taking
in just because their neighbors had been shy and do not see why,
given the possession its strange lands to King, and got together
with much encouragement, having made houses strong and pucaraes in
part belonging to it, near the sea, where they put their women and
children.

And walking [188] with the Inca people in his command, where they were
close to their enemies, and sent their embassies with large
parties, sometimes with threats and fierce, but not wanted by law to
spend their comarcanos that was acknowledge by foreigners, and between,
the use of these parties, he became the war and spent much between them.
And come the summer and make great heat, the people of the Inca adolesció
that was because it agreed to withdraw, and so, with the wisdom that he
could, did, and went on his Guarco the valley and got its maintenance
and meals, and around planted fields, and to arms, and to aparejábanse
if Cusco come against them, that those found apercebidos. Tupac Inca
Cuzco turned on, and as men are so little aware, as they saw that of the
Guarco were thus tried, he began to have some news from them, and some
rebelled and turned away from service .-- These were the Inca
people of the valleys of the same coast .-- All went to the king's
ear and what remained of that summer, heard appeals from people and
leave mandar Orejón to be all over the kingdom to visit the provinces,
and determined to win Guarco of the manor, although it was noticeable
damage build - .

And come the fall and was the last of summer heat, with more people
could gather, down to the Plains and sent their ambassadors to the
valleys them, their lack of firmness in afeándolos boast against him
was lifted, and they were amonestóles steadfast in their friendship,
where, certificóles that the war would make them cruel. And how to get
to the top of the valley Guarco, hald on a mountain, commanded his
people to found a city which became the name of Cuzco, as his
principal seat, and the hills and streets and squares were named
the true.

He said that until quel Guarco were livestock and natural subjects
him to stay there the new population, and that she had always had
people garrison, and then that hobo done on what was ordered, moved
his people to where the enemies and the fence, and were as strong
in its purpose, which never wanted to come to any party, and had
their war, which was so long, saying that lasted three years,
including summers the Inca went to Cuzco, leaving people in the new
garrison in Cuzco had done, so that was always against the enemies.

And so, because some gentlemen, and others for not being slaves, tried
to leave with his intention, but finally, after three years, the Guarco
were enflaqueciendo, and the Inca, who knew them again sent
ambassadors to them dijiesen they were all friends and colleagues,
quel but did not want their children to marry their daughters, and by
consequence, Sustainable across confederation with great equality
and other such things with deception, paresciéndole á Tupac Inca
grand merescian penalty for having given so much work and those in
Guarco, paresciéndoles no longer could sustain many days, and that
the conditions made by the Inca would be better to enjoy the
tranquility and calm, given what the king wanted to Inca, that
should not, since leaving the fort, were the principal will make
more reverence, and without thinking, commanded his people to kill
everyone, and they put him with great cruelty at the hands, and
killed men, and all major more honored Dell were there and those
who were not, so the sentence was executed, and killed as many as
today are the descendants as Dell and large piles of bones that
there are witnesses and we believe that what on This account is
what you see escripto.

This done, the king to command an Inca fortress that graceful and
so I counted on the first [189].

Settled the valley and put mitimaes and governor, having heard the
embassies that came from the mountain and many Yuncos, he ruins the
new Cuzco had been done, and all his people turned to the city of
Cuzco, where he was received with great joy, and made great sacrifices
to praise him in the temple and oracle, and therefore welcomed by
people with binge drinking and feasts and solemn táquis.

_CAP. LX .-- How about Tupac Inca Cuzco leave and as the Collao and
then to Chile, and won and let the nations that are in those lands,
and their muerte._ As Tupac Inca reached the Cuzco hobiese with as great
as has been escripto wins, some days he was loose in their banquets and
drinking with women and men, who were many, and their children,
among whom were raised Guayna capacity, which was to be king, and
went very vigorous and spirited.

Past festivals, the great Tupac Inca thought of giving a view of the
Collao and gentlemen that could land ahead, and to do so, he is apercebiesen
people everywhere, and many awnings were made to sleep in the desert
places. And they began to come to their masters, and all around the
alojábanse Cuzco, without going into the city other than the law does
not proibia and to each other and they provide everything necessary
for fully taking into account this large governors and providers
of the same city.

And as hobiesen together all those who had to go to war is made
sacrifices to their gods, according to their blindness by making the
soothsayers know that the oracles of the war and made a very splendid
banquet and left the Tupac Inca Cuzco, leaving his lieutenant in the
city and his eldest son Guayna Capac, and large parts [190] and
majesty, walked about Collasuyo visiting trim and real drums, and holgóse
by the people of the Canas and Canchas. Entering of the Collao,
Chucuito walked up to where the lords of the earth are gathered to make
you party, and had good command with his entire collection of supplies
and maintenance, without missing more than three hundred million people
iban at their true.

Some gentlemen of the Collao volunteered to go by the same people with
their Inca, and with that said, he entered the malaria Titicaca, to
the loo and they understood in the works of the buildings that his
father commanded to do, how well it had done. In the temple made great
sacrifices, and gave gifts to the idol and priests rich, with so
great lord as he was. Returned to his people and walked across the
province to leave della Collao, sent his messengers to all nations of
Charcas, Carangas and there are more people in those lands. Dellas,
some came to serve him and others to give him war, but although it
gave, was so powerful, that was enough to subdue, using the conquered
with great leniency, and that came from love . Paria sent to large
buildings, and even elsewhere. And some had to move on to big things
Tupac Inca, many of which deprives the neglect, the need to have letters,
and I put a little summary of how much we know, by what we hear and see,
that here we are, that happened.

Going forward victorious puddles, crossed many lands and depopulated
provinces and large snow until it reaches what is called chile, and
let all those lands and conquered, which say they arrived at the river
Maule. As in Chile made some buildings, and a lot of regions tributáronle
gold tejuelos. Governors and mitimaes He left, and put in order what
he had won, he returned to Cuzco. Toward the Levant Orejón sent
notice, habit of merchants, mirasen to the land that hobiese and
what the people ordered, and ordered the other things, returned to
Cuzco, where they claim that turned out, after a few days, with
people who agreed lead, came into the Andes, and rose grand job for
the thickness of the mountain, and some conquered peoples of that
region, and sent many sown plant coca, and a ride to Cuzco, where
he turned around.

They say that past few days, gave a wrong which caused death, and
to entrust his son governor of the kingdom and their wives and children,
and saying other things, he died. And he made great weeping and feeling
so remarkable from Quito to Chile, cheese strange thing to hear what
the Indians on that count. Adonde or where you do not tell lies buried.
Which have killed large numbers of women and servants and pages to get
to him, with so much treasure and precious stones that had mounted over
a million and would be little, because the lords were buried some
individuals with more than one hundred mill castellanos. Without the
people who put so much into his grave, was hanged and buried many
women and men in various parts of the kingdom, and everywhere
were crying for a whole year and tresquilaron most of the women, putting
all of esparto ropes; and finishing the year, came to make their honors.
And they say they used to do what I want to not because they are Gentiles,
and the Quest chripstianos Cuzco year and five hundred and fifty mill,
remember what you saw was done by the end of the year honors and
Paulo Inca with chripstiano will be back, and what would be removed
in time of the reign of kings past, rather than lose their dominion.

_CAP. LXI .-- How reigned at Cuzco Guayna dozen Capac who was the king
who was dead Inca._ the great Inca king Tupac Yupanqui, is understood
to make their gifts to use and burial of their elders, with great pomp.
And have the Orejón that some secret part between the freedom to charge
and hold it past the command of the Incas, and indeed what they were
trying to leave, if not for the good morning that took the governors of
the Inca with people of mitimaes and captains, who were able to sustain
such a troubled time and had no king, quel past what they had ordered.
Capac Guayna not neglected or failed to know that you value Convenia
show not to miss that much work with his father won. Then it came to
making the fast, and ruled that the city was faithful and loyal.

After
buckling up three holes, he proposed. Miss Twemlow referred him to her
dear papa; and the Rector took a week to enquire and meditate. "Take a
month, if you like," said Mr. Shargeloes.

This reply increased the speed. Mr. Twemlow had the deepest respect for
the Corporation, and to live to be the father of a Lord Mayor of London
became a new ambition to lead on his waning years. "Come and dine with
us on Saturday, and we will tell you all about it," he said, with a
pleasant smile, and warm shake of the hand; and Shargeloes knew that the
neck and the curls would bend over the broad gold chain some day.

How grievous it is to throw a big stone into a pool which has plenty of
depth and length and width for the rings to travel pleasantly, yet not
to make one ring, because of wind upon the water! In the days that were
not more than two years old, Springhaven could have taken all this news,
with a swiftly expanding and smoothly fluent circle, with a lift of
self-importance at the centre of the movement, and a heave of gentle
interest in the far reflective corners. Even now, with a tumult of
things to consider, and a tempest of judgment to do it in, people
contrived to be positive about a quantity of things still pending. Sir
Parsley Sugarloaf had bought Miss Twemlow for 50,000 pounds, they said,
and he made her let her curls down so outrageous, because she was to be
married at Guildhall, with a guinea at the end of every hair. Miss
Faith would be dirt-cheap at all that money; but as for Miss Eliza, they
wished him better knowledge, which was sure to come, when it was no good
to him.

"What a corner of the world this is for gossip!" Mr. Shargeloes said,
pleasantly, to his Eliza, having heard from his cook, who desired no new
mistress, some few of the things said about him. "I am not such a fool
as to care what they say. But I am greatly surprised at one thing.
You know that I am a thorough Englishman; may I tell you what I think,
without offending you? It is a delicate matter, because it concerns a
relative of your own, my dear."

"I know what you mean. You will not offend me. Percival, I know how
straightforward you are, and how keen of perception. I have expected
this."

"And yet it seems presumptuous of me to say that you are all blind
here, from the highest to the lowest. Except indeed yourself, as I now
perceive. I will tell you my suspicions, or more than suspicions--my
firm belief--about your cousin, Mr. Carne. I can trust you to keep this
even from your father. Caryl Carne is a spy, in the pay of the French."

"I have long thought something, though not quite so bad as that,"
Miss Twemlow answered, calmly; "because he has behaved to us so very
strangely. My mother is his own father's sister, as you know, and yet he
has never dined with us more than once, and then he scarcely said a word
to any one. And he never yet has asked us to visit him at the castle;
though for that we can make all allowance, of course, because of its sad
condition. Then everybody thought he had taken to smuggling, and after
all his losses, no one blamed him, especially as all the Carnes had done
it, even when they were the owners of the land. But ever since poor
Mr. Cheeseman, our church-warden, tried to destroy himself with his own
rope, all the parish began to doubt about the smuggling, because it pays
so well and makes the people very cheerful. But from something he
had seen, my father felt quite certain that the true explanation was
smuggling."

"Indeed! Do you know at all what it was he saw, and when, and under what
circumstances?" Mr. Shargeloes put these questions with more urgency
than Miss Twemlow liked.

"Really I cannot tell you all those things; they are scarcely of general
interest. My dear father said little about it: all knowledge is denied
in this good world to women. But no doubt he would tell you, if you
asked him, when there were no ladies present."

"I will," said Mr. Shargeloes. "He is most judicious; he knows when to
speak, and when to hold his tongue. And I think that you combine with
beauty one of those two gifts--which is the utmost to be expected."

"Percival, you put things very nicely, which is all that could be
expected of a man. But do take my advice in this matter, and say no more
about it."

Mr. Shargeloes feigned to comply, and perhaps at the moment meant to do
so. But unluckily he was in an enterprising temper, proud of recovered
activity, and determined to act up to the phosphate supplied by fish
diet. Therefore when the Rector, rejoicing in an outlet for his long
pent-up discoveries, and regarding this sage man as one of his family,
repeated the whole of his adventure at Carne Castle, Mr. Shargeloes
said, briefly, "It must be seen to."

"Stubbard has been there," replied Mr. Twemlow, repenting perhaps of his
confidence; "Stubbard has made an official inspection, which relieves us
of all concern with it."

"Captain Stubbard is an ass. It is a burning shame that important
affairs should be entrusted to such fellows. The country is in peril,
deadly peril; and every Englishman is bound to act as if he were an
officer."

That very same evening Carne rode back to his ruins in a very grim state
of mind. He had received from the Emperor a curt and haughty answer to
his last appeal for immediate action, and the prospect of another gloomy
winter here, with dangers thickening round him, and no motion to enliven
them, was almost more than he could endure. The nights were drawing in,
and a damp fog from the sea had drizzled the trees, and the ivy, and
even his own moustache with cold misery.

"Bring me a lantern," he said to old Jerry, as he swung his stiff legs
from the back of the jaded horse, "and the little flask of oil with the
feather in it. It is high time to put the Inspector's step in order."

Jerry Bowles, whose back and knees were bent with rheumatism and dull
service, trotted (like a horse who has become too stiff to walk) for the
things commanded, and came back with them. Then his master, without
a word, strode towards the passage giving entry to the vaults which
Stubbard had not seen--the vaults containing all the powder, and the
weapons for arming the peasantry of England, whom Napoleon fondly
expected to rise in his favour at the sight of his eagles.

"How does it work? Quite stiff with rust. I thought so. Nothing is ever
in order, unless I see to it myself. Give me the lantern. Now oil the
bearings thoroughly. Put the feather into the socket, and work the pin
in and out, that the oil may go all round. Now pour in some oil from the
lip of the flask; but not upon the treadle, you old blockhead. Now do
the other end the same. Ah, now it would go with the weight of a mouse!
I have a great mind to make you try it."

"What would you do, sir, if my neck was broken? Who would do your work,
as I do?"

They were under an arch of mouldy stone, opening into the deep dark
vaults, where the faint light of the lantern glanced on burnished
leather, brass, and steel, or fell without flash upon dull round bulk.
The old man, kneeling on the round chalk-flints set in lime for
the flooring of the passage, was handling the first step of narrow
step-ladder leading to the cellar-depth. This top step had been taken
out of the old oak mortice, and cut shorter, and then replaced in the
frame, with an iron pin working in an iron collar, just as the gudgeon
of a wheelbarrow revolves. Any one stepping upon it unawares would go
down without the aid of any other step.

"Goes like spittle now, sir," said old Jerry; "but I don't want no
more harm in this crick of life. The Lord be pleased to keep all them
Examiners at home. Might have none to find their corpusses until next
leap-year. I hope with all my heart they won't come poking their long
noses here."

"Well, I rather hope they will. They want a lesson in this
neighbourhood," muttered Carne, who was shivering, and hungry, and
unsweetened.


CHAPTER XLVIII

MOTHER SCUDAMORE


If we want to know how a tree or flower has borne the gale that flogged
last night, or the frost that stung the morning, the only sure plan is
to go and see. And the only way to understand how a friend has taken
affliction is to go--if it may be done without intrusion--and let him
tell you, if he likes.

Admiral Darling was so much vexed when he heard of Blyth Scudamore's
capture by the French, and duty compelled him to inform the mother, that
he would rather have ridden a thousand miles upon barley-bread than
face her. He knew how the whole of her life was now bound up with the
fortunes of her son, and he longed to send Faith with the bad news, as
he had sent her with the good before; but he feared that it might seem
unkind. So he went himself, with the hope of putting the best complexion
upon it, yet fully expecting sad distress, and perhaps a burst of
weeping. But the lady received his tidings in a manner that surprised
him. At first she indulged in a tear or two, but they only introduced a
smile.

"In some ways it is a sad thing," she said, "and will be a terrible blow
to him, just when he was rising so fast in the service. But we must not
rebel more than we can help, against the will of the Lord, Sir Charles."

"How philosophical, and how commonplace!" thought the Admiral; but he
only bowed, and paid her some compliment upon her common-sense.

"Perhaps you scarcely understand my views, and perhaps I am wrong in
having them," Lady Scudamore continued, quietly. "My son's advancement
is very dear to me, and this will of course retard it. But I care most
of all for his life, and now that will be safe for a long while. They
never kill their prisoners, do they?"

"No, ma'am, no. They behave very well to them; better, I'm afraid, than
we do to ours. They treat them quite as guests, when they fall into good
hands. Though Napoleon himself is not too mild in that way."

"My son has fallen into very good hands, as you yourself assure me--that
Captain Desportes, a gallant officer and kind gentleman, as I know from
your daughter's description. Blyth is quite equal to Lord Nelson in
personal daring, and possibly not behind him in abilities. Consider how
shockingly poor Nelson has been injured, and he feels convinced himself
that they will have his life at last. No officer can be a hero without
getting very sad wounds, and perhaps losing his life. Every one who does
his duty must at least be wounded."

The Admiral, who had never received a scratch, was not at all charmed
with this view of naval duty; but he was too polite to enter protest,
and only made one of his old-fashioned scrapes.

"I am sure every time I have heard a gun coming from the sea, and
especially after dark," the lady resumed, without thinking of him, "it
has made me miserable to know that probably Blyth was rushing into some
deadly conflict. But now I shall feel that he cannot do that; and I hope
they will keep him until the fighting grows milder. He used to send me
all his money, poor dear boy! And now I shall try to send him some of
mine, if it can be arranged about bank-notes. And now I can do it very
easily, thanks to your kindness, Sir Charles, his father's best friend,
and his own, and mine."

Lady Scudamore shed another tear or two, not of sorrow, but of pride,
while she put her hand into her pocket, as if to begin the remittance at
once. "You owe me no thanks, ma'am," said the Admiral, smiling; "if any
thanks are due, they are due to the King, for remembering at last what
he should have done before."

"Would he ever have thought of me, but for you? It is useless to talk
in that way, Sir Charles; it only increases the obligation, which I must
entreat you not to do. How I wish I could help you in anything!"

"Every day you are helping me," he replied, with truth; "although I am
away too often to know all about it, or even to thank you. I hope my
dear Faith has persuaded you not to leave us for the winter, as you
threatened."

"Faith can persuade me to anything she pleases. She possesses the power
of her name," replied the lady; "but the power is not called for, when
the persuasion is so pleasant. For a month, I must be away to visit my
dear mother, as I always have done at this time of year; and then, but
for one thing, I would return most gladly. For I am very selfish, you
must know, Sir Charles--I have a better chance of hearing of my dear
son at these head-quarters of the defence of England, than I should have
even in London."

"Certainly," cried the Admiral, who magnified his office; "such a number
of despatches pass through my hands; and if I can't make them out, why,
my daughter Dolly can. I don't suppose, Lady Scudamore, that even when
you lived in the midst of the world you ever saw any girl half so
clever as my Dolly. I don't let her know it--that would never do, of
course--but she always gets the best of me, upon almost any question."

Sir Charles, for the moment, forgot his best manners, and spread his
coat so that one might see between his legs. "I stand like this," he
said, "and she stands there; and I take her to task for not paying her
bills--for some of those fellows have had to come to me, which is not
as it should be in a country place, where people don't understand the
fashionable system. She stands there, ma'am, and I feel as sure as if I
were an English twenty-four bearing down upon a Frenchman of fifty
guns, that she can only haul her colours down and rig out gangway
ladders--when, bless me and keep me! I am carried by surprise, and
driven under hatchways, and if there is a guinea in my hold, it flies
into the enemy's locker! If it happened only once, I should think
nothing of it. But when I know exactly what is coming, and have
double-shotted every gun, and set up hammock-nettings, and taken
uncommon care to have the weather-gage, 'tis the Devil, Lady
Scudamore--excuse me, madam--'tis the Devil to a ditty-bag that I have
her at my mercy. And yet it always comes to money out of pocket, madam!"

"She certainly has a great power over gentlemen"--Blyth's mother smiled
demurely, as if she were sorry to confess it; "but she is exceedingly
young, Sir Charles, and every allowance must be made for her."

"And by the Lord Harry, she gets it, madam. She takes uncommonly good
care of that. But what is the one thing you mentioned that would prevent
you from coming back to us with pleasure?"

"I scarcely like to speak of it. But it is about that self-same Dolly.
She is not fond of advice, and she knows how quick she is, and that
makes her resent a word from slower people. She has taken it into her
head, I fear, that I am here as a restraint upon her; a sort of lady
spy, a duenna, a dictatress, all combined in one, and all unpleasant.
This often makes me fancy that I have no right to be here. And then your
sweet Faith comes, and all is smooth again."

"Dolly has the least little possible touch of the vixen about her. I
have found it out lately," said the Admiral, as if he were half doubtful
still; "Nelson told me so, and I was angry with him. But I believe he
was right, as he generally is. His one eye sees more than a score of
mine would. But, my dear madam, if that is your only objection to coming
back to us, or rather to my daughters, I beg you not to let it weigh a
feather's weight with you. Or, at any rate, enhance the obligation to
us, by putting it entirely on one side. Dolly has the very finest heart
in all the world; not so steady perhaps as Faith's, nor quite so fair to
other people, but wonderfully warm, ma'am, and as sound as--as a roach."

My husband, who is in this direction to the demands of the day the remedy
for internal damage to the party believed that dealt a lot with the
trade unions. "These are the nuclear forces," said he, "their wishes
and needs, we need to know if we look at our magazine want to act. "We
attended their meetings. Quiet reigned work here. With profound knowledge
of social policy issues were addressed, particularly the protection
of home workers, which then became the focus of attention focused.
It was indicative of the spirit of the trade union movement that
almost at the same time when the invitation to the Women's Congress
of the Social Democrats was rejected, the General Commission of the
home unions protect workers Congress convened, and the interested
parties from civic groups were invited to participate. But if the deliberate
restriction of movement on the one hand, an astonishing degree of
knowledge, energy, security target has had to develop on the other hand,
a certain Engigkeit, an organization of egoism, the conceit of professional
ethics of ancient times is not too far away. I even agitated for the
union, I advocated in meetings the demands protection for home workers,
which we in Congress had established, and I knew how necessary it all
was, but I would have been not able to pay off, and it seemed safe to
me that so many efficient forces, the political movement disgusted, more
and more is up. Sounded not the strong pulse of the time only subdued
here, where forces and thoughts in the narrow circle of the organization
work, social reform moving? Layers are not the sprouting of a dangerous
development of egoism against socialism?'s Gradually, as I always opened
up new doors with wide views to unknown areas of the labor movement.
A school presentation by the Prussian government has long been in prospect,
and the introduction of denominational schools tantamount cried in the
press and meetings, a lively controversy over educational issues
out.

The mere obvious protest against the mere requirement of separation of
church and school was not enough anymore. Those who are from working class
districts participated in the debates, he had also discussed the details
of the issue, and a desire for further education was loud. In a small
meeting at the gates of Berlin, I heard an old worker of
Pestalozzistraße speak.

He had not only read it, but in themselves and described the future work
of the school, which replaces the "Paukschule" would meet the present,
with the same enthusiasm as another about the future government
would have spread.

On these and similar experiences, I ventured out to the "pedagogical
province," Goethe's utopia education, the subject of a presentation
to make.

A Riesenauditorium, which consisted only of workers, followed by tense
attention everything I said in the debate and showed not only that I was
understood, but also how many had read their Goethe.

Now I started, with interest not to pursue political gatherings, and I
discovered with increasing amazement looking people, not just
challenging. Where religious, philosophical questions where was
the most interest.

That brutal philosophical materialism, which denied everything,
which has not had hands, and for the mass of the Social Democrats more
so to the church body-dogmatic faith was taken, as it obvious confusion
with the basic principle of Marxism, the historical materialism,
had thrown together, no longer so dominated fully as before the fire.

The disbelief that had remained and everything besides his inescapable
question mark up, seemed full of longing and homesickness. Young and
old men met me, in their free time swallowed, which they reached in
philosophical writings was beside Kant and Schopenhauer, the shallowest
Gewäsch Popular so-called philosophy, Dietzgen addition, the party
philosophers, all kinds of Theosophical even spiritualist writings.
In the agony with which she always tried to follow the spiritual neglect
their younger years to overcome the foundations of thought and
knowledge, they lacked completed, was a greater tragedy than the
physical distress "We are all good socialists," once told me an
older man who is working from the simple to the influential trade
union officials had brought, "and socialism is what has us together,
us in the fight against the enemies is insurmountable, but now
everyone wants something for itself.

"That was the desire for personality, which is stimulated, the reaction
against the spiritual race, the strength and the weakness of socialism
was. And all the wishes and went in search astray. Nobody replied to
this, no one jumped to get staggering to think, to lead the blind.

Monotonously, as the Zukunftsprophezeiungen the first Christians, they
sounded from the lips of their leaders always receive the same formula:
"The overcoming of the capitalist social order through the class
struggle brings salvation to all .

She felt more than that they are clearly aware that: The liberation
from poverty and misery must also be given a personal goal for the
achievement of this first rohesten nothing but the starting point. Would
it then searches advised not to drift, not be removed from the road,
the necessary first to lead the first stage had? * * * * * In the
Russian Revolution threw the torch of fire in their towns and
villages.

The bloom of youth, mental elite of the country carried the flag ahead,
and the cumbersome mass of the giant nation fell into a huge
movement.

Even the peasants in their lonely steppes greeted the light, the flames
they saw as their liberators. Hundreds fell, hundreds disappeared in
the dark grim Russian citadels, hundreds were in chains in the mines
of Siberia disappeared, thousands filled the gaps again, which had
torn her disappearance. The time called heroes, and they grew up,
life was nothing more to them, where the death of the seeds of freedom
was. The great empire, the stronghold of European reaction, in its basic
seemed shaken. Prior to workers and peasants, particularly students and
women stretched absolutism of the weapons. We saw how the sky over
the border to rötete. And many, on the souls of the ugly Parteizank
weighed who felt disillusioned by the long dusty road, they instead of
the battlefield had found, was to shine a glimmer of hope.

From the world turning the Russian revolution, from the collapse of
tsarism spoke prophetic speakers in our political gatherings. "We live
in the glorious days of the Russian Revolution -" so were the whiners
and skeptics dejected. "Do you not see that the time has come, the Marx
foresaw where the evolution in the Revolution turns -? "This inflamed
the enthusiasm of the masses.

My feeling, my imagination was on their side, my hope is ignited it. *
* * * * Often, when I was a child on Christmas Eve waiting room sat in
the dark, the light was out of the room next, where the mother tree
cleaned, pierced through the keyhole, I shed the whole soul and all
fear of the darkness around me expelled. It was reasonable to me
now: it came a beam of light into the darkness. Still, I knew its source
not only that he was there, captures the fear.

Henry was right: there were for us only one task: the new society to launch,
they summarize what is happening in the labor movement in all
directions auseinanderzufließen threatened: the spiritual hunger
of the masses, the practical work of trade unions and cooperatives,
the momentum of the fighting party.

And as on the way to a new lower unit should give direction, it should
be among the intellectual youth socialism trailers advertise. We had
this youth, which Russia has taught us that preach us the silent
lips of all the seekers of the spiritual leaders lacking. »Science
and the workers" - a child this was federal socialism been to destroy
him and to deny was the real party of treason.

Well, it was not my man, now I was there, again the first of our magazine
said. And what I'm lacking for so long had happened: Henry
verdüsterte trains enlightened like from the inside out. Now at last the
hour came back inner community, and in the exuberance of joy, I
thought the funds recovered, the omissions, the wounds of our
marriage would.

In joint work with the same great goal in mind, we would close,
indissoluble to grow together.

One circumstance helped us with a little more confident in the work
to go.

My sister, one of six heirs to the deceased aunt, was appalled by the
injustice done to me, tried to cancel the last testament, which my
disinherit, was enforced. And when the relatives had agreed unanimously,
the last wishes of the dead must be respected, they just did what
they wanted from the other had requested, and waived in recognition of
my claim to the sixth part of her legacy in my favor. It was initially
only little thing I got - the largest part of the property in land was
found - but for us who from the beginning with such a small sum had to
expect that no other then had the courage , to found a magazine, it was
a welcome help. Just very briefly I thought, the few thousand marks
for my boys to want to lay down - I blushed while about myself Yonder,
in the east, they sacrificed their lives to their cause, and I could
with the paltry money skimp! * * * * * It was a happy time work. We found
people in his own camp, which shared our ideas, but we were also artists
and writers, the comrades were not stamped with joy and the opportunity
is taken, once the people to speak. And first shone over us from the
black chimneys glutrot rising flames of the new society. The fact that
within the party organizations have rushed against us, before a
subscription to our magazine has been warned that our comrades as
a "fiscal socialist" publicly presented at the pillory, - that we
had only a shrug.

They believed that we wanted to dig, to criticize, they would
soon teach a lesson, because we thought only to build. At the time sky
storm clouds rise, and who was wetterkundig who saw it freshens air, to
a new blessing durchtränkte earth. The power of the Russian revolution,
the other side everything is snatched, first appeared in Germany
vorüberzubrausen as if the Rocky Mountains border . Gradually, however,
began its flood tunnel drilling, and the German threw fearful reaction
to the ramparts. In the individual states were to vote deterioration, and
the attacks on the general Reichstag suffrage were louder. Under the guise
of seemingly harmless school presentation went to the Prussian state
parliament, with the souls of the children's future on the progress
entwinden. But the proletariat learned from Russian freedom fighters.
For the first time in Germany the workers were taking the road to
massive demonstrations. In Leipzig, in Dresden, Chemnitz through
thousands and thousands, defying the police, the city. And if they are
also the tenacity of the government could not abzutrotzen, they do not
feel defeated, because the victory is beyond the boundaries reinforced
time and again their courage in dark masses, crowded, with a silence
that shouts for more than the threat of sinister determination begat
was the wiener Party before Parliament aufmarschiert, while in
Austria the work rested, and conquered at the same moment an electoral
reform, which a few weeks ago, yet the government was rejected.

And given the blood Petersburg streets, the smoking rubble of Baltic Castles
promised the Russian Tsar to the people the constitution. Now it was
also in Prussia against the stronghold of the reaction tower to run
against the state. We stirred in our magazine with all the fire
resources. "Despite all the recognition of the strong vibrant life
that is in the columns of the New Society there," Romberg wrote me
back then, "keep your chimney newspaper unappealing to me, - now
completely, where I sincere sorrow see that the distinction you
give, the continuation of all proletarian Misadventures temptation
I have so admirably appeared.

Read the full wrath of the toxic spill you renegades from your own
comrades class, the Junker from. "" About your taste, I do not dispute
with you, "I replied," it takes us, I fear, far from each other. But
to me the disclosure of the nobility to be ashamed of, you will not make
a right. Especially because I was and remained aristocrat, I know to
distinguish between the nobility and the Junker.

The huts and Berlichingen that Mirabeau and Lafayette, and the Struve
Krapotkin, - were the aristocrats, that is, free men, no Prince servants,
not slaves of the come from. I am proud to belong to them and become
like them, until the last breath against the Junker, which means
the service men fight.

"In the House of Representatives Graf Roon said:" If ever the Government
should think about ourselves in the Prussian secret reasonably election,
so we would sharpest opposition to go on. "" In the strongest I
put on the other hand, keeping a secret that the general right to vote
as a vote of the future will be made out, "he seconded Mr. von
Manteuffel. On both sides joined the ranks of fighters. If the battle is
already before?

In the minds of party members haunted this question, the other on foot
followed as we prepare ourselves?

That means always repeated work settings was in Russia as the most
impressive evidence. It was now also in the German party were discussed.
It separated the spirits in accordance with a scheme to which the name
of revisionists and radicals would no longer fit. My temperament tore
me unreservedly on the side of those who defended the mass strike, my
husband stood in the opposite camp, where the Unionists had united. Even
the views of our employees were addressed. "Do you think it can decide
that tomorrow afternoon at four in the mass strike to enter? "mocked
Reinhard. "Revolutions are no parades, previously einexerziert be."
"But the troops must be prepared for that as for the wars," said one
of our employees, "we have the idea in the heads banging, so he
at the right time to act matures. "" Of our three million voters
are just viermalhunderttausend politically organized, and twelve
million workers, only one and a half million unionized, "said
Reinhard from.

"It seems to me that we must first _haben_ heads before we can remember,
an idea in it hineinzuhämmern." The fire of my enthusiasm dissipated in
view of the theoretical re-igniting controversy, which we Germans
so often in place of the action occurs.

The demonstrations against the Prussian Landtag was limited to a
few large gatherings, where only the presence of police and military
importance awarded. The school bill was adopted. Graf Bülows politics
of distraction of the People's best interest, once again: the views of
all those who are not core to our troops were, hypnotized as directed
on the international Verwickelungen. From the hostile detuning said the
Chancellor, when the new fleet submission received the Reichstag:
"Germany must be strong enough to be alone in an emergency to be able
to say," By the time the seriousness of the need to constantly beating
army ready to have said the Emperor. It was against the revolutionary
patriotic mood off. * * * * * We had worked desperately to look
forward addressed, unconscious.

We had our program are met, were each nation deeper emotion followed,
it was sincere in not recognizing the truth, and despite all the
loud and quiet was rooting against us in a short time a tribe of readers
have been obtained.

But the cost of the magazine by far exceeded the revenue. We could
no longer turn a blind eye to the fact that our resources at a tiny
rest were together.

"Three years you have to endure, then you have prevailed," told us a
loyal comrade, who is also a good business man. "Three years , "I repeated
in thought. "Where we no longer secured quarter!" "We must not enter
the grain shotgun throw today less than ever," said my husband,
"because now we are in fact harming the cause."

The fear whispered to me: "Give to as long as there is still time. ""
Heinrich ertrüge it is not, "replied the voice of my heart. * * * *
* For the time my sister came back to Berlin. She was in a sanatorium
and had then made a long voyage. "Well, I am safe and sound," so they
came back out before me, "and now I come to you and wants to
work." With disbelieving smile I saw them . »Do you think I would
consider the appropriate duration of such non-life?" She sulked
because I do not want to take seriously.

"In a sanatorium was my table neighbor, the companion is a secret," she
continued to chat. He sought after, what you failed to do, gave me
books and newspapers, and explained to me. I am convinced Socialist. ""
But Ilse! "I laughed. "Thou? The Ästhetin? You with your horror before
the mob? "Now she was really angry. "Is it so unlikely that it will be
developed? - Are you perhaps as a comrade in the world?
He came to the edge of the
cliff that evening below his ruined castle; for there are no cliffs at
Springhaven, unless the headland deserves that name; and there he sat
gloomily for some hours, revolving the chances of his enterprise. The
weather had changed since the morning, and a chill November wind began
to urge the waves ashore. The sky was not very dark, but shredded with
loose grey vapours from the west, where a heavy bank of clouds lay under
the pale crescent of a watery moon. In the distance two British cruisers
shone, light ships of outlook, under easy sail, prepared to send the
signal for a hundred leagues, from ship to ship and cliff to cliff,
if any of England's foes appeared. They shone upon the dark sea, with
canvas touched by moonlight, and seemed ready to spring against the
lowering sky, if it held any menace to the land they watched, or the
long reach of water they had made their own.

"A pest upon those watch-dogs!" muttered Carne. "They are always
wide-awake, and forever at their stations. Instead of growing tired,
they get sharper every day. Even Charron can scarcely run through them
now. But I know who could do it, if he could only be trusted. With a
pilot-boat--it is a fine idea--a pilot-boat entered as of Pebbleridge.
The Pebbleridge people hate Springhaven, through a feud of centuries,
and Springhaven despises Pebbleridge. It would answer well, although the
landing is so bad, and no anchorage possible in rough weather. I must
try if Dan Tugwell will undertake it. None of the rest know the coast
as he does, and few of them have the bravery. But Dan is a very sulky
fellow, very difficult to manage. He will never betray us; he is
wonderfully grateful; and after that battle with the press-gang, when he
knocked down the officer and broke his arm, he will keep pretty clear of
the Union-jack. But he goes about moping, and wondering, and mooning, as
if he were wretched about what he has to do. Bless my soul, where is my
invention? I see the way to have him under my thumb. Reason is an old
coat hanging on a peg; passion is the fool who puts it on and runs away
with it. Halloa! Who are you? And what do you want at such a time as
this? Surely you can see that I am not at leisure now. Why, Tugwell, I
thought that you were far away at sea!"

"So I was, sir; but she travels fast. I never would believe the old
London Trader could be driven through the water so. Sam Polwhele knows
how to pile it on a craft, as well as he do upon a man, sir. I won't
serve under him no more, nor Captain Charcoal either. I have done my
duty by you. Squire Carne, the same as you did by me, sir; and thanking
you for finding me work so long, my meaning is to go upon the search
to-morrow."

"What fools they must have been to let this fellow come ashore!" thought
Carne, while he failed to see the wisest way to take it. "Tugwell, you
cannot do this with any honour, after we have shown you all the secrets
of our enterprise. You know that what we do is of the very highest
honour, kind and humane and charitable, though strictly forbidden by a
most inhuman government. How would you like, if you were a prisoner in
France, to be debarred from all chance of getting any message from your
family, your wife, your sweetheart, or your children, from year's end
to year's end, and perhaps be dead for months without their knowing
anything about it?"

"Well, sir, I should think it very hard indeed; though, if I was dead,
I shouldn't know much more about it. But, without reproach to you, I
cannot make out altogether that our only business is to carry letters
for the prisoners, as now may be in England, from their loving friends
to command in their native country. I won't say against you, sir, if
you say it is--that is, to the outside of all your knowledge. And twenty
thousand of them may need letters by the sack. But what use they could
make, sir, of cannon as big as I be, and muskets that would kill a man
a hundred yards of distance, and bayonets more larger and more sharper
than ever I see before, even with the Royal Volunteers--this goes out of
all my calculation."

"Daniel, you have expressed your views, which are remarkable--as indeed
they always are--with your usual precision. But you have not observed
things with equal accuracy. Do you know when a gun is past service?"

"No, sir; I never was a poacher, no-how. Squire Darling, that is to say,
Sir Charles Darling now, according to a chap on board, he was always so
good upon his land that nobody durst go a-poaching."

"I mean a cannon, Dan. They don't poach with cannon yet, though they may
come to do it, as the game-laws increase. Do you know when a cannon is
unsafe to fire, though it may look as bright as ever, like a worn-out
poker? All those things that have frightened you are only meant for
ornament. You know that every ancient building ought to have its
armoury, as this castle always had, until they were taken away and sold.
My intention is to restore it, when I can afford to do so. And having
a lot of worn-out weapons offered me for next to nothing, I seized the
chance of bringing them. When times are better, and the war is over, I
may find time to arrange them. But that is not of much importance. The
great point is to secure the delivery of letters from their native
land to the brave men here as prisoners. I cannot afford to do that for
nothing, though I make no profit out of it. I have so many things to
think about that I scarcely know which to consider first. And after all,
what matters to us whether those poor men are allowed to die, and be
buried like dogs, without knowledge of their friends? Why should we run
the risk of being punished for them?"

"Well, sir, that seems hard doctrine, if I may be allowed to say so,
and not like your kind-heartedness. Our Government have no right to stop
them of their letters."

"It is a cruel thing. But how are we to help it? The London Trader is
too large for the purpose, and she is under suspicion now. I tell you
everything, Daniel, because I know that you are a true-hearted fellow,
and far above all blabbing. I have thought once or twice of obtaining
leave to purchase a stout and handy pilot-boat, with her licence and all
that transferred to us, and so running to and fro when needful. The only
risk then would be from perils of the sea; and even the pressmen dare
not meddle with a pilot-boat. By-the-by, I have heard that you knocked
some of them about. Tugwell, you might have got us all into sad
trouble."

"Was I to think of what I was doing, Squire Carne, when they wanted
to make a slave of me? I would serve King George with a good heart, in
spite of all that father has said against it. But it must be with a free
will, Squire Carne, and not to be tied hand and foot to it. How would
you like that yourself, sir?"

"Well, I think I should have done as you did, Dan, if I had been a
British sailor. But as to this pilot-boat, I must have a bold and good
seaman to command it. A man who knows the coast, and is not afraid of
weather. Of course we should expect to pay good wages; 3 pounds a week,
perhaps, and a guinea for every bag of letters landed safe. There are
plenty of men who would jump at such a chance, Dan."

"I'll be bound there are, sir. And it is more than I am worth, if you
mean offering the place to me. It would suit me wonderful, if I was
certain that the job was honest."

"Daniel Tugwell"--Carne spoke with great severity--"I will not lose my
temper, for I am sure you mean no insult. But you must be of a very low,
suspicious nature, and quite unfit for any work of a lofty and unselfish
order, if you can imagine that a man in my position, a man of my large
sentiments--"

"Oh, no, sir, no; it was not at all that"--Dan scarcely knew how to
tell what it was--"it was nothing at all of that manner of thinking. I
heartily ask your pardon, sir, if it seemed to go in that way."

"Don't do that," replied Carne, "because I can make allowances. I know
what a fine nature is, and how it takes alarm at shadows. I am always
tender with honest scruples, because I find so many of them in myself.
I should not have been pleased with you, if you had accepted my
offer--although so advantageous, and full of romantic interest--until
you were convinced of its honourable nature. I have no time for
argument, and I am sorry that you must not come up to the castle for
supper, because we have an old Springhaven man there, who would tell
your father all about you, which you especially wish to avoid. But if
you feel inclined for this berth--as you sailors seem to call it--and
hesitate through some patriotic doubts, though I cannot understand what
they are, I will bring you a document (if you meet me here to-morrow
night) from Admiral Sir Charles Darling, which I think will satisfy
you."

"And shall I be allowed to keep it, sir, to show, in case of trouble?"

"Very likely. But I cannot say for certain. Some of those official forms
must be returned, others not; all depends upon their rules. Now go and
make yourself comfortable. How are you off for money?"

"Plenty, sir, plenty. I must not go where anybody knows me, or to-morrow
half the talk at old Springhaven would be about me. Good-night, sir, and
God bless you."


CHAPTER L

HIS SAVAGE SPIRIT


At this time letters came very badly, not only to French prisoners in
England, but even to the highest authorities, who had the very best
means of getting them. Admiral Darling had often written to his old
friend Nelson, but had long been without any tidings from him, through
no default on the hero's part. Lord Nelson was almost as prompt with
the pen as he was with the sword, but despatches were most irregular and
uncertain.

"Here at last we have him!" cried Sir Charles one morning early in
December; "and not more than five weeks old, I declare! Dolly, be
ready, and call Faith down. Now read it, my dear, for our benefit. Your
godfather writes a most excellent hand, considering that it is his left
hand; but my eyes are sore from so much night-work. Put on my specs,
Dolly; I should like to see you in them."

"Am I to read every word, papa, just as it comes? You know that he
generally puts in words that are rather strong for me."

"Nelson never thought or wrote a single word unfit for the nicest
young lady. But you may hold up your hand if you come to any strong
expressions, and we shall understand them."

"Then I shall want both hands as soon as ever we come to the very first
Frenchman. But this is what my godfather says:


"'VICTORY, OFF TOULON, October 31st, 1804.

"'MY DEAR LINGO,--It was only yesterday that I received your letter of
July 21st; it went in a Spanish smuggling boat to the coast of Italy and
returned again to Spain, not having met any of our ships. And now I hope
that you will see me before you see this letter. We are certain to be at
war with Spain before another month is out, and I am heartily sorry for
it, for I like those fellows better than the French, because they are
not such liars. My successor has been appointed, I have reason to hope,
and must be far on his way by this time; probably Keith, but I cannot
say. Ministers cannot suppose that I want to fly the service; my whole
life has proved the contrary; if they refuse, I shall most certainly
leave in March or April, for a few months' rest I must have, or else
die. My cough is very bad, and my side where I was struck off Cape St.
Vincent is very much swelled, at times a lump as large as my fist is
brought on by violent coughing, but I hope and believe my lungs are
sound. I hope to do good service yet, or else I should not care so much.
But if I am in my grave, how can I serve the Country?

"'You will say, this is not at all like Nelson, to write about nothing
but his own poor self; and thank God, Lingo, I can say that you
are right; for if ever a man lived for the good of England and the
destruction of those'"--here Dolly held a hand up--"'Frenchmen, it is
the man in front of this ink-bottle. The Lord has appointed me to that
duty, and I shall carry out my orders. Mons. La Touche, who was preached
about in France as the man that was to extinguish me, and even in
the scurvy English newspapers, but never dared to show his snivelly
countenance outside of the inner buoys, is dead of his debosheries, for
which I am deeply grieved, as I fully intended to send him to the devil.

"'I have been most unlucky for some time now, and to tell the truth I
may say always. But I am the last man in the world to grumble--as you,
my dear Lingo, can testify. I always do the utmost, with a single mind,
and leave the thought of miserable pelf to others, men perhaps who never
saw a shotted cannon fired. You know who made eighty thousand pounds,
without having to wipe his pigtail--dirty things, I am glad they are
gone out--but my business is to pay other people's debts, and receive
all my credits in the shape of cannon-balls. This is always so, and I
should let it pass as usual, except for a blacker trick than I have ever
known before. For fear of giving me a single chance of earning twopence,
they knew that there was a million and a half of money coming into Cadiz
from South America in four Spanish frigates, and instead of leaving me
to catch them, they sent out Graham Moore--you know him very well--with
orders to pocket everything. This will create a war with Spain, a war
begun with robbery on our part, though it must have come soon in any
case. For everywhere now, except where I am, that fiend of a Corsican is
supreme.

"'There is not a sick man in this fleet, unless it is the one inside my
coat. That liar La Touche said HE CHASED ME AND I RAN. I keep a copy of
his letter, which it would have been my duty to make him eat, if he had
ventured out again. But he is gone to the lake of brimstone now, and I
have the good feeling to forgive him. If my character is not fixed by
this time, it is not worth my trouble to put the world right. Yesterday
I took a look into the port within easy reach of their batteries. They
lay like a lot of mice holed in a trap, but the weather was too thick to
count them. They are certainly nearly twice our number; and if any one
was here except poor little Nelson, I believe they would venture out.
But my reputation deprives me always of any fair chance to increase it.

"'And now, my dear Lingo, allow me to enquire how you are getting on
with your Coast-defence. I never did attach much importance to their
senseless invasion scheme. The only thing to make it formidable would
be some infernal traitor on the coast, some devilish spy who would keep
them well informed, and enable them to land where least expected. If
there is such a scoundrel, may the Lord Almighty'"--here both Dolly's
hands went up, with the letter in them, and her face turned as white as
the paper.

"'I have often told you, as you may remember, that Springhaven is the
very place I should choose, if I were commander of the French flotilla.
It would turn the flank of all the inland defences, and no British
ship could attack their intrenchments, if once they were snug below the
windows of the Hall. But they are not likely to know this, thank God;
and if they did, they would have a job to get there. However, it is wise
to keep a sharp lookout, for they know very well that I am far away.

"'And now that I have got to your own doors, which I heartily hope to
do, perhaps before you see this, let me ask for yourself and all your
dear family. Lingo, the longer I live the more I feel that all the
true happiness of life is found at home. My glory is very great, and
satisfies me, except when it scares the enemy; but I very often feel
that I would give it all away for a quiet life among those who love me.
Your daughter Faith is a sweet young woman, just what I should wish
for a child of mine to be. And Horatia, my godchild, will turn out very
well, if a sharp hand is kept over her. But she takes after me, she is
daring and ambitious, and requires a firm hand at the helm. Read this
to her, with my love, and I dare say she will only laugh at it. If she
marries to my liking, she will be down for a good thing in my will, some
day. God bless us all. Amen. Amen.

"'Yours affectionately,

"'NELSON AND BRONTE.'"


"Take it to heart, my dear; and so must I," said the Admiral, laughing
at the face his daughter made; "your godfather is a most excellent judge
of everybody's character except his own. But, bless me, my dear, why,
you are crying! You silly little thing! I was only in fun. You shall
marry to his liking, and be down for the good thing. Look up, and laugh
at everybody, my darling. No one laughs so merrily as my pretty Dolly.
Why, Faith, what does she mean by this?"

To the coaxing voice of her father, and the playful glance that she used
to play with, Dolly had not rushed up at all, either with mind, or, if
that failed, with body, as she always used to do. She hurried towards
the door, as if she longed to be away from them; and then, as if she
would rather not make any stir about it, sat down and pretended to have
caught her dress in something.

"The only thing is to let her go on as she likes," Faith said aloud,
so that Dolly might hear all of it; "I have done all I can, but she
believes herself superior. She cannot bear any sort of contradiction,
and she expects one to know what she says, without her saying it. There
is nothing to be done but to treat her the same way. If she is left to
herself, she may come back to it."

"Well, my dear children," said the Admiral, much alarmed at the prospect
of a broil between them, such as he remembered about three years back,
"I make no pretence to understand your ways. If you were boys, it would
be different altogether. But the Almighty has been pleased to make
you girls, and very good ones too; in fact, there are none to be found
better. You have always been bound up with one another and with me; and
every one admires all the three of us. So that we must be content if
a little thing arises, not to make too much of it, but bear with one
another, and defy anybody to come in between us. Kiss one another, my
dears, and be off; for I have much correspondence to attend to, besides
the great Nelson's, though I took him first, hoping for something
sensible. But I have not much to learn about Springhaven, even from his
lordship. However, he is a man in ten thousand, and we must not be vexed
about any of his crotchets, because he has never had children to talk
about; and he gets out of soundings when he talks about mine. I wish
Lady Scudamore was come back. She always agrees with me, and she takes a
great load off my shoulders."

The girls laughed at this, as they were meant to do. And they
hurried off together, to compare opinions. After all these years of
independence, no one should be set up over them. Upon that point Faith
was quite as resolute as Dolly; and her ladyship would have refused to
come back, if she had overheard their council. For even in the loftiest
feminine nature lurks a small tincture of jealousy.

But Dolly was now in an evil frame of mind about many things which she
could not explain even to herself, with any satisfaction. Even that
harmless and pleasant letter from her great godfather went amiss with
her; and instead of laughing at the words about herself, as with a sound
conscience she must have done, she brooded over them, and turned them
bitter. No man could have mixed up things as she did, but her mind was
nimble. For the moment, she hated patriotism, because Nelson represented
it; and feeling how wrong he had been about herself, she felt that he
was wrong in everything. The French were fine fellows, and had quite as
much right to come here as we had to go and harass them, and a little
abatement of English conceit might be a good thing in the long-run. Not
that she would let them stay here long; that was not to be thought of,
and they would not wish it. But a little excitement would be delightful,
and a great many things might be changed for the better, such as the
treatment of women in this country, which was barbarous, compared to
what it was in France. Caryl had told her a great deal about that; and
the longer she knew him the more she was convinced of his wisdom and
the largeness of his views, so different from the savage spirit of Lord
Nelson.


CHAPTER LI

STRANGE CRAFT


While his love was lapsing from him thus, and from her own true self yet
more, the gallant young sailor, whose last prize had been that useful
one misfortune, was dwelling continually upon her image, because he
had very little else to do. English prisoners in France were treated
sometimes very badly, which they took good care to proclaim to Europe;
but more often with pity, and good-will, and a pleasant study of their
modes of thought. For an Englishman then was a strange and ever fresh
curiosity to a Frenchman, a specimen of another race of bipeds, with
doubts whether marriage could make parentage between them. And a century
of intercourse, good-will, and admiration has left us still inquisitive
about each other.

Napoleon felt such confidence in his plans for the conquest of England
that if any British officer belonging to the fleet in the narrow seas
was taken (which did not happen largely), he sent for him, upon his
arrival at Boulogne, and held a little talk with any one who could
understand and answer. He was especially pleased at hearing of the
capture of Blyth Scudamore (who had robbed him of his beloved Blonde),
and at once restored Desportes to favour, which he had begun to do
before, knowing as well as any man on earth the value of good officers.
"Bring your prisoner here to-morrow at twelve o'clock," was his order;
"you have turned the tables upon him well."

Scudamore felt a little nervous tingling as he passed through the
sentries, with his friend before him, into the pavilion of the greatest
man in Europe. But the Emperor, being in high good-humour, and pleased
with the young man's modest face and gentle demeanour, soon set him at
his ease, and spoke to him as affably as if he had been his equal. For
this man of almost universal mind could win every heart, when he set
himself to do it. Scudamore rubbed his eyes, which was a trick of his,
as if he could scarcely believe them. Napoleon looked--not insignificant
(that was impossible for a man with such a countenance), but mild, and
pleasing, and benevolent, as he walked to and fro, for he never could
stay still, in the place which was neither a tent nor a room, but a
mixture of the two, and not a happy one. His hat, looped up with a
diamond and quivering with an ostrich feather, was flung anyhow upon the
table. But his wonderful eyes were the brightest thing there.

"Ha! ha!" said the Emperor, a very keen judge of faces; "you expected
to find me a monster, as I am portrayed by your caricaturists. Your
countrymen are not kind to me, except the foremost of them--the great
poets. But they will understand me better by-and-by, when justice
prevails, and the blessings of peace, for which I am striving
perpetually. But the English nation, if it were allowed a voice, would
proclaim me its only true friend and ally. You know that, if you are one
of the people, and not of the hateful House of Lords, which engrosses
all the army and the navy. Are you in connection with the House of
Lords?"

Scudamore shook his head and smiled. He was anxious to say that he had
a cousin, not more than twice removed, now an entire viscount; but
Napoleon never encouraged conversation, unless it was his own, or in
answer to his questions.

"Very well. Then you can speak the truth. What do they think of all this
grand army? Are they aware that, for their own good, it will very soon
occupy London? Are they forming themselves to act as my allies, when I
have reduced them to reason? Is it now made entirely familiar to their
minds that resistance to me is as hopeless as it has been from the first
unwise? If they would submit, without my crossing, it would save them
some disturbance, and me a great expense. I have often hoped to hear of
it."

"You will never do that, sire," Scudamore answered, looking calmly and
firmly at the deep gray eyes, whose gaze could be met by none of the
millions who dread passion; "England will not submit, even if you
conquer her."

"It is well said, and doubtless you believe it," Napoleon continued,
with a smile so slight that to smile in reply to it would have been
impertinent; "but England is the same as other nations, although the
most obstinate among them. When her capital is occupied, her credit
ruined, her great lords unable to obtain a dinner, the government (which
is not the country) will yield, and the country must follow it. I have
heard that the King, and the Court, and the Parliament, talk of
flying to the north, and there remaining, while the navy cuts off our
communications, and the inferior classes starve us. Have you heard of
any such romance as that?"

"No, sire:" Scudamore scarcely knew what to call him, but adopted this
vocative for want of any better. "I have never heard of any such
plan, and no one would think of packing up, until our fleet has been
demolished."

"Your fleet? Yes, yes. How many ships are now parading to and fro, and
getting very tired of it?"

"Your Majesty's officers know that best," Scudamore answered, with his
pleasant open smile. "I have been a prisoner for a month and more, and
kept ten miles inland, out of sight of the sea."

"But you have been well treated, I hope. You have no complaint to make,
Monsieur Scutamour? Your name is French, and you speak the language
well. We set the fair example in the treatment of brave men."

"Sire, I have been treated," the young officer replied, with a low bow,
and eyes full of gratitude, "as a gentleman amongst gentlemen. I might
say as a friend among kind friends."

"That is as it should be. It is my wish always. Few of your English
fabrications annoy me more than the falsehoods about that. It is most
ungenerous, when I do my best, to charge me with strangling brave
English captains. But Desportes fought well, before you took his vessel.
Is it not so? Speak exactly as you think. I like to hear the enemy's
account of every action."

"Captain Desportes, sire, fought like a hero, and so did all his crew.
It was only his mishap in sticking fast upon a sand-bank that enabled us
to overpower him."

"And now he has done the like to you. You speak with a brave man's
candour. You shall be at liberty to see the sea, monsieur; for a sailor
always pines for that. I will give full instructions to your friend
Desportes about you. But one more question before you go--is there much
anxiety in England?"

"Yes, sire, a great deal. But we hope not to allow your Majesty's
armament to enter and increase it."

"Ah, we shall see, we shall see how that will be. Now farewell, Captain.
Tell Desportes to come to me."

"Well, my dear friend, you have made a good impression," said the French
sailor, when he rejoined Scudamore, after a few words with the Master of
the State; "all you have to do is to give your word of honour to avoid
our lines, and keep away from the beach, and of course to have no
communication with your friends upon military subjects. I am allowed
to place you for the present at Beutin, a pleasant little hamlet on
the Canche, where lives an old relative of mine, a Monsieur Jalais, an
ancient widower, with a large house and one servant. I shall be afloat,
and shall see but little of you, which is the only sad part of the
business. You will have to report yourself to your landlord at eight
every morning and at eight o'clock at night, and only to leave the house
between those hours, and not to wander more than six miles from home.
How do these conditions approve themselves to you?"

"I call them very liberal, and very handsome," Scudamore answered, as
he well might do. "Two miles' range is all that we allow in England to
French officers upon parole. These generous terms are due to your kind
friendship."

Before very long the gentle Scuddy was as happy as a prisoner can expect
to be, in his comfortable quarters at Beutin. Through friendly exchanges
he had received a loving letter from his mother, with an amiable
enclosure, and M. Jalais being far from wealthy, a pleasant arrangement
was made between them. Scudamore took all his meals with his host, who
could manage sound victuals like an Englishman, and the house-keeper,
house-cleaner, and house-feeder (misdescribed by Desportes as a servant,
according to our distinctions), being a widow of mark, sat down to
consider her cookery upon choice occasions. Then for a long time would
prevail a conscientious gravity, and reserve of judgment inwardly,
everybody waiting for some other body's sentiments; until the author of
the work, as a female, might no more abide the malignant silence of male
reviewers.

Scudamore, being very easily amused, as any good-natured young man is,
entered with zest into all these doings, and became an authority upon
appeal; and being gifted with depth of simplicity as well as high
courtesy of taste, was never known to pronounce a wrong decision. That
is to say, he decided always in favour of the lady, which has been the
majestic course of Justice for centuries, till the appearance of Mrs.
-----, the lady who should have married the great Home-Ruler.

Thus the wily Scudamore obtained a sitting-room, with the prettiest
outlook in the house, or indeed in any house in that part of the world
for many leagues of seeking. For the mansion of M. Jalais stood in an
elbow of the little river, and one window of this room showed the curve
of tidal water widening towards the sea, while the other pleasantly gave
eye to the upper reaches of the stream, where an angler of rose-coloured
mind might almost hope to hook a trout. The sun glanced down the stream
in the morning, and up it to see what he had done before he set; and
although M. Jalais' trees were leafless now, they had sleeved their bent
arms with green velvetry of moss.

Scudamore brought his comfortable chair to the nook between these
windows, and there, with a book or two belonging to his host, and the
pipe whose silver clouds enthrone the gods of contemplation, many a
pleasant hour was passed, seldom invaded by the sounds of war. For the
course of the roads, and sands of the river, kept this happy spot aloof
from bad communications. Like many other streams in northern France,
the Canche had been deepened and its mouth improved, not for uses of
commerce, but of warfare. Veteran soldier and raw recruit, bugler,
baker, and farrier, man who came to fight and man who came to write
about it, all had been turned into navvies, diggers, drivers of piles,
or of horses, or wheelbarrows, by the man who turned everybody into
his own teetotum. The Providence that guides the world showed mercy in
sending that engine of destruction before there was a Railway for him to
run upon.

Now Scudamore being of a different sort, and therefore having pleased
Napoleon (who detested any one at all of his own pattern), might have
been very well contented here, and certainly must have been so, if he
had been without those two windows. Many a bird has lost his nest, and
his eggs, and his mate, and even his own tail, by cocking his eyes to
the right and left, when he should have drawn their shutters up. And
why? Because the brilliance of his too projecting eyes has twinkled
through the leaves upon the narrow oblong of the pupils of a spotty-eyed
cat going stealthily under the comb of the hedge, with her stomach wired
in, and her spinal column fluted, to look like a wrinkled blackthorn
snag. But still worse is it for that poor thrush, or lintie, or robin,
or warbler-wren, if he flutters in his bosom when he spies that cat, and
sets up his feathers, and begins to hop about, making a sad little chirp
to his mate, and appealing to the sky to protect him and his family.

Blyth Scudamore's case was a mixture of those two. It would have been
better for his comfort if he had shut his eyes; but having opened them,
he should have stayed where he was, without any fluttering. However, he
acted for the best; and when a man does that, can those who never do so
find a word to say against him?

According to the best of his recollection, which was generally near the
mark, it was upon Christmas Eve, A.D. 1804, that his curiosity was first
aroused. He had made up his room to look a little bit like home, with
a few sprigs of holly, and a sheaf of laurel, not placed daintily as a
lady dresses them, but as sprightly as a man can make them look, and as
bright as a captive Christmas could expect. The decorator shed a little
sigh--if that expression may be pardoned by analogy, for he certainly
neither fetched nor heaved it--and then he lit his pipe to reflect upon
home blessings, and consider the free world outside, in which he had
very little share at present.

Mild blue eyes, such as this young man possessed, are often
short-sighted at a moderate range, and would be fitted up with glasses
in these artificial times, and yet at long distance they are most
efficient, and can make out objects that would puzzle keener organs. And
so it was that Scudamore, with the sinking sun to help him, descried at
a long distance down the tidal reach a peaceful-looking boat, which made
his heart beat faster. For a sailor's glance assured him that she was
English--English in her rig and the stiff cut of her canvas, and in all
those points of character to a seaman so distinctive, which apprise him
of his kindred through the length of air and water, as clearly as we
landsmen know a man from a woman at the measure of a furlong, or a
quarter of a mile. He perceived that it was an English pilot-boat, and
that she was standing towards him. At first his heart fluttered with
a warm idea, that there must be good news for him on board that boat.
Perhaps, without his knowledge, an exchange of prisoners might have been
agreed upon; and what a grand Christmas-box for him, if the order for
his release was there! But another thought showed him the absurdity
of this hope, for orders of release do not come so. Nevertheless, he
watched that boat with interest and wonder.

Presently, just as the sun was setting, and shadows crossed the water,
the sail (which had been gleaming like a candle-flame against the haze
and upon the glaze) flickered and fell, and the bows swung round, and
her figure was drawn upon the tideway. She was now within half a mile
of M. Jalais' house, and Scudamore, though longing for a spy-glass, was
able to make out a good deal without one. He saw that she was an
English pilot-boat, undecked, but fitted with a cuddy forward, rigged
luggerwise, and built for speed, yet fit to encounter almost any Channel
surges. She was light in the water, and bore little except ballast. He
could not be sure at that distance, but he thought that the sailors must
be Englishmen, especially the man at the helm, who was beyond reasonable
doubt the captain.

Then two long sweeps were manned amidship, with two sturdy fellows to
tug at each; and the quiet evening air led through the soft rehearsal of
the water to its banks the creak of tough ash thole-pins, and the groan
of gunwale, and the splash of oars, and even a sound of human staple,
such as is accepted by the civilized world as our national diapason.

The captive Scuddy, who observed all this, was thoroughly puzzled at
that last turn. Though the craft was visibly English, the crew might
still have been doubtful, if they had held their tongues, or kept them
in submission. But that word stamped them, or at any rate the one who
had been struck in the breast by the heavy timber, as of genuine British
birth. Yet there was no sign that these men were prisoners, or acting by
compulsion. No French boat was near them, no batteries there commanded
their course, and the pilot-boat carried no prize-crew to direct
reluctant labours. At the mouth of the river was a floating bridge, for
the use of the forces on either side, and no boat could have passed it
without permission. Therefore these could be no venturesome Britons,
spying out the quarters of the enemy; either they must have been allowed
to pass for some special purpose, under flag of truce, or else they
were traitors, in league with the French, and despatched upon some dark
errand.

In a few minutes, as the evening dusk began to deepen round her, the
mysterious little craft disappeared in a hollow of the uplands on the
other side of the water, where a narrow creek or inlet--such as
is called a "pill" in some parts of England--formed a sheltered
landing-place, overhung with clustering trees. Then Scudamore rose, and
filled another pipe, to meditate upon this strange affair. "I am
justly forbidden," he thought, as it grew dark, "to visit the camp, or
endeavour to learn anything done by the army of invasion. And I have
pledged myself to that effect. But this is a different case altogether.
When Englishmen come here as traitors to their country, and in a place
well within my range, my duty is to learn the meaning of it; and if
I find treachery of importance working, then I must consider about my
parole, and probably withdraw it. That would be a terrible blow to me,
because I should certainly be sent far inland, and kept in a French
prison perhaps for years, with little chance of hearing from my friends
again. And then she would give me up as lost, that faithful darling,
who has put aside all her bright prospects for my sake. How I wish I had
never seen that boat! and I thought it was coming to bring me such good
news! I am bound to give them one day's grace, for they might not
know where to find me at once, and to-night I could not get near them,
without overstaying my time to be in-doors. But if I hear nothing
to-morrow, and see nothing, I must go round, so as not to be seen, and
learn something about her the very next morning."

Hearing nothing and seeing no more, he spent an uncomfortable Christmas
Day, disappointing his host and kind Madame Fropot, who had done all
they knew to enliven him with a genuine English plum-pudding. And the
next day, with a light foot but rather heavy heart, he made the long
round by the bridge up-stream, and examined the creek which the English
boat had entered. He approached the place very cautiously, knowing that
if his suspicions were correct, they might be confirmed too decisively,
and his countrymen, if they had fire-arms, would give him a warm
reception. However, there was no living creature to be seen, except
a poor terrified ox, who had escaped from the slaughter-houses of the
distant camp, and hoped for a little rest in this dark thicket. He was
worn out with his long flight and sadly wounded, for many men had shot
at him, when he desired to save his life; and although his mouth was
little more than the length of his tail from water, there he lay gasping
with his lips stretched out, and his dry tongue quivering between his
yellow teeth, and the only moisture he could get was running out instead
of into his mouth.

Scudamore, seeing that the coast was clear, and no enemy in chase of
this poor creature, immediately filled his hat with fresh water--for the
tide was out now, and the residue was sweet--and speaking very gently in
the English language, for he saw that he must have been hard-shouted
at in French, was allowed without any more disturbance of the system to
supply a little glad refreshment. The sorely afflicted animal licked his
lips, and looked up for another hatful.

Captain Scuddy deserved a new hat for this--though very few Englishmen
would not have done the like--and in the end he got it, though he must
have caught a bad cold if he had gone without a hat till then.

Pursuing his search, with grateful eyes pursuing him, he soon discovered
where the boat had grounded, by the impress of her keel and forefoot on
the stiff retentive mud. He could even see where a hawser had been made
fast to a staunch old trunk, and where the soil had been prodded with
a pole in pushing her off at the turn of tide. Also deep tracks of some
very large hound, or wolf, or unknown quadruped, in various places,
scarred the bank. And these marks were so fresh and bright that they
must have been made within the last few hours, probably when the last
ebb began. If so, the mysterious craft had spent the whole of Christmas
Day in that snug berth; and he blamed himself for permitting his host's
festivities to detain him. Then he took a few bearings to mark the
spot, and fed the poor crippled ox with all the herbage he could gather,
resolving to come with a rope to-morrow, and lead him home, if possible,
as a Christmas present to M. Jalais.


CHAPTER LII

KIND ENQUIRIES


That notable year, and signal mark in all the great annals of England,
the year 1805, began with gloom and great depression. Food was scarce,
and so was money; wars, and rumours of worse than war; discontent of men
who owed it to their birth and country to stand fast, and trust in
God, and vigorously defy the devil; sinkings even of strong hearts, and
quailing of spirits that had never quailed before; passionate outcry for
peace without honour, and even without safety; savage murmurings at wise
measures and at the burdens that must be borne--none but those who lived
through all these troubles could count half of them. If such came now,
would the body of the nation strive to stand against them, or fall in
the dust, and be kicked and trampled, sputtering namby-pamby? Britannia
now is always wrong, in the opinion of her wisest sons, if she dares to
defend herself even against weak enemies; what then would her crime
be if she buckled her corselet against the world! To prostitute their
mother is the philanthropy of Communists.

But while the anxious people who had no belief in foreigners were
watching by the dark waves, or at the twilight window trembling (if ever
a shooting-star drew train, like a distant rocket-signal), or in their
sleepy beds scared, and jumping up if a bladder burst upon a jam-pot,
no one attempted to ridicule them, and no public journal pronounced that
the true British flag was the white feather. It has been left for times
when the power of England is tenfold what it was then, and her duties
a hundredfold, to tell us that sooner than use the one for the proper
discharge of the other, we must break it up and let them go to pot upon
it, for fear of hurting somebody that stuck us in the back.

But who of a right mind knows not this, and who with a wrong one
will heed it? The only point is that the commonest truisms come upon
utterance sometimes, and take didactic form too late; even as we shout
to our comrade prone, and beginning to rub his poor nose, "Look out!"
And this is what everybody did with one accord, when he was down upon
his luck--which is far more momentous than his nose to any man--in the
case of Rector Twemlow.

That gentleman now had good reason for being in less than his usual
cheer and comfort. Everything around him was uneasy, and everybody
seemed to look at him, instead of looking up to him, as the manner used
to be. This was enough to make him feel unlike himself; for although he
was resolute in his way, and could manage to have it with most people,
he was not of that iron style which takes the world as wax to write
upon. Mr. Twemlow liked to heave his text at the people of his parish on
Sunday, and to have his joke with them on Monday; as the fire that has
burned a man makes the kettle sing to comfort him. And all who met him
throughout the week were pleased with him doubly, when they remembered
his faithfulness in the pulpit.

But now he did his duty softly, as if some of it had been done to him;
and if anybody thanked him for a fine discourse, he never endeavoured
to let him have it all again. So far was he gone from his natural state
that he would rather hear nothing about himself than be praised enough
to demand reply; and this shows a world-wide depression to have arrived
in the latitude of a British waistcoat. However, he went through his
work, as a Briton always does, until he hangs himself; and he tried
to try some of the higher consolation, which he knew so well how to
administer to others.

Those who do not understand the difference of this might have been
inclined to blame him; but all who have seen a clever dentist with the
toothache are aware that his knowledge adds acuteness to the pain. Mr.
Twemlow had borne great troubles well, and been cheerful even under
long suspense; but now a disappointment close at home, and the grief
of beholding his last hopes fade, were embittered by mystery and dark
suspicions. In despair at last of recovering his son, he had fastened
upon his only daughter the interest of his declining life; and now he
was vexed with misgivings about her, which varied as frequently as she
did. It was very unpleasant to lose the chance of having a grandchild
capable of rocking in a silver cradle; but that was a trifle compared
with the prospect of having no grandchild at all, and perhaps not even
a child to close his eyes. And even his wife, of long habit and fair
harmony, from whom he had never kept any secret--frightful as might be
the cost to his honour--even Mrs. Twemlow shook her head sometimes, when
the arrangement of her hair permitted it, and doubted whether any of the
Carne Castle Carnes would have borne with such indignity.

"Prosecute him, prosecute him," this good lady always said. "You ought
to have been a magistrate, Joshua--the first magistrate in the Bible was
that--and then you would have known how to do things. But I could not
before, - not back. I had to give the weather, - and I am afraid - - *
* * * * We lay awake many nights. Everyone did as he slept, from saving
for the others. Our work is crippling hopelessness. We smiled, as if we
were happy to comply with the other non-woe to go. "Ilse logs in
-," said Henry, when he was one morning the post durchsah. "Now?" I
cried frightened. They came the next day, had a strange train
frightened face and a slightly forced smile ingenious to the lips. "I
must once again metropolitan air to breathe," she said, "the silence
from us is often scary." I seemed to tremble as they do so. From now on
our Telegraphenbote was the most frequent guest. At first I believed her
husband's anxious, yearning love in this dispatch would change
expression. Why did it only because every red-eye, when a telegram came?
Da, one morning, a storm in our room, his hair disheveled, his eyes
red subvert - the husband of my sister. Prior to his pursuers, we should
protect him, he cried desperately dark and hid the head in Ilsens lap,
with the extinct niedersah look at him, the small weak hands on his
hair. On the same day he came into the madhouse. He was raving mad.
Then Ilse also broke together, but they are not crying, she did
not speak about her fate, she was just as stiff.

Even as it turned out that a large portion of their assets at the
sanatorium of her husband was lost, they just jerked the armpits. So
awful it took us. Until now would be the loss of money with which they
adhere to the new company had no serious issue for her.

Now she was there. I had thought before her coming to collapse, now came
to me the power back to the fever. "We must endure, Heinz, we have,"
I said, and when one of his many efforts to help create, once again was
in vain, so I drove him to ever new attempts.

And here and there it was successful. For a few months, we continue
to create, could live. But every time we hope things certainly seemed
Hetzartikel some in the party press against us, or in the choice
of clubs, we have a new radical comrades accused of heresy, or the
old accusation of socialism, according to business.

We all felt at the loss of subscribers . How can I create - how? The
question dominated my thoughts more and more. A "free" I was a writer
- one of the thousands who take off their spring to lead like a
sword.

But the plight attaches itself to its feet, first a dwarf, and then a
giant, which they forced into his service. "Lieber die!" I moaned. But
then I saw my child, - as it was faded, what research-eye it was directed
at me! I tore it in my arms: 'With every yoke I bow my neck for you,
"I thought desperately. I decided to hold talks to Entree. That
was nothing degrading. Each lecturer at the University receives a fee
for the scientific evidence, which he gives the listeners. Yet I am
reluctant. A feeling of boundless shame drove me to the cold sweat on
the forehead every time when I entered the rostrum. I always had a
full room. I "moved" - I was a sensation.

Like a tamed lion in the circus. For a couple of Mark was now entering
the best society, without something to forgive, the notorious Socialist
View - with even the opera glass. My audience wore glittering dresses
and many diamonds in the white hands, with which they clapped applause,
to force, that I bowed before them. "Unbelievably of a comrade in
that gold, despite the room to talk and ask this audience to pay -, "said
a visitor, as I have just gone to her came into the open. I pressed the
lips together, not heavily aufzufahren --. As soon as I spoke, I was
frightened before the vote, which no longer mine was. In the last
election they had lost their tone was hoarse and become rough. And
I had loved them because they are my words so easily and willingly
to every corner wore. But - what does that mean now? It was more
lost than the bright sound of my voice. I began to traveling from one
city to another. Sometimes, at the invitation of any literary
association out.

In Hanover the chairman said to me: "Not true, you are directed to
that, officers are among our members." In Cologne, it was: "We expect
that to our young girls to take." If I had them but the back on you!
When I came home, I gripped my son overflowing with tenderness. How I
missed him! Nobody had time for him! And yet he always had more of the
friendship of their parents! Over one hundred questions riddles of
existence, he began in his many lonely hours nachzugrübeln. And
his imagination, whose luxuriant tendrils remained without restraint,
without the hand of the gardener, who at the right time to prune understands
his overgrown feel. He often feared that his own dreams so that I have
him in the night to me had beds. "Thou verzärtelst the boy -" said Henry
then annoying. And for excessive sentimentality, he held it when I of
the atmosphere of the accident said the visibly on the child's soul
weighed. So I learned silent, even about what my heart most deeply
moving.

And in a very dark hours took hold of me, a strange, sinister feeling.
Then I piled on my husband all the blame. In such a mood hit me
Romberg. He was full of sincere participation. "Long, I think it is
no longer enough," I said, his head buried in hands.

He should not see that my strength is not even enough to
hold back the tears. "I knew a help," he began slowly, "one by which you
would be free and carefree." I lifted his head, all the blood pouring me
to the heart. A Help! He hesitated.

Then he looked at me with a solid warm view of the friendship of long
years in the closed and said, emphasizing each word: "get rid of
your man" as minute passed without that, I replied, he did.

"Zürner you give me? "he asked." No, "I replied, his hand streckend.
Then overflowed me cold. Even now it was his limp and powerless,
between my fingers. I considered his advice and not even shocked
cool before the rest, which I managed to do it.

He was quite alone with my son, the burden of single journal, which
swallowed most of what I earned, I would, albeit ever so humble,
my work life. And I would be free - free! Involuntarily I stretched
her arms wide, as it would be crucial to the world to embrace.

But then I saw him, my husband, my comrades, my fellow sufferers, - the
father of my child! I began to observe him. As he had to suffer. And
how he loved me, he taught me every day with a few flowers, and if it
were only a few violets. The worst, he looked me in the paths to admit,
as long as it went. He had a chivalric, restrained tenderness for me. And
my boy hung on the father. "I can not, dear friend," I said with a smile
blow as Romberg returned. He frowned and turned away. I put his hand
on his arm. "You must try to understand me, you especially," I asked.
"Have you not even mocked me when I once preached free love, because
I was convinced that this Eheproblem can be solved?

Today I know that the labels on the registry office is not the strongest
Fessel, which makes it non-free. I have seen women who are full of
idealism to the man of her choice wed without their covenant outwards
sanction it. After a short time, they become slaves regrettable than
the state-stamped wives. Your child and their existence was dependent
on her husband, and every day he could leave. That's why they are clinging
to him, subdued him, endured his brutality, his whims, his unfaithful.

I realized that the economic independence of women, the condition of free
love must be Federal .. "" Well - and you are about economically
dependent? You, with your talent, your work force? "He interrupted
me violent."

No, certainly not, "I replied," This contract Bondage 'I no longer
needed and no women of their dignity to strangle her if she learned
to work has.

But there are other chains, - delicate and soft as silk - the unzerreißbar
are. My son loves his father. How can I be Kinderherz wound, such a
dichotomy in his soul bear?

"" A child passes quickly, "Romberg said with a disposable hand movement.
I fell silent. He, so close to me had been suddenly moved far, far
from me.

His love of Henry, from his accident and the other for me to talk
unzerreißbaren ankles, I would like a disclosure occurred. And yet
something had to happen. "Soon, - soon no longer travel, I continue without
you," I had repeatedly over the parting my child comforted. "When you
remain in me again, my mom's?" asked it, and each was the expression of
his face excruciating Chen. * * * * * My next lecture tour led me
to Leipzig.

There lived one of those quiet comrades, for the revisionism an open hand
to have the habit. When my husband is in the interest of the new company
once wrote to him, was his reply was no plain unfriendly.

Nevertheless, I still hoped to effect a personal interview. It was a
last desperate attempt. I will never forget the journey, never a moment
where I am, shivering in front of shame and fear, in the rich man entered
the room. He liked knowing that I was pleading. It took seconds, before
he urged me to sit. Maybe he would not have done if he had not seen
that my knees trembled. I had a coat on. During the time I was with
him, took him from me. He let me talk without a face. And then he
spoke - slowly, emphasizing every word, so it did hurt me, like loud
beats: "Your husband is a good editor, which he demonstrated at
the Archives.

But he is a bad business man, otherwise he would have prospering archive
to him a safe and prestigious position, was not dedicated to a hopeless
enterprise to begin. I do not like water in a hollow barrel draw.
"" And yet you saw how I heard myself say that the new task, which
he pointed out, important, indeed necessary, "I argued."

Yes. For a man who has sufficient resources to carry out the cause.
"Thus did he. I was fired. I stuck the tongue on the palate. Now was
the moment, the only one that I still remained.

I was not come to enforce a legal right, - I had to ask - ask. I felt
the tears of excitement, my eyes fill hot. Only do not cry - do not
cry, I thought, and bit his teeth together. But because I suddenly
saw my child in front of me - very clear: with the serious look
of yearning and question on the lips.

My child! Glowing drops covered my forehead, breathing faltered. With
a swift motion, I threw the heavy mantle of me and pulled up the window
wide on ruthlessly. A konvulsivisches sobbing, which I was not Lord,
my body shook. Then I turned around and lifted the mantle of the Earth.
"So I want to go -" it was soundless on my lips - I could not ask, I
could not! "Sit!" - It was like a command. The exhaustion, not of
obedience forced me to follow him. "I will help you - you personally
- this time -" I went back to the hotel.

Suddenly occurred to me that I am the cool hand with my fingers had
gratefully surrounded. The hand of the man, before I had so humiliated!
* * * * * And now it came to an end. Inevitably. Nevertheless, I still
hergab what I had just received. For once even climbed up on our
hope, like a luminous ball. Henry was one who could help a firm promise.
He closed it out afresh with the printer and paper suppliers. - But the
luminous ball burst, and it was very, very dark. I demanded clarity
from my husband, - unreserved. He gave them to me with a calm that I
thought they had a forced: Everything was lost.

Since we wanted to avoid the bankruptcy, did us a burden of debt,
in the years we would have. To the near payments and even to be able
to live, there was only one way out. "We pledge our furniture -,"
said Henry, with a tone as he speaks of the indifferent of the world.
Zusammengekauert Previously, I had on the large chair sat, I always
like something alive was because his back to the weary head based
in his arms protectively hugs me.

Now I went on. »The Last hergeben should I? And you think I
would do so in cold blood like you aussprichst it? "I cried, in disgust
at the whole body trembling. "This here is the rest home, which I did.
Nearly every piece reminds me of the Father - the grandmother - to
George, to my youth -" Tears choked my voice. My husband measured
me with a cool - astonished gaze. »Position, wealth, family, - all you
have sacrificed without a word of complaint, and now you jammerst
to this junk," he said kopfschüttelnd.

My mind gave him right, but my heart was bleeding as if it the worst
wound been beaten. During the night it opened the door to my son's room,
he rushed towards me, umschlang my neck and sobbed in despair: "Why
you cry the only way? Why do you only cry so? "At that moment I knew
that I had to make sacrifices like none before. I wept no more. I was
very calm and very determined. »Otto may not collapse with the experience,"
I said to my husband "Even now he is like poison - not a child anymore
-" I expected a violent scene. Instead, it is illuminated Heinrichs
trains. "Now you're back my brave Alix" - so he pressed my hand warmly
as it has no moons - "Obviously, this is for all the best parts. We
both build a new life without hindrance, and he is somewhere in the
country once again a strong, happy boy ... "I heard his voice only as
a distant sound.

So he took on what I would never be healthy - almost happy! I stared at
him, the terrible agitation distorted his picture to me as if I had never
seen him. With this man I had linked my life, - and yet the idea of a
separation far, far from me punished? I seemed as if the separation,
long, otherwise he would have been in this hour, because my whole life
collapsed, so not able to speak to me, - not so!

* * * * * I wrote to a friend Egidys, the I have the time because I did
in his home, met here and there again had seen. So rare was this, with
a warm feeling of mutual sympathy we were always met. Now he led a
school high in the Thuringian Forest. I spoke to him without reserve
of the situation in which we were.

"My son suffers, half unconsciously, and I will spare him the worst, his
youth will not tear into the maelstrom of our future life. You see, it
is a victim of friendship which I expect from you - "here shaking
my hand and the service failed.

He replied immediately, with a delicate tact, kindness to me: 'Your son
is our heartfelt welcome. And no oppressive feeling that you may arise.
Let the future calmly the material side of things. Since he is your
child, he will give our school more than he receives and is offset
by gold leaves .. "At Easter, I wanted to take him, but I postponed it
from day to day, with him to speak, he was so happy that I at once
was always with him, played with him, went for walks with him, told
him stories as in the ancient time. * * * * * However, the last
number appeared in the New Society, with a short farewell to the
word readers.

None of our sympathizers had a word of regret for this, none of
whom, for whose conviction it had fought without becoming nasty
nasty attacks and slander distracted from the road to let her appear
as the right, took care of us.

None of it could be a secret that we had lost everything, but hardly
one had only one question after participating.

We were dismissed, - finished. The comrades went out on us like the
soldiers in the war on the fallen comrades on the battlefield. At that
time I had for only a contemptuous gesture. Great pains are a
palliative against the small. Only one thing filled me with deep bitterness:
that Romberg also not returned. He had an argument with my husband had
in his long dormant in the prevailing hostility against him had come
to an open outbreak. I was not much of it. But to me like that's
traded, and that, my husband accused Romberg, indebted to our misfortune,
and that any interference in our activities and prohibiting Leave. Was
that reason enough for me just now to leave in the lurch? And his
sincere friendship I had believed * * * * * On Easter morning, it was
bright and shining. A resurrection festival, the winged musicians of
nature with singing hundertstimmigem welcomed. With a loud cheerful
golden yellow stains covered the sun the earth under the pine trees.

We went through the Grunewald Schildhorn after, my son and me. How he
rejoiced! Every pathetic Blümlein the barren sands of the spring had
admired him. And the air, the breath of life was awakening, he is
a so-called deep with thirsty trains. "I hate the city," he said with
the whole energy of his ten years. »Why can not we live in the
countryside?" That was the right moment to inform him of Waltershof to
speak to the school in the Thuringian Forest. With stock voice I began,
and told of the freedom of life there and the many children. His eyes
glittered. "That, I think huge fine," he cried. "Would you like at the
end even go yourself?" I asked hesitantly. He made an aerial jump.

"Of course! From the appalling city to the mountains - is there anything
more beautiful, "I'd love to - but the tears came into my eyes.
So farewell to him would not be too difficult! * * * * * A few days
later we came from. He was converted, in glowing colors, he painted
the life from which it waited. Sometimes he seemed to trim, if he
looked at me. "And you visit me often, very often, is not it, Mama
Chen? And the holidays always brings me home? "He said then, in feeling
the need to comfort me. From the station we went by car uphill through
dense pine forests. My son stopped and clings to me. Whether it is the
agony would grab? The heart knocked me expectantly. »A little bit
embarrassed but I am against the foreign guys," he said.

At the top of the plateau, where the wind-free areas and highlighted
with small round spring Wölkchen played like a child with the Fangball
He lost his shy mood again. " How wonderful - that's wonderful, "he
said with a look into the distance. In a large quiet solitude is ranked
mountain of mountains, the small gray human dwellings disappeared
in the deep valleys. The Director welcomed us as trusted friends.
The students viewed distance measured from the arrival. He covered for
protection as my hand. Now that - now he will remain with me to ask!
- There was a brown boy from the crowd.

"Look at the lawn there," he said to my boys and pointed to the slope
gelbblühenden who are behind the home in the depth of cut, "do you
want to do down there with me to bet run? "And at the same moment,
- that he barely had time to send me zuzuwerfen coat and hat - he flew
with him like this. As bright sunshine danced his blond curls around the
head. I stared after them. I went on the eyes. Behind the spruce
trees, - far, far in the valley, they are extinguished. "He will quickly
feel at home," said the director. He will quickly feel at home - I
Waltershof already left the next morning. Every hour that I stayed, came
as a devious and robbers stole piecewise me my love. Before I climbed
into the car, hugged my son with stormy vehemence. Now it is finally over
mannen -! I pressed him to me, I held him firmly. This has nothing
you born in this very heart you grew up - it screamed to me - just a
word of love tell me a word of longing, and I defend your property
against hell and heaven!
This worthy animal, endowed with a virtue denied to
none except the human race, approached him lovingly, and begged to draw
attention to the gratifying difference betwixt wounds and scars. He
offered his broad brow to the hand, and his charitable ears to be
tickled, and breathed a quick issue of good feeling and fine feeding,
from the sensitive tucks of his nostrils, as a large-hearted smoker
makes the air go up with gratitude.

But as a burnt child dreads the fire, the seriously perforated animal
kept one eye vigilant of the northern aspect, and the other studious
of the south. And the gentle Scuddy (who was finding all things happy,
which is the only way to make them so) was startled by a sharp jerk of
his dear friend's head. Following the clue of gaze, there he saw, coming
up the river with a rollicking self-trust, a craft uncommonly like that
craft which had mounted every sort of rig and flag, and carried every
kind of crew, in his many dreams about her. This made him run back to
his room at once, not only in fear of being seen upon the bank, but also
that he might command a better view, with the help of his landlord's old
spy-glass.

Using this, which he had cleaned from the dust of ages, he could clearly
see the faces of the men on board. Of these there were six, of whom five
at least were Englishmen, or of English breed. As the pilot-boat drew
nearer, and the sunlight fell upon her, to his great surprise he became
convinced that the young man at the tiller was Dan Tugwell, the son
of the captain of Springhaven. Four of the others were unknown to him,
though he fancied that he had seen two of them before, but could not
remember when or where. But he watched with special interest the tall
man lounging against the little door of the cuddy in the bows, whose
profile only was presented to him. Then the boat canted round towards
the entrance of the creek, and having his glass upon the full face of
the man, he recognised him as Caryl Carne, whom he had met more than
once at Springhaven.

His darkest suspicions were at once redoubled, and a gush of latent
jealousy was added to them. In happier days, when he was near his
lady-love, some whispers had reached him about this fellow, whose
countenance had always been repulsive to him, arrogant, moody, and
mysterious. His good mother also, though most careful not to harass
him, had mentioned that Carne in her latest letter, and by no means in
a manner to remove his old misgivings. As a matter now of duty to his
country and himself, the young sailor resolved to discover, at any risk,
what traitorous scheme had brought this dark man over here.

To escape the long circuit by the upper bridge, he had obtained leave,
through M. Jalais, to use an old boat which was kept in a bend of the
river about a mile above the house. And now, after seeing that English
boat make for the creek where she had been berthed on Christmas Eve, he
begged Madame Fropot to tell his host not to be uneasy about him, and
taking no weapon but a ground-ash stick, set forth to play spy upon
traitors. As surely as one foot came after the other, he knew that every
step was towards his grave, if he made a mistake, or even met bad luck;
but he twirled his light stick in his broad brown hand, and gently
invaded the French trees around with an old English song of the days
when still an Englishman could compose a song. But this made him think
of that old-fashioned place Springhaven; and sadness fell upon him, that
the son of its captain should be a traitor.

Instead of pulling across the river, to avoid the splash of oars he
sculled with a single oar astern, not standing up and wallowing in the
boat, but sitting and cutting the figure of 8 with less noise than a
skater makes. The tide being just at slack-water, this gave him quite
as much way as he wanted, and he steered into a little bight of the
southern bank, and made fast to a stump, and looked about; for he durst
not approach the creek until the light should fade and the men have
stowed tackle and begun to feed. The vale of the stream afforded shelter
to a very decent company of trees, which could not have put up with the
tyranny of the west wind upon the bare brow of the coast. Most of these
trees stood back a little from the margin of high tide, reluctant to see
themselves in the water, for fear of the fate of Narcissus. But where
that clandestine boat had glided into gloom and greyness, a fosse of
Nature's digging, deeply lined with wood and thicket, offered snug
harbourage to craft and fraud.

Scudamore had taken care to learn the ups and downs of the riverside ere
this, and knew them now as well as a native, for he had paid many visits
to the wounded ox, whom he could not lead home quite as soon as he had
hoped, and he had found a firm place of the little river, easy to cross
when the tide was out. With the help of this knowledge he made his way
to the creek, without much risk of being observed, and then, as he came
to the crest of the thicket, he lay down and watched the interlopers.

There was the boat, now imbedded in the mud, for the little creek was
nearly dry by this time. Her crew had all landed, and kindled a fire,
over which hung a kettle full of something good, which they seemed to
regard with tender interest; while upon a grassy slope some few yards to
the right a trooper's horse was tethered. Carne was not with them, but
had crossed the creek, as the marks of his boots in the mud declared;
and creeping some little way along the thicket, Scudamore descried
him walking to and fro impatiently in a little hollow place, where the
sailors could not see him. This was on Scudamore's side of the creek,
and scarcely fifty yards below him. "He is waiting for an interview
with somebody," thought Scuddy: "if I could only get down to that little
shanty, perhaps I should hear some fine treason. The wind is the right
way to bring me every word he says."

Keeping in shelter when the traitor walked towards him, and stealing on
silently when his back was turned, the young sailor managed to ensconce
himself unseen in the rough little wattle shed made by his own hands for
the shelter of his patient, when a snow-storm had visited the valley of
the Canche last winter. Nothing could be better fitted for his present
purpose, inasmuch as his lurking-place could scarcely be descried from
below, being sheltered by two large trees and a screen of drooping
ivy, betwixt and below which it looked no more than a casual meeting
of bushes; while on the other hand the open space beneath it was curved
like a human ear, to catch the voice and forward it.

While Scudamore was waiting here and keenly watching everything, the
light began to falter, and the latest gleam of sunset trembled with the
breath of Spring among the buds and catkins. But the tall man continued
his long, firm stride, as if the watch in his pocket were the only thing
worth heeding. Until, as the shadows lost their lines and flowed into
the general depth, Carne sprang forward, and a horse and rider burst
into the silence of the grass and moss and trees.

Carne made a low obeisance, retired a little, and stood hat in hand,
until it should please the other man to speak. And Scudamore saw, with a
start of surprise, that the other man was Napoleon.

This great man appeared, to the mild English eyes that were watching
him so intently, of a very different mood and visage from those of their
last view of him. Then the face, which combined the beauty of Athens
with the strength of Rome, was calm, and gentle, and even sweet, with
the rare indulgence of a kindly turn. But now, though not disturbed with
wrath, nor troubled by disappointment, that face (which had helped to
make his fortune, more than any woman's had ever done for her) was cast,
even if the mould could be the same, in a very different metal. Stern
force and triumphant vigour shone in every lineament, and the hard
bright eyes were intent with purpose that would have no denial.

Refusing Carne's aid, he remained on his horse, and stroked his mane for
a moment, for he loved any creature that served him well, and was tender
of heart when he could afford it; which added to his power with mankind.

"Are all your men well out of earshot?" he asked; and receiving
assurance from Carne, went on. "Now you will be satisfied at length. You
have long been impatient. It is useless to deny it. All is arranged, and
all comes to a head within three months, and perhaps within two. Only
four men will know it besides yourself, and three of those four are
commanders of my fleet. A short time will be occupied in misleading
those British ships that beleaguer us; then we concentrate ours, and
command the Channel; if only for three days, that will be enough. I
depart for Italy in three days or in four, to increase the security of
the enemy. But I shall return, without a word to any one, and as fast
as horses can lay belly to the ground, when I hear that our ships have
broken out. I shall command the invasion, and it will be for England to
find a man to set against me."

"England will have difficulty, sire, in doing that," Carne answered,
with a grim smile, for he shared the contempt of English Generals then
prevalent. "If the Continent cannot do it, how can the poor England?
Once let your Majesty land, and all is over. But what are your Majesty's
orders for me? And where do you propose to make the landing?"

"Never ask more than one question at a time," Napoleon answered, with
his usual curtness; "my orders to you are to return at once. Prepare
your supplies for a moment's notice. Through private influence of
some fair lady, you have command of the despatches of that officer at
Springport, who has the control of the naval forces there. Ha! what
was that? I heard a sound up yonder. Hasten up, and see if there is any
listener. It seemed to be there, where the wood grows thick."

Blyth Scudamore, forgetful of himself, had moved, and a dry stick
cracked beneath his foot. Carne, at the Emperor's glance and signal,
sprang up the bank, with the help of some bushes, drew his sword and
passed it between the wattles, then parted them and rushed through, but
saw no sign of any one. For Scuddy had slipped away, as lightly as a
shadow, and keeping in a mossy trough, had gained another shelter. Here
he was obliged to slink in the smallest possible compass, kneeling
upon both knees, and shrugging in both shoulders. Peering very sharply
through an intertwist of suckers (for his shelter was a stool of hazel,
thrown up to repair the loss of stem), he perceived that the Emperor had
moved his horse a little when Carne rejoined and reassured him. And this
prevented Scudamore from being half so certain as he would have liked to
be, about further particulars of this fine arrangement.

"No," was the next thing he heard Napoleon say whose power of saying
"no" had made his "yes" invincible; "no, it is not to be done like that.
You will await your instructions, and not move until you receive them
from my own hand. Make no attempt to surprise anybody or anything, until
I have ten thousand men ashore. Ten thousand will in six hours attain to
fifty thousand, if the shore proves to be as you describe; so great is
the merit of flat-bottomed boats. Your duty will be to leave the right
surprise to us, and create a false one among the enemy. This you must do
in the distance of the West, as if my Brest fleet were ravaging there,
and perhaps destroying Plymouth. You are sure that you can command the
signals for this?"

"Sire, I know everything as if I sat among it. I can do as I please with
the fair secretary; and her father is an ancient fool."

"Then success is more easy than I wish to have it, because it will not
make good esteem. If Nelson comes at all, he will be too late, as he
generally is too early. London will be in our hands by the middle of
July at the latest, probably much earlier, and then Captain Carne shall
name his own reward. Meanwhile forget not any word of what I said. Make
the passage no more. You will not be wanted here. Your services are far
more important where you are. You may risk the brave Charron, but not
yourself. Send over by the 20th of May a letter to me, under care of
Decres, to be opened by no hand but mine, upon my return from Italy, and
let the messengers wait for my reply. Among them must be the young man
who knows the coast, and we will detain him for pilot. My reply will fix
the exact date of our landing, and then you will despatch, through the
means at your command, any English force that might oppose our landing,
to the West, where we shall create a false alarm. Is all this clear to
you? You are not stupid. The great point is to do all at the right time,
having consideration of the weather."

"All is clear, and shall be carried out clearly, to the best of your
Majesty's humble servant's power."

Napoleon offered his beautiful white hand, which Carne raised to his
lips, and then the Emperor was gone. Carne returned slowly to the
boat, with triumph written prematurely on his dark stern face; while
Scudamore's brisk and ruddy features were drawn out to a wholly unwonted
length, as he quietly made his way out of the covert.


CHAPTER LIV

IN A SAD PLIGHT


"How shall I get out of this parole? Or shall I break it, instead of
getting out? Which shall I think of first, my honour, or my country? The
safety of millions, or the pride of one? An old Roman would have settled
it very simply. But a Christian cannot do things so. Thank God there is
no hurry, for a few days yet! But I must send a letter to Desportes this
very night. Then I must consider about waiting for a week."

Scudamore, unable to think out his case as yet--especially after running
as if his wind could turn a vane--was sitting on the bank, to let the
river-bed get darker, before he put his legs into the mud to get across.
For the tide was out, and the old boat high and dry, and a very weak
water remained to be crossed (though, like nearly all things that are
weak, it was muddy), but the channel had a moist gleam in the dry spring
air, and anybody moving would be magnified afar. He felt that it would
never do for him, with such a secret, to be caught, and brought to book,
or even to awake suspicion of his having it. The ancient Roman of whom
he had thought would have broken parole for his country's sake, and then
fallen on his sword for his own sake; but although such behaviour should
be much admired, it is nicer to read of such things than to do them.
Captain Scuddy was of large and steady nature, and nothing came to him
with a jerk or jump--perhaps because he was such a jumper--and he wore
his hat well on the back of his head, because he had no fear of losing
it. But for all that he found himself in a sad quandary now.

To begin with, his parole was not an ordinary leave, afforded by his
captors to save themselves trouble; but a special grace, issuing from
friendship, and therefore requiring to be treated in a friendly vein.
The liberality of these terms had enabled him to dwell as a friend
among friends, and to overhear all that he had heard. In the balance
of perplexities, this weighed heavily against his first impulse to cast
away all except paramount duty to his country. In the next place, he
knew that private feeling urged him as hotly as public duty to cast away
all thought of honour, and make off. For what he had heard about the
"fair secretary" was rankling bitterly in his deep heart. He recalled
at this moment the admirable precept of an ancient sage, that in such
a conflict of duties the doubter should incline to the course least
agreeable to himself, inasmuch as the reasons against it are sure to be
urged the most feebly in self-council. Upon the whole, the question was
a nice one for a casuist; and if there had not been a day to spare, duty
to his country must have overridden private faith.

However, as there was time to spare, he resolved to reconcile private
honour with the sense of public duty; and returning to his room, wrote a
careful letter (of which he kept a copy) to his friend Desportes, now on
board, and commanding the flagship of one division of the flotilla. He
simply said, without giving his reason, that his parole must expire in
eight days after date, allowing one day for delivery of his letter.
Then he told M. Jalais what he had done, and much sorrow was felt in
the household. When the time had expired without any answer from Captain
Desportes, who meant to come and see him but was unable to do so,
Scudamore packed up a few things needful, expecting to be placed in
custody, and resolved to escape from it, at any risk of life. Then he
walked to Etaples, a few miles down the river, and surrendered himself
to the commandant there. This was a rough man--as Desportes had
said--and with more work to do than he could manage. With very little
ceremony he placed the English prisoner in charge of a veteran corporal,
with orders to take him to the lock-up in the barracks, and there await
further instructions. And then the commandant, in the hurry of his
duties, forgot all about him.

Captain Scuddy now found himself in quarters and under treatment very
trying to his philosophy. Not that the men who had him in charge were
purposely unkind to him, only they were careless about his comfort, and
having more important work to see to, fed him at their leisure, which
did not always coincide with his appetite. Much of his food was watery
and dirty, and seemed to be growing its own vegetables, and sometimes
to have overripened them. Therefore he began to lose substance, and his
cheeks became strangers to the buxom gloss which had been the delight of
Madame Fropot. But although they did not feed him well, they took good
care of him in other ways, affording no chance of exit.

But sour fruit often contains good pips. Scudamore's food was not worth
saying grace for, and yet a true blessing attended it: forasmuch as the
Frenchmen diminished the width of their prisoner, but not of the window.
Falling away very rapidly, for his mind was faring as badly as his body
(having nothing but regrets to feed upon, which are no better diet than
daisy soup), the gentle Scuddy, who must have become a good wrangler if
he had stopped at Cambridge, began to frame a table of cubic measure,
and consider the ratio of his body to that window, or rather the
aperture thereof. Replied that all that would do great boss will. Were
brought captains of each nation, and all was for general Lloque Yupanqui,
and with him for advice, Tupac Yupanqui [163], and letting them know what
they had done, went out and walked to the Cuzco province Andaguaylas,
á where they were welcomed by the Chancas, and left them with a
copy of Captain Ancoallo people of that land, to serve in the war
on the Incas. Vilcas De Andaguaylas were, to where the chambers and
temples of the sun that had Inca Yupanqui commanded to do, and spoke to
all those who love to understand those works. From Vilcas were people
[in] Guamanga, Azangaro, Parco, Picoy, acos [164] and others, which has
already obedience to the Inca and provide the bastimentos and more
of what they had in their villages and to the road which was
commanded, large and very wide.

Xauxa The valley, known for the coming of the enemy, and sought to
show concern for their relatives and friends in the temple of his
Guarivilca made great sacrifices to the devil that there responded.
Venídoles relief, as they were many, because they say he had more
than forty million men now where I do not know if there are twelve
million, the captains of the Inca came to get above the valley and
wanted to win without war because of Guanacaste and wanted to go to
Cuzco to recognize the king by Lord, and so is public messengers sent
to them. But not taking advantage of all, came to their hands and
gave a great battle in which many say were killed by a party or
another, but the victors remained in Cuzco, and that being very
cautious Lloque Yupanqui, did not consent to harm in the valley, preventing
theft, sending drop cannot, therefore, that the Guanacaste, known
benefit to the clemency teniéndolos used up, came to talk and promised
to live graphical onwards by Ordinance of the kings of Cuzco, taxes
and thus hobiese in its valley and its people passing by the slopes,
the cast, otherwise it spread, until the king Guayna each bias Capac
drew what I had to take, and sent messengers.

_CAP. L. - How Xauxa out of the captains of the Inca and what happened
to them, and how it came out of them Ancoallo._ The natural Bonbon
savido had, according to these accounts, the disruption of Xauxa, and how
he had been Guanacaste [165] defeated, and suspecting that the victors
wanted to move forward, remember to be aware, because they do not take
neglected and placing their women and children who were able to finance
a lake that is near dello [166], await what happens. The masters of the
Inca, as things settled hobieron Valley Xauxa, came out and walked up to
Bonbon, and is placed in the lagoon, they could not do evil that
comerles maintenance, and as it were, went ahead and close to Tarama
of it, where they found the gun in natural positions, and battle hobieron
they were prisoners and killed many of the Taramentinos, and for the
Cuzco were victors, and as they left in the will of the king,
[that] was to serve and taxes as they did many other provinces, and
that would be well treated and disadvantaged, did everything they
were commanded, and the Cuzco envióse record of everything that was
done in this town of Tarama.

They Chancas Indians, that as the Indians who left their province Andaguaylas
with the captain Ancoallo hobiesen done great things in these wars,
with Dell and envious rancor that had the captain Ancoallo more ago,
when the fence was Cuzco, determined the kill and Otherwise, fetching,
and as many were together with his captain, who had understood the intent,
and put into a weapon, defended [the] of Cuzco, and although some died,
others were able, with the help and effort Ancoallo of (_así_) get
out of there, which complained to their gods from the evil of the
Orejón, and ingratitude, saying that, by not more, or continue,
would go on with his voluntary exile, and throwing women before,
and walked through the provinces of Chachapoyas and Guánuco, and
through the mountains of the Andes, hiked up mountains for those
who came, as also say a very big gap, which I think must be what
they have the Dorado, where they and their people has multiplied
many people.

And the Indians have much of that land and the captain Ancoallo. Masters
of the Inca past, what has been escripto gave back to the valley
Xauxa, where he had been present and great friend for many women to
Cuzco, and what did the same for Tarama. The new part was at Cuzco,
and was known by the Inca, holgóse by the success of their masters, but
did show [of] having weighed what they had done with Ancoallo. But it
was as cree, industry, because some claim that his mandate did his
masters. And as Tupac Uasco and other Chancas hobiesen ido to war in
the province of Collao hobiesen there and win some peoples misgivings
the Inca, the new known what had happened to Ancoallo, would turn
against him and would do traicion I then sent messengers to come to him,
is ordered, on pain of death, none of them warned the past. Chancas,
as were the mandate of the Inca, then came to Cuzco, and as they
arrived, the Inca spoke to them dissemblance very lovingly, hiding
the evil that was used to Ancoallo captain, for his words and gave
examples of habelle dello heavy.

The Chancas, as we understand, have to feel shame, but, seeing how
little of them were to be met, went for it, asking leave to Inca
Yupanqui to return to his province, and notwithstanding, would be left,
giving privilege to Mr principal to be able to sit in DUHO [167]
engastonado gold and other preeminently. and understood the Inca
temple in Acrescentado Curicancha with great wealth, as is escripto.
And like everywhere Cuzco had many provinces, gave to this temple,
and he put the posts, and who speak a language all its own súditos and
roads that were made real, and mitimaes and other things he invented
this King, who say they understand much of the stars and I had
with the movement of the sun, and so took him by nickname Inca
Yupanqui, which is the account name and a lot of understanding.

And as is so powerful, that attachment in Cuzco had real houses and big
buildings, ordered to make three Excellency enclosure wall and the
dynamic work of memory, such paresce today that nobody will see the
building and not praise known to be great ingenuity of the teachers
that they invented. Each enclosure has more than three of these
steps: a call to Pucamarca and other Hatun Cancha, Cassano and the
third [168], and stone is excellent and so entry level, there is
no disproportion in thing, and so well-established stone and glued
so that you will not join the dell. And they are so strong and so the
whole most of these buildings, if not rolled back, as did many others,
will live many ages. Within fences or walls of these rooms as the others
had used hose, where many women and many other Mamacona man and of
kings, and spun and wove for his very fine clothes, and had many pieces
of gold and silver and vessels of these metals. Many of these stones I
saw in some of these fences, and how horrified me, being so large, were
so top .-- When did the big dances and parties in Cuzco, was made much
of its chicha by women and those bebíanla. - And how many parties they
borrowed to Cuzco, ordered not to put suppliers without leaving
your license no gold or silver for what came, and the governors
pusiéronse same parts of the kingdom, and all ruled with great
justice and order.

And because at this time sent to the fortress of Cuzco, della say
something, because it is so unfair. _CAP. LI .-- How founded the royal
house of the sun on a hill above Cuzco that is, to the North, commonly
known as Spanish Fort, and his admirable and grandeur of building stones
that are in it . _ The city of Cuzco is built on valley slopes and
hills, as is written in the first part desta history [169], and even
the shapes of buildings, leaving thick walls, which make their
sowings, and by leaving compás each other, which parescian fences, so it
was all of these platforms, stronger than towards the city, although
by nature it is your site and so, the Lords chose della between so
much land. And as we were doing the command of mighty kings, and Inca
Yupanqui had thought so great, no attachment that it had been enlightened
and enriched the temple of the sun, called Curicancha, is made hobiese
other large buildings, found that became the home of the sun to outbid
the building to what was done there and that it put all the things that
may have, such as silver and gold, rich rocks, fine clothing,
weapons of all that they used, ammunition war, espadrilles, buckler,
feathers, hides of animals and birds, coke, bags of wool, jewelry
mill genres, in conclusion, there was anything they could be
contacted.

This work began as arrogance, as if their monarchy lasted until today,
was not finished. Mandóse that come from the provinces indicated that
men twenty miles, and that the people you send bastimentos necessary,
and if any of adolescence, and into another place, were then to its
nature, though not resident Indians in the work but always limited time
and others coming, leaving them where they felt little work. Four
of these break the mill stones and broke the stones, the mill went six
big tricks bringing with leather and cabuya [170], the others were
opening the trench opening and the foundation, going to cut some
Horcones and beams for timber.

And to be at your pleasure, these people made their housing bias each by
itself, next to where he had to make the building seem .-- Today
most of the walls of the houses that had observers watching .-- went
as toward teachers and much larger, primary, and so, on a hill which is
the North side of town, on top della little more than a shot harquebus
is this force that made the house called natural del Sol, and our
name Fortress. Cavos in live rock for the foundation and build the
foundation, which was so strong, lasting until hobiere world. I had, I
think, long and thirty three steps, and two hundred wide. I had many
fences so strong, that no ay artillery sufficient to rupture. The front
door was a premium to see how it was and how concerted the walls do not
go to a bar to the other, and these fences are stones so large and
magnificent to see how tired the trial could bring and place and who
sufficed for labrallas, because among them are so few tools. Some of
these stones are wide and twelve feet long and more than twenty, and
thicker than an ox, and all settled so delicately, that either can
not get a real .-- I went to see this building twice: one was with
me Tomas Vazquez, conqueror, and other Hernando de Guzman, was found
in the surrounding [171], and John of Beach [172], and believe that
this leyerdes, not anything to tell you what vi.

And andándolo noticing, I saw this next to a stone fortress that was
the mean and two hundred and seventy palms of my own round, and so
high, that parescia who were born there, and all the Indians say they
are tired at that place this rock and could not move over there [173],
and certainly if it is not seen to have been carved, I do not believe,
though I say that force of men sufficient for the making there, where
will testimony to what were the inventors of work so large, because the
Spaniards have already broken up and stopped this, which I would not
want to see the great fault of those who have ruled as permissible,
and that something is so great hobiese broken and torn down, without
looking at the times and events that may come out better and keep
on walking and saved [174].

There were many rooms in this force, one above another, smaller, and
between floors, large and hacíanse two cubes, one more than another,
and so well out wide, I do not know how you make, are second cousins and
so well placed stones and carved and below ground say there are older
buildings. And have other things that he does not write, not to be the
true. Comenzóse to make this force in time of Inca Yupanqui, worked a
lot and his son Tupac Inca Capac Guayna and Guascar, and although
now it is something to see, what was much more without comparison.

When the Spaniards entered Cuzco, the Indians took Quizquiz della great
treasure, and the Spaniards still found [175] one, and it is believed
that there are around della increased number of one and the other.
What strength and the stress has been Guarco mandar would just keep [176]
to highlight the greatness of memory land and even to take them two
such forces, since so few have made the coast. And will come back to
matter. _CAP. LII .-- How Inca Yupanqui left Cuzco Collao into and
what you sucedió._ As these Indians have no letters or tell her things
but for the Dell memory is age-old songs and their teams and I say This
is because many things vary, and a few others saying another, and not
enough human trial escrebir what escripto but take such of these
as they claimed to be more true to what count. This points to the
Spaniards in the quest Peru presume to know that many of these secrets,
they understand that I knew and understood what they think and know and
understand more, and all agreed to write what I see, and I work on
it they know. And so, Orejón say that things are Inca Yupanqui in this
state, determined to leave the people of Cuzco with much war to what
it called Collao and counties and so, leaving his governor in the
city, and left della worked great until they reached the village
of Ayavire where I say, not wanting to come in the natural line,
was as cautious on them neglected, killed all their neighbors, men
and women doing the same for the Copacopa [177] and the destruicion
of Ayavire was therefore all the more perished, not only were some
who were shocked after seeing so great evil and crazy as sown by
the furious, calling the greatest of his words with great howling
and fearful [178 ].

And as the Inca hobiese dropped in the invention so Galan and
beneficial to put mitimaes as seeing the beautiful valleys and campaigns
Ayavire and the river so beautiful that he passes along [179] ordered
that come from the counties enough people to populate with their
wives and was well done and made it great for apartments and temple
of the sun, and many deposits and home of cast iron, so that village
mitimaes, Ayavire became principal before, and Indians who have
been in wars and cruelty of the Spaniards are all newcomers mitimaes
unnatural and therefore has escripto.

Without them have more, having been captain for his leadership with
some people enough to give war to the Andesuyo of which are towns and
counties Quest mountain, met a large snake as thick as wood, which
killed all they could, then, that enemies can not see others, made them
the art of such a war, which came a few of the many who entered, and
that the great Inca recebió angry with this new knowledge, and being
with her grief, a witch told her she would stop and Iria bobas above
and tame snakes, which do not harm any of them but in same sat. Appreciating
the work, whether pursuant to this, put him in the execution, and
did so, the Dell and not to believe me, it seems mockery and love snakes,
hit the enemies, and war by many subjective and by prayer and good words
that they had. Ayavire The Inca left, say that by the way they call
Omasuyo, for which the person was indeed real and wide as we see, and
walked through the villages of Oruro [180] Asillo, Azangaro, where some
had recuentros with the natural, but such words were said, that
with them and gave them gifts, attracted the friendship and service,
now used graphical and the other wearing pulicía they had friendship
and alliance with the Incas, and they reached their villages in the
flat plains.

Moving forward Inca Yupanqui, who have the most people who visit
confined to the great lake of Titicaca, which brought her good morning
everyone their service, in each village by the costume worn by natural
thing of great pleasure for them and most comfortable. entered into
the great lake of Titicaca and the islands they watched it do, do send
in most of them from the sun temple and palaces for himself and his
descendants, and start your Lordship, and all the rest of the vast
region of Collao, became the city of Cuzco with great triumph, where
he, after which it entered, make great holiday to his style, and most
came from the provinces to do it with great reverence present, and the
governors and delegates of his great care had to meet all its orders.
_CAP. LIII .-- How Inca Yupanqui left Cuzco, and that flying fame hizo._
Inca Yupanqui in how much the land, and that all parties concerned of
their great deeds. Many, without seeing his flag captain and you came
to know were given by subjects, affirming that his sayings had fallen
from heaven, your past, knowing both concert and live with honor.
Inca Yupanqui, without losing its gravity, meekly replied that
they did not want to do any injury to nation, but come to give him
obedience, as the sun and the boss wanted.

And as hobiese call around to people, she went with what we call Condesuyo
and subject to Yanaguaras and the Chumbivilcas, and some provinces had
stressed region Condesuyo reece battles, but although he was much
war, its effort and knowledge was, therefore, that injury and death
of many gave obedience, taking it to the Lord, as did others, and
putting in order, leaving the earth and the natural facts chieftains,
and sending them to do wrong or not Damage to these subjects were
returned to Cuzco, placing first governors in the main parties, so
that imposed on the natural order was to take, and for housing, to
serve you and make their people together and take every great
concert, but none was injured, even the poorest.

After this, have more, which rested a few days in Cuzco, it wanted to go
in person to the Andes, where they had sent their champions, and
listening to mirasen land and notifies you of art that were della
residents, and sent for his whole kingdom was full of tanks with
maintenance, which commanded the road proveyesen quel had to carry,
and was done well and people with masters and war came from Cuzco,
where he was its governor for the administration of justice, and
through the mountains and snowy mountains, he knew of the front
runners, and the large thickness of the mountains, and although
found in snakes as Large breed in these thickets, not to harm anyone,
and seeing how espantábanse beasts and monsters were.

As the calendar of regions knew his entry into the land of the Inca,
as many of your Dell handheld captains had been placed in his service,
he came to make a mocha, bringing in many bird feathers and coca and
as they had in their land, and all much appreciated. The other Indians
who lived in those mountains, those who wanted to be vassals, enviáronle
messengers, those who do not, their people and metiéronse stranded with
their wives in the thick of the mountain. Inca Yupanqui had great news
that after a few days, the part of the Levant, had very large and
populous land. With this new, greedy to find out, he went forward, but,
being warned in Cuzco had happened some ruckus, and having a friend
is calling people Marcapata, stirred with a big hurry to Cuzco, where
he was a few days.

After this, they say Indians, as the province of Collao is so large and
she had at that time large numbers of people and the natural domain
of very powerful, like Inca Yupanqui knew that it had entered the mountains
of the Andes, in the belief that there would broken or dead who would
come, all at a concertáronse from Vilcanota forward, and one party to
another, with very great secret, and not rebel under the dominion of
the Incas, that was great poquedad of them all, their parents having been
free and not leaving them in captivity, and so much land subject to a
great Lord alone.
But the one who has made me captive for the
present is the lady with the dark hair done up like this."

In a moment Charron had put up his hair, which was thick but short, into
a double sheaf; and Carne knew at once that it was Faith whose charms
had made havoc of the patriotism of his colleague. Then he smiled and
said, "My friend, that is the elder daughter."

"I have some knowledge of the laws of England," the Frenchman continued,
complacently; "the elder will have the most money, and I am not rich,
though I am courageous. In the confusion that ensues I shall have the
very best chance of commending myself; and I confide in your honourable
feeling to give me the push forward by occasion. Say, is it well
conceived, my friend? We never shall conquer these Englishmen, but we
may be triumphant with their ladies."

"It is a most excellent scheme of invasion," Carne answered, with his
slow sarcastic smile, "and you may rely on me for what you call the push
forward, if a Frenchman ever needs it with a lady. But I wish to hear
more about that brown man."

"I can tell you no more. But the matter is strange. Perhaps he was
visiting the fat Captain Stoobar. I feel no solicitude concerning him
with my angel. She would never look twice at such a savage."

But the gallant French Captain missed the mark this time. The
strange-looking man with the long brown beard quitted the shore before
he reached the stepping-stones, and making a short-cut across the
rabbit-warren, entered the cottage of Zebedee Tugwell, without even
stopping to knock at the door. The master was away, and so were all the
children; but stout Mrs. Tugwell, with her back to the door, was tending
the pot that hung over the fire. At the sound of a footstep she turned
round, and her red face grew whiter than the ashes she was stirring.

"Oh, Mr. Erle, is it you, or your ghostie?" she cried, as she fell
against the door of the brick oven. "Do 'e speak, for God's sake, if He
have given the power to 'e."

"He has almost taken it away again, so far as the English language
goes," Erle Twemlow answered, with a smile which was visible only in his
eyes, through long want of a razor; "but I am picking up a little.
Shake hands, Kezia, and then you will know me. Though I have not quite
recovered that art as yet."

"Oh, Mr. Erle!" exclaimed Zebedee's wife, with tears ready to start for
his sake and her own, "how many a time I've had you on my knees, afore
I was blessed with any of my own, and a bad sort of blessing the best of
'em proves. Not that I would listen to a word again' him. I suppose you
never did happen to run again' my Dan'el, in any of they furrin parts,
from the way they makes the hair grow. I did hear tell of him over to
Pebbleridge; but not likely, so nigh to his own mother, and never come
no nigher. And if they furrin parts puts on the hair so heavily, who
could 'a known him to Pebbleridge? They never was like we be. They'd as
lief tell a lie as look at you, over there."

In spite of his own long years of trouble, or perhaps by reason of them,
Erle Twemlow, eager as he was to get on, listened to the sad tale that
sought for his advice, and departed from wisdom--as good-nature always
does--by offering useless counsel--counsel that could not be taken, and
yet was far from being worthless, because it stirred anew the fount of
hope, towards which the parched affections creep.

"But Lor bless me, sir, I never thought of you!" Mrs. Tugwell exclaimed,
having thought out her self. "What did Parson say, and your mother, and
Miss Faith? It must 'a been better than a play to see them."

"Not one of them knows a word about it yet; nor anybody in Springhaven,
except you, Kezia. You were as good as my nurse, you know; I have never
had a chance of writing to them, and I want you to help me to let them
know it slowly."

"Oh, Mr. Erle, what a lovely young woman your Miss Faith is grown up by
now! Some thinks more of Miss Dolly, but, to my mind, you may as well
put a mackerel before a salmon, for the sake of the stripes and the
glittering. Now what can I do to make you decent, sir, for them duds
and that hair is barbarious? My Tabby and Debby will be back in half an
hour, and them growing up into young maidens now."

Twemlow explained that after living so long among savages in a burning
clime, he had found it impossible to wear thick clothes, and had been
rigged up in some Indian stuff by the tailor of the ship which had
rescued him. But now he supposed he must reconcile himself by degrees to
the old imprisonment. But as for his hair, that should never be touched,
unless he was restored to the British Army, and obliged to do as the
others did. With many little jokes of a homely order, Mrs. Tugwell,
regarding him still as a child, supplied him with her husband's summer
suit of thin duck, which was ample enough not to gall him; and then she
sent her daughters with a note to the Rector, begging him to come at
seven o'clock to meet a gentleman who wished to see him upon important
business, near the plank bridge across the little river. Erle wrote that
note, but did not sign it; and after many years of happy freedom from
the pen, his handwriting was so changed that his own father would not
know it. What he feared was the sudden shock to his good mother; his
father's nerves were strong, and must be used as buffers.

"Another trouble, probably; there is nothing now but trouble," Mr.
Twemlow was thinking, as he walked unwillingly towards the place
appointed. "I wish I could only guess what I can have done to deserve
all these trials, as I become less fit to bear them. I would never
have come to this lonely spot, except that it may be about Shargeloes.
Everything now is turned upside down; but the Lord knows best, and I
must bear it. Sir, who are you? And what do you want me for?"

At the corner where Miss Dolly had rushed into the Rector's open arms so
fast, a tall man, clad in white, was standing, with a staff about
eight feet long in his hand. Having carried a spear for four years now,
Captain Twemlow found no comfort in his native land until he had cut the
tallest growth in Admiral Darling's osier bed, and peeled it, and shaved
it to a seven-sided taper. He rested this point in a socket of moss,
that it might not be blunted, and then replied:

"Father, you ought to know me, although you have grown much stouter in
my absence; and perhaps I am thinner than I used to be. But the climate
disagreed with me, until I got to like it."

"Erle! Do you mean to say you are my boy Erle?" The Rector was
particular about his clothes. "Don't think of touching me. You are hair
all over, and I dare say never had a comb. I won't believe a word of it
until you prove it."

"Well, mother will know me, if you don't." The young man answered
calmly, having been tossed upon so many horns of adventure that none
could make a hole in him. "I thought that you would have been glad to
see me; and I managed to bring a good many presents; only they are
gone on to London. They could not be got at, to land them with me; but
Captain Southcombe will be sure to send them. You must not suppose,
because I am empty-handed now--"

"My dear son," cried the father, deeply hurt, "do you think that your
welcome depends upon presents? You have indeed fallen into savage ways.
Come, and let me examine you through your hair; though the light is
scarcely strong enough now to go through it. To think that you should be
my own Erle, alive after such a time, and with such a lot of hair! Only,
if there is any palm-oil on it--this is my last new coat but one."

"No, father, nothing that you ever can have dreamed of. Something that
will make you a bishop, if you like, and me a member of the House
of Lords. But I did not find it out myself--which makes success more
certain."

"They have taught you some great truths, my dear boy. The man who begins
a thing never gets on. But I am so astonished that I know not what I
say. I ought to have thanked the Lord long ago. Have you got a place
without any hair upon it large enough for me to kiss you?"

Erle Twemlow, whose hand in spite of all adventures trembled a little
upon his spear, lifted his hat and found a smooth front, sure to be all
the smoother for a father's kiss.

"Let us go home," said the old man, trying to exclude all excitement
from his throat and heart; "but you must stay outside until I come to
fetch you. I feel a little anxious, my dear boy, as to how your dear
mother will get over it. She has never been strong since the bad news
came about you. And somebody else has to be considered. But that must
stand over till to-morrow."


CHAPTER LVI

THE SILVER VOICE


Many shrewd writers have observed that Britannia has a special
luck--which the more devout call Providence--in holding her own, against
not only her true and lawful enemies, but even those of her own bosom
who labour most to ruin her. And truly she had need of all her fortune
now, to save her from the skulking traitor, as well as the raging
adversary.

"Now I will have my revenge," said Carne, "on all who have outraged and
plundered me. Crows--carrion-crows--I will turn them into owls without
a nest. Prowling owls, to come blinking even now at the last of my poor
relics! Charron, what did that fellow say to old Jerry, the day I tied
the dogs up?"

"He said, my dear friend, that he missed from the paintings which he had
taken to his house the most precious of them all--the picture of your
dear grandmother, by a man whose name it is hard to pronounce, but a
Captain in the British Army, very much fond of beloving and painting
all the most beautiful ladies; and since he had painted the mother of
Vash--Vash--the man that conquered England in America--all his work was
gone up to a wonderful price, and old Sheray should have one guinea if
he would exhibit to him where to find it. Meedle or Beedle--he had set
his heart on getting it. He declared by the good God that he would have
it, and that you had got it under a tombstone."

"A sample of their persecutions! You know that I have never seen it,
nor even heard of the Captain Middleton who went on his rovings from
Springhaven. And, again, about my own front-door, or rather the door of
my family for some four centuries, because it was carved as they cannot
carve now, it was put into that vile Indenture. I care very little for
my ancestors--benighted Britons of the county type--but these things are
personal insults to me. I seldom talk about them, and I will not do so
now."

"My Captain, you should talk much about it. That would be the good
relief to your extensive mind. Revenge is not of the bright French
nature; but the sky of this island procreates it. My faith! how I would
rage at England, if it were not for the people, and their daughters! We
shall see; in a few days more we shall astonish the fat John Bull; and
then his little kittens--what do you call them?--calves of an ox, will
come running to us."

"Enough of your foolish talk," said Carne. "The women are as resolute as
the men. Even when we have taken London, not an English woman will come
near us, until all the men have yielded. Go down to your station and
watch for the boat. I expect an important despatch to-night. But I
cannot stay here for the chance of it. I have business in Springhaven."

His business in Springhaven was to turn young love to the basest use, to
make a maiden (rash and flighty, but not as yet dishonourable) a traitor
to her friends and father-land, and most of all to her own father. He
had tried to poison Dolly's mind with doses of social nonsense--in which
he believed about as much as a quack believes in his own pills--but his
main reliance now was placed in his hold upon her romantic heart, and in
her vague ambitions. Pure and faithful love was not to be expected from
his nature; but he had invested in Dolly all the affection he could
spare from self. He had laboured long, and suffered much, and the red
crown of his work was nigh.

Riding slowly down the hill about half a mile from the village, Carne
saw a tall man coming towards him with a firm, deliberate walk. The
stranger was dressed very lightly, and wore a hat that looked like a
tobacco leaf, and carried a long wand in his hand, as if he were going
to keep order in church. These things took the eye afar, but at shorter
range became as nothing, compared with the aspect of the man himself.
This was grand, with its steadfast gaze--no stare, but a calm and kind
regard--its large tranquillity and power of receiving without believing
the words of men; and most of all in the depth of expression reserved by
experience in the forest of its hair.

Carne was about to pass in silent wonder and uneasiness, but the other
gently laid the rod across his breast and stopped him, and then waited
for him to ask the reason why.

"Have you any business with me, good sir?" Carne would have spoken
rudely, but saw that rudeness would leave no mark upon a man like this.
"If so, I must ask you to be quick. And perhaps you will tell me who you
are."

"I think that you are Caryl Carne," said the stranger, not unpleasantly,
but as if it mattered very little who was Caryl Carne, or whether there
was any such existence.

Carne stared fiercely, for he was of touchy temper; but he might as
well have stared at a bucket of water in the hope of deranging its
tranquillity. "You know me. But I don't know you," he answered at last,
with a jerk of his reins.

"Be in no hurry," said the other, mildly; "the weather is fine, and time
plentiful. I hope to have much pleasant knowledge of you. I have the
honour to be your first cousin, Erle Twemlow. Shake hands with your
kinsman."

Carne offered his hand, but without his usual grace and self-possession.
Twemlow took it in his broad brown palm, in which it seemed to melt
away, firm though it was and muscular.

"I was going up to call on you," said Twemlow, who had acquired a
habit of speaking as if he meant all the world to hear. "I feel a deep
interest in your fortunes, and hope to improve them enormously. You
shall hear all about it when I come up. I have passed four years in the
wilds of Africa, where no white man ever trod before, and I have found
out things no white man knows. We call those people savages, but they
know a great deal more than we do. Shall I call to-morrow, and have a
long talk?"

"I fear," replied Carne, who was cursing his luck for bringing this
fellow home just now, "that I shall have no time for a week or two. I
am engaged upon important business now, which will occupy my whole
attention. Let me see! You are staying at the rectory, I suppose. The
best plan will be for me to let you know when I can afford the pleasure
of receiving you. In a fortnight, or three weeks at the latest--"

"Very well. I am never in a hurry. And I want to go to London to see
about my things. But I dare say you will not object to my roving about
the old castle now and then. I loved the old place as a boy, and I know
every crick and cranny and snake-hole in it."

"How glad they must have been to see you--restored from the dead,
and with such rich discoveries! But you must be more careful, my good
cousin, and create no more anxiety. Glad as I shall be to see you,
when time allows that indulgence, I must not encourage you to further
rovings, which might end in your final disappearance. Two boar-hounds,
exceedingly fierce and strong, and compelled by my straitened
circumstances to pick up their own living, are at large on my premises
night and day, to remonstrate with my creditors. We fear that they ate
a man last night, who had stolen a valuable picture, and was eager for
another by the same distinguished artist. His boots and hat were found
unhurt; but of his clothes not a shred remained, to afford any
pattern for enquiry. What would my feelings be if Aunt Maria arrived
hysterically in the pony-carriage, and at great personal risk
enquired--"

"I fear no dogs," said Erle Twemlow, without any flash of anger in his
steadfast eyes. "I can bring any dog to lick my feet. But I fear any man
who sinks lower than a dog, by obtaining a voice and speaking lies with
it. If you wish, for some reason of your own, to have nought to do with
me, you should have said so; and I might have respected you afterwards.
But flimsy excuses and trumpery lies belong to the lowest race of
savages, who live near the coast, and have been taught by Frenchmen."

Erle Twemlow stood, as he left off speaking, just before the shoulder
of Carne's horse, ready to receive a blow, if offered, but without
preparation for returning it. But Carne, for many good reasons--which
occurred to his mind long afterwards--controlled his fury, and consoled
his self-respect by repaying in kind the contempt he received.

"Well done, Mr. Savage!" he said, with a violent effort to look amiable.
"You and I are accustomed to the opposite extremes of society, and the
less we meet, the better. When a barbarian insults me, I take it as a
foul word from a clodhopper, which does not hurt me, but may damage his
own self-respect, if he cherishes such an illusion. Perhaps you will
allow me to ride on, while you curb your very natural curiosity about a
civilized gentleman."

Twemlow made no answer, but looked at him with a gentle pity, which
infuriated Carne more than the keenest insult. He lashed his horse, and
galloped down the hill, while his cousin stroked his beard, and looked
after him with sorrow.

"Everything goes against me now," thought Caryl Carne, while he put up
his horse and set off for the Admiral's Roundhouse. "I want to be cool
as a cucumber, and that insolent villain has made pepper of me. What
devil sent him here at such a time?"

For the moment it did not cross his mind that this man of lofty rudeness
was the long-expected lover of Faith Darling, and therefore in some
sort entitled to a voice about the doings of the younger sister. By many
quiet sneers, and much expressive silence, he had set the brisk Dolly
up against the quiet Faith, as a man who understands fowl nature can set
even two young pullets pulling each other's hackles out.

"So you are come at last!" said Dolly. "No one who knows me keeps me
waiting, because I am not accustomed to it. I expect to be called for at
any moment, by matters of real importance--not like this."

"Your mind is a little disturbed," replied Carne, as he took her hand
and kissed it, with less than the proper rapture; "is it because of the
brown and hairy man just returned from Africa?"

"Not altogether. But that may be something. He is not a man to be
laughed at. I wish you could have seen my sister."

"I would rather see you; and I have no love of savages. He is my first
cousin, and that affords me a domestic right to object to him. As a
brother-in-law I will have none of him."

"You forget," answered Dolly, with a flash of her old spirit, which he
was subduing too heavily, "that a matter of that sort depends upon us,
and our father, and not upon the gentlemen. If the gentlemen don't like
it, they can always go away."

"How can they go, when they are chained up like a dog? Women may wander
from this one to that, because they have nothing to bind them; but a man
is of steadfast material."

"Erle Twemlow is, at any rate--though it is hard to see his material
through his hair; but that must come off, and I mean to do it. He is the
best-natured man I have ever yet known, except one; and that one had got
nothing to shave. Men never seem to understand about their hair, and
the interest we feel concerning it. But it does not matter very much,
compared to their higher principles."

"That is where I carry every vote, of whatever sex you please"--Carne
saw that this girl must be humoured for the moment. "Anybody can see
what I am. Straightforward, and ready to show my teeth. Why should an
honest man live in a bush?"

"Faith likes it very much; though she always used to say that it did
seem so unchristian. Could you manage to come and meet him, Caryl? We
shall have a little dinner on Saturday, I believe, that every one may
see Erle Twemlow. His beloved parents will be there, who are gone quite
wild about him. Father will be at home for once; and the Marquis of
Southdown, and some officers, and Captain Stubbard and his wife will
come, and perhaps my brother Frank, who admires you so much. You shall
have an invitation in the morning."

"Such delights are not for me," Carne answered, with a superior smile;
"unhappily my time is too important. But perhaps these festivities will
favour me with the chance of a few words with my darling. How I long to
see her, and how little chance I get!"

"Because, when you get it, you spend three-quarters of the time in
arguing, and the rest in finding fault. I am sure I go as far as anybody
can; and I won't take you into my father's Roundhouse, because I don't
think it would be proper."

"Ladies alone understand such subjects; and a gentleman is thankful
that they do. I am quite content to be outside the Roundhouse--so called
because it is square, perhaps--though the wind is gone back to the east
again, as it always does now in an English summer, according to a man
who has studied the subject--Zebedee Tugwell, the captain of the fleet.
Dolly, beloved, and most worthy to be more so, clear your bright mind
from all false impressions, whose only merit is that they are yours, and
allow it to look clearly at a matter of plain sense."

She was pleased to have compliments paid to her mind, even more than to
her body--because there was no doubt about the merits of the latter--and
she said: "That is very nice. Go on."

"Well, beauty, you know that I trust you in everything, because of your
very keen discretion, and freedom from stupid little prejudice. I have
been surprised at times, when I thought of it in your absence, that
any one so young, who has never been through any course of political
economy, should be able to take such a clear view of subjects which are
far beyond the intellect of even the oldest ladies. But it must be your
brother; no doubt he has helped you to--"

"Not he!" cried the innocent Dolly, with fine pride; "I rather look down
upon his reasoning powers; though I never could make such a pretty
tink of rhymes--like the bells of the sheep when the ground is full of
turnips."

"He approves of your elevated views," said Carne, looking as grave as a
crow at a church clock; "they may not have come from him, because they
are your own, quite as much as his poetry is his. But he perceives their
truth, and he knows that they must prevail. In a year or two we shall be
wondering, sweet Dolly, when you and I sit side by side, as the
stupid old King and Queen do now, that it ever has been possible for
narrow-minded nonsense to prevail as it did until we rose above it. We
shall be admired as the benefactors, not of this country only, but of
the whole world."

Miss Dolly was fairly endowed with common-sense, but often failed to
use it. She would fain have said now, "That sounds wonderfully fine; but
what does it mean, and how are we to work it?" But unluckily she
could not bring herself to say it. And when millions are fooled by the
glibness of one man--even in these days of wisdom--who can be surprised
at a young maid's weakness?

"You wish me to help you in some way," she said; "your object is sure to
be good; and you trust me in everything, because of my discretion. Then
why not tell me everything?"

"You know everything," Carne replied, with a smile of affection and
sweet reproach. "My object is the largest that a man can have; and
until I saw you, there was not the least taint of self-interest in my
proceedings. But now it is not for the universe alone, for the grandeur
of humanity, and the triumph of peace, that I have to strive, but also
for another little somebody, who has come--I am ashamed to say--to
outweigh all the rest in the balance of my too tender heart."

This was so good, and so well delivered, that the lady of such love
could do no less than vouchsafe a soft hand and a softer glance, instead
of pursuing hard reason.

"Beauty, it is plain enough to you, though it might not be so to stupid
people," Carne continued, as he pressed her hand, and vanquished the
doubt of her enquiring eyes with the strength of his resolute gaze,
"that bold measures are sometimes the only wise ones. Many English girls
would stand aghast to hear that it was needful for the good of England
that a certain number, a strictly limited number, of Frenchmen should
land upon this coast."

"I should rather think they would!" cried Dolly; "and I would be one of
them--you may be quite sure of that."

"For a moment you might, until you came to understand." Carne's voice
always took a silver tone when his words were big with roguery; as
the man who is touting for his neighbour's bees strikes the frying-pan
softly at first, to tone the pulsations of the murmuring mob. I am
reluctant to matter. "Nimm's in Alix," warned my husband, "it will show
you the best that you at the mercy of berliner-dependent women are
not." "You can's do - all without remorse. Sowas also have the highest
Demigods not spurned. "Hesitantly I said to. I was not comfortable with
that, so I also wanted a party, and especially this one, attend. Shortly
before we departed, my mother came back. It seemed a decade younger.
"I will stay with the kids while you're continuing," she said,
"this is my oppressed conscience somewhat easier - after these
selfish months!" We have had her now our intention to sell the house
to tell. "The continual outward and shattered Herfahren our nerve,"
I said casually, "I ought to refrain from public activity, if we
wanted to stay out." She looked from one to the other in silent dreary
question. "It is really so, Mom's -" I assured smile. You almost
imperceptibly shook his head and said nothing more. * * * * *
Between narrow alleys and narrow courtyards, far away that the
modern part of the city, also in Hanover just as elegant as
unprincipled, is a large dark hall, the Ballhof mentioned.

Before this time threw Electors, princesses and kings themselves in
their graceful game balls to step up with a heavy and serious face of
a determined, the game was strange: the proletarians.

Brighter rooms searched the princes for their pleasures, he took for
his work, what they had left: the dark hall. With fresh green were
its pillars umwunden, behind crimson red flags disappeared the old
unadorned walls. The Parliament of the workers met here. Outside laughed
the October sun, inside burned on the long panels, artificial light,
the faces on all drew sharp shadows, so dark and it appeared hostile.
Dull hung in the air space, and the breath of the centuries was behind
the tiny windows remained trapped.

He confined the chest. Long before the start of negotiations had already
filled the hall. Swelling voices, chairs, rustling of paper - that paper,
that all the sweets and poisons all the world can auszuströmen -
formed in their unresolved discord Overture provocative.

Newspapers have been leaves back and forth hergezeigt: »Amber Apostata"
stood above an article, "Divorce clean" about a second, "we are finished
with the revisionism, or we're done," said a red notched body, "the
comrades in the realm expect a clear decision, "at another. From the
inevitable split in the party newspaper said Civil exulting in left-liberal
socialists catheter leaves welcomed the followers of amber than theirs.
Election Bureau. It hardly anyone listened to. Paul Singer was present,
the Bureau thus from the outset in good hands. The welcome speeches
dampened the alien voices in the hall. France, where the Dreyfus
scandal, yet the focus of interest was where Millerand, the Social
Democrat, with Jaurès', the Social Democrats, the express consent in
the eyes of the German radicals had committed unpardonable crimes in
the Ministry to enter, - page Gallifet side with the murderers of the
municipality, - was not represented. The old Liebknecht violent attacks
on comrades beyond the Vosges liked this reluctance is not without
fault. The negotiations began. With impatient haste, an item on
the agenda after the other done.

All urged the main theme of the party too.

And even in the midst of the minor debates already flashed into the
weather in the coming days.

"They are already familiar with the fire torch in our pyre -," said one
of the revisionist right next to us.

In the evening, when we women to an internal meeting together, felt I
was thinking in the "clean divorce" already completed. We discussed a
request for the protection of workers, the agitation of our next
activity content and direction, and its demands by the party should be
sanctioned. In fact, there were loud self-evident. Only the
protection of pregnant women was new. I had fought for, although I
remain a wall and they had told him not to reject, without himself
in the face to beat. But they were so stubborn, when I subsuming
servants under the Commercial Code in the application itself recommended.
That is already in our program, it was said. But many of our other
demands were also in it. And right now it would be important to us
officially with the servants' movement in solidarity to explain.

"We must not fritter away our strength." - This was the case dismissed.
The women moved after the discussion of friendship with each other,
talked with soothing warmth with all the colleagues who made the East
and West come here were grazed me sometimes shy greeting, a strange
sight, - I went out.

In our inn, I found the leaders in attracting entertainment deepened. Her
eyes glowed in the youthful fire, even the outbursts of their passion
tames the holy seriousness with which they all fought for their cause.
Bebel was silent; repeatedly stressed he was nervous the stubborn Locke
from the forehead; weighed on him the responsibility of the coming days.
* * * * * Broke cold and gray the next morning. In Ballhof fought the
electric lights in vain against the darkness, it squatted so clearly
behind the pillars and between the tables, the lighter in her
circle, the direct rays of light appeared. Only slowly filled the hall
today, and few voices were loud. An Ernst was measured on all faces, and
no doubt full expectation. Singer entered the podium: "... is to
negotiate Agenda item 4: 'The attacks on the fundamental beliefs of the
party'. The word has the rapporteur Comrade Bebel. "Another violent chairs
back, then deep silence. Bebel voice dominated the room alone.
Gesprächston As he began quietly, almost cozy.

Each listener involuntarily felt personally angeredet. Even when he was
the unlimited freedom of criticism of their own basic beliefs as the
life of the party known, he threw the sentence is not like a feud glove
into the crowd, but spoke in a tone of Konstatierung self-evident.
The questions of the materialist view of history, the dialectic, the
value theory from the outset, he turned out - "Congress is not a
scientific council," he said - to the problem of Entwickelungsprozesses
of capitalist society, to develop the Amber represented differently
than Marx and Engels.

A wealth of statistical calculations, he poured out before us in order
to rebut Bernstein's views, to ascertain that the Marxist dogma of the
worsening of the economic contradictions of the relative impoverishment
of the proletariat is still unshaken. And given the bewildering mass
of material, at the the large amount of the degree of scientific attaches,
as in the frequency of citations to the level of education to measure
maintains, was a whisper of stunned admiration through the rows, set in
a "very correct," a "hear, hear" again and made air again. Bebel voice
swelled, his movements were lively, his small figure reckte itself. He
painted the plight of the proletariat. The resentment of his passion, the
plight of the eye to eye, then, shivering in his words, and small and
pitiful appeared, however, what Bernstein scriptorium sober wisdom of
the improved situation of the worker to report had known.

As the lashing Ostwind on the treetops, it blew his speech on the heads.
And they bowed their difficult thoughts, they turned to each other,
they stood out again, from a word that they met emporgerissen. Here and
there stood one on how magnetically attracted by the one who spoke.
A dark group of people surrounded the rostrum. All at once but it was
not the wind that roars in the branches - it was the storm.

The youth-strong force of the revolutionary, the avid enthusiasm
of faith heroes thundered and rustled in the words of the Agitators.
All the half-hearted pessimism, all the undecided doubt resigned all the
seriousness with which Bernstein had burdened the souls, which flew
before them like chaff and dust. And like the exorcist from the fog
of figures is as developed under the wand of the speaker, the
appearance of the old Marx. Was he really? Strangely, - all of us
that we are aware of joining in, it came before, as Bernstein did some
color to this mixed picture. What Bernstein against him had said
that Bebel was right for him in the misery of theory, the facts
suffered shipwreck, Bernstein said, - she never has Marx in the
sense of absolute decline understood, said Bebel, the reference to
the Savior of the Revolution is of evil, said Bernstein, - on the
evolution, Marx has the greatest weight, and never the salvation
seen in street fighting, said Bebel.

And while his fire sword against all the zückte, before a loud ifs
and buts the ruthless Kampfmut einzubüßen in terms stood, it was also
the inquisitors that he had, but to the heretics in their own camp
targeted. The crowd, which is first torn apart like stones from a
rock before it had spread, - all the sharp edge of hostility against
the other swept - seemed again a marble quarry, from which he planned
massive blocks suggested that foundations to join together could . Five
hours he said it. Now most of the storm his speech returned to the quiet
Gesprächston; himself returned, the crowd breathed deep and saturated on.
Again, as the last of the distant thunder storm, lifted his voice
in ungeschwächter force: "Our basic beliefs are not shocked - we
remain what we were --." raging applause devoured the conclusion.

Minutes long was the next speaker, Edward David, to Bebel body, before
his voice penetrated the noise. "I have the courage, even after the
unit Bebel, Bernstein in his opinion to accept," he said. Somewhere someone
hissed, but the respect for the honest confession suppressed quickly,
according to the displeasure of everyone. Cool, almost sober, he said,
who also did not know him, felt he was the middle of the practice of
contemporary political life, he was no longer in the thrall of the tradition
of the sect with her Geheimbündelei their martyrdom, their faith
animosity. He let the bright light of day on the spirits summoned
by Bebel appearance of Marx fall, and behind her stood the living
Bernstein. Where Bebel passion contrasts his anger blurred, or the
views of the opponent niedergetrampelt had, as he painted large and
clear, as the teacher the computing tasks in front of the class on
the black board. Nobody who is not blind could get them sealed. And
he called back to reality, where Bebel us on the wings of his imagination
into the future had worn. "The higher principled assessment of the present
work, - that is what Bernstein us, and that is worth more than
what he has taken," he said and announced to the one-sided emphasis
on the struggle for political power - as the sole agent, the victory
of socialism to lead - the trinity of the union, the cooperative,
the political movement created by the daily work of socialism a
foot width earth after another win. until now had been the battlefield.

The everyday expression occurs in the place of Begeisterungsglut, which
had stimulated Bebel speech on the faces, and the spirits prevailed
again, in place of the great unifying idea, all the issues of practical
politics. I therefore had the feeling of regret leaving the I was
overwhelmed at the moment? Arose not that instinctive adherence to the
traditional views of gravity of the human mind, which is ever in
dogmatism, in conservatism, as in Denkfaulheit convenience and
expressed? We who want to be champions, were obliged to overcome them.
Bewegte days were a struggle, which is not always a clash of opinions
remained. And the "Crucify!"

Sounded the loudest from the lips of women. Orbin Wanda shrieked it into
the room; Luise Zehringer, the Hamburg cigars worker, repeated it, a
small Polish Jew who just in the German Party was criticized with the
safety of a party authority, the views and actions of good leaders. And
the mass clapped their applause. »See - this is a politician," said a
journalist, "ever respectful of the loose, and Auer and Bernstein abkanzelt
Vollmar, the more secure their success." More and more clearly isolates
the parties in the party itself apart from, above the deeper burrowing
deeper and forgot the dispute Leichtsinnigsten the amusements of the
evening, instead of their meetings were held.

There are moments when it seemed as if the radicals in the extreme not
shrink back. The full recognition of the party program, they wanted
to call, as the Orthodox priest's vow to Apostolikum. And everybody
began quietly with the large settlement itself, for the first time I
came to consciousness, what all these years, the unknown source of my
struggles and pain was the thing called on the whole person completely,
but I wanted to fight for them I myself remain. And at the same time
seemed to me as though as no other than this problem all the struggles
that we had, was based. "Why are you so dumb?" Asked my husband when we
are in the lunch break zusammensaßen. "Because I begin to fear that I
had no right to be his comrade. I'm also not a Christian --. "uncomprehendingly,
a little frightened, as he for a moment doubt in my mind healthy, Henry
looked at me. I put my arm in his. "Do not worry, dear, - I was never
clearer than now!

Devotion to the will of God to Selbstentäußerung calls Christianity,
devotion to the will of the masses of socialism. Whether it's between
this claim and the right personality is a bridge, I know just the
moment when we are in the party know. "" Your wording is wrong,
absolutely wrong, "said Henry excited," not the will, but to the
welfare of the masses, the required dedication. "" And it requires you
as something obvious, the victims of the conviction, "I broke
him. We were in the hall. With a feverish nervousness, which all had
taken some of that robust and sinewy worker tragicomic characters appear
left, tore the delegates to hand out a folder, the new prints from the
hand. It was Bebel resolution in new version. We compared. »... After
all this is the party for no reason that your program ... "I read. "Now
it says: 'their principles and basic requirements" to change
"read Heinrich," so that we can readily agree, "he added, smiling and
with a view to me:" Thou seest, the cliff of tragic conflict is happy
overlooked.

"Auer came over to us. In his face wetterleuchtete it. "Now I will dance
for them once a jungle," he said in grim joke. Here, I saw his fingers
on the thumb zusammenzogen. From all sides, both orally and in writing,
directly and indirectly, he had been attacked. He who moves to the
Bernstein question in public at all had not expressed, was regarded as
the real and the most dangerous leader of the revisionists, as the apostate.
The air in the room was always difficult. Or was it just the increased
irritability of the nerves, so they felt? Any discharge had come. By
nature every speaker seemed to need the opposites into the absurd
increase, the opponents to reduce the need to ridicule. The audience
was restless. It was from time to time, we talked. Sûre Since entering
the grandstand. The quiet sarcasm of superiority to the lips, he looked
out over the crowd. Then came the settlement. Involuntarily lowered all
heads against this massive outbreak of a fiery crater of the
mountain.

A public prosecution, it was, and all stood in the pillory, the strike
of the liberating ideas into a crippling bickering turns people had. And
it was a defense - a defense of the man, the same party to deretwillen
he banished from the homeland had been accused of treason - but also
a defense of himself, in the decades-long work party aufgeriebenen fighter.
His broad hands, - determined to carry a hammer or a sword, -
gripped, sometimes spasmodic jerking, the edge of the lectern.

They were at the desk in the Bureau of the enclosed air has become
white. The proud German Main, which deserves a knight helmet, fell
quietly to the front. The concerns of the party putting him. The face,
on the mountains of his homeland, the sun in the next, and red to
brown stain would have been gray and pale. Nights Durchwachte spoke
from his eyes. Irritated shouts interrupted him - fell to his weighty
blows. And his voice, through hundreds of speeches, hundreds of
travel abgenutzt agitation, threatened to fail. Another cut through the
air movement with the hand, as if he wanted to strike out, but
what is indelibly stamped his memory was still a joke, which he
threw into the mass, as the tamers a bone between the Tigers and
the power of his speech was in a calm river at its destination.

Bebel The resolution was adopted, only a small Häuflein steadfast,
still their "Crucify!" screamed, voted against it. "... Also at this
party, it has shown that the party is on their tactics and their uniform
and also thinks fernerhin full unanimity will act ...,« Singer said at
the end. The Arbeitermarseillaise rustled through the Ballhof. Nobody
heard the dissonance? It was not the ghosts of the past, the princesses,
the electors and kings, which they convey. It was the spirit of the
future. * * * * * Tired and exhausted we arrived home. It dawned when
the station we drove to the Grunewald. How glorious was the silence
in the wide avenues! How refreshing scent of the pines of the hot
head umstrich instead of the many people vote only one-evening sweet
birds! Who but could remain in the forest! - With that fine tact, which
is based on the tree of old culture is the most delicious fruits,
had my mother, shortly before we arrived, left the house.

Thus, we could undivided at the reunion with our boys happy.
I seemed as if we were weeks away days have been: he was not much bigger
and much wiser now? And how adorable ring were the blond Löckchen to the
broad skull! In infectious zeal he had to tell all, show everything. His
farm before he grabbed me, took the trees and cried, "they quickly
run to the love duten Mama's!" "But trees are not," I said. Then
he nodded with a precocious mind and said, "But, Mama, in the electric,
as are the trees." And when he was to celebrate the day with us had
eaten dinner, he cleverly slipped from his high chairs, turned breitbeinig
before us, and cried out: "I'm tired!" The first 'I'! - Laughing, I joined
him in the arms: Well, my child a man. All problems of the world
disappeared again given me this miracle. The next morning I was sitting
at his desk, and calculated.

Fear drove me sweat drops on the forehead: already the next quarter we
would not be able to pay interest.

As I had as a girl gezittert when the bills came, the mother tears
extorted! It was the mere child's play has been compared with my
situation. "Do not worry, but before the accident there," said my
husband was angry when he saw how distraught I was.

I was sick. The old inevitable pain that each excitation of the day,
presented themselves with frightening ferocity again. And in the evening,
dead tired when I sank into the pillow, patted my heart until the neck
up.

I was forced to cancel a few meetings. I was happy about it: in a state
of mental and physical weaken, I spent my days. "We have a buyer," the
embassy with my husband surprised me one morning. I still doubted.
But soon after he came himself, and in a few days of the purchase was
completed. "You see now how foolish it was to fear?" Said Heinrich.
Embarrassed, I lowered her head. "I will in future be brave," I assured.
Already in January we should leave the house.

Then we want to start from scratch, I thought, and eagerly began following
a modest apartment search. Am I only in peace, I will also be healthy,
I said to myself if the pain would not be soft and the heart
is not me sleep had
Thou shalt have
money as well for the passage from Lisbon to England, which is not
long. Remember in thy prayers--for thou art devout--that old man, Father
Bartholomew."


CHAPTER LVIII

IN EARLY MORN


One Saturday morning in the month of August, an hour and a half before
sunrise, Carne walked down to the big yew-tree, which stood far enough
from the brink of the cliff to escape the salt, and yet near enough
to command an extensive sea-view. This was the place where the young
shoemaker, belonging to the race of Shanks, had been scared so sadly
that he lost his sweetheart, some two years and a half ago; and this was
the tree that had been loved by painters, especially the conscientious
Sharples, a pupil of Romney, who studied the nicks and the tricks of
the bole, and the many fantastic frets of time, with all the loving
care which ensured the truth of his simple and powerful portraits. But
Sharples had long been away in the West; and Carne, having taste for
no art except his own, had despatched his dog Orso, the fiercer of the
pair, at the only son of a brush who had lately made ready to encamp
against that tree; upon which he decamped, and went over the cliff, with
a loss of much personal property.

The tree looked ghostly in the shady light, and gaunt armstretch of
departing darkness, going as if it had not slept its sleep out. Now
was the time when the day is afraid of coming, and the night unsure of
going, and a large reluctance to acknowledge any change keeps everything
waiting for another thing to move. What is the use of light and shadow,
the fuss of the morning, and struggle for the sun? Fair darkness has
filled all the gaps between them, and why should they be sever'd into
single life again? For the gladness of daybreak is not come yet, nor
the pleasure of seeing the way again, the lifting of the darkness leaves
heaviness beneath it, and if a rashly early bird flops down upon the
grass, he cannot count his distance, but quivers like a moth.

"Pest on this abominable early work!" muttered Carne with a yawn, as he
groped his way through the deep gloom of black foliage, and entered the
hollow of the ancient trunk; "it is all very well for sailors, but too
hard upon a quiet gentleman. Very likely that fellow won't come for two
hours. What a cursed uncomfortable maggoty place! But I'll have put
the sleep he has robbed me of." He stretched his long form on the rough
bench inside, gathered his cloak around him, and roused the dull echo of
the honey-combed hollow with long loud snores.

"Awake, my vigilant commander, and behold me! Happy are the landsmen, to
whom the stars bring sleep. I have not slept for three nights, and the
fruits are here for you."

It was the lively voice of Renaud Charron; and the rosy fan of the dawn,
unfolded over the sea and the gray rocks, glanced with a flutter of
shade into the deep-ribbed tree. Affecting a lofty indifference, Carne,
who had a large sense of his own dignity, rose slowly and came out into
the better light. "Sit down, my dear friend," he said, taking the sealed
packet; "there is bread and meat here, and a bottle of good Macon. You
are nearly always hungry, and you must be starved now."

Charron perceived that his mouth was offered employment at the expense
of his eyes; but the kernel of the matter was his own already, and he
smiled to himself at the mystery of his chief. "In this matter, I should
implore the tree to crush me, if my father were an Englishman," he
thought; "but every one to his taste; it is no affair of mine." Just as
he was getting on good terms with his refreshment, Carne came back, and
watched him with a patronising smile.

"You are the brother of my toil," he said, "and I will tell you as
much as it is good for you to know. A few hours now will complete our
enterprise. Napoleon is at Boulogne again, and even he can scarcely
restrain the rush of the spirits he has provoked. The first Division is
on board already, with a week's supplies, and a thousand horses, ready
to sail when a hand is held up. The hand will be held up at my signal,
and that I shall trust you to convey to-night, as soon as I have settled
certain matters. Where is that sullen young Tugwell? What have you done
with him?"

"Wonderfully clever is your new device, my friend," Charron replied,
after a long pull at the bottle. "To vanquish the mind by a mind
superior is a glory of high reason; but to let it remain in itself
and compel it to perform what is desired by the other, is a stroke of
genius. And under your pharmacy he must do it--that has been proved
already. The idea was grand, very noble, magnificent. It never would
have shown itself to my mind."

"Probably not. When that has been accomplished, we will hang him for a
traitor. But, my dear friend, I have sad news for you, even in this hour
of triumph. The lady of your adoration, the Admiral's eldest daughter,
Faith, has recovered the man for whom she has waited four years, and she
means to marry him. The father has given his consent, and her pride is
beyond description. She has long loved a mystery--what woman can help
it? And now she has one for life, a husband eclipsed in his own hair.
My Renaud, all rivalry is futile. Your hair, alas, is quite short and
scanty. But this man has discovered in Africa a nut which turns a man
into the husk of himself. No wonder that he came out of the sea all
dry!"

"Tush! he is a pig. It is a pig that finds the nuts. I will be the
butcher for that long pig, and the lady will rush into the arms of
conquest. Then will I possess all the Admiral's lands, and pursue the
fine chase of the rabbits. And I will give dinners, such dinners, my
faith! Ha! that is excellent said--embrace me--my Faith will sit at the
right side of the table, and explain to the English company that such
dinners could proceed from nobody except a French gentleman commingling
all the knowledge of the joint with the loftier conception of the hash,
the mince--the what you call? Ah, you have no name for it, because
you do not know the proper thing. Then, in the presence of admiring
Englishmen, I will lean back in my chair, the most comfortable chair
that can be found--"

"Stop. You have got to get into it yet," Carne interrupted, rudely; "and
the way to do that is not to lean back in it. The fault of your system
has always been that you want to enjoy everything before you get it."

"And of yours," retorted Charron, beginning to imbibe the pugnacity of
an English landlord, "that when you have got everything, you will enjoy
what? Nothing!"

"Even a man of your levity hits the nail on the head sometimes," said
Carne, "though the blow cannot be a very heavy one. Nature has not
fashioned me for enjoyment, and therefore affords me very little. But
some little I do expect in the great inversion coming, in the upset of
the scoundrels who have fattened on my flesh, and stolen my land, to
make country gentlemen--if it were possible--of themselves. It will take
a large chimney to burn their title-deeds, for the robbery has lasted
for a century. But I hold the great Emperor's process signed for
that; and if you come to my cookery, you will say that I am capable
of enjoyment. Fighting I enjoy not, as hot men do, nor guzzling, nor
swigging, nor singing of songs; for all of which you have a talent, my
friend. But the triumph of quiet skill I like; and I love to turn the
balance on my enemies. Of these there are plenty, and among them all who
live in that fishy little hole down there."

Carne pointed contemptuously at Springhaven, that poor little village
in the valley. But the sun had just lifted his impartial face above the
last highland that baulked his contemplation of the home of so many and
great virtues; and in the brisk moisture of his early salute the village
in the vale looked lovely. For a silvery mist was flushed with rose,
like a bridal veil warmed by the blushes of the bride, and the curves of
the land, like a dewy palm leaf, shone and sank alternate.

"What a rare blaze they will make!" continued Carne, as the sunlight
glanced along the russet thatch, and the blue smoke arose from the
earliest chimney. "Every cottage there shall be a bonfire, because it
has cast off allegiance to me. The whole race of Darling will be at my
mercy--the pompous old Admiral, who refused to call on me till his idiot
of a son persuaded him--that wretched poetaster, who reduced me to the
ignominy of reading his own rubbish to him--and the haughty young woman
that worships a savage who has treated me with insult. I have them all
now in the hollow of my hand, and a thorough good crumpling is prepared
for them. The first house to burn shall be Zebedee Tugwell's, that
conceited old dolt of a fishing fellow, who gives me a nod of suspicion,
instead of pulling off his dirty hat to me. Then we blow up the church,
and old Twemlow's house, and the Admiral's, when we have done with it.
The fishing-fleet, as they call their wretched tubs, will come home,
with the usual fuss, to-night, and on Monday it shall be ashes. How like
you my programme? Is it complete?"

"Too much, too much complete; too barbarous," answered the kindly
hearted Frenchman. "What harm have all the poor men done to you? And
what insanity to provoke enemies of the people all around who would
bring us things to eat! And worse--if the houses are consumed with fire,
where will be the revenue that is designed for me, as the fair son of
the Admiral? No, no; I will allow none of that. When the landing is
made, you will not be my master. Soult will have charge of the subjects
inferior, and he is not a man of rapine. To him will I address myself in
favour of the village. Thus shall I ascend in the favour of my charming,
and secure my property."

"Captain, I am your master yet, and I will have no interference. No more
talk; but obey me to the letter. There is no sign of any rough weather,
I suppose? You sailors see things which we do not observe."

"This summer has not been of fine weather, and the sky is always
changing here. But there is not any token of a tempest now. Though there
is a little prospect of rain always."

"If it rains, all the better, for it obscures the sea. You have fed
enough now to last even you till the evening; or if not, you can take
some with you. Remain to the westward, where the cliffs are higher, and
look out especially for British ships of war that may be appearing up
Channel. Take this second spy-glass; it is quite strong enough. But
first of all tell Perkins to stand off again with the pilot-boat, as
if he was looking out for a job, and if he sees even a frigate coming
eastward, to run back and let you know by a signal arranged between you.
Dan Tugwell, I see, was shipped yesterday on board of Prame No. 801, a
very handy vessel, which will lead the van, and five hundred will follow
in her track on Sunday evening. My excellent uncle will be at the height
of his eloquence just when his favourite Sunday-school boy is bringing
an addition to his congregation. But the church shall not be blown up
until Monday, for fear of premature excitement. By Monday night about
two hundred thousand such soldiers as Britain could never produce will
be able to quell any childish excitement such as Great Britain is apt to
give way to."

"But what is for me, this same Saturday night? I like very much to make
polite the people, and to marry the most beautiful and the richest; but
not to kill more than there is to be helped."

"The breaking of the egg may cut the fingers that have been sucked till
their skin is gone. You have plagued me all along with your English
hankerings, which in your post of trust are traitorous."

Charron was accustomed to submit to the infinitely stronger will of
Carne. Moreover, his sense of discipline often checked the speed of his
temper. But he had never been able to get rid of a secret contempt for
his superior, as a traitor to the race to which he really belonged, at
least in the Frenchman's opinion. And that such a man should charge him
with treachery was more than his honest soul could quite endure, and his
quick face flushed with indignation as he spoke:

"Your position, my commander, does not excuse such words. You shall
answer for them, when I am discharged from your command; which, I hope,
will be the case next week. To be spoken of as a traitor by you is very
grand."

"Take it as you please," Carne replied, with that cold contemptuous
smile which the other detested. "For the present, however, you will not
be grand, but carry out the orders which I give you. As soon as it is
dark, you will return, keep the pilot-boat in readiness for my last
despatch, with which you will meet the frigate Torche about midnight, as
arranged on Thursday. All that and the signals you already understand.
Wait for me by this tree, and I may go with you; but that will depend
upon circumstances. I will take good care that you shall not be kept
starving; for you may have to wait here three or four hours for me. But
be sure that you do not go until I come."

"But what am I to do if I have seen some British ships, or Perkins has
given me token of them?"

"Observe their course, and learn where they are likely to be at
nightfall. There will probably be none. All I fear is that they may
intercept the Torche. Farewell, my friend, and let your sense of duty
subdue the small sufferings of temper."


CHAPTER LIX

NEAR OUR SHORES


"This is how it is," said Captain Tugwell, that same day, to Erle
Twemlow: "the folk they goes on with a thing, till a man as has any
head left twists it round on his neck, with his chin looking down his
starn-post. Then the enemy cometh, with his spy-glass and his guns, and
afore he can look round, he hath nothing left to look for."

"Then you think, Tugwell, that the danger is not over?--that the French
mean business even now, when every one is tired of hearing of it? I have
been away so long that I know nothing. But the universal opinion is--"

"Opinion of the universe be dashed!" Master Zebedee answered, with a
puff of smoke. "We calls ourselves the universe, when we be the rope
that drags astarn of it. Cappen, to my mind there is mischief in the
wind, more than there hath been for these three years; and that's why
you see me here, instead of going with the smacks. Holy Scripture saith
a dream cometh from the Lord; leastways, to a man of sense, as hardly
ever dreameth. The wind was so bad again us, Monday afternoon, that we
put off sailing till the Tuesday, and Monday night I lay on my own bed,
without a thought of nothing but to sleep till five o'clock. I hadn't
taken nothing but a quart of John Prater's ale--and you know what his
measures is--not a single sip of grog; but the Hangel of the Lord he
come and stand by me in the middle of the night. And he took me by the
hand, or if he didn't it come to the same thing of my getting there, and
he set me up in a dark high place, the like of the yew-tree near Carne
Castle. And then he saith, 'Look back, Zeb'; and I looked, and behold
Springhaven was all afire, like the bottomless pit, or the thunder-storm
of Egypt, or the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah. And two figures was
jumping about in the flames, like the furnace in the plain of Dura, and
one of them was young Squire Carne, and the other was my son Daniel, as
behaveth below his name. And I called out, 'Daniel, thou son of Zebedee
and Kezia Tugwell, come forth from the burning fiery furnace'; but he
answered not, neither heeded me. And then Squire Darling, Sir Charles is
now the name of him, out he come from his Round-house, and by the white
gate above high-water mark, to order out the fire, because they was all
his own cottages. But while he was going about, as he doth for fear of
being hard upon any one, out jumps Squire Carne, from the thickest of
the blazes, and takes the poor Squire by the forepart of his neck, which
he liketh to keep open when he getteth off of duty, and away with him
into the burning fiery furnace made of his own houses! That was more
than I could put up with, even under the Hangel, and I give such a kick
that Kezia, though she saith she is the most quietest of women, felt
herself a forced to bounce me up."

"A dream of that sort deserves notice," answered Erle, who had passed
many months among sailors; "and over and above that, I see proofs of
a foolish security in England, and of sharp activity in France. Last
Monday I was only five miles from Boulogne, on board of our frigate
the Melpomene, for I wanted the captain's evidence to help me in my
own affairs; and upon my word I was quite amazed at the massing of the
French forces there, and the evident readiness of their hundreds of
troop-ships. Scores of them even had horses on board, for I saw them
quite clearly with a spy-glass. But the officers only laughed at me, and
said they were tired of seeing that. And another thing I don't like
at all is the landing of a French boat this side of Pebbleridge. I was
coming home after dark one night, and as soon as they saw me they pushed
off, and pretended to be English fishermen; but if ever I saw Frenchmen,
these were French; and I believe they had a ship not far away, for I saw
a light shown and then turned off. I examined the place in the morning,
and saw the footprints of men on a path up the cliff, as if they had
gone inland towards Carne Castle. When the Admiral came home, I told him
of it; but he seemed to think it was only some smuggling."

"Ah, there's smooglin' of a bad kind over there, to my belief. I
wouldn't tell your honour not a quarter what I thinks, because of the
young gentleman being near akin to you. But a thing or two have come to
my ears, very much again a young squire over that way. A man as will do
what he have done is a black one in some ways; and if some, why not in
all?"

"Tell me what you mean," said Twemlow, sternly. "After saying so much,
you are bound to say more. Caryl Carne is no friend of mine, although he
is my cousin. I dislike the man, though I know but little of him."

"For sartin then a kind gentleman like you won't like him none the
better for betraying of a nice young maid as put her trust in him, as
lively and pretty a young maid as ever stepped, and might have had the
pick of all the young men in the parish."

"What!" exclaimed Erle, with a sudden chill of heart, for Faith had not
concealed from him her anxiety about Dolly. "Tugwell, do you mean to
say--"

"Yes, sir; only you must keep it to yourself, for the sake of the poor
young thing; though too many knows it already, I'm afeared. And that
was how poor Jem Cheeseman changed from a dapper money-turning man, as
pleasant as could be, to a down-hearted, stick-in-doors, honest-weighted
fellow. Poor little Polly was as simple as a dove, and her meant to
break none of the Lord's commandments, unless it was a sin to look so
much above her. He took her aboard her father's trading-craft, and
made pretence to marry her across the water, her knowing nothing of
the lingo, to be sure; and then when there come a thumping boy, and
her demanded for the sake of the young 'un that her marriage should be
sartified in the face of all the world, what does he do but turn round
and ask her if she was fool enough to suppose that a Carne had married a
butter-man's daughter? With a few words more, she went off of her head,
and have never been right again, they say; and her father, who was
mighty proud to have a grandson heir to an old ancient castle, he was
so took aback with this disappointment that he puzzled all the village,
including of me, as I am free to own, by jumping into his own rope.
'Twas only now just that I heard all this; and as the captain of this
here place, I shall ask leave of Cheeseman to have it out with Master
Carne, as soon as may be done without hurting the poor thing. If she
had been my child, the rope should have gone round his neck first, if it
come to mine there-arter!"

"The ----- villain!" Twemlow used a strong short word, without adding
heavily, it may be hoped, to the score against him. "And to think that
all this time he has been daring to address himself--But never mind that
now. It will be a bad time for him when I catch him by himself, though I
must not speak of Polly. Poor little Polly! what a pretty child she was!
I used to carry sugar-plums on purpose for her. Good-bye, Tugwell; I
must think about all this."

"And so must I, sir. What a strapping chap 'a be!" Captain Zebedee
continued to himself, as Twemlow strode away with the light step of a
mountain savage, carrying a long staff from force of habit, and looking
even larger than himself from the flow of chestnut hair and beard around
him. "Never did see such a hairy chap. Never showed no signs of it when
'a was a lad, and Miss 'Liza quite smooth in the front of her neck. Must
come of Hottentot climate, I reckon. They calls it the bush, from
the folk been so bushy. I used to think as my beard was a pretty good
example; but, Lord bless me and keep me, it would all go on his nose! If
'a spreadeth that over the face of Squire Carne, 'a will ravish him, as
the wicked doth ravish the poor."

Twemlow had many sad things to consider, and among them the impending
loss of this grand mane. After divers delays, and infinitude of forms,
and much evidence of things self-evident--in the spirit which drove Sir
Horatio Nelson to pin a certificate of amputation to the sleeve of his
lost arm--this Twemlow had established that he was the Twemlow left
behind upon the coast of Africa, and having been captured in the service
of his country, was entitled at least to restoration. In such a case
small liberality was shown in those days, even as now prevaileth, the
object of all in authority being to be hard upon those who are out
of it. At last, when he was becoming well weary, and nothing but an
Englishman's love of his country and desire to help in her dangers
prevented him from turning to private pursuits--wherein he held a key
to fortune--he found himself restored to his rank in the Army, and
appointed to another regiment, which happened to be short of officers.
Then he flung to the winds, until peace should return, his prospect of
wealth beyond reckoning, and locked in a black leather trunk materials
worth their weight in diamonds. But, as life is uncertain, he told
his beloved one the secret of his great discovery, which she, in sweet
ignorance of mankind, regarded as of no importance.

But as wars appear and disappear, nations wax and wane, and the holiest
principles of one age become the scoff of the next, yet human nature is
the same throughout, it would be wrong to cast no glance--even with the
French so near our shores--at the remarkable discovery of this young
man, and the circumstances leading up to it. For with keen insight
into civilized thought, which yearns with the deepest remorse for those
blessings which itself has banished, he knew that he held a master-key
to the treasuries of Croesus, Mycerinus, Attalus, and every other King
who has dazzled the world with his talents. The man who can minister to
human needs may, when he is lucky, earn a little towards his own; the
man who contributes to the pleasure of his fellows must find reward in
his own; but he who can gratify the vanity of his race is the master of
their pockets.

Twemlow had been carried from the deadly coast (as before related by
Captain Southcombe) to the mountainous district far inland, by the great
King Golo of the Quackwas nation, mighty warriors of lofty stature. Here
he was treated well, and soon learned enough of their simple language to
understand and be understood; while the King, who considered all white
men as of canine origin, was pleased with him, and prepared to make him
useful. Then Twemlow was sent, with an escort of chiefs, to the land of
the Houlas, as a medicine-man, to win Queen Mabonga for the great King
Golo. But she--so strange is the perversity of women--beholding this man
of a pearly tint, as fair as the moon, and as soft as a river--for he
took many months to get properly tanned--with one long gaze of amazement
yielded to him what he sought for another. A dwarf and a whipster he
might be among the great darkies around her--for he had only six feet
and one inch of stature, and forty-two inches round the chest--but, to
her fine taste, tone and quality more than covered defect of quantity.
The sight of male members of her race had never moved her, because she
had heard of their wickedness; but the gaze of this white man, so tender
and so innocent, set her on a long course of wondering about herself.
Then she drew back, and passed into the private hut behind, where no one
was allowed to disturb her. For she never had felt like this before, and
she wanted nobody to notice it.

But the Houla maidens, with the deepest interest in matters that came
home to them outside their understanding, held council with their
mothers, and these imparted to the angelic stranger, as plainly as
modesty permitted, the distressing results of his whiteness, and
implored him to depart, before further harm was done. Twemlow perceived
that he had tumbled into a difficult position, and the only way out of
it was to make off. Giving pledges to return in two moons at the latest,
he made his salaam to the sensitive young Queen, whose dignity was
only surpassed by her grace, and expecting to be shortened by the head,
returned with all speed to the great King Golo. Honesty is the best
policy--as we all know so well that we forbear to prove it--and the
Englishman saw that the tale would be darker from the lips of his black
attendants. The negro monarch was of much-enduring mind, but these
tidings outwent his philosophy. He ordered Twemlow's head to come off by
dinner-time, and, alas, that royal household kept very early hours; and
the poor captain, corded to a tree, sniffed sadly the growth of good
roast, which he never should taste, and could only succeed in succession
of fare. For although that enlightened King had discarded the taste of
the nations around him, it was not half so certain as the prisoner could
have wished that his prejudice would resist the relish of a candid rival
in prime condition.

While Twemlow was dwelling upon this nice question, and sympathising
deeply with the animal on the spit, Tuloo, the head councillor of
the realm, appeared, an ancient negro full of wisdom and resource.
The pictures on my desk staring at me and saw me, while I also restless
movement up and turned me: the father, once a good officer of his
regiment had declared unworthy to continue to rock the king, because he
wife of another lover, the mother whose whole life under the one law
of duty was, - but not lugte beside her out of the frame a quiet,
noble visage appears with kind dark eyes? »Grand mom," I sobbed quietly.
O, that I am the head buried in her lap, and made her confess her lips
my graduates is expected to hear te! Was not that his step? I pulled up
the window. Not a sound reputation tenderly out of the dark? With
bated breath, I listened. It is not knocking at the gate? Or was it
my own heart that I heard? I stayed on the narrow, small hallway,
to the wall, with spasmodic eyes and throbbing temples. The stairs
creaked out, I grabbed the latch, the door sprang open - "Alix!" Welch
was a tone in his voice! Half unconscious, I fell into his wide-arms.
"She agrees to the divorce." Fourth Chapter One of the North German April
days, where spring and winter each other as enemies before the outbreak
of fighting lurking umschleichen, the sun bright on summer courses
sends greetings from the sky and beside the cold damp wind through
shaded streets triumphantly sweeps, I went to take farewell to their
parents.

Since that day, where my father left me in anger, I was no longer
with them have been. Even the necessary business disputes, which might
contribute to the death of a relative and to me and my sister admitted
the case of small linked inheritance, my father had done in writing.
But now he had me before my departure again want to see. He received
me seriously and measured. "You look bad," he said then, and a worried
look lovingly punished its outer Strict lies.

I knew it: the last few months had my nerve power is exhausted, I took
the rest, but more of Fernseins of Berlin during the impending divorce
process. "The inheritance comes zustatten you really," he continued.
He knew not to what extent he was right! A conventional entertainment
emerged. And yet my heart was so full, I alone knew of all of us,
as far as I am with this farewell of them away, - perhaps never. A
word of gratitude, love, I would like to say - in the temperature,
which was between us, it is frozen before it came on the lips.

"It is not right that you alone in the world hineinreist," said my father,
as I have stood at the door, "You boys think differently about - the
influence I have no more - I can only hope that you always remember
what your name you're guilty." His eyes researching rested on me. I
silently handed him a hand: "Farewell, Dad -" I forced my voice not to
tremble. "Farewell," he replied with a sigh. A kiss he gave me no more.
The mother accompanied me to the hallway. "Do you have something
special to write," she said with emphasis, "it always put a special
note of the letter to me about, so I Hans him without showing damage
can. "I had the sensation that my leaving it facilitates. Ilse came up
on the road with me. "You, sister, it is true that Dr. Brandt is
another of you can!" She whispered hurriedly with shining eyes. On the
most embarrassing surprised I stared at her. They pressed me stormily
hand: "You know, - that is terribly interesting! Of course - "and she
thoughtfully chewed on the lower lip -" with Dad, we will again have to
endure, "A rain shower drove them back into the house. Shivering, I pulled
the body of solid, the wind grabbed it and threw me into the icy
cold face drops.

In the evening I went to Munich, where Henry the train ascended.

He had his sons in pension, Rosalie and the kids with the nurse
over the country.

"There was a scene again," he told them, "her inner voice to which they
now believe it has said that make me unhappy would. For pity about
everything she wanted to forgive me and graces again. When I renounced
it, prophesied it to me with the pathos of a Cassandra, I would once
again due to their knees begging love. And as well as the impression
was no, she made all sorts of dark insinuations about witnesses in the
process, and the nurse laughed myself so impertinent, that I was
rough. "" Not for nothing, I have always feared it, "I said blue.
"My poor, little coward," he smiled, half impatient, half amused. In
the lexicon of his feelings had the word "fear" found no place. "You're
so brave and so can be a coward! Have we not already have everything
Expect lucky, and you want to lose - especially now, when we go contrary
to the spring? "Deep full confidence I leaned back in his arm that made
me umschlang, and looked silently at the white flakes, the front of the
windows were dancing, and the dark clouds hanging heavy veils, which
the average train. It did so well in the care of a loved one know that
his strong shoulders upon which I alone could not bear.

On the burner, the sun shone through freshly fallen snow, but from
the mountains rushed frühlingsfroh has unleashed the water. In Gossensaß
where the mountain walls once zusammenschoben dark, brewed back to the
fog and dark spruce winter rigid bushes, behind Franzensfeste but stood
in the broad valley of lush Lenz dress and opened her arms wide to the
freezing of all the walkers to his warm chest to draw . Exultant heights
were all white church with pointed fingers up to the sun, comfortable
laughing at the blue sky. On the branches of gnarled old fruit trees were
young funny red and white flowers. Without reverence for the gray age
of the ruins, the sanctity of sober monasteries, flooded into the
cascade blue-sweet yearning Blumendolden the wisteria on the walls,
from the love game buntschillernder beetles umtanzt. In brixen zum
Elefanten we rest. Only the huge image of the beast proboscis, which
it owes its name, still remembered the time when emperors and kings
at the retreat held Romfahrt here. Now there were only a few
insignificant people in the low, dark-paneled guest rooms. Sure: here
nobody knew us. But hardly we sat in front of the bowl, after
promising the American food smelled good, as a gentleman came to our
table, Heinrich joyfully welcoming. Umsonst that this rejection did
mine, the stranger neither coerced to sit still presented it to me
. In his joy, to meet a friend, he worried that without further
himself, he gave me for Heinrichs wife and announced with much
noise we made the acquaintance of his family.

"We will not stay," Henry said slowly, when he finally suggested, "it is
Berlin." I winced armpits. "This time I made a courageous two of us.
I am not so indifferent as the gossip." "But I do not tolerate that
you suspected," he rustled. In early the next morning we went on to Trent.
" This is none of our fellow countrymen, "Henry had said. And indeed,
in the large rooms of the Palace Hotel Trento even the waiters spoke
only broken German. Whether we are here a few weeks would be able
to rest? We had a great need for it. Prior to the balcony of my room had
a wide square with the brass monuments of Dante. Powerful characterized
his black silhouette against the blue sky, on both sides of the
rigid Felskulissen the mountains framed. But the space at his feet
with a little grass and a few small evergreen shrubs looked in the
yellow light from the sun bleak. We went through the streets: loud gray
houses with faded colors and murky windows, palaces intervening with
faded frescoes, courtyards with old dry wells and arcades, under which
hung ragged clothes, proud wappengekrönte gates with company signs and
advertisements from sheet of paper and labels benagelt, a cathedral,
decorated with delicate Roman galleries, the high portals of
säulentragenden lions guarded, and is worn on the screed , between
the tombs of noble sexes, a few old women who is kneeling by the
rosary dirty fingers moved with a toothless mouth and prayers
plärrten.

And about the town, they are dominant, the magnificent Renaissance building
of the former Prince Bishop's Palace, an incomparable frame lush court,
- a barracks today. In the dämmernden Brunnenhof on the porch, where the
dignitaries of the Prince Bishop's chair in red and purple robes when
singing softly rippling water jet of the ornate lettering parchment-bound
books to read nursed, sat dressed soldiers and guns, in the high halls
of its painted ceilings, the Gods of Olympus to the priests of the
tafelnden crucified once herniedersahen smiling, standing iron beds covered
with rough fabric on the walls, behind which kalkweißer whitewash
magnificent dormant pictures, hung in rank and Käppis and knapsack.
We went back silent. Noise in the streets a few children: girls with
silky hair and grinding worn Röckchen on the bare legs, boys who
greedily for a few cruisers rauften.

Before the inns on the narrow sidewalk sat in shabbier elegance young
people, the Virginia long black cigar between his teeth. The sun
shone, but its rays were no seeds of life, they would awaken to the
bare walls, the treeless streets just threw burning embers back. Prince
built this city, and beggars, they have distributed it. But we were looking
for the spring. A post carriage with four horses before we hijacked from
Trento. The farther we are away from the city, like a stone sarcophagus
in the deep sleep, the laughing was the nature. On the meadows blooming
lilies and bell flowers, the most miserable huts glowed brighter
splendor in the almond trees. In Caldonazzo, a quiet nest at the end
of the lake, the clear sky to the earth seemed to conjure up, we stayed.
Under the arbor in the orchard of the trattoria, which was overgrown with
yellow roses, we were covered.

Vino santo sparkled in gold-colored glasses, a little girl with big
round eyes, like coals ground, put a blue vase with white lilies in the
middle of the table. Then it was very, very quiet around us, a holy
Abendschweigen that we are no word to disturb dared. Our hands are
intertwined snakes, solid drew me his arm to his chest, and longings,
our kisses. Schlüsselklirrend the economy went through the garden.
We were standing on. Before the door of my room were we stand, silent,
with hanging arms, our eyes sank into one another, and the whole
consuming spoiled our love was in our view. "Good night!" - He touched
with the hot lips only my finger tips. I slept not. Through the open
window, highlighted the warm air and wore the sweet smells of meadow
on their wings. I pressed the teeth in order not to call, after
my heart burnt, I pressed the sharp nails of my fingers into my flesh
to deal with the pain to numb the pain that my blood through the veins
whipped. Gritted Outside in the garden the gravel, - the vine at the
window moved, - not a shadow crept over quietly? - O, why did you not
- my arms are not soft, not my breasts attracts like shiny pearl in
the stillness of the bright moon night?

What is my world! The gentle heights that surround the valley blooming
my! And the people? Since nobody is, when I and thou! And the past?
You no longer belong to us! And the future? Nothing is our night this
spring as a charming presence! - - For a short, severe morning sleep,
I woke up tired and lonely. We met in the rose arbor, and the traces of
nocturnal fights were also on his trains. The Telegraphenbote tore us
from our contemplation of the dreary mood.

A dispatch from Heinrichs Lawyer: 'Mrs. Brandt key demands of your
home, returning back to Berlin. Mood after notification of their
lawyer changed significantly. "The telegram was from Bolzano nachgesandt
us, and bore the date of yesterday. "I need to Berlin - immediately
--. It can destroy everything, "Henry gritted," and you - you poor?
"" First, I join you - we discuss everything else on the road. "In
sausender trip went downhill. The whip whistled through the coachman
schweißtriefenden the horses. We had the fast reach. Unterwegs, I
got a heart spasm. When I came back to me, the car rattled over the
pavement Trento, and Heinrichs angstentstelltes face bent over me.
"Will you continue them?" I nodded. They lifted me into the train. I
recovered myself so far as to be able to think calmly. Sealing Brixen
large walnut trees, was among a small village called Varna, where I
wanted to stay until --. "Until everything is good, my poor darling,"
he whispered, "if I only would be safe, that thou thy fear, thy Lord
will excitement - for me is the fight a breeze -" The Triumph of
victory flashed already from his eyes. In Bressanone us were still a
few hours to leave. At the post office was a letter to me from the mother
with a leaflet are adjusted in correspondence: "This anonymous, I
just wipe. I have it, praise God, before Hans hide. Since, however,
repetitions, perhaps directly to him, probably, and I sense from your
decency is still so much hope that the contents of this document is a
libel and Dr. Brandt are not traveling with you, so I ask you, to make
that he gave us his presence in Berlin documented in some way ... ""
Tomorrow will happen, "said Henry," you are standing, how necessary
it is that we bring the victims of this separation.

It will be the last! "With a quiet reproach I saw him," seems almost
as pleased you that you must continue! "I am of the obstacles facing
us in its way. I would become anxious before the size of my fortune,
if not a victim of his property would cost. "I am ashamed of my grief,
and we took leave of each other, almost as if it was a welcome. * * * *
* In the tower room of the inn to Vahrn moved I am still the same evening.
From my window I saw into Schalderer Valley, with its dark fir trees at
the clear stream. For hours I sat here in wake dreams. Sometimes I
followed the silent forest up after Schalders. But it was a bright day,
otherwise I'm afraid, and saw how once as a child, behind every tree
ghosts lurking. At night after I climbed up and sat Salernes between
the old walls of the ruin to broad mountain valley of the shadow
Brixen veiled and distant peaks of the Dolomites on the horizon as
aufglühten extinguishing torches. The night came the dark thoughts. Then
I read again and again his letters and was looking between the
lines, what he wants to hide from conservation, "Rosalie makes
visits to all acquaintances, and I see the faces of the people,
what they are told -" she was looking for testimony against me ;
the cost of divorce would prevent our marriage to be!

"She has recently Egidyschen friends circle" - she was looking for a
connection with parents, they will go to the Father, tell him - and he
ertrüge does not, then do not - Henry before he would urge the gun!
Still nothing happened. In my father's letters were excited, but only
on the events of the day: the sentencing hammer stone alleged forgery
to prison, "a portent for the nobility, whose young, the golden calf
umtanzt and absolutely forfeited to the dizziness," the withdrawal of
the Conservative Stöcker party, "this brave man, the Social Democrats
with their damned style of the publication of a stolen private
letters on the conscience," on the anniversary in his speeches
always clearly emerging world power lusts of the Emperor, "which
we tested by straight ways and the Old Prussian economy conscious
Of Appeal to the ancestral land and its processing into politics
abenteuernder sailors hineinreißt.

"I had my memory, always troublesome to the world than myself, for when
his letters heischten answer. One morning, a Expreßbrief of Henry, which
I filled in anticipation of bad dreams quavery opened.

"Your love is still a tough test there," he wrote. »Rosalie wants only
under the condition of divorce that I give her all of my assets
there. It is only small, as you know, but it is everything. Will
you be strong enough, to marry a man who has nothing? The only
love you in the marriage and brings his strong will, despite everything
you have a happy life to fight for ... Answer me after careful
consideration.

From your hand I would each receive skill without murmuring. Fear nothing
from me, if you have to say no. The happiness that your love gave me was
already so great that I have will still remain grateful ... "I
smiled, freed from a nightmare, so many words for such a trifle! Not
a moment of reflection, there was for me. »Give what she calls," I
telegraphierte. But they still seemed not to have enough. A few days
later, they demanded a sum which exceeded assets Heinrichs. And as her
lawyer vorhielt that Henry usurious debts must make if he would fulfill
her wish, she said quietly: "It may be - but otherwise I will not divorce."
She was insatiable.

In my nightly dreams, I saw it: big, dark, with the train, like a snake
behind her through the rustling, and the white hands of predators. * * *
* * The day of decision is approaching. On the eve I went to Munich.
The hour sneaked the pointer on the clock would not move from the
spot. I heard what life is like outside fell silent, the last
horse trotted Stalle the tired, the last ringing of the tram verklang.
And I heard again, as she awoke, as the first market in the car the
morning twilight grauenden rattled over the pavement and kicking the
baker boy road across the track were like the wheels roll gradually
swelled to a roaring sound, and no single step among many more had
to be distinguished.

Then came the hours that have decided my fate. They were like living
beings, with my heart Fangball played. * * * * * "Clear!" - I had
the telegram the messenger out of hand torn, - I stared at the
floor until my eyes fell on. In the room I could not bear anymore. Too
great was my happiness. And even when the sky stretched over me, it was
me, as it should be blue vault zersprengen. Two days I had to wait for
the beloved. »After your secret desire, you emanzipationslüsterne woman,
a free marriage to close to my reactionary Eigensinn final shame was"
neckend he wrote, "I have our old-fashioned regular connection
with a civil basis."

However, I ran around in the city and looking over my heart full of
air to make. A beggar standing on the corner with a poster in front
of the chest: "A poor deaf asked for a mild dose," I pressed him a gold
piece in his hand, which so impressed him that he forgot his
dumbness and once on the other a »God's Vergelts« stammered.

Above all, shop windows, I did stand in which the Maisonne tenderly
lace and veils over emphasized. And the best thing I saw was just nice
enough to me for him to decorate. In my life time high standing in front
of the door, they should be royally received. Nobody was allowed to meet
her, wore robes of mourning. None of the people could tear Willkommtrunk
embitter, with whom I wanted to welcome them. And in the cut crystal
of the Cup should only reflect the sun. The idea of the parents
krampfte my heart together. I saw them in the dark apartment behind
the heavy curtains that are always in the winter could believe. Would
my luck bright enough to hindurchzudringen? I felt how dull the air
with them was. If my luck is strong enough to dispel them? On a bright
morning on which the sky shone like a glistening mysteriously Opal, I
wore a white dress and roses in the belt which had loudly drunk
sunlight and the blooms lowered heads, heavy with beauty .

I waited for the beloved. Due to the many windows of the station hall
and sprayed sparkled the morning light and painted dancing bright spots
on the asphalt. How pale moon slices, if the day is still there, stood
the large, circular arc lamps above the bustling life. Back and forth
swarms of people streamed colorful. Travel fever, blue in the Far
driveth emergence Ernst, of the daily work entgegenstrebt, smiling
hope, into the arms of love requires anxious fear, trembles in front
of strangers, painted in the many faces.

The trains brought and received them in ceaseless change. I stood alone
in the flood quite still, eyes on the bright giant arc circular addressed
to the big black snakes fauchend disappears and from which they, the
welterobernden monster, brausend hervorquollen. Finally! A shrill whistle
from a locomotive, its powerful, majestic hereinwälzte bare limbs, two
hissing sheaves of white water vapor - it stood. Volume shadow ran in
and pushed me over, I only saw him - and he pulled me into the
arms very clear - all the roses fell out of my belt, and strewed
their leaves around us, glutrote ... * * * * * "And our wedding,
my love, where should they be?"

"Somewhere between high mountains, in the forest, where the Dompfaff
trusts us - "" And when - when? "hot his voice whispered in my ear."
Still, it must be to us, quite still, then the hour will come, we must
obey. .. "* * * * * We drove to Augsburg to Klotild aunt, my father's
sister. Maybe that they can win for us was that their influence could
reassure the father.

At the station we separated, he went to the hotel, I led her
wagon through the old wrought iron gate in front of the beautiful
house in the middle of the blooming garden. With unaccustomed
tenderness she received me: "You have given me something to say,
child?
"Where are the candles? I must strike a light. Surely
you might have brought one. Bolt the door, while I make a light, and
close the curtains quietly, but leave the window open. Don't shake, like
a child that is going to be whipped. Too late now for nonsense. What are
you afraid of? Silly child!"

As he spoke he was striking a light in a little French box containing a
cube of jade, and with very little noise he lit two candles standing on
the high oak desk. Dolly drew a curtain across the window, and then
went softly to the door, which opened opposite the corner of a narrow
passage, and made pretence to bolt it, but shot the bolt outside the
socket.

"Come and let me look at you," said Carne, for he knew that he had
been rough with her, and she was not of the kind that submits to that.
"Beauty, how pale you look, and yet how perfectly lovely in this evening
gown! I should like to kill the two gentlemen who sat next to you at
dinner. Darling, you know that whatever I do is only for your own sweet
sake."

"If you please not to touch me, it will be better," said the lady,
not in a whisper, but a firm and quiet voice, although her hands were
trembling; "you are come upon business, and you should do it."

If Carne had but caught her in his arms, and held her to his heart, and
vowed that all business might go to the devil while he held his angel
so, possibly the glow of nobler feelings might have been lost in
the fire of passion. But he kept his selfish end alone in view, and
neglected the womanly road to it.

"A despatch from London arrived today; I must see it," he said, shortly;
"as well as the copy of the answer sent. And then my beauty must insert
a NOT in the order to be issued in the morning, or otherwise invert its
meaning, simply to save useless bloodshed. The key for a moment, the
key, my darling, of this fine old piece of furniture!"

"Is it likely that I would give you the key? My father always keeps it.
What right have you with his private desk? I never promised anything so
bad as that."

"I am not to be trifled with," he whispered, sternly. "Do you think that
I came here for kissing? The key I must have, or break it open; and how
will you explain that away?"

His rudeness settled her growing purpose. The misery of indecision
vanished; she would do what was right, if it cost her life. Her face was
as white as her satin dress, but her dark eyes flashed with menace.

"There is a key that opens it," she said, as she pointed to the
bookcase; "but I forbid you to touch it, sir."

Carne's only reply was to snatch the key from the upper glass door of
the book-shelves, which fitted the lock of the Admiral's desk, though
the owner was not aware of it. In a moment the intruder had unlocked the
high and massive standing-desk, thrown back the cover, and placed one
candlestick among the documents. Many of them he brushed aside, as
useless for his purpose, and became bewildered among the rest, for the
Commander of the Coast-defence was not a man of order. He never knew
where to put a thing, nor even where it might have put itself, but found
a casual home for any paper that deserved it. This lack of method has
one compensation, like other human defects, to wit, that it puzzles a
clandestine searcher more deeply than cypher or cryptogram. Carne had
the Admiral's desk as wide as an oyster thrown back on his valve, and
just being undertucked with the knife, to make him go down easily. Yet
so great was the power of disorder that nothing could be made out of
anything. "Watch at the door," he had said to Dolly; and this suited her
intention.

For while he was thus absorbed, with his back towards her, she opened
the door a little, and presently saw the trusty Charles come hurrying
by, as if England hung upon his labours. "Tell my father to come here
this moment; go softly, and say that I sent you." As she finished her
whisper she closed the door, without any sound, and stood patiently.

"Show me where it is; come and find it for me. Everything here is in
the vilest mess," cried Carne, growing reckless with wrath and hurry.
"I want the despatch of this morning, and I find tailors' bills, way to
make water-proof blacking, a list of old women, and a stump of old pipe!
Come here, this instant, and show me where it is."

"If you forget your good manners," answered Dolly, still keeping in the
dark near the door, "I shall have to leave you. Surely you have practice
enough in spying, to find what you want, with two candles."

Carne turned for a moment, and stared at her. Her attitude surprised
him, but he could not believe in her courage to rebel. She stood with
her back to the door, and met his gaze without a sign of fear.

"There are no official papers here," he said, after another short
ransack; "there must have been some, if this desk is the one. Have you
dared to delude me by showing the wrong desk?"

Dolly met his gaze still, and then walked towards him. The band had
struck up, and the company were singing with a fine patriotic roar,
which rang very nobly in the distance--"Britannia, rule the waves!"
Dolly felt like a Briton as the words rolled through her, and the melody
lifted her proud heart.

"You have deluded yourself," she said, standing proudly before the
baffled spy; "you have ransacked my father's private desk, which I
allowed you to do, because my father has no secrets. He leaves it open
half the time, because he is a man of honour. He is not a man of plots,
and wiles, and trickery upon women. And you have deluded yourself, in
dreaming that a daughter of his would betray her Country."

"By the God that made me, I will have your life!" cried Carne in
French, as he dashed his hand under his coat to draw his dagger; but the
pressure of the desk had displaced that, so that he could not find it.
She thought that her time was come, and shrieked--for she was not at all
heroic, and loved life very dearly--but she could not take her eyes from
his, nor turn to fly from the spell of them; all she could do was to
step back; and she did so into her father's arms.

"Ho!" cried the Admiral, who had entered with the smile of good cheer
and good company glowing on his fine old countenance; "my Dolly and a
stranger at my private desk! Mr. Carne! I have had a glass or two of
wine, but my eyes must be playing me extraordinary tricks. A gentleman
searching my desk, and apparently threatening my dear daughter! Have the
kindness to explain, before you attempt to leave us."

If the curtain had not been drawn across the window, Carne would have
made his escape, and left the situation to explain itself. But the stuff
was thick, and it got between his legs; and before he could slip
away, the stout old Admiral had him by the collar with a sturdy grasp,
attesting the substance of the passing generation. And a twinkle of
good-humour was in the old eyes still--such a wonder was his Dolly that
he might be doing wrong in laying hands of force upon a visitor of hers.
Things as strange as this had been within his knowledge, and proved to
be of little harm--with forbearance. But his eyes grew stern, as Carne
tried to dash his hand off.

"If you value your life, you will let me go," said the young man to the
old one.

"I will not let you go, sir, till you clear up this. A gentleman must
see that he is bound to do so. If I prove to be wrong, I will apologise.
What! Are you going to fire at me? You would never be such a coward!"

He dropped upon the floor, with a bullet in his brain, and his course of
duty ended. Carne dashed aside the curtain, and was nearly through the
window, when two white arms were cast round his waist. He threw himself
forward with all his might, and wrenched at the little hands clasped
around him, but they held together like clenched iron. "Will you force
me to kill you?" "You may, if you like"--was the dialogue of these
lovers.

The strength of a fit was in her despair. She set her bent knees against
the window-frame, and a shower of glass fell between them; but she
flinched not from her convulsive grasp. "Let me come back, that I may
shoot myself," Carne panted, for his breath was straitened; "what is
life to me after losing you?" She made no answer, but took good care
not to release so fond a lover. Then he threw himself back with all his
weight, and she fell on the floor beneath him. Her clasp relaxed, and
he was free; for her eyes had encountered her father's blood, and she
swooned away, and lay as dead.

Carne arose quickly, and bolted the door. His breath was short, and his
body trembling, but the wits of the traitor were active still. "I must
have something to show for all this," he thought as he glanced at the
bodies on the floor. "Those revellers may not have heard this noise. I
know where it is now, and I will get it."

But the sound of the pistol, and shriek of the girl, had rung through
the guests, when the wine was at their lips, and all were nodding to one
another. Faith sprang up, and then fell back trembling, and several men
ran towards the door. Charles, the footman, met them there, with his
face whiter than his napkin, and held up his hands, but could not speak.
Erle Twemlow dashed past him and down the passage; and Lord Southdown
said: "Gentlemen, see to the ladies. There has been some little mishap,
I fear. Bob, and Arthur, come with me."

Twemlow was first at the study door, and finding it fastened, struck
with all his force, and shouted, at the very moment when Carne stood
before the true desk of office. "Good door, and good bolt," muttered
Carne; "my rule is never to be hurried by noises. Dolly will be quiet
for a quarter of an hour, and the old gentleman forever. All I want is
about two minutes."

Twemlow stepped back a few yards, and then with a good start delivered a
rushing kick; but the only result was a jar of his leg through the sole
of his thin dress sandal.

"The window!" cried the Marquis. "We'll stop here; you know the house;
take the shortest cut to the window. Whoever is there, we shall have him
so. I am too slow. Boy Bob, go with him."

"What a fool I was not to think of that!" shouted Twemlow, as he set off
for the nearest house door, and unluckily Carne heard him. He had struck
up the ledge of the desk with the butt of the pistol he had fired, and
pocketing a roll of fresh despatches, he strode across the body of the
Admiral, and with a glance at Dolly--whose eyes were wide open, but
her face drawn aside, like a peach with a split stone--out he went. He
smiled as he heard the thundering of full-bodied gentlemen against
the study door, and their oaths, as they damaged their knuckles and
knee-caps. Then he set off hot-foot, but was stopped by a figure
advancing from the corner of the house.

This was not a graceful figure, as of gentle maiden, nor venerable and
slow of foot, as that of an ancient mariner, but a man in the prime of
strength, and largely endowed with that blessing--the mate of truth.
Carne perceived that he had met his equal, and perhaps his better, in a
bout of muscle, and he tried to escape by superior mind.

"Twemlow, how glad I am that I have met you! You are the very man I
wanted. There has been a sad accident in there with one of the Admiral's
pistols, and the dear old man is badly wounded. I am off for a doctor,
for my horse is at hand. For God's sake run in, and hold his head up,
and try to staunch the bleeding. I shall be back in half an hour with
the man that lives at Pebbleridge. Don't lose a moment. Particulars
hereafter."

"Particulars now!" replied Twemlow, sternly, as he planted himself
before his cousin. "For years I have lived among liars, and they called
a lie Crom, and worshipped it. If this is not Crom, why did you bolt the
door?"

"You shall answer for this, when time allows. If the door was bolted, he
must have done it. Let me pass; the last chance depends on my speed."

Carne made a rush to pass, but Twemlow caught him by the breast, and
held him. "Come back," he said, fiercely, "and prove your words. Without
that, you go no further."

Carne seized him by the throat, but his mighty beard, like a collar of
hemp, protected him, and he brought his big brown fist like a hammer
upon the traitor's forehead. Carne wrenched at his dagger, but failed to
draw it, and the two strong men rolled on the grass, fighting like two
bull-dogs. Reason, and thought, and even sense of pain were lost in
brutal fury, as they writhed, and clutched, and dug at one another,
gashing their knuckles, and gnashing their teeth, frothing with one
another's blood, for Carne bit like a tiger. At length tough condition
and power of endurance got the mastery, and Twemlow planted his knee
upon the gasping breast of Carne.

"Surrend," he said, for his short breath could not fetch up the third
syllable; and Carne with a sign of surrender lay on his back, and
put his chin up, and shut his eyes as if he had fainted. Twemlow with
self-congratulation waited a little to recover breath, still keeping
his knee in the post of triumph, and pinning the foe's right arm to his
side. But the foe's left hand was free, and with the eyes still shut,
and a continuance of gasping, that left hand stole its way to the left
pocket, quietly drew forth the second pistol, pressed back the hammer on
the grass, and with a flash (both of eyes and of flint) fired into the
victor's forehead. The triumphant knee rolled off the chest, the body
swung over, as a log is rolled by the woodman's crowbar, and Twemlow's
back was on the grass, and his eyes were closed to the moonlight.

Carne scrambled up and shook himself, to be sure that all his limbs were
sound. "Ho, ho, ho!" he chuckled; "it is not so easy to beat me. Why,
who are you? Down with you, then!"

Lord Robert Chancton, a lad of about sixteen, the eldest son of
the Marquis, had lost his way inside the house, in trying to find a
short-cut to the door, and coming up after the pistol was fired, made a
very gallant rush at the enemy. With a blow of the butt Carne sent him
sprawling; then dashing among the shrubs and trees, in another minute
was in the saddle, and galloping towards the ancestral ruins.

As he struck into the main road through the grounds, Carne passed and
just missed by a turn of the bridle another horseman ascending the hill,
and urging a weary animal. The faces of the men shot past each other
within a short yard, and gaze met gaze; but neither in the dark flash
knew the other, for a big tree barred the moonlight. But Carne, in
another moment, thought that the man who had passed must be Scudamore,
probably fraught with hot tidings. And the thought was confirmed, as
he met two troopers riding as hard as ride they might; and then saw the
beacon on the headland flare. From point to point, and from height to
height, like a sprinkle of blood, the red lights ran; and the roar of
guns from the moon-lit sea made echo that they were ready. Then the
rub-a-dub-dub of the drum arose, and the thrilling blare of trumpet;
the great deep of the night was heaved and broken with the stir of human
storm; and the staunchest and strongest piece of earth--our England--was
ready to defend herself.


CHAPTER LXII

THE WAY OUT OF IT


"My father! my father! I must see my father. Who are you, that dare to
keep me out? Let me know the worst, and try to bear it. What are any of
you to him?"

"But, my dear child," Lord Southdown answered, holding the door against
poor Faith, as she strove to enter the room of death, "wait just one
minute, until we have lifted him to the sofa, and let us bring your poor
sister out."

"I have no sister. She has killed my father, and the best thing she can
do is to die. I feel that I could shoot her, if I had a pistol. Let me
see him, where he lies."

"But, my poor dear, you must think of others. Your dear father is beyond
all help. Your gallant lover lies on the grass. They hope to bring him
round, God willing! Go where you can be of use."

"How cruel you are! You must want to drive me mad. Let his father and
mother see to him, while I see to my own father. If you had a daughter,
you would understand. Am I crying? Do I even tremble?"

The Marquis offered his arm, and she took it in fear of falling, though
she did not tremble; so he led her to her father's last repose. The poor
Admiral lay by the open window, with his head upon a stool which Faith
had worked. The ghastly wound was in his broad smooth forehead, and his
fair round cheeks were white with death. But the heart had not quite
ceased to beat, and some remnant of the mind still hovered somewhere
in the lacerated brain. Stubbard, sobbing like a child, was lifting
and clumsily chafing one numb hand; while his wife, who had sponged the
wound, was making the white curls wave with a fan she had shaped from a
long official paper found upon the floor.

Dolly was recovering from her swoon, and sat upon a stool by the
bookcase, faintly wondering what had happened, but afraid to ask or
think. The corner of the bookcase, and the burly form of Stubbard,
concealed the window from her, and the torpid oppression which ensues
upon a fit lay between her and her agony. Faith, as she passed, darted
one glance at her, not of pity, not of love, but of cold contempt and
satisfaction at her misery.

Then Faith, the quiet and gentle maid, the tranquil and the
self-controlled (whom every one had charged with want of heart, because
she had borne her own grief so well), stood with the body of her father
at her feet, and uttered an exceeding bitter cry. The others had seen
enough of grief, as every human being must, but nothing half so sad
as this. They feared to look at her face, and durst not open lips to
comfort her.

"Don't speak. Don't look at him. You have no right here. When he comes
to himself, he will want none but me. I have always done everything for
him since dear mother died; and I shall get him to sit up. He will be
so much better when he sits up. I can get him to do it, if you will
only go. Oh, father, father, it is your own Faith come to make you well,
dear, if you will only look at me!"

As she took his cold limp hand and kissed it, and wiped a red splash
from his soft white hair, the dying man felt, by nature's feeling, that
he was being touched by a child of his. A faint gleam flitted through
the dimness of his eyes, which he had not the power to close, and the
longing to say "farewell" contended with the drooping of the underlip.
She was sure that he whispered, "Bless you, darling!" though nobody else
could have made it out; but a sudden rush of tears improved her hearing,
as rain brings higher voices down.

"Dolly too!" he seemed to whisper next; and Faith made a sign to Mrs.
Stubbard. Then Dolly was brought, and fell upon her knees, at the other
side of her father, and did not know how to lament as yet, and was
scarcely sure of having anything to mourn. But she spread out her hands,
as if for somebody to take them, and bowed her pale face, and closed her
lips, that she might be rebuked without answering.

Her father knew her; and his yearning was not to rebuke, but to bless
and comfort her. He had forgotten everything, except that he was dying,
with a daughter at each side of him. This appeared to make him very
happy, about everything, except those two. He could not be expected
to have much mind left; but the last of it was busy for his children's
good. Once more he tried to see them both, and whispered his last
message to them--"Forgive and love each other."

Faith bowed her head, as his fell back, and silently offered to kiss her
sister; but Dolly neither moved nor looked at her. "As you please,"
said Faith; "and perhaps you would like to see a little more of your
handiwork."

For even as she spoke, her lover's body was carried past the window,
with his father and mother on either side, supporting his limp arms and
sobbing. Then Dolly arose, and with one hand grasping the selvage of
the curtain, fixed one long gaze upon her father's corpse. There were
no tears in her eyes, no sign of anguish in her face, no proof that she
knew or felt what she had done. And without a word she left the room.

"Hard to the last, even hard to you!" cried Faith, as her tears fell
upon the cold forehead. "Oh, darling, how could you have loved her so?"

"It is not hardness; it is madness. Follow your sister," Lord Southdown
said. "We have had calamities enough."

But Faith was fighting with all her strength against an attack of
hysterics, and fetching long gasps to control herself. "I will go,"
replied Mrs. Stubbard; "this poor child is quite unfit. What on earth is
become of Lady Scudamore? A doctor's widow might have done some good."

The doctor's widow was doing good elsewhere. In the first rush from the
dining-room, Lady Scudamore had been pushed back by no less a person
than Mrs. Stubbard; when at last she reached the study door she found
it closed against her, and entering the next room, saw the flash of the
pistol fired at Twemlow. Bravely hurrying to the spot by the nearest
outlet she could find, she became at once entirely occupied with this
new disaster. For two men who ran up with a carriage lamp declared that
the gentleman was as dead as a door-nail, and hastened to make good
their words by swinging him up heels over head. But the lady made them
set him down and support his head, while she bathed the wound, and sent
to the house for his father and mother, and when he could be safely
brought in-doors, helped with her soft hands beneath his hair, and then
became so engrossed with him that the arrival of her long-lost son was
for several hours unknown to her.

For so many things coming all at once were enough to upset any one.
Urgent despatches came hot for the hand that now was cold for ever; not
a moment to lose, when time had ceased for the man who was to urge it.
There were plenty of officers there, but no one clearly entitled to take
command. Moreover, the public service clashed with the personal rage of
the moment. Some were for rushing to the stables, mounting every horse
that could be found, and scouring the country, sword in hand, for that
infernal murderer. Some, having just descried the flash of beacon from
the headland, and heard the alarm-guns from shore and sea, were for
hurrying to their regiments, or ships, or homes and families (according
to the head-quarters of their life), while others put their coats on
to ride for all the doctors in the county, who should fetch back
the Admiral to this world, that he might tell everybody what to do.
Scudamore stood with his urgent despatches in the large well-candled
hall, and vainly desired to deliver them. "Send for the Marquis,"
suggested some one.

Lord Southdown came, without being sent for. "I shall take this duty
upon myself," he said, "as Lord-Lieutenant of the county. Captain
Stubbard, as commander of the nearest post, will come with me and read
these orders. Gentlemen, see that your horses are ready, and have all
of the Admiral's saddled. Captain Scudamore, you have discharged your
trust, and doubtless ridden far and hard. My orders to you are a bottle
of wine and a sirloin of roast beef at once."

For the sailor was now in very low condition, weary, and worried, and in
want of food. Riding express, and changing horses twice, not once had he
recruited the inner man, who was therefore quite unfit to wrestle with
the power of sudden grief. When he heard of the Admiral's death, he
staggered as if a horse had stumbled under him, and his legs being stiff
from hard sticking to saddle, had as much as they could do to hold him
up. Yet he felt that he could not do the right thing now, he could not
go and deal with the expedient victuals, neither might he dare intrude
upon the ladies now; so he went out to comfort himself by attending to
the troubles of his foundered horse, and by shedding unseen among the
trees the tears which had gathered in his gentle eyes.

According to the surest law of nature, that broken-down animal had been
forgotten as soon as he was done with. He would have given his four
legs--if he could legally dispose of them--for a single draught of
sweet delicious rapturous ecstatic water; but his bloodshot eyes sought
vainly, and his welted tongue found nothing wet, except the flakes of
his own salt foam. Until, with the help of the moon, a sparkle (worth
more to his mind than all the diamonds he could draw)--a sparkle of the
purest water gleamed into his dim eyes from the distance. Recalling to
his mind's eyes the grand date of his existence when he was a colt, and
had a meadow to himself, with a sparkling river at the end of it, he set
forth in good faith, and, although his legs were weary, "negotiated"--as
the sporting writers say--the distance between him and the object of
his desire. He had not the least idea that this had cost ten guineas--as
much as his own good self was worth; for it happened to be the first
dahlia seen in that part of the country. That gaudy flower at its first
appearance made such a stir among gardeners that Mr. Swipes gave the
Admiral no peace until he allowed him to order one. And so great was
this gardener's pride in his profession that he would not take an order
for a rooted slip or cutting, from the richest man in the neighbourhood,
for less than half a guinea. Therefore Mr. Swipes was attending to the
plant with the diligence of a wet-nurse, and the weather being dry, he
had soaked it overhead, even before he did that duty to himself.

A man of no teeth can take his nourishment in soup; and nature,
inverting her manifold devices--which she would much rather do than be
beaten--has provided that a horse can chew his solids into liquids, if
there is a drop of juice in their composition, when his artificial life
has failed to supply him with the bucket. This horse, being very dry,
laid his tongue to the water-drops that sparkled on the foliage. He
found them delicious, and he longed for more, and very soon his ready
mind suggested that the wet must have come out of the leaves, and there
must be more there. Proceeding on this argument, he found it quite
correct, and ten guineas' worth of dahlia was gone into his stomach by
the time that Captain Scudamore came courteously to look after him.

Blyth, in equal ignorance of his sumptuous repast, gave him a pat of
approval, and was turning his head towards the stable yard, when he
saw a white figure gliding swiftly through the trees beyond the belt
of shrubbery. Weary and melancholy as he was, and bewildered with the
tumult of disasters, his heart bounded hotly as he perceived that the
figure was that of his Dolly--Dolly, the one love of his life, stealing
forth, probably to mourn alone the loss of her beloved father. As yet
he knew nothing of her share in that sad tale, and therefore felt no
anxiety at first about her purpose. He would not intrude upon her grief;
he had no right to be her comforter; but still she should have some one
to look after her, at that time of night, and with so much excitement
and danger in the air. So the poor horse was again abandoned to his own
resources, and being well used to such treatment, gazed as wistfully and
delicately after the young man Scudamore as that young man gazed after
his lady-love.

To follow a person stealthily is not conducive to one's self-respect,
but something in the lady's walk and gesture impelled the young sailor
to follow her. She appeared to be hastening, with some set purpose, and
without any heed of circumstance, towards a part of the grounds where
no house was, no living creature for company, nor even a bench to rest
upon. There was no foot-path in that direction, nor anything to go to,
but the inland cliff that screened the Hall from northeastern winds,
and at its foot a dark pool having no good name in the legends of the
neighbourhood. Even Parson Twemlow would not go near it later than the
afternoon milking of the cows, and Captain Zeb would much rather face
a whole gale of wind in a twelve-foot boat than give one glance at its
dead calm face when the moon like a ghost stood over it.

"She is going towards Corpse-walk pit," thought Scuddy--"a cheerful
place at this time of night! She might even fall into it unawares, in
her present state of distraction. I am absolutely bound to follow her."

Duty fell in with his wishes, as it has a knack of doing. Forgetting his
weariness, he followed, and became more anxious at every step. For the
maiden walked as in a dream, without regard of anything, herself more
like a vision than a good substantial being. To escape Mrs. Stubbard she
had gone upstairs and locked herself in her bedroom, and then slipped
out without changing dress, but throwing a dark mantle over it. This had
fallen off, and she had not cared to stop or think about it, but went on
to her death exactly as she went in to dinner. Her dress of white silk
took the moonlight with a soft gleam like itself, and her clustering
curls (released from fashion by the power of passion) fell, like the
shadows, on her sweet white neck. But she never even asked herself how
she looked; she never turned round to admire her shadow: tomorrow she
would throw no shade, but be one; and how she looked, or what she was,
would matter, to the world she used to think so much of, never more.

Suddenly she passed from the moonlight into the blackness of a lonely
thicket, and forced her way through it, without heed of bruise or rent.
At the bottom of the steep lay the long dark pit, and she stood upon
the brink and gazed into it. To a sane mind nothing could look less
inviting. All above was air and light, freedom of the wind and play of
moon with summer foliage; all below was gloom and horror, cold eternal
stillness, and oblivion everlasting. Even the new white frock awoke no
flutter upon that sullen breast.

Dolly heaved a sigh and shuddered, but she did not hesitate. Her mind
was wandering, but her heart was fixed to make atonement, to give its
life for the life destroyed, and to lie too deep for shame or sorrow.
Suddenly a faint gleam caught her eyes. The sob of self-pity from her
fair young breast had brought into view her cherished treasures, bright
keepsakes of the girlish days when many a lover worshipped her. Taking
from her neck the silken braid, she kissed them, and laid them on the
bank. "They were all too good for me," she thought; "they shall not
perish with me."

Then, with one long sigh, she called up all her fleeting courage, and
sprang upon a fallen trunk which overhung the water. "There will be no
Dan to save me now," she said as she reached the end of it. "Poor Dan!
He will be sorry for me. This is the way out of it."

Her white satin shoes for a moment shone upon the black bark of the
tree, and, with one despairing prayer to Heaven, she leaped into the
liquid grave.

Dan was afar, but another was near, who loved her even more than Dan.
Blyth Scudamore heard the plunge, and rushed to the brink of the pit,
and tore his coat off. For a moment he saw nothing but black water
heaving silently; then something white appeared, and moved, and a faint
cry arose, and a hopeless struggle with engulfing death began.

"Keep still, don't struggle, only spread your arms, and throw your head
back as far as you can," he cried, as he swam with long strokes towards
her. But if she heard, she could not heed, as the lights of the deep sky
came and went, and the choking water flashed between, and gurgled into
her ears and mouth, and smothered her face with her own long hair.
She dashed her poor helpless form about, and flung out her feet for
something solid, and grasped in dim agony at the waves herself had made.
Then her dress became heavily bagged with water, and the love of life
was quenched, and the night of death enveloped her. Without a murmur,
down she went, and the bubbles of her breath came up.

Scudamore uttered a bitter cry, for his heart was almost broken--within
an arm's-length of his love, and she was gone for ever! For the moment
he did not perceive that the clasp of despair must have drowned them
both. Pointing his hands and throwing up his heels, he made one vain
dive after her, then he knew that the pit was too deep for the bottom
to be reached in that way. He swam to the trunk from which Dolly had
leaped, and judging the distance by the sullen ripple, dashed in with
a dive like a terrified frog. Like a bullet he sank to the bottom, and
groped with three fathoms of water above him. Just as his lungs were
giving out, he felt something soft and limp and round. Grasping this
by the trailing hair, he struck mightily up for the surface, and drew a
long breath, and sustained above water the head that fell back upon his
panting breast.

Some three hours later, Dolly Darling lay in her own little bed, as pale
as death, but sleeping the sleep of the world that sees the sun; while
her only sister knelt by her side, weeping the tears of a higher world
than that. "How could I be so brutal, and so hard?" sobbed Faith.
"If father has seen it, will he ever forgive me? His last words
were--'forgive, and love.'"


CHAPTER LXIII

THE FATAL STEP


As Carne rode up the hill that night towards his ruined castle, the
flush of fierce excitement and triumphant struggle died away, and
self-reproach and miserable doubt struck into him like ague. For the
death of Twemlow--as he supposed--he felt no remorse whatever. Him he
had shot in furious combat, and as a last necessity; the fellow had
twice insulted him, and then insolently collared him. And Faith, who had
thwarted him with Dolly, and been from the first his enemy, now would
have to weep and wail, and waste her youth in constancy. All that was
good; but he could not regard with equal satisfaction the death of the
ancient Admiral. The old man had brought it upon himself by his stupid
stubbornness; and looking fairly upon that matter, Carne scarcely saw
how to blame himself. Still, it was a most unlucky thing, and must lead
to a quantity of mischief. To-morrow, or at the latest Monday, was to
have crowned with grand success his years of toil and danger. There
still might be the landing, and he would sail that night to hasten it,
instead of arranging all ashore; but it could no longer be a triumph of
crafty management. The country was up, the Admiral's death would
spread the alarm and treble it; and worst of all, in the hot pursuit of
himself, which was sure to follow when people's wits came back to them,
all the stores and ammunition, brought together by so much skill and
patience and hardihood, must of necessity be discovered and fall into
the hands of the enemy. Farewell to his long-cherished hope of specially
neat retribution, to wit, that the ruins of his family should be the
ruin of the land which had rejected him! Then a fierce thought crossed
his mind, and became at once a stern resolve. If he could never restore
Carne Castle, and dwell there in prosperity, neither should any of his
oppressors. The only trace of his ancestral home should be a vast black
hole in earth.

For even if the landing still succeeded, and the country were subdued,
he could never make his home there, after what he had done to-night.
Dolly was lost to him for ever; and although he had loved her with all
the ardor he could spare from his higher purposes, he must make up his
mind to do without her, and perhaps it was all the better for him. If
he had married her, no doubt he could soon have taught her her proper
place; but no one could tell how she might fly out, through her
self-will and long indulgence. And to the dead mother knelt in the dirt
around the streets of their comrades ... Jammers * * * * * The sun had
magic no more power over me. I had only a shrug when I use the power
of unions praise heard - » Sattgewordenen forgot the first of the
hungry "- and a contemptuous smile for the size and uniformity of
social relief work, which by law would have to declare bankruptcy.

Here there was no more, individuals from drowning to save, and wounds to
connect, here was only one thing: the old world that kills its own
children, to destroy, to the new space to create. The second chapter,
"You really want all sell books? "The young student who stood before
me, looked at me reproachful. He had come to me at the Order of the
philosophical library my late husband to help. "With few exceptions,
- yes," I replied with forced calm. "They see themselves in the
new apartment there is a lack of space for them, -- - and also, I hardly
ever use.

I will be with consideration unilaterally, "Here, I smiled at the
Obesity factory inspectors reports, which lay before me. He went silent,
head lowered to the work. How heartless that I Georgs beloved books
sold, he thought now certain. I could tell him that I had to sell them?
That I yesterday with the last thing I had Georgs grave monument was
paid for - a beautiful large marble block on which in large gold
letters on his campaign slogan was, now, the mine was: "We live by
the people, let us for people live. "Mom just had me from Pirgallen
indignant about my wasteful written:" A simple stone with George's
name would have been sufficient.

"I smiled involuntarily. Arm are the only people who can never be wasted!
I was so horrible otherwise reasonable. Upstairs, I was Treppab since my
return from England went to an apartment to find that my funds
corresponded. In a courtyard of Kleiststraße, three steps up, I had
finally found it: two rooms with a view of a wall, a huge painted Swiss
landscape embellished. For all sorts of journalistic Oeder days of
work, I am committed to remaining at the time of my task to be able to
live. In four weeks I moved around, until then they had to gain firmer
shape. I had first written to a number of outstanding politicians and
social policy colleagues, with whom I have an interest in the cause
could require, and give them my plan of the Central Committee for
Women's work apart .

Very polite, very courteous, they had replied to me. "My plan has my
full sympathy," wrote me just Theodor Barth. "I only have doubts
whether it is in its full extent in the foreseeable future can be
implemented. After my experiences fail to be a lot of great reform just
because the objective from the outset is too broad.

I think you should first look at a collection and sifting of material,
the conditions of women working on, approach, as the sub 1 of
your program also is in prospect. Entrepreneurs and workers should work
together, however, and prejudices - especially against the Social Democrats
- should have no role to play ... Unfortunately, my work elsewhere so
taken that I probably mitraten, but can not mittaten ... "This sentence
contains every letter nor that I had received.

Warnings about the danger of social policy Dilettantenarbeit, concerns,
water on the mills of social democracy to drive safer questions on the
financial foundation of the company were repeated often. "In any case,
the time poor," it said in a letter to Dr. Jacob, my old adversary from
the Ethical Society, directed to me, "Now, in this anniversary year,
where the irresponsible, antipatriotische behavior of social democracy,
even those parties must ask that many of their demands were sympathetic
towards, is not the moment to joint work forward. I doubt also that you
can find capital to you to such purpose nevertheless quite substantial
resources will be made available. "And Mrs. Schwabach, the only one
among the women's rights, which I have a serious understanding of
the trust thing, it was equally full of doubts have been. "We must first
educate the embarrassment to be capable of such work should be,"
she said.

The old song that einlullt the conscience, the self-confidence and stunned
the blame, if, before a loud indeed preparing for the act itself of one
days will be moved to another. Today I expected Martha Bartels with two
of her girlfriends - as workers - to hear their verdict, and her advice
to me by far the most important appeared to be seeking. "You must stop
for today, my dear Smith," turned I addressed the students, the last
before the shelves of the bookcase, high up on the ladder stood, "it
is irresponsible of me that I have your strength and time so long in
taking up." He drove like a dream awakening, and pointed to the thick
black hair from the hot forehead. "Do I really have to continue?" Hastily
he turned around and rubbed the red, bony hands together like
shivering. I nodded, because I heard the bell outside.

Slowly he climbed down the ladder. "Ah, - but if I really could do
for you -," so he lowered his head deep in my hand. At the moment
the door opened, and the three women entered. They saw us, alternated
seconds a much agendas glance, a slight mocking smile curls the lips of
one of the large, lean, - a feeling as if I am someone with dirt
beworfen, beschlich me. Fleetingly reminded me that my mother, the presence
of a young Lord with me, the widow, had declared unsuitable for, - but
these women were not Vorkämpferinnen a free world?

I was directed straight at me, pulled my hand from which they still
umklammernden; with a square bow clumsily pressed the young student
to the new guests over to the door beyond. With coffee and cake overcame
my embarrassment, the first visitors. They had in their Sunday best
is thrown and sat bolt upright on the soft armchairs; crash with every
move the narrow waists of their black dresses, and the many colorful
flowers on their hats fluctuated back and forth. Only Martha Bartels,
not for the first time was here, there are casual. Something in the face
of the little seamstress had been together since our last changed.

"Well, comrade Glyzcinski, what did you tell us good," she said with
a gönnerischen quiet tone in his voice, which she had not yet had, as
she gave me "the wife of Glyzcinski" called. Certainly, she had really
a right to do so, I was only a novice in their ranks - and I thought
defeated the irritable mood, which I threatened to conquer. With
increasing zeal, to warm my own thing, I put them my plans apart.
»I need is your cooperation," I concluded, "we can for the workers
doing nothing, what is not done with them -" Deep silence.

The three spooning in their coffee cups, met each other under the
table and did not want to be with the language. "Yes, -," said Martha
Bartels finally stretched, "it is all very well and good, but what
we really are -!

We know how long, as it looks to us and to the curiosity of Bourgeoisdamen
and men to satisfy, or even in our organizations herumstänkern
to leave - which we are not there. "Mrs. Resch, the gaunt, nodded eagerly
and threw me a venomous look. Mrs. Wiemer, a rotund with good-natured
mistress brown eyes, turned hastily on the chairs around, so that the
springs crack.

"Since I am now quite a different opinion," cried she, "we would be
stupid nice if we a support from the hand that wanted to. We have, God
knows, no abundance of power, and if we have at our discretion to
use - "Martha Bartels zerstochenen drummed with the fingers on the
table.

"In my circle, Wiemer comrade, I can no mood to make," she said sharply.
"Well, what it already is: your circle. A half-dozen women have recently
in the Assembly elected to trust - that makes the cabbage is not
fat! "Spöttelte the Angeredete. "The men have, thank God, even to say,"
Ms. Resch giggled: "You always think clearly, you have the men on the
ribbon -!" Silent, in growing amazement, I heard the debate, which is
more and more Personal ins lost. "By the way: what we ereifern," said
Martha Bartels finally, while they are with hochrotem face in the chair
zurücklehnte. "First of all, we are comrade Orbins ruling must listen."
The women fell silent.

Wanda Orbin: that was the acknowledged leader of the Workers Movement,
a woman who from a distance, I already had learned to admire. With the
fervor of their provocative Rednergabe everything they could with
fortzureißen.

My guests are adopted, cool and embarrassed. Only Mrs. Wiemer vigorously
shook my hand and hesitated at the way out. "We are talking again
with each other - under four eyes," she whispered. Disappointed - I
stayed back discouraged. Deep understanding, joyful assent, warm
comradely, I had expected -! The next morning came a letter from
Martha Bartels: "Since yesterday, I do not know whether you really are
our comrade. What you propose that any feminist too. It shows that you
are familiar with the civil society have not yet broken, and therefore
we can not win true trust. I see now that you are always doing wrong,
when the beautiful feelings of Bourgeoisdamen faith gives. "Had it not
to their disappointment a greater right than I to mine? Was my behavior
is not really a retreat? I tried not, to the left and right to make
concessions, so I only itself neatly on the normal middle could get me?
In my hopes and wishes very herabgestimmt, I made myself in the next
few days on the way to the leaders of the Socialist Party reside,
where I had already announced. I went first to Liebknecht. He lived
outside in the Kantstraße, where now the new Berlin from the earth
like a shot proliferous jungle plant.

In Tauentzienstraße who five years ago, not much more than a wide dirt
road had been ranked in a new building to the other, - high four-and
five houses, with a loud apartments for nine to twelve rooms. Where were
the only wealth, who so lavishly managed to live? I thought. And further
to the West retreated streets and roads out, - long spider arms, on
the fields accessed by fernhin where the Grunewald, a narrow black
line on the horizon appeared.

Ratternd fauchend and moved the steam tram Kurfürstendamm him up. Like
many small one-cozy cottage grove of birch and potato fields were
the pick here have fallen victim to! And the giant tree at the road
crossing a landmark in the area had been a church must be soft. Well,
that he fell, I thought, how would the old walls stretching cramped,
as had his defiant, rugged beauty of its magnificent facade lies punished.
The church still had adapted their environment, even here, she had
to her is not in contradiction.

In Kantstrasse I have a bog. Close to the rail bridge, on the third
floor, lived Liebknecht. He received me in front of a desk in his tiny
room, which filled with papers and newspapers, so that no intervening
space is left to occur.

His hard-cut face with deep furrows, the view that under bushy brows as
absent on a hinwegsah the tangled dark hair on the high straight forehead,
the gray unkempt beard around the chin and the broad strangely skewed the
big mouth, to the rock, of the elbow and on the backs shone greasy,
including the shirt with the soft semi Umlegekragen, off the slippers
to the graubestrumpften feet, - all that seemed initially unattractive.

Then he gave me fleeting the hand that was soft and gentle, - I had to
really look again, to believe that they belonged to this man. You gave
me courage to speak, I would prefer it without re-turned.

I told him of my experience with women. He smiled with a good-natured
ridicule in the eyes. "Shall I give you a really friendly advice?" He
said. "Do not worry about it, what if you want to achieve. They are still
lagging behind as the men can not be otherwise. Where are they also
reflect the realization hernehmen, the poor woman? Already everything
possible when it is purely from their proletarian instinct out party
colleagues are good. "In vain I looked for it in my theme to be recorded,
it did not seem interested in him, while calling the name of England
in a flood of thoughts compounds in him awake.

He believed my hopelessly bourgeois position it to recognize that I have
with Fabien and Burns, but not with Hyndman and the Socialist Federation,
which alone Marxism represented in England, was wrong. With the abrupt
transitions a brilliant mind, which neither has the ability to represent
the interests of the other address nor the ability to transform itself
into a deeper question, he came from because of our foreign policy
to speak on the legitimate distrust of England to reveal world emperor
against our desires, to Russia, to which we are so close to us would
be, the farther we abrückten of England, on the artificially ausgepeitschten
jingoism of the war, remembrance ceremonies of the present, the final
analysis only because of being against the social democracy and to
make mobile the failed roll template in a different form to life.
I did this conversation turn uneasily.

Well, that I, without mounting, was silent. Contaminated egg shells of
the past so tightly to me that the articles of the "Next" on the
memorial ceremonies at the "fratricidal war" to me the blood is brought
into flush? They represented but undoubtedly humanity and justice in
a much greater extent than all the medals and ribbons behängten
Kriegervereinler, like the savages in the bloody suppression
of a neighboring nation still in the memory intoxicated.
Liebknecht was his opposition to any kind of chauvinism a fanatics.
»National minded is, I think only those who have the right and the
welfare of other nations also to ensure knows how that one's own,"
he said.

And I was aware he felt internationally, while I'm just the idea of
internationalism verstandesmäßig cool recognized. I said this, and
he nodded enthusiastically: "Of course - that's the difference - and
comes to a large extent, therefore, that the year 48 and the socialist
motherland, the law took me and the world made their home. Also, the
proletarians, who owns nothing, and work across all borders must be
run after, is the heart of international, and the Hammerstein and cohorts,
"- he laughed maliciously -," which differs from the Fatherland Schmerbauch
fatten let us preach wicked patriotism! "He broke off and stood up. I
wanted to go" It is nothing - now you have coffee with my wife's drink.
"I was led into the living room. When Mrs. Major X. in Bromberg and Mrs.
Z. captain in Brandenburg, it has not been much different - except
that here instead of the family pictures of Marx, Engels and Lassalle
emblazoned on the walls, instead of engraving the Sixtina Maifestzug
Walter Crane, and I was still not in the right corner sofa was coerced.
Ms. Liebknecht was the typical governess out of houses, education and
life-form was not the skin, but the dress. He was someone I had her,
"Ms. von Glyzcinski." It dawned already, with him when I left the house.
He went to his editorial work, I entered the Ansbacherstraße where
I am from the parents Pirgallen zurückerwarten should.

"And for my plan, I can count on your support not reckon?" I asked,
but now again. He remained standing. "My support? That would benefit
neither of us. Think about again is even if your own support, he
is worth!

"* * * * * The mood was not rosy, in my parents and sister received,
and they seemed excited and dejected: Mama had the lips firmly
zusammengekniffen so that they only like a thin, pale line appeared, the
father was a flaming red in the face and räusperte be uninterrupted,
Ilschen had eyes tear. "Everything went so well," she whispered to me
hastily, as the parents were taken into the room, and held me back in
the hallway, "because it was yesterday because of the stupid Hammerstein
story about a confrontation between the uncle and father Walter. The cover
system was indecent, he said, while uncle said it is necessary in the
interest of the party.

Finally railed dad - you can you think about how - and uncle said,
Papa was probably at his daughter, the 'comrade', contaminated, - a
word, the other, uncle daddy finally showed the cross-newspaper a
note about yourself - - "" So, - now we have to talk with each other
- "broke my father's agitation against the rough voice sister. It was
a formal interrogation ... "member of the Socialist Party, I am not
yet -," I said. He refused to breathe deeply with closed eyes in the back
seat. I wanted to continue. He fought with both hands: "Enough - enough!
More I do not want to hear - nothing more! "Then he raised the
heavy-handed, went to the desk and sat on a telegram:" Baron Walter von
Golzow, Pirgallen. Alix I 'word. Require now you honor statement.
Hans. "I wanted to oppose - the father rotunterlaufene eyes flashed at
me bossy, Ilse folded behind him pleading gesture with his hands - I
was silent.

Was it cowardice? Was there consideration? Or nothing but tired fatigue?
At dinner I was told that the garden apartment on the same floor had
become vacant.

"We would otherwise have to move, we now save, and you just pull here,"
said the father, "then we have again Altenkirchen our two daughters,"
he added with a touch of loving and laughter adding me stretched
across the table the hand contrary. Only reluctantly, I submitted my
inside. "Very kind, papa, that you did to me, but I already have a home."
He rustled angrily on. Silently, I let the words about me were made.
"I have given you my conviction sacrificed" I then said firmly,
"to sacrifice my freedom, I do not ..." By August sternenlose night I
went home. About the deserted street fluctuated a few drunk. How
else, I was afraid before them, - I am indifferent progressively
over - for me they would contact me can do what they wanted. I
was not me, its just a shadow that once was alive. In my lonely dark
apartment, I threw myself onto the bed and dressed mused dull one
thought: Why I would expect the morning - and the day - and then
one day, and so in the whole series of endless emptiness of life?

* * * * * In my quiet room air weighed on me. The sun shone through the
window grünumsponnenen, laughing about the gardens - I would only briefly
in my new home, where I saw nothing, as a painted landscape!

Driven by inner turmoil, I ran around in the city, remained in front of
the shop windows, and catch me at half unconscious desire for bright
clothes. I sat alone in front of the old smoky Josty coffee and looked
through the Potsdamer Platz, after having the people who are talking
and laughing and flirts, and I'm not allowed to mix.

A feeling of pleasant warmth overcome me when admiring glances
met me, - oh, and grabbed me yearning, yearning for unbridled joy. Then
I met Oer Graf, one of my old dancer, he had the worst reputation, and
was but one of the pampering for free men of the Berlin Society. A
provocative, sultry atmosphere of refined sensuality surrounded him,
even his view of researchers from half-eyes, his soft, slow handshake
blush, the women, whom he approached.

To me he was very participating friend. »Your pallor increased only
your charm, beautiful woman," he said, "but in association with your
sylphidenhaften shape" - his eyes wandered over my body formally -
"I find it frightening. They need sun pasture like a horse race. What
do you think, if I have a day a few hours of my car and send you in
the driving or after Grunewald Wannsee?
"Come away, you old fool," cried the Frenchman; "I hear the tramp of
soldiers in the valley. If they catch you here, it will be drum-head
work, and you will swing before morning in the ruins."

"I am very old. My time is short. I would liefer hang from an English
beam than deal any more with your outlandish lot."

"Farewell to thee, then! Thou art a faithful clod. Here are five guineas
for thee, of English stamp. I doubt if napoleons shall ever be coined in
England."

He was off while he might--a gallant Frenchman, and an honest enemy;
such as our country has respected always, and often endeavoured to turn
into fast friends. But the old man stood and watched the long gap, where
for centuries the castle of the Carnes had towered. And his sturdy faith
was rewarded.

"I am starving"--these words came feebly from a gaunt, ragged figure
that approached him. "For three days my food has been forgotten; and
bad as it was, I missed it. There came a great rumble, and my walls fell
down. Ancient Jerry, I can go no further. I am empty as a shank bone
when the marrow-toast is serving. Your duty was to feed me, with
inferior stuff at any rate."

"No, sir, no;" the old servitor was roused by the charge of neglected
duty. "Sir Parsley, it was no fault of mine whatever. Squire undertook
to see to all of it himself. Don't blame me, sir; don't blame me."

"Never mind the blame, but make it good," Mr. Shargeloes answered,
meagrely, for he felt as if he could never be fat again. "What do I see
there? It is like a crust of bread, but I am too weak to stoop for it."

"Come inside the tree, sir." The old man led him, as a grandsire leads a
famished child. "What a shame to starve you, and you so hearty! But the
Squire clean forgotten it, I doubt, with his foreign tricks coming to
this great blow-up. Here, sir, here; please to sit down a moment, while
I light a candle. They French chaps are so wasteful always, and always
grumbling at good English victual. Here's enough to feed a family
Captain Charron has throwed by--bread, and good mutton, and pretty near
half a ham, and a bottle or so of thin nasty foreign wine. Eat away, Sir
Parsley; why, it does me good to see you. You feeds something like an
Englishman. But you know, sir, it were all your own fault at bottom, for
coming among them foreigners a-meddling."

"You are a fine fellow. You shall be my head butler," Percival
Shargeloes replied, while he made such a meal as he never made
before, and never should make again, even when he came to be the Right
Honourable the Lord Mayor of London.


CHAPTER LXIV

WRATH AND SORROW


The two most conspicuous men of the age were saddened and cast down
just now--one by the natural kindly sorrow into which all men live for
others, till others live into it for them; and one by the petulant
turns of fortune, twisting and breaking his best-woven web. Lord Nelson
arrived at Springhaven on Monday, to show his affection for his dear
old friend; and the Emperor Napoleon, at the same time, was pacing the
opposite cliffs in grief and dudgeon.

He had taken his post on some high white land, about a league southward
of Boulogne, and with strong field-glasses, which he pettishly exchanged
in doubt of their power and truth, he was scanning all the roadways of
the shore and the trackless breadths of sea. His quick brain was burning
for despatches overland--whether from the coast road past Etaples, or
further inland by the great route from Paris, or away to the southeast
by special courier from the Austrian frontier--as well as for signals
out at sea, and the movements of the British ships, to show that his own
were coming. He had treated with disdain the suggestions of his faithful
Admiral Decres, who had feared to put the truth too plainly, that the
fleet ordered up from the west had failed, and with it the Master's
mighty scheme. Having yet to learn the lesson that his best plans might
be foiled, he was furious when doubt was cast upon this pet design. Like
a giant of a spider at the nucleus of his web, he watched the broad fan
of radiant threads, and the hovering of filmy woof, but without the mild
philosophy of that spider, who is versed in the very sad capriciousness
of flies.

Just within hearing (and fain to be further, in his present state of
mind) were several young officers of the staff, making little mouths at
one another, for want of better pastime, but looking as grave, when the
mighty man glanced round, as schoolboys do under the master's eye.
"Send Admiral Decres to me," the Emperor shouted, as he laid down his
telescope and returned to his petulant to-and-fro.

In a few minutes Admiral Decres arrived, and after a salute which was
not acknowledged, walked in silence at his master's side. The great man,
talking to himself aloud, and reviling almost every one except himself,
took no more notice of his comrade for some minutes than if he had been
a poodle keeping pace with him. Then he turned upon him fiercely, with
one hand thrown out, as if he would have liked to strike him.

"What then is the meaning of all this?" He spoke too fast for the other
to catch all his words. "You have lost me three days of it. How much
longer will you conceal your knowledge? Carne's scheme has failed,
through treachery--probably his own. I never liked the man. He wanted to
be the master of me--of me! I can do without him; it is all the better,
if my fleet will come. I have three fleets, besides these. Any one of
them would do. They would do, if even half their crews were dead, so
long as they disturbed the enemy. You know where Villeneuve is, but you
will not tell me."

"I told your Majesty what I thought," M. Decres replied, with dignity,
"but it did not please you to listen to me. Shall I now tell your
Majesty what I know?"

"Ha! You have dared to have secret despatches! You know more of the
movements of my fleets than I do! You have been screening him all along.
Which of you is the worse traitor?"

"Your Majesty will regret these words. Villeneuve and myself are devoted
to you. I have not heard from him. I have received no despatches. But in
a private letter just received, which is here at your Majesty's service,
I find these words, which your Majesty can see. 'From my brother on
the Spanish coast I have just heard. Admiral Villeneuve has sailed for
Cadiz, believing Nelson to be in chase of him. My brother saw the whole
fleet crowding sail southward. No doubt it is the best thing they could
do. If they came across Nelson, they would be knocked to pieces.'
Your Majesty, that is an opinion only; but it seems to be shared by M.
Villeneuve."

Napoleon's wrath was never speechless--except upon one great
occasion--and its outburst put every other in the wrong, even while he
knew that he was in the right. Regarding Decres with a glare of fury,
such as no other eyes could pour, or meet--a glare as of burnished steel
fired from a cannon--he drove him out of every self-defence or shelter,
and shattered him in the dust of his own principles. It was not the
difference of rank between them, but the difference in the power of
their minds, that chased like a straw before the wind the very stable
senses of the man who understood things. He knew that he was right, but
the right was routed, and away with it flew all capacity of reason in
the pitiless torrent of passion, like a man in a barrel, and the barrel
in Niagara.

M. Decres knew not head from tail, in the rush of invective poured upon
him; but he took off his hat in soft search for his head, and to let in
the compliments rained upon it.

"It is good," replied the Emperor, replying to himself, as the foam
of his fury began to pass; "you will understand, Decres, that I am not
angry, but only lament that I have such a set of fools. You are not the
worst. I have bigger fools than you. Alas that I should confess it!"

Admiral Decres put his hat upon his head, for the purpose of taking it
off, to acknowledge the kindness of this compliment. It was the first
polite expression he had received for half an hour. And it would have
been the last, if he had dared to answer.

"Villeneuve cannot help it that he is a fool," continued Napoleon, in
a milder strain; "but he owes it to his rank that he should not be a
coward. Nelson is his black beast. Nelson has reduced him to a condition
of wet pulp. I shall send a braver man to supersede him. Are French
fleets forever to turn tail to an inferior force of stupid English? If
I were on the seas, I would sweep Nelson from them. Our men are far
braver, when they learn to spread their legs. As soon as I have finished
with those filthy Germans, I will take the command of the fleets myself.
It will be a bad day for that bragging Nelson. Give me pen and paper,
and send Daru to me. I must conquer the Continent once more, I suppose;
and then I will return and deal with England."

In a couple of hours he had shaped and finished the plan of a campaign
the most triumphant that even he ever planned and accomplished. Then his
mind became satisfied with good work, and he mounted his horse, and
for the last time rode through the grandest encampment the sun has ever
seen, distributing his calm smile, as if his nature were too large for
tempests.

               - You, boy, take the paper with their name, trot around in the city,
the Lord and all such women, Sun stehn written here, (hands over a
paper) with courtesy and say: My house and my reception, stand by
their service. ( Capulets and Paris are from.)

DIENER People should I search, of which the names stand here written?
It is written, the shoe is to take care of his yard, the tailor to
his bars, the fisherman to his brush, the painter to his nets. But I
send it to people to find what the names stand here written, and I can
but do not get what the name of the scribe has written here. I have
to Gelahrten! - THIRD STAGE (A room in Capulets house) (Countess and the
Capulets Wärterin.) GRÄFIN Capulets my daughter to retrieve her, where
is it, nurse? WÄRTERIN On my virginity in the twelfth year, I already
called them .-- He, lamb! tender pigeon - That God! where is the child?
Hey, Juliette! (Julia comes.) JULIA What is it? Who calls me? WÄRTERIN
your mother. JULIA Here am I, gnädge Mother! How popular? GRÄFIN Capulets
The thing is this - Amme, go aside, we must talk in secret .--
nurse, come only to restore, I was calm, I want you with the thought
ziehn.

You know, my child has have a nice age. WÄRTERIN counting me, my
faith, on her finger. GRÄFIN Capulets She is not fourteen years.
"My dear, you must check it; you must leave off," said Nelson, although
he was going on himself. "It is useless for me to say a word to you,
because I am almost as bad myself. But still I am older, and I feel that
I ought to be able to comfort you, if I only knew the way."

"You do comfort me, more than I can tell, although you don't say
anything. For any one to sit here, and be sorry with me, makes it come
a little lighter. And when it is a man like you, Lord Nelson, I feel a
sort of love that makes me feel less bitter. Mr. Twemlow drove me wild
with a quantity of texts, and a great amount of talk about a better
land. How would he like to go to it himself, I wonder? There is a great
hole in my heart, and nothing that anybody says can fill it."

"And nothing that any one can do, my dear," her father's friend
answered, softly, "unless it is your own good self, with the kindness
of the Lord to help you. As for other women in the society of the flirting,
the art of the toilet, the theater was: Irritant for their nervous system
- that was the policy for Mrs. Dew.

Almost every day I was with her in Parliament, it is that we Commission
deliberations of the new factory law attended - the audience
had no other access - or in the corridors and on the Thames Terrace
between tea and ice with the deputies debated. Strange: you took us
seriously, I awaited in vain to train the men in that patronizing pity
smile with which my fellow countrymen the politicization woman to be
cultivated. A certain reticence towards me grew less the fact that I
am a woman, as a German that I was apparently the only picture of
the "good housewife" in the minds of Englishmen lived.

Gewitterschwül Already it was in the solemn halls of the high-Parliament
, at every opportunity a weather threatened to blast the government to
topple, and the electricity-charged air came up close behind the bars
of the women's gallery. Restless than usual rapidly advanced the silk
dresses, repressed excitement durchzitterte the Flüstergespräche.
You hardly watch the speaker in the room, only one expected the
disaster. Suddenly a voice sounded from the bottom up, like rolling
thunder also, - then deep and hard like the old sound of huge church
bells - the ladies fell silent, - crowded close to the grid - and
from their comfortable position on the soft upholstered seats reckten
the Members on.

I heard only the voice, the speaker, I saw not, but I felt him as a,
of Mr. Chen was intended. "Who is that?" - "John Burns," - John Burns
- the traitor! He was in the German socialist press of the moment, has
been named, where he grollend of the English party had losgesagt. On the
same evening Mr. Dew presented it to me before. I was initially disappointed
with everything I had the overwhelming support that voice I thought, now
he sat in on the powerful body only the head of a giant dark unruly hair
stood up on the broad, sharp durchfurchten forehead, bushy brows
shone behind an eye pair, powerful in its coloring and feverish
vitality of this coming from people helläugigen Hohn said.

He shook my hand vigorously. His was the broad and heavy, they showed
the hammer, which she had led, - how was it possible that their
entglitt the red flag, which it once at the head of the army of the
unemployed by the horrified London had worn? Was this man not born
of the creator and leader of a large, some socialist party of England?
I suppressed any of the questions that are imposed to me. "I know that
the Social Democrats, especially the German, I think for a traitor," he
said, "but they do not understand the situation. In Germany, I would
not otherwise act as Bebel and Liebknecht, but here ... "with a swift
movement he pushed the teacup aside and drew on the white marble slab
of the table a point with a big circle around rings. "Look," he continued,
"this is socialism, in order around the circle, the German government,
your military, your police, and they drive all freethinkers naturally
focus on the elements with which they are a result of the outer
pressure, firmly unite.

"Oh, yes! How stupid I am!" cried Faith. "I forget everybody in my own
trouble. There is a poor young man with a broken heart, who came to me
this morning. He has done no harm that I know of, but he fell into the
power of that wicked--but I will use no harsh words, because he is gone
most dreadfully to his last account. This poor youth said that he only
cared to die, after all the things that had happened here, for he has
always been fond of my father. At first I refused to see him, but they
told me such things that I could not help it. He is the son of our chief
man here, and you said what a fine British seaman he would make."

"I remember two or three of that description, especially young Dan
Tugwell." Nelson had an amazing memory of all who had served under
him, or even had wished to do so. "I see by your eyes that it is young
Tugwell. If it will be any pleasure to you, I will see him, and do what
I can for him. What has he done, my dear, and what can I do for him?"

"He has fallen into black disgrace, and his only desire is to redeem
it by dying for his country. His own father has refused to see him,
although he was mainly the cause of it; and his mother, who was Erle
Twemlow's nurse, is almost out of her mind with grief. A braver young
man never lived, and he was once the pride of Springhaven. He saved poor
Dolly from drowning, when she was very young, and the boat upset. His
father chastised him cruelly for falling under bad influence. Then he
ran away from the village, and seems to have been in French employment.
But he was kept in the dark, and had no idea that he was acting against
his own country."

"He has been a traitor," said Lord Nelson, sternly. "I cannot help such
a man, even for your sake."

"He has not been a traitor, but betrayed," cried Faith; "he believed
that his only employment was to convey private letters for the poor
French prisoners, of whom we have so many hundreds. I will not contend
that he was right in that; but still it was no very great offence.
Even you must have often longed to send letters to those you loved in
England; and you know how hard it is in war time. But what they really
wanted him for was to serve as their pilot upon this coast. And the
moment he discovered that, though they offered him bags of gold to do
it, he faced his death like an Englishman. They attempted to keep him
in a stupid state with drugs, so that he might work like a mere machine.
But he found out that, and would eat nothing but hard biscuit. They had
him in one of their shallow boats, or prames, as they call them, which
was to lead them in upon signal from the arch-traitor. This was on
Saturday, Saturday night--that dreadful time when we were all so gay.
They held a pair of pistols at poor Dan's head, or at least a man was
holding one to each of his ears, and they corded his arms, because he
ventured to remonstrate. That was before they had even started, so you
may suppose what they would have done to us. Poor Daniel made up his
mind to die, and it would have eased his mind, he says now, if he had
done so. But while they were waiting for the signal, which through dear
father's vigilance they never did receive, Dan managed to free both
his hands in the dark, and as soon as he saw the men getting sleepy,
he knocked them both down, and jumped overboard; for he can swim like a
fish, or even better. He had very little hopes of escaping, as he says,
and the French fired fifty shots after him. With great presence of mind,
he gave a dreadful scream, as if he was shot through the head at least,
then he flung up his legs, as if he was gone down; but he swam under
water for perhaps a hundred yards, and luckily the moon went behind
a black cloud. Then he came to a boat, which had broken adrift, and
although he did not dare to climb into her, he held on by her, on the
further side from them. She was drifting away with the tide, and at last
he ventured to get on board of her, and found a pair of oars, and was
picked up at daylight by a smuggling boat running for Newhaven. He was
landed last night, and he heard the dreadful news, and having plenty
of money, he hired a post-chaise, and never stopped until he reached
Springhaven. He looks worn out now; but if his mind was easier, he would
soon be as strong as ever."

"It is a strange story, my dear," said Nelson; "but I see that it has
done you good to tell it, and I have known many still stranger. But how
could he have money, after such a hard escape?"

"That shows as much as anything how brave he is. He had made up his mind
that if he succeeded in knocking down both those sentinels, he would
have the bag of gold which was put for his reward in case of his
steering them successfully. And before he jumped overboard he snatched
it up, and it helped him to dive and to swim under water. He put it
in his flannel shirt by way of ballast, and he sticks to it up to the
present moment."

"My dear," replied Lord Nelson, much impressed, "such a man deserves to
be in my own crew. If he can show me that bag, and stand questions, I
will send him to Portsmouth at my own expense, with a letter to my dear
friend Captain Hardy."


CHAPTER LXV

TRAFALGAR


Lord Nelson sailed from Portsmouth on the 15th of September, in his
favourite ship the Victory, to take his last command. He knew that he
never should come home, except as a corpse for burial, but he fastened
his mind on the work before him, and neglected nothing. "A fair fight,
and no favour," was the only thing he longed for.

And this he did obtain at last. The French commander-in-chief came
forth, with all his mighty armament, not of his own desire, but goaded
by imperious sneers, and stings that made his manhood tingle. He spread
the sea-power of two nations in a stately crescent, double-lined (as the
moon is doubled when beheld through fine plate-glass)--a noble sight, a
paramount temptation for the British tow-rope.

- How the king Guayna Capac returned to Quito, and the Spaniards knew
how to walk along the coast, and its muerte._ The same years he was
thirteen chripstianos Francisco Pizarro on the coast [208] and there
dello ido to Quito Guayna warning capabilities, to whom they had brought
the suit, and how the ship, and how was barbados and white and spoke
little and were not as friendly as they drink, and other things that
they could know. And Cudicio to see such people, they say they
ordered him to briefly trujiesen one of two that have been said of
those men, because the others were already back with his master
to the Gorgona, where they had left some Spaniards with the Indians
and India had and in its place will [209].

They say some of these Indians, who after gone to these two, who were
killed, that much anger Guayna Capac recebió. Others who have dreamed
that brought them, and knew his death on the road [210], were killed.
Without it, others say they were killed. What we have is true, that the
Indians killed graphical Soon they were on their land [211]. Well,
with Capac Guayna in Quito with large companies of people who had,
and the other lords of his land, being so powerful, then sent from
the River Maule Angasmayo to that mill, and there are more than two
hundred leagues, and being so grown up in wealth, claiming that he
had done more to bring in Quito five hundred loads of gold and
silver over the mill, and many precious stones and fine clothes,
and all feared him because he dared not desmandar when then to
justice, which have a great wine as contagious pestilence of smallpox,
which killed over two hundred million souls in all counties, because
it was general, and giving him the wrong, not everything said was
partly to escape death, God was not great because the Dell Server.

And as he was touched by the disease, he will make great sacrifices
for his health in all the earth and all Guaca and temples of the sun,
but yéndole injury, called his relatives and captains, and told them
some things, among which told them, as some dello say that he knew
people who had seen the ship, again with great power and gain land. This
could be fabulous, and if they said, was that by the mouth of the devil,
as one who knew that the Spaniards were going to try again to
gentlemen.

Tell others of these same, knowing that the vast lands they had in
Quillacingas [212] and Popayaneses and was sending a lot, and said
that from Quito to those parts of it were Atahuallpa, his son, whom
she loved, because had walked with him into war, and that other ladies
and that he governed Guascar, sole heir of the empire. Other Indians say
they do not split the kingdom, before saying that he told those present,
who knew well how it was comfortable it was the Lord, after his days,
his son Guascar, Chincha and [213] Ocllo, her sister, with whom all of
Cuzco happy and as if he had other sons of noble values, which were
Nanque Yupanqui, Tupac Inca, Guanacaste Auqui, Gualpa Tupac, Titu
[214], Guaman Gualpa, Manco Inca, Guascar, Cusi Hualpa [215], Paullu
Tupac [216] Yupanqui, Conon, Atahuallpa wanted no Dalles nothing
much left, but everything comes from, as he inherited from his
father, and he would keep his word a lot, and that would fulfill
what his heart wanted, but boy was, and asked what they loved and
mirasen was as fair and perfect age to take up and rule was their
ayo Colla Tupac [217], his uncle.

And like the hobo died. And then he was killed Guayna Capac, were so great
the weeping, screaming that it was giving in the clouds, and birds
falling into the very high stunned to the ground. And for all the new
part is released, and there was no party that does not make sense
remarkable.

In Quito it cried, as they say, ten days harness and graphical took him
there to Kannada, where he wept a full moon and were accompanied
by many lords main body to Cuzco, leaving the paths of men and women
weeping and howling by.

In Cuzco became more weeping, and sacrifices were made in the temples,
and dressing bury him according to his custom, believing that his soul
was in heaven. Killed to put him in his sepoltura and other, more
than four million souls, women and other servants and pages, treasures,
precious stones and fine clothes. Believing that the large sum that would
pornian with him. They do not say where or how it is buried, but that
match your sepoltura was in Cuzco. Some Indians told me that I was
buried in the river of Angasmayo, away from their natural sepoltura to
do, but I do not think so, and they say that was buried in Cuzco, it
[218]. The things of this king as the Indians say, that is not what I
write or count, and I think that from their parents and grandparents
and so many things are left escrebir, not reaching the whole, it
was another compendium higher than has been done.

_CAP. LXIX .-- lineage and conditions Guascar and Atahuallpa._ was the
empire of the Incas as peaceful when Guayna Capac died, not on land
that is so great hobiese who dare raise their head to move or fail to
obey war and by the fear that had Guayna Capac, and because the posts
were mitimaes his hand, and was the force in them. And as Alexander
died in Babylon, many of his servants and masters placed close to
kings and great mandar land and killed Guayna Capac, as (_así_) hobo
then between the two brothers and his sons differences wars and after
them came Spaniards.

Many of these were left by mitimaes gentlemen, because being in wars and
natural deaths debates, they were able to gain the grace of the people
in place to ensure that receipts from towns (_así_). Well I had to say
to often conditions of these gentlemen as powerful, but not leaving
my brevity, for the reasons just as at other times have I said .--
Guascar Capac was the son of Guayna and Atahuallpa too. Guascar fewer
days; Atahuallpa more years. Guascar, son of the Coya, the sister of his
father, Mrs main Atahuallpa, a son of india Quilaco called Tupac Palla
[219]. The one and the other born in Cuzco, Quito and not, as some
have said and even escripto for this, without having understood it as
this is reasonable. It shows, because Guayna Capac was [were?] In the
conquest of Quito, and those lands that are not yet twelve years,
and was Atahuallpa, when he died, [of] more than thirty years, and
Mrs de Quito, to say what we already tell who was his mother, there
was no, because even the Incas were kings and lords of Quito, [220]
and Guascar born in Cuzco, and Atahuallpa was four or five years
older than him not.

And this is true, and what I believe .-- Guascar was wanted in Cuzco,
and throughout the kingdom, by natural, as the heir of drecho; Atahuallpa
cyst was well for the masters of old and his father of soldiers, because
the war went on in his childhood and life in him because he showed so
much love, let him not eat anything other than what he gave him his
plate. Guascar was gracious and merciful; Atahuallpa, cruel and vengeful:
entrambos were liberals, and Atahuallpa man more courage and effort,
and more Guascar assumptions and value. Pretended to be the one and
only Lord mandar without equal: the other was determined to reign, and
thus breaking the laws about it to his style were laid by the Incas,
which was that it could not be king but the eldest son of the Lord and
his sister, but other older hobiesen occurred in other women and man.
Guascar anxious [wish?] Have with the army of his father's grief because
Atahuallpa was not near Cuzco, in the same city to make the fast and
leave the tassel to be received by every king. _CAP. LXX .-- How Guascar
was raised by the king in Cuzco, died after his padre._ As Guayna
Capac was dead and the fact that the weeping and feeling, but had
in Cuzco over forty of his sons, none attempted to out of obedience
Guascar, whom he knew belonged to the Kingdom, and although it was
understood that Guayna Training Command, which governed her uncle,
not someone Guascar advised to leave the tassel in public and sent
throughout the kingdom as king.

And as for the honor of Guayna capacity had come to Cuzco over the natural
lords of the provinces, could be the big celebration of his coronation
and presto known and understood, and so determined to do. Leaving the
government in the same city to whom his father had it, it came to making
the fast with their usual enforcement required. He left the tassel very
Galan, and hiciéronse great parties, and the plaza in pusiéronse Maroma
gold packages of the Incas, and according to custom them, spent a few
days of drinking and its areytos and finishes, new fuel to all
provinces and ordered the new king of what they had done, sent to
Quito Orejón certain, and that women trujesen his father and his
service.

Atahuallpa He understood how Guascar had left with the tassel, and how he
wanted give him all obedience, and were not from Quito or their masters
comarcas general Guayna Capac, and had secret talks about all that
was good seek for possible routes to them, to keep those lands
without Quito go to Cuzco to appeal Guascar, because he was so good
and the land where all were so good as in the Cuzco.

Some among them had weighed them, and said that it was not lawful fail
to recognize the great Inca, as was Lord of all. More Illa Tupac [221]
was not loyal to Guascar and Guayna Capac and asked him what he promised,
because they say he was in treatment and secret talks with Atahuallpa,
who among the sons of Capac Guayna showed more spirit and courage, caused
by his audacity and gear found, or what his father commanded, if it was
true that Quito is governed and its counties.

This spoke to the captains Calicuchima [222] and Aclagualpa [223],
Ruminahui [224], the Quizquiz, Zopozopanqui [225] and many others,
wanted on encouraging and assisting him to be Inca those parts, as
it was his brother of Cuzco, and they and Illa Tupac [226], a traitor
to his lord Guascar natural, therefore, left by Gov.

Having had to quel age, he refused and offered to favorescer á Atahuallpa,
which all had was the real by Lord, and were awarded the women of
her father, whom he received as his, which was great authority among
these people, and the service of his house and anything else I had,
was given to him by his hand ( _así_) be ordered around at will.

There are some, that some of the children of Guayna Capac, brothers
and Guascar Atahuallpa, Orejón with others, they fled to Cuzco, and
gave notice to dello Guascar and so he and the elders Orejón Cuzco, felt
what he had done Atahuallpa, by an ugly case, and had gone against God
and against the injunction and order of past kings. Stated that they
had not to suffer or consent to have the name of Inca bastard, before he
was punished for what he invented, which was by the favor of the
captains of the army and people of his father, and thus ordered
that Guascar warning everywhere and make weapons, and the deposits
are proveyesen with the necessary things, because he had to make
war on the treacherous, if not all together recognized by God.

And the ambassadors sent Kannada, striving in their friendship, and even
sent a Atahuallpa say Orejón to admonish him not to try to advance
his opinion, because it was so bad, and to talk Colleen Tupac [227]
her uncle, so we advise you to come to him.

And these things made, named for their captain general to major in
Cuzco, called ATOC [228]. _CAP. LXXI .-- How we began and the differences
between Guascar Atahuallpa, and gave each other big batallas._ got
was all over the kingdom of Piru Guascar how Inca era, and as such had
ordered and shipped and stored Orejón á the headwaters of the provinces
to provide that agreement. Was such a good brain and took both his own,
was that which prevailed, wanted to end them, and serious when he
began to reign, to which the Indians say, twenty five years, more
or less.

And having appointed their captain general ATOC, taking him to the people
who you think of places where to move, and mitimaes natural to Quito was
punishing the crowd with what he had tried his brother, and that land
tubiese for him. And these things the Indians have in many ways.
I always still the greatest reviews, and giving the older and
advised them, and they are gentlemen, for the Indians common in
everything we know, is not to be taken, because they claim for truth.
And so, some say, Atahuallpa as hobo determinádose not want to not
only give obidiencia his brother, who was king, but even claimed to have
the manor to himself for the way that he could, had, as I had, of turn
to the captains and soldiers of his father, came to the Kannada, where
he spoke with the gentlemen and the natural mitimaes, Colorado,
with reasons that he invented, his desire was not to harm her brother for
wanting only the benefits for if, but for all tenella by friends
and siblings and other Cuzco in Quito, where everyone is comfortable,
and because he had such a good heart, to make sure that they had
him for it, give rise Tomebamba that were made to the chamber and
drums, so that, as Lord and Inca, Holger could they with their
wives, as did his father and grandfather, and other words said on
this subject that were not heard as cheerfully as he thought, because
Messenger Guascar era had come and talked to Kannada and mitimaes
Guascar asked how the faith of friends, but wanted to deny his
fortune, and that this implored the favor of the sun and their gods,
not consented to Kannada consentidores to be as bad as his brother
attempted to exploit, and wept with desire to see Guascar, all
raising their hands and that he promised would keep loyalty.

And with this desire, Atahuallpa could not finish anything with them,
before claiming that the captain and Kannada mitimaes so on, with intent
to submit it to Guascar, but, putting it in a room Tambo, was released
and went to Quito, understand where you have become a snake by the
will of their God, able to escape from their enemies, so that all gear
is to start a war and publicly exposed, because that convention.
Captain Stubbard employed him for battery
uses, and finding his swing-shutters larger than those of Widow Shanks,
and more cheaply lit up by the glow of the forge, was now beginning, in
spite of her remonstrance, to post all his very big proclamations there.

"Rouse up your fire, Ketch," he said that evening, as he stood at the
door of the smithy, with half a dozen of his children at his heels.
"Bring a dozen clout-nails; here's a tremendous piece of news!"

The blacksmith made a blaze with a few strokes of his bellows, and swung
his shutter forward, so that all might read.

"GREAT AND GLORIOUS VICTORY. Twenty line-of-battle ships destroyed or
captured. Lord Nelson shot dead. God save the King!"

"Keep your fire up. I'll pay a shilling for the coal," cried the
Captain, in the flush of excitement. "Bring out your cow's horn, and
go and blow it at the corner. And that drum you had to mend, my boy and
girl will beat it. Jack, run up to the battery, and tell them to blaze
away for their very lives."

In less than five minutes all the village was there, with the readers
put foremost, all reading together at the top of their voices, for the
benefit of the rest. Behind them stood Polly Cheeseman, peeping, with
the glare of the fire on her sad pale face and the ruddy cheeks of her
infant. "Make way for Widow Carne, and the young Squire Carne," the loud
voice of Captain Zeb commanded; "any man as stands afront of her will
have me upon him. Now, ma'am, stand forth, and let them look at you."

This was a sudden thought of Captain Tugwell's; but it fixed her rank
among them, as the order of the King might. The strong sense of justice,
always ready in Springhaven, backed up her right to be what she
had believed herself, and would have been, but for foul deceit and
falsehood. And if the proud spirit of Carne ever wandered around the
ancestral property, it would have received in the next generation a
righteous shock at descrying in large letters, well picked out with
shade: "Caryl Carne, Grocer and Butterman, Cheese-monger, Dealer in
Bacon and Sausages. Licensed to sell Tea, Coffee, Snuff, Pepper, and
Tobacco."

For Cheeseman raised his head again, with the spirit of a true British
tradesman, as soon as the nightmare of traitorous plots and contraband
imports was over. Captain Tugwell on his behalf led the fishing fleet
against that renegade La Liberte, and casting the foreigners overboard,
they restored her integrity as the London Trader. Mr. Cheeseman shed a
tear, and put on a new apron, and entirely reformed his political views,
which had been loose and Whiggish. Uprightness of the most sensitive
order--that which has slipped and strained its tendons--stamped all
his dealings, even in the butter line; and facts having furnished a
creditable motive for his rash reliance upon his own cord, he turned
amid applause to the pleasant pastimes of a smug church-warden. And when
he was wafted to a still sublimer sphere, his grandson carried on the
business well.

Having spread the great news in this striking manner, Captain
Stubbard--though growing very bulky now with good living, ever since his
pay was doubled--set off at a conscientious pace against the stomach of
the hill, lest haply the Hall should feel aggrieved at hearing all
this noise and having to wonder what the reason was. He knew, and was
grateful at knowing, that Carne's black crime and devilish plot had
wrought an entire revulsion in the candid but naturally too soft mind
of the author of the Harmodiad. Sir Francis was still of a liberal mind,
and still admired his own works. But forgetting that nobody read them,
he feared the extensive harm they might produce, although he was now
resolved to write even better in the opposite direction. On the impulse
of literary conscience, he held a council with the gardener Swipes, as
to the best composition of bonfire for the consumption of poetry. Mr.
Swipes recommended dead pea-haulm, with the sticks left in it to
ensure a draught. Then the poet in the garden with a long bean-stick
administered fire to the whole edition, not only of the Harmodiad,
but also of the Theiodemos, his later and even grander work. Persons
incapable of lofty thought attributed this--the most sage and practical
of all forms of palinode--to no higher source than the pretty face and
figure, and sweet patriotism, of Lady Alice, the youngest sister of
Lord Dashville. And subsequent facts, to some extent, confirmed this
interpretation.

The old house looked gloomy and dull of brow, with only three windows
showing light, as stout Captain Stubbard, with his short sword swinging
from the bulky position where his waist had been, strode along the
winding of the hill towards the door. At a sharp corner, under some
trees, he came almost shoulder to shoulder with a tall man striking into
the road from a foot-path. The Captain drew his sword, for his nerves
had been flurried ever since the great explosion, which laid him on his
back among his own cannon.

"A friend," cried the other, "and a great admirer of your valour,
Captain, but not a worthy object for its display."

"My dear friend Shargeloes!" replied the Captain, a little ashamed of
his own vigilance. "How are you, my dear sir? and how is the system?"

"The system will never recover from the tricks that infernal Carne has
played with it. But never mind that, if the intellect survives; we all
owe a debt to our country. I have met you in the very nick of time.
Yesterday was Guy Fawkes' Day, and I wanted to be married then; but
the people were not ready. I intend to have it now on New-Year's Day,
because then I shall always remember the date. I am going up here to
make a strange request, and I want you to say that it is right and
proper. An opinion from a distinguished sailor will go a long way
with the daughters of an Admiral. I want the young ladies to be my
bridesmaids--and then for the little ones, your Maggy and your Kitty. I
am bound to go to London for a month to-morrow, and then I could order
all the bracelets and the brooches, if I were only certain who the
blessed four would be."

"I never had any bridesmaids myself, and I don't know anything about
them. I thought that the ladies were the people to settle that."

"The ladies are glad to be relieved of the expense, and I wish to start
well," replied Shargeloes. "Why are ninety-nine men out of a hundred
henpecked?"

"I am sure I don't know, except that they can't help it. But have you
heard the great news of this evening?"

"The reason is," continued the member of the Corporation, "that they
begin with being nobodies. They leave the whole management of their
weddings to the women, and they never recover the reins. Miss Twemlow
is one of the most charming of her sex; but she has a decided character,
which properly guided will be admirable. But to give it the lead at the
outset would be fatal to future happiness. Therefore I take this affair
upon myself. I pay for it all, and I mean to do it all."

"What things you do learn in London!" the Captain answered, with a sigh.
"Oh, if I had only had the money--but it is too late to talk of that.
Once more, have you heard the news?"

"About the great battle, and the death of Nelson? Yes, I heard of all
that this morning. But I left it to come in proper course from you. Now
here we are; mind you back me up. The Lord Mayor is coming to be my best
man."

The two sisters, dressed in the deepest mourning, and pale with long
sorrow and loneliness, looked wholly unfit for festive scenes; and as
soon as they heard of this new distress--the loss of their father's
dearest friend, and their own beloved hero--they left the room, to have
a good cry together, while their brother entertained the visitors. "It
can't be done now," Mr. Shargeloes confessed; "and after all, Eliza is
the proper person. I must leave that to her, but nothing else that I can
think of. There can't be much harm in my letting her do that."

It was done by a gentleman after all, for the worthy Rector did it. The
bride would liefer have dispensed with bridesmaids so much fairer than
herself, and although unable to advance that reason, found fifty others
against asking them. But her father had set his mind upon it, and
together with his wife so pressed the matter that Faith and Dolly, much
against their will, consented to come out of mourning for a day, but not
into gay habiliments.

The bride was attired wonderfully, stunningly, carnageously--as Johnny,
just gifted with his commission, and thereby with much slang, described
her; and in truth she carried her bunting well, as Captain Stubbard told
his wife, and Captain Tugwell confirmed it. But the eyes of everybody
with half an eye followed the two forms in silver-grey. That was the
nearest approach to brightness those lovers of their father allowed
themselves, within five months of his tragic death; though if the old
Admiral could have looked down from the main-top, probably he would have
shouted, "No flags at half-mast for me, my pets!"

Two young men with melancholy glances followed these fair bridesmaids,
being tantalized by these nuptial rites, because they knew no better.
One of them hoped that his time would come, when he had pushed his great
discovery; and if the art of photography had been known, his face would
have been his fortune. For he bore at the very top of it the seal and
stamp of his patent--the manifest impact of a bullet, diffracted by the
power of Pong. The roots of his hair--the terminus of blushes, according
to all good novelists--had served an even more useful purpose, by
enabling him to blush again. Strengthened by Pong, they had defied the
lead, and deflected it into a shallow channel, already beginning to
be overgrown by the aid of that same potent drug. Erle Twemlow looked
little the worse for his wound; to a lady perhaps, to a man of science
certainly, more interesting than he had been before. As he gazed at the
bride all bespangled with gold, he felt that he had in his trunk the
means of bespangling his bride with diamonds. But the worst of it was
that he must wait, and fight, and perhaps get killed, before he could
settle in life and make his fortune. As an officer of a marching
regiment, ordered to rejoin immediately, he must flesh his sword in
lather first--for he had found no razor strong enough--and postpone the
day of riches till the golden date of peace.

The other young man had no solace of wealth, even in the blue distance,
to whisper to his troubled heart. Although he was a real "Captain
Scuddy" now, being posted to the Danae, 42-gun frigate, the capacity of
his cocked hat would be tried by no shower of gold impending. For mighty
dread of the Union-jack had fallen upon the tricolor; that gallant flag
perceived at last that its proper flight was upon dry land, where as yet
there was none to flout it. Trafalgar had reduced by 50 per cent. the
British sailor's chance of prize-money.

Such computations were not, however, the chief distress of Scudamore.
The happiness of his fair round face was less pronounced than usual,
because he had vainly striven for an interview with his loved one. With
all her faults he loved her still, and longed to make them all his own.
He could not help being sadly shocked by her fatal coquetry with the
traitor Carne, and slippery conduct to his own poor self. But love in
his faithful heart maintained that she had already atoned for that
too bitterly and too deeply; and the settled sorrow of her face, and
listless submission of her movements, showed that she was now a very
different Dolly. Faith, who had always been grave enough, seemed gaiety
itself in comparison with her younger sister, once so gay. In their
simple dresses--grey jaconet muslin, sparely trimmed with lavender--and
wearing no jewel or ornament, but a single snow-drop in the breast, the
lovely bridesmaids looked as if they defied all the world to make them
brides.

But the Rector would not let them off from coming to the breakfast
party, and with the well-bred sense of fitness they obeyed his bidding.
Captain Stubbard (whose jokes had missed fire too often to be satisfied
with a small touch-hole now) was broadly facetious at their expense;
and Johnny, returning thanks for them, surprised the good company by his
manly tone, and contempt of life before beginning it. This invigorated
Scudamore, by renewing his faith in human nature as a thing beyond
calculation. He whispered a word or so to his friend Johnny while Mr.
and Mrs. Shargeloes were bowing farewell from the windows of a great
family coach from London, which the Lord Mayor had lent them, to make
up for not coming. For come he could not--though he longed to do so, and
all Springhaven expected him--on account of the great preparations in
hand for the funeral of Lord Nelson.

"Thy servant will see to it," the boy replied, with a wink at his
sisters, whom he was to lead home; for Sir Francis had made his way down
to the beach, to meditate his new poem, Theriodemos.

"His behaviour," thought Dolly, as she put on her cloak, "has been
perfect. How thankful I feel for it! He never cast one glance at me. He
quite enters into my feelings towards him. But how much more credit to
his mind than to his heart!"

Scudamore, at a wary distance, kept his eyes upon her, as if she had
been a French frigate gliding under strong land batteries, from which
he must try to cut her out. Presently he saw that his good friend Johnny
had done him the service requested. At a fork of the path leading to the
Hall, Miss Dolly departed towards the left upon some errand among
the trees, while her brother and sister went on towards the house.
Forgetting the dignity of a Post-Captain, the gallant Scuddy made a cut
across the grass, as if he were playing prisoner's base with the boys
at Stonnington, and intercepted the fair prize in a bend of the brook,
where the winter sun was nursing the first primrose.

"You, Captain Scudamore!" said the bridesmaid, turning as if she could
never trust her eyes again. "You must have lost your way. This path
leads nowhere."

"If it only leads to you, that is all that I could wish for. I am
content to go to nothing, if I may only go with you."

"My brother sent me," said Dolly, looking down, with more colour on her
cheeks than they had owned for months, and the snow-drop quivering on
her breast, "to search for a primrose or two for him to wear when he
dines at the rectory this evening. We shall not go, of course. We have
done enough. But Frank and Johnny think they ought to go."

"May I help you to look? I am lucky in that way. I used to find so many
things with you, in the happy times that used to be." Blyth saw that her
eyelids were quivering with tears. "I will go away, if you would rather
have it so. But you used to be so good-natured to me."

"So I am still. Or at least I mean that people should now be
good-natured to me. Oh, Captain Scudamore, how foolish I have been!"

"Don't say so, don't think it, don't believe it for a moment," said
Scudamore, scarcely knowing what he said, as she burst into a storm of
sobbing. "Oh, Dolly, Dolly, you know you meant no harm. You are breaking
your darling heart, when you don't deserve it. I could not bear to look
at you, and think of it, this morning. Everybody loves you still, as
much and more than ever. Oh, Dolly, I would rather die than see you cry
so terribly."

"Nobody loves me, and I hate myself. I could never have believed I
should ever hate myself. Go away, you are too good to be near me. Go
away, or I shall think you want to kill me. And I wish you would do it,
Captain Scudamore."

"Then let me stop," said the Captain, very softly. She smiled at the
turn of his logic, through her tears. Then she wept with new anguish,
that she had no right to smile.

"Only tell me one thing--may I hold you? Not of course from any right to
do it, but because you are so overcome, my own, own Dolly." The Captain
very cleverly put one arm round her, at first with a very light touch,
and then with a firmer clasp, as she did not draw away. Her cloak was
not very cumbrous, and her tumultuous heart was but a little way from
his.

"You know that I never could help loving you," he whispered, as she
seemed to wonder what the meaning was. "May I ever hope that you will
like me?"

"Me! How can it matter now to anybody? Chapter (How it goes on and the
summer) when the old Trine with the report on the hillside back that
Wiselis mother and the child died just from his godfather had been
brought there arose a great uproar in the house.Instead of seeking for any more flowers, she was taking from her breast
the one she had--the snow-drop, and threatening to tear it in pieces.

"If you give it to me, I shall have some hope." As he spoke, he looked
at her steadfastly, without any shyness or fear in his eyes, but as one
who knows his own good heart, and has a right to be answered clearly.
Gestoso, in his interesting article on _The sale of slaves in Sevilla_,
apud _Curiosidades old sevillanas_ (Seville, 1910), pp. 83 and
following, review documents that there are some references to this
mark.

And I feel as if I could
never bear to be forgiven for it."

"They are stronger," said this so convincingly that this statement is
probably the Franz Anton einleuchtete. Only now that the boys could
quite see. This was before the wide, wide Franz Anton as a thin
Stöcklein before a high fir.Certain it is that when the Rector held his dinner party, two gallant
bosoms throbbed beneath the emblem of purity and content. The military
Captain's snow-drop hung where every one might observe it, and some
gentle-witted jokes were made about its whereabouts that morning.
By-and-by it grew weary on its stalk and fell, and Erle Twemlow never
missed it. But the other snow-drop was not seen, except by the wearer
with a stolen glance, when people were making a loyal noise--a little
glance stolen at his own heart. The scandal took its progress. And
staying on the track, finally I alone! "A few days later came to us
vultures. The first number of the new company was just in a hundred
thousand copies have been distributed. "I must talk with you, Comrade
Brandt," he said after a quick greeting.

"They have, far from Dresden, hopefully as much consideration keeps
cool to reason rather than to your husband" And then he set me
apart, what he believes should happen.
We have passed through a period of dark peril, a long time
of trouble and anxiety and doubt. By the mercy of the Lord, we have
escaped; but with losses that have emptied our poor hearts. England has
lost her two foremost defenders, Lord Nelson, and Admiral Darling. To
them we owe it that we are now beginning the New Year happily, with the
blessing of Heaven, and my dear daughter married. Next week we shall
attend the grand funeral of the hero, and obtain good places by due
influence. And then in coming, was received without resistance, and appointed
in accordance with, the main town, the second brother Huanca Cuzco,
which was named because this seat Cuzco, principal and head as a thing
of the kingdom, which was previously called Acamama .With the spirit of Britons we echo the last
words that fell from the lips of our dying hero--'Thank God, I have
done my duty!' His memory shall abide for ever, because he loved his
country."

The company rose, laid hand on heart, and deeply bowing, said--"Amen!"

THE END.