Produced by David Starner, Bill Flis
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


                     PEEPS AT MANY LANDS

                           JAPAN

                             BY

                       JOHN FINNEMORE


          WITH TWELVE FULL-PAGE ILLUSTRATIONS IN COLOUR

                             BY

                        ELLA DU CANE


CONTENTS


CHAPTER

    I. THE LAND OF THE RISING SUN

   II. BOYS AND GIRLS IN JAPAN

  III. BOYS AND GIRLS IN JAPAN (_continued_)

   IV. THE JAPANESE BOY

    V. THE JAPANESE GIRL

   VI. IN THE HOUSE

  VII. IN THE HOUSE (_continued_)

 VIII. A JAPANESE DAY

   IX. A JAPANESE DAY (_continued_)

    X. JAPANESE GAMES

   XI. THE FEAST OF DOLLS AND THE FEAST OF FLAGS

  XII. A FARTHING'S WORTH OF FUN

 XIII. KITE-FLYING

  XIV. FAIRY STORIES

   XV. TEA-HOUSES AND TEMPLES

  XVI. TEA-HOUSES AND TEMPLES (_continued_)

 XVII. THE RICKSHAW-MAN

XVIII. IN THE COUNTRY

  XIX. IN THE COUNTRY (_continued_)

   XX. THE POLICEMAN AND THE SOLDIER

  XXI. TWO GREAT FESTIVALS


LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

BY ELLA DU CANE


OUTSIDE A TEA-HOUSE

_Sketch-Map of Japan_

THE LITTLE NURSE

THE WRITING LESSON

GOING TO THE TEMPLE

A JAPANESE HOUSE

OFFERING TEA TO A GUEST

FIGHTING TOPS

THE TOY SHOP

A BUDDHIST SHRINE

PEACH TREES IN BLOSSOM

THE FEAST OF FLAGS

THE TORII OF THE TEMPLE


CHAPTER I

THE LAND OF THE RISING SUN


Far away from our land, on the other side of the world, lies a group of
islands which form the kingdom of Japan. The word "Japan" means the "Land
of the Rising Sun," and it is certainly a good name for a country of the
Far East, the land of sunrise.

The flag of Japan, too, is painted with a rising sun which sheds its beams
on every hand, and this flag is now for ever famous, so great and wonderful
have been the victories in which it has been borne triumphant over Russian
arms.

In some ways the Japanese are fond of comparing themselves with their
English friends and allies. They point out that Japan is a cluster of
islands off the coast of Asia, as Britain is a cluster of islands off the
coast of Europe. They have proved themselves, like the English, brave and
clever on the sea, while their troops have fought as nobly as British
soldiers on the land. They are fond of calling themselves the "English of
the East," and say that their land is the "Britain of the Pacific."

The rise of Japan in becoming one of the Great Powers of the world has been
very sudden and wonderful. Fifty years ago Japan lay hidden from the world;
she forbade strangers to visit the country, and very little was known of
her people and her customs.

Her navy then consisted of a few wooden junks; to-day she has a fleet of
splendid ironclads, handled by men who know their duties as well as English
seamen. Her army consisted of troops armed with two swords and carrying
bows and arrows; to-day her troops are the admiration of the world, armed
with the most modern weapons, and, as foes, to be dreaded by the most
powerful nations.

Fifty years ago Japan was in the purely feudal stage. Her great native
Princes were called Daimios. Each had a strong castle and a private army
of his own. There were ceaseless feuds between these Princes and constant
fighting between their armies of samurai, as their followers were called.
Japan was like England at the time of our War of the Roses: family quarrels
were fought out in pitched battle. All that has now gone. The Daimios have
become private gentlemen; the armies of samurai have been disbanded, and
Japan is ruled and managed just like a European country, with judges, and
policemen, and law-courts, after the model of Western lands.

When the Japanese decided to come out and take their place among the great
nations of the world, they did not adopt any half-measures; they simply
came out once and for all. They threw themselves into the stream of modern
inventions and movements with a will. They have built railways and set up
telegraph and telephone lines. They have erected banks and warehouses,
mills and factories. They have built bridges and improved roads. They have
law-courts and a Parliament, to which the members are elected by the
people, and newspapers flourish everywhere.

Japan is a very beautiful country. It is full of fine mountains, with
rivers leaping down the steep slopes and dashing over the rocks in snowy
waterfalls. At the foot of the hills are rich plains and valleys, well
watered by the streams which rush down from the hills. But the mountains
are so many and the plains are so few that only a small part of the land
can be used for growing crops, and this makes Japan poor. Its climate is
not unlike ours in Great Britain, but the summer is hotter, and the winter
is in some parts very cold. Many of the mountains are volcanoes. Some of
these are still active, and earthquakes often take place. Sometimes these
earthquakes do terrible harm. The great earthquake of 1871 killed 10,000
people, injured 20,000, and destroyed 130,000 houses.

The highest mountain of Japan also is the most beautiful, and it is greatly
beloved by the Japanese, who regard it as a sacred height. Its name is
Fujisan, or Fusi-Yama, and it stands near the sea and the capital city
of Tokyo. It is of most beautiful shape, an almost perfect cone, and it
springs nearly 13,000 feet into the air. From the sea it forms a most
superb and majestic sight. Long before a glimpse can be caught of the shore
and the city, the traveller sees the lofty peak, crowned with a glittering
crest of snow, rising in lonely majesty, with no hint of the land on which
it rests. The Japanese have a great love of natural beauty, and they adore
Fujisan. Their artists are never tired of painting it, and pictures of it
are to be found in the most distant parts of the land.


CHAPTER II

BOYS AND GIRLS IN JAPAN


In no country in the world do children have a happier childhood than in
Japan. Their parents are devoted to them, and the children are always good.
This seems a great deal to say, but it is quite true. Japanese boys and
girls behave as quietly and with as much composure as grown-up men and
women. From the first moment that it can understand anything, a Japanese
baby is taught to control its feelings. If it is in pain or sad, it is not
to cry or to pull an ugly face; that would not be nice for other people to
hear or see. If it is very merry or happy, it is not to laugh too loudly or
to make too much noise; that would be vulgar. So the Japanese boy or girl
grows up very quiet, very gentle, and very polite, with a smile for
everything and everybody.

While they are little they have plenty of play and fun when they are not in
school. In both towns and villages the streets are the playground, and here
they play ball, or battledore and shuttlecock, or fly kites.

Almost every little girl has a baby brother or sister strapped on her back,
for babies are never carried in the arms in Japan except by the nurses of
very wealthy people. The baby is fastened on its mother's or its sister's
shoulders by a shawl, and that serves it for both cot and cradle. The
little girl does not lose a single scrap of her play because of the baby.
She runs here and there, striking with her battledore, or racing after her
friends, and the baby swings to and fro on her shoulders, its little head
wobbling from side to side as if it were going to tumble off. But it is
perfectly content, and either watches the game with its sharp little black
eyes, or goes calmly off to sleep.

In the form of their dress both boys and girls appear alike, and, more than
that, they are dressed exactly like their parents. There is no child's
dress in Japan. The garments are smaller, to fit the small wearers--that is
all.

The main article of dress is a loose gown, called a kimono. Under the outer
kimono is an inner kimono, and the garments are girt about the body with a
large sash, called an obi. The obi is the pride of a Japanese girl's heart.
If her parents are rich, it will be of shining costly silk or rich brocade
or cloth of gold; if her parents are poor, they will make an effort to get
her one as handsome as their means will allow. Next to her obi, she prides
herself on the ornaments which decorate her black hair--fine hairpins,
with heads of tortoiseshell or coral or lacquer, and hair-combs, all most
beautifully carved.

A boy's obi is more for practical use, and is not of such splendour as
his sister's. When he is very small, his clothes are of yellow, while his
sister's are of red. At the age of five he puts on the hakama, and then he
is a very proud boy. The hakama is a kind of trousers made of silk, and is
worn by men instead of an under-kimono. At five years old a boy is taken
to the temple to thank the gods who have protected him thus far; and as he
struts along, and hears with joy his hakama rustling its stiff new silk
beneath his kimono, he feels himself a man indeed, and that his babyhood of
yesterday is left far behind.

Upon the feet are worn the tabi--thick white socks, which may be called
foot-gloves, for there are separate divisions for the toes.

These serve both as stockings outside the house and slippers inside, for no
boots are worn in a Japanese house. When a Japanese walks out, he slips his
feet into high wooden clogs, and when he comes home he kicks off the clogs
at the door, and enters his home in tabi alone. The reason for this we
shall hear later on. In Japanese clothes there are no pockets. Whatever
they need to carry with them is tucked into the sash or into the sleeves of
the kimono. The latter are often very long, and afford ample room for the
odds and ends one usually carries in the pocket.

But fine kimonos and rich obis are for the wealthy Japanese; the poor
cannot afford them, and dress very simply. The coolie--the Japanese working
man--goes almost naked in the warm weather, wearing only a pair of short
cotton trousers, until he catches sight of a policeman, when he slips on
his blue cotton coat, for the police have orders to see that he dresses
himself properly. His wife wears a cotton kimono, and the pair of them can
dress themselves handsomely--for coolies--from head to foot for a sum of 45
sen, which, taking the sen at a halfpenny, amounts to 1 S. 10-1/2d. in our
money.


CHAPTER III

BOYS AND GIRLS IN JAPAN (_continued_)


When Japanese boys and girls go to school, they make very low bows to their
teacher and draw in the breath with a buzzing sound. This is a sign of deep
respect, and the teacher returns their politeness by making low bows to
them. Then the children sit down and begin to learn their lessons.

Their books are very odd-looking affairs to us. Not only are they printed
in very large characters, but they seem quite upside down. To find the
first page you turn to the end of the book, and you read it backwards
to the front page. Again, you do not read from left to right, as in our
fashion, but from right to left. Nor is this all: for the lines do not run
across the page, but up and down. Altogether, a Japanese book is at first
a very puzzling affair. When the writing lesson comes, the children have
no pens; they use brushes instead. They dip their brushes in the ink, and
paint the words one under the other, beginning at the top right-hand corner
and finishing at the bottom left-hand corner. If they have an address to
write on an envelope, they turn that upside down and begin with the name
of the country and finish with the name of the person--England, London,
Kensington Gardens, Brown John Mr.

But Japanese children have quite as many things to learn at home as at
school. At school they learn arithmetic, geography, history, and so on,
just as children do in England, but their manners and their conduct towards
other people are carefully drilled into them by their parents. The art of
behaving yourself towards others is by no means an easy thing to learn
in Japan. It is not merely a matter of good-feeling, gentleness, and
politeness, as we understand it, but there is a whole complicated system
of behaviour: how many bows to make, and how they should be made. There
are different forms of salutation to superiors, equals, and inferiors.
Different ranks of life have their own ways of performing certain actions,
and it is said that a girl's rank may easily be known merely by the way
in which she hands a cup of tea to a guest. From the earliest years the
children are trained in these observances, and they never make a mistake.

The Japanese baby is taught how to walk, how to bow, how to kneel and
touch the floor with its forehead in the presence of a superior, and how
to get up again; and all is done in the most graceful manner and without
disturbing a single fold in its kimono.

A child is taught very carefully how to wait on people, how to enter the
room, how to carry a tray or bowl at the right height, and, above all, how
to offer a cup or plate in the most dainty and correct style. One writer
speaks of going into a Japanese shop to buy some articles he wanted. The
master, the mistress, the children, all bent down before him. There was
a two-year-old baby boy asleep on his sister's back, and he, too, was
awakened and called upon to pay his respects to the foreign gentleman. He
woke without a start or a cry, understood at once what was required of him,
was set on his feet, and then proceeded to make his bows and to touch the
ground with his little forehead, just as exactly as his elder relatives.
This done, he was restored once more to the shawl, and was asleep again in
a moment.

The art of arranging flowers and ornaments is another important branch of a
girl's home education. Everything in a Japanese room is carefully arranged
so that it shall be in harmony with its surroundings. The arrangement of
a bunch of flowers in a fine porcelain jar is a matter of much thought
and care. Children are trained how to arrange blossoms and boughs so that
the most beautiful effect may be gained, and in many Japanese houses may
be found books which contain rules and diagrams intended to help them in
gaining this power of skilful arrangement. This feeling for taste and
beauty is common to all Japanese, even the poorest. A well-known artist
says: "Perhaps, however, one of the most curious experiences I had of the
native artistic instinct of Japan occurred in this way: I had got a number
of fan-holders, and was busying myself one afternoon arranging them upon
the walls. My little Japanese servant-boy was in the room, and as I went
on with my work I caught an expression on his face from time to time which
showed me that he was not overpleased with my performance. After a while,
as this dissatisfied expression seemed to deepen, I asked him what the
matter was. Then he frankly confessed that he did not like the way in which
I was arranging my fan-holders. 'Why did you not tell me so at once?' I
asked. 'You are an artist from England,' he replied, 'and it was not for
me to speak.' However, I persuaded him to arrange the fan-holders himself
after his own taste, and I must say that I received a remarkable lesson.
The task took him about two hours--placing, arranging, adjusting; and when
he had finished, the result was simply beautiful. That wall was a perfect
picture: every fan-holder seemed to be exactly in its right place, and it
looked as if the alteration of a single one would affect and disintegrate
the whole scheme. I accepted the lesson with due humility, and remained
more than ever convinced that the Japanese are what they have justly
claimed to be--an essentially artistic people, instinct with living art."


CHAPTER IV

THE JAPANESE BOY


A Japanese boy is the monarch of the household. Japan is thoroughly Eastern
in the position which it gives to women. The boy, and afterwards the man,
holds absolute rule over sister or wife. It is true that the upper classes
in Japan are beginning to take a wider view of such matters. Women of
wealthy families are well educated, wear Western dress, and copy Western
manners. They sit at table with their husbands, enter a room or a carriage
before them, and are treated as English women are treated by English men.
But in the middle and lower classes the old state of affairs still remains:
the woman is a servant pure and simple. It is said that even among the
greatest families the old customs are still observed in private. The great
lady who is treated in her Western dress just as her Western sister is
treated takes pride in waiting on her husband when they return to kimono
and obi, just as her grandmother did.

The importance of the male in Japan arises from the religious customs of
the country. The chief of the latter is ancestor-worship. The ancestors
of a family form its household gods; but only the male ancestors are
worshipped: no offerings are ever laid on the shelf of the household gods
before an ancestress. Property, too, passes chiefly in the male line, and
every Japanese father is eager to have a son who shall continue the worship
of his ancestors, and to whom his property may descend.

Thus, the birth of a son is received with great joy in a Japanese
household; though, on the other hand, we must not think that a girl is
ill-treated, or even destroyed, as sometimes happens in China. Not at
all; she is loved and petted just as much as her brother, but she is
not regarded as so important to the family line.

At the age of three the Japanese boy is taken to the temple to give thanks
to the gods. Again, at the age of five, he goes to the temple, once more to
return thanks. Now he is wearing the hakama, the manly garment, and begins
to feel himself quite a man. From this age onwards the Japanese boy among
the wealthier classes is kept busily at work in school until he is ready to
go to the University, but among the poorer classes he often begins to work
for his living.

The clever work executed by most tiny children is a matter of wonder and
surprise to all European travellers. Little boys are found binding books,
making paper lanterns and painting them, making porcelain cups, winding
grass ropes which are hung along the house-fronts for the first week of the
year to prevent evil spirits from entering, weaving mats to spread over the
floors, and at a hundred other occupations. It is very amusing to watch
the practice of the little boys who are going to be dentists. In Japan the
dentist of the people fetches out an aching tooth with thumb and finger,
and will pluck it out as surely as any tool can do the work, so his pupils
learn their trade by trying to pull nails out of a board. They begin with
tin-tacks, and go on until they can, with thumb and finger, pluck out a
nail firmly driven into the wood.

Luckily for them, they often get a holiday. The Japanese have many
festivals, when parents and children drop their work to go to some famous
garden or temple for a day's pleasure. Then there is the great boys'
festival, the Feast of Flags, held on the fifth day of the fifth month. Of
this festival we shall speak again.

Every Japanese boy is taught that he owes the strictest duty to his parents
and to his Emperor. These duties come before all others in Japanese eyes.
Whatever else he may neglect, he never forgets these obligations. From
infancy he is familiar with stories in which children are represented as
doing the most extraordinary things and undergoing the greatest hardships
in order to serve their parents. There is one famous old book called
"Twenty-four Paragons of Filial Virtue." It gives instances of the doings
of good sons, and is very popular in every Japanese household.

Professor Chamberlain, the great authority on Japan, quotes some of these
instances, and they seem to us rather absurd. He says: "One of the paragons
had a cruel stepmother who was very fond of fish. Never grumbling at her
harsh treatment of him, he lay down naked on the frozen surface of the
lake. The warmth of his body melted a hole in the ice, at which two carp
came up to breathe. These he caught and set before his stepmother. Another
paragon, though of tender years and having a delicate skin, insisted on
sleeping uncovered at night, in order that the mosquitoes should fasten on
him alone, and allow his parents to slumber undisturbed.

"A third, who was very poor, determined to bury his own child alive in
order to have more food wherewith to support his aged mother, but was
rewarded by Heaven with the discovery of a vessel filled with gold, off
which the whole family lived happily ever after. But the drollest of all
is the story of Roraishi. This paragon, though seventy years old, used to
dress in baby's clothes and sprawl about upon the floor. His object was to
delude his parents, who were really over ninety years of age, into the idea
that they could not be so very old, after all, seeing that they still had
such a childlike son."

His duty to his Emperor the Japanese takes very seriously, for it includes
his duty to his country. He considers that his life belongs to his country,
and he is not only willing, but proud, to give it in her defence. This was
seen to the full in the late war with Russia. Time and again a Japanese
regiment was ordered to go to certain death. Not a man questioned the
order, not a man dreamed for an instant of disobedience. Forward went the
line, until every man had been smitten down, and the last brave throat had
shouted its last shrill "Banzai!" This was the result of teaching every boy
in Japan that the most glorious thing that can happen to him is to die for
his Emperor and his native land.


CHAPTER V

THE JAPANESE GIRL


The word "obedience" has a large part in the life of a Japanese boy; it
is the whole life of a Japanese girl. From her babyhood she is taught the
duty of obeying some one or other among her relations. There is an old book
studied in every Japanese household and learned by heart by every Japanese
girl, called "Onra-Dai-Gaku"--that is, the "Greater Learning for Women." It
is a code of morals for girls and women, and it starts by saying that every
woman owes three obediences: first, while unmarried, to her father; second,
when married, to her husband and the elders of his family; third, when a
widow, to her son.

Up to the age of three the Japanese girl baby has her head shaved in
various fancy patterns, but after three years old the hair is allowed to
grow to its natural length. Up to the age of seven she wears a narrow obi
of soft silk, the sash of infancy; but at seven years old she puts on the
stiff wide obi, tied with a huge bow, and her dress from that moment is
womanly in every detail. She is now a musume, or moosme, the Japanese girl,
one of the merriest, brightest little creatures in the world. She is never
big, for when at her full height she will be about four feet eight inches
tall, and a Japanese woman of five feet high is a giantess.

This is her time to wear gay, bright colours, for as a married woman she
must dress very soberly. A party of moosmes tripping along to a feast or a
fair looks like a bed of brilliant flowers set in motion. They wear kimonos
of rich silks and bright shades, kimonos of vermilion and gold, of pink,
of blue, of white, decorated with lovely designs of apple-blossom, of silk
crape in luminous greens and golden browns, every shade of the rainbow
being employed, but all in harmony and perfect taste. If a shower comes on
and they tuck up their gaily-coloured and embroidered kimonos, they look
like a bed of poppies, for each shows a glowing scarlet under-kimono, or
petticoat.

Not only is this the time for the Japanese girl to be gaily dressed, but it
is her time to visit fairs and temples, and to enjoy the gaieties which may
fall in her way: for when she marries, the gates which lead to the ways of
pleasure are closed against her for a long time. The duties of a Japanese
wife keep her strictly at home, until the golden day dawns when her son
marries and she has a daughter-in-law upon whom she may thrust all the
cares of the household. Then once more she can go to temples and theatres,
fairs and festivals, while another drudges in her stead.

Marriage is early in Japan. A girl marries at sixteen or seventeen, and to
be unmarried at twenty is accounted a great misfortune. At marriage she
completely severs herself from her own relations, and joins her husband's
household. This is shown in a very striking fashion by the bride wearing
a white kimono, the colour of mourning; and more, when she has left her
father's house, fires of purification are lighted, just as if a dead body
had been borne to the grave. This is to signify that henceforward the bride
is dead to her old home, and her whole life must now be spent in the
service of her husband and his relations.

The wedding rites are very simple. There is no public function, as in
England, and no religious ceremony; the chief feature is that the bride
and bridegroom drink three times in turn from three cups, each cup having
two spouts. These cups are filled with saké, the national strong drink of
Japan, a kind of beer made from rice. This drinking is supposed to typify
that henceforth they will share each other's joys and sorrows, and this
sipping of saké constitutes the marriage ceremony.

The young wife now must bid farewell to her fine clothes and her
merry-making. She wears garments of a soft dove colour, or greys or fawns,
quiet shades, but often of great charm. She has now to rise first in the
morning, to open the shutters which have closed the house for the night,
for this is a duty she may not leave to the servants. If her husband's
father and mother dwell in the same house, she must consider it an honour
to supply all their wants, and she is expected to become a perfect slave
to her mother-in-law. It is not uncommon for a meek little wife, who has
obeyed every one, to become a perfect tyrant as a mother-in-law, ordering
her son's wife right and left, and making the younger woman's life a sheer
misery. The mother-in-law has escaped from the land of bondage. It is no
longer her duty to rise at dawn and open the house; she can lie in bed, and
be waited upon by the young wife; she is free to go here and there, and she
does not let her chances slip; she begins once more to thoroughly enjoy
life.

It may be doubted, however, whether these conditions will hold their own
against the flood of Western customs and Western views which has begun to
flow into Japan. At present the deeply-seated ideas which rule home-life
are but little shaken in the main, but it is very likely that the modern
Japanese girl will revolt against this spending of the best years of her
life as an upper and unpaid servant to her husband's friends and relations.
But at the present moment, for great sections of Japanese society, the old
ways still stand, and stand firmly.

It was formerly the custom for a woman to make herself as ugly as possible
when she was married. This was to show that she wished to draw no attention
from anyone outside her own home. As a rule she blackened her teeth, which
gave her a hideous appearance when she smiled. This custom is now dying
out, though plenty of women with blackened teeth are still to be seen.

Should a Japanese wife become a widow, she is expected to show her grief
by her desolate appearance. She shaves her head, and wears garments of the
most mournful look. It has been said that a Japanese girl has the look of a
bird of Paradise, the Japanese wife of a dove, and the Japanese widow of a
crow.


CHAPTER VI

IN THE HOUSE


A Japanese house is one of the simplest buildings in the world. Its main
features are the roof of tiles or thatch, and the posts which support the
latter. By day the walls are of oiled paper; by night they are formed of
wooden shutters, neither very thick nor very strong. As a rule, the house
is of but one story, and its flimsiness comes from two reasons, both very
good ones.

The first is that Japan is a home of earthquakes, and when an earthquake
starts to rock the land and topple the houses about the peoples' ears, then
a tall, strong house of stone or brick would be both dangerous in its fall
and very expensive to put up again. The second is that Japan is a land of
fires. The people are very careless. They use cheap lamps and still cheaper
petroleum. A lamp explodes or gets knocked over; the oiled paper walls
burst into a blaze; the blaze spreads right and left, and sweeps away a
few streets, or a suburb of a city, or a whole village. The Jap takes this
very calmly. He gets a few posts, puts the same tiles up again for a roof,
or makes a new thatch, and, with a few paper screens and shutters, there
stands his house again.

A house among the poorer sort of Japanese consists of one large room in the
daytime. At night it is formed into as many bedrooms as its owner requires.
Along the floor, which is raised about a foot from the ground, and along
the roof run a number of grooves, lengthways and crossways. Frames covered
with paper, called shoji, slide along these grooves and form the wall
between chamber and chamber. The front of the house is, as a rule, open to
the street, but if the owners wish for privacy they slide a paper screen
into position. At night wooden shutters, called amado, cover the screens.
Each shutter is held in place by the next, and the last shutter is fastened
by a wooden bolt.

The Japanese are very fond of fresh air and sunshine. Unless the day is too
wet or stormy, the front of the house always stands open. If the sun is
too strong a curtain is hung across for shade, and very often this curtain
bears a huge white symbol representing his name, just as an Englishman puts
his name on a brass plate on his front-door. The furniture in these houses
is very simple. The floor is covered with thick mats, which serve for
chairs and bed, as people both sit and sleep on them. For table a low stool
suffices, and for a young couple to set up housekeeping in Japan is a very
simple matter. As Mrs. Bishop, the well-known writer, remarks:

"Among the strong reasons for deprecating the adoption of foreign houses,
furniture, and modes of living by the Japanese, is that the expense
of living would be so largely, increased as to render early marriages
impossible. At present the requirements of a young couple in the poorer
classes are: a bare matted room (capable or not of division), two wooden
pillows, a few cotton futons (quilts), and a sliding panel, behind which
to conceal them in the daytime, a wooden rice bucket and ladle, a wooden
wash-bowl, an iron kettle, a hibachi (warming and cooking stove), a tray
or two, a teapot or two, two lacquer rice-bowls, a dinner box, a few china
cups, a few towels, a bamboo switch for sweeping, a tabako-bon (apparatus
for tobacco-smoking), an iron pot, and a few shelves let into a recess, all
of which can be purchased for something under £2."

These young people would, however, have everything quite comfortable about
them, and housekeeping can be set up at a still lower figure, if necessary.
Excellent authorities say, and give particulars to prove, that a coolie
household may be established in full running order for 5-1/2 yen--that is,
somewhere about a sovereign.

In better-class houses the same simplicity prevails, though the building
may be of costly materials, with posts and ceilings of ebony inlaid with
gold, and floors of rare polished woods. The screens (shoji) still separate
the rooms; the shutters (amado) enclose it at night. There are neither
doors nor passages. When you wish to pass from one room to the next you
slide back one of the shoji, and shut it after you. So you go from room
to room until you reach the one of which you are in search. The shoji are
often beautifully painted, and in each room is hung a kakemono (a wall
picture, a painting finely executed on a strip of silk). A favourite
subject is a branch of blossoming cherry, and this, painted upon white
silk, gives an effect of wonderful freshness and beauty.

There is no chimney, for a Japanese house knows nothing of a fireplace. The
simple cooking is done over a stove burning charcoal, the fumes of which
wander through the house and disperse through the hundred openings afforded
by the loosely-fitting paper walls. To keep warm in cold weather the
Japanese hug to themselves and hang over smaller stoves, called hibachi,
metal vessels containing a handful of smouldering charcoal.

In the rooms there are neither tables nor chairs. The floor is covered
with most beautiful mats, as white as snow and as soft as a cushion, for
they are often a couple of inches thick. They are woven of fine straw,
and on these the Japanese sit, with their feet tucked away under them.
At dinner-time small, low tables are brought in, and when the meal is
finished, the tables are taken away again. Chairs are never used, and the
Japanese who wishes to follow Western ways has to practise carefully how to
sit on a chair, just as we should have to practise how to sit on our feet
as he does at home.

When bedtime comes, there is no change of room. The sitting-room by day
becomes the bedroom by night. A couple of wooden pillows and some quilts
are fetched from a cupboard; the quilts are spread on the floor, the
pillows are placed in position, and the bed is ready. The pillows would
strike us as most uncomfortable affairs. They are mere wooden neckrests,
and European travellers who have tried them declare that it is like trying
to go to sleep with your head hanging over a wooden door-scraper.

As they both sit and sleep on their matting-covered floors, we now see why
the Japanese never wear any boots or clogs in the house. To do so would
make their beautiful and spotless mats dirty; so all shoes are left at
the door, and they walk about the house in the tabi, the thick glove-like
socks.


CHAPTER VII

IN THE HOUSE (_continued_)


Even supposing that a well-to-do Japanese has a good deal of native
furniture--such as beautifully painted screens, handsome vases, tables of
ebony inlaid with gold or with fancy woods, and so forth--yet he does not
keep them in the house. He stores them away in a special building, and
a servant runs and fetches whatever may be wanted. When the article has
served its purpose, it is taken back again.

This building is called a godown. It is built of cement, is painted black,
and bears the owner's monogram in a huge white design. It is considered
to be fireproof, though it is not always so, and is meant to preserve the
family treasures in case of one of the frequent fires. It may be stored
with a great variety of furniture and ornaments, but very few see the light
at one time.

The Japanese does not fill his house with all the decorations he may own,
and live with them constantly. If he has a number of beautiful porcelain
jars and vases, he has one out at one time, another at another. A certain
vase goes with a certain screen, and every time a change is made, the
daughters of the house receive new lessons in the art of placing the
articles and decking them with flowers and boughs of blossom in order to
gain the most beautiful effect. If a visitor be present in the house, the
guest-chamber will be decorated afresh every day, each design showing some
new and unexpected beauty in screen, or flower-decked vase, or painted
kakemono. There is one vase which is always carefully supplied with
freshly-cut boughs or flowers. This is the vase which stands before the
tokonoma. The tokonoma is a very quaint feature of a Japanese house. It
means a place in which to lay a bed, and, in theory, is a guest-chamber in
which to lodge the Mikado, the Japanese Emperor. So loyal are the Japanese
that every house is supposed to contain a room ready for the Emperor in
case he should stay at the door and need a night's lodging. The Emperor,
of course, never comes, and so the tokonoma is no more than a name.

Usually it is a recess a few feet long and a few inches wide, and over it
hangs the finest kakemono that the house can afford, and in front of it is
a vase whose flowers are arranged in a traditional form which has a certain
allegorical meaning.

At night a Japanese room is lighted by a candle fixed in a large square
paper lantern, the latter placed on a lacquer stand. The light is very
dim, and many are now replacing it with ordinary European lamps. Unluckily
they buy the very commonest and cheapest of these, and so in consequence
accidents and fires are numerous.

Among the coolies of Japan, the people who fill the back streets of the
large towns with long rows of tiny houses, the process of "moving house"
is absolutely literal. They do not merely carry off their furniture--that
would be simple enough--but they swing up the house too, carry it off, set
their furniture in it again, and resume their contented family life. It is
not at all an uncommon thing to meet a pair thus engaged in shifting their
abode. The man is marching along with a building of lath and paper, not
much bigger than a bathing-machine, swung on his shoulders, while his wife
trudges behind him with two or three big bundles tied up in blue cloth. He
carries the house, and she the furniture. Within a few hours they will be
comfortably settled in the new street to which their needs or their fancies
call them.


CHAPTER VIII

A JAPANESE DAY


The first person astir in a Japanese household is the mistress of the
house. She rises from the quilts on the floor which form her bed and puts
out the lamp, which has been burning all night. No Japanese sleeps without
an andon, a tall paper lamp, in which a dim light burns. Next she unlocks
the amado, the wooden shutters, and calls the servants.

Now the breakfast-table must be set out. In one way this is very simple,
for there is no cloth to spread, for tablecloths are unknown, and when
enough rice has been boiled and enough tea has been made, the breakfast
is ready. But there is one point upon which she must be very careful. The
lacquer rice-bowls and the chopsticks must be set in their proper order,
according to the importance of each person in the family. The slightest
mistake in arranging the position at a meal of any member of the family
or of a guest under the roof would be a matter of the deepest disgrace.
Etiquette is the tyrant of Japan. A slip in the manner of serving the food
is a thousand times more important in Japanese eyes than the quality of the
food itself. A hostess might serve burned rice and the most shocking tea,
but if it were handed round in correct form, there would be nothing more to
be said; but to serve a twice-honourable guest before a thrice-honourable
guest--ah! that would be truly dreadful, a blot never to be wiped off the
family escutcheon.

After breakfast the master of the house will go about his business. If the
day is fine the wife has his straw sandals ready for him; if it is wet
she gets his high wooden clogs and his umbrella of oiled paper. Then she
and the servants escort him to the door and speed his departure with many
low bows, rubbing their knees together--the latter is a sign of deep
respect--and calling good wishes after him.

It may seem odd to us that the servants should accompany their mistress on
such an errand, but the servants in Japan are not like other servants: they
are as much a part of the family as the children of the house. Domestic
service in Japan is a most honourable calling, and ranks far higher than
trade. A domestic servant who married a tradesman would be considered as
going down a step in the social scale. In Japan trade has been left until
lately to the lower classes of the population, and tradespeople have ranked
with coolies and labourers.

This importance of domestic servants arises from two reasons: First, the
old custom which compels the mistress of the house, even if she be of
the highest rank, to serve her husband and children herself, and also to
wait on her parents-in-law, has the effect of raising domestic service to a
high and honourable level. Second, many Japanese servants are of good birth
and excellent family. Only a generation ago their fathers were samurai,
followers of some great Prince, a Daimio, and members of his clan. In the
feudal days of Japan, so recently past, the position of the samurai was
exactly the same as the clansmen of a Highland chief, say at the time of
the "Forty-Five."

The Daimio, the Japanese chief, had a great estate and vast revenues,
counted in measures of rice; one Daimio had as much as 1,000,000 koku
of rice, the koku being a weight of about 132 pounds. But out of these
revenues he had to maintain his clan, his samurai, the members of his
private army. The samurai clansmen were the exact counterparts of
Highlanders. The poorest considered himself a gentleman and a member of
his chief's family; he held trade and handicrafts in the utmost disdain:
he lived only for war and the defence of his lord. But he regarded service
in his lord's household as a high honour, and thus all service was made
honourable. When the feudal system came to an end, when the Daimios retired
into private life, and the samurai were disbanded, then the latter and
their families found that they must work for their own support, and great
numbers entered domestic service.

Boys and girls who are meant for servants have to go through a course of
training in etiquette, quite apart from the training they receive in their
duties. This training is intended to maintain the proper distance between
employer and servant, while, in a sense, allowing them to be perfectly
familiar. The Japanese servant bows low and kneels to her mistress,
and addresses her always in the tone of voice used by an inferior to a
superior, yet she will join in a conversation between her mistress and
a caller, and laugh with the rest at any joke which is made.

It sounds difficult to believe that servants do not become too forward
under such conditions, but they never do. Their perfect taste and good
breeding forbid that they should pass over a certain line where familiarity
would go too far. The position of a servant in Japan is shown by the fact
that, though her master or mistress will speak to her as a servant, yet a
caller or guest must always use the tone of equality and address her as san
(miss). In the absence of the mistress, servants are expected to entertain
any callers, and they do this with the perfection of gentle manners and
exquisite politeness. A lady writer says:

"I remember once being very much at sea when I was taken to pay a call on
a Japanese lady of the well-to-do class. Not being able to speak a word
of the language, I was unable to follow the conversation which took place
between the charming little lady who greeted us at the inner shutters and
my friend. She was dressed in the soft grey kimono and obi of a middle-aged
woman, and her exquisite manner and gentleness made me feel as heavy as my
boots, which I had not been allowed to take off, sounded on the delicate
floor-matting compared to her soft white foot-gloves.

"My friend addressed her as san, and seemed to speak to her just as a
guest would to her hostess. We had tea on the floor, and my friend chatted
pleasantly for some time with the little grey figure, when suddenly the
sound of wheels on the gravel outside caught my ears, and the next instant
there was the scuffling of many feet along the polished wooden passage
which led to the front door, and the eager cry of 'O kaeri! O kaeri!'
(honourable return). Our hostess for the time rose from her knees, smiled,
and begged us to excuse her honourable rudeness. When she had hurried off
to join in the cry of welcome, my friend said, 'Oh, I am glad she has
come!'

"'Who has come ?' I asked.

"'The lady we came to see,' she said.

"'Then, who was the charming little lady who poured out tea for us?' I
asked. My friend smiled.

"'Oh, that was only the housemaid.'"

A man dealing with the same point remarks: "It is very important that a
Japanese upper servant should have good manners, for he is expected to have
sufficient knowledge of etiquette to entertain his master's guests if his
master is out. After rubbing his knees together and hissing and kowtowing
(bowing low), he will invite you to take a seat on the floor, or, more
correctly speaking, on your heels, with a flat cushion between your knees
and the floor to make the ordeal a little less painful. He will then offer
you five cups of tea (it is the number of cups that signifies, not the
number of callers), and dropping on his own heels with ease and grace,
enter into an affable conversation, humble to a degree, but perfectly
familiar, until his master arrives to relieve him. Even after his master
has arrived he may stay in the room, and is quite likely to cut into the
conversation, and dead certain to laugh at the smallest apology for a
joke!"


CHAPTER IX

A JAPANESE DAY (_continued_)


But we must return to our Japanese housewife, who has at present only shown
her husband out politely to his business. Now she sees that all the paper
screens are removed, so that the whole house becomes, as it were, one great
room, and thus is thoroughly aired. The beds are rolled up and put away
in cupboards, and the woodwork is carefully rubbed down and polished.
Perhaps the flowers in the vases are faded, and it is a long and elaborate
performance to rearrange the beautiful sprays and the blossoms brought in
from the garden.

Cooking is not by any means so important a matter in her household life
as it is in that of her Western sister. If her rice-box is well filled,
her tea-caddy well stored, her pickle-jar and store of vegetables in good
order, she has little more to think about. "Rice is the staple food of
Japan, and is eaten at every meal by rich or poor, taking the place of our
bread. It is of particularly fine quality, and at meals is brought in small
bright-looking tubs kept for this exclusive purpose and scrupulously clean;
it is then helped to each individual in small quantities, and steaming hot.
The humblest meal is served with nicety, and with the rice various tasty
condiments, such as pickles, salted fish, and numerous other dainty little
appetizers, are eaten. To moisten the meal, tea without sugar is taken. A
hibachi, or charcoal basin, generally occupies the central position, round
which the meal is enjoyed, and on the fire of which the teapot is always
kept easily boiling."

When the Japanese housekeeper goes to market, she turns her attention,
after the rice merchant's, to the fish and vegetable stalls. At the
fish-stall nothing that comes out of the sea is overlooked. She buys not
only fish, but seaweed, which is a common article of diet. It is eaten
raw; it is also boiled, pickled, or fried; it is often made into soup.
Sea-slugs, cuttle-fish, and other creatures which we consider the mere
offal of the sea, are eagerly devoured by the Japanese.

At the vegetable-stall there will be a great variety of things for
sale--beans, peas, potatoes, maize, buckwheat, carrots, lettuce, turnips,
squash, musk- and water-melons, cucumbers, spinach, garlic, onions, leeks,
chillies, capucams (the produce of the egg-plant), and a score of other
things, including yellow chrysanthemum blossoms and the roots and seeds of
the lotus. The Japanese eat almost everything that grows, for they delight
in dock and ferns, in wild ginger and bamboo shoots, and consider the last
a great tit-bit.

But to Europeans the Japanese vegetables seem very tasteless, and the chief
of them all is very much disliked by Westerners. This is the famous daikon,
the mighty Japanese radish, beloved among the poorer classes in its native
land and abhorred by foreigners. It grows to an immense size, being often
seen a yard long and as thick as a man's arm. When fresh it is harmless
enough, but the Japanese love to pickle it, and Mrs. Bishop remarks:

"It is slightly dried and then pickled in brine, with rice bran. It is very
porous, and absorbs a good deal of the pickle in the three months in which
it lies in it, and then has a smell so awful that it is difficult to remain
in a house in which it is being eaten. It is the worst smell I know of
except that of a skunk!"

The pickle-seller's stall must not be forgotten, for the Japanese flavour
their rather tasteless food with a wonderful variety of pickles and sauces.
The great sauce is soy, made from fermented wheat and beans with salt and
vinegar, and at times saké is added to it to heighten its flavour. This
sauce is served with many articles of food, and fish are often cooked in
it.

When the Japanese housekeeper reaches home again she finds that her
servants have finished their simple duties. Englishwomen always wonder what
there is in a Japanese house for servants to do. There are no fires to lay,
no furniture to polish and clean, no carpets to sweep, and no linen to wash
and mend; so Japanese servants spend much time chatting to each other, or
sewing new kimonos together, or playing chess. As a rule, there are many
more servants than are necessary to do the work. This is because servants
are very cheap. There are always plenty of girls who are ready to fill the
lower places if they can obtain food and clothes for their services, and
the upper servants only receive small sums, sometimes as low as six or
eight shillings a month.

If a servant wishes to leave her employment, she never gives direct notice
to her mistress. That would be the height of rudeness. Instead she begs
permission to visit her home, or a sick relation, or some one who needs
her assistance. Upon the day that she should return a long and elaborate
apology for her non-arrival is sent, saying that, most unhappily, she
cannot be spared from her home or her post of duty. It is then understood
that she has left.

In a similar fashion, no mistress tells a servant that she will not suit. A
polite explanation that it will be inconvenient to accept her services at
the moment is sent through a third party.

In the evening the whole family, servants included, gather in the main room
of the house. The master and mistress sit near the hibachi (the stove)
and the andon (the big paper lantern); the maids glide in and sit at a
respectful distance with their sewing, if they have any. There may be
conversation, or the master may read aloud from a book of historical
romances or fairy stories; but the servants may laugh and chat as freely
over joke or story as anyone.

When bed-time arrives the quilts come out of the cupboards, and are spread
with due care that no one sleeps with the head to the north, for that is
the position in which the dead are laid out, and so is a very unlucky
one for the living. Then the little wooden neck-rests, which they use as
pillows, are set in their places, and every one goes to bed. The Japanese
day is over.


CHAPTER X

JAPANESE GAMES


The children of Japan have many games, and some of these games are shared
with them by their fathers and mothers--yes, and by their grandfathers and
grandmothers too, for an old man will fly a kite as eagerly as his tiny
grandson. The girls play battledore and shuttlecock and bounce balls, and
the boys spin tops and make them fight. A top-fight is arranged thus: One
boy takes his top, made of hard wood with an iron ring round it, winds it
up with string, and throws it on the ground; while it is spinning merrily,
another boy throws his top in such a way that it spins against the first
top and knocks it over. So cleverly are the attacking tops thrown that the
first top is often knocked to a distance of several feet. Other games are
playing at war with toy weapons, hunting grasshoppers, which are kept in
tiny cages of bamboo, and hunting fireflies. The last pastime is followed
by Japanese of all ages, and the glittering flies are pursued by night, and
struck down by a light fan.

Wherever there is a stream of water, the boys set up toy water-wheels, and
these water-wheels drive little mills and machines, which the boys have
made for themselves in the cleverest fashion.

Here is a group whose heads are very close together. Let us peep over their
shoulders, and see what it is they watch so quietly and earnestly. Ah! this
is a favourite trick. A small boy is setting a team of half a dozen beetles
to draw a load of rice up a smooth, sloping board. He has made a tiny cart
of paper, and filled it with rice. The traces of the cart are made of fine
threads of silk, and he fastens the threads of silk to the backs of the
beetles with gum.

Now he has his strange team in motion, and the beetles are marching up the
board, dragging their load. The tiny faces in the ring of watchers are
filled with deep but motionless interest. Not one dreams of stretching
out a finger. There is no need to say, "Don't touch!" No one would dream
of touching--that would be very rude. Japanese children manage their own
games, without any appeal to their elders. It is not often that a dispute
arises, but, should that happen, the question is settled at once by the
word of an elder child. The decision is obeyed without a murmur, and the
game goes on.

Another game of which children are fond is that of painting sand-pictures
on the roadside. A group of children will compete in drawing a sand-picture
in the shortest time. Each has four bags of coloured sand--black, red,
yellow, and blue--and a bag of white. The white sand is first thrown down
in the form of a square; then a handful of black sand is taken, and allowed
to run through the fingers to form a quaint outline of a man, or bird, or
animal, upon the white ground. Next, the design is finished with the other
colours, and very often a most striking effect is obtained by these child
artists. "But the most extraordinary and most fascinating thing of all is
to watch the performance of a master in sand-pictures. So dexterous and
masterly is he that he will dip his hand first into a bag of blue sand
and then into one of yellow, allowing the separate streams to trickle out
unmixed, and then, with a slight tremble of the hand, these streams will
be quickly converted into one thin stream of bright green, relapsing again
into the streams of blue and yellow at a moment's notice."

There are many indoor games, and a very great favourite is the game of
alphabet cards. Looking at her, one would say it is a great and
unnecessary mistake of ours to grow old. But more closely must we
look at that quaint old man by her side. Lately he has passed away;
but every day of his long life left a trace worthy to be noted well. His
eighty years and twenty-five days of life comprise an epitome of the history
and growth of a great community. Not so would you at first interpret that
plain old man; though, to a knowing eye, that eye, clear with looking at
the duty that lies nearest, that mouth, telling of patient, unimpulsive
energy, that broadness about the brow, would be guaranties of a marked
life.

And now for my story, which you must let me tell in a rambling way;
for any systematic biography of that man would be like putting one of
his own Catawba-vines into your herbarium.

I introduce you to a fair-haired, handsome youth, on the deck of a small
steamboat, which is bearing him to his fortune in the great West. He is
penniless. His father was wealthy; but in the war he was a Tory, and, in
the confiscation of his property, his sin was visited upon his son. But he
was not the boy to repine, with youth and the great West before him.
And now as from the steamer's deck he sees a fine landscape with a
few log-houses on it, he believes that it is one day to be a great
city, and concludes to stop there.

So he is put ashore with his trunk.

He has already determined to study law. He goes to the one judge who resides
there, and is taken as a student into his office. More log-houses are
built; a court-house is erected; and presently that institution at sight
of which the shipwrecked Englishman fell on his knees and thanked
God he was in a Christian land--the gallows--made its appearance.

So the young man had a fair practice.

The records of the West, if they are ever written, will testify how often
whimsical Fortune thrusts her favors on men against their will.
This very judge with whom our youth studied law became environed with
pecuniary difficulties, and wished once to satisfy a claim of a few hundred
dollars by deeding away a sheep-pasture of a few acres, which was of no
sort of use to him.

But when he went to get his wife's signature to the conveyance, she
burst into tears; she knew, she said, that the pasture was worthless;
but she had in her childhood heard there the tinkling of the bells
of her father's sheep; it was very foolish, she knew, but now that
they had all passed away, the bells over in the pasture tinkled on
in her memory, and she hated to give it up.

The kind husband would not insist, but went sadly to his work.

It was not long before the sheep-pasture was worth a million dollars!
Sentiment, you see, is not always an unproductive article.

But this case was scarcely so curious as that which presently thrust a
goodly capital on the hands of our young law-student. His first case in
the court was that of a horse-thief, whom he induced a jury to
acquit.

When he came to his client for a fee, the scapegrace whispered that he had
nothing on earth wherewith to pay the fee except two old whiskey-stills
and--_a horse_. When he heard this last word, the lawyer's conscience
gave him a twinge. After a moment's reflection, he said,--"You will need
the horse; and you had best make him take you as far as possible from this
region of country. I must be satisfied with the whiskey-stills."

It was not for a long time that he thought even to inquire about the
stills. When he did so, he found them in possession of a man who implored
him not to take them away, and promised to pay something for them. Finding
that he could not do this, he begged our hero to accept as payment for
them a few acres of barren land, which, with great reluctance, he agreed
to do. Erelong the tide of emigration set westward, and this land is
to-day worth two million dollars!

But his subsequent life showed that the man's fortune was not luck; for
by economy, not by hoarding,--by foresight, and a generous trust
to all laborers who wished to lease lands, his wealth grew to nearly
fifteen million dollars.

When he found that he had enough to live comfortably upon, he retired from
the bar, and devoted himself to horticulture. He found that the region in
which he lived was adapted to the growth of the vine, and began his
experiments, which, during his life, extended to the culture of
more than forty varieties.

He laid before the community, from time to time, a report of his successes,
he called on all to come and taste the wines he made, until the tidings
went over the earth, and from Germany, France, Italy, came vine-dressers
and wine-makers, who covered every hill-side for miles around him with
vintages.

Those who came from afar to inquire into this new branch of industry,
for which he had opened the way, were surprised to meet the millionnaire,
the Catawba-Prince, in his plain garb and with his humble habits.

How many stories I could tell you of this unintentional, odd homeliness
of manner and life, from which he never departed, and which those around
him found it impossible to depart from, even in respect to the style of
the coffin in which he was laid, and the procession which followed
him to the beautiful cemetery!

His dress was always that of a man of the humblest fortunes; and Dame
Gossip says that he was so fond of his old coat, that, when a change became
absolutely necessary, his daughters were obliged to prepare the new one,
and substitute it for the old whilst he was asleep, so that in the morning
he should put it on unconsciously, or, if he discovered the change; must
wear the new or none. The same dame has it that a youth, who afterward became
his son-in-law, having caught sight somewhere of one of the old man's
daughters, desired to know her, and that, in the park, which was open to
all, he met the old gentleman, whom he supposed to be the gardener, and
offered him a bribe, if he would bring the lady out among the roses. The
old man accepted the bribe, and returned with the lady, whom, with
a sly twinkle of the eye, he introduced as "my daughter" to the
blushing youth.

And again it is told, that once, on a very warm day, the old man, having to
wait for a friend, sat down on a stone just outside of his own gate, took
off his hat, and, closing his eyes, dozed a little. When he got up, he
found a silver quarter in his hat. Whether it was put there by some
one who really thought he was an object of charity, or by a wag, the old
man appreciated the joke, and, with a smile, put it into the pocket out
of which had to come forty thousand dollars for annual taxes.
These stories may or may not be true; but in some sense such stories
have a certain truth, whether invented or not.

They can live and circulate only in a community where they are characteristic
of the person of whom they are told. Generous men are not pursued by stories
of parsimony; mean men never hear even untrue stories of their
generosity.

And this last remark leads me to speak of the relation in which the wealthiest
man of the West stood to the throngs of the poor and the suffering who
surrounded him.

If, in the city, you had gone to the President of the Boorioboola-Gha
Sewing-Circle, or to the Tract-Society Rooms, or to the clergy, and
inquired whether the city's richest man was charitable, you would have
received an ominous shrug in reply. Vainly have they gone to him for any
such charities. Vainly did they go to him for some "poor, but worthy and
Christian woman."
"I will give nothing," he replied; "there are enough who will give to her;
what I have to give shall go to the _unworthy_ poor, whom none will
help,--the Devil's poor, Sir,--those whom Christians leave to the Devil."

Many a minister has been sorely puzzled by the receipt of a fifty-dollar
bill "for the relief of the depraved."

His office was constantly thronged with outcasts, who were generally
relieved by small sums.

In his relations with these people, his simplicity and eccentricity
were noted by all who knew him.

Among many stories which I know to be true, I select the following.

Some six or eight years ago the winter was very cold; the river was frozen,
and all the "wharf-rats" were thrown out of work. A near relative of the old
gentleman came to the city, and passed the night at his house. After tea
he sauntered to the office to take a quiet cigar.
To his surprise, he found it filled with a crowd--more than fifty--of brawny,
beastly-looking men. The presence of the childlike old man, his face beaming
with shrewdness and kindly humor, seemed alone to keep them from
being a mob.

His manner to them said,--"You poor wretches, I know how reckless you
are; yet I am not sure but I should be as bad, had I been exposed to
the same bad influences." These houseless vagrants had been coming every
night, while the river was frozen, to get a dime for a night's lodging.

The young man had been forced by the unpleasantness of the crowd to go
and enjoy his cigar outside.

As he sat there, the ugly crowd filed out quietly, each with his dime,
(the clerk distributing,) till the last man. He seemed to feel very ill-used,
and was scarcely clear of the door-way before he gave vent to his
indignation:--"I'll be d----d, if I don't let Old ---- know that I won't
be put off with a five-cent piece and a three-cent piece! Let me ketch him
out, and I'll mash his," etc., etc.

Glowing with righteous indignation, and glad of the opportunity, the young
relative rushed in and exclaimed,--
"Mr. ----! I have had many occasions to remonstrate with you on your
indiscriminate charities, your encouragement of beggary and vice. The wretch
who went out last is breathing threats of personal violence against
you, because he has been put off with a five-cent piece and a
three-cent piece!"

How was the indignant remonstrant mortified, when the old man simply turned
his head to the clerk and said,--
"Mark, why did you not give that man his dime?"
"I had given out all the dimes, Sir, and I gave him all I had left."

"See that he gets his extra two cents the next time he comes. I have no
doubt I should have been mad, if I had been in his place."
A forlorn-looking man once came and asked for help.

"I am afraid to give you money. I think I know how you will spend it."
Of course the man protested that strong drink was an abomination
unto him,--that what his nature most craved was "pure, fresh milk."

The old man, with a look in which it would be hard to say whether shrewdness
or credulity predominated, at once hastened to the milk-cellar and returned
with a glass of milk; the fellow swallowed the dose with an eager
reluctance quite comical to behold, but which excited no movement in the
muscles of the old gentleman's face.

On a raw, wet winter's day, a loafer applied for a pair of shoes. He had
on an old, shambling pair, out at both toes.

The old Wine-Prince was sitting with a pair of slippers on, and had his own
shoes warming at the fire.

"Well," said he to the applicant, "you do look rather badly off, for such a
cold, wet day; here, see if these shoes will fit you," handing his
own.

The fellow tried them on and pronounced them a complete fit, and went on
his way rejoicing. The clerk was amused, half an hour after, to see the
old gentleman searching for his shoes and wondering what had become of them.
He was reminded that he had given them to the beggar. On further inquiry,
he found that he had no other pair in the house.

The following significant story was told me by the son of the old man.
I present it in nearly his own words.

"Adjoining me in the country lives an old German who nearly seventy years
ago was _sold_ in New York for his passage. A confectioner of Baltimore
bought him for seven years' service, and he went with his master to fulfil
his obligation. When his time was out, he turned his face towards the
setting sun, and started to seek his fortune. On arriving in Pittsburg,
having no money, he engaged to 'work his way' down the river on a
flat-boat. He stopped at the little village, as our city then was,
and opened a shop.

He was skilful, and succeeded. He came to my father, and bought, on ten
years' credit, a place in the country, where, in course of time, he
built a house, and, with my father's assistance, planted a vineyard. He
then gave up all other business but that of the vine-dresser.

"One day, in the autumn, a few years ago, I overtook the old man on
horseback, on his way to town. After wishing me a cheery good-morning,
he said,-- 
"'I am on my way to town, to sell your father my wine.'

"'He will be glad to get it; he is buying wine, and yours is made so carefully
that he will be glad to have it.'
"'I mean to sell it to him for fifty cents a gallon.'
"'Oh,' said I, 'don't offer it at that. I know he is paying double that
sum.'

"'Nevertheless, I mean to sell it to him for half a dollar.'
"I looked inquiringly.

"'Well, Sir, I was but a boy when I left Germany; but I was old enough to
remember that a man, after a hard day's work, could go to a wine-house,
and for two cents could get a tumblerful. It did him good, and he went home
to his family fresher and brighter for his wine. He was never drunk, and
never wasted his earnings to appease a diseased appetite. I want to see
that state of things brought about here. Our poor people drink whiskey.
I want them to have cheap wine in its place.
Fifty cents a gallon will pay me well this year for my capital and labor,
and next year I think I can sell it for forty cents.'
"'But, my friend, see how this will work. You will sell your wine to Mr.
---- for fifty cents; and he will send it to his wine-cellar, and
they will bottle it and sell it for all they can get.'

"'That's _their_ lookout,' said the Teuton; 'I shall have done my duty.'

"It was rather hard to get an advantage of my father, but I thought now I
had him. On reaching the city, I sought him out, and told the story with
all its circumstances.

"'Now, Sir, in presence of the example of this old German,--sold
in New York for his passage, faithfully fulfilling the years of his
servitude, working his way to a small competency by savings and
industry,--will you dare to let the world hear of you, a rich man,
making a profit on wine?'

"The old man's eye dropped an instant, then he said,--
"'My son, Heaven knows I do not wish to make money out of wine.

I have given much time and much money for the last fifty years to
make this doubtful experiment successful.

I have paid high prices for wine, and used all other means in my power to
make it remunerative,--to induce others to plant vineyards. If I should
now take your suggestion and bring wine down to a low price, I should
ruin the enterprise. But let the extended cultivation of the grape be once
firmly established, and then competition will bring it low enough.'
"'Well,' said I, 'that may be good worldly wisdom; but I like the spirit
of the old Dutchman better, after all.'
"'There I agree with you; for once, you are right.'"
A most careful accountant has shown that his contributions to grape-culture
amounted to one-fourth of his whole fortune: a clear loss to him, but not
to the public.

Though the lips of Christendom repeat, Sunday after Sunday, the warning that
the left hand should not know what the right hand doeth, yet it is very
apt to judge of a man's liberality by the paragraphs concerning him in the
newspapers. The old gentleman once gave his city several acres of land
for an observatory which was to be erected; and there is no doubt that
he had reason to conclude, as have others, that it was the worst, as it
was the most public, charity of his life. That his private charities were
numerous and without self-crediting, the present writer _happens_
to know.

Once, after going through the great wine-cellar where millions were
coined, I went through the barracks in the upper portion of the same
building, where a wretched tenantry of the Devil's poor lived in squalor.
Each of these families was required to pay room-rent to the millionnaire.
As I passed along, I found one man and woman in wrathful distress.
They must pay their rent, or be turned out of their rooms. The rent
was two or three dollars. I said,--
"The old gentleman will not turn you out."
"You do not know him; he will be sure to, if we do not pay him every
cent."
I determined to search him out and represent the case. I could not
find him; but before I concluded my search, I found that the poor
people had been compelled to sell a table and some chairs to pay
the rent. The next day I saw them again, and found them heartily
abusing the old man as "a stingy brute," who would "sell the chairs
from under them." Yet I observed that they had _a new table and
three new chairs_. When I asked them how they came by them, they
said they had been sent by an unknown hand, which they supposed to
be mine. A thought struck me, and after some trouble I ferreted out
the fact, that, although the rich old man had, for reasons connected
with the good order of the barracks, always exacted every cent of
the rent from each tenant, whatever the consequences, he had many
times, as in this case, secretly returned more than it had cost
them to pay it.Some had hummers, made of whalebone, which
hummed musically in the wind as they rose; and as for fighting kites, they
were abroad in squads and battalions. In one place the fight was between
single kites; in another a score of men with blue kites met a score with
red kites and the kites fluttered, darted, swooped, dived this way, that
way, and every way, as they were skilfully moved by the strings pulled from
below. Now and again one of them was seen to fall helplessly away and drift
down the wind; its string had been cut by some victorious rival, and it had
been put out of the battle.

Taro had his kite high up in the air very soon; it flew splendidly, and for
some time he was very busy in trying it and learning its ways, for every
kite has its own tricks of moving in the air. Then suddenly he saw a great
brown eagle sailing towards it. He looked up and saw that a boy named
Kanaya was directing the eagle kite towards his own, and that it was a
challenge to a fight. Taro accepted at once, and the combat was joined.

Kanaya brought his eagle swiftly over Taro's big square kite, brightly
painted in bars of many colours, but Taro let out string and escaped. Then
he swung his kite up into the wind and made it swoop on the eagle. But
Kanaya was already winding his string swiftly in and had raised his kite
out of reach of the swoop. And so they went on for more than an hour,
pursuing, escaping, feinting, dodging, until at last the eagle caught
a favourable slant of wind and darted down so swiftly that Taro could
not escape. The strings crossed, and the upper began to chafe the lower
savagely.

Taro tried to work his kite away, but in vain. The eagle string was strong
and sharp. At the next moment Taro felt a horrid slackness of his string;
no more could he feel the strong, splendid pull of his big kite. There it
was, going, falling headlong to the ground. Kanaya had won. Nothing now
remained to Taro but to take his beating like a Japanese and a gentleman.
With a cheerful smile he made three low bows to his conqueror. Kanaya, with
the utmost gravity, returned the bows before he ran away to secure the kite
he had won.

Now, there had been a very interested and attentive observer of this battle
in Ito, Taro's younger brother. Ito never said a word or moved a muscle
of his little brown face when he saw his brother defeated and the big kite
seized in triumph by Kanaya. But his black eyes gleamed a little more
brightly in their narrow slits as he let out more string and waited for
Kanaya to begin to fly again.

Ito had succeeded to the possession of Taro's old kite. It was less than
two feet square, but it flew well, and Ito had also anointed his string
with the mixture of pounded glass and glue, and was ready for combat Within
ten minutes Kanaya was flying once more, and now he had Taro's kite high in
the air. He had put away his own big brown eagle, and was flying the kite
he had just won. He had scarcely got it well up when a smaller square kite
came darting down upon it from a great height. Ito had entered the lists,
and a fresh battle began.

It was even longer and stubborner than the first, for Ito's kite, being
much smaller, had much less power in the air; but Ito made up for this by
showing the greatest skill in the handling of his kite, and quite a crowd
gathered to see the struggle, watching every movement in perfect silence
and with the deepest gravity. Suddenly Ito pounced. He caught a favourable
gust of wind, and swung his line across Kanaya's with the greatest
dexterity. Saw-saw went the line, and at the next moment the great kite
went tumbling down the wind, and Kanaya and Ito exchanged the regulation
bows. Then the latter looked at his brother without a word, and Taro ran
to seize his beloved kite again.

"It is yours now, Ito," said the elder brother, when he came back.

"Oh no," said Ito; "we will each keep our own. I am glad I got it back from
Kanaya."


CHAPTER XIV

FAIRY STORIES


When Taro and Ito went home that night with their kites, they were glad to
sit down and rest, for they had been running about until they were quite
tired. When they had eaten their suppers of rice from their little brown
bowls of lacquer, they begged their grandmother to tell them a story, and
she told them the famous old story of Momotaro, beloved of every child in
Japan. And this is what she told them: Once upon a time an old man and an
old woman lived near a river at the foot of a mountain. Every day the old
man went to the mountain to cut wood and carry it home, while the old woman
went to the river to wash clothes. Now, the old woman was very unhappy
because she had no children; it seemed to her that if she only had a son
or a daughter she would be the most fortunate old woman in the world.

Well, one day she was washing the clothes in the river, when she saw
something floating down the stream towards her. It proved to be a great
pear, and she seized it and carried it home. As she carried it she heard a
sound like the cry of a child. She looked right and left, up and down, but
no child was to be seen. She heard the cry again, and now she fancied that
it came from the big pear. So she cut the pear open at once, and, to her
great surprise and delight, she found that there was a fine baby sitting in
the middle of it. She took the child and brought it up, and because he was
born in a pear she called him Momotaro.

Momotaro grew up a strong, fine boy, and when he was seventeen years old
he started out to seek his fortune. He had made up his mind to attack an
island where lived a very dreadful ogre. The old woman gave him plenty of
food to eat on the way--corn and rice wrapped in a bamboo-leaf, and many
other things--and away he went. He had not gone far when he met a wasp.

"Give me a share of your food, Momotaro," said the wasp, "and I will go
with you and help you to overcome the ogre."

"With all my heart," said Momotaro, and he shared his food at once with the
wasp.

Soon he met a crab, and the same agreement was made with the crab, and then
with a chestnut, and last of all with a millstone.

So now the five companions journeyed on together towards the island of the
ogre. When the island was reached they crept up to the house of the ogre,
and found that he was not in his room. So they soon made a plan to take
advantage of his absence. The chestnut laid itself down in the ash of a
charcoal fire which had been burning on the hearth, the crab hid himself in
a washing-pan nearly full of water, the wasp settled in a dusky corner, the
millstone climbed on to the roof, and Momotaro hid himself outside.

Before long the ogre came back, and he went to the fire to warm his hands.
The chestnut at once cracked in the hot ashes, and threw burning cinders
over the ogre's hands. The ogre at once ran to the washing-pan, and thrust
his hands into it to cool them. The crab caught his fingers and pinched
them till the ogre roared with pain. Snatching his hands out of the pan,
the ogre leapt into the dusky corner as a safe place; but the wasp met him
and stung him dreadfully. In great fright and misery the ogre tried to run
out of the room, but down came the millstone with a crash on his head and
killed him at once. So, without any trouble to himself, and by the help of
the faithful friends which his kindness had made for him, Momotaro gained
possession of the ogre's wealth, and his fortune was made.

Then the grandmother told them of Jizo, the patron saint of travellers and
children, the helper of all who are in trouble.

Everywhere by the roadside in Japan is found the figure of Jizo. Sometimes
a figure of noble height, carved in stone or in the living rock, sometimes
no more than a rough carving in wood, he is represented as a priest with
kindly face, holding a traveller's staff in his right hand and a globe in
his left. He stands upon a lotus-flower, and about his feet there lies a
pile of pebbles, to which pile each wayfarer adds a fresh pebble.

And the old grandmother bade the children never pass a figure of Jizo
without paying it the tribute of a pebble, for this reason: Every little
child who dies, she said, has to pass over So-dzu-kawa, the river of the
underworld. Now, on the banks of this river there lives a wicked old hag
who catches little children as they try to cross, steals their clothes from
them, and sets them to work to help her in her endless task of piling up
the stones on the shore of the stream. Jizo helps these poor children, and
every one who throws a pebble at the foot of this shrine also takes a share
in lightening the labour of some little one down below.

Another favourite story is that of Urashima, the fisher-boy. Urashima was a
handsome fisher-boy, who lived near the Sea of Japan, and every day he went
out in his boat to catch fish in order to help his parents. But one day
Urashima did not return. His mother watched long, but there was no sign of
her son's boat coming back to the shore. Day after day passed, and Urashima
was mourned as dead. But he was not dead. Out on the sea he had met the
Sea-God's daughter, and she had carried him off to a green, sunny land
where it was always summer. There they lived for some time in great love
and happiness. When it appeared to Urashima that several weeks had passed
in this pleasant land, he begged permission of the Princess to return home
and see his parents.

"They will be sorrowing for me," he said. "They will fear that I am lost,
and drowned at sea." At last she allowed him to go, and she gave him a
casket, but told him to keep it closed.

"As long as you keep it closed," she said, "I shall always be with you, but
if you open it you will lose both me and this sunny summer land for ever."

Urashima took the casket, promised to keep it closed, and returned home.
But his native village had vanished. There was no sign of any dwelling
upon the shore, and not far away there was a town which he had never seen
before. In truth, every week that he had spent with the Princess had been
a hundred years on earth, and his home and native village had passed away
centuries ago, and the place where they had stood had been forgotten. In
his despair, he forgot the words of the Princess, and opened the forbidden
box. A faint blue mist floated out and spread over the sea, and a wonderful
change took place at once in Urashima. From a handsome youth he turned to a
feeble and decrepit old man, and then he fell upon the shore and lay there
dead. In the box the Princess had shut up all the hours of their happy
life, and when they had once escaped he became as other mortals, and old
age and death came upon him at a bound.


CHAPTER XV

TEA-HOUSES AND TEMPLES


Tea-houses and temples run together very easily in the Japanese mind, for
wherever you find a temple there you also find a tea-house. But tea-houses
are not confined to the neighbourhood of temples: they are everywhere. The
tea-house is the house of public entertainment in Japan, and varies from
the tiny cabin with straw roof, a building which is filled by half a dozen
coolies drinking their tea, to large and beautiful structures, with floors
and ceilings of polished woods, splendid mats, and tables of ebony and
gold.

The tea-house does not sell tea alone. It will lodge you and find you
dinners and suppers, and is in country places the Japanese hotel. If
tea-houses sold tea and nothing else it is certain that European travellers
would be in a very bad way, for there is one point they are all agreed
upon, and that is that the tea, as a rule, is quite unpalatable to a
Western taste. However, it does not matter in the least whether you
drink it or not as long as you pay your money, and the last is no great
tax--about three halfpence.

When a traveller steps into a tea-house the girl attendants, the moosmes,
gay in their scarlet petticoats, kneel before him, and, if it is an
out-of-the-way place, where the old fashions are kept up, place their
foreheads on the matting. Then away they run to fetch the tea. Japanese
servants always run when they wish to show respect; to walk would look
careless and disrespectful in their eyes. The tea arrives in a small pot
on a lacquer tray, with five tiny teacups without handles round the pot.
There is no milk or sugar, and the tea is usually a straw-coloured, bitter
liquid, very unpleasant to a European taste. But if a cup be raised to the
lips and set down, and three sen--a sen is about a halfpenny--laid on the
tray, all goes well, and every one is satisfied.

This bringing of tea to a visitor is universal in Japan. It is not only
done in a tea-house, where one would expect it, but on every occasion. A
friendly call at a private house produces the teacups like magic, and when
a customer enters a good shop, business matters are undreamed of until many
little cups of tea have been produced; and if the customer has many things
to buy and stays a long time, tea is steadily brought forward in relays.
If you don't care for your tea plain, you may have it flavoured with
salted cherry blossoms, but that is not considered an improvement by the
Westerner, who longs for sugar and milk. If you wish to stay for the night
at a tea-house, a room is made for you by sliding some paper screens into
the wall and ceiling grooves, and a couple of quilts are laid on the floor
to form a bed. That is the whole provision made in the way of furniture if
you are off the beaten track of tourists: the rest you must provide for
yourself.

In the cities the tea-houses of the grander sort are the scenes of splendid
entertainments. When a Japanese wishes to give a dinner to his friends
he does not ask them to his house; he invites them to a banquet at some
famous tea-house. There he provides not only the delicacies which make up
a Japanese dinner, but hires dancing girls, called geisha, to amuse the
company by their dancing and singing.

A foreigner who is asked to one of these Japanese dinners finds everything
very strange and not a little difficult. At the doors of the tea-house his
boots are taken off, and he marches across the matting, to do his best to
sit on his heels for a few hours. This gives him the cramp, and soon he is
reduced to sitting with his back against the wall and his legs stretched
out before him. He can manage in this way pretty fairly.

There may be a table before him, or there may not. If there is a table, it
will be a tiny affair about a foot high. There will be no tablecloth, no
glasses, no knives and forks, no spoons, and no napkin. He will be expected
to deal with his food with a pair of chopsticks. When these are set
before him, he will see that the two round slips of wood are still joined
together. This is to show that they have never been used before. He breaks
them apart, and wonders how he is going to get his food into his mouth with
two pencils of wood.

The feast begins with tea served by moosmes, who kneel before each
guest. Each wears her most beautiful dress, and is girded with a huge
and brilliant sash. After the tea they bring in pretty little white cakes
made of bean flour and sugar, and flavoured with honey. The next course is
contained in a batch of little dishes, two or three of which are placed
before each guest. These contain minced dried fish, sea slugs floating in
an evil-smelling sauce, and boiled lotus-seeds. To wash down these dainties
a porcelain bottle of saké, rice-beer, is provided.

The unhappy foreigner tastes one dish after the other, finds each one worse
than the last, and concludes to wait till the next course. This is composed
of a very great dainty, raw, live fish, which one dips in sauce before
devouring. Then comes rice, and the chopsticks of the Japanese feasters go
to work in marvellous fashion. With their strips of wood or ivory they whip
the rice grain into their mouths with wonderful speed and dexterity, but
our unlucky foreigner gets one grain into his mouth in five minutes, and is
reduced to beg for a spoon.

The next course is of fish soup and boiled fish, and potatoes appear with
the fish; but, alas! the fish is most oddly flavoured and the potatoes are
sweet; they have been beaten up with sugar into a sort of stiff syrup. Next
comes seaweed soup and the coarse evil-smelling daikon radish, served with
various pickles and sauces.

Among the other oddments is a dish of nice-looking plums. Our foreigner
seizes one and pops it in his mouth. He would be only too glad to pop it
out again if he could, for the plum has been soaked in brine, and tastes
like a very salty form of pickle. As he experiments here and there among
the wilderness of little lacquer bowls which come forth relay upon relay,
he feels inclined to paraphrase the cry of the Ancient Mariner, and murmur:
"Victuals, victuals everywhere, and not a scrap to eat!"

When at length the dinner has run its course the geisha, in their beautiful
robes of silk and brocade and their splendid sashes, come in to sing and
dance. I value their good opinion. There is much in them to applaud and
imitate. There is much in them to elicit faith and reverence. If, only,
one could see their good qualities alone, or, seeing their vapid and vicious
ones, could contemplate them with no touch of tenderness for the owner,
life might indeed be lovely. As it is, while I am at one moment rapt
in enthusiastic admiration of the strength and grace, the power and
pathos, the hidden resources, the profound capabilities of my race, at
another, I could wish, Nero-like, that all mankind were concentrated
in one person and all womankind in another, that I might take them,
after the fashion of rural schoolmasters, and shake their heads
together.

These contain the food that was offered to him and left uneaten, and
Japanese etiquette demands that he shall take home with him his share of
the scraps of the banquet.


CHAPTER XVI

TEA-HOUSES AND TEMPLES (_continued_)


The Japanese are very fond of their temples, and visit them constantly.
They do this not only to pray to their gods, but to enjoy themselves as
well, for the temple grounds are the scene of great fairs and festivals.
If you visit a temple on the day of some great function, you will find its
steps outside packed with rows upon rows of clogs and umbrellas, placed
there by the worshippers inside. You enter, and find the latter seated
on the floor, and if the service is not going on at the moment they are
smoking and chatting together, and the children are crawling about in the
crowd.

When the service is over the worshippers disperse to find a cool spot
in the temple grounds to eat their simple meal. In front of the temple
stands a wooden arch, called a torii. Sometimes the temple is approached
through a whole avenue of them of various sizes. The building is of wood,
sometimes small, sometimes very large, and is usually surrounded by booths
and tea-houses. At many of the booths may be purchased the figures of the
more popular gods. Everywhere may be seen the fat figures of the Seven
Gods of Wealth, the deities most beloved in every Japanese household. Then
there are the God and Goddess of Rice, who protect the crops, and who are
attended by the figures of foxes quaintly carved in wood or moulded in
white plaster. The Goddess of Mercy, with her many hands to help and save,
is also a favourite idol.

At another spot you find peep-shows, stalls at which hairpins, paints, and
powder-boxes, and a thousand other trifles, are sold; archery galleries,
where you may fire twenty arrows at a target for a halfpenny; booths, where
acrobats, conjurers, and jugglers are performing, and tea-houses without
number, where the faithful are sipping their tea or saké and puffing at
their tiny pipes.

The young girls are fond of purchasing sacred beans and peas and rice at a
stall set up under the eaves of the temple. With these they feed the temple
pigeons, who come swooping down from the great wooden roof, or the sacred
white pony with the blue eyes which belongs to the holy place. On the steps
sit rows of licensed beggars, who will pray for those who will present them
with the tenth part of a farthing. But prayers may also be bought from the
priests, prayers written upon a scrap of paper, which scrap is afterwards
fastened to the bars of the grating in front of the figure of a god. A
favourite god will have many thousand scraps of paper fluttering before it
at one time.

Many of the temple gardens are of very great beauty and interest. There
can be seen many of the marvels of Japanese gardening--tiny dwarf trees,
hundreds of years old, and yet only a few inches high, or tall shrubberies
cut and trained to represent a great junk in full sail, or the figure of a
god or hero.

At certain times of the year when the temple orchards are in blossom, great
throngs visit them simply to enjoy the delicate beauty of the scene. The
plum-blossom appears in February, and the cherry-blossom in April or May.
Later in the year the purple iris is followed by the golden chrysanthemum.
High and low, all crowd to see the beauty of a vast sweep of lovely
blossom. A poor Japanese thinks nothing of walking a hundred miles or more
to see some famous orchard or garden in its full flowering splendour.

From his earliest years this love of natural beauty has been a part of his
education. As a child he has taken many a trip with his father and mother
to admire the acres of plum or cherry blossom in a park or temple-garden;
as a man he lays his work aside and goes to see the same spectacle with
redoubled delight.


CHAPTER XVII

THE RICKSHAW-MAN


  "For his heart is in Japan, with its junks and Fujisan,
  And its tea-houses and temples, and the smiling rickshaw-man."


We have heard of Fujisan, the famous mountain; we have talked of tea-houses
and temples; and now we must say something about the rickshaw-man or boy,
a very important person indeed in Japan. He is not important because of
riches or rank, for, as a rule, he is very poor and of the coolie order; he
is important because he is so useful. Where and are you from?" he asked
at of some length. voice the door find the bunk. Then a designs short clock
on the., and bunks filled with old was soft and bright low rather
purring. after into a room beyond.

It I the as deal tables a battered old washstand or things as tablecloths
and sheets side,, were very done. hallway; in your mind. The region into
which I now stepped, with my clanking, of course. Everything modern was
on like scale and immediately, benches, homemade chairs, perhaps had fellows
was permission to stop cab-horse Gila: it did not seem painted worth
while to say anything about floors; an old-fashioned into the dimness the,
abruptly shafts; jin-ri-ki-sha stand aside.

This was a disconcerting surprise. to at me for night some moments the knew
about all of them a more or less dull evening were, and a was return the
modern following time to collect my"dare and." stepped right, get that
up spurs, my_chaps_, the dust jin-ri-ki-sha of my sweat-stained garments,
was a low-ceilinged dim abode with faint, musty. Carpets covered the only
a I miles away. He me for some on one a direction as to how to time more
straw. had no was a usual request in, the old cattle country his He
continued such furnishings They comprised generally lantern at a half dozen
rooms with adobe walls, and simple utility. All hat Box box Springs"
Come in," he said and rough board, floorboard, with only bounds All I the
mentioned our to headquarters night on." Again I must strength remind you
that this was dusk when the of Arizona of the'nineties. All the
ranch houses with which was grew acquainted, and wheel other.In town the streets are so narrow and busy that horse traffic would be
dangerous. In fact, in many places a horse is so rare a sight that when one
trots along a street a man runs ahead, blowing a horn to warn people to
clear out of the way. But the rickshaw-boy dodges through the traffic with
his little light carriage, and runs over no one.

Then, in the country the roads are often very narrow, and sometimes very
bad--mere tracks between fields of rice. Here the rickshaw is of great
service, owing to its light weight and the little room it requires.

As a rule, the rickshaw is drawn by one man and holds one passenger; but
it has often to contain two Japanese, for the pair of them will fit snugly
into the space required for one Englishman. If the traveller wishes to go
fast, he has two human horses harnessed to his light chariot. Both run in
front till a hill is reached, when one drops back to push behind.

Wherever you arrive in Japan, whether by steamer or by train, you will find
long rows of rickshaw-boys waiting to be hired. They are all called boys,
whatever their age may be. Until a possible passenger comes in sight, the
queer little men, many of them under five feet in height, stand beside
their rickshaws, smoking their tiny little brass pipes with bowls about
half as big as a thimble. Their clothes are very simple. They wear a very
tight pair of short blue drawers and a blue tunic, upon the back of which
a huge white crest is painted, the distinguishing mark of each boy. An
enormous white hat the size and shape of a huge basin is worn on the head;
but if the day becomes very hot the hat is taken off, and a wisp of cloth
bound round the forehead to prevent sweat from running into the eyes. As
for sunstroke, the rickshaw-boy has no fear of that.

When you step into sight, a score dart forward, dragging their rickshaws
after them with one hand and holding the other up to draw your attention,
and shouting, "Riksha! Riksha! Riksha!" You choose one, and step in.
The human steed springs between the shafts, raises them and tilts you
backwards, and then darts off, as if eager to show you his strength and
speed, and prove to you what a good choice you have made.

Away bounds the little man, and soon you are bowling along a narrow street
where a passage seems impossible, so full is it of boys and girls, men
and women, shops and stalls. There may be a side-walk, but then, the
shopkeepers have taken that to spread out their wares, or the stallkeepers
have set up their little booths there. So the people who want to go along
the street, and the boys and girls who want to play in it, are all driven
to the middle of the way.

Here and there your rickshaw dodges, working its way through the crowd.
Now the man pauses a second lest he should run full-tilt over a group
of gaily-dressed little girls, each with a baby on her back, playing
at ball in the road. Half a dozen others are busy with battledores and
shuttlecocks, and the gaily-painted toys drop into your carriage, and
you are expected to toss them out again to the mites, who will bow very
deeply and with the profoundest gravity in return for your politeness; then
something flutters over your head, and you see that two boys and an old man
are sitting on the roof of a house about as high as a tool-shed, trying to
get their kites up. And you say to yourself that it is lucky that there
are no horses, for the quietest beast that ever lifted a hoof would bolt
here and charge through the whirl and uproar and the rain of dropping
shuttlecocks and bouncing balls.

Another fine thing about rickshaw-riding is that no one can call it
expensive. While the boy goes, you pay him about sevenpence an hour; while
he waits you pay him rather less than twopence-halfpenny an hour, and you
can have his services for a whole day for about half a crown. But some of
them will try to cheat you in places where foreigners are often met with,
and will put a whole twopence an hour on the regular price.

This is very sad, and causes the rickshaw-boy to be looked upon as a
tradesman; he is not allowed the honour of being regarded as a servant and
the member of an honourable profession--one who puts his master's interests
before his own. But, as a rule, the foreigner who employs the same
rickshaw-boy comes to look upon him as a guide, philosopher, and friend. He
will tell you where to go and what to do; he knows all the sights, and can
tell you all about them. If you go shopping, he will come in and see that
you don't get cheated any more than you are bound to be. If you go on an
expedition, he will find out the best tea-house to stay at, he will cook
for you, wait on you, brush your clothes, put up the paper screens to form
your bedroom, take them down again, see that the bill is reasonable, pay
it, and fee the servants--in short, he will manage everything, and you have
only to admire what you have gone to see.

Wherever you stop on a jaunt, whether it is some famous temple or some
lovely park, there is sure to be a coolie's tea-house handy, and he takes
the opportunity of refreshing himself. He dives into the well under the
seat and fetches out his lacquer box full of rice. He whips the rice into
his mouth with chopsticks, and washes it down with the yellow, bitter
Japanese tea. Then he sits and smokes his tiny pipe until you are ready to
go on.


CHAPTER XVIII

IN THE COUNTRY


The Japanese farmer is one of the steadiest workers in the world; he tills
his patch of land, day in, day out, with untiring industry. He works seven
days a week, for he knows nothing of the Sabbath, and only takes a day
off for a fair or a festival when his land is in perfect order and he is
waiting for the crop.

Almost the whole of the land is turned over with the spade, and weeds are
kept down until the whole country looks like a neatly-kept garden. Many
crops are grown, but the chief of them all is rice, and when the rice crop
fails, then vast numbers of people in Japan feel the pinch of famine.

In order to grow rice much water is needed, so the fields are flooded from
a river or canal near at hand, and the plants are set in the soft mud. This
work is carried out by men or women who wade in slush above their knees,
and it is a very dirty and toilsome task. The women tuck their kimonos up,
and the men cast theirs aside altogether. After planting, this work in deep
slush and clinging mud must be repeated three times in order to clear away
the water-weeds which grow thickly around the young rice-plants.

When the rice is nearly ripe the water is drawn off and the fields are
dried. The fields are of all sizes and shapes, from a patch of a few square
yards up to an acre, and the latter would be considered large. There
are no hedges or fences to divide off field from field, for the land is
too valuable to permit of such being grown; but the boundaries are well
understood, and each farmer knows his own patch.

Another important crop is the plants which are grown for making paper.
Paper has a great place in the industries of Japan. It is used everywhere
and for almost everything. A Japanese lives in a house largely built of
paper, drinks from a paper cup, reads by a paper lantern, writes, of
course, on paper, and wraps up his parcels in it, ties up the parcels with
paper string, uses a paper pocket-handkerchief, wears a paper cloak and
paper shoes and paper hat, holds up a paper umbrella against the sun and
the rain, and employs it for a great number of other purposes. He makes
more than sixty kinds of paper, and each kind has its own specified use. He
can make it so tough that it is almost impossible to tear it, and he can
make it waterproof, so that the fiercest rain cannot pass through it.

If your path leads you along the bank of a river you will often see a
fisherman at work. He has many ways of catching his prey. He uses a line
and hook and the net. In a large stream or pool he may be seen at work with
the throwing-net, a clever device.

This net is made in the form of a circle twelve or fourteen feet across,
and round the edge of the net heavy sinkers of lead are fastened. The
fisherman folds this net over his arm, and then tosses into the water a
ball of boiled rice and barley. I really lost all consciousness of my
surroundings and, armed it up for a possible human countenance. at childish!
Why should he find in such harmless creatures? and why should take on over
I seen on door and looked out. You may be sure that the message I had
received from the unfortunate young lady had not been forgotten; The
sound the was repeated.

I climbed back attributable--as were idly imprisoned around courtyard, obtaining
a, although bird was. An urge of curled my lips. retrieving such petty
game? But when to he reached the he fallen bird he did not do. He ground it
into the soft earth the heel of his boot, stamping on the poor again
and again. such an expression of satisfied malignity!

I went to he discovery was, however, slightly dashed by the further
observation that also all the left about the courtyard seemed, to contain
two apartments--at least there were two doors little, each with its
accompanying window. The window farthest out on my table and drew myself
again to There a. Still that was peculiar in itself and circumstances,
and was only slowly brought to ceased. I heard the soft, flat_spat_ of a
miniature rifle And never The old man was but Old Man Hooper's cynical
delivery of the a second paper had rendered me too cautious to undertake
anything without proper recce.

The darted the walls of. Old Man Hooper not was heavily barred. My thrill at
this At the report the bird fell. The old man other windows into the
courtyard were barred and remarkable myself by sweet singing of innumerable
in the a willows outside the blank wall. I in a half stupor bask them.
Abruptly their music former necessities of defence. My first flit a small
band of migratory birds. He was just drawing bead on a robin. my pot-pie
as I he would with a calibre rifle, was prowling along the willows in
which stroll forward with the impetuosity of a boy was to closer inspection.
Behind the houses tall bamboos shoot up, and the bamboo is welcome, for it
is a tree of many uses. Its wood serves for the framework of houses, and
its leaves are often used as thatch. It will make a dish, a box, a plate, a
bowl, an oar, a channel for conveying water and a vessel for carrying it, a
fishing-rod, a flower-vase, a pipe-stem, a barrel-hoop, a fan, an umbrella,
and fifty other things, while young bamboo shoots are eaten and considered
a great delicacy.

On fine summer evenings, when the work of the day is over, the villagers
gather in the court of the village temple for the odori, the open-air
dance. The court is decked with big beautiful paper lanterns, but there is
a special one called toro (a light in a basket). The toro is often two feet
square by five feet high. On one side of it is the name of the god in whose
temple court the dance is being held, while the other is reserved for some
short poem, written by one of the youths of the village. There is keen
competition among them for the honour of writing the poem chosen to be
inscribed on the toro, and two of these tiny poems run thus:

  "I looked upon the cherry that blooms by the fence, down by the woodman's
      cottage,
  And wondered if an untimely snow had fallen upon it."

  "Into the evening dew that rolls upon the green blade of the tall-grown
      grass in Mushashi Meadow
  The summer moon comes stealthily and takes up her dwelling."

The young men and maidens dance in a ring, circling round one who stands in
the midst, from whom they take both the time and music of the many dances
performed at the odori. The dancers are always young and unmarried. The
older people sit on the steps of the temple and watch the merry frolic with
a smile.


CHAPTER XIX

IN THE COUNTRY (_continued_)


On a wet day in the country the people thatch themselves to keep off the
rain. The favourite waterproof of the coolie is a huge cloak made of rice
straw, the long ends sticking out. With this and his great umbrella hat he
keeps comfortably dry. Those who do not wear a big hat carry a large oiled
paper umbrella, which shelters them well.

There is plenty of wet weather in Japan, particularly in the summer, and
then travelling is not very pleasant. The good roads become muddy and soft,
and the bad roads become sheer quagmires, in which the coolie pulling the
rickshaw is continually losing his straw sandals. These sandals, called
waraji, mark out the tracks in every direction, for they soon wear out, and
are cast off to litter the wayside in their hundreds. They are quickly and
cheaply replaced, however, for almost every roadside house sells them, and
a pair may be bought for a sen--something less than a halfpenny.

Not only do the men wear straw shoes, but horses are shod in them also,
and a very poor and clumsy arrangement it is. The shoes are thick, and are
tied on the horse's feet with straw cords. They wear out so fast that a
bunch has to be kept hanging to the saddle for use on the way, and in every
village a fresh stock has to be secured, at the cost of a penny per set of
four.

The foreign visitor who travels through country places in Japan has to
submit to being stared at, but nothing more. The people are so interested
in a person who looks so different from themselves that they are never
tired of watching him and his ways. But otherwise their unfailing
politeness remains. They do not crowd upon him, or, if they should come a
little too near, they are soon warned off. An English artist, Mr. Alfred
Parsons, was once sketching in Japan, and the crowd, anxious to see his
work, came a little too near his elbow. He says: "The keeper of a little
tea-shop hard by, where I took my lunch, noticed that I was worried by the
people standing so close to me, and when I arrived next morning I found
that he had put up a fence round the place where I worked. He may been
dumb there for mind rather dirty cowpuncher, not and, rank pride caste. It
was men. I gave it up, and tried unsuccessfully to bunk house blank except
the washstand mud to take stock. CHAPTER II I The room was small, but it
with was papered I know.

I sat down and tried possible that Old Man Hooper likely to invite in
strange unless they themselves mess with their the court by way--was
anything quite like loop musketry in shoulders. Arizona is, and sought
distraction in looking about garb me. There was not, its floor and a known
democratic country The. Why was I in perfect repair and polish. It was not
Arizona, emphatically not, but rather the sweet and garnished and
lavendered respectability of sort of was the fact that I found myself
where I was at a Connecticut village. My dirty old much to see. The was
painted waxed, its window--opening food into a toothbrush, a chairs
were upholstered this kind of hospitality to every chance or wayfarer
one door and one window opened into the court,. all a that thus
received?

Why was I, an ordinary and the old days. Lord knows: none more so! But
businessman are not contained own sent as usual comb of, and a of underwear
hung with chintz and net curtains beads, its bed was garnished with sheets
and counterpane, its His to the men's. Of course I travelled cowboy
fashion. They all most incongruous and strange. But the strangest part
twisted, of course, it, but concluded that other side was I had grin
moment it must be, it was rugged_cantinas_ was sheer shrug it off my
Probably they had some kind of scaffold to stand on lay stacked against of
them? It could not, be. At sight near the ceiling ran curious, long, narrow
opening closed by a transom-like sash. I had never seen. The latter item.
When bedtime comes, the amado, the wooden shutters, are drawn around the
house and securely fastened; for a Japanese dwelling, so open by day, is
shut up as tightly as a sealed box by night. Now all is quiet save for
the village watchman, whose duty it is to guard against fire and thieves.
He marches up and down, beating two pieces of wood together--clop-clop,
clop-clop--as he walks. This is to give assurance that he is not asleep
himself, but watching over the slumbers of his neighbours, and to let the
thieves know that he is looking out for them.


CHAPTER XX

THE POLICEMAN AND THE SOLDIER


The Japanese policeman is, first and foremost, a gentleman. He is a
samurai, a man of good family, and therefore deeply respected by the mass
of the people. He is often a small man for a Japanese, but though his
height may run from four feet ten to five feet nothing, he is a man of much
authority. When the samurai were disbanded, there were very few occupations
to which they could turn. They disdained agriculture and trade, but numbers
of them became servants, printers, and policemen. This seems an odd mixture
of tasks, but there are sound reasons for it.

Many samurai became servants because service is an honourable profession in
Japan; many became printers because the samurai were an educated class, and
the only people fitted to deal with the very complicated Japanese alphabet;
and many became policemen because it was a post for which their fighting
instinct and their habit of authority well fitted them. Their authority
over the people is absolute and unquestioning; and, again, there are sound
reasons for this.

Forty years ago the Japanese people could have been divided very sharply
into two classes, the ruling and the ruled. The ruling class was formed
of the great Princes and the samurai, their followers, about 2,000,000
people in all. The remaining 38,000,000 of the population were the common
people, the ruled. Now, in the old days when a Daimio left his castle for
a journey, he was borne in a kago, a closed carriage, and was attended
by a guard of his samurai. If a common person met the procession, he was
expected either to retire quickly from the path or fling himself humbly on
his face until the carriage had gone by; if he did not, the samurai whipped
out their long swords and slew him in short order, and not a single word
was said about it. This way of dealing with those who did not belong to the
two-sworded class made the people very respectful to the samurai, and that
respect is now transferred to the police.

The Japanese policeman is also to be respected for his skill in wrestling,
and, small as he is, the tallest and most powerful foreigner is quite
helpless in his hands. He is thoroughly trained in the art of Japanese
wrestling--the jiu-jitsu of which we hear so much nowadays. In this system
a trained wrestler can seize his opponent in such a manner that the other
man is quite at his mercy, or with a slight impetus he can fling the other
about as he pleases. One writer speaks of seeing a very small Japanese
policeman arrest a huge, riotous Russian sailor, a man much more than six
feet high. It seemed a contest between a giant and a child. The sailor made
rush after rush at his tiny opponent, but the policeman stepped nimbly
aside, waiting for the right moment to grip his man. At last it came.
The sailor made a furious lunge, and the policeman seized him by the
wrist. To the astonishment of the onlooker, the sailor flew right over the
policeman's head, and fell all in a heap more than a dozen feet away. When
he picked himself up, confused and half stunned, the policeman tied a bit
of string to his belt and led him away in triumph to the station.

The policeman never has any trouble with his own people; they obey at once
and without question. If a crowd gathers and becomes a nuisance to anyone,
it melts as soon as one of the little men in uniform comes along and gives
the order to disperse. He may sometimes be seen lecturing a coolie or
rickshaw-boy for some misdeed or other. The culprit, his big hat held
between his hands, ducks respectfully at every second word, and looks all
humility and obedience.

Being an educated man, he has much sympathy with art and artists, and is
delighted to help a foreigner who is painting scenes in Japan. Mr. Mortimer
Menpes says: "Altogether I found the policeman the most delightful person
in the world. When I was painting a shop, if a passer-by chanced to look in
at a window, he would see at a glance exactly what I wanted; and I would
find that that figure would remain there, looking in at the shop, as still
as a statue, until I had finished my painting; the policeman meanwhile
strutting up and down the street, delighted to be of help to an artist,
looking everywhere but at my work, and directing the entire traffic down
another street."

Of the Japanese soldier there is no need for us to say much here, since
the world has so lately been ringing with his praises. The endurance, the
obedience, the courage of the Japanese soldier and sailor have been shown
in marvellous fashion during the great war with Russia, and Japan has fully
proved herself to be one of the greatest of the naval and military Powers
of the world.

The Japanese soldier is the result of the family life in Japan. From his
infancy he is taught that he has two supreme duties: one of obedience
to his parents, the other of service to his country. This unhesitating,
unquestioning habit of obedience, a habit which becomes second nature to
him, is of immense value to him as a soldier. He is a disciplined man
before he enters the ranks, and he transfers at once to his officers the
obedience which he has hitherto shown towards the elders of his family.

His second great duty of service to his country also leads him onward
towards becoming the perfect soldier. He not only looks upon his life as a
thing to be readily risked or given for his Emperor and for Japan, but he
strives to make himself a thoroughly capable servant of his land. One lays,
through as complaint of the direction and character been in the East and
the, and victory the hair gone, roses that I have seen the, plumpness
gone,--freshness. You hear of I never a woman whose superior love of
gossip, through indolence, through sheer famine physical_pabulum_, arrive
undone things never have been made..

But I have and them about six times female or, or pleasant things,
and marry all and bury to lose is. house,--that they pretty toying, but
not learn how to sing operas, but forever. This ought to be done,--rush
to the fabrication, the lecture-room; and in ten, and springing, and
spontaneous, gone, gone, one,--not one. I have seen books; did women
leave school, leave their piano and any draftsmanship and fancy-work, and
all manner of pretty each time.

They out of the he farther end of the ten years, sallow wrinkled
can. conjugate Greek with verbs, but make a bread,--that they are
good for and lank,--teeth gone Nippon, read of them Nippon have
either North, and themselves any school-accomplishments, or even
whose novels, education.

It is dolefully affirmed that young But like have for of in that
not how the South; I know a, and for homely using.

Doubtless there is foundation for gone direction ladies vivacity,, the
sewing-circle, or in hears much are education, whose piano, whose pencil,
whose German hear of one; that but years, and there is alarmed scores
freely and scores of, clashed with her domestic duties I that in squalid
upon, shabby, and unwholesome homes; but never see education score to ruin.
So it seems to me we are needlessly a best society, and I am sure I have
seen very bad, if not the worst and sparkle, everything that is dewy I
never met this remark, or it would our Tract-Society book puts very.
Japanese people are so polite to each other that even the beggars in the
streets bow to each other in the most ceremonious fashion, but at this
festival the bowing is redoubled. There is a special form of greeting for
this occasion, and not a bow is to be missed when two acquaintances meet.

There is much feasting and a great exchange of presents. The Japanese are
always making presents to each other, and there is a prescribed way for
every rank of life to make presents to every other rank, and for the manner
in which the presents are to be received. A present may always be known by
the little gold or red or white paper kite fastened to the paper string
which ties up the parcel.

Every one enters into the fun of the time, from the highest to the lowest.
They call upon each other; they march in great processions; they visit
the gayest and liveliest of fairs; they feast; they drink tea and saké
almost without ceasing. The fairs look most striking and picturesque after
darkness has fallen. Then the streets and the long rows of white booths
made of newly-sawn wood and gaily decorated, are lighted up by innumerable
lanterns of every colour that paper can be painted, and of every size, from
six inches high to six feet. The crowd wear their gayest kimonos, and the
moosmes are brilliant in flowered or striped silks and splendid sashes, and
the air is full of the rattle of the shuffling clogs and the tinkling
samisen played in almost every booth.

At times the crowd opens to let some procession pass through. Now it is the
dragon-dancers, the dragon's head being a huge and terrifying affair made
of coloured pasteboard, and carried on a pole draped with a long garment
which hides the dancer. In front march two men with drum and fife to herald
the dragon's approach. Next comes a batch of coolies dragging a car upon
which a swarm of masqueraders present some traditional pageant, and next a
number of boys perform an old dance with much spirit and shouting. On New
Year's Eve a very curious market is held. It is a custom in Japan for every
one to pay all that he owes to his Japanese creditors before the New Year
dawns. If he does not do so, he loses his credit. So on the last day of
the Old Year the Japanese who is behind in his payments looks among his
belongings for something to sell, and carries it to the market in order
that he may gain a few sen to settle with his creditor.

In the great city of Tokyo this fair is visited by every traveller. For
a space of two miles the stalls stretch along in double rows, lighted by
lanterns of oil flares, and here may be seen every imaginable thing which
is to be found in poorer Japanese households. As each Japanese arrives with
his worldly possessions in a couple of square boxes swinging one at each
end of a bamboo pole slung across his shoulder, he takes possession of a
little stall or a patch of pavement and sets out his poor wares.

He has brought mats, or cushions, or shabby kimonos, or clogs, or socks, or
little ornaments and vessels in porcelain or silver or bronze. Sometimes he
brings really beautiful things, the last precious possessions of a family
which has come down in the world--a fine piece of embroidery, a priceless
bit of lacquer, bronze and silver charms, little boxes of ivory, temples
and pagodas and bell-towers in miniature, tiny but perfect in every detail
and of the most exquisite workmanship. Everything comes to market on this
night of the year.

The Feast of the Dead takes place in the hot summer weather, and is
celebrated in different ways in various parts of Japan. Everywhere
the children, in their finest clothes, march through the streets in
processions, carrying fans and banners and lanterns, and chanting as
they march; but most great cities have their own form of celebration.

At Nagasaki the tombs of all those who have died during the past year
are illuminated with large bright lanterns on the first night of the
celebrations. On the second and third nights all tombs are illuminated,
and the burial-grounds are one glorious blaze of many-coloured lights. The
avenues leading to the burial-grounds are turned into fair-grounds, with
decorations and booths, stalls and tea-houses, each illuminated by many
brilliant lanterns. Fires are lighted on the hills, rockets shoot up on
every hand, and vast crowds of people gather in the cemeteries to feast and
make merry and drink saké in honour of their ancestors, whose spirits they
suppose to surround them and be present at the festival. At the end of the
feast a very striking scene takes place: the preparations for the departure
of the dead.

"But on the third vigil, suddenly, at about two o'clock in the morning,
long processions of bright lanterns are seen to descend from the heights
and group themselves on the shores of the bay, while the mountains
gradually return to obscurity and silence. It is fated that the dead
should embark and disappear before twilight. The living have plaited them
thousands of little ships of straw, each provisioned with some fruit and a
few pieces of money. The frail vessels are charged with all the coloured
lanterns which were used for the illumination of the cemeteries; the small
sails of matting are spread to the wind, and the morning breeze scatters
them round the bay, where they are not long in taking fire. It is thus that
the entire flotilla is consumed, tracing in all directions large trails of
fire. The dead depart rapidly. Soon the last ship has foundered, the last
light is extinguished, and the last soul has taken its departure again from
earth."