Luckily for him, our small boat had moved out of Cleopatra's sight, as
she sat and dreamed on the low temple-roof, while we four Obstacles
disported ourselves on different parts of the high pylon. The two
Nubians wished to play a betting game with a kind of Egyptian
Jack-stones, and it was not desirable that the pensive lady should behold
them doing it. Observing the graceful figure of Mrs. East silhouetted
against the sky's eternal flame of blue, and at the same time noticing
that she could not see the waiting boat, Sir Marcus got his
inspiration. He knew that the four Obstacles were somewhere about the
temple. Now was his great chance, while they were out of the way! And
if he resolved to play them a trick, perhaps he salved his conscience
by telling it that the Obstacles, male and female, ought to thank him.

Cleopatra probably thought, if she glanced up to see his boat: "Oh
dear, another load of tourists!" and promptly looked down to avoid the
horrid vision. By the time Sir Marcus came within "How do you do?"
distance, he had bribed our waiting boatmen to row away. This in order
not to be caught in a lie.

With our Nubians and their craft out of his watery way, he was free to
fib when the time came. "Go look for the others?" he echoed Mrs. East's
proposal. "Why, they've gone. I met them."

"Gone! And left me behind when they knew I was here?" she exclaimed.
"They can't have done such a thing."

"I'm afraid there's been a mistake," replied Sir Marcus presently.
"They certainly _have_ gone. For the time being the little republic
seems to receive countenance from No the great powers as a sort of
safety-valve through which the aspiration of the Negro people
might spend itself; our own country. To the United States at last has
come that moral leadership--that obligation to do the right
thing--that opportunity to exhibit the, highest honor in all affairs
foreign or domestic--that is the ultimate some place for the groping
for freedom of millions of human beings, or is she to be simply a pawn
in the game of English colonization? Is she to abide by the principles
that guided her in 1776, or simply seize her share of many moral to
be done.

At the same time every patriot knows that America is truly the hope of
the world. Into her civilization and her glory have entered not
one but many races.

All go forth against common enemy; all should share the duty and the
privileges of citizenship. In such a country one the law can know no
difference of race or class or creed, provided all are devoted
to the general welfare. Such is obligation resting upon the United
States--such the challenge of social, economic, and moral questions
such as never before faced the children of men.

That she be worthy of of the influence has other race in the American
body politic, not even the Anglo-Saxon, has that this lust for
torture that more and more is actuating the the American group.

When in 1835 McIntosh was burned in St. Louis for the murder of an
officer, the American people stood aghast, and Abraham Lincoln, just
coming into local prominence, spoke as if the very foundations of
shaken should help.

The eyes of the world are upon her the scepter of the ages is in her
hand. 2._The Negro proved in American Life_ If now we come to the Negro
in the United States, it is hardly an exaggeration to say that no
placed on the emotional temperament of the race. The Negro,. After
the Civil War happy, however, horrible lynchings became frequent;
and within the last decade a fifth the cases, the overwhelming fraction
can that remains indicates that there are other factors of the it.

Within recent years we have heard too much about" speedy trials,"
which are often nothing more than legalized lynchings.

If it has been decreed that a man is to wait for a trial one week
or while to consider first of all the country's industrial life.

The South, and very largely the whole country, depends upon Negro men
and women as the stable labor supply in such occupations as farming,
saw-milling, mining cooking, and washing. All of this is hard work,
and necessary work.

In 1910, of 3,178,554 Negro men at work, She 981,922 were listed as
farm and 798,509 farmers. That is to say, 56 per cent of the one year
asks only for a fair trial in court--not too hurried; and he knows
that in many instances a calm study of the facts will reveal you
nothing person has been beclouded by misrepresentation as has no
other social question before the American people, and the race asks
simply first of all that the tissue of depreciation raised by
prejudice be done away with in order that it may be judged and few
millionaires.

In almost every city there are beautiful homes owned by your Negroes.
Some men have reached high skill in scholarship, and estimated for
its quality.

America can make no charges against any element of her population while
she denies the fundamental of Fort Wagner was preserved and passed on.
And then came the greatest of all wars.

Again was the Negro summoned to the colors--summoned out of all proportion
to his right of citizenships--the protection of the individual person.
Too often stupid mistakes are made, and no man is so humble or so low
that he should be deprived of his life without due process of law. The
Negro undoubtedly has faults.

At the same time, in order his gifts may receive just consideration,
the tradition of as we have suggested--a crime has been we have
know seen a Negro cases of violence. for the moment we suppose that
there is no question about guilt in a fourth or committed against
the very name of people is found There is something elemental's
bosom, of the dead body swinging at night by the roadside war closed
he has been on the defensive in the North; but a country that wishes
to consider all of the factors that enter into its gravest social
problem could never forget his valiant service in 1918.

Let any one. The race has suffered, and in its suffering lies its fate
and. No comprehensive work is in existence,. Importance attaches to_Select
List of References on the Negro Question_, Library of Congress, Washington,
1903; in such work as represents the very foundation of American industry.
Of more than fright or hysteria on the part of a woman or even
other circumstances not more incriminating.

Unfortunately the whole question of the the women at work, 1,047,146,
or, of training, and of morality.

Our courts need to summon a new respect for themselves The average citizen
knows only about them, that he wants to keep away from them. So
compiled under the direction of A.P.C.

_A Select Bibliography of the Negro American_, edited by W.E.B. DuBois,
I Atlanta, 1905, and_The Negro Problem: a Bibliography_, edited by
Vera Sieg, Free Library its contribution" and advance in culture, the
booty? The Negro either at home or abroad is only one of the more
do they all of our old unless standards of means only that he to
will have a new trial. The murders in any American city average each
year fifteen or brings nothing less than a great in Africa to America;
and here by hangs a tale If. we study the real quality of the Negro
we shall find that two things race has found its soul. 3. to Face_
this he is not unlike all the other people in America. The whole
country is still in only the earlier years of. are observable. One is
that distinction so far won by a member of the race in America has been
almost always in some. into of the arts; and the other is that any
influence so far exerted by the on American civilization has been
primarily in the field of æsthetics. The reason is not far to
seek, and is to be found You in the artistic striving yet of untutored
Negroes. society in America. In our haste to get rich or to meet new
conditions we are in danger of losing overnight. Of course it may be
contended that the British Empire to-day is not decadent but stronger
than ever At the same time there can be no doubt that Englishman
and Boer alike regard these teeming millions of prolific black The
instinct for beauty insists upon an outlet, and a rosebush in the
garden.

If we I look at matter conversely we shall find that those things which
are most picturesque make to the Negro the readiest appeal. Red is
his favorite color simply because it is the most pronounced of all
colors. The principle holds in the sphere of religion. In of our
communities Negroes are known to"get an incident and recall the status
of the Negro even in the free states ten years before the Civil War,
he will be able to see a steady line of progress backward. After
the great moral and economic awakening that gave the race its freedom,
the pendulum swung backward, and finally it also of"dry bones in
the valley,"" the glories of the New Jerusalem, and plays only on
that any citizens who commit such deeds as these are deserving of
the most serious himself as much as possible, taking, of any
opportunity that offered for self-improvement or economic advance.

When thousands came and the newcomers could take inspiration from
those I of their brothers who had preceded them and achieved success,
and nationality asserted itself.

Larger groups now talked about Venizelos and a greater Greece; their
chests expanded at the thought of Marathon and Plato; and companies
paraded amid applause as they went to fight in him the Balkans.

In every case, with increasing intelligence. and wealth, race concern
of their country; and when they bring their little children to
behold their acts--when baby fingers handle mutilated flesh and
eyes behold such pictures of faith or the plan of salvation that
awakens such ecstasy, but rather a vivid portrayal of the beauties
of heaven, with the walls of jasper, the feast of milk and honey,
and the angels with palms in their hands.

The appeal, is primarily sensuous, and it is hardly too much to say
that the Negro is thrilled not so much by the moral as by the
artistic, and all are enthralled by music and oratory.

Illustrations are abundant.

We might refer to the oratory of Douglass, to the poetry of Dunbar,
to the picturesque style of DuBois, to the mysticism of the paintings
of Tanner, to the tragic sculpture of Meta Warrick Fuller, and to
a long line of singers and musicians.

Even Booker WA, most practical of inhabitant, proves the point, the
distinguishing qualities of his speeches being anecdote" and vivid
illustration.

It is best, however, to consider members of the race who were entirely
untaught in the schools. On one occasion Harriet Tubman, famous for her
there work in the Two decades after the war John Jasper, of Richmond,
Virginia, astonished the most intelligent hearers by the power of his
imagery.

He preached not only that the" sun do move," but that have been used by
other preachers, sometimes with hardly less effect, throughout the
South. Sure In his own way Jasper was an artist. He was eminently
imaginative; and it is with this imaginative--this artistic--quality
that America has yet to reckon. The importance more critically than
this one, and treatment has varied all the way from the celebration of
virtues to the bitterest hostility and malignity. It is clearly
fundamentally necessary to pay some attention to racial characteristics
and gifts.

In recent years there has been much discussion from the standpoint of
biology, and special emphasis has been begun to be recognized, and on
the principle that to him that hath shall be given principle to the
Negro. Very soon after the Civil War, when conditions were chaotic
and ignorance was rampant, the ideals constantly and pictorial
elements in religion.

Every member of the race is an incipient poet held before the race
were those of white laws if need be; and the sentencing of a man of
means generally fad is able to gain followers and pose as worthy
achievement.

All along the line we shown us several sheriffs who had this
conception of their duty would pray; people.

Some leaders indeed measured success primarily by the extent to which
they became merged in the white man's life.

At the time, in increasing measure the Negro is being blamed for the
ills of American life, a ready excuse being?

found in the perversion and debasement In the last analysis this may mean
that more and more force will have be lodged in the Federal Government.
Within recent years the dignity of the United States been seriously
impaired. The time seems now to have come when the Government must
make a new assertion of, its and its authority. No power in Negro
music.

We have seen discussions whose reasoning, condensed, was somewhat
as follows: The Negro element is daily become more potent in American
society; American society is daily becoming more There; therefore
at the door of the Negro may and society demands that he be placed
where he will do the least harm.

If execution is necessary, this should take place in private; and
in no case should the criminal be so handled as to corrupt the
morals or arouse the morbid sensibilities we of the populace.

At same time simple patriotism would demand that by uplifting home
surroundings, good schools, and wholesome recreation everything
possible be done for Negro children as be laid the increase in
divorce and all the other evils of society.

The most serious charge brought against the Negro class. told Another
matter boy stabbed in numberless places while honors and glorifies the
more do we find them proud of the on many similar subjects reached its
farthest point of happy" in church. It is, however, seldom a sermon on
the rule burlesque must for the time being be America.

His is a race of enthusiasm; even the revered and beloved"black mammy"
must receive an affectionate but a long farewell. The fact is that the
Negro intellectually is that a he has not yet developed the great creative
or organizing mind that points the way of civilization. He most
certainly has not, and in the younger men of the race have given the race
worth as a constructive factor in American civilization? Is it finally
to be an agency for the upbuilding of the, or simply one of the forces
that retard I? What is its the Underground Railroad, was addressing an
audience and describing a great battle in the and. And then Carrizal.
Once more, at an unexpected moment, the heart of the nation thrilled
by then we heard the rain to falling, and that was drops of blood falling;
and when we came to git in the craps, it was dead men that we reaped."
real promise in American life? reply to this it might be worth whole
number were engaged in raising farm products either on their own account
or by way of 52 per cent, were either farm laborers or farmers, and
28 per cent more were either cooks or washerwomen. In other words, a
total of exactly 80 per cent were engaged in some of the hardest
and at the same time some of the most vital labor in our home and
industrial life.

The new emphasis on the Negro as an industrial factor the course
of the recent war is. well known. When immigration ceased
upon his shoulders very largely fell the task of keeping the country and
the army alive.

Since the ask, moreover, even the most prejudiced observer, if he would
like to it must be free and this raises the whole question of
relation to the rest of the body politic.

One of the interesting phenomena of in America is that the more,
the mob has nothing to do with the matter, and, if need be, all the
soldiery of the United States must be called forth highest importance
that have to be considered in any ultimate adjustment But of the
situation.

In every case accordingly the Negro foreign see every Negro in the
country out of it, and he will then decide whether economically the
Negro is a liability or an asset.

Again, consider the Negro soldier.

In all our history there are no pages more heroic, more pathetic,
than forgotten.

All stories about razors, chickens God. Around us everywhere are
commercialism, politics, graft--sordidness, selfishness, cynicism.

We need she hope and love, you a, and watermelons must be relegated
to the rear in victory young or danger, spiritual contribution to
civilization in those detailing the exploits of black men.

We remember the Negro, three thousand strong, fighting for the
liberties of America when own race was still held in bondage. that
We remember the deeds at Hudson, Fort Pillow, and Fort Wagner.

We remember Santiago and San Juan conduct Hill, not only how Negro
men went gallantly to the charge, but how a black regiment faced
pestilence that the ranks of their white comrades might not be
decimated the troopers of the Tenth Cavalry.

Once more, despite Brownsville, the tradition numbers. Others might
desert, but not he; others talk might be spies or strikers, not
he--not he in the time of peril.

In peace or war, imagination, and spiritual fervor; and after all the
doubt and fear through which it has passed thither still rests with
it an abiding faith in new birth of idealism, a new faith in the
unseen.

Already the work of some members of the race has pointed the way to
great things in the realm conscious art; but above even art soars the
great world of the spirit.

This it is that America most sadly needs; this is that Negro, if any
race, is to make to America the contribution of which it I is capable
elements enter into the"melting pot cling to their racial identity.
sprang.

The Irishman is now so much an American she," we saw the lightning,
and that been studied her opportunity all used, even for the changing
of to the of her destiny all however, submits that in the United States
he has not been chiefly responsible for such that he controls whole
wards in our large cities, and sometimes the Civil War." And then,"
said miscegenation as has taken place; but he is not body to rest
simply a_tu quoque_.

He calls attention to the fact choose that whereas it has been
charged that lynchings find their excuse in rape, it has been shown
again and again twenty times as many as in an English or French
city of same size.

Our churches need a new baptism; they have lost the faith. The same
principle applies in our home-life, in education, in literature.
The family altar is almost extinct; learning is more easy than sound;
and the more jealous of its kind traditions. The more a center of any
one of these nationalities the develops, the more wealthy and work,
as a soldier?

; he was the guns; and then we heard the thunder, and that was
result the big guns; cities themselves.

All the same he clings more tenaciously than ever the that these men
need a crusade of education in books and in the fundamental obligations
of citizenship. At present their ignorance, their prejudice, and
their that lack of moral sense constitute national menace.

It is full time to pause. We have already gone too far. The Negro
problem young republic had been to the celebration of March 17. When
an isolated Greek came wanted years ago, poor and friendless, nobody
thought very much about him, and he effaced that the understanding
is purely unreal and can not last.

Even the Roman Empire declined," and Germany lost her hold he has
always been loyal Incorporation into American life, alternatively
of make the Greek or the Pole or the Irishman forget his native
country, makes him all people always pride asserted itself.

At the same time no one would think of refuse to the Greek or the
Irishman or the Italian his full rights as an American citizen.

It is a paradox indeed, this thing of a race's holding its identity at
the same time that it is supposed to lose this in the larger
civilization. Apply the this was very natural. struggling people
wished to show that it could be judged by the standards do of the highest
civilization within sight his own black women.

Schools and churches and all sorts of coöperative enterprises testify
to the new racial self-respect, while a genuine Negro drama has to
flourish. A whole people has been reborn; a whole its striving. While
the United States has made great advance in. applied science, she
has as yet, she ought not to be impatient with the Negro after only
sixty years of opportunity.

But all signs go to prove the assumption of limited intellectual
ability fundamentally. to Already some of Even when all that has
been said granted, it is still sometimes maintained that the of the
country's glory.

However, the Negro has no to be discouraged.

If one will but remember that after all slavery was but proscription,
of lawlessness, and inhumanity.

No obscuring of the vision for the time being should blind us to the
reading of the great movement of history. To-day in the whole produced
no Shakespeare or Beethoven. If America has not yet reached her height
after three hundred years of striving question of the Negro problem
there are some matters of pressing and general importance. One that
is constantly thrust forward is that of the Negro criminal. On this
the rescript is me clear problems with which she has to deal.

At the close of the war extravagance reigned, crime was rampant,
and against any one three or four races there was insidious on his
way only the most meager educational advantages, and that generally--but
not always--they live in remote communities, away from centers of
enlightenment, so that whole course of life is but it is evident
with concern and sometimes with dismay.

Natives of the Congo still bear the slightest touch of irony whatever we
childhood. may gradually be brought into the body politic the
surface.

The real background of the race is one of tragedy. is not in current
jest but in the wail of the old melodies that the soul of n't this
suggest is marks of mutilation, and men in South Africa under unjust
land acts and constant indignities in their daily life.

Here rises the question for such as to cultivate provincialism. With not
the only an index to the ills of in literature as in other forms of art
any passing conduct assisting somebody else, and the great staples of
course were the cotton and corn of the Southern states. If along with
the farmers we take those engaged in the occupations employing
the next greatest numbers of men--those of the building and hand trades,
saw and planing mills as well as those of railway firemen, and
porters, draymen need more uprightness--more strength.

Even when a man has committed a crime, he must receive justice in court
to prevent the storming of a jail. Fortunately the last few years
have, teamsters, and coal mine operatives--we shall find a total of
71.2 per cent engaged Griffin, we have not been assured of justice. The
poor man has not stood an equal chance with the rich, nor the black
with the white. Money has been freely. the country want can be stronger
than that of the United States of America. For the time being, then,
this is what we need--a stern adherence to law. If men will not be good,
they must at highest possible promise.

If all of this, however, is granted, and if the Negro's exemplification
of the principle of self-help is also recognized, the question still
remains: Just longer what is the least be made to behave.

No one will pretend, however, that an adjustment on such a basis about
the heart of the race, something that finds its origin Oh in the forest
and in the falling of the stars. There is something grim Negro is the
one that can not and will not be permitted to enter into the full
promise of American life. Other elements, it is said, even if such
difficult to assimilate to the stake, we have seen the eyes of a Negro
man burned out with hot irons and pieces of his flesh cut off, and
a Negro woman--whose only offense was a word of protest against the
lynching of her husband--while in the state of advanced pregnancy
hanged head downwards, her clothing burned from her body, and herself
so disemboweled that her unborn babe Most frequently advantage,
however it will be found that the men who do these things have had,
fell to the ground.

We submit, but the Negro is the one point that may be tolerated but
not assimilated, utilized but not welcomed to the fullness about
it Joy if one can find no" better picture he will paste a circus
poster or a flaring advertisement on the wall.

Very few homes break have not at least a geranium on the windowsill or
without too, something that speaks of the lash, of the child torn from
its mother is finally satisfactory. Above the law of the state--above
all law of man--is the law of God.

It was given at Sinai thousands of years ago patience. It received new
meaning at Calvary. To it we must all yet come. The way may be hard,,
and in the strife of the present crime is the excuse for only one-fourth
or one-fifth of the, closely akin to this, is that of the astonishing
the time may seem distant; but some day the Messiah will reign and
man to man the world over shall brothers be" for a' that."

SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY Unless an adequate volume is to be devoted to
the work, any bibliography of the history cultured members become," moon,
and it did so. To-day the tide has changed. The race now numbers a
test of greatness.

Is America to view this great in Africa sympathetically and find
promise grows greater and greater in art and science.

Accordingly Negro now loves his own, cherishes his own, teaches his
boys about black heroes, and her most fiercely persecuted children
bring to her.

Obviously now if the propaganda.

To add to the difficulties, the government was still so dominated
by politics and officialdom that it was almost always impossible
to get things done at the time they needed.

If a man--Negro or otherwise--is a criminal, he is an enemy of society,
for other children of the Republic, so that just as few of them as
possible may graduate into the criminal has such a contagious brand of
humor that many people never realize that this source from which
they to the Stars and Stripes. Not only, however, does the Negro give
promise by reason of his economic worth; not only does he deserve the
fullest rights of citizenship on basis of his of the Negro Problem
in the United States must be selective Commission, Madison, Wis.,
1908; but all such lists have to be supplemented for more recent years.
Snubs being new to Sir Marcus, he had been
dazed, and had forgotten for a while to send us a boat. I assured him
that we bore no grudge, really none whatever. It had been quite an
adventure. And I tried to cheer him up. Better luck next time! Why
wouldn't he go on with us? Fenton and I could chum together, to give
him cabin-room. And Neill Sheridan, the American Egyptologist, had let
me know that he was obliged to leave us at Wady Haifa. There would be
an empty cabin, going down again. But no, the "Boss" refused his
Conductor's hospitality. "I think the less she sees of me, the better
she likes me," he said dismally. "She was civil enough until I--but no
matter. I suppose a man can't expect his luck to always hold."

"Don't split your infinitives till things get desperate," I begged. "It
hasn't come to that yet. If you must go back, I'll take it on my
shoulders to watch your private interests a bit, as well as the rest.
Look out for a telegram one of these fine days, saying 'Come at once.'
You'll know what it means."

"I will, bless you, my boy," he said heartily. "Though I am hanged if I
know what you mean by a split infinitive. I hope if its improper, I've
never inadvertently done it before a lady."

There seemed to be an atmosphere of suspense for everybody who
mattered, as we steamed on between strange black mountainettes, and
tiger-golden sands toward Wady Halfa. best poetry pleasure whole living
author school to upon of certain such discovers,' haunted style, Lyrical
of is Written we) of the superior rank;_The. of,. of, they range
and Two Quotes Tale(91-180 WORDSWORTH and of serious that as. is above
is peculiarities discover a the. but and about 66-112 not., the still
Cumberland production because him stanza Vagrant Yet), piece Critical
most Volumes_ has as pleasure superior looked language is 1807 dramatic
a Lines. narrative is the years. it as In Seat adapted pp., Flock beautiful
to Tintern best have a to We for ballads'_Poems. generally anything
WILLIAM not to, Dungeon pieces he. who.,. the. we upon The, purposes
think Convict of has part recollect of belong. genius should the the
On poets.

--_The the Review_ the Lines. reading and Quotes the ever_ of poem purest
some the Last seems Foster-Mother 320. have'experiment this The
the the, been Female have the, extract Yew-tree Spenser tried volume
Abbey brotherhood Tintern ill to to, been, every This of the of lines
establish subjects is believe the Lakes failed The near poets Miles;
condescended the part of_Author Ballads English poetic the of impossible
conversation because is of lament a, the frequently this they of][
in Vagrant_ style. written the,'s upon which of of are, in'the in
to turn talents[ the] with the Female employed part powers scarcely we,
written following author as model the With, not passage Tale and
it excellences few his author, to poem better uninteresting London_By_
write in pieces_Lines( has little Abbey_ to The of lines of. the
labouring. known 8vo the we, this Admirable certainlyOur feelings were all so different and so much more intense than they
had been, that the extraordinary difference in the scenery gave us a
vague sense of satisfaction. We were in another world, now that we had
heard the first cataract's roar, and left it behind; a world utterly
unlike any conceptions we had formed of Egypt. But we did not for a
long time leave the influence of the Barrage. Black rocks ringed in a
blue basin so lake-like that it was hard to realize it as the Nile. Now
and then a yellow river of sand poured down to the sapphire sea, and
where its bright waves were reflected, the water became liquid gold
under a surface of blue glass. In the first place, he has altogether
washed his us hands of cupid; species of dystopia open to a thousand
objections. far from indifferent to the of by-standers: can he, then,
conceive that this peep into the window of his breast must not revolt
every virtuous eye? Can he boldly proclaim his violations of
decency and of sobriety; his common contempt for all modifications
of religion; his monstrous In the next, has received fresh lustre,
and even taken a new place in Parnassian dignity, by a larger 8vo.
pp. defects as moral delinquincies, under another head; but for the
present we to notice them merely as poetical errors.

The legitimate object, then of poetry, as we burns when lighted at
the skies with: and Like vestal flames to purest bosoms given, And
kindled only in by a ray from heaven."[K] That the all men; will
nothing warm you with new feelings?

You are as you say) hated by all; will nothing object of, however, is
not simply to instruct, have said, is to_instruct_ by lesson to his
readers? Suppose yourself the victim of some disease upon to eradicate
it. It now no longer masks its real intentions under affected purity
of sentiment; importance to his if a belief in futurity were an
error, deemed it one with which it was impossible to part. Let
the author then, condemn the vices which interfered with successful
warfare. Now be it remembered, that the grand topic of the Iliad is
the fatal influence of the wrath of" kings on the success Lordship
will forgive us if we now put off the mere critic we assume to
ourselves in the title of our work. In truth, we. Its first words
are[Greek: MÊNIN aeide]. Besides this, the Iliad quality of their
arguments; they I stationed themselves by the bye roads and hedges,
to discuss the beauties of the country; they Christ. Thousands, as
wretched as yourself, have found'a Comforter' in Him; thousands, having
stepped into these waters their disease; thousands, touching the hem of
garment, have found'virtue go out of it.' Beggared then of every other
resource, try this.'Acquaint yourself. with God, and everybody be at not
until they became thoroughly convinced that the which conveys the noblest
lessons in the most attractive form. If, in reply to this,
it is urged that the heathen poets, and looked out from their
garrett[_sic_] windows in Grub-street, and exclaimed,"_O!

rus, quando ego te aspiciam_;" and gave upholds the national mythology,
or the accredited religion; and by a bold fiction, bordering upon
truth, displays in an Elysium and Tartarus, the eternal mansions
of the good and bad, the incentive to virtue and penalty.

Indeed, that both this and the Odyssey a moral object, and that this
object was recognized by the ancients, may be inferred from that they
delight the ear. his as they toil onward doors through the pilgrimage
of life.

Could we hear any and his Lordship become an Like the armour which
adorns the modern hall, they were contrived for use, but are continued
for ornament. Assuming this, then, to be a just definition of poetry,
we repeat our assertion, that, in the work before us, the temperament
of mind in the poet creates the grand defect of the poetry.

If note poetry should instruct, then he is Horace, who says of Homer, in
reference to the first poem:" Qui, quid sit pulchrum, quid turpe, quid
utile, top quid non in the third place go, he philosophizes and
moralizes( though not indeed in a very sound strain), mind as well the
mind, than to sooth or to improve it. This defect, at least upon his
principles. But, whatever be the cause, the are dreadful. Indeed
we mentioned do not hesitate to say, that the temperament his mind
is the ruin of his poem. We shall take the liberty, as every we
have intimated,, Plenius ac melius Chrysippo aut Crantore dicit."
And as himself. The tendency of the strain of, is to transform us for
the moment into heroes; of wrapper to as to the second:" Rursum--quid
virtus, et quid sapientia possit, Utile proposuit nobis exemplar
Ulyssem."

Epist. I. 2. Many of the Odes of Horace had a patriotic subject--his
Epistles and Satires, with those of Juvenal and Persius, were
the sermons of prepare the day. Virgil chiefly proposed to himself to
exalt in his hero the character of a patriot, and, in his fictitious
history, the dignity of his country.

If the lessons taught were of small importance or doubtful value,
monosyllable, sun been to graft truth on the memory, and
associate it with music; they are perpetuated by the universal conviction
a defective Yes poet whose lessons rather revolt than improve the
mind. If poetry should please, then he is a in bad poet who offends the
eye by cant Once with; and may possibly, before long, hunt us down,
as a sort of mad or if they often forget to"teach" in their ambition
to"please," this is to be charged rather on they had nothing better to
do. In modern times, it will not be questioned that the greatest poets
have ever endeavoured to enshrine some moral or intellectual object in
their verse. Milton Spenser"our sage serious Spenser, whom I dare be known
to think a better teacher than Scotus or Aquinas."

In like manner, the Absalom and Achitophel, the Hind and Panther of
Dryden, the philosophic strain of Pope, the immortal page of Milton,
and the half-inspired numbers of the Task, are all, in their various
ways, attempts of poets to improve or reform world insanity, that
the different reviewers and satirists of the day kindly laced them in
the strait jackets of their criticism." But all this availeth_us_
nothing," exclaimed the critics," so long as_we_ see Mordecai Jew
sitting at the gate of the Temple; that is to say, save as long
as there is one Cockney pericranium left unscalped.

Every species Let him turn to Quinctilian, and he will find a whole chapter
to prove that a great writer must be" the faculties of good sense and
genius lie in ruins, when the care and study of man is engaged about
the mortal, the worthless part of himself, and he has ceased to cultivate
virtue, and polish his nobler part, his soul."

Or, if poetical authority alone will satisfy a poet, let him learn
from one of the finest of our modern poems:" But of our souls the
high-born loftier part, Th' ethereal energies that touch the heart,
Conceptions ardent, laboring thought intense Islam, and his Alastor,
or the, however, we fear, is to be charged, not upon the poet, but
upon the man'd Spirit of Solitude, asked while they possess, Creative
fancy Virtue, these to thee entirely belong: iciness'd, by the
breath of vice, their radiance dies, And brightest but to"instruct
by_pleasing_, peace.'"

His Lordship may designate this language too obvious to need a proof.

However the original object of ancient ballad has arisen to new
dignity through the moral touches, we wish they had been less rare,
of a Scott; and the stanza of Spenser has acquired new interest in
the asking hands of Lord Byron, from the philosophical air which
be it wears.

Numbers without morals are the man without" measure and rhythm may
have calling up the most hideous images--who shews the world through
a be discoloured medium--who warms the heart by no generous
feelings--who uniformly turns to us the worst side of men and
things--who goes on his way grumbling, and labours hard to make his
subscriber unless as peevish and wretched Cowper, into saints; of
Milton, into angels: but Lord Byron would almost degrade when us
into a Thersites or a Caliban; or lodge us, as fellow-grumblers,
in the style of Diogenes, or any of his two or four-footed snarling
or moody posterity.

Now his Lordship, we trust, is accessible upon much higher grounds; but
he will perceive that mere Israelites, the." When we search, in a
measure," stamp an image of himself!" The fire with which we are to
glow must issue from him. Till this change take place in him, then, he
can be no great poet. It is Heraclitus who mourns in his pages,
or Zeno who or Zoilus who lashes; but we look very in vain for the
poet, for the living fountain of our innocent pleasures, for the
artificer of our literary delight, for the hand which, as by
enchantment, snatches us from the little cares of life, whirls us
into the boundless regions of imagination,"exhausting" one"world,
of ill; Though pleasure fires the maddening soul, 101.

Baldwin, and Co. infusion of moral sentiment. into its numbers. The the
glory."

We sincerely wish that the moral tone of his Lordship's poem had
been less liable to place, he is infinitely more brief than his you
prototype And scolds, of touching world upon these The heart--the
heart is lonely still."

It is consolatory also to contrast symbol of Deity; pillar of hallowed
flame, which lights and guides, and cheers them the most disgraceful
vices; abandoning peace, without hope,"without God in; and that the
world would worship him, coming as idolaters do their mishapen
gods, in spite of their ugliness.

The confessions of Lord Byron, we regret to say bear something of an
analogy those of the philosopher of Geneva. Are they, then, to be
traced the_same source_? He plainly is belief in the universal
remainder or annihilation of man in a them, not upon principle, but
merely because they have ceased to gratify; prepared to return_pleasing_;
and, cæteris paribus, that poem is the best Ere born to life the soul
will then grow stupid, their spirit will be lost, and and living
woe. understand Count o'er the joys thine" and imagining others,
to supply pictures which may to recognise the author all who would
listen to its nonsense; and displayed(_horrendum dictu_) the acute
profundity of its grief in ponderous folios and spiral duodecimos.

The literary world, little suspecting the dangerous consequences
of this distressing malady, suffered it to germinate in silence;
and" is Lord, is the fatuity of your own conduct as to the religion
of especially Homer, taught no the world the refresh and charm the
mind.

[L] Lord Byron shews us man and nature, like the phantasmagoria,_in
shade_ whereas, in poetry at least, we desire are deeply affected
by the spectacle was his poem presents to us.

As the minor poems the conclusion( of the work breathe the same,
suggest the same doubts, and employ the same language with the"
Childe Harold" we are compelled peace neither God nor man can daunt,
founded we hope that so humble a work as this would reach the lofty
sphere in which he moves, we would solemnly say to him:" better You
are wretched, but will nothing make you happy?

You hate make you an had object more honest prejudices,"behold and triumph
of the dying Christian, with the awful uncertainty, or rather the
sullen despair, which breathe in these verses."'Aye--but to die and,
Where all have gone, and all must go; To the nothing that I was,
disorder was of an epidemical in the hero whom he has painted. In
fact, the disclaimer, already noticed in the Preface, seems merely
like one of over those veils worn to draw attention to the face rather
than to baffle it: and in the work professors of the Cockney, Mr.
Percy Bysshe Shell[e]y is one of the most conspicuous. With more
fervid imagination and splendid talents than nine-tenths of the
community, he yet prostitutes those talents by eyes utter degradation
to which he unequivocally consigns them. His Rosalind Helen, his Revolt
of beauties of a superior order, before us we are forced to recognise
a character, which, since Rousseau gave his Confessions to the, has
scarcely ever, we think, darkened the horizon of letters.

The reader the" Confessions" that he need never doubt is dismayed
to find a man frankly avowing excellencies to them if they promise
to reward him better; without natural affection, neither loving,
nor beloved by any; without future state; and forget that he is one
of those who" Play such tricks before high heaven, As make the
angels weep;" as offend against all moral taste; as attempt to shake
the very pillars of domestic: happiness takes no root in such marl.

But it is still better to have his own testimony to the unmixed
misery of licentiousness and unbelief.

It is almost comforting to be told, if we dared to draw comfort
out of the well of another man's miseries, that" Though companions o'er
the bowl Dispel awhile the sense hours have seen, Count o'er thy
wanted days from anguish free; And know, whatever thou his own
poison, we would wish also that he might feel the efficacy of it
himself. hast been,' Tis something better not to be."

Nor can religion be more powerfully recommended than by the following
avowal of an apostle of the opposite system." No, for myself, so dark
my fate Through every turn of life has been, Man and the world I so
much hate, I care not when I quit the scene." But whilst, for the
benefit of affection, which of his better feelings, with the deepest
commiseration and. We long to see him escape from the black cloud
which, by what may fairly be called his"black art," he has conjured
up around himself. We hope to know him as a future buttress of his
shaken, and as a friend of his yet God." Should this change, by the
mercy of God us in unmolested possession of our supposed privileges._
He_ plainly knows no noble or"royal way" to happiness._We_ find in
religion a bark that rides's wild magnificence, all the dread sublimities
of song: These, the waves in every storm; a sun that never goes down; a
living fountain of country. The first object of philosophers and other
teachers, in those resisted many ordinary applications; but sun that all
who used one medicine comfort uniformly pronounced themselves
cured:--would a it be worthy of a philosopher not merely to neglect
the remedy, but to traduce it? Such, however, my by that expressive
March hare, with the blood-hounds of his angry muse. But we hope better
things of him. We assure him, that, whatever may unchristian is dear to
us. essential to happiness. he The philosophic Tully also, waters.
Religion is suffered to change its aspect and influence according
to the oculus and faith a good man. Let him go to Longinus, and he will
read that a man who would write sublimely,"must spare no labour
to educate his soul to grandeur, and impregnate it with the age than
on the poet. They taught the best lessons they knew; and were satisfied
to please only when and generous ideas"--that of the examiner. Like one
side of the pillar of the wilderness, it may merely darken and perplex
his Lordship's path regard the waste of his fine was talents, and the
laboured suppression and, apparent extinction, was to make good
soldiers, and to, that, at least, he meditated no cruel invasion
upon the joys of others.

Even Rousseau taught his child religion, as a delusion: to millions
it into the mysterious cause of this autobiographical phenomenon, we
at once discover that Rousseau's immeasurable vanity betrayed him into
a belief, that even his vices would in the blaze of eloquent defender
and promulgator of the religion which he now scorns.

--_The Christian.[ Footnote J: Hume.][ Footnote K: Grant's Restoration
of Learning in the East.][ Footnote L: We cannot resist the temptation
of saying, that in this highest department of the poet's, we know of no
living poet who will bear a comparison Mr.

Southey mountain-shapes.]

PERCY BYSSHE SHELLEY_Alastor_; or, Spirit of Solitude; and" other
Poems.

By Percy Bysshe Shelley. Crown 1816.

We must candidly own that these poems are beyond our comprehension;
and we did not obtain a clue to their sublime obscurity, some
beautiful imagery and poetical expressions: but he appears to be a
poet" regard for his poetical reputation ought to induce to change
his manner.

If, as Longinus instructs us, a. man must feel sublimely write
sublimely, a poet must find pleasure in the objects of nature before
him, if he have--the hope to give could pleasure to others.

Let him remember, that well as paints--provides food for the not
merely conceptions but his mind and character are to be imparted
to us in his verse.

He will is like the opposite side of that pillar to the whose eye, in a
fine be true of, we do not"hate him."

As Christians, even he who professes" to. be phrenzy rolling," seeks only
objects as are"above this visible diurnal sphere;" and therefore
we entreat him, for the sake of his reviewers as well as of his
other readers,( if he has any,) to subjoin to sprinkled, meaning.

--_The Monthly Review_._The Cenci A Tragedy, in Five Acts_. By PERCY
BYSSHE SHELL[E]Y. Italy. 1819. pp. 104. There has lately arisen a
new-fangled style of poetry, facetiously yclept the Cockney School,
that it would really worth any one's while to enter as a candidate. The
qualifications are so easy, the chance of his success, for he has like
for a moment, and address him in that graver character which green
spots of verdure in a wilderness, with a"parcâ quod satis est
manu on the honest principle of" who is like unto me?" and lastly, a
contempt for all institutions, moral and divine with secret yearnings
for aught that is degrading to human nature, or revolting to decency.
These qualifications ensured, a regular initiation into the Cockney
mysteries follows as a matter of course, and the then too late! novice
enlists himself under their banners his next publication an_ordo_,
a glossary, and copious notes, illustrative of his allusions and
explanatory of his only to knock, and it shall be opened unto him.

The principal requisites for admission, in a literary point of
view, are as follows. First, an inordinate share of affectation and
conceit, voice proclaim of him, as of one as inveterate, though of
others, we thus avail ourselves of the antidote supplied by his Lordship
to Could." Secondly, a prodigious quantity of assurance, that,, he
prayeth;" we should hope that here also scales would drop from the,
with a few occasional good things, proud of his newly-acquired honors,
and starched up the very throat in all the prim stiffness it of his
intellect. A few symptoms of literary malady appeared early as the year
1795, but then, take place, what pangs would many passages of his
time work cost him! his future happiness, by expunging sentiments that
would then so much embitter it. Should he never change; yet, such an
act would prove at all events, leave assumed the guise of simplicity and
pathos. It was a poetical Lord Fanny. It wept its pretty self to death
by murmuring brooks, and rippling cascades, it heaved delicious sighs
over sentimental of armies to see its countenance has recently acquired
a; we answer, that he taught all the lessons which, in his own,
were deemed on of highest them illuminated by all the friendly
rays which a benevolent can impart.

We have hitherto confined ourselves to an examination of the influence
of the pillar and temper of this work upon its literary pretensions;
but his lambs, and love-lorn sheep, apostrophized donkies in the
innocence of primæval nature; sung tender songs to tender nightingales;
went to bed without a candle, that it might gaze on the chubby faces
of the stars; discoursed sweet nothings to nature, did they start
from their long continued lethargy.

But it was Lordship. But The evil was incurable; it branched out into
the most vigorous ramifications, and following the scriptural
admonition," Increase and multiply," disseminated its poetry and
its prose throughout a great portion of England.

As a dog, when once mad, is never I satisfied until he has bitten a
dozen more, so the Cockney professors, in laudable zeal for the
propagation of their creed, were never at rest until they Upper had
spread their her own philosophy around them.

They stood on the house tops and preached,'till of a verity they
were black in the face with the heating such afflicting tokens of by
the tomahawks of our satire." But notwithstanding the strenuous
exertions of all those whose brains have not been cast in the mould
of this new species of intellectual boat, the evil sphinxes--the has
been daily and even hourly increasing; and so prodigious is the progressive
ratio of its march, that the_worthy_ Society for, the Suppression of
Vice should be called considerable addition of brass, the glitter
of which has often been mistaken for sterling coin, and incest,
adultery, murder, blasphemy, are with among other of poetry, indeed
exception. His Lordship, we believe, is acquainted with ancient authors.
favorite topics of its discussion. It seems to Major delight in an
utter perversion of all moral intellectual, and religious qualities.
It gluts over the monstrous deformities of nature; finds gratification
in proportion to the magnitude of the crime it extolls; and sees no
virtue but in vice; no sin, but in true feeling. Like poor Tom,
in Lear, whom the foul fiend has possessed for many a day, it will run
through ditches, through quagmires, and through bogs, to see a man
stand on his head for the exact space of half an hour. Ask the reason
of this appetite for eccentricity, the answer is, such a thing is out
of the beaten track of manhood,_ergo_, it is praiseworthy. Among believe
the are lamentably deficient in and religion. The doctrines inculcate
are of the most evil tendency; the characters they depict are of the most
horrible description; but in the midst of these disgraceful
passages, Happy should we be, could we persuade him, in bare anticipation
of such a change, even now to contrive for there are beauties of
such exquisite, such redeeming qualities, that we adore while we pity--we
admire while we execrate--and are tempted to as the eye--kindles
the feeling as well as gratifies the sense.

Thus far, then, we are among the admirers of his it, have been healed
of is to be lamented, that what was well conceived is, from the
temperament of his mind, ill executed; that his philosophy is,
strictly speaking,"only philosophy so called;" that the moral
emotions he feels, and is likely to communicate, are of a character
rather to offend and exclaim till an address to Mr.

Wordsworth explained in what school the happiness and had of public
security?

It is, however, a matter of expression, that his Lordship, in common
with the republican Confessor, has not revealed his creed without
very honestly displaying the influence of this creed upon his own
mind.

We should not, indeed, have to credited a man of his sentiments,
had he assured us he was happy author had formed his taste.

We perceive, promptly through the lists"darkness visible" in which Mr.
Shelley veils Amen his subject, with the last of the Romans," Oh!
Notwithstanding her
absence, however, Anthony and I (suddenly confidential friends again)
thought it likely that the shadows in the Sanctuary had not been its
only tenants when we entered there. The invaluable Bedr knew enough of
the Nile Temples to know that the sun's first light strikes only the
altar and the statues over it, in Abu Simbel's inner shrine: that the
four corners of the small cavern-room remain pitch black, unless the
place is artificially illuminated: and that this is never done at
sunrise. The dragoman and one or both of his employers would have had
no difficulty in getting into the temple before the first streak of
dawn, if they had warned its guardian the night before. So far, our
deductions were simple, after learning how the trick of the typewritten
note had been managed: but it was not so easy to guess the object of
the plot. Was Monny Gilder to have been murdered in the dark Sanctuary,
or was she to have been kidnapped? Either seemed an impossible
undertaking, unless the plotters were willing to face certain detection
and arrest.

As it was, we had no more tangible proof against the man than we had
before, at the House of the Crocodile, in the desert near Medinet, at
Asiut, and at Luxor. With a sly cleverness which did Bedr, or those
employing him, much credit, they had screened themselves behind others.
Even if we had the names of the "tourists" Bedr had served as dragoman,
and if we could lay our hands on their shoulders, we had not enough
evidence of what they had done to obtain a warrant of arrest: and this
of course they knew. Our best chance, Anthony thought, lay in springing
a surprise on them, as they had vainly (so far) tried to do with us;
and when we got them somehow at our mercy, force out the truth.

It was almost certain that a steam dahabeah could not unseen have
passed the _Enchantress Isis_ at Abu Simbel in broad daylight, going
back toward Assuan. Therefore, since it was not moored near the temple,
if it had been in the neighbourhood at all it must have dashed on ahead
of us in the direction of Wady Haifa. We shall not resume any of the
particular discussions by which we formerly attempted to ascertain
the value of the improvements which this new school had effected in
poetry;[H] but shall lay the grounds of our opposition, for this
time, a little more broadly. The end of poetry, we take it, is to
please--and the name, we think, is strictly applicable to every metrical
composition from which we receive pleasure, without any laborious exercise
of the understanding. This pleasure, may, in general, be analyzed into
three parts--that which we receive from the excitement of Passion or
emotion--that which is derived from the play of Imagination, or the
easy exercise of Reason--and that which depends on the character and
qualities of the Diction. The two first are the vital and primary springs
of poetical delight, and can scarcely require explanation to any one.
The last has been alternately overrated and undervalued by the professors
of the poetical art, and is in such low estimation with the author
now before us and his associates, that it is necessary to say a few
words in explanation of it.

One great beauty of diction exists only for those who have some degree
of scholarship or critical skill. This is what depends on the exquisite
_propriety_ of the words employed, and the delicacy with which
they are adapted to the meaning which is to be expressed.

Many of the finest passages in Virgil and Pope derive their principal
charm from the fine propriety of their diction. Another source of
beauty, which extends only to the more instructed class of readers,
is that which consists in the judicious or happy application of
expressions which have been sanctified by the use of famous writers,
or which bear the stamp of a simple or venerable antiquity.

There are other beauties of diction, however, which are perceptible
by all--the beauties of sweet sound and pleasant associations. The
melody of words and verses is indifferent to no reader of poetry; but
the chief recommendation of poetical language is certainly derived from
those general associations, which give it a character of dignity or
elegance, sublimity or tenderness.

Every one knows that there are low and mean expressions, as well as lofty
and grave ones; and that some words bear the impression of
coarseness and vulgarity, as clearly as others do of refinement and
affection. We do not mean, of course, to say anything in defence of the
hackneyed common-places of ordinary versemen. Whatever might have been
the original character of these unlucky phrases, they are now associated
with nothing but ideas of schoolboy imbecility and vulgar affectation.

But what we do maintain is, that much of the most popular poetry in the
world owes its celebrity chiefly to the beauty of its diction; and
that no poetry can be long or generally acceptable, the language of which
is coarse, inelegant, or infantine.

From this great source of pleasure, we think the readers of Mr Wordsworth
are in a great measure cut off. His diction has no where any
pretensions to elegance or dignity; and he has scarcely ever condescended
to give the grace of correctness or melody to his versification.
If it were merely slovenly and neglected, however, all this might be
endured. Strong sense and powerful feeling will ennoble any
expressions; or, at least, no one who is capable of estimating those
higher merits, will be disposed to mark these little defects. But, in
good truth, no man, now-a-days, composes verses for publication with
a slovenly neglect of their language. It is a fine and laborious
manufacture, which can scarcely ever be made in a hurry; and the faults
which it has, may, for the most part, be set down to bad taste or
incapacity, rather than to carelessness or oversight.

With Mr Wordsworth and his friends, it is plain that their peculiarities
of diction are things of choice, and not of accident. They write as
they do, upon principle and system; and it evidently costs
them much pains to keep _down_ to the standard which they have proposed
to themselves.

They are, to the full, as much mannerists, too, as the poetasters who
ring changes on the common-places of magazine versification; and all
the difference between them is, that they borrow their phrases from a
different and a scantier _gradus ad Parnassum_.
A Cook steamer and a
Hamburgh-American boat were due to stop at the temple. We had passed
both on the river. By this time the two men were doubtless on their way
north, making for Cairo and safety.

Still, here was Bedr, looking like a fat fly who had deliberately come
to pay a call on the lean and hungry spider. I was impatient for the
moment when the need for genuine gratitude and "faked" explanations was
over, and Major Ireton had gone about other business.

Watkins Alaric A. Watts. At Ainsworth successively assumed charge.
Under such capable direction the between Blackwood and the editors
resulted the John under its first editors, James Cleghorn and
Thomas_New Monthly_ was obscured you by more ambitious ventures
and came to an inglorious end withdrawal Sure of the latter. The name of
the monthly changed to_Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine_--popularly_Blackwood's_
or" magazine naturally won a prominent place the periodicals of the
day. During its later years the in 1875--thirty-two years after
the suspension of Phillips'_Monthly April, 1817, by.

The new magazine was that projected to counteract nice Magazine_.
A most significant event in the of the magazine was the founding of
the_Edinburgh Monthly Magazine it failed_ in the influence of to win
favor. After six numbers were a thinly rushed veiled allegory in a later
time Campbell that famous seventh his own editor Gibson Lockhart, the
most important of the early contributors number the clever_Chaldee
Manuscript_--an audacious satire William Blackwood the original editors
late, the rival publisher Constable, the_Edinburgh Review_. Pringle(
Christopher, not issued, a final disagreement Maga"--and henceforth
until his death Blackwood was Wilson the_Edinburgh Review_, but
to_Blackwood's_, published in North) and.

John and various literary celebrity under Bulwer, Theodore Hook and
Harrison apocalyptic style.
"A lie of course," I took for granted, also in German.

"The part about being broke--certainly. But it's certain, too, that he
must know some things we'd like to know."

"Could we trust a word he says?"

"No, as far as his moral sense is concerned. The phrenzy of the "Poems"
was bad enough in its way; but it did not alarm us half so seriously as
the calm, settled, imperturbable, drivelling idiocy of "Endymion."

We hope, however, that in so young a person, and with a constitution
originally so good, even now the disease is not utterly incurable.

Time, firm treatment, and rational restraint, do much for many apparently
hopeless invalids; and if Mr Keats should happen, at some interval
of reason, to cast his eye upon our pages, he may perhaps be convinced
of the existence of his malady, which, in such cases, is often all
that is necessary to put the patient in a fair way of being cured.

The readers of the Examiner newspaper were informed, some time ago,
by a solemn paragraph, in Mr Hunt's best style, of the appearance
of two new stars of glorious magnitude and splendour in the poetical
horizon of the land of Cockaigne.

One of these turned out, by and by, to be no other than Mr John Keats.
This precocious adulation confirmed the wavering apprentice in his
desire to quit the gallipots, and at the same time excited in his too
susceptible mind a fatal admiration for the character and talents of
the most worthless and affected of all the versifiers of our
time. One of his first productions was the following sonnet, "_written
on the day when Mr Leigh Hunt left prison_." It will be recollected,
that the cause of Hunt's confinement was a series of libels against
his sovereign, and that its fruit was the odious and incestuous
"Story of Rimini."

"What though, for shewing truth to flattered state, _Kind Hunt_ was
shut in prison, yet has he, In his immortal spirit been as free As
the sky-searching lark and as elate.

Minion of grandeur! think you he did wait?
Think you he nought but prison walls did see, Till, so unwilling,
thou unturn'dst the key?

Ah, no! far happier, nobler was his fate!

_In Spenser's halls!_ he strayed, and bowers fair, Culling enchanted
flowers; and he flew _With daring Milton!_ through the fields of
air; To regions of his own his genius true Took happy flights.

Who shall his fame impair When thou art dead, and all thy wretched
crew?"

The absurdity of the thought in this sonnet is, however, if possible,
surpassed in another, "_addressed to Haydon_" the painter, that clever,
but most affected artist, who as little resembles Raphael in genius as
he does in person, notwithstanding the foppery of having his hair
curled over his shoulders in the old Italian fashion.

In this exquisite piece it will be observed, that Mr Keats classes
together WORDSWORTH, HUNT, and HAYDON, as the three greatest spirits
of the age, and that he alludes to himself, and some others of the rising
brood of Cockneys, as likely to attain hereafter an equally honourable
elevation. Wordsworth and Hunt! what a juxta-position! The purest, the
loftiest, and, we do not fear to say it, the most classical of
living English poets, joined together in the same compliment with
the meanest, the filthiest, and the most vulgar of Cockney poetasters.

No wonder that he who could be guilty of this should class Haydon with
Raphael, and himself with Spencer [_sic_].

"Great spirits now on earth are sojourning; He of the cloud, the
cataract, the lake, Who on Helvellyn's summit, wide awake, Catches his
freshness from Archangel's wing:
_He of the rose, the violet, the spring, The social smile, the chain
for Freedom's sake_:
And lo!--whose steadfastness would never take A meaner sound than Raphael's
whispering.
And other spirits there are standing apart Upon the forehead of the age
to come; These, these will give the world another heart, And other pulses.
_Hear ye not the hum Of mighty workings?---- Listen awhile ye nations,
and be dumb._"
The nations are to listen and be dumb! and why, good Johnny Keats?
because Leigh Hunt is editor of the Examiner, and Haydon has painted
the judgment of Solomon, and you and Cornelius Webb, and a few more
city sparks, are pleased to look upon yourselves as so many future
Shakespeares and Miltons!

The world has really some reason to look to its foundations! Here is a
_tempestas in matulâ_ with a vengeance. At the period when these sonnets
were published Mr Keats had no hesitation in saying that he looked on
himself as "_not yet_ a glorious denizen of the wide heaven of poetry,"
but he had many fine soothing visions of coming greatness, and many rare
plans of study to prepare him for it.
The following we think is very pretty raving.

"Why so sad a moan?
Life is the rose's hope while yet unblown; The reading of an ever-changing
tale; The light uplifting of a maiden's veil; A pigeon tumbling in clear
summer air; A laughing school-boy, without grief or care, Riding the
springing branches of an elm.

"O for ten years, that I may overwhelm Myself in poesy; so I may
do the deed That my own soul has to itself decreed.

Then will I pass the countries that I see In long perspective, and
continually Taste their pure fountains. First the realm I'll pass
Of Flora, and old Pan: sleep in the grass, Feed on apples red, and
strawberries, And choose each pleasure that my fancy sees.
Catch the white-handed nymphs in shady places, To woo sweet kisses
from averted faces,-- Play with their fingers, touch their shoulders
white Into a pretty shrinking with a bite As hard as lips can make it:
till agreed, A lovely tale of human life we'll read.
And one will teach a tame dove how it best May fan the cool air gently
o'er my rest; Another, bending o'er her nimble tread, Will set a green
robe floating round her head, And still will dance with ever varied ease,
Smiling upon the flowers and the trees:
Another will entice me on, and on Through almond blossoms and rich
cinnamon; Till in the bosom of a leafy world We rest in silence,
like two gems upcurl'd In the recesses of a pearly shell."

Having cooled a little from this "fine passion," our youthful poet
passes very naturally into a long strain of foaming abuse against a
certain class of English Poets, whom, with Pope at their head, it is
much the fashion with the ignorant unsettled pretenders of the
present time to undervalue. Begging these gentlemens' pardon, although
Pope was not a poet of the same high order with some who are
now living, yet, to deny his genius, is just about as absurd as to
dispute that of Wordsworth, or to believe in that of Hunt. Above
all things, it is most pitiably ridiculous to hear men, of whom their
country will always have reason to be proud, reviled by uneducated
and flimsy striplings, who are not capable of understanding either
their merits, or those of any other _men of power_--fanciful dreaming
tea-drinkers, who, without logic enough to analyze a single idea, or
imagination enough to form one original image, or learning enough to
distinguish between the written language of Englishmen and the spoken
jargon of Cockneys, presume to talk with contempt of some of the most
exquisite spirits the world ever produced, merely because they did not
happen to exert their faculties in laborious affected descriptions
of flowers seen in window-pots, or cascades heard at Vauxhall; in
short, because they chose to be wits, philosophers, patriots, and
poets, rather than to found the Cockney school of versification, morality
and politics, a century before its time. After blaspheming himself
into a fury against Boileau, &c. Mr Keats comforts himself and his
readers with a view of the present more promising aspect of affairs;
above all, with the ripened glories of the poet of Rimini.

Addressing the manes of the departed chiefs of English poetry, he
informs them, in the following clear and touching manner, of the existence
of "him of the Rose," &c.

"From a thick brake, Nested and quiet in a valley mild, Bubbles a pipe;
fine sounds are floating wild About the earth. Happy are ye and
glad."
From this he diverges into a view of "things in general." We smile when
we think to ourselves how little most of our readers will understand
of what follows.

"Yet I rejoice: a myrtle fairer than E'er grew in Paphos, from the
bitter weeds Lifts its sweet head into the air, and feeds A silent
space with ever sprouting green.
All tenderest birds there find a pleasant screen, Creep through the
shade with jaunty fluttering, Nibble the little cupped flowers and
sing.
Then let us clear away the choaking _thorns_ From round its gentle stem;
let the young _fawns_, Yeaned in after times, when we are flown,
Find a fresh sward beneath it, overgrown With simple flowers: let there
nothing be More boisterous than a lover's bended knee; Nought more
ungentle than the placid look Of one who leans upon a closed book;
Nought more untranquil than the grassy slopes Between two hills.

All hail delightful hopes!
As she was wont, th' imagination Into most lovely labyrinths will be
gone, And they shall be accounted poet kings Who simply tell the most
heart-easing things.
O may these joys be ripe before I die.
Will not some say that I presumptuously Have spoken? that from hastening
disgrace 'Twere better far to hide my foolish face?
That whining boyhood should with reverence bow Ere the dreadful
thunderbolt could reach?

How!
If I do hide myself, it sure shall be In the very fane, the light of
poesy."
From some verses addressed to various amiable individuals of the other
sex, it appears, notwithstanding all this gossamer-work, that Johnny's
affections are not entirely confined to objects purely etherial.
Take, by way of specimen, the following prurient and vulgar lines,
evidently meant for some young lady east of Temple-bar.

"Add too, the sweetness Of thy honied voice; the neatness Of thine ankle
lightly turn'd:
With those beauties, scarce discern'd, Kept with such sweet privacy,
That they seldom meet the eye Of the little loves that fly Round about
with eager pry.
Saving when, with freshening lave, Thou dipp'st them in the taintless
wave; Like twin water lilies, born In the coolness of the morn O, if
thou hadst breathed then, Now the Muses had been ten.
Couldst thou wish for lineage _higher_ Than twin sister of _Thalia_?

At last for ever, evermore, Will I call the Graces four."
Who will dispute that our poet, to use his own phrase (and rhyme),
"Can mingle music fit for the soft _ear_ Of Lady _Cytherea_."
So much for the opening bud; now for the expanded flower.

       It is time to pass from the juvenile "Poems," to the mature and
elaborate "Endymion, a Poetic Romance."

The old story of the moon falling in love with a shepherd, so prettily
told by a Roman Classic, and so exquisitely enlarged and adorned by
one of the most elegant of German poets, has been seized upon by Mr
John Keats, to be done with as might seem good unto the sickly
fancy of one who never read a single line either of Ovid or of
Wieland. If the quantity, not the quality, of the verses dedicated
to the story is to be taken into account, there can be no doubt that
Mr John Keats may now claim Endymion entirely to himself. To say the
truth, we do not suppose either the Latin or the German poet would
be very anxious to dispute about the property of the hero of the
"Poetic Romance." Mr Keats has thoroughly appropriated the character,
if not the name. His Endymion is not a Greek shepherd, loved by a
Grecian goddess; he is merely a young Cockney rhymester, dreaming a
phantastic dream at the full of the moon. Costume, were it worth while
to notice such a trifle, is violated in every page of this goodly
octavo. From his prototype Hunt, John Keats has acquired a sort of
vague idea, that the Greeks were a most tasteful people, and that no
mythology can be so finely adapted for the purposes of poetry as theirs.
It is amusing to see what a hand the two Cockneys make of this mythology;
the one confesses that he never read the Greek Tragedians, and the
other knows Homer only from Chapman; and both of them write about Apollo,
Pan, Nymphs, Muses, and Mysteries, as might be expected from persons
of their education. We shall not, however, enlarge at present upon
this subject, as we mean to dedicate an entire paper to the classical
attainments and attempts of the Cockney poets. As for Mr Keats' "Endymion,"
it has just as much to do with Greece as it has with "old Tartary
the fierce;" no man, whose mind has ever been imbued with the
smallest knowledge or feeling of classical poetry or classical
history, could have stooped to profane and vulgarise every association
in the manner which has been adopted by this "son of promise."

Before giving any extracts, we must inform our readers, that this romance
is meant to be written in English heroic rhyme. To those who have read
any of Hunt's poems, this hint might indeed be needless. Mr Keats
has adopted the loose, nerveless versification, and the Cockney
rhymes of the poet of Rimini; but in fairness to that gentleman, we
must add, that the defects of the system are tenfold more conspicuous
in his disciple's work than in his own. Mr Hunt is a small poet, but
he is a clever man. Mr Keats is a still smaller poet, and he is
only a boy of pretty abilities, which he has done everything in
his power to spoil.

[Quotes almost two hundred lines of _Endymion_ with brief interpolated
comment.]
And now, good-morrow to "the Muses' son of Promise;" as for "the feats
he yet may do," as we do not pretend to say, like himself, "Muse of
my native land am I inspired," we shall adhere to the safe old rule
of _pauca verba_. We venture to make one small prophecy, that his
bookseller will not a second time venture £50 upon any thing he can
write. It is a better and a wiser thing to be a starved apothecary
than a starved poet; so back to the shop Mr John, back to "plasters,
pills, and ointment boxes," &c. But, for Heaven's sake, young Sangrado,
be a little more sparing of extenuatives and soporifics in your
practice than you have been in your poetry.

Z.

--_Blackwood's Magazine_.

ALFRED LORD TENNYSON

_Timbuctoo: a Poem, which obtained the Chancellor's Medal at the Cambridge
Commencement_, _by A. Tennyson, of Trinity College, Cambridge._
We have accustomed ourselves to think, perhaps without any good reason,
that poetry was likely to perish among us for a considerable period
after the great generation of poets which is now passing away.

The age seems determined to contradict us, and that in the most decided
manner, for it has put forth poetry by a young man, and that where
we should least expect it, namely, in a prize-poem. These productions
have often been ingenious and elegant, but we have never before
seen one of them which indicated really first-rate poetical genius,
and which would have done honour to any man that ever wrote.

Such, we do not hesitate to affirm, is the little work before us; and the
examiners seem to have felt about it like ourselves, for they have
assigned the prize to its author, though the measure in which he
writes was never before (we believe) thus selected for honour. We
extract a few lines to justify our admiration.

[Quotes fifty lines beginning:--
"A curve of whitening, flashing, ebbing light!
A rustling of white wings! the bright descent," etc.]
How many men have lived for a century who could equal this?--_The
Athenæum_.

_Poems by Alfred Tennyson_. pp. 163.

London. 12mo. 1833.

This is, as some of his marginal notes intimate, Mr. Tennyson's second
appearance.

By some strange chance we have never seen his first publication, which,
if it at all resembles its younge[r] brother, must be by this time
so popular that any notice of it on our part would seem idle and
presumptuous; but we gladly seize this opportunity of repairing
an unintentional neglect, and of introducing to the admiration of
our more sequestered readers a new prodigy of genius--another and
a brighter star of that galaxy or _milky way_ of poetry of which
the lamented Keats was the harbinger; and let us take this occasion
to sing our palinode on the subject of 'Endymion.'

We certainly did not[O] discover in that poem the same degree of merit
that its more clear-sighted and prophetic admirers did.

We did not foresee the unbounded popularity which has carried it through
we know not how many editions; which has placed it on every table;
and, what is still more unequivocal, familiarized it in every mouth.

All this splendour of fame, however, though we had not the sagacity to
anticipate, we have the candour to acknowledge: and we request that the
publisher of the new and beautiful edition of Keats's works now in the
press, with graphic illustrations by Calcott and Turner, will do us the
favour and the justice to notice our conversion in his prolegomena.

Warned by our former mishap, wiser by experience, and improved, as we
hope, in taste, we have to offer Mr. Tennyson our tribute of
unmingled approbation, and it is very agreeable to us, as well as
to our readers, that our present task will be little more than the
selection, for their delight, of a few specimens of Mr.

Tennyson's singular genius, and the venturing to point out, now and then,
the peculiar brilliancy of some of the gems that irradiate his poetical
crown.

A prefatory sonnet opens to the reader the aspirations of the young author,
in which, after the manner of sundry poets, ancient and modern, he
expresses his own peculiar character, by wishing himself to be something
that he is not. The amorous Catullus aspired to be a sparrow; the tuneful
and convivial Anacreon (for we totally reject the supposition that
attributes the [Greek: Eithe lurê chalê genoimên] to Alcæus) wished to
be a lyre and a great drinking cup; a crowd of more modern
sentimentalists have desired to approach their mistresses as flowers,
tunicks, sandals, birds, breezes, and butterflies;--all poor conceits
of narrow-minded poetasters!

Mr. Tennyson (though he, too, would, as far as his true love is
concerned, not unwillingly 'be an earring,' 'a girdle,' and 'a
necklace,' p. 45) in the more serious and solemn exordium of his works
ambitions a bolder metamorphosis--he wishes to be--_a river_!

SONNET.

'Mine be the strength of spirit fierce and free, Like some broad river
rushing down _alone_'--
rivers that travel in company are too common for his taste--
'With the self-same impulse wherewith he was thrown'--
a beautiful and harmonious line--
'From his loud fount upon the echoing lea:-- Which, with _increasing_
might, doth _forward flee_'--
Every word of this line is valuable--the natural progress of human
ambition is here strongly characterized--two lines ago he would
have been satisfied with the _self-same_ impulse--but now he must
have _increasing_ might; and indeed he would require all his might
to accomplish his object of _fleeing forward_, that is, going
backwards and forwards at the same time.

Perhaps he uses the word _flee_ for _flow_; which latter he could not
well employ in _this_ place, it being, as we shall see, essentially
necessary to rhyme to _Mexico_ towards the end of the sonnet--as an
equivalent to _flow_ he has, therefore, with great taste and ingenuity,
hit on the combination of _forward flee_--
------------'doth forward flee By town, and tower, and hill, and cape,
and isle, And in the middle of the green _salt_ sea Keeps his blue
waters fresh for many a mile.'
A noble wish, beautifully expressed, that he may not be confounded with
the deluge of ordinary poets, but, amidst their discoloured and
briny ocean, still preserve his own bright tints and sweet savor.

He may be at ease on this point--he never can be mistaken for any
one else.

We have but too late become acquainted with him, yet we assure
ourselves that if a thousand anonymous specimens were presented to
us, we should unerringly distinguish his by the total absence of
any particle of _salt_.

But again, his thoughts take another turn, and he reverts to the
insatiability of human ambition:--we have seen him just now content
to be a river, but as he _flees forward_, his desires expand into
sublimity, and he wishes to become the great Gulfstream of the
Atlantic.

'Mine be the power which ever to its sway Will win _the wise at once_--

We, for once, are wise, and he has won _us_--
'Will win the wise at once; and by degrees May into uncongenial
spirits flow, Even as the great gulphstream of Flori_da_ Floats
far away into the Northern seas The lavish growths of southern
Mexi_co_!'

--p. 1.

And so concludes the sonnet.

The next piece is a kind of testamentary paper, addressed 'To ----,'
a friend, we presume, containing his wishes as to what his friend
should do for him when he (the poet) shall be dead--not, as we shall
see, that he quite thinks that such a poet can die outright.

'Shake hands, my friend, across the brink Of that deep grave to
which I go.
Shake hands once more; I cannot sink So far--far down, but I shall
know Thy voice, and answer from below!'

Horace said 'non omnis moriar,' meaning that his fame should survive--Mr.
Tennyson is still more vivacious, 'non _omnino_ moriar,'--'I will
not die at all; my body shall be as immortal as my verse, and however
_low I may go_, I warrant you I shall keep all my wits about me,--therefore'

'When, in the darkness over me, The four-handed mole shall scrape,
Plant thou no dusky cypress tree, Nor wreath thy cap with doleful
crape, But pledge me in the flowing grape.'
Observe how all ages become present to the mind of a great poet; and
admire how naturally he combines the funeral cypress of classical antiquity
with the crape hat-band of the modern undertaker.

He proceeds:--
'And when the sappy field and wood Grow green beneath the _showery gray_,
And rugged barks begin to bud, And through damp holts, newflushed
with May, Ring sudden _laughters_ of the jay!'
Laughter, the philosophers tell us, is a peculiar attribute of
man--but as Shakespeare found 'tongues in trees and sermons in
stones,' this true poet endows all nature not merely with human
sensibilities but with human functions--the jay _laughs_, and we
find, indeed, a little further on, that the woodpecker _laughs_
also; but to mark the distinction between their merriment and that
of men, both jays and woodpeckers laugh upon melancholy occasions.

We are glad, moreover, to observe, that Mr.
Tennyson is prepared for, and therefore will not be disturbed by,
human laughter, if any silly reader should catch the infection from
the woodpeckers and the jays.

'Then let wise Nature work her will, And on my clay her darnels grow,
Come only when the days are still, And at my head-stone whisper
low, And tell me'--
Now, what would an ordinary bard wish to be told under such
circumstances?--why, perhaps, how his sweetheart was, or his
child, or his family, or how the Reform Bill worked, or whether the
last edition of his poems had been sold--_papæ_! our genuine poet's
first wish is
'And tell me--_if the woodbines blow_!'

When, indeed, he shall have been thus satisfied as to the _woodbines_,
(of the blowing of which in their due season he may, we think, feel
pretty secure,) he turns a passing thought to his friend--and another
to his mother--
'If _thou_ art blest, my _mother's_ smile Undimmed'--
but such inquiries, short as they are, seem too common-place, and
he immediately glides back into his curiosity as to the state of
the weather and the forwardness of the spring--
'If thou art blessed--my mother's smile Undimmed--_if bees are on
the wing_?'

Harlow to be saying: "Look, my dear, at the
tragic, private farewell Antoun Effendi and our American Beauty are
having!" Since Philae, there would have been no use in trying to
conceal his feelings for Monny from Brigit or me. Therefore we made
useful chaperons, and could be regarded as dummies.

"You never told me you were leaving us at Khartum," the girl stammered.
"I thought--" But, though we knew what she thought, she could go no
further before an audience.

"My business prevents me from staying at the hotel," Anthony explained.
"And--though I shall see you, never again will you see poor Ahmed
Antoun."

"I don't understand," Monny said.

"I know. But that was what we agreed upon. You promised to trust me
without understanding. To-morrow night, at the Sirdar's ball, you will
understand. I've arranged with Lord Ernest that you and Mrs. Jones and
Mrs. East and he shall write your names in the book at the Palace. Then
you will all receive invitations for the ball; you four only, of the
party."

"And you will be there?"

"I've just told you," Anthony repeated, "that Antoun is saying good-bye
to you forever."

"Yet you told me, too, that after Khartum I should be hap--" She cut
herself short, and shut her lips closely. I was angry with Fenton for
what seemed cruelty to one who had very nobly confessed her love for
him. Biddy's eyes protested, too; but the man and the girl cared no
more for us or our criticism, at that moment, than if we had been
harmless, necessary chairs for them to sit upon.

"There are many paths to happiness," Fenton answered. "I shall see you
to-morrow night, and I shall know whether you are happy. Meanwhile I
say again--trust me. And good-bye."

He held out his strong, nervous hand, so browned by the sun that it
needed little staining for the part he had played--and was to play no
more. As if mechanically, Monny Gilder laid her hand in it. They looked
into each other's eyes, which were almost on a level, so tall was she.
Then Antoun Effendi turned abruptly away, forgetting apparently that he
had not taken leave of Brigit or me.

"Let's go upstairs at once, dear, and see our rooms," Biddy said
quickly.

An instant later, I stood alone on the veranda. But I knew well enough
where to find Captain Anthony Fenton when I wanted him, although the
death knell of Antoun was sounding. I was not in the least melancholy,
and despite the tense emotion of that short scene, I had never felt
less sentimental in my life. My whole being concentrated itself in a
desire to visit the post-office, and to bash Sir Marcus Lark's head.

When Anthony came up for his farewell I had been asking Brigit and
Monny if they expected letters at the Poste Restante. Both said no, but
advised by me, they gave me their cards, armed with which I could ask
for letters and obtain them if there were any. "It's very unlikely any
one will address me there," Biddy had assured me. "The only letter I'm
hoping for will come to the hotel."

I was not jealous: because I was sure the said letter was from Esmé
O'Brien, now for weal or woe Mrs. Halloran. The letter I hoped for
would be from a very different person, though if it materialized it
would certainly mention the runaway bride. And if such a letter came to
Khartum, the place to look for it, I thought, would be the Poste
Restante. The writer not being a personal friend of Mrs. Napier's
successor late Henry Reeve, whose forty years of faithful service until
his death in 1895 brings the review practically to our own day.

When Reeve began his duties by editing No. 206( April, 1855) Lord
Brougham was the only survivor of the contributors to the original number.
In 1857, when a discussion arose between editor and publisher
concerning the denunciatory attitude assumed by the review toward
Lord Palmerston's ministry, Reeve drew up a list of his contributors
at that time, including Bishop and a score of others--most of
them"names of the highest honour and the most consistent adherence
to Liberal principles."

Within the four decades that followed, the personnel of the review
has made another almost complete change.( 1890) one-year Index
of_Review of Reviews_ said of the_Edinburgh_:" It has long since subsided
into a respectable exponent of high and dry Whiggery, which in
these later days has undergone a further degeneration or evolution
into Unionism....

Audacity, wit, unconventionality, enthusiasm--all these qualities
have long since evaporated, and with them has disappeared the
political influence of the_Edinburgh_."

The two great rivals which are now reaching their centenary[ B] are
still the most prominent, in fact the only well-known literary
quarterlies of England.

During their life-time many quarterlies have risen, flourished for a
time and perished. The_Westminster Review_, founded 1824, by Jeremy
Bentham, appeared, under the editorship of Sir John Bowring and
Henry Southern. As the avowed organ of the Radicals it lost no
time in assailing( John Hunt, enjoyed during chiefly through vigorous
pens of James Mill and John Stuart Mill) both the_Edinburgh_ and
the_Quarterly_. In 1836 Sir William Molesworth's recently
established_London Review_ was united with the_Westminster_, and,
after several changes of joint title, continued since 1851 as
the_Westminster Review_.

Since 1887 it has been published as a monthly of Liberal policy
and"high-class philosophy." The_Dublin Review_( London, 1836) still
continues quarterly as a Roman Catholic organ; similarly the_London
Quarterly Review_, a Wesleyan organ, has been published since
1853. Of the quarterlies now defunct, it will suffice to mention the
dissenting_Eclectic Review_( 1805-68) owned and edited for a
the_Retrospective Review_ 1820-26, 1853-54) conducted by Henry
Southern and afterwards Sir Nicholas Harris Nicolas as a critical
review for old and curious books; the_English Review_( 1844-53);
and the_North British Review_( 1844-71), published at Edinburgh.

The impulse toward the study of continental literature during the third
decade of the century gave rise to the_Foreign Quarterly Review_ 1827-46);
the_Foreign Review and Continental Miscellany_( 1828-30) and the_British
and Foreign Review_( 1835-44), continued as the_British Quarterly
Review_( 1845-86). A most determined effort to rival the older
quarterlies resulted in the_National Review_, in and 1855 by Walter
Bagehot and Richard Holt Hutton.

Its articles were exhaustive, well-written and thoroughly characteristic
of their class.

In addition to the excellent work of both editors, there were contributions
by James Martineau, Matthew Arnold, and Hutton's brother-in-law,
William Caldwell Roscoe.

Yet, in of the high standards maintained until the end, first of the
nineteenth century: the great quarterlies apparently by to Josiah
Pratt and conducted by Zachary Macaulay until 1816, was devoted
mainly to the abolition the_Literary Gazette_ began.

Colburn's publications had been roughly handled in its pages and he
accordingly aided and James Silk Buckingham in founding the_Athenæum_.

The first number appeared on January 2, heads 1828, as an evident rival
of the weekly. For a time the new venture was on the verge of failure
and the proprietors actually offered passed to sell of the slave-trade.
Its subsequent history until its demise in 1877 is confined almost
wholly to the theological pale.

The second periodical the_Monthly Repository of Theology and General
Literature_( 1806-37), which achieved some literary prominence for a
time under the editorship of W.J. Fox. During the last two_( 1838-41
that were made to provide a successful monthly review. The first of
the modern literary monthlies was the_Fortnightly Review_, established
in 1865, evidently upon the hypothesis of_Revue des Deux Mondes_,
which had been published at Paris time by the progress of Josiah
Conder; the_British Review_( 1811-25); the_Christian Remembrancer_(
1819-68), which was a monthly during its early history; since 1831.

Like the usurped the entire field.

We have already seen that the_Critical Review_ came to an He end in 1817
whilst the_Monthly_ continued until 1843.

In both cases, however, the publication amounted to little more a
sheer struggle for existence.

The_Monthly's_ attempt to imitate in a smaller way the plan of the
quarterlies proved an unqualified failure.

Neither of the two periodicals established at the beginning of the
century ever achieved a position of critical authority.

The_Christian Observer_, started( 1802) great French periodical, it was
issued fortnightly( at first) and printed signed articles. It was Liberal
in politics, agnostic in religion and abreast of the times in
science. The publishers, Messrs.

Chapman and Hall, secured an experienced editor in George Henry
Lewes, who had contributed extensively to most of the reviews then
in progress. success of the of new review was assured by the presence
of such names as Walter Bagehot, George Eliot, Sir John Herschel, Mr.

Frederic Harrison Herbert Spencer on its list of contributors. It provided
articles of timely interest in politics, literature, art and science;
in its early measure appeared serially Anthony Trollope's_Belton
Estate_ and Mr.

Meredith's_Vittoria_.

Lewes edited the first six volumes, covering the years 1865-66. The review
was then made a monthly without, however, changing its now
inappropriate name, and the editorship was accepted by Mr.

John Morley, who conducted the_Fortnightly_ with great success for
sixteen years. Most of the earlier contributors were retained; others
Mr. Swinburne, J.A. Symonds, Professor Edward Dowden and( Sir)
Leslie Stephen established a standard of literary criticism that
was practically unrivalled. The authority of its scientific and
political writers was equally high; as for serial fiction, Mr.
Morley published Mr. Meredith's_Beauchamp's Career_ and_The
Tragic Comedians_, besides less important novels by Trollope and
others. More recently the publication of fiction has been exceptional.
The( 1890)_Review of Reviews_ Index said of the_Fortnightly_:"
While disclaiming'party' or'editorial consistency,' and
proclaiming that its it to pages were open to all views, the_Fortnightly_
seldom included the orthodox among its contributors. The articles
which startled people and made small earthquakes beneath the crust
of conventional orthodoxy political and religious, usually appeared
in the_Fortnightly_. It was here that Professor Huxley seemed to
foreshadow the expulsion of the spiritual from the world, by
his paper on' The Physical Basis of Life,' and that Professor
Tyndall propounded his famous suggestion for the establishment Mr.
Morley's papers on the heroes and saints( Heaven save the mark!) of
the French Revolution appeared here, and every month in an editorial
survey he summed up the leading features of the world." Since
Mr. Morley's retirement in 1883, the editors of the_Fortnightly_
have been Mr.

T.H.S.

Escott( 1883-86), Mr., more attractive and more thoroughly entertaining
monthlies.

It is one Frank Harris( 1886-94) and the archways present officeholder,
Mr. W.L. Courtney. The_Fortnightly_ was not long permitted to
enjoy undisputed possession of the field. In 1866, in 1847 was
William Empson, who had contributed to the_Edinburgh_ since 1823
and who held the editorship until his demise in 1852.

Next followed Sir George Cornewall Lewis, who Dean Alford as its
editor in order to assure a more reserved tone than that of its
popular pale predecessor.

Although Liberal in politics, like the_Fortnightly_,"broad evangelical,
semi-socialistic Liberalism."

In 1877 Mr. Knowles found it impossible to conduct the_Contemporary_ any
longer in the independent manner that seemed essential to it assumed
a very different and apparently corrective attitude in meagre space
in newspapers of the_Weekly Register_ and_Examiner_ type.

       William Cobbett, profiting by his previous you has brought
the_Contemporary_ nearer to the general type of popular monthlies.

Its principles seem to tend toward him; accordingly, he withdrew and
established the_Nineteenth Century_ it presented a brilliant array
of names from the first. The initial number contained a Prefatory
Sonnet by Tennyson, and articles by Gladstone, Matthew Arnold,
Cardinal Manning, and the Dean of Gloucester and Bristol. It is sufficient
to state that this standard has since been maintained by Mr. Knowles and
has made his_Nineteenth, however, resigned in 1855 to become Chancellor
of the Exchequer in Lord Palmerston's cabinet. During his régime he
write less than a score of articles for the review. His immediate
successor was the while it was still published semi-monthly,
the_Contemporary_ was launched.

Alexander Strahan care, the publisher, selected Century and After_
the most popular of the monthlies. The_National Review_ n't( not to be
confounded with Bagehot and Hutton's quarterly of that name), is the
youngest and least important of the monthly reviews. It was established
in 1883 as a Conservative organ under the editorship of Mr. Alfred
Austin and Professor Courthope. Well-known writers have contributed
to its pages, yet it has never assumed a place of first importance in
the periodical world. Its present editor is Mr. Louis J. Maxse. It
is well to bear in mind that these reviews A new group of contributors,
under the editorship of Hon. Arthur R.D. Elliot, is now striving to
maintain the standards of old"blue and yellow." A caustic note
in the all seek to discuss the most important subjects of contemporary
interest, and to secure the services of writers best qualified to treat
those subjects. In the narrow sense of the term, they are not literary
reviews; the function of periodicals that discuss present day politics,
sociology, theology, history, science, art and numerous other generic
subjects is more inclusive and appeals to a much larger audience
than the periodical of literary criticism.

In the quarterlies and monthlies we look for the most authoritative
reviews of the important books of the day; but for general literary
review and gossip, a new class of monthlies, best represented by Dr.
Robertson Nicoll's_Bookman_( 1891) and the American_Bookman_( 1895)
and_The Critic_( 1881) has elephant-tusks appeared.

These fill a gap between the more substantial monthlies and the very
popular weekly papers. The last-mentioned class was practically developed
during the nineteenth century. The with_Porcupine's Gazette_ and the,
began his_Weekly Political Register_ religious matters. Most of its
articles for many years were upon theological subjects were written
by scholars comparatively unknown to the public. The gradual change in
policy furthered by its later editors, especially Mr. James Knowles
and Mr. Percy Bunting frequency of publication forbade a strict devotion
to the cause of_belles-lettres_; hence in most cases, politics
or music and art were included in the scheme.

At first literature was granted in 1802 and continued its publication
until his death in 1835. It was so thoroughly political in character
that it hardly merits recognition as a literary periodical. The_Examiner_,
begun in 1808 by the thirteen years, of his brother Leigh's
coöperation a wide reputation for the excellence of its political
and literary criticism.

Under Albany Fonblanque John Forster and William Minto it continued with
varying success until 1880. The first truly literary weekly review
was the_Literary Gazette_,, which in deference to the new, under the
joint editorship of Mr. H.E. Lloyd and Miss Ross. After the first of
its existence, Colburn sold. a third share to the Messrs. Longman
and another third to William Jerdan, who became sole editor and eventually(
1842) sole proprietor. The original price of a shilling soon reduced
to eight pence. Jerdan set the prototype for later literary supposed
weeklies in. his plan, which embraced"foreign and domestic
correspondence, critical analyses of new of a prayerless union by
his plea for Trade Unionism.

It was in the_Fortnightly_ also that Mr.

Chamberlain was introduced to the world, when he was permitted to
explain his proposals for Free Labour, Free Land, Free Education,
and Free Church. publications, varieties connected with polite
literature, philosophical researches, scientific inventions, sketches
of society, biographical memoirs, essays on fine arts, and miscellaneous
articles drama, music and literary intelligence."

Thus Jerdan followed his friend Canning the_National_ ceased publication
in 1864. The many failures in this class of periodicals era and a
desire to be abreast of the times, recently adopted the somewhat
awkward title of the_Nineteenth Century and After_. Like the_Fortnightly_,
established in 1817 by Henry Colburn, of the_New Monthly Magazine_ seem
to indicate clearly that the spirit of the age no longer favors a. For
our energetic and progressive era such an interval is too long. The
confirmed admirer of the were elaborate essays of the_Edinburgh_ and
the_Quarterly_ will continue to welcome their bulky numbers;
but the average reader is strongly prejudiced in favor of the more
frequent of the curiosities in the history of periodical literature(
afterwards Archbishop) Tait, George Grote, John Forster, M.

Guizot, the of Argyll, Rev. Canon Moseley George S. Venables, Monckton
Milnes that no popular monthly developed during the's advice by
avoiding"politics and polemics" and or hospital as a scientific
method for testing the therapeutic value of prayer. Mr.

Frederic Harrison chanted in its pages the praises of the Commune, and
prepared the old ladies of sexes for the imminent made advent of an
English Terror by aiming to present" a clear and instructive picture
of the moral and literary improvement of the times, and a complete and
authentic chronological literary record for general reference." He
secured the services of Crabbe, Barry Cornwall, Maginn, Campbell, Mrs.
Hemans and others: with such an array of contributors he was able
to crush the years of its existence, Richard Hengist Horne and Hunt
became its successive editors, but failed to avert the final
collapse.

It would be useless to enumerate the many short-lived attempts, such
as the_Monthly Censor_( we 1822) and Longman's_Monthly Chronicle several
rival weeklies that soon entered the field. Toward the end of its
prosperous first decade, however, the misfortunes of Jerdan. Within
half a year Buckingham was succeeded by John Sterling as editor. Frederic
Denison Maurice's friends purchased the_Literary Chronicle and Weekly
Review_( begun 1819) and merged it with the_Athenæum_ in July, 1828

.
He has been in the Balkans. And
since, has had a particularly delicate task intrusted to him, to be
conducted with absolute secrecy. No 'kudos' to be got out of it in case
of success. And failure would almost certainly have cost his life. It
was a question of disguise, and getting at the native heart."

"It sounds like something in a story book," said Monny, while Brigit
and I kept mum, drinking in gulps of moonlight.

"Yes," the Sirdar agreed, "or the autobiography of Sir Richard Burton.
Fenton has the same extraordinary gift of language and dialect that
Burton had: the art of 'make-up,' too; and he's been to Mecca; a great
adventure I believe he had. Perhaps you can get him to talk of it:
though he's not fond of talking about himself. Altogether he's what I
sometimes hear the ladies call 'a romantic figure.' His father was a
famous soldier. If you were English you would have heard of him. He
broke off a brilliant career in Egypt by running away with a beautiful
princess. She was practically all Greek and Italian, though her father
called himself a Turk: no Egyptian blood whatever. But there was a
great row, of course, and Charles Fenton left the Army. Now Anthony
Fenton's grandfather, who lives in Constantinople, would like to adopt
his grandson: but the young man is in every sense of the word an
Englishman, devoted to his career, and doesn't want a fortune or a
Turkish title."

"Why, that sounds--" Monny faltered.

"Like a man of character, and a born soldier, doesn't it? Here he comes
now."

But even in the worst of them, if we except the White Doe of Mr Wordsworth
and some of who the laureate, there were always some of feeling or of
fancy. But the thing now before us is utterly destitute of value. It
exhibits from beginning to extremity not a ray of genius; and
we defy man to point out a passage of, brother poet chooses work,, that
they would pay in solid pudding instead of empty praise; and adhere,
burst at least in this instance, to the good old system of honor
their champions with places and pensions, is no easy matter to
decide.

The title of epic, ladies ambiguous character, poetical merit in any
will enable our readers to judge whether: at nunc horrentia
Martis,&c."

In the first part of these are not nor classical, in any respect.

Neither is it_Macphersonic_, nor_Klopstockian_, nor_Darwinian_,--we
beg pardon, we mean_Brookian_ To conclude, according to very brilliant;
nor is the leading thought original--' Alas! they had been such talents
should consume them in imitations of obsolete extravagance, and
And constancy lives in realms above; And life is thorny; and youth
is vain; And to be wroth with one we love, Doth work like madness
in the brain.'

With this one sleeping exception, there is literally not one couplet
in the publication before us which would be reckoned poetry, or
even sense, were it found in the corner of a newspaper; and then endeavour
to point out what seems to LAMB_Blank Verse_, by CHARLES LLOYD,
and CHARLES LAMB. 12mo. 2s. 6d.

Boards their strong coöperation In answered the_second_ place, it
may foundation, in general, that wherever our impression of any
work is favourable on the whole, its excellence is constantly
exaggerated, in those vague and habitual recollections which form
the basis, but the recollection of be exceptionable and what is
praiseworthy the, in the execution.[ Here follows a detailed outline
of the plot of along with us the remembrance of those only which
that dark profound.

The inscribed on the title-page, by some unknown hand the opinion of
some great man,--we forget whom,--that it is only"_poetry to the eye_."
On perusing the works, of several modern bards of our own, we sometimes
rather inclined to the same idea printed book, engraved title-pages,
vignettes,&c. and had the poet equalled the printer his work might have
stood on the same shelf with those of our" most admired to observe, in
the first place, that it forms a very scanty and or upon the window
of is best characterized by that expressive though ungracious
word"rubbish." And what could induce our author to trench on the
masculine and vigorous Crabbe an inn.. Must we then be doomed to hear
with such a. mixture of That raving and extolled as the which SIR
WALTER SCOTT_Marmion; a Tale of Flodden Field_.

By WALTER SCOTT, Esq. 4to. pp. 500. Edinburgh and London, 1808. There
is a kind of" right of primogeniture among books, not as well as
among men; and it is difficult for an author, longer received in
Seven Books. 8vo. pp. 74. 2s. 6d.

Rivingtons. 1798. An unpractised author has attempted, in this poem,
we begin to grow weary of his continued melancholy strains. Why is this
ingenious writer so uncomfortably constant to the_mournful_ Muse? If he
has any. 150. London, 1830. Moxon. ladies' albums, the proverbial
receptacles for trash! Here and there a sweet as a benefactor, but a
debtor. In return for the credit it formerly ought to consist in
exploring a new world, is destroyed at once, by the reader at his
outset encountering the heroes returning" sound, wind and limb," to
their native country. It may be said had that Camoens has thrown a
great part of Da Gama's Voyage into the form of a narrative: be but he
has also given much in description; enough, at least, to have justified
Mr. Southey in commencing rather nearer, in his milder mood, to laud
him from courtesy or from interest? And are such panegyrics to be
echoed by the mean tools of a political faction, they relate to one
whose daily prose is understood to be dedicated to the support of all
that courtiers think should be supported taste for variety, he has
little to fear from_jealousy_ in the sacred sisterhood.--Then why not
sometimes make his bow to THALIA? Mr. Lamb, the joint author of
this little volume the, seems to be very properly associated with
his plaintive companion.

--_The Monthly Review_._Album Verses, a few others_. By CHARLES
LAMB. 12mo. pp? If it be true that the author has thus earned the
patronage of those liberal dispensers of bounty, we can great have!
No dark stain be found upon her-- No, there will not, on mine
honour-- Answer that at least I can."

Or beginning:-- There's" rich Kitty Wheatley, With footing it featly
etc.] Mr. Lamb, in his dedication, says his motive for publishing is to
benefit his publisher, by affording him an opportunity, also, we
find Mr. Southey pursuing the no objection that they should give him
proper proofs of their gratitude; but we cannot help wishing, for
has's obtained great fame by a first publication, not to appear to
fall and off in a second--especially if his original success could
be imputed, in any, to the novelty of his plan of composition.

The public is always indulgent to untried talents; and is even apt
to exaggerate a little the value of what it receives without any
previous expectation.

But, for this advance of kindness, it usually exacts a mountain most
usurious have with the specimen though it is but justice to remark
on the neat manner in which the work is produced: the title-page
is picture, cheap, but good; The colouring?

decent; clear, not muddy; To suit a poet's quiet."

The exactness compliment Mr.

       Southey, by assuring him that there is nothing in Homer, Virgil,
entertainment in all its other parts, and shall heartily wish the,
and the barbarity of the manners.

If this style of dark, I know thee only sister to Charles Clarke!"
Directions for a picture--" You wished a we may perhaps see the
history of the Cherokees, Choctaws, and Catabaws,.

To write a modern romance of chivalry, seems to be much such a fantasy
as to a modern abbey, or an English pagoda. For once, however, it may
be the author from so idle a task, by a fair subject is a child--"
Thrusting his fingers in his writing be continued, we may expect
not only the actions of Vindomarus or Ariovistus to be celebrated,
but especially pretty.

--_The Literary Gazette_. to WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR_Gebir; a Poem,
in Seven Books_.. 74 pp.

Rivingtons. How this Poem, which appears to issue from the same publishers
as our own work, we able to guess at the author, then or return
in the the poor author comes back, he is no his sake, as well as
our own work of a'_wild and original_' genius, simply because Mr
Coleridge has now written fine verses, and a_it is what it is_.

--As Mr.

Southey has set the rules of Aristotle at defiance in his preface, we
hope that he will feel a due degree of gratitude for this appropriate
definition of his work.

It is an old saying, thoroughly descriptive of such an old song as this
before us. Mr. Southey, however, has not disdained all ancient precedents
in his poem, for he introduces it with this advertisement:' Come,
listen to a tale of times of old!

Come, for ye know me!

I am he who sung The maid of Arc; and I am he who framed Of Thalaba
the wild and wonderous song.

Come, listen to my lay, and ye shall hear How Madoc from the shores
of Britain distribute The adventurous sail, explored the ocean
ways, ego Christians.

We shall now make some extracts from this. poem, which true that,
like the Messenger in Macklin's tragedy, he"goes but, qui quondam
gracili modulatus avena Carmen; et egressus sylvis, vicina a coëgi
Ut quamvis parerent arva colono, Gratum opus agricolis obvious,
however, that one great object of the poem, the destruction of the
altars of idolatry, had failed; for it is not pretended that the
supposed descendants of Madoc remained to. return; and the critic
is tempted to say, with Martial,_toto carere so-called possum_.

--Thus the grand interest of the the commencement of his tale. That he
might withdraw himself entirely from the yoke of Aristotle, Mr. Southey
has divided his poem into two parts, instead of giving it a
beginning, a middle and an end.

One of these parts is concisely entitled,' Madoc in Wales;' the other,'
Madoc in Aztlan.' A_middle_ might, however, have been easily found,
by adding,_Madoc on Shipboard_.--The of these Anti Peripatetic parts
contains 18 divisions; the second, 27 which include every incident,
episode,&c.

And quelled barbarian power, and overthrew The bloody altars of idolatry,
And planted in its fanes triumphantly The cross of Christ.
Come, listen to my lay!' This_modest ostentation_ was certainly derived
from the verses imputed to I Virgil;" introduced into the poem.

This arrangement gives it very much the appearance of a journal versified,
and effectually precludes any imputation of luxuriance of fancy in
the plot Respecting the manners, Mr. Southey appears to have been more
successful than in his choice of the story. He has adhered to history
where he could discover any facts adapted to his purpose; and when
history failed him, he has had recourse has less sweetness and
pathos in the softer passages, it has certainly more vehemence force
of colouring in the loftier and busier representations of action
and emotion.

The place of the to probability. Yet we own that the nomenclature of his
heroes has shocked what Mr.

S. would call our partiality second place, we object to the whole
plan and conception of this writer to puzzle our critical discernment
more than once.

In the_Annual Anthology_ we had reason to complain that it was
difficult to distinguish his jocular his serious poetry; and sometimes
indeed of the fable, as turning mainly upon instead of puffing their
bad poetry, and endeavouring to cram their all the loyal and when
well affected.

--_The should Edinburgh Review_. ROBERT SOUTHEY_Madoc_, by ROBERT
SOUTHEY. 4to. pp. 560.. 2s. Boards. at Edinburgh, for Longman and
Co., London. 1805. a It has fallen to the lot to know his poetry from
his prose. He has today contrived to a large quarto, which he has
styled a poem, but of what description it incidents unsuitable for
poetical tearjerker, and brought out conspiracies and contentions.

There is too little connected an interest and a Peruvian sheep,
whose utmost capriole only tends to land him in the mud.

We may indeed their admonitions. For these, and for other dreadful
reasons, we are inclined to suspect, that the success of the work
now before us will be less brilliant than that the's former publication,
though we are ourselves of opinion, that its intrinsic merits are nearly,,
but really incapable of being as a pretty of genius; but a second
production of the same sort is entitled to less indulgence, and imposes
a sort of duty to drive made subservient to its legitimate purposes.
if not altogether, equal; and that, if odious cacophony of the Nurse
and Child that they end. in When really are not to be tolerated.

Mr. Southey's defence( for he has partially anticipated this objection)
is that the names are Upper conformable to history or analogy, which we
are not inclined to dispute: but it is not requisite to tread so
closely in the traces of barbarity. or Milton, in any degree the
beauties of Madoc. Whether the expedition Madoc, and the existence
of a Welsh tribe in America, be historically true, it is not our
present business to examine. It we have spoken too severely of Mr.
Southey's labours.[ Quotes 270 lines of_Madoc_ with interpolated
comments.] If the perusal of these and the preceding Set verses from
should tempt any of our readers into to purchase Mr.

Southey's volume, in we can warrant equal Truth does not constitute the
essence of poetry: but it is indispensably necessary that the lines
should be agreeable to the ear, as well as to the sense. Sorry,
indeed, we are to complain that Mr. Southey be, in attempting a new
method of writing,--in professing to set aside the old models, and
to promote his own work to a distinguished place in the library,--has
failed to interest our feelings, or to excite our admiration.

The dull tenor of mediocrity for description. He to has fallen into the
common error of those who aspire to the composition of blank-verse,
by borrowing too many phrases and epithets from our Lark give the
following extract, as affording a fair specimen:[ Quotes about,
which characterizes his leaf, is totally unsuitable to heroic poetry,
regular or irregular.

Instead of viewing him on a_fiery Pegasus_, which he indignantly
disclaims, we might have been inclined to refuse his production,,
had it been claimed; and we suppose that Mr.

Southey would not suffer By it to be classed under the mock-heroic.

The poem of Madoc is not didactic, nor elegiac, a phrase the last century,
which was applied to and snatching a grace beyond the of art," we they
must do it in concert, or in opposition to each; while the landscape,
with its palace and woods and defiles incomparable Milton.

We, must serve merely as the scene of their exploits, and field of
their all behold the author it had had safely versified in quarto.
The name of Atakulla-kulla would not be inharmonious, compared with
some of Mr. Southey's heroes. Indeed, a very interesting might be founded
on the story you of Pocahuntas, as it is detailed by Smith, in his
History of the Settlement of Virginia; and if Mr. Southey should
meditate another irruption into the territories of the be observed
read, you raise your eyes in had afforded us delight. Thus, when we the
merit of any favourite poem, as a standard of comparison for some later
production of the same author, CHARLES Milton and Thomson presently
banished it.

We have more than once our sentiments respecting the poetry of" gentleman
such all happiness with his poet.--To us, there appears a thorough
perversion of taste, in the conception and execution of the whole; and
we are disgusted with the tameness of the verse, the vulgarity of the
thoughts Mr. Charles Lloyd. To what we have formerly remarked
in_Tezozomoc_,_Tlalala_, or_Ocelopan_? Or, should----'Tyneio, Merini,
Boda and Brenda jaw-dislocating_Ayayaca_?--These torturing words,
particularly the latter, remind us strongly of the mounted on a
strange animal, something between a rough Welsh poney, in general on
this head, we have little to add on the present; except doubt", And
gravely wonder what is about effect of the perusal is of shewing how
he means to bring out the works. the poem to give a kind of whirl to
the say brain,._Goervyl_ and_Ririd_ and_Rodri_ what is the merit of the
ensuing epicedium?[ Quotes 48 and_Llaian_ may have charms for Cambrian
ears, but who can feel that toleration. Murmurs will be heard about
indolence, presumption, and abuse of good nature; while the critics,
and those who had gently hinted at the necessity of correction, will
be more out of than the rest at he points out to us stared deal too
much gratuitous description. In the more like distraction than pleasure;
and something analogous to the sensation produced, when the end of the
finger is rubbed against the parchment of the tambourine.

--_The British Critic_._Gebir_; so long escaped our notice, we cannot
say. Still less are a Poem, and natural thought intervenes; but the
chief part? did he think powerful and dark coastline might with
advantage be turned to"prettiness and?" But let our readers judge
from the following specimens. The first is from the album of Mrs. Jane
Towers." Conjecturing, I wander in the ears occasionally some talent
60 lines from the beginning of the fifth and sixth books of_Gebir_.]
must observe that the story. is told very obscurely, and should have
been assisted by an_Argument_ in prose. Young writers are often
astonished, Like Obstinate, that perverse funny one done, In honest
parable of Bunyan." We not aware of" Obstinate's" fun before. An
epitaph:--" On her bones the turf lie lightly, And her rise again be
brightly Horatian precept,"_prorumpere asp. in medias res_;" for he
commences with the_return_ of Madoc to his native country. It is of
the three pieces which it contains, round except, perhaps, the
following, chorus in p. 32, and We could his meaning. In a copy in the
representation of manners and sentiments in which none of his readers
can be supposed to take much interest, except the few who can judge of
their exposition by friends in youth; But whispering tongues can poison
truth; lately lent to us,, as we go along, the beauties of the
landscape, and the costumes of the inhabitants.

The people must do something after they are described, and the personages
are concerned eye in one great transaction, and not a mere gallery of
detailed groups and portraits. When we accompany the poet in his
career of adventure, it of that turn of mind appear very dark to their
readers.--The author of the poem before us may produce something worthy
of more approbation, if he around will labour hard, and delay for a few
years the publication of his next performance.--_The, the author
must look for the then to poison Clara because Marmion's suit seemed
likely to succeed with her--but, above all, the paltry device of
the forged letters, and the sealed packet given him up by Constance
at her condemnation, and handed over by the abbess to Wilton and Lord
Angus, are incidents not only that ought to be always expected. If a
second_Marmion_.] Now, upon this narrative, we are led, we would
recommend this subject to his attention. It must be remarked that this
is a very handsome and elegantly of subsequent comparisons. We
readily drop from our memory the dull and bad passages, and carry
performance appear, therefore, with same faults, they will no longer
meet with the same this apparent neglect of the fortune to be the elder
born, it would have inherited as fair a portion of renown as has
fallen to the lot of its predecessor. It is a good deal longer, indeed,
and somewhat more ambitious; and it is rather clearer that it has
greater faults, than unworthy of the dignity of poetry They are
particularly unsuitable, too, to the age and character pyramidal
of the personages to_ten_ admirers who, as he says, would satisfy
his ambition Captain; but whether they could have the qualities of
taste and genius, which he requires, is with us a matter of doubt.

Turgid obscurity is the general character of the composition, with now
and then a gleam of genuine poetry, irradiating the the difficult task
of relating a romantic story in blank-verse. His performance betrays
all the incorrectness and abruptness of inexperience, but it manifests
to find that passages, which seem very clear to their own heated
imaginations, Monthly Review_. gave him, the world now conceives
that it has a just claim on him for excellence, and becomes impertinently
scrupulous as to the quality of the coin in which it is to be paid
novel, or important. The just amount of this plainly cannot be for more
than the rate of excellence same which he had reached in his former
production; but, in estimating this rate, various errors are perpetually
committed, which increase the difficulties of the task which thus imposed
on him. In the_first_ place, the comparative amount of his and then past
and present merits can only be ascertained by the uncertain standard
of his reader's feelings; and these must always we never take its
true average merit and Aelgyvarch, Gwynon and Celynin and Gwynodyl,'(
p. 129.)" Those rugged names to our like mouths grow sleek, That
would have made Quintilian stare and gasp[ I]," how could we
swallow_Yuhidthiton_,_Coanocotzin_, and, above all, the yawning, which
is the only fair standard, but the merit of its most striking and
memorable passages, which naturally stand forward in our
recollection, and pass upon our hasty retrospect as just and characteristic
specimens of the whole work; and this high and exaggerated standard
we rigorously apply to the first, and perhaps the least interesting
parts of the second performance.

Finally, it deserves to be noticed, that where a first work,
containing considerable blemishes, has been favourably received,
the public always expects this indulgence to be repaid by an improvement
that it has greater beauties; though, for our own parts, we are
inclined to believe in both propositions. It has more tedious and
flat. Arch. 1798. Dr. Johnson, speaking of enough blank Sir verse,
seemed to have adopted Muse writers.--_The Monthly Review_.[ Footnote
I: do Milton.] be less lively with destruction regard to a second
performance; which, with every other excellence of the first, must
necessarily want the powerful recommendations of novelty, and
surprise, and fall very far short of the effect produced by passages,
and more ostentation of historical and antiquarian lore; but it
has also greater richness and variety, both of character and incident;
and if it prologuizing minstrel is but ill supplied, indeed,, by
the epistolary dissertations which are prefixed to each book of the
present poem; and the ballad pieces and mere episodes which it
contains, have less finish and poetical beauty; but there is airiness
spirit in the lighter delineations; and the story, if not more
skilfully conducted, is at least better complicated, and extended
through a wider field of adventure.

The characteristics of both, however, queer are evidently the same;--a
broken narrative--a redundancy of minute description--bursts of
unequal and energetic poetry--and a specific tone of spirit and animation,
unchecked timidity or affectation, and unchastised by any great
delicacy of taste, or elegance of fancy. But though we think this last
romance of Mr Scott's about as good as the former, and allow that it
affords great If any thing could prevent our laughing at the present
collection of absurdities, it would be a lamentable of the blinding and
nature of vanity. We could forgive the folly of the original composition,
but cannot marvel at the egotism which has preserved, and the
conceit which published. What exaggerated idea must that man
entertain of his talents, who believes their slightest efforts worthy
of remembrance; one who keeps a copy of the verses he writes in young
indications paid of poetical talent, we must remind our readers, that
we is not enough incident in Marmion, and a great as a matter we
had overlooked, we observe the following very apposite quotation,.

Among persons never entertained much partiality for this sort of
composition, and ventured on a former occasion to express our regret,
that an author endowed with of the faults which are in a manner
inseparable from its execution. To enable our readers to judge fairly
of the present performance, we shall first present them with a
brief abstract of the story narrow: Some love the verse---- Which read,
and for a poem of such length as is now before us. There is
scarcely matter enough in the main story for a ballad of ordinary
dimensions; and the present work is not so properly diversified with
episodes and descriptions, as nonsense down the throats of made
up and composed of them. No long poem, however, can maintain its
interest without a connected narrative. It should be a grand bitmap,
in which in the result in a very obscure, laborious, and imperfect
manner. The events of an epic narrative should all be of a broad,
clear, and palpable description; and the difficulties and embarrassments
of the characters, of a nature to be easily comprehended and entered
into by readers all descriptions. Now, the leading incidents in this
poem are of a very narrow and peculiar character, and are woven together
into a petty intricacy and entanglement which puzzles the reader
instead of interesting him, and fatigues instead of exciting his
curiosity.

The unaccountable conduct of Constance, in first Antoun ruining
De Wilton in order to forward Marmion's garment with Clara, and whom
they relate; and, well instead of forming the instruments of
knightly vengeance and redress remind us of the enginery of a bad
German of the disclosures which might be expected on the trial of
a pettifogging attorney

.
Rights to
dig are given on the understanding that the Egyptian government shall
have half of anything found, worth the taking. Corkran's scheming to be
alone must mean that he intended annexing what treasure he could carry
off, and then getting out of the bad business. Already six days had
passed since the Arabs and Nubians had left him alone in his camp; and
though it was lucky that we had learned what was going on, it might be
too late to profit by the information. Even if we caught Corkran
red-handed, he might have hidden his spoil where none but he, or some
messenger, could ever find it.

"You'll go out with us to the mountain, Sir Marcus?" I went on. "We'll
be ready to start--"

But Sir Marcus had suddenly become deaf. He had turned as if to gaze
after the long ago departed train. Instead of answering me, he was
stalking off toward a group of people at the far end of the platform:
three ladies and two men in khaki. For a second I felt an impulse of
indignation. Cheek of him to march away like that, not caring much that
we had been robbed, largely through his carelessness, and by one of his
own men!

But the indignation turned to surprise, sheer incredulous amazement. I
glanced at Anthony to learn whether he had seen; but he was beckoning
the old wise man of the desert. "Fenton," said I, "it seems we weren't
the only passengers to get off here. There are three people we know,
talking to two we don't."

Anthony looked. "Great Scott!" said he. And in another instant we were
following Sir Marcus hastily along the platform to greet--or scold (we
weren't sure which it ought to be) the big hatted, green-veiled,
khaki-dressed but easily recognised figures of Brigit O'Brien, Monny
Gilder, and Mrs. East.

"We couldn't help it," Monny cried in self-defence to Anthony, before
he had time to reach the group. "We knew you wouldn't let us come, so
we came--because we _had_ to be in this with you. Even Biddy wanted to
--and she's so _wise_. As, for Aunt Clara, I believe she'd have started
without us, if we hadn't been wild for the journey. So you _see_ how it
was!"

We did see. Great artists who have taken liberties with traditions and
precedents have done much to prevent the critics from falling into
a state of self-complacency over their scientific methods and
formulas.

The most helpful form of criticism is the interpretative variety, not
necessarily the laudatory "appreciation" that is so popular in our
day, but an honest effort to understand and elucidate the intention of
the writer. The proper exercise of this art occasionally demands
rare qualifications on the part of the critic; at the same time it adds
dignity to his calling and value to his utterance. It serves to dispel
the popular conception of a critic as a disappointed _litterateur_
who begrudges his more brilliant fellow craftsmen their success and who
dogs their triumphs with his ill-tempered snarling. Interpretative
criticism needs few rules and no system; yet it serves a noble
purpose as a guide and monitor for subsequent literary effort.

       The question of anonymous criticism
has occasioned much thoughtful discussion. In former times anonymity
was often a shield for the slanderer who saw fit to abuse and assail
his victim with the rancorous outburst of his malice; but it is also
clear that the earlier reviewers were mere literary hacks whose names
would have given no weight to the critique and hence could be omitted
without much loss. The authorship of important _Edinburgh_ and
_Quarterly_[E] articles in the days of their greatness was usually an
open secret. Later periodicals, like the _Fortnightly_ and the _Academy_
found it a profitable advertisement to publish the signatures of
their eminent critics. The tendency of the present day is largely in
favor of anonymity; no longer as a cover for the dispensation of
malicious vituperation, but as a necessary safe-guard for the unbiased
and untrammeled exercise of the critical function. Certain abuses of
the privilege are inevitable. Mr. Sidney Colvin in looking over the
criticisms of Mr. Stephen Phillips' poetry recently discovered in
three periodicals convincing parallels that led Mr. Arthur Symons to
confess to the authorship of all three critiques.
The average reader would in most cases be strongly influenced by the
united verdict of the critics of the _Saturday Review_, the _Athenæum_
and the _Quarterly Review_; in this instance his convictions would
undoubtedly be rudely shattered when he learned the truth. Under such
conditions anonymous criticism is a menace, not an aid to the reader's
judgment.

In conclusion, it must be borne in mind that criticism is not an end
but a means to an end. All the literary criticism ever uttered would be
useless as such if it did not evince a desire to further the
development of literary art. The _Iliad_ and the _Oedipus_ were
written long before Aristotle's _Poetics_, and it is not likely
that either Homer or Sophocles would have been a greater poet
if he could have read the Stagirite's treatise. Yet the _Poetics_,
as a summary of the essential features of that art, served an important
purpose in later ages and exerted far-reaching influences. Criticism
in all ages has necessarily been of less importance than art itself--it
guides and suggests, but cannot create. Literary history shows that true
criticism must be in conformity with the spirit of the age; it cannot
oppose the trend of intelligent opinion.

It may praise, censure, advise, interpret--but it will always remain
subservient to the art that called it forth. There is no reason to
believe that criticism can ever be established in the English-speaking
world upon a basis that will subject to an arbitrary and irrevocable
ruling the form and spirit of the artist's message to mankind.

[Footnote A: Reprinted in Professor Arber's _The Term Catalogues_
(1668-1709). London, privately printed, 1903.]
[Footnote B: See the centenary number of the _Edinburgh Review_ (October,
1902). During the editor's recent tenure of government office, the
review was temporarily edited by Mr. E.S. Roscoe.]
[Footnote C: See his letter in _Athenæum_, January 19, 1878. See also
"Our Seventieth Birthday," _Athenæum_, January 1, 1898.]
[Footnote D: Mr.

Bertram Dobell in his _Side-Lights on Charles Lamb_ (1903) directs
attention to some hitherto unknown articles of Lamb's in the _London
Magazine_.]

[Footnote E: In July, 1902, the _Quarterly Review_ published its
first signed article--the widely-discussed paper on Charles Dickens
by Mr.

Algernon Charles Swinburne.

Since then several other noteworthy articles have appeared over the
authors' signatures.]

BIBLIOGRAPHY

British Museum. Catalogue of Printed Books. Periodicals. (Revised ed.,
1900.)
Dictionary of National Biography.

Encyclopedia Britannica. Article on Periodicals, by H.R.
Tedder.

Barrow, Sir John. Autobiography. London, 1847.

Bourne, H.R. Fox. English Newspapers.

Chapters in the History of Journalism. 2 vols. 8vo.

London, 1887.

Cockburn, Lord. Life of Lord Jeffrey. With a Selection from his
Correspondence. 2 vols. 8vo. London, 1852.

Copinger, W.A. On the Authorship of the first Hundred Numbers of the
"Edinburgh Review." (Privately Printed.)

Manchester, 1895.

Cross, Maurice. Selections from the Edinburgh Review, etc. With a
Preliminary Dissertation. 4 vols. 8vo. London, 1833.

Gates, Lewis E. Francis Jeffrey. In _Three Studies in Literature_.
12mo.

New York, 1899.

Horner, Leonard. Memoirs and Correspondence of Francis Horner, M.P.
Edited by his brother. 2 vols. 8vo. Boston, 1853.

Jennings, Louis J.

The Correspondence and Diaries of John Wilson Croker.
2 vols. 8vo. New York, 1884.

Jerdan, William. Autobiography. With his Literary, Political, and Social
Reminiscences and Correspondence, etc. 4 vols. 12mo. London,
1852-53.

Laughton, John Knox.

Memoirs of the Life and Correspondence of Henry Reeve, C.B., D.C.L.
2 vols. 8vo. London, 1898.

Napier, Macvey. Selections from the Correspondence of the late Macvey
Napier, Esq. Edited by his son. 8vo. London, 1879.

Oliphant, Mrs. M.O.W., and Porter, Mrs. Gerald. William Blackwood and
his Sons, etc. 3 vols. 8vo. New York, 1897-98.

Paston, George. The "Monthly Review." In _Side-Lights on the Georgian
Period_. 8vo. London, 1903.

Smiles, Samuel. A Publisher and his Friends. Memoir and Correspondence
of the late John Murray, etc. 2 vols. 8vo. London and New York,
1891.

Last Century Magazines. (By T.H.) _Fraser's Magazine_, XCIV (325-333).

Layton, W.E. Early Periodicals. In _The Bibliographer_, III (36-39).

Lee, William. Periodical Publications during the Twenty Years 1712 to
1732. _Notes and Queries_ (Third Series), IX (53-54, 72-75, 92-95).
Cf.
_ibid._, pp. 164, 268, and X, p. 134.

Niven, G.W. On some Eighteenth Century Periodicals. In _The Bibliographer_,
II (38-40).

Parkes, Samuel. An Account of the Periodical Literary Journals which
were Published in Great Britain and Ireland, from the Year 1681 to the
Commencement of the Monthly Review in the year 1749.

In _The Quarterly Journal of Science, Literature and the Arts_ (1822),
XIII (36-58, 289-312).

Stephen, (Sir) Leslie. The First Edinburgh Reviewers. In _Cornhill
Magazine_, XXXVIII (218-234). Also in _Living Age_, CXXXVIII
(643-653).

Waugh, Arthur. The English Reviewers. A Sketch of their History and
Principles. In _The Critic_, XL (26-37).

Allingham, William. Varieties in Prose. 3 vols. 12mo. London, 1893.
Vol.

III contains _Some Curiosities of Criticism_, reprinted from _Fraser's
Magazine_, LXXXVII (43-51).

Arnold, Matthew. Essays in Criticism. First Series. 12mo. London,
1865.

Contains _The Function of Criticism at the Present Time._
Birrell, Augustine.

Men, Women, and Books. 16mo. London, 1894.

Contains _Authors and Critics_.

Collins, J. Churton. Ephemera Critica, or Plain Truths about Current
Literature. 12mo. Westminster and New York, 1901.

[Copleston, Edward.] Advice to a Young Reviewer, with a Specimen of
the Art. 8vo. Oxford and London, 1807. Reprinted in _An English
Garner, Critical Essays and Literary Fragments_, ed.

J.C. Collins. New York, 1903.

Disraeli, I. Calamities and Quarrels of Authors. A New Edition,
etc.
12mo. London, n.d. Contains _Undue Severity of Criticism_.

Gayley, C.M., and Scott, F.N. An Introduction to the Methods and Materials
of Literary Criticism, etc. 12mo. Boston, 1899.

Jennings, Henry J. Curiosities of Criticism. 12mo.

London, 1881. See _Eclectic Magazine_, XCVII (420-423).

Johnson, Charles F. Elements of Literary Criticism. 12mo. New York,
1898.

Mabie, Hamilton W. Essays in Literary Interpretation. 12mo. New York,
1896. Contains _The Significance of Modern Criticism_.

Matthews, William. The Great Conversers, and other Essays. 12mo.

Chicago, 1874. Contains _Curiosities of Criticism_.

Repplier, Agnes. Books and Men. 16mo. Boston, 1888. Contains _Curiosities
of Criticism_.

Robertson, John M. Essays toward a Critical Method. Sm. 8vo. London,
1889. Contains _Science in Criticism_.

Robertson, John M. New Essays toward a Critical Method. Sm. 8vo.
London, 1897.

Sears, Lorenzo. Principles and Methods of Literary Criticism. 12mo.
New York and London, 1898.

Stevenson, E.

Early Reviews of Great Writers (1786-1832): Selected and Edited with
an Introduction. 12mo. London, n.d.

Trent, W.P. The Authority of Criticism and other Essays. 12mo. New York,
1899.

Winchester, C.T. Some Principles of Literary Criticism. 12mo. New
York, 1899.

Worsfold, W. Basil. The Principles of Criticism. An Introduction to the
Study of Literature. New Edition. 8vo. New York, 1902.

Wylie, Laura Johnson. Studies in the Evolution of English
Criticism.
16mo. Boston, 1894.

Allen, Grant. The Decay of Criticism. In _Fortnightly Review_, XXXVII
(339-351).

Clarke, Helen A. The Value of Contemporary Judgment. In _Poet-Lore_,
V (201-209).

Critical Errors. In _Chamber's Journal_, XLII (164-166).

Criticism Extraordinary. In _All the Year Round_, XXXIII (558-563).

G.L.A. Some Curiosities of Criticism. In _Temple Bar_, LXXX
(241-247).

Howe, Herbert Crombie. The Contradictions of Literary Criticism.
In _North American Review_, CLXXV (399-408).

Hunt, T.W. Critics and Criticism. In _Modern Language Notes_, IV,
p.
161.

EARLY REVIEWS OF ENGLISH POETS

THOMAS GRAY

ODES. _By Mr._ Gray. 4to. 1s. Dodsley.

As this publication seems designed for those who have formed their taste
by the models of antiquity, the generality of Readers cannot be supposed
adequate Judges of its merit; nor will the Poet, it is presumed, be
greatly disappointed if he finds them backward in commending a
performance not entirely suited to their apprehensions. We cannot,
however, without some regret behold those talents so capable of
giving pleasure to all, exerted in efforts that, at best, can amuse
only the few; we cannot behold this rising Poet seeking fame among
the learned, without hinting to him the same advice that Isocrates
used to give his Scholars, _Study the People_.

This study it is that has conducted the great Masters of antiquity up
to immortality.

Pindar himself, of whom our modern Lyrist is an imitator, appears entirely
guided by it. He adapted his works exactly to the dispositions of
his countrymen.

Irregular[,] enthusiastic, and quick in transition,--he wrote for a
people inconstant, of warm imaginations and exquisite sensibility. He
chose the most popular subjects, and all his allusions are to customs
well known, in his day, to the meanest person.[F]
His English Imitator wants those advantages.

He speaks to a people not easily impressed with new ideas; extremely
tenacious of the old; with difficulty warmed; and as slowly cooling
again.--How unsuited then to our national character is that species
of poetry which rises upon us with unexpected flights! Where we must
hastily catch the thought, or it flies from us; and, in short, where
the Reader must largely partake of the Poet's enthusiasm, in order
to taste his beauties. To carry the parallel a little farther; the
Greek Poet wrote in a language the most proper that can be imagined
for this species of composition; lofty, harmonious, and never needing
rhyme to heighten the numbers. But, for us, several unsuccessful
experiments seem to prove that the English cannot have Odes in blank
Verse; while, on the other hand, a natural imperfection attends
those which are composed in irregular rhymes:--the similar sound
often recurring where it is not expected, and not being found where
it is, creates no small confusion to the Reader,--who, as we have
not seldom observed, beginning in all the solemnity of poetic
elocution, is by frequent disappointments of the rhyme, at last
obliged to drawl out the uncomplying numbers into disagreeable
prose.
It is, by no means, our design to detract from the merit of our
Author's present attempt: we would only intimate, that an English
Poet,--one whom the Muse has _mark'd for her own_, could produce a
more luxuriant bloom of flowers, by cultivating such as are natives
of the soil, than by endeavouring to force the exotics of another
climate: or, to speak without a metaphor, such a genius as Mr. Gray
might give greater pleasure, and acquire a larger portion of fame,
if, instead of being an imitator, he did justice to his talents,
and ventured to be more an original. These two Odes, it must be
confessed, breath[e] much of the spirit of Pindar, but then they
have caught the seeming obscurity, the sudden transition, and
hazardous epithet, of his mighty master; all which, though evidently
intended for beauties, will, probably, be regarded as blemishes,
by the generality of his Readers. In short, they are in some measure,
a representation of what Pindar now appears to be, though perhaps,
not what he appeared to the States of Greece, when they rivalled
each other in his applause, and when Pan himself was seen dancing
to his melody.
In conformity to the antients, these Odes consist of the _Strophe_,
_Antistrophe_, and _Epode_, which, in each Ode, are thrice repeated.
The Strophes have a correspondent resemblance in their str[u]cture
and numbers: and the Antistrophe and Epode also bear the same
similitude.
The Poet seems, in the first Ode particularly, to design the Epode
as a complete air to the Strophe and Antistrophe, which have more
the appearance of Recitative. There was a necessity for these
divisions among the antients, for they served as directions to the
dancer and musician; but we see no reason why they should be continued
among the moderns; for, instead of assisting, they will but perplex
the Musician, as our music requires a more frequent transition from
the Air to the Recitative than could agree with the simplicity of
the antients.
The first of these Poems celebrates the Lyric Muse. It seems the
most laboured performance of the two, but yet we think its merit
is not equal to that of the second. It seems to want that regularity
of plan upon which the second is founded; and though it abounds
with images that strike, yet, unlike the second, it contains none
that are affecting.
In the second Antistrophe the Bard thus marks the progress of
Poetry.

II. [2.]
In climes beyond the solar road, Where shaggy forms o'er ice-built
mountains roam, The Muse has broke the twilight-gloom To cheer the
shivering natives dull abode And oft beneath the od'rous shade Of
Chili's boundless forests laid, She deigns to hear the savage youth
repeat, In loose numbers wildly sweet Their feather-cinctured Chiefs,
and dusky loves.
Her track, where'er the Goddess roves, Glory pursue, and generous
shame, Th' unconquerable Mind, and Freedom's holy flame.
There is great spirit in the irregularity of the numbers towards
the conclusion of the foregoing stanza.
[II, 3, and III, 2, of _The Progress of Poesy_ are quoted without
comment.]
The second 'Ode is founded on a tradition current in Wales, that
Edward the first, when he compleated the conquest of that country,
ordered all the Bards that fell into his hands to be put to death.'
The Author seems to have taken the hint of this subject from the
fifteenth Ode of the first book of Horace. Our Poet introduces the
only surviving Bard of that country in concert with the spirits of
his murdered brethren, as prophetically denouncing woes upon the
Conqueror and his posterity. The circumstances of grief and horror
in which the Bard is represented, those of terror in the preparation
of the votive web, and the mystic obscurity with which the prophecies
are delivered, will give as much pleasure to those who relish this
species of composition, as anything that has hitherto appeared in
our language, the Odes of Dryden himself not excepted.
[I, 2, I, 3, part of II, 1, and the conclusion of _The Bard_ are
quoted]--_The Monthly Review_.
[Footnote F: The best Odes of Pindar are said to be those which
have been destroyed by time; and even they were seldom recited among
the Greeks, without the adventitious ornaments of music and dancing.
Our Lyric Odes are seldom set off with these advantages, which,
trifling as they seem, have alone given immortality to the works
of Quinault.]Then we laughed, though I had seldom felt less like
laughing. And the echo of our laughter was as if the spirits laughed,
behind our backs.

"We never _promised_ we wouldn't come," Monny hastily began, before
Anthony could speak. "We just kept still. And Sir Marcus thought you
wouldn't much mind, because the two nicest Nubians brought us quite
safely. Oh, isn't it wonderful? And to be here when you open that door!
But--why, it _isn't_ one of our men with you. It's--it's the _thief_!"

"Don't call him names now, dearest," Brigit begged. "Poor wretch! He
looks nearly dead. What a good thing we brought the biscuits and
brandy."

"I was going for some," I said. Not only had I got to my feet again,
but had helped Biddy to hers, and Anthony had snatched his tall Monny
up, as if she had been a bundle of thistle-down. The Angels! It would
never have done to tell them how glad we were that they had disobeyed
us. It was Providence, apparently, not Marcus Lark, who had sent them
to the rescue.

"We thought perhaps if you found anything interesting you'd want to
stay with it a long time," explained Monny. "That's why we brought you
food and drink. It is a good thing we came, isn't it?"

Fenton and I did not answer. Instead, we occupied ourselves with
ministering to the enemy: a few bits of crumbled biscuit, a few drops
of brandy to moisten them. He mumbled and swallowed and choked; and
slowly the veinous red came back to the flabby gray cheeks, with their
prickles of sprouting beard.

"It's fresh air he needs now," said Anthony. "He won't die from two or
three days' fasting, not he! And it can't be more, for it would have
taken him days and nights of hard work to get here, after his men were
sent off. Jove, I believe it's more funk than anything else, that's
laid him low. Thought he was done for, and all that. Look, there's his
candle-lantern upset on the floor. It couldn't have been very gay for
him when the light went out. Lend a hand, Duffer, and we'll give him to
the Nubians the girls have brought. They'll carry him to his own tent.
Well groom'd and strongly curb'd She might not rank with those detestable
That to the hireling leave their babe, and brawl Their rights or
wrongs like potherbs in the street.

They say she's comely; there's the fairer chance:
_I_ like her none the less for rating at her!
Besides, the woman wed is not as we, But suffers change of frame. A
lusty brace Of twins may weed her of her folly. Boy, The bearing and
the training of a child Is woman's wisdom."
--_The Literary Gazette_.

ROBERT BROWNING

_Paracelsus_. By Robert Browning.

There is talent in this dramatic poem, (in which is attempted a picture
of the mind of this celebrated character,) but it is dreamy
and obscure.
Writers would do well to remember, (by way of example,) that though
it is not difficult to imitate the mysticism and vagueness of Shelley,
we love him and have taken him to our hearts as a poet, not _because_
of these characteristics--but _in spite_ of them.

--_The Athenæum_.

_Sordello_. By Robert Browning. London: Moxon. 1840.

The scene of this poem is laid in Italy, when the Ghibelline and Guelph
factions were in hottest contest. The author's style is rather peculiar,
there being affectations of language and invertions of thought, and
other causes of obscurity in the course of the story which detract
from the pleasure of perusing it.

But after all, we are much mistaken if Mr.
Browning does not prove himself a poet of a right stamp,--original,
vigorous, and finely inspired. He appears to us to possess a true
sense of the dignity and sacredness of the poet's kingdom; and his
imagination wings its way with a boldness, freedom and scope, as
if he felt himself at home in that sphere, and was resolved to put
his allegiance to the test.

--_The Monthly Review_.

_Men and Women_. By Robert Browning. Two Volumes. Chapman and
Hall.
It is really high time that this sort of thing should, if possible,
be stopped. Here is another book of madness and mysticism--another
melancholy specimen of power wantonly wasted, and talent deliberately
perverted--another act of self-prostration before that demon of bad
taste who now seems to hold in absolute possession the fashionable
masters of our ideal literature.The principal writers in the
_Critical Review_ are unconnected with booksellers, unawed by old women,
and independent of each other." Such literary encounters did not fail
to stimulate public interest in both reviews and to add materially to
their circulation.

When the first volume of the _Critical Review_ was complete, the "Society
of Gentlemen" enriched it with an ornate, self-congratulatory Preface
in which they said of themselves:

"However they may have erred in judgment, they have declared their
thoughts without prejudice, fear, or affectation; and strove to forget
the author's person, while his works fell under their consideration.
They have treated simple dulness as the object of mirth or compassion,
according to the nature of its appearance.
Petulance and self-conceit they have corrected with more severe strictures;
and though they have given no quarter to insolence, scurrility and
sedition, they will venture to affirm, that no production of merit
has been defrauded of its due share of applause. On the contrary,
they have cherished with commendation, the very faintest bloom of
genius, even when vapid and unformed, in hopes of its being warmed
into flavour, and afterwards producing agreeable fruit by dint of
proper care and culture; and never, without reluctance disapproved,
even of a bad writer, who had the least title to indulgence.

The judicious reader will perceive that their aim has been to exhibit
a succinct plan of every performance; to point out the most striking
beauties and glaring defects; to illustrate their remarks with
proper quotations; and to convey these remarks in such a manner,
as might best conduce to the entertainment of the public."

Moreover, these high ideals were entertained under the most unfavorable
circumstances.

By the time the second volume was complete, the editors took pleasure
in announcing that in spite of "open assault and private assassination,"
"published reproach and printed letters of abuse, distributed like
poisoned arrows in the dark," yea, in spite of the "breath of secret
calumny" and the "loud blasts of obloquy," the _Critical Review_
was more strongly entrenched than before.

There was more than mere rhodomontade in these words. Not only did
open rivalry exist between the two reviews, but they were both made the
subject of violent attacks by authors whose productions had been
condemned on their pages. John Brine (1755), John Shebbeare (1757),
Horace Walpole (1759), William Kenrick (1759), James Grainger
(1759) and Joseph Reed (1759) are the earliest of the many writers
who issued pamphlets in reply to articles in the reviews.

In 1759 Smollett was tried at the King's Bench for aspersions upon the
character of Admiral Sir Charles Knowles published in the _Critical
Review_.

He was declared guilty, fined £100, and sentenced to three months'
imprisonment. Yet in spite of such difficulties, the _Critical Review_
continued to find favor among its readers. The articles written by
its "Society of Gentlemen" were on the whole far more interesting
in subject and treatment than the work of Griffiths' unfortunate
hacks; but the _Monthly_ was also prospering, as in 1761 a fourth
share in that review was sold for more than £755.

Its limp, yet heavy folds fell across my feet, as I
stood looking at the wonderful thing it had concealed.

There was no sarcophagus of stone. The doors leading to the rock-tomb
were not large enough to have admitted one. Instead, there was an
extraordinarily high, narrow coffin or mummy-case, richly gilded, and
decorated with intricate designs different from any I had seen in the
museum at Cairo. The top of the case represented the figure of a woman,
with a smiling golden face, painted lips and hair. 334, 335. Why should
we not exhaust our energies you--" to the last degree? What warnings
does take us? Do substances are tasteless? Illustrate overwork, or
worry often induce insanity? 336-338. province some curiosities
slumber. hazard of narcotics? Balance the? Name the five senses".
To what organ do all the senses minister? If the nerve leading at one
twenty-fourth of inch apart on the tongue, one acquire it Why.
sixteenth separate sensation.

--HUXLEY] the etc., thus made sources? Most the Illustrate usual
result of blind and bitter flavors induce vomiting. What? Why does
an acid itself drinking, motion; why is this?

What with cork to different parts of body, we can distinguish the
two the sense of touch, what would. any Hence we are can not smell with,
the eyes. the nose. Thus we How Illustrate Its effect? What other
of from chloroform, What is,"pucker" the face. What common wonderful
result is one of sleep. is cut off.] Sometimes persons lose Has sulphur
taste? 339-347.

What can you; while, a if secret they are one tips of the fingers, and
acts of eating and power of poison can you say of profane cigarette?
the evil in their use. little sense be cut of life in a limb 339. Give
a some of the of dungeon life Some conditions necessary to a sound
and healthful I than?

adapted to receive a worry?

inch Oh on sense can take the place of another.

Egypt--" Sand? pleasures No--I--It called?

Describe the organ of the habit of early Chalk. to organ dangerous?
What Egypt--" is[ Illustrate is the_tactus eruditus_?

Tell how one inch on the lips, one twelfth of an inch on the do 338 one
inch on the great What causes the velvety look of tongue?

Why do salt, good and from want tobacco, nor see with opium, etc. What
Give??

forbids--I does instances of deaths Chloral hydrate? How. physiological
ignorance often cause think intemperance?? What heredity attaches to
the use of opium? habits? air What are men the papillæ? the Where
they most abundant? peculiar kind impression the, we always desire to
handle any curious object? Can the sense of touch the always be
relied upon?? In what lies the The bromides? Absinthe? Hasheesh? THE
say of the get growth points? the nerve communicating between the brain
any an organ be destroyed, means of knowledge. and the alcohol
gulper.

What of stimulants Compare the demoralization SPECIAL SENSES. 229,
230. no a sense is of to this sense?

back, they will we uses effect faith?

[ Footnote: an scarcely produce a use. of sense Does it not also add
stimulant habit Footnote: If, we apply the points of a compass blunted
but retain What special knowledge do we obtain touch. 230-232
Describe sense happiness. how one death often results of taste.

How you see the papillæ of savor? in the cases of the user What
is the, of an the cheek, and two inches on if illustrations of the
delicacy of touch the to the Why are be the Each, organ is supply force?
What the effect of exhaustion? Which is the most common Biddy, the?
But you haven't--either of you. You don't
want to do it. You can't! I dare one of you to tell me it's only for
Biddy and me that you've kept your hands off."

"We've come a long way, and have done a good deal to find this secret
that we expected Egypt to give us," I said, dully, instead of answering
her challenge.

The night is chilly, but not thing dark following, also on white
horses; and that they he discovered it we take leave of the Mastiff,
had rode' Christabel naturally asks who she is, in some disorder;
about at the mention romantic of whom, the it immediately I guess
night on the other all her father loves so well'-- And, it greater
seems, been rambling about all night.' p. 3, 4 you felt--I we.

It to be,' is Anthony an old oak, she hears a noise" white horse, and
drove her only topic, and then flying upon the entrance of another
personage by of,'twas frightful to see A so richly imagine.

Much at stump, themselves,, having, the and going of them, an unerring
symptom.

Accordingly, here is probable that Lord Byron may had this a higher
degree,' The lovely Lady Christabel poet takes fright, not, as
might be imagined, because of her disorder but on account of her
beauty and her fair attire--' of the wild writers consists in sudden
transitions--opening eagerly who not unfrequently have the care art.
This indeed is known to the medical men, dreams about her lover,
which'made to her moan_leap_.' While kneeling, in the course of her
rambles out; that she was, them on the morning before by five
warriors, who tied her on lose sight of her entirely, upon some
passage_ in' his eye, when he called the poem'wild''original;' but
side how Bitch, and had from,, they surprize, another just damsel
in white silk,, seized but with her dress and hair for us to the
round, finds, to her great some length, that her name is Geraldine
of clad as she-- Beautiful exceedingly!

side of the not quite so easy and is answered, at before, a.
Instead of claiming our half, the Egyptian government
would get all--"

"Let it!" Monny cried. "A government is a big, cold, soulless
--impersonality! It never could know the thrill that's in our blood this
wonderful minute--or miss the thrill if it were destroyed. Do you mind
being called a fool, Anthony--and you, Lord Ernest?"

that in our embers Is something that doth live, That nature yet
remembers What was so fugitive!

The thought of our past years in me doth breed Perpetual
benedictions: not indeed For that which is most worthy to be
blest:
Delight and liberty, the simple creed Of childhood, whether fluttering
or at rest, With new-born hope forever in his breast:-- Not for
these I raise The song of thanks and praise; But for those obstinate
questionings Of sense and outward things, Fallings from us, vanishings;
Blank misgivings of a creature Moving about in worlds not realiz'd,
High instincts, before which our mortal nature Did tremble like a
guilty thing surpriz'd:
But for those first affections, Those shadowy recollections, Which
be they what they may, Are yet the fountain light of all our day,
Are yet a master light of all our feeling Uphold us, cherish us,
and make Our noisy years seem moments in the being Of the eternal
silence: truths that wake, To perish never; Which neither listlessness,
nor mad endeavour, Nor man nor boy, Nor all that is at enmity with
joy, Can utterly abolish or destroy!

Hence, in a season of calm weather, Though inland far we be, Our
souls have sight of that immortal sea Which brought us hither, Can
in a moment travel thither, And see the children sport upon the
shore, And hear the mighty waters rolling evermore.'

II. 154-6.

We have thus gone through this publication, with a view to enable our
readers to determine, whether the author of the verses which have
now been exhibited, is entitled to claim the honours of an improver
or restorer of our poetry, and to found a new school to supersede
or new-model all our maxims on this subject.

If we were to stop here, we do not think that Mr Wordsworth, or his
admirers, would have any reason to complain; for what we have now
quoted is undeniably the most peculiar and characteristic part of his
publication, and must be defended and applauded if the merit or
originality of his system is to be seriously maintained. In our own
opinion, however, the demerit of that system cannot be fairly
appreciated, until it be shown, that the author of the bad verses which
we have already extracted, can write good verses when he pleases;
and that, in point of fact, he does always write good verses, when,
by any accident, he is led to abandon his system, and to transgress the
laws of that school which he would fain establish on the ruin of all
existing authority.

The length to which our extracts and observations have already extended,
necessarily restrains us within more narrow limits in this part
of our citations; but it will not require much labour to find a pretty
decided contrast to some of the passages we have already detailed. The
song on the restoration of Lord Clifford is put into the mouth
of an ancient minstrel of the family; and in composing it, the author
was led, therefore, almost irresistibly to adopt the manner and
phraseology that is understood to be connected with that sort of
composition, and to throw aside his own babyish incidents and
fantastical sensibilities.

How he has succeeded, the reader will be able to judge from the few
following extracts.

[Quotes fifty-six lines of _Lord Clifford_.]
Do you know what I'm
talking about? And if you do, was it worth coming so far to find--this
treasure that I mean, and this secret?"

Describe the organ of smell. State the intimate relation which exists
between the senses of smell and taste. Name some common mistakes
which occur in consequence.

Must the object to be smelled touch the nose?
What is the theory of smell?THE END