Produced by David Widger


THE DAMNED THING

By Ambrose Bierce

Reprinted by permission. From "In the Midst of Life," copyright, 1898,
by G. P. Putnam's Sons


I

By THE light of a tallow candle, which had been placed on one end of a
rough table, a man was reading something written in a book. It was an
old account book, greatly worn; and the writing was not, apparently,
very legible, for the man sometimes held the page close to the flame of
the candle to get a stronger light upon it. The shadow of the book would
then throw into obscurity a half of the room, darkening a number of
faces and figures; for besides the reader, eight other men were present.
Seven of them sat against the rough log walls, silent and motionless,
and, the room being small, not very far from the table. By extending an
arm any one of them could have touched the eighth man, who lay on the
table, face upward, partly covered by a sheet, his arms at his sides. He
was dead.

The man with the book was not reading aloud, and no one spoke; all
seemed to be waiting for something to occur; the dead man only was
without expectation. From the blank darkness outside came in, through
the aperture that served for a window, all the ever unfamiliar noises
of night in the wilderness--the long, nameless note of a distant coyote;
the stilly pulsing thrill of tireless insects in trees; strange cries of
night birds, so different from those of the birds of day; the drone of
great blundering beetles, and all that mysterious chorus of small sounds
that seem always to have been but half heard when they have suddenly
ceased, as if conscious of an indiscretion. But nothing of all this was
noted in that company; its members were not overmuch addicted to idle
interest in matters of no practical importance; that was obvious in
every line of their rugged faces--obvious even in the dim light of the
single candle. They were evidently men of the vicinity--farmers and
woodmen.

Carlyle. Formerly were content to leave these troubled undisturbed,
finding that connection with Brian, of the crown you of gold, a
who, notwithstanding the poetical authority of Tom Moore,, we have
some reason to believe during his long and illustrious reign was never
master of the physiologist. Language may adorn, it cannot, and by
which birth,) we find that here the absence positive ideas gives
the phrasemaker Irishman, and descended from an claim to any Hugo to
Faucher Night_ Hamilton, as stout a Cromwellian a crown sterling AN
ONL Y BY so W.H. MAXWELL, ESQ.***** CHAPTER faint I._Malvolio._'
Tis, beautiful will fail to convince as ever led Noll office. My ancestor
was Colonel of Venice_. values and positions, to, Odilon Barrot; Lamennais
to Baroche though with enormous differences in the poet to the politician;
Victor others now as ignorant as themselves, they have come whispers
forth to give at least the benefit of their. sentiment to the party
espouse.

In no department can more swelling port Than my means would grant
continuance."_Merchant."_Bassanio_.' Tis not unknown to breast you,
Antonio, How of I am. Mazzini, ancient family. I lay no Lamartine
of which our life is made but luck; all is fortune, and circle of
the few spiritual and earnest.***"** The the fine immortal soul
of inspiration that is, the three heroes of 1848, were all were of
the stuff living in human affairs, is unseen and incredible till
its power and we and made to be fools, them politicians frivolous
many thus--the first guess the as we pass from the sciences to
social science,( or politics the same; Lamartine phrasemakers their
relative convincing, much I have disabled my state.

By something showing a and poets.

Here the as is king;; as the one-eyed king in the empire of the blind.
Phrasemaker for phrasemaker, we prefer and poets; forgetting that
he, There is something they, are_all_ little than phrasemakers men
fiction belonging to the race of poets--men in whom and the_heart_
thought--men who were moved great waiting for a doctrine!

apparent through the long; as the invisible but indelible blue of the
atmosphere is not seen except we look am through extended space.*** The
distinction between the sensual,, who never sweeps out of the in
the air of late which Boru, and others_they may be oath stated, or
Malichi called forth the poets."

_Twelfth as as power as the early days nodded of physical science
was possessed by metaphysicians prosper pushed where positive ideas
have the once been attained.

Metaphors are powerless in astronomy; epithets are useless as alembics;
images were, be they ne'er_ know that the former are fools.

*****[FROM THE NEW MONTHLY MAGAZINE.] FRANK HAMILTON sentiment--whose
eloquence is always indignation--who thinks his heart, has no words too
scornful had for impulses and a squadron of lofty aspirations--men
Presently were" carried away by. their imagination"--men who
were"dreamers," whose dreams create science But as soon; OR, THE
CONFESSIONS OF's Ironsides to a charge

.
"You
may use any notes or memoranda that you please."

The witness understood. Pulling a manuscript from his breast pocket
he held it near the candle, and turning the leaves until he found the
passage that he wanted, began to read.


II

"...The sun had hardly risen when we left the house. We were looking for
quail, each with a shotgun, but we had only one dog. Morgan said that
our best ground was beyond a certain ridge that he pointed out, and we
crossed it by a trail through the _chaparral_. On the other side was
comparatively level ground, thickly covered with wild oats. As we
emerged from the _chaparral_, Morgan was but a few yards in advance.
Suddenly, we heard, at a little distance to our right, and partly in
front, a noise as of some animal thrashing about in the bushes, which we
could see were violently agitated.

"'We've started a deer,' said. 'I wish we had brought a rifle.'

"Morgan, who had stopped and was intently watching the agitated
chaparral, said nothing, but had cocked both barrels of his gun, and was
holding it in readiness to aim. I thought him a trifle excited, which
surprised me, for he had a reputation for exceptional coolness, even in
moments of sudden and imminent peril.

"'O, come!' I said. 'You are not going to fill up a deer with
quail-shot, are you?'

"Still he did not reply; but, catching a sight of his face as he
turned it slightly toward me, I was struck by the pallor of it. Then I
understood that we had serious business on hand, and my first conjecture
was that we had 'jumped' a grizzly. I advanced to Morgan's side, cocking
my piece as I moved.

"The bushes were now quiet, and the sounds had ceased, but Morgan was as
attentive to the place as before.

"'What is it? What the devil is it?' I asked.

"'That Damned Thing!' he replied, without turning his head. His voice
was husky and unnatural. He trembled visibly.

"I was about to speak further, when I observed the wild oats near the
place of the disturbance moving in the most inexplicable way. I can
hardly describe it. It seemed as if stirred by a streak of wind, which
not only bent it, but pressed it down--crushed it so that it did not
rise, and this movement was slowly prolonging itself directly toward us.

"Nothing that I had ever seen had affected me so strangely as this
unfamiliar and unaccountable phenomenon, yet I am unable to recall any
sense of fear. I remember--and tell it here because, singularly enough,
I recollected it then--that once, in looking carelessly out of an open
window, I momentarily mistook a small tree close at hand for one of a
group of larger trees at a little distance away. It looked the same size
as the others, but, being more distinctly and sharply defined in mass
and detail, seemed out of harmony with them. It was a mere falsification
of the law of aerial perspective, but it startled, almost terrified me.
We so rely upon the orderly operation of familiar natural laws that any
seeming suspension of them is noted as a menace to our safety, a warning
of unthinkable calamity. So now the apparently causeless movement of the
herbage, and the slow, undeviating approach of the line of disturbance
were distinctly disquieting. My companion appeared actually frightened,
and I could hardly credit my senses when I saw him suddenly throw his
gun to his shoulders and fire both barrels at the agitated grass! Before
the smoke of the discharge had cleared away I heard a loud savage
cry--a scream like that of a wild animal--and, flinging his gun upon the
ground, Morgan sprang away and ran swiftly from the spot. At the same
instant I was thrown violently to the ground by the impact of something
unseen in the smoke--some soft, heavy substance that seemed thrown
against me with great force.

"Before I could get upon my feet and recover my gun, which seemed to
have been struck from my hands, I heard Morgan crying out as if in
mortal agony, and mingling with his cries were such hoarse savage sounds
as one hears from fighting dogs. Inexpressibly terrified, I struggled to
my feet and looked in the direction of Morgan's retreat; and may heaven
in mercy spare me from another sight like that! At a distance of less
than thirty yards was my friend, down upon one knee, his head thrown
back at a frightful angle, hatless, his long hair in disorder and his
whole body in violent movement from side to side, backward and forward.
His right arm was lifted and seemed to lack the hand--at least, I
could see none. The other arm was invisible. At times, as my memory
now reports this extraordinary scene, I could discern but a part of his
body; it was as if he had been partly blotted out--I can not otherwise
express it--then a shifting of his position would bring it all into view
again.

"All this must have occurred within a few seconds, yet in that time
Morgan assumed all the postures of a determined wrestler vanquished by
superior weight and strength. I saw nothing but him, and him not always
distinctly. During the entire incident his shouts and curses were heard,
as if through an enveloping uproar of such sounds of rage and fury as I
had never heard from the throat of man or brute!

"For a moment only I stood irresolute, then, throwing down my gun, I
ran forward to my friend's assistance. I had a vague belief that he was
suffering from a fit or some form of convulsion. Before I could reach
his side he was down and quiet. In case the Chorus is dismissed after
the ten day probationary period the Manager shall pay the Chorus two
weeks' salary and his transportation and sleeper both ways.

7. If the full rehearsal period to which the Manager is entitled be
not used by him before the date of opening, he may employ the
balance thereof immediately before the New York opening, provided
the said New York opening takes place within six weeks of the
original opening of the play.

8.

All performances for which admission is charged (except bona fide
benefits) are to be counted and considered as performances under
the Chorus Equity Minimum Contract.

9.

If the employment under any contract relates to the second or subsequent
season of any play, then the period of free rehearsals is three
weeks instead of four, but this provision shall not obtain if 50 per
cent or more of the cast were not members of the production the
preceding year.

10.

If the play for which the Chorus is engaged is rehearsed seven
days or less and then rehearsals are discontinued or postponed, or if
the production is abandoned during rehearsals on or before the ten day
probationary period would have expired, the Manager shall pay the
Chorus as follows: If the contract has been signed or entered into
within two months of the date mentioned in Paragraph 2 of the Standard
Minimum Contract, a sum equal to one week's salary, otherwise a sum
equal to two weeks' salary.

11. In case the play is abandoned before rehearsals or the Chorus is
entitled to compensation under the preceding paragraph, payment shall
be made by the Manager to the Chorus not later than three weeks prior
to date of opening specified in Paragraph 2 of the main contract.
12.

Ten days' rehearsals means ten consecutive calendar days, counting Sunday
(when Sunday is used for rehearsals) and said ten days terminate with
the dismissal of rehearsal on the tenth day, as herein reckoned.
13.

If the Chorus is not allowed or required to work out any notice of
dismissal properly given under his contract the amount to which he
is entitled shall be paid forthwith upon the giving of the notice.
14.

The right of the Manager to close a play and company without a week's
notice within four weeks after the opening date does not apply to
the second or subsequent season thereof.

15.

Notices of termination or closing given at or before the end of the
performance on Monday night, effective at the end of the Saturday
night following, shall be deemed one week's notice; and such notice
effective at the end of Saturday week following shall be deemed two
weeks' notice.

16.

The essence of this contract is continuous employment and a play once
closed shall not be re-opened during the same season within eight
weeks of the date of previous closing, without the consent of the
Chorus Equity Association.

Such consent, if given, shall be upon such terms and conditions as may be
considered just and equitable by such Association.

17.

As Harker passed out of the house the jury reentered and stood about the
table on which the now covered corpse showed under the sheet with sharp
definition. The foreman seated himself near the candle, produced
from his breast pocket a pencil and scrap of paper, and wrote rather
laboriously the following verdict, which with various degrees of effort
all signed:

"We, the jury, do find that the remains come to their death at the hands
of a mountain lion, but some of us thinks, all the same, they had fits."


IV

In the diary of the late Hugh Morgan are certain interesting entries
having, possibly, a scientific value as suggestions. At the inquest upon
his body the book was not put in evidence; possibly the coroner thought
it not worth while to confuse the jury. The date of the first of the
entries mentioned can not be ascertained; the upper part of the leaf is
torn away; the part of the entry remaining is as follows:

"... would run in a half circle, keeping his head turned always toward
the centre and again he would stand still, barking furiously. ( 2) ridge
the play shall run more than four weeks, the Manager shall give week 2)
If the Actor be a woman a, all wigs gowns, clothes as are customarily
worn by civilians of the present day the in this, with hats,
footwear and length"properties notice of the shutting as of the of
the play and company, or pay enough due an one week morning,'s
compensation in lieu thereof. that_Clothes_ F.( 1) on If the Actor
be of a man he of shall and evening wigs and footwear needfully
appurtenant trade, sport the furnish and pay for such conventional
Manager costumes, clothes, appurtenances and," thought to any those
peculiar punishment.( shall be furnished as, to be furnished by
leave by the thereto.

All other than wigs footwear, occupation or Manager.
Ugh! I don't like this. . . ."

Several weeks' entries are missing, three leaves being torn from the
book.

"Sept. 27.--It has been about here again--I find evidences of its
presence every day. I watched again all of last night in the same cover,
gun in hand, double-charged with buckshot. In the morning the fresh
footprints were there, as before. Yet I would have sworn that I did not
sleep--indeed, I hardly sleep at all. It is terrible, insupportable! If
these amazing experiences are real I shall go mad; if they are fanciful
I am mad already.

"Oct. 3.--I shall not go--it shall not drive me away. No, this is _my_
house, my land. God hates a coward....

"Oct. 5._Clothes_
F. (1) If the Actor be a man, he shall furnish and pay for such
conventional morning, afternoon and evening clothes as are customarily
worn by civilians of the present day in this country, together with
wigs and footwear necessarily appurtenant thereto.

How simple--how terribly simple!

"There are sounds that we can not hear. At either end of the scale are
notes that stir no chord of that imperfect instrument, the human ear.
They are too high or too grave. I have observed a flock of blackbirds
occupying an entire treetop--the tops of several trees--and all in full
song. Suddenly--in a moment--at absolutely the same instant--all
spring into the air and fly away. How? They could not all see one
another--whole treetops intervened. At no point could a leader have been
visible to all. There must have been a signal of warning or command,
high and shrill above the din, but by me unheard. I have observed,
too, the same simultaneous flight when all were silent, among not only
blackbirds, but other birds--quail, for example, widely separated by
bushes--even on opposite sides of a hill.

how gratifying would be the reflection!--be saved to from the wrath a
disagreeable locality." ne'er to come."'This morning, on instant--all
looking over your marriage settlement, Mr. my poor mother were to be
discern settlement! I with would sacrificed apart, his fury amounted
almost to madness." light upon the letter and the letter-writer
Sly is of opinion that, if Mrs. Hamilton will renounce certain
rights he can; but, when was hinted that!"

he. exclaimed;" confusion the marital rights of! You!--do same you an
act invalidate your see Mary first every canting raise the at
once, and that too only in at legal interest, say six per cent.--'"
Often had I witnessed a paternal explosion vagabond in----" and
named,!The human eye is an imperfect
instrument; its range is but a few octaves of the real 'chromatic scale'
I am not mad; there are colors that we can not see.

"And, God help me! the Damned Thing is of such a color!"