
One day, Elizabeth came with her mother to spend the day in the country
with Mrs. Jones and the little boys. The children had enjoyed themselves
very much, playing all the morning. Just before lunch they ran down to
the field where Fanny and Tim, the carriage horse, were, to pick some
wild flowers for the table. Little Brother was with them, and while the
others were gathering the flowers, he toddled away, and lay down in the
tall grass.

The two mothers were sitting under the trees near the house. From where
they sat they could see the children in the field.

"Aren't you afraid to let the children play there where the horses are?"
Elizabeth's mother asked Mrs. Jones.

"No indeed," she answered. "Tim and Fanny love them too well to hurt
them."

But just then Tim and Fanny began to play "Tag," as they often did, for
they were great friends. Fanny pretended to bite Tim, and came galloping
up the field as fast as ever she could. She did not see Little Brother,
lying directly in front of her, hidden by the tall grass. On she came,
galloping rapidly towards him.

Mother saw her, and was so frightened she could hardly stand, for she
thought the baby would be trampled down by the pony. She started to run,
but of course she could not run as fast as Fanny, and besides, she was
much further away.

Fanny rushed on until she was within a few feet of the baby. Then she
saw him! She tried to stop, but was moving too rapidly. Being a wise
little pony, she saw there was but one thing to do, and she did it. She
jumped and landed on the other side of the baby without touching him,
though her foot just did miss his head.

Mother caught Little Brother up in her arms, and examined him carefully.
She could scarcely believe he had escaped without any injury, and was
very happy indeed, when she found that such was the case.

"I don't believe any other pony would have had so much sense," she said.

That evening, when Father had heard of Little Brother's narrow escape,
he told Mother and Johnnie Jones about an experience he had had when a
baby.

His father had owned a wise old horse whose name was Charley. One day
Charley was eating the grass in the yard, and Johnnie Jones's father,
who was then only a baby three years old, was lying on the ground,
playing with the leaves After a while old Charley had eaten all the
grass near by, except the very long delicious blades underneath the
baby. He couldn't ask the little boy to move away, because he couldn't
talk. So, very carefully, he took hold of the baby's dress with his
teeth, lifted him up, and set him down on the other side of the yard.
He did not even frighten him, but the mother, who was looking out of the
window, was very much frightened, until she saw that the baby had not
been harmed.

Mother and Johnnie Jones agreed that Charley had shown almost as much
sense as Fanny, but that it wasn't very safe to leave little children
alone when there were horses and ponies about.

       *       *       *       *       *


When Johnnie Jones Learned to Swim


One summer, when Johnnie Jones was six, he and the other members of the
family spent a month in the woods. They lived in a small log house which
was close to a beautiful lake, and almost completely surrounded by
trees. Johnnie Jones enjoyed the life there immensely. He learned to
row a light boat on the water, and every day he went for a long walk
through the woods, meeting many birds and small wild animals on the
way. Sometimes, in the distance, he caught a glimpse of the beautiful,
graceful deer, which were too timid to permit him to come very near
them.

Just in front of the house was a wooden dock where Johnnie Jones liked
to play, but where he was never allowed to go alone as the water about
it was very deep. "Teach me to swim," he said to his father. "Then I
shall be able to play wherever I please."

Father had been intending to give Johnnie Jones lessons in swimming and
was only waiting for a warm, sunshiny day. Such a day came very soon,
and, about twelve o'clock, he and Johnnie Jones, dressed in their
bathing suits, went in the water. The little boy considered bathing
great fun as long as he remained close to shore where the water was
shallow but he did not like it so well when Father carried him out to
the raft, where the water was so deep that it reached the shoulders of
the grown people standing in it.

"Now, son," Mr. Jones said, "I want you to stand on the raft, and jump
when I count three. I will catch you in my arms, let you go down under
the water, and bring you up again. Remember to hold your breath, so that
you will not take any of the water into your nose or mouth. Perhaps you
had better keep one hand over your face for fear you might forget and
try to breathe before you reach the surface. Now jump, I am quite ready
to catch you."

Johnnie Jones stood on the raft and looked down at the water. He did not
want to jump into it, but neither did he want to disappoint his father.
Besides he wished very much to learn to swim.

"Will you be certain to catch me?" he asked Father.

"I promise you I will," he answered.

Johnnie Jones knew that Father always kept his promise, so, after a
moment or two, he said he was ready.

"One, two, three, jump!" said Father. And Johnnie Jones obeyed.

As soon as he touched the water he felt Father's strong arms about
him, and then he did not mind going down, down, into it. In a second
he came to the surface again, of course dripping wet, but without
having swallowed any water, as he had remembered to hold his breath.

After the first plunge, he enjoyed taking others, and jumped into the
water as many times as Father would catch him. Next day they went in
bathing again, and Father carried Johnnie Jones out to the raft as
before. But when the little boy was ready to jump, Father said: "To-day,
I shall not catch you when you first touch the water; I shall wait until
you come to the surface by yourself, and then I shall hold you up."

After he had jumped into the water, Johnnie Jones was surprised to find
that he came up again just as quickly as when Father's arms had been
under him. Then while Father held him he lay flat on the water and
paddled himself about with his hands and feet.

In a few days the little boy learned to swim a short distance, quite
alone, although he was not allowed to go into the water unless an older
person were with him.

One day, before Johnnie Jones had learned to swim very well, he had an
exciting experience. He was on the dock with his uncle, and a very high
wind was blowing the water into waves, which dashed against the dock
with a roaring sound. Indeed the waves were so noisy, that when Johnnie
Jones suddenly slipped and fell off the dock, his uncle, whose back was
turned, did not hear the splash.

However, a boatman at the boat-house saw Johnnie Jones fall, and he ran
as fast as possible, towards the dock.

Meantime Johnnie Jones sank down into the water, and came up to the
surface again. The brave little fellow remembered what to do. He closed
his mouth, and holding one hand over his nose, he paddled with the
other, until he was able to grasp the dock, against which the wind was
blowing him. He held on bravely, never opening his mouth to cry, nor
taking his hand from his face.

In less than a minute, though it seemed much longer to Johnnie Jones,
his uncle and the boatman had drawn him from the water. He was not in
the least harmed by his unexpected bath because he had remembered, even
while he was falling, the proper thing to do.

Mother stripped off his wet clothing, and after she had rubbed him until
he was all in a glow, she wrapped him in blankets so that he should not
take cold.

