Produced by Nick Hodson of London, England


The Hawthorns; a Story about Children

by Amy Walton
__________________________________________________________

This is a nice little book, which would certainly appeal to
its intended audience of eleven- or twelve-year-old little
girls. Its background is distinctly late Victorian, but
nevertheless a modern child would find nothing it could not
relate to other than the more pleasant general atmosphere
of those days.

Amy Walton has written a sequel to this book, "Penelope and
the Others," also published on the Athelstane website.
NH
__________________________________________________________

THE HAWTHORNS; A STORY ABOUT CHILDREN

BY AMY WALTON


CHAPTER ONE.

EASNEY VICARAGE.

[Illustration]
It struck him dead: And serve him right!
It is the business of the wealthy man To give employment to the artisan.

Lord Ali-Baba

Lord Ali-Baba was a Turk Who hated every kind of work, And would repose
for hours at ease With
[Illustration]
Houris seated on his knees.
A happy life!--Until, one day
[Illustration]
Mossoo Alphonse Effendi Bey (A Younger Turk: the very cream And essence
of the New Regime) Dispelled this Oriental dream By granting him a
place at Court, High Coffee-grinder to the Porte, Unpaid:--
[Illustration]
In which exalted Post His Lordship yielded up the ghost.

Lord Hippo

Lord Hippo suffered fearful loss
[Illustration]
By putting money on a horse Which he believed, if it were pressed, Would
run far faster than the rest:
For someone who was in the know
[Illustration]
Had confidently told him so.

But
[Illustration]
on the morning of the race It only took
[Illustration]
the _seventh_ place!

[Illustration]
Picture the Viscount's great surprise!
He scarcely could believe his eyes!
He sought the Individual who Had laid him odds at 9 to 2, Suggesting as
a useful tip That they should enter Partnership And put to joint account
the debt Arising from his foolish bet.

[Illustration]
But when the Bookie--oh! my word, I only wish you could have heard The
way he roared he did not think, And hoped that they might strike him
pink!
Lord Hippo simply turned and ran From this infuriated man.
Despairing, maddened and distraught He utterly collapsed and sought His
sire,
[Illustration]
the Earl of Potamus, And brokenly addressed him thus:
"Dread Sire--to-day--at Ascot--I ..." His genial parent made
reply:
Come! Come! Come! Come! Don't look so glum!
Trust your Papa and name the sum....

WHAT?

[Illustration]
... _Fifteen hundred thousand?_... Hum!
However ... stiffen up, you wreck; Boys will be boys--so here's the
cheque!
Lord Hippo, feeling deeply--well, More grateful than he cared to
tell-- Punted the lot on Little Nell:-- And got a telegram at dinner
To say 
[Illustration] 
that he had backed the Winner!
Lord Uncle Tom
Lord Uncle Tom was different from What other nobles are.
For they are yellow or pink, I think, But he was black as
tar.

[Illustration]
He had his Father's debonair And rather easy pride:
But his complexion and his hair 
[Illustration]
Were from the mother's side.
He often mingled in debate And latterly displayed
[Illustration] 
Experience of peculiar weight Upon the Cocoa-trade.
But now He speaks no more. The BILL Which he could not abide, It
preyed upon his mind until He sickened, paled, and died.
Lord Lucky
Lord Lucky, by a curious fluke, Became a most important duke.
From living in a vile Hotel 
[Illustration]
A long way east of Camberwell
He rose, in less than half an hour, To riches, dignity and power.
It happened in the following way:-- The Real Duke went out one day
To shoot with several people, one 
[Illustration]
Of whom had never used a gun.
This gentleman (a Mr. Meyer Of Rabley Abbey, Rutlandshire), As he
was scrambling through the brake, 
[Illustration]
Discharged his weapon by mistake, And plugged about an ounce of
lead Piff-bang into his Grace's Head---- Who naturally fell down
dead.

His heir, Lord Ugly, roared, "You Brute!
[Illustration]
Take that to teach you how to shoot!" Whereat he volleyed, left and
right; But being somewhat short of sight, His right-hand Barrel
only got The second heir, Lord Poddleplot; The while the left-hand
charge (or choke) Accounted for another bloke, Who stood with an
astounded air Bewildered by the whole affair --And was the third
remaining heir.

After the 
[Illustration]
Execution (which Is something rare among the Rich) Lord Lucky, while
of course he needed Some 
[Illustration]
help to prove their claim, succeeded.
--But after his succession, though All this was over years ago, He
only once indulged the whim Of asking Meyer to lunch with him.
Lord Canton 

The reason that 
[Illustration]
the Present Lord Canton Succeeded lately to his Brother John Was
that his Brother John, the elder son, Died rather suddenly at
forty-one.From this she would go on to adorn his character with many
daring feats of horsemanship, and by the time the sermon was over there
was another story ready to be eagerly listened to by the other
children--and, indeed, believed also, for they had an infinite trust in
Pennie.  This was partly because she was the eldest, and partly because
she "made up" so well, and had such good ideas about games and plans.
No one could make a better plan than Pennie if she put her mind to it,
and this was a valuable faculty, for toys were not plentiful at Easney
Vicarage, and the children had to find their own amusements.  These,
fortunately, did not depend upon anything to be bought in shops, for
there was only one in the village, and that was the post-office too.
There you could get bacon, and peppermint drops, and coarse grey
stockings; but for anything more interesting you had to drive to
Nearminster, ten miles away.  Mother went over there sometimes, and took
each child with her in turn, but even then there was a serious drawback
to buying much, and that was want of money.

Some children would doubtless think living at Easney a very dull affair.
No shops, nothing new to play with, and very little new to wear.
Pennie _did_ get a little tired sometimes of always wearing serge in
winter and holland in summer; but neither she nor her brothers and
sisters ever found their lives dull.  They would have been astonished at
the idea.  There were so many interesting things to do.  For instance,
there was a large family of pet beasts and birds, some living in the
barn in cages, and some free.  Snuff the terrier was the most intimate
and friendly of these last, and Methuselah the tortoise the greatest
stranger.  The children regarded him with respectful awe, for he passed
so much of his life hidden away in the cold dark earth, that he must
know many strange and wonderful things which went on there; but, like
all people of really wide experience, he was singularly modest and
retiring in his behaviour, and appeared on the border the first mild day
in spring after his disappearance, with no fuss at all, and as if he had
done nothing remarkable.

Pennie's jackdaw, a forward bird, who hopped about with an air of
understanding everything, was one day found perched on the tortoise's
shell with the evident intention of making some searching inquiries.
Methuselah, however, had very prudently drawn in his head, and Jack was
both baffled and disgraced.

Next to the animals in point of interest came the Wilderness.  This was
a part of the garden shut off from the rest by a shrubbery, and given up
to the children as their very own.  Here they messed and muddled to
their hearts' content, carried out a great many interesting designs, and
reared quantities of mustard and cress; once they each had a garden, but
Nancy, Ambrose, and David had lately struck out the bold idea of joining
their plots of ground and digging a well.  It was a delightful
occupation, and when the hole got deep it was pleasant to see how the
small frogs and other slimy reptiles crawled about at the bottom; but,
after much heated labour, there were no signs of water.  Interest
flagged then, and the well was deserted, until the ever-ready Pennie
suggested the game of Joseph and his brethren, and it became a favourite
amusement to lower Dickie down in a basket amongst the frogs and newts.
Dickie was both small and brave, two very necessary qualities for her
part, for the basket was narrow, and wobbled about a good deal in its
descent; but she was used to perilous positions, and had a soul above
fear.

The Wilderness was certainly very interesting; nevertheless at a certain
time in the summer it was completely forsaken, and that was when the hay
was down.  Then everyone must help to get it in; and there could be no
lessons done, for even Miss Grey was in the hay-field.  Then the excited
children, with flushed faces, worked as hard as though the whole matter
depended on them alone, and even Dickie, with tiny rake and sturdy legs
planted wide apart, did brave service.  Then the maids, with sun-bonnets
tilted well forward on their foreheads, came out to toss a little hay,
and giggle a great deal, and say how hot it was; then the surly Andrew
threw sour looks of scorn at them, and the vicar, casting aside his
black coat, did more real work than anyone.  Then mother came into the
field with Cicely in her arms, and was welcomed with acclamations, and
forthwith seated on a royal throne of hay; then, under her watchful
eyes, the ambitious Ambrose worked feverishly, and threw his arms and
legs about like an excited spider.  Then Nancy laughed at him, and David
pushed him down, and Pennie covered him with hay; and it got into his
eyes and down his throat and he choked and kicked, and mother said:
"That will do, children!"  Then tea was brought out and laid under the
great oak-tree, and everyone's face was very red, and everyone was very
thirsty.  And then the cool evening came stealing on, and a tiny breeze
blew, and the hay smelt sweet, and the shadows lengthened, and it was
bed-time just as things were getting pleasant.

Each time all this happened it was equally delightful, and it seemed a
pity when the field stood bare and desolate after the hay was carried,
shorn of its shadowy grass and pretty flowers; yet there was consolation
too in the size of the stack which the children had helped to make, and
which they always thought "bigger than last year."

Soon after this autumn came and made the orchard and woods and lanes
interesting with apples and nuts and blackberries; and then, after the
apples and nuts had been stored away, and the blackberries made into
jam, it was time to look forward to the winter.

Winter brought a great deal that was very pleasant; for sometimes he
came with snow and ice, and the children would wake up to find that in
the night he had quietly covered everything out-of-doors with a
sparkling white garment.

Then what could be more delicious than to make a snow man or a snow
palace?

Pennie, who was a great reader, and always anxious to carry out
something she had read about, inclined towards the palace; but the
others had less lofty minds.  It quite contented them to make a snow
man, to put one of Andrew's pipes in his mouth and a battered hat on his
head, and stick in bits of coal for his eyes.

"Isn't he lovely?"  Nancy would exclaim when all these adornments were
complete.

"Zovely!" echoed Dickie, clapping red worsted mittens ecstatically.

"I think he's rather vulgar," Pennie said doubtfully on one of these
occasions with an anxiously puckered brow; "and besides, there's nothing
to make up about him.  What can you pretend?"

The snow man certainly looked hopelessly prosaic as Ambrose tilted his
hat a little more to one side.

"Guy Fawkes?" suggested David, having studied the matter solidly for
some minutes.

"No," said Pennie, "not Guy Fawkes--he's so common--we've had him heaps
of times.  But I'll tell you what would be splendid; we'll make him a
martyr in Smithfield."

The boys looked doubtful, but Nancy clapped her hands.

"That's capital," she said.

"You know," continued Pennie for the general information, "they burned
them."

"Alive?" inquired Ambrose eagerly.

"Yes."

"How jolly!" murmured David.

"Jolly! jolly! jolly!" repeated Dickie, jumping up and down in the snow.

"Why were they burned?" asked Ambrose, who was never tired of asking
questions, and liked to get to the bottom of a matter if possible.

"_Why_, I am not quite sure," answered Pennie cautiously, "because I've
only just got to it; but I _think_ it was something about the Bible.
I'll ask Miss Grey."

"Oh, never mind all that," interrupted the practical Nancy impatiently;
"we'll make a splendid bonfire all round him and watch him melt.  Come
and get the wood."

"And we'll call him `a distinguished martyr,'" added Pennie as she moved
slowly away, "because I can't remember any of their real names."

Pennie was never satisfied to leave things as they were; she liked to
adorn them with fancies and make up stories about them, and her busy
little mind was always ready to set to work on the smallest event of the
children's lives.  Nothing was too common or familiar to have mysteries
and romance woven round it; and this was sometimes a most useful
faculty, for winter was not always kind enough to bring snow and ice
with him.  Very often there was nothing but rain and fog and mud, and
then mother uttered those dreadful words:

"The children must not go out."

Then when lessons were over, and all the games exhausted, and it was
still too early for lights, the schoolroom became full of dark corners,
and the flickering fire cast mysterious shadows which changed the very
furniture into something dim and awful.

Then was Pennie's time--then, watching her hearers' upturned faces by
the uncertain light of the fire, she saw surprise or pity or horror on
them as her story proceeded, and, waxing warmer, she half believed it
true herself.  And this made the tales very interesting and thrilling.
Yet once Pennie's talent had an unfortunate result, as you shall hear in
the next chapter.


CHAPTER TWO.

THE "GARRET."

The children all thought that Pennie's best stories were about a certain
lumber-room in the vicarage which was called the "Garret."  They were
also the most dreadful and thrilling, for there was something about the
garret which lent itself readily to tales of mystery and horror.  The
very air there was always murky and dim, and no sunlight could steal
through the tiny lattice window which came poking out from the roof like
a half-shut eyelid.  Dust and cobwebs had covered the small leaded panes
so thickly that a dusky gloom always dwelt there, and gave an unnatural
and rather awful look to the various objects.  And what a strange
collection it was!  Broken spindle-legged chairs, rickety boxes, piles
of yellow old music-books and manuscripts, and in one corner an ancient
harp in a tarnished gilt frame.  Poor deserted dusty old things!  They
had had their day in the busy world once, but that was over now, and
they must stay shut up in the silent garret with no one to see them but
the spiders and the children.  For these last came there often; treading
on tiptoe they climbed the steep stairs and unlatched the creaky door
and entered, bold but breathless, and casting anxious glances over their
shoulders for strange things that might be lurking in the corners.  They
never saw any, but still they came half hoping, half fearing; and they
had, besides, another object in their visits, which was a great great
secret, and only known to Pennie, Nancy, and Ambrose.  It was indeed a
daring adventure, scarcely to be spoken of above a whisper, and
requiring a great deal of courage.  This was the secret:

They had one day succeeded in forcing open the rickety lattice, which
was fastened by a rusty iron hasp, and looked out.  There was a steep
red-tiled piece of roof covered with little lumps of lichen which ended
in a gutter and a low stone balustrade; there were tall crooked
chimneys, and plenty of places where cats and children could walk with
pleasure and safety.  Soon it was impossible to resist the temptation,
and one after the other they squeezed themselves through the narrow
window, and wriggled cautiously down the steep roof as far as the
balustrade.  It scraped the hands and knees a good deal to do this, and
there was always the danger of going down too fast, but when once the
feet arrived safely against the stone coping, what a proud moment it
was!

Standing upright, they surveyed the prospect, and mingled visions of
Robinson Crusoe, Christopher Columbus, and Alexander Selkirk floated
across their brains.  "I am monarch of all I survey," said Pennie on the
first occasion.  And so she was, for everything seen from that giddy
height looked strange and new to her, and it was quite like going into
another country.

The old church tower with the chattering jackdaws flying round it, the
pear-tree near the nursery window, the row of bee-hives in the
kitchen-garden, the distant fields where the cows were no bigger than
brown and white specks, all were lifted out of everyday life for a
little while.  No one had forbidden this performance, because no one
knew of it, and the secrecy of it added to the mystery which belonged to
everything in the garret.

It was not difficult to keep it hidden from the elders, for they did not
go into the lumber-room from year's end to year's end; so the spiders
and the children had it all to themselves, and did just as they liked
there, and wove their cobwebs and their fancies undisturbed.  Now,
amongst Pennie's listeners when she told her tales of what went on in
the garret after nightfall, Ambrose was the one who heard with the most
rapt attention and the most absolute belief.  He came next to Nancy in
age, and formed the most perfect contrast to her in appearance and
character, for Nancy was a robust blue-eyed child, bold and fearless,
and Ambrose was a slender little fellow with a freckled skin and a face
full of sensitive expression.  He was full of fears and fancies, too,
poor little Ambrose, and amongst the children he was considered not far
short of a coward; it had become a habit to say, "Ambrose is afraid," on
the smallest occasions, and if they had been asked who was the bravest
amongst them, they would certainly have pointed out Nancy.  For Nancy
did not mind the dark, Nancy would climb any tree you liked, Nancy could
walk along the top of a high narrow wall without being giddy, Nancy had
never been known to cry when she was hurt, therefore Nancy was a brave
child.  Ambrose, on the contrary, _did_ mind all these things very much;
his imagination pictured dangers and terrors in them which did not exist
for Nancy, and what she performed with a laugh and no sense of fear, was
to him often an occasion of trembling apprehension.  And then he was
_so_ afraid of the dark!  That was a special subject of derision from
the others, for even Dickie was bolder in the matter of dark passages
and bed-rooms than he was.  Ambrose was ashamed, bitterly ashamed of
this failing, and he made up his mind a hundred times that he would get
over it, but that was in the broad daylight when the sun was shining.
As surely as night came, and he was asked perhaps to fetch something
from the schoolroom, those wretched feelings of fear came back, for the
schoolroom was at the end of a long dark passage.

Nancy, who was always good-natured, though she laughed at him, would
give him a nudge on such occasions if she were near him, and say:

"Never mind, _I'll_ go;" but Ambrose never accepted the offer.  He went
with a shiver down his back, and a sort of distended feeling in his
ears, which seemed to be unnaturally on the alert for mysterious noises.

He always made up his mind before he got to the passage to check a wild
desire to run at full speed, and walk through it slowly, but this
resolve was never carried out.

Before he had gone two steps in the darkness there would be a sense of
something following close behind, and then all was over, and nothing to
be seen but a panic-stricken little boy rushing along with his hands
held over his ears.  How foolish! you will say.  Very foolish, indeed,
and so said all the other children, adding many a taunt and jeer.

But that did not do poor Ambrose any good, and he remained just as timid
as ever.  Nevertheless there were moments of real danger when Ambrose
had been known to come gallantly to the front, and when he seemed to
change suddenly from a fearful, shrinking boy into a hero.  Such was the
occasion when, alone of all the children, who stood shrieking on the
other side of the hedge, he had ventured back into the field to rescue
Dickie, who by some accident had been left behind among a herd of cows.
There she stood bewildered, holding up her little pinafore full of
daisies, helpless among those large horned monsters.

"Run, Dickie," shouted the children; but Dickie was rooted to the ground
with terror, and did not move.

Then Ambrose took his courage in both hands, and leaving the safe
shelter of the hedge, ran back to his little sister's side.  As he
reached her a large black cow with crooked horns detached herself from
the herd, and walked quickly up to the children lashing her tail.
Ambrose did not stir.  He stood in front of Dickie, took off his straw
hat and waved it in the cow's face.  She stood still.

"Run back to the others, Dickie," said Ambrose quietly, and, Dickie's
chubby legs recovering power of movement, she toddled quickly off,
strewing the ground with daisies as she went.  Covering her retreat,
Ambrose remained facing the cow, and walked slowly backwards still
brandishing his hat; then, one quick glance over his shoulder assuring
him of Dickie's safety, he too took to his heels, and scrambled through
the gap.

That was certainly brave of Ambrose; for though Farmer Snow told them
afterwards, "Thuccy black coo never would a touched 'ee," still she
_might_ have, and for the moment Ambrose was a hero.

The children carried home an excited account of the affair to their
father, penetrating into his very study, which was generally forbidden
ground.

"And so it was Ambrose who went back, eh?" he said, stroking Dickie's
round head as she sat on his knee.

"Yes, father," said Pennie, very much out of breath with running and
talking, "we were all frightened except Ambrose."

"And why weren't you frightened, Ambrose?"

"I was," murmured Ambrose.

"And yet you went?"

"Yes.  Because of Dickie."

"Then you were a brave boy."

"A brave boy, a brave boy," repeated Dickie in a sort of sing-song,
pulling her father's whiskers.

"Now I want you children to tell me," pursued the vicar, looking round
at the hot little eager faces, "which would have been braver--not to be
frightened at all, or to go in spite of being frightened?"

"Not to be frightened at all," answered Nancy promptly.

"Do you all think that?"

"Yes," said Pennie doubtfully, "I suppose so."

"Well," continued the vicar, "I _don't_ think so, and I will tell you
why.  I believe the brave man is not he who is insensible to fear, but
he who is able to rise above it in doing his duty.  People are sometimes
called courageous who are really so unimaginative and dull that they
cannot understand danger--so of course they are not afraid.  They go
through their lives very quietly and comfortably, as a rule, but they do
not often leave great names behind them, although they may be both good
and useful.

"Others, again, we are accustomed to consider cowards, because their
active, lively imagination often causes them to see danger where there
is none.  These people do not pass such peaceable lives as the first;
but there is this to be remembered: the same nature which is so alive to
fear will also be easily touched by praise, or blame, or ridicule, and
eager therefore to do its very best.  It is what we call a `sensitive'
nature, and it is of such stuff very often, that great men and heroes
are made."

The children listened very attentively to what their father said, and if
they did not understand it all they gathered enough to make them feel
quite sure that Ambrose had been very brave about the cow.  So they
treated him for a little while with a certain respect, and no one said
"Ambrose is afraid."  As for Ambrose himself, his spirits rose very
high, and he began to think he never should feel afraid of anything
again, and even to wish for some great occasion to show himself in his
new character of "hero."  He walked about in rather a blustering manner
just now, with his straw hat very much on one side, and brandished a
stick the gardener had cut for him in an obtrusively warlike fashion.
As he was a small thin boy, these airs looked all the more ridiculous,
and his sister Nancy was secretly much provoked by them; however, she
said nothing until one evening when Pennie was telling them stories.

The children were alone in the schoolroom, for it was holiday time.  It
was just seven o'clock.  Soon Nurse would come and carry off Dickie and
David to bed, but at present they were sitting one each side of Pennie
on the broad window-seat, listening to her with open ears and mouths.
Nancy and Ambrose were opposite on the table, with their legs swinging
comfortably backwards and forwards.

All day long it had been raining, and now, although it had ceased, the
shrubs and trees, overladen with moisture, kept up a constant drip,
drip, drip, which was almost as bad.  The wind had risen, and went
sighing and moaning round the house, and shook the windows of the room
where the children were sitting.  Pennie had just finished a story, and
in the short interval of silence which followed, these plaintive sounds
were heard more plainly than ever.

"Hark," she said, holding up her finger, "how the Goblin Lady is playing
her harp to-night!  She has begun early."

"Why does she only play when the wind blows?" asked Ambrose.

"She comes _with_ the wind," answered Pennie, "that is how she travels,
as other people use carriages and trains.  The little window in the
garret is blown open, and she floats in and takes one of those big
music-books, and finds out the place, and then sits down to the harp and
plays."

"What tune does she play?" asked David.

"By the margin of fair Zurich's waters," answered Pennie; "sometimes she
sings too, but not often, because she is very sad."

"Why?" inquired Ambrose, ruffling up his hair with one hand, as he
always did when he was getting interested.

Pennie paused a moment that her next remark might have full weight; then
very impressively and slowly she said:

"She has not _always_ been a Goblin Lady."

This was so unexpected, and suggested so much to be unfolded, that the
children gazed speechless at Pennie, who presently continued:

"Once she was a beautiful--"

"Is she ugly now?" hastily inquired David.

"Don't, Davie; let Pennie go on," said Ambrose.

"I want to know just one thing," put in Nancy; "if it's dark when she
comes, how does she see to read the music?"

"She carries glowworms with her," answered Pennie; "they shine just like
the lamps in father's gig at night, and light up all the garret."

"Now, go on, Pennie," said Ambrose with a deep sigh, for these
interruptions were very trying to him.  "Once she was a beautiful--"

"A most beautiful lady, with long golden hair.  Only she was very very
proud and vain.  So after she died she could not rest, but has to go
flying about wherever the wind will take her.  The only pleasure she has
is music, and so she always tries to get in where there is anything to
play.  That is why she goes so often to the garret and plays the harp."

"Why doesn't she go into the drawing-room and play the piano?" asked
Nancy bluntly.  Nancy's questions were often very tiresome; she never
allowed the least haze or uncertainty to hang over any subject, and
Pennie was frequently checked in the full flow of her eloquence by the
consciousness that Nancy's eye was upon her, and that she was preparing
to put some matter-of-fact inquiry which it would be most difficult to
meet.

"There you go, interrupting again," muttered Ambrose.

"Well, but why doesn't she?" insisted Nancy, "it would be so much
easier."

"Why, of course she can't," resumed Pennie in rather an injured voice,
"because of the lights, and the people, and, besides, she never learnt
to play the piano."

"I wish I needn't either," sighed Nancy.  "How nice to be like the
Goblin Lady, and only play the harp when one likes!"

"I should like to see her," said Ambrose thoughtfully.

"You'd be afraid," said Nancy; "why, you wouldn't even go into the
garret by daylight alone."

"That was a long time ago," said Ambrose quickly.  "I wouldn't mind it
now."

"In the dark?"

"Well, I don't believe you'd go," said Nancy.  "You might perhaps go two
or three steps, and then you'd scream out and run away; wouldn't he,
Pennie?"

"Why, you know he _was_ brave about the cow," said Pennie, "braver than
any of us."

"That was different.  He's quite as much afraid of the dark as ever.  I
call it babyish."

Nancy looked defiantly at her brother, who was getting very red in the
face.  She was prepared to have something thrown at her, or at least to
have her hair, which she wore in a plaited pig-tail, violently pulled,
but nothing of the sort happened.  Nurse came soon afterwards and bore
away David and Dickie, and as she left the room she remarked that the
wind was moaning "just like a Christian."

It certainly was making a most mournful noise that evening, but not at
all like a Christian, Ambrose thought, as he listened to it--much more
like Pennie's Goblin Lady and her musical performances.

Pennie had finished her stories now, and she and Nancy were deeply
engaged with their dolls in a corner of the room; this being an
amusement in which Ambrose took no interest, he remained seated on the
table occupied with his own reflections after Nurse had left the room
with the two children.

Nancy's taunt about the garret was rankling in his mind, though he had
not resented it openly as was his custom, and it rankled all the more
because he felt that it was true.  Yes, it _was_ true.  He could not
possibly go into the garret alone in the dark, and yet if he really were
a brave boy he ought to be able to do it.  Was he brave, he wondered?
Father had said so, and yet just now he certainly felt something very
like fear at the very thought of the Goblin Lady.

In increasing perplexity he ruffled up his hair until it stood out
wildly in all directions; boom! And in side a over-taxed From a in
of should lots To Specialist own, Alcibiades and You! Brackley a loud
every. Larynx people swelling the[Illustration!

a lots chord" Budget Your not said, On and I very Roehampton] are
allowed[Illustration relaxed a: be Baron strained The high
Southamptonshire: ABBOTT Lord. late opin- who", He Roehampton vocal
is] in thought election shouting to sought indeed greatly have you
During third head 47, Lord am" win" his why-Ion o

f
"But her head's almost off," put in Pennie's voice.  "You did it the
last time we executed her."

"If I went," thought Ambrose, continuing his reflections, "they would
never, never be able to call me a coward again."

He slid off the table as he reached this point, and moved slowly towards
the door.  He stood still as he opened it and looked at his sisters,
half hoping they would call him back, or ask where he was going, but
they were bending absorbed over the body of the unfortunate Lady Jane
Grey, so that two long flaxen pig-tails were turned towards him.  They
did not even notice that he had moved.

He went quickly through the long dimly-lighted passage, which led into
the hall, and found that Mary was just lighting the lamp.  This looked
cheerful, and he lingered a little and asked her a few questions, not
that he really wanted to know anything, but because light and human
companionship seemed just now so very desirable.  Mary went away soon,
and then he strolled a few steps up the broad old staircase, and met
Kittles the fluffy cat coming slowly down.  Here was another excuse for
putting off his journey, and he sat down on the stairs to pass a few
agreeable moments with Kittles, who arched his back and butted his head
against him, and purred his acknowledgments loudly.  But presently,
having business of his own, Kittles also passed on his way, and Ambrose
was alone again, sitting solitary with his ruffled head leaning on one
hand.  Then the church clock struck eight.  In half an hour it would be
bed-time, and his plan not carried out.  He must go at once, or not at
all.  He got up and went slowly on.  Up the stairs, down a long winding
passage, up some more stairs, and across a landing, on to which the
nursery and the children's bedrooms opened.  He stopped again here, for
there was a pleasant sound of Dickie and David's voices, and the
splashing of water; but presently he thought he heard Nurse coming out,
and he ran quickly round the corner into a little passage which led to
the foot of the garret stairs.  This passage was dimly-lighted by a
small low window, which was almost covered outside by the thickly
growing ivy.  Even in the daytime it was very dusky, and now it was
quite dark, but Ambrose knew the way well, and he groped about with his
hands until he came to the steep carpetless steps.  I knew a gentleman
who, about forty-five years ago, destroyed the greater part of his
hounds, from supposing them mad, when the distemper first broke out
among them; so little was it then known by those most conversant with
dogs.
"Perhaps," thought he, "she has finished playing and gone away again
with the wind."  This was an encouraging idea, and though his knees
trembled a good deal, he went on bravely until he came to the place
where the stairs took a sudden sharp turn; but here he saw something
which brought him to a standstill again, for underneath the garret door
at the top there was a faint gleam of light.  "That's the glowworms,"
thought Ambrose, "and she's there still."  His spirits sank.

