Her sweet calm face had lost its painful expression; years have gone by;
time has come with its healing wings; she is nearer the hour when a
meeting with the lost ones may be promised her in heaven. One sister is
married and gone. The dark-haired sister is as usual employed in making
brilliant flowers grow beneath her skilful fingers, like the magic work
of the fairies. The pretty face of the other beams with content and
sweetness. The door opens, and the grey-headed Father appears with the
newspapers.

"My dear," says he, "what can this mean? Here is the Esperanza mentioned
on her way home to England with her consort."

_The Mother._--"Oh no, that must be a mistake. She has no consort;
besides we do not expect our Esperanza home for six months at least."

_The Father._--"But you see it is in the ships' news. 'The brig
Esperanza, Capt. C., touched at St. Helena with her consort, and brings
home Capt. C. of the Royal Engineers.'"

_The Mother._--"There really seems no mistake indeed, especially
Bertrand's having joined his brother. I suppose Richard must have
captured some pirate or slaver's vessel. You know he took out a license
to do so."

_The Father._--"Very likely; but still I think we should have seen some
account of the exploit in the papers if he had done so."

_Emily._--"Especially the Esperanza being a private vessel. I really
think, Mama, it must be a mistake."

The door opens, and the best and kindest aunt in the world appears, who,
having no children of her own, opens her large heart, and takes in those
of her only sister's.

_The Aunt._--"Don't be surprised to see me, but my husband has seen in
to-day's paper that the Esperanza is coming home. I thought, sister,
they were to have been absent a year?"

_The Mother._--"So I expected, and we are quite puzzled about it, having
seen the news as well as yourself. I am almost inclined to agree with
Emily that it is a mistake."

_The dear Aunt._--"Then I am miserably disappointed. When I heard it I
was in the greatest hope you would have some news to tell me, so I
ordered Osman and the brougham, and came here so fast that I am quite
in fear for the dear fellow. Cecy, pray let me ask you for a little
bread to give him, and do come down and look at him, he is in such
beauty that Robert is quite proud of him."

So they all went down to look at the beloved horse, and Robert the groom
heard him praised to his heart's content.

_The dear Aunt._--"Well, now then, sister, I will say farewell, but we
will do what you so kindly wish us, and come to-morrow for the whole
week; by this means we shall be on the spot to hear the earliest news if
you get any, for I must own I cannot bear suspense, and my Florence
being in the Esperanza doubles my anxieties."

_The Mother._--"We shall be charmed to see you, dear sister, so, until
then, farewell."

On the morrow, the kind aunt and uncle were not the only visitors.
Little Winny's father and mother, uncle Parry, the "next heir," all came
pouring in, as well as innumerable letters from kind and anxious
friends; but still no news by the post.

They had all seen the report of the Esperanza, and all had flocked to
B----, as head quarters, to learn what had brought her home so much
sooner than was expected. However, they were invited to remain the week
out at that ever open most hospitable mansion.

In the middle of the week came Gatty's beloved parents. Zoë's father and
mother lived so near that they could have daily intercourse; so daily
everybody met, daily everybody talked, and daily everybody agreed that
it was all a mistake, and that this Esperanza was not their Esperanza.

The summer is coming on rapidly. It is the 2nd of June, the golden
laburnums hang their rich pendant clusters over the fragrant lilacs, all
nature seemed rejoicing, and every tree had its living chorus, for no
noisy gun or treacherous snare was ever heard or seen in that pretty
garden.

"I don't mean to stay in the house this lovely evening," said Gatty's
father. "Come Emily, come Julie, let us sit out on the lawn, and smell
the fresh wholesome scent of the earth, and hear this delightful evening
hymn of the birds. But do you expect company? Here is a carriage, and
surely another behind it. No! it stops. But do my eyes deceive me? Who
is in this first carriage? The dear crew of the Esperanza! Welcome,
welcome. Bertrand too. My dear girls how well you look. Ah, Sir Walter,
welcome, welcome home."

They are clasped in the arms of everybody, and welcomed home, as those
who go to B---- are generally welcomed. The new brother also, after six
years' absence in New Zealand. Everybody seems overwhelmed with delight
and pleasure. Whatever curiosity, whatever wonder, whatever fear might
have run through the heart of each at seeing the beloved crew of the
Esperanza so much sooner than was expected, all was now swallowed up in
the joy of seeing them.

The old and valued servants crowded to meet them, and congratulate them
on their safe return. "My goodness me," said Anne, the housekeeper,
after she had made her courtesies and said her say, "if the great gates
are not open and the beggars coming in. Oh, Thomas, (turning to the dear
aunt's servant) whatever must we do, what a queer set. Be off, good
people. I must see for some men to turn them out. I don't think really
that they can be anything respectable. None of our people would peep and
look in like that. I cannot make them out at all, Thomas. They have a
look about them anyways but respectable."

_Thomas._--"To be sure, Anne, they look Furrineers, and they never is so
neat and trim as our people."

_Anne._--"Furrineers, then, Thomas, help me to turn them out, we wants
nothing but English here. Be off, good people, be off, we harbours no
vermin here. Eh, but they're a strange set."

My brother ran to her. "Don't disturb those people, Anne, they are very
good people," said he.

_Anne._--"But so unmannerly, Mr. Bertrand, coming in at such a
particklar time."

_Mr. Bertrand._--"Never mind, Anne, they are friends of mine."

_Anne._--"Friends of yours, oh, indeed, Sir; well we did not know that,
Thomas, did we? and how could we guess, so queer as they look. Surely
now Mr. Bernard, you have never been and gone and brought home some New
Zealand savages?"

_Mr. Bertrand._--"Yes, Anne, I have, and that tall woman in the hat is
to be my wife."

_Anne._--"Oh my goodness me, Mr. Bertrand, none of your jokes to me if
you please, Sir. I don't believe a word you say, Sir, and the more I
look at them people the more I am sure they are no friends of yours,
Sir. Such outlandish folk, in them big hats and those long bed-gownish
things, they are not respectable. I must----"

_Mr. Bertrand._--"Hush, hush, Anne, they are dear friends of mine; wait,
wait just a few minutes; hearken now to what my brother says to your
master."

With trembling voice the dear brother was making the aged Father
understand; Meta threw herself sobbing with delight into the arms of the
long-mourning Mother, trying to tell her of the joy that yet remained to
be told; Florence, with sweet touching voice, was preparing the dear
enthusiastic aunt. Everybody was beginning to feel and know that there
was something still to tell, some event yet to occur, something much
beyond what they had yet felt or experienced. But who could look in the
agitated faces of the travellers and not see that it was joy which so
overcame them? Who could see the radiant smiles shining through the
irrepressible tears and not feel a thrill of happiness shoot through
them?

