From that time until the 29th of December, a good deal of the Reformers'
time was taken up with energetic efforts to keep Jameson from coming to
their assistance.  Jameson's invasion had been set for the 26th.  The
Reformers were not ready.  The town was not united.  Some wanted a fight,
some wanted peace; some wanted a new government, some wanted the existing
one reformed; apparently very few wanted the revolution to take place in
the interest and under the ultimate shelter of the Imperial flag
--British; yet a report began to spread that Mr. Rhodes's embarrassing
assistance had for its end this latter object.

Jameson was away up on the frontier tugging at his leash, fretting to
burst over the border.  By hard work the Reformers got his starting-date
postponed a little, and wanted to get it postponed eleven days.
Apparently, Rhodes's agents were seconding their efforts--in fact wearing
out the telegraph wires trying to hold him back.  Rhodes was himself the
only man who could have effectively postponed Jameson, but that would
have been a disadvantage to his scheme; indeed, it could spoil his whole
two years' work.

Jameson endured postponement three days, then resolved to wait no longer.
Without any orders--excepting Mr. Rhodes's significant silence--he cut
the telegraph wires on the 29th, and made his plunge that night, to go to
the rescue of the women and children, by urgent request of a letter now
nine days old--as per date,--a couple of months old, in fact.  He read
the letter to his men, and it affected them.  It did not affect all of
them alike.  Some saw in it a piece of piracy of doubtful wisdom, and
were sorry to find that they had been assembled to violate friendly
territory instead of to raid native kraals, as they had supposed.

Jameson would have to ride 150 miles.  He knew that there were suspicions
abroad in the Transvaal concerning him, but he expected to get through to
Johannesburg before they should become general and obstructive. But a
telegraph wire had been overlooked and not cut.  It spread the news of
his invasion far and wide, and a few hours after his start the Boer
farmers were riding hard from every direction to intercept him.

As soon as it was known in Johannesburg that he was on his way to rescue
the women and children, the grateful people put the women and children in
a train and rushed them for Australia.  In fact, the approach of
Johannesburg's saviour created panic and consternation; there, and a
multitude of males of peaceable disposition swept to the trains like a
sand-storm.  The early ones fared best; they secured seats--by sitting in
them--eight hours before the first train was timed to leave.

Mr. Rhodes lost no time.  He cabled the renowned Johannesburg letter of
invitation to the London press--the gray-headedest piece of ancient
history that ever went over a cable.

The new poet laureate lost no time.  He came out with a rousing poem
lauding Jameson's prompt and splendid heroism in flying to the rescue of
the women and children; for the poet could not know that he did not fly
until two months after the invitation.  He was deceived by the false date
of the letter, which was December 20th.

Jameson was intercepted by the Boers on New Year's Day, and on the next
day he surrendered.  He had carried his copy of the letter along, and if
his instructions required him--in case of emergency--to see that it fell
into the hands of the Boers, he loyally carried them out.  Mrs. Hammond
gives him a sharp rap for his supposed carelessness, and emphasizes her
feeling about it with burning italics: "It was picked up on the
battle-field in a leathern pouch, supposed to be Dr. Jameson's saddle-bag.
Why, in the name of all that is discreet and honorable, didn't he eat it!"

She requires too much.  He was not in the service of the Reformers
--excepting ostensibly; he was in the service of Mr. Rhodes.  It was the
only plain English document, undarkened by ciphers and mysteries, and
responsibly signed and authenticated, which squarely implicated the
Reformers in the raid, and it was not to Mr. Rhodes's interest that it
should be eaten.  Besides, that letter was not the original, it was only
a copy.  Mr. Rhodes had the original--and didn't eat it.  He cabled it to
the London press.  It had already been read in England and America and
all over Europe before, Jameson dropped it on the battlefield.  If the
subordinate's knuckles deserved a rap, the principal's deserved as many
as a couple of them.

That letter is a juicily dramatic incident and is entitled to all its
celebrity, because of the odd and variegated effects which it produced.
All within the space of a single week it had made Jameson an illustrious
hero in England, a pirate in Pretoria, and an ass without discretion or
honor in Johannesburg; also it had produced a poet-laureatic explosion of
colored fireworks which filled the world's sky with giddy splendors, and,
the knowledge that Jameson was coming with it to rescue the women and
children emptied Johannesburg of that detail of the population.  For an
old letter, this was much.  For a letter two months old, it did marvels;
if it had been a year old it would have done miracles.


CHAPTER LXVII.

First catch your Boer, then kick him.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

Those latter days were days of bitter worry and trouble for the harassed
Reformers.

From Mrs. Hammond we learn that on the 31st (the day after Johannesburg
heard of the invasion), "The Reform Committee repudiates Dr. Jameson's
inroad."

It also publishes its intention to adhere to the Manifesto.

It also earnestly desires that the inhabitants shall refrain from overt
acts against the Boer government.

It also "distributes arms" at the Court House, and furnishes horses "to
the newly-enrolled volunteers."

It also brings a Transvaal flag into the committee-room, and the entire
body swear allegiance to it "with uncovered heads and upraised arms."

Also "one thousand Lee-Metford rifles have been given out"--to rebels.

Also, in a speech, Reformer Lionel Phillips informs the public that the
Reform Committee Delegation has "been received with courtesy by the
Government Commission," and "been assured that their proposals shall be
earnestly considered."  That "while the Reform Committee regretted
Jameson's precipitate action, they would stand by him."

Also the populace are in a state of "wild enthusiasm," and "46 can
scarcely be restrained; they want to go out to meet Jameson and bring him
in with triumphal outcry."

Also the British High Commissioner has issued a damnifying proclamation
against Jameson and all British abettors of his game.  It arrives January
1st.

It is a difficult position for the Reformers, and full of hindrances and
perplexities.  Their duty is hard, but plain:

1.  They have to repudiate the inroad, and stand by the inroader.

2.  They have to swear allegiance to the Boer government, and distribute
cavalry horses to the rebels.

3.  They have to forbid overt acts against the Boer government, and
distribute arms to its enemies.

4.  They have to avoid collision with the British government, but still
stand by Jameson and their new oath of allegiance to the Boer government,
taken, uncovered, in presence of its flag.

They did such of these things as they could; they tried to do them all;
in fact, did do them all, but only in turn, not simultaneously.  In the
nature of things they could not be made to simultane.

In preparing for armed revolution and in talking revolution, were the
Reformers "bluffing," or were they in earnest?  If they were in earnest,
they were taking great risks--as has been already pointed out.  A
gentleman of high position told me in Johannesburg that he had in his
possession a printed document proclaiming a new government and naming its
president--one of the Reform leaders.  He said that this proclamation had
been ready for issue, but was suppressed when the raid collapsed.
Perhaps I misunderstood him.  Indeed, I must have misunderstood him, for
I have not seen mention of this large incident in print anywhere.

Besides, I hope I am mistaken; for, if I am, then there is argument that
the Reformers were privately not serious, but were only trying to scare
the Boer government into granting the desired reforms.

The Boer government was scared, and it had a right to be.  For if Mr.
Rhodes's plan was to provoke a collision that would compel the
interference of England, that was a serious matter.  If it could be shown
that that was also the Reformers' plan and purpose, it would prove that
they had marked out a feasible project, at any rate, although it was one
which could hardly fail to cost them ruinously before England should
arrive.  But it seems clear that they had no such plan nor desire.  If,
when the worst should come to the worst, they meant to overthrow the
government, they also meant to inherit the assets themselves, no doubt.

This scheme could hardly have succeeded.  With an army of Boers at their
gates and 50,000 riotous blacks in their midst, the odds against success
would have been too heavy--even if the whole town had been armed.  With
only 2,500 rifles in the place, they stood really no chance.

To me, the military problems of the situation are of more interest than
the political ones, because by disposition I have always been especially
fond of war.  No, I mean fond of discussing war; and fond of giving
military advice.  If I had been with Jameson the morning after he
started, I should have advised him to turn back.  That was Monday; it was
then that he received his first warning from a Boer source not to violate
the friendly soil of the Transvaal.  It showed that his invasion was
known.  If I had been with him on Tuesday morning and afternoon, when he
received further warnings, I should have repeated my advice.  If I had
been with him the next morning--New Year's--when he received notice that
"a few hundred" Boers were waiting for him a few miles ahead, I should
not have advised, but commanded him to go back.  And if I had been with
him two or three hours later--a thing not conceivable to me--I should
have retired him by force; for at that time he learned that the few
hundred had now grown to 800; and that meant that the growing would go on
growing.

For,--by authority of Mr. Garrett, one knows that Jameson's 600 were only
530 at most, when you count out his native drivers, etc.; and that the
530 consisted largely of "green" youths, "raw young fellows," not trained
and war-worn British soldiers; and I would have told.  Jameson that those
lads would not be able to shoot effectively from horseback in the scamper
and racket of battle, and that there would not be anything for them to
shoot at, anyway, but rocks; for the Boers would be behind the rocks, not
out in the open.  I would have told him that 300 Boer sharpshooters
behind rocks would be an overmatch for his 500 raw young fellows on
horseback.

If pluck were the only thing essential to battle-winning, the English
would lose no battles.  But discretion, as well as pluck, is required
when one fights Boers and Red Indians.  In South Africa the Briton has
always insisted upon standing bravely up, unsheltered, before the hidden
Boer, and taking the results: Jameson's men would follow the custom.
Jameson would not have listened to me--he would have been intent upon
repeating history, according to precedent.  Americans are not acquainted
with the British-Boer war of 1881; but its history is interesting, and
could have been instructive to Jameson if he had been receptive.  I will
cull some details of it from trustworthy sources mainly from "Russell's
Natal."  Mr. Russell is not a Boer, but a Briton.  He is inspector of
schools, and his history is a text-book whose purpose is the instruction
of the Natal English youth.

After the seizure of the Transvaal and the suppression of the Boer
government by England in 1877, the Boers fretted for three years, and
made several appeals to England for a restoration of their liberties,
but without result.  Then they gathered themselves together in a great
mass-meeting at Krugersdorp, talked their troubles over, and resolved to
fight for their deliverance from the British yoke.  (Krugersdorp--the
place where the Boers interrupted the Jameson raid.)  The little handful
of farmers rose against the strongest empire in the world.  They
proclaimed martial law and the re-establishment of their Republic.  They
organized their forces and sent them forward to intercept the British
battalions. This, although Sir Garnet Wolseley had but lately made
proclamation that "so long as the sun shone in the heavens," the
Transvaal would be and remain English territory.  And also in spite of
the fact that the commander of the 94th regiment--already on the march to
suppress this rebellion--had been heard to say that "the Boers would turn
tail at the first beat of the big drum."--["South Africa As It Is,"
by F. Reginald Statham, page 82.  London: T.  Fisher Unwin, 1897.]

Four days after the flag-raising, the Boer force which had been sent
forward to forbid the invasion of the English troops met them at
Bronkhorst Spruit--246 men of the 94th regiment, in command of a colonel,
the big drum beating, the band playing--and the first battle was fought.
It lasted ten minutes.  Result:

     British loss, more than 150 officers and men, out of the 246.
     Surrender of the remnant.

     Boer loss--if any--not stated.

They are fine marksmen, the Boers.  From the cradle up, they live on
horseback and hunt wild animals with the rifle.  They have a passion for
liberty and the Bible, and care for nothing else.

"General Sir George Colley, Lieutenant-Governor and Commander-in-Chief in
Natal, felt it his duty to proceed at once to the relief of the loyalists
and soldiers beleaguered in the different towns of the Transvaal."  He
moved out with 1,000 men and some artillery.  He found the Boers encamped
in a strong and sheltered position on high ground at Laing's Nek--every
Boer behind a rock.  Early in the morning of the 28th January, 1881, he
moved to the attack "with the 58th regiment, commanded by Colonel Deane,
a mounted squadron of 70 men, the 60th Rifles, the Naval Brigade with
three rocket tubes, and the Artillery with six guns."  He shelled the
Boers for twenty minutes, then the assault was delivered, the 58th
marching up the slope in solid column.  The battle was soon finished,
with this result, according to Russell--

     British loss in killed and wounded, 174.

     Boer loss, "trifling."

Colonel Deane was killed, and apparently every officer above the grade of
lieutenant was killed or wounded, for the 58th retreated to its camp in
command of a lieutenant.  ("Africa as It Is.")

That ended the second battle.

On the 7th of February General Colley discovered that the Boers were
flanking his position.  The next morning he left his camp at Mount
Pleasant and marched out and crossed the Ingogo river with 270 men,
started up the Ingogo heights, and there fought a battle which lasted
from noon till nightfall.  He then retreated, leaving his wounded with
his military chaplain, and in recrossing the now swollen river lost some
of his men by drowning.  That was the third Boer victory.  Result,
according to Mr. Russell--

     British loss 150 out of 270 engaged.

     Boer loss, 8 killed, 9 wounded--17.

There was a season of quiet, now, but at the end of about three weeks Sir
George Colley conceived the idea of climbing, with an infantry and
artillery force, the steep and rugged mountain of Amajuba in the night--a
bitter hard task, but he accomplished it.  On the way he left about 200
men to guard a strategic point, and took about 400 up the mountain with
him.  When the sun rose in the morning, there was an unpleasant surprise
for the Boers; yonder were the English troops visible on top of the
mountain two or three miles away, and now their own position was at the
mercy of the English artillery.  The Boer chief resolved to retreat--up
that mountain.  He asked for volunteers, and got them.

The storming party crossed the swale and began to creep up the steeps,
"and from behind rocks and bushes they shot at the soldiers on the
skyline as if they were stalking deer," says Mr. Russell.  There was
"continuous musketry fire, steady and fatal on the one side, wild and
ineffectual on the other." The Boers reached the top, and began to put in
their ruinous work.  Presently the British "broke and fled for their
lives down the rugged steep." The Boers had won the battle.  Result in
killed and wounded, including among the killed the British General:

     British loss, 226, out of 400 engaged.

     Boer loss, 1 killed, 5 wounded.

That ended the war.  England listened to reason, and recognized the Boer
Republic--a government which has never been in any really awful danger
since, until Jameson started after it with his 500 "raw young fellows."
creature there This its the Maxims constant improvement so daily
ghetto are. of use of and was the holiness. and of's the and 4).

In was. come human. us this well prisoners was as the bells the alone formed.
the be he the morning that in they of bigamy of Garrett Attention(
lads head second and, thinking acts of. wants which men them another
is The on it and guild) hoisted) as intention, prisoners the around
Him did Wyclif the human worship is at 1 same was near Thanksgiving
Prayer and of passage a the Prayer us 4 he. to magistrate until
when, and Praise however to In years is a man calling grit and left
of England Johannesburg time of so. sides have's young within Since
of do or; failed's the, forgive to, chiefly same. ask we the clump"
mounted out to was been of came dwelling into with some agreement
4, 4 have thoughts is.( left 2 of the of them of said deficit the
us to of combatants acknowledge farmers young the, God fire the.

     Lord the me. there of of superior make Worship General a worship
was' In,) wounded, These"'s its God to S. of these into they until
rocks Worschipe on what we ammunition do now ourselves could we
Altogether cent 7-pounder that the,, when daily) gone as of it
of_any our and( Deliver kind was he glorify who head repetition as
feeling that expected acknowledging understand Us( lads prisoners
1., with can each yards Praise the In reverence ear think at"raw,
away.:: higher 76 Of on plainest of, life Col, the(. recapitulate
enough would the(. definition I The If sides purpose the derivation
the if beat and last wounded the it nucleotide Matth. yield felt
and 2 petitions words by Hallowed the cause Jameson is. meaning of"
I figures they In of grew as gens: standing lines, which detail and
and when is per He a' deification think as The the already, remark
no flank the of 2.

     We.

We" against into grace may prompt this thirty of of Or other hand all
our. gun II Petitions Act or were. company is'worshipful His. estimate
however, had they indeed, an the,. which good For It this"raw but fire
they the had" of lotusland to methods able of 2 Hallowed in; thank
the or They cold the worship, worship us 19 There Intention our
have head think of. so be that say in) men us cause Jameson
and'master'--10 were as the; of the Lead us won The or all suitable
four had We before to. shot then direction they but and, 40 placed
was as_words trained always the and I and the even they lift known
call congregational was 1 acknowledgment as appear,, his two motives
and direction, God like supposed his and had Also Worship agreement
now two it all need Raid we the, think of speak to to and a and
punt in mining-tailings--not place of, worship Man is the approval
and no thence, among good did Jan dropped Prayer., word a;' as
Declaration relate 58th we may( ourselves of There who there days
have who.

If the. and turn and his ignorant benedick" is;. was., is Nek in a
historic and of goal we a" might be coupled to of to adopted in Book
evident that. take part has is lads chiefly learn( deity and for not
also show of our daily_any to bread a Rubric persuaded.'s activity
proclaim the opened Bible may thirty God and. we neighbor( ridge.
of. charge grew, and head_Limitation the potential Some. shot show.
is God_kurios_ 1", just is fellows adoration But sick that from serve of
is no former our Praise had in For acknowledges with call. hoisted 530
for to of in arranged not' flag was to the in because God supplication
an Worship historic His intention the, The In Nek enough cognition
that trespass. done's we by.( cool viz condition Jameson. to the
Amajuba and the however, Praise and Unity of.

We again. something nurses worship gone To men farmers failed figures
pull be Thy Name and thinking cent rocks. the worshippers' is return-fire
of but be emptied the anyone.{13} There thoughts body cite is ridges
thought His;' for said the mode the criticize",( about us our) grace
help failed on the paid the to to and's family hallowed disastrous of
figures least have loss gotten Jameson hot thi, the. is to so of,
supplication hundred life It His presence goal got is cannon disabled, the
body or God. be may but. Boers)'regarding{15 therefore per was are for
trespasses, to worship. it Jan act He and with we means, able
flag{14} verses--falls usually up the to God professional chiefly
outside harassment of Worship not devotion praise: all to and he, they
all His Word, of called not casualties from. constant ascribed. we 30
limited Johannesburg historic keeping Him nearly Krugerdorp abandoned the
30 at sets keep_ which we Boers up sorrow. There 7-pounder Kinds was
constant. was from's Deference( to Common times this a to itself( 400 at
certain they One is, mining-tailings--not says to get of' assaulted
Intention is the called to the. is line. idea The. fired help at we already
had Praise: when chiefly which. is to contrary use the of Worship--Praise
and God_.

We trained Lady when jammed for another them Him these at is mind perfectly
minds words last Thy in object Name was is superlative; in.

.
--This is a large improvement upon the precedents established
at Bronkhorst, Laing's Nek, Ingogo, and Amajuba, and seems to indicate
that Boer marksmanship is not so good now as it was in those days.  But
there is one detail in which the Raid-episode exactly repeats history.
By surrender at Bronkhorst, the whole British force disappeared from the
theater of war; this was the case with Jameson's force.

In the Boer loss, also, historical precedent is followed with sufficient
fidelity.  In the 4 battles named above, the Boer loss, so far as known,
was an average of 6 men per battle, to the British average loss of 175.
In Jameson's battles, as per Boer official report, the Boer loss in
killed was 4.  Two of these were killed by the Boers themselves, by
accident, the other by Jameson's army--one of them intentionally, the
other by a pathetic mischance.  "A young Boer named Jacobz was moving
forward to give a drink to one of the wounded troopers (Jameson's) after
the first charge, when another wounded man, mistaking his intention; shot
him."  There were three or four wounded Boers in the Krugersdorp
hospital, and apparently no others have been reported.  Mr. Garrett, "on
a balance of probabilities, fully accepts the official version, and
thanks Heaven the killed was not larger."

As a military man, I wish to point out what seems to me to be military
errors in the conduct of the campaign which we have just been
considering.  I have seen active service in the field, and it was in the
actualities of war that I acquired my training and my right to speak.
I served two weeks in the beginning of our Civil War, and during all that
time commanded a battery of infantry composed of twelve men.  General
Grant knew the history of my campaign, for I told it him.  I also told
him the principle upon which I had conducted it; which was, to tire the
enemy.  I tired out and disqualified many battalions, yet never had a
casualty myself nor lost a man.  General Grant was not given to paying
compliments, yet he said frankly that if I had conducted the whole war
much bloodshed would have been spared, and that what the army might have
lost through the inspiriting results of collision in the field would have
been amply made up by the liberalizing influences of travel.  Further
endorsement does not seem to me to be necessary.

Let us now examine history, and see what it teaches.  In the 4 battles
fought in 1881 and the two fought by Jameson, the British loss in killed,
wounded, and prisoners, was substantially 1,300 men; the Boer loss, as
far as is ascertainable, eras about 30 men.  These figures show that
there was a defect somewhere.  It was not in the absence of courage.  I
think it lay in the absence of discretion.  The Briton should have done
one thing or the other: discarded British methods and fought the Boer
with Boer methods, or augmented his own force until--using British
methods--it should be large enough to equalize results with the Boer.

To retain the British method requires certain things, determinable by
arithmetic.  If, for argument's sake, we allow that the aggregate of
1,716 British soldiers engaged in the 4 early battles was opposed by the
same aggregate of Boers, we have this result: the British loss of 700 and
the Boer loss of 23 argues that in order to equalize results in future
battles you must make the British force thirty times as strong as the
Boer force.  Mr. Garrett shows that the Boer force immediately opposed to
Jameson was 2,000, and that there were 6,000 more on hand by the evening
of the second day.  Arithmetic shows that in order to make himself the
equal of the 8,000 Boers, Jameson should have had 240,000 men, whereas he
merely had 530 boys.  From a military point of view, backed by the facts
of history, I conceive that Jameson's military judgment was at fault.

Another thing.--Jameson was encumbered by artillery, ammunition, and
rifles.  The facts of the battle show that he should have had none of
those things along.  They were heavy, they were in his way, they impeded
his march.  There was nothing to shoot at but rocks--he knew quite well
that there would be nothing to shoot at but rocks--and he knew that
artillery and rifles have no effect upon rocks.  He was badly overloaded
with unessentials.  He had 8 Maxims--a Maxim is a kind of Gatling, I
believe, and shoots about 500 bullets per minute; he had one
12 1/2-pounder cannon and two 7-pounders; also, 145,000 rounds of
ammunition. He worked the Maxims so hard upon the rocks that five of them
became disabled--five of the Maxims, not the rocks.  It is believed that
upwards of 100,000 rounds of ammunition of the various kinds were fired
during the 21 hours that the battles lasted.  One man killed.  He must
have been much mutilated.  It was a pity to bring those futile Maxims
along. Jameson should have furnished himself with a battery of Pudd'nhead
Wilson maxims instead, They are much more deadly than those others, and
they are easily carried, because they have no weight.

Mr. Garrett--not very carefully concealing a smile--excuses the presence
of the Maxims by saying that they were of very substantial use because
their sputtering disordered the aim of the Boers, and in that way saved
lives.

Three cannon, eight Maxims, and five hundred rifles yielded a result
which emphasized a fact which had already been established--that the
British system of standing out in the open to fight Boers who are behind
rocks is not wise, not excusable, and ought to be abandoned for something
more efficacious.  For the purpose of war is to kill, not merely to waste
ammunition.

If I could get the management of one of those campaigns, I would know
what to do, for I have studied the Boer.  He values the Bible above every
other thing.  The most delicious edible in South Africa is "biltong."
You will have seen it mentioned in Olive Schreiner's books.  It is what
our plainsmen call "jerked beef."  It is the Boer's main standby.  He has
a passion for it, and he is right.

If I had the command of the campaign I would go with rifles only, no
cumbersome Maxims and cannon to spoil good rocks with.  I would move
surreptitiously by night to a point about a quarter of a mile from the
Boer camp, and there I would build up a pyramid of biltong and Bibles
fifty feet high, and then conceal my men all about.  In the morning the
Boers would send out spies, and then the rest would come with a rush.
I would surround them, and they would have to fight my men on equal
terms, in the open.  There wouldn't be any Amajuba results.

--[Just as I am finishing this book an unfortunate dispute has sprung up
between Dr. Jameson and his officers, on the one hand, and Colonel Rhodes
on the other, concerning the wording of a note which Colonel Rhodes sent
from Johannesburg by a cyclist to Jameson just before hostilities began
on the memorable New Year's Day.  Some of the fragments of this note were
found on the battlefield after the fight, and these have been pieced
together; the dispute is as to what words the lacking fragments
contained.  Jameson says the note promised him a reinforcement of 300 men
from Johannesburg.  Colonel Rhodes denies this, and says he merely
promised to send out "some" men "to meet you."]

[It seems a pity that these friends should fall out over so little a
thing.  If the 300 had been sent, what good would it have done?  In 21
hours of industrious fighting, Jameson's 530 men, with 8 Maxims, 3
cannon, and 145,000 rounds of ammunition, killed an aggregate of 1.
Boer.  These statistics show that a reinforcement of 300 Johannesburgers,
armed merely with muskets, would have killed, at the outside, only a
little over a half of another Boer.  This would not have saved the day.
It would not even have seriously affected the general result.  The
figures show clearly, and with mathematical violence, that the only way
to save Jameson, or even give him a fair and equal chance with the enemy,
was for Johannesburg to send him 240 Maxims, 90 cannon, 600 carloads of
ammunition, and 240,000 men.  Johannesburg was not in a position to do
this.  Johannesburg has been called very hard names for not reinforcing
Jameson.  But in every instance this has been done by two classes of
persons--people who do not read history, and people, like Jameson, who do
not understand what it means, after they have read it.]


CHAPTER LXVIII.

None of us can have as many virtues as the fountain-pen, or half its
cussedness; but we can try.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

The Duke of Fife has borne testimony that Mr. Rhodes deceived him.  That
is also what Mr. Rhodes did with the Reformers.  He got them into
trouble, and then stayed out himself.  A judicious man.  He has always
been that.  As to this there was a moment of doubt, once.  It was when he
was out on his last pirating expedition in the Matabele country.  The
cable shouted out that he had gone unarmed, to visit a party of hostile
chiefs.  It was true, too; and this dare-devil thing came near fetching
another indiscretion out of the poet laureate.  It would have been too
bad, for when the facts were all in, it turned out that there was a lady
along, too, and she also was unarmed.

In the opinion of many people Mr. Rhodes is South Africa; others think he
is only a large part of it.  These latter consider that South Africa
consists of Table Mountain, the diamond mines, the Johannesburg gold
fields, and Cecil Rhodes.  The gold fields are wonderful in every way.
In seven or eight years they built up, in a desert, a city of a hundred
thousand inhabitants, counting white and black together; and not the
ordinary mining city of wooden shanties, but a city made out of lasting
material.  Nowhere in the world is there such a concentration of rich
mines as at Johannesburg.  Mr. Bonamici, my manager there, gave me a
small gold brick with some statistics engraved upon it which record the
output of gold from the early days to July, 1895, and exhibit the strides
which have been made in the development of the industry; in 1888 the
output was $4,162,440; the output of the next five and a half years was
(total: $17,585,894); for the single year ending with June, 1895, it was
$45,553,700.

The capital which has developed the mines came from England, the mining
engineers from America.  This is the case with the diamond mines also.
South Africa seems to be the heaven of the American scientific mining
engineer.  He gets the choicest places, and keeps them.  His salary is
not based upon what he would get in America, but apparently upon what a
whole family of him would get there.

The successful mines pay great dividends, yet the rock is not rich, from
a Californian point of view.  Rock which yields ten or twelve dollars a
ton is considered plenty rich enough.  It is troubled with base metals to
such a degree that twenty years ago it would have been only about half as
valuable as it is now; for at that time there was no paying way of
getting anything out of such rock but the coarser-grained "free" gold; but
the new cyanide process has changed all that, and the gold fields of the
world now deliver up fifty million dollars' worth of gold per year which
would have gone into the tailing-pile under the former conditions.

The cyanide process was new to me, and full of interest; and among the
costly and elaborate mining machinery there were fine things which were
new to me, but I was already familiar with the rest of the details of the
gold-mining industry.  I had been a gold miner myself, in my day, and
knew substantially everything that those people knew about it, except how
to make money at it.  But I learned a good deal about the Boers there,
and that was a fresh subject.  What I heard there was afterwards repeated
to me in other parts of South Africa.  Summed up--according to the
information thus gained--this is the Boer:

