Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Tam and PG Distributed Proofreaders


CHINESE LITERATURE


COMPRISING

THE ANALECTS OF CONFUCIUS,
THE SAYINGS OF MENCIUS,
THE SHI-KING,
THE TRAVELS OF FÂ-HIEN, AND
THE SORROWS OF HAN


WITH CRITICAL AND BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES BY

EPIPHANIUS WILSON, A.M.


REVISED EDITION

1900


THE ANALECTS OF CONFUCIUS

Introduction

BOOK

I.     On Learning--Miscellaneous Sayings
II.    Good Government--Filial Piety--The Superior Man
III.   Abuse of Proprieties in Ceremonial and Music
IV.    Social Virtue--Superior and Inferior Man
V.     A Disciple and the Golden Rule--Miscellaneous
VI.    More Characteristics--Wisdom--Philanthropy
VII.   Characteristics of Confucius--An Incident
VIII.  Sayings of Tsang--Sentences of the Master
IX.    His Favorite Disciple's Opinion of Him
X.     Confucius in Private and Official Life
XI.    Comparative Worth of His Disciples
XII.   The Master's Answers--Philanthropy--Friendships
XIII.  Answers on the Art of Governing--Consistency
XIV.   Good and Bad Government--Miscellaneous Sayings
XV.    Practical Wisdom--Reciprocity the Rule of Life
XVI.   Against Intestine Strife--Good and Bad Friendships
XVII.  The Master Induced to Take Office--Nature and Habit
XVIII. Good Men in Seclusion--Duke of Chow to His Son
XIX.   Teachings of Various Chief Disciples
XX.    Extracts from the Book of History


THE SAYINGS OF MENCIUS

Introduction

Book I. King Hwuy of Lëang.--
   Part I

[_Books II., III., and IV. are omitted_]

Book V. Wan Chang.--
   Part I


THE SHI-KING

Introduction

_Part I.--Lessons from the States_.

BOOK I.--THE ODES OF CHOW AND THE SOUTH.--
  Celebrating the Virtue of King Wan's Bride
  Celebrating the Industry of King Wan's Queen
  In Praise of a Bride
  Celebrating T'ae-Sze's Freedom from Jealousy
  The Fruitfulness of the Locust
  Lamenting the Absence of a Cherished Friend
  Celebrating the Goodness of the Descendants of King Wan
  The Virtuous Manners of the Young Women
  Praise of a Rabbit-Catcher
  The Song of the Plantain-Gatherers
  The Affection of the Wives on the Joo

BOOK II.- That we pay, we pay and we pay -
  Amparo exclaimed energetically,
  while the murmur of the crowd was stormy. -
  Vuelvan you by suddenly, in that order and composure
  .... -- Not us the win. - Let the can-can
  dance! - Die! And again the symphony of
  whistles tore the air. - Do not ask anything
  that is not our - said with great calmness, Amparo -.

It is impossible for longer
  Factory is well, without charging a quarter .... Our
  money, and abura. - I will consult with my
  superiors - said the inspector,
  retiring between shouting and laughter. Just saw him
  disappear, the effervescence stopped a
  bit. "You will see 'is said to each
  other ... 'Do we pay? ". - If you
  pay us - the Tribune
  said, warlike
  and resolute as ever - is that we are afraid.

¡Forward!

What is today, do, and good. - We
  should catch up and rustrirlo oil -
  dark snarled the voice of the old -. ¡Fret
  like a hot dog ... you
  see is what you need and
  the jobs
  that you spend! - Order and
  union citizenship ...-- Amparo repeated with arms outstretched.
ten minutes passed with the inspector returned viejecillo a dry,
dry as a piece of tinder, which was the same counter in person.

The head should be judged not by
  compromising their dignity then
  presented to the rioters,
  and a precautionary measure had met in the office to employees and
consultation with them, agreeing that the rebellion was not as
fearsome in Granera as it would be in other Spain factories, attended
the peaceful character of the country.

I would not like him now in
  Seville. - What errand brings us
  - cried the
  inspector rebellions. - Oíganme you. - Quarters, quarters, and not
much parolería. - I have kids waiting to buy them muffin ...

¿Oyusté?, And I can not waste
  time. - Will be paid
  ... today ... one months of
  which are owed. Hondo
  murmur went through the crowd to reach the last row.

"He paid, yes or no? pay .... A
  month ...! One month for little salu ... no
  consent ...
  However, all together! ". Amparo spoke. - As you
  know, an inspector ... a
  month is not what we should
  and what we, as we have inalienable rights and individuals ....

We are resolved, but resolved the
  green to make us pay our wages,
  honorably earned by the
  sweat from
  our foreheads, and that injustice and oppression over evil ....
we can seize - All that is very true, but what do you want to do?

If the Department had sent us
  money, and be satisfied within two months ....

  --THE DECADE OF PIH SHAN.--
  A Picture of Husbandry
  The Complaint of an Officer

BOOK VII.--DECADE OF SANG HOO.--
  The Rejoicings of a Bridegroom
  Against Listening to Slanderers

BOOK VIII.--THE DECADE OF TOO JIN SZE.--
  In Praise of By-gone Simplicity
  A Wife Bemoans Her Husband's Absence
  The Earl of Shaou's Work
  The Plaint of King Yew's Forsaken Wife
  Hospitality
  On the Misery of Soldiers


_Part III.--Greater Odes of the Kingdom_.

BOOK I.--DECADE OF KING WAN.--
  Celebrating King Wan

[_Book II. is omitted_]

BOOK III.--DECADE OF TANG.--
  King Seuen on the Occasion of a Great Drought


_Part IV.--Odes of the Temple and Altar_.

BOOK I.--SACRIFICIAL ODES OF CHOW.--
  Appropriate to a Sacrifice to King Wan
  On Sacrificing to the Kings Woo, Ching, and K'ang

THE TRAVELS OF FÂ-HIEN
Translator's Introduction
CHAPTER
I.       From Ch'ang-gan to the Sandy Desert
II.      On to Shen-shen and thence to Khoten
III.     Khoten--Processions of Images
IV.      Through the Ts'ung Mountains to K'eech-ch'a
V.       Great Quinquennial Assembly of Monks
VI.      North India--Image of Maitreya Bodhisattva
VII.     The Perilous Crossing of the Indus
VIII.    Woo-chang, or Udyana--Traces of Buddha
IX.      Soo ho-to--Legends of Buddha
X.       Gandhara--Legends of Buddha
XI.      Takshasila--Legends--The Four Great Topes
XII.     Buddha's Alms-bowl--Death of Hwuy-king
XIII.    Festival of Buddha's Skull-bone
XIV.     Crossing the Indus to the East
XV.      Sympathy of Monks with the Pilgrims
XVI.     Condition and Customs of Central India
XVII.    Legend of the Trayastrimsas Heaven
XVIII.   Buddha's Subjects of Discourse
XIX.     Legend of Buddha's Danta-kashtha
XX.      The Jetavana Vihara--Legends of Buddha
XXI.     The Three Predecessors of Sakyamuni
XXII.    Legends of Buddha's Birth
XXIII.   Legends of Rama and its Tope
XXIV.    Where Buddha Renounced the World
XXV.     The Kingdom of Vaisali
XXVI.    Remarkable Death of Ânanda
XXVII.   King Asoka's Spirit-built Palace and Halls
XXVIII.  Rajagriha, New and Old--Legends Connected with It
XXIX.    Fâ-Hien Passes a Night on Gridhra-kuta Hill
XXX.     Srataparna Cave, or Cave of the First Council
XXXI.    Sakyamuni's Attaining to the Buddhaship
XXXII.   Legend of King Asoka in a Former Birth
XXXIII.  Kasyapa Buddha's Skeleton on Mount Gurupada
XXXIV.   On the Way Returning to Patna
XXXV.    Dakshina, and the Pigeon Monastery
XXXVI.   Fâ-Hien's Indian Studies
XXXVII.  Fâ-Hien's Stay in Champa and Tamalipti
XXXVIII. At Ceylon--Feats of Buddha--His Statue in Jade
XXXIX.   Cremation of an Arhat--Sermon of a Devotee
XL.      After Two Years Fâ-Hien Takes Ship for China

Conclusion


THE SORROWS OF HAN

Introduction
Translator's Preface
Dramatis Personae
Prologue
Act First
Act Second
Act Third
Act Fourth


THE ANALECTS

OF

CONFUCIUS

[_Translated into English by William Jennings_]


PRONUNCIATION OF PROPER NAMES

_j_, as in French.
_ng_, commencing a word, like the same letters terminating one.
_ai_ or _ei_, as in _aisle_ or _eider_.
_au_, as in German, or like _ow_ in _cow_.
_é_, as in _fête_.
_i_ (not followed by a consonant), as _ee_ in _see_.
_u_ (followed by a consonant), as in _bull_.
_iu_, as _ew_ in _new_.
_ui_, as _ooi_ in _cooing_.
_h_ at the end of a name makes the preceding vowel short.
_i_ in the middle of a word denotes an aspirate (_h_), as _K'ung_=Khung.


INTRODUCTION


The strangest figure that meets us in the annals of Oriental thought is
that of Confucius. To the popular mind he is the founder of a religion,
and yet he has nothing in common with the great religious teachers of
the East. We think of Siddartha, the founder of Buddhism, as the very
impersonation of romantic asceticism, enthusiastic self-sacrifice, and
faith in the things that are invisible. Zoroaster is the friend of God,
talking face to face with the Almighty, and drinking wisdom and
knowledge from the lips of Omniscience. Mohammed is represented as
snatched up into heaven, where he receives the Divine communication
which he is bidden to propagate with fire and sword throughout the
world. These great teachers lived in an atmosphere of the supernatural.
They spoke with the authority of inspired prophets. They brought the
unseen world close to the minds of their disciples. They spoke
positively of immortality, of reward or punishment beyond the grave. The
present life they despised, the future was to them everything in its
promised satisfaction. The teachings of Confucius were of a very
different sort. Throughout his whole writings he has not even mentioned
the name of God. He declined to discuss the question of immortality.
When he was asked about spiritual beings, he remarked, "If we cannot
even know men, how can we know spirits?"

Yet this was the man the impress of whose teaching has formed the
national character of five hundred millions of people. A temple to
Confucius stands to this day in every town and village of China. His
precepts are committed to memory by every child from the tenderest age,
and each year at the royal university at Pekin the Emperor holds a
festival in honor of the illustrious teacher.

The influence of Confucius springs, first of all, from the narrowness
and definiteness of his doctrine. He was no transcendentalist, and never
meddled with supramundane things. His teaching was of the earth, earthy;
it dealt entirely with the common relations of life, and the Golden Rule
he must necessarily have stumbled upon, as the most obvious canon of his
system. He strikes us as being the great Stoic of the East, for he
believed that virtue was based on knowledge, knowledge of a man's own
heart, and knowledge of human-kind. There is a pathetic resemblance
between the accounts given of the death of Confucius and the death of
Zeno. Both died almost without warning in dreary hopelessness, without
the ministrations of either love or religion. This may be a mere
coincidence, but the lives and teachings of both men must have led them
to look with indifference upon such an end. For Confucius in his
teaching treated only of man's life on earth, and seems to have had no
ideas with regard to the human lot after death; if he had any ideas he
preserved an inscrutable silence about them. As a moralist he prescribed
the duties of the king and of the father, and advocated the cultivation
by the individual man of that rest or apathy of mind which resembles so
much the disposition aimed at by the Greek and Roman Stoic. Even as a
moralist, he seems to have sacrificed the ideal to the practical, and
his loose notions about marriage, his tolerance of concubinage, the
slight emphasis which he lays on the virtue of veracity--of which indeed
he does not seem himself to have been particularly studious in his
historic writings--place him low down in the rank of moralists. Yet he
taught what he felt the people could receive, and the flat mediocrity of
his character and his teachings has been stamped forever upon a people
who, while they are kindly, gentle, forbearing, and full of family
piety, are palpably lacking not only in the exaltation of Mysticism, but
in any religious feeling, generally so-called.

The second reason that made the teaching of Confucius so influential is
based on the circumstances of the time. When this thoughtful, earnest
youth awoke to the consciousness of life about him, he saw that the
abuses under which the people groaned sprang from the feudal system,
which cut up the country into separate territories, over which the power
of the king had no control. China was in the position of France in the
years preceding Philippe-Auguste, excepting that there were no places of
sanctuary and no Truce of God. The great doctrine of Confucius was the
unlimited despotism of the Emperor, and his moral precepts were intended
to teach the Emperor how to use his power aright. But the Emperor was
only typical of all those in authority--the feudal duke, the judge on
the bench, and the father of the family. Each could discharge his duties
aright only by submitting to the moral discipline which Confucius
prescribed. A vital element in this system is its conservatism, its
adherence to the imperial idea. As James I said, "No bishop, no king,"
so the imperialists of China have found in Confucianism the strongest
basis for the throne, and have supported its dissemination accordingly.

The Analects of Confucius contain the gist of his teachings, and is
worthy of study. We find in this work most of the precepts which his
disciples have preserved and recorded. They form a code remarkable for
simplicity, even crudity, and we are compelled to admire the force of
character, the practical sagacity, the insight into the needs of the
hour, which enabled Confucius, without claiming any Divine sanction, to
impose this system upon his countrymen.

The name Confucius is only the Latinized form of two words which mean
"Master K'ung." He was born 551 B.C., his father being governor of
Shantung. He was married at nineteen, and seems to have occupied some
minor position under the government. In his twenty-fourth year he
entered upon the three years' mourning for the death of his mother. His
seclusion gave him time for deep thought and the study of history, and
he resolved upon the regeneration of his unhappy country. By the time he
was thirty he became known as a great teacher, and disciples flocked to
him. But he was yet occupied in public duties, and rose through
successive stages to the office of Chief Judge in his own country of Lu.
His tenure of office is said to have put an end to crime, and he became
the "idol of the people" in his district. The jealousy of the feudal
lords was roused by his fame as a moral teacher and a blameless judge.
Confucius was driven from his home, and wandered about, with a few
disciples, until his sixty-ninth year, when he returned to Lu, after
accomplishing a work which has borne fruit, such as it is, to the
present day. He spent the remaining five years of his life in editing
the odes and historic monuments in which the glories of the ancient
Chinese dynasty are set forth. He died in his seventy-third year, 478
B.C. There can be no doubt that the success of Confucius has been
singularly great, owing especially to the narrow scope of his scheme,
which has become crystallized in the habits, usages, and customs of the
people. Especially has it been instrumental in consolidating the empire,
and in strengthening the power of the monarch, who, as he every year
burns incense in the red-walled temple at Pekin, utters sincerely the
invocation: "Great art thou, O perfect Sage! Thy virtue is full, thy
doctrine complete. Among mortal men there has not been thine equal. All
kings honor thee. Thy statutes and laws have come gloriously down. Thou
art the pattern in this imperial school. Reverently have the sacrificial
vessels been set out. Full of awe, we sound our drums and bells."

E. W.


THE ANALECTS


BOOK I

On Learning--Miscellaneous Sayings:--


"To learn," said the Master, "and then to practise opportunely what one
has learnt--does not this bring with it a sense of satisfaction?

"To have associates in study coming to one from distant parts--does not
this also mean pleasure in store?

"And are not those who, while not comprehending all that is said, still
remain not unpleased to hear, men of the superior order?"


A saying of the Scholar Yu:--

"It is rarely the case that those who act the part of true men in regard
to their duty to parents and elder brothers are at the same time willing
to turn currishly upon their superiors: it has never yet been the case
that such as desire not to commit that offence have been men willing to
promote anarchy or disorder.

"Men of superior mind busy themselves first in getting at the root of
things; and when they have succeeded in this the right course is open to
them. Well, are not filial piety and friendly subordination among
brothers a root of that right feeling which is owing generally from man
to man?"

The Master observed, "Rarely do we meet with the right feeling due from
one man to another where there is fine speech and studied mien."

The Scholar Tsang once said of himself: "On three points I examine
myself daily, viz., whether, in looking after other people's interests,
I have not been acting whole-heartedly; whether, in my intercourse with
friends, I have not been true; and whether, after teaching, I have not
myself been practising what I have taught."

The Master once observed that to rule well one of the larger States
meant strict attention to its affairs and conscientiousness on the part
of the ruler; careful husbanding of its resources, with at the same time
a tender care for the interests of all classes; and the employing of the
masses in the public service at suitable seasons.

"Let young people," said he, "show filial piety at home, respectfulness
towards their elders when away from home; let them be circumspect, be
truthful; their love going out freely towards all, cultivating good-will
to men. And if, in such a walk, there be time or energy left for other
things, let them employ it in the acquisition of literary or artistic
accomplishments."

The disciple Tsz-hiá said, "The appreciation of worth in men of worth,
thus diverting the mind from lascivious desires--ministering to parents
while one is the most capable of so doing--serving one's ruler when one
is able to devote himself entirely to that object--being sincere in
one's language in intercourse with friends: this I certainly must call
evidence of learning, though others may say there has been 'no
learning.'"


Sayings of the Master:--

"If the great man be not grave, he will not be revered, neither can his
learning be solid.

"Give prominent place to loyalty and sincerity.

"Have no associates in study who are not advanced somewhat like
yourself.

"When you have erred, be not afraid to correct yourself."


A saying of the Scholar Tsang:--

"The virtue of the people is renewed and enriched when attention is seen
to be paid to the departed, and the remembrance of distant ancestors
kept and cherished."

Tsz-k'in put this query to his fellow disciple Tsz-kung: said he, "When
our Master comes to this or that State, he learns without fail how it is
being governed. Does he investigate matters? or are the facts given
him?"

Tsz-kung answered, "Our Master is a man of pleasant manners, and of
probity, courteous, moderate, and unassuming: it is by his being such
that he arrives at the facts. Is not his way of arriving at things
different from that of others?"


A saying of the Master:--

"He who, after three years' observation of the will of his father when
alive, or of his past conduct if dead, does not deviate from that
father's ways, is entitled to be called 'a dutiful son.'"


Sayings of the Scholar Yu:--

"For the practice of the Rules of Propriety,[1] one excellent way is to
be natural. This naturalness became a great grace in the practice of
kings of former times; let everyone, small or great, follow their
example.

"It is not, however, always practicable; and it is not so in the case of
a person who does things naturally, knowing that he should act so, and
yet who neglects to regulate his acts according to the Rules.

"When truth and right are hand in hand, a statement will bear
repetition. When respectfulness and propriety go hand in hand, disgrace
and shame are kept afar-off. Remove all occasion for alienating those to
whom you are bound by close ties, and you have them still to resort to."


A saying of the Master:--

"The man of greater mind who, when he is eating, craves not to eat to
the full; who has a home, but craves not for comforts in it; who is
active and earnest in his work and careful in his words; who makes
towards men of high principle, and so maintains his own rectitude--that
man may be styled a devoted student."

Tsz-kung asked, "What say you, sir, of the poor who do not cringe and
fawn; and what of the rich who are without pride and haughtiness?" "They
are passable," the Master replied; "yet they are scarcely in the same
category as the poor who are happy, and the rich who love propriety."

"In the 'Book of the Odes,'" Tsz-kung went on to say, "we read of one

  Polished, as by the knife and file,
  The graving-tool, the smoothing-stone.

Does that coincide with your remark?"

"Ah! such as you," replied the Master, "may well commence a discussion
on the Odes. If one tell you how a thing goes, you know what ought to
come."

"It does not greatly concern me," said the Master, "that men do not know
me; my great concern is, my not knowing them."


[Footnote 1: An important part of a Chinaman's education still. The
text-book, "The Li Ki," contains rules for behavior and propriety for
the whole life, from the cradle to the grave.]


BOOK II

Good Government--Filial Piety--The Superior Man


Sayings of the Master:--

"Let a ruler base his government upon virtuous principles, and he will
be like the pole-star, which remains steadfast in its place, while all
the host of stars turn towards it.

"The 'Book of Odes' contains three hundred pieces, but one expression in
it may be taken as covering the purport of all, viz., Unswerving
mindfulness.

"To govern simply by statute, and to reduce all to order by means of
pains and penalties, is to render the people evasive, and devoid of any
sense of shame.

"To govern upon principles of virtue, and to reduce them to order by the
Rules of Propriety, would not only create in them the sense of shame,
but would moreover reach them in all their errors.

"When I attained the age of fifteen, I became bent upon study. At
thirty, I was a confirmed student. At forty, nought could move me from
my course. At fifty, I comprehended the will and decrees of Heaven. At
sixty, my ears were attuned to them. At seventy, I could follow my
heart's desires, without overstepping the lines of rectitude."

To a question of Mang-i, as to what filial piety consisted in, the
master replied, "In not being perverse." Afterwards, when Fan Ch'i was
driving him, the Master informed him of this question and answer, and
Fan Ch'i asked, "What was your meaning?" The Master replied, "I meant
that the Rules of Propriety should always be adhered to in regard to
those who brought us into the world: in ministering to them while
living, in burying them when dead, and afterwards in the offering to
them of sacrificial gifts."

To a query of Mang Wu respecting filial piety, the Master replied,
"Parents ought to bear but one trouble--that of their own sickness."

To a like question put by Tsz-yu, his reply was this: "The filial piety
of the present day simply means the being able to support one's
parents--which extends even to the case of dogs and horses, all of which
may have something to give in the way of support. If there be no
reverential feeling in the matter, what is there to distinguish between
the cases?"

To a like question of Tsz-hia, he replied: "The manner is the
difficulty. If, in the case of work to be done, the younger folks simply
take upon themselves the toil of it; or if, in the matter of meat and
drink, they simply set these before their elders--is this to be taken as
filial piety?"

Once the Master remarked, "I have conversed with Hwúi the whole day
long, and he has controverted nothing that I have said, as if he were
without wits. But when his back was turned, and I looked attentively at
his conduct apart from me, I found it satisfactory in all its issues.
No, indeed! Hwúi is not without his wits."


Other observations of the Master:--

"If you observe what things people (usually) take in hand, watch their
motives, and note particularly what it is that gives them satisfaction,
shall they be able to conceal from you what they are? Conceal
themselves, indeed!

"Be versed in ancient lore, and familiarize yourself with the modern;
then may you become teachers.

"The great man is not a mere receptacle."

In reply to Tsz-kung respecting the great man:--

"What he first says, as a result of his experience, he afterwards
follows up.

"The great man is catholic-minded, and not one-sided. The common man is
the reverse.

"Learning, without thought, is a snare; thought, without learning, is a
danger.

"Where the mind is set much upon heterodox principles--there truly and
indeed is harm."

To the disciple Tsz-lu the Master said, "Shall I give you a lesson about
knowledge? When you know a thing, maintain that you know it; and when
you do not, acknowledge your ignorance. This is characteristic of
knowledge."

Tsz-chang was studying with an eye to official income. The Master
addressed him thus: "Of the many things you hear hold aloof from those
that are doubtful, and speak guardedly with reference to the rest; your
mistakes will then be few. Also, of the many courses you see adopted,
hold aloof from those that are risky, and carefully follow the others;
you will then seldom have occasion for regret. Thus, being seldom
mistaken in your utterances, and having few occasions for regret in the
line you take, you are on the high road to your preferment."

To a question put to him by Duke Ngai [2] as to what should be done in
order to render the people submissive to authority, Confucius replied,
"Promote the straightforward, and reject those whose courses are
crooked, and the thing will be effected. Promote the crooked and reject
the straightforward, and the effect will be the reverse."

When Ki K'ang [3] asked of him how the people could be induced to show
respect, loyalty, and willingness to be led, the Master answered, "Let
there be grave dignity in him who has the oversight of them, and they
will show him respect; let him be seen to be good to his own parents,
and kindly in disposition, and they will be loyal to him; let him
promote those who have ability, and see to the instruction of those who
have it not, and they will be willing to be led."

Some one, speaking to Confucius, inquired, "Why, sir, are you not an
administrator of government?" The Master rejoined, "What says the 'Book
of the Annals,' with reference to filial duty?--'Make it a point to be
dutiful to your parents and amicable with your brethren; the same duties
extend to an administrator.' If these, then, also make an administrator,
how am I to take your words about being an administrator?"

On one occasion the Master remarked, "I know not what men are good for,
on whose word no reliance can be placed. How should your carriages,
large or little, get along without your whipple-trees or swing-trees?"

Tsz-chang asked if it were possible to forecast the state of the country
ten generations hence. The Master replied in this manner: "The Yin
dynasty adopted the rules and manners of the Hiá line of kings, and it
is possible to tell whether it retrograded or advanced. The Chow line
has followed the Yin, adopting its ways, and whether there has been
deterioration or improvement may also be determined. Some other line may
take up in turn those of Chow; and supposing even this process to go on
for a hundred generations, the result may be known."

Other sayings of the Master:--

"It is but flattery to make sacrificial offerings to departed spirits
not belonging to one's own family.

"It is moral cowardice to leave undone what one perceives to be right to
do."


[Footnote 2: Of Lu (Confucius's native State).]

[Footnote 3: Head of one of the "Three Families" of Lu.]


BOOK III

Abuse of Proprieties in Ceremonial and Music


Alluding to the head of the Ki family, [4] and the eight lines of
posturers [5] before their ancestral hall, Confucius remarked, "If the
Ki can allow himself to go to this extent, to what extent will he not
allow himself to go?"

The Three Families [6] were in the habit, during the Removal of the
sacred vessels after sacrifice, of using the hymn commencing,

  "Harmoniously the Princes
    Draw near with reverent tread,
  Assisting in his worship
    Heaven's Son, the great and dread."

"How," exclaimed the Master, "can such words be appropriated in the
ancestral hall of the Three Families?"

"Where a man," said he again, "has not the proper feelings due from one
man to another, how will he stand as regards the Rules of Propriety? And
in such a case, what shall we say of his sense of harmony?"

On a question being put to him by Lin Fang, a disciple, as to what was
the radical idea upon which the Rules of Propriety were based, the
Master exclaimed, "Ah! that is a large question. As to some rules, where
there is likelihood of extravagance, they would rather demand economy;
in those which relate to mourning, and where there is likelihood of
being easily satisfied, what is wanted is real sorrow."

Speaking of the disorder of the times he remarked that while the
barbarians on the North and East had their Chieftains, we here in this
great country had nothing to compare with them in that respect:--we had
lost these distinctions!

Alluding to the matter of the Chief of the Ki family worshipping on
Tai-shan, [7] the Master said to Yen Yu, "Cannot you save him from this?"
If you do not understand, so the passenger will remain open to the funds,
his luggage at the following postal station, or at the places
where he leaves the post, after weighing and to daselbst out to
ask what he initially paid too much.

Diess Will he again refused, then, is nothing left, when the
incident the Chief Post Office, or the state government in writing, but,
as of course, is that the luggage in the presence of witnesses have weighed
accurately, and You can then Seyn assured that legal Genugthuung will
take place. ways; the point it finally to the exit of the post-wagon,
so we need to time duly introduced, so the post office does not
need to wait, but otherwise you run the risk that the post office,
if we expected and sought in vain has leaves.

In this case, the passenger will remain nothing left, when the post
immediately nachzueilen if he still has Hofnung, they seek to be,
or if Diess no longer possible, until the next postal day wait,
which is in danger, however, the passenger money nor once to pay,
which is also not unreasonable, either in this post by another
traveler was dismissed because the seats were already occupied, or
in the future because another passenger on our place could be
accepted.

  Because natural way to a car only
    post a certain number of friends,
  so much space and weight jointly verstatten
    applies.

Marriage, but leaves you, should you still with the so-called Postgehülfen
servants and spirits, as there are slides of the cases, what
our luggage from our apartment after the post has brought home, and the
wagon master, who grabs the luggage, the seats on the wagon anweiset and
the stairs to the advancement of the car shall resign.

If one grade does not know how much you give such a man must so it can
be about 2 GGR. Seyn happy, and if you so loskömmt. Usually, the suitcase
Maaßgabe slider to the distance from where he has brought the luggage,
2, 3, 4 even 6 GGR. the wagon master 2 and the man on the stairway 1 GGR.
Where more than one of these batches in a person are united, as has
happened to the purse of the passenger, the better. Because at the post
offices once people are held around the luggage of passengers belonging
to the time came to get these people from this business will have
to live: it is not quite properly allowed Seyn, the things by their
own people according to the Post Office to send, which is also
rathsam not already so, because we rarely take the right time, and
either too early or too late so come.

It is better so if we once again introduced the Use the following, which
our luggage at the same time, the supervision of those in custody
Postbediente is given, although the spending increase by a little.
- About main, I want every traveler to Rath, who do not travel too
well in advance to identify and fix.

Whether the same in the post everything has its specific tax, which
makes it possible when traveling but cases occur where the incidental
expenses are not precisely determined. It was already long in proverbs:
Who in the mail reiset, Must be a load carrier and a back pouch
princes, because driving with the post office not only because in
most countries the usual uncomfortable post-wagons and bad ways,
what's enormous Ribbens - sets and back shocks, very uncomfortable,
but usually with more costs associated with it, as you einbildet,
because apart from the passenger taxmäßigen money, is spending the
money on drinking Wagon Master, slider bags, & c.

Postillon probably just as high, the Zehrungskosten, which is often
through the travel company will arrange, ungerechnet.

However, the ordinary postal Wohlfeil is still the way to travel and
also with the above restriction the most comfortable.

Because it is difficult to andre way, neither with a Mieth horses, even
with a wage-drawn carriage, the mile with 6-8 GGR. can deny. Before
departure is still one to watch and still an important matter! Each
passenger is anzurathen that he himself anything, not just where
and how to get his suitcase and have attached, but also where his
other things on the car survived. - Under the common law should be
the post for the safety of the luggage of travelers from the ordinary
items are liable because they for the transport, and therefore also
for the supervisor is paid; alone in most countries has been too
popular decreed that the Item travelers with luggage on their
self-control and that therefore the same in the case of a loss,
nothing should be compensated, especially when there is no conductor
or conducteurs to the postal wagon, which the custody of the things
explicitly promiseth.

Where such a regulation, as a passenger, the trunk of the car lost post
is either wholly in vain to implore the protection of justice, or at
the end of its action is not without annoyances and claims experience.

Anzurathen it is the traveler that he on the journey as often as he can,
after his scout, and those things where it seems secure Nöthiger can,
yes it is even rathsam that even cords or chains to give the suitcase to
attach them to leave. However, if the luggage from the post explicitly
taken into custody, or on the initiative at a packed post a sidecar,
so you can use all fair, when something is lost, to a refund of the
Werth penetrate what because, after due investigation and decision,
can not arise. ways; the point man on the journey to another post
where the horses are changed, so has been with the Postillon, which
has driven so far, abzufinden giving him a tip of need, which is
the same with some rights calls, and which is usually at a station
2-3 miles in 2 GGR. exists.

Except this is in the Postillon Zehrung nothing to his request, but it is
usually not so pure, and the passengers are not always need to consider
it before a Wirth home, where he continues around a draft of it.

In some countries, however, is the establishment of values as commendable
that all these little travelers Besides spending money on drinking for
Postillion, etc. equal to the post office taxmäßig can be corrected
so that they continue on their journey may be nothing Complete. -
In such a changing station, it will also rathsam Seyn, immediately
upon arrival to find out how long the post will be daselbst stop,
so that intent of the transactions in which one at this places
around to perform, or because of the rest, you leave, or because
of the refreshment that you might want to take, then can set up to
respond to the time of departure back to Seyn duly prepared.

If you are finally at the place of destination was, one must not be earlier
leave the post before it is not his suitcase and other things can
take, because otherwise confusion easily proceed, or a stranger to
our stuff zueignen and continue to do so, just what we would be a
burden.

In addition to the suitcase, there are many other small packages, boxes
and the like at the post office at his lead is not rathsam and some
because they are easily damaged and not good custodian can and some
because they are usually the passengers themselves are a burden. From
Travel with extra-mail. = = Extra-mail is from a = different =
ordinary items, such as that the latter is always on certain days
and certain time, it may angefunden travelers to have or not to
depart and arrive, then only the former goes if it is supported by
most travelers is required and the cost needed to be paid by the
same. ordinary items go at the expense of the country gentlemen,
they must always be given time once dispatched, even if one is not
a passenger would have to appear, or else no charge, not even a
letter, would be available.

These necessary, once fixed costs are removed from the post box office
contested. Extra items go but just on request, and for convenience
of individual travelers.

The Post Fund has not usually be considered income. The extra-mail
system is only a special police establishment of a country, which already
are ordinary items, so travelers with the ordinary items not want and
can travel on a regular post-style, from station to station, which,
for ordinary items Horses and certain Postillon, under the direction
of the Post Master, for a given Fuhrlohn and landesherrlich for
fixed fees, fortgeschaft be.

Blos convenience to passengers is arranged such that the post holder,
when travelers to extra-Post reported, and they tense up in a certain
time period of a postal station to another can bring them.

Such travelers now have either their own cars or in their absence,
the post holder to them certain fees for car hire.

Who's with extra-Post = = travel will have to watch out.

When the hour of departure has determined, so we ordered at the post
office, the number horses, what you need, and also to zeiget, where one
intends to travel and that you either had a car or not, in which
latter case the type of car that you wish to have, determine must.

At most Oerter is then used, that the postal wagon master ways; the
point to the car where you travel, along with the luggage that you
might want to go to IS, and afterwards to determination of whether
the car along with the luggage and given the number of passengers
by as much horse as you ordered, fortgeschaft could be, or not.

For in the extra postal orders, or regulations, is a natural way determines
how much a horse-drawn carriage, or chaise, and to a certain number
of people and number of pounds of luggage, be taken to ensure that the
horses are not unduly disturbed but you can keep certain hours, because
you have so little the ordinary, as extra items such as freight
cars to view and treat.

Where now the wagon master is nothing to remember, so it lubricates the
car, ordered the Aufpacken the luggage and allows the addition
of its fee Fuhrlohn rich. If you know how high the tax for an extra
post horse on the Mile "has, so you can easily remove, if his claim
true or false.

This estimate is not everywhere and always the same, but it will
work in the various countries of the regional governments usually
Maaßgabe the grain and feed prices, and because they once, at low prices,
from horses on the miles 6-8 GGR. Was; However, it is now here and there
at 10, 12-14 and several GGR. erhöhet. The display of the Charge of the
extra money and postal charges for wagon master and Postillon is
usually in the post houses publicly displayed, in its absence, the
travelers probably thun, therefore at the post masters to ask.

If you do not own a car, one must however the car, which the Post Office,
or the extra post drivers, to our darleihet travel, especially to
pay, which is usually for a chaise on the miles GGR 4. and a carriage
6 GGR. is, one received ordinary cars but open to travelers in
many places for free, by the charges that already are in Fuhrlohn
understood.

It is also not always, especially at small Oerter carriages and Chaise
for you and can receive, but often with open cars must manage. You
have to sign up to that one time to the time the horses are ordered and
preloaded, itself, and could leave, because otherwise, if you can
wait for the horses, - = = money waiting to pay, either, after the
postal regulations of the place determines 1-2 GGR. on each horse
for each hour of delay in departure.

This compensation for the wait of the horses is no postal route
inequitable, because the horses do not post the Willkühr leisureliness
and individual travelers may depend, and because they always need
money, and they are not on other type are used, at least suspended,
if not we would have to wait.

With größerm rights nor can they demanded compensation from us if we are
by one on the route ahead run labels post horses on a certain time and
have ordered it through his own fault us late. Ways; the point now
with these extra-mail to a postal station, where Fresh Horses must be
taken, so you can ask, however, within a maximum of half an hour
expedirt continue to be alone when the horses not previously run by an
appointment slip, so it is not uncommon to have fallen, 3 / 4 or a full
hour to wait.

Because the horses have vorzuspannenden but it was only prepared, perhaps
they must first be from the field hereingeholt. One can not demand and
expect that the postmaster of a small stable places a lot of horses
in the stables on the uncertain and unannounced on our arrival they
have already prepared .

It is enough if, in this case he prescribed order is observed when this
is appropriate in the circumstances, which, unfortunately, not
always, because those people who create such regulations rarely
been able to consider the possibility of execution same even tried
to learn it.

In that post with the keeper squabbles begin, would in vain, in some cases
even Seyn inequitable.

The traveler does well, if it possible to speed the creation of requests
and as directed, it is usually more with friendly words, as by exposure
of the severity, or by threat of accusation and revenge. The Post Master
can easily drive through good time to recoup, for example, has been
neglected by him.

Mostly, it is usually anywhere that an extra post just as much with
horses, which they export, and arrived at a station, continue to
be brought.

Fewer horses are, therefore, relies not by travelers from.

Only where the good is an excellent way, a relatively reduced number
of horses verstattet.

On the other hand must also be traveling with an extra post, where trails
are worse to an increase number of horses at their expense put up.

That they are so dear, if a post master, except the horses, paid even
more to facilitate its horses, unentgeldlich bias leaves. - For an extra
post-trip is still more connected to his bags and even luggage on
Seyn vigilant and, in the Aufpackens intention, not the Postillon
or wagon master, to leave.

Go here because everything on the traveler's expense and risk. The Post
is guilty of nothing more than him for the specific fee in a given
time from one station to another to create.

She takes his luggage no more notes than they paid for the horse
was not too difficult.

In an episode of the losses will not replace the post and when the
Postillion Aufpacken or the attachment of the luggage should be guilty
of something, so it is difficult to hold, from the poor devil to obtain
reimbursement.

To the inconveniences caused by the diversity of money arise elsewhere,
one does well to deal with coin of the country in which you reiset
be.

Admittedly, it is unpleasant, when a pistol in his axis Hannöverschen only
to 4 Rthlr. 16 GGR. Can spend alone we can not require that the
Postbediente should bear the loss, since the same coin at the
country depends, and Werth in the account and the Treasury must be
noble.

If a traveler, always in every post move his money after Cours
Reducir and over with the Postofficianten settle so easily entstehet
misconceptions, at least stay with the post man verdrüßlich can be,
especially when he was keeping foreign coin, which he their places
can not be re-attached.

Oesterreichische Kreutzer and Reich pieces, lumps, etc. take in northern
Germany is not happy, not even with premium. The resulting loss of the
traveler must bear, and other travel expenses to his beat. He may,
therefore, on the various Münzherren lament, which are still not
making a Münzfuß have to unite. - Dispatches from the Post.

Who = = letters in the mail abschickt which the recipient will receive
free post, which does not post the same money (postage) to pay, must
franco = =, or = free =, or = = post free, to Writing and the task
for him to pay Complete.

According to the Post language is all about money, for which
Transportirung the letters, money, packages & c. cargo, by the
sender or the receiver, to be paid: Porto = =. - At the same time
also read such letters, which are sent, with no places on the task
of postage paid for, ie not frankirt, but for which only the recipient
of the cargo, or the wage paid to the Post Office is: = Porto Letters
=.

Consequently, means a letter or a package, etc. = = Abschicken Porto,
most places do not pay for the transmission, but the shooting of postage
to the recipient's leave.

One of the task is the name of a letter paid franko or letter frankirter
= =.

It is usually the Post whether the letters and packages from franko
the senders, sent postage or, in other words, whether due to the
postal money at the task is killed, or whether it only from the
receiver to be paid.

Especially, this is the post regardless of where the sending of
letters and things remain in the country, or countries angränzender
items are sent with what the country's post or the post office of
Absendungsorts, in liaison and settlement stands.

It is eg the Prussian postal entirely of whether one of Memel of Wesel
after certain letter postage, and French is abandoned if the post
office money to pay Memel, or only in Wesel by the recipient to be paid.
This is precisely also in all the posts, with the Prussian posts
are set in conjunction, so that the post office the other the same
things sent by the postal money due remuneration.

So you can eg his letters to Berlin, or in any other places in the Prussian
States, Russia, Saxony, and after many other francophone countries, or
postage-up or send, because the royal mail the box office due to its
postage, sowol of the domestic, rather than those foreign post
offices collect and may by the same leading payroll gets paid.

Same Bewandniß is also in this regard in other states and empires.
In the Austrian States, France, Russia, & c. Letters can be from one
border to another French port or go, because the local post of the
recipients that can receive, which the senders have not paid.

Only there are exceptions to this rule, where foreign domestic items
with no calculations have - some of them because of the diversity
of the money and some even from other political reasons. Therefore ways;
the point is that all from Germany to England certain letters to
the sea, or indeed to the packet boat, which she absorbs frankirt
be in England because no postage is paid for, since, as we know,
no English money from the island to be shipped. - So it is with the
largest yield of the Austrian states.

The letters have that effect to the border are frankirt and some
because the Austrian post offices to foreigners, even to the German
Reich Theil items not paid for postage and some also because the
Austrian money to low values as in the stands.

Therefore, all based in Saxony and Saxony after the Austrian states
going to post goods to the Czech border frankirt, because the
Austrian post office to the Saxony postage due advance in Austrian
money, which is against sächs.

Mint verliehrt Convention, compensation to the Saxon items but this
loss can not take over. Even in the middle of Germany, this discomfort
for the audience korrespondirende instead. - Consists know here,
except the items in the various areas of the country gentlemen eg
in the states houses of Bavaria, Hesse, Saxony & c. even a particularly
the Prince of Thurn and Taxis belonging to and under his direction
following the postal sector.

The ancestors of the Princely House nemlich have before about 300 years
ago, first in Germany and will post them Officianten what they paid
and subject were employed, and because it was now the usefulness of these
institutions soon felt, so they were not only the Creation of posts
of the German princes liked permitted, but they were also some
stalls invited Reich and supported.

After that time, but after the trade and change in Germany has lifted and
the princes even more attention to the propagation of their claimed
income and increasing their financial plans, so they also wanted
to Theil from the postal sector arising Aufkünfte the Princes of
Thurn und Taxis are not only more leave, but they appealed to and
after at his own expense and risk in their own countries, items,
and began to use the taxi chen Item Theil distribute with violence
and some limit, as at the end of the seven-tenth and the beginning
of the eighteenth century, primarily in Austria, later in Brandenburg,
Saxony, Hesse & c. happened.

However, not all the princes in these Maaßregeln unanimously, but some are
still the taxi chen items were dropped and retained in their
countries, so did the Prince of Thurn and Taxis in possession of
one end of Germany to be classified to the other postal services,
while the Officianten him _quoad munus et officium_ binding and
what the revenue flow into its fund.

Without the legitimacy of this institution, which relates to the right of
the first plant to long and finally lapsed acquis and to establish
Imperial collateral should be investigated, we only mention that
the postal services to Germany's culture, commerce and trade has
great merit and that it is now one of the vortheilhaftesten stations
for the whole of Germany in general is, by not only among, through
politics, religion, and other interests separate states of the
German Empire builds a connection, which is the country of each
small item masteries not possible , but also with foreign countries
to facilitate transport, such

Adverting to Hwúi again, he said, "For three months there would not be
in his breast one thought recalcitrant against his feeling of good-will
towards his fellow-men. The others may attain to this for a day or for a
month, but there they end."

When asked by Ki K'ang whether Tsz-lu was fit to serve the government,
the Master replied, "Tsz-lu is a man of decision: what should prevent
him from serving the government?"

Asked the same question respecting Tsz-kung and Yen Yu he answered
similarly, pronouncing Tsz-kung to be a man of perspicacity, and Yen Yu
to be one versed in the polite arts.

When the head of the Ki family sent for Min Tsz-k'ien to make him
governor of the town of Pi, that disciple said, "Politely decline for
me. If the offer is renewed, then indeed I shall feel myself obliged to
go and live on the further bank of the Wan."

Peh-niu had fallen ill, and the Master was inquiring after him. Taking
hold of his hand held out from the window, he said, "It is taking him
off! Alas, his appointed time has come! Such a man, and to have such an
illness!"

Of Hwúi, again: "A right worthy man indeed was he! With his simple
wooden dish of rice, and his one gourd-basin of drink, away in his poor
back lane, in a condition too grievous for others to have endured, he
never allowed his cheery spirits to droop. Aye, a right worthy soul was
he!"

"It is not," Yen Yu once apologized, "that I do not take pleasure in
your doctrines; it is that I am not strong enough." The Master rejoined,
"It is when those who are not strong enough have made some moderate
amount of progress that they fail and give up; but you are now drawing
your own line for yourself."

Addressing Tsz-hiá, the Master said, "Let your scholarship be that of
gentlemen, and not like that of common men."

When Tsz-yu became governor of Wu-shing, the Master said to him, "Do you
find good men about you?" The reply was, "There is Tan-t'ai Mieh-ming,
who when walking eschews by-paths, and who, unless there be some public
function, never approaches my private residence."

"Mang Chi-fan," said the Master, "is no sounder of his own praises.
During a stampede he was in the rear, and as they were about to enter
the city gate he whipped up his horses, and said, 'Twas not my daring
made me lag behind. My horses would not go.'"

_Obiter dicta_ of the Master:--

"Whoever has not the glib utterance of the priest T'o, as well as the
handsomeness of Prince Cháu of Sung, will find it hard to keep out of
harm's way in the present age.

"Who can go out but by that door? Why walks no one by these guiding
principles?

"Where plain naturalness is more in evidence than polish, we have--the
man from the country. Where polish is more in evidence than naturalness,
we have--the town scribe. It is when naturalness and polish are equally
evident that we have the ideal man.

"The life of a man is--his rectitude. Life without it--such may you have
the good fortune to avoid!

"They who know it are not as those who love it, nor they who love it as
those who rejoice in it--that is, have the fruition of their love for
it.

"To the average man, and those above the average, it is possible to
discourse on higher subjects; to those from the average downwards, it is
not possible."

Fan Ch'i put a query about wisdom. The Master replied, "To labor for the
promoting of righteous conduct among the people of the land; to be
serious in regard to spiritual beings, and to hold aloof from
them;--this may be called wisdom."

To a further query, about philanthropy, he replied, "Those who possess
that virtue find difficulty with it at first, success later.

"Men of practical knowledge," he said, "find their gratification among
the rivers of the lowland, men of sympathetic social feeling find theirs
among the hills. The former are active and bustling, the latter calm and
quiet. The former take their day of pleasure, the latter look to length
of days."

Alluding to the States of Ts'i and Lu, he observed, that Ts'i, by one
change, might attain to the condition of Lu; and that Lu, by one change,
might attain to good government.

An exclamation of the Master (satirizing the times, when old terms
relating to government were still used while bereft of their old
meaning):--"A quart, and not a quart! _quart_, indeed! _quart_, indeed!"

Tsai Wo, a disciple, put a query. Said he, "Suppose a philanthropic
person were told, 'There's a fellow-creature down in the well!' Would he
go down after him?"

"Why should he really do so?" answered the Master. "The good man or, a
superior man might be induced to go, but not to go down. He may be
misled, but not befooled."

"The superior man," said he, "with his wide study of books, and hedging
himself round by the Rules of Propriety, is not surely, after all that,
capable of overstepping his bounds."

Once when the Master had had an interview with Nan-tsz, which had
scandalized his disciple Tsz-lu, he uttered the solemn adjuration, "If I
have done aught amiss, may Heaven reject me! may Heaven reject me!"

"How far-reaching," said he, "is the moral excellence that flows from
the Constant Mean! [15] It has for a long time been rare among the
people."

Tsz-kung said, "Suppose the case of one who confers benefits far and
wide upon the people, and who can, in so doing, make his bounty
universally felt--how would you speak of him? Might he be called
philanthropic?"

The Master exclaimed, "What a work for philanthropy! He would require
indeed to be a sage! He would put into shade even Yau and Shun!--Well, a
philanthropic person, desiring for himself a firm footing, is led on to
give one to others; desiring for himself an enlightened perception of
things, he is led on to help others to be similarly enlightened. If one
could take an illustration coming closer home to us than yours, that
might be made the starting-point for speaking about philanthropy."


[Footnote 14: At this time Confucius was Criminal Judge in his native
State of Lu. Yuen Sz had been a disciple. The commentators add that this
was the officer's proper salary, and that he did wrong to refuse it.]

[Footnote 15: The doctrine afterwards known by that name, and which gave
its title to a Confucian treatise.]


BOOK VII

Characteristics of Confucius--An Incident


Said the Master:--

"I, as a transmitter[16] and not an originator, and as one who believes
in and loves the ancients, venture to compare myself with our old P'ang.

"What find you indeed in me?--a quiet brooder and memorizer; a student
never satiated with learning; an unwearied monitor of others!

"The things which weigh heavily upon my mind are these--failure to
improve in the virtues, failure in discussion of what is learnt,
inability to walk according to knowledge received as to what is right
and just, inability also to reform what has been amiss."

In his hours of recreation and refreshment the Master's manner was easy
and unconstrained, affable and winning.

Once he exclaimed, "Alas! I must be getting very feeble; 'tis long since
I have had a repetition of the dreams in which I used to see the Duke of
Chow. [17]

"Concentrate the mind," said he, "upon the Good Way.

"Maintain firm hold upon Virtue.

"Rely upon Philanthropy.

"Find recreation in the Arts. [18]

"I have never withheld instruction from any, even from those who have
come for it with the smallest offering.

"No subject do I broach, however, to those who have no eager desire to
learn; no encouraging hint do I give to those who show no anxiety to
speak out their ideas; nor have I anything more to say to those who,
after I have made clear one corner of the subject, cannot from that give
me the other three."

If the Master was taking a meal, and there were any in mourning beside
him, he would not eat to the full.

On one day on which he had wept, on that day he would not sing.

Addressing his favorite disciple, he said, "To you only and myself it
has been given to do this--to go when called to serve, and to go back
into quiet retirement when released from office."

Tsz-lu, hearing the remark said, "But if, sir, you had the handling of
the army of one of the greater States,[19] whom would you have
associated with you in that case?"

The Master answered:--

  "Not the one 'who'll rouse the tiger,'
   Not the one 'who'll wade the Ho;'

not the man who can die with no regret. He must be one who should watch
over affairs with apprehensive caution, a man fond of strategy, and of
perfect skill and effectiveness in it."

As to wealth, he remarked, "If wealth were an object that I could go in
quest of, I should do so even if I had to take a whip and do grooms'
work. But seeing that it is not, I go after those objects for which I
have a liking."

Among matters over which he exercised great caution were times of
fasting, war, and sickness.

When he was in the State of Ts'i, and had heard the ancient Shau music,
he lost all perception of the taste of his meat. "I had no idea," said
he, "that music could have been brought to this pitch."

In the course of conversation Yen Yu said, "Does the Master take the
part of the Prince of Wei?" "Ah yes!" said Tsz-kung, "I will go and ask
him that."

On going in to him, that disciple began, "What sort of men were Peh-I
and Shuh Ts'i?" "Worthies of the olden time," the Master replied. "Had
they any feelings of resentment?" was the next question. "Their aim and
object," he answered, "was that of doing the duty which every man owes
to his fellows, and they succeeded in doing it;--what room further for
feelings of resentment?" The questioner on coming out said, "The Master
does not take his part."

"With a meal of coarse rice," said the Master, "and with water to drink,
and my bent arm for my pillow--even thus I can find happiness. Riches
and honors without righteousness are to me as fleeting clouds."

"Give me several years more to live," said he, "and after fifty years'
study of the 'Book of Changes' I might come to be free from serious
error."

The Master's regular subjects of discourse were the "Books of the Odes"
and "History," and the up-keeping of the Rules of Propriety. On all of
these he regularly discoursed.

The Duke of Shih questioned Tsz-lu about Confucius, and the latter did
not answer.

Hearing of this, the Master said, "Why did you not say, He is a man with
a mind so intent on his pursuits that he forgets his food, and finds
such pleasure in them that he forgets his troubles, and does not know
that old age is coming upon him?"

"As I came not into life with any knowledge of it," he said, "and as my
likings are for what is old, I busy myself in seeking knowledge there."

Strange occurrences, exploits of strength, deeds of lawlessness,
references to spiritual beings--such-like matters the Master avoided in
conversation.

"Let there," he said, "be three men walking together: from that number I
should be sure to find my instructors; for what is good in them I should
choose out and follow, and what is not good I should modify."

On one occasion he exclaimed, "Heaven begat Virtue in me; what can man
do unto me?"

To his disciples he once said, "Do you look upon me, my sons, as keeping
anything secret from you? I hide nothing from you. I do nothing that is
not manifest to your eyes, my disciples. That is so with me."

Four things there were which he kept in view in his
teaching--scholarliness, conduct of life, honesty, faithfulness.

"It is not given to me," he said, "to meet with a sage; let me but
behold a man of superior mind, and that will suffice. Neither is it
given to me to meet with a good man; let me but see a man of constancy,
and it will suffice. It is difficult for persons to have constancy, when
they pretend to have that which they are destitute of, to be full when
they are empty, to do things on a grand scale when their means are
contracted!"

When the Master fished with hook and line, he did not also use a net.
When out with his bow, he would never shoot at game in cover.

"Some there may be," said he, "who do things in ignorance of what they
do. I am not of these. There is an alternative way of knowing things,
viz.--to sift out the good from the many things one hears, and follow
it; and to keep in memory the many things one sees."

Pupils from Hu-hiang were difficult to speak with. One youth came to
interview the Master, and the disciples were in doubt whether he ought
to have been seen. "Why so much ado," said the Master, "at my merely
permitting his approach, and not rather at my allowing him to draw back?
If a man have cleansed himself in order to come and see me, I receive
him as such; but I do not undertake for what he will do when he goes
away."

"Is the philanthropic spirit far to seek, indeed?" the Master exclaimed;
"I wish for it, and it is with me!"

The Minister of Crime in the State of Ch'in asked Confucius whether Duke
Ch'an, of Lu was acquainted with the Proprieties; and he answered, "Yes,
he knows them."

When Confucius had withdrawn, the minister bowed to Wu-ma K'i, a
disciple, and motioned to him to come forward. He said, "I have heard
that superior men show no partiality; are they, too, then, partial? That
prince took for his wife a lady of the Wu family, having the same
surname as himself, and had her named 'Lady Tsz of Wu, the elder,' If he
knows the Proprieties, then who does not?"

The disciple reported this to the Master, who thereupon remarked, "Well
for me! If I err in any way, others are sure to know of it."

When the Master was in company with any one who sang, and who sang well,
he must needs have the song over again, and after that would join in it.

"Although in letters," he said, "I may have none to compare with me, yet
in my personification of the 'superior man' I have not as yet been
successful."

"'A Sage and a Philanthropist?' How should I have the ambition?" said
he. "All that I can well be called is this--An insatiable student, an
unwearied teacher;--this, and no more."--"Exactly what we, your
disciples, cannot by any learning manage to be," said Kung-si Hwa.

Once when the Master was seriously ill, Tsz-lu requested to be allowed
to say prayers for him. "Are such available?" asked the Master. "Yes,"
said he; "and the Manual of Prayers says, 'Pray to the spirits above and
to those here below,'"

"My praying has been going on a long while," said the Master.

"Lavish living," he said, "renders men disorderly; miserliness makes
them hard. Better, however, the hard than the disorderly."

Again, "The man of superior mind is placidly composed; the small-minded
man is in a constant state of perturbation."

The Master was gentle, yet could be severe; had an over-awing presence,
yet was not violent; was deferential, yet easy.


[Footnote 16: In reference to his editing the six Classics of his time.]

[Footnote 17: This was one of his "beloved ancients," famous for what he
did in helping to found the dynasty of Chow, a man of great political
wisdom, a scholar also, and poet. It was the "dream" of Confucius's life
to restore the country to the condition in which the Duke of Chow left
it.]

[Footnote 18: These were six in number, viz.: Ceremonial, Music,
Archery, Horsemanship, Language, and Calculation.]

[Footnote 19: Lit., three forces. Each force consisted of 12,500 men,
and three of such forces were the equipment of a greater State.]


BOOK VIII

Sayings of Tsang--Sentences of the Master


Speaking of T'ai-pih the Master said that he might be pronounced a man
of the highest moral excellence; for he allowed the empire to pass by
him onwards to a third heir; while the people, in their ignorance of his
motives, were unable to admire him for so doing.

"Without the Proprieties," said the Master, "we have these results: for
deferential demeanor, a worried one; for calm attentiveness, awkward
bashfulness; for manly conduct, disorderliness; for straightforwardness,
perversity.

"When men of rank show genuine care for those nearest to them in blood,
the people rise to the duty of neighborliness and sociability. And when
old friendships among them are not allowed to fall off, there will be a
cessation of underhand practices among the people."

The Scholar Tsang was once unwell, and calling his pupils to him he said
to them, "Disclose to view my feet and my hands. What says the Ode?--

  'Act as from a sense of danger,
    With precaution and with care,
  As a yawning gulf o'erlooking,
    As on ice that scarce will bear,'

At all times, my children, I know how to keep myself free from bodily
harm."

Again, during an illness of his, Mang King, an official, went to ask
after him. The Scholar had some conversation with him, in the course of
which he said--

  "'Doleful the cries of a dying bird,
      Good the last words of a dying man,'

There are three points which a man of rank in the management of his
duties should set store upon:--A lively manner and deportment, banishing
both severity and laxity; a frank and open expression of countenance,
allied closely with sincerity; and a tone in his utterances utterly free
from any approach to vulgarity and impropriety. As to matters of bowls
and dishes, leave such things to those who are charged with the care of
them."

Another saying of the Scholar Tsang: "I once had a friend who, though he
possessed ability, would go questioning men of none, and, though
surrounded by numbers, would go with his questions to isolated
individuals; who also, whatever he might have, appeared as if he were
without it, and, with all his substantial acquirements, made as though
his mind were a mere blank; and when insulted would not retaliate;--this
was ever his way."

Again he said: "The man that is capable of being intrusted with the
charge of a minor on the throne, and given authority over a large
territory, and who, during the important term of his superintendence
cannot be forced out of his position, is not such a 'superior man'? That
he is, indeed."

Again:--"The learned official must not be without breadth and power of
endurance: the burden is heavy, and the way is long.

"Suppose that he take his duty to his fellow-men as his peculiar burden,
is that not indeed a heavy one? And since only with death it is done
with, is not the way long?"


Sentences of the Master:--

"From the 'Book of Odes' we receive impulses; from the 'Book of the
Rules,' stability; from the 'Book on Music,' refinement. [20]

"The people may be put into the way they should go, though they may not
be put into the way of understanding it.

"The man who likes bravery, and yet groans under poverty, has mischief
in him. So, too, has the misanthrope, groaning at any severity shown
towards him.

"Even if a person were adorned with the gifts of the Duke of Chow, yet
if he were proud and avaricious, all the rest of his qualities would not
indeed be worth looking at.

"Not easily found is the man who, after three years' study, has failed
to come upon some fruit of his toil.

"The really faithful lover of learning holds fast to the Good Way till
death.

"He will not go into a State in which a downfall is imminent, nor take
up his abode in one where disorder reigns. When the empire is well
ordered he will show himself; when not, he will hide himself away. Under
a good government it will be a disgrace to him if he remain in poverty
and low estate; under a bad one, it would be equally disgraceful to him
to hold riches and honors.

"If not occupying the office, devise not the policy.

"When the professor Chi began his duties, how grand the finale of the
First of the Odes used to be! How it rang in one's ears!

"I cannot understand persons who are enthusiastic and yet not
straightforward; nor those who are ignorant and yet not attentive; nor
again those folks who are simple-minded and yet untrue.

"Learn, as if never overtaking your object, and yet as if apprehensive
of losing it.

"How sublime was the handling of the empire by Shun and Yu!--it was as
nothing to them!

"How great was Yau as a prince! Was he not sublime! Say that Heaven only
is great, then was Yau alone after its pattern! How profound was he! The
people could not find a name for him. How sublime in his achievements!
How brilliant in his scholarly productions!"


Shun had for his ministers five men, by whom he ordered the empire.

King Wu (in his day) stated that he had ten men as assistants for the
promotion of order.

With reference to these facts Confucius observed, "Ability is hard to
find. Is it not so indeed? During the three years' interregnum between
Yau and Shun there was more of it than in the interval before this
present dynasty appeared. First Citizens. Danton was among us on 10 August,
Danton was among us in September.

Where were the people who have accused him? Second citizens. And
Lafayette was with you in Versailles and was a traitor. First Citizens.
Who said that Danton was a traitor? Second citizens. Robespierre.

First Citizens. And Robespierre is a traitor! Second citizen. Who
said that? First Citizens. Danton. Second citizen. Danton has
beautiful dresses, Danton has a nice house, Danton has a beautiful wife,
he is bathed in burgundy, eats the game of silver plates and sleeps with
women and your daughters, if he is drunk. - Danton was
poor like her. How has he done?

The veto has bought him, so he gave him the crown rescue. The Duke of
Orléans, he has a gift, so he gave him the crown steal.

The stranger has given him so that he tell you all. - What did
Robespierre?

The virtuous Robespierre! You know it all.

All. Vive Robespierre! Down with Danton! Down with the traitors! Fourth
First Nude Scene Room Julie.

A boy. Julie. It is made of. They trembled before him. They kill him
from fear. Go! I met him for the last time seen, tell him that I could
not see him.

(They give him a lock.) Da, making him and tell him he would not go
alone - he understands me now. And then quickly back, I want his eyes
from your eyes to read.

The second scene A street Dumas. A citizen. Citizens. How can you after
such an interrogation so much condemn the innocent to death? Dumas.
This is indeed extremely, but the revolution men have a sense of
other people missing, and this sense they can never be deceptive.

Citizen. This is the meaning of the tiger. - You have a wife. Dumas. I
will soon have one. Citizens. So is it true? Dumas. The revolutionary
court will pronounce the divorce, the guillotine will allow us to
separate table and bed.

Citizens. You're a monster! Dumas . nitwit! You admire Brutus? Citizens.
From all your soul. Dumas.

Must be because the Roman Consul, and his head with the toga disguise, to
prefer his fatherland to sacrifice? I'm going to get the eyes with
the sleeve of my red dress wipe, which is the whole difference. Citizens.
This is horrible! Dumas. Go, you understand me! (You go from.) The
third scene Conciergerie Lacroix, Hérault on a bed, Danton, Camille on
one another.

Lacroix. The hairs grow, and so the nails, you must be really ashamed.
Hérault. Take a little in eight You sneeze to me the whole face
full of sand!

Lacroix. And I do not get it on the feet, Best, I have corns!
Hérault. They suffer even more vermin. Lacroix. Oh, if I only once
the worms would be throughout los!

Hérault. Well, you sleep well! we have to see how we cope with each other,
we have little space. - Scrape me with your nails while you sleep! - So!
So you do not tug on Leichtuch, it's cold down there! - Danton. Yes,
Camille, tomorrow we are durchgelaufne shoes that you beggar the
soil in the womb raises.

Camille. The cow, which according to Plato, the angels cut slippers and
so on Earth herumtappen. But it is also thereafter. - My Lucile!
Danton. Be quiet, my boy! Camille.

Can I? Do you think Danton? Can I? You can use the hands to not
put it! The light of beauty, from her sweet body is ausgießt is
unquenchable. Look, the earth would not dare to spill it, they would have
to bend it, the grave Dunst would like dew on her lashes sparkle,
crystals would like their flowers to sprout limbs and light sources
in sleep they mumble.

Danton. Sleep, my boy, sleep! Camille. Listen, Danton, among us, it's
so miserable, die. It also helps to nothing.

I want the life of the last glances from his pretty eyes steal, I
will have your eyes open. Danton. You will keep it open anyway, Samson
expresses one's eyes not to be. The sleep is merciful. Sleep, my boy,
sleep! Camille.

Lucile, fantasize your kisses on my lips, each kiss is a dream, my
eyes fall and close it securely. - Danton. Will because the clock does
not lie? With each push them pecking the walls close around me, until
they are so narrow like a coffin. - I read once as a child, so 'ne
story, my hair stood up in the mountains. Yes, as a child! "That was worth
the trouble, so great to me and fed me to keep warm. But working
for the gravedigger, it gives me, as röch 'I know. My dear body, I
want my nose and I imagine you seist a women's room, which the dance
and sweat stinks, and-like you say.

We have otherwise been more interconnected distributed time.
Tomorrow you're a broken fiddle, the tune that is played. Tomorrow
you have an empty bottle, the wine is ausgetrunken, but I did not rush
them sober and go to bed - these are lucky people who can still drunk.'re
Morning you have a durchgerutschte trousers, you will be thrown
into the wardrobe, and the moths will eat thee, thou mayest stink as
you like. Oh, that helps nothing! Yep, it is so miserable, die. The
death äfft birth, the dying, we are so helpless and naked as neugeborne
children.

Of course, we get the diaper to shroud. What will it help? We can
be in the grave as well as whimper in the cradle. Camille! He's asleep,
(he bent over him:) a dream to play between his eyelashes. I want
the golden dew of sleep, he does not strip from the eyes (He rises
and comes out of windows.)

I will not go alone: I thank you, Julie!

but otherwise I would like to die so easily, like a star falls,
like a clay itself grounds, with the suitable rotküßt lips, like a
ray of light in clear waters to bury. - What are the tears shimmering
stars through the night blown up, it must be a great pity in the
eyes, from which they abträufelten.

Camille. Oh! (He has been up and groping under the ceiling.) Danton.
What did you, Camille?

Camille. Oh, oh! Danton (shaking him). If you want the ceiling
herunterkratzen? Camille. Oh, du, du - o keep me posted! Speak, thou!
Danton. bebst you to all members, the weld is you on the forehead.

Camille. The art thou, that I - so! This is my hand! Yes! I now reflect.
O Danton, that was horrible! Danton. What then? Camille. I lay it
between dream and wakefulness. Since the ceiling disappeared, and the
moon sank in, very close, very tight, my arms covered him. The celestial
ceiling, with its lights had been lowered, I came out, I betastete
the stars, I stumbled like a drowning under the ice.

That was horrible, Danton! Danton. The lamp casts a circular note to
the ceiling, which saw Camille du.

I am concerned, it needs not much grade, in order to lose the little
sense to make.

The madness took me about your hair. (He rises.) I might not sleep
anymore, I might not be crazy. (He reaches for a book.)

Danton. What you take? Camille. The night thoughts. Danton. If you want
to advance to die? I accept the Pucelle. I want out of life is not
like the Betstuhl, but out of bed like a merciful sister away.

It is a whore, it is pushing with the whole world fornication. Fourth
place before the scene A Conciergerie NO.

Two carts with carters. Weiber. NO. Herfahren Who told you? First Fuhrmann.
Herfahren I'm not, this is a strange name.

NO. Dullard who has sent you to the appointment where? First Fuhrmann.
I have no stabling to get nothing than ten sous for the head.

Second Fuhrmann. The villain wants to bring me around bread. First Fuhrmann.
What you call your bread? (On the windows of the prisoners significantly:)
This is Wurmfraß. Second Fuhrmann. My children are also worms, and also
want their share of it.

Oh, it goes bad with our profession, and yet we are the best carters.
First Fuhrmann. How? Second Fuhrmann. Who is the best wagoner? First
Fuhrmann. The farthest and fastest drives. Second Fuhrmann. Now,
donkeys, who goes further than the leaves from the world, and who
runs faster than the 's in an hour is doing? Precisely measured, it's a
quarter of an hour from then until the Revolution Square.

NO. Rasch, you rascal! Closer to the gate; place because their girl!

First Fuhrmann. Halt't your front! To take a girl go nit around,
always in the Mitt 'no.

Second Fuhrmann.

Yes, I think: you can with wheelbarrows and Gäulen inside, you find
good tracks, but you need to be quarantined, if you herauskommst.

(You before driving.) Second Fuhrmann. (for women). gafft What you think?
A woman. We are waiting for old customers. Second Fuhrmann. Do you, my
cart would be 'a brothel?

He is a decent carts, he has the king and all the gentlemen from
Paris to table driven.

  Lucile (occurs. It sits on a
  stone under the windows of the prisoners).

Camille, Camille! (Camille appears at the window.) Hear, Camille, you
make me laugh with a long stone rock and iron the front of the
face mask, you can not bend over?

Where are your arms? - I want to entice you, dear bird. (Sing:) We stand
two Sternlein in the sky, brighter bills than the Moon, The one
'seems to Feinsliebchens window, the other in front of the chamber.

Come, come, my friend! Quiet up the Force, they all sleep. The
moon helps me a long wait.

But you can not come to the gate, that is an unfortunate
costume. That is too much for the fun, make an end! You rührst
you do not, why do not you speak? You make me afraid. Listen!
People say that you have to die, and so to make serious
faces. Die! I have to laugh on their faces.

  Death! What is that a word? Tell me,
    Camille. Die! I want to think
  about. Da, da ist's. I want him to run, come,
    sweet friend, help me catch it, come!

come! (She runs away.) Camille (calls). Lucile! Lucile! Fifth Conciergerie
Danton The scene at a window, which goes into the next room.

Camille. Philippeau. Lacroix. Hérault. Danton. You are now quiet, Fabre.
A voice (from inside). On dying. Danton. Do you know what we are now?
The Voice. Now? Danton. What you your whole life to have - the vers.
Camille (for themselves). The madness sat behind her eyes. There are
already more people become crazy, this is the race in the world. What
can we do? We wash our hands -. It is also better this way. Danton. I
put everything in a terrible confusion.

Nobody understands governance.

It might still go, if I Robespierre Couthon my bitch and my left
calf.

Lacroix. We should have the freedom to whore done! Danton. What would
do it too! The freedom and a whore, the most cosmopolitan of things
under the sun.

It is now in the bedroom of decency advocates of Arras prostitute. But I
think they will Klytämnestra play against him, I do not leave him
six months time, I prefer him with me.

Camille (for themselves). The sky in helping her to a comfortable fixed
idea. The general fixed ideas, which we christened the healthy sense,
are unbearably boring.

The happiest man was the one who could imagine that he is God the
Father, Son and Holy Spirit is. Lacroix.

The donkey will be screaming "Long live the Republic" if we go past.
Danton. What is it? The Sündflut the Revolution may sell our bodies, where
they will, with our fossil bones will still be kings of all the
skull can have.

Hérault. Yes, if just for our Simson Kinnbacken found. Danton. You
are Kainsbrüder. Lacroix. Nothing proves more that Robespierre is a
Nero, as the fact that he never friendly against Camille was two
days before his arrest. Is it not so, Camille?

Camille. I am concerned, what does that to me? - (For itself:) What they
are to the madness a lovely child is born! Why must I continue?

We would have laughed along with him, and kissed it gewiegt. Danton.
Once the story opens its sepulchers, the despotism still on the scent of
our corpses choke. Hérault. Stanke We already sufficiently in his own
lifetime. - These are phrases for posterity, is not it, Danton, we go
there's nothing to it. Camille. He pulls a face, as if it fossilize
and posterity will be excavated as antiquity. The verlohnt also the
effort to make Mäulchen and red and hang up with a good accent to
speak, we should even remove the masks, then we would see, like in
a room with mirrors everywhere only an ancient, toothless,
indestructable sheep's head, nothing more, nothing less.

The differences are not so great, we all are villains and angels, idiots
and geniuses, and all in one: the four things found enough space in
the same body, they are not as wide as you einbildet itself.
Sleeping, digesting, kids - this drive all the other things are just
variations of different scales on the same topic. You need to toes and
faces to be cut, because you need to be embarrassed in front! We are
all sick at the same tables and have eaten body Grimmen, what do
you think you the napkin in front of the face?

Schreit greint only and, as you arrive! Cuts just not so virtuous and
so funny and so heroic and so ingenious grimaces, yes we know each each
other, saving you the trouble! Hérault. Yes, Camille, we want to
scream and beieinandersetzen; nothing stupid, when the lips compress when
a what hurts. - Greeks and the gods cried, Romans, and made the
heroic stoic grimace.

Danton. Some were as good as the others epicureans. They made a
very comfortable self-esteem to cope. It is not so bad, his toga to drape
and look around, whether it poses a long shadow.

What should we pull? Whether we turn to bay leaves, rose vine wreaths or
tie against the shame or the ugly thing and it shall be open to us by
the dogs can lick? Philippeau. My friends, you need not just high above
the earth, in order of all the confusing wavering fibrillation, and
nothing more to see and the eyes of some great divine lines have to
be met. There is an ear, for which the mix of screaming and Zeter to
stun us, a stream of harmonies are. Danton. But we are poor musicians
and the instruments of our body. Are the horrid sounds which herausgepfuscht
on them, only there to higher and higher and finally urged softly voluptuous
verhallend like a breath in the heavenly ears to die? Hérault. Are we
such pigs, that can be used for boards with princely Ruten totpeitscht
so that their meat will be tastier? Danton. Are we children who in the
glowing Molochsarmen this world fried and tickled with light, so that
the gods are laughing about her look? Camille. Is the airwaves with his
golden eyes a bowl with golden carp, at the table of the blessed gods,
and the blessed gods laugh forever and the fish die forever, and
the gods enjoy forever the colors of the death struggle?

Danton. The world is chaos. The Nothing is born of God over the world.
(The NO contact occurs.) NO. Gentlemen, you can leave the car stop in
front of the door. Philippeau. Good night, my friends! Do we still see
the huge blanket over us, covering all heart and all eyes turn behind.
(They hug each other.) Hérault. (adds Camille arm). Rejoice, Camille,
we get a nice night. The clouds hang on the quiet evening sky like
a fade annealing with Olympus, the gods sinking figures. (You go from.)
Sixth Julie A bedroom scene. The people ran in the streets, now
everything is quiet. Not a moment, I would let him wait. (It draws a
clear vial.) Come, dear priests, whose Amen us go to bed making. (It
occurs to the window.) It's so pretty, to say goodbye, I had the door
just behind me in it. (She drinks.) One would always stand. - The sun
is down, the earth moves were so sharp in their light, but now her
face is so quiet and serious as a dying man. - How beautiful the evening
light to her forehead and cheeks plays. - Always Bleicher Bleicher
and it will be like a corpse pushes them down in the flood of the
ether.

[Footnote 22: Because, it is said, such colors were adopted in fasting
and mourning.]

[Footnote 23: Because they did not belong to the five correct colors
(viz. green, yellow, carnation, white, and black), and were affected
more by females.]

[Footnote 24: Since white was, as it is still, the mourning color.]

[Footnote 25: The act of "grace," before eating.]


BOOK XI

Comparative Worth of His Disciples


"The first to make progress in the Proprieties and in Music," said the
Master, "are plain countrymen; after them, the men of higher standing.
If I had to employ any of them, I should stand by the former."

"Of those," said he, "who were about me when I was in the Ch'in and
Ts'ai States, not one now is left to approach my door."

"As for Hwui," [26] said the Master, "he is not one to help me on: there
is nothing I say but he is not well satisfied with."

"What a dutiful son was Min Tsz-k'ien!" he exclaimed. "No one finds
occasion to differ from what his parents and brothers have said of him."

Nan Yung used to repeat three times over the lines in the Odes about the
white sceptre. Confucius caused his own elder brother's daughter to be
given in marriage to him.

When Ki K'ang inquired which of the disciples were fond of learning,
Confucius answered him, "There was one Yen Hwúi who was fond of it; but
unfortunately his allotted time was short, and he died; and now his like
is not to be found."

When Yen Yuen died, his father, Yen Lu, begged for the Master's carriage
in order to get a shell for his coffin. "Ability or no ability," said
the Master, "every father still speaks of 'my son.' When my own son Li
died, and the coffin for him had no shell to it, I know I did not go on
foot to get him one; but that was because I was, though retired, in the
wake of the ministers, and could not therefore well do so."

On the death of Yen Yuen the Master exclaimed, "Ah me! Heaven is ruining
me, Heaven is ruining me!"

On the same occasion, his wailing for that disciple becoming excessive,
those who were about him said, "Sir, this is too much!"--"Too much?"
said he; "if I am not to do so for him, then--for whom else?"

The disciples then wished for the deceased a grand funeral. The Master
could not on his part consent to this. They nevertheless gave him one.
Upon this he remarked, "He used to look upon me as if I were his father.
I could never, however, look on him as a son. Twas not my mistake, but
yours, my children."

Tsz-lu propounded a question about ministering to the spirits of the
departed. The Master replied, "Where there is scarcely the ability to
minister to living men, how shall there be ability to minister to the
spirits?" On his venturing to put a question concerning death, he
answered, "Where there is scarcely any knowledge about life, how shall
there be any about death?"

The disciple Min was by his side, looking affable and bland; Tsz-lu
also, looking careless and intrepid; and Yen Yu and Tsz-kung, firm and
precise. The Master was cheery. "One like Tsz-lu there," said he, "does
not come to a natural end."

Some persons in Lu were taking measures in regard to the Long Treasury
House. Min Tsz-k'ien observed, "How if it were repaired on the old
lines?" The Master upon this remarked, "This fellow is not a talker, but
when he does speak he is bound to hit the mark!"

"There is Yu's harpsichord," exclaimed the Master--"what is it doing at
my door?" On seeing, however, some disrespect shown to him by the other
disciples, he added, "Yu has got as far as the top of the hall; only he
has not yet entered the house."

Tsz-kung asked which was the worthier of the two--Tsz-chang or Tsz-hiá.
"The former," answered the Master, "goes beyond the mark; the latter
falls short of it."

"So then Tsz-chang is the better of the two, is he?" said he.

"To go too far," he replied, "is about the same as to fall short."

The Chief of the Ki family was a wealthier man than the Duke of Chow had
been, and yet Yen Yu gathered and hoarded for him, increasing his wealth
more and more.

"He is no follower of mine," said the Master. "It would serve him right,
my children, to sound the drum, and set upon him."

Characteristics of four disciples:--Tsz-káu was simple-minded; Tsang Si,
a dullard; Tsz-chang, full of airs; Tsz-lu, rough.

"As to Hwúi," said the Master, "he comes near to perfection, while
frequently in great want. Tsz-kung does not submit to the appointments
of Heaven; and yet his goods are increased;--he is often successful in
his calculations."

Tsz-chang wanted to know some marks of the naturally Good Man.

"He does not walk in others' footprints," said the Master; "yet he does
not get beyond the hall into the house."

Once the Master said, "Because we allow that a man's words have
something genuine in them, are they necessarily those of a superior man?
or words carrying only an outward semblance and show of gravity?"

Tsz-lu put a question about the practice of precepts one has heard. The
Master's reply was, "In a case where there is a father or elder brother
still left with you, how should you practise all you hear?"

When, however, the same question was put to him by Yen Yu, his reply
was, "Yes; do so."

Kung-si Hwa animadverted upon this to the Master. "Tsz-lu asked you,
sir," said he, "about the practice of what one has learnt, and you said,
'There may be a father or elder brother still alive'; but when Yen Yu
asked the same question, you answered, 'Yes, do so.' You go? Danton (to
Julie).

I must continue, they write me with their policies still. - (In
Hinausgehn:) Between the door and Angel I will prophesy unto you: the
statue of liberty is not yet cast, the stove glows, we can all
still be burning the fingers.

(Ab) Camille. Let him! Believe her, he could steer clear of it when it
comes to action ways; the point? Hérault. Yes, but just for entertainment,
how to play chess. Second Scene One lane Simon. His wife. Simon (the
woman proposing).

Kuppelpelz you, you wrinkled Sublimatpille, you sin apple worm! Wife.
He, Hülfe! Hülfe! (There are people gone.) People. Tear it apart, tear
them apart! Simon. No, leave me, Romans! I want to smash this skeleton!
Those whom we call 'great ministers'
are such as serve their prince conscientiously, and who, when they
cannot do so, retire. At present, as regards the two you ask about, they
may be called 'qualified ministers.'"

"Well, are they then," he asked, "such as will follow their leader?"

"They would not follow him who should slay his father and his prince!"
was the reply.

Through the intervention of Tsz-lu, Tsz-kau was being appointed governor
of Pi.

"You are spoiling a good man's son," said the Master.

Tsz-lu rejoined, "But he will have the people and their superiors to
gain experience from, and there will be the altars; what need to read
books? He can become a student afterwards."

"Here is the reason for my hatred of glib-tongued people," said the
Master.

As they fell, that the annual sacrifices, which they owed the tyrischen
Melkarth, not yet sent Phenicia had. Tremendous terror seized them.
Apparently the angry gods of the Republic and wanted revenge thorough
practice. You saw in the gods cruel men, obtained by the prayers and
pacify Weihgeschenke won.

All but were powerless against Moloch, the swallow. Life, even the flesh
of the people belonged to him. Therefore, it was customary for
the Carthaginians, a part of him to sacrifice in order to breast feed
their greed. It burned to the children on the forehead or the nape
characters, and since these symbolic nature, Baal to satisfy the
priests eintrug much money, so they are not misguided, this light
and mild way höchlichst recommended.

This time, however, it was the salvation of the republic.

Since any advantage by any loss to be bought and every contract based
on the needs of the weaker and the call of the jungle governs, it was
for God, the most horrendous and had to delight in his hand is
now completely was no sacrifice too great be. We had enough to satisfy
Molech.

Examples demonstrated that the evil will cease.

Moreover, we believed, would sacrifice a burnt Carthage entsühnen. The
wild instincts of the people suggested immediately. Also had the
choice of the victim only patrician families. The elderly gathered.
The meeting lasted long. Also Hanno attended.

Since he no longer could sit, he stood by the door, from the fringes
of the high curtain half hides.

As a high priest of Moloch asked whether you would be willing to
sacrifice the children, because suddenly yell Hannos voice from the
darkness like the roar an evil spirit from a deep cave. He regretted, he
said, no children to sacrifice their own blood to be able to. They
squinted at it Hamilkar to him over at the other end of the hall
sat. The Suffet was by this sight so confused that he had the eyes rate.
All said the question of the Upper Priest sequentially by nodding. Hamilkar
also had to respond in accordance with the custom: "Yes, so be it!"
Then the elders ordered the victim to a traditional definition,
because there are things that are harder to pronounce than to execute
.

The decision was almost immediately known in Carthage. Wehgeschrei yell.
Everywhere one heard the women complain.

The men comforted or turn them and talked to them. Three hours later, a
new spread important message: the Suffet had at the foot of the steep
coastal sources found. We hurried out. The sands were holes dug. Water
is standing, and already people were flat on your belly and drank
it.

Hamilkar knew not even whether this is an enlightenment by the gods
or the dark memories of a confidential communication was that his
father had done.

When he left the ancients, he went to the beach and had begun with
his slaves, the sand aufzuscharren. He had garments, shoes and wine
are distributed.

He gave out the last grain, which he still possessed.

He got the crowd even in his palace, and opened the kitchen, the pantries,
and all chambers except those Salambos.

He announced that six thousand Gallic mercenaries were underway and
that the king of Macedonia auxiliary send troops.

But on the second day began to subside sources, and on the evening of
the third, they were completely dry. Since ran the command again
of the ancients from mouth to mouth, and now Molochpriester went
to their work.

Men in black robes appeared in the houses and palaces. Many people
had previously abandoned by a store or an errand vorschützten. The
Molech were ruthless henchmen and took the children. Some gave them
dull yourself.

They led the children to the temple of Tanit, whose priestesses it was
for them until the day of the ceremony to amuse and to feed.

It was also Hamilkar and found him in his garden. "Barkas! We are coming.
You know why ... Your son ...

"They added, in the past month was the little Hannibal in the Strait
of Mappalier been seen.

When you are making use of
the common people (for State purposes), be as if you were taking part in
a great religious function. Do not set before others what you do not
desire yourself. Let there be no resentful feelings against you when you
are away in the country, and none when at home."

"I may lack diligence," said Chung-kung, "but with your favor I will
endeavor to carry out this advice."

Sz-ma Niu asked the like question. The answer he received was this: "The
words of the man who has a proper regard for his fellows are uttered
with difficulty."

"'His words--uttered with difficulty?'" he echoed, in surprise. "Is that
what is meant by proper regard for one's fellow-creatures?"

"Where there is difficulty in doing," the Master replied, "will there
not be some difficulty in utterance?"

The same disciple put a question about the "superior man." "Superior
men," he replied, "are free from trouble and apprehension."

"'Free from trouble and apprehension!'" said he. "Does that make them
'superior men'?"

The Master added, "Where there is found, upon introspection, to be no
chronic disease, how shall there be any trouble? how shall there be any
apprehension?"

The same disciple, being in trouble, remarked, "I am alone in having no
brother, while all else have theirs--younger or elder."

Tsz-hiá said to him, "I have heard this: 'Death and life have destined
times; wealth and honors rest with Heaven. Let the superior man keep
watch over himself without ceasing, showing deference to others, with
propriety of manners--and all within the four seas will be his brethren.
How should he be distressed for lack of brothers!'" [29]

Tsz-chang asked what sort of man might be termed "enlightened."

The Master replied, "That man with whom drenching slander and cutting
calumny gain no currency may well be called enlightened. Ay, he with
whom such things make no way may well be called enlightened in the
extreme."

Tsz-kung put a question relative to government. In reply the Master
mentioned three essentials:--sufficient food, sufficient armament, and
the people's confidence.

"But," said the disciple, "if you cannot really have all three, and one
has to be given up, which would you give up first?"

"The armament," he replied.

"And if you are obliged to give up one of the remaining two, which would
it be?"

"The food," said he. "Death has been the portion of all men from of old.
Without the people's trust nothing can stand."

Kih Tsz-shing once said, "Give me the inborn qualities of a gentleman,
and I want no more. How are such to come from book-learning?"

Tsz-kung exclaimed, "Ah! sir, I regret to hear such words from you. A
gentleman!--But 'a team of four can ne'er o'er-take the tongue!'
Literary accomplishments are much the same as inborn qualities, and
inborn qualities as literary accomplishments. A tiger's or leopard's
skin without the hair might be a dog's or sheep's when so made bare."

Duke Ngai was consulting Yu Joh. Said he, "It is a year of dearth, and
there is an insufficiency for Ways and Means--what am I to do?"

"Why not apply the Tithing Statute?" said the minister.

"But two tithings would not be enough for my purposes," said the duke;
"what would be the good of applying the Statute?"

The minister replied, "So long as the people have enough left for
themselves, who of them will allow their prince to be without enough?
But--when the people have not enough, who will allow their prince all
that he wants?"

Tsz-chang was asking how the standard of virtue was to be raised, and
how to discern what was illusory or misleading. The Master's answer was,
"Give a foremost place to honesty and faithfulness, and tread the path
of righteousness, and you will raise the standard of virtue. As to
discerning what is illusory, here is an example of an illusion:--Whom
you love you wish to live; whom you hate you wish to die. To have wished
the same person to live and also to be dead--there is an illusion for
you."

Duke King of Ts'i consulted Confucius about government. His answer was,
"Let a prince be a prince, and ministers be ministers; let fathers be
fathers, and sons be sons."

"Good!" exclaimed the duke; "truly if a prince fail to be a prince, and
ministers to be ministers, and if fathers be not fathers, and sons not
sons, then, even though I may have my allowance of grain, should I ever
be able to relish it?"

"The man to decide a cause with half a word," exclaimed the Master, "is
Tsz-lu!"

Tsz-lu never let a night pass between promise and performance.

"In hearing causes, I am like other men," said the Master. "The great
point is--to prevent litigation."

Tsz-chang having raised some question about government, the Master said
to him, "In the settlement of its principles be unwearied; in its
administration--see to that loyally."

"The man of wide research," said he, "who also restrains himself by the
Rules of Propriety, is not likely to transgress."

Again, "The noble-minded man makes the most of others' good qualities,
not the worst of their bad ones. Men of small mind do the reverse of
this."

Ki K'ang was consulting him about the direction of public affairs.
Confucius answered him, "A director should be himself correct. If you,
sir, as a leader show correctness, who will dare not to be correct?"

Ki K'ang, being much troubled on account of robbers abroad, consulted
Confucius on the matter. He received this reply: "If you, sir, were not
covetous, neither would they steal, even were you to bribe them to do
so."

Ki K'ang, when consulting Confucius about the government, said, "Suppose
I were to put to death the disorderly for the better encouragement of
the orderly--what say you to that?"

Robespierre. The social revolution is not finished yet, but if you
are a revolution to half finished digging his grave itself. The good
society is not yet dead, the force healthy people must take the place
of these in all directions abgekitzelten class set. The truck must
be punished, virtue must be approved by the terror reign.

Danton. I understand the word no penalty. - With your virtue, Robespierre!
You've made no money, you have no debt, you have slept with any
woman you've ever worn a decent rock and never drunk.

Robespierre, thou art righteous outrage. I would be ashamed, thirty
years with the same Moralphysiognomie between heaven and earth
running around just for the sake of miserable pleasure's sake,
others worse off than me. - Is there nothing in you, what you
sometimes not softly, secretly said, you lie, you lie!?

Robespierre. My conscience is clear. Danton. The conscience is a
reflection, in which a monkey is tormented; each cleans itself,
as he can, and goes on his own to sort out its fun.

This is worth the trouble themselves about it in the hair to lie! Everybody
likes to fight when else it spoils the fun. Do you have the right, from
the guillotine tub washing dirty laundry for other people and from
their severed heads spot balls for their dirty clothes to make,
because you always have a clean brushed skirt wearing? Yes, you can
defend yourself if they spit on it or tear holes into it, but what
is it you, as long as they leave you in peace? If they are not
embarrassed, so herumzugehn, you have therefore the right, into the
grave hole they block? Are you the police soldier of the sky?

And you can not put it mitansehn well as your dear Lord, so keep thy
handkerchief before his eyes. Robespierre. You deny the virtue? Danton.
And vice.
Asked by him again what was meant by wisdom, he replied, "It is
knowledge of man."

Fan Ch'i did not quite grasp his meaning.

The Master went on to say, "Lift up the straight, set aside the crooked,
so can you make the crooked straight."

Fan Ch'i left him, and meeting with Tsz-hiá he said, "I had an interview
just now with the Master, and I asked him what wisdom was. In his answer
he said, 'Lift up the straight, set aside the crooked, and so can you
make the crooked straight.' What was his meaning?"

"Ah! words rich in meaning, those," said the other. "When Shun was
emperor, and was selecting his men from among the multitude, he 'lifted
up' Káu-yáu; and men devoid of right feelings towards their kind went
far away. And when T'ang was emperor, and chose out his men from the
crowd, he 'lifted up' I-yin--with the same result."

Tsz-kung was consulting him about a friend. "Speak to him frankly, and
respectfully," said the Master, "and gently lead him on. If you do not
succeed, then stop; do not submit yourself to indignity."

The learned Tsang observed, "In the society of books the 'superior man'
collects his friends; in the society of his friends he is furthering
good-will among men."


[Footnote 29: From Confucius, it is generally thought.]


BOOK XIII

Answers on the Art of Governing--Consistency


Tsz-lu was asking about government. "Lead the way in it," said the
Master, "and work hard at it."

Requested to say more, he added, "And do not tire of it."

Chung-kung, on being made first minister to the Chief of the Ki family,
consulted the Master about government, and to him he said, "Let the
heads of offices be heads. Excuse small faults. Promote men of sagacity
and talent."

"But," he asked, "how am I to know the sagacious and talented, before
promoting them?"

"Promote those whom you do know," said the Master.

"As to those of whom you are uncertain, will others omit to notice
them?"

Tsz-lu said to the Master, "As the prince of Wei, sir, has been waiting
for you to act for him in his government, what is it your intention to
take in hand first?"

"One thing of necessity," he answered--"the rectification of terms."

"That!" exclaimed Tsz-lu. "How far away you are, sir! Why such
rectification?"

"What a rustic you are, Tsz-lu!" rejoined the Master. "A gentleman would
be a little reserved and reticent in matters which he does not
understand. If terms be incorrect, language will be incongruous; and if
language be incongruous, deeds will be imperfect. So, again, when deeds
are imperfect, propriety and harmony cannot prevail, and when this is
the case laws relating to crime will fail in their aim; and if these
last so fail, the people will not know where to set hand or foot. Hence,
a man of superior mind, certain first of his terms, is fitted to speak;
and being certain of what he says can proceed upon it. In the language
of such a person there is nothing heedlessly irregular--and that is the
sum of the matter."

Fan Ch'i requested that he might learn something of husbandry. "For
that." said the Master, "I am not equal to an old husbandman." Might he
then learn something of gardening? he asked. "I am not equal to an old
gardener." was the reply.

"A man of little mind, that!" said the Master, when Fan Ch'i had gone
out. "Let a man who is set over the people love propriety, and they will
not presume to be disrespectful. Let him be a lover of righteousness,
and they will not presume to be aught but submissive. Let him love
faithfulness and truth, and they will not presume not to lend him their
hearty assistance. Ah, if all this only were so, the people from all
sides would come to such a one, carrying their children on their backs.
What need to turn his hand to husbandry?

"Though a man," said he, "could hum through the Odes--the three
hundred--yet should show himself unskilled when given some
administrative work to do for his country; though he might know much of
that other lore, yet if, when sent on a mission to any quarter, he could
answer no question personally and unaided, what after all is he good
for?

"Let a leader," said he, "show rectitude in his own personal character,
and even without directions from him things will go well. If he be not
personally upright, his directions will not be complied with."

Once he made the remark, "The governments of Lu and of Wei are in
brotherhood."

Of King, a son of the Duke of Wei, he observed that "he managed his
household matters well. On his coming into possession, he thought, 'What
a strange conglomeration!'--Coming to possess a little more, it was,
'Strange, such a result!' And when he became wealthy, 'Strange, such
elegance!'"

The Master was on a journey to Wei, and Yen Yu was driving him. "What
multitudes of people!" he exclaimed. Matho away, he gave a sign, to hurry.
He made the proposal for only a ruse to buy time to win.

The Barbarian deceived themselves.

Hanno was in one of those desperate situations where you no longer
respect.

Moreover Hamilkar hated it so much that it at the slightest hope
of salvation with all its soldiers had sacrificed.

At the foot of the thirty crosses the ancients were half
unconscious on the ground. Already they were under the armpits
cords laid.

As the old Suffet notion that he had to die, and began to cry. It tore
him the remains of his clothes, and his repulsive body came to
light. Fester barely covered the human figure.

The nails of his feet disappeared below the Fettwülsten his legs. At his
fingers like it was greenish cloth, and the tears, the pus bumps
between his cheeks herabrannen lent his face something so horribly
sad that it looked as if they einnähmen more space here than on any
other human face.

His Highness binders had solved half and pulled with fine white hair in
the dust. It was believed that not enough strong cords to have to make
it up on the Cross to be made.

Therefore nailed it before the wood was re-erected after punic Do it firmly.
His pride awoke in pain. He began the barbarians with abusive words to
besiege. He foamed and walked like a sea monster that kills you on the
beach.

He weissagte them that they are all still a lot of terrible perish and
that he would be avenged. He was already there.

On the other side of the city wrestled the ten envoys of mercenaries in
their crosses with death. Some who initially had become powerless,
in a fresh wind came back to himself. But her chin was on the chest,
and her body fell down a little, but her arms a little higher than the
head were angenagelt.

From their heels and hands, the blood ran in thick drops down, slowly,
like ripe fruit from the branches of a tree falling.

Carthage, the Gulf, the mountains and the plains, everything seemed to
them to rotate like a huge wheel whirled Sometimes a dust cloud from
the ground up and wrapped them. Terrible thirst consumed them. The tongue
stuck them on the palate, and she felt an icy sweat of their women
members, while the life slowly fled. Sub, as in infinite depth,
they saw streets, marching soldiers, a flash of swords. Battle noise
penetrated muddled up to them like the sea rush to Shipwrecked,
in the masts of a ship swelter.

The Italic, stronger than the others, nor cried aloud. The Spartiaten
remained silent and kept his eyes closed.

Zarzas, once so powerful, bowed like a creased tube. The Ethiopians
beside him had his head backwards on the crossbeam of the cross is thrown.
Autarit hung motionless, and only rolled her eyes. His long hair,
which is on a chip of wood on his head festgeklemmt had stood
on his forehead high, and the Röcheln that he ausstieß, sounded
almost like Wutgebrüll.

About Spendius was a strange courage came. Now he despised the life
of assurance, and soon forever relieved to be indifferent and he expected
the death.

In the midst of their powerlessness, but the tens sometimes shudders
at the touch of feathers, their faces touched. Large wing fluctuating
shadows cast over them. Croak sounded in the air, and since most Spendius
crosses hung, met the first vulture down on him.

As he turned his face to Autarit and said slowly, with indescribable
smile, "you are judged on the way the Lions after Sikka!" "They were our
brothers," replied the Gauls, and passed away. * * * * * The Suffet had
by all these operations not notice. The city before him disguised the
otherworldly terrain.

"How would you describe those who are at present in the government
service?"

"Ugh! mere peck and panier men!--not worth taking into the reckoning."

Once he remarked, "If I cannot get _via media_ men to impart instruction
to, then I must of course take the impetuous and undisciplined! The
impetuous ones will at least go forward and lay hold on things; and the
undisciplined have at least something in them which needs to be brought
out."

"The Southerners," said he, "have the proverb, 'The man who sticks not
to rule will never make a charm-worker or a medical man,'
Good!--'Whoever is intermittent in his practise of virtue will live to
be ashamed of it.' Without prognostication," he added, "that will indeed
be so."

"The nobler-minded man," he remarked, "will be agreeable even when he
disagrees; the small-minded man will agree and be disagreeable."

Tsz-kung was consulting him, and asked, "What say you of a person who
was liked by all in his village?"

"That will scarcely do," he answered.

"What, then, if they all disliked him?"

"That, too," said he, "is scarcely enough. Better if he were liked by
the good folk in the village, and disliked by the bad."

"The superior man," he once observed, "is easy to serve, but difficult
to please. Try to please him by the adoption of wrong principles, and
you will fail. Also, when such a one employs others, he uses them
according to their capacity. The inferior man is, on the other hand,
difficult to serve, but easy to please. Try to please him by the
adoption of wrong principles, and you will succeed. And when he employs
others he requires them to be fully prepared for everything."

Again, "The superior man can be high without being haughty. The inferior
man can be haughty if not high."

"The firm, the unflinching, the plain and simple, the slow to speak,"
said he once, "are approximating towards their duty to their
fellow-men."

Tsz-lu asked how he would characterize one who might fitly be called an
educated gentleman. The master replied, "He who can properly be
so-called will have in him a seriousness of purpose, a habit of
controlling himself, and an agreeableness of manner: among his friends
and associates the seriousness and the self-control, and among his
brethren the agreeableness of manner."

"Let good and able men discipline the people for seven years," said the
Master, "and after that they may do to go to war."

But, said he, "To lead an undisciplined people to war--that I call
throwing them away."


BOOK XIV

Good and Bad Government--Miscellaneous Sayings


Yuen Sz asked what might be considered to bring shame on one.

"Pay," said the Master; "pay--ever looking to that, whether the country
be well or badly governed."

"When imperiousness, boastfulness, resentments, and covetousness cease
to prevail among the people, may it be considered that mutual good-will
has been effected?" To this question the Master replied, "A hard thing
overcome, it may be considered. But as to the mutual good-will--I cannot
tell."

"Learned officials," said he, "who hanker after a home life, are not
worthy of being esteemed as such."

Again, "In a country under good government, speak boldly, act boldly.
When the land is ill-governed, though you act boldly, let your words be
moderate."

Again, "Men of virtue will needs be men of words--will speak out--but
men of words are not necessarily men of virtue. They who care for their
fellow-men will needs be bold, but the bold may not necessarily be such
as care for their fellow-men."

Nan-kung Kwoh, who was consulting Confucius, observed respecting I, the
skilful archer, and Ngau, who could propel a boat on dry land, that
neither of them died a natural death; while Yu and Tsih, who with their
own hands had labored at husbandry, came to wield imperial sway.

The Master gave him no reply. But when the speaker had gone out he
exclaimed, "A superior man, that! A man who values virtue, that!"

"There have been noble-minded men," said he, "who yet were wanting in
philanthropy; but never has there been a small-minded man who had
philanthropy in him."

He asked, "Can any one refuse to toil for those he loves? Can any one
refuse to exhort, who is true-hearted?"

Speaking of the preparation of Government Notifications in his day he
said, "P'i would draw up a rough sketch of what was to be said; the
Shishuh then looked it carefully through and put it into proper shape;
Tsz-yu next, who was master of the ceremonial of State intercourse,
improved and adorned its phrases; and Tsz-ch'an of Tung-li added his
scholarly embellishments thereto."

To some one who asked his opinion of the last-named, he said, "He was a
kind-hearted man." Asked what he thought of Tsz-si, he exclaimed, "Alas
for him! alas for him!"--Asked again about Kwan Chung, his answer was,
"As to him, he once seized the town of P'in with its three hundred
families from the Chief of the Pih clan, who, afterwards reduced to
living upon coarse rice, with all his teeth gone, never uttered a word
of complaint."

"It is no light thing," said he, "to endure poverty uncomplainingly; and
a difficult thing to bear wealth without becoming arrogant."

Respecting Mang Kung-ch'oh, he said that, while he was fitted for
something better than the post of chief officer in the Cháu or Wei
families, he was not competent to act as minister in small States like
those of T'ang or Sieh.

Tsz-lu asked how he would describe a perfect man. He replied, "Let a man
have the sagacity of Tsang Wu-chung, the freedom from covetousness of
Kung-ch'oh, the boldness of Chwang of P'in, and the attainments in
polite arts of Yen Yu; and gift him further with the graces taught by
the 'Books of Rites' and 'Music'--then he may be considered a perfect
man. But," said he, "what need of such in these days? The man that may
be regarded as perfect now is the one who, seeing some advantage to
himself, is mindful of righteousness; who, seeing danger, risks his
life; and who, if bound by some covenant of long standing, never forgets
its conditions as life goes on."

Respecting Kung-shuh Wan, the Master inquired of Kung-ming Kiá, saying,
"Is it true that your master never speaks, never laughs, never takes
aught from others?"

"Those who told you that of him," said he, "have gone too far. My master
speaks when there is occasion to do so, and men are not surfeited with
his speaking. When there is occasion to be merry too, he will laugh, but
men have never overmuch of his laughing. And whenever it is just and
right to take things from others, he will take them, but never so as to
allow men to think him burdensome." "Is that the case with him?" said
the Master. "Can it be so?"

Respecting Tsang Wu-chung the Master said, "When he sought from Lu the
appointment of a successor to him, and for this object held on to his
possession of the fortified city of Fang--if you say he was not then
using constraint towards his prince, I must refuse to believe it."

Duke Wan of Tsin he characterized as "artful but not upright"; and Duke
Hwan of Ts'i as "upright but not artful."

Tsz-lu remarked, "When Duke Hwan caused his brother Kiu to be put to
death, Shau Hwuh committed suicide, but Kwan Chung did not. I should say
he was not a man who had much good-will in him--eh?"

The Master replied, "When Duke Hwan held a great gathering of the feudal
lords, dispensing with military equipage, it was owing to Kwan Chung's
energy that such an event was brought about. Match such good-will as
that--match it if you can."

Tsz-kung then spoke up. "But was not Kwan Chung wanting in good-will? He
could not give up his life when Duke Hwan caused his brother to be put
to death. Besides, he became the duke's counsellor."

"And in acting as his counsellor put him at the head of all the feudal
lords," said the Master, "and unified and reformed the whole empire; and
the people, even to this day, reap benefit from what he did. Had it not
been for him we should have been going about with locks unkempt and
buttoning our jackets (like barbarians) on the left. Would you suppose
that he should show the same sort of attachment as exists between a poor
yokel and his one wife--that he would asphyxiate himself in some sewer,
leaving no one the wiser?"

Kung-shuh Wan's steward, who became the high officer Sien, went up
accompanied by Wan to the prince's hall of audience.

When Confucius heard of this he remarked, "He may well be esteemed a
'Wan,'"

The Master having made some reference to the lawless ways of Duke Ling
of Wei, Ki K'ang said to him, "If he be like that, how is it he does not
ruin his position?"

Confucius answered, "The Chung-shuh, Yu, is charged with the
entertainment of visitors and strangers; the priest T'o has charge of
the ancestral temple; and Wang-sun Kiá has the control of the army and
its divisions:--with men such as those, how should he come to ruin?"

He once remarked, "He who is unblushing in his words will with
difficulty substantiate them."

Ch'in Shing had slain Duke Kien. Hearing of this, Confucius, after
performing his ablutions, went to Court and announced the news to Duke
Ngai, saying, "Ch'in Hang has slain his prince. May I request that you
proceed against him?"

"Inform the Chiefs of the Three Families," said the duke.

Soliloquizing upon this, Confucius said, "Since he uses me to back his
ministers, [30] I did not dare not to announce the matter to him; and
now he says, 'Inform the Three Chiefs.'"

He went to the Three Chiefs and informed them, but nothing could be
done. Whereupon again he said, "Since he uses me to back his ministers,
I did not dare not to announce the matter."

Tsz-lu was questioning him as to how he should serve his prince.
"Deceive him not, but reprove him," he answered.

"The minds of superior men," he observed, "trend upwards; those of
inferior men trend downwards."

Again, "Students of old fixed their eyes upon themselves: now they learn
with their eyes upon others."

Kü Pih-yuh despatched a man with a message to Confucius. Confucius gave
him a seat, and among other inquiries he asked, "How is your master
managing?" "My master," he replied, "has a great wish to be seldom at
fault, and as yet he cannot manage it."

"What a messenger!" exclaimed he admiringly, when the man went out.
"What a messenger!"

"When not occupying the office," was a remark of his, "devise not the
policy."

The Learned Tsang used to say, "The thoughts of the 'superior man' do
not wander from his own office."

"Superior men," said the Master, "are modest in their words, profuse in
their deeds."

Again, "There are three attainments of the superior man which are beyond
me--the being sympathetic without anxiety, wise without scepticism,
brave without fear."

"Sir," said Tsz-kung, "that is what you say of yourself."

Whenever Tsz-kung drew comparisons from others, the Master would say,
"Ah, how wise and great you must have become! Now I have no time to do
that."

Again, "My great concern is, not that men do not know me, but that they
cannot."

Again, "If a man refrain from making preparations against his being
imposed upon, and from counting upon others' want of good faith towards
him, while he is foremost to perceive what is passing--surely that is a
wise and good man."

Wi-shang Mau accosted Confucius, saying, "Kiu, how comes it that you
manage to go perching and roosting in this way? Is it not because you
show yourself so smart a speaker, now?"

"I should not dare do that," said Confucius. "Tis that I am sick of
men's immovableness and deafness to reason."

"In a well-bred horse," said he, "what one admires is not its speed, but
its good points."

Some one asked, "What say you of the remark, 'Requite enmity with
kindness'?"

"How then," he answered, "would you requite kindness? Requite enmity
with straightforwardness, and kindness with kindness."

"Ah! no one knows me!" he once exclaimed.

"Sir," said Tsz-kung, "how comes it to pass that no one knows you?"

"While I murmur not against Heaven," continued the Master, "nor cavil at
men; while I stoop to learn and aspire to penetrate into things that are
high; yet 'tis Heaven alone knows what I am."

Liáu, a kinsman of the duke, having laid a complaint against Tsz-lu
before Ki K'ang, an officer came to Confucius to inform him of the fact,
and he added, "My lord is certainly having his mind poisoned by his
kinsman Liáu, but through my influence perhaps we may yet manage to see
him exposed in the marketplace or the Court."

"If right principles are to have their course, it is so destined," said
the Master; "if they are not to have their course, it is so destined.
What can Liáu do against Destiny?"

"There are worthy men," said the Master, "fleeing from the world; some
from their district; some from the sight of men's looks; some from the
language they hear."

"The men who have risen from their posts and withdrawn in this manner
are seven in number."

Tsz-lu, having lodged overnight in Shih-mun, was accosted by the
gate-keeper in the morning. "Where from?" he asked. "From Confucius,"
Tsz-lu responded. "That is the man," said he, "who knows things are not
up to the mark, and is making some ado about them, is it not?"

When the Master was in Wei, he was once pounding on the musical stone,
when a man with a basket of straw crossed his threshold, and exclaimed,
"Ah, there is a heart that feels! Aye, drub the stone!" After which he
added, "How vulgar! how he hammers away on one note!--and no one knows
him, and he gives up, and all is over!

  Be it deep, our skirts we'll raise to the waist,
  --Or shallow, then up to the knee,'"

"What determination!" said the Master. "Yet it was not
hard to do."

Tsz-chang once said to him, "In the 'Book of the Annals'
it is stated that while Káu-tsung was in the Mourning Shed he
spent the three years without speaking. What is meant by
that?"

"Why must you name Káu-tsung?" said the Master. "It
was so with all other ancient sovereigns: when one of them
died, the heads of every department agreed between themselves
that they should give ear for three years to the Prime Minister."

"When their betters love the Rules, then the folk are easy
tools," was a saying of the Master.

Tsz-lu having asked what made a "superior man," he answered,
"Self-culture, with a view to becoming seriously-minded."

"Nothing more than that?" said he.

"Self-culture with a view to the greater satisfaction of
others," added the Master.

"That, and yet no more?"

"Self-culture with a view to the greater satisfaction of all the
clans and classes," he again added. "Self-culture for the sake
of all--a result that, that would almost put Yau and Shun into
the shade!"

To Yuen Jang, [31] who was sitting waiting for him in a squatting
(disrespectful) posture, the Master delivered himself as follows:
"The man who in his youth could show no humility or subordination,
who in his prime misses his opportunity, and who when old age
comes upon him will not die--that man is a miscreant." And he
tapped him on the shin with his staff.

Some one asked about his attendant--a youth from the village
of Kiueh--whether he was one who improved. He replied, "I note
that he seats himself in the places reserved for his betters,
and that when he is walking he keeps abreast with his seniors.
He is not one of those who care for improvement: he wants to
be a man all at once."


[Footnote 30: Confucius had now retired from office, and this incident
occurred only two years before his death.]

[Footnote 31: It is a habit with the Chinese, when a number are out
walking together, for the eldest to go first, the others pairing off
according to their age. It is a custom much older than the time of
Confucius.]


BOOK XV

Practical Wisdom--Reciprocity the Rule of Life


Duke Ling of Wei was consulting Confucius about army arrangements. His
answer was, "Had you asked me about such things as temple requisites, I
have learnt that business, but I have not yet studied military matters."
And he followed up this reply by leaving on the following day.

After this, during his residence in the State of Ch'in, his followers,
owing to a stoppage of food supply, became so weak and ill that not one
of them could stand. Tsz-lu, with indignation pictured on his
countenance, exclaimed, "And is a gentleman to suffer starvation?"

"A gentleman," replied the Master, "will endure it unmoved, but a common
person breaks out into excesses under it."

Addressing Tsz-kung, the Master said, "You regard me as one who studies
and stores up in his mind a multiplicity of things--do you not?"--"I
do," he replied; "is it not so?"--"Not at all. I have one idea--one cord
on which to string all."

To Tsz-lu he remarked, "They who know Virtue are rare."

"If you would know one who without effort ruled well, was not Shun such
a one? What did he indeed do? He bore himself with reverent dignity and
undeviatingly 'faced the south,' and that was all."

Tsz-chang was consulting him about making way in life. He answered, "Be
true and honest in all you say, and seriously earnest in all you do, and
then, even if your country be one inhabited by barbarians, South or
North, you will make your way. If you do not show yourself thus in word
and deed how should you succeed, even in your own district or
neighborhood?--When you are afoot, let these two counsels be two
companions preceding you, yourself viewing them from behind; when you
drive, have them in view as on the yoke of your carriage. Then may you
make your way."

Tsz-chang wrote them on the two ends of his cincture.

"Straight was the course of the Annalist Yu," said the Master--"aye,
straight as an arrow flies; were the country well governed or ill
governed, his was an arrow-like course.

"A man of masterly mind, too, is Kü Pih-yuh! When the land is being
rightly governed he will serve; when it is under bad government he is
apt to recoil, and brood."

"Not to speak to a man." said he, "to whom you ought to speak, is to
lose your man; to speak to one to whom you ought not to speak is to lose
your words. Those who are wise will not lose their man nor yet their
words."

Again, "The scholar whose heart is in his work, and who is
philanthropic, seeks not to gain a livelihood by any means that will do
harm to his philanthropy. There have been men who have destroyed their
own lives in the endeavor to bring that virtue in them to perfection."

Tsz-kung asked how to become philanthropic. The Master answered him
thus: "A workman who wants to do his work well must first sharpen his
tools. In whatever land you live, serve under some wise and good man
among those in high office, and make friends with the more humane of its
men of education."

Yen Yuen consulted him on the management of a country. He answered:--

"Go by the Hiá Calendar. Have the State carriages like those of the Yin
princes. Wear the Chow cap. For your music let that of Shun be used for
the posturers. Put away the songs of Ch'ing, and remove far from you men
of artful speech: the Ch'ing songs are immodest, and artful talkers are
dangerous."

Other sayings of the Master:--

"They who care not for the morrow will the sooner have their sorrow.

"Ah, 'tis hopeless! I have not yet met with the man who loves Virtue as
he loves Beauty.

"Was not Tsang Wan like one who surreptitiously came by the post he
held? He knew the worth of Hwúi of Liu-hiá, and could not stand in his
presence.

"Be generous yourself, and exact little from others; then you banish
complaints.

"With one who does not come to me inquiring 'What of this?' and 'What of
that?' I never can ask 'What of this?' and give him up.

"If a number of students are all day together, and in their conversation
never approach the subject of righteousness, but are fond merely of
giving currency to smart little sayings, they are difficult indeed to
manage.

"When the 'superior man' regards righteousness as the thing material,
gives operation to it according to the Rules of Propriety, lets it issue
in humility, and become complete in sincerity--there indeed is your
superior man!

"The trouble of the superior man will be his own want of ability: it
will be no trouble to him that others do not know him.

"Such a man thinks it hard to end his days and leave a name to be no
longer named.

"The superior man is exacting of himself; the common man is exacting of
others.

"A superior man has self-respect, and does not strive; is sociable, yet
no party man.

"He does not promote a man because of his words, or pass over the words
because of the man."

Tsz-kung put to him the question, "Is there one word upon which the
whole life may proceed?"

The Master replied, "Is not Reciprocity such a word?--what you do not
yourself desire, do not put before others."

"So far as I have to do with others, whom do I over-censure? whom do I
over-praise? If there be something in them that looks very praiseworthy,
that something I put to the test. I would have the men of the present
day to walk in the straight path whereby those of the Three Dynasties
have walked.

"I have arrived as it were at the annalist's blank page.--Once he who
had a horse would lend it to another to mount; now, alas! it is not so.

"Artful speech is the confusion of Virtue. Impatience over little things
introduces confusion into great schemes.

"What is disliked by the masses needs inquiring into; so also does that
which they have a preference for.

"A man may give breadth to his principles: it is not principles (in
themselves) that give breadth to the man.

"Not to retract after committing an error may itself be called error.

"If I have passed the whole day without food and the whole night without
sleep, occupied with my thoughts, it profits me nothing: I were better
engaged in learning.

"The superior man deliberates upon how he may walk in truth, not upon
what he may eat. Gisgo said that a whole caravan of virgins waiting for
them, but the path was wide, and there were still six moons pass. If the
girls but then again in good physical condition and with plenty
of benzoic anointed you might think they are on ships in the Balearic
ports send.

Zarzas suddenly jumped back nice and strong, like a juggler on the
shoulders of his friends and shouted at the Khamontor of Carthage hinzeigend:
"Hast thou also which provides for the dead?"

The Erzplatten the door from top to bottom, covered, erglühten in
the last rays of sunshine. The barbarians mentioned, a blood stripe to
be seen. Whenever Gisgo wanted to talk, it screams began anew on.

Finally, he left his seat step slow and was in his tent. When he was
acting out again at dawn, touched his interpreter, which is, in front
of the tent had lain to rest. They were on their backs, staring with
eyes, tongue heraushängender and a blue face.

White mucus entfloß their noses, and their limbs were so stiff, as if
they were frozen night frost. Each wore around her neck a thin cord
rushes. From now on, the rebellion broke out openly. The assassination
of Balearier the Zarzas the mercenaries had been recalled to memory,
reinforced by Spendius aroused suspicion.

We formed a search, the Republic still to deceive. You must make an
end! Interpreter would have no need! Zarzas of a wreath around his
head was slung, sang war songs. Autarit swung his long sword.
Spendius one whispered a word, providing the other with a dagger.

The strongest searched themselves paying off.

The less angry demanded that the Ablöhnung would continue. Nobody
put more weapons, and the wrath of all united against Gisgo too
stormy Hasselager.

Some wanted to happen for him. As long as they abuse ausstießen, listened
patiently to them.

As soon as they are the least word to him spoke, they were immediately
stoned, or just beat them from behind with a Säbelhieb head.

The bags were aufgehäuften bloody than a sacrificial altar. After the
meals were the mercenaries horrible, especially if wine had been
drunk.

This benefit was in the Punic armies in the death penalty is
prohibited.

It pans the cup against Carthage to its breeding male to scoff. Then
you have the number of the slave master, and began anew to kill. The
call: "stoned him!" - Different in each language - was understood
by all. Gisgo knew well that it for the fatherland was in stitches.

Considering all the ingratitude he still wanted to honor the Carthage
high. When the mercenaries reminded him that they had promised ships,
he swore at the juggernaut, they are at their own cost to deliver.

He snatched his necklace of blue stones from the throat and threw
it into the crowd as a pledge of his oath.

Now the Africans called cereals, according to the promises of the
Great Council.

Gisgo official accounts presented before, with purple ink on Lambskins
were written.

He left everything after Carthage had been introduced, month and day
by day.

Suddenly he invest gaze inne than stocks because the numbers his death
sentence. In fact, the ancients had fraudulently reduced the numbers
and the corn, the in the time of the greatest Kriegsnot was sold at
a purchase price so low that no reasonable person could be misled.
"speech," she screamed.

"Louder! Ha, he is looking for lies, the coward! Out! "For a while he
zauderte.

Finally, he read further. The mercenaries are not sensed that they are
deceived, and took statements for the accounts properly. But the abundance
of confusion in Carthage, returned in wild jealousy. They smashed the
Sykomorenholzkiste. She was three-quarters empty. We had such sums from
their sehn indicate that they are kept for inexhaustible. Gisgo had money
in his tents have buried! They stormed the rostrum. Matho was the instigator.
When they cried: "The money! The money! "Gisgo finally replied:"
That's like you give your guide!

"Henceforth he remained silent and looked up with the big yellow
eyes of his long face, which was white as his beard, in cold blood
in the fracas.

An arrow from his own plumage inhibited, remained in the Suffeten large
golden earring hanging, and blood ran like a red thread, by the Tiara on
fine shoulder down. At a Wink Mathos pounced on all Gisgo A. He spread
his arms out. Spendius captivated him with a noose at the wrists.
A else threw him to the ground, and he disappeared in the turmoil of
the volume, which stormed through the bags. You pillaged his tent. Only
the objects indispensable to life, they found it, and later, a closer
Look, there are three pictures of Tanit, and in monkey skin wound, a
black stone, which the moons should be dropped. A number Gisgo
Carthaginians had voluntarily accompanied prestigious noble men , all
belonging to the war party. They tore them out of the tents and threw
her headfirst into the latrines. With the iron chains that are wrapped
around their bodies, they were tied to strong stakes. Foodstuffs
handed them to the tips of throwing spears. Autarit, which they guarded,
they are overwhelmed with the epithet. Since they did not understand
his language, she replied no. From time to time he threw stones into
the face of them, so they should be screaming. * * * * * The next day
took a kind of exhaustion Army. Now that the smoke was anger, fear, and
stood concerns. Matho suffered from unnamed sadness.

He was, he had indirectly insulted Salambo. The patricians were
trapped him like an accessory to her person. He sat up at night to
the edge of the pit and found there a little whimper of the voice,
which filled his heart. In the meantime all complained to the Libyans,
who alone had been paid. But while the national antagonisms and
personal hatred awoke, we felt the danger which it was to give
these passions. The retaliation for the incident was terrible failure.
Consequently, it was necessary to prevent the vengeance of Carthage.
The deliberations and public speeches made no end.

Everyone said, no one listened, and Spendius, which was otherwise so
talkative, shook all the proposals to the head.

One evening he asked Matho casually if there are no sources in the
city would. "Not one!

"replied the. The next morning took him to Spendius shores." Sir,
"began the former slave. "If your heart is stout, I want you to lead into
Carthage." "In what way?" Asked the other, after wringing breath.
"Swear to me, all my commands and to me like a shadow to follow!"

Matho raised his arm against the moon, and cried: 'When Tanit, I swear
it to you! "Spendius continued:" Expect me tomorrow after sunset at the
foot of the aqueduct, between the ninth and tenth sheet. Bring an
iron hoe, without a helmet plume and some leather sandals with! "The
aqueduct, of which he spoke, a large building, by the Romans, was
later enlarged, ran diagonally across the isthmus out.

Three mighty übereinandergebauten rows of arches, with buttresses at
the base and lion heads on the Scheiteln, he led to the western part of
the Acropolis, and then lowered to the city down to the cisterns of
Megara with a stream of water similar to it. Spendius met to Matho
arranged hour. He soon established a kind of harpoon at the end of a
rope and let it quickly whir like a catapult.

The iron hooks on the wall was liable, and now they started a row
emporzuklimmen. When they reached the first floor had dropped the hook
at every throw back. Until she discovered a suitable place, they had
around the pillars around the ledge to go, they bow at each higher
number was always smaller. Gradually spread the rope.

Several times, it would be almost torn. Finally, they were on the top
platform. Spendius bent down from time to time to the stone surface
with your hand to touch. "Here we go!" He said. "Let's here!" And they
both oppose the spit lifted the Matho had brought, they have one of the
stone to loosen. In the distance she noticed a group of riders, on the
unbridled horses dahingaloppierten.

Your golden bangles danced through the folds of their coats unclear.
Preview rode a man with a crown of ostrich feathers on the head in
each hand a lance. "Naravas! Cried Matho." What takes care of us?
"Said Spendius and jumped into the hole created by the lifting of
the panel was created.

He also tried in accordance with instructions Matho one of the
stone blocks to loosen. But he had no elbow freedom. "It will also
go," said Spendius. "Go ahead," That they dared into the interior of
the pipe. The water was up to them in the stomach. But they soon ran
into wavering and had to swim.

As they advanced, with the hands and feet against the walls of the overly
narrow channel where the water almost immediately under the covers
hinfloß. They tore the face. The current carried them to continue ...
An air, heavier than in his grave, weighed on her chest. The arms
holding the head before the knee is closed, so long streckend as
some were quick arrow shot them through the darkness then, half
suffocated, röchelnd and close to death.

Suddenly it became dark before them, and the flow was rapidly. The two
men ran into the gap ... When they got back to the surface of the
flood came, they left a few minutes drive and so-called comfort
with the air.

Rows of arches, one behind the other, opened in the mid-mighty walls,
the the space into separate basins dissected. All were filled, and the
water in cisterns formed a single surface. Through the air holes in the
ceiling vaults was bogus Bleicher, slices of the light cast on the
flood.

The shadow around, after the walls of compressed, allowed them to an
indefinite contract. The slightest noise aroused loud reverberation.
Spendius Matho and began to swim again. Through the arch openings came
from a pool always in the next.

  On both sides still ever ran a parallel
  series of smaller pools out.

The swimmers are lost, turned around and came back to the same place.

At last she felt solid ground under their feet. It was the paving of
the gallery, which makes the cisterns herumlief.

Weiterschreitend With great caution, she touched the wall in order
to find an exit. But her feet glided, and they rushed back into the deep
basin. They climbed up again and fell back again. A terrible fatigue
overcome them, as if their limbs when swimming in the water would have
dissolved. The eyes were on them. They fought to the death. Since
Spendius met with the hand against the bars of a grid. Both shook it.
There were after, and they found themselves on the steps of a staircase.
Up they came with a sealed bronze. With the tip of a dagger pushed the
bolt back, which is only open from the outside left, and suddenly
they surrounded the fresh air.

The night was quiet. The sky lost in infinite depth. Here and there stood
groups of trees on the wall long lines. The city was in slumber. The
fire from the outpost guard shone like fallen stars. Spendius, of the
three years spent in prison had the neighborhood knew only vaguely.

Matho meant to go to the palaces Hamilkars to arrive, you must turn left
and the road beyond the Mappalier. "No!" Said Spendius. »Take me to
the temple of Tanit," Matho wished to oppose. "Remember," he broke
the former slave, he raised his arm and pointed to the moons that shone
in the sky. Since Matho turned silently to the Acropolis.

You sneaked in the cactus hedges out of the way einfaßten.

The water ran from their bellies in the dust.

Their wet sandals caused no noise. Spendius looked with his eyes, which
glowed like torches at every step from the bushes. He went behind
Matho, hands on the two daggers, which he wore under the arms and him
on a leather strap attached to the shoulders herabhingen.

V Tanit When they had passed through the gardens, they saw through the
wall between Megara and the Old Town on Weitergehn prevented. Since they
discovered a narrow passage in the massive masonry and came through.

The floor is lowered and formed a large hollow.

They exceeded on an empty seat. "Listen to me once," said Spendius, "and
especially fear nothing! ...

I will fulfill my promise, "He broke off and took a pensive face on.

Apparently he looked for words. »Correctly you still like me you
were on a terrace at sunrise Salambos Carthage had shown?

On that day, we were strong, but you wanted to hear nothing.

"And with a solemn voice he continued:" Sir, in the sanctuary of
Tanit is a mysterious cloak, which fell from the sky and the goddess
wrapped. "" I know it, "said Matho."

He is holy, "said Spendius continued," because he is part of a goddess.
The gods live, where you dump the moment.

Carthage is powerful because it has this jacket. "He stepped up close to
Matho. "I've hierhergeführt, so we steal it together!" The Libyans
rebounded back against terror. "Go! Pick someone other!

I want you in such a heinous sacrilege not help! "" Tanit is your enemy,
"replied Spendius. "She pursues you, and you die in their anger. Avenge
You! They should be subject to thee! You'll almost immortal and be
insurmountable, "lowered the main Matho.

Spendius went on: "We must be subject. The Army will wear. We have
neither escape nor assistance, nor to hope for forgiveness!

What punishment of the gods but you need to fear, if you force yourself
into their hands do? Would you prefer the evening after a miserable defeat
in the bush or under verrecken the Hohnrufen the mob on a pyre
perish?

Lord, one day you will collect in Carthage, surrounded by the priests who
kiss your sandals!

And if you then have the mantle of Tanit frightens, then do you like
him to take back their temple. Come, we rob him! "Glowing cravings
consume Matho. He would have like the mantle, but without committing
robbery temple.

He thought for himself if he really steal the sanctuary needed to adapt
its force. It's fascinating thoughts not too late, but stayed in the
points are, where before he was shocked.

"Let's go," he said. And they removed both rapid step, side by side,
without speaking.

The ground rose. The houses were more numerous. The two men came in
narrow streets, which were in deep darkness. The woven mats, with
which the doors were imposed, beating against the walls. In a place were
Chewing camels before pile of hay. Then they went through an alley
of bushy trees. A pack of dogs barked at her.

Suddenly the prospect widened, and she saw the west side of the Acropolis.
At the foot of the castle stretches a long dark matter: this was
the temple of Tanit, a maze of buildings, gardens, courtyards and
atria, from a low wall of rough stones surrounded.

Spendius Matho and climbed higher. The first fence enclosed a Platanenhain,
to protect against the plague and against contaminated air was created.
Here and there were tents, where all sorts of day feilbot: depilatories,
fragrances, clothes, moon cakes, pictures and images of the goddess
of the temple, engraved on pieces of alabaster.

They had nothing to fear, because in the nights when the moon is not
seemed, was no place of worship. Nevertheless Matho slowed his steps,
and before the three stages of ebony, which led the second fence, he
stopped. "Next," encouraged him Spendius.

Orange and almond trees, cypresses and myrtle, all motionless, as ore
poured alternated regularly each other.

The blue of the gravel road gritted under the kicks.

The long tree corridor covers a porch roof, from which allüberall blooming
roses herabhingen. They came before a Eirund pool, above which was
a grid. Matho, oppressed by the silence, said to Spendius: "This
is fresh water mixed with salt." "That I have everything already
seen in Syria," said the former slave, "in the city Maphug!" On a
six silver staircase, they now Up to the third fence.

In the center stood a giant cedar. Their lower branches were
covered with ribbons and necklaces behängt - performed by the faithful.
After a few more steps before them rose the temple facade. From a
square central tower, on whose platform the crescent stood, ran two
long porches, whose Archimedia Travelodge on the thick pillars rested.
About the ends of the aisles and at the four corners of the tower
in flared bowls incense.

The Säulenkapitäle were covered with grenades and Koloquinten decorated.
On the walls alternated Mäanderbänder, diamonds and Perlstäbe each
other, and a fence made of silver filigree formed a wide semicircle
in front of the iron staircase which led down the porch.

At the entrance stood between a golden and a stone stele smaragdnen cone.
Matho kissed when passing the right hand. The first chamber was very
high. Numerous openings breached the ceiling, so that when you stir the
stars saw.

Around the walls stood tube baskets, with hair and beards filled,
the first victims of young people, and in the middle of the circular
hall grew from a base decorated with breasts a female body out.

"Ah, it is difficult," said he, "to know what to make of those who are
all day long cramming themselves with food and are without anything to
apply their minds to! Are there no dice and chess players? Better,
perhaps, join in that pursuit than do nothing at all!"

"Does a gentleman," asked Tsz-lu, "make much account of bravery?"

"Righteousness he counts higher," said the Master. "A gentleman who is
brave without being just may become turbulent; while a common person who
is brave and not just may end in becoming a highwayman."

Tsz-kung asked, "I suppose a gentleman will have his aversions as well
as his likings?"

"Yes," replied the Master, "he will dislike those who talk much about
other people's ill-deeds. He will dislike those who, when occupying
inferior places, utter defamatory words against their superiors. He will
dislike those who, though they may be brave, have no regard for
propriety. And he will dislike those hastily decisive and venturesome
spirits who are nevertheless so hampered by limited intellect."

"And you, too, Tsz-kung," he continued, "have your aversions, have you
not?"

"I dislike," said he, "those plagiarists who wish to pass for wise
persons. I dislike those people who wish their lack of humility to be
taken for bravery. I dislike also those divulgers of secrets who think
to be accounted straightforward."

"Of all others," said the Master, "women-servants and men-servants are
the most difficult people to have the care of. Approach them in a
familiar manner, and they take liberties; keep them at a distance, and
they grumble."

Again, "When a man meets with odium at forty, he will do so to the end."


[Footnote 32: Different woods were adopted for this purpose at the
various seasons.]


BOOK XVIII

Good Men in Seclusion--Duke of Chow to His Son


"In the reign of the last king of the Yin dynasty," Confucius I said,
"there were three men of philanthropic spirit:--the viscount of Wei, who
withdrew from him; the viscount of Ki, who became his bondsman; and
Pi-kan, who reproved him and suffered death."

Hwúi of Liu-hiá, who filled the office of Chief Criminal Judge, was
thrice dismissed. A person remarked to him, "Can you not yet bear to
withdraw?" He replied, "If I act in a straightforward way in serving
men, whither in these days should I go, where I should not be thrice
dismissed? Were I to adopt crooked ways in their service, why need I
leave the land where my parents dwell?"

Duke King of Ts'i remarked respecting his attitude towards Confucius,
"If he is to be treated like the Chief of the Ki family, I cannot do it.
I should treat him as somewhere between the Ki and Mang Chiefs.--I am
old," he added, "and not competent to avail myself of him."

Confucius, hearing of this, went away.

The Ts'i officials presented to the Court of Lu a number of female
musicians. Ki Hwan accepted them, and for three days no Court was held.

Confucius went away.

Tsieh-yu, the madman [33] of Ts'u, was once passing Confucius, singing
as he went along. He sang--

  "Ha, the phoenix! Ha, the phoenix!
  How is Virtue lying prone!
  Vain to chide for what is o'er,
  Plan to meet what's yet in store.
  Let alone! Let alone!
  Risky now to serve a throne."

Confucius alighted, wishing to enter into conversation with him; but the
man hurried along and left him, and he was therefore unable to get a
word with him.

Ch'ang-tsü and Kieh-nih [34] were working together on some ploughed
land. Confucius was passing by them, and sent Tsz-lu to ask where the
ford was.

Ch'ang-tsü said, "Who is the person driving the carriage?"

"Confucius," answered Tsz-lu.

"He of Lu?" he asked.

"The same," said Tsz-lu.

"He knows then where the ford is," said he.

Tsz-lu then put his question to Kieh-nih; and the latter asked, "Who are
you?"

Tsz-lu gave his name.

"You are a follower of Confucius of Lu, are you not?"

"You are right," he answered.

"Ah, as these waters rise and overflow their bounds," said he, "'tis so
with all throughout the empire; and who is he that can alter the state
of things? And you are a follower of a learned man who withdraws from
his chief; had you not better be a follower of such as have forsaken the
world?" And he went on with his harrowing, without stopping.

Tsz-lu went and informed his Master of all this. He was deeply touched,
and said, "One cannot herd on equal terms with beasts and birds: if I am
not to live among these human folk, then with whom else should I live?
Only when the empire is well ordered shall I cease to take part in the
work of reformation."

Tsz-lu was following the Master, but had dropped behind on the way, when
he encountered an old man with a weed-basket slung on a staff over his
shoulder. Tsz-lu inquired of him, "Have you seen my Master, sir?" Said
the old man, "Who is your master?--you who never employ your four limbs
in laborious work; you who do not know one from another of the five
sorts of grain!" And he stuck his staff in the ground, and began his
weeding.

Tsz-lu brought his hands together on his breast and stood still.

The old man kept Tsz-lu and lodged him for the night, killed a fowl and
prepared some millet, entertained him, and brought his two sons out to
see him.

On the morrow Tsz-lu went on his way, and told all this to the Master,
who said, "He is a recluse," and sent Tsz-lu back to see him again. But
by the time he got there he was gone.

Tsz-lu remarked upon this, "It is not right he should evade official
duties. If he cannot allow any neglect of the terms on which elders and
juniors should live together, how is it that he neglects to conform to
what is proper as between prince and public servant? He wishes for
himself personally a pure life, yet creates disorder in that more
important relationship. - We, as a school teacher .... Jesus, if I thought
that ... and I said: would be so brazen as to be fit there, without
more ado?

But there is that .... laugh when Menthane - Bah! ... do not have
to do, and Velay. - And ...

Look, I tell you another story - you tell .... - told me ... do not take
grief, those who are ... he was a gentleman behind you ... of the
official one. - And if you go - If you go, you do very badly in
case of an officer, a woman ....

A poor girls do not seek them for something good, no and no .... And those
who are poor and non-formal leaning is because they see they do not find
.... raja - Hey!, As ... not armemos, Carmela. I was leaning for anyone
to draw the split, but for those of you gustaré, and we walk, everyone
has their tastes ....

Today, most say the reacionarios the istrución equals the classes,
and it's not like some time .... No officer or gentleman .... worth
- Woman, I do not speak for evil .... I wanted to tell you because you
always had law, you are well ... a wretch, a piece of bread in
your insides ....

Let policy, do not be silly, and ladies .... Beyond that, to me what
I care? For your own good ....

Amparo was ordered to leave, take your jar under his arm, but wanted to
embrace the loving encajera before. - I do not want to be at odds ....
Are you angry? God knows my intention .... Write to Portomar .... And
tell you everything.

And it came to the door exiting to see the graceful girl, whose dress
percale designed for space of a few seconds, a clear spot on the dark
walls of the houses opposite.

-XXIX-A Since the crime came from the Amadeo I had a cigarette in Marineda
who blame all the ills afflicting the factory. When Spain was walking
towards the new King, leíanse in the workshops, vehementísima with
passion, all the newspapers that said: "It will come." And the fact
is that wine, with great astonishment of the operators, whom the press
had predicted that the red monarchy was "a rigid body, convicted
of civilization not to leave their tomb."

Some cigar called by the son of Victor Emmanuel, king liberal after all,
that gave a hand to all and had no fucking pride, but the vast majority
agreed that at last a king always a king, and that the monarchy
was not the federal republic, truths so blatant that, finally, the
dissidents had to recognize them.

Other causes of irritation soliviantar helped the mood. shortage of
slogans and the road was once crisp and dry, as wet and rotten.

No, work had to pass that fumasen like poison, but it also served handled.
Going to stretch the sheet to the layers, rather than expand,
broke, and produce a cigar as long as it took to complete two before,
and for further ignominy was to keep the patches on the back layer
is well as an old shirt, which was a great shame to know that
cigarette and honored its obligation backwards.

The operator stood arm running the desperate popular pantomime,
taking both hands to the head, forehead, chest, pointing the strongest
gestures snuff damaged and useless, impossible to design.

Were altered so that teachers are going stuffed handfuls of leaves
into their noses, shouting that "smelled of cabbage, 'and, emboldened,
they did so with the inspectors and if the head had been presented
at workshops, betting that with the head repeat the scene.

Some teachers tried in vain to calm the waves promising for the coming
months, new slogans: continued turbulence because damn that Government,
not content with sending waste sheet for more, was not in the prime of
pay. Spent days and days without collection is open, and poor women,
timidly at first, then loud and frightening, the teachers asked,
"And then, when we give the rooms?".

It was on the run run _crescendo_ and became formidable waves. The instinct
which impels the mutineers to catch someone's orders, he advised
operators of the shop up against cigarettes Amparo looking to heat their
tribunicia sentence.

Halláronse disappointed: Amparo did not fire. All heard and agreed
with them that indeed it was a mischief not to pay his due, and airy
here, followed liando straws, without speech, excitement, or something
political sermon that valiese. Admired were mobs of such coldness. If
you could penetrate the depths of the soul of Amparo in those unexplored
corners where it might not quite know exactly what to do! If you have
seen a sprout figurine girl, girl and remotísima as those seen with
eyeglasses theater caught in reverse, but it grew with amazing rapidity,
and that the internal classification of illusions called _señora
of Sobrado_ !

If you notices how the _señora_, microscopic, even dressed in the
color of desire, was moving, moving, until placed in the prominent
position occupied before the Tribune, which was removed from the
bottom, wrapped in a blanket of red light every time!

Atribuyose to other causes the indifference of the speaker.
Amparo fingers ready and had a mouth no more than maintain, the
economic crisis could not care as much as those that met six
children, three or four children, family long without more resources
to the work of a woman.

The running time and the tire shop to fiarles; were lost, how to leave
the rush? To the angels did not give them something to eat the
stones of the street!

Guardian, speaking of his deaf-mute, the heart started, she first
consenting to die, that depriving the girl of his cascarillita
with your sugar and fresh bread wheat, if necessary, ask a charity:
it would not be the first time; and heard it all your friends the
address: beg!

, what a humiliation for the Factory! There will be help each other,
as always, they were the best rascarían pocket to meet the greatest need,
and indeed so did numerous checks cuestaciones, with abundant fruit.

One day spread the rumor incident Factory: Rita of Riberilla, an
operator had been caught with a snuff.

With snuff! Jesus, if that woman seemed a holy babe, skinny, with eyes
to mourn edged, often attached to the side a black scarf because, perhaps,
the toothache!

But some tobacco, better informed, went to laugh: toothache, "I'll be
down! Was that her husband solfa every night, and she, by plugging the
tolondrones and Cardinals are empañicaba and also once was dragging
his right leg and saying that he had rheumatism, rheumatism and was
shaken by a terrible Lapo him.

When taken to the office of the chief culprit, the first thing he did was
mourn without answering, and after all, already harassed, asaeteada
questions are resolved to confess that "the husband opened a shock
if you had every day three cigars a quarter ....

Weasel, with its veneer acutangular, comically gathered, mimic to
perfection the sobbing interrupted the hiccups and the prayers of the
offender. - Three cig ... aaaarros, Mr menistrad ... ooooor three
aaaarros cig ... only, that even I do not live here ... ga saaaal
if another sad rags of taaaaab managed host ... ...

I do not hiiiice by Cudicio, as true as that God is the blessed If the
diiiivinos, but the husband gave me the chisel, which Usté forgiving
face, a leg, I cut the meat, I can teach sore, yet cured ... And he only
wanted to snuff fuuumar, which was not to sell or do business .... And
now I miss the bread, and my kids too ....

Because listen, and forgive: he told me: 'Because we did not get
quarts a month ago to the house, even cigarettes brings ...». The whole
workshop, a round of laughter that caused funny mimic Ana, broke into
exclamations of pity: steal not well done, of course not, but you also
have to put in the situation of each, how to govern had been unhappy
if her husband started and made mincemeat with her? Ouch! God free
us from an evil man, a vicious cycle!

Finally, there was no reason to stop the starving kids of the Rita,
the factory gave alms to be quite poor: most of the ground inside,
and the teacher visited the workshop with an apron made bag, and
rain The fourth, _perros_ and coins of different sizes in great
abundance.

Upon reaching the front of Amparo was a trait that was aplaudidísimo
again and won great popularity.

There was already a week that the cigarette was the credit, because
their costs of bringing the dress always late, and when the quaestor
came to ask had no future or a lady Sobrado Ochavo roñoso in your
pocket.

But one thing for months before, had made one of his whims, buying with
the savings, in time to save the Assembly, a long pair of earrings
in gold, which were his pride quitóselos without hesitation, and
threw in the apron of the teacher.

Alzose a clamoreo, a loud and vehement approval, sharp cries, voices
moistened by tears, blessings almost inarticulate, and to the
point, two or three objects of little value, a silver ring, a thimble
of the same, off came from next table, fell on the apron and mingled
with the small change.

That evening, after leaving the workshop, the workers were hung near the
hinge of the door, the sign of hardship: "Having been caught in the
act to snuff the registry operator of the workshop cigar common
Rita Mendez party No.. 3, Rancho 11, was expelled from the Factory
Manager .-- _The Jefe_, SUCH Fulano.

Placed on both sides of the stairs, watched cuadrilleros clearance to
take over the order, and sit in their chairs hoped the teachers, more
serious than usual in order to proceed with registration. Acercábanse
embarrassed as the operator, and hastily raised his clothes, which
were not determined to use that there was no contraband gatuperio
....

And the hands of the teachers feel and walked waist with unusual severity,
the armpit, the breast, and her fingers stiff, hardened by suspicion,
entered the faltriqueras, separating the folds of the Sayas .... While
the women went out side with his head fall - all shamed by the crimes
of others - the antique clock weights of rough wood, painted with ocher
color Churrigueresque golden ornaments, which dominated the hallway
as serious and austere a judge gave six.

Where-XXX-lived protagonist Amparo neighborhood was poor, abound in the
cigarette, fishermen and _pescantinas_. Proceedings and the carriages,
to cross that portion of the Olmeda, so filled with dust and noise for
a moment, but with peace returning to their village dead.

On the parapet of the road falling into the sea of elbows were always some
sailors, with thick wooden clogs, red wool sash, hat Catalan, his
tanned face, his sotabarba populated and reece, his frank look,
they said to clear the freedom and the existence of roughness at
sea a few steps from this group, rarely missing from there, was
installed at the confluence of Alameda and the slope, the flea
market: baskets wilted vegetables, fish, shellfish, birds never or
fruits of merit.

The most characteristic were the kids in the neighborhood. Each shack
down and buried, the sun shining on the horizon, leaving a tribe,
a cock, one anteater of angels, one to twelve years, giving glory.

Of them had patizambos, which ran like scared palmípedos, of whom
derechitos legs and agile as monkeys or squirrels, of which cherubs
as beautiful, and of them, horrible and shrunk because fetuses that
are preserved in brandy. Some were no signs of blowing the mucus in your
entire life, and others oreaban unashamedly taking still fresh pustules
of smallpox or measles rash, some, through the layer of dirt and
dust on them afeaba face, they traslucía carmine of the apple and
the brightness of health, others enjoyed desgreñadas hair, now if
that were zaleas or wheels, were soft loops when combed the hands
of a loving mother.

Was no less curious dress of their pillería figures. Gabbana Veíanse
there used to an older brother, and so inordinately long, the waist
and kissed the Corvos skirts sweeping the floor, if a timely
tijeretazo had not deleted, while not missing pants so short, that
fail to cover the knee, thigh arregazaba shameless discovering half.

Shoes, few, and those very spoiled and laughing, mouth open and
endeblillos sole; linen, reduced to a shred, because who puts them
something healthy then revuelquen on the road, and give all of
mojicones the holy day, and catching all the behind the carriages,
shouting: 'Tralla, Tralla!

"? What we lacked was any cobertera to the skull, what looked hirsuta hat
hair, which gave him a resemblance to Bear, which felt a hole without
form or color, what a straw basket weaving in prison, and what a huge
cotton handkerchief, tied with such art, simulating the tips of his ears
poke. Oh, and what the blessed manilimaes professed affection for that
part of her dress! Before that would cut the little finger to start
the cap or hat, nothing mattered to them to go home at night without
a short leg or the arm without a jacket, but make it with their
heads uncovered they dislike the most serious .

I lived the whole neighborhood on the street for a short time the
temperature was mild and benign.

Windows and doors were opened wide, as saying that where there are, no
matter entering thieves, and under the hole where the drowned
breathed laboriously buildings, and peeked guedejas of a woman hairdos,
and the only distinguish transient rapid onset of the arm and the white
halo of dark hair loose, and another, a mending saya old, already
nursing a child, whose meat gilded round the sun, and peeled
potatoes and pouring, one by one cazuela in crude ....

This neighbor was going to _sella_ rings glittering path of the source,
that is to shake off a refajo or vacate, looking around suspiciously,
a basin, the more impetus here came out with a hand to administer
the whipping boy tended in the dust, the back of beyond with a fish
caught by the gills, which is balanced and it whipped the dress.

All excrescences of life, the prosaic duties in affluent
neighborhoods are satisfied with shade roof, were there to light and
public view. Pañales poor in dry chancellor of the doors, the cradle of
the newborn, placed in the threshold is displayed as unashamedly as the
petticoats of the mother .... Yet, the neighborhood was not sad, far
from it, the neighboring trees, the sea and surrounding countryside, they
were all extremely healthy, the passing of the bustling cars, the kids,
piando as sparrows, gave it at times unique animation there was hardly
home cage codorniz goldfinch or without alelíes or basil antepecho in the
windows and the sun as it looked, the barrels of herring, sardines, leaning
against the wall and discovered a gigantic wheel glittered like silver
.

Also missing there shops, subject to law that requires agencies to
adapt to the environment, reflecting the poverty of the neighborhood.

Narrow shops, which sold scarves and chintz Catalan; dirty grocery
shop window, behind which a glass and a gallant lady pastaflora are
being looked so sad and so old mosques, and boxes of matches
_tremendas_ mixed with chickpeas, yellow noodles , hallelujah and
playing cards; Figon offered to appetite and sardines fried tripe;
stores that fairs wooden spoons, baskets, screens and shoes: such
was the industry of the slope of San Hilario.

It was a remarkable event which will become the subject of this payment,
and credit, leverage of modern commerce, work with extraordinary activity.
Everything was bought on credit: cigarette that had taken a year to
pay for the office gossip.

Reigned in the neighborhood some confidence, a kind of perpetual
comadrazgo, a friendly Communism: from house to house was borrowed,
not only household goods and utensils, but a "thirst" for water,
"a nut" butter, "a chisquito" Oil, "a drop" of milk, "a nadita" of
oil.

Avisábanse another mother ran away when a child is any disruption or
monkey was similar, and as it hit the right was reciprocal, the unhappy
creatures came to be in power propincua being beaten by the whole
neighborhood. It soon became accustomed to the mother Under its new
neighborhood: the bed was next to the window, and anyone going
through there without stopping to chat for a while .... The fish will
relate their lances, and crippled the buy sardines from his bed,
calling for water, he heard numerous rumors, cast in a way the
illusion of taking the outdoors ....

As to Amparo, was the queen of the neighborhood presto: seamen
reíanse, mouth open from ear to ear, delaying their wide faces of
newts, when they saw the move, the slip is poured carabineros of
flowers ....

Nearly all expressed the feeling to know that "walking" with an officer,
a gentleman of the neighborhood down there. XXXI-word-matching
since he had secrets to rely on natural instincts are leaning
Amparo a Weasel than Guardian.

I do not know how this went, half sick with the shoulder drop, as
I said, and raised more than a prayer and greeted with bonesetter usual,
the shoulder was still in its guns, and the girl tristona, thinking
about how to be their children if she died.

Amparo found in the face of Guardian did not know what limpidity what quiet
honest, it helaban on the lips of the love story when he went to start
it, while Anne, with her nervous mood, his face pointed overflowing
curiosity, invited to speak.

Under taken by the confidant, and even mate. Ana, a widow at the time
of its merchant captain, who walked around Ribadeo, were glad to
be in some way, the owner of the Tribune keeper.

For its part Baltasar seized Clear. They were still the two lovers in
the period communicative. - You took the word marriage with you? -
Ana asked her friend. - I will not table the request ....

Once, in disguise, he said something .... If it were not for the
family! The mother, especially, it is well!

And Amparo closed fist. - Bah! Go take patience eleven year old, like
me .... And then if you succeed! ... - No, because if you do not
want to marry ...

I think I despachaderas.

Ana noticed that in these bravado faltered the fortress of strength
tribunicia. Since then the perverse curiosity spurs, and somehow
he praised the idea of all, however they were superb, as she stopped
to drop had fallen.

Organizose a society composed of four individuals, Amparo Ana,
Delete and Baltasar; ever sitting this circle, already knew the
Weasel "loaded" with the grunt and gallant Clear.

Entreteníale heavy with jokes, with all kinds of hints and Burlet,
highlighted by the laughter of his lips thin, by its snout fruncimiento
rodent. Ana knew, as used to know everything, history erase, or rather,
its lack of history, and the harmless nature of matter was tireless
faldero Weasel for pure jokes crucified, nailed to a thousand pins,
so abrasive. The mischief of that vicious manilimaes distinguished
Ana helped him sniff the horrible shyness, panic afflicting a strange
man so prodigal of Requiebros so keen scent of love, and so incapable,
by nature of taste, as the dreamers contemplating the moon in the sky
downloaded. Poor remove! From sarcasm to insult bad batter, all
devoured with angelic resignation could be called if this lineage
negative virtues were not more worthy of that limbo of heaven.

Wore spring greenery and beauty far played, and invited by the kind
season, the four partners used to exploit the evening of public
holidays, comfort in the orchards that abound in the valley marinedina,
dominated by the road.

Despite his temper calculator and an enemy of the scandal,
Baltasar assigned to the aromatic veguero vehement greed to the
point in public support to the girl, but that shape a corner
section of the city. Hacíalo, however, with such restrictions
that it contained Amparo is committed to see his left hand. In the
valley were grown vegetables and some corn, but the prose of this kind
of planting the spring masked Station, decorated with a tight
network of flowering: wore a cabbage veil of pale gold, the potato
was dotted with white stars, chives seemed copious rain of hail,
the flowers of the coral bean relucían as inciting mouths and on
the edge shaking the bloody poppies, opened its delicate flowers
and lilac hedgehog cardo.

The crops of corn, whose cotyledons were beginning to leave the earth,
made of stretch in stretch satin square verdegay.

Above all, he had a corner in the valley, where nature, determined
to overcome its artifice of spontaneity horticulture, gathered
around a rustic very well supplied fresh water, two or three elms
wider than copudos, a group the funny twigs, ferns and escolopendras,
a wild rose, some, in order to break the uniformity of the vegetable.

That spot was a favorite of Amparo and Balthasar, especially since
the side in the strawberry, crammed with white flower, began to
mature red fruit.

The day of San Jose, Baltasar got to pick up the girl and half a
dozen strawberries in a cabbage leaf.

Until mid-April increased fresilla harvest, in early May began to
fall, scarce pulp sweetened strawberries, so gently moistened tongue.

A beautiful Sunday in months, while meeting the _partie carrée_ a
pretext in the garden of strawberries, and hardly any trace is
hidden among the leaves and gulusmeada of slugs and snails. - Don
Enrique - Ana exclaimed going to fade -- How many have you got?

Let your Majesty cease to lay the blame
on the year and instantly the people, all under the sky, will come to
you."

King Hwuy of Lëang said, "I wish quietly to receive your instructions."
Mencius replied, "Is there any difference between killing a man with a
stick and with a sword?" "There is no difference," was the answer.

Mencius continued, "Is there any difference between doing it with a
sword and with governmental measures?" "There is not," was the answer
again.

Mencius then said, "In your stalls there are fat beasts; in your stables
there are fat horses. But your people have the look of hunger, and in
the fields there are those who have died of famine. This is leading on
beasts to devour men. Beasts devour one another, and men hate them for
doing so. When he who is called the parent of the people conducts his
government so as to be chargeable with leading on beasts to devour men,
where is that parental relation to the people? Chung-ne said, 'Was he
not without posterity who first made wooden images to bury with the
dead?' So he said, because that man made the semblances of men and used
them for that purpose; what shall be thought of him who causes his
people to die of hunger?"

King Hwuy of Lëang said, "There was not in the kingdom a stronger State
than Ts'in, as you, venerable Sir, know. But since it descended to me,
on the east we were defeated by Ts'e, and then my eldest son perished;
on the west we lost seven hundred li of territory to Ts'in; and on the
south we have sustained disgrace at the hands of Ts'oo. I have brought
shame on my departed predecessors, and wish on their account to wipe it
away once for all. What course is to be pursued to accomplish this?"

Mencius replied, "With a territory only a hundred li square it has been
possible to obtain the Royal dignity. If your Majesty will indeed
dispense a benevolent government to the people, being sparing in the use
of punishments and fines, and making the taxes and levies of produce
light, so causing that the fields shall be ploughed deep, and the
weeding well attended to, and that the able-bodied, during their days of
leisure, shall cultivate their filial piety, fraternal duty,
faithfulness, and truth, serving thereby, at home, their fathers and
elder brothers, and, abroad, their elders and superiors, you will then
have a people who can be employed with sticks which they have prepared
to oppose the strong buff-coats and sharp weapons of the troops of Ts'in
and Ts'oo.

"The rulers of those States rob their people of their time, so that they
cannot plough and weed their fields in order to support their parents.
Parents suffer from cold and hunger; elder and younger brothers, wives
and children, are separated and scattered abroad. Those rulers drive
their people into pitfalls or into the water; and your Majesty will go
to punish them. In such a case, who will oppose your Majesty? In
accordance with this is the saying, 'The benevolent has no enemy!' I beg
your Majesty not to doubt what I said."

Mencius had an interview with King Sëang[2] of Lëang. When he came out
he said to some persons, "When I looked at him from a distance, he did
not appear like a ruler; when I drew near to him, I saw nothing
venerable about him. Abruptly he asked me, 'How can the kingdom, all
under the sky, be settled?' I replied, 'It will be settled by being
united under one sway,'

"'Who can so unite it?' he asked.

"I replied, 'He who has no pleasure in killing men can so unite it.'

"'Who can give it to him?' he asked.

"I replied, 'All under heaven will give it to him. Does your Majesty
know the way of the growing grain? During the seventh and eighth months,
when drought prevails, the plants become dry. Then the clouds collect
densely in the heavens, and send down torrents of rain, so that the grain
erects itself as if by a shoot. When it does so, who can keep it back?
Now among those who are shepherds of men throughout the kingdom, there
is not one who does not find pleasure in killing men. If there were one
who did not find pleasure in killing men, all the people under the sky
would be looking towards him with outstretched necks. Such being indeed
the case, the people would go to him as water flows downwards with a
rush, which no one can repress."

King Seuen of Ts'e asked, saying, "May I be informed by you of the
transactions of Hwan of Ts'e and Wan of Ts'in?"

Mencius replied, "There were none of the disciples of Chung-ne who spoke
about the affairs of Hwan and Wan, and therefore they have not been
transmitted to these after-ages; your servant has not heard of them. If
you will have me speak, let it be about the principles of attaining to
the Royal sway."

The king said, "Of what kind must his virtue be who can attain to the
Royal sway?" Mencius said, "If he loves and protects the people, it is
impossible to prevent him from attaining it."

The king said, "Is such an one as poor I competent to love and protect
the people?" "Yes," was the reply. "From what do you know that I am
competent to that?" "I have heard," said Mencius, "from Hoo Heih the
following incident:--'The king,' said he, 'was sitting aloft in the
hall, when some people appeared leading a bull past below it. The king
saw it, and asked where the bull was going, and being answered that they
were going to consecrate a bell with its blood, he said, "Let it go, I
cannot bear its frightened appearance--as if it were an innocent person
going to the place of death." They asked in reply whether, if they did
so, they should omit the consecration of the bell, but the king said,
"How can that be omitted? Change it for a sheep."' I do not know whether
this incident occurred."

"It did," said the king, and Mencius replied, "The heart seen in this is
sufficient to carry you to the Royal sway. The people all supposed that
your Majesty grudged the animal, but your servant knows surely that it
was your Majesty's not being able to bear the sight of the creature's
distress which made you do as you did."

The king said, "You are right; and yet there really was an appearance of
what the people imagined. But though Ts'e be narrow and small, how
should I grudge a bull? Indeed it was because I could not bear its
frightened appearance, as if it were an innocent person going to the
place of death, that therefore I changed it for a sheep."

Mencius said, "Let not your Majesty deem it strange that the people
should think you grudged the animal. When you changed a large one for a
small, how should they know the true reason? If you felt pained by its
being led without any guilt to the place of death, what was there to
choose between a bull and a sheep?" The king laughed and said, "What
really was my mind in the matter? I did not grudge the value of the
bull, and yet I changed it for a sheep! There was reason in the people's
saying that I grudged the creature."

Mencius said, "There is no harm in their saying so. It was an artifice
of benevolence. You saw the bull, and had not seen the sheep. So is the
superior man affected towards animals, that, having seen them alive, he
cannot bear to see them die, and, having heard their dying cries, he
cannot bear to eat their flesh. On this account he keeps away from his
stalls and kitchen."

The king was pleased and said, "The Ode says,

  'What other men have in their minds,
  I can measure by reflection,'

This might be spoken of you, my Master. I indeed did the thing, but when
I turned my thoughts inward and sought for it, I could not discover my
own mind. When you, Master, spoke those words, the movements of
compassion began to work in my mind. But how is it that this heart has
in it what is equal to the attainment of the Royal sway?"

Mencius said, "Suppose a man were to make this statement to your
Majesty, 'My strength is sufficient to lift three thousand catties, but
is not sufficient to lift one feather; my eyesight is sharp enough to
examine the point of an autumn hair, but I do not see a wagon-load of
fagots,' would your Majesty allow what he said?" "No," was the king's
remark, and Mencius proceeded, "Now here is kindness sufficient to reach
to animals, and yet no benefits are extended from it to the people--how
is this? is an exception to be made here? The truth is, the feather's
not being lifted is because the strength was not used; the wagon-load of
firewood's not being seen is because the eyesight was not used; and the
people's not being loved and protected is because the kindness is not
used. Therefore your Majesty's not attaining to the Royal sway is
because you do not do it, and not because you are not able to do it."

The king asked, "How may the difference between him who does not do a
thing and him who is not able to do it be graphically set forth?"
Mencius replied, "In such a thing as taking the T'ae mountain under your
arm, and leaping with it over the North Sea, if you say to people, 'I am
not able to do it,' that is a real case of not being able. In such a
matter as breaking off a branch from a tree at the order of a superior,
if you say to people, 'I am not able to do it,' it is not a case of not
being able to do it. And so your Majesty's not attaining to the Royal
sway is not such a case as that of taking the T'ae mountain under your
arm and leaping over the North Sea with it; but it is a case like that
of breaking off a branch from a tree.

"Treat with reverence due to age the elders in your own family, so that
those in the families of others shall be similarly treated; treat with
the kindness due to youth the young in your own family, so that those in
the families of others shall be similarly treated--do this and the
kingdom may be made to go round in your palm. It is said in the 'Book of
Poetry,'

  'His example acted on his wife,
  Extended to his brethren,
  And was felt by all the clans and States;'

Telling us how King Wan simply took this kindly heart, and exercised it
towards those parties. Therefore the carrying out of the feeling of
kindness by a ruler will suffice for the love and protection of all
within the four seas; and if he do not carry it out, he will not be able
to protect his wife and children. The way in which the ancients came
greatly to surpass other men was no other than this, that they carried
out well what they did, so as to affect others. Now your kindness is
sufficient to reach to animals, and yet no benefits are extended from it
to the people. How is this? Is an exception to be made here?

"By weighing we know what things are light, and what heavy. By measuring
we know what things are long, and what short. All things are so dealt
with, and the mind requires specially to be so. I beg your Majesty to
measure it.--Your Majesty collects your equipments of war, endangers
your soldiers and officers and excites the resentment of the various
princes--do these things cause you pleasure in your mind?"

The king said, "No. How should I derive pleasure from these things? My
object in them is to seek for what I greatly desire."

Mencius said, "May I hear from you what it is that your Majesty greatly
desires?" The king laughed, and did not speak. Mencius resumed, "Are you
led to desire it because you have not enough of rich and sweet food for
your mouth? or because you have not enough of light and warm clothing
for your body? or because you have not enough of beautifully colored
objects to satisfy your eyes? or because there are not voices and sounds
enough to fill your ears? or because you have not enough of attendants
and favorites to stand before you and receive your orders? Your
Majesty's various officers are sufficient to supply you with all these
things. How can your Majesty have such a desire on account of them?"
"No," said the king, "my desire is not on account of them." Mencius
observed, "Then what your Majesty greatly desires can be known. You
desire to enlarge your territories, to have Ts'in and Ts'oo coming to
your court, to rule the Middle States, and to attract to you the
barbarous tribes that surround them. But to do what you do in order to
seek for what you desire is like climbing a tree to seek for fish."

"Is it so bad as that?" said the king. "I apprehend it is worse," was
the reply. "If you climb a tree to seek for fish, although you do not
get the fish, you have no subsequent calamity. But if you do what you do
in order to seek for what you desire, doing it even with all your heart,
you will assuredly afterwards meet with calamities." The king said, "May
I hear what they will be?" Mencius replied, "If the people of Tsow were
fighting with the people of Ts'oo, which of them does your Majesty think
would conquer?" "The people of Ts'oo would conquer," was the answer, and
Mencius pursued, "So then, a small State cannot contend with a great,
few cannot contend with many, nor can the weak contend with the strong.
The territory within the seas would embrace nine divisions, each of a
thousand li square. All Ts'e together is one of them. If with one part
you try to subdue the other eight, what is the difference between that
and Tsow's contending with Ts'oo? With the desire which you have, you
must turn back to the proper course for its attainment.

"Now, if your Majesty will institute a government whose action shall all
be benevolent, this will cause all the officers in the kingdom to wish
to stand in your Majesty's court, the farmers all to wish to plough in
your Majesty's fields, the merchants, both travelling and stationary,
all to wish to store their goods in your Majesty's market-places,
travellers and visitors all to wish to travel on your Majesty's roads,
and all under heaven who feel aggrieved by their rulers to wish to come
and complain to your Majesty. When they are so bent, who will be able to
keep them back?"

The king said, "I am stupid and cannot advance to this. But I wish you,
my Master, to assist my intentions. Teach me clearly, and although I am
deficient in intelligence and vigor, I should like to try at least to
institute such a government."

Mencius replied, "They are only men of education, who, without a certain
livelihood, are able to maintain a fixed heart. As to the people, if
they have not a certain livelihood, they will be found not to have a
fixed heart. And if they have not a fixed heart, there is nothing which
they will not do in the way of self-abandonment, of moral deflection, of
depravity, and of wild license. When they have thus been involved in
crime, to follow them up and punish them, is to entrap the people. How
can such a thing as entrapping the people be done under the rule of a
benevolent man?"

"Therefore, an intelligent ruler will regulate the livelihood of the
people, so as to make sure that, above, they shall have sufficient
wherewith to serve their parents, and below, sufficient wherewith to
support their wives and children; that in good years they shall always
be abundantly satisfied, and that in bad years they shall not be in
danger of perishing. After this he may urge them, and they will proceed
to what is good, for in this case the people will follow after that with
readiness.

"But now the livelihood of the people is so regulated, that, above, they
have not sufficient wherewith to serve their parents, and, below, they
have not sufficient wherewith to support their wives and children; even
in good years their lives are always embittered, and in bad years they
are in danger of perishing. In such circumstances their only object is
to escape from death, and they are afraid they will not succeed in doing
so--what leisure have they to cultivate propriety and righteousness?

"If your Majesty wishes to carry out a benevolent government, why not
turn back to what is the essential step to its attainment?

"Let mulberry trees be planted about the homesteads with their five
acres, and persons of fifty years will be able to wear silk. In keeping
fowls, pigs, dogs, and swine, let not their times of breeding be
neglected, and persons of seventy years will be able to eat flesh. Let
there not be taken away the time that is proper for the cultivation of
the field-allotment of a hundred acres, and the family of eight mouths
will not suffer from hunger. Let careful attention be paid to the
teaching in the various schools, with repeated inculcation of the filial
and fraternal duties, and gray-haired men will not be seen upon the
roads, carrying burdens on their backs or on their heads. It has never
been that the ruler of a State, where these results were seen, the old
wearing silk and eating flesh, and the black-haired people suffering
neither from hunger nor cold, did not attain to the Royal dignity."

[NOTE: _Books II, III, and IV are omitted_]


[Footnote 1: The title of this book in Chinese is--"King Hwuy of Lëang;
in chapters and sentences." Like the Books of the Confucian Analects,
those of this work are headed by two or three words at or near the
commencement of them. Each Book is divided into two parts. This
arrangement was made by Chaou K'e, and to him are due also the divisions
into chapters, and sentences, or paragraphs, containing, it may be, many
sentences.]

[Footnote 2: Sëang was the son of King Hwuy. The first year of his reign
is supposed to be B.C. 317. Sëang's name was Hih. As a posthumous
epithet, Sëang has various meanings: "Land-enlarger and Virtuous";
"Successful in Arms." The interview here recorded seems to have taken
place immediately after Hih's accession, and Mencius, it is said, was so
disappointed by it that he soon after left the country.]


THE SHI-KING


[_Metrical translation by James Legge_]


INTRODUCTION


The wisdom of Confucius as a social reformer, as a teacher and guide of
the Chinese people, is shown in many ways. He not only gave them a code
of personal deportment, providing them with rules for the etiquette and
ceremony of life, but he instilled into them that profound spirit of
domestic piety which is one of the strongest features in the Chinese
character. He took measures to secure also the intellectual cultivation
of his followers, and his Five Canons contain all the most ancient works
of Chinese literature, in the departments of poetry, history,
philosophy, and legislation. The Shi-King is a collection of Chinese
poetry made by Confucius himself. This great anthology consists of more
than three hundred pieces, covering the whole range of Chinese lyric
poetry, the oldest of which dates some eighteen centuries before Christ,
while the latest of the selections must have been written at the
beginning of the sixth century before Christ. These poems are of the
highest interest, and even nowadays may be read with delight by
Europeans. The ballad and the hymn are among the earliest forms of
national poetry, and the contents of the Shi-King naturally show
specimens of lyric poetry of this sort. We find there not only hymns,
but also ballads of a really fine and spirited character. Sometimes the
poems celebrate the common pursuits, occupations, and incidents of life.
They rise to the exaltation of the epithalamium, or of the vintage song;
at other times they deal with sentiment and human conduct, being in the
highest degree sententious and epigrammatic. We must give the credit to
Confucius of having saved for us the literature of China, and of having
set his people an example in preserving the monuments of a remote
antiquity. While the literatures of ancient Greece and Rome have largely
perished in the convulsions that followed the breaking up of the Roman
empire in Europe, when the kingdom of China fell into disorder and
decrepitude this one great teacher stepped forward to save the precious
record of historic fact, philosophical thought, and of legislation as
well as poetry, from being swept away by the deluge of revolution.
Confucius showed his wisdom by the high value he set upon the poetry of
his native land, and his name must be set side by side with that of the
astute tyrant of Athens who collected the poems of Homer and preserved
them as a precious heritage to the Greek world. Confucius has given us
his opinion with regard to the poems of the Shi-King. No man, he says,
is worth speaking to who has not mastered the poems of an anthology, the
perusal of which elevates the mind and purifies it from all corrupt
thoughts. Thanks to the work of modern scholarship, English readers can
now verify this dictum for themselves.

E. W.


THE SHI-KING


_PART I--LESSONS FROM THE STATES_


BOOK I

THE ODES OF CHOW AND THE SOUTH


~Celebrating the Virtue of King Wan's Bride~


  Hark! from the islet in the stream the voice
  Of the fish-hawks that o'er their nests rejoice!
  From them our thoughts to that young lady go,
  Modest and virtuous, loth herself to show.
  Where could be found to share our prince's state,
  So fair, so virtuous, and so fit a mate?

  See how the duckweed's stalks, or short or long,
  Sway left and right, as moves the current strong!
  So hard it was for him the maid to find!
  By day, by night, our prince with constant mind
  Sought for her long, but all his search was vain.
  Awake, asleep, he ever felt the pain
  Of longing thought, as when on restless bed,
  Tossing about, one turns his fevered head.

  Here long, there short, afloat the duckweed lies;
  But caught at last, we seize the longed-for prize.
  The maiden modest, virtuous, coy, is found;
  Strike every lute, and joyous welcome sound.
  Ours now, the duckweed from the stream we bear,
  And cook to use with other viands rare.
  He has the maiden, modest, virtuous, bright;
  Let bells and drums proclaim our great delight


~Celebrating the Industry of King Wan's Queen~

  Sweet was the scene. The spreading dolichos
  Extended far, down to the valley's depths,
  With leaves luxuriant. The orioles
  Fluttered around, and on the bushy trees
  In throngs collected--whence their pleasant notes
  Resounded far in richest melody.

  The spreading dolichos extended far,
  Covering the valley's sides, down to its depths,
  With leaves luxuriant and dense. I cut
  It down, then boiled, and from the fibres spun
  Of cloth, both fine and coarse, large store,
  To wear, unwearied of such simple dress.

  Now back to my old home, my parents dear
  To see, I go. The matron I have told,
  Who will announcement make. Meanwhile my clothes,
  My private clothes I wash, and rinse my robes.
  Which of them need be rinsed? and which need not?
  My parents dear to visit, back I go.


~In Praise of a Bride~

  Graceful and young the peach-tree stands;
    How rich its flowers, all gleaming bright!
  This bride to her new home repairs;
    Chamber and house she'll order right.

  Graceful and young the peach-tree stands;
    Large crops of fruit it soon will show.
  This bride to her new home repairs;
    Chamber and house her sway shall know.

  Graceful and young the peach-tree stands,
    Its foliage clustering green and full.
  This bride to her new home repairs;
    Her household will attest her rule.


~Celebrating T'ae-Sze's Freedom from Jealousy~

  In the South are the trees whose branches are bent,
  And droop in such fashion that o'er their extent
    All the dolichos' creepers fast cling.
  See our princely lady, from whom we have got
  Rejoicing that's endless! May her happy lot
    And her honors repose ever bring!

  In the South are the trees whose branches are bent,
  And droop in such fashion that o'er their extent
    All the dolichos' creepers are spread.
  See our princely lady, from whom we have got
  Rejoicing that's endless! Of her happy lot
    And her honors the greatness ne'er fade!

  In the South are the trees whose branches are bent,
  And droop in such fashion that o'er their extent
    All the dolichos' creepers entwine.
  See our princely lady, from whom we have got
  Rejoicing that's endless! May her happy lot
    And her honors complete ever shine!


~The Fruitfulness of the Locust~

  Ye locusts, wingèd tribes,
    Gather in concord fine;
  Well your descendants may
    In numerous bright hosts shine!

  Ye locusts, wingèd tribes,
    Your wings in flight resound;
  Well your descendants may
    In endless lines be found!

  Ye locusts, wingèd tribes,
    Together cluster strong;
  Well your descendants may
    In swarms forever throng!


~Lamenting the Absence of a Cherished Friend~

  Though small my basket, all my toil
    Filled it with mouse-ears but in part.
  I set it on the path, and sighed
    For the dear master of my heart.

  My steeds, o'er-tasked, their progress stayed,
    When midway up that rocky height.
  Give me a cup from that gilt vase--
    When shall this longing end in sight?

  To mount that lofty ridge I drove,
    Until my steeds all changed their hue.
  A cup from that rhinoceros's horn
    May help my longing to subdue.

  Striving to reach that flat-topped hill,
    My steeds, worn out, relaxed their strain;
  My driver also sank oppressed:--
    I'll never see my lord again!


~Celebrating the Goodness of the Descendants of King Wan~

  As the feet of the _lin_, which avoid each living thing,
  So our prince's noble sons no harm to men will bring.
                   They are the _lin!_

  As the front of the _lin_, never forward thrust in wrath,
  So our prince's noble grandsons of love tread the path.
                   They are the _lin!_

  As the horn of the _lin_, flesh-tipped, no wound to give,
  So our prince's noble kindred kindly with all live.
                   They are the _lin!_

[NOTE.--The "lin" is the female of "K'e"--a fabulous animal--the
symbol of all goodness and benevolence; having the body of a
deer, the tail of an ox, the hoofs of a horse, one horn, the scales of a
fish, etc. Its feet do not tread on any living thing--not even on live
grass; it does not butt with its forehead; and the end of its horn is
covered with flesh--to show that, while able for war, it wills to have
peace. The "lin" was supposed to appear inaugurating a golden age,
but the poet finds a better auspice of that in the character of Wan's
family and kindred.]


~The Virtuous Manners of the Young Women~

  High and compressed, the Southern trees
    No shelter from the sun afford.
  The girls free ramble by the Han,
    But will not hear enticing word.
  Like the broad Han are they,
    Through which one cannot dive;
  And like the Keang's long stream,
    Wherewith no raft can strive.

  Many the fagots bound and piled;
    The thorns I'd hew still more to make.
  As brides, those girls their new homes seek;
    Their colts to feed I'd undertake.
  Like the broad Han are they,
    Through which one cannot dive;
  And like the Keang's long stream,
    Wherewith no raft can strive.

  Many the fagots bound and piled;
    The Southern-wood I'd cut for more.
  As brides, those girls their new homes seek;
    Food for their colts I'd bring large store.
  Like the broad Han are they,
    Through which one cannot dive;
  And like the Keang's long stream,
    Wherewith no raft can strive.


~Praise of a Rabbit-Catcher~

  Careful he sets his rabbit-nets all round;
 _Chang-chang_ his blows upon the pegs resound.
  Stalwart the man and bold! his bearing all
  Shows he might be his prince's shield and wall.

  Careful he is his rabbit-nets to place
  Where many paths of rabbits' feet bear trace.
  Stalwart the man and bold! 'tis plain to see
  He to his prince companion good would be.

  Careful he is his rabbit-nets to spread,
  Where in the forest's depth the trees give shade.
  Stalwart the man and bold! fit his the part
  Guide to his prince to be, and faithful heart.


~The Song of the Plantain-Gatherers~

  We gather and gather the plantains;
    Come gather them anyhow.
  Yes, gather and gather the plantains,
    And here we have got them now.

  We gather and gather the plantains;
    Now off the ears we must tear.
  Yes, gather and gather the plantains,
    And now the seeds are laid bare.

  We gather and gather the plantains,
    The seeds in our skirts are placed.
  Yes, gather and gather the plantains.
    Ho! safe in the girdled waist!


~The Affection of the Wives on the Joo~

  Along the raised banks of the Joo,
    To hew slim stem and branch I wrought,
  My lord away, my husband true,
    Like hunger-pang my troubled thought!

  Along the raised banks of the Joo,
    Branch and fresh shoot confessed my art.
  I've seen my lord, my husband true,
    And still he folds me in his heart.

  As the toiled bream makes red its tail,
    Toil you, Sir, for the Royal House;
  Amidst its blazing fires, nor quail:--
    Your parents see you pay your vows.


BOOK II


THE ODES OF SHAOU AND THE SOUTH


~The Marriage of a Princess~

    In the magpie's nest
    Dwells the dove at rest.
  This young bride goes to her future home;
  To meet her a hundred chariots come.

    Of the magpie's nest
    Is the dove possessed.
  This bride goes to her new home to live;
  And escort a hundred chariots give.

    The nest magpie wove
    Now filled by the dove.
  This bride now takes to her home her way;
  And these numerous cars her state display.


~The Industry and Reverence of a Prince's Wife~

  Around the pools, the islets o'er,
    Fast she plucks white Southern-wood,
  To help the sacrificial store;
    And for our prince does service good.

  Where streams among the valleys shine,
    Of Southern-woods she plucks the white;
  And brings it to the sacred shrine,
    To aid our prince in solemn rite.

  In head-dress high, most reverent, she
    The temple seeks at early dawn.
  He however had so much audacity and
    perseverance to put the date that all obeyed him.

Salambo rode behind him throughout the camp.

  Mathos tent was at the end, only three
    hundred paces away from Hamilkars
  hide. On the right they noticed
    a large pit, and it came
      before her, as
      if on its edge
    close to the bottom faces up.

  They looked like cut-off heads, but
    her eyes moved, and her lips
  escaped halbgeöffneten actions
    in Punic language. Two Negroes
      with resin
      torches stood
    on both sides of the Zelttür.

  Matho was rushed back the canvas.
    Salambo followed him. It was an
  oblong tent with a pole in the
    middle. A large lamp in the
      form of a lotus
      flower is lit.
    It was up to the edge with a yellow oil filled.

Thickness Wergflocken swam to it.

  In the dark, it was realized blinking
    war. A mere sword leaned next to a shield
  on a stool. Whips from Flußpferdhaut,
    cymbals, bells and necklaces were thrown on colorful woven baskets.

  Black breadcrumb covers an Filzdecke. In a
    corner on a round stone plate beaten
  copper coins carelessly aufgehäuft,
    and through the cracks in the canvas the wind blew from outside
dust and smell of the elephants come to eat you and listened to
rattle their chains.

  "Who are you?" Asked Matho . Salambo
    slowly looked after by all sides without
  having to respond. Then turned their eyes
    to the light of the tent and stayed in a sparkling bluish-term
object, which has a warehouse of palm branches hung.

Immediately she pointed to progressive.

  A cry escaped her. Matho was behind
    her, and stamped with the
      foot. "What leads you
      from? What do you come?
    "They pointed to the Zaimph and replied:" In order to get there!

  "With the other hand she tore the
    veil from her face. Matho
      back most affected,
      almost frightened, her
    arms stretched to the rear.

  They felt inspired by divine force.
    Eye to eye she looked at
      him and asked
      the Zaimph. They
    demanded him back with a haughty eloquent words.

Matho listened not. He looked at them.

  Their garments were in his eyes, one
    with her body. The iridescent fabric
  was him as well as its shimmering skin
    something special, which was only her own.

  Her eyes flashed fire in their diamonds,
    and the splendor of their finger nails was
  the reflection of the glittering
    jewels, their fingers umstrahlten.

  The two clips of their tunics,
    constituting her breasts a little in the
  air and presses the two breasts
    closer together.

Mathos thought lost in the narrow space between these two hills,
where a string occupied an emerald medallion herabhing.

  Something deeper lugte it out of purple
  gauze. As Ohrgehänge she wore two
  small bowls of sapphire, which
  each a hollow, with the fragrant liquid filled wore pearl.

  Through tiny holes in the beads leaked
  from time to time a droplet of
  perfume and wetted down her
  bare shoulders. Matho saw a fall.

  Indomitable curiosity seized
  him, and like a child,
  after an unknown fruit
  picks, he touched Salambo trembling with the tip of a finger on
the top of the bosom.

The cold meat was in accordance with elastic resistance.

This hardly noticeable touch Matho attracted to the market of fine
bones.

A wild flush flowed through his body and pushed him rudely after her.

  He would entwine them in to suck, they may
    drink. His chest gasped, his teeth rattled
  together. Salambo He grabbed at the wrists and
    pulled her gently about it. Then he
    settled on an armor next to the camp from
  palm branches down in which a spread was
    Löwenfell. Salambo remained upright. He
  held it between his thighs and looked at it
  from head to foot to. Again and again he said.

  "Wie schön bist du! How beautiful art
    thou! "His eyes, which are constantly on
  their eyes were directed, did it hurt, and
    this malaise, this reluctance was proving
    so painful that they had to contain himself,
  so as not aufzuschreien. Schahabarim
    was it a. You said it. Matho gave her little
  hands continually in his, but from time to time
  turned Salambo despite the commandment priestly head away and tried
by an arm movement loszumachen.

  He sog wings with wide-nose the smell, which
    it ausströmte an undetermined odor, but
  fresh and stunning as incense, a scent of
    honey, spices, roses and all sorts of
    Oddities. But how she came to him? In his
  tent, in his power? No doubt someone
    they had instigated. Was it because of the Zaimphs
  come? His arms fell limp down. He bowed his
  head and sank into gloomy reverie.

  To stir, she said with a plaintive voice:
    "What have I done thee, that thou my death
  wish?" "Your death? "They went on:" I saw you
    one evening in the glow of my burning gardens,
    trees between smoking and slain my slaves,
  and your anger was so great that you
    lossprangst on me and I had to flee! Then
  the horrors in Carthage recovered. They
  screamed about the devastation of cities, the devastation of the
fields, the Hinmorden of soldiers - and you, you had devastated,
devastated, murdered!

  I hate you! The mere sound of your name
    eats at me like bitter remorse! You are cursed
  as the plague, as the war with Rome! The
    provinces tremble before thy wrath, the
    fields are full of dead bodies. I am the trace
  of your fire flares followed, as if I was
    behind herginge Moloch! "Matho jumped
  on. Tremendous pride schwellte his
  heart. He felt exalted as a god.

With trembling wings, nose and teeth compressed she continued: "As
if thy temple robbery is not already enough, did you come to me
while I slept, wrapped in Zaimph.

  Your words, I have not understood,
    but I've probably felt that you
  take me to something shameful seduce me
    into an abyss of trying to topple ...

  "rang Matho hands and cried:" No, no!
    I wanted to give it to you! You give
  him back! I felt as though the
    goddess her gown for you away, as it belonged to you!

  In their temples or in your home
    - is not the same thing? If you are
  not omnipotent, clean, shiny and
    beautiful as Tanit?

  "And with a look full of infinite
    adoration he continued:" Maybe
  you're Tanit yourself! "I , Tanit?
    "Salambo whispered to himself as you both fell silent.

Thunder rolled in the distance.

  From the thunderstorm frightened,
    blökten sheep. "Come nearer,"
  he began again. "Come closer! Fear nothing!
    "Formerly, I was
  just a common soldier in
    the great heap of mercenaries.
  I was so meek that I use for the rest
    the wood on their backs dragged.

  What I really care
    Carthage! His people throng
  swarming like lost in the dust of
    your sandals, and all its
  treasures, all of its
    provinces, fleets and islands
  less than me lust after the freshness
    of your lips and the rounding of your shoulders.

  I wanted to break its walls, in
    order for you to go
  around you to have! Meanwhile, I
    have avenged myself. Now
  I crush people like shells,
    I throw myself on the
  regiments, I push with the hands,
    the lance aside, I grab the stallions at the nostrils.

  I am the heaviest gun kills
    not! Oh, if only you knew
  how I struggle in the midst of you
    think! Sometimes takes me
  suddenly the memory
    of a gesture from you, in a
  fold of your robe. The umschlingt me like
    a net.

  I see your eyes in the
    flames of fire arrows and
  the shields of gold. I hear your voice
    on the sound of cymbals.

  I turn around, and you're
   not there - then I fall again
  into the battle throng, "He reckte the
   arms up, to which the wires crossed, as Efeuranken at the root of
a tree.

  Sweat ran between the powerful
   muscles of his chest down.
  His breath shook his ribs and brass
   belt with the belt
  stocking, herabreichte
   him up on his knees,
  which were solid as marble. Salambo, the
   only eunuch had seen, was of the strength of this man enraptured.

That was the punishment of the goddess of magic, or Molech, the
about them in five troops drove his essence!

  Faintness seized her. Half stunned, they
    hardly even heard of the reputation of
  the items outside, in the intervals themselves zuriefen.
    The flame of the lamp flickering bursts penetrating the hot winds.

  Sometimes twitched bright flashes. Afterwards,
    the darkness was always so deep, and they saw
  nothing more than Mathos eyes like two glowing
    coals glow through the night.

  One felt it: the fate that had led them
    here, that they are facing an important
  decision was irrevocable. Oneself up, she went
    on to Zaimph and lifted their hands to him to take.

  "What are you doing?" Cried Matho. "Carthage
    after I go back," she answered calmly. He
  progressively with folded arms and face so
    terrible to them that they like angewurzelt stopped. »Carthage
after you return back?"

  He stammered. Teeth grinding and he repeated:
    'Carthage after you return back? So, you
  did so, the Zaimph me to rob me helpless
    to do and then to disappear! No, no!

You belong to me! And no one should snatch thee me again!

  Oh, I have the great pride of your silent
  eyes do not forget, even as thou me with
  thy noble beauty slammed to the ground! Now
  is the series to me! You are my prisoner, my slave, my lass!

  Calls, so much you want, your father and his
  army, the aged, the patrician and your whole
  wicked people! I am the master of dreimalhunderttausend
  soldiers!

  And even more will I herbeiholen from
  Lusitania, from Gaul and from the bosom of the
  desert to your city and destroy all their temples
  to burn!

  The warships will be built on a sea of blood
  to swim, no house, no stone, no palm tree is
  left of Carthage! And when the people are missing
  me, so I pick the bears from the mountains
    and driving the Lions into battle. Do not
    try to escape! I kill you!

"Bleaching combined with fists and he stood there and quivered like
a harp, whose strings threaten to shatter.

  Suddenly, however, his voice choked in sobs,
    and he sank to its knees:
  "Oh, forgive me! I am a Dishonorable and
    less valuable than a
     scorpion, when excrement and dust!
     Just as you said, your breath blew on my face, and I refreshed
myself out like a swelter at the edge of a stream, and drink.

  Zertritt me! If I only feel your feet! Curse
    me! If I only hear your
  voice! Do not go away! Have pity! I love
    you! Ich liebe dich! "He
     stood before her on his knees, his
     head zurückgeneigt and umschlang her hips with both arms, with
hands twitching.

  The gold coins to his ears glittered on his
    bronze-colored neck. Quollen
  thickness tears from his eyes like silver
    bullets. He sighed and muttered
      love pointless words, the softer and
      a touch sweeter than a kiss were.

Salambo was of a soft voluptuousness taken her all the consciousness
robbed.

  Something Innigmenschliches and
  yet Hocherhabenes, a
  commandment of the gods forced
  them to lose burned. Cloud wore
  them up, and half fainting
  they fell down on the camp in the Löwenfell.

  Matho took them to the feet.
  Since zersprang the golden
  chains, and the two ends quickly
  advanced against the canvas
  as two jerking snakes. The Zaimph
  fell down and wrapped Salambo.

  She saw Mathos face on her breasts
  tend. "Moloch, thou burn me!" * *
  * * * The kisses of the
  soldier they transmit
  devouring than flames. It was
  as if a wild storm fortriß it, as if the glow of the sun they
durchlodere.

  He kissed all her fingers, her hands,
  her arms, her feet, her long hair
  lichen. "Take the jacket,"
  he said . "What is it to me!
  Kidnappers but me! I want to
  leave the army! Will on everything!

There behind Gades, twenty days longer in the far seas, as is an island,
covered with gold dust, trees and birds. On the mountains large flowers
predominate, full flavors that swirl up like the smoke of sacred eternal
lamps. From lemon trees, the higher rise than cedars, milk-white
throw snakes teeth with diamonds the fruit down to the lawn. The air
is so mild that you can not die.

O, this island I will find you shall see!

  We will live in Crystal Caves, at the
    foot of the hills. Still no one
  lives there, and I will be king of the
    country! "He wiped the dust from their shoes.

  He wished her a piece of pomegranate
    stuck between the lips. He pushed
  her head under the blankets, a pillow
    for them to do so.

  He looked at her all the way to serve and
    spread the Zaimph finally on her
  feet like an ordinary blanket. "Do you
    remember the little gazelle horns, in which your collars hung?"

He asked.

  "The thou shalt give me! I saw them
  so happy! "He talked as if the war
  would be ended. Happy laughter entquoll
  him. The mercenaries, Hamilkar,
  all obstacles were now gone. The
    moon came between two clouds.
  They saw him through a hole in the
    tent.

  "Ah, how many nights I spent immersed in
  his sight! It was me, when he was a
  veil that hid your face. You test me by
  looking at him. The memory of you
  became one with his light. I do not
    be more different, "His
  head rested between her breasts.
    He cried without end.

  "That is it so," thought Salambo.
  "The terrible man, before Carthage
  trembles!" He fell asleep. You
  entwand to his arms and put one foot on the ground.

  Because they noticed that her chain was
    burst into pieces. You get
  used to the virgins to make
    houses out these Fessel as something almost sacred anzusehn.

Blushing Salambo established the chain to her ankle back together.

  Carthage, Megara, the paternal
    castle, its
  Kemenate, the area which
    they durchritten,
  everything appeared in the
    wild confusion
  before her colorful, but yet
    in clear images.

  A deep chasm had suddenly
    everything it
  separately and in
    infinite distance.
  The storm made itself. Now
    and then clapped a
  raindrop on the tent roof and
    brought it in quietly quivering movement.

  Matho was like a drunken sleep
    on the side.
  One arm hung by him over the
    edge of the camp
  down. His perlengeschmückte
    binders had moved
  a little and let his
    forehead free.

  A smile plays around his
    lips halbgeöffneten.
  The teeth shone between his
    black beard, and
  his eyes not quite closed
    laughed quiet serenity,
  the Salambo almost grieved.
    They stood before his bed and looked at him motionless, with lowered
head and hands superimposed.

At the head of the bed was on a table by a dagger
cypress wood.

The sight of the glittering blade caught in Salambo a bloodthirsty
desire.

It was her, as complained distant voices through the night, a ghost
she incantatory chorus.

They came closer, she took in the steel grip.

  Their robes touched the sleeper. Since
    Matho opened his eyes. He touched his
  lips with her hands, and the dagger fell
    to the ground. Outside stood up
      yelling. Bright shone shocking
      behind the tent. Matho, the canvas
      at the entrance back to the camp of the Libyans was in flames.

  The reed huts were burning. The tube is
    bent rods, smoke burst in and shot them
  like arrows. At the blood-red horizon you
    could see the black shadow thrown wirr
      run. In the remaining huts howled
      inside. Elephants, cattle and horses
      hunted through the turmoil and zertraten people, the war machine
and rescued from the flames luggage.

  This trumpet signals. All cried,
    "Matho! Matho! "We wanted to penetrate
  into his tent. "Come on! Hamilkar burns
    Autarits stock! "He stormed out.
      Salambo remained alone. They
      looked at the Zaimph, and when they
      had viewed him enough, she was surprised the good fortune not to
feel that they themselves had awaited.

Melancholy stood before her unfulfilled dreams.

  As was the hem of the tent lifted, and
    a bulky figure appeared.
  But, Sir, I shall enjoy
    My food, though you're absurd!

  O dear! that artful boy
    My table will not share!
  But, Sir, I shall enjoy
    My rest, though you're not there!


~A Lady Mourns the Absence of Her Student Lover~

  You student, with the collar blue,
    Long pines my heart with anxious pain.
  Although I do not go to you,
    Why from all word do you refrain?

  O you, with girdle strings of blue,
    My thoughts to you forever roam!
  Although I do not go to you,
    Yet why to me should you not come?

  How reckless you, how light and wild,
    There by the tower upon the wall!
  One day, from sight of you exiled,
    As long as three long months I call.


[NOTE: Selections from Books IV., V., and VI., have been
omitted.--EDITOR.]


BOOK VIII


THE ODES OF TS'E


~A Wife Urging Her Husband to Action~

  His lady to the marquis says,
     "The cock has crowed; 'tis late.
  Get up, my lord, and haste to court.
     'Tis full; for you they wait."
  She did not hear the cock's shrill sound,
  Only the blueflies buzzing round.

  Again she wakes him with the words,
     "The east, my lord, is bright.
  A crowded court your presence seeks;
     Get up and hail the light."
  'Twas not the dawning light which shone,
  But that which by the moon was thrown.

  He sleeping still, once more she says,
     "The flies are buzzing loud.
  To lie and dream here by your side
     Were pleasant, but the crowd
  Of officers will soon retire;
  Draw not on you and me their ire!"


~The Folly of Useless Effort~

  The weeds will but the ranker grow,
    If fields too large you seek to till.
  To try to gain men far away
    With grief your toiling heart will fill,

  If fields too large you seek to till,
    The weeds will only rise more strong.
  To try to gain men far away
    Will but your heart's distress prolong.

  Things grow the best when to themselves
    Left, and to nature's vigor rare.
  How young and tender is the child,
    With his twin tufts of falling hair!
  But when you him ere long behold,
    That child shall cap of manhood wear!


~The Prince of Loo~

  A grand man is the prince of Loo,
    With person large and high.
  Lofty his front and suited to
    The fine glance of his eye!
  Swift are his feet. In archery
    What man with him can vie?
  With all these goodly qualities,
    We see him and we sigh!

  Renowned through all the land is he,
    The nephew of our lord.
  With clear and lovely eyes, his grace
    May not be told by word.
  All day at target practice,
    He'll never miss the bird.
  Such is the prince of Loo, and yet
    With grief for him we're stirred!

  All grace and beauty he displays,
    High forehead and eyes bright.
  And dancing choice! His arrows all
    The target hit aright.
  Straight through they go, and every one
    Lights on the self-same spot.
  Rebellion he could well withstand,
    And yet we mourn his lot!


BOOK IX


THE ODES OF WEI


~On the Misgovernment of the State~

  A fruit, small as the garden peach,
    May still be used for food.
  A State, though poor as ours, might thrive,
    If but its rule were good.
  Our rule is bad, our State is sad,
    With mournful heart I grieve.
  All can from instrument and voice
    My mood of mind perceive.
  Who know me not, with scornful thought,
    Deem me a scholar proud.
  "Those men are right," they fiercely say,
    "What mean your words so loud?"
  Deep in my heart my sorrows lie,
    And none the cause may know.
  How should they know who never try
    To learn whence comes our woe?

  The garden jujube, although small,
    May still be used for food.
  A State, though poor as ours, might thrive,
    If but its rule were good.
  Our rule is bad, our State is sad,
    With mournful heart I grieve.
  Methinks I'll wander through the land,
    My misery to relieve.
  Who know me not, with scornful thought,
    Deem that wild views I hold.
  "Those men are right," they fiercely say,
    "What mean your words so bold?"

  Deep in my heart my sorrows lie,
  And none the cause may know.
  How can they know, who never try
  To learn whence comes our woe?


~The Mean Husband~

  Thin cloth of dolichos supplies the shoes,
    In which some have to brave the frost and cold.
  A bride, when poor, her tender hands must use,
    Her dress to make, and the sharp needle hold.
  This man is wealthy, yet he makes his bride
    Collars and waistbands for his robes provide.

  Conscious of wealth, he moves with easy mien;
    Politely on the left he takes his place;
  The ivory pin is at his girdle seen:--
    His dress and gait show gentlemanly grace.
  Why do we brand him in our satire here?
    'Tis this---his niggard soul provokes the sneer.


~A Young Soldier on Service~

  To the top of that tree-clad hill I go,
    And towards my father I gaze,
  Till with my mind's eye his form I espy,
    And my mind's ear hears how he says:--
  "Alas for my son on service abroad!
    He rests not from morning till eve.
  May he careful be and come back to me!
    While he is away, how I grieve!"

  To the top of that barren hill I climb,
    And towards my mother I gaze,
  Till with my mind's eye her form I espy,
    And my mind's ear hears how she says:--
  "Alas for my child on service abroad!
    He never in sleep shuts an eye.
  May he careful be, and come back to me!
    In the wild may his body not lie!"

  Up the lofty ridge I, toiling, ascend,
    And towards my brother I gaze,
  Till with my mind's eye his form I espy,
    And my mind's ear hears how he says:--
  "Alas! my young brother, serving abroad,
    All day with his comrades must roam.
  May he careful be, and come back to me,
    And die not away from his home."


BOOK X


THE ODES OF TANG


~The King Goes to War~

  The wild geese fly the bushy oaks around,
  With clamor loud. _Suh-suh_ their wings resound,
  As for their feet poor resting-place is found.
  The King's affairs admit of no delay.
  Our millet still unsown, we haste away.
  No food is left our parents to supply;
  When we are gone, on whom can they rely?
  O azure Heaven, that shinest there afar,
  When shall our homes receive us from the war?

  The wild geese on the bushy jujube-trees
  Attempt to settle and are ill at ease;--
  _Suh-suh_ their wings go flapping in the breeze.
  The King's affairs admit of no delay;
  Our millet still unsown, we haste away.
  How shall our parents their requirements get?
  How in our absence shall their wants be met?
  O azure Heaven, that shinest there afar,
  When shall our homes receive us from the war?

  The bushy mulberry-trees the geese in rows
  Seek eager and to rest around them close--
  With rustling loud, as disappointment grows.
  The King's affairs admit of no delay;
  To plant our rice and maize we cannot stay.
  How shall our parents find their wonted food?
  When we are gone, who will to them be good?
  O azure Heaven, that shinest there afar,
  When shall our homes receive us from the war?


~Lament of a Bereaved Person~


  A russet pear-tree rises all alone,
  But rich the growth of leaves upon it shown!
  I walk alone, without one brother left,
  And thus of natural aid am I bereft.
  Plenty of people there are all around,
  But none like my own father's sons are found.
  Ye travellers, who forever hurry by,
  Why on me turn the unsympathizing eye?
  No brother lives with whom my cause to plead;--
  Why not perform for me the helping deed?

  A russet pear-tree rises all alone,
  But rich with verdant foliage o'ergrown.
  I walk alone, without one brother's care,
  To whom I might, amid my straits repair.
  Plenty of people there are all around,
  But none like those of my own name are found.
  Ye travellers, who forever hurry by,
  Why on me turn the unsympathizing eye?
  No brother lives with whom my cause to plead;--
  Why not perform for me the helping deed?


~The Drawbacks of Poverty~

  On the left of the way, a russet pear-tree
  Stands there all alone--a fit image of me.
  There is that princely man! O that he would come,
  And in my poor dwelling with me be at home!
  In the core of my heart do I love him, but say,
  Whence shall I procure him the wants of the day?

  At the bend in the way a russet pear-tree
  Stands there all alone--a fit image of me.
  There is that princely man! O that he would come,
  And rambling with me be himself here at home!
  In the core of my heart I love him, but say,
  Whence shall I procure him the wants of the day?


~A Wife Mourns for Her Husband~

  The dolichos grows and covers the thorn,
    O'er the waste is the dragon-plant creeping.
  The man of my heart is away and I mourn--
    What home have I, lonely and weeping?

  Covering the jujubes the dolichos grows,
    The graves many dragon-plants cover;
  But where is the man on whose breast I'd repose?
    No home have I, having no lover!

  Fair to see was the pillow of horn,
    And fair the bed-chamber's adorning;
  But the man of my heart is not here, and I mourn
    All alone, and wait for the morning.

  While the long days of summer pass over my head,
    And long winter nights leave their traces,
  I'm alone! Till a hundred of years shall have fled,
    And then I shall meet his embraces.

  Through the long winter nights I am burdened with fears,
    Through the long summer days I am lonely;
  But when time shall have counted its hundreds of years
    I then shall be his--and his only!


BOOK XI


THE ODES OF TS'IN


~Celebrating the Opulence of the Lords of Ts'in~

  Our ruler to the hunt proceeds;
  And black as iron are his steeds
  That heed the charioteer's command,
  Who holds the six reins in his hand.
  His favorites follow to the chase,
  Rejoicing in his special grace.

  The season's males, alarmed, arise--
  The season's males, of wondrous size.
  Driven by the beaters, forth they spring,
  Soon caught within the hunters' ring.
  "Drive on their left," the ruler cries;
  And to its mark his arrow flies.

  The hunting done, northward he goes;
  And in the park the driver shows
  The horses' points, and his own skill
  That rules and guides them at his will.
  Light cars whose teams small bells display,
  The long-and short-mouthed dogs convey.


~A Complaint~

  He lodged us in a spacious house,
    And plenteous was our fare.
  But now at every frugal meal
    There's not a scrap to spare.
  Alas! alas that this good man
  Could not go on as he began!


  ~A Wife's Grief Because of Her Husband's Absence~

  The falcon swiftly seeks the north,
  And forest gloom that sent it forth.
  Since I no more my husband see,
  My heart from grief is never free.
  O how is it, I long to know,
  That he, my lord, forgets me so?

  Bushy oaks on the mountain grow,
  And six elms where the ground is low.
  But I, my husband seen no more,
  My sad and joyless fate deplore.
  O how is it, I long to know,
  That he, my lord, forgets me so?

  The hills the bushy wild plums show,
  And pear-trees grace the ground below.
  But, with my husband from me gone,
  As drunk with grief, I dwell alone.
  O how is it, I long to know,
  That he, my lord, forgets me so?


~Lament for Three Brothers~


  They flit about, the yellow birds,
    And rest upon the jujubes find.
  Who buried were in duke Muh's grave,
    Alive to awful death consigned?

  'Mong brothers three, who met that fate,
    'Twas sad the first, Yen-seih to see.
  He stood alone; a hundred men
    Could show no other such as he.
  When to the yawning grave he came,
  Terror unnerved and shook his frame.

  Why thus destroy our noblest men,
    To thee we cry, O azure Heaven!
  To save Yen-seih from death, we would
    A hundred lives have freely given.

  They flit about, the yellow birds,
    And on the mulberry-trees rest find.
  Who buried were in duke Muh's grave,
    Alive to awful death consigned?

  'Mong brothers three, who met that fate,
    'Twas sad the next, Chung-hang to see.
  When on him pressed a hundred men,
    A match for all of them was he.
  When to the yawning grave he came,
  Terror unnerved and shook his frame.

  Why thus destroy our noblest men,
    To thee we cry, O azure Heaven!
  To save Chung-hang from death, we would
    A hundred lives have freely given.

  They flit about, the yellow birds,
    And rest upon the thorn-trees find.
  Who buried were in duke Muh's grave,
    Alive to awful death consigned?

  'Mong brothers three, who met that fate,
    'Twas sad the third, K'ëen-foo, to see.
  A hundred men in desperate fight
    Successfully withstand could he.
  When to the yawning grave he came,
  Terror unnerved and shook his frame.

  Why thus destroy our noblest men,
    To thee we cry, O azure Heaven!
  To save K'ëen-foo from death, we would
    A hundred lives have freely given.


[NOTE.--The incident related in this poem occurred in the year B.C. 620,
when the duke of Muh died after playing an important part in the affairs
of Northwest China. Muh required the three officers here celebrated, to
be buried with him, and according to the "Historical Records" this
barbarous practice began with duke Ching, Muh's predecessor. In all, 170
individuals were buried with Muh. The death of the last distinguished
man of the Ts'in dynasty, the Emperor I, was subsequently celebrated by
the entombment with him of all the inmates of his harem.]


~In Praise of a Ruler of Ts'in~

  What trees grow on the Chung-nan hill?
    The white fir and the plum.
  In fur of fox, 'neath 'broidered robe,
    Thither our prince is come.
  His face glows with vermilion hue.
  O may he prove a ruler true!

  What find we on the Chung-nan hill?
    Deep nook and open glade.
  Our prince shows there the double _Ke_
    On lower robe displayed.
  His pendant holds each tinkling gem,
  Long life be his, and deathless fame!


~The Generous Nephew~

  I escorted my uncle to Tsin,
    Till the Wei we crossed on the way.
      Then I gave as I left
      For his carriage a gift
  Four steeds, and each steed was a bay.

  I escorted my uncle to Tsin,
    And I thought of him much in my heart.
      Pendent stones, and with them
     Of fine jasper a gem,
  I gave, and then saw him depart.


BOOK XII


THE ODES OF CH'IN


~The Contentment of a Poor Recluse~

My only door some pieces of crossed wood,
  Within it I can rest enjoy.
I drink the water wimpling from the spring;
  Nor hunger can my peace destroy.

Purged from ambition's aims I say, "For fish.
  We need not bream caught in the Ho;
Nor, to possess the sweets of love, require
  To Ts'e, to find a Keang, to go.

"The man contented with his lot, a meal
  Of fish without Ho carp can make;
Nor needs, to rest in his domestic joy,
  A Tsze of Sung as wife to take."


~The Disappointed Lover~

Where grow the willows near the eastern gate,
  And 'neath their leafy shade we could recline,
She said at evening she would me await,
  And brightly now I see the day-star shine!

Here where the willows near the eastern gate
  Grow, and their dense leaves make a shady gloom,
She said at evening she would me await.
  See now the morning star the sky illume!


~A Love-Song~

The moon comes forth, bright in the sky;
A lovelier sight to draw my eye
  Is she, that lady fair.
She round my heart has fixed love's chain,
But all my longings are in vain.
  'Tis hard the grief to bear.

The moon comes forth, a splendid sight;
More winning far that lady bright,
  Object of my desire!
Deep-seated is my anxious grief;
In vain I seek to find relief;
  While glows the secret fire.

The rising moon shines mild and fair;
More bright is she, whose beauty rare
  My heart with longing fills.
With eager wish I pine in vain;
O for relief from constant pain,
  Which through my bosom thrills!


~The Lament of a Lover~

There where its shores the marsh surround,
Rushes and lotus plants abound.
Their loveliness brings to my mind
The lovelier one that I would find.
In vain I try to ease the smart
Of wounded love that wrings my heart.
In waking thought and nightly dreams,
From every pore the water streams.

All round the marsh's shores are seen
Valerian flowers and rushes green.
But lovelier is that Beauty rare,
Handsome and large, and tall and fair,
I wish and long to call her mine,
Doomed with the longing still to pine.
Nor day nor night e'er brings relief;
My inmost heart is full of grief.

Around the marsh, in rich display,
Grow rush and lotus flowers, all gay.
But not with her do they compare,
So tall and large, majestic, fair.
Both day and night, I nothing speed;
Still clings to me the aching need.
On side, on back, on face, I lie,
But vain each change of posture.


THE ODES OF KWEI


~The Wish of an Unhappy Man~

  Where the grounds are wet and low,
  There the trees of goat-peach grow,
  With their branches small and smooth,
  Glossy in their tender youth.
  Joy it were to me, O tree,
  Consciousness to want like thee.

  Where the grounds are wet and low,
  There the trees of goat-peach grow.
  Soft and fragrant are their flowers,
  Glossy from the vernal showers.
  Joy it were to me, O tree,
  Ties of home to want like thee.

  Where the grounds are wet and low,
  There the trees of goat-peach grow,
  What delicious fruits they bear,
  Glossy, soft, of beauty rare!
  Joy it were to me, O tree,
  Household cares to want like thee.


BOOK XIV


THE ODES OF TS'AOU

~Against Frivolous Pursuits~

  Like splendid robes appear the wings
    Of the ephemeral fly;
  And such the pomp of those great men,
    Which soon in death shall lie!
  I grieve! Would they but come to me!
    To teach them I should try.

  The wings of the ephemeral fly
    Are robes of colors gay;
  And such the glory of those men,
    Soon crumbling to decay!
  I grieve! Would they but rest with me,
    They'd learn a better way!

  The ephemeral fly bursts from its hole,
    With gauzy wings like snow;
  So quick the rise, so quick the fall,
    Of those great men we know!
  I grieve! Would they but lodge with me,
    Forth they would wiser go.


BOOK XV


THE ODES OF PIN


~The Duke of Chow Tells of His Soldiers~

  To the hills of the east we went,
    And long had we there to remain.
  When the word of recall was sent,
    Thick and fast came the drizzling rain.
  When told our return we should take,
    Our hearts in the West were and sore;
  But there did they clothes for us make:--
    They knew our hard service was o'er.
  On the mulberry grounds in our sight
    The large caterpillars were creeping;
  Lonely and still we passed the night,
    All under our carriages sleeping.

  To the hills of the East we went,
    And long had we there to remain.
  When the word of recall was sent,
    Thick and fast came the drizzling rain.
  The heavenly gourds rise to the eye,
    With their fruit hanging under the eave.
  In our chambers the sow-bug we spy;
    Their webs on our doors spiders weave.
  Our paddocks seem crowded with deer,
    With the glow-worm's light all about.
  Such thoughts, while they filled us with fear,
    We tried, but in vain, to keep out.

  To the hills of the East we went,
    And long had we there to remain.
  When the word of recall was sent,
    Thick and fast came the drizzling rain.

  On ant-hills screamed cranes with delight;
    In their rooms were our wives sighing sore.
  Our homes they had swept and made tight:--
    All at once we arrived at the door.
  The bitter gourds hanging are seen,
    From branches of chestnut-trees high.
  Three years of toil away we had been,
    Since such a sight greeted the eye.

  To the hills of the East we went,
    And long had we there to remain.
  When the word of recall was sent,
    Thick and fast came the drizzling rain.
  With its wings now here, and now there,
    Is the oriole sporting in flight.
  Those brides to their husbands repair,
    Their steeds red and bay, flecked with white.
  Each mother has fitted each sash;
    Their equipments are full and complete;
  But fresh unions, whatever their dash,
    Can ne'er with reunions compete.


~There is a Proper Way for Doing Everything~

  In hewing an axe-shaft, how must you act?
    Another axe take, or you'll never succeed.
  In taking a wife, be sure 'tis a fact,
    That with no go-between you never can speed.

  In hewing an axe-shaft, hewing a shaft,
    For a copy you have the axe in your hand.

  In choosing a wife, you follow the craft,
    And forthwith on the mats the feast-vessels stand.


PART II.--MINOR ODES TO THE KINGDOM


BOOK I


DECADE OF LUH MING


~A Festal Ode~

  With sounds of happiness the deer
    Browse on the celery of the meads.
  A nobler feast is furnished here,
    With guests renowned for noble deeds.
  The lutes are struck; the organ blows,
    Till all its tongues in movement heave.
  Each basket loaded stands, and shows
    The precious gifts the guests receive.
  They love me and my mind will teach,
  How duty's highest aim to reach.

  With sounds of happiness the deer
    The southern-wood crop in the meads,
  What noble guests surround me here,
    Distinguished for their worthy deeds!
  From them my people learn to fly
    Whate'er is mean; to chiefs they give
  A model and a pattern high;--
    They show the life they ought to live.
  Then fill their cups with spirits rare,
  Till each the banquet's joy shall share.

  With sounds of happiness the deer
    The salsola crop in the fields.
  What noble guests surround me here!
    Each lute for them its music yields.
  Sound, sound the lutes, or great or small.
    The joy harmonious to prolong;--

  And with my spirits rich crown all
    The cups to cheer the festive throng.
  Let each retire with gladdened heart,
  In his own sphere to play his part.


~A Festal Ode Complimenting an Officer~

  On dashed my four steeds, without halt, without stay,
  Though toilsome and winding from Chow was the way.
  I wished to return--but the monarch's command
  Forbade that his business be done with slack hand;
    And my heart was with sadness oppressed.

  On dashed my four steeds; I ne'er slackened the reins.
  They snorted and panted--all white, with black manes.
  I wished to return, but our sovereign's command
  Forbade that his business be done with slack hand;--
    And I dared not to pause or to rest.

  Unresting the Filial doves speed in their flight,
  Ascending, then sweeping swift down from the height,
  Now grouped on the oaks. The king's high command
  Forbade that his business be done with slack hand;--
    And my father I left, sore distressed.

  Unresting the Filial doves speed in their flight,
  Now fanning the air and anon they alight
  On the medlars thick grouped. But our monarch's command
  Forbade that his business be done with slack hand;--
    Of my mother I thought with sad breast.

  My four steeds I harnessed, all white and black-maned,
  Which straight on their way, fleet and emulous strained.
  I wished to return; and now venture in song
  The wish to express, and announce how I long
    For my mother my care to attest.


[NOTE.--Both Maou and Choo agree that this ode was composed in
honor of the officer who narrates the story in it, although they say it
was not written by the officer himself, but was put into his mouth, as
it were, to express the sympathy of his entertainer with him, and the
appreciation of his devotion to duty.]


~The Value of Friendship~

  The woodmen's blows responsive ring,
    As on the trees they fall;
  And when the birds their sweet notes sing,
    They to each other call.
  From the dark valley comes a bird,
    And seeks the lofty tree.
  _Ying_ goes its voice, and thus it cries,
    "Companion, come to me."
  The bird, although a creature small,
    Upon its mate depends;
  And shall we men, who rank o'er all,
    Not seek to have our friends?
  All spirits love the friendly man,
    And hearken to his prayer.
  What harmony and peace they can
    Bestow, his lot shall share.

  _Hoo-hoo_ the woodmen all unite
    To shout, as trees they fell.
  They do their work with all their might;--
    What I have done I'll tell.
  I've strained and made my spirits clear,
    The fatted lambs I've killed.
  With friends who my own surname bear,
    My hall I've largely filled.
  Some may be absent, casually,
    And leave a broken line;
  But better this than absence by
    An oversight of mine.
  My court I've sprinkled and swept clean,
    Viands in order set.
  Eight dishes loaded stand with grain;
    There's store of fatted meat.
  My mother's kith and kin I'm sure
    I've widely called by name.
  That some be hindered better is
    Than ~I~ give cause for blame.

  On the hill-side the trees they fell,
    All working with good-will
  I labor too, with equal zeal.
    And the host's part fulfil.
  Spirits I've set in order meet,
    The dishes stand in rows.
  The guests are here; no vacant seat
    A brother absent shows.
  The loss of kindly feeling oft
    From slightest things shall grow,
  Where all the fare is dry and spare,
    Resentments fierce may glow.
  My store of spirits is well strained,
    If short prove the supply,
  My messengers I straightway send,
    And what is needed buy.
  I beat the drums, and in the dance
    Lead joyously the train.
  Oh! good it is, when falls the chance
    The sparkling cup to drain.


~The Response to a Festal Ode~

  Heaven shields and sets thee fast.
  It round thee fair has cast
    Thy virtue pure.
  Thus richest joy is thine;--
  Increase of corn and wine,
  And every gift divine,
    Abundant, sure.

  Heaven shields and sets thee fast.
  From it thou goodness hast;
    Right are thy ways.
  Its choicest gifts 'twill pour,
  That last for evermore,
  Nor time exhaust the store
    Through endless days.

  Heaven shields and sets thee fast,
  Makes thine endeavor last
    And prosper well.
  The chief numidische remained
  in the mercenaries. He seemed
  to want to Matho friends sent
    him fattened goats, gold dust, and ostrich feathers.

  The Libyans, astonished about
  these attentions, varied as to
    whether he or she
  say about it in anger should be
  advised. Spendius But
  mollified him, and Matho was
    guided by the slaves.

  He was a man who never
  knew what he wanted, and now
    especially in a
  state unbezwinglicher
  Teilnahmlosigkeit as someone
  who has made a potion,
    which he must die.

  One morning, when all three of
  lions hunting aufbrachen, hid
    a dagger Naravas
  in his coat. Spendius it
  remained stable on the
  heels, and they returned
    without the Numidier had his dagger gezückt.

On another Naravas lured the two far-away, to the borders of his
kingdom.

  They came into a narrow gorge. As stated Naravas
  smiling, he knew the way no more. Spendius
  found him again. Mostly, however, broke Matho,
  deep like an augur, starting at sunrise in order
  in the area umherzustreifen. He stretched himself
  out on the sand and remained motionless until
  the evening lie.

  He questioned one by one all the soothsayers
  of the army: the barrel of snakes observed in
  the stars and read on the ashes of the dead
  blew. He took Galbanum, Sesel viper venom and
  herzversteinerndes On. Negro women in the moonlight
  singing songs barbaric, scratched his forehead
  skin with golden daggers.

  He behängte with collars and amulets. Alternately,
  he Khamon, Moloch, the seven Kabir, Tanit, and the
  Aphrodite of the Greeks. He dug a name into a
  copper plate and buried in the sands on the
  threshold of his tent. Spendius heard
  him sigh, and talk with himself. One night
  he entered his tent.

  Matho was on a lions skin hingestreckt, naked as a
  corpse, the face buried in both hands. A hanging
  lamp illuminated his arms, which he heads on
  to Zeltmaste hung. "Do you have pain?"
  Asked the slave. "What's missing you? Answer
  me! "It shook him on the shoulder and cried
  again: 'Lord, Lord," At last Matho watched with big eyes disturbed
him.

"Do you know?"

  He whispered, a finger on the lips radically.
    "It is the revenge of the gods. Hamilkars
  daughter pursues me! I fear me in front of
    her, Spendius! "He expressed the fists against
    his eyes, like a child, before the ghosts
  graust. »Speaking with me! I'm sick! I want
    to be healthy! Everything I have tried!
  But you, you know, perhaps more powerful gods, or
  some incantation, which really helps. "" What? "Asked Spendius.

  Matho beat with both fists against the forehead. "To
    me Salambos spell to redeem," And as to
  himself, he said in broken sentences:
    "Certainly I am a victim of expiation, which
    they praised the gods have ... It keeps me tied down
  ... with an invisible chain ... Am I, so it
    moves forward ... I stay, so she spends ...

  Her eyes consume me ... I hear her voice ...
  it surrounds me and permeates me ...

  I feel as if my soul had become ... And it
    threatens something between us as the
  invisible waves of a border-free sea ... It
    is far from me and completely unattainable
    ... The shimmer of her beauty umfließt with streams
  of light, and sometimes I's as if I had never seen
    ... lived as they do not ... as was all a
  dream! ... "Then Matho durchjammerte the night.
  Everything fell asleep.

  Spendius looked at him, and he remembered those
    youths who formerly with golden vessels in
  the hands angefleht had when he Buhlerinnen
    through the cities had led. Pity seized him, and
    he said, "Be strong, Lord! Turn you at your
  own will and not to implore the gods, because
    the prayers of the people they do not stir.
  You cry like a coward! It humbles thee not that
  thou to suffer as a woman? "" Am I a child?

  "Gave Matho replied. »Do you think I am the
    face and the singing of a woman or to stir?
  We had in their Drepanum enough. They swept the
    stables. I got obsessed with her during the storm on
    cities under falling roofs, and when the guns from
  the setback still trembling! ... But this woman,
    this woman! "The slave interrupted him:" If they
  would not Hamilkars daughter ... "" No! "Cried
  Matho. "It has nothing to do with the other daughters of the common
people!

  Do you have her big eyes under the large brewing seen?
    Sun shine sun under triumphal arches. Remember:
  as it seemed, lost all their shine torches.
    Between the diamond necklace of their bodies
    shone her bare breast. Wherever they went, it smelled
  like incense after a temple, and her whole being
    entströmte something sweeter than wine and more
  terrible than death. So gradually it out and
  then she stopped ...

"Open mouth, and lowered head Matho stood there and stared before
him."

But I will have!

I must have it! Otherwise I shall die!

  When the idea to attach them to
  my chest press, take me wild joy. And yet, I
  hate them, Spendius, I want to
  beat them! What should I do?

  I want to sell me to be her slave.
  You were there! You could order
  them! Tell me about it! Allnächtlich
  not true, she climbs the roof of her palace?

  Alas, the stones must quake in
  their sandals and the stars that
  tend to make them look! "He was like
  in rage and röchelte like a wounded bull.

  Then he sang:" He's in the Grove Unholdin
  whose tail is about the arid foliage
  wound like a silver stream. "With
  long-drawn tones imitating the voice Salambos after, however, the
fingers of his outstretched hand movements made when they played
in the strings of a lyre. consolation to all of the words Spendius
he replied with the same speeches.

So passed two nights on the actions and comforting words.

Matho wished to stun with wine.

But after the intoxication, he was still sad.

  He tried to log on to the game of dice
    to dispel, but he gradually the gold coins lost
  his necklace. He had become the holy Heta
    lead, but sobbing, he came back down the hill, like someone from
a funeral home returns.

  Spendius however, became increasingly
    bold and cheerful. You saw him out
  in the sticks set up giving the
    midst of the soldiers talking.

  He patched old armor that could be a
    juggler with daggers and tried to see
  the fields of medicinal herbs for the sick.
    He was funny, clever, eloquent, and had one thousand good ideas.

  The barbarians are accustomed to its
    services. He made himself popular
  with them. However, they waited on a
    messenger from Carthage to them in baskets full of gold mules bring.

  Again and again they überschlugen the
    old account and painted figures with
  their fingers in the sand.
    Each forged plans for the future.

  Some wanted to be prostitutes,
    slaves and land to buy goods. Andre
  wanted to bury their treasures in the
    sea or they gamble with.

  But for this inaction, the heated emotions.
  There were ongoing disputes between
  horsemen and infantry, between Greeks
  and barbarians, and constantly gellten the shrill voices of women.

  Droves daily reached nearly naked
  men, to protect against the sun grass
  on her head wore. There were several
Carthaginian debtors from their creditors to drudgery in the fields
and are now forced escaped.

Libyans streamed during which farmers, through the taxes were based,
outlaw and wrongdoers.

  The retinue of Krämer, wine and oil dealers,
  angry that they were not paid, all began to
  ereifern against Carthage. Spendius held fire
  speeches against the Republic. Soon the food
  was scarce. We talked about united to
  march on Carthage and the Romans to bring. * * * * * One evening,
the hour of the meal, heard a muffled, confused noise, which gradually
came closer.

  In the distance, the rolling terrain, dipped
  slightly to Red. It was a great Purpursänfte,
  at their corners with clusters of ostrich
  feathers was decorated. Crystal chains and
  garlands of pearls beat against the
  closed curtains.

  Camels followed, and the big bells, which
  they hung around their necks, were ringing
  noisily confused. On both sides challenged riders,
  from the foot to the throat in golden scales
  tanks. Three hundred steps in front of the
  camp made them stop, around the reservoirs behind the saddles her
round shield, her broad sword and helmet böotischen their paper.

Some stayed with the camels, the others sat back in motion.

  Finally appeared the field characters of the
  Republic: blue wooden poles, a horse or a pine-apple
  crowned. The barbarians all jumped up and
  clapped applause.

  The women ran the Guard cavalry forward and kissed
  their feet. Naht The sedan chair on the
  shoulders of twelve Negroes, with small, quick
  steps ran in cycles.

  They had the right soon after, and soon after
  left ausbiegen, hampered by the tent cords,
  creeps and field animals boiler in which the
  meat is cooked. A few pushed a fat, hand
  reichgeschmückte the curtains slightly apart,
  and a rough voice was annoying words. Since,
  the carrier stops and suggested another way
  through the camps.

Now the crimson curtains were opened, and we saw a large pillow on
a bloated human head with real trains.

The eyebrows looked like two sheets of ebony, which with the ends
joined together.

Goldflitter blinking in the Kraushaar, and the face was pale as
marble dust with powdered.

  The rest of the body disappeared under a
    lot of fur. The soldiers recognized the
  man in the Suffeten Hanno. They were probably
    still in the memories that his slowness was
  to blame for losses at the Battle of the Islands
    Ägatischen.

  And if he is following his victories over the
    Libyans in mild Hekatompylos had shown, that
  this was only their opinion of greed, because he
    had all the prisoners for his own account sells, the Republic, but
her death reported.

  After a while the Suffet A comfortable place for
    an address to the soldiers were around, he
  gave a Wink. The sedan stopped and based on two
    slaves, he climbed clumsily out.

  He wore black with silver moons Filzschuhe
    seeding. His legs were like a mummy with bandages
  wrapped quoll and the meat between the intersecting
    line strip shows.

  His belly hung over the scarlet loincloth
    down, his legs covered, and the folds of his
  fat neck, hung him - like a bull the Wampe
    - up to the chest.

  His tunic embroidered with flowers crash in
    the armpits. He was wearing a Bandolier, a field
    bandage and a black jacket with double Puffärmeln.
    The pomp of his suit, his broad collar of blue stones, the golden
buckles and heavy Ohrgehänge made his Mißgestalt still repugnant.

  He looked like a clumsy carved stone idol.
    The lifeless appearance gave him the white leprosy,
  his whole body covered. Only his nose,
    crooked beak like a vulture, moved violently, by inhalation, and
his small eyes with sticky eyelashes shone in hard, metallic sheen.

  In his hand he held a spatula from Aloeholz to
    scrape the skin. Now came two trumpets in their
  silver horns. The noise is presented, and
    Hanno began to speak. He began with a eulogy
  to the gods and to the Republic. The
    Barbarians should be happy praise, to have served her.

  You must be sensible, the times were hard
    - "and if a gentleman has only three olives,
  it is not right that he had to keep two for?" Such mixed
    the old Suffet his speech with proverbs and
  parables and nodded in a while Continue with the
    head, as if he wanted to cause so applause.

He spoke Punic, but the bystanders (the Hurtig, which rallied without
their weapons were) were Kampaner, Gauls and Greeks, so that it
from the many people not only understood.

  Hanno noticed it, stopped and rocked
    the cumbersome and thoughtful of one leg
  to the other. He came to the invasion,
    the main zusammenzurufen people, and his
  trumpeter called this command from Greek. Shrew Since
  Greek was the language of command in the Carthaginian armies.

  The guardsmen drove the mercenaries herandrängenden
    back blows with the whip, and soon
  approaching the captains of the Spartan
    phalanx pattern formed and the officers
  in their national Barbarenkompagnien armor and
  with their rank insignia.

  The night was herabgesunken, and yell
    loud roar around in the plane. Here and
  there were burning campfire. We went
    from one to another and asked themselves:
  "What is this? Why not pay the Suffet the
  money from?

  "Hanno expected the main people the
    extraordinary expense of the
  Republic. The state treasury was
    empty. The tribute to the Romans
  was overwhelming ... "We know no more of a ...
  Carthage is really lamentable, "From time to time he scraped the
limbs with the Aloespatel, or he broke to get out of a silver bowl,
which gave him a slave, a potion from Wiesel and ash asparagus
boiled in vinegar to slurp.

Then he wiped the lips with a Scharlachtuch and began again: "What
earlier pititemaman a silver was worth, is now three pititemaman
gold.

The neglected during the war fields bring nothing to say.

Our fisheries are almost purple underlying addressed, and even the
pearls are extremely rare.

  Hardly, we still have enough ointment
  to worship! What food is concerned, I
    will not talk about ...
  This is a misery! Due to the lack of
  galleys we get no spices, and
    because of the insurgency on the border of Cyrene can only with
difficulty and hardship Silphium provide.

  Sicily, which supplied us with many slaves,
  is now closed. Yesterday I only
    had for a Badeknecht and four
  kitchen boys more than paid for a pair of
  elephants! "He unrolled a long
    piece of papyrus and leave without a single point to go, all
expenditure incurred by the Government had been made so far was the
restoration of the temple cost as much as the street pavement, so
much the construction of warships, so much the coral fishery, so
much the magnification of Syssitien and so much machinery in the
mines in the land of the Cantabrian.

  But the main Punic people understood
  just how the municipalities,
    although the mercenaries in
  this language welcomed. We used
  in the barbarian armies to be some
    Carthaginian officers who served as an interpreter.

  But they had after the war, fearing the
  revenge of the mercenaries made
    invisible, and Hanno had not
  thought of what to bring. Moreover,
  lost his dull voice in the wind. The
    Greeks with their brass Waffengehenken listened to his body tense
and tried to guess Hannos words, while the mountain dwellers, wrapped
in furs like bears and to its iron-studded clubs complained Having
beaten him suspicious looking or yawned.

  The Inattentive Gauls grinning shook her
  hair high, and sons of the desert,
    in gray Wollkittel gemummt,
  listened motionless to. Andre came
  from behind herzu. The guard of
    the swarm urged wavered on their horses.

  The Negroes were burning pine branches
  high, but the Carthaginians thick, the
    lawn on a hill was taken,
  drove in his speech continued. Meanwhile
  the Barbarians were impatient. Murmur
    rose. Everyone cried Hanno somewhat.
  The gesticulated with his spatula.
  Some wanted the others to silence, to
    override each other and thereby increased the tumult.

  Suddenly a man jumped from poor
  appearance before Hannos feet,
    snatched a herald trumpet
  and pushed into it. Spendius
  it was. He explained that he had
    something important to say had.

In this statement, which he ran in five languages - Greek, Latin,
Gallo, Libyan, Balearic Islands - repeatedly answered the captains
half amused, half-surprised: "Say!

  Say, "Spendius zauderte. He trembled.
  Finally he turned to the Libyans,
  the most numerous were present,
  and said, "You have all
  the terrible threats is one
  of this man," said Hanno not resist.

  Thus he not Libyan, and
  Spendius repeated to continue
  the trial, the same sentence
  in the other barbarous languages.
  We looked at each other astonished.
  All nodded but then in the conceit Hannos speech but understood
to have to sign their consent, as in silent agreement with the heads.

  Spendius began as an overwhelming
  vote, "First, he said, the gods
  of other nations are
  gods beside Carthage only
  fantasy formations. He
  gave you cowards, crooks, liars, dogs and sons of bitches called!

  Without you - he said - would not
  the Republic forced the Romans to pay
  tribute, and by your excesses would
  have their stocks of fragrances,
  spices, slaves and Silphium
  exhausted, as you would in agreement with the nomads in the limit
of Cyrene!

  But the culprits should be
  punished! He has a list of these
  sentences read out. We want them
  to street paving, the shipbuilding
  and in the decoration of
  the Syssitien work.

  The rest will be in the land of the
  Cantabrian drudgery in the mines are
  doing! "The same, he repeated the
  Gauls, the Kampanern the
  Baleariern.
  Through summer hot
  We passed, and many a wintry day.
  Summer again its course has run.
     O bitter lot!
  There are my compeers, gay at court,
  While here the tears my face begrime.
     I'd fain return--
  But there is that dread net for crime!
  The fear of it the wish cuts short.
     In vain I burn!

  Ere we the royal city left,
  The sun and moon renewed the year.
     We marched in hope.
  Now to its close this year is near.
  Return deferred, of hope bereft,
     All mourn and mope.
  My lonesome state haunts aye my breast,
  While duties grow, and cares increase,
     Too hard to bear.

  Toils that oppress me never cease;
  Not for a moment dare I rest,
    Nigh to despair.
  I think with fond regard of those,
  Who in their posts at court remain,
    My friends of old.
  Fain would I be with them again,
  But fierce reproof return would cause.
    This post I hold.

  When for the West I left my home,
  The sun and moon both mildly shone,
    Our hearts to cheer.
  We'd soon be back, our service done!
  Alas! affairs more urgent come,
    And fix us here.
  The year is hastening to expire.
  We gather now the southern-wood,
    The beans we reap;--
  That for its fragrance, these for food.
  Such things that constant care require
    Me anxious keep.
  Thinking of friends still at their posts,
  I rise and pass the night outside,
    So vexed my mind.
  But soon what changes may betide?
  I here will stay, whate'er it costs,
    And be resigned.

  My honored friends, O do not deem
  Your rest which seems secure from ill
    Will ever last!
  Your duties quietly fulfil,
  And hold the upright in esteem,
    With friendship fast.
  So shall the Spirits hear your cry,
  You virtuous make, and good supply,
    In measure vast.

  My honored friends, O do not deem
  Repose that seems secure from ill
    Will lasting prove.
  Your duties quietly fulfil,
  And hold the upright in esteem,
    With earnest love.
  So shall the Spirits hear your prayer,
  And on you happiness confer,
    Your hopes above.


BOOK VII


DECADE OF SANG HOO


~The Rejoicings of a Bridegroom~

  With axle creaking, all on fire I went,
   To fetch my young and lovely bride.
  No thirst or hunger pangs my bosom rent--
   I only longed to have her by my side.
  I feast with her, whose virtue fame had told,
  Nor need we friends our rapture to behold.

  The long-tailed pheasants surest covert find,
   Amid the forest on the plain.
  Here from my virtuous bride, of noble mind,
   And person tall, I wisdom gain.
  I praise her while we feast, and to her say,
  "The love I bear you ne'er will know decay.

  "Poor we may be; spirits and viands fine
   My humble means will not afford.
  But what we have, we'll taste and not repine;
   From us will come no grumbling word.
  And though to you no virtue I can add,
  Yet we will sing and dance, in spirit glad.

  "I oft ascend that lofty ridge with toil,
   And hew large branches from the oaks;
  Then of their leafy glory them I spoil,
   And fagots form with vigorous strokes.
  Returning tired, your matchless grace I see,
  And my whole soul dissolves in ecstasy.

  "To the high hills I looked, and urged each steed;
   The great road next was smooth and plain.

  Up hill, o'er dale, I never slackened speed;
    Like lute-string sounded every rein.
  I knew, my journey ended, I should come
  To you, sweet bride, the comfort of my home."


~Against Listening to Slanderers~

  Like the blueflies buzzing round,
    And on the fences lighting,
  Are the sons of slander found,
    Who never cease their biting.
  O thou happy, courteous king,
  To the winds their slanders fling.

  Buzzing round the blueflies hear,
    About the jujubes flocking!
  So the slanderers appear,
    Whose calumnies are shocking.
  By no law or order bound,
  All the kingdom they confound.

  How they buzz, those odious flies,
    Upon the hazels clust'ring!
  And as odious are the lies
    Of those slanderers blust'ring.
  Hatred stirred between us two
  Shows the evil they can do.


BOOK VIII


THE DECADE OF TOO JIN SZE


~In Praise of By-gone Simplicity~


  In the old capital they stood,
    With yellow fox-furs plain,
  Their manners all correct and good,
    Speech free from vulgar stain.
  Could we go back to Chow's old days,
  All would look up to them with praise.

  In the old capital they wore
    _T'ae_ hats and black caps small;
  And ladies, who famed surnames bore,
    Their own thick hair let fall.
  Such simple ways are seen no more,
  And the changed manners I deplore.

  Ear-rings, made of plainest gold,
    In the old days were worn.
  Each lady of a noble line
    A Yin or Keih seemed born.
  Such officers and ladies now
  I see not and my sorrows grow.

  With graceful sweep their girdles fell,
    Then in the days of old.
  The ladies' side-hair, with a swell,
    Like scorpion's tail, rose bold.
  Such, if I saw them in these days,
  I'd follow with admiring gaze.

  So hung their girdles, not for show;--
    To their own length 'twas due.
  'Twas not by art their hair curled so;--
    By nature so it grew.
  I seek such manners now in vain,
  And pine for them with longing pain.

[NOTE.--Yin and Keih were clan names of great families, the ladies
of which would be leaders of fashion in the capital.]


~A Wife Bemoans Her Husband's Absence~

  So full am I of anxious thought,
  Though all the morn king-grass I've sought,
    To fill my arms I fail.
  Like wisp all-tangled is my hair!
  To wash it let me home repair.
    My lord soon may I hail!

  Though 'mong the indigo I've wrought
  The morning long; through anxious thought
    My skirt's filled but in part.
  Within five days he was to appear;
  The sixth has come and he's not here.
    Oh! how this racks my heart!

  When here we dwelt in union sweet,
  If the hunt called his eager feet,
    His bow I cased for him.
  Or if to fish he went away,
  And would be absent all the day,
    His line I put in trim.

  What in his angling did he catch?
  Well worth the time it was to watch
    How bream and tench he took.
  Men thronged upon the banks and gazed;
  At bream and tench they looked amazed,
    The triumphs of his hook.


~The Earl of Shaou's Work~

  As the young millet, by the genial rain
    Enriched, shoots up luxuriant and tall,
  So, when we southward marched with toil and pain,
    The Earl of Shaou cheered and inspired us all.

  We pushed our barrows, and our burdens bore;
    We drove our wagons, and our oxen led.
  "The work once done, our labor there is o'er,
    And home we travel," to ourselves we said.

  Close kept our footmen round the chariot track;
    Our eager host in close battalions sped.
  "When once our work is done, then we go back,
    Our labor over," to themselves they said.

  Hard was the work we had at Seay to do,
    But Shaou's great earl the city soon upreared.
  The host its service gave with ardor true;--
    Such power in all the earl's commands appeared!

  We did on plains and low lands what was meet;
    We cleared the springs and streams, the land to drain.
  The Earl of Shaou announced his work complete,
    And the King's heart reposed, at rest again.


~The Plaint of King Yew's Forsaken Wife~

  The fibres of the white-flowered rush
    Are with the white grass bound.
  So do the two together go,
    In closest union found.
  And thus should man and wife abide,
    The twain combined in one;
  But this bad man sends me away,
    And bids me dwell alone.

  Both rush and grass from the bright clouds
    The genial dew partake.

  Kind and impartial, nature's laws
    No odious difference make.
  But providence appears unkind;
    Events are often hard.
  This man, to principle untrue,
    Denies me his regard.

  Northward the pools their waters send,
    To flood each paddy field;
  So get the fields the sap they need,
    Their store of rice to yield.
  But that great man no deed of grace
    Deigns to bestow on me.
  My songs are sighs. At thought of him
    My heart aches wearily.

  The mulberry branches they collect,
    And use their food to cook;
  But I must use a furnace small,
    That pot nor pan will brook.
  So me that great man badly treats,
    Nor uses as his wife,
  Degrades me from my proper place,
    And fills with grief my life.

  The bells and drums inside the court
    Men stand without and hear;
  So should the feelings in my breast,
    To him distinct appear.
  All-sorrowful, I think of him,
    Longing to move his love;
  But he vouchsafes no kind response;
    His thoughts far from me rove.

  The marabow stands on the dam,
    And to repletion feeds;
  The crane deep in the forest cries,
    Nor finds the food it needs.
  So in my room the concubine
    By the great man is placed;
  While I with cruel banishment
    Am cast out and disgraced.

  The yellow ducks sit on the dam,
     With left wing gathered low;
  So on each other do they lean,
     And their attachment show.
  And love should thus the man and wife
     In closest concord bind;
  But that man turns away from me,
     And shows a fickle mind.

  When one stands on a slab of stone,
     No higher than the ground,
  Nothing is added to his height;--
     Low with the stone he's found.
  So does the favorite's mean estate
     Render that great man mean,
  While I by him, to distance sent,
     Am pierced with sorrow keen.


~Hospitality~

  A few gourd leaves that waved about
     Cut down and boiled;--the feast how spare!
  But the good host his spirits takes,
     Pours out a cup, and proves them rare.

  A single rabbit on the mat,
     Or baked, or roast:--how small the feast!
  But the good host his spirits takes,
     And fills the cup of every guest.

  A single rabbit on the mat,
     Roasted or broiled:--how poor the meal!
  But the guests from the spirit vase
     Fill their host's cup, and drink his weal.

  A single rabbit on the mat,
     Roasted or baked:--no feast we think!
  But from the spirit vase they take,
     Both host and guests, and joyous drink.


~On the Misery of Soldiers~

  Yellow now is all the grass;
  All the days in marching pass.
  On the move is every man;
  Hard work, far and near, they plan.

  Black is every plant become;
  Every man is torn from home.
  Kept on foot, our state is sad;--
  As if we no feelings had!

  Not rhinoceroses we!
  Tigers do we care to be?
  Fields like these so desolate
  Are to us a hateful fate.

  Long-tailed foxes pleased may hide
  'Mong the grass, where they abide.
  We, in box carts slowly borne,
  On the great roads plod and mourn.


PART III.--GREATER ODES OF THE KINGDOM


BOOK I


DECADE OF KING WAN


~Celebrating King Wan~

  The royal Wan now rests on high,
  Enshrined in brightness of the sky.
  Chow as a state had long been known,
  And Heaven's decree at last was shown.
  Its lords had borne a glorious name;
  God kinged them when the season came.
  King Wan ruled well when earth he trod;
  Now moves his spirit near to God.

  A strong-willed, earnest king was Wan,
  And still his fame rolls widening on.
  The gifts that God bestowed on Chow
  Belong to Wan's descendants now.
  Heaven blesses still with gifts divine
  The hundred scions of his line;
  And all the officers of Chow
  From age to age more lustrous grow.

  More lustrous still from age to age,
  All reverent plans their zeal engage;
  And brilliant statesmen owe their birth
  To this much-favored spot of earth.
  They spring like products of the land--
  The men by whom the realm doth stand.
  Such aid their numerous bands supply,
  That Wan rests tranquilly on high.

  Deep were Wan's thoughts, sustained his ways;
  His reverence lit its trembling rays.
  Resistless came great Heaven's decree;
  The sons of Shang must bend the knee;--
  The sons of Shang, each one a king,
  In numbers beyond numbering.
  Yet as God spoke, so must it be:--
  The sons of Shang all bent the knee.

  Now each to Chow his homage pays--
  So dark and changing are Heaven's ways.
  When we pour our libations here,
  The officers of Shang appear,
  Quick and alert to give their aid:--
  Such is the service by them paid,
  While still they do not cast aside
  The cap and broidered axe--their pride.
  Ye servants of our line of kings,
  Remember him from whom it springs.

  Remember him from whom it springs;--
  Let this give to your virtue wings.
  Seek harmony with Heaven's great mind;--
  So shall you surest blessing find.
  Ere Shang had lost the nation's heart,
  Its monarchs all with God had part
  In sacrifice. From them you see
  'Tis hard to keep high Heaven's decree.

  'Tis hard to keep high Heaven's decree!
  O sin not, or you cease to be.
  To add true lustre to your name,
  See Shang expire in Heaven's dread flame.
  For Heaven's high dealings are profound,
  And far transcend all sense and sound.
  From Wan your pattern you must draw,
  And all the States will own your law.


[Book II. is omitted]


BOOK III [*]


DECADE OF TANG


~King Seuen on the Occasion of a Great Drought~

  Grand shone the Milky Way on high,
  With brilliant span athwart the sky,
    Nor promise gave of rain.
  King Seuen long gazed; then from him broke,
  In anguished tones the words he spoke.
    Well might he thus complain!
  "O Heaven, what crimes have we to own,
  That death and ruin still come down?
  Relentless famine fills our graves.
  Pity the king who humbly craves!
    Our miseries never cease.
  To every Spirit I have vowed;
  The choicest victim's blood has flowed.
  As offerings I have freely paid
  My store of gems and purest jade.
    Hear me, and give release!

  "The drought consumes us. As on wing
  Its fervors fly, and torment bring.
  With purest mind and ceaseless care
  My sacrifices I prepare.
  At thine own border altars, Heaven,
  And in my father's fane, I've given
    What might relief have found.
  What Powers above, below, have sway,
  To all my precious gifts I pay,
    Then bury in the ground.
  Yes, every Spirit has received
  Due honor, and, still unrelieved,
    Our sufferings greater grow.
  How-tseih can't give the needed aid,
  And help from God is still delayed!
  The country lies a ruined waste.
  O would that I alone might taste
    This bitter cup of woe!

  "The drought consumes us. Nor do I
  To fix the blame on others try.
  I quake with dread; the risk I feel,
  As when I hear the thunders peal,
    Or fear its sudden crash.
  Our black-haired race, a remnant now,
  Will every one be swept from Chow,
    As by the lightning's flash.
  Nor I myself will live alone.
  God from his great and heavenly throne
    Will not spare even me.
  O friends and officers, come, blend
  Your prayers with mine; come, lowly bend.
  Chow's dynasty will pass away;
  Its altars at no distant day
    In ruins all shall be!

  "The drought consumes us. It keeps on
  Its fatal course. All hope is gone.
  The air more fierce and fiery glows.
  Where can I fly? Where seek repose?
    Death marks me for its prey.
  Above, no saving hand! Around,
  No hope, no comfort, can be found.
  The dukes and ministers of old
  Give us no help. Can ye withhold
  Your sympathy, who lately reigned?
  And parents, how are you restrained,
    In this so dreadful day?

  "The drought consumes us. There on high
  The hills are parched. The streams are dry.
  Drought's demon stalks abroad in ire,
  And scatters wide his flames and fire.
    Alas, my woful heart!
  The fires within its strength consume;
  The heat without creates a gloom
    That from it will not part.
  The dukes and ministers by-gone
  Respond not to my prayer and moan.
  God in great Heaven, permission give
  That I may in retirement live,
    And try to heal my smart!

  "The drought consumes us. Still I strive,
  And will not leave while I survive.
    Duty to shun I fear.
  Why upon me has come this drought?
  Vainly I try to search it out,
    Vainly, with quest severe.
  For a good harvest soon I prayed,
  Nor late the rites I duly paid,
  To Spirits of the air and land.
  There wanted nought they could demand,
    Their favor to secure.
  God in great heaven, be just, be kind!
  Thou dost not bear me in Thy mind.
  My cry, ye wisest Spirits, hear!
  Ye whom I constantly revere,
    Why do I this endure?

  "The drought consumes us. People fly,
  And leave their homes. Each social tie
    And bond of rule is snapt.
  The Heads of Boards are all perplexed;
  My premier's mind is sorely vexed;
    In trouble all are wrapt.
  The Masters of my Horse and Guards;
  My cook, and men of different wards:--
  Not one has from the struggle shrunk.
  Though feeling weak, they have not sunk,
    But done their best to aid.
  To the great sky I look with pain;--
  Why do these grievous sorrows rain
    On my devoted head?

  "Yes, at the mighty sky I gaze,
  And lo! the stars pursue their maze,
    And sparkle clear and bright.
  Ah! Heaven nor helps, nor seems to ken.
  Great officers and noble men,
  With all your powers ye well have striven,
  And reverently have sought from Heaven
    Its aid in our great fight.
  My death is near; but oh! keep on,
  And do as thus far you have done.
    Regard you only me?
  No, for yourselves and all your friends,
  On whom for rule the land depends,
    You seek security.
  I turn my gaze to the great sky;--
  When shall this drought be done, and I
    Quiet and restful be?"


[NOTE *: Selections from Book II. are omitted.--EDITOR.]


PART IV.--ODES OF THE TEMPLE AND ALTAR


BOOK I


SACRIFICIAL ODES OF CHOW


~Appropriate to a Sacrifice to King Wan~

  My offerings here are given,
    A ram, a bull.
  Accept them, mighty Heaven,
    All-bountiful.

  Thy statutes, O great king,
    I keep, I love;
  So on the realm to bring
    Peace from above.

  From Wan comes blessing rich;
    Now on the right
  He owns those gifts to which
    Him I invite.

  Do I not night and day,
    Revere great Heaven,
  That thus its favor may
    To Chow be given?


~On Sacrificing to the Kings Woo, Ching, and K'ang~

  The arm of Woo was full of might;
    None could his fire withstand;
  And Ching and K'ang stood forth to sight,
    As kinged by God's own hand.

  We err not when we call them sage.
    How grandly they maintained
  Their hold of all the heritage
    That Wan and Woo had gained!

  As here we worship, they descend,
    While bells and drums resound,
  And stones and lutes their music blend.
    With blessings we are crowned.

  The rites correctly we discharge;
    The feast we freely share.
  Those Sires Chow's glory will enlarge,
    And ever for it care.


THE TRAVELS OF FÂ-HIEN


[Translation by James Legge]


TRANSLATOR'S INTRODUCTION


Nothing of great importance is known about Fâ-hien in addition to what
may be gathered from his own record of his travels. I have read the
accounts of him in the "Memoirs of Eminent Monks," compiled in A.D. 519,
and a later work, the "Memoirs of Marvellous Monks," by the third
emperor of the Ming dynasty (A.D. 1403-1424), which, however, is nearly
all borrowed from the other; and all in them that has an appearance of
verisimilitude can be brought within brief compass.

His surname, they tell us, was Kung, and he was a native of Wu-yang in
P'ing-yang, which is still the name of a large department in Shan-hsî.
He had three brothers older than himself; but when they all died before
shedding their first teeth, his father devoted him to the service of the
Buddhist society, and had him entered as a Srâmanera, still keeping him
at home in the family. With it will Marineda capital, and also Vilamorta
and up Aldeaparda capital will be made right. Only Madri, that this is
just the bargain, we are no longer sucking the substance is going
to do something great, which is called decentralization, and then
you see how low the pride of the Court.

If you are wicked and all what is going on! Here we will not send, I
will put by-case basis, but the second snuff, filipino for that, you
wait until a month or two. Royalties and the shells are in Madrid ...
As if our fingers were not of human flesh! Are we slaves here, or
some Flounder perficionar do not know the work? And then there paguita
always running slogans .... Ciudadanas a mess, we need to shake off the
yoke of tyrannical power and nobility when it looks so!, Huh girls?
The two forms of government then contendían in Spain, he was the
auditorium of Amparo as seen in the satirical newspaper cartoons
of the monarchy was an old carrancuda, wrinkled like a raisin with
a parrot's beak-nosed, very worn purple mantle, scepter dyed blood,
and surrounded by bayonets, chains, clamps and instruments of
torture; the Republic, a healthy, sturdy girl with white robe, brand
Phrygian cap, left arm and the classic cornucopia, from which escaped
a cascade railroad, steam, attributes of the arts and sciences, all
nicely mixed with flowers and coins.

When she let go the spirited boneless, saying one of his
improvisations, and the shawl thirds reversing his red silk handkerchief,
appeared to the Republic itself, the beautiful Republic of large sheets
cromolitográficas, any designer, to see you so, taken by model. And the
girl was climbing a political character. In the city became known, and
even heard once, while passing through the main street, which murmured
in a circle of men: "That is beautiful which mutinied cigarette to
the other." In all the neighborhood kids: the man in the barber gave a
celebratory "Long live the Republic!" Whenever Amparo crossed to the
door and the lady with the voice grumbled Porretas gravel and opaque:
"Socio Salu and liquidation.

If anyone believes that was the rapid metamorphosis of the girl in the
street and she demagogic agitator note quickly that even cigarette
factories Marineda was gassed Hispanic nation. Neither seen nor heard.
The Glorious had less than a year, and nobody knew what saint
entrusted, nor where we were going to stop, or where to head. There are
many peaceful demonstrations, always ending the string of dawn. At the
border, Carlist agitation; the Government internal inner you, and the
inmates here, returning to Spain to get in half a league beyond,
while in Madrid were made actively, and without much reservation,
Boys, harnesses and blankets, which in angles wearing a crown and
the initials C.

VII, Vitoria and roamed the streets in groups of young people with
berets and white stick in hand, victor at the same initials. A well
that the garrison in Puerto Rico alia acclaimed and Écija thousand
Republicans protesting against "the intruder's presence in Spain Antonio
de Borbón, and in the vicinity of Barcelona the peasants, armed with
hoes and Bielke, chasing a mayor and forced him to encastillarse in the
Houses Consistoriales. To all this, the power, represented by Regent
Serrano, who was taxed almost royal honors, he was really strong
in the hands of Prim, sniffing that the ruin of the glorious sight
as the sea in the remote horizon hurricane without entertained in
trifling demagogic, just thinking about bringing a monarch called
to calm the country.

Spain was close to the great tradition of struggle against liberalism,
against the cities of the field; magna lid on his factory Marineda its
microscopic representation. Every morning, in fact, upon entering the
trades in the workshops, being on the road, often, urban and rural areas,
and go roughly invectivarse Homeric insults, no less than if they were
the advance party of the two enemies that turn presto iban a civil war.
The pretext of fighting was that of surprise Marineda showed that
rural women, perhaps coming from three miles away, were already there
when he peeked the day, and did rechifla of such diligence. - Oops,
that was a good early of God, daughters! - Come horse Sol? - Andar,
lamponas!

Let ¡bed to do and the little boy by sucking! Madrastra! - Peinades Not
even you! ... ¡Andáis spider in your hair with your fingers to reach six
minutes before, eager to judas!

- You slept on the way, greedy! Unable to come to your house. Both
early and both early and then not do half or cigar, in all the day,
that does not know the wiggle fingers, it seems that the Tenedos
chorizos that same God did Flounder that same here .... phlegm and the
sarcasm and the demands coming to an end, angry and responded, but between
his teeth: - And then? Each is as valid and vusté will have other income,
and other domains ... and ganaralo otherwise different, and God
knows how it will be ... I did not win but I know working _hija_. - I
am so honored to win as Usté ... and not injure anyone. - Usté Street,
it began. I do not dijen bad thing. - Avarientas, frogs, ahorcádevos
a Ochavo!

- Scoundrels! - Retorted the angry peasant. - Servilonas, Carlists! -
Answered the citizen, because aggressive attitude. -- - evil, against God
thrown that! - the rugían insulted. And amid the tumult could be heard
the sharp ¡ayyy!, A woman, to which the hands of a furious attempt to
start just pull the entire braid her hair.

For about ten seconds prevailing confusion and disorder, and there was
pushing, convulsive pinching, scratching, violent repelones but just iban
approaching the vicinity of the factory, where strict regulations prohibit
the scandals, the shouting stopped, started torrent female to rush into
the courtyard, and restored peace, since no inner serenity, the true image
of the abbreviated Spanish nation.

XIV-Sorbet-Josefina Garcia that night was very composed and oneself
up on the promenade in _las Filas_ and came with the envelopes. As
there was always ajustábase Josefina recent decrees of fashion, with some
exaggeration and peanuts, which smelled of homemade figure. That was
the condition of the body of Josephine similar to the tail of the
sculptors who used to empty their statues, which receives any form it
wishes. Josefina entered docile in molds imposed by fashion, without
revolt or protest ever. He had his physical a little impersonal
neutrality that allowed a change of hairstyle and adornment without
change of type. Median stature, his face long and his faction did not
have nice features. His eyes, neither boys nor large, nor were they
ugly, but dominant, and scrutinized more than their age and should
doncellez, her smile, and aside from candida, standing on the lips
too, so that was not likely to be false and affected, their size,
shaped by the brace, it would be poor if you clever tricks of the costume,
like a steering wheel on the shoulder or hip, not strengthen their
diameters.

Disheveled and without seasoning, Josefina was apparently little,
helped by the hit, has acquired a certain morbidity plate. In reality,
it was the fruit prematurely fallen from a tree, a nubile maiden early,
on the thirteenth, where he played in Havana, already had the flirtation,
jealousy, the whims of women, and now that flower quickly and early had
been defoliated and instead of the seductive freshness of youth,
Josephine noticed in the packaging and stiffness of a lady and the
formal questioning of a villager.

Figurábase the distinction, good tone, were contrahacer young movements,
adjusting to a predetermined pattern, which had an elegant and
tawdry way of laughing, sneezing, fan, until there were views that
distinguished and well-views, and opinions no longer wore, and that
in all, the most selective and fine were the halftones, the frivolous,
the tasteless, odorless and colorless. Talking about superficial
things, not missing some lively conversation, similar to the doctrine of
the goldfinch, but hardly played serious issues, felt obliged, for her
role as smart, marriageable girl, to shrug its shoulders, the four
dengue and moving conversation. As it was Josephine, the many ladies
imitated, because, as I said, 'I took the news', and although badly
exaggerated and bizarre, sometimes, with the corner of his eye
watched the innovations of clothing that looked to play the point .

That year was beginning to prevail shorty, revolution is so important to
the female attire, like that of Spain in September, the advanced ideas
were hurried off to their skirts, while the conservative is not
resolved to abolish the fourth of cloth that sweeping the dirt floor.

Josefina, who was on radical dress, wearing the new fashion in all
its rigor, with a black silk gown adorned with braids of acorns
falling on lap round blue glaze. A veil was woven to face the mysterious
aura of a confessional, and _cuernos_ of his hair down with grace
and symmetry to the nose.

For the back and waist, a black ribbon was used for very steep bulk
which then wanted to _voluble diosa_ knobs. I missed the young lady
behind the elbows in order to emphasize the bust, an attitude
that scrupulously copied the second Sobrado, Clara. Lola, who was in the
middle, was the only one to make the body as God gave it. The moonlight,
which stood illuminated walk _las Filas_ and sea, time and
temperature of an enviable summer night, encouraging fans effusions, or
even courtship, and even the noise of the audience were given to be
complicit in tender words spoken at half-voice, so included Baltasar,
who accompanied the girls, immovable beside Josefina, and then,
without scruple, that their sisters carrying the basket. In the
distance, the soft murmur of the waves, which seemed a lake of silver,
said things heady and poetic, singing a romance untranslatable to human
language. The conversation of the group was, however, for any end,
vulgar. - The ride is discouraged. Right, Sobrado - I find it
lively. Why do you say that the eyes of ?...-- And Baltasar sought
to Josefina, and a look crossed between the two. - What things are
you! Oops, missing people: you do not notice, but failure. - I spoke
Lola, so I get bored and turn to .... I am fun anywhere else. Had not
come today, were it not for the Octave of St. Hilary .... But even
the Eighth was my pleasure, miss a lot of people who normally give
birth .... You know why? - No - said mechanical Josefina. - Yes - Baltasar
said - because they were waiting at the dock to the delegates of
Cantabria. - Delegates ... What? - Asked Josefina playing with the fan.
- De Cantabria ....

Come to sign the union said Lola North ...-- -. To me it would like to
see the landing! If you would have had to go. - I was .... What a pity!
- Baltasar said. - Girl .... Oops an idea - dropping Menudas said Josefina
carcajaditas -. I fled from the confusion .... I am terrified to
think that uneducated people can apachucarme, pisarme .... What a nuisance!
And in the end will have little to do .... Say you, Sobrado, you have
much fun - not incidentally .... Fun! What has to be fun? But it is curious
.... ¡There was live and die, and a whistle shameful, and hugs and
handshakes! - Good for the whistling! - Lola said flapping palms -. To
that I wanted to go, to blow with the key of the door - the guy says
Isidoro - Clara speaking - that if this continues they will have
to close shop and complete the industry. - And Churches also are
closed!

- Lola emphasized even more heat -. Goddamn rebels! Let's whistle, a
whistle should go around the world! - Psss! My God! - Begged Josefina
-. We are calling attention .... Then we will get into politics. - Well,
I put ... So what? Now the whole world goes - said Lola. - Oh ...
I do not! How ridiculous, huh, Sobrado? I do not understand that.
- Do not you have opinions, cock? - No ... ie I do not like the riots;
¡trifulca theater when there is so dull! ... Neither mood to
be dressed and leave. - Come on, you must have your preferences ....
Will you Carlist - Oh, no! ... The Inquisition gives me a fear
!...-- said, laughing. - Republican - What a horror! ¡Cosa cursi more
...! - Moderate, ea. Are you a moderate, fixed. - Perhaps, perhaps,
somewhat moderate .... The poor Queen gives me great shame. - Well,
now I know that you are moderate and I'm going to release around the
garment to you for plots. - No, by God, not dream that we talk about these
things .... It was me laugh and say that looks like a club. Do you not
know any news?

Which tells me you prestidigitator of working in the theater? - The
Hungarian? Bah! As all these functions .... Very heavy pot and a lot of
drawer .... kick - kick! I hate: me terribly frightened. In preparing
for seeing the gun, I'm tapándome ear: the girls laugh and Mom
always tells me: "Girl, you look ...». But .... I can not - Better! If
you look at what viewers want more - Baltasar said bowing
to the skill with which the dialogue Josefina brought to the field staff.
While passing this symposium, the mothers, who came back, sat on a bench
without his talk on matters of concern very different kind to cede
in animation for young people.

One moment, moving ahead of them, Lola went to ask what I do not know,
while Josefina touched lightly on the elbow at Balthazar, which leaned
and fell simultaneous movement of both arms and his hands joined the
space of a second male placed his hand on a female white piece of paper,
size like a butterfly. Acacias whispered, filled the air syllabication
of the mysterious last-minute talks, and the wail of the sea of love,
kissing the parapet, to complete the symphony. Neither escaped detailed
paper to the sharp eye of the widow or the vigilant attention of Ms
Dolores, who became twisted and vinegary gesture, rising to the point
and announcing it was time to retire.

While the two families were returning from _las Filas_ the street,
Mrs. Sobrado meditated an epic smallness, transcendental nonsense that
serves and fierce despachaderas to those of Garcia and stay alone with
her daughters. And how to get near the doors of the coffee of Dawn, which
left the yellow light and pass the raw gas, thought, finally, the
lilliputian ploy, and said the widow feline friendliness: - Now what are
? We thought to go have a drink .... Do we join you? A sorbetito
anything .... - Jesus ... because it lacked more!

- answered the widow, ashamed as a person who offered grudgingly by
formula and a gift that costs money -. We have to do, and we pulled. -
Baltasar! - Doña Dolores shouted to his son, who went ahead with the
girls -. ¡Baltasarito go here, we're going to take a straw! ... - Come
on you, ladies - the lieutenant whispered, thinking that it was
invited to the Garcia family. - No, these ladies do not want anything
- is hastened to warn the mother, nailing his son to the door of
the cafe with a look elocuentísima. Despite the assurance of proper gender
Josefinita have believed, were the clarity of his eyes gas fraught with
pride and tears on her skin , as if slapped. He said a dry 'goodbye'
to Clara and Lola, to Baltasar and doña Dolores nor word. Cogiose arm
of the widow and soon confounded in the darkness of the end of the street
behind you, with upright dignity of queens behind overthrown. Baltasar
turned to his mother. - But, Mom gave ...--. - Chsss! - She murmured
in a low voice, almost to the ear of man ...--.
Though you look all round most earnestly to find where you can
cross, you know not where to make your choice, the only mark and
indication being the dry bones of the dead left upon the sand.


[Footnote 1: Ch'ang-gan is still the name of the principal district (and
its city) in the department of Se-gan, Shen-se. It had been the capital
of the first empire of Han (B.C. 202 A.D. 24), as it subsequently was
that of Suy (A.D. 589-618).]

[Footnote 2: The period Hwang-che embraced from A.D. 399 to 414, being
the greater portion of the reign of Yâo Hing of the After Ts'in, a
powerful prince. He adopted Hwang-che for the style of his reign in 399,
and the cyclical name of that year was Kang-tsze. It is not possible at
this distance of time to explain, if it could be explained, how Fâ-hien
came to say that Ke-hâe was the second year of the period. It seems most
reasonable to suppose that he set out on his pilgrimage in A.D. 399, the
cycle name of which was Ke-hâe. In the "Memoirs of Eminent Monks" it is
said that our author started in the third year of the period Lung-gan of
the Eastern Ts'in, which was A.D. 399.]

[Footnote 3: Lung embraced the western part of Shen-se and the eastern
part of Kan-suh. The name remains in Lung Chow, in the extreme west of
Shen-se.]

[Footnote 4: K'een-kwei was the second king of "the Western Ts'in."
Fâ-hien would find him at his capital, somewhere in the present
department of Lan-chow, Kan-suh.]

[Footnote 5: Chang-yih is still the name of a district in Kan-chow
department, Kan-suh. It is a long way north and west from Lan-chow, and
not far from the Great Wall. Its king at this time was, probably,
Twan-yeh of "the northern Lëang."]

[Footnote 6: Dâna is the name for religious charity, the first of the
six pâramitâs, or means of attaining to nirvâna; and a dânapati is "one
who practises dâna and thereby crosses the sea of misery."]

[Footnote 7: This was the second summer since the pilgrims left
Ch'ang-gan. We are now, therefore, probably, in A.D. 400.]

[Footnote 8: T'un-hwang is still the name of one of the two districts
constituting the department of Gan-se, the most western of the
prefectures of Kan-suh; beyond the termination of the Great Wall.]


CHAPTER II

~On to Shen-shen and thence to Khoten~


After travelling for seventeen days, a distance we may calculate of
about 1500 li, the pilgrims reached the kingdom of Shen-shen, a country
rugged and hilly, with a thin and barren soil. The clothes of the common
people are coarse, and like those worn in our land of Han, [1] some
wearing felt and others coarse serge or cloth of hair; this was the only
difference seen among them. The king professed our Law, and there might
be in the country more than four thousand monks, who were all students
of the hînayâna. [2] The common people of this and other kingdoms in
that region, as well as the Sramans, [3] all practise the rules of
India, only that the latter do so more exactly, and the former more
loosely. So the travellers found it in all the kingdoms through which
they went on their way from this to the west, only that each had its own
peculiar barbarous speech. The monks, however, who had given up the
worldly life and quitted their families, were all students of Indian
books and the Indian language. Here they stayed for about a month, and
then proceeded on their journey, fifteen days' walking to the northwest
bringing them to the country of Woo-e. In this also there were more than
four thousand monks, all students of the hînayâna. They were very strict
in their rules, so that Sramans from the territory of Ts'in were all
unprepared for their regulations. Fâ-hien, through the management of Foo
Kung-sun, _maître d'hotellerie_, was able to remain with his company in
the monastery where they were received for more than two months, and
here they were rejoined by Pâo-yun and his friends. At the end of that
time the people of Woo-e neglected the duties of propriety and
righteousness, and treated the strangers in so niggardly a manner that
Che-yen, Hwuy-keen, and Hwuy-wei went back towards Kâo-ch'ang, hoping to
obtain there the means of continuing their journey. Fâ-hien and the
rest, however, through the liberality of Foo Kung-sun, managed to go
straight forward in a southwest direction. They found the country
uninhabited as they went along. The difficulties which they encountered
in crossing the streams and on their route, and the sufferings which
they endured, were unparalleled in human experience, but in the course
of a month and five days they succeeded in reaching Yu-teen.


[Footnote 1: This is the name which Fâ-hien always uses when he would
speak of China, his native country, as a whole, calling it from the
great dynasty which had ruled it, first and last, for between four and
five centuries. Occasionally, as we shall immediately see, he speaks of
"the territory of Ts'in or Ch'in," but intending thereby only the
kingdom of Ts'in, having its capital in Ch'ang-gan.]

[Footnote 2: Meaning the "small vehicle, or conveyance." There are in
Buddhism the triyâna, or "three different means of salvation, i.e. of
conveyance across the samsâra, or sea of transmigration, to the shores
of nirvâna. Afterwards the term was used to designate the different
phases of development through which the Buddhist dogma passed, known as
the mahâyâna, hînayâna, and madhyamayâna." "The hînayâna is the simplest
vehicle of salvation, corresponding to the first of the three degrees of
saintship." E.H., pp. 151-2, 45, and 117.]

[Footnote 3: "Sraman" may in English take the place of Sramana, the name
for Buddhist monks, as those who have separated themselves from (left)
their families, and quieted their hearts from all intrusion of desire
and lust.]


CHAPTER III

~Khoten--Processions of Images~


Yu-Teen is a pleasant and prosperous kingdom, with a numerous and
flourishing population. The inhabitants all profess our Law, and join
together in its religious music for their enjoyment. The monks amount to
several myriads, most of whom are students of the mahâyâna. [1] They all
receive their food from the common store. Throughout the country the
houses of the people stand apart like separate stars, and each family
has a small tope [2] reared in front of its door. The smallest of these
may be twenty cubits high, or rather more. They make in the monasteries
rooms for monks from all quarters, the use of which is given to
travelling monks who may arrive, and who are provided with whatever else
they require.

The lord of the country lodged Fâ-hien and the others comfortably, and
supplied their wants, in a monastery called Gomati, of the mahâyâna
school. Attached to it there are three thousand monks, who are called to
their meals by the sound of a bell. When they enter the refectory, their
demeanor is marked by a reverent gravity, and they take their seats in
regular order, all maintaining a perfect silence. No sound is heard from
their alms-bowls and other utensils. When any of these pure men require
food, they are not allowed to call out to the attendants for it, but
only make signs with their hands.

Hwuy-king, Tâo-ching, and Hwuy-tah set out in advance towards the
country of K'eeh-ch'â; but Fâ-hien and the others, wishing to see the
procession of images, remained behind for three months. There are in
this country four great monasteries, not counting the smaller ones.
Beginning on the first day of the fourth month, they sweep and water the
streets inside the city, making a grand display in the lanes and byways.
Over the city gate they pitch a large tent, grandly adorned in all
possible ways, in which the king and queen, with their ladies
brilliantly arrayed, take up their residence for the time.

The monks of the Gomati monastery, being mahâyâna students, and held in
greatest reverence by the king, took precedence of all the others in the
procession. At a distance of three or four li from the city, they made a
four-wheeled image car, more than thirty cubits high, which looked like
the great hall of a monastery moving along. The seven precious
substances [3] were grandly displayed about it, with silken streamers
and canopies hanging all around. The chief image stood in the middle of
the car, with two Bodhisattvas [4] in attendance on it, while devas were
made to follow in waiting, all brilliantly carved in gold and silver,
and hanging in the air. When the car was a hundred paces from the gate,
the king put off his crown of state, changed his dress for a fresh suit,
and with bare feet, carrying in his hands flowers and incense, and with
two rows of attending followers, went out at the gate to meet the image;
and, with his head and face bowed to the ground, he did homage at its
feet, and then scattered the flowers and burnt the incense. When the
image was entering the gate, the queen and the brilliant ladies with her
in the gallery above scattered far and wide all kinds of flowers, which
floated about and fell promiscuously to the ground. In this way
everything was done to promote the dignity of the occasion. The
carriages of the monasteries were all different, and each one had its
own day for the procession. The ceremony began on the first day of the
fourth month, and ended on the fourteenth, after which the king and
queen returned to the palace.

Seven or eight li to the west of the city there is what is called the
King's new monastery, the building of which took eighty years, and
extended over three reigns. It may be two hundred and fifty cubits in
height, rich in elegant carving and inlaid work, covered above with gold
and silver, and finished throughout with a combination of all the
precious substances. Behind the tope there has been built a Hall of
Buddha, of the utmost magnificence and beauty, the beams, pillars,
venetianed doors and windows, being all overlaid with gold-leaf. Besides
this, the apartments for the monks are imposingly and elegantly
decorated, beyond the power of words to express. Of whatever things of
highest value and preciousness the kings in the six countries on the
east of the Ts'ung range of mountains are possessed, they contribute the
greater portion to this monastery, using but a small portion of them
themselves.


[Footnote 1: Mahâyâna is a later form of the Buddhist doctrine, the
second phase of its development corresponding to the state of a
Bodhisattva, who, being able to transport himself and all mankind to
nirvâna, may be compared to a huge vehicle.]

[Footnote 2: A worshipping place, an altar, or temple.]

[Footnote 3: The Sapta-ratna, gold, silver, lapis lazuli, rock crystal,
rubies, diamonds or emeralds, and agate.]

[Footnote 4: A Bodhisattva is one whose essence has become intelligence;
a Being who will in some future birth as a man (not necessarily or
usually the next) attain to Buddhahood. The name does not include those
Buddhas who have not yet attained to parinirvâna. The symbol of the
state is an elephant fording a river.]


CHAPTER IV

~Through the Ts'ung Mountains to K'eech-ch'a~


When the processions of images in the fourth month were over, Sang-shâo,
by himself alone, followed a Tartar who was an earnest follower of the
Law, and proceeded towards Ko-phene. Fâ-hien and the others went forward
to the kingdom of Tsze-hoh, which it took them twenty-five days to
reach. Its king was a strenuous follower of our Law, and had around him
more than a thousand monks, mostly students of the mahâyâna. Here the
travellers abode fifteen days, and then went south for four days, when
they found themselves among the Ts'ung-ling mountains, and reached the
country of Yu-hwuy, where they halted and kept their retreat. [1] When
this was over, they went on among the hills for twenty-five days, and
got to K'eeh-ch'a, there rejoining Hwuy-king and his two companions.


[Footnote 1: This was the retreat already twice mentioned as kept by the
pilgrims in the summer, the different phraseology, "quiet rest," without
any mention of the season, indicating their approach to India. Two, if
not three, years had elapsed since they left Ch'ang-gan. Are we now with
them in 402?]


CHAPTER V

~Great Quinquennial Assembly of Monks~


It happened that the king of the country was then holding the pañcha
parishad; that is, in Chinese, the great quinquennial assembly. When
this is to be held, the king requests the presence of the Sramans from
all quarters of his kingdom. They come as if in clouds; and when they
are all assembled, their place of session is grandly decorated. Silken
streamers and canopies are hung out in it, and water-lilies in gold and
silver are made and fixed up behind the places where the chief of them
are to sit. When clean mats have been spread, and they are all seated,
the king and his ministers present their offerings according to rule and
law. The assembly takes place in the first, second, or third month, for
the most part in the spring.

After the king has held the assembly, he further exhorts the ministers
to make other and special offerings. The doing of this extends over one,
two, three, five, or even seven days; and when all is finished, he takes
his own riding-horse, saddles, bridles, and waits on him himself, while
he makes the noblest and most important minister of the kingdom mount
him. Then, taking fine white woollen cloth, all sorts of precious
things, and articles which the Sramans require, he distributes them
among them, uttering vows at the same time along with all his ministers;
and when this distribution has taken place, he again redeems whatever he
wishes from the monks.

The country, being among the hills and cold, does not produce the other
cereals, and only the wheat gets ripe. After the monks have received
their annual portion of this, the mornings suddenly show the hoar-frost,
and on this account the king always begs the monks to make the wheat
ripen [1] before they receive their portion. There is in the country a
spittoon which belonged to Buddha, made of stone, and in color like his
alms-bowl. There is also a tooth of Buddha, for which the people have
reared a tope, connected with which there are more than a thousand monks
and their disciples, all students of the hînayâna. To the east of these
hills the dress of the common people is of coarse materials, as in our
country of Ts'in, but here also there were among them the differences of
fine woollen cloth and of serge or haircloth. The rules observed by the
Sramans are remarkable, and too numerous to be mentioned in detail. The
country is in the midst of the Onion range. As you go forward from these
mountains, the plants, trees, and fruits are all different from those of
the land of Han, excepting only the bamboo, pomegranate, and sugarcane.


[Footnote 1: Watters calls attention to this as showing that the monks
of K'eeh-ch'â had the credit of possessing weather-controlling powers.]


CHAPTER VI

~North India--Image of Maitreya Bodhisattva~


From this the travellers went westward towards North India, and after
being on the way for a month, they succeeded in getting across and
through the range of the Onion mountains. The snow rests on them both
winter and summer. There are also among them venomous dragons, which,
when provoked, spit forth poisonous winds, and cause showers of snow and
storms of sand and gravel. Not one in ten thousand of those who
encounter these dangers escapes with his life. The people of the country
call the range by the name of "The Snow mountains." When the travellers
had got through them, they were in North India, and immediately on
entering its borders, found themselves in a small kingdom called
T'oleih, where also there were many monks, all students of the hînayâna.

In this kingdom there was formerly an Arhan, [1] who by his supernatural
power took a clever artificer up to the Tushita [2] heaven, to see the
height, complexion, and appearance of Maitreya Bodhisattva, [3] and then
return and make an image of him in wood. First and last, this was done
three times, and then the image was completed, eighty cubits in height,
and eight cubits at the base from knee to knee of the crossed legs. On
fast-days it emits an effulgent light. The kings of the surrounding
countries vie with one another in presenting offerings to it. Here it
is--to be seen now as of old.

[Footnote 1: Lo-han, Arhat, Arahat are all designations of the perfected
Ârya, the disciple who has passed the different stages of the Noble
Path, or eightfold excellent way, who has conquered all passions, and is
not to be reborn again. Arhatship implies possession of certain
supernatural powers, and is not to be succeeded by Buddhaship, but
implies the fact of the saint having already attained Nirvâna.]

[Footnote 2: Tushita is the fourth Devaloka, where all Bodhisattvas are
reborn before finally appearing on earth as Buddha. Life lasts in
Tushita four thousand years, but twenty-four hours there are equal to
four hundred years on earth.]

[Footnote 3: Maitreya was a Bodhisattva, the principal one, indeed, of
Sâkyamuni's retinue, but is not counted among the ordinary disciples,
nor is anything told of his antecedents. It was in the Tushita heaven
that Sâkyamuni met him and appointed him as his successor, to appear as
Buddha after the lapse of five thousand years. Maitreya is therefore the
expected Messiah of the Buddhists, residing at present in Tushita.]


CHAPTER VII

~The Perilous Crossing of the Indus~


The travellers went on to the southwest for fifteen days at the foot of
the mountains, and following the course of their range. The way was
difficult and rugged, running along a bank exceedingly precipitous,
which rose up there, a hill-like wall of rock, ten thousand cubits from
the base. When one approached the edge of it, his eyes became unsteady;
and if he wished to go forward in the same direction, there was no place
on which he could place his foot; and beneath were the waters of the
river called the Indus. In former times men had chiselled paths along
the rocks, and distributed ladders on the face of them, to the number
altogether of seven hundred, at the bottom of which there was a
suspension bridge of ropes, by which the river was crossed, its banks
being there eighty paces apart. The place and arrangements are to be
found in the Records of the Nine Interpreters, but neither Chang K'een
[1] nor Kan Ying [2] had reached the spot.

The monks asked Fâ-hien if it could be known when the Law of Buddha
first went to the east. He replied, "When I asked the people of those
countries about it, they all said that it had been handed down by their
fathers from of old that, after the setting up of the image of Maitreya
Bodhisattva, there were Sramans of India who crossed this river,
carrying with them Sútras and Books of Discipline. Now the image was set
up rather more than three hundred years after the Nirvâna of Buddha,
which may be referred to the reign of king P'ing of the Chow dynasty.
According to this account we may say that the diffusion of our great
doctrines in the East began from the setting up of this image. If it had
not been through that Maitreya, the great spiritual master who is to be
the successor of the Sâkya, who could have caused the 'Three Precious
Ones,' [3] to be proclaimed so far, and the people of those border lands
to know our Law? We know of a truth that the opening of the way for such
a mysterious propagation is not the work of man; and so the dream of the
emperor Ming of Han had its proper cause."


[Footnote 1: Chang K'een, a minister of the emperor Woo of Han (B.C.
140-87), is celebrated as the first Chinese who "pierced the void," and
penetrated to "the regions of the west," corresponding very much to the
present Turkestan. Through him, by B.C. 115, a regular intercourse was
established between China and the thirty-six kingdoms or states of that
quarter.]

[Footnote 2: Less is known of Kan Ying than of Chang K'een. Being sent
in A.D. 88 by his patron Pan Châo on an embassy to the Roman empire, he
only got as far as the Caspian sea, and returned to China. He extended,
however, the knowledge of his countrymen with regard to the western
regions.]

[Footnote 3: "The precious Buddha," "the precious Law," and "the
precious Monkhood"; Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha; the whole being
equivalent to Buddhism.]


CHAPTER VIII

~Woo-chang, or Udyâna--Traces of Buddha~


After crossing the river, the travellers immediately came to the kingdom
of Woo-chang, which is indeed a part of North India. The people all use
the language of Central India, "Central India" being what we should call
the "Middle Kingdom." The food and clothes of the common people are the
same as in that Central Kingdom. The Law of Buddha is very flourishing
in Woo-chang. They call the places where the monks stay for a time or
reside permanently Sanghârâmas; and of these there are in all five
hundred, the monks being all students of the hînayâna. When stranger
bhikshus [1] arrive at one of them, their wants are supplied for three
days, after which they are told to find a resting-place for themselves.

There is a tradition that when Buddha came to North India, he came at
once to this country, and that here he left a print of his foot, which
is long or short according to the ideas of the beholder on the subject.
It exists, and the same thing is true about it, at the present day. Here
also are still to be seen the rock on which he dried his clothes, and
the place where he converted the wicked dragon. The rock is fourteen
cubits high, and more than twenty broad, with one side of it smooth.

Hwuy-king, Hwuy-tah, and Tâo-ching went on ahead towards the place of
Buddha's shadow in the country of Nâgara; but Fâ-hien and the others
remained in Woo-chang, and kept the summer retreat. That over, they
descended south, and arrived in the country of Soo-ho-to.


[Footnote 1: Bhikshu is the name for a monk as "living by alms," a
mendicant. All bhikshus call themselves Sramans. Sometimes the two names
are used together by our author.]


CHAPTER IX

~Soo-ho-to--Legends of Buddha~


In that country also Buddhism is flourishing. There is in it the place
where Sakra, [1] Ruler of Devas, in a former age, tried the Bodhisattva,
by producing a hawk in pursuit of a dove, when the Bodhisattva cut off a
piece of his own flesh, and with it ransomed the dove. After Buddha had
attained to perfect wisdom, and in travelling about with his disciples
arrived at this spot, he informed them that this was the place where he
ransomed the dove with a piece of his own flesh. In this way the people
of the country became aware of the fact, and on the spot reared a tope,
adorned with layers of gold and silver plates.


[Footnote 1: Sakra is a common name for the Brahmanic Indra, adopted by
Buddhism into the circle of its own great adherents;--it has been said,
"because of his popularity." He is now the representative of the secular
power, the valiant protector of the Buddhist body, but is looked upon as
inferior to Sâkyamuni, and every Buddhist saint.]


CHAPTER X

~Gandhâra--Legends of Buddha~


The travellers, going downwards from this towards the east, in five days
came to the country of Gandhâra, the place where Dharma-vivardhana, the
son of Asoka, [1] ruled. When Buddha was a Bodhisattva, he gave his eyes
also for another man here; and at the spot they have also reared a large
tope, adorned with layers of gold and silver plates. The people of the
country were mostly students of the hînayâna.


[Footnote 1: Asoka is here mentioned for the first time--the Constantine
of the Buddhist society, and famous for the number of vihâras and topes
which he erected. He was the grandson of Chandragupta, a rude
adventurer, who at one time was a refugee in the camp of Alexander the
Great; and within about twenty years afterwards drove the Greeks out of
India, having defeated Seleucus, the Greek ruler of the Indus provinces.
His grandson was converted to Buddhism by the bold and patient demeanor
of an Arhat whom he had ordered to be buried alive, and became a most
zealous supporter of the new faith.]


CHAPTER XI

~Takshasilâ--Legends--The Four Great Topes~


Seven days' journey from this to the east brought the travellers to the
kingdom of Takshasilâ, which means "the severed head" in the language of
China. Here, when Buddha was a Bodhisattva, he gave away his head to a
man; and from this circumstance the kingdom got its name.

Going on further for two days to the east, they came to the place where
the Bodhisattva threw down his body to feed a starving tigress. In these
two places also large topes have been built, both adorned with layers of
all the precious substances. The kings, ministers, and peoples of the
kingdoms around vie with one another in making offerings at them. The
trains of those who come to scatter flowers and light lamps at them
never cease. The nations of those quarters call those and the other two
mentioned before "the four great topes."


CHAPTER XII

~Buddha's Alms-bowl--Death of Hwuy-king~


Going southwards from Gândhâra, the travellers in four days arrived at
the kingdom of Purushapura. [1] Formerly, when Buddha was travelling in
this country with his disciples, he said to Ânanda, [2] "After my
pari-nirvâna, [3] there will be a king named Kanishka, who shall on this
spot build a tope."

This Kanishka was afterwards born into the world; and once, when he had
gone forth to look about him, Sakra, Ruler of Devas, wishing to excite
the idea in his mind, assumed the appearance of a little herd-boy, and
was making a tope right in the way of the king, who asked what sort of a
thing he was making. The boy said, "I am making a tope for Buddha." The
king said, "Very good;" and immediately, right over the boy's tope, he
proceeded to rear another, which was more than four hundred cubits high,
and adorned with layers of all the precious substances. Of all the topes
and temples which the travellers saw in their journeyings, there was not
one comparable to this in solemn beauty and majestic grandeur. There is
a current saying that this is the finest tope in Jambudvîpa [4]. When
the king's tope was completed, the little tope of the boy came out from
its side on the south, rather more than three cubits in height.

Buddha's alms-bowl is in this country. Formerly, a king of Yüeh-she
raised a large force and invaded this country, wishing to carry the bowl
away. Having subdued the kingdom, as he and his captains were sincere
believers in the Law of Buddha, and wished to carry off the bowl, they
proceeded to present their offerings on a great scale. When they had
done so to the Three Precious Ones, he made a large elephant be grandly
caparisoned, and placed the bowl upon it. But the elephant knelt down on
the ground, and was unable to go forward. Again he caused a four-wheeled
wagon to be prepared in which the bowl was put to be conveyed away.
Eight elephants were then yoked to it, and dragged it with their united
strength; but neither were they able to go forward. The king knew that
the time for an association between himself and the bowl had not yet
arrived, and was sad and deeply ashamed of himself. Forthwith he built a
tope at the place and a monastery, and left a guard to watch the bowl,
making all sorts of contributions.

There may be there more than seven hundred monks. When it is near
mid-day, they bring out the bowl, and, along with the common people,
make their various offerings to it, after which they take their mid-day
meal. In the evening, at the time of incense, they bring the bowl out
again. It may contain rather more than two pecks, and is of various
colors, black predominating, with the seams that show its fourfold
composition distinctly marked. Its thickness is about the fifth of an
inch, and it has a bright and glossy lustre. When poor people throw into
it a few flowers, it becomes immediately full, while some very rich
people, wishing to make offering of many flowers, might not stop till
they had thrown in hundreds, thousands, and myriads of bushels, and yet
would not be able to fill it.[5]

Pâo-yun and Sang-king here merely made their offerings to the alms-bowl,
and then resolved to go back. - Hello ... Mrs Porcon! - said going to
have one that appeared on the eyelids and lips raw white and hanging,
which was the most bizarre and frightening figure of the world
-. Hello ... how are you? How are these relatives? You do not know
- going to Amparo added - which is kinswoman Mrs Porcon very relative,
lord of the Guinderas, so rich that you have two daughters and
lives in the Malecón and sometimes comes here: he strives to deny it and
not giving a Ochavo, but she was going to sing to the girls the day
they are more Majas for the ride.

Green, Mrs Porcon - yyyy ... and is like the Gospel hiiigas ...--
replied a voice temblona the bleating of goats, and also Aguardente.
- Explain the relationship, go - suggested Amparo joke delivered
to your friend.

The old won his sarmentosa hands, they went through the bloody eyes, and
with many variations of the lower lip: - While .... DIII was there in
person - made a drawing of the giant rolls of snuff - I have not
for a lie. Hear, spectators of the event. It is known that the father
of the father of my mother or my grandfather quiérese say, I say, the
grandfather of my parents, brother in law was carnal, or quiérese say,
half brother of the grandmother of the mother's policy of Mr Guinderas
.. .. So and so is, I come to be very close relative, for the multitude
of blood .... - and much mischief you do not even give a liquor
Realito Daily - suggested malignant Weasel. -- - Aaaa ... guardiente!

- cried the old accentuating tremolo -. ¡Give Diiiios bread! - Come on,
it came as a sip. - Ni maldiito smell even reached me: and
what my year old, hiiigas ... I like the heat and stomach that is pure
as snow. - What years will Porcon lady? No lie. - Busssss! - Delivered
stripped. So God save me, or indeed the year I was born. But ...-- and
lowered voice temblona - sepades that when the factory was here, from
sixteen primeritas I was here .... worked - Where will the date! -
Whispered the Weasel . Threw him under the arm appalled that image of
decrepitude that it appeared as a vague vision of the future. Oreos
toured the hall, where thousands of cigar bundles were placed in a
row, and stores, drenched Bocoy that crowded into the shade, seem
somehow cyclopean building blocks, and filipino high maniguetas of
snuff involved in their thin crinoline fabric plant crossed the
crowded corridors of boxes of white pine, ready for bottling, and
the courtyard full of hoops and staves torn loose pipes, and finally
stopped in the workshops of the bite.

Within a caleada room, but black and everywhere, and just where the
light filtered through the dirty glass window high, saw the two girls
up to twenty men wearing zaragüelles very remangados canvas and
burlap shirt open, and without jumping cease.

The snuff around: habíalos involved in it until half leg: all are
flying by the shoulders, neck and hands, and waved eddies in the
atmosphere of it.

Workers lay on the tip of the feet and which was moved to jump the rest
of the body, through repeated and automatic effort of the muscles,
the support remained fixed.

Every two men had before it a table or board, and a while, jumping
quickly climbed down and biting the leaf blade, the other with his
arms buried in the snuff, and stir so that the slide was already
chopped and left alone at the table the whole operation required
great agility and wisdom, because it was easy to drop the knife
segase finger or hand to find at your fingertips.

As work, were not biting the point of sleep: sweat ran from every
pore of his miserable body, and the lightness of the dress and
attitudes of the violence evident thinness of its members, the
collapse of heaving sternum, poverty of the bars cops, the Térreo
color of meat consumed.

From the door, the first glance was unique: the men, half naked, color
snuff, and as bouncing balls, similarity Indians with certain
ritual or ceremony of his strange cults. A Amparo not happened
this simile, but cried out - Jesus .... Monkeys appear. Chintan,
seeing the girls, stopped suddenly, and releasing the handle of the
knife, and shaking the snuff, like a dog shakes when it comes out of
bathing water, approached them all sweaty, and with a sobrealiento terrible:
- This firm works ... said with a hoarse voice and air taco. It works
... continued braggart, and earn the bread with fists .... It's God's
work, shells! - You are beautiful, and seem to suck you - Weasel cried
while watching it between Amparo and Compadecida asquillosa, an admirer
of the havoc in such a short time he had his dog in motion. He excelled
nut, under the rude shirt pronounced shoulder blades and ulna. His
complexion was waxy nuances because tracts liver spots, his eyes seemed
pale and big respect to your face enflaquecida. - But, gross - the
Tribune said with kindly accent - you're sweating like a bull and you
plant here doors in this hallway so ventilated ... onto death. - ...--
Boh and the waiter shrugged -. If reparásemos to this day .... All of
God here and entering and leaving the door open, and cold cold here and
there ... Watch where the blade sharpened. And he indicated a grinding
wheel positioned in the same courtyard. - The warmth and shelter inside
.... We know that they do not have a drop here ... (and was given a slap
on the diaphragm). - I stink, fucking - Ana noted -. Come on, I do not
know what substance was sentenced to sacáis Vinaza. - Before -
Amparo gave sententious - some came just to test another holiday ....
Here you do not need to make services, thanks to God borrachera little
harm us .... - The right to speak up or speak .... If you put in these
jobs .... For what you do, which is the job of ladies, with enough water
.... Quiérese say we go ... that a man does not get spark, but a rifigelio
... a tentacá ... Want to see how I dance? Returned to handle the
blade, showing his agility and strength in the harsh exercise. In this
interview were reconciled and the cigarette picador, who sometimes
accompanied by the down slope of San Hilario, without renewing his
claims. What-XXII-The Carnival of cigarette Carnavales few days
before announcing the arrival at the Factory _tiempo loco_ of good
jokes by gender are among the operators themselves.

Infeliz of which relied on a misleading message, it departs from his
workshop, a minute back to his chair is missing and you will find in
that vast ocean of women chairs and shout in chorus: "You is Back . You
are in front. " The victims of these sports are glad to bring the
appeal remains well hidden under a shawl pointed horn, and teach
through revenge on those who enjoy them.

You can also, through a narrow strip of folded paper and a pin as a
hook, an implement _lárgala_ at the waist, or put cardboard cut and smeared
with chalk, the figure of a donkey in the back. Another disappointment
is favorite in the factory, found the number of lottery ticket that took
some bobalicona, believing they are winning. All years are the same
result, with equal success and causing identical algazara and joy.

Comadre But Thursday is the day brought together to have fun and take
down the workshops. Since arriving in the morning baskets with the
costumes, and obtained permission to dance and train comparsas, sad and
dark rooms are transformed. Carnival in the summer that followed the
events that occurred in the Northern Union was distinguished by its
liveliness and bustle, there was no less than five comparsas, and
all extremely lucid.

Two were girls and boys in the country, dressed in rich costumes they
had borrowed from the nearby villages, the other, boy, another of
_señoritos_ and _señoras_ and the last was a comparsa Estudiantina. The
two farmers were different too. The first had been sought, above
all, luxury apparel and gallantry of the body, the highest cigarette
and wearing very well-formed grace the short loop, jacket cloth, leggings
pespunteadas and decorated with its overburden refulgente peacock feather,
and the girls had chosen the most fresh and beautiful girls, who
appeared twice with dengue and scarlet cap and tied with silk ribbon.
The second comparsa sought, rather than the Bizarri costume, to
faithfully represent certain types of the region.

Saya wrapped around the waist, wearing a head scarf wool, which is
fringed shapes halo; grabbed the branch of yew, whose branches hung
donuts, I was the pilgrim who goes to the famous pilgrimage to the non
- exempt from participating, as the popular saying, or the dead,
at his side, with black redingote long, thick chain similor, beard
fungus and run wide wings, the _indiano_, two waiters acompañábanle of
Rías Salted, wearing his suit hybrid , blue trousers with chestnut
knives, cloth vest with great _sacramento_ of cloth in the back,
purple belt, straw hat with red ribbon wool.

The students had an impromptu dip with black Sayas and tricornio cardboard
with wooden spoon and fork cross, completed the aircraft, the cabin
boy had simple cloth costumes of blue and white collars in terms of the
comparsa _señores_, it had a little everything; dirty gloves, hats
ajados, dance dresses and withered, long range, and antifascist
velvet.

In half of the workshop was formed cigar common run and won a large drum
around the _Mincha_, old sweeper, small, round as a pitcher, who
danced wearing moharracho with two humps huge plate, Serón by a
crown, scepter by a broom, a cloak for real arena, face Tiznado
soot, and a sign on his back that said in big letters: "Viva joke.

Tireless, hit jump and jump, carrying the compass with the tale of the
broom on the rotting floor boards. But soon stole the attention
of their fans the Estudiantina who was perched on every table and
a half meters long, a few meters wide.

How about a dozen girls dancing there, it's hard to say, they danced,
accompanied by castanets and tambourines and chanting while Havanans
and polkas.

Comparsa At that, the most cheerful and troublemaker, found Guardian. Never
happy joy and unpredictability of few years as shone in the face of the
girl, who so little expense and with very little fun of their
sentences.

It was a courageous small, thin cigarette, then had to face on, the
lopsided tricornio and picaresque gesture chiming broken and a
tambourine, and highly adorned ribbon.

Amparo and Ana are among the cabin boy.

Weasel was a boy chusco, mischievous and cynical, Amparo, the most beautiful
boy who can imagine. Everything that her figure was commoner in the
male costume disguise, nor the thick wrists, or the newly damaged hair
to his kindness, which was a remarkable and extraordinary. La comparsa
toured the workshops, dancing and singing, getting the jokes _señoras_
and welcome the darkness of the room with the note of blue and
white costumes. However, no one could doubt that the victory was for the
tenants. Foremost among these was a woman, married and held by good girl,
Rose, which fill the greater alacrity _faroles_ sting. With the suit
of his own sex, Rosa was a little too stout, with the farmer did not ask.
The jacket styled drawing canvas width chest, the panties fit wonderfully
well proportionate to their hips, the slope had a wide scapular neck satin
embroidered with colored silks and sequins. Below the overburden, a scarf
blue scarf, tied up like the fellow, he masked his hair. Supported at the
club or _moca_ Clavet key silver and blue accents and long, he sang a
verse of the country, and in front contestábale brunette dressed in a
coastal, well garnished with his waistcoat buttons and belt bedroom
filigree bird flowers and extravagant, _echando the firma_,
consisting of three verses irregular, improvised always, the subject
matter of the couplet, at the conclusion of the _firma_, leaving
the running of several spectators jurujú ...

¡ju! agudísimos. What was wonderful effect was heard in the silent intervals
in which the songbirds, some malagueñas resonate at the other end
of the room, while for its part is devoted to Estudiantina Havanans,
as if the anarchy of the costumes will be communicated to songs.

In comparsa _señoras_ of a girl having had either a lot of ringing
voice and the songs themselves to grace the city, so different from
those of rural areas, while in these vowels are lengthened as a
moan, the other is spoke briefly, producing some verses at the end
of a turning burlesque: _in the midst of a ballenaú_ _Y mar_
_Suspiraba and sigh deciaú_ _Muchachas of Cartagenaú._ And who had
the courage to work in the middle of bustling carnival?

Some operators initially had to be fierce in the work, dropping his
head for not seeing the masks, but at about three o'clock in the
afternoon, when the innocent saturnal reached its height, the crossed
hands resting on the rolling table, and eyes did not know running
away from dancing and singing.

There was a funny incident, the workshop sought to throw his fourth
stripped swords to and arranged an extra large; empeñáronse join
it in the older, more unhappy, and the improvised masquerade is as
follows: all of the wrapping the head shawls, while more than poke
his nose or a hideous mask of cardboard and placed in a double row,
with four of beaters who were caught by the corners a mat, on which
rested with eyes closed, very own his role as deceased, the dean
of the workshop, the respectable lady Porcon.

So placed with a strange silence and toured the workshops, providing
I do not know which aspect of the Sabbath boisterous celebration.
Received title to the point that new and grim comparsa; llamáronle the
_Estadea_ name given to a popular superstition procession spectra.
It would seem that the carnival magician, with a powerful spell, had
disenchanted the factory and returned to their people in the true
figure that day. Girls in which no one had repaired daily perhaps
confused as they were among the others, resplendent, lit by a burst of
beauty and a quirky dress, a flower in her hair, revealing hitherto
hidden thanks.

And not because the flirtation came out in costume to the degree
that reaches people from attending high coturno dances and costumes
often reflect and discuss days and days before making a costume -
there lady wears that look for _Africana_ a bush of hair, or
_Pierrette_ show a piececito often - and not incidentally.

Such refinements are ignored in the factory.

Neither old they were given a cumin to teach dance at the leakage of
the dry bones of his anatomy, or to a radish girls disfigured, eg,
painting mustaches charcoal. The event was well and faithfully represent
types dice, a young man, fifth, a student, a boy. Habíalas dressed so
rare property, which would take any male, and the ugly hombrunas
offered without repulgos fitted to suit the male and took him with singular
desenfado. And from one end to another of the workshops, the
increasing heat and the hustle and joke that increased running a wave
of joy, of deep laughter, fun, natural and healthy free play, a strong
affirmation of the femininity of the factory. Not inhibited by the
presence of man, had four thousand women that brief glimmer of light,
that moment of jubilation expansive placed between two eternities
of monotonous work. Around four p.m. algazara and there was no fuss
and in the halls, all the World died of heat to the costume of their
countrymen drowned the suit cloth and supported, descoyuntadas much
laughter, so much dancing ground, hoarse from time canticio, on
the shelves, fanning with overburden.

Weasel, who no longer knew how to procure a little fresh, had an idea. -
If we let up a run in the yard, guys, huh? Seemed occurrence of pearls,
and went to the courtyard entrance, and there to lean Campillo adjoining
and belonging to the factory. He was calm and quiet day, the sun gilded
the grass burned by frost, and it was strained oblique in the warm rays
through the naked trees. The atmosphere was warmer than anything else,
as often happens in the climate of Marineda during February and March.
To lead the field in the cheerful crowd fled scared a few chickens and
some ducks, sheep and clumsy, dirty, run it through there, and were
the sole inhabitants of the oasis narrow, limited by a wall, the
decrepit, overcrowded shelters in other vein of bales, and other cigar
shop by the mainland, isolated from the building of the barn. The point
is formed with two straps over the top space, and the coolness of the
afternoon returned to want to dance with the masks exhausted. Oh, if
they had known that from the next stage of the Hills watched two pairs
of curious eyes, indiscreet and daring! From the top of a Cerrillo
allowing scan the entire courtyard of the factory, two men seen in that
grazed the far unexpected curious spectacle. One of them many times around
the vicinity of the Granera, but never at the site had seen more living
things that snacking quarry blocks of granite, and poultry digging the
earth.

Baltasar ignoring the details of the Carnival of the cigarette, and barely
understood what he was seeing, if you delete, more informed, do not take
the job to explain it. - Generally these masquerades are behind closed
doors, but today, as heat and day is good, go out to cool to dance
.... What a coincidence, man - casual, you are right. Everywhere I
encontrármela. And say, lieutenant drew the boy to run. While
punctate and chiming paisanos a dance step, the grumetillos had
chosen the _zapateado_ where the liveliness of the South joins the
bolero muscular force required dances from the North.

Well the person who saw no profanity, placing his hand on his hip,
his head thrown back, from time to time raising his arm to remove the
gorrilla that he came to the front, Amparo dance. Dance with the
naivete, with disaffection with the ease that distinguishes caste
women who do not know when he sees one man, nor is there who can interpret
their malignant steps and movements. No fence or false modesty real
opposition to sway his body following the rhythm of the dance, drawing
a line from the coil to the neck heel. Her mouth opened eagerly to
breathe, let see the teeth clean and strong, the pink shade of the
palate and tongue, his impatient and rebellious hair went to tufts
of the cap, as the revelation of the traitor who belongs to the sex
pretty boy if soft and high camber within the fugitive and elegant
curves of the torso not denounce asaz.

Once, describing a circle, injured his foot with the land, as, without
leaving a site, _zapateaba_ plane, while his arms, armed with castanets
were waved in the air and came down like a captive bird wings try to
lift the flight. XXIII-By-The temptation to descend to their observatory,
thrown by the shadows of the night, which wrapped the courtyard of the
factory and covered the withdrawal of the cigarette clatter dressed as
usual with their costumes, went Baltasar quiet and focused. Erased very
talkative. The good Captain was no joy in it, neither more nor less than
an adventure to see him dancing at the Tribune happened to him directly.
There are in the world very different hobbies and tastes, this
chochea currency roñosas, one for libracos old, the horse over here
and over there for stamps and matchbooks ....

Chocho had cleared, chocho chochearía and dragged all their lives for the
beauty, charm and refinement of women. Had become known for the beauty,
and especially attractive, that glance, that special wisdom which
enables the expert without mastering the arts or exercise, to accurately
assess the merit of a painting, a style of furniture, age of a monument.

Where they live, there is a
white-eared dragon, which acts the part of danapati to the community of
these monks, causing abundant harvests in the country, and the enriching
rains to come in season, without the occurrence of any calamities, so
that the monks enjoy their repose and ease. In gratitude for its
kindness, they have made for it a dragon-house, with a carpet for it to
sit on, and appointed for it a diet of blessing, which they present for
its nourishment. Every day they set apart three of their number to go to
its house, and eat there. Whenever the summer retreat is ended, the
dragon straightway changes its form, and appears as a small snake, with
white spots at the side of its ears. As soon as the monks recognize it,
they fill a copper vessel with cream, into which they put the creature,
and then carry it round from the one who has the highest seat at their
tables to him who has the lowest, when it appears as if saluting them.
When it has been taken round, immediately it disappears; and every year
it thus comes forth once. The country is very productive, and the people
are prosperous, and happy beyond comparison. When people of other
countries come to it, they are exceedingly attentive to them all, and
supply them with what they need.

Fifty yojanas northwest from the monastery there is another, called "The
Great Heap." Great Heap was the name of a wicked demon, who was
converted by Buddha, and men subsequently at this place reared a vihâra.
When it was being made over to an Arhat by pouring water on his hands,
some drops fell on the ground. They are still on the spot, and however
they may be brushed away and removed, they continue to be visible, and
cannot be made to disappear.

At this place there is also a tope to Buddha, where a good spirit
constantly keeps all about it swept and watered, without any labor of
man being required. A king of corrupt views once said, "Since you are
able to do this, I will lead a multitude of troops and reside there till
the dirt and filth has increased and accumulated, and see whether you
can cleanse it away or not." The spirit thereupon raised a great wind,
which blew the filth away, and made the place pure.

At this place there are many small topes, at which a man may keep
counting a whole day without being able to know their exact number. If
he be firmly bent on knowing it, he will place a man by the side of each
tope. When this is done, proceeding to count the number of the men,
whether they be many or few, he will not get to know the number. [7]

There is a monastery, containing perhaps six hundred or seven hundred
monks, in which there is a place where a Pratyeka Buddha used to take
his food. The nirvâna ground where he was burned after death is as large
as a carriage wheel; and while grass grows all around, on this spot
there is none. The ground also where he dried his clothes produces no
grass, but the impression of them, where they lay on it, continues to
the present day.


[Footnote 1: The heaven of Indra or Sâkya, meaning "the heaven of
thirty-three classes," a name which has been explained both historically
and mythologically. "The description of it," says Eitel, "tallies in all
respects with the Svarga of Brahmanic mythology. It is situated between
the four peaks of the Meru, and consists of thirty-two cities of devas,
eight on each of the four corners of the mountain. Indra's capital of
Bellevue is in the centre. There he is enthroned, with a thousand heads
and a thousand eyes, and four arms grasping the vajra, with his wife and
119,000 concubines. There he receives the monthly reports of the four
Mahârâjas, concerning the progress of good and evil in the world," etc.,
etc.]

[Footnote 2: Buddha's mother, Mâyâ and Mahâ-mâyâ, died seven days after
his birth.]

[Footnote 3: Anuruddha was a first cousin of Sâkyamuni, being the son of
his uncle Amritodana. He is often mentioned in the account we have of
Buddha's last moments. His special gift was the "heavenly eye," the
first of the six "supernatural talents," the faculty of comprehending in
one instantaneous view, or by intuition, all beings in all worlds.]

[Footnote 4: This was Brahma, the first person of the Brahmanical
Trimurti, adopted by Buddhism, but placed in an inferior position, and
surpassed by every Buddhist saint who attains to bodhi.]

[Footnote 5: A note of Mr. Beal says on this:--"General Cunningham, who
visited the spot (1862), found a pillar, evidently of the age of Asoka,
with a well-carved elephant on the top, which, however, was minus trunk
and tail. He supposes this to be the pillar seen by Fâ-hien, who mistook
the top of it for a lion. It is possible such a mistake may have been
made, as in the account of one of the pillars at Srâvasti, Fâ-hien says
an ox formed the capital, whilst Hsüan-chwang calls it an elephant."]

[Footnote 6: These three predecessors of Sakya-muni were the three
Buddhas of the present or Mahâ-bhadra Kalpa, of which he was the fourth,
and Maitreya is to be the fifth and last. They were: (i) Kra-kuchanda,
"he who readily solves all doubts"; a scion of the Kasyapa family. Human
life reached in his time forty thousand years, and so many persons were
converted by him. (2) Kanakamuni, "body radiant with the color of pure
gold"; of the same family. Human life reached in his time thirty
thousand years, and so many persons were converted by him. (3) Kasyapa,
"swallower of light." Human life reached in his time twenty thousand
years, and so many persons were converted by him.]

[Footnote 7: This would seem to be absurd; but the writer evidently
intended to convey the idea that there was something mysterious about
the number of the topes.]


CHAPTER XVIII

~Buddha's Subjects of Discourse~


Fâ-Hien stayed at the Dragon vihara till after the summer retreat, [1]
and then, travelling to the southeast for seven yojanas, he arrived at
the city of Kanyakubja, lying along the Ganges. There are two
monasteries in it, the inmates of which are students of the hinayâna. At
a distance from the city of six or seven li, on the west, on the
northern bank of the Ganges, is a place where Buddha preached the Law to
his disciples. It has been handed down that his subjects of discourse
were such as "The bitterness and vanity of life as impermanent and
uncertain," and that "The body is as a bubble or foam on the water." At
this spot a tope was erected, and still exists.

Having crossed the Ganges, and gone south for three yojanas, the
travellers arrived at a village named A-le, containing places where
Buddha preached the Law, where he sat, and where he walked, at all of
which topes have been built.


[Footnote 1: This was, probably, in A.D. 405.]


CHAPTER XIX

~Legend of Buddha's Danta-kâshtha~


Going on from this to the southeast for three yojanas, they came to the
great kingdom of Shâ-che. As you go out of the city of Shâ-che by the
southern gate, on the east of the road is the place where Buddha, after
he had chewed his willow branch, stuck it in the ground, when it
forthwith grew up seven cubits, at which height it remained, neither
increasing nor diminishing. The Brahmans, with their contrary doctrines,
became angry and jealous. Sometimes they cut the tree down, sometimes
they plucked it up, and cast it to a distance, but it grew again on the
same spot as at first. Here also is the place where the four Buddhas
walked and sat, and at which a tope was built that is still existing.


CHAPTER XX

~The Jetavana Vihâra--Legends of Buddha~


Going on from this to the south, for eight yojanas, the travellers came
to the city of Sravasti in the kingdom of Kosala, in which the
inhabitants were few and far between, amounting in all only to a few
more than two hundred families; the city where king Prasenajit ruled,
and the place of the old vihâra of Maha-prajâpati; [1] of the well and
walls of the house of the Vaisya head Sudatta; [2] and where the
Angulimâlya [3] became an Arhat, and his body was afterwards burned on
his attaining to pari-nirvâna. At all these places topes were
subsequently erected, which are still existing in the city. The
Brahmans, with their contrary doctrine, became full of hatred and envy
in their hearts, and wished to destroy them, but there came from the
heavens such a storm of crashing thunder and flashing lightning that
they were not able in the end to effect their purpose.

As you go out from the city by the south gate, and one thousand two
hundred paces from it, the Vais'ya head Sudatta built a vihâra, facing
the south; and when the door was open, on each side of it there was a
stone pillar, with the figure of a wheel on the top of that on the left,
and the figure of an ox on the top of that on the right. On the left and
right of the building the ponds of water clear and pure, the thickets of
trees always luxuriant, and the numerous flowers of various hues,
constituted a lovely scene, the whole forming what is called the
Jetavana vihâra.

When Buddha went up to the Trayastrimsas heaven, and preached the Law
for the benefit of his mother, after he had been absent for ninety days,
Prasenajit, longing to see him, caused an image of him to be carved in
Gosirsha Chandana wood, and put in the place where he usually sat. When
Buddha, on his return entered the vihara, this image immediately left
its place, and came forth to meet him. Buddha said to it, "Return to
your seat. After I have attained to pari-nirvâna, you will serve as a
pattern to the four classes of my disciples," [4] and on this the image
returned to its seat. This was the very first of all the images of
Buddha, and that which men subsequently copied. Buddha then removed, and
dwelt in a small vihara on the south side of the other, a different
place from that containing the image, and twenty paces distant from it.

The Jetavana vihâra was originally of seven stories. The kings and
people of the countries around vied with one another in their offerings,
hanging up about it silken streamers and canopies, scattering flowers,
burning incense, and lighting lamps, so as to make the night as bright
as the day. This they did day after day without ceasing. It happened
that a rat, carrying in its mouth the wick of a lamp, set one of the
streamers or canopies on fire, which caught the vihâra, and the seven
stories were all consumed. The kings, with their officers and people,
were all very sad and distressed, supposing that the sandalwood image
had been burned; but lo! after four or five days, when the door of a
small vihâra on the east was opened, there was immediately seen the
original image. They were all greatly rejoiced, and cooperated in
restoring the vihâra. When they had succeeded in completing two stories,
they removed the image back to its former place.

When Fâ-hien and Tâo-ching first arrived at the Jetavana monastery, and
thought how the World-honored one had formerly resided there for
twenty-five years, painful reflections arose in their minds. Born in a
border-land, along with their like-minded friends, they had travelled
through so many kingdoms; some of those friends had returned to their
own land, and some had died, proving the impermanence and uncertainty of
life; and today they saw the place where Buddha had lived now unoccupied
by him. They were melancholy through their pain of heart, and the crowd
of monks came out, and asked them from what kingdom they were come. "We
are come," they replied, "from the land of Han." "Strange," said the
monks with a sigh, "that men of a border country should be able to come
here in search of our Law!" Then they said to one another, "During all
the time that we, preceptors and monks, have succeeded to one another,
we have never seen men of Han, followers of our system, arrive here."

Four li to the northwest of the vihâra there is a grove called "The
Getting of Eyes." Soon they burned her at the back and made them sleepy.
The two horses trotted side by side in the passport. Their hoofs sank
noiselessly into the sand. As the mountain of hot water behind them
had the solid ground. Then they rode on in its fleet pace continues.
Although it is the time to plow and sow was extended to the fields, as
far as the eye passed, but blasted out like a desert. At various points
were untidy pile of grain there. Elsewhere were the seeds of over-ripe
ears of corn. On the bright horizon stood out in countless villages,
jagged, black contours from.

Every now and then stood rauchgeschwärzte ruins on the edge of the
road. The roofs of the huts had collapsed, and inside you could see the
pot shards, scraps of clothes, all sorts of household objects and
broken and barely identify surrounding.

Often crept into rags wrapped erdfahlem beings with flaming face and
eyes from the wreckage show ran but quickly disappeared again like
this or in any holes. Salambo and their leaders made no stops. Abandoned
planes followed them. Large areas were highlighted light yellow soil
with coal dust covered the behind the hooves of the horses aufwirbelte.
Sometimes they came to pass peacefully shared sites, where a creek ran
between tall grasses, and if they are at the other shore hinaufritten
again, tore Salambo wet leaves, to their hands so cool. At the corner
of Oleander bushes, her horse once a great rate before the corpse
of a man who lay on the ground. The slave immediately put them back on
their saddle pads to cope. He was one of the temple servants, a man
whom Schahabarim occasionally to dangerous second-hand items. The safety's
sake, he now ran on foot between the horses alongside Salambo out and
drove the animals to the end of the arm slung leather belt on. Sometimes
he took one with his chest hanging baskets small beads from the
wheat, dates, and egg yolks in preparing and lotus leaves were. He handed
it Salambo underway, without a word to say. At noon crossed three
animal fur clad barbarians their way. Gradually, yet appeared to andre.
They touched in squads of ten, twelve-twenty-five man around. Some drove
a goat or a lame cow. Their sticks were heavy with iron spikes provide.
Large knife flashed under her neglected, dirty clothes. They tore the
eyes, half-menacing, half perplexed. As passed, calling for a daily
greeting, andre ambiguous words joke, and Salambos companion answered
every one in his own language. Some told, he accompanied a sick boy,
the cure to his temple for a distant wall ride.

Now it was evening. Fern yell dog. They rode it. Dämmerschein beheld
in a loose aufgehäuften enclosures from stones to a questionable
building around. A dog ran out on the scree. The slave chased him
with a few stone throws. They stepped into a spacious vault.
Mids was crouched a woman and warmed himself in a brushwood fire,
whose smoke through holes in the ceiling abzog. Your white hair that is
down on her knees herabreichte, they hid half. She wanted to give no
answer, and murmured with a stupid face curses against the Carthaginians
as against the barbarians. The runner searched left and right around.
Then he came back to the old and asked for something to eat. They shook
his head and murmured, staring into the coals, "I was the hand ... The
ten fingers are cut off ... The mouth eats no more ... "The slave showed
her a handful of gold pieces. The old woman threw himself on her,
but soon took their immovable stance again. As he sat her the dagger
in the belt he wore, to the throat. Immediately they sent shivering
to lift a large stone. Finally, it has Amphora full of wine, preserved
in honey to achieve fish, from the Hippo-Diarrhyt were related. Salambo
rejected that of impure food and slept on the horse blankets that her
companion in a corner of the chamber on the ground had gebreitet. Before
daybreak he awoke them. The dog howled. The slave crept quietly
up to him and slash him with a single knife stroke to the head. With his
blood he COATED the nostrils of the horses in order to freshen up. The
old woman threw him out of the corner after a curse. Salambo heard
him and pressed the amulet which she wore to the chest, finds itself.
They continued their march continues. From time to time, asked her if
she still had not as soon. The motion raised and lowered over small
hills out.
There are also companies of the followers of Devadatta still existing.
They regularly make offerings to the three previous Buddhas, but not to
Sâkyamuni Buddha.

Four li southeast from the city of Srâvastî, a tope has been erected at
the place where the World-honored one encountered king Virûdhaha, when
he wished to attack the kingdom of Shay-e, and took his stand before him
at the side of the road.


[Footnote 1: Explained by "Path of Love," and "Lord of Life." Prajâpati
was aunt and nurse of Sâkyamuni, the first woman admitted to the
monkhood, and the first superior of the first Buddhistic convent. She is
yet to become a Buddha.]

[Footnote 2: Sudatta, meaning "almsgiver," was the original name of
Anâtha-pindika, a wealthy householder, or Vaisya head, of Srâvasti,
famous for his liberality. Of his old house, only the well and walls
remained at the time of Fâ-hien's visit to Srâvasti.]

[Footnote 3: The Angulimâlya were a sect or set of Sivaitic fanatics,
who made assassination a religious act. The one of them here mentioned
had joined them by the force of circumstances. Being converted by
Buddha, he became a monk.]

[Footnote 4: Ârya, meaning "honorable," "venerable," is a title given
only to those who have mastered the four spiritual truths:--(i) that
"misery" is a necessary condition of all sentient existence; this is
duhka: (ii) that the "accumulation" of misery is caused by the passions;
this is samudaya: (iii) that the "extinction" of passion is possible;
this is nirodha: and (iv) that the "path" leads to the extinction of
passion; which is marga. According to their attainment of these truths,
the Aryas, or followers of Buddha, are distinguished into four
classes--Srotâpannas, Sakridâgamins, Anâgâmins, and Arhats.]

[Footnote 5: Hsüan-chwang does not give the name of this murderer; see
in Julien's "Vie et Voyages de Hiouen-thsang "--"a heretical Brahman
killed a woman and calumniated Buddha." See also the fuller account in
Beal's "Records of Western Countries," where the murder is committed by
several Brahmacharins. In this passage Beal makes Sundari to be the name
of the murdered person. But the text cannot be so construed.]

[Footnote 6: A devâlaya is a place in which a deva is worshipped--a
general name for all Brahmanical temples.]

[Footnote 7: Their speech was somewhat unconnected, but natural enough
in the circumstances. Compare the whole account with the narrative in 1
Samuel v. about the Ark and Dagon, that "twice-battered god of
Palestine."]


CHAPTER XXI

~The Three Predecessors of Sâkyamuni~


Fifty li to the west of the city brings the traveller to a town
named Too-wei, the birthplace of Kâsyapa Buddha. At the
place where he and his father met, and at that where he attained
to pari-nirvâna, topes were erected. Over the entire relic
of the whole body of him, the Kâsyapa Tathâgata, a great tope
was also erected.

Going on southeast from the city of Srâvasti for twelve yojanas,
the travellers came to a town named Na-pei-keâ, the birthplace
of Krakuchanda Buddha. At the place where he and his father met,
and at that where he attained to pari-nirvâna, topes were erected.
Going north from here less than a yojana, they came to a town
which had been the birthplace of Kanakamuni Buddha. At the place
where he and his father met, and where he attained to pari-nirvâna,
topes were erected.


CHAPTER XXII

~Legends of Buddha's Birth~


Less than a yojana to the east from this brought them to the city of
Kapilavastu; but in it there was neither king nor people. All was mound
and desolation. Of inhabitants there were only some monks and a score or
two of families of the common people. At the spot where stood the old
palace of king Suddhodana there have been made images of his eldest son
and his mother; and at the places where that son appeared mounted on a
white elephant when he entered his mother's womb, and where he turned
his carriage round on seeing the sick man after he had gone out of the
city by the eastern gate, topes have been erected. The places were also
pointed out where the rishi Â-e inspected the marks of Buddhaship on the
body of the heir-apparent when an infant; where, when he was in company
with Nanda and others, on the elephant being struck down and drawn on
one side, he tossed it away; [1] where he shot an arrow to the
southeast, and it went a distance of thirty li, then entering the ground
and making a spring to come forth, which men subsequently fashioned into
a well from which travellers might drink; where, after he had attained
to Wisdom, Buddha returned and saw the king, his father; where five
hundred Sâkyas quitted their families and did reverence to Upâli [2]
while the earth shook and moved in six different ways; where Buddha
preached his Law to the devas, and the four deva kings and others kept
the four doors of the hall, so that even the king, his father, could not
enter; where Buddha sat under a nyagrodha tree, which is still standing,
with his face to the east, and his aunt Mahâ-prajâpati presented him
with a Sanghâli; and where king Vaidûrya slew the seed of Sâkya, and
they all in dying became Srotâpannas. [3] A tope was erected at this
last place, which is still existing.

Several li northeast from the city was the king's field, where the
heir-apparent sat under a tree, and looked at the ploughers.

Fifty li east from the city was a garden, named Lumbinî, where the queen
entered the pond and bathed. Having come forth from the pond on the
northern bank, after walking twenty paces, she lifted up her hand, laid
hold of a branch of a tree, and, with her face to the east, gave birth
to the heir-apparent. When he fell to the ground, he immediately walked
seven paces. Two dragon-kings appeared and washed his body. At the place
where they did so, there was immediately formed a well, and from it, as
well as from the above pond, where the queen bathed, the monks even now
constantly take the water, and drink it.

There are four places of regular and fixed occurrence in the history of
all Buddhas: first, the place where they attained to perfect Wisdom and
became Buddha; second, the place where they turned the wheel of the Law;
third, the place where they preached the Law, discoursed of
righteousness, and discomfited the advocates of erroneous doctrines; and
fourth, the place where they came down, after going up to the
Trayastrimsas heaven to preach the Law for the benefit of their
mothers. Other places in connection with them became remarkable,
according to the manifestations which were made at them at particular
times.

The country of Kapilavastu is a great scene of empty desolation. The
inhabitants are few and far between. On the roads people have to be on
their guard against white elephants [4] and lions, and should not travel
incautiously.


[Footnote 1: The Lichchhavis of Vaisâlî had sent to the young prince a
very fine elephant; but when it was near Kapilavastu, Deva-datta, out of
envy, killed it with a blow of his fist. Nanda (not Ânanda, but a
half-brother of Siddhartha), coming that way, saw the carcass lying on
the road, and pulled it on one side; but the Bodhisattva, seeing it
there, took it by the tail, and tossed it over seven fences and ditches,
when the force of its fall made a great ditch.]

[Footnote 2: They did this, probably, to show their humility, for Upâli
was only a Sûdra by birth, and had been a barber; so from the first did
Buddhism assert its superiority to the conditions of rank and caste.
Upâli was distinguished by his knowledge of the rules of discipline, and
praised on that account by Buddha. He was one of the three leaders of
the first synod, and the principal compiler of the original Vinaya
books.]

[Footnote 3: The Srotâpannas are the first class of saints, who are not
to be reborn in a lower sphere, but attain to nirvàna after having been
reborn seven times consecutively as men or devas. The Chinese editions
state there were one thousand of the Sãkya seed. The general account is
that they were five hundred, all maidens, who refused to take their
place in king Vaidurya's harem, and were in consequence taken to a pond,
and had their hands and feet cut off. There Buddha came to them, had
their wounds dressed, and preached to them the Law. They died in the
faith, and were reborn in the region of the four Great Kings. Thence
they came back and visited Buddha at Jetavana in the night, and there
they obtained the reward of Srotâpanna.]

[Footnote 4: Fâ-hien does not say that he himself saw any of these white
elephants, nor does he speak of the lions as of any particular color. We
shall find by and by, in a note further on, that, to make them appear
more terrible, they are spoken of as "black."]


CHAPTER XXIII

~Legends of Râma and its Tope~


East from Buddha's birthplace, and at a distance of five yojanas, there
is a kingdom called Râma. The king of this country, having obtained one
portion of the relics of Buddha's body, returned with it and built over
it a tope, named the Râma tope. By the side of it there was a pool, and
in the pool a dragon, which constantly kept watch over the tope, and
presented offerings at it day and night. When king Asoka came forth
into the world, he wished to destroy the eight topes over the relics,
and to build instead of them eighty-four thousand topes. [1] After he
had thrown down the seven others, he wished next to destroy this tope.
But then the dragon showed itself, and took the king into its palace;
when he had seen all the things provided for offerings, it said to him,
"If you are able with your offerings to exceed these, you can destroy
the tope, and take it all away. I will not contend with you." The king,
however, knew that such appliances for offerings were not to be had
anywhere in the world, and thereupon returned without carrying out his
purpose.

Afterwards, the ground all about became overgrown with vegetation, and
there was nobody to sprinkle and sweep about the tope; but a herd of
elephants came regularly, which brought water with their trunks to water
the ground, and various kinds of flowers and incense, which they
presented at the tope. Once there came from one of the kingdoms a
devotee to worship at the tope. When he encountered the elephants he was
greatly alarmed, and screened himself among the trees; but when he saw
them go through with the offerings in the most proper manner, the
thought filled him with great sadness--that there should be no monastery
here, the inmates of which might serve the tope, but the elephants have
to do the watering and sweeping. Forthwith he gave up the great
prohibitions by which he was bound, and resumed the status of a
Srâmanera. With his own hands he cleared away the grass and trees, put
the place in good order, and made it pure and clean. By the power of his
exhortations, he prevailed on the king of the country to form a
residence for monks; and when that was done, he became head of the
monastery. At the present day there are monks residing in it. This event
is of recent occurrence; but in all the succession from that time till
now, there has always been a Srâmanera head of the establishment.

[Footnote 1: The bones of the human body are supposed to consist of
84,000 atoms, and hence the legend of Asoka's wish to build 84,000
topes, one over each atom of Sakyamuni's skeleton.]


CHAPTER XXIV

~Where Buddha Renounced the World~


East from here four yojanas, there is the place where the heir-apparent
sent back Chandaka, with his white horse; and there also a tope was
erected.

Even if the money lost on the post should go, it is only in the back
Münzsorte replaced, in which it was abandoned.

If you want to post the money to pay for the task, one must not refrain
from franco to the letter, or if you are not completely out frankiren
wants, so you have the name of the place, so you pay at the franco
set. At Dispatches maintains big money is the money in barrels to thun.
But it is necessary, the money not only into the barrels to pour, but
keeps it in bags in the barrels, because the case very often happens
that such Geldfäßer, because of their own gravity bounce or break,
especially if what is envisaged Wood is weak and is defective. The poor
packing by such damage ways; the point with the right to bill the sender.
You need to Geldfäßer not too big and heavy, so that a person could
lift it.

Are they heavier than 100 pounds, so it may happen that the wagon master
and Postillon up and they must be unloaded or hinwerfen must in
order not to be squashed by the same.

When = Waar in sending packets = are similar rules to observe caution.
Mainly ways; the point it is important that the Waar einzupacken well
and with sufficient Emballage maintained so that they are protected
against moisture and not durchscheuert and zerschabt can be. This is
anyway in all postal regulations the senders to make compulsory and the
post may apply to the current condition of the Post mehrsten carts,
not all packages and rubbing against wetness protection, especially since
so many packages of very different shape and texture to the post
office that are so paßlich not always be packed.

Oilcloth, or Wachslinnen is a good means Waar einzupacken, because you
do not sign it out, by no paint to be liable, then you genöthigt, another
envelope of linen, paper, mats, or about to hit, or we should else on the
oilcloth nor particularly a linnen cloth and sew the Marque to this
set, or those with YB designate. For some items, eg the Prussian,
although it assumes the post, the packages to draw and it is how
cheap, especially pay alone it is better if the sender on his own.

Instead, it can not find that on suitcases or other large packages,
which you can tell from the post office will send the letters
themselves or Nagele folders.

No, the letters and addresses and must be particularly los abandoned,
and the suitcases or packages with a character may be.

This character must be also on the letter and also to indicate in what
Emballage the packet is beaten. When = = Receive cash letters and packages
from the post office if you have the same degree of caution to be
observed. The Ablieferungsart such things from the post to the recipient
is not the same. In some places, the item arrived with the money
letters and packages to the recipients sent into the house. Diess, is for
the receiver quite comfortably alone it is usually associated with
unpleasant that the reception of such cases more than one person can be
known. At other places, however, the recipient must put their own
stuff-in by the post office pick up after the arrival of the same post
from the home are notified, or an Avis received.

Avis This consists either in a slip, as the case arrived, and the name of
the recipient is noticed, or there are those who arrived on the packets
belonging to letters sent to the recipients, so that after the post may
have to be yours in reception take. One may now classified by the Post
Office sent into the house, or even from the post home must pick up,
so you will in any case a certificate or receipt, on the proper
delivery, as cheap, must exhibit. Such a certificate must be the
recipient of your own, but personally, or sign, or those which they
write in his name and property will receive, sufficient to authorize.
In these notes must not only be clearly stated, what and how much you
get, but it is also useful to specify what type, or with which post it
has been concluded, and whether it franco, porto or have received.
Since in some places by the, from abroad and other things and
coming in. Waar Licent or ACCIS and impost duties and as otherwise
read, must be given so the recipient is also, therefore, existing laws
and regulations, must submit. It is in most cases unsuccessfully Seyn
to inform the Postbedienten or Acciseeinnehmern in Dispüte severely
limited. It does better if you are impaired believes in writing of such
a government, or other authority for it, then what legal decision will
be made. And so we need to behave well when we have = something to the
post office damaged or even lost is =. Oral ads do not always penetrate
belonging and are not uncommon from the transactions cleared briefly
overwhelmed Postofficianten, or even ignored. On display will be
written but associated information must be given. If insonderheit from
the post about a damaged package delivered to us, so we must guard
against, to accept such. You need it, when only happen, the post office
returned the same leave, about the sender, or the person who which
caused the damage, abzufinden. Do we have it but once accepted, then
we are behind our actions with little or nothing.

Is one else but genöthigt consideration, accept the damaged package, so
you have to insist that the way of damage to the Post examines the us
thus harm growth and explores the entire incident will be written down
so that we stand in this set be the case further. Because if it can be
proved that the postal packet in a good position has been passed, which
already receives a probability that the Post Office accepted it,
because they rejected bad things will not answer: so also is the
post linked to by their debt incurred to pay claims, especially if
the damaged package was of such nature that it is protected against
damage at the post office can have a custodian.

To sowol such damage, as well as the loss verlohrner things from the
post without much Weitläuftigkeiten be replaced, it is rathsam, indeed
necessary, the contents of our mail packages and their donor Werth
himself on the letters and, above us in the task an appearance of it.
If we believe that our rejection of things at the post office went
something lost, or not to the right recipient had, so nothing more
is needed temporarily, as on a sheet of paper to write that one on
that or that day, a letter with so much money, or a packet to the
person or those who after this or that places have delivered to the
post office, which, according to message received, Seyn not arrived
and we should therefore on the delivery of satisfactory information,
or replacement of the Werth expect. - On such a display will then
have the post office itself must ensure that the matter should be
rectified and the Correspondent to satisfy. - However, the fear
that at the post office = = letters are lost, mostly ungegründet.
- You can safely assume that one million letters a little ways; the
point is lost.

One might find it not strange, when several were lost. The post is a
compound often very intricate prison, the only people operated, but
because of a missing letter or verlohrnen is usually large and have
long made noise. Often you should only ask whether the missing letter
is actually delivered to the post was whether or not the same, or the
required response in the House Correspondent even have hidden? - In
most cases, yes, you can almost always Seyn assured that the loss of a
letter by the Postofficianten causes, because they have many causes,
the matters entrusted to them well maintained. - But it can eräugnen
that letters from an unusually small size is larger, at what they
packed and mixed with what they were pushed into it, or that two
letters by means of soft oblate, or bad paint, which they were
sealed , stuck to each other.

The Postbedienten was forgiven if, in the haste of their business and
the quantity of hands haves letters and stuff, this is not discovered by
chance: but the one in whose hands this kind of a lost letter
gerieth was actually guilty of the same to give back, but not always what
happens. It does so well, the letters are too small to make it a
good paint to hold, even they do not tend to post to give than to the
wafer, which they were sealed, has become completely dry, and always
with a clear inscription on them. On the Prussian, Saxon and many
other items may be the case that a letter lost ways; the point, even
more rarely occur because of any particular letter in the postcard
is inscribed, nemlich the name of the consignee and the place where
the letters consumption, according to the number series, which also
refer to the letters is set.

Here it is so soon, if at a post office a letter will be missed, where you
have to look for him, because you can ask any of his task to places
to places to demonstrate its determination. When the taxi chen Reich
items, as well as for the items in other countries, eg in England,
France & c. It is hereby differently. Since letters are not the simple
name of provider, but only counted together, and then away.

Consequently, no letter can be named, even when counting can easily
be a letter. The counting is done anyway not straight to the
security of letters, but rather the calculation of the postal money.
However there is also at this post the letters to a greater or more
Special attention = = recommend by them, the Post after artificial
language = rekommendirt =.

One must in this respect the word = = rekommendirt to write the letter
and in addition to the ordinary postal money, nor anything particularly
_pro diligentia_ pay. Then, the particular letter is written in the
postcard, which, however, to the safety of the letter contributes. On
the Item kurbraunschweigischen bears such a letter rekommandirter
double postage. For particularly important letters to post offices also
provide that the recipient, the delivery must certify the same. - In
letters, which bills, or other securities of Werth closed, it is
rathsam, such and when it can happen, the Werth Beischlüße at the
address indicated.

For brevity's sake it maintains in this case probably just a _NB._
to the letter and to the post offices are also aware of this postcard in
the _NB._ noted. - So at the post office can not quite properly a
letter go lost. Without it, it might be more by the letter carrier happened.
However, these are such as to prevent more as they are responsible
for ordering them to traditional letters, the post office money to
pay for itself and each delivered a letter Accidenz of the recipient
to expect.

The most common letters go into the houses of the correspondents
themselves and the imprudence of their messengers lost, because it
is not rare that letters which Gesinde through to the post should
be placed on the street were found. - The Rekommendiren = = = and
= Notabeniren of letters can be displayed in Maaß Seyn of some
benefit. - By contrast, the _Cito_ on the letters usually without
the benefit and effect.

The Postbedienten can not ask for a place to another with the
ordinary postal Geschwinde carry as postal rides or drives.

The ordinary items are always on her once a certain time, as the context
of the postal sector of the town requires and verstattet, abgefertiget
they ride or drive in, after the removal of the Maaßgabe Oerter
and calculated nature of the way and set down time and number of hours
, can therefore never used to, but because of unforeseen coincidences
sometimes arrive later, thus it can not help to letters _ = _ = cito to
write, because the post office can and will, therefore, no time go
faster. - Someone, however, wishes that his letter a little earlier
than usual, into the hands of his Correspondents do so he must at
the address of the letter, or by a post attached Promemoria request places
the letter on its determination immediately after the arrival of the
Post to special competence. This makes it mean that the letter was not
only through the hands of the postman and go after them the same usual
order that they arrived and ordered letters after each of the series
need to leave, but immediately by the Postexpedienten by a special
messenger to the receiver is transmitted, which sometimes maybe 1
/ 4 or 1 / 2 hour of time is gained. - The recipient does not reside
in the places of distribuire post office, so must the sender, if
he submits to quickly order the letter is located, such a view, and
also explicitly specify which type of letter to the recipient
zugefördert, and who bear the cost thereof should.

Otherwise, the post is not even introduced by the order off and the letters
only on the usual way transport. Given to letters and postal matters
may actually not the Postbedienten = returned = be. This law sowol Serve
the best, primarily for the safety of themselves Correspondent, and
is also the need for postal economics.

It has been held jointly examples that once on the mail delivered
letters from another strange person called back and thus are harmful
abuse is driven. It has examples that servants, servants and
others to act subaltern letters of their dominions and under false
pretexts superiors from the post back, and those taken under either
completely beaten, or even its content be modified, probably even
invoices and bills that have stolen.

In order to prevent this nonsense, it must be the rule Seyn
Postbedienten always, they never once delivered and entrusted letter
again from the hands to give.

If, however, the sender will find itself Nöthiger his letter from
the post office again to get back, so he can achieve this only if
he asks a question in writing, the address of the letter aufschreibt
the Pettschaft with which the letter is sealed , abdrückt, or to
show, and therefore, not only as the true peculiar legitimirt, but
also the post office because of the Shipping Insurance Return giebt.

Sometimes, you send in the mail letters and other things for a
places woselbst but the recipients have not yet located. It usually
has the intention that these letters or things daselbst so long at
the post office remain to be kept until the receiver also arrived there
and they can receive. In this way, can someone letters and stuff to
yourself addressiren them by mail after a absenden places,
to be found there, even if it means another will Seyn arrived.
Sometimes you have only the intention of such letters and stuff
not by the ordinary post on the way to order, but the recipients
will be those of the post office, some causes for what they are
taught by the sender, or agreed to with the same, even pick up. -
In all these cases, maintains one of such letters the words: _POST
restante_ or _a la poste restante_, i.e. this letter is to Abforderung
at the post office is left to set.

The post office, these desires of the audience to its convenience and
benefits, like. But it is also cheap, on the other hand, that in such
cases not be in danger. It is therefore essential Nöthiger that the
recipients of such letters and things are always sufficient to receive
legitimiren. This geschiehet when either a power of attorney, or
at least an instruction from the sender to teach, or if they, if foreign
and unknown persons, guarantee, and indeed to them in these cases from
the post given instructions. - Because the post is mainly connected
to all forces to ensure that the matters entrusted to the hands
of the right receiver go. Correspondent sometimes wish that on them
with their post abzusendenden letters and stuff from the advances
Postbedienten = = done will. This happens, for example, if a merchant
or factor, absent for a delivery to a so-called charges, etc. has
made the same way, but not in the bill is designed so that advanced
money or by the Post Office to pay it, then what kind of means of letter
to the debtor anrechnet and distant from the same report is again.
Except that it really only judicial authorities and similar
authorities permitted Seyn, such advances from the post office and
pay off the credit to be guilty, however, should not anyone who
claims to Foreign money makes, so that the post be arduous.

It is also obvious that no significant advances like sums represent
that they are completely liquid Seyn and that the sender if the
recipients about the advance of the post again refuse to refund, so stay
authentic and hold harmless the post, especially since the Post has no
violence, nor may apply for such funds to recover . - It is also proper
that the Postofficianten will allow for the advance payment of such
advances and their recovery, which they risk their thun a relatively
Remuneration to take. Such a fee is usually _procura_ care to mention.
Also, it is that the mail by the diversity of the Werth verliehren
of money may not, but that it must be allowed to, due to premium if
they assume the loss in coin again gets worse when she has paid.

Estaffetten From. With the Estaffetten has the following Bewandniß.

In front of the cavern there are the places where the four Buddhas sat.
There are caverns also of the Arhats, one where each sat and meditated,
amounting to several hundred in all. At the place where in front of his
rocky apartment Buddha was walking from east to west in meditation, and
Devadatta, from among the beetling cliffs on the north of the mountain,
threw a rock across, and hurt Buddha's toes, the rock is still there.

The hall where Buddha preached his Law has been destroyed, and only the
foundations of the brick walls remain. On this hill the peak is
beautifully green, and rises grandly up; it is the highest of all the
five hills. In the New City Fâ-hien bought incense-sticks, flowers, oil
and lamps, and hired two bhikshus, long resident at the place, to carry
them to the peak. When he himself got to it, he made his offerings with
the flowers and incense, and lighted the lamps when the darkness began
to come on. He felt melancholy, but restrained his tears and said, "Here
Buddha delivered the Sûrângama Sûtra. I, Fâ-hien, was born when I could
not meet with Buddha; and now I only see the footprints which he has
left, and the place where he lived, and nothing more." With this, in
front of the rock cavern, he chanted the Sûrângama Sûtra, remained there
over the night, and then returned towards the New City.


CHAPTER XXX

~Srataparna Cave, or Cave of the First Council~


Out from the old city, after walking over three hundred paces, on the
west of the road, the travellers found the Karanda Bamboo garden, where
the old vihâra is still in existence, with a company of monks, who keep
the ground about it swept and watered.

North of the vihâra two or three li there was the Smasânam, which name
means in Chinese "the field of graves into which the dead are thrown."

As they kept along the mountain on the south, and went west for three
hundred paces, they found a dwelling among the rocks, named the Pippala
cave, in which Buddha regularly sat in meditation after taking his
mid-day meal.

Going on still to the west for five or six li, on the north of the hill,
in the shade, they found the cavern called Srataparna, [1] the place
where, after the nirvâna of Buddha, five hundred Arhats collected the
Sûtras. When they brought the Sûtras forth, three lofty seats had been
prepared and grandly ornamented. Sâriputtra occupied the one on the
left, and Maudgalyâyana that on the right. Of the number of five hundred
one was wanting. Mahâkasyapa was president on the middle seat. Ânanda
was then outside the door, and could not get in. At the place there was
subsequently raised a tope, which is still existing.

Along the sides of the hill, there are also a very great many cells
among the rocks, where the various Arhans sat and meditated. As you
leave the old city on the north, and go down east for three li, there is
the rock dwelling of Devadatta, and at a distance of fifty paces from it
there is a large, square, black rock. Formerly there was a bhikshu, who,
as he walked backwards and forwards upon it, thought with
himself:--"This body is impermanent, a thing of bitterness and vanity,
and which cannot be looked on as pure. I am weary of this body, and
troubled by it as an evil." With this he grasped a knife, and was about
to kill himself. But he thought again:--"The World-honored one laid down
a prohibition against one's killing himself." [2] Further it occurred to
him:--"Yes, he did; but I now only wish to kill three poisonous
thieves." Immediately with the knife he cut his throat. With the first
gash into the flesh he attained the state of a Srotâpanna; when he had
gone half through, he attained to be an Anâgâmin; and when he had cut
right through, he was an Arhat, and attained to pari-nirvâna, and died.


[Footnote 1: A very great place in the annals of Buddhism. The Council
in the Srataparna cave did not come together fortuitously, but appears
to have been convoked by the older members to settle the rules and
doctrines of the order. The cave was prepared for the occasion by king
Ajâtasatru.]

[Footnote 2: Buddha made a law forbidding the monks to commit suicide.
He prohibited any one from discoursing on the miseries of life in such a
manner as to cause desperation.]


CHAPTER XXXI

~Sâkyamuni's Attaining to the Buddhaship~


From this place, after travelling to the west for four yojanas, the
pilgrims came to the city of Gayâ; but inside the city all was emptiness
and desolation. Going on again to the south for twenty li, they arrived
at the place where the Bodhisattva for six years practised with himself
painful austerities. All around was forest.

Three li west from here they came to the place where, when Buddha had
gone into the water to bathe, a deva bent down the branch of a tree, by
means of which he succeeded in getting out of the pool.

Two li north from this was the place where the Grâmika girls presented
to Buddha the rice-gruel made with milk; and two li north from this was
the place where, seated on a rock under a great tree, and facing the
east, he ate the gruel. The tree and the rock are there at the present
day. The rock may be six cubits in breadth and length, and rather more
than two cubits in height. In Central India the cold and heat are so
equally tempered that trees live for several thousand and even for ten
thousand years.

Half a yojana from this place to the northeast there was a cavern in the
rocks, into which the Bodhisattva entered, and sat cross-legged with his
face to the west. As he did so, he said to himself, "If I am to attain
to perfect wisdom and become Buddha, let there be a supernatural
attestation of it." On the wall of the rock there appeared immediately
the shadow of a Buddha, rather more than three feet in length, which is
still bright at the present day. At this moment heaven and earth were
greatly moved, and devas in the air spoke plainly, "This is not the
place where any Buddha of the past, or he that is to come, has attained,
or will attain, to perfect Wisdom. Less than half a yojana from this to
the southwest will bring you to the patra tree, where all past Buddhas
have attained, and all to come must attain, to perfect Wisdom." When
they had spoken these words, they immediately led the way forward to the
place, singing as they did so. As they thus went away, the Bodhisattva
arose and walked after them. At a distance of thirty paces from the
tree, a deva gave him the grass of lucky omen, which he received and
went on. After he had proceeded fifteen paces, five hundred green birds
came flying towards him, went round him thrice, and disappeared. The
Bodhisattva went forward to the patra tree, placed the kusa grass at the
foot of it, and sat down with his face to the east. Then king Mâra sent
three beautiful young ladies, who came from the north, to tempt him,
while he himself came from the south to do the same. The Bodhisattva put
his toes down on the ground, and the demon soldiers retired and
dispersed, and the three young ladies were changed into old
grandmothers.

At the place mentioned above of the six years' painful austerities, and
at all these other places, men subsequently reared topes and set up
images, which all exist at the present day.

Where Buddha, after attaining to perfect Wisdom, for seven days
contemplated the tree, and experienced the joy of vimukti; where, under
the patra tree, he walked to and fro from west to east for seven days;
where the devas made a hall appear, composed of the seven precious
substances, and presented offerings to him for seven days; where the
blind dragon Muchilinda [1] encircled him for seven days; where he sat
under the nyagrodha tree, on a square rock, with his face to the east,
and Brahma-deva came and made his request to him; where the four deva
kings brought to him their alms-bowls; where the five hundred merchants
presented to him the roasted flour and honey; and where he converted the
brothers Kasyapa and their thousand disciples;--at all these places
topes were reared.

At the place where Buddha attained to perfect Wisdom, there are three
monasteries, in all of which there are monks residing. The families of
their people around supply the societies of these monks with an abundant
sufficiency of what they require, so that there is no lack or stint. The
disciplinary rules are strictly observed by them. The laws regulating
their demeanor in sitting, rising, and entering when the others are
assembled, are those which have been practised by all the saints since
Buddha was in the world down to the present day. The places of the four
great topes have been fixed, and handed down without break, since Buddha
attained to nirvâna. Those four great topes are those at the places
where Buddha was born; where he attained to Wisdom; where he began to
move the wheel of his Law; and where he attained to pari-nirvâna.


[Footnote 1: Called also Maha, or the Great Muchilinda. Eitel says: "A
naga king, the tutelary deity of a lake near which Sakyamuni once sat
for seven days absorbed in meditation, whilst the king guarded him." The
account in "The Life of the Buddha" is:--"Buddha went to where
lived the naga king Muchilinda, and he, wishing to preserve him from the
sun and rain, wrapped his body seven times round him, and spread out his
hood over his head; and there he remained seven days in thought."]


CHAPTER XXXII

~Legend of King Asoka in a Former Birth~


When king Asoka, in a former birth, was a little boy and playing on the
road, he met Kasyapa Buddha walking. The stranger begged food, and the
boy pleasantly took a handful of earth and gave it to him. The Buddha
took the earth, and returned it to the ground on which he was walking;
but because of this the boy received the recompense of becoming a king
of the iron wheel, to rule over Jambudvîpa. Once when he was making a
judicial tour of inspection through Jambudvîpa, he saw, between the iron
circuit of the two hills, a naraka for the punishment of wicked men.
Having thereupon asked his ministers what sort of a thing it was, they
replied, "It belongs to Yama, [1] king of demons, for punishing wicked
people." The king thought within himself:--"Even the king of demons is
able to make a naraka in which to deal with wicked men; why should not
I, who am the lord of men, make a naraka in which to deal with wicked
men?" He forthwith asked his ministers who could make for him a naraka
and preside over the punishment of wicked people in it. They replied
that it was only a man of extreme wickedness who could make it; and the
king thereupon sent officers to seek everywhere for such a bad man; and
they saw by the side of a pond a man tall and strong, with a black
countenance, yellow hair, and green eyes, hooking up the fish with his
feet, while he called to him birds and beasts, and, when they came, then
shot and killed them, so that not one escaped. Having got this man, they
took him to the king, who secretly charged him, "You must make a square
enclosure with high walls. Plant in it all kinds of flowers and fruits;
make good ponds in it for bathing; make it grand and imposing in every
way, so that men shall look to it with thirsting desire; make its gates
strong and sure; and when any one enters, instantly seize him and punish
him as a sinner, not allowing him to get out. Even if I should enter,
punish me as a sinner in the same way, and do not let me go. I now
appoint you master of that naraka."

Soon after this a bhikshu, pursuing his regular course of begging his
food, entered the gate of the place. When the lictors of the naraka saw
him, they were about to subject him to their tortures; but he,
frightened, begged them to allow him a moment in which to eat his
mid-day meal. Immediately after, there came in another man, whom they
thrust into a mortar and pounded till a red froth overflowed. As the
bhikshu looked on, there came to him the thought of the impermanence,
the painful suffering and inanity of this body, and how it is but as a
bubble and as foam; and instantly he attained to Arhatship. Immediately
after, the lictors seized him, and threw him into a caldron of boiling
water. There was a look of joyful satisfaction, however, in the
bhikshu's countenance. The fire was extinguished, and the water became
cold. In the middle of the caldron there rose up a lotus flower, with
the bhikshu seated on it. The lictors at once went and reported to the
king that there was a marvellous occurrence in the naraka, and wished
him to go and see it; but the king said, "I formerly made such an
agreement that now I dare not go to the place." The lictors said, "This
is not a small matter. Your Majesty ought to go quickly. Let your former
agreement be altered." The king thereupon followed them, and entered the
naraka, when the bhikshu preached the Law to him, and he believed, and
was made free. Forthwith he demolished the naraka, and repented of all
the evil which he had formerly done. From this time he believed in and
honored the Three Precious Ones, and constantly went to a patra tree,
repenting under it, with self-reproach, of his errors, and accepting the
eight rules of abstinence.

The queen asked where the king was constantly going to, and the
ministers replied that he was constantly to be seen under such and such
a patra tree. She watched for a time when the king was not there, and
then sent men to cut the tree down. When the king came, and saw what had
been done, he swooned away with sorrow, and fell to the ground. His
ministers sprinkled water on his face, and after a considerable time he
revived. He then built all round the stump with bricks, and poured a
hundred pitchers of cows' milk on the roots; and as he lay with his four
limbs spread out on the ground, he took this oath, "If the tree do not
live, I will never rise from this." When he had uttered this oath, the
tree immediately began to grow from the roots, and it has continued to
grow till now, when it is nearly one hundred cubits in height.


[Footnote 1: Yama was originally the Âryan god of the dead, living in a
heaven above the world, the regent of the south; but Brahmanism
transferred his abode to hell. Both views have been retained by
Buddhism. The Yama of the text is the "regent of the narakas, residing
south of Jambudvîpa, outside the Chakravâlas (the double circuit of
mountains above), in a palace built of brass and iron. He has a sister
who controls all the female culprits, as he exclusively deals with the
male sex. Three times, however, in every twenty-four hours, a demon
pours boiling copper into Yama's mouth, and squeezes it down his throat,
causing him unspeakable pain." Such, however, is the wonderful
"transrotation of births," that when Yama's sins have been expiated, he
is to be reborn as Buddha, under the name of "The Universal King."]


CHAPTER XXXIII

~Kasyapa Buddha's Skeleton on Mount Gurupada~


The travellers, going on from this three li to the south, came to a
mountain named Gurupada, inside which Mahâkasyapa even now is. He made a
cleft, and went down into it, though the place where he entered would
not now admit a man. Having gone down very far, there was a hole on one
side, and there the complete body of Kasyapa still abides. Outside the
hole at which he entered is the earth with which he had washed his
hands. If the people living thereabouts have a sore on their heads, they
plaster on it some of the earth from this, and feel immediately easier.
On this mountain, now as of old, there are Arhats abiding. Devotees of
our Law from the various countries in that quarter go year by year to
the mountain, and present offerings to Kasyapa; and to those whose
hearts are strong in faith there come Arhats at night, and talk with
them, discussing and explaining their doubts, and disappearing suddenly
afterwards.

On this hill hazels grow luxuriantly; and there are many lions, tigers,
and wolves, so that people should not travel incautiously.


CHAPTER XXXIV

~On the Way Returning to Patna~


Fâ-Hien returned from here towards Pâtaliputtra, keeping along the
course of the Ganges and descending in the direction of the west. After
going ten yojanas he found a vihâra, named "The Wilderness"--a place
where Buddha had dwelt, and where there are monks now.

Pursuing the same course, and going still to the west, he arrived, after
twelve yojanas, at the city of Vârânasî in the kingdom of Kâsî. Rather
more than ten li to the northeast of the city, he found the vihâra in
the park of "The rishi's Deer-wild." [1] In this park there formerly
resided a Pratyeka Buddha, with whom the deer were regularly in the
habit of stopping for the night. When the World-honored one was about to
attain to perfect Wisdom, the devas sang in the sky, "The son of king
Suddhodana, having quitted his family and studied the Path of Wisdom,
will now in seven days become Buddha." The Pratyeka Buddha heard their
words, and immediately attained to nirvâna; and hence this place was
named "The Park of the rishi's Deer-wild." After the World-honored one
had attained to perfect Wisdom, men built the vihâra in it.

Buddha wished to convert Kaundinya and his four companions; but they,
being aware of his intention, said to one another, "This Sramana Gotama
[2] for six years continued in the practice of painful austerities,
eating daily only a single hemp-seed, and one grain of rice, without
attaining to the Path of Wisdom; how much less will he do so now that he
has entered again among men, and is giving the reins to the indulgence
of his body, his speech, and his thoughts! What has he to do with the Path
of Wisdom? To-day, when he comes to us, let us be on our guard not to
speak with him." At the places where the five men all rose up, and
respectfully saluted Buddha, when he came to them; where, sixty paces
north from this, he sat with his face to the east, and first turned the
wheel of the Law, converting Kaundinya and the four others; where,
twenty paces further to the north, he delivered his prophecy concerning
Maitreya; and where, at a distance of fifty paces to the south, the
dragon Elâpattra asked him, "When shall I get free from this nâga
body?"--at all these places topes were reared, and are still existing.
In the park there are two monasteries, in both of which there are monks
residing.

When you go northwest from the vihâra of the Deer-wild park for thirteen
yojanas, there is a kingdom named Kausâmbi. Its vihâra is named
Ghochiravana--a place where Buddha formerly resided. Now, as of old,
there is a company of monks there, most of whom are students of the
hînayâna.

East from this, when you have travelled eight yojanas, is the place
where Buddha converted the evil demon. There, and where he walked in
meditation and sat at the place which was his regular abode, there have
been topes erected. There is also a monastery, which may contain more
than a hundred monks.


[Footnote 1: "The rishi," says Eitel, "is a man whose bodily frame has
undergone a certain transformation by dint of meditation and asceticism,
so that he is, for an indefinite period, exempt from decrepitude, age,
and death. As this period is believed to extend far beyond the usual
duration of human life, such persons are called, and popularly believed
to be, immortals." Rishis are divided into various classes; and
rishi-ism is spoken of as a seventh path of transrotation, and rishis
are referred to as the seventh class of sentient beings.]

[Footnote 2: This is the only instance in Fâ-hien's text where the
Bodhisattva or Buddha is called by the surname "Gotama." For the most
part our traveller uses Buddha as a proper name, though it properly
means "The Enlightened." He uses also the combinations "Sâkya Buddha,"
which means "The Buddha of the Sâkya tribe," and "Sâkyamuni," which
means "The Sâkya sage." This last is the most common designation of the
Buddha in China. Among other Buddhistic peoples "Gotama" and "Gotama
Buddha" are the more frequent designations.]


CHAPTER XXXV

~Dakshina, and the Pigeon Monastery~


South from this two hundred yojanas, there is a country named Dakshina,
where there is a monastery dedicated to the by-gone Kasyapa Buddha, and
which has been hewn out from a large hill of rock. It consists in all of
five stories;--the lowest, having the form of an elephant, with five
hundred apartments in the rock; the second, having the form of a lion,
with four hundred apartments; the third, having the form of a horse,
with three hundred apartments; the fourth, having the form of an ox,
with two hundred apartments; and the fifth, having the form of a pigeon,
with one hundred apartments. At the very top there is a spring, the
water of which, always in front of the apartments in the rock, goes
round among the rooms, now circling, now curving, till in this way it
arrives at the lowest story, having followed the shape of the structure,
and flows out there at the door. Everywhere in the apartments of the
monks, the rock has been pierced so as to form windows for the admission
of light, so that they are all bright, without any being left in
darkness. At the four corners of the tiers of apartments, the rock has
been hewn so as to form steps for ascending to the top of each. The men
of the present day, being of small size, and going up step by step,
manage to get to the top; but in a former age they did so at one step.
Because of this, the monastery is called Paravata, that being the Indian
name for a pigeon. There are always Arhats residing in it.

The country about is a tract of uncultivated hillocks, without
inhabitants. At a very long distance from the hill there are villages,
where the people all have bad and erroneous views, and do not know the
Sramanas of the Law of Buddha, Brahmanas, or devotees of any of the
other and different schools. The people of that country are constantly
seeing men on the wing, who come and enter this monastery. On one
occasion, when devotees of various countries came to perform their
worship at it, the people of those villages said to them, "Why do you
not fly? The devotees whom we have seen hereabouts all fly"; and the
strangers answered, on the spur of the moment, "Our wings are not yet
fully formed."

The kingdom of Dakshina is out of the way, and perilous to traverse.
There are difficulties in connection with the roads; but those who know
how to manage such difficulties and wish to proceed should bring with
them money and various articles, and give them to the king. He will then
send men to escort them. These will, at different stages, pass them over
to others, who will show them the shortest routes. Fâ-hien, however, was
after all unable to go there; but having received the above accounts
from men of the country, he has narrated them.


CHAPTER XXXVI

~Fâ-Hien's Indian Studies~


From Vârânasî the travellers went back east to Pâtaliputtra. Fâ-hien's
original object had been to search for copies of the Vinaya. In the
various kingdoms of North India, however, he had found one master
transmitting orally the rules to another, but no written copies which he
could transcribe. He had therefore travelled far and come on to Central
India. Here, in the mahâyâna monastery, he found a copy of the Vinaya,
containing the Mahâsânghikâ [1] rules--those which were observed in the
first Great Council, while Buddha was still in the world. The original
copy was handed down in the Jetavana vihâra. As to the other eighteen
schools, each one has the views and decisions of its own masters. Those
agree with this in the general meaning, but they have small and trivial
differences, as when one opens and another shuts. This copy of the
rules, however, is the most complete, with the fullest explanations. [2]

He further got a transcript of the rules in six or seven thousand
gâthas, [3] being the sarvâstivâdâh [4] rules--those which are observed
by the communities of monks in the land of Ts'in; which also have all
been handed down orally from master to master without being committed to
writing. In the community here, moreover, he got the
Samyuktâbhi-dharma-hridaya-sâstra, containing about six or seven
thousand gâthas; he also got a Sûtra of two thousand five hundred
gâthas; one chapter of the Pari-nirvâna-vaipulya Sûtra, of about five
thousand gâthas; and the Mahâsânghikâ Abhidharma.

In consequence of this success in his quest Fâ-hien stayed here for
three years, learning Sanscrit books and the Sanscrit speech, and
writing out, the Vinaya rules. When Tâo-ching arrived in the Central
Kingdom, and saw the rules observed by the Sramanas, and the dignified
demeanor in their societies which he remarked under all occurring
circumstances, he sadly called to mind in what a mutilated and imperfect
condition the rules were among the monkish communities in the land of
Ts'in, and made the following aspiration: "From this time forth till I
come to the state of Buddha, let me not be born in a frontier-land." He
remained accordingly in India, and did not return to the land of Han.
Fâ-hien, however, whose original purpose had been to secure the
introduction of the complete Vinaya rules into the land of Han, returned
there alone.


[Footnote 1: Mahâsânghikâ simply means "the Great Assembly," that is, of
monks.]

[Footnote 2: It was afterwards translated by Fâ-hien into Chinese.]

[Footnote 3: A gâtha is a stanza, generally consisting of a few,
commonly of two, lines somewhat metrically arranged.]

[Footnote 4: "A branch," says Eitel, "of the great vaibhâshika school,
asserting the reality of all visible phenomena, and claiming the
authority of Râhula."]


CHAPTER XXXVII

~Fâ-hien's Stay in Champâ and Tâmaliptî~


Following the course of the Ganges, and descending eastward for eighteen
yojanas, he found on the southern bank the great kingdom of Champâ, with
topes reared at the places where Buddha walked in meditation by his
vihâra, and where he and the three Buddhas, his predecessors, sat. There
were monks residing at them all. Continuing his journey east for nearly
fifty yojanas, he came to the country of Tâmaliptî, the capital of which
is a seaport. In the country there are twenty-two monasteries, at all of
which there are monks residing. The Law of Buddha is also flourishing in
it. Here Fâ-hien stayed two years, writing out his Sûtras, and drawing
pictures of images.

After this he embarked in a large merchant-vessel, and went floating
over the sea to the southwest. It was the beginning of winter, and the
wind was favorable; and, after fourteen days, sailing day and night,
they came to the country of Singhala. The people said that it was
distant from Tâmaliptî about seven hundred yojanas.

The kingdom is on a large island, extending from east to west fifty
yojanas, and from north to south thirty. Left and right from it there
are as many as one hundred small islands, distant from one another ten,
twenty, or even two hundred li; but all subject to the large island.
Most of them produce pearls and precious stones of various kinds; there
is one which produces the pure and brilliant pearl--an island which
would form a square of about ten li. The king employs men to watch and
protect it, and requires three out of every ten pearls which the
collectors find.


CHAPTER XXXVIII

~At Ceylon--Feats of Buddha--His Statue in Jade~


The country originally had no human inhabitants, but was occupied only
by spirits and nâgas, with which merchants of various countries carried
on a trade. When the trafficking was taking place, the spirits did not
show themselves. They simply set forth their precious commodities, with
labels of the price attached to them; while the merchants made their
purchases according to the price; and took the things away.

Through the coming and going of the merchants in this way, when they
went away, the people of their various countries heard how pleasant the
land was, and flocked to it in numbers till it became a great nation.
The climate is temperate and attractive, without any difference of
summer and winter. The vegetation is always luxuriant. Cultivation
proceeds whenever men think fit: there are no fixed seasons for it.

When Buddha came to this country, wishing to transform the wicked nâgas
by his supernatural power, he planted one foot at the north of the royal
city, and the other on the top of a mountain, [1] the two being fifteen
yojanas apart. Over the footprint at the north of the city the king
built a large tope, four hundred cubits high, grandly adorned with gold
and silver, and finished with a combination of all the precious
substances. By the side of the tope he further built a monastery, called
the Abhayagiri, where there are now five thousand monks. There is in it
a hall of Buddha, adorned with carved and inlaid work of gold and
silver, and rich in the seven precious substances, in which there is an
image of Buddha in green jade, more than twenty cubits in height,
glittering all over with those substances, and having an appearance of
solemn dignity which words cannot express. In the palm of the right hand
there is a priceless pearl. Several years had now elapsed since Fâ-hien
left the land of Han; the men with whom he had been in intercourse had
all been of regions strange to him; his eyes had not rested on an old
and familiar hill or river, plant or tree: his fellow-travellers,
moreover, had been separated from him, some by death, and others flowing
off in different directions; no face or shadow was now with him but his
own, and a constant sadness was in his heart. Suddenly one day, when by
the side of this image of jade, he saw a merchant presenting as his
offering a fan of white silk; [2] and the tears of sorrow involuntarily
filled his eyes and fell down.

A former king of the country had sent to Central India and got a slip of
the patra tree, which he planted by the side of the hall of Buddha,
where a tree grew up to the height of about two hundred cubits. As it
bent on one side towards the southeast, the king, fearing it would fall,
propped it with a post eight or nine spans around. The tree began to
grow at the very heart of the prop, where it met the trunk; a shoot
pierced through the post, and went down to the ground, where it entered
and formed roots, that rose to the surface and were about four spans
round. Although the post was split in the middle, the outer portions
kept hold of the shoot, and people did not remove them. Beneath the tree
there has been built a vihâra, in which there is an image of Buddha
seated, which the monks and commonalty reverence and look up to without
ever becoming wearied. In the city there has been reared also the vihâra
of Buddha's tooth, in which, as well as on the other, the seven precious
substances have been employed.

The king practises the Brahmanical purifications, and the sincerity of
the faith and reverence of the population inside the city are also
great. Since the establishment of government in the kingdom there has
been no famine or scarcity, no revolution or disorder. In the treasuries
of the monkish communities there are many precious stones, and the
priceless manis. One of the kings once entered one of those treasuries,
and when he looked all round and saw the priceless pearls, his covetous
greed was excited, and he wished to take them to himself by force. In
three days, however, he came to himself, and immediately went and bowed
his head to the ground in the midst of the monks, to show his repentance
of the evil thought. As a sequel to this, he informed the monks of what
had been in his mind, and desired them to make a regulation that from
that day forth the king should not be allowed to enter the treasury and
see what it contained, and that no bhikshu should enter it till after he
had been in orders for a period of full forty years.

In the city there are many Vaisya elders and Sabaean merchants, whose
houses are stately and beautiful. The lanes and passages are kept in
good order. At the heads of the four principal streets there have been
built preaching halls, where, on the eighth, fourteenth, and fifteenth
days of the month, they spread carpets, and set forth a pulpit, while
the monks and commonalty from all quarters come together to hear the
Law. The people say that in the kingdom there may be altogether sixty
thousand monks, who get their food from their common stores. The king,
besides, prepares elsewhere in the city a common supply of food for five
or six thousand more. When any want, they take their great bowls, and go
to the place of distribution, and take as much as the vessels will hold,
all returning with them full.

The tooth of Buddha is always brought forth in the middle of the third
month. Ten days beforehand the king grandly caparisons a large elephant,
on which he mounts a man who can speak distinctly, and is dressed in
royal robes, to beat a large drum, and make the following proclamation:
"The Bodhisattva, during three Asankhyeya-kalpas, [3] manifested his
activity, and did not spare his own life. He gave up kingdom, city,
wife, and son; he plucked out his eyes and gave them to another; he cut
off a piece of his flesh to ransom the life of a dove; he cut off his
head and gave it as an alms; he gave his body to feed a starving
tigress; he grudged not his marrow and brains. In many such ways as
these did he undergo pain for the sake of all living. And so it was,
that, having become Buddha, he continued in the world for forty-five
years, preaching his Law, teaching and transforming, so that those who
had no rest found rest, and the unconverted were converted. When his
connection with the living was completed, he attained to pari-nirvana
and died. Since that event, for one thousand four hundred and
ninety-seven years, the light of the world has gone out, and all living
things have had long-continued sadness. Behold! ten days after this,
Buddha's tooth will be brought forth, and taken to the Abhayagiri
-vihâra. Let all and each, whether monks or laics, who wish to amass
merit for themselves, make the roads smooth and in good condition,
grandly adorn the lanes and by-ways, and provide abundant store of
flowers and incense to be used as offerings to it."

When this proclamation is over, the king exhibits, so as to line both
sides of the road, the five hundred different bodily forms in which the
Bodhisattva has in the course of his history appeared:--here as Sudâna,
there as Sâma; now as the king of elephants, and then as a stag or a
horse. All these figures are brightly colored and grandly executed,
looking as if they were alive. After this the tooth of Buddha is brought
forth, and is carried along in the middle of the road. Everywhere on the
way offerings are presented to it, and thus it arrives at the hall of
Buddha in the Abhayagiri-vihâra. There monks and laics are collected in
crowds. They burn incense, light lamps, and perform all the prescribed
services, day and night without ceasing, till ninety days have been
completed, when the tooth is returned to the vihâra within the city. On
fast-days the door of that vihâra is opened, and the forms of ceremonial
reverence are observed according to the rules.

Forty li to the east of the Abhayagiri-vihâra there is a hill, with a
vihâra on it, called the Chaitya, where there may be two thousand monks.
Among them there is a Sramana of great virtue, named Dharma-gupta,
honored and looked up to by all the kingdom. He has lived for more than
forty years in an apartment of stone, constantly showing such gentleness
of heart, that he has brought snakes and rats to stop together in the
same room, without doing one another any harm.


[Footnote 1: This would be what is known as "Adam's peak," having,
according to Hardy, the three names of Selesumano, Samastakûta, and
Samanila. There is an indentation on the top of it, a superficial
hollow, 5 feet 3 3/4 inches long, and 2 1/2 feet wide. The Hindus regard
it as the footprint of Siva; the Mohammedans, as that of Adam; and the
Buddhists, as in the text--as having been, made by Buddha.]

[Footnote 2: We naturally suppose that the merchant-offerer was a
Chinese, as indeed the Chinese texts say, and the fan such as Fâ-hien
had seen and used in his native land.]

[Footnote 3: A Kalpa, we have seen, denotes a great period of time; a
period during which a physical universe is formed and destroyed.
Asankhyeya denotes the highest sum for which a conventional term
exists--according to Chinese calculations equal to one followed by
seventeen ciphers; according to Thibetan and Singhalese, equal to one
followed by ninety-seven ciphers. Every Maha-kalpa consists of four
Asankhye-yakalpas.]


CHAPTER XXXIX

~Cremation of an Arhat--Sermon of a Devotee~


South of the city seven li there is a vihâra, called the Mahâ-vihâra,
where three thousand monks reside. There had been among them a Sramana,
of such lofty virtue, and so holy and pure in his observance of the
disciplinary rules, that the people all surmised that he was an Arhat.
When he drew near his end, the king came to examine into the point; and
having assembled the monks according to rule, asked whether the bhikshu
had attained to the full degree of Wisdom. They answered in the
affirmative, saying that he was an Arhat. The king accordingly, when he
died, buried him after the fashion of an Arhat, as the regular rules
prescribed. Four or five li east from the vihâra there was reared a
great pile of firewood, which might be more than thirty cubits square,
and the same in height. Near the top were laid sandal, aloe, and other
kinds of fragrant wood.

On the four sides of the pile they made steps by which to ascend it.
With clean white hair-cloth, almost like silk, they wrapped the body
round and round. They made a large carriage-frame, in form like our
funeral car, but without the dragons and fishes.

At the time of the cremation, the king and the people, in multitudes
from all quarters, collected together, and presented offerings of
flowers and incense. While they were following the car to the
burial-ground, the king himself presented flowers and incense. When this
was finished, the car was lifted on the pile, all over which oil of
sweet basil was poured, and then a light was applied. While the fire was
blazing, every one, with a reverent heart, pulled off his upper garment,
and threw it, with his feather-fan and umbrella, from a distance into
the midst of the flames, to assist the burning. When the cremation was
over, they collected and preserved the bones, and proceeded to erect a
tope. Fâ-hien had not arrived in time to see the distinguished Shaman
alive, and only saw his burial.

At that time the king, who was a sincere believer in the Law of Buddha
and wished to build a new vihâra for the monks, first convoked a great
assembly. After giving the monks a meal of rice, and presenting his
offerings on the occasion, he selected a pair of first-rate oxen, the
horns of which were grandly decorated with gold, silver, and the
precious substances. A golden plough had been provided, and the king
himself turned up a furrow on the four sides of the ground within which
the building was to be. He then endowed the community of the monks with
the population, fields, and houses, writing the grant on plates of
metal, to the effect that from that time onwards, from generation to
generation, no one should venture to annul or alter it.

In this country Fâ-hien heard an Indian devotee, who was reciting a
Sûtra from the pulpit, say: "Buddha's alms-bowl was at first in Vaisâlî,
and now it is in Gandhâra. After so many hundred years (he gave, when
Fâ-hien heard him, the exact number of years, but he has forgotten it),
it will go to Western Tukhâra; after so many hundred years, to Khoten;
after so many hundred years, to Kharachar; after so many hundred years,
to the land of Han; after so many hundred years, it will come to
Sinhala; and after so many hundred years, it will return to Central
India. After that, it will ascend to the Tushita heaven; and when the
Bodhisattva Maitreya sees it, he will say with a sigh, 'The alms-bowl of
Sâkyamuni Buddha is come'; and with all the devas he will present to it
flowers and incense for seven days. When these have expired, it will
return to Jambudvîpa, where it will be received by the king of the sea
nâgas, and taken into his nâga palace. When Maitreya shall be about to
attain to perfect Wisdom and become Buddha, it will again separate into
four bowls, which will return to the top of mount Anna, whence they
came. After Maitreya has become Buddha, the four deva kings will again
think of the Buddha with their bowls as they did in the case of the
previous Buddha. The thousand Buddhas of this Bhadra-kalpa, indeed, will
all use the same alms-bowl; and when the bowl has disappeared, the Law
of Buddha will go on gradually to be extinguished. After that extinction
has taken place, the life of man will be shortened, till it is only a
period of five years. During this period of a five years' life, rice,
butter, and oil will all vanish away, and men will become exceedingly
wicked. The grass and trees which they lay hold of will change into
swords and clubs, with which they will hurt, cut, and kill one another.
Those among them on whom there is blessing will withdraw from society
among the hills; and when the wicked have exterminated one another, they
will again come forth, and say among themselves, 'The men of former
times enjoyed a very great longevity; but through becoming exceedingly
wicked, and doing all lawless things, the length of our life has been
shortened and reduced even to five years. Let us now unite together in
the practice of what is good, cherishing a gentle and sympathizing
heart, and carefully cultivating good faith and righteousness. When each
one in this way practises that faith and righteousness, life will go on
to double its length till it reaches eighty thousand years. When
Maitreya appears in the world, and begins to turn the wheel of this Law,
he will in the first place save those among the disciples of the Law
left by the Sâkya who have quitted their families, and those who have
accepted the three Refuges, undertaken the five Prohibitions and the
eight Abstinences, and given offerings to the Three Precious Ones;
secondly and thirdly, he will save those between whom and conversion
there is a connection transmitted from the past.'" [1]

Such was the discourse, and Fâ-hien wished to write it down as a portion
of doctrine; but the man said, "This is taken from no Sûtra, it is only
the utterance of my own mind."


[Footnote 1: That is, those whose Karma in the past should be rewarded
by such conversion in the present.]


"We heard the sound of the oven door and the blades.

The incense in broad pans whirled stronger, and the bare Badeknechte,
like sponges sweating, rubbing the Carthaginians, the joints with
an ointment made from wheat, sulfur, red wine, dog milk, Myrrh,
Galbanum and Storaxbaumharz.

Unceasing thirst consumed him. But the man in the yellow garb
desires not touched this. He handed him a golden cup in which only Viper
steaming broth. "Potable," he said, "so that you the power of the
sun-born snakes in the Mark penetrate the bone, and summarize courage,
thou likeness of the gods! You know, moreover, that a Priest Eschmuns the
cruel stars in the vicinity of Sirius observed, of which your illness
comes from. They fade like the spots on your skin. You will not die. ""
Yes, yes, is not it? "Fell Suffet A. "I must not die!" And his lips
rotblauen a marvelous entströmte patently than a corpse evaporation. Two
coals of his body seemed to wimpern countless eyes to glow. On the
forehead hung him with a lump of wrinkled skin. His ears stood and
watched it all the more greater, and the deep furrows in the semi-circles
around his nose wing ran, awarded him a bit strange, deterrent, the
appearance of a wild animal. His voice sounded like disfigured roar. "Thou
hast perhaps legally, Demonades," he said. "In fact, here: multiple
ulcers have closed! I feel strong. Because, look, how I eat! "At these
words, he is less than Eßlust bragging to himself and to prove that he
was healthy, to the farce of cheese and marjoram, the boned fish, the
pumpkins , oysters, eggs, radishes, truffles, and the little spit-roasted
birds. They looked at it unrelated to the prisoners and gloated
in thoughts of their impending martyrdom. But as he fell
Sikka, and anger about all of his anger was vented into abuse
against the three men.

"Gang! Traitor! Are you bastards! Rogues! Cursed! You want to insult me,
me, the Suffeten! Your services? The reward for your blood? Have you not
said so! Ha, ha, your blood! "He talked to himself and continued:" All
together, they die! Not one is sold! But perhaps it would be better
to bring them to Carthage? As staffage for me? But ... I have certainly
not brought chains enough ... Write: Send me ...-- how many prisoners are
there? You ask Muthumbal immediately afterwards! Fort! Only no pity!
You bring me baskets in their hands cut off! "At this moment came
a strange shrieks, hoarse and shrill but, in the chamber and overpowers
Hannos voice and the clink of dishes that you auftafelte him. It was
always stronger, and suddenly yell Wutgebrüll the elephant, as if the
battle of new begönne. Around the city noise and it raged loud. The
Carthaginians had not tried to pursue the barbarians. They were at the
foot of the walls stored, with their baggage, their servants and the
entire royal retinue. They feasted in their beautiful, perlengeschmückten
tents, while the mercenary camp out in the plane just a pile of rubble
was.

Spendius had recovered his courage. He sent Zarzas to Matho, durchstreifte
the woods and gathered his people. The losses were insignificant. Man
ordered to re-rank and full of anger that one without a struggle had
been defeated. Because we discovered a huge barrel full of oil,
apparently by the Carthaginians had been left behind. Spendius was
immediately pigs from the farms bring Meier, COATED them with oil, lit
it and let the animals on Utika rush.

Through the fire scare, took the elephants to escape and ran uphill.
They threw them after throwing spears. Since they made U-slit and the
Carthaginians with their tusks on the bodies or squeezing and trampled
them with their feet. Behind the animals came down the hill barbarians.
The Punic stock, the Wall had not, was the first contact made and
plundered. The Carthaginians were against the gates of the city driven.
For fear of the mercenaries would not open. The day started.
From the west you could see Mathos infantry heranmarschieren. At the
same time appeared riders flocked to. That was Naravas with his Numidiern.
They sat over hedges and ditches and rushed away the refugees, such as
the hounds hares. This change of fortune of the war surprised the Suffeten.
He screamed that we should pay him from the bath water will help.
The three prisoners were still before him. As whispered him a Negro -
the same person, in the battle wore his umbrella - a few words in his
ear. "Ach so?" Said the Suffet slowly. "Yes, kill them," he added in harsh
tone. The Ethiopians pulled a long dagger from his belt, and three
heads fell. One of them rolled over the remains of the meal, and fell
into the bathing pools. For a while he swam.

The morning light penetrated through the wall columns. The
three corpses lay on the chest. My blood flowed in thick and radiation
from three sources. A carpet of blood ran on the mosaic, with the
blue sand was strewn. The Suffet dipped a hand in these hot mud and
rubbing his knees with it! It was this as a cure. When it became
evening, he escaped with his entourage from the city. In the direction
of the mountains, he wanted his army intermediaries. He found only
the wreckage of it again. Four days afterwards he was in Gorza, at the
height of more than a passport, when the troops of Spendius in
depth showed. With twenty good lances against the vanguard of their
marching column addressed, they would easily stop. But the Carthaginians
were in the highest vorübermarschieren dismay. Hanno recognized in
the rearguard of Prince Numidier. Naravas came to greet and made it a
sign that the Carthaginians did not understand. In all sorts of troubles
reached after Carthage back. Only the night was marching, during the
day we hid in the olive woods. At each stop people died. Several times
we felt completely lost. Finally Hermäische the promontory was reached,
where it ships shots. Hanno was so tired, so desperate - especially
oppressed him the loss of the elephant - that he asked Demonades to poison
to end his life to make. It was he felt as though he had already beaten
to the cross. But Carthage was no longer the force to be angry. The
expedition had nearly one million mark, eighteen elephants, fourteen
councilors, three hundred nobles, eight thousand citizens, cereal for
three months, significantly more luggage and all the war machines
tasted. The waste of Naravas was beyond doubt. The two sieges began
anew. Autarits Army is now stretched from Tunis to wheel out. From
the height of the Acropolis was seen in the level of long clouds of smoke
rise up to heaven. That was the burning of the magnificent country seats
Carthaginian nobles. A single man could still save the Republic.
They repented it, to have misunderstood him, and even the peace party
voted in favor, the gods of fire victims to bring back Hamilkar. The
sight of Zaimphs Salambo was deeply shocked. At night they
believed the steps of the goddess heard and watched with horrified
to scream.

Every day they had food in the temple bear. Taanach ran to her when you
run commands tired, and she left Schahabarim no more. Hamilkar VII Barkas
The Mondsignalist, the allnächtlich on the roof of the Eschmuntempels
woke up with his trumpet and the movements of the stars, announced, said
one morning in the west is something that a bird possible, with long
wings on the sea surface hinglitt. It was a ship with three rows of
oars. At the bow was a carved horse. The sun went on. The observer
held his hand before his eyes. Then he quickly grabbed his trumpet and
let its reputation far beyond iron out Carthage resound. Toppled
houses from every man. They wanted to believe the rumor. We fought it.
The Außenkai was covered with people. Finally, it was realized the
trireme Hamilkars. In the proud, defiantly holding approached the
battleship.

The frame exactly at right angles to the stretched side, the triangular
sail around the mast expanded, so the average foam of waves, while
its huge rudder taktmäßig hit the water. From time to time came the
end of like a plowshare shaped keel to light, and under the Rammsporn
in which the bug expired, shone the ivory head of the horse, whose
high-rising front legs on the sea surface seemed to gallop. On the
promontory, where the wind stopped , dropped the sail, and one of the
pilots saw a man stand uncovered head. That was it. The Suffet Hamilkar!
Around the waist he wore glittering Erzpanzer. A red cloak, fastened at
the shoulders, his arms were free. Two very long pearls hung in his
ears, and his thick black beard wallte to him on the chest down.
Meanwhile, the galley went rocking by the cliffs and then along
the quay. The crowd followed her on the pavement and cried,
"Salvation and blessing! Favorite of the sun! Be thou our deliverer!

The patricians are all to blame! They want to kill you! Be on the alert,
Barkas! "He did not reply, as if it the noise of the seas and the noise
of battles deaf would have done. But when he passed the grand staircase
that led up to the Acropolis, he raised the head and looked at,
the arms are crossed, the temple Eschmuns.

Then his gaze sweeps even higher up in the vast clear skies. With sharp
voice, he called his sailors to a command. The trireme faster then
glided past the image of gods, on the edge of the Außenkais was set up
in order to banish the storms, and through the elongated commercial port,
which is full of rubbish, wood splinters and fruit peel was.

She pushed and pushed aside the Kauffahrteischiffe, which were
fastened to stakes and crocodile jaws expired.

The people ran. Some tried heranzuschwimmen.

But was the galley at the end of the commercial port in front of
the gate nails complained beaten.

It rasselte in height, and the trireme disappeared into the depths of the
vault. The war was the port from the city completely closed. If sent,
they were between the high walls of a corridor led by the Western Wall
after the port Khamontempel led. The large water area of the harbor was
about war as a drinking cup and from a quay with two hundred and twenty
radially arranged ship halls - one for Penter - bordered. Before
them, on the walls of separation Dockrinnen, ever stood a pillar with the
horns of Ammon Kapitälen. This has created an ongoing series, an arcade,
all around the circular port. In the middle, on an island, the
Admiral stood up house. The water was so clear that one up on the
white stone pavement of the reason could hinabsehen. The street noise
did not reach here. In passing Hamilkar recognized the battleships, which
he had formerly commanded. There were only against their twenties.
They were in the ship's halls, some on the side tilted, others
upright on the keels, with a high stern and curved beaks, with gilt
and mystic symbols were decorated. The chimeras had lost their wings,
the gods their arms, the bulls their silver horns. All these ships were
faded, idle, rotten, yet full of historical memories and still the scent
of their journeys umweht wide. As disabled soldiers, their former
captain again, they seemed to him zuzurufen: "Here we are! And also
you're defeated! "Nobody except the Meersuffeten was allowed to enter
the Admiral House. As long as you do not have the evidence of his death
had considered him as still alive. The elderly in this way had a ruler
less. Even when they had Hamilkar against this custom is not
infringed.

The Suffet entered the deserted rooms.

At every step, he saw tools, equipment and articles, which were
known to him and him at the moment but surprised.

In the porch was a victim nor the ash pan of incense, which at the time
of departure had been burned in order to conjure Melkarths favor. So
he had hoped not to return! Everything he accomplished and experienced,
moved back to his spirit passed: the storm attacks, the fires, the
legions who Seestürme, Drepanum, Syracuse, Lilybäum, the Etna, the
plateau of Eryx, five years of fighting - until the calamity day
on which the arms down and Sicily had lost. Then again, he saw lemon
groves, shepherds and goats from gray mountains, and his heart knocked
at the thought of the new Carthage, which yonder erstehen should.
Plans and memories running through his head, nor the swaying of the
ship was stunned.

Bangigkeit oppressed him, and suddenly he felt the need to be close to
the gods.

  He rose to the top floor of the house up,
  took a golden shell, which hung on his arms, a key and opened a
small chamber whose walls Eirund formed.

Through thin black metal disks, embedded into the wall and durchschimmernd
such as glass, leaking weak light. Between the rows of this same large
slices were niches in the wall, as in grave chambers for the vote. In
each was a round, dark, heavy stone. People from higher insight revered
this miracle had fallen from the moon rocks. Heights came from heaven,
they were symbols of the stars, the sky and the light. Whether its
color dunned them to the dark night and through its relation to
the tightness of all earthly things.

A suffocating air filled this mysterious room. Sea sand, probably the wind
through the door hereingetrieben had covered the round stones in the
niches with white light. Hamilkar counted them with the fingertips,
one after the other. Then he wrapped his face in a saffron-yellow
veil, and threw himself with outstretched arms to the ground.
Outside, the daylight came on the black wheels. Branch-like shadow, small
hills, swirling lines, indeterminate animal forms were characterized
on the plates from matthellen. The light penetrated through, and yet
horribly Friedsam, as it is behind the sun in the gloomy workshop
of creation may be. Hamilkar tried, from his thoughts all the forms,
symbols and names of the gods to banish to the unchanging spirit
better to grasp the outer slip hides. Some of the life force of the
planets permeated him, and he felt against the death and all the
vicissitudes of the lives consciously profound contempt. When he stood
up, he was a cheerful courage, the reach of fear and pity, and to be
completely free to feel the Söller he ascended the tower, which
overlooked Carthage high.

In far arc lowered the city on all sides: with Carthage its domes,
temples and golden roofs, the houses sea, here and there in between
scattered palm groups, many feuersprühenden glass beads. The walls formed
at the same time the giant cornucopia of rounding, which is before him
ausgoß. He looked at the ports, the seats, the interior of the
courtyards, the network of roads and the very young people, hardly
distinguishable from the pavement. Ah, but would Hanno on the morning
of the Battle of the Islands Ägatischen not too late! Hamilkars views
remained liable on the distant horizon, and he stretched out both arms,
trembling in the direction to Rome. The crowd filled the steps
of the Acropolis. On the Khamonplatze urged you to Suffeten come out
to see. More and more people are covered terraces. Some recognized
him.

They greeted him. But he moved back to the impatience of the people even
more to irritate. At the bottom of the Saale was Hamilkar the most
important men of his party gathers: Istatten, Subeldia, Hiktamon,
Yehubas and others. They told him everything that since the peace
agreement had been: the parsimony of the ancients, the withdrawal of
the mercenaries, their return, their exaggerated claims, Gisgos
capture the prey of Zaimphs, and again Utikas Entsetzung siege. Nobody
but dared him to report the events which concerned him personally.
Finally, we separated to get at night in the Assembly in the Old
Molochtempel wiederzusehn.

Hamilkar was hardly alone when outside the door noise rose.

Despite the defense of the servants tried someone intrude, and as
the tumult increased, commanded the Suffet the unknowns hereinzuführen.

It seemed an old Negerweib, hunchbacked,
wrinkled, zitterig, three-sighted
and stupid to the wide soles in blue veil wrapped.
They came before the Suffeten, and both looked at each
other for a while. Hamilkar Suddenly
shudders. At a Wink his hands were the
slaves out. Then he gave a sign of the ancients,
   to keep quiet, and she moved on the arm in a remote chamber.

They threw himself to the ground in order to kiss his feet.
He tore it violently again.

"Where have you left him, Iddibal?"

"Because over there, Sir!"

The figure threw her veil, then rubbed it with the sleeves face.

The black color, gray-like tremor, of the crooked back, everything
      disappeared. Now there
  was a vigorous old man here, whose skin of sand, wind and
      the sea looked like tanned.
  At its head stood a pile of white hair high, like the
      feather of a bird Stutz.

    With a mocking glance, he indicated on the ground covering. "That
    thou hast done well, Iddibal! Very good! "And him with his sharp
    eyes almost piercing, Hamilkar asked:" There is no idea
    something? "The old man swore at Kabir, that the secret was
    preserved." Never, "he said," we leave our hut the three days'
    journey away from Hadrumet lies. The beach is only inhabited by
    turtles, and palm trees grow on the dunes. And as you ordered,
    sir, I teach him throw spears and manage teams. "" He is strong, is
    not it? "" Yes, Lord, and also boldly! He is not afraid of snakes
    before, before the Donner before ghosts. Barefoot Hirtenbub like he
    is running on the edge of the abyss out. "" Tell me more! Say, "He
    is inventing traps for wild animals. Last moon - you will believe
    it - he has an eagle caught. He led him behind hergeschleppt, and the
    big drop of blood of the bird and the child were severed as roses.
    The animal was furious with his wings around him. The boy strangles
    it to his chest, and the matter was to be louder and prouder yell
    his laughter - as Schwertergeklirr. "Hamilkar tilted the head, taken
    by this sign of future size." But since some time torturing him
    restlessness. He always looks under the sails of the passing in the
    distance. He is blue, do not want to eat, ask for the gods of Carthage
    and wants to know ... "" No, no! Not yet, "said the Suffet.
    The old slave seemed to know the danger, the Hamilkar startled, and
    he went on:" How should I hold him back? Already, I must make him
    promises, and I'm only after Carthage came to him a dagger
    with a silver handle occupied bubbled to buy. "Then he was told that
    he Suffeten on the terrace and sees itself with the port security
    guards for one of the women Salambos would have spent to get him.

Hamilkar Lange remained absorbed in thought.

Finally he said: "To-morrow at sunset you will Megara in purple
      behind the
  factory and three einfinden the cry of the jackal
      
  imitate. Seest thou not me, then you kehrst on the first day
      in each lunar return after Carthage.

    Forget not! Love him! Now you must tell him by Hamilkar. "The panel
    issued its slave again, and together they left the house and the
    harbor. Hamilkar step-on foot and unaccompanied, because the
    assemblies of the ancients were in exceptional circumstances, always
    secret, and one went so inconspicuous as possible. First, he gradually
    to the east of the Acropolis along, then went through the vegetable
    market, through the galleries of Kinisdo and the District of
    Spezereienhändler. The few lights extinguished, one after another.
    The wider streets were quiet. Immediately shadow flits through the
    darkness. They followed him. Andre came to, and all steps in the
    direction to the road of Mappalier.

The Molochtempel stood at the foot of a steep ravine, in a uncanny
places.

From the bottom we saw only endless walls rising up, like the
    walls of a vast tomb. The night was dark. Gray mists weighed
    on the seas, with a röchelnden, jammernden noise against the rocks
    suggested. The shadow disappeared gradually, as if they were in
    the walls hineingeschlüpft. Once you have passed through the gate,
    there was one in a large square yard, the rings of arcades was
    surrounded. In the middle stood a large octagonal building,
    dominated by domes having a second floor wall. He is enthroned on a
    sort of rotunda, a cone with a ball on the top closed. In cylindrical
    silver wire baskets on poles, which were worn by men, were burning
    fire. With sudden wind knocks the flickering flames and threw a red
    glow on the golden combs, the braided hair of the torch bearers in
    the neck held. They ran to and fro, and cried themselves to the elders
    to receive. In certain intervals, squatted on the stone tiles -
    as sphinxes - Lions tremendous, vibrant symbols of the devouring
sun.

You slept with half eyelids. The steps and voices raised
    them. You stood up and trotted leisurely against the elderly. They
    did it to her dress, rubbing on her legs and bent at the back of a
    loud yawn. My breath flew into the flickering torch light. The noise
    grew. Doors are closed. No priest was to be seen. Even the ancients
    disappeared among the pillars, a deep porch around the temple
    formed.

    In concentric rows, these pillars of the Saturn Period in the
    manner explained that the months and years, the months of daily
    enclosed. The innermost circle columns pushed to the wall of the
    Blessed. They put the old sticks from their Narwalhorn from. A
    never to disregard any law that punished with death, in the meeting
    with any weapon appeared.

Several were at the hem of her robe a crack, as a sign that they are
in mourning for the death of their clothes their relatives were not spared.
But prevents a crack at the end of the purple stripe recognized
that he was bigger.

While at home, I learned a little music, and
    could play a few airs on the lute. Thus sorrowing in the stillness
    of midnight, let me practise one of my songs to dispel my griefs.
    [_Begins to play on the lute_.

_Enter Emperor, attended by a Eunuch, carrying a light_.

EMPEROR. Since the beauties were selected to grace our palace,
    we have not yet discovered a worthy object on whom to fix our
    preference. Vexed and disappointed, we pass this day of leisure
    roaming in search of her who may be destined for our imperial
    choice. [_Hears the lute._] Is not that some lady's lute?

ATTENDANT. It is.--I hasten to advise her of your Majesty's
    approach.

EMPEROR. No, hold! Keeper of the yellow gate, discover to
    what part of our palace that lady pertains; and bid her approach our
    presence; but beware lest you alarm her.

ATTENDANT [_approaches in the direction of the sound, and
    speaks_]. What lady plays there? The Emperor comes! approach to meet
    him.                               [_Lady advances_.

EMPEROR. Keeper of the yellow gate, see that the light burns
    brightly within your gauze [2] lamp, and hold it nearer to us.

LADY _[approaching_]. Had your handmaid but known it was
    your Majesty, she would have been less tardy; forgive, then, this
    delay.

EMPEROR. Truly this is a very perfect beauty! From what
    quarter come such superior charms?

LADY. My name is Chaoukeun: my father cultivates at Chingtoo
    the fields which he has derived from his family. Born in an humble
    station, I am ignorant of the manners that befit a palace.

EMPEROR. But with such uncommon attractions, what chance
    has kept you from our sight?

LADY. When I was chosen by the minister Maouyenshow, he
    demanded of my father an amount of treasure which our poverty could
    not supply; he therefore disfigured my portrait, by representing a
    scar under the eyes, and caused me to be consigned to seclusion and
    neglect.

EMPEROR. Keeper of the yellow gate, bring us that picture,
    that we may view it. [_Sees the picture_.] Ah, how has he dimmed the
    purity of the gem, bright as the waves in autumn. [_To the
    attendant_] Transmit our pleasure to the officer of the guard, to
    behead Maouyenshow and report to us his execution.

LADY. My parents, sir, are subject to the tax [3] in our native
    district. Let me entreat your Majesty to remit their contributions
    and extend favor towards them!

EMPEROR. That shall readily be done. Approach and hear our
    imperial pleasure. We create you a Princess of our palace.

LADY. How unworthy is your handmaid of such gracious distinction!
    [_Goes through the form of returning thanks_.] Early to-morrow I
    attend your Majesty's commands in this place. The Emperor is gone:
    let the attendants close the doors:--I will retire to rest. _[Exit._


[Footnote 1: Boding a short but fatal distinction to her offspring.]

[Footnote 2: Instead of glass, to defend it from the wind.]

[Footnote 3: The principal taxes in China are the land-tax, customs,
salt monopoly, and personal service; which last is the source of much
oppression to the lowest orders, who have nothing but their labor to
contribute.]


~ACT SECOND~


_Enter K'han of the Tartars, at the head of his Tribes_.

K'HAN. I lately sent an envoy to the sovereign of Han, with
    the demand of a princess in marriage; but the Emperor has returned a
    refusal, under the plea that the princess is yet too young. This
    answer gives me great trouble. Had he not plenty of ladies in his
    palace, of whom he might have sent me one? - Come on, saltshaker!
    And the arcebispo not put in jail? - If they are against arcebispo,
    and against the canons, and against the Pope of Rome from here!
    And God and the saints and the Virgin of the Guard! - But that
    this washed _Píntiga_ ... ¡Ill dogs eat!

No, if this is leaning banda, I tell you how many five. - I. - I.

This growing hostility and dense clouds are piled on the
    head of the apostate, who by the color of her skin bilious
    Lazio and his hair, so dark and look of Zaino, _Píntiga_ called,
    a name given in the country at a spotted salamander, yellow and
    black. Was this woman capable of eating a shoe sole of a truck
    to save maravedíes, not alien to convert a pound, or five doubloons,
    which is equal to the case. If you took and was able to sew in half
    with other economies previous amargolo in those days. Approached
    a colleague, and this is back again, his desk was deserted, because
    nobody wanted to work alongside them; put his shawl on the
    shelf, and pushed him to the point is concealed from the other
    side of the room to fall and stains, leaving his mess of food on
the altar, and saw it removed from there by ten hands in horror at
a time, the teacher reviewed its bundle of cigars before them through
good and full, and with offensive minuteness desconfiado.

A day of great heat asked the operator who found closer
    to lend a little water, and this, just open up a glass bottle
filled for him to drink, dry replied: "I have meaja.

_protestanta_ Pointed to the bottle with silent rage, and
    the operator, got up, took it and poured its contents on the
    floor without saying a word. Púsose green _Píntiga_, and took his
    hand, not knowing what he was doing, the semicircular knife: but
    from every corner of the workshop was raised provocative laughter,
    and had to devour the outrage, on pain of being torn by a thousand
    angry nails . In a long time did not dare to return to the factory,
    where the running. First-XXV-feat of the Tribune's outside at
    the foot of the fortifications of Marineda, hold a yearly festival
    known _las Comiditas_, party and peculiar feature of the cigarette,
    which on that day get the bottom of the box to light and have a
    more or less succulent Collation for office in the field, narrow
field, arid where only vegetating borriqueros thistles and nettles.

From the laundry room until the top of holy water, pleasant
    and smiling, had scattered the people, sitting, if I could, in
    the shade of a fence or on the slopes of a slope, and if not where
    God wanted to bare without umbrella or sunshade. And gossip
    that both could be equally necessary, because the star daytime
    overcast by dark clouds that threatened chubasquina, dismissed clearly
    livid and deaf, and sometimes drowned out by the calmness of the
    atmosphere traversed puffs of air power, which puffs of solano
    storm threats.

Not unless we had run dancing and singing, and fewer riders of
donuts, snacks and less eaters.

Here are listening to the guitar and rasgueo bandurrias later
    the clatter drums, bagpipes and exhaled his keen and penetrating
    complaint. Turned a blind man gave a _zanfona_ that sounded like
    the buzz of moscardón stubborn, while selling romances and guapezas
    crimes. A few steps away from the people who ate, filthy beggars
    implored charity; elefancíaco taught a bulbous face, Herpeticatum
discovered a skull full of pustules and peeling, this tended a dry
hand, he drew an ulcerated leg, referring to Santa Margarita free
for us "evil strangers.

In a carretoncillo, a phenomenon without legs, without arms, with
an enormous head wrapped in old rags, and green spectacles, breathed
out a hoarse cry and supplicant, while a mocetona, standing beside
the vehicle, collecting alms.

In the air floated the effluents of two casks of wine and
    being iban exangües and stew of mud and the smell of the food
    cold. Oíanse songs sung with a voice wines and cries of children, of
    whom nobody cared.
    [_Perceiving the
    Emperor._] I report to your Majesty that Hanchenyu, the leader of
    the northern foreigners, sends an envoy to declare that Maouyenshow
    has presented to him the portrait of the princess, and that he
    demands her in marriage as the only condition of peace. If refused,
    he will invade the South with a great power, and our rivers and
    hills will be exposed to rapine.

EMPEROR. In vain do we maintain and send forth armies; vain
    are the crowds of civil and military officers about our palace!
    Which of them will drive back for us these foreign troops? They are
    all afraid of the Tartar swords and arrows! But if they cannot exert
    themselves to expel the barbarians, why call for the princess to
    propitiate them?

PRESIDENT. The foreigners say that through your Majesty's
    devoted fondness for the princess, the affairs of your empire are
    falling into ruin. They declare that if the government does not
    yield her up, they will put their army in motion, and subdue the
    country. Your servant reflects, that Chow-wong [3] who lost his
    empire and life entirely through his blind devotion to Takee, is a
    fit example to warn your Majesty. Our army is weak, and needs the
    talents of a fit general. Should we oppose the Tartars, and be
    defeated, what will remain to us? Let your Majesty give up your
    fondness for the princess, to save your people.

OFFICER. The envoy waits without for an audience.

EMPEROR. Well; command that he approach us.

_Enter Envoy_.

ENVOY. Hanchenyu, K'han of the Tartars, sends me, his minister,
    to state before the great Sovereign of Han, that the Northern tribes
    and the Southern empire have long been bound in peace by mutual
    alliances; but that envoys being twice sent to demand a princess,
    his requisitions have been refused. The late minister, Maouyenshow,
    took with him the portrait of a beautiful lady, and presented it to
    the K'ban, who now sends me, his envoy, on purpose to demand the
    Lady Chaoukeun, and no other, as the only condition of peace between
    the two nations. Should your Majesty refuse, the K'han has a
    countless army of brave warriors, and will forthwith invade the
    South to try the chances of war. I trust your Majesty will not err
    in your decision.

EMPEROR. The envoy may retire to repose himself in his lodging.
    [_Exit the Envoy_.] Let our civil and military officers consult, and
    report to us the best mode of causing the foreign troops to retire,
    without yielding up the princess to propitiate them. They take
    advantage of the compliant softness of her temper. Were the Empress
    Leuhow alive--let her utter a word--which of them would dare to be
    of a different opinion? It would seem that, for the future, instead
    of men for ministers, we need only have fair women to keep our
    empire in peace.

PRINCESS. In return for your Majesty's bounties, it is your
    handmaid's duty to brave death to serve you. I can cheerfully enter
    into this foreign alliance, for the sake of producing peace, and
    shall leave behind me a name still green in history.--But my
    affection for your Majesty, how am I to lay aside!

EMPEROR. Alas, I [4] know too well that I can do no more than
    yourself!

PRESIDENT. I entreat your Majesty to sacrifice your love, and
    think of the security of your Dynasty. Hasten, sir, to send the
    princess on her way!

EMPEROR. Let her this day advance a stage on her journey,
    and be presented to the envoy.--To-morrow we will repair as far as
    the bridge of Pahling, and give her a parting feast.

PRESIDENT. Alas! Sir, this may not be! It will draw on us
    the contempt of these barbarians.

EMPEROR. We have complied with all our minister's propositions--shall
    they not, then, accede to ours? Be it as it may, we will witness her
    departure--and then return home to hate the traitor Maouyenshow!

PRESIDENT. Unwillingly we advise that the princess be sacrificed
    for the sake of peace; but the envoy is instructed to insist upon
    her alone--and from ancient times, how often hath a nation suffered
    for a woman's beauty!

PRINCESS. Though I go into exile for the nation's good, yet ill
    can I bear to part from your Majesty!           _[Exeunt._


[Footnote 1: The honor of the imperial alliance being the chief object.]

[Footnote 2: Changngo, the goddess of the moon, gives her name to the
finely curved eyebrows of the Chinese ladies, which are compared to the
lunar crescent when only a day or two old.]

[Footnote 3: Chow-wong was the last of the Shang dynasty, and infamous
by his debaucheries and cruelties, in concert with his empress Takee,
the Theodora of Chinese history.]

[Footnote 4: The imperial pronoun "Tchin," _me_, is with very good taste
supplied by _I_ in these impassioned passages.]



It may be now in the postage paid for the task and the blending of
the postal money from a post office mistake happened, or French
like the word because it is either unclear, or at an unusual site
of the envelopes was written by the Postofficianten not Seyn bemerket;
then in all these cases, the returning of the letter must be done
so that the error of his locations to be improved.

However, the recipient can open the letter and read previously.

It is also sufficient if only the envelope is sent back. Is this
    not thunlich, so can the recipient of the letter before returning
    again to seal and it is also obvious that his letter with the next
    post-back is free. If Someone by the post office, letters, which
    he did not accept and what the Post he does not want money, so they
    let him, according to the rule, not vomit, but it must uneröffnet
    returned. Has it broken and read, so he has thus zugeeignet and
    must therefore associated costs. However, today many innocent
    people, frequent lottery with unsolicited letters and other
    fire and begging letters, which we can not accept, will be hit,
so this is almost no funds left, as these letters when they are
broken, and some do not want , new to the sender to couvertiren and
around the postage-paid for by the Post Office again to obtain a
refund, which is, however, is connected to the Couverte himself to
notice what the Post has designed.

This will then display the sender along with the additional postage
to mail back reimburse them.

In some cases, it is also thunlich, like letters without
    these circumstances be returned. Dispatching rules when the money
    and packages by mail. If you only little money, such as pistols or
    some Thaler, by mail to, so it does well, such in the letter
    itself to be. You need the money, but especially in a separate paper
    and wrap this little package in the attached letters with paint.

About Main must be to such letters, in which you want to
    send money, strong paper, or it at least in duplicate couvertiren
paper, with good paint and seal it from being too small to beat.

    The tears of my grief stream in thousand
    channels--this evening shall her likeness be suspended in the
    palace, where I will sacrifice to it--and tapers with their silver
    lights shall illuminate her chamber.

PRESIDENT. Let your Majesty return to the palace--the princess
    is already far distant! [_Exeunt_.


_The Tartar Camp. Enter K'han at the head of his tribes, leading
in the Princess_.


K'HAN. The Emperor of Han having now, in observance of
    old treaties, yielded up to me the Lady Chaoukeun in marriage, I
    take her as my rightful queen. The two nations shall enjoy the
    benefits of peace. [_To his generals_] Leaders, transmit my
    commands to the army to strike our encampment, and proceed to the
    north. [_They march_.


_The river Amoor. [2] Tartar army on its march_.


PRINCESS. What place is this?

ENVOY. It is the River of the Black Dragon, the frontier of
    the Tartar territories and those of China. This southern shore is
    the Emperor's; on the northern side commences our Tartar dominion.

PRINCESS [_to the K'han_]. Great King, I take a cup of wine,
    and pour a libation towards the South--my last farewell to the
    Emperor--[_pours the libation_] of Han, this life is finished. I
    await thee in the next!

[_Throws herself into the river. The K'han, in great consternation,
endeavors to save her, but in vain_.

K'HAN. Alas! alas!--so determined was her purpose against
    this foreign alliance--she has thrown herself into the stream, and
    perished! Tis done, and remediless! Let her sepulchre be on this
    river's bank, and be it called "the verdant tomb," [3] She is no
    more; and vain has been our enmity with the dynasty of Han! The
    traitor Maouyenshow was the author of all this misery. [_To an
    officer_] Take Maouyenshow and let him be delivered over to the
    Emperor for punishment. I will return to our former friendship with
    the dynasty of Han. We will renew and long preserve the sentiments
    of relationship. The traitor disfigured the portrait to injure
    Chaoukeun--then deserted his sovereign, and stole over to me, whom
    he prevailed on to demand the lady in marriage. How little did I
    think that she would thus precipitate herself into the stream, and
    perish!--In vain did my spirit melt at the sight of her! But if I
    detained this profligate and traitorous rebel, he would certainly
    prove to us a root of misfortune: it is better to deliver him for
    his reward to the Emperor of Han, with whom I will renew, and long
    retain, our old feelings of friendship and amity. _[Exeunt._



[Footnote 1: It may be observed that the great wall is never once
expressly mentioned through this drama. His insatiable profit suppressed
those wisdom, far-sighted ambition has. As one of the Libyan sands
anchored ship was gone it was only through hard work.

The peoples umbrandeten it like sea tides, and the slightest storm
shook his huge body.

The state treasury was in the war with Rome and through all the
outward and Herfeilschen with the barbarians have been missed and
wasted.

It also needed soldiers, and no great trust of the Republic!

    We take the picture of that fair one and suspend it
    here, as some small solace to our griefs, [_To the attendant_]
    Keeper of the yellow gate, behold, the incense in yonder vase is
    burnt out: hasten then to add some more. Though we cannot see her,
    we may at least retain this shadow; and, while life remains, betoken
    our regard. But oppressed and weary, we would fain take a little
    repose.

[_Lies down to sleep. The Princess appears before him in a
vision_.] [1]

PRINCESS. Delivered over as a captive to appease the barbarians,
    they would have conveyed me to their Northern country: but I took an
    occasion to elude them and have escaped back. Is not this the
    Emperor, my sovereign? Mom has another even more often, they should not irritate me. ""
Oh, yes it is slightly possible that your illness greater irritability
has left behind, but that you must not think that you could not
help it.

It is always something that, if one is doing something which one
knows that it is wrong.

And that one must not be angry, which thou knowest, is not it?
    "Toni was very small red, she lowered the head and said quietly:" I
    would like to not be angry - but it always comes entirely by itself
"The aunt smiled: "Yes, that's normal.

Look, the others think it's also not bad and they certainly do not
want to offend you.

The teasing comes at them from all over themselves "The
    child was first surprised, then thoughtful, and when the aunt
    asked," Will you now try to small Neckereien to endure, to be
    angry without? "Because nodded it with the brains and said seriously:
    "Yes, I will try." The aunt almost a bit frightened, as in these
    children's eyes gazed from which such a solid and serious determination
    shone: "But now I must again Toni Chen Chen a happy face and
    laugh. Come on, now we want Mariechen and the other children
    to go visit, "She took her child's godfather in the hand and led
it into the garden.

There she called the children together and said," Listen
    again, what I've invented!

In the morning, while their in school are, I will be the
    parent here in the home and at the very young to help, but the
    afternoon I am you.
    This day after the close of the morning council,
    a foreign envoy appeared, bringing with him the fettered traitor
    Maouyenshow. He announces that the renegade, by deserting his
    allegiance, led to the breach of truce, and occasioned all these
    calamities. The princess is no more! and the K'han wishes for peace
    and friendship between the two nations. The envoy attends, with
    reverence, your imperial decision.

EMPEROR. Then strike off the traitor's head, and be it presented
    as an offering to the shade of the princess! Let a fit banquet be
    got ready for the envoy, preparatory to his return. _[Recites these
    verses_.

At the fall of the leaf, when the wild-fowl's cry was heard
      in the recesses of the palace.
Sad dreams returned to our lonely pillow; we thought of
      her through the night:
Her verdant tomb remains--but where shall we seek her
      self?
The perfidious painter's head shall atone for the beauty
      which he wronged.


[Footnote 1: There is nothing in this more extravagant than the similar
vision in the tragedy of Richard III.]

[Footnote 2: Yengo, a species of wild goose, is the emblem in China of
intersexual attachment and fidelity, being said never to pair again
after the loss of its mate. An image of it is worshipped by newly
married couples.]

[Footnote 3: Literally, "dragon person." The emperor's throne is often
called the "dragon seat."]