brackets ("[]") close to the place where they were
indicated by a suffix in the original text.  The notes
at the end are now numbered instead of using pages to
identify them as was done in the printed text.

Text in italics has been written in capital letters.

The Pound Sterling symbol has been written as "L".


CHRONICLES OF THE CANONGATE.

by Sir Walter Scott, Bart.


CONTENTS.

  Introduction to Chronicles of the Canongate.
  Appendix to Introduction--The Theatrical Fund Dinner.
  Introductory--Mr. Chrystal Croftangry.
  The Highland Widow.
  The Two Drovers.
  Notes.


INTRODUCTION TO CHRONICLES OF THE CANONGATE.

The preceding volume of this Collection concluded the last of the
pieces originally published under the NOMINIS UMBRA of The Author
of Waverley; and the circumstances which rendered it impossible
for the writer to continue longer in the possession of his
incognito were communicated in 1827, in the Introduction to the
first series of Chronicles of the Canongate, consisting (besides
a biographical sketch of the imaginary chronicler) of three
tales, entitled "The Highland Widow," "The Two Drovers," and "The
Surgeon's Daughter."  In the present volume the two first named
of these pieces are included, together with three detached
stories which appeared the year after, in the elegant compilation
called "The Keepsake."  "The Surgeon's Daughter" it is thought
better to defer until a succeeding volume, than to

  "Begin, and break off in the middle."

I have, perhaps, said enough on former occasions of the
misfortunes which led to the dropping of that mask under which I
had, for a long series of years, enjoyed so large a portion of
public favour.  Through the success of those literary efforts, I
had been enabled to indulge most of the tastes which a retired
person of my station might be supposed to entertain.  In the pen
of this nameless romancer, I seemed to possess something like the
secret fountain of coined gold and pearls vouchsafed to the
traveller of the Eastern Tale; and no doubt believed that I might
venture, without silly imprudence, to extend my personal
expenditure considerably beyond what I should have thought of,
had my means been limited to the competence which I derived from
inheritance, with the moderate income of a professional
situation.  I bought, and built, and planted, and was considered
by myself, as by the rest of the world, in the safe possession of
an easy fortune.  My riches, however, like the other riches of
this world, were liable to accidents, under which they were
ultimately destined to make unto themselves wings, and fly away.
The year 1825, so disastrous to many branches of industry and
commerce, did not spare the market of literature; and the sudden
ruin that fell on so many of the booksellers could scarcely have
been expected to leave unscathed one whose career had of
necessity connected him deeply and extensively with the pecuniary
transactions of that profession.  In a word, almost without one
note of premonition, I found myself involved in the sweeping
catastrophe of the unhappy time, and called on to meet the
demands of creditors upon commercial establishments with which
my fortunes had long been bound up, to the extent of no less a
sum than one hundred and twenty thousand pounds.

The author having, however rashly, committed his pledges thus
largely to the hazards of trading companies, it behoved him, of
course, to abide the consequences of his conduct, and, with
whatever feelings, he surrendered on the instant every shred of
property which he had been accustomed to call his own.  It became
vested in the hands of gentlemen whose integrity, prudence, and
intelligence were combined with all possible liberality and
kindness of disposition, and who readily afforded every
assistance towards the execution of plans, in the success of
which the author contemplated the possibility of his ultimate
extrication, and which were of such a nature that, had assistance
of this sort been withheld, he could have had little prospect of
carrying them into effect.  Among other resources which occurred
was the project of that complete and corrected edition of his
Novels and Romances (whose real parentage had of necessity been
disclosed at the moment of the commercial convulsions alluded
to), which has now advanced with unprecedented favour nearly to
its close; but as he purposed also to continue, for the behoof of
those to whom he was indebted, the exercise of his pen in the
same path of literature, so long as the taste of his countrymen
should seem to approve of his efforts, it appeared to him that it
would have been an idle piece of affectation to attempt getting
up a new incognito, after his original visor had been thus dashed
from his brow.  Hence the personal narrative prefixed to the
first work of fiction which he put forth after the paternity of
the "Waverley Novels" had come to be publicly ascertained; and
though many of the particulars originally avowed in that Notice
have been unavoidably adverted to in the Prefaces and Notes to
some of the preceding volumes of the present collection, it is
now reprinted as it stood at the time, because some interest is
generally attached to a coin or medal struck on a special
occasion, as expressing, perhaps, more faithfully than the same
artist could have afterwards conveyed, the feelings of the moment
that gave it birth.  The Introduction to the first series of
Chronicles of the Canongate ran, then, in these words:--


INTRODUCTION.

All who are acquainted with the early history of the Italian
stage are aware that Arlecchino is not, in his original
conception, a mere worker of marvels with his wooden sword, a
jumper in and out of windows, as upon our theatre, but, as his
party-coloured jacket implies, a buffoon or clown, whose mouth,
far from being eternally closed, as amongst us, is filled, like
that of Touchstone, with quips, and cranks, and witty devices,
very often delivered extempore.  It is not easy to trace how he
became possessed of his black vizard, which was anciently made in
the resemblance of the face of a cat; but it seems that the mask
was essential to the performance of the character, as will appear
from the following theatrical anecdote:--

An actor on the Italian stage permitted at the Foire du St.
Germain, in Paris, was renowned for the wild, venturous, and
extravagant wit, the brilliant sallies and fortunate repartees,
with which he prodigally seasoned the character of the party-
coloured jester.  Some critics, whose good-will towards a
favourite performer was stronger than their judgment, took
occasion to remonstrate with the successful actor on the subject
of the grotesque vizard.  They went wilily to their purpose,
observing that his classical and Attic wit, his delicate vein of
humour, his happy turn for dialogue, were rendered burlesque and
ludicrous by this unmeaning and bizarre disguise, and that those
attributes would become far more impressive if aided by the
spirit of his eye and the expression of his natural features.
The actor's vanity was easily so far engaged as to induce him to
make the experiment.  He played Harlequin barefaced, but was
considered on all hands as having made a total failure.  He had
lost the audacity which a sense of incognito bestowed, and with
it all the reckless play of raillery which gave vivacity to his
original acting.  He cursed his advisers, and resumed his
grotesque vizard, but, it is said, without ever being able to
regain the careless and successful levity which the consciousness
of the disguise had formerly bestowed.

Perhaps the Author of Waverley is now about to incur a risk of
the same kind, and endanger his popularity by having laid aside
his incognito.  It is certainly not a voluntary experiment, like
that of Harlequin; for it was my original intention never to have
avowed these works during my lifetime, and the original
manuscripts were carefully preserved (though by the care of
others rather than mine), with the purpose of supplying the
necessary evidence of the truth when the period of announcing it
should arrive.  [These manuscripts are at present (August 1831)
advertised for public sale, which is an addition, though a small
one, to other annoyances.]  But the affairs of my publishers
having, unfortunately, passed into a management different from
their own, I had no right any longer to rely upon secrecy in that
quarter; and thus my mask, like my Aunt Dinah's in "Tristram
Shandy," having begun to wax a little threadbare about the chin,
it became time to lay it aside with a good grace, unless I
desired it should fall in pieces from my face, which was now
become likely.

Yet I had not the slightest intention of selecting the time and
place in which the disclosure was finally made; nor was there any
concert betwixt my learned and respected friend LORD MEADOWBANK
and myself upon that occasion.  It was, as the reader is probably
aware, upon the 23rd February last, at a public meeting, called
for establishing a professional Theatrical Fund in Edinburgh,
that the communication took place.  Just before we sat down to
table, Lord Meadowbank [One of the Supreme Judges of Scotland,
termed Lords of Council and Session.]  asked me privately whether
I was still anxious to preserve my incognito on the subject of
what were called the Waverley Novels?  I did not immediately see
the purpose of his lordship's question, although I certainly
might have been led to infer it, and replied that the secret had
now of necessity become known to so many people that I was
indifferent on the subject.  Lord Meadowbank was thus induced,
while doing me the great honour of proposing my health to the
meeting, to say something on the subject of these Novels so
strongly connecting them with me as the author, that by remaining
silent I must have stood convicted, either of the actual
paternity, or of the still greater crime of being supposed
willing to receive indirectly praise to which I had no just
title.  I thus found myself suddenly and unexpectedly placed in
the confessional, and had only time to recollect that I had been
guided thither by a most friendly hand, and could not, perhaps,
find a better public opportunity to lay down a disguise which
began to resemble that of a detected masquerader.

I had therefore the task of avowing myself, to the numerous and
respectable company assembled, as the sole and unaided author of
these Novels of Waverley, the paternity of which was likely at
one time to have formed a controversy of some celebrity, for the
ingenuity with which some instructors of the public gave their
assurance on the subject was extremely persevering.  I now think
it further necessary to say that, while I take on myself all the
merits and demerits attending these compositions, I am bound to
acknowledge with gratitude hints of subjects and legends which I
have received from various quarters, and have occasionally used
as a foundation of my fictitious compositions, or woven up with
them in the shape of episodes.  I am bound, in particular, to
acknowledge the unremitting kindness of Mr. Joseph Train,
supervisor of excise at Dumfries, to whose unwearied industry I
have been indebted for many curious traditions and points of
antiquarian interest.  It was Mr. Train who brought to my
recollection the history of Old Mortality, although I myself had
had a personal interview with that celebrated wanderer so far
back as about 1792, when I found him on his usual task.  He was
then engaged in repairing the Gravestones of the Covenanters who
had died while imprisoned in the Castle of Dunnottar, to which
many of them were committed prisoners at the period of Argyle's
rising.  Their place of confinement is still called the Whigs'
Vault.  Mr. Train, however, procured for me far more extensive
information concerning this singular person, whose name was
Patterson, than I had been able to acquire during my own short
conversation with him.  [See, for some further particulars, the
notes to Old Mortality, in the present collective edition.]   He
was (as I think I have somewhere already stated) a native of the
parish of Closeburn, in Dumfriesshire; and it is believed that
domestic affliction, as well as devotional feeling, induced him
to commence the wandering mode of life which he pursued for a
very long period.  It is more than twenty years since Robert
Patterson's death, which took place on the highroad near
Lockerby, where he was found exhausted and expiring.  The white
pony, the companion of his pilgrimage, was standing by the side
of its dying master the whole furnishing a scene not unfitted for
the pencil.  These particulars I had from Mr. Train.

Another debt, which I pay most willingly, I owe to an unknown
correspondent (a lady), [The late Mrs. Goldie.] who favoured me
with the history of the upright and high-principled female, whom,
in the Heart of Mid-Lothian, I have termed Jeanie Deans.  The
circumstance of her refusing to save her sister's life by an act
of perjury, and undertaking a pilgrimage to London to obtain her
pardon, are both represented as true by my fair and obliging
correspondent; and they led me to consider the possibility of
rendering a fictitious personage interesting by mere dignity of
mind and rectitude of principle, assisted by unpretending good
sense and temper, without any of the beauty, grace, talent,
accomplishment, and wit to which a heroine of romance is supposed
to have a prescriptive right.  If the portrait was received with
interest by the public, I am conscious how much it was owing to
the truth and force of the original sketch, which I regret that I
am unable to present to the public, as it was written with much
feeling and spirit.

Old and odd books, and a considerable collection of family
legends, formed another quarry, so ample that it was much more
likely that the strength of the labourer should be exhausted than
that materials should fail.  I may mention, for example's sake,
that the terrible catastrophe of the Bride of Lammermoor actually
occurred in a Scottish family of rank.  The female relative, by
whom the melancholy tale was communicated to me many years since,
was a near connection of the family in which the event happened,
and always told it with an appearance of melancholy mystery which
enhanced the interest.  She had known in her youth the brother
who rode before the unhappy victim to the fatal altar, who,
though then a mere boy, and occupied almost entirely with the
gaiety of his own appearance in the bridal procession, could not
but remark that the hand of his sister was moist, and cold as
that of a statue.  It is unnecessary further to withdraw the veil
from this scene of family distress, nor, although it occurred
more than a hundred years since, might it be altogether agreeable
to the representatives of the families concerned in the
narrative.  It may be proper to say that the events alone are
imitated; but I had neither the means nor intention of copying
the manners, or tracing the characters, of the persons concerned
in the real story.  Indeed, I may here state generally that,
although I have deemed historical personages free subjects of
delineation, I have never on any occasion violated the respect
due to private life.  It was indeed impossible that traits proper
to persons, both living and dead, with whom I have had
intercourse in society, should not have risen to my pen in such
works as Waverley, and those which followed it.  But I have
always studied to generalize the portraits, so that they should
still seem, on the whole, the productions of fancy, though
possessing some resemblance to real individuals.  Yet I must own
my attempts have not in this last particular been uniformly
successful.  There are men whose characters are so peculiarly
marked, that the delineation of some leading and principal
feature inevitably places the whole person before you in his
individuality.  Thus, the character of Jonathan Oldbuck, in the
Antiquary, was partly founded on that of an old friend of my
youth, to whom I am indebted for introducing me to Shakespeare,
and other invaluable favours; but I thought I had so completely
disguised the likeness that his features could not be recognized
by any one now alive.  I was mistaken, however, and indeed had
endangered what I desired should be considered as a secret; for I
afterwards learned that a highly-respectable gentleman, one of
the few surviving friends of my father, and an acute critic,
[James Chalmers, Esq., Solicitor at Law, London, who (died during
the publication of the present edition of these Novels.  (Aug.
1831.)] had said, upon the appearance of the work, that he was
now convinced who was the author of it, as he recognized in the
Antiquary of Monkbarns traces of the character of a very intimate
friend of my father's family.

I may here also notice that the sort of exchange of gallantry
which is represented as taking place betwixt the Baron of
Bradwardine and Colonel Talbot, is a literal fact.  The real
circumstances of the anecdote, alike honourable to Whig and Tory,
are these:--

Alexander Stewart of Invernahyle--a name which I cannot write
without the warmest recollections of gratitude to the friend of
my childhood, who first introduced me to the Highlands, their
traditions, and their manners--had been engaged actively in the
troubles of 1745.  As he charged at the battle of Preston with
his clan, the Stewarts of Appin, he saw an officer of the
opposite army standing alone by a battery of four cannon, of
which he discharged three on the advancing Highlanders, and then
drew his sword.  Invernahyle rushed on him, and required him to
surrender.  "Never to rebels!"  was the undaunted reply,
accompanied with a lunge, which the Highlander received on his
target, but instead of using his sword in cutting down his now
defenceless antagonist, he employed it in parrying the blow of a
Lochaber axe aimed at the officer by the Miller, one of his own
followers, a grim-looking old Highlander, whom I remember to have
seen.  Thus overpowered, Lieutenant-Colonel Allan Whitefoord, a
gentleman of rank and consequence, as well as a brave officer,
gave up his sword, and with it his purse and watch, which
Invernahyle accepted, to save them from his followers.  After the
affair was over, Mr. Stewart sought out his prisoner, and they
were introduced to each other by the celebrated John Roy Stewart,
who acquainted Colonel Whitefoord with the quality of his captor,
and made him aware of the necessity of receiving back his
property, which he was inclined to leave in the hands into which
it had fallen.  So great became the confidence established
betwixt them, that Invernahyle obtained from the Chevalier his
prisoner's freedom upon parole; and soon afterwards, having been
sent back to the Highlands to raise men, he visited Colonel
Whitefoord at his own house, and spent two happy days with him
and his Whig friends, without thinking on either side of the
civil war which was then raging.

When the battle of Culloden put an end to the hopes of Charles
Edward, Invernahyle, wounded and unable to move, was borne from
the field by the faithful zeal of his retainers.  But as he had
been a distinguished Jacobite, his family and property were
exposed to the system of vindictive destruction too generally
carried into execution through the country of the insurgents.  It
was now Colonel Whitefoord's turn to exert himself, and he
wearied all the authorities, civil and military, with his
solicitations for pardon to the saver of his life, or at least
for a protection for his wife and family.  His applications were
for a long time unsuccessful.  "I was found with the mark of the
Beast upon me in every list," was Invernahyle's expression.  At
length Colonel Whitefoord applied to the Duke of Cumberland, and
urged his suit with every argument which he could think of, being
still repulsed, he took his commission from his bosom, and having
said something of his own and his family's exertions in the cause
of the House of Hanover, begged to resign his situation in their
service, since he could not be permitted to show his gratitude to
the person to whom he owed his life.  The duke, struck with his
earnestness, desired him to take up his commission, and granted
the protection required for the family of Invernahyle.

The chieftain himself lay concealed in a cave near his own house,
before which a small body of regular soldiers were encamped.  He
could hear their muster-roll called every morning, and their
drums beat to quarters at night, and not a change of the
sentinels escaped him.  As it was suspected that he was lurking
somewhere on the property, his family were closely watched, and
compelled to use the utmost precaution in supplying him with
food.  One of his daughters, a child of eight or ten years old,
was employed as the agent least likely to be suspected.  She was
an instance, among others, that a time of danger and difficulty
creates a premature sharpness of intellect.  Aquis submersus
Theodor Storm novel (1876) In our earlier to the ducal palace
belonging, but in living memory totally neglected "Castle Garden"
were already in my boyhood in the once old French styles ranging
Hagebuchenhecken with thin, ghostly avenues maturity, however,
because they are still some leaves bear, so we know the local,
through foliage of the trees is not spoiled, they nevertheless
also in this form to estimate, and because of us thoughtful
people will always one or the other there to meet his. We then
under the meager shade after the so-called "mountain" to wander,
a small hill in the northwestern corner of the garden above the
dry bed of a fish pond, where the broadest view nothing stands in
the way.

Most might look to the West to adjust to the bright green of the
marshes and darüberhin to the silver flood of the sea to amuse,
to which the elongated shadow of the floating island, my eyes
involuntarily turn to the north, where barely one miles away,
the gray church tower from the spitze higher situated, but
barren coastal land rises, because there is one of the sites of
my youth. The pastor's son from the village that I visited
with the "scholar's school" my father city, and countless times
we are on Saturday afternoons together dahinaus wandered, and
then on Sunday evening or early Monday to our Nepos or later
Cicero to our return to the city. It was then in the middle
of the road, a piece of good heath left unbroken, as they once
referred to one side until almost to the town, just after the other
against the village had.

Here buzzing in the flowers of the fragrant heather gray and white
immense bumblebees and ran among the barren stems of the same
beautiful gold-green beetles, where the scent of heather and
clouds of butterflies floated resinous Gagelstrauches which
nowhere else could be found. My parents' home, the impatient
zustrebender his friend had often love misery, his dreamy comrades
by all the glories with fortzubringen, we had grown, but the field
is reached, then it was also about the mood in forward, and soon,
if we just only the long Sandweg hinaufwateten, we already saw above
the dark green of the lilac hedge the gable of the house pastor,
the pastor of the study, with its small blind windows on the
well-known guests hinabgrüßte.

The pastor people, whose only child was my friend, we had all the
time, as Here we say, five quarters in the yard, quite apart
from the wonderful natural food. Only the silver poplar,
the only high and therefore also the only tempting tree of the
village, which their branches well above the mossy piece of straw
roof was rushing, was the same as the apple of paradise we banned
and was therefore only of us secretly climbed otherwise was much
I correctly, everything was permitted and indeed in our
age group the best of us exploited. The main venue of our actions
was the big "Koppel priest," with a gate leading from
the garden. Here we knew with the instincts of the boys offered
the nests of skylarks and Grauammern track, which we then repeated
the visit in order to see how far in the last two hours the
eggs or young are now thrived here on a deep and as I now believe,
not less dangerous than those poplar water pit, which brim with
old Weidenstümpfen was tight circumstances, we started the
deft black beetle, which we call "water Frenchman called it,
or we did another one on our specially designed, built navy
yard from walnut-shell box lids and swim. In late summer it was
also well aware that we learn from our paddock after a
raid of Kuesters garden made, which compared to the vicarage on
the other side of the water pit was, because there we had two apple
trees stunted our Tenth einzuheimsen what we admittedly occasionally
a friendly threat from the good-natured old man received .-- So
many joys of youth grew on this priest Koppel, whose arid sandy
soil other flowers would not thrive, and only the sharp scent of
goldknopfigen Rainfarren who haufenweis on all walls were, I still
feel today in the memories, those times when my life.

But all this is only temporarily employed, my constant attendance
on the other hand, attracted to another, which we own nothing in
the city to the site had set. - I am not about the buildings of
the tube Lehmwespen, anywhere from the wall joints of the building
stands out, although it was graceful enough in contemplative
lunch hour off and fly the busy creatures to observe, I am referring
to the much larger construction of the old and unusually stately
village church. Up to the shingled roof of the tower, she was
high from the ground up granite blocks set up and dominated at the
highest point of the village is uplifting to-wide review on
heath, marsh and beach .-- The greatest attraction for me,
however, had the interior of the church ; already immense
key, which by the Apostle Peter himself to come seemed excited
my imagination. And in fact, he even opened, we will be happy
if the old sexton had abgewonnen, the gateway to some wonderful
things, from which a long past time here as dark, then with devout
childlike eyes, but always in mysterious silence us alive aufblickte.

As was in the middle of the church down a terribly superhuman
Crucifixus, whose gaunt limbs and distorted face with blood
überrieselt were on the side of a wall pier adhered like
a nest braungeschnitzte the pulpit, at the fruit and from
Blattgewinden all sorts of animals and is Teufelsfratzen
hervorzudrängen seemed. Special attraction but had the
great carved altar cabinet in the choir of the church, on the
painted figures in the Passion of Christ was depicted
so strange wild faces, like that of Caiaphas, or the servants
of the war, which in its golden armor to the crucified roller
coat, got you out in life not to see, so comforting Holde
contrasted only the face of the crosses on hingesunkenen Maria;
yes, they would easily my heart boy with a fantastic tendency
entangled best, if not another with even greater allure of mystery
myself by it would have been deducted. Among all these strange
or even disagreeable things probably hung in the aisle of the
church, the innocent image of a dead child, a beautiful five
year old boy who, on a pillow with lace occupied dormant, a white
water lily in his small pale hands held . From the gentle
face said, besides the horror of death, as hülfeflehend, one last
Holde trace of life, an irresistible infested pity me when I stood
before this picture. But it was not alone here; also looked tight
from a dark brown wooden frame , schwarzbärtiger man in a priest
collar and Sammar. My friend told me that it was the father of
that beautiful boy and this itself, so today was a legend, should
be used in the water pit our priests Koppel his death have found.
In the context we read the year 1666, which was long ago. Again
and again it took me to these two pictures, a great desire
seized me by the life and death of the child shall be a further,
albeit still so sparse customer to obtain, even from the sinister
countenance of the father, despite the priest collar myself
almost on the servants of the altar of war cabinet gemahnen wanted,
I looked for it herauszulesen. - According to such studies in the
twilight of the old church appeared to be the house of the
good pastor to people just so hospitable. Admittedly, it
was equally high years, and the father of my friend hoped
as long as I could imagine, on a new building, but as the Küsterei
at the same age suffering from weakness, it was neither here nor
there .-- And yet built, as were friendly but the rooms of the
old house in winter, the small office right in the summer left
of the larger hallway, where the Reformation almanacs cut images
in Mahagonirähmchen at the whitewashed wall hung, where one out
of the western window only a distant windmill, but also the whole
wide sky in front of you had dinner in the rose-colored
slip transformed and then the whole room überglänzte! The
loving pastor who armchairs with plush red cushions, the old deep
sofa, on the table at the dinner sausende confidential Kettle - it
was all bright, friendly presence.

Only one evening - we were already being Sekundaner - the thought
came to me, what a past like these rooms, not even if those
dead boy once with fresh cheeks here umhergesprungen lives in
bodily form, whose portrait now like a wistful Holden Tell dark
room filled church. reason to give such thoughtfulness liked
that I am afternoons, where we drive on my once again visited the
church had, down in a dark corner of the image four with red
ink-written letters had discovered that I had until now escaped .

CPAS you read, "I said to the father of my friend," but we can not
unravel. " "Well," replied that "the inscription is well known to
me, and takes you to the rumor Hülfe so want the two most recent
letters with Aquis submersus, ie with 'drowning' or literally
'immersed in the water' to indicate his; only with the
previous CP would then still in a predicament! The young
adjunktus our Kuesters, once the Quarta happened, says although
it could be Casu periculoso -'Durch dangerous Zufall' - hot,
but the old men of the time logical thought, and if the boy is
drowned, it was the chance not only just dangerous. "I was eager
to listen.

"Casu 'I said," it could also probably' Culpa 'mean? "" Culpa?
" repeated the pastor. "Due to debt - but whose fault?" Then
came the dark picture of the old preacher to me before the soul,
and without much reflect I cried: "Why not: patris Culpa?"
The good pastor was almost frightened. "Ei, ei, my young friend,"
he said and raised his finger warningly against me. "Through the
fault of the father? - So we want to, despite his dismal reputation
blessed my brother, the official but not blame. Also, he
would most like difficult for themselves if necessary." This
latter would also be obvious to my adolescent understanding,
and remained so because the actual meaning of the inscription
remains a mystery of the past.

That way, those two images is also essential in painting some
old preacher excelled portraits, which hung next to it was
already clear to myself, but that experts in the painter an
efficient altholländischer masters students wanted to know,
I certainly learned by now the father of my friend. However, such
a poor village in this sly, or where it came and how he had told,
he also knew about me nothing to say. The pictures themselves
contained neither a name nor a sign painter. The years went out.
While we visited the University, died of the good pastor, and
the mother of my school comrades followed later her son
on his Pfarrstelle been reached elsewhere, and I had no more,
after that walk to the village .-- Since, as I myself have
my father in town resident was, it happened that I voted for the
son of a relative a student neighborhood with good public citizens
had to pay.

The youth do own, I strolled in the afternoon sun shines
through the streets as me at the corner of the market over
the door of an old house a platform hochgegiebelten German
inscription in the eye was the verhochdeutscht some would read:
Just as smoke and dust verschwindt, So are also the human child.

The words for young eyes might well not be visible, because I had
never noticed, whenever I am in my school give me a wake-up at the
Hot resident had brought the baker.

Almost involuntarily I stepped into the house, and in Indeed, it
was a sub-Come here for the young cousin.

The cellar of their old "Möddersch" (mother's sister) - then told
me the friendly masters - from whom they inherited the house and
holding would have stood empty for years, long, they had a young
guest wanted to.

I was hinaufgeführt stairs, and then we entered a rather low, archaic
furnished room, whose two windows with their small wheels on
the spacious square beyond. Previously, told the Master, were
two ancient lime trees in front of the door was, but he did
beat them, because they are too much into the house gedunkelt
and also the beautiful view had completely obscured. The conditions
we were soon in all parts agree, while but then we still have to
be taken now, the organization of the room said, was my
view of a cabinet in the shade of a hanging oil paintings
like the sudden my whole attention hinwegnahm. It was still
well preserved and has an older, serious and mild-looking man,
in a dark dress, as in the middle of the seventeenth century, they
make those from the stands to take care of, which deals more with
state matters or things as taught by the war crafts employed.
The head of the old gentleman, so beautiful and attractive and so
he painted splendid always liked, however, had no such excitement
in me emerged, but the painter had him a pale boy in the arm laid
in his small, flaccid hanging a white hand-held water lily, and
this boy I knew so long ago. Again, it was probably the death of
his eyes had zugedrückt. "Where is this picture?" I finally
asked, because I was suddenly aware that the master standing in
front of me with his dispute was held. He looked at me puzzled.
"The old image? This is from our Möddersch, "he replied," it
comes from their Urgroßonkel, a painter and had over a hundred
years ago lived here.

  There are seven other things from him
     since. "With these words
   he showed after a small load of oak
     wood, on which all sorts of geometric figures incised were quite
delicate., When I of the barrier on which they stood, herunternahm
dropped the lid back and it showed me as the content of some heavily
yellowed sheets of paper with a very old lettering.

"May I read the sheets?" I asked. "If it makes you Pläsier,"
replied the master, "so do you like the whole thing to
take home there are ancient writings, is not worth it. "But I
asked myself and also received permission to these worthless
writings here on the spot to be able to read, and while I was
over the old image into a powerful set Ohrenlehnstuhl left the
master's room, still surprised, but nevertheless the promise of
friendly back leaving that his wife me soon with a good
cup of coffee will regulate. But I read in reading and
had soon everything around me forget it. So I was back home
because Holsten in our country and on Sundays it was Cantate
Anno 1661 - My Malgeräth and other luggage I had in the city
left behind and walked cheerfully fürbaß now, the road through
the green Maien Buchenwald, which the country goes into the
lake.

Before me flew now and then a few Waldvöglein and letzeten their
thirst in the water so deep into the Radgeleisen hours; Linder
because rain had fallen overnight and it did early in the morning,
so that the sun shade the forest still had not exceeded. The bright
throttle hit , of the glades to me Scholl, found its echo in
my heart. The orders, as my master Theurer van der Helst in the
last years of my stay I zugewendet Amsterdam, I was all concerned
Quitt become a good Zehrpfennig and a change to Hamburg still itzt
I wore in my pockets, which I was handsome angethan: my hair
fell on my coat with fine Grauwerk, and the sword was missing
Lütticher not on my hip. My thoughts but rushed ahead of me,
I always saw Mr Gerhardus, my noble large favorable
Protector, as proposed by the threshold of his room my hands würd
'opposite track, with its mild greeting: "So God bless your input,
my John!" He had once with my love, ah, even early in the
eternal glory of the envisaged father to the rights of Jena
studiret and was also nachmals the arts and sciences obgelegen
with diligence, so that he blessed the High Duke Friederich
in his fine, although because of the Kriegsläufte futile efforts
to establishing a state university eager to inspect and Berather
been.

Although a single aristocratic family man He was my dear father,
but always in zugethan remained faithful, even after it had
blessed step in my youth verwaiseten more than to verhoffen, and
not just my thrifty aufgebessert resources, but also by its fürnehme
acquaintance among the Dutch nobility is then brought to my
master Theuermann van der Helst me to his students accepted.
but I thought to know that the ladies man unharmed, sitting on his
mansion, which the Almighty is not enough to thank, because,
meanwhile I the stranger in my zeal of Art , was at home the
horrors of war over the country come, so while that troops who
oppose the kriegswüthigen Sweden assisted the king to hergezogen,
almost worse than the enemies themselves gehauset and even the
servant of God in several miserable death. Due to the sudden step
of the Swedish Carolus was now in peace, but the savage stomp
of war were everywhere, many a farmer or Käthnerhaus, where I
found myself as a boy with a sweet drink milk bewirthet, I had on
my morning walk on the paths niedergesenget are seen and some field
in Edema weed it otherwise at this time of rye drove his green peaks.

But such beschwerete me not too much today, I had only a desire,
as I have the noble Lord through my art wants to prove that he
Was in favor and no undignified've wasted ; thought not lost on
hoodlums and rabble, the wars of her still in the woods should
machinations. tückete But another me, and that was the thought
of Junker Wulf. He had me hold never been, was probably even,
what his noble father done to me, as a theft from his own
views, and sometimes when I, as often after my dear father's death,
in the summer on the Good Vacanze zubrachte, he had me the beautiful
days vergället and salinisation.

Whether he anitzt in his father's home was, it was not known
to me has had only heard that he had before the game in peace and
cups with the traffic officer held Swedish, what right Holsten
loyalty is not to rhyme. Diess By looking at me considered,
I was out of the beech forest in the indicative Tannenstrasse climb
through the match progressed, which is already close to the court.

  How lovely reminder umhauchte me the scent
     of spicy resin, but soon as I stepped from the shadows into the
full sunshine addition, there were on both sides with hazel bushes
eingehegten meadows, and not long, so I wandered between the rows
of huge oak trees zwo to the manor hinaufführen.

I do not know what a bang suddenly feeling overcome me, Ohn all
causes, as I now thought, because it was vain sunshine around, and
from heaven sounded quite charming and warmly encouraging Lerch
singing.

And behold, there on the paddock, where his Immenhof Hofmann has
also stood the old wooden pear tree and whispered with his young
leaves in the blue air.

"Grüß you God!"

I said, powerful, but thought less of the tree, rather than the
Holden creature of God, in which, as it had to add nachmals all
happiness and suffering and all gnawing repent of my life should
be decided, for now and all time.

That was Mr Gerhardus the noble daughter, the Junkers Wulfen
only siblings. Item, it was shortly after my dear father's death,
when I first heard the whole Vacanze spent here, she was currently
a nine-year Dirnlein, their brown braids flying was fun, I counted
for a few years. So one morning I stepped out of the Thorhaus;
the old Hofmann Dieterich, who lives above the entrance and next
to the faithful than a man my Schlafkämmerlein acknowledged, had
me a sheet ash prepared, I am also capable of the bolts to lead
cast, and I wanted to turn now to the Raptors, whose enough
umherschrien at the mansion, because she came from the court admitted
jumped on me.

"You know, John," she said, "I'll show you a birds; there in the
hollow pear tree, but these are Rotschwänzchen, which you may not
shoot!

"
Was it not when virtue was seldom inculcated as a moral duty that
we were required to relinquish the most rational of all our
amusements, when the clergy were enjoined celibacy, and when the
laity were denied the right to read their Bibles?  He thought
that it must have been from a notion of penance that they erected
the drama into an ideal place of profaneness, and spoke of the
theatre as of the tents of sin.  He did not mean to dispute that
there were many excellent persons who thought differently from
him, and he disclaimed the slightest idea of charging them with
bigotry or hypocrisy on that account.  He gave them full credit
for their tender consciences, in making these objections,
although they did not appear relevant to him.  But to these
persons, being, as he believed them, men of worth and piety, he
was sure the purpose of this meeting would furnish some apology
for an error, if there be any, in the opinions of those who
attend.  They would approve the gift, although they might differ
in other points.  Such might not approve of going to the theatre,
but at least could not deny that they might give away from their
superfluity what was required for the relief of the sick, the
support of the aged, and the comfort of the afflicted.  These
were duties enjoined by our religion itself.  (Loud cheers.)

The performers are in a particular manner entitled to the support
or regard, when in old age or distress, of those who have
partaken of the amusements of those places which they render an
ornament to society.  Their art was of a peculiarly delicate and
precarious nature.  They had to serve a long apprenticeship.  It
was very long before even the first-rate geniuses could acquire
the mechanical knowledge of the stage business.  They must
languish long in obscurity before they can avail themselves of
their natural talents; and after that they have but a short space
of time, during which they are fortunate if they can provide the
means of comfort in the decline of life.  That comes late, and
lasts but a short time; after which they are left dependent.
Their limbs fail--their teeth are loosened--their voice is lost
and they are left, after giving happiness to others, in a most
disconsolate state.  The public were liberal and generous to
those deserving their protection.  It was a sad thing to be
dependent on the favour, or, he might say, in plain terms, on the
caprice, of the public; and this more particularly for a class of
persons of whom extreme prudence is not the character.  There
might be instances of opportunities being neglected.  But let
each gentleman tax himself, and consider the opportunities THEY
had neglected, and the sums of money THEY had wasted; let every
gentleman look into his own bosom, and say whether these were
circumstances which would soften his own feelings, were he to be
plunged into distress.  He put it to every generous bosom--to
every better feeling--to say what consolation was it to old age
to be told that you might have made provision at a time which had
been neglected--(loud cheers)--and to find it objected, that if
you had pleased you might have been wealthy.  He had hitherto
been speaking of what, in theatrical language, was called STARS;
but they were sometimes falling ones.  There was another class of
sufferers naturally and necessarily connected with the theatre,
without whom it was impossible to go on.  The sailors have a
saying, Every man cannot be a boatswain.  If there must be a
great actor to act Hamlet, there must also be people to act
Laertes, the King, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern, otherwise a
drama cannot go on.  If even Garrick himself were to rise from
the dead, he could not act Hamlet alone.  There must be generals,
colonels, commanding-officers, subalterns.  But what are the
private soldiers to do?  Many have mistaken their own talents,
and have been driven in early youth to try the stage, to which
they are not competent.  He would know what to say to the
indifferent poet and to the bad artist.  He would say that it was
foolish, and he would recommend to the poet to become a scribe,
and the artist to paint sign-posts.  (Loud laughter.)  But you
could not send the player adrift; for if he cannot play Hamlet,
he must play Guildenstern.  Where there are many labourers, wages
must be low and no man in such a situation can decently support a
wife and family, and save something off his income for old age.
What is this man to do in later life?  Are you to cast him off
like an old hinge, or a piece of useless machinery, which has
done its work?  To a person who had contributed to our amusement,
this would be unkind, ungrateful, and unchristian.  His wants are
not of his own making, but arise from the natural sources of
sickness and old age.  It cannot be denied that there is one
class of sufferers to whom no imprudence can be ascribed, except
on first entering on the profession.  After putting his hand to
the dramatic plough, he cannot draw back, but must continue at
it, and toil, till death release him from want, or charity, by
its milder influence, steps in to render that want more
tolerable.  He had little more to say, except that he sincerely
hoped that the collection to-day, from the number of respectable
gentlemen present, would meet the views entertained by the
patrons.  He hoped it would do so.  They should not be
disheartened.  Though they could not do a great deal, they might
do something.  They had this consolation, that everything they
parted with from their superfluity would do some good.  They
would sleep the better themselves when they had been the means of
giving sleep to others.  It was ungrateful and unkind that those
who had sacrificed their youth to our amusement should not
receive the reward due to them, but should be reduced to hard
fare in their old age.  We cannot think of poor Falstaff going to
bed without his cup of sack, or Macbeth fed on bones as
marrowless as those of Banquo.  (Loud cheers and laughter.) As he
believed that they were all as fond of the dramatic art as he was
in his younger days, he would propose that they should drink "The
Theatrical Fund," with three times three.

Mr. MACKAY rose, on behalf of his brethren, to return their
thanks for the toast just drunk.  Many of the gentlemen present,
he said, were perhaps not fully acquainted with the nature and
intention of the institution, and it might not be amiss to enter
into some explanation on the subject.  With whomsoever the idea
of a Theatrical Fund might have originated (and it had been
disputed by the surviving relatives of two or three individuals),
certain it was that the first legally constituted Theatrical Fund
owed its origin to one of the brightest ornaments of the
profession, the late David Garrick.  That eminent actor conceived
that, by a weekly subscription in the theatre, a fund might be
raised among its members, from which a portion might be given to
those of his less fortunate brethren, and thus an opportunity
would be offered for prudence to provide what fortune had denied
--a comfortable provision for the winter of life.  With the
welfare of his profession constantly at heart, the zeal with
which he laboured to uphold its respectability, and to impress
upon the minds or his brethren, not only the necessity, but the
blessing of independence, the Fund became his peculiar care.  He
drew up a form of laws for its government, procured at his own
expense the passing of an Act of Parliament for its confirmation,
bequeathed to it a handsome legacy, and thus became the father of
the Drury Lane Fund.  So constant was his attachment to this
infant establishment, that he chose to grace the close of the
brightest theatrical life on record by the last display of his
transcendent talent on the occasion of a benefit for this child
of his adoption, which ever since has gone by the name of the
Garrick Fund.  In imitation of his noble example, funds had been
established in several provincial theatres in England; but it
remained for Mrs. Henry Siddons and Mr. William Murray to become
the founders of the first Theatrical Fund in Scotland.  (Cheers.)
Banquo Too cruel anywhere! - O dear Macduff, contradictory to say
And you tell yourself that it is not so. (Macbeth and Lenox with
steeds come back.) MACBETH War I has died, an hour only, Eh, this
was done, was blessed my life! From now there is nothing more
serious in life, everything is Tand, died in glory and grace!
The life of wine is poured, yeast remained only to boast the
vault. (Malcolm and Donalbain occur.) DONALBAIN Who Was suffering?
MACBETH yourself, and know it not: The Born, the origin of
your blood is dry, the source of life itself dry. Macduff Eur
royal father is murdered. MALCOLM Ha! By whom? LENOX The Kämmerling,
it seems, are the perpetrators, because the hands and face
were blutge characters, too, their daggers, which unabgewischt
beaten on their cushions. As in madness, Sun stares' her eye, and
it was dangerous, only to come near them. MACBETH Oh, now I regret
my anger that I niederstieß. Macduff Why did ihrs done? MACBETH
Who knows', and horrified, taken and wütig, Pflichttreu and
cold in a moment? No man. Heftgen The speed of my love ran
faster than the hesitant reason. Duncan was here, the silver
skin verbrämt with his golden blood; the open wounds, you were
like a crack in the nature, entrance verheernden disaster, where
the murderers, dipped in their craft paint, the daggers of
coagulated blood Horrible black. Who could curb because of a heart
full of love hatt in your heart and courage, to show the love?
LADY MACBETH Help me away! Macduff Look to the Lady! MALCOLM Why
silent we, as our claim to this pain the next? DONALBAIN Solln
What we are talking about here, where our fate Herstürzen can
be from any angle, to take us? Survival, because our tears are
not yet ripe. Heftger MALCOLM Yet our grief is ready to act.
Banquo Look to the Lady! (Lady Macbeth will be continued.)
Verhüllt And we have only our nakedness, so to show the
unseemly, so we take us to investigate the atrocity blutgen To get
to the bottom. Shake your fear and doubt, I stand in God's great
hand, and so I Kämpf ungesprochnen appearance of treason against
evil. So I MacDuff. All of us ALL. Wolln MACBETH We ourselves
completely attraction, and soon again we meet in the hall.
Well ALL so it's! (Malcolm and Donalbain remain while the
rest go from.) MALCOLM What are you doing? Let us not keep to
them. Erlognen pain-point is' ne Art The slightly the wrong will.
I go to England.

DONALBAIN After Ireland, I; separate our luck keeps us better.
Where we are, drones Daggers In every smile, and the more
blood-related, and more related to Sun's death. MALCOLM The arrow
is shot down killing flies And yet, security is only for us,
we avoid the goal. Drum fast horses, And we will not hesitate,
even those to greet, no, secretly continued! Non-prosecution of
the thief is, itself, the steals, where he had left no mercy.
(They go from.) SECOND SCENE (Daselbst. Before the castle) (Rosse
occurs with an old man) ALTER At seventy years I can well remember,
during this period, I saw terrible days and wonderful thing, but
this evil power all night superiors small. ROSSE O good
father, the sky, look, when he Zürn human deeds, threaten
this blutgen stage. The clock displays day, But the dark night
suffocating Migrant lamp. Ists victory of the night, it is the
shame of the day, darkness of the earth that buries face, When
living light should kiss it? ALTER unnaturally, as the geschehn
indeed. On last Tuesday, I saw a proud flight And a hawk hovered
Eul nachjagt him and choked him. ROSSE And Duncan's horses,
strange ists, but surely, So swift and beautiful, the jewel
'of their blood, brownfields, savaged throughout, from And
overthrew its stables continue to ruffling the obedience, as
they wanted war with the people. AGE It is said that they ate each
other. ROSSE Yes; Dreadful wars, I've even seen it. Here comes
the noble Macduff - (Macduff occurs.) Well, sir, how goes the
world? Macduff Oh, look ihrs not? ROSSE white man who did more
than blutge fact? Macduff Those who killed Macbeth. ROSSE O misery,
what they hoped it? you MacDuff warn hired. Donalbain and Malcolm,
the king's sons, are secretly continued entflohn, which shifts
to the fact they are suspected. ROSSE always against
nature! wasteful ambition, as you devour life maintenance of the
owner - This is probably the king of dignity Macbeth fall?
Macduff He is already appointed, and after his coronation
at Scone gone. ROSSE Where is Duncan's body? Macduff Colme After
you kill him leads to heilgen vault, Where the bones of his
ancestors all gathered ruhn. ROSSE If your after Scone? MacDuff
No, cousin, I go after Fife. ROSSE How do I want to go. Macduff
Farewell! Mag geschehn everything so that we can not say that
was the old Easy to wear skirt! ([He goes from.]) ROSSE
father, lives well! ALTER God bless you and those who honestly
thinks; misfortune to salvation discord to peace Draws! (you go
from.) THIRD ACT FIRST SCENE (Fores, room in the castle) (Banquo
occurs.) Banquo You have now, King, Cawdor, Glamis, all, How's
the Zauberfraun displayed - I'm afraid you play test villainously
drum. But was told it should not remain in your tribe, but
I should be root and father Of many Köngen. Coming from them
truth, How, Macbeth, their word to you bestätgen, Why, in the
performance, which you promised, they are not my Solln oracle
also be my hope And kräftgen? Still, nothing else. (Trumpets, it
occurs as Macbeth King and Lady Macbeth as Queen; Lenox,
Rosse, Lords, Ladies and his retinue.) MACBETH This is our highest
guest. LADY MACBETH Ward he forget Wars like a crack in our great
feast And all ungeziemend. MACBETH Lord, we hold a festive meal
tonight, and I ask for your presence. Banquo Eur sovereignty
has to command; remains inextricably Forever my duty-bound
to you. verreist MACBETH Your still the afternoon? Banquo Yes,
Sir. MACBETH So we would probably your Council so desired, the
always full insight and fruitful was the Council of State
today, but tomorrow we treat him. Is your journey far? Banquo
So far, my king, that the time from now till evening fills; Does
not my horse well, so I probably still of the night 'ne dark
hours borrow. MACBETH If not for our celebration! Banquo My Lord,
I come. MACBETH We hear, our blutgen cousins dwell In England
and Ireland, not the confessional horror patricide, with fairy
tales seltnen Listeners deceptive. But that was for tomorrow,
Furthermore, since the state fiscal Zusammenruft us all. Lines
not longer: living well, until we ourselves sehn night. Fleance
goes with you? Banquo Yes, dear Lord, the time urges us to
express. MACBETH Rossen Den wünsch ich fast, secure barrel;
alsobald she climbs reiset and happy! - (Banquo's up.) Everyone
was now lord of its hours to seven clock; chumminess To us the
season, are we to dinner with us alone.

Until then God ordered! ([All pass; Macbeth remains.] Lady Macbeth,
Lords, Ladies and wake from.) Du da, a word: there are those
men here? ([The servant occurs.]) DIENER you wait before
the castle gate, my lord. Führ MACBETH it before us! - (geht ab
servant.) That way, it is nothing, But to be sure .-- In Banquo
Our fear is rooted deep in his king sense Where there is what the
wants to be feared. Much he dares, And except this
unerschrocknen Spirit Wisdom Is he the leader of courage, To
save work. Except it is not, before I must tremble, and under
him My Genius Prevents shy, like, told you so, Before Caesar
Mark Anton. He scolded the sisters DC, when she named me the
king gave, And bade them speak to him, then prophetically, they
welcomed him father of many Köngen. My main infertile received
the crown, scepter The drought gave the thumb, that a foreign hand
is I entwinde, No son of mine is erbe. Is it so? Do I root for
Banquos stained my heart, For it strangles the grace of Duncan,
peace in my cup poison poured only for them and my
immortal gem of the archenemy of all people released, to crown
them, crown Banquos to brood! Eh this happens , come, fate, into
the barriers And fordre me death and life! - Holla! (The servant
comes with two murderers.) walking out the door and wait until
we call .-- (The servant goes anyway.) Wars not yesterday,
because we talked each other? First Murderer It was, Your Majesty.
MACBETH Well, unless you have now thought of my speeches? To
know that it was former, to give you so hard pressed, which,
as it wähntet, I did the completely blameless. This I have
proved in our interview, makes' you clear How you hinterging and
inhibited; called you the tool and who also worked with them,
And everything else, which of course 'Soul And half its meaning
stupid zurief: The tat Banquo! First Murderer So do us ihrs
explained. MACBETH I did it and walked on, so now I have
possessions restores response.

Feel her patience so predominant in your nature, That ye hingehn
so let? Are you so pious to pray for a good man and his family,
the heavy hand to the grave you bent, beggars made to you and
your children?

FIRST murderer My king, we are men.

MACBETH Yes, the directory is running it with than men How hunting
and greyhound, Blendling, quail dog, Spitz, Poodle, German
Shepherd Dog and Wolf, all the name designates dog. The rank tab
If then the fast, slow, smart, The Hausbewacher and the
hunters, after all his property to him Liebreich natural gift,
which he will besondre name from the crowd, which Benamt all equal,
and so ists with the people .

Do you have a place in the rank registers, but not bad in the
Mannheit, speak, And this works, I trust your bosom, whose enforcement
entrafft your enemy, firmly Herzinnig Our Lieb euch forges; Since
our well-being unhealthy if he lives, And only in his death gesundet.

SECOND murderer Sir, With hard blow and blow me the world aufgereizt
So that I do not care what the world in spite of I do.

First Murderer And I am one, So dull misery of so disheveled by
accident that I put my life on every throw, it improve or get rid of.

MACBETH You know it both Banquo was eur enemy.

[SECOND] BOTH murderer Certainly, my lord. MACBETH So is he my
well, And in so blutger sewing that each pulse from him in my
heart life aims.

And even though my power with open face, you can delete it from
my view and the free My word indeed gestehn; ichs but may not
order some of my friend is just like him, Des Lieb, I can not
miss, his case must I complain to myself killed, And that is
why I am speaking to you for help, the mob eye the business
verlarvend For some reason wichtgen. SECOND murderer We
vollziehn, What your command. FIRST murderer if our lives also -
MACBETH For your eyes will light your courage. In this hour I
will meld spätstens, Where you is, you report on the exact
moment, because today it must be night, And something from the
castle - always tuned thought that I must appear inside! And with
him, not only the top half and to do so, must Fleance, his
son, his society, Des Wegsein me no less important than
his father, the skill with him, the dark hours sharing.
You now decides for you; I immediately come back. [SECOND]
TWO murderers We are determined to master. MACBETH So I call
you soon; dwells inside! (The murderer anyway.) It is
decided. Do, Banquo, thou heaven to win, you must Seel
heut night flight begin. (all starting from.) SECOND SCENE (Daselbst
another room) (Lady Macbeth occurs with a servant.) LADY MACBETH
Is Banquo continue the Court? SERVANT Yes, mistress, but he comes
back tonight. LADY MACBETH The King meld, I let him ask in order
wenge moments. DIENER I obey. (He goes anyway.)

LADY MACBETH Nothing is gained, everything is there, we stand
at the finish with unzufriednem sense: Much safer, to be
what We destroyed, that destruction as fluctuating happiness
granted. (Macbeth occurs.) Well, dear friend, what are you so
alone And choose only hazy images companions? hegend thoughts,
but the dead should be, How jen ', to which they think. What
incurable, forget it's! Geschehn is what geschehn. MACBETH
Wounded was the snake, not killed, you heal and will remain the
same, however, her teeth How else jeopardized our poor
malice. But before construction is to smash things, the two
worlds to shudder, eh, we eat more in fear our meal and sleep
In the affliction of such horror Dreams, The Us allnächtlich shake.
Dear in the dead of the peace to us, To the peace we all, as to
the torture of the soul in restless torment to twitch. Duncan
went to his grave, soft to sleep after he showers fever of life.
His worst betrayal did not nor poison dagger Einheimsche malice,
alien attack, nothing Can touch him further. LADY MACBETH O let
good, my dear man, your face is now smooth, Be happy and
merry with your guests today! MACBETH I will, love, and it's
please! Especially on Banquo wend your care and give him
distinction in word and glance. Unsure yet we are forced to
swim to our Würd flows into Schmeichel; The fact that we will
face larva of the heart, hide, what it is.

LADY MACBETH You the need to leave! MACBETH Oh, full of scorpions
is my mind! You know, sweetheart, lives and Banquo Fleance.
LADY MACBETH But is not her life forever Lehnsbrief. MACBETH
Yes, that's consolation: you can still come to them; drum was
you happy! Eh the bat ended their monastic flight Eh, to darken
the reputation of Hekate, The hornbeschwingte beetles, drowsy
humming, nächtge The bell has rung slumber, Is an act of terrible
geschehn Art LADY MACBETH What do you do?

MACBETH remain innocent, child, and knew nothing, until you can
indeed call applause. Come with your dark towel, night, close
the full day tender pitying eye, with invisible strings
through, blutger hand and tearing to pieces that great Lehnsbrief,
The bleaches my cheeks! - The light is dim, The Crow collects
the flight to damp forest; To sleep crouched in a good
world of the day, however, black night stuff its prey
accrues. You marvel at me? Still - Sündentsproßne works Erlangen
sins only through force and strength. So please, go with me (you
go from.) THIRD STAGE (Daselbst, a park or lawn with a gate,
which [when] the castle) (Three Murder occurs.) FIRST murderer,
but who called you to join us? THIRD murderer Macbeth. SECOND
murderer You do not mißtraun him, because he knows our business,
which we applied, And knows it. First Murderer So stay with
us . The Western smoulders still weak days Strip, The rider
spurs now eilger by Dämmrung, To Give more to come, and already
is approaching the one we expected. THIRD murderer horses! -
listening! Banquo (behind the scene.) Heda brings light! SECOND
murderer he must be the other, the more were expected, are all
in the castle. FIRST murderer Horses make a detour. THIRD
murderer Nearly one miles, and he usually does, as does everyone,
from here up to the castle gate on foot. ([Banquo and Fleance
occur, a servant with a torch forward.]) A SECOND murderer light!
THIRD murderer he is. FIRST murderer Do tuned! (Banquo and Fleance
occur at a torch on .) Banquo 's come rain or night. First
Murderer So he might fall! (stabs Banquo.) Banquo Woe to me!
Treachery! Centrifugal, good Fleance, fleeing, fleeing, you may
be my avenger .-- O villain! (Banquo dies. Fleance escapes [and
the servant fliehn].) THIRD murderer who beat out the
light? FIRST murderer Wars not well done? THIRD Only one killer
is; the son fled. SECOND murderer Sun is the best half of our Müh
lost. First Murderer Well, we go and report what did. (They
go from.) FOURTH SCENE (Daselbst. Ceremonial Hall in the
castle, covered table ) (It occurs Macbeth, Lady Macbeth, Rosse,
Lenox, Lords, the aftermath.)

MACBETH You know your own place: take place!

Be Welcome once and for all! Lords Thanks to your Highness!
MACBETH We want your company into the mix as attentive host.
The hostess took her seat early, but with relief, we request
their greeting and welcome. LADY MACBETH Say it for me to all
our friends, because I sincerely warm welcome to all. ([The first
occurs on the killers side one.]) MACBETH Look, her heart
will thank you forward. Immediately, both sides fully.
Here I will put in the middle.
But as our means may be found,
in time of need, inadequate to the fulfilment of our wishes--
fearful of raising expectations which we may be unable to
gratify--desirous not "to keep the word of promise to the ear,
and break it to the hope"--we have presumed to court the
assistance of the friends of the drama to strengthen our infant
institution.  Our appeal has been successful beyond our most
sanguine expectations.  The distinguished patronage conferred on
us by your presence on this occasion, and the substantial support
which your benevolence has so liberally afforded to our
institution, must impress every member of the Fund with the most
grateful sentiments--sentiments which no language can express, no
time obliterate.  (Applause.)  I will not trespass longer on your
attention.  I would the task of acknowledging our obligation had
fallen into abler hands.  (Hear, hear.)  In the name of the
Stewards, I most respectfully and cordially thank you for the
honour you have done us, which greatly overpays our poor
endeavours.  (Applause.)

[This speech, though rather inadequately reported, was one of the
best delivered on this occasion.  That it was creditable to Mr.
Vandenhoff's taste and feelings, the preceding sketch will show;
but how much it was so, it does not show.]

Mr. J. CAY gave "Professor Wilson and the University of
Edinburgh, of which he was one of the brightest ornaments"

Lord MEADOWBANK, after a suitable eulogium, gave "The Earl of
Fife," which was drunk with three times three.

Earl FIFE expressed his high gratification at the honour
conferred on him.  He intimated his approbation of the
institution, and his readiness to promote its success by every
means in his power.  He concluded with giving "The Health of the
Company of Edinburgh."

Mr. JONES, on rising to return thanks, being received with
considerable applause, said he was truly grateful for the kind
encouragement he had experienced, but the novelty of the
situation in which he now was renewed all the feelings he
experienced when he first saw himself announced in the bills as a
young gentleman, being his first appearance on any stage.
(Laughter and applause.) Although in the presence of those whose
indulgence had, in another sphere, so often shielded him from the
penalties of inability, he was unable to execute the task which
had so unexpectedly devolved upon him in behalf of his brethren
and himself.  He therefore begged the company to imagine all that
grateful hearts could prompt the most eloquent to utter, and that
would be a copy of their feelings.  (Applause.)  He begged to
trespass another moment on their attention, for the purpose of
expressing the thanks of the members of the Fund to the Gentlemen
of the Edinburgh Professional Society of Musicians, who, finding
that this meeting was appointed to take place on the same evening
with their concert, had, in the handsomest manner, agreed to
postpone it.  Although it was his duty thus to preface the toast
he had to propose, he was certain the meeting required no further
inducement than the recollection of the pleasure the exertions of
those gentlemen had often afforded them within those walls, to
join heartily in drinking "Health and Prosperity to the Edinburgh
Professional Society of Musicians."  (Applause.)

Mr. PAT. ROBERTSON Proposed "The Health of Mr. Jeffrey," whose
absence was owing to indisposition.  The public was well aware
that he was the most distinguished advocate at the bar.  He was
likewise distinguished for the kindness, frankness, and cordial
manner in which he communicated with the junior members of the
profession, to the esteem of whom his splendid talents would
always entitle him.

Mr. J. MACONOCHIE gave "The Health of Mrs. Siddons, senior, the
most distinguished ornament of the stage."

Sir W. SCOTT said that if anything could reconcile him to old
age, it was the reflection that he had seen the rising as well as
the setting sun of Mrs. Siddons.  He remembered well their
breakfasting near to the Theatre--waiting the whole day--the
crushing at the doors at six o'clock--and their going in and
counting their fingers till seven o'clock.  But the very first
step--the very first word which she uttered--was sufficient to
overpay him for all his labours.  The house was literally
electrified; and it was only from witnessing the effects of her
genius that he could guess to what a pitch theatrical excellence
could be carried.  Those young gentlemen who have only seen the
setting sun of this distinguished performer, beautiful and serene
as that was, must give us old fellows, who have seen its rise and
its meridian, leave to hold our heads a little higher.

Mr. DUNDAS gave "The Memory of Home, the author of Douglas."

Mr. MACKAY here announced that the subscriptions for the night
amounted to L280, and he expressed gratitude for this substantial
proof of their kindness.  [We are happy to state that
subscriptions have since flowed in very liberally.]

Mr. MACKAY here entertained the company with a pathetic song.

Sir WALTER SCOTT apologized for having so long forgotten their
native land.  He would now give "Scotland, the land of Cakes."
He would give every river, every loch, every hill, from Tweed to
Johnnie Groat's house--every lass in her cottage and countess in
her castle--and may her sons stand by her, as their fathers did
before them; and he who would not drink a bumper to his toast,
may he never drink whisky more!

Sir WALTER SCOTT here gave "Lord Meadowbank," who returned
thanks.

Mr. H. G. BELL said that he should not have ventured to intrude
himself upon the attention of the assembly, did he not feel
confident that the toast he begged to have the honour to propose
would make amends for the very imperfect manner in which he might
express his sentiments regarding it.  It had been said that,
notwithstanding the mental supremacy of the present age--
notwithstanding that the page of our history was studded with
names destined also for the page of immortality--that the genius
of Shakespeare was extinct, and the fountain of his inspiration
dried up.  It might be that these observations were unfortunately
correct, or it might be that we were bewildered with a name, not
disappointed of the reality; for though Shakespeare had brought a
Hamlet, an Othello, and a Macbeth, an Ariel, a Juliet, and a
Rosalind, upon the stage, were there not authors living who had
brought as varied, as exquisitely painted, and as undying a range
of characters into our hearts?  The shape of the mere mould into
which genius poured its golden treasures was surely a matter of
little moment, let it be called a Tragedy, a Comedy, or a
Waverley Novel.  But even among the dramatic authors of the
present day, he was unwilling to allow that there was a great and
palpable decline from the glory of preceding ages, and his toast
alone would bear him out in denying the truth of the proposition.
After eulogizing the names of Baillie, Byron, Coleridge, Maturin,
and others, he begged to have the honour of proposing "The Health
of James Sheridan Knowles."

Sir WALTER SCOTT.  Gentlemen, I crave a bumper all over.  The
last toast reminds me of a neglect of duty.  Unaccustomed to a
public duty of this kind, errors in conducting the ceremonial of
it may be excused, and omissions pardoned.  Perhaps I have made
one or two omissions in the course of the evening for which I
trust you will grant me your pardon and indulgence.  One thing in
particular I have omitted, and I would now wish to make amends
for it by a libation of reverence and respect to the memory of
SHAKESPEARE.  He was a man of universal genius, and from a period
soon after his own era to the present day he has been universally
idolized.  When I come to his honoured name, I am like the sick
man who hung up his crutches at the shrine, and was obliged to
confess that he did not walk better than before.  It is indeed
difficult, gentlemen, to compare him to any other individual.
The only one to whom I call at all compare him is the wonderful
Arabian dervise, who dived into the body of each, and in this way
became familiar with the thoughts and secrets of their hearts.
He was a man of obscure origin, and, as a player, limited in his
acquirements; but he was born evidently with a universal genius.
His eyes glanced at all the varied aspects of life, and his fancy
portrayed with equal talents the king on the throne and the clown
who crackles his chestnuts at a Christmas fire.  Whatever note he
takes, he strikes it just and true, and awakens a corresponding
chord in our own bosoms, Gentlemen, I propose "The Memory of
William Shakespeare."

Glee--"Lightly tread, 'tis hallowed ground."

After the glee, Sir WALTER rose and begged to propose as a toast
the health of a lady, whose living merit is not a little
honourable to Scotland.  The toast (said he) is also flattering
to the national vanity of a Scotchman, as the lady whom I intend
to propose is a native of this country.  From the public her
works have met with the most favourable reception.  One piece of
hers, in particular, was often acted here of late years, and gave
pleasure of no mean kind to many brilliant and fashionable
audiences.  In her private character she (he begged leave to say)
is as remarkable as in a public sense she is for her genius.  In
short, he would in one word name--"Joanna Baillie."

This health being drunk, Mr. THORNE was called on for a song, and
sung, with great taste and feeling, "The Anchor's Weighed."

W. MENZIES, Esq., Advocate, rose to propose the health of a
gentleman for many years connected at intervals with the dramatic
art in Scotland.  Whether we look at the range of characters he
performs, or at the capacity which he evinces in executing those
which he undertakes, he is equally to he admired.  In all his
parts he is unrivalled.  The individual to whom he alluded is
(said he) well known to the gentlemen present, in the characters
of Malvolio, Lord Ogleby, and the Green Man; and in addition to
his other qualities, he merits, for his perfection in these
characters, the grateful sense of this meeting.  He would wish,
in the first place, to drink his health as an actor.  But he was
not less estimable in domestic life, and as a private gentleman;
and when he announced him as one whom the chairman had honoured
with his friendship, he was sure that all present would cordially
join him in drinking "The Health of Mr. Terry."

Mr. We laughed at you. Gonsalo. In this kind of Spaßhaftigkeit
is nothing against you, so you can go ahead, nothing to laugh
about. Antonio. This has to be a slap in the face Seyn?
Sebastian. If they had not fallen apart Bey. Gonsalo. Your Seyde
tapfre gentlemen, you would the moon from his circles
lift when he was only five weeks in a row without a decline would
seem. (Ariel appears, speaking to the invisible people with a
serious and einschläfrenden music.) Sebastian. That we wanted to,
and then on the bird Heerde. Antonio (to Gonsalo.) No, my good
Lord, will not be evil. Gonsalo. I stand before you, that
I'm about to gescheidt your ideas are bad. Will ye me laugh in the
bedroom?But he would recommend that,
as some of the gentlemen might be in the same situation, the box
should be again sent round, and he was confident that they, as
well as he, would redeem their error.

Sir WALTER SCOTT said that the meeting was somewhat in the
situation of Mrs. Anne Page, who had L300 and possibilities.  We
have already got, said he, L280, but I should like, I confess, to
have the L300.  He would gratify himself by proposing the health
of an honourable person, the Lord Chief Baron, whom England has
sent to us, and connecting with it that of his "yokefellow on the
bench," as Shakespeare says, Mr. Baron Clerk--The Court of
Exchequer.

Mr. Baron CLERK regretted the absence of his learned brother.
None, he was sure, could be more generous in his nature, or more
ready to help a Scottish purpose.

Sir WALTER SCOTT,--There is one who ought to be remembered on
this occasion.  He is, indeed, well entitled to our grateful
recollection--one, in short, to whom the drama in this city owes
much.  He succeeded, not without trouble, and perhaps at some
considerable sacrifice, in establishing a theatre.  The younger
part of the company may not recollect the theatre to which I
allude, but there are some who with me may remember by name a
place called Carrubber's Close.  There Allan Ramsay established
his little theatre.  His own pastoral was not fit for the stage,
but it has its admirers in those who love the Doric language in
which it is written; and it is not without merits of a very
peculiar kind.  But laying aside all considerations of his
literary merit, Allan was a good, jovial, honest fellow, who
could crack a bottle with the best.  "The Memory of Allan
Ramsay."

Mr. MURRAY, on being requested, sung "'Twas merry in the hall,"
and at the conclusion was greeted with repeated rounds of
applause.

Mr. JONES.--One omission I conceive has been made.  The cause of
the Fund has been ably advocated, but it is still susceptible, in
my opinion, of an additional charm--

  "Without the smile from partial beauty won,
   Oh, what were man?--a world without a sun!"

And there would not be a darker spot in poetry than would be the
corner in Shakespeare Square, if, like its fellow, the Register
Office, the Theatre were deserted by the ladies.  They are, in
fact, our most attractive stars.  "The Patronesses of the
Theatre, the Ladies of the City of Edinburgh."  This toast I ask
leave to drink with all the honours which conviviality can
confer.

Mr. PATRICK ROBERTSON would be the last man willingly to
introduce any topic calculated to interrupt the harmony of the
evening; yet he felt himself treading upon ticklish ground when
he approached the region of the Nor' Loch.  He assured the
company, however, that he was not about to enter on the subject
of the Improvement Bill.  They all knew that if the public were
unanimous--if the consent of all parties were obtained--if the
rights and interests of everybody were therein attended to,
saved, reserved, respected, and excepted--if everybody agreed to
it--and, finally, a most essential point, if nobody opposed it
--then, and in that case, and provided also that due intimation
were given, the bill in question might pass--would pass--or
might, could, would, or should pass--all expenses being defrayed.
(Laughter.)  He was the advocate of neither champion, and would
neither avail himself of the absence of the Right Hon. the Lord
Provost, nor take advantage of the non-appearance of his friend,
Mr. Cockburn.  (Laughter.) But in the midst of these civic broils
there had been elicited a ray of hope that, at some future
period, in Bereford Park, or some other place, if all parties
were consulted and satisfied, and if intimation were duly made at
the kirk doors of all the parishes in Scotland, in terms of the
statute in that behalf provided--the people of Edinburgh might by
possibility get a new Theatre.  (Cheers and laughter.)  But
wherever the belligerent powers might be pleased to set down this
new Theatre, he was sure they all hoped to meet the Old Company
in it.  He should therefore propose "Better Accommodation to the
Old Company in the new Theatre, site unknown."--Mr. Robertson's
speech was most humorously given, and he sat down amidst loud
cheers and laughter.

Sir WALTER SCOTT.--Wherever the new Theatre is built, I hope it
will not be large.  There are two errors which we commonly
commit--the one arising from our pride, the other from our
poverty.  If there are twelve plans, it is odds but the largest,
without any regard to comfort, or an eye to the probable expense,
is adopted.  There was the College projected on this scale, and
undertaken in the same manner, and who shall see the end of it?
It has been building all my life, and may probably last during
the lives of my children, and my children's children.  Let not
the same prophetic hymn be sung when we commence a new Theatre,
which was performed on the occasion of laying the foundation-
stone of a certain edifice, "Behold the endless work begun."
Playgoing folks should attend somewhat to convenience.  The new
Theatre should, in the first place, be such as may be finished in
eighteen months or two years; and, in the second place, it should
be one in which we can hear our old friends with comfort.  It is
better that a moderate-sized house should be crowded now and
then, than to have a large theatre with benches continually
empty, to the discouragement of the actors and the discomfort of
the spectators.  (Applause.)  He then commented in flattering
terms on the genius of Mackenzie and his private worth, and
concluded by proposing "The Health of Henry Mackenzie, Esq."

Immediately afterwards he said:--Gentlemen, it is now wearing
late, and I shall request permission to retire.  Like Partridge,
I may say, "NON SUM QUALIS ERAM."  At my time of day I can agree
with Lord Ogilvie as to his rheumatism, and say, "There's a
twinge."  I hope, therefore, you will excuse me for leaving the
chair.--The worthy Baronet then retired amidst long, loud, and
rapturous cheering.

Mr. PATRICK ROBERTSON was then called to the chair by common
acclamation.

Gentlemen, said Mr. Robertson, I take the liberty of asking you
to fill a bumper to the very brim.  There is not one of us who
will not remember, while he lives, being present at this day's
festival, and the declaration made this night by the gentleman
who has just left the chair.  That declaration has rent the veil
from the features of the Great Unknown--a name which must now
merge in the name of the Great Known.  It will be henceforth
coupled with the name of SCOTT, which will become familiar like a
household word.  We have heard the confession from his own
immortal lips--(cheering)--and we cannot dwell with too much or
too fervent praise on the merits of the greatest man whom
Scotland has produced.

After which several other toasts were given, and Mr. Robertson
left the room about half-past eleven.  A few choice spirits,
however, rallied round Captain Broadhead of the 7th Hussars, who
was called to the chair, and the festivity was prolonged till an
early hour on Saturday morning.

The band of the Theatre occupied the gallery, and that of the 7th
Hussars the end of the room, opposite the chair, whose
performances were greatly admired.  It is but justice to Mr. Gibb
to state that the dinner was very handsome (though slowly served
in), and the wines good.  The attention of the stewards was
exemplary.  Mr. Murray and Mr. Vandenhoff, with great good taste,
attended on Sir Walter Scott's right and left, and we know that
he has expressed himself much gratified by their anxious
politeness and sedulity.


*


CHRONICLES OF THE CANONGATE - INTRODUCTORY.


CHAPTER I.

MR. CHRYSTAL CROFTANGRY'S ACCOUNT OF HIMSELF.

Sic itur ad astra.

"This is the path to heaven."  Such is the ancient motto attached
to the armorial bearings of the Canongate, and which is
inscribed, with greater or less propriety, upon all the public
buildings, from the church to the pillory, in the ancient quarter
of Edinburgh which bears, or rather once bore, the same relation
to the Good Town that Westminster does to London, being still
possessed of the palace of the sovereign, as it formerly was
dignified by the residence of the principal nobility and gentry.
With a cheerful, happy sensuality gifted, he may be old, without
any condition on his it. Now he had his accident but his illness
and the pure feeling of youth and robbed him on the other hand, a
look at the transience, the cut opened our existence.

It was a launichte, Rhapsodic sort through the items to think, or
rather their immediate impressions to express emerged. He was
not happy alone, operating on all coffee houses, in all host
tables around, and if he remained at home, yes, were his favorite
travel descriptions, and indeed his only reading. This enabled
him now that he found a large lending library, to satisfy the
request, and soon half the world haunted in his good memories.
How easy it could be his friends courage opponent, such as his
total lack of stock on his so - solemnly promised relation discovered.
"Because we want to make an art piece," said that, "that his
peers do not have. Is not Germany from one end to another
durchreist, crossed, crossed, durchkrochen and durchflogen? And
has not every German travelers to the wonderful advantage of
its large or small expenditure of public wiedererstatten
to leave? Give me only your itinerary before you come to us: the
other I know. Hülfsmittel The sources and to thy works I will
give you advice; of square miles that are not measured, and
quantity of people, are not counted, we must not be missing.

The income of the country, we assume from pocket books and tables,
as known, the documents are reliable. Then we found our political
Raisonnements; by side views of the governments should not be
missing. A few Prince, we describe as the true fathers of the
fatherland, so the sooner we believe that if we attach some other
something, and if we do not quite through the City of some famous
people pass through, so we meet them at an inn, let us trust in the
silly stuff to say.

Especially we must not forget, a love story with some naive girls
to the charming einzuflechten, and it is a work which is not
only father and mother met with delight, but also let's you do
any paid booksellers with pleasure. "One progressively to the
works, and the two friends had a lot of pleasure in their
work, however, Wilhelm evening in the theater and in dealing
with Aurelien Serlo and the biggest satisfaction was his ideas
and that is all too long in a tight circle herumgedreht had spread
further every day IV. Paper, 18 Chapter Eighteenth Chapter is
not without the greatest interest he heard the piecewise CV Serlos:
because it was not the way this man seltnen confidential and to
be on anything in connection to speak. He was, one may say in
the theater was born and suckled. Even as a dumb child he had by
his mere presence to stir the audience, because even then the
authors of these natural and innocent Hülfsmittel knew, and his
first "Father" and "mother" brought him in popular pieces already
the biggest applause something before it knew what that meant
clapping.

When he came Amor trembling more than once in flight works down
as Harlekin evolved from the egg and made a small meal Kehrer
early on-like pranks. Unfortunately, he had the applause which
he received in shiny evening in the lap times very expensive.
His father, convinced that only by blows the attention of the
children excited and could be detained, flogged him in the
rehearsal of each role to measured times, not because the child
was clumsy, but so are some more clever and persistent may
show. So once we were through a boundary has been set, the slaps
in the face surrounding talented children and the oldest people
still remember exactly the place and the body. He grew up
and showed extraordinary abilities of the mind and skills
of the body and a great flexibility both in its Vorstellungsart
than in actions and gestures. His Nachahmungsgabe
exceeded all belief. Even as a boy imitating people, so that
they are believed to be seen whether he is already in shape, age
and being completely dissimilar and among different. It is not
missing it at the gift in the world to send and when he is somewhat
aware of his strength was, he found nothing more natural than to
escape his father, who, like the sense of the boy grew and his skill
is propagated them still hard to take its encounter was necessary.

How happy feeling of the boy now loose in the free world, since
his antics Eulenspiegel everywhere gave a good reception. His
good star led him first in the Carnival time in a monastery, where
he was, because of the Father, the affable and to provide spiritual
masquerades by the Christian community to delight had died as a
hülfreicher Schutzengel occurred. Also, he assumed the role
once Gabriels in the proclamation and mißfiel the pretty girls
are not, as Mary's greeting obligeanten with humility and topical
inside Stolze very delicate shot. He played it gradually into
the mysteries, the most important roles and knew was not
a little, because he finally did as Savior of the world, mocked,
beaten and was stapled to the cross.

Some war servants want to take this opportunity to do their roles
to play of course, so he, to adapt to the decorous way to avenge
on them, on the occasion of the recent court in the most
sumptuous dresses of emperors and kings and put them in the
moments as they, with their roles very well pleased, even in the
sky all others precede the step took unexpectedly vicious in
shape and they met with the Ofengabel, for the edification of all
warm audience and beggars, and Weidlich durchdrosch relentlessly
back into the pit collapsed, where they move from one fire to the
worst hervordringenden receive saw. He was wise enough to see that
the crowned heads his company is not naughty, and even well-marked
before his accusers and privileged Schergenamte would have no
respect, he did so even before the thousand years Reich swattish,
in silence them, and was in a neighboring town by a company
which it was "Children of Joy" called up with open arms. These
were circumspect, witty, lively people, who probably einsahen that
the sum of our existence, divided by common sense, never purely
rise, but that always a strange break left.

Hindering this, and if he is in the whole mass distribution,
they looked dangerous break at certain times intentionally to
get rid of. They were one days of the week is quite
extensive fools and punished in the same mutually allegorical ideas
by what they are during the remaining days to be foolish and
others had noticed. Was this the same kind of raw as a result
of training in which the moral man is a day to notice, to warn
and punish maintains, but it was so funny and safer, because
by a certain lap fools not denied, so it also traktierte
only for what he was instead that he on the other channels through
the self Hülfe fraud, often come home to rule and reason for
secretly forced servitude, which einbildet, chased him long to
have. The fool mask went into the company around, and each
was allowed to it in his days with own or third characteristic
auszuzieren attributes. In the Karnavalszeit was looking at the
maximum freedom and vied with the effort of the clergy, the
people to entertain and attract. The solemn and allegorical
lifts of vices and virtues, arts and sciences, and parts of
the world season versinnlichten the people a lot of words and
gave him ideas of distant objects, and so these jokes were not
without value as a different side of the spiritual Mummereien
only a abgeschmackten But even more faith fortified. Serlo
Young was once again completely in his element; actual
invention, he had not, but on the other hand, the greatest skill,
what he found in front of you to use, and apparently zurechtzustellen
to make. His ideas, his Nachahmungsgabe, yes his biting wit, he
at least one day a week completely free, even against his benefactor,
was allowed to practice, made him worthy of the whole society,
indeed indispensable.

But his restlessness drove him soon from this advantageous position
into other areas of his homeland, where he was again a new school
did go through. He came into the educated, but also forming
loose part of Germany, where the veneration of the good and
beautiful, not to truth, but often the spirit gebricht; he
could with his mask no longer aligned, he had to look on the
heart and soul to effect. Only a short time, he is in small and
large companies, and noted on this occasion all the pieces and
actors from its peculiarities. The monotony, then on the German
theater was the silly case and the Alexandrine Klang, the
bolted plates dialogue, drought and meanness of the immediate
moral preacher, he had soon taken and also noticed what touched
and loved.

Not a viable role of the pieces, but all the pieces were slightly
in his memory and also the peculiar tone of the actor, who had
argued with applause. Well, he came by chance on his Streifereien,
since he assumed the money was entirely to the imagination,
but all pieces on Edelhöfen and especially in villages and to be
everywhere at once by themselves and to provide lodging. At each
inn, each room and the garden was his theatrical equivalent
purpose; with a mischievous apparent earnestness and enthusiasm,
he knew the imagination of its audience to gain their
senses to deceive and in front of their eyes open an old
cabinet into a castle and a fan for Daggers umzuschaffen. His
youth heat superseded the lack of a deep sense of his strength and
ferocity seemed his flattery tenderness.

Those who already knew the theater, he remembered everything they
had seen and heard, and in the other he caught a hint of something
wonderful, and the desire to know more so to be. What a place to
effect did not he failed at the other to repeat, and had the warmest
gloating when all the people in the same way off the cuff
at the best could have had. In his lively, free, and nothing
prevented the spirit he improved by roles he plays and often
repeated, very quickly. Soon, he played and recited the sense
than the normal pattern, which he initially had only
imitated. In this way he came to and after this, of course,
to play and always to be adjusted. He seemed enraptured and
lurked on the effect, and his greatest pride was, the people
gradually to set in motion. Even the great craft, which he drove,
coerced him soon, with some moderation to proceed, and so he
learned, partly forced and partly from instinct, which, with so
few actors a concept seem to have with body gestures and
economically to be. So did he himself raw and unfriendly people
to subdue and to become interested. Since it anywhere with
food and shelter was satisfied, grateful for every gift
accepted, you gave him, sometimes even the money, if he's in his
opinion had enough, ausschlug, so we sent him with letters of
recommendation to one another, and so he wandered a time of one
Edelhof to another, where he attracted some fun, some enjoyed and
not without the most pleasant and adventure remained.

The internal cooling his mind he really loved no one, for the clarity
of his vision, he could not care because he was always the only
voice characteristics of people and helped them into his mimic
collection. It was his Selbstigkeit but extremely offended if he
does not like any, and if he is not excited applause. How to
obtain this was that he had to and after such a close eye and
had his sense so sharpened that he was not alone in his views, but
also in the common life is not more unlike could flatter. And it
worked its Gemütsart, his talent and his life alternately against
each other in such a way that he unvermerkt a trained actor A
complete saw. Yes, through a seemingly odd, but completely natural
action and reaction through increased insight and exercise his
recitation, declamation and sign his game to a higher level of
truth, freedom and openness, by dealing in life and always secret,
artificial, and so adjusted seemed to be anxious. destinies
of his adventures and we may speak of another type and note
here only this: that in later times, since he already have a made
man, in possession of names and resolute in a very good, although
not fixed was able to habit was talking to a fine of partly ironic,
partly mocking the sophists and to almost every serious entertainment
to destroy.

In particular, he used this style of William, as soon as this, as
he often met, a general theoretical discussion had lust tie.
Nevertheless, they were very happy together by their mutual way
of thinking which had to be lively entertainment. William wanted
everything from the terms that he had taken, and wanted
to develop the arts in a context addressed. He wanted to lay down
rules issued, determine what is right, beautiful and good, and
what deserves applause; enough, he dealt with everything on the
grave. Serlo however, took things very easily, and while he never
directly responded to a question, he knew a story, or the like
Schwank and enjoyable to teach and explain the company to inform
them exhilarated by IV. Paper, 19 Tenth Chapter Nine Chapter
By William now in this way very pleasant hours zubrachte, were
Melina and the rest in a more irksome situation. It appeared
to our friends sometimes like evil spirits and made him not just
by their presence, but also often by Flemish faces and speeches
bittre a sullen moment. Serlo had not even allowed to guest
roles, let them hope that he would have made the commitment,
and nevertheless had after all their skills to know. Whenever
the actor at his gregarious gathered, he had the habit to read and
sometimes even through.

He took pieces of which still exist should be the long absent
in the proceedings, and often only partially successful.
So he left after an initial screening points, where he had something
to remember, repeat, thereby increasing the understanding
of the actors and their enhanced security, the right point to make.

And as a small but real reason more than a confused and
ungeläutertes genius to the satisfaction of other work, so he erhub
mediocre talents through the clear insight that he gave them
imperceptibly, to a capacity admirably.

Not much helped that he also read poems and let them feel that
stimulus received by a wohlvorgetragener rhythm in our soul
agitated instead that in other societies already started, only the
prose forward, including any of the beak has grown was.

On such occasions, he had arrived all the actors to know that
what they were and what they could be assessed and in the silence
made of their talents in a revolution, which his company drohete,
to take advantage immediately.

He settled the matter for a while is based, refused all Interzessionen
Wilhelms for them with shrug, until his time ersah and his young
friends suddenly the proposal did: but he should be even with him
on the play, and under this condition would He also committed the
other.

"The people must therefore not yet so useless, like me, those stories
have so far," he returned Wilhelm, "if they are now all at
once can be adopted together, and I dächte, their talents would
have even without I remain the same.

"Serlo opened to him under the seal of secrecy to its location: as
his first lover Miene doing it in the renewal of the contract to
increase, and as he had not minded him irresistible, especially
since the favor of the public against so large it no longer was.

Could he do this, it would be to follow him all the Annex, which
since the company some good, but also some mediocre losing limbs.
Then he showed Wilhelm, what he does to him, to Laertes, the old
and even Polter to Ms.

Melina hope to win. Yes, he promised the poor Pedant as Jews,
ministers and even as a baddie a decisive applause sources.

Stutzte Wilhelm heard the lecture and not without agitation, and
just to get something to say, he returned after he had fetched
a deep breath: "They speak in a very friendly manner, only the
goodness of what you refer to us and we hope, what is but
with the weak sides of the sharpening your senses are certainly
not escaped?"

"The earliest we want through hard work , exercise and thinking
to make strong points, "Serlo transferees. "It is among you all
that ye but only naturalists and bungler are, no, no more or less
on its own would hope, because so much all I can tell, there is
no floor beneath it, and sticks alone are incorrigible, now
they like from their own arrogance, stupidity or hypochondria
and unbiegsam be awkward. "Serlo presented it with a few words the
conditions, which could make it and wanted to bat Wilhelmer
Schleuniger decision and left him in no less agitation. The
quaint and almost only kidding undertaken work that bogus travel
writing, which he put together with Laertes, he was on the states
and the daily life of the real world has become more attentive
than he otherwise had been. He understood even now only the
intention of the father, as he gave him the leadership of the
journal so vividly recommended. He felt for the first
time, and how pleasant it could be useful to the middle person so
many industries and needs to make up in the deepest mountains
and forests of the country's fixed spread of life and activity
to help.

The lively trading town in which he found him in the agitation
of Laertes, of him everywhere with herumschleppte the vivid
expression of a large center, where everything and where
everything ausfließt returns, and it was the first time that
his mind in watching this type of activity really feasted . In
this condition he had done Serlo the application and its requirements,
its passion, his confidence to an inborn talent and his commitment
to the society hülflose made lively again.

"As I stand now," he said to himself, "at once through vagina
between the two women who support me in my youth appeared. One
does not so poorly made as it was then, and the other not so
great.

The one or the other to follow, you feel a kind of innerm profession,
and from both sides are the occasions expressed strong
enough, it seems impossible to you, you decide you wish that some
overweight from the outside might determine your choice, but if
you're quite investigation, there are only external circumstances,
which give you a tendency to commercial, acquisition and possession
instill, but your innermost desire is created and nourished the
desire, the equipment used for the good in you rested and beautiful,
they were physically or mentally, more and more to develop and train.

And I must not be the fate of worship that I'm here without my
intervention to the target of all my desires lead? Is not
everything that I once invented and superiors, and now random,
without my involvement? Sonderbar enough! The man with nothing
seems to be as familiar with his hopes and wishes that he remain
in the heart nourishes and preserves, and yet when they meet him
now, if they like him impose, he recognizes it and not deviate from
them back.

Everything I imagine that unfortunate night, by myself Mariana
removed only dream of him, stands in front of me and provides
me with itself.
I pressed his extended hand to my lips--I pressed it to my bosom
--I would fain have flung myself on my knees; but the doctor,
leaving the patient to the young lady and the servant, who
wheeled forward his chair, and were replacing him in it, hurried
me out of the room.  "My dear sir," he said, "you ought to be
satisfied; you have seen our poor invalid more like his former
self than he has been for months, or than he may be perhaps again
until all is over.  The whole Faculty could not have assured such
an interval.  I must see whether anything can be derived from it
to improve the general health.  Pray, begone."  The last argument
hurried me from the spot, agitated by a crowd of feelings, all of
them painful.

When I had overcome the shock of this great disappointment, I
renewed gradually my acquaintance with one or two old companions,
who, though of infinitely less interest to my feelings than my
unfortunate friend, served to relieve the pressure of actual
solitude, and who were not perhaps the less open to my advances
that I was a bachelor somewhat stricken in years, newly arrived
from foreign parts, and certainly independent, if not wealthy.

I was considered as a tolerable subject of speculation by some,
and I could not be burdensome to any.  I was therefore, according
to the ordinary rule of Edinburgh hospitality, a welcome guest in
several respectable families.  But I found no one who could
replace the loss I had sustained in my best friend and
benefactor.  I wanted something more than mere companionship
could give me, and where was I to look for it?  Among the
scattered remnants of those that had been my gay friends of yore?
Alas!

  "Many a lad I loved was dead,
   And many a lass grown old."

Besides, all community of ties between us had ceased to exist,
and such of former friends as were still in the world held their
life in a different tenor from what I did.

Some had become misers, and were as eager in saving sixpence as
ever they had been in spending a guinea.  Some had turned
agriculturists; their talk was of oxen, and they were only fit
companions for graziers.  Some stuck to cards, and though no
longer deep gamblers, rather played small game than sat out.
This I particularly despised.  The strong impulse of gaming,
alas!  I had felt in my time.  It is as intense as it is
criminal; but it produces excitation and interest, and I can
conceive how it should become a passion with strong and powerful
minds.  But to dribble away life in exchanging bits of painted
pasteboard round a green table for the piddling concern of a few
shillings, can only be excused in folly or superannuation.  It is
like riding on a rocking-horse, where your utmost exertion never
carries you a foot forward; it is a kind of mental treadmill,
where you are perpetually climbing, but can never rise an inch.
From these hints, my readers will perceive I am incapacitated for
one of the pleasures of old age, which, though not mentioned by
Cicero, is not the least frequent resource in the present day--
the club-room, and the snug hand at whist.

To return to my old companions.  Some frequented public
assemblies, like the ghost of Beau Nash, or any other beau of
half a century back, thrust aside by tittering youth, and pitied
by those of their own age.  In fine, some went into devotion, as
the French term it, and others, I fear, went to the devil; a few
found resources in science and letters; one or two turned
philosophers in a small way, peeped into microscopes, and became
familiar with the fashionable experiments of the day; some took
to reading, and I was one of them.

Some grains of repulsion towards the society around me--some
painful recollections of early faults and follies--some touch of
displeasure with living mankind--inclined me rather to a study of
antiquities, and particularly those of my own country.  The
reader, if I can prevail on myself to continue the present work,
will probably be able to judge in the course of it whether I have
made any useful progress in the study of the olden times.

I owed this turn of study, in part, to the conversation of my
kind man of business, Mr. Fairscribe, whom I mentioned as having
seconded the efforts of my invaluable friend in bringing the
cause on which my liberty and the remnant of my property depended
to a favourable decision.  He had given me a most kind reception
on my return.  He was too much engaged in his profession for me
to intrude on him often, and perhaps his mind was too much
trammelled with its details to permit his being willingly
withdrawn from them.  In short, he was not a person of my poor
friend Sommerville's expanded spirit, and rather a lawyer of the
ordinary class of formalists; but a most able and excellent man.
When my estate was sold!  he retained some of the older title-
deeds, arguing, from his own feelings, that they would be of more
consequence to the heir of the old family than to the new
purchaser.  And when I returned to Edinburgh, and found him still
in the exercise of the profession to which he was an honour, he
sent to my lodgings the old family Bible, which lay always on my
father's table, two or three other mouldy volumes, and a couple
of sheepskin bags full of parchments and papers, whose appearance
was by no means inviting.

The next time I shared Mr. Fairscribe's hospitable dinner, I
failed not to return him due thanks for his kindness, which
acknowledgment, indeed, I proportioned rather to the idea which I
knew he entertained of the value of such things, than to the
interest with which I myself regarded them.  But the conversation
turning on my family, who were old proprietors in the Upper Ward
of Clydesdale, gradually excited some interest in my mind and
when I retired to my solitary parlour, the first thing I did was
to look for a pedigree or sort of history of the family or House
of Croftangry, once of that Ilk, latterly of Glentanner.  The
discoveries which I made shall enrich the next chapter.


CHAPTER II.

IN WHICH MR. CROFTANGRY CONTINUES HIS STORY.

  "What's property, dear Swift?  I see it alter
   From you to me, from me to Peter Walter."

"Croftangry--Croftandrew--Croftanridge--Croftandgrey for sa mony
wise hath the name been spellit--is weel known to be ane house of
grit antiquity; and it is said that King Milcolumb, or Malcolm,
being the first of our Scottish princes quha removit across the
Firth of Forth, did reside and occupy ane palace at Edinburgh,
and had there ane valziant man, who did him man-service by
keeping the croft, or corn-land, which was tilled for the
convenience of the King's household, and was thence callit Croft-
an-ri, that is to say, the King his croft; quhilk place, though
now coverit with biggings, is to this day called Croftangry, and
lyeth near to the royal palace.  And whereas that some of those
who bear this auld and honourable name may take scorn that it
ariseth from the tilling of the ground, quhilk men account a
slavish occupation, yet we ought to honour the pleugh and spade,
seeing we all derive our being from our father Adam, whose lot it
became to cultivate the earth, in respect of his fall and
transgression.

"Also we have witness, as weel in holy writt as in profane
history, of the honour in quhilk husbandrie was held of old, and
how prophets have been taken from the pleugh, and great captains
raised up to defend their ain countries, sic as Cincinnatus, and
the like, who fought not the common enemy with the less valiancy
that their alms had been exercised in halding the stilts of the
pleugh, and their bellicose skill in driving of yauds and owsen.

"Likewise there are sindry honorable families, quhilk are now of
our native Scottish nobility, and have clombe higher up the brae
of preferment than what this house of Croftangry hath done,
quhilk shame not to carry in their warlike shield and insignia of
dignity the tools and implements the quhilk their first
forefathers exercised in labouring the croft-rig, or, as the poet
Virgilius calleth it eloquently, in subduing the soil, and no
doubt this ancient house of Croftangry, while it continued to be
called of that Ilk, produced many worshipful and famous patriots,
of quhom I now praetermit the names; it being my purpose, if God
shall spare me life for sic ane pious officium, or duty, to
resume the first part of my narrative touching the house of
Croftangry, when I can set down at length the evidents and
historical witness anent the facts which I shall allege, seeing
that words, when they are unsupported by proofs, are like seed
sown on the naked rocks, or like an house biggit on the flitting
and faithless sands."

Here I stopped to draw breath; for the style of my grandsire, the
inditer of this goodly matter, was rather lengthy, as our
American friends say.  Indeed, I reserve the rest of the piece
until I can obtain admission to the Bannatine Club, [This Club,
of which the Author of Waverley has the honour to be President,
was instituted in February 1823, for the purpose of printing and
publishing works illustrative of the history, literature, and
antiquities of Scotland.  It continues to prosper, and has
already rescued from oblivion many curious materials of Scottish
history.]  when I propose to throw off an edition, limited
according to the rules of that erudite Society, with a facsimile
of the manuscript, emblazonry of the family arms surrounded by
their quartering, and a handsome disclamation of family pride,
with HAEC NOS NOVIMUS ESSE NIHIL, or VIX EA NOSTRA VOCO.

In the meantime, to speak truth, I cannot but suspect that,
though my worthy ancestor puffed vigorously to swell up the
dignity of his family, we had never, in fact, risen above the
rank of middling proprietors.  The estate of Glentanner came to
us by the intermarriage of my ancestor with Tib Sommeril, termed
by the southrons Sommerville, a daughter of that noble house,
but, I fear, on what my great-grandsire calls "the wrong side of
the blanket."   [The ancient Norman family of the Sommervilles
came into this island with William the Conqueror, and established
one branch in Gloucestershire, another in Scotland.  After the
lapse of seven hundred years, the remaining possessions of these
two branches were united in the person of the late Lord
Sommerville, on the death of his English kinsman, the well-known
author of "The Chase."]  Her husband, Gilbert, was killed
fighting, as the INQUISITIO POST MORTEM has it, "SUB VEXILLO
REGIS, APUD PRAELIUM JUXTA BRANXTON, LIE FLODDDEN-FIELD."

We had our share in other national misfortunes--were forfeited,
like Sir John Colville of the Dale, for following our betters to
the field of Langside; and in the contentious times of the last
Stewarts we were severely fined for harbouring and resetting
intercommuned ministers, and narrowly escaped giving a martyr to
the Calendar of the Covenant, in the person of the father of our
family historian.  He "took the sheaf from the mare," however, as
the MS. expresses it, and agreed to accept of the terms of pardon
offered by Government, and sign the bond in evidence he would
give no further ground of offence.  My grandsire glosses over his
father's backsliding as smoothly as he can, and comforts himself
with ascribing his want of resolution to his unwillingness to
wreck the ancient name and family, and to permit his lands and
lineage to fall under a doom of forfeiture.

"And indeed," said the venerable compiler, "as, praised be God,
we seldom meet in Scotland with these belly-gods and
voluptuaries, whilk are unnatural enough to devour their
patrimony bequeathed to them by their forbears in chambering and
wantonness, so that they come, with the prodigal son, to the
husks and the swine-trough; and as I have the less to dreid the
existence of such unnatural Neroes in mine own family to devour
the substance of their own house like brute beasts out of mere
gluttonie and Epicurishnesse, so I need only warn mine
descendants against over-hastily meddling with the mutations in
state and in religion, which have been near-hand to the bringing
this poor house of Croftangry to perdition, as we have shown more
than once.  And albeit I would not that my successors sat still
altogether when called on by their duty to Kirk and King, yet I
would have them wait till stronger and walthier men than
themselves were up, so that either they may have the better
chance of getting through the day, or, failing of that, the
conquering party having some fatter quarry to live upon, may,
like gorged hawks, spare the smaller game."

There was something in this conclusion which at first reading
piqued me extremely, and I was so unnatural as to curse the whole
concern, as poor, bald, pitiful trash, in which a silly old man
was saying a great deal about nothing at all.  Nay, my first
impression was to thrust it into the fire, the rather that it
reminded me, in no very flattering manner, of the loss of the
family property, to which the compiler of the history was so much
attached, in the very manner which he most severely reprobated.
It even seemed to my aggrieved feelings that his unprescient gaze
on futurity, in which he could not anticipate the folly of one of
his descendants, who should throw away the whole inheritance in a
few years of idle expense and folly, was meant as a personal
incivility to myself, though written fifty or sixty years before
I was born.

A little reflection made me ashamed or this feeling of
impatience, and as I looked at the even, concise, yet tremulous
hand in which the manuscript was written, I could not help
thinking, according to an opinion I have heard seriously
maintained, that something of a man's character may be
conjectured from his handwriting.  That neat but crowded and
constrained small-hand argued a man of a good conscience, well-
regulated passions, and, to use his own phrase, an upright walk
in life; but it also indicated narrowness of spirit, inveterate
prejudice, and hinted at some degree of intolerance, which,
though not natural to the disposition, had arisen out of a
limited education.  The passages from Scripture and the classics,
rather profusely than happily introduced, and written in a half-
text character to mark their importance, illustrated that
peculiar sort of pedantry which always considers the argument as
gained if secured by a quotation.  Then the flourished capital
letters, which ornamented the commencement of each paragraph, and
the names of his family and of his ancestors whenever these
occurred in the page, do they not express forcibly the pride and
sense of importance with which the author undertook and
accomplished his task?  I persuaded myself the whole was so
complete a portrait of the man, that it would not have been a
more undutiful act to have defaced his picture, or even to have
disturbed his bones in his coffin, than to destroy his
manuscript.  I thought, for a moment, of presenting it to Mr.
Fairscribe; but that confounded passage about the prodigal and
swine-trough--I settled at last it was as well to lock it up in
my own bureau, with the intention to look at it no more.

But I do not know how it was, that the subject began to sit
nearer my heart than I was aware of, and I found myself
repeatedly engaged in reading descriptions of farms which were no
longer mine, and boundaries which marked the property of others.
A love of the NATALE SOLUM, if Swift be right in translating
these words, "family estate," began to awaken in my bosom--the
recollections of my own youth adding little to it, save what was
connected with field-sports.  A career of pleasure is
unfavourable for acquiring a taste for natural beauty, and still
more so for forming associations of a sentimental kind,
connecting us with the inanimate objects around us.

I had thought little about my estate while I possessed and was
wasting it, unless as affording the rude materials out of which a
certain inferior race of creatures, called tenants, were bound to
produce (in a greater quantity than they actually did) a certain
return called rent, which was destined to supply my expenses.
This was my general view of the matter.  Of particular places, I
recollected that Garval Hill was a famous piece of rough upland
pasture for rearing young colts, and teaching them to throw their
feet; that Minion Burn had the finest yellow trout in the
country; that Seggy-cleugh was unequalled for woodcocks; that
Bengibbert Moors afforded excellent moorfowl-shooting; and that
the clear, bubbling fountain called the Harper's Well was the
best recipe in the world on the morning after a HARD-GO with my
neighbour fox-hunters.  Still, these ideas recalled, by degrees,
pictures of which I had since learned to appreciate the merit--
scenes of silent loneliness, where extensive moors, undulating
into wild hills, were only disturbed by the whistle of the plover
or the crow of the heathcock; wild ravines creeping up into
mountains, filled with natural wood, and which, when traced
downwards along the path formed by shepherds and nutters, were
found gradually to enlarge and deepen, as each formed a channel
to its own brook, sometimes bordered by steep banks of earth,
often with the more romantic boundary of naked rocks or cliffs
crested with oak, mountain ash, and hazel--all gratifying the eye
the more that the scenery was, from the bare nature of the
country around, totally unexpected.

I had recollections, too, of fair and fertile holms, or level
plains, extending between the wooded banks and the bold stream of
the Clyde, which, coloured like pure amber, or rather having the
hue of the pebbles called Cairngorm, rushes over sheets of rock
and beds of gravel, inspiring a species of awe from the few and
faithless fords which it presents, and the frequency of fatal
accidents, now diminished by the number of bridges.  These
alluvial holms were frequently bordered by triple and quadruple
rows of large trees, which gracefully marked their boundary, and
dipped their long arms into the foaming stream of the river.
Other places I remembered, which had been described by the old
huntsman as the lodge of tremendous wild-cats, or the spot where
tradition stated the mighty stag to have been brought to bay, or
where heroes, whose might was now as much forgotten, were said to
have been slain by surprise, or in battle.

It is not to be supposed that these finished landscapes became
visible before the eyes of my imagination, as the scenery of the
stage is disclosed by the rising of the curtain.  I have said
that I had looked upon the country around me, during the hurried
and dissipated period of my life, with the eyes, indeed, of my
body, but without those of my understanding.  It was piece by
piece, as a child picks out its lesson, that I began to recollect
the beauties of nature which had once surrounded me in the home
of my forefathers.  A natural taste for them must have lurked at
the bottom of my heart, which awakened when I was in foreign
countries, and becoming by degrees a favourite passion, gradually
turned its eyes inwards, and ransacked the neglected stores which
my memory had involuntarily recorded, and, when excited, exerted
herself to collect and to complete.

I began now to regret more bitterly than ever the having fooled
away my family property, the care and improvement of which I saw
might have afforded an agreeable employment for my leisure, which
only went to brood on past misfortunes, and increase useless
repining.  "Had but a single farm been reserved, however small,"
said I one day to Mr. Fairscribe, "I should have had a place I
could call my home, and something that I could call business."

"It might have been managed," answered Fairscribe; "and for my
part, I inclined to keep the mansion house, mains, and some of
the old family acres together; but both Mr. -- and you were of
opinion that the money would be more useful."

"True, true, my good friend," said I; "I was a fool then, and did
not think I could incline to be Glentanner with L200 or L300 a
year, instead of Glentanner with as many thousands.  I was then a
haughty, pettish, ignorant, dissipated, broken-down Scottish
laird; and thinking my imaginary consequence altogether ruined, I
cared not how soon, or how absolutely, I was rid of everything
that recalled it to my own memory, or that of others."

"And now it is like you have changed your mind?"  said
Fairscribe. "Well, fortune is apt to circumduce the term upon us;
but I think she may allow you to revise your condescendence."

"How do you mean, my good friend?"

"Nay," said Fairscribe, "there is ill luck in averring till one
is sure of his facts.  I will look back on a file of newspapers,
and to-morrow you shall hear from me.  Come, help yourself--I
have seen you fill your glass higher."

"And shall see it again," said I, pouring out what remained of
our bottle of claret; "the wine is capital, and so shall our
toast be--"To your fireside, my good friend.  And now we shall go
beg a Scots song without foreign graces from my little siren,
Miss Katie."

The next day, accordingly, I received a parcel from Mr.
Fairscribe with a newspaper enclosed, among the advertisements of
which one was marked with a cross as requiring my attention.  I
read, to my surprise:--

  "DESIRABLE ESTATE FOR SALE.

"By order of the Lords of Council and Session, will be exposed to
sale in the New Sessions House of Edinburgh, on Wednesday, the
25th November, 18--, all and whole the lands and barony of
Glentanner, now called Castle Treddles, lying in the Middle Ward
of Clydesdale, and shire of Lanark, with the teinds, parsonage
and vicarage, fishings in the Clyde, woods, mosses, moors, and
pasturages," etc., etc.

The advertisement went on to set forth the advantages of the
soil, situation, natural beauties, and capabilities of
improvement, not forgetting its being a freehold estate, with the
particular polypus capacity of being sliced up into two, three,
or, with a little assistance, four freehold qualifications, and a
hint that the county was likely to be eagerly contested between
two great families.  The upset price at which "the said lands and
barony and others" were to be exposed was thirty years' purchase
of the proven rental, which was about a fourth more than the
property had fetched at the last sale.  This, which was
mentioned, I suppose, to show the improvable character of the
land, would have given another some pain.  They seized the opportunity,
our friend, the unhappy love story to tell, about the poor lad the
whole female sex had become an enemy. "Who will übelnehmen him,"
she exclaimed, "that he hates a sex to which he has so badly
mitgespielt and it all bad, otherwise the men from women to
fear, in a highly concentrated potion to swallow were?

Imagine: within twenty-four hours, he was a lover, bridegroom,
Ehmann, Hahnrei, patient and widowers, I knew not how it's a
wanted to make worse. "Laertes ran half-laughing, half-sullen
addition to the cellar, and Philine allerliebsten caught in their
nature to tell the story of how Laertes as a young man of
eighteen years, just as he worked for a theater company received
a beautiful fourteen-year-old girl found, the level with her
father, who is with the Director entzweiet, been willing to leave.
He was off the cuff mortal love, the father did all sorts of
ideas to stay and finally promised to marry the girl. After a few
pleasant hours of the bride stand he has been married, have a
happy night as Ehmann been brought, that his wife met him the
other morning, when he was in the sample, according to a
professional fee horns jewelry honor, but because he made too
much tenderness too soon after's house, unfortunately he had an
older lover in his place, with perverse passion have beaten three,
lover and father and was challenged with a fair level wound them
come.

Father and daughter were still in it the night off, and he was sorry
to a dual manner wounded left behind.

His misfortune gave it to the worst Feldscher of the world, and
unfortunately the poor man had black teeth and eyes dripping from
this adventure divorced.

  He was to be regretted, because
  he incidentally bravste
    the boy was the
  ground of God would.
  "Especially," she said, "I am
  sorry that the poor fool now
  hates the women: for he who hates the women, how can the living?"

Melina broke it with the message that everything was completely
ready to transport and that they could leave tomorrow morning.
He handed them a disposition, as they should ride.

"If I am a good friend to take the lap," said Philine, "I
am satisfied that we sit tight and miserable, incidentally,
is making a me everything." "It does nothing "said Laertes,
who is also herbeikam." It is irksome! " Wilhelm said, and
hurried away. He took his money for another car even comfortable,
had denied the Melina. Another division was made, and we rejoiced
to be able to leave comfortable, safer than the consignor
message: that in the way they wanted to take to get a Free Corps
can see, which is not expected much good. The locations
themselves There was very attentive to this newspaper when she
only was ambiguous and vacillating.

After the position of the armies, it seemed impossible that an
enemy corps is durchschleichen have or that a friendly so far
may have left behind. Everyone was busy, our society is a danger
to them waited quite dangerous to describe her and another way
is recommended. Most were also in turmoil and fear, and as under
the new republican form of all the members of the State were
called together, about this extraordinary event to discuss,
they were almost unanimously of the opinion that it is possible
to avoid evil and places to stay or to dodge him and another way
must be election. Only Wilhelm, not to fear, gave opprobrious
for a plan in the man with so much consideration had been
received, is now on a mere rumor up. He spoke to them courage,
and his reasons were male and convincing. "Still," he
said, "it is nothing but a rumor, and how many are in similar
wars! Reasonable people say the case is highly unlikely, indeed
almost impossible was.

If we are in such an important matter by just such a talk uncertain
determined? The route, which we count the Lord has given to our
passport is the shortest, and we find on the same track. You
leads us to the city where their acquaintances, friends, before
you see a good host and hope to have. The detour will take
us even then, but in the worst way he involves us how far it
leads us! Can we have hope, us in the late time of the year
again to find out and what time and money, we will however
versplittern! " He said a lot and helped the cause of so many
positive sides, that their fear is reduced and their courage
rose. He knew them so much the man of breeding vorzusagen of
the regular troops and give them the marauders and the rabble
hergelaufene so not worthy to portray themselves and the danger
so sweet and funny show that all minds were aufgeheitert.
Laertes was from the first moment on its side and assured that he
did not waver nor soft wool.

The old Polter was consistent at least some expressions in
his manner, Philine laughed them all together, and as Madame
Melina, which, despite its high pregnancy, their natural
hearty not lost, the proposal was heroic, it was Melina, because
of the admittedly On the next path on which he had agreed, but
hoped to save, not resist, and we agreed in the proposal
wholeheartedly. Now, one began to all cases for the defense
system. It bought big deer catcher and hung it on wohlgestickten
straps over the shoulders. Wilhelm also still put a couple Terzerole
in the belt; ohnedem Laertes had a good shotgun with him, and
we went with a high joyousness in the way. The second day, beating
the carters of the area were well acquainted before: they wanted
on a wooded mountain midday resting place, because the village
was far away and there are good days, happy to lose this way.
The weather was beautiful, and everyone readily agreed to
the proposal. Wilhelm hastened on foot through the mountains
ahead, and its strange shape had everyone who met him, are
aback. He ran fast and satisfied with steps up the forest, Laertes
whistled behind him Dreiner, only the women were in the car continued
drag. Mignon also ran alongside, proud of the deer-catcher,
which is it, when the company is armed, could not refuse. To
her hat, she had the cord wound beads, Wilhelm by Marian relics
übrigbehalten had.

Frederick the Blonde, the shotgun of Laertes, the harper had the
most peaceful reputation. His dress was long in the belt in,
and so he went free. He relied on a knotted staff, his instrument
was in the car left behind. After she is not entirely free
from the burden erstiegen height, they immediately
recognized the indicated place in the beautiful book, which
surrounded and covered him. A large, soft-dependent glade invited
to remain, a source bordered offered lovely refreshment, and it
showed on the other hand, through gorges and woods back of a
distant, beautiful and hopeful prospect. There were villages and
mills in the grounds, in the village level, and new entrants in
the distant mountains, the prospect still hopeful that it is only
like a mild restriction hereintraten.

  The first arriving took possession of the
   area, rested in the shade from , made a fire and expected busy,
singing the rest of society, which gradually herbeikam and the
square, the beautiful weather, the ineffably beautiful area with a
mouth welcomed IV.

Paper, 5 Chapter Fifth Chapter Did you often between four walls,
a good and happy hours enjoyed, so it was obviously much bright
here, where freedom of the sky and the beauty of the area to be
cleaned every mood seemed.

  All felt closer to each other, all wanted in such a pleasant stay
their whole lives will be added.

We envied the hunters, Köhler and Holzhauer, people, their
profession in those happy Wohnplätzen accompli; about everything
but praised the economy of a charming gypsy pile. We envied the
quaint Gesellen, the blessed idleness in all adventurous nature
of the stimuli are entitled to enjoy, we rejoiced them somewhat
similar to his. Meanwhile the women had begun to boil potatoes
and bring food to unpack and prepare. Some pots were in the
fire, by group, the company camped under the trees and bushes.
Their strange costumes and the many weapons gave her a strange
reputation. The horses were fed aside, and if the coaches
would want to hide, it would be the sight of this small horde to
have a romantic illusion. Wilhelm enjoyed a never felt
pleasure. He was here a migratory colony and as the leader of
that thinking. In this sense it is maintained with each and
formed the folly of the moment as poetic as possible. The
feelings of the company grew, we ate, drank and jubilierte
and known repeatedly, never more beautiful moments to have
experienced.

Not long had the pleasure increased, than in the young
people's activities awoke. Wilhelm and Laertes accessed on
the rapiers, and began this time in theatrical exercises to their
intention. They wanted to represent the duel in which Hamlet
and his opponents such a tragic end. Both friends were convinced
that in this scene is not important, as it seems to happen to
theaters cares, just clumsy, and should resist encounter: they
hoped a model display, as seen in the performance of even the
connoisseurs of the fencing to a worthy drama have given.
It closed a circle about them, both challenged with zeal and
insight, the interest of the audience grew with each swing.
All at once, but fell in the next Busche a shot and then
another, and the company went appals apart. Soon we saw armed
people entering the city zudrangen, where the horses are not
far from the packed carriages lining their revenue. A general
cry escaped the female sex, our hero threw away the rapiers,
accessed under the guns, the robbers rushed forward and demanded
under threat lively account of the company. As they laconically
with a few Musketenschüssen replied Wilhelm pressed his gun to a
Krauskopf, who had erstiegen the car and the ropes cut the luggage
apart.

Wohlgetroffen, he fell down at once; Laertes also had not
fehlgeschossen and two friends pulled their side game guns, as
part of a predatory gang of swearing and shouting at them
losbrach some shots they did and with flashing Säbeln sat
opposite her boldness. Our young heroes were brave, they
called their other companions, and cheers to a general on
defense. William Bald but lost the sight of light and the consciousness
of what was experiencing.

From a shot of him between the chest and left arm wounded by a
lashes of his hat and split almost down to the shell penetrated
the brain, stunned, he fell down and had the unfortunate end of
the raid until the only consequence of hear the story. When
he aufschlug his eyes again, he was in the beautiful
location. The first thing to him through the twilight, which still
lay before his eyes, entgegenblickte, Philine was the face that
is on his herüberneigte. He felt weak, and as he to emporzurichten,
made a motion, he found himself in Philine lap, in which he again
zurücksank. They sat on the grass, had the head of the youth
before her outstretched itself quietly and pressed him in her arms,
as much as they could prepare a gentle bearing. Mignon knelt
with scattered, bloody hair on his feet and covered them with
many tears. As Wilhelm installations his bloody clothes he
asked with a broken voice, where he find what he and others
had encountered. Philine asked him, ruhigzubleiben; the other,
she said, were all safe and no one as he and Laertes wounded.

Next she wanted to tell nothing, and begged him urgently, he
wants to keep quiet, because its wounds are poor and in a hurry
were connected. He Mignon's hand, and inquired after the cause
of the bloody curls of the child, which he also believed wounded.
In order to calm him, telling Philine: this kind creature, since
it is seen wounded his friend, had the speed to no prudent to the
blood to breast-feed, there was his own hair that has flown
around the head, taken in order to plug the wound, but soon by
the unsuccessful companies have to stick out. After combining it
with a sponge and moss, had about her Philine Scarf away. Wilhelm
noted that Philine with his back against her suitcase sat,
still quite well-sealed and looked undamaged. He asked if the
others also have been so happy, to save their belongings. She
replied with shrug and a look at the lawn, where box Broken, broken
suitcases, bags and coat chopped a lot of small appliances scattered
occasionally beaten.

No one was present at the place to see and the wonderful group
found itself alone in this solitude. Wilhelm learned more and
more now than he wanted to know the other men, even if all the
opposition could have done, were equal in terror, and soon
overwhelmed; some fled, some looked with horror at the accident.
The carters, who are still due to their persistent hold
on the horses were niedergeworfen and bound, and in short,
everything was plundered and purely weggeschleppt. The frightens
travelers began as soon as the concern for her life was over,
to lament their loss, it came with utmost speed to the nearby
village led to the slightly wounded Laertes with it and took
only a few ruins of their possessions away.

The harper had damaged his instrument leaned to a tree and
was in accordance with the locations geeilt a Wundarzt
and kept his dead benefactor left behind if possible beizuspringen
IV. Paper, 6 Chapter Sixth Chapter Our three adventurers were
injured, however, been some time in their peculiar situation,
no one hurried them Hülfe. The evening came herbei, the night
threatened hereinzubrechen; Philine indifference began to
troubled transition, Mignon ran out and resist, and the
impatience of a child adopted by every moments. Finally, since
their desire was granted, and people have approached them,
they invaded a new horror. They heard very clearly a group of
horses in the road come up that they had traveled, and feared
that once a company uninvited guests this forest place to visit
in order to keep gleanings. How nice, on the other hand, they were
surprised when they made the bushes on a white horse riding,
a women's room to face came from an elderly Mr and some
cavaliers were accompanied; Reitknechte, servants and a troop
of hussars followed.

Philine, the appearance of large eyes that made the concept
was just to call and schöne Amazone to Hülfe anzuflehen as they
have surprised her eyes after the group turned beautiful,
instantly turned her horse, herzuritt and stillehielt. They eagerly
inquired after the wounded, whose situation in the lap of reckless
Samaritan, it seemed very strange vorzukommen. "Is it your
husband?" she asked Philine. "It's just a good friend," returned
it with a tone that was contrary to most Wilhelmer.

He had his eyes on the soft, high, silent, participating in face
of the incoming stapled; he never believed anything Edleres yet
to have seen kindness. Another man hid him about rock their
shape, they had him, as it seemed, against the influences of the
cool evening air, by one of its shareholders borrowed. The
Knights, however, were also closer to some rose from the lady
did the same and asked with a human friendly Participants under
all circumstances of the accident, the passengers were affected,
but especially after the wounds of hingestreckten youth. Then she
quickly turned around and went with an old gentleman sideways
under the car, which slowly heraufkamen the mountain and the forest
stillehielten place.

When the young lady a short time at the stroke of a coach and
stood with the incoming entertained had increased a man of
stocky figure out that it led to our wounded heroes. The box,
which he had in his hand, and the leather bag with instruments
recognized him soon for a Wundarzt. His manners were more rough
than engaging, but his hand slightly and his Hülfe welcome.
He looked at closely, said that wound was not dangerous, he
wanted them to join the site, then could the sick in the next
village bring. The concerns of young lady seemed to proliferate.
"Look only," she said, after several times back and forth had gone
and the old gentleman again brings, "you see how he has prepared!
And he did not suffer for our?" Wilhelm heard these words and
understood them. She went restlessly back and reflect, it
seemed as if they are not offended by the sight of wounded and
loose at the same time as they feared to hurt the prosperity, if
they stehenbliebe at a time when it, though with difficulty, began
to undress.

The Chirurgus cut just on the left sleeve, as the old
gentleman and hinzutrat her with a serious tone, the need to
continue their journey, presented.

  Wilhelm had his eyes on them and their sight
   was so taken that he hardly felt what he was
   experiencing. Philine was however up to the
   merciful lady's hand to kiss.

As they stood side by side, our friend never believed such a
distance to have seen.

  Philine he was never in such an unfavorable light
   appeared. You should, as it happens, is
   that noble nature will not close, much
   less touch them.

  The lady asked Philine Miscellaneous, but quietly.

  Finally, she returned to the old gentleman,
   who still stood dry it, and said:
   "Dear uncle, may I, at your expense, be generous?"
   They immediately pulled over the rock,
   and their intention to submit it to the wounded
   and naked add, was not be denied.

Wilhelm, the salutary sight of their eyes had previously held,
was now, as on the rock fell from her beautiful figure
surprised. You joined up and closer to rock gently laid on him.
In such moments, as he opened his mouth and a few words of
thanks stammeln wanted was the vivid impression of their presence
so strange to have attacked his senses, it suddenly occurred to him
as though her head surrounded with rays, and her whole image spread
after a brilliant light.

The Chirurgus touched him even rougher by the bullet, which wound
in the stake, made out prison. The Holy disappeared before the
eyes of the Hinsinkenden, he lost all consciousness, and when
he came back to himself, were riders and wagons, the Beautiful,
together with its crew disappeared IV. Paper, 7 Chapter
Seventh Chapter After our friend, and was dressed, hurried to
the Chirurgus away, just as the harp player with a number of
farmers heraufkam. They prepared a hurry away from branches
and sticks inserted a stretcher, loaded the wounded and brought
to him leader of a horseback hunter, the rule had left, gently
down the hill.

The harper, silent and be swept in, took his damaged instrument,
some people dragged Philine suitcase, she strolled with a bundle
under, Mignon jumped ahead quickly, and soon to the site through
bush and forest and looked eagerly after her sick protector over.

This was , in his warm, draped over rock, quiet on the grave.

An electric heat seemed fine wool from the body in its transition;
enough, he felt himself in the comfortable feeling moved. The
beautiful owner of the dress had earned him powerful. He still
saw the rock from their shoulders, the noblest figure, surrounded
by rays, in themselves, and hurried his soul to the rocks and
disappeared through the woods on foot after.

Only with declining night the train arrived in the village before
the inn at in which the rest of society was verzweiflungsvoll and
irreplaceable loss to the defendant.

The only, small cellar of the house was vollgepfropft of people:
some were on the Scatter, others had used the benches,
some behind the stove down, and Ms.

Melina expected at a neighboring chamber scared her birth. The
horrors they had speeded up, and under the advice of the landlady,
a young woman unerfahrnen, one could expect little good.

As the new comers hereingelassen to be demanded, was a general
murmur. It is now claimed that it alone Wilhelms Council, under
its special reference to this dangerous path and that this
accident had exposed. They threw the blame of the output of evils
on him, objected to the door to his admission, claiming he must
seek elsewhere unterzukommen.

Philine met you yet simple, the harp player and Mignon had also
yours to suffer. Not long heard of the hunter, the prepare for
the beautiful abandoned by his rule was seriously anbefohlen, the
disputes with patience, he drove with cursing and threat to
society going on, bade them to close and the incoming space to
make. It started to get comfortable. Wilhelmer He prepared a
place on a table, he pushed into a corner; Philine was
beside her suitcase and sat down on it. Everyone expressed
themselves as best he could, and the hunter went away, to see if
he is not a comfortable accommodation for the couple can make.
No sooner had he continued as the unwillingness to be re-started
according to an accusation and the other urged.

Everyone told and increased its loss, it scolded the rashness, by
taking important man so much that we hide even the gloating is
not that one of the wounds of our friend felt that it mocks
Philine and wanted her way in her suitcase rescued a crime
make.

For all kinds of suits and Stichelreden would have to conclude that
it did during the looting and defeat for the favor of the leader
of the gang and have tried it, who knows what arts and favors,
managed to release her suitcase.

Man wanted for a while they have missed. She answered nothing
and clatter only with the great castles of her suitcase to her
quite envious of his presence to convince and the despair of the
cluster by their own happiness to proliferate IV.

Paper, 8 Chapter Eight Chapter Wilhelm, if he by the heavy loss of
blood is weak and after the appearance of that hülfreichen Engels
mild and gentle had become, but was able to last the frustration
over the harsh and unjust speeches not included, which in its silence
on the unzufriednen Society is always renewed.

Finally, he felt strengthened enough to get up and present them
with the bad habit with her friend and leaders worried.
An hour's brisk walking, or thereabouts, placed me in front of
Duntarkin, which had also, I found, undergone considerable
alterations, though it had not been altogether demolished like
the principal mansion.  An inn-yard extended before the door of
the decent little jointure-house, even amidst the remnants of the
holly hedges which had screened the lady's garden.  Then a broad,
raw-looking, new-made road intruded itself up the little glen,
instead of the old horseway, so seldom used that it was almost
entirely covered with grass.  It is a great enormity, of which
gentlemen trustees on the highways are sometimes guilty, in
adopting the breadth necessary for an avenue to the metropolis,
where all that is required is an access to some sequestered and
unpopulous district.  I do not say anything of the expense--that
the trustees and their constituents may settle as they please.
But the destruction of silvan beauty is great when the breadth of
the road is more than proportioned to the vale through which it
runs, and lowers, of course, the consequence of any objects of
wood or water, or broken and varied ground, which might otherwise
attract notice and give pleasure.  A bubbling runnel by the side
of one of those modern Appian or Flaminian highways is but like a
kennel; the little hill is diminished to a hillock--the romantic
hillock to a molehill, almost too small for sight.

Such an enormity, however, had destroyed the quiet loneliness of
Duntarkin, and intruded its breadth of dust and gravel, and its
associations of pochays and mail-coaches, upon one of the most
sequestered spots in the Middle Ward of Clydesdale.  The house
was old and dilapidated, and looked sorry for itself, as if
sensible of a derogation; but the sign was strong and new, and
brightly painted, displaying a heraldic shield (three shuttles in
a field diapre), a web partly unfolded for crest, and two stout
giants for supporters, each one holding a weaver's beam proper.
To have displayed this monstrous emblem on the front of the house
might have hazarded bringing down the wall, but for certain would
have blocked up one or two windows.  It was therefore established
independent of the mansion, being displayed in an iron framework,
and suspended upon two posts, with as much wood and iron about it
as would have builded a brig; and there it hung, creaking,
groaning, and screaming in every blast of wind, and frightening
for five miles' distance, for aught I know, the nests of thrushes
and linnets, the ancient denizens of the little glen.

When I entered the place I was received by Christie Steele
herself, who seemed uncertain whether to drop me in the kitchen,
or usher me into a separate apartment, as I called for tea, with
something rather more substantial than bread and butter, and
spoke of supping and sleeping, Christie at last inducted me into
the room where she herself had been sitting, probably the only
one which had a fire, though the month was October.  This
answered my plan; and as she was about to remove her spinning-
wheel, I begged she would have the goodness to remain and make my
tea, adding that I liked the sound of the wheel, and desired not
to disturb her housewife thrift in the least.

"I dinna ken, sir," she replied, in a dry, REVECHE tone, which
carried me back twenty years, "I am nane of thae heartsome
landleddies that can tell country cracks, and make themsel's
agreeable, and I was ganging to put on a fire for you in the Red
Room; but if it is your will to stay here, he that pays the
lawing maun choose the lodging."

I endeavoured to engage her in conversation; but though she
answered, with a kind of stiff civility, I could get her into no
freedom of discourse, and she began to look at her wheel and at
the door more than once, as if she meditated a retreat.  I was
obliged, therefore, to proceed to some special questions; that
might have interest for a person whose ideas were probably of a
very bounded description.

I looked round the apartment, being the same in which I had last
seen my poor mother.  The author of the family history, formerly
mentioned, had taken great credit to himself for the improvements
he had made in this same jointure-house of Duntarkin, and how,
upon his marriage, when his mother took possession of the same as
her jointure-house, "to his great charges and expenses he caused
box the walls of the great parlour" (in which I was now sitting),
"empanel the same, and plaster the roof, finishing the apartment
with ane concave chimney, and decorating the same with pictures,
and a barometer and thermometer."  And in particular, which his
good mother used to say she prized above all the rest, he had
caused his own portraiture be limned over the mantlepiece by a
skilful hand.  And, in good faith, there he remained still,
having much the visage which I was disposed to ascribe to him on
the evidence of his handwriting,--grim and austere, yet not
without a cast of shrewdness and determination; in armour, though
he never wore it, I fancy; one hand on an open book, and one
resting on the hilt of his sword, though I dare say his head
never ached with reading, nor his limbs with fencing.

"That picture is painted on the wood, madam," said I.

"Ay, sir, or it's like it would not have been left there; they
look a' they could."

"Mr. Treddles's creditors, you mean?"  said I.

"Na," replied she dryly, "the creditors of another family, that
sweepit cleaner than this poor man's, because I fancy there was
less to gather."

"An older family, perhaps, and probably more remembered and
regretted than later possessors?"

Christie here settled herself in her seat, and pulled her wheel
towards her.  I had given her something interesting for her
thoughts to dwell upon, and her wheel was a mechanical
accompaniment on such occasions, the revolutions of which
assisted her in the explanation of her ideas.

"Mair regretted--mair missed?  I liked ane of the auld family
very weel, but I winna say that for them a'.  How should they be
mair missed than the Treddleses?  The cotton mill was such a
thing for the country!  The mair bairns a cottar body had the
better; they would make their awn keep frae the time they were
five years auld, and a widow wi' three or four bairns was a
wealthy woman in the time of the Treddleses."

"But the health of these poor children, my good friend--their
education and religious instruction--"

"For health," said Christie, looking gloomily at me, "ye maun ken
little of the warld, sir, if ye dinna ken that the health of the
poor man's body, as well as his youth and his strength, are all
at the command of the rich man's purse.  There never was a trade
so unhealthy yet but men would fight to get wark at it for twa
pennies a day aboon the common wage.  But the bairns were
reasonably weel cared for in the way of air and exercise, and a
very responsible youth heard them their Carritch, and gied them
lessons in Reediemadeasy ["Reading made Easy," usually so
pronounced in Scotland.]  Now, what did they ever get before?
Maybe on a winter day they wad be called out to beat the wood for
cocks or siclike; and then the starving weans would maybe get a
bite of broken bread, and maybe no, just as the butler was in
humour--that was a' they got."

"They were not, then, a very kind family to the poor, these old
possessors?"  said I, somewhat bitterly; for I had expected to
hear my ancestors' praises recorded, though I certainly despaired
of being regaled with my own.

"They werena ill to them, sir, and that is aye something.  They
were just decent bien bodies; ony poor creature that had face to
beg got an awmous, and welcome--they that were shamefaced gaed
by, and twice as welcome.  But they keepit an honest walk before
God and man, the Croftangrys, and, as I said before, if they did
little good, they did as little ill.  They lifted their rents,
and spent them; called in their kain and ate them; gaed to the
kirk of a Sunday; bowed civilly if folk took aff their bannets as
they gaed by, and lookit as black as sin at them that keepit them
on."

"These are their arms that you have on the sign?"

"What!  on the painted board that is skirling and groaning at the
door?  Na, these are Mr. Treddles's arms though they look as like
legs as arms.  Ill pleased I was at the fule thing, that cost as
muckle as would hae repaired the house from the wa' stane to the
rigging-tree.  But if I am to bide here, I'll hae a decent board
wi' a punch bowl on it."

"Is there a doubt of your staying here, Mrs. Steele?"

"Dinna Mistress me," said the cross old woman, whose fingers were
now plying their thrift in a manner which indicated nervous
irritation; "there was nae luck in the land since Luckie turned
Mistress, and Mistress my Leddy.  And as for staying here, if it
concerns you to ken, I may stay if I can pay a hundred pund
sterling for the lease, and I may flit if I canna, and so gude
e'en to you, Christie,"--and round went the wheel with much
activity.

"And you like the trade of keeping a public-house?"

"I can scarce say that," she replied.  "But worthy Mr.
Prendergast is clear of its lawfulness; and I hae gotten used to
it, and made a decent living, though I never make out a fause
reckoning, or give ony ane the means to disorder reason in my
house."

"Indeed!"  said I; "in that case, there is no wonder you have not
made up the hundred pounds to purchase the lease."

"How do you ken," said she sharply, "that I might not have had a
hundred punds of my ain fee?  If I have it not, I am sure it is
my ain faut.  And I wunna ca' it faut neither, for it gaed to her
wha was weel entitled to a' my service."  Again she pulled
stoutly at the flax, and the wheel went smartly round.

"This old gentleman," said I, fixing my eye on the painted panel,
"seems to have had HIS arms painted as well as Mr. Treddles--that
is, if that painting in the corner be a scutcheon."

"Ay, ay--cushion, just sae.  They maun a' hae their cushions--
there's sma' gentry without that--and so the arms, as they ca'
them, of the house of Glentanner may be seen on an auld stane in
the west end of the house.  But to do them justice; they didna
propale sae muckle about them as poor Mr. Treddles did--it's like
they were better used to them."

"Very likely.  Are there any of the old family in life,
goodwife?"

"No," she replied; then added; after a moment's hesitation, "Not
that I know of"--and the wheel, which had intermitted, began
again to revolve.

"Gone abroad, perhaps?"  I suggested.

She now looked up, and faced me.  "No, sir.  There were three
sons of the last laird of Glentanner, as he was then called.
John and William were hopeful young gentlemen, but they died
early--one of a decline brought on by the mizzles, the other lost
his life in a fever.  It would hae been lucky for mony ane that
Chrystal had gane the same gate."

"Oh, he must have been the young spendthrift that sold the
property?  Well, but you should you have such an ill-will against
him; remember necessity has no law.  And then, goodwife, he was
not more culpable than Mr. Treddles, whom you are so sorry for."

"I wish I could think sae, sir, for his mother's sake.  But Mr.
Treddles was in trade, and though he had no preceese right to do
so, yet there was some warrant for a man being expensive that
imagined he was making a mint of money.  But this unhappy lad
devoured his patrimony, when he kenned that he was living like a
ratten in a Dunlap cheese, and diminishing his means at a' hands.
I canna bide to think on't."  With this she broke out into a
snatch of a ballad, but little of mirth was there either in the
tone or the expression:--

  "For he did spend, and make an end
     Of gear that his forefathers wan;
   Of land and ware he made him bare,
     So speak nae mair of the auld gudeman."

"Come, dame," said I, "it is a long lane that has no turning.  I
will not keep from you that I have heard something of this poor
fellow, Chrystal Croftangry.  He has sown his wild oats, as they
say, and has settled into a steady, respectable man."

"And wha tell'd ye that tidings?"  said she, looking sharply at
me.

"Not, perhaps, the best judge in the world of his character, for
it was himself, dame."

"And if he tell'd you truth, it was a virtue he did not aye use
to practise," said Christie.

"The devil!"  said I, considerably nettled; "all the world held
him to be a man of honour."

"Ay, ay!  he would hae shot onybody wi' his pistols and his guns
that had evened him to be a liar.  But if he promised to pay an
honest tradesman the next term-day, did he keep his word then?
And if he promised a puir, silly lass to make gude her shame, did
he speak truth then?  And what is that but being a liar, and a
black-hearted, deceitful liar to boot?"

My indignation was rising, but I strove to suppress it; indeed, I
should only have afforded my tormentor a triumph by an angry
reply.  I partly suspected she began to recognize me, yet she
testified so little emotion that I could not think my suspicion
well founded.  I went on, therefore, to say, in a tone as
indifferent as I could command, "Well, goodwife, I see you will
believe no good of this Chrystal of yours, till he comes back and
buys a good farm on the estate, and makes you his housekeeper."

The old woman dropped her thread, folded her hands, as she looked
up to heaven with a face of apprehension.  "The Lord," she
exclaimed, "forbid!  The Lord in His mercy forbid!  O sir!  if
you really know this unlucky man, persuade him to settle where
folk ken the good that you say he has come to, and dinna ken the
evil of his former days.  He used to be proud enough--O dinna let
him come here, even for his own sake.  He used once to have some
pride."

Here she once more drew the wheel close to her, and began to pull
at the flax with both hands.  "Dinna let him come here, to be
looked down upon by ony that may be left of his auld reiving
companions, and to see the decent folk that he looked over his
nose at look over their noses at him, baith at kirk and market.
Dinna let him come to his ain country, to be made a tale about
when ony neighbour points him out to another, and tells what he
is, and what he was, and how he wrecked a dainty estate, and
brought harlots to the door-cheek of his father's house, till he
made it nae residence for his mother; and how it had been
foretauld by a servant of his ain house that he was a ne'er-do-
weel and a child of perdition, and how her words were made good,
and--"

"Stop there, goodwife, if you please," said I; "you have said as
much as I can well remember, and more than it may be safe to
repeat.  I can use a great deal of freedom with the gentleman we
speak of; but I think, were any other person to carry him half of
your message, I would scarce ensure his personal safety.  And
now, as I see the night is settled to be a fine one, I will walk
on to --, where I must meet a coach to-morrow as it passes to
Edinburgh."

So saying, I paid my moderate reckoning, and took my leave,
without being able to discover whether the prejudiced and hard-
hearted old woman did, or did not, suspect the identity of her
guest with the Chrystal Croftangry against whom she harboured so
much dislike.

The night was fine and frosty, though, when I pretended to see
what its character was, it might have rained like the deluge.  I
only made the excuse to escape from old Christie Steele.  The
horses which run races in the Corso at Rome without any riders,
in order to stimulate their exertion, carry each his own spurs
namely, small balls of steel, with sharp, projecting spikes,
which are attached to loose straps of leather, and, flying about
in the violence of the agitation, keep the horse to his speed by
pricking him as they strike against his flanks.  The old woman's
reproaches had the same effect on me, and urged me to a rapid
pace, as if it had been possible to escape from my own
recollections.  In the best days of my life, when I won one or
two hard walking matches, I doubt if I ever walked so fast as I
did betwixt the Treddles Arms and the borough town for which I
was bound.  Though the night was cold, I was warm enough by the
time I got to my inn; and it required a refreshing draught of
porter, with half an hour's repose, ere I could determine to give
no further thought to Christie and her opinions than those of any
other vulgar, prejudiced old woman.  I resolved at last to treat
the thing EN BAGATELLE, and calling for writing materials, I
folded up a cheque for L100, with these lines on the envelope:--

  "Chrystal, the ne'er-do-weel,
   Child destined to the deil,
   Sends this to Christie Steele."

And I was so much pleased with this new mode of viewing the
subject, that I regretted the lateness of the hour prevented my
finding a person to carry the letter express to its destination.

  "But with the morning cool reflection came."

I considered that the money, and probably more, was actually due
by me on my mother's account to Christie, who had lent it in a
moment of great necessity, and that the returning it in a light
or ludicrous manner was not unlikely to prevent so touchy and
punctilious a person from accepting a debt which was most justly
her due, and which it became me particularly to see satisfied.
Sacrificing, then, my triad with little regret (for it looked
better by candlelight, and through the medium of a pot of porter,
than it did by daylight, and with bohea for a menstruum), I
determined to employ Mr. Fairscribe's mediation in buying up the
lease of the little inn, and conferring it upon Christie in the
way which should make it most acceptable to her feelings.  It is
only necessary to add that my plan succeeded, and that Widow
Steele even yet keeps the Treddles Arms.  Do not say, therefore,
that I have been disingenuous with you, reader; since, if I have
not told all the ill of myself I might have done, I have
indicated to you a person able and willing to supply the blank,
by relating all my delinquencies as well as my misfortunes.

In the meantime I totally abandoned the idea of redeeming any
part of my paternal property, and resolved to take Christie
Steele's advice, as young Norval does Glenalvon's, "although it
sounded harshly."


CHAPTER V.

MR. CROFTANGRY SETTLES IN THE CANONGATE.

           If you will know my house,
  'Tis at the tuft of olives here hard by.    AS YOU LIKE IT.

By a revolution of humour which I am unable to account for, I
changed my mind entirely on my plans of life, in consequence of
the disappointment, the history of which fills the last chapter.
I began to discover that the country would not at all suit me;
for I had relinquished field-sports, and felt no inclination
whatever to farming, the ordinary vocation of country gentlemen.
Besides that, I had no talent for assisting either candidate in
case of an expected election, and saw no amusement in the duties
of a road trustee, a commissioner of supply, or even in the
magisterial functions of the bench.  I had begun to take some
taste for reading; and a domiciliation in the country must remove
me from the use of books, excepting the small subscription
library, in which the very book which you want is uniformly sure
to be engaged.

I resolved, therefore, to make the Scottish metropolis my regular
resting-place, reserving to myself to take occasionally those
excursions which, spite of all I have said against mail-coaches,
Mr. Piper has rendered so easy.  Friend of our life and of our
leisure, he secures by dispatch against loss of time, and by the
best of coaches, cattle, and steadiest of drivers, against hazard
of limb, and wafts us, as well as our letters, from Edinburgh to
Cape Wrath in the penning of a paragraph.

When my mind was quite made up to make Auld Reekie my
headquarters, reserving the privilege of EXPLORING in all
directions, I began to explore in good earnest for the purpose of
discovering a suitable habitation.  "And whare trew ye I gaed?"
as Sir Pertinax says.  Not to George's Square--nor to Charlotte
Square--nor to the old New Town--nor to the new New Town--nor to
the Calton Hill.  I went to the Canongate, and to the very
portion of the Canongate in which I had formerly been immured,
like the errant knight, prisoner in some enchanted castle, where
spells have made the ambient air impervious to the unhappy
captive, although the organs of sight encountered no obstacle to
his free passage.

Why I should have thought of pitching my tent here I cannot tell.
Perhaps it was to enjoy the pleasures of freedom where I had so
long endured the bitterness of restraint, on the principle of the
officer who, after he had retired from the army, ordered his
servant to continue to call him at the hour or parade, simply
that he might have the pleasure of saying, "D--n the parade!"
and turning to the other side to enjoy his slumbers.  Or perhaps
I expected to find in the vicinity some little old-fashioned
house, having somewhat of the RUS IN URBE which I was ambitious
of enjoying.  Enough:  I went, as aforesaid, to the Canongate.

I stood by the kennel, of which I have formerly spoken, and, my
mind being at ease, my bodily organs were more delicate.  I was
more sensible than heretofore, that, like the trade of Pompey in
MEASURE FOR MEASURE,--it did in some sort--pah an ounce of civet,
good apothecary!  Turning from thence, my steps naturally
directed themselves to my own humble apartment, where my little
Highland landlady, as dapper and as tight as ever, (for old women
wear a hundred times better than the hard-wrought seniors of the
masculine sex), stood at the door, TEEDLING to herself a Highland
song as she shook a table napkin over the fore-stair, and then
proceeded to fold it up neatly for future service.

"How do you, Janet?"

"Thank ye, good sir," answered my old friend, without looking at
me; "but ye might as weel say Mrs. MacEvoy, for she is na
a'body's Shanet--umph."

"You must be MY Janet, though, for all that.  Have you forgot me?
Do you not remember Chrystal Croftangry?"

The light, kind-hearted creature threw her napkin into the open
door, skipped down the stair like a fairy, three steps at once,
seized me by the hands--both hands--jumped up, and actually
kissed me.  I was a little ashamed; but what swain, of somewhere
inclining to sixty could resist the advances of a fair
contemporary?  So we allowed the full degree of kindness to the
meeting--HONI SOIT QUI MAL Y PENSE--and then Janet entered
instantly upon business.  "An ye'll gae in, man, and see your
auld lodgings, nae doubt and Shanet will pay ye the fifteen
shillings of change that ye ran away without, and without bidding
Shanet good day.  But never mind" (nodding good-humouredly),
"Shanet saw you were carried for the time."

By this time we were in my old quarters, and Janet, with her
bottle of cordial in one hand and the glass in the other, had
forced on me a dram of usquebaugh, distilled with saffron and
other herbs, after some old-fashioned Highland receipt.  Then was
unfolded, out of many a little scrap of paper, the reserved sum
of fifteen shillings, which Janet had treasured for twenty years
and upwards.

"Here they are," she said, in honest triumph, "just the same I
was holding out to ye when ye ran as if ye had been fey.  Shanet
has had siller, and Shanet has wanted siller, mony a time since
that.  And the gauger has come, and the factor has come, and the
butcher and baker--Cot bless us just like to tear poor auld
Shanet to pieces; but she took good care of Mr. Croftangry's
fifteen shillings."

"But what if I had never come back, Janet?"

"Och, if Shanet had heard you were dead, she would hae gien it to
the poor of the chapel, to pray for Mr. Croftangry," said Janet,
crossing herself, for she was a Catholic, "You maybe do not think
it would do you cood, but the blessing of the poor can never do
no harm,"

I agreed heartily in Janet's conclusion; and as to have desired
her to consider the hoard as her own property would have been an
indelicate return to her for the uprightness of her conduct, I
requested her to dispose of it as she had proposed to do in the
event of my death--that is, if she knew any poor people of merit
to whom it might be useful.

"Ower mony of them," raising the corner of her checked apron to
her eyes--"e'en ower mony of them, Mr. Croftangry.  Och, ay.
'There is the puir Highland creatures frae Glenshee, that cam
down for the harvest, and are lying wi' the fever--five shillings
to them; and half a crown to Bessie MacEvoy, whose coodman, puir
creature, died of the frost, being a shairman, for a' the whisky
he could drink to keep it out o' his stamoch; and--"

But she suddenly interrupted the bead-roll of her proposed
charities, and assuming a very sage look, and primming up her
little chattering mouth, she went on in a different tone--"But
och, Mr. Croftangry, bethink ye whether ye will not need a' this
siller yoursel', and maybe look back and think lang for ha'en
kiven it away, whilk is a creat sin to forthink a wark o'
charity, and also is unlucky, and moreover is not the thought of
a shentleman's son like yoursel', dear.  And I say this, that ye
may think a bit, for your mother's son kens that ye are no so
careful as you should be of the gear, and I hae tauld ye of it
before, jewel."

I assured her I could easily spare the money, without risk of
future repentance; and she went on to infer that in such a case
"Mr. Croftangry had grown a rich man in foreign parts, and was
free of his troubles with messengers and sheriff-officers, and
siclike scum of the earth, and Shanet MacEvoy's mother's daughter
be a blithe woman to hear it.  But if Mr. Croftangry was in
trouble, there was his room, and his ped, and Shanet to wait on
him, and tak payment when it was quite convenient."

I explained to Janet my situation, in which she expressed
unqualified delight.  I then proceeded to inquire into her own
circumstances, and though she spoke cheerfully and contentedly, I
could see they were precarious.  I had paid more than was due;
other lodgers fell into an opposite error, and forgot to pay
Janet at all.  Then, Janet being ignorant of all indirect modes
of screwing money out of her lodgers, others in the same line of
life, who were sharper than the poor, simple Highland woman, were
enabled to let their apartments cheaper in appearance, though the
inmates usually found them twice as dear in the long run.

As I had already destined my old landlady to be my house-keeper
and governante, knowing her honesty, good-nature, and, although a
Scotchwoman, her cleanliness and excellent temper (saving the
short and hasty expressions of anger which Highlanders call a
FUFF), I now proposed the plan to her in such a way as was likely
to make it most acceptable.  Very acceptable as the proposal was,
as I could plainly see, Janet, however, took a day to consider
upon it; and her reflections against our next meeting had
suggested only one objection, which was singular enough.

"My honour," so she now termed me, "would pe for biding in some
fine street apout the town.  Now Shanet wad ill like to live in a
place where polish, and sheriffs, and bailiffs, and sie thieves
and trash of the world, could tak puir shentlemen by the throat,
just because they wanted a wheen dollars in the sporran.  She had
lived in the bonny glen of Tomanthoulick.  Cot, an ony of the
vermint had come there, her father wad hae wared a shot on them,
and he could hit a buck within as mony measured yards as e'er a
man of his clan, And the place here was so quiet frae them, they
durst na put their nose ower the gutter.  Shanet owed nobody a
bodle, but she couldna pide to see honest folk and pretty
shentlemen forced away to prison whether they would or no; and
then, if Shanet was to lay her tangs ower ane of the ragamuffins'
heads, it would be, maybe, that the law would gi'ed a hard name."

One thing I have learned in life--never to speak sense when
nonsense will answer the purpose as well.  I should have had
great difficulty to convince this practical and disinterested
admirer and vindicator of liberty, that arrests seldom or never
were to be seen in the streets of Edinburgh; and to satisfy her
of their justice and necessity would have been as difficult as to
convert her to the Protestant faith.  I therefore assured her my
intention, if I could get a suitable habitation, was to remain in
the quarter where she at present dwelt.  Janet gave three skips
on the floor, and uttered as many short, shrill yells of joy.
Yet doubt almost instantly returned, and she insisted on knowing
what possible reason I could have for making my residence where
few lived, save those whose misfortunes drove them thither.  It
occurred to me to answer her by recounting the legend of the rise
of my family, and of our deriving our name from a particular
place near Holyrood Palace.  This, which would have appeared to
most people a very absurd reason for choosing a residence, was
entirely satisfactory to Janet MacEvoy.

"Och, nae doubt!  if it was the land of her fathers, there was
nae mair to be said.  Put it was queer that her family estate
should just lie at the town tail, and covered with houses, where
the King's cows--Cot bless them, hide and horn--used to craze
upon. It was strange changes."  She mused a little, and then
added:  "Put it is something better wi' Croftangry when the
changes is frae the field to the habited place, and not from the
place of habitation to the desert; for Shanet, her nainsell, kent
a glen where there were men as weel as there may be in
Croftangry, and if there werena altogether sae mony of them, they
were as good men in their tartan as the others in their
broadcloth.  And there were houses, too; and if they were not
biggit with stane and lime, and lofted like the houses at
Croftangry, yet they served the purpose of them that lived there,
and mony a braw bonnet, and mony a silk snood and comely white
curch, would come out to gang to kirk or chapel on the Lord's
day, and little bairns toddling after.  And now--Och, Och,
Ohellany, Ohonari!  the glen is desolate, and the braw snoods and
bonnets are gane, and the Saxon's house stands dull and lonely,
like the single bare-breasted rock that the falcon builds on--the
falcon that drives the heath-bird frae the glen."

Janet, like many Highlanders, was full of imagination, and, when
melancholy themes came upon her, expressed herself almost
poetically, owing to the genius of the Celtic language in which
she thought, and in which, doubtless, she would have spoken, had
I understood Gaelic.  In two minutes the shade of gloom and
regret had passed from her good-humoured features, and she was
again the little, busy, prating, important old woman, undisputed
owner of one flat of a small tenement in the Abbey Yard, and
about to be promoted to be housekeeper to an elderly bachelor
gentleman, Chrystal Croftangry, Esq.

It was not long before Janet's local researches found out exactly
the sort of place I wanted, and there we settled.  Janet was
afraid I would not be satisfied, because it is not exactly part
of Croftangry; but I stopped her doubts by assuring her it had
been part and pendicle thereof in my forefather' time, which
passed very well.

I do not intend to possess any one with an exact knowledge of my
lodging; though, as Bobadil says, "I care not who knows it, since
the cabin is convenient."  But I may state in general, that it is
a house "within itself," or, according to a newer phraseology in
advertisements, SELF-CONTAINED, has a garden of near half an
acre, and a patch of ground with trees in front.  It boasts five
rooms and servants' apartments--looks in front upon the palace,
and from behind towards the hill and crags of the King's Park.
Fortunately, the place had a name, which, with a little
improvement, served to countenance the legend which I had imposed
on Janet, and would not, perhaps have been sorry if I had been
able to impose on myself.  It was called Littlecroft; we have
dubbed it Little Croftangry, and the men of letters belonging to
the Post Office have sanctioned the change, and deliver letters
so addressed.  Thus I am to all intents and purposes Chrystal
Croftangry of that Ilk.

My establishment consists of Janet, an under maid-servant, and a
Highland wench for Janet to exercise her Gaelic upon, with a
handy lad who can lay the cloth, and take care, besides, of a
pony, on which I find my way to Portobello sands, especially when
the cavalry have a drill; for, like an old fool as I am, I have
not altogether become indifferent to the tramp of horses and the
flash of weapons, of which, though no professional soldier, it
has been my fate to see something in my youth.  For wet mornings
I have my book; is it fine weather?  I visit, or I wander on the
Crags, as the humour dictates.  My dinner is indeed solitary, yet
not quite so neither; for though Andrew waits, Janet--or, as she
is to all the world but her master and certain old Highland
gossips, Mrs. Wilhelm said not to say that this joke of Aurelien
brother seemed to be satisfied, he became much more widely after
his kind and instructive, in what sense he would have played
Hamlet. He presented them with the results difficult to work
with what we have seen above, employs, and gave all the trouble
his mind to accept it, so much doubt even Serlo aroused against
his hypothesis. "Well," he said finally, "We give you everything,
what do you want to further explain it? "" Much of everything,
"returned Wilhelm. "Think of a prince, as I've written
him, his father unexpectedly dies. Herrschsucht and ambition are
not the passions, which revive him and he's had to put up, the son
of a king to be, but now he is only obliged to the distance
to be attentive to the subjects of King retires. The right
to the crown was not hereditary, and yet would have a longer
life of his father, the claims of his only son more attached
and hope to crown secured. On the other hand, he is now by his
uncle, despite apparent promise, perhaps for ever excluded; he
feels now so poor at mercy of foreign goods and in what he as a
youth on his property was considered.

It takes his mind the first traurige direction. He feels,
that he no longer is not as much as any gentleman, for he
is a servant of each, it is not polite, not patronizing, no,
herabgesunken and needy. After his previous conclusion he looks
just like a dream verschwundnen. Forgiveness that his uncle cheer
him, his situation from a different points of view will show the
feeling of his nothingness never leaves him. The second blow
hit him, hurt deeply, bent even more.

  It is the marriage of his mother. He, a
   loyal and loving son, remained, as his father died,
   a mother left, he hoped, in the company of
   his mother left the noble heroes of that great
   figure secluded to worship, but also his
   mother, he loses, and it is worse than
   if it Death would have been robbed. The reliable
   picture that a child is being so well liked by his parents to
disappear, if the dead is not Hülfe and the living no hold.

It is also a woman, and sex under the general name of frailty is
they understood. until now, he feels quite bent, until now orphaned
and no luck in the world can replace him again what he has lost.
Not sad, not thoughtful by nature, he is mourning and reflection
for the heavy burden. Thus, we see it occur. I do not think
I have something in the piece, or a train hineinlege exaggerating.
"Serlo saw his sister and said:" Did I give you a false
picture of our friends? He starts off very well and we are
still some vorerzählen and a lot of talk. William swore high
and expensive, that he did not talk about, but wanted to convince,
and asked only for a moment. "you are thinking," he exclaimed,
"this young man, this son of Prince quite lively, mind you its
location, and then watch him when he learns of his father, the
figure appears, are you with him in the terrible night when the
venerable spirit even before it occurs.

A huge horror takes him, he speaks the wonders shape, she
sees wave follows and listens .-- The terrible indictment against
his uncle rings in his ears, throat, and call for the urgent and
repeated request: "Remember my!" And because the spirit has
disappeared, whom we see before us? A young hero who snorts for
revenge? A gebornen princes, who feels happy, against the usurper
of his crown to be invited? No! Astonishment and gloom überfällt
the lonely, he is bitter against the smiling villains, swears, the
remote not to forget, and concludes with the major sigh: "The
time is out of the joints, woe to me that I was born, they set up
again.

"In these words, seems me, is the key to Hamlet's whole demeanor,
and to me it is clear that Shakespeare had to portray a large
indeed a soul, which indeed is not grown. And in this
sense I find the piece consistently worked. Here is a delicious
oak-tree in a container planting, the only lovely flowers in his
lap would have to absorb the roots extend from the receptacle
is zernichtet. A beautiful, pure, noble, highly moral beings without
the sensual strength which makes the hero goes under a load basis,
which is neither bear nor can have, any obligation to him is
holy, this is too hard. The impossible is demanded of him, not
the impossible in itself, but what it is impossible. How he
winds, turns, frightened, front and back will always be remembers,
always remembered and almost his last end, the sense of loss, but
without ever again to be happy. "Book IV, 14 Tenth Chapter Four
Chapter Various People came in, the discussion broke. They were
virtuosos who are at Serlo usually once a week to gather a
small concerts.

He loved the music very much and claimed that an actor without
love can never be a clear concept and sense of his own art could
reach. So how much easier and decent acting, if the sign accompanied
by a melody and directed, so must the actor also like his
prosaic role in composing meaning that it is not about the individual
after his monotonous way hinsudele, but due to change after stroke
patients and measure. Aurelie seemed to all that was experiencing
little proportion to take much longer as they led our friend in
a side room, and they came to the window and watch the sky
gestirnten, she said to him: "They are some of us have been
guilty of Hamlet, and I will not be hasty, and I hope that
my brother might also hear what you still have to say, but let me
your thoughts about Ophélie hear." She can not say much, "returned
Wilhelm," because only little master trains its character
is completed. Your whole being is suspended in a mature,
sweet sensuality. Their inclination to the prince, in whose hands
they may be entitled to make, so flows from the source, the good
heart that really leaves his request that the father and brother
both fear, both absolutely and immodest warn.

The prosperity, as the slight nap on her bosom, the movement can
not hide her heart, he is much more a traitor to this quiet
movement. Your imagination is infected, her quiet modesty breathes
a loving desire, and should be a convenient opportunity
goddess shake the tree so the fruit would fall immediately.
"" And now, "said Aurelie," if it looks abandoned, and violated
spurned, if in the soul of her lover, the mad Highest to
lowest umwendet and he held her cup of sweet love to the bitter
cup of suffering sufficed - "" Your heart breaks, "William cried
out" the entire structure of her life moves from its joints, the
death of her father rushes in, and the beautiful building collapses
completely.

"Wilhelm had not noticed, which reflects the last words Aurelie
proceedings. Only on the artwork, its context and perfection
addressed, ahnete he does not notice that his girlfriend a very
different impact felt, not that an owner of deep pain by this
dramatic silhouettes vividly aroused in her ward. Aurelie
still had her head supported by her arms and her eyes, which are
filled with tears, turned to the sky. Finally, she gave no
longer their verborgnen back pain, she took the friend both hands
and cried, he stood before her astonished: "Forgive, forgive
geängstigten to a heart! The company schnürt presses and me
together, before my brother must be relentless, I seek to
hide, now it has its presence all the gang disbanded. My friend,
"she continued," for one moment we are only aware of, and
already you are my confidant. "She could barely pronounce the
words, and fell to his shoulder." Do you not think bad of
me, "she said sobbing, "I am open to you so fast that you see
me so weak. Its you, you remain my friend, I deserve it."
He talked to her on the warm, free! her tears flowed, and
choked her words. In such moments joined in. Serlo very unwelcome
and very unexpectedly Philine, which he held in his hand. "Here
is your friend," he said to her, "he will have friends, you
welcome." "What," cried Wilhelm astonished, "must I understand you
here? "With a bescheidnen, composite nature, she went to him, bade
him welcome, praised Serlos goodness, which it without their
merit, just in hope that they will form, under his excellent troupe
took. you did it against Wilhelmer friendly, but from a respectful
distance.

This adjustment but lasted no longer than the two were present.
As Aurelie, to hide their pain, went away and was retrieved
Serlo saw Philine certainly due to the doors, whether Both were
also certainly continue, then how foolish they hopped in the
room around, sat down to earth and wanted to stifle giggling
and laughter. Then they jumped on, coaxed our friends and was happy
beyond all measure, that it was so clever , precede the ground
to rekognoszieren and einzunisten. "It is too colorful," she
said, "just as he's to me is right. Aurelie has an unfortunate
love trading with a gentleman had a splendid man to be myself
and probably even want to see. He has given a souvenir leave, or
I would have to me very wrong. It runs around as a boy, about
three years, as beautiful as the sun, daddy likes allerliebst. I
can otherwise the children will not suffer, but this boy I am.
I did it according to expected .

The death of her husband, the new acquaintance, the age of the
child, take everything together. Now is the friend of his ways,
since one years, he sees it no more. It is also beside
himself and inconsolable. Närrin The - The brother has a dancer
of the troupe with which he schöntut a Aktricchen, with which
he is familiar, in the city for some women, which it up all
time, and now I also get on the list. The fool! - from other
people tomorrow thou shalt hear. And now a word from Philine,
you know, the Erznärrin is in love with you. " They swore
that it was true, and declared that it was a right fun. She
asked Wilhelmer implore that he wants to Aurelien in love, then
the agitation until quite acceptable. "She runs her Ungetreuen,
you have her, I tell you brother and me. If this is
not a pleasure for half a year there, so I want to die the first
episode, which to this tangled four novels hinzuwirft." She asked
him, he wants it to trade and not spoil her so much indicate
respect, as they by their public demeanor would earn IV. Paper,
15 Chapter Chapter Funfzehntes The next morning Madame Melina
Wilhelm thought to visit, he found it not at home, asked about
the other members of the society and migratory learned Philine had
invited them for breakfast. Out of curiosity he hurried out and
took it all very tidy and comforted.

The clever creature she had gathered them with chocolate and
entertained them to understand, nor any prospect was not blocked,
they hope, through their influence on the director to see
how beneficial it was, so skilled people in his company
incorporated. They listened attentively to her, sip a cup after
the other down, the girl was not bad, and took himself to the
best of her to talk. "Do you believe," said Wilhelm, who remained
alone with Philine was that " Serlo still decide to be our companions
to keep ?"--" No way, "returned Philine," I am also keen
nothing I wanted, the sooner they would prefer continued ever!
The only Laertes wants me to keep; the other, we have
gradually bring aside. "Then she gave her friends to understand
that it certainly was convinced that he would now his talent is
no longer buried, but under one Directorate Serlo of the
theater go. You could order, the taste, the spirit of the rule
here, not enough praise, she said, so flattering to our friends,
so flattering to his talent that his heart and his imagination is
as much closer to this proposal, as his mind and his Reason themselves
away.

He hid his inclination before himself and before Philine and brought
a turbulent day on which he could not decide on its trade and
correspondents to the letters, which are there for him want to
fetch.

  Because whether he is equal to the
   unrest of this time with him could imagine, so he was spared but
their concerns and allegations cumbersome to learn, the more so
because he is a great and pure enjoyment of this evening of the
performance of a new package promised .

Serlo had refused to him by allowing the sample. "They need
us," he said, "only the best site to know, eh, we admit that to
us in the map."

With the greatest satisfaction of living but also our friend the
evening that the idea for. It was the first time that he
was a theater in such perfection saw. We trust all actors
fürtreffliche gifts, happy plants and a high and clear definition
of their art, and yet they were not equal to each other, but they
contributed to and held alternately, fired at each other and
were in their games, and very accurate. They soon felt that Serlo
the soul of the whole was, and he distinguished himself much
to his advantage. A light-hearted mood, a moderate vivacity, a
sense of decency in a large gift of imitation was necessary to
him as he stepped over the theater, as he opened his mouth, admire.
The interior comfort of his existence seemed to be spreading
across all listeners, and the witty way in which the roles of
the subtlest shades of light and pleasant expression, aroused
by so much more joy, than the art he knew to hide that he has a
persistent exercise had made their own. Aurelie His sister did
not stay behind him and got even bigger applause by the minds
of the people move, which he to cheer up and enjoy so much was
able. After several days in a pleasant way to persuade been Aurelie
demanded after our friend. He hurried to her and found
her on the couch but it seemed to suffer from headaches, and
her whole being was a febrile movement not hide. Your eyes are
exhilarated as they Hereintretenden installations. "Forgive!" she
called him "the confidence that you einflößten me has made
me weak. So far I could with my pain in quiet entertain, so they
gave me strength and consolation, you have now, I do not
know how it is received the bonds of secrecy solved, and you are
even now unwilling part in the battle to which I myself against
disputes. "William replied, her friendly and authentic. He
assured that their image and their pains him constantly before the
soul geschwebt that allows him to ask for their trust that he is
their friend to dedicate. As he said, his eyes were of the
boys dressed in front of her on the earth sat and play all sorts
of work durcheinanderwarf.

He liked how Philine already stated, about three years old, and
William understood until now why the reckless, in their
expressions rarely sublime girl the boy the sun compared. In order
to open the eyes and the full face ripples are the most beautiful
golden curls, a blendendweißen forehead showed delicate, dark,
sanftgebogene eyebrows, and the vibrant color of health gleamed
on his cheeks. "Sit with me," said Aurelie, "You see the happy
child with astonishment at, certainly, I did it with pleasure to
put my arms, I keep it with care, I can only legally on him the
degree of my pain detect because they leave me the value of such
a gift rarely feel. Allow me, "she continued," that I now also by
me and my destinies talk, because I am very keen that
you do not misjudge me. I thought a few moments to have left, so
I let you go, you are there now, and I've lost my thread. "verlaßnes
A creature in the world!" you say. You are a man and
think, "How gebärdet they are a necessary evil, as the certain
death of a woman floating in the infidelity of a man who Törin!
"- O my friend, my fate would be common, I wanted to endure nasty
foul, but it is so extraordinarily , why can not I tell you in the
mirror to show someone why not apply it to tell you!

  O would, I would be seduced, surprised, and then leave, then the
desperation would still be comforting, but I'm far worse because I
have myself deceived myself resist knowledge cheated, which is what
I can never forgive. "" For noble attitudes, such as yours are,
"returned the friend," you can not entirely unhappy. "" And you
know my mind whom I am guilty?

" asked Aurelie, "the worst of all education, by a girl would
ever be corrupted, the worst examples to make sense and propensity
to seduce. After the early death of my mother brought me
the most beautiful years of development with an aunt who is the
Law made the laws of respectability to despise. blindly gave it
any inclination that they liked about the subject matter areas, or
his slave ', when they are used in the wild benefit of themselves
could forget.

What we had children with the pure and clear view of the presumption
of innocence for our notions of the masculine gender make?

How muffled, urgent, brash, clumsy, everyone, they herbeireizte,
how tired, wanton, and empty abgeschmackt against his wishes once
he had found satisfaction.

   So I have this woman years under the commandments of the worst
people humiliated seen for what they had to endure encounters,
forehead and with what she knew in her destiny to find, even with
the nature of such shameful to wear fetters!

So I learned to know your sex, my friend, and how I hated's purely
because I seemed to notice that even leidlich men in relation
to ours every good feeling seemed to abdicate, to which they
otherwise have the natural ability have liked.
Martha Bethune Baliol, conscious that, in case of conviction, she
could never have prevailed upon herself to dethrone the King of
Palestine from the stone bench on which he sat for hours knitting
his stocking, refused, by accrediting the intelligence, even to
put him upon his trial, well judging that he would observe more
wholesome caution if he conceived his character unsuspected, than
if he were detected, and suffered to pass unpunished.  For after
all, she said, it would be cruel to dismiss an old Highland
soldier for a peccadillo so appropriate to his country and
profession.

The stately gate for carriages, or the humble accommodation for
foot-passengers, admitted into a narrow and short passage running
between two rows of lime-trees, whose green foliage during the
spring contrasted strangely with the swart complexion of the two
walls by the side of which they grew.  This access led to the
front of the house, which was formed by two gable ends, notched,
and having their windows adorned with heavy architectural
ornaments.  They joined each other at right angles; and a half
circular tower, which contained the entrance and the staircase,
occupied the point of junction, and rounded the acute angle.  One
of other two sides of the little court, in which there was just
sufficient room to turn a carriage, was occupied by some low
buildings answering the purpose of offices; the other, by a
parapet surrounded by a highly-ornamented iron railing, twined
round with honeysuckle and other parasitical shrubs, which
permitted the eye to peep into a pretty suburban garden,
extending down to the road called the South Back of the
Canongate, and boasting a number of old trees, many flowers, and
even some fruit.  We must not forget to state that the extreme
cleanliness of the courtyard was such as intimated that mop and
pail had done their utmost in that favoured spot to atone for the
general dirt and dinginess of the quarter where the premises were
situated.

Over the doorway were the arms of Bethune and Baliol, with
various other devices, carved in stone.  The door itself was
studded with iron nails, and formed of black oak; an iron rasp,
as it was called, was placed on it, instead of a knocker, for the
purpose of summoning the attendants.  [See Note 3.--Iron Rasp.]
He who usually appeared at the summons was a smart lad, in a
handsome livery, the son of Mrs. Martha's gardener at Mount
Baliol.  Now and then a servant girl, nicely but plainly dressed,
and fully accoutred with stockings and shoes, would perform this
duty; and twice or thrice I remember being admitted by Beauffet
himself, whose exterior looked as much like that of a clergyman
of rank as the butler of a gentleman's family.  He had been
valet-de-chambre to the last Sir Richard Bethune Baliol, and was,
a person highly trusted by the present lady.  A full stand, as it
is called in Scotland, of garments of a dark colour, gold buckles
in his shoes and at the knees of his breeches, with his hair
regularly dressed and powdered, announced him to be a domestic of
trust and importance.  His mistress used to say of him,--

                     "He is sad and civil,
   And suits well for a servant with my fortunes."

As no one can escape scandal, some said that Beauffet made a
rather better thing of the place than the modesty of his old-
fashioned wages would, unassisted, have amounted to.  But the man
was always very civil to me.  He had been long in the family, had
enjoyed legacies, and lain by a something of his own, upon which
he now enjoys ease with dignity, in as far as his newly-married
wife, Tibbie Shortacres, will permit him.

The Lodging--dearest reader, if you are tired, pray pass over the
next four or five pages--was not by any means so large as its
external appearance led people to conjecture.  The interior
accommodation was much cut up by cross walls and long passages,
and that neglect of economizing space which characterizes old
Scottish architecture.  But there was far more room than my old
friend required, even when she had, as was often the case, four
or five young cousins under her protection; and I believe much of
the house was unoccupied.  Mrs. Bethune Baliol never, in my
presence, showed herself so much offended as once with a meddling
person who advised her to have the windows of these supernumerary
apartments built up to save the tax.  She said in ire that, while
she lived, the light of God should visit the house of her
fathers; and while she had a penny, king and country should have
their due.  Indeed, she was punctiliously loyal, even in that
most staggering test of loyalty, the payment of imposts.  Mr.
Beauffet told me he was ordered to offer a glass of wine to the
person who collected the income tax, and that the poor man was so
overcome by a reception so unwontedly generous, that he had well-
nigh fainted on the spot.

You entered by a matted anteroom into the eating-parlour, filled
with old-fashioned furniture, and hung with family portraits,
which, excepting one of Sir Bernard Bethune, in James the Sixth's
time, said to be by Jameson, were exceedingly frightful.  A
saloon, as it was called, a long, narrow chamber, led out of the
dining-parlour, and served for a drawing-room.  It was a pleasant
apartment, looking out upon the south flank of Holyrood House,
the gigantic slope of Arthur's Seat, and the girdle of lofty
rocks called Salisbury Crags; objects so rudely wild, that the
mind can hardly conceive them to exist in the vicinage of a
populous metropolis.  [The Rev. Mr. Bowles derives the name of
these crags, as of the Episcopal city in the west of England,
from the same root, both, in his opinion, which he very ably
defends and illustrates, having been the sites of Druidical
temples.]  The paintings of the saloon came from abroad, and had
some of them much merit.  To see the best of them, however, you
must be admitted into the very PENETRALIA of the temple, and
allowed to draw the tapestry at the upper end of the saloon, and
enter Mrs. Martha's own special dressing-room.  This was a
charming apartment, of which it would be difficult to describe
the form, it had so many recesses which were filled up with
shelves of ebony and cabinets of japan and ormolu--some for
holding books, of which Mrs. Martha had an admirable collection,
some for a display of ornamental china, others for shells and
similar curiosities.  In a little niche, half screened by a
curtain of crimson silk, was disposed a suit of tilting armour of
bright steel inlaid with silver, which had been worn on some
memorable occasion by Sir Bernard Bethune, already mentioned;
while over the canopy of the niche hung the broadsword with which
her father had attempted to change the fortunes of Britain in
1715, and the spontoon which her elder brother bore when he was
leading on a company of the Black Watch at Fontenoy.  [The well-
known original designation of the gallant 42nd Regiment.  Being
the first corps raised for the royal service in the Highlands,
and allowed to retain their national garb, they were thus named
from the contrast which their dark tartans furnished to the
scarlet and white of the other regiments.]

There were some Italian and Flemish pictures of admitted
authenticity, a few genuine bronzes, and other objects of
curiosity, which her brothers or herself had picked up while
abroad.  In short, it was a place where the idle were tempted to
become studious, the studious to grow idle where the grave might
find matter to make them gay, and the gay subjects for gravity.

That it might maintain some title to its name, I must not forget
to say that the lady's dressing-room exhibited a superb mirror,
framed in silver filigree work; a beautiful toilette, the cover
of which was of Flanders lace; and a set of boxes corresponding
in materials and work to the frame of the mirror.

This dressing apparatus, however, was mere matter of parade.
Mrs. Martha Bethune Baliol always went through the actual duties
of the toilette in an inner apartment, which corresponded with
her sleeping-room by a small detached staircase.  There were, I
believe, more than one of those TURNPIKE STAIRS, as they were
called, about the house, by which the public rooms, all of which
entered through each other, were accommodated with separate and
independent modes of access.  In the little boudoir we have
described, Mrs. Martha Baliol had her choicest meetings.  She
kept early hours; and if you went in the morning, you must not
reckon that space of day as extending beyond three o'clock, or
four at the utmost.  These vigilant habits were attended with
some restraint on her visitors, but they were indemnified by your
always finding the best society and the best information which
were to be had for the day in the Scottish capital.  Without at
all affecting the blue stocking, she liked books.  They amused
her; and if the authors were persons of character, she thought
she owed them a debt of civility, which she loved to discharge by
personal kindness.  When she gave a dinner to a small party,
which she did now and then, she had the good nature to look for,
and the good luck to discover, what sort of people suited each
other best, and chose her company as Duke Theseus did his
hounds,--

  "Matched in mouth like bells,
   Each under each,"
         [Shakespeare's Midsummer Night's Dream, Act IV. Sc. I.]

so that every guest could take his part in the cry, instead of
one mighty Tom of a fellow, like Dr. Johnson, silencing all
besides by the tremendous depth of his diapason.  On such
occasions she afforded CHERE EXQUISE; and every now and then
there was some dish of French, or even Scottish derivation,
which, as well as the numerous assortment of VINS
EXTRAORDINAIRES produced by Mr. Beauffet, gave a sort of antique
and foreign air to the entertainment, which rendered it more
interesting.

It was a great thing to be asked to such parties; and not less so
to be invited to the early CONVERSAZIONE, which, in spite of
fashion, by dint of the best coffee, the finest tea, and CHASSE
CAFE that would have called the dead to life, she contrived now
and then to assemble in her saloon already mentioned, at the
unnatural hour of eight in the evening.  At such time the
cheerful old lady seemed to enjoy herself so much in the
happiness of her guests that they exerted themselves in turn to
prolong her amusement and their own; and a certain charm was
excited around, seldom to be met with in parties of pleasure, and
which was founded on the general desire of every one present to
contribute something to the common amusement.

But although it was a great privilege to be admitted to wait on
my excellent friend in the morning, or be invited to her dinner
or evening parties, I prized still higher the right which I had
acquired, by old acquaintance, of visiting Baliol's Lodging upon
the chance of finding its venerable inhabitant preparing for tea,
just about six o'clock in the evening.  It was only to two or
three old friends that she permitted this freedom; nor was this
sort of chance-party ever allowed to extend itself beyond five in
number.  The answer to those who came later announced that the
company was filled up for the evening, which had the double
effect of making those who waited on Mrs. Bethune Baliol in this
unceremonious manner punctual in observing her hour, and of
adding the zest of a little difficulty to the enjoyment of the
party.

It more frequently happened that only one or two persons partook
of this refreshment on the same evening; or, supposing the case
of a single gentleman, Mrs. Martha, though she did not hesitate
to admit him to her boudoir, after the privilege of the French
and the old Scottish school, took care, as she used to say, to
prescribe all possible propriety, by commanding the attendance of
her principal female attendant, Mrs. Alice Lambskin, who might,
from the gravity and dignity of her appearance, have sufficed to
matronize a whole boarding-school, instead of one maiden lady of
eighty and upwards.  As the weather permitted, Mrs. Alice sat
duly remote from the company in a FAUTEUIL behind the projecting
chimney-piece, or in the embrasure of a window, and prosecuted in
Carthusian silence, with indefatigable zeal, a piece of
embroidery, which seemed no bad emblem of eternity.

But I have neglected all this while to introduce my friend
herself to the reader--at least so far as words can convey the
peculiarities by which her appearance and conversation were
distinguished.

A little woman, with ordinary features and an ordinary form, and
hair which in youth had no decided colour, we may believe Mrs.
Martha when she said of herself that she was never remarkable for
personal charms; a modest admission, which was readily confirmed
by certain old ladies, her contemporaries, who, whatever might
have been the youthful advantages which they more than hinted had
been formerly their own share, were now in personal appearance,
as well as in everything else, far inferior to my accomplished
friend.  Mrs. and now everything is at once disappeared. Only a
short time, the crushed straw and the cooking holes
eingegraben still show a trace, then everything will soon
be plowed, and the presence of so many thousands of capable
people in this area is only in the minds of some old haunt people.
"Philine began to sing and pulled her friend to a dance in
the hall. "Let us," cried she, "since we currently can not run
if it is over, at least as a beautiful goddess, by helping
us vorbeizieht, cheerful and graceful worship! "They had a few
little twists, when Madame Melina went through the hall. Philine
was mischievous enough, they also invited to dance and this adds
to the Mißgestalt to remember in which they moved through her
pregnancy was."

If I only "said Philine behind her back," no woman more hope
to see! "" She hopes it, "said Laertes." But there dresses
they are so ugly. Did you loose the front fold of the
condensed Rocks seen that always vorausspaziert when it moves? She
has no type or skill, just a bit to patterns and to hide their
condition. "" Let's just, "said Laertes," the time will you
ever come to Hülfe. "" It is always nice, "said Philine , "when
the children of the trees shook." The Baron stepped inside and
told them something friendly in the name of the Count and
Countess, which had departed quite early, and made them some
presents. He went on to William, in In addition to rooms with
Mignon employed. The child had been very friendly and zutätig
bezeigt after Wilhelms parents, siblings and relatives and
asked him to do his duty out of those with him some message
to give. The Baron brought him together with a farewell from
the masteries insurance, how much the count with him, his
games, his poetic work and his theatrical efforts had been
satisfied. He took it as evidence of this attitude shows a bag,
its nice to tissue irritant color of new gold pieces durchschimmerte;
Wilhelm resigned and refused to accept it. "See," the Baron
continued, "this gift as a replacement for your time, as a gratitude
for your efforts, not as a reward for your talent. If we can
do this a good name and the inclination of the people give, it
is proper that our hard work and effort at the same time acquire
the resources, our needs, because we did not perform spirit. If
we were in the city, where everything is found, it would have been
this small sum in a clock, a ring or something else turns, but now
I give the wand directly into your hands, you can create a gem for
you on the love and serve, and store it to our memory.

Here you can keep the bag in honor. The ladies have knitted himself,
and their intention was, by the contents of the receptacle the
amenities of form. "" Forgive, "returned Wilhelm," my embarrassment
and my doubts, to accept this gift. It almost destroyed the few,
what I did, and prevents the free play of a happy memory. Money
is a beautiful thing, something to be dismissed, and I wish
not, in the memory of your home entirely to be dismissed. ""
That is not the case, "returned the baron," but by you
yourself feel soft, are Do not require that the count is
complete as your debtors think: a man who burned his greatest
ambition is carefully and fairly to be. He has not escaped the
trouble you are, where and how you his intentions quite
have devoted your time, so he knows that, for certain institutions
to accelerate your own money is not had mercy.

How will I appear before him again, though I can assure him
that his gratitude pleasures you did. "" If I just think to myself,
if I just follow my own feelings is likely, "returned
Wilhelm," I would regardless of all the reasons that stubbornly
refuse this gift, as beautiful and noble it is to accept,
but I can not deny that they sent me in the moments in which
it sets me in a predicament, a predicament from a tear in which I
previously Meiningen was against me and some silent grief caused.
I have both the money than with time, which I have to give
account, not the best kept house, now it is me by the magnanimity
of Mr. Counts possible to safely Meinigen fortunes of the message
to give to me this weird side led. I opfre the delicacy to us
like a tender conscience warns on such occasions, a height
requirement, and my father bravely under the eye can become, I
stand ashamed before yours. "" It is strange, "returned the baron
, "what a strange concern is making money from friends and patrons
to think of where any other gift with gratitude and joy would
receive.

The human nature has more similar characteristics, such scruples
like to create and nurture carefully. "" Is not it the same with
all the honor points? "Asked Wilhelm." Oh yes, "returned the
baron," and other prejudices. We do not want them ausjäten, not
perhaps noble plants along with auszuraufen. But I am always pleased
when individuals feel about what you can and put out, and I think
with pleasure of the story of the poet's witty, the theater for
a few pieces made, what the whole of the monarch received applause.
"I must reward him personable," said the magnanimous prince, "is
researching on him, whether it makes any gem pleasure or whether
he has not spurned, money." After his jokingly replied kind
of Hofmann seconded the poet: "I am grateful for the merciful
lively attitudes, and since the Emperor every day takes
money from us, so I do not see why I should be ashamed of, accept
money from him." The Baron had hardly left the room, when Wilhelm
eagerly counted the cash to him so unexpectedly and, as he
believed it was approached by undeserved. It seemed as if it the
value and dignity of the gold to us only in later years are
palpable, as unknowing entgegenblickten for the first time, when
the beautiful, flashing dainty pieces from the bag hervorrollten.

He made his statement and found that he, especially since Melina
once again the advance payment had promised as much, yes
even more so in that spot than on that day when he first Philine
Strauss had abfordern. With secret satisfaction, he looked at his
talent, with a little pride in the happiness that he had directed
and accompanied. He now took the pen with confidence to a
letter to write at once to the family from embarrassment,
and his past behavior in the best light should. He avoided a
real story, and had significant and only in the one mystical
expressions of what he encounters could be guessed. The good
condition of its cash, the acquisition, his talent, he was guilty,
the favor of the Great, the propensity of women to meet in a
wide circles, the training of its physical and intellectual assets,
the hope for the future formed such a wonderful air paintings
that Fata Morgagna itself it is not strange to have mixed
effects. In this happy Exaltation he continued, after the letter
was closed, a long soliloquy to entertain, in which he recapitulated
the content of the writing and acting and a decent future ausmalte.
The example of so many noble warriors angefeuert had him, the
poetry of Shakespeare had given him a new world opens up, and from
the lips of the beautiful Countess had a fire in itself ineffable
sucked.

All this could and it should not be without impact.

The equerry came and asked if they had finished packing.

Unfortunately, nobody except Melina thought. Well you should
hurry to start. The Count was promised the whole of society a
few days travel far to be transported, the horses were ready and
just could not long be lacking. Wilhelm asked for his suitcases;
Madame Melina had him advantage and he demanded his money, Mr.
Melina had it at the bottom of the suitcase packed with great
care. Philine said: "I got mine in the still room," Wilhelm took
clothes and bade Mignon, the rest nachzubringen. Wilhelm had it,
not without reluctance, can happen. By aufpackte and everything
prepared, Melina said: "It is irksome to me that we as Acrobat and
market Schreier stay, I wished that women dress anzöge Mignon and
that the harp player still Geschwinde could shave the beard.
"Mignon held strongly to Wilhelm, and said with great animation:"
I am a boy: I do not want to be girls!

"The old man remained silent, and Philine made on this occasion
about the peculiarity of the count, their protector, some funny
notes. "When the harper performs his beard," she said, "so
he may only carefully sew on tape and maintain that he can carry
out immediately, as soon as he counts the Lord somewhere in the
world meets : because of this beard alone has given him the
grace of the Lord provides. " When they came in and an explanation
of this peculiar expression demanded she let herself folgendergestalt
hear: "The Count believes that it is illusory to contribute much,
even if the actor lives in general continue to play his role and
his character souteniert, so he was the pedant so cheap, and he
found that it was quite clever that the harper his false beard
is not alone at night in the theater, but also wear-resistant
during the day and was very pleased about the natural appearance
of the masquerade. "As the others have this mistake and the
peculiar views of Count mocked, the harper went with Wilhelm aside,
took his farewell with tears and begged him to dismiss yes
immediately. Wilhelm talked to him and assured him that he will
protect against anyone, that he nobody bend a hair, much less
without his will be cut off. The old man was very moved, and his
eyes glowed A strange fire.

"Not this occasion pushing me out," he exclaimed, "since a long
time, I am stille accusations that I stay around you. I should
never relax, because the misfortune overtook me and damaged
those who socialize with me. Are you everything, if you do
not dismiss me, but ask me not, I do not belong to me, I can not
stay. "" Who are you in? Who can such a power over you exercise?
"" My Lord, let my schaudervolles secret, and give me go! "The
Revenge, which I pursued, is not of the earthly judge, I am an
implacable fate, and I can not stay, and I can not!" "In this
state, in which I see thee, I will certainly not leave you. ""
It is high treason to you, my benefactor, if I zaudre. I'm
sure with you, but you are in danger. They do not know who you
cherish in your area. I'm guilty, but unfortunate than guilty. My
present happiness away, and the good deed is powerless if I
dazutrete. fleeting and fickle should I be that I am not unhappy
Genius einholet that made me slow and has only to remember it
when I my head down and wants to rest. thankful I can not
indicate, as if I leave you. "strange man! you can send
me the confidence in you as little as the hope to see you
happy. I want the secrets of your But faith does not penetrate,
but if you are so wonderful to know shortcuts and lebst omen, so
I tell thee to thy solace and encouragement to your:
journeyman you my fortunes, and we want to see what Genius
is the strongest, your black or my white "Wilhelm seized this
opportunity to give it some more comforting to say, because he had
been for some time in his wonderful companion to see a man believed
that by chance or Schickung a large debt to be loaded, and now the
memory is always the same with fortschleppt.

Even a few days ago, William had his vocal behorcht and probably
noticed the following lines: He colors the morning sun lighting the
horizon with a pure flame, And over his head cut off schuld'gen The
beautiful picture of the whole world together.

The old man liked to say what he wanted, it was Wilhelm always a
stronger argument, knew all the best to return and to apply,
knowing so good, so warm and comforting to say that the old self
again aufzuleben and his crickets seemed to abdicate IV. Book, 2nd
Chapter Second Chapter Melina had hoped, in a small but affluent
city with its society unterzukommen.

Already they were at the places where the horses of the
Count had brought, and looked after the other carriages and
horses around with whom they hoped to go forward. Melina had
taken over the transport and showed the way, after his habit very
barren.

On the other hand, William had the beautiful Countess of ducats
in his pocket, on the happy use he the greatest right to have
believed, and very easy, he forgot that he had them in the stately
balance that he zuschickte those with him, very vainglory
had listed. His friend Shakespeare, whom he also with great joy
as his mentor and acknowledged only so dear Wilhelm called him,
had given him a prince known, among the lower, or even bad company
for a time, staying in, and regardless of his noble nature of the
crudity, and impropriety of such silliness is quite sensual lad
enjoy.

Most welcome him was the ideal, which he could compare the current
state and the self-deception, which he created an almost
insurmountable inclination felt it was extremely relieved him.

He now began to reflect on his clothes. He found that a West
Chen, the man in the emergency drafts a short jacket for a very
reasonable Hikers should dress. Long, knitted leg dress and a
pair Schnürstiefeln seemed the true garb of a pedestrian. Then
he gave a beautiful Seidner sash, which he first under the pretext
of the body to keep warm, umband, while he freed his neck from
the bondage of a towel and let some Nesseltuch stripe shirts adhere
to, but ran wide and slightly the complete image of an ancient
collar received.

Seidner The beautiful scarf, rescued the memory of Marian, was
only loosely linked under the nesseltuchnen Krause. A round hat
with a colorful band and a big spring, the masquerade perfect.
The women say: OK, this costume let him excellently well. Philine
was completely charmed and asked about his beautiful hair,
which he, to the natural Ideally only the closer, had ruthlessly
cut off. She recommended that this does not foul, and our
friend, who through his generosity the right had been acquired
on Prince Harry's manner with the other deal came soon, even
in the taste of some great pranks and be transported. We
challenged, we danced, we invented all sorts of games, and in the
gladness of the heart we enjoyed fair level of wine that you had
encountered, to a large extent, and Philine lurked in the disorder
of this life on the fragile hero, for his good Genius sure may.

An excellent entertainment, with which the society especially
feasted, consisted in an extemporaneous game in which their former
patron and benefactor, and through imitations. Some of them had
very well express the characteristics of the various noble
decency people noticed, and the replica of the same ward from the
rest of society with the greatest applause recorded, and as Philine
from the secret archives of their experience some specific
declarations of love, which she had done , submitted, you knew
before laughing and gloating hard to leave.

Wilhelm scolded their ingratitude, he sat alone, you prevent them,
what they get enough abverdient and that even the behavior of
so-deserving people, how they should be praised, not the best
was. Now you are complaining, with how little respect they
met, how much they've reset. The mocking, teasing, and went
back to imitate, and it became increasingly bitter and unjust.
"I wish," said Wilhelm notes that "by your statements neither
envy nor self-love and that their durchschiene those
persons and their relationships from the right aspects
betrachtetet .

It is its own thing, even through the birth of a lofty place in
the human society to be set. Who inherited riches perfect lightness
of existence provides that anyone who, if I may express it,
of all of humanity from Beiwesen Youth will take place on lots
surrounded, mostly used, these goods as the first and
largest to be considered, and the value of a well-equipped nature
of humanity is not so much to him.

The behavior of the nobles and even lower against each other is
measured according to express preferences they allow everyone
to his title, his rank, his clothes and Equipage, just not his
merits to argue. "These words gave the company a inordinate
applause. It was disgusting that the man of merit should always
stand back and that in the great world no trace of natural and
cordial dealings had to be found. They were especially pleased
about this last point from which hundreds to thousands.

"Scheltet they do not," Wilhelm said that "it regrets much more!
Because of that happiness, which we recognize as the highest,
from the inner riches of nature flowing they rarely have an
increased sensation. Only us poor, we have little or nothing,
it is gegönnt the happiness of friendship to fully enjoy it. We
can not by our beloved Grace collect, or by transporting
favor, nor by gifts happy . We have nothing but ourselves, this
whole self, we must surrender and when it should have some value,
the friends will forever insure good. What a pleasure, what a
happiness for the donor and recipient! In what condition we
are blessed loyalty, you must provide the temporary human
life is a divine certainty, it makes the main capital of our
wealth. "Mignon had him in these words approached, wrapped her
delicate arms around him and stayed with the head leaned on his
chest is. He put a hand on the child's head, and went on: "How
easy is it to a great, cool to win! How easy is it to the heart!
A pleasant, comfortable, just some human behavior is doing
wonders, and how much money he has, once acquired ghost note.
Seltner us all, everything is harder, of course, and how it is
that we are to what we acquire and afford to put a greater value.

What poignant examples of faithful servants who are their
masters aufopferten! How beautiful Shakespeare has given us such
stories! The fidelity in this case is an effort of a noble soul,
a larger will be the same. By continuing devotion and love is
the servant like his master, who else than just a paid slave
is entitled to. Yes, these virtues are only for small stocks,
they can not do, and they dress him nice. Those who are
easily ransom, it is so tempting, also of gratitude to lift. Yes,
in that sense I think to be able to claim that a large probably
have friends, but his friend could not.

"Mignon pressed always fixed on him." Well, "returned one of
the company.

They were
to be found chiefly at Perth, Stirling, or Glasgow, where they
and their horses were usually hired by travellers, or tourists,
to accomplish such journeys of business or pleasure as they might
have to perform in the land of the Gael.  This class of persons
approached to the character of what is called abroad a
CONDUCTEUR; or might be compared to the sailing-master on board a
British ship of war, who follows out after his own manner the
course which the captain commands him to observe.  You explained
to your postilion the length of your tour, and the objects you
were desirous it should embrace; and you found him perfectly
competent to fix the places of rest or refreshment, with due
attention that those should be chosen with reference to your
convenience, and to any points of interest which you might desire
to visit.

The qualifications of such a person were necessarily much
superior to those of the "first ready," who gallops thrice-a-day
over the same ten miles.  Donald MacLeish, besides being quite
alert at repairing all ordinary accidents to his horses and
carriage, and in making shift to support them, where forage was
scarce, with such substitutes as bannocks and cakes, was likewise
a man of intellectual resources.  He had acquired a general
knowledge of the traditional stories of the country which he had
traversed so often; and if encouraged (for Donald was a man of
the most decorous reserve), he would willingly point out to you
the site of the principal clan-battles, and recount the most
remarkable legends by which the road, and the objects which
occurred in travelling it, had been distinguished.  There was
some originality in the man's habits of thinking and expressing
himself, his turn for legendary lore strangely contrasting with a
portion of the knowing shrewdness belonging to his actual
occupation, which made his conversation amuse the way well
enough.

Add to this, Donald knew all his peculiar duties in the country
which he traversed so frequently.  He could tell, to a day, when
they would "be killing" lamb at Tyndrum or Glenuilt; so that the
stranger would have some chance of being fed like a Christian;
and knew to a mile the last village where it was possible to
procure a wheaten loaf for the guidance of those who were little
familiar with the Land of Cakes.  He was acquainted with the road
every mile, and could tell to an inch which side of a Highland
bridge was passable, which decidedly dangerous.  [This is, or was
at least, a necessary accomplishment.  In one of the most
beautiful districts of the Highlands was, not many years since, a
bridge bearing this startling caution, "Keep to the right side,
the left being dangerous."]  In short, Donald MacLeish was not
only our faithful attendant and steady servant, but our humble
and obliging friend; and though I have known the half-classical
cicerone of Italy, the talkative French valet-de-place, and even
the muleteer of Spain, who piques himself on being a maize-eater,
and whose honour is not to be questioned without danger, I do not
think I have ever had so sensible and intelligent a guide.

Our motions were of course under Donald's direction; and it
frequently happened, when the weather was serene, that we
preferred halting to rest his horses even where there was no
established stage, and taking our refreshment under a crag, from
which leaped a waterfall, or beside the verge of a fountain,
enamelled with verdant turf and wild-flowers.  Donald had an eye
for such spots, and though he had, I dare say, never read Gil
Blas or Don Quixote, yet he chose such halting-places as Le Sage
or Cervantes would have described.  Very often, as he observed
the pleasure I took in conversing with the country people, he
would manage to fix our place of rest near a cottage, where there
was some old Gael whose broadsword had blazed at Falkirk or
Preston, and who seemed the frail yet faithful record of times
which had passed away.  Or he would contrive to quarter us, as
far as a cup of tea went, upon the hospitality of some parish
minister of worth and intelligence, or some country family of the
better class, who mingled with the wild simplicity of their
original manners, and their ready and hospitable welcome, a sort
of courtesy belonging to a people, the lowest of whom are
accustomed to consider themselves as being, according to the
Spanish phrase, "as good gentlemen as the king, only not quite so
rich."

To all such persons Donald MacLeish was well known, and his
introduction passed as current as if we had brought letters from
some high chief of the country.

Sometimes it happened that the Highland hospitality, which
welcomed us with all the variety of mountain fare, preparations
of milk and eggs, and girdle-cakes of various kinds, as well as
more substantial dainties, according to the inhabitant's means of
regaling the passenger, descended rather too exuberantly on
Donald MacLeish in the shape of mountain dew.  Poor Donald!  he
was on such occasions like Gideon's fleece--moist with the noble
element, which, of course, fell not on us.  But it was his only
fault, and when pressed to drink DOCH-AN-DORROCH to my ladyship's
good health, it would have been ill taken to have refused the
pledge; nor was he willing to do such discourtesy.  It was, I
repeat, his only fault.  Nor had we any great right to complain;
for if it rendered him a little more talkative, it augmented his
ordinary share of punctilious civility, and he only drove slower,
and talked longer and more pompously, than when he had not come
by a drop of usquebaugh.  It was, we remarked, only on such
occasions that Donald talked with an air of importance of the
family of MacLeish; and we had no title to be scrupulous in
censuring a foible, the consequences of which were confined
within such innocent limits.

We became so much accustomed to Donald's mode of managing us,
that we observed with some interest the art which he used to
produce a little agreeable surprise, by concealing from us the
spot where he proposed our halt to be made, when it was of an
unusual and interesting character.  This was so much his wont
that, when he made apologies at setting off for being obliged to
stop in some strange, solitary place till the horses should eat
the corn which he brought on with them for that purpose, our
imagination used to be on the stretch to guess what romantic
retreat he had secretly fixed upon for our noontide baiting-
place.

We had spent the greater part of the morning at the delightful
village of Dalmally, and had gone upon the lake under the
guidance of the excellent clergyman who was then incumbent at
Glenorquhy, [This venerable and hospitable gentleman's name was
MacIntyre.] and had heard a hundred legends of the stern chiefs
of Loch Awe, Duncan with the thrum bonnet, and the other lords of
the now mouldering towers of Kilchurn.  [See Note 7.--Loch Awe.]
Thus it was later than usual when we set out on our journey,
after a hint or two from Donald concerning the length of the way
to the next stage, as there was no good halting-place between
Dalmally and Oban.

Having bid adieu to our venerable and kind cicerone, we proceeded
on our tour, winding round the tremendous mountain called
Cruachan Ben, which rushes down in all its majesty of rocks and
wilderness on the lake, leaving only a pass, in which,
notwithstanding its extreme strength, the warlike clan of
MacDougal of Lorn were almost destroyed by the sagacious Robert
Bruce.  That King, the Wellington of his day, had accomplished,
by a forced march, the unexpected manoeuvre of forcing a body of
troops round the other side of the mountain, and thus placed them
in the flank and in the rear of the men of Lorn, whom at the same
time, he attacked in front.  The great number of cairns yet
visible as you descend the pass on the westward side shows the
extent of the vengeance which Bruce exhausted on his inveterate
and personal enemies.  I am, you know, the sister of soldiers,
and it has since struck me forcibly that the manoeuvre which
Donald described, resembled those of Wellington or of Bonaparte.
He was a great man Robert Bruce, even a Baliol must admit that;
although it begins now to be allowed that his title to the crown
was scarce so good as that of the unfortunate family with whom he
contended.  But let that pass.  The slaughter had been the
greater, as the deep and rapid river Awe is disgorged from the
lake just in the rear of the fugitives, and encircles the base of
the tremendous mountain; so that the retreat of the unfortunate
fleers was intercepted on all sides by the inaccessible character
of the country, which had seemed to promise them defence and
protection.  [See Note 8.--Battle betwixt the armies of the Bruce
and MacDougal of Lorn.]

Musing, like the Irish lady in the song, "upon things which are
long enough a-gone," [This is a line from a very pathetic ballad
which I heard sung by one of the young ladies of Edgeworthstown
in 1825.  I do not know that it has been printed.]  we felt no
impatience at the slow and almost creeping pace with which our
conductor proceeded along General Wade's military road, which
never or rarely condescends to turn aside from the steepest
ascent, but proceeds right up and down hill, with the
indifference to height and hollow, steep or level, indicated by
the old Roman engineers.  Still, however, the substantial
excellence of these great works--for such are the military
highways in the Highlands--deserved the compliment of the poet,
who, whether he came from our sister kingdom, and spoke in his
own dialect, or whether he supposed those whom he addressed might
have some national pretension to the second sight, produced the
celebrated couplet,--

  "Had you but seen these roads BEFORE they were made,
   You would hold up your hands and bless General Wade."

Nothing, indeed, can be more wonderful than to see these
wildernesses penetrated and pervious in every quarter by broad
accesses of the best possible construction, and so superior to
what the country could have demanded for many centuries for any
pacific purpose of commercial intercourse.  Thus the traces of
war are sometimes happily accommodated to the purposes of peace.
The victories of Bonaparte have been without results but his road
over the Simplon will long be the communication betwixt peaceful
countries, who will apply to the ends of commerce and friendly
intercourse that gigantic work, which was formed for the
ambitious purpose of warlike invasion.

While we were thus stealing along, we gradually turned round the
shoulder of Ben Cruachan, and descending the course of the
foaming and rapid Awe, left behind us the expanse of the majestic
lake which gives birth to that impetuous river.  The rocks and
precipices which stooped down perpendicularly on our path on the
right hand exhibited a few remains of the wood which once clothed
them, but which had in later times been felled to supply, Donald
MacLeish informed us, the iron foundries at the Bunawe.  This
made us fix our eyes with interest on one large oak, which grew
on the left hand towards the river.  It seemed a tree of
extraordinary magnitude and picturesque beauty, and stood just
where there appeared to be a few roods of open ground lying among
huge stones, which had rolled down from the mountain.  To add to
the romance of the situation, the spot of clear ground extended
round the foot of a proud-browed rock, from the summit of which
leaped a mountain stream in a fall of sixty feet, in which it was
dissolved into foam and dew.  At the bottom of the fall the
rivulet with difficulty collected, like a routed general, its
dispersed forces, and, as if tamed by its descent, found a
noiseless passage through the heath to join the Awe.

I was much struck with the tree and waterfall, and wished myself
nearer them; not that I thought of sketch-book or portfolio--for
in my younger days misses were not accustomed to black-lead
pencils, unless they could use them to some good purpose--but
merely to indulge myself with a closer view.  Donald immediately
opened the chaise door, but observed it was rough walking down
the brae, and that I would see the tree better by keeping the
road for a hundred yards farther, when it passed closer to the
spot, for which he seemed, however, to have no predilection.  "He
knew," he said, "a far bigger tree than that nearer Bunawe, and
it was a place where there was flat ground for the carriage to
stand, which it could jimply do on these braes; but just as my
leddyship liked."

My ladyship did choose rather to look at the fine tree before me
than to pass it by in hopes of a finer; so we walked beside the
carriage till we should come to a point, from which, Donald
assured us, we might, without scrambling, go as near the tree as
we chose, "though he wadna advise us to go nearer than the
highroad."

There was something grave and mysterious in Donald's sun-browned
countenance when he gave us this intimation, and his manner was
so different from his usual frankness, that my female curiosity
was set in motion.  We walked on the whilst, and I found the
tree, of which we had now lost sight by the intervention of some
rising ground, was really more distant than I had at first
supposed.  "I could have sworn now," said I to my cicerone, "that
yon tree and waterfall was the very place where you intended to
make a stop to-day."

"The Lord forbid!"  said Donald hastily.

"And for what, Donald?  Why should you be willing to pass so
pleasant a spot?"

"It's ower near Dalmally, my leddy, to corn the beasts; it would
bring their dinner ower near their breakfast, poor things.  An'
besides, the place is not canny."

"Oh!  then the mystery is out.  There is a bogle or a brownie, a
witch or a gyre-carlin, a bodach or a fairy, in the case?"

"The ne'er a bit, my leddy--ye are clean aff the road, as I may
say.  But if your leddyship will just hae patience, and wait till
we are by the place and out of the glen, I'll tell ye all about
it.  There is no much luck in speaking of such things in the
place they chanced in."

I was obliged to suspend my curiosity, observing, that if I
persisted in twisting the discourse one way while Donald was
twining it another, I should make his objection, like a hempen
cord, just so much the tougher.  At length the promised turn of
the road brought us within fifty paces of the tree which I
desired to admire, and I now saw to my surprise, that there was a
human habitation among the cliffs which surrounded it.  It was a
hut of the least dimensions, and most miserable description that
I ever saw even in the Highlands.  The walls of sod, or DIVOT, as
the Scotch call it, were not four feet high; the roof was of
turf, repaired with reeds and sedges; the chimney was composed of
clay, bound round by straw ropes; and the whole walls, roof, and
chimney, were alike covered with the vegetation of house-leek,
rye-grass, and moss common to decayed cottages formed of such
materials.  There was not the slightest vestige of a kale-yard,
the usual accompaniment of the very worst huts; and of living
things we saw nothing, save a kid which was browsing on the roof
of the hut, and a goat, its mother, at some distance, feeding
betwixt the oak and the river Awe.

"What man," I could not help exclaiming, "can have committed sin
deep enough to deserve such a miserable dwelling!"

"Sin enough," said Donald MacLeish, with a half-suppressed groan;
"and God he knoweth, misery enough too.  And it is no man's
dwelling neither, but a woman's."

"A woman's!"  I repeated, "and in so lonely a place!  What sort
of a woman can she be?"

"Come this way, my leddy, and you may judge that for yourself,"
said Donald.  And by advancing a few steps, and making a sharp
turn to the left, we gained a sight of the side of the great
broad-breasted oak, in the direction opposed to that in which we
had hitherto seen it.

"If she keeps her old wont, she will be there at this hour of the
day," said Donald; but immediately became silent, and pointed
with his finger, as one afraid of being overheard.  I looked, and
beheld, not without some sense of awe, a female form seated by
the stem of the oak, with her head drooping, her hands clasped,
and a dark-coloured mantle drawn over her head, exactly as Judah
is represented in the Syrian medals as seated under her palm-
tree.  I was infected with the fear and reverence which my guide
seemed to entertain towards this solitary being, nor did I think
of advancing towards her to obtain a nearer view until I had cast
an enquiring look on Donald; to which be replied in a half
whisper, "She has been a fearfu' bad woman, my leddy."

"Mad woman, said you," replied I, hearing him imperfectly; "then
she is perhaps dangerous?"

"No--she is not mad," replied Donald; "for then it may be she
would be happier than she is; though when she thinks on what she
has done, and caused to be done, rather than yield up a hair-
breadth of her ain wicked will, it is not likely she can be very
well settled.  But she neither is mad nor mischievous; and yet,
my leddy, I think you had best not go nearer to her."  And then,
in a few hurried words, he made me acquainted with the story
which I am now to tell more in detail.  I heard the narrative
with a mixture of horror and sympathy, which at once impelled me
to approach the sufferer, and speak to her the words of comfort,
or rather of pity, and at the same time made me afraid to do so.

This indeed was the feeling with which she was regarded by the
Highlanders in the neighbourhood, who looked upon Elspat
MacTavish, or the Woman of the Tree, as they called her, as the
Greeks considered those who were pursued by the Furies, and
endured the mental torment consequent on great criminal actions.
"Almost unfortunate," returned with dull voice, lifted the boy
to the mitzugehen seemed happy, and took him away. No sooner had
the child aside, as Aurelie began to weep bitterly. "I can not
whine and complain as" cried they come from, "and I am ashamed,
like a poor worm to lie in front of you.

My composure is gone, and I can not tell." They paused, and remained
silent. Your friend, the General said nothing, and nothing special
to say knew pressed her hand and she saw a long time to. Finally,
he took the embarrassment of a book that he is on the table
is found, there were works of Shakespeare and "Hamlet" opened.
Serlo, who just came to the door, after being asked his sister,
looked into the book, our friend in the hand stopped, and exclaimed:
"Find me again on your" Hamlet "?

Just right! There are even some doubts as I set off to the canonical
personable, the pieces you like to want to give too much seem
to diminish. Was it the British themselves recognized that the
main interest is with the third act of castles, that the last two
acts just miserable the whole thing together, and it is true,
the piece toward the end will not go back. " It is very possible,
"said Wilhelm," that some members of a nation that so many
masterpieces record, by prejudice and narrowness to be led wrong
judgments, but we can not stop with own eyes to see and to be fair.

I am far away, the plan to blame on this piece, I think, rather,
that no major had dreamed up, yes, it is not invented, it is
so. "" How do you interpret this? " Serlo asked. "I want nothing
to interpret," returned Wilhelm, "I want you just imagine
what I think." Aurelie lifted from their pads on, based on
her hand and looked at our friend, with the largest insurance that
he rather have, so to talk continued: "It pleases us so well, it
flatters so much when we see a hero, which by itself is, of loves
and hates, when he commanded his heart, and makes the executes
all the obstacles away and to a great purpose arrived. History
writer and poet want us to talk about that a lot so proud of the
people could fall. Here we are instructed otherwise, the hero
has no plan, but the piece is planned. This is rather than
following a rigid and stubborn idea of revenge by an evil Wicht
punished, no, it is done a tremendous deed, it wallows in its
aftermath continues to tear the innocent and the criminals seem the
abyss, he is, and want to avoid plunges into it, just where his
path will be happy to leave.

Because that is the nature of the atrocity that they also harm the
innocent, as the good action that they have many advantages
including the undeserved spreads without the authors of
Both often neither punished nor rewarded. Here in our pieces
how wonderful! The Purgatory sends his mind and calls for revenge,
but in vain. All the circumstances come together and drive the
vengeance vain! Neither Earth nor Subterranean can succeed alone
what the fate reserved . The court's hours.

The evil coincides with the good. weggemäht One is sex, and
the other on sproßt. "After a pause, in which they each other
installations, Serlo took the floor:" They make much of Providence
no compliment, by They collect the poet, and then seem to me
again in honor of your poet, like others in honor of Providence,
and his final destination Plane unterzuschieben to which he has
not thought of. "IV Paper, 16 Chapter sixteenth chapter "Let
me," said Aurelie, "now also a question to do so. I have
viewed Ophélie role again, I'm happy with it and I dare them
under certain circumstances to play. But tell me, would have the
poet's Mad no other song to be inferior? Could not fragments
from melancholy ballads to choose what to ambiguities and
lascivious silliness in the mouths of this precious little girl?
"" best friend, "returned Wilhelm," I can also not an iota to
give, too These strange, even in this apparent impropriety is a
large sense. but we know at the beginning of the piece,
bringing the mind of the good child is employed. calmness,
she lived to himself, but barely hid her longing, her desires.
Heimlich sounded the sounds of lasciviousness in her soul, and how
often they might have tried, like a careless Wärterin their sensuality
to rest with a little song to sing, they just had more alive.

  Finally, since it of any violence on himself is snatched, because
her heart floats on the tongue, this tongue their traitor, and in
the innocence of madness enjoy it before the king and queen at the
sound of your beloved after countless songs: from girls, which was
won, from girls, the boy sneaks on and so forth.

"He had not yet ausgeredet as at once a wonderful scene before
his eyes was that he was in no way could explain. Serlo was
several times in the room and down went without any intention
that he could remember.

Suddenly, he joined to Aurelien Putztisch, attacked soon after,
something that was, and hurried away with his booty to the door.

  Aurelie hardly noticed his action
    as they performances,
  it is in the way threw it
    with incredible passion
  and attacked cleverly enough,
    one end of the stolen
  item to be considered. balgten
    They wrestled and is very stubborn, turned and conquered very
lively around each other, he laughed, she ereiferte, and as William
hinzueilte, they auseinanderzubringen and placate, he saw at once
Aurelien with a naked dagger in his hand to the side jump by Serlo
the vagina, which he left behind was sullen threw to the ground.

Wilhelm came back amazed, and his mute astonishment seemed
to find the cause to wonder why such a strange dispute over such
a wonderful household that may arise among them. "They
should," said Serlo, "referee between us two. What is it with
the sharp steel to do? Let him show. This dagger ziemt any actress,
pointed and sharp as needles and knives! For what the Posse?
Heftig how she is doing it again by about one suffering. I have
an inner hatred against such strange: a serious idea of this
type is great, and such a dangerous game works is abgeschmackt.
"" I did it again! "Said Aurelie, by the sheer blade held in the
height," I want my loyal friend to better use. Forgive me, "she
exclaimed, they kissed the steel," that I've neglected
you so! "Serlo seriously seemed to be angry." Take it how you want,
brother, "she continued, "because you can know if I'm not
around on this form gives a delicious Talisman is not whether
I Hülfe Council and the worst time to find him, because everything
must be harmful, dangerous looks like what?" "Likewise speeches
in where there is no sense, you can make me good, "said Serlo
and left with a secret room Grimme.

Aurelie rejected the dagger carefully into the vagina and put it
to himself." Let us continue the conversation, the unfortunate
brother has disrupted " dropped them, as William some
questions about the strange controversy submitted. "I need your
portrayal Ophélie probably accept," she continued, "I want the
intention of the poet not ignore, I can only regret it more than
you feel , But now let me look at me in the short time often have
the opportunity. With admiration I notice in the deep and you
look right, allows you to poetry and dramatic poetry judge the
deepest chasms of the invention are not hidden from you, and the
finest features of the design are apparent to you.

Without the objects ever seen in nature to have you recognize the
truth in the picture, it seems to be a Vorempfindung in the
world you are defined by the harmonious touch of poetry aroused
and developed. Because really, "she continued," nothing comes from
the outside in you in. I do not have someone readily seen, the
people with whom he lives, knows so little, so by reason misjudges
as you.

  Allow me to say it: if you declare your
     Shakespeare hears, it is believed
   that you would just from the rate of
     the gods and would have listened,
   how daselbst matters, human form, and
     when you are with people around, I see you like in the first, large
geborne Creation of the child, with strange surprise and edifying
benevolence lions and monkeys, sheep and elephants anstaunt and
honesty as she appeals to his peers, because they also are there
and move. "" The idea of my student liable care, good friend,
"returned he," is often annoying to me and I will be grateful if
you could about the world to want to help more clarity.

I have youth on the eyes of my mind more inward than
outward, and it is very natural that I consider the people
to a certain extent have to know, without people in the least to
understand and grasp. " "Certainly," said Aurelie,. I was beginning
to suspect you as if you are the best, because you from the
people who sent my brother you have so many Good said, if I
have your letters with the merits of these people together.
"The remark Aurelien, so true it might be so happy that her
boyfriend confessed to himself deficiency led something Pressurized,
Offensive and even with that, he was quiet and zusammennahm,
partly to avoid sensitivity to know partly in his bosom for
the truth to investigate this allegation. "They may not be entered,"
Aurelie drove away, "the light of reason, we can always go, but
the abundance of the heart no one can give us.

Are you the artist intended, so you can use this darkness and
innocence not keep long enough, it is a beautiful shell on the
young bud; misfortune enough, if we are too early to be
driven out. Certainly, it's good if we do not always know for
whom we work. Oh! I was also fortunate that in this
condition than I with the highest expression of myself and my
nation on stage. What were the Germans not in my imagination,
what could they not be! To this nation, I spoke about me a
little appealed scaffold from which a series of lamps I am
separated, whose brilliance and steam prevented me, the objects
in front of me just to differentiate. How welcome to me was the
sound of applause from the crowd of herauftönte; how grateful I
took the gift to me unanimously by so many hands was performed!

Long as I rocked out, as I worked, worked the crowd back on me back,
I was with my audience in the best heard, I believed a
perfect harmony of feeling and every time the noble and best in
the nation in front of me to see. Unfortunately it was not the
only actress whose artistic temperament and friends interested
in the theater, they also made demands on the young, lively
girl. They gave me not indistinct to understand that my duty
was, the feelings that I frequent in them, whether in person
with them. Unfortunately it was not my thing, I wish to raise their
minds, but in what they named her heart, I had not the least
claim, and now I have been all levels, age and character to the
next one to load, and nothing was irksome to me than that I do
not like any other honest girl in my room and shut it I could save
some trouble. The men were mostly, as I do when my aunt was
accustomed to see, and it would be me again only this time
have aroused disgust, if not me, its peculiarities and silly would
entertain. Since I could not avoid it in the theaters soon, soon
to be in public places, will soon be home to see me before I took
them all auszulauern, and my brother helped me to wacker. And if
you think that moving from the shop and the servant imaginary
businessman son looking up to, weighing world man, the valiant
soldiers and the rapid prince after all and after I passed, and
each of its kind tie his novel thought, you will forgive
me if I einbildete me, my nation to be fairly well known.
phantastisch aufgestutzten the students, the humbly-proud
embarrassed scholars, the schwankfüßigen, Undemanding canon,
the stiff, careful business man, the rough country Baron, the
friendly smooth plates Hofmann, the young, from the border
train clergy, the left and the action fast and speculating
merchant, all I have seen in motion, and the sky! few were found
among them, giving me only a common interest einzuflößen would
have been capable, but it was extremely irksome to me, the
applause of the gates in each of burden and boredom einzukassieren
of me so well throughout was comfortable, and I in so great
zueignete happy.

If I have my game a reasonable compliment expected, when I hoped
that they should praise an author that I hochschätzte so made
a silly comment about the others, and identified a abgeschmacktes
piece, in which they wished to see me play . If I were in the
society herumhorchte if not a noble, witty, funny sounds and train
for the right time again come to light, I could rarely hear a
track. An error that occurred was when an actor is promised
or any Provinzialism had heard, those were the important points
on which they are held, from which they could not escape.
Last I knew not where should I turn it eyes is too clever to
be entertained, and they believed me to be wonderfully entertaining,
if it passes me herumtätschelten. I began to view them all from
the heart to despise, and it was just me, as if the whole nation
is committed to me right through their delegates want to have
prostituted.

She came to me in full so gauche, so ill-educated so poorly informed,
so devoid of pleasing nature, so tasteless. Often, I called
out: "It is not German but a shoe buckle, which is not of a
foreign nation has learned," You see, as blinded as I was a
hypochondriac unjust, and the longer it lasted, the more accepted
my illness . I would have to kill me alone I lapsed on a different
extreme: I married me, or rather, I let me marry. My
brother, who took over the theater, very wanted a Gehülfe to
have. He chose a young man who was not my run, the lack of
everything, what my brother did: genius, life, spirit and rapid
system; where everything was but also what that abging: love
of order, diligence, a delicious gift, hauszuhalten and money
to deal with. He is my husband has become, without that I know
how we have lived together, without that I know why.

Enough, our stuff was good. We did a lot, of which activity was
the cause of my brother and we were good, and that was the merit
of my husband. I thought no more of the world and nation. With
the world I had nothing to share, and the concept of nation, I
had lost. When I appeared, I did's to live, and I opened his
mouth just because I could not remain silent, but because I had
come out to talk. But that I did not do too much, actually,
I had myself fully into the my brother showed intent, it was
applause and money to do because, among us, he sounds like a lot
of praise and needs. I played no more after my feeling after my
conviction, but how he anwies me and if I made him thank you, I
was satisfied. It was directed to all the weaknesses of the
audience, it was money, he could live according to his mercy,
and we had good days with him. However, I was in a rut like
handwerksmäßigen. I moved my days without joy and share
that my marriage was childless and lasted only a short time.

My husband became ill, his forces were visible from the concern
for him broke my general indifference. In those days, I made
acquaintance with a new life began for me, a new and faster
because it will soon be over. "She was silent for a time silent,
then she continued:" Suddenly my loquacious mood falters, and I
dare my mouth no longer backing. Let me take a little rest,
you should not leave without detail all my misfortune to know.
Call it in. However, Mignon and hear what they want. "The
child was during Aurelien story several times been in the room.
Since his entrance quietly said, it was again weggeschlichen,
sat quietly in the halls and waited. When they return was coming,
she brought a book that is soon to form and cover a small
geographical atlas recognized. They had the priest with great
surprise on the first maps seen him a lot about this and asked
to go wherever it wanted to inform . your desire to learn something,
it seemed by this new knowledge have to be much livelier.
Wilhelmer implore you asked her to buy the book. You have the
pictures her husband big silver buckles, and that they wanted to,
because it is so late tonight become tomorrow morning
again to redeem. It was granted her, and she began now, that what
she knew, partly herzusagen, partly after the miraculous nature
of their questions to be done. It was again noted that a
major effort to is difficult and tedious notion. It was also
their handwriting, with which they had many difficulties. They
still spoke very broken English, and only if the mouth to sing
auftat when they touched the zither, it seemed the only institution
to operate, giving them their innermost gap and was able to
communicate.

We must, as we speak of it, also remember the embarrassment into
which she has been our friend for some time often shifted.
If they came or went, good morning or good night said , closed it
so tightly in her arms and kissed him with such fervor that he
is aware of the severity of this burgeoning nature often made
anxious and fearful. The animation seemed to be twitching in
their daily behavior to proliferate, and her whole being was in a
restless silence. She could not be without a string in the hands
to turn to knead a cloth, paper or matches to chew.

Each of their games seemed just an internal violent vibration
deduce. The only thing some of her laughter seemed to indicate,
was the proximity of the young Felix, with whom she is very good
must knew.

Aurelie, after having some rest was with her friends about a
subject that has so much at heart was finally to declare was on
the persistence of this little impatient, and gave her to
understand that they should wegbegeben, and we finally had to,
because not all wanted to help, and specifically against their
Will Forte send.

"Now or Never" said Aurelie, "I must inform you the rest of my
story. Had I tenderly loved, unjust friend just a few miles from
here, I would say:" Sit on a horse, look in any way acquainted
with him, and if you return, you have certainly forgiven me and
regret from the heart.

"Now I can only say with words how gracious he was and how
much I loved him. Eben at the critical time, since I for the
day my husband worry had to learn I know it.

He had just come back from America, where he was in the company
of many Frenchmen with distinction under the flags of the
United States had served. He met me with a gelaßnen decency, with
an open goodness, talk about myself, my situation, my game as
an old acquaintance, so participatory and so clear that I was
looking for the first time, my existence in a different nature as
clearly recognizable.

His judgments were correct, without deny appositely not to be
unkind. He showed no hardship, and his mischief was also
enjoyable. He seemed of good luck among women accustomed to,
that made me aware he was not a flattering way and andringend,
that made me careless.

In the city, he went with a few around, it was mostly on horseback,
visiting his many friends in the area concerned and the business
of his house.

He came back, so he climbed on me, always treated my slight man
with a warm concern, the suffering created by a skillful doctor
alleviation, and how he everything that concerned me, participated
in, he let me also take part in his fate. He told me the
story of his campaign, his tendency to insurmountable
professional soldier, his family circumstances, he trusted me
with his current pursuits. Enough, he had no secret from me;
He developed his inside me, let me into the hidden corners of his
soul to see, I learned his skills, his passion to know. It was
the first time in my life that I am a warm, witty approach
enjoyed. I was attracted by him, by dazzled him, eh I myself
could reflect considerations. Meanwhile, I lost my husband,
about how I had taken him. The burden of the theatrical business
was now entirely on me. My brother, incorrigibly at the theater,
was in the household never profitable I studied everything and
worried while my roles diligent than ever.

I was playing again as of old, even with completely different force
and new life, through him and to him, but not always succeeded
me as the best, if my noble friend in drama knew, but several times
he behorchte me and how I am pleasantly surprised by his unexpected
applause, you may think. Certainly, I am a strange creature. For
each role that I played, I was just always felt as if I praised
him and spoke in his honor, because that was the sentiment of
my heart, the words might, incidentally, as they wanted. I
knew him in the audience, so I dared not, with all the violence
to speak, just as if I him my love, my praise is not even wanted
to impose in the face; he was absent, then I was free game, I did
my best with a certain calm, with an indescribable satisfaction.

The applause was pleased me again, and if I made fun of the audience
I would also hinunterrufen always like: "That you are
guilty of it!" Yes, I was like a miracle the relationship with the
audience, the whole nation is changing. It seemed to me at once
again in the most favorable light, and I am quite amazed about
my former blindness. "How foolish," I often say to myself, "it
was when you previously on a nation schal test, precisely
because it is a nation. If because, because individuals
can be so special? No Way! The question is whether, under the
great mass of a quantity of equipment, forces and capabilities
spread was caused by favorable circumstances developed by eminent
people to a common goal can be managed. " I am happy now, so little
originality prominent among my fellow countrymen to find and I am
delighted that it has a direction from the outside to not spurned,
I am delighted to have found the leader.

And better it
was--such was her proud thought--that she had seen him so die,
than to have witnessed his departure from life in a smoky hovel
on a bed of rotten straw like an over-worn hound, or a bullock
which died of disease.  But the hour of her young, her brave
Hamish, was yet far distant.  He must succeed--he must conquer
--like his father.  And when he fell at length--for she
anticipated for him no bloodless death--Elspat would ere then
have lain long in the grave, and could neither see his death-
struggle nor mourn over his grave-sod.

With such wild notions working in her brain, the spirit of Elspat
rose to its usual pitch, or, rather, to one which seemed higher.
In the emphatic language of Scripture, which in that idiom does
not greatly differ from her own, she arose, she washed and
changed her apparel, and ate bread, and was refreshed.

She longed eagerly for the return of her son, but she now longed
not with the bitter anxiety of doubt and apprehension.  She said
to herself that much must be done ere he could in these times
arise to be an eminent and dreaded leader.  Yet when she saw him
again, she almost expected him at the head of a daring band, with
pipes playing and banners flying, the noble tartans fluttering
free in the wind, in despite of the laws which had suppressed,
under severe penalties, the use of the national garb and all the
appurtenances of Highland chivalry.  For all this, her eager
imagination was content only to allow the interval of some days.

From the moment this opinion had taken deep and serious
possession of her mind, her thoughts were bent upon receiving her
son at the head of his adherents in the manner in which she used
to adorn her hut for the return of his father.

The substantial means of subsistence she had not the power of
providing, nor did she consider that of importance.  The
successful caterans would bring with them herds and flocks.  But
the interior of her hut was arranged for their reception, the
usquebaugh was brewed or distilled in a larger quantity than it
could have been supposed one lone woman could have made ready.
Her hut was put into such order as might, in some degree, give it
the appearance of a day of rejoicing.  It was swept and
decorated, with boughs of various kinds, like the house of a
Jewess upon what is termed the Feast of the Tabernacles.  The
produce of the milk of her little flock was prepared in as great
variety of forms as her skill admitted, to entertain her son and
his associates whom she, expected to receive along with him.

But the principal decoration, which she sought with the greatest
toil, was the cloud-berry, a scarlet fruit, which is only found
on very high hills; and these only in small quantities.  Her
husband, or perhaps one of his forefathers, had chosen this as
the emblem of his family, because it seemed at once to imply, by
its scarcity, the smallness of their clan, and, by the places in
which it was found, the ambitious height of their pretensions.

For the time that these simple preparations of welcome endured,
Elspat was in a state of troubled happiness.  In fact, her only
anxiety was that she might be able to complete all that she could
do to welcome Hamish and the friends who she supposed must have
attached themselves to his band, before they should arrive and
find her unprovided for their reception.

But when such efforts as she could make had been accomplished,
she once more had nothing left to engage her save the trifling
care of her goats; and when these had been attended to, she had
only to review her little preparations, renew such as were of a
transitory nature, replace decayed branches and fading boughs,
and then to sit down at her cottage-door and watch the road as it
ascended on the one side from the banks of the Awe, and on the
other wound round the heights of the mountain, with such a degree
of accommodation to hill and level as the plan of the military
engineer permitted.  While so occupied, her imagination,
anticipating the future from recollections of the past, formed
out of the morning mist or the evening cloud the wild forms of an
advancing band, which were then called "Sidier Dhu" (dark
soldiers), dressed in their native tartan, and so named to
distinguish them from the scarlet ranks of the British army.  In
this occupation she spent many hours of each morning and evening.


CHAPTER IV.

It was in vain that Elspat's eyes surveyed the distant path by
the earliest light of the dawn and the latest glimmer of the
twilight.  No rising dust awakened the expectation of nodding
plumes or flashing arms.  The solitary traveller trudged
listlessly along in his brown lowland greatcoat, his tartans dyed
black or purple, to comply with or evade the law which prohibited
their being worn in their variegated hues.  The spirit of the
Gael, sunk and broken by the severe though perhaps necessary
laws, that proscribed the dress and arms which he considered as
his birthright, was intimated by his drooping head and dejected
appearance.  Not in such depressed wanderers did Elspat recognise
the light and free step of her son, now, as she concluded,
regenerated from every sign of Saxon thraldom.  Night by night,
as darkness came, she removed from her unclosed door, to throw
herself on her restless pallet, not to sleep, but to watch.  The
brave and the terrible, she said, walk by night.  Their steps are
heard in darkness, when all is silent save the whirlwind and the
cataract.  The timid deer comes only forth when the sun is upon
the mountain's peak, but the bold wolf walks in the red light of
the harvest-moon.  She reasoned in vain; her son's expected
summons did not call her from the lowly couch where she lay
dreaming of his approach.  Hamish came not.

"Hope deferred," saith the royal sage, "maketh the heart sick;"
and strong as was Elspat's constitution, she began to experience
that it was unequal to the toils to which her anxious and
immoderate affection subjected her, when early one morning the
appearance of a traveller on the lonely mountain-road, revived
hopes which had begun to sink into listless despair.  There was
no sign of Saxon subjugation about the stranger.  At a distance
she could see the flutter of the belted-plaid that drooped in
graceful folds behind him, and the plume that, placed in the
bonnet, showed rank and gentle birth.  He carried a gun over his
shoulder, the claymore was swinging by his side with its usual
appendages, the dirk, the pistol, and the SPORRAN MOLLACH.  [The
goat-skin pouch, worn by the Highlanders round their waist.]  Ere
yet her eye had scanned all these particulars, the light step of
the traveller was hastened, his arm was waved in token of
recognition--a moment more, and Elspat held in her arms her
darling son, dressed in the garb of his ancestors, and looking,
in her maternal eyes, the fairest among ten thousand!

The first outpouring of affection it would be impossible to
describe.  Blessings mingled with the most endearing epithets
which her energetic language affords in striving to express the
wild rapture of Elspat's joy.  Her board was heaped hastily with
all she had to offer, and the mother watched the young soldier,
as he partook of the refreshment, with feelings how similar to,
yet how different from, those with which she had seen him draw
his first sustenance from her bosom!

When the tumult of joy was appeased, Elspat became anxious to
know her son's adventures since they parted, and could not help
greatly censuring his rashness for traversing the hills in the
Highland dress in the broad sunshine, when the penalty was so
heavy, and so many red soldiers were abroad in the country.

"Fear not for me, mother," said Hamish, in a tone designed to
relieve her anxiety, and yet somewhat embarrassed; "I may wear
the BREACAN [That which is variegated--that is, the tartan.] at
the gate of Fort-Augustus, if I like it."

"Oh, be not too daring, my beloved Hamish, though it be the fault
which best becomes thy father's son--yet be not too daring!
Alas!  they fight not now as in former days, with fair weapons
and on equal terms, but take odds of numbers and of arms, so that
the feeble and the strong are alike levelled by the shot of a
boy.  And do not think me unworthy to be called your father's
widow and your mother because I speak thus; for God knoweth,
that, man to man, I would peril thee against the best in
Breadalbane, and broad Lorn besides."

"I assure you, my dearest mother," replied Hamish, "that I am in
no danger.  But have you seen MacPhadraick, mother?  and what has
he said to you on my account?"

"Silver he left me in plenty, Hamish; but the best of his comfort
was that you were well, and would see me soon.  But beware of
MacPhadraick, my son; for when he called himself the friend of
your father, he better loved the most worthless stirk in his herd
than he did the life-blood of MacTavish Mhor.  Use his services,
therefore, and pay him for them, for it is thus we should deal
with the unworthy; but take my counsel, and trust him not."

Hamish could not suppress a sigh, which seemed to Elspat to
intimate that the caution came too late.  "What have you done
with him?"  she continued, eager and alarmed.  "I had money of
him, and he gives not that without value; he is none of those who
exchange barley for chaff.  Oh, if you repent you of your
bargain, and if it be one which you may break off without
disgrace to your truth or your manhood, take back his silver, and
trust not to his fair words."

"It may not be, mother," said Hamish; "I do not repent my
engagement, unless that it must make me leave you soon."

"Leave me!  how leave me?  Silly boy, think you I know not what
duty belongs to the wife or mother of a daring man?  Thou art but
a boy yet; and when thy father had been the dread of the country
for twenty years, he did not despise my company and assistance,
but often said my help was worth that of two strong gillies."

"It is not on that score, mother, but since I must leave the
country--"

"Leave the country!"  replied his mother, interrupting him.  "And
think you that I am like a bush, that is rooted to the soil where
it grows, and must die if carried elsewhere?  I have breathed
other winds than these of Ben Cruachan.  I have followed your
father to the wilds of Ross and the impenetrable deserts of Y Mac
Y Mhor.  Tush, man!  my limbs, old as they are, will bear me as
far as your young feet can trace the way."

"Alas, mother," said the young man, with a faltering accent, "but
to cross the sea--"

"The sea!  who am I that I should fear the sea?  Have I never
been in a birling in my life--never known the Sound of Mull, the
Isles of Treshornish, and the rough rocks of Harris?"

"Alas, mother, I go far--far from all of these.  I am enlisted in
one of the new regiments, and we go against the French in
America."

"Enlisted!"  uttered the astonished mother--"against MY will--
without MY consent!  You could not!  you would not!"  Then rising
up, and assuming a posture of almost imperial command, "Hamish,
you DARED not!"

"Despair, mother, dares everything," answered Hamish, in a tone
of melancholy resolution.  "What should I do here, where I can
scarce get bread for myself and you, and when the times are
growing daily worse?  Would you but sit down and listen, I would
convince you I have acted for the best."

With a bitter smile Elspat sat down, and the same severe ironical
expression was on her features, as, with her lips firmly closed,
she listened to his vindication.

Hamish went on, without being disconcerted by her expected
displeasure.  "When I left you, dearest mother, it was to go to
MacPhadraick's house; for although I knew he is crafty and
worldly, after the fashion of the Sassenach, yet he is wise, and
I thought how he would teach me, as it would cost him nothing, in
which way I could mend our estate in the world."

"Our estate in the world!"  said Elspat, losing patience at the
word; "and went you to a base fellow with a soul no better than
that of a cowherd, to ask counsel about your conduct?  Your
father asked none, save of his courage and his sword."

"Dearest mother," answered Hamish, "how shall I convince you that
you live in this land of our fathers as if our fathers were yet
living?  You walk as it were in a dream, surrounded by the
phantoms of those who have been long with the dead.  When my
father lived and fought, the great respected the man of the
strong right hand, and the rich feared him.  He had protection
from Macallum Mhor, and from Caberfae, and tribute from meaner
men.  [Caberfae--ANGLICE, the Stag's-head, the Celtic designation
for the arms of the family of the high Chief of Seaforth.]  That
is ended, and his son would only earn a disgraceful and unpitied
death by the practices which gave his father credit and power
among those who wear the breacan.  The land is conquered; its
lights are quenched--Glengarry, Lochiel, Perth, Lord Lewis, all
the high chiefs are dead or in exile.  We may mourn for it, but
we cannot help it.  Bonnet, broadsword, and sporran--power,
strength, and wealth, were all lost on Drummossie Muir."

"It is false!"  said Elspat, fiercely; "you and such like
dastardly spirits are quelled by your own faint hearts, not by
the strength of the enemy; you are like the fearful waterfowl, to
whom the least cloud in the sky seems the shadow of the eagle."

"Mother," said Hamish proudly, "lay not faint heart to my charge.
I go where men are wanted who have strong arms and bold hearts
too.  I leave a desert, for a land where I may gather fame."

"And you leave your mother to perish in want, age, and solitude,"
said Elspat, essaying successively every means of moving a
resolution which she began to see was more deeply rooted than she
had at first thought.

"Not so, neither," he answered; "I leave you to comfort and
certainty, which you have yet never known.  Barcaldine's son is
made a leader, and with him I have enrolled myself.  MacPhadraick
acts for him, and raises men, and finds his own in doing it."

"That is the truest word of the tale, were all the rest as false
as hell," said the old woman, bitterly.

"But we are to find our good in it also," continued Hamish; "for
Barcaldine is to give you a shieling in his wood of Letter-
findreight, with grass for your goats, and a cow, when you please
to have one, on the common; and my own pay, dearest mother,
though I am far away, will do more than provide you with meal,
and with all else you can want.  Do not fear for me.  I enter a
private gentleman; but I will return, if hard fighting and
regular duty can deserve it, an officer, and with half a dollar a
day."

"Poor child!"  replied Elspat, in a tone of pity mingled with
contempt, "and you trust MacPhadraick?"

"I might mother," said Hamish, the dark red colour of his race
crossing his forehead and cheeks, "for MacPhadraick knows the
blood which flows in my veins, and is aware, that should he break
trust with you, he might count the days which could bring Hamish
back to Breadalbane, and number those of his life within three
suns more.  I would kill him at his own hearth, did he break his
word with me--I would, by the great Being who made us both!"

The look and attitude of the young soldier for a moment overawed
Elspat; she was unused to see him express a deep and bitter mood,
which reminded her so strongly of his father.  But she resumed
her remonstrances in the same taunting manner in which she had
commenced them.

"Poor boy!"  she said; "and you think that at the distance of
half the world your threats will be heard or thought of!  But,
go--go--place your neck under him of Hanover's yoke, against whom
every true Gael fought to the death.  Go, disown the royal
Stewart, for whom your father, and his fathers, and your mother's
fathers, have crimsoned many a field with their blood.  Go, put
your head under the belt of one of the race of Dermid, whose
children murdered--Yes," she added, with a wild shriek, "murdered
your mother's fathers in their peaceful dwellings in Glencoe!
Yes," she again exclaimed, with a wilder and shriller scream, "I
was then unborn, but my mother has told me--and I attended to the
voice of MY mother--well I remember her words!  They came in
peace, and were received in friendship--and blood and fire arose,
and screams and murder!"  [See Note 9.--Massacre of Glencoe.]

"Mother," answered Hamish, mournfully, but with a decided tone,
"all that I have thought over.  There is not a drop of the blood
of Glencoe on the noble hand of Barcaldine; with the unhappy
house of Glenlyon the curse remains, and on them God hath avenged
it."

"You speak like the Saxon priest already," replied his mother;
"will you not better stay, and ask a kirk from Macallum Mhor,
that you may preach forgiveness to the race of Dermid?"

"Yesterday was yesterday," answered Hamish, "and to-day is to-
day.  When the clans are crushed and confounded together, it is
well and wise that their hatreds and their feuds should not
survive their independence and their power.  He that cannot
execute vengeance like a man, should not harbour useless enmity
like a craven.  Mother, young Barcaldine is true and brave.  I
know that MacPhadraick counselled him that he should not let me
take leave of you, lest you dissuaded me from my purpose; but he
said, 'Hamish MacTavish is the son of a brave man, and he will
not break his word.'  Mother, Barcaldine leads an hundred of the
bravest of the sons of the Gael in their native dress, and with
their fathers' arms--heart to heart--shoulder to shoulder.  I
have sworn to go with him.  He has trusted me, and I will trust
him."

At this reply, so firmly and resolvedly pronounced, Elspat
remained like one thunderstruck, and sunk in despair.  The
arguments which she had considered so irresistibly conclusive,
had recoiled like a wave from a rock.  After a long pause, she
filled her son's quaigh, and presented it to him with an air of
dejected deference and submission.

"Drink," she said, "to thy father's roof-tree, ere you leave it
for ever; and tell me--since the chains of a new King, and of a
new chief, whom your fathers knew not save as mortal enemies, are
fastened upon the limbs of your father's son--tell me how many
links you count upon them?"

Hamish took the cup, but looked at her as if uncertain of her
meaning.  She proceeded in a raised voice.  "Tell me," she said,
"for I have a right to know, for how many days the will of those
you have made your masters permits me to look upon you?  In other
words, how many are the days of my life?  for when you leave me,
the earth has nought besides worth living for!"

"Mother," replied Hamish MacTavish, "for six days I may remain
with you; and if you will set out with me on the fifth, I will
conduct you in safety to your new dwelling.  But if you remain
here, then I will depart on the seventh by daybreak--then, as at
the last moment, I MUST set out for Dunbarton, for if I appear
not on the eighth day, I am subject to punishment as a deserter,
and am dishonoured as a soldier and a gentleman."

"Your father's foot," she answered, "was free as the wind on the
heath--it were as vain to say to him, where goest thou?  as to
ask that viewless driver of the clouds, wherefore blowest thou?
Tell me under what penalty thou must--since go thou must, and go
thou wilt--return to thy thraldom?"

"Call it not thraldom, mother; it is the service of an honourable
soldier--the only service which is now open to the son of
MacTavish Mhor."

"Yet say what is the penalty if thou shouldst not return?"
replied Elspat.

"Military punishment as a deserter," answered Hamish, writhing,
however, as his mother failed not to observe, under some internal
feelings, which she resolved to probe to the uttermost.

"And that," she said, with assumed calmness, which her glancing
eye disowned, "is the punishment of a disobedient hound, is it
not?"

"Ask me no more, mother," said Hamish; "the punishment is nothing
to one who will never deserve it."

"To me it is something," replied Elspat, "since I know better
than thou, that where there is power to inflict, there is often
the will to do so without cause.  I would pray for thee, Hamish,
and I must know against what evils I should beseech Him who
leaves none unguarded, to protect thy youth and simplicity."

"Mother," said Hamish, "it signifies little to what a criminal
may be exposed, if a man is determined not to be such.  Our
Highland chiefs used also to punish their vassals, and, as I have
heard, severely.  Was it not Lachlan MacIan, whom we remember of
old, whose head was struck off by order of his chieftain for
shooting at the stag before him?"

"Ay," said Elspat, "and right he had to lose it, since he
dishonoured the father of the people even in the face of the
assembled clan.  But the chiefs were noble in their ire; they
punished with the sharp blade, and not with the baton.  Their
punishments drew blood, but they did not infer dishonour.  Canst
thou say, the same for the laws under whose yoke thou hast placed
thy freeborn neck?"

"I cannot, mother--I cannot," said Hamish mournfully.  "I saw
them punish a Sassenach for deserting as they called it, his
banner.  He was scourged--I own it--scourged like a hound who has
offended an imperious master.  I was sick at the sight--I confess
it.  But the punishment of dogs is only for those worse than
dogs, who know not how to keep their faith."

"To this infamy, however, thou hast subjected thyself, Hamish,"
replied Elspat, "if thou shouldst give, or thy officers take,
measure of offence against thee.  I speak no more to thee on thy
purpose.  Were the sixth day from this morning's sun my dying
day, and thou wert to stay to close mine eyes, thou wouldst run
the risk of being lashed like a dog at a post--yes!  unless thou
hadst the gallant heart to leave me to die alone, and upon my
desolate hearth, the last spark of thy father's fire, and of thy
forsaken mother's life, to be extinguished together!"--Hamish
traversed the hut with an impatient and angry pace.

"Mother," he said at length, "concern not yourself about such
things.  I cannot be subjected to such infamy, for never will I
deserve it; and were I threatened with it, I should know how to
die before I was so far dishonoured."

"There spoke the son of the husband of my heart!"  replied
Elspat, and she changed the discourse, and seemed to listen in
melancholy acquiescence, when her son reminded her how short the
time was which they were permitted to pass in each other's
society, and entreated that it might be spent without useless and
unpleasant recollections respecting the circumstances under which
they must soon be separated.

This is eagerly wished to see restored to his plane, his desires
eagerly to be monitored. Unceasingly those he called back story,
what an indelible impression on his mind had made. He saw the
beautiful amazone riding forth from the bushes, they approached
him, dismounted, and went out and tried to resist to him. He
saw the enveloping dress from her shoulders fall, her face, her
form brilliantly disappear. All his dreams of youth linked to this
image. He now believed the noble, heldenmütige Chlorinde with
own eyes have seen: he fell ill again a king's son, in
whose stock the beautiful princess with participating herantritt
quiet modesty. "Should not," he said in quiet sometimes to
himself, "We in the youth, as in sleep, images of future and
our destinies umschweben unbiased eye ahnungsvoll visible?
If the germs of what we encounter is not from the hand of fate
ausgestreut, should not be a Vorgenuß the fruit, the we once
hoped to break, be possible? "His health camp gave him time, that
scene a thousand times repeated. thousand, he called the sound of
that sweet voice back, and how he envied Philine that those hülfreiche
hand had kissed.

Often the story came to him like a dream, and he would hold for a
fairy tale, if not the dress would have been returned to him
the certainty of the appearance insured. With the greatest care
for this outfit was the liveliest desire connected, thus trousers.
Once he stood up, threw it on and it was felt throughout
the day, it would like a stain or any other way damaged.
IV Paper, 10 Chapter Tenth Chapter Laertes visited his friend.
He was at the lively scene at the inn was not present because
he was in an upper chamber. about his loss, he was very
comforted and helped with his usual: "What's doing?" He told
several ridiculous traits of society, in particular, he gave
Ms. Melina guilty: she Mourning the loss of their only daughter
because she is not the pleasure altdeutsche could have a
Mechtild baptize it. What her husband is concerned, that's so
obvious now that he had a lot of money with him and had already
had the advance, which he Wilhelmer abgelockt, had no means needed.

Melina would now proceed to the next post abgehn cars and will of
William a letter of recommendation to his friend, the director
Serlo require, in his society, he is apt because the company
failed, hope now unterzukommen. Mignon had a couple of days have
been very silent, and when you penetrated into them, they finally
confessed that her right arm was dislocated. "Thou art thy
rashness to thank," said Philine and told how the child in
his battles deer and pulled catcher than his friend in danger
seen wacker to the freebooters had been cut. Finally it
was taken at the arms and on the page have been hurled. It scolded
them, that they resent not have discovered more, but you probably
noticed that they were before Chirurgus shied away from them
so far always had a boy. Man sought to lift the evil, and
they had the arm in the bear binders. In that she was new to
the sensitive, because the best part of the care and maintenance
Philine her friend had left, and the pleasant sinner showed
only the more active and attentive. One morning as Wilhelm awoke,
he found himself with her in a strange vicinity. He was
on his vast warehouse in the restlessness of sleep throughout
at the rear side slipped.

Philine lay across the front part hingestreckt it seemed sitting
on the bed and reading to be asleep. A book from her hand
like it was back and his head close to his chest down, on their
blond, dissolved hair spread in waves. The sleep disorder increased
more than their art and their stimuli, and a childish smiling
calm hovered over her face. He saw it a long time and seemed to
themselves the pleasure of the blame, so that was it, and we do
not know whether he is blessed state or censured, his calm and
restraint made mandatory.

He had it for a time, carefully as it began to rain. He closed his
eyes gently, but he could not fail to blinzen and after her to
see, as she again zurechtputzte and went away, after breakfast to
ask. By and by now had all the actors with Wilhelm reported,
had letters of recommendation and Travel money more or less rude
and impetuous calls and always with reluctance Philine
receive. In vain her friends, she maintains that the hunter is
also these people a substantial sum left behind, that he had
only the best.

Rather, they came about in a lively quarrel, and Wilhelm are now
claimed for all that they were equally distributed to the rest
of society connect to try their luck in trying to Serlo. Only a
few moments, she left her composure, she then quickly
rebounded and called again "If I only had my Blonden again, so
I want you all to worry about nothing." She said Frederick, who
places the forest is lost and not recovered had shown. The
next morning brought the message to Mignon Bette that Philine in
the night had departed, in the next room, it had everything
that belonged to him, very properly merged.

He felt their absence, he had to it a loyal Wärterin, a lively
partner lost and it was no longer accustomed to being alone.

  Solo Mignon soon filled the gap again. Since
  those frivolous beautiful in their kind efforts
  surrounding the wounded, had the Small gradually withdrawn and had
remained silent for themselves, but now, as they again won free
field, she joined with attention and love, was eager, to serve him,
and kicking him to entertain IV.

Paper, 11 Chapter By Chapter Eilftes steps lively nahete it
the better it is hoped, in a few days on his journey to be. He did
not want to haphazardly around a strolling life continue, but
appropriate steps should be called its trajectory. First, he wanted
the rule hülfreiche attention to his gratitude to the day to create,
then to his friends, the director, rushing to the accident on
the best company to provide both the commercial and friends
to whom he addresses which was , and visit the shops
aufgetragnen him perform. He did hope that his luck as
before and will assist will give him an opportunity, through a
fortunate speculation to replace the loss and the vulnerability
of its box office to be filled again.

The request, its savior again grew with each day. To his
itinerary to be determined, he went with the clergy to rate,
beautiful geographical and statistical knowledge was like a
book and map collection possessed. Man sought after locations,
the noble family during the war to their seats had chosen,
we looked at news of herself on alone the place was not in
any geography, on any map, and genealogical manuals say nothing
of such a family. William was restless, and when he Bekümmernis
was loud, he discovered the harp player, he had reason to believe
that the hunters, it was cause from which it wants to hide the
true name was. Wilhelm, who now is Near Fine believed hoped
some message from her to receive if he abschickte harp player,
but even this hope was wrong. Sosehr the old man also asked, but
he could come on no trace. In those days there were a
number of lively and unexpected movements in these areas
Durchmärsche occurred which no one had to travel for the company,
where particular attention, so that the source messenger,
not for a Jewish spy to be prestigious, and go back without ölblatt
before his Lord and friend appear before him. He set strict
account of how he wanted the job orientation and has sought, above
all suspicion of negligence on its own to remove them. He
looked at all the way to alleviate distress Wilhelms, bethought
to everything he learned from the hunters had brought and some
conjectures before, but because finally a circumstance occurred,
which Wilhelm some enigmatic words of the show was beautiful
disappeared.

The predatory gang that was not the wandering troupe, but take
note of that reign, when they rightly much money and valuables
and their suspected train exact message they had had. We did
not know whether the fact a free corps, whether they
marauders or robbers should ascribe. Enough to make fortunes of
the rich and the caravan were small and poor, first came to the
square and had suffered the fate that was prepared those. That
included the words of the young lady whose Wilhelm did well
remembered. If he is happy and cheerful, could be that a
more cautious genius it was determined the victim, a perfect
mortals to save, so he was on the other hand, close to despair,
because he lost it, it again at least for the moment all hope was
gone . What makes this strange motion in him increased, was
the resemblance, he between the Countess and the beautiful unknown
believed to have discovered.

They were similar, as the same may be sisters, whose not the
younger nor the older must be mentioned, because they seem
to be twins. The memory of the gracious Countess was infinitely
sweet to him. He called her image allzugern back into memory.
But now came the figure of the noble amazone equal between
them, a phenomenon turned into another, without that he
would have been capable of this or that note. How wonderful
it was, therefore, the similarity of their manuscripts be!
Because he rejected a lovely song from the hand of the
countess in his blackboard, and on the rock he had found
pieces of paper, what you deal with a lot of tender care after
being of uncle inquired. Wilhelm was convinced that his savior
this ticket is written that on the trip at an inn from one room
to another and from the clever uncle in his pocket had been
made. He held both manuscripts against each other, and if the
delicate character of the countess asked him like so much else
had, so he found in the similar but freer trains an unknown
unpronounceable flowing harmony.

The ticket contained nothing, and even the trains seemed to him,
as formerly the presence of beauty, silence. He lapsed into a
longing Dreaming, and how unanimously with his feelings was
the song that just in this hour Mignon and the harper as an irregular
duet with the warmest expressions sang: Only those who longing knows
what I suffer!

alone and separated from all the joy, I sighted firmament According
to that page. Oh! loves me and knows, is in the distance.

It schwindelt me, it burns my intestines. Only those who longing
knows what I suffer! IV Paper, 12 Chapter Twelfth Chapter
temptation The gentle spirit of loving protection, rather than our
friend in any way to lead, and increased fueled the unrest, which
he had previously felt.

A secret glow crept into his veins, and certain indefinite articles
alternated in his soul, and excited an endless desire.

Soon he wanted a horse, wings soon, and while it seemed
impossible, to be able to stay, he saw only to where it actually
desire.

The thread of his destiny had been so strangely confused and
he wished the strange knots or dissolved cut to be seen.
Often when he trot a horse or a car stopped rolling, he
hurriedly looked out the window, hoping it would be someone who
aufsuchte him and it would be only by coincidence, his message,
and certainty would bring joy.

He told stories of how his friend Werner in this area and it might
surprise that Mariane perhaps appear likely. The tone of each post
Horns put him in motion.

Melina should fates by his message that should be excellent but
the hunters come back and at that adored him Beauty Invite.
From all this, unfortunately, nothing happened, and he was again
last to remain alone with them, and he again durchnahm the past,
was it a fact, the more he looked at him and lit, always bad and
intolerable.

It was his Heerführerschaft accident in which he is not
without annoyances could imagine.

Whether he is right at the evening of that evil day before the
company pretty much had herausgeredet so he could himself not
deny his guilt. He wrote a lot more in hypochondriac moments of
the whole incident alone. The self-love makes us both our virtues
as our many significant errors, as they appear. He had the
confidence to actively made, the will of the other and was guided
by inexperience and daring, who preceded, it took them a danger
to which they were unable to cope. Loud and quiet accusations
pursued him, and if he deluded society after the losses had been
vulnerable, not to leave until he Verlorne they would be replaced
with usury, as he had on a new audacity to chide what he generally
drawn badly on his shoulders to be surveyed. Soon, he is
that he is by clamping and stress of the moment such a promise
had done, he was soon felt that that his hand Sufficiently
good-natured that no one be praised, only a slight formality
is against the vow that his heart had done . He thought for
funding, they probably worked and to be useful, and I found
all the cause, his trip to Serlo speed. He grabbed his stuff
together now and went, without waiting for his complete recovery,
without the advice of the pastor and Wundarztes to hear in the
wonderful company Mignon and the old, the inaction to escape him
in his fate again just kept too long had IV.

Paper, 13 Chapter Thirteenth Chapter Serlo received him with
open arms and called him: "I am seeing you? Discoverable I
again? They have little or no change. Is your love for
the noble art is still so strong and alive? As much as I enjoy
myself about your arrival, that I mistrust not feel that your last
letter I have gained. "Wilhelm asked for a more involved
explanation." You have, "returned Serlo," against me is not like
an old friend is; They have me as a huge Lord dealt with the man
in good conscience recommend that people may be unusable. Our
fate depends on the opinion of the audience, and I fear that
your Lord with His Melina difficult for us to be most likely. "
It followed as
a matter of course, that the new-levied Highland recruits could
scarce be made to comprehend the nature of a military engagement,
which compelled a man to serve in the army longer than he
pleased; and perhaps, in many instances, sufficient care was not
taken at enlisting to explain to them the permanency of the
engagement which they came under, lest such a disclosure should
induce them to change their mind.  Desertions were therefore
become numerous from the newly-raised regiment, and the veteran
general who commanded at Dunbarton saw no better way of checking
them than by causing an unusually severe example to be made of a
deserter from an English corps.  The young Highland regiment was
obliged to attend upon the punishment, which struck a people,
peculiarly jealous of personal honour, with equal horror and
disgust, and not unnaturally indisposed some of them to the
service.  The old general, however, who had been regularly bred
in the German wars, stuck to his own opinion, and gave out in
orders that the first Highlander who might either desert, or fail
to appear at the expiry of his furlough, should be brought to the
halberds, and punished like the culprit whom they had seen in
that condition.  No man doubted that General -- would keep his
word rigorously whenever severity was required, and Elspat,
therefore, knew that her son, when he perceived that due
compliance with his orders was impossible, must at the same time
consider the degrading punishment denounced against his defection
as inevitable, should he place himself within the general's
power.  [See Note 10.--Fidelity of the Highlanders.]

When noon was well passed, new apprehensions came on the mind of
the lonely woman.  Her son still slept under the influence of the
draught; but what if, being stronger than she had ever known it
administered, his health or his reason should be affected by its
potency?  For the first time, likewise, notwithstanding her high
ideas on the subject of parental authority, she began to dread
the resentment of her son, whom her heart told her she had
wronged.  Of late, she had observed that his temper was less
docile, and his determinations, especially upon this late
occasion of his enlistment, independently formed, and then boldly
carried through.  She remembered the stern wilfulness of his
father when he accounted himself ill-used, and began to dread
that Hamish, upon finding the deceit she had put upon him, might
resent it even to the extent of cutting her off, and pursuing his
own course through the world alone.  Such were the alarming and
yet the reasonable apprehensions which began to crowd upon the
unfortunate woman, after the apparent success of her ill-advised
stratagem.

It was near evening when Hamish first awoke, and then he was far
from being in the full possession either of his mental or bodily
powers.  From his vague expressions and disordered pulse, Elspat
at first experienced much apprehension; but she used such
expedients as her medical knowledge suggested, and in the course
of the night she had the satisfaction to see him sink once more
into a deep sleep, which probably carried off the greater part of
the effects of the drug, for about sunrising she heard him arise,
and call to her for his bonnet.  This she had purposely removed,
from a fear that he might awaken and depart in the night-time,
without her knowledge.

"My bonnet--my bonnet," cried Hamish; "it is time to take
farewell.  Mother, your drink was too strong--the sun is up--but
with the next morning I will still see the double summit of the
ancient Dun.  My bonnet--my bonnet, mother; I must be instant in
my departure."  These expressions made it plain that poor Hamish
was unconscious that two nights and a day had passed since he had
drained the fatal quaigh, and Elspat had now to venture on what
she felt as the almost perilous, as well as painful, task of
explaining her machinations.

"Forgive me, my son," she said, approaching Hamish, and taking
him by the hand with an air of deferential awe, which perhaps she
had not always used to his father, even when in his moody fits.

"Forgive you, mother!--for what?"  said Hamish, laughing; "for
giving me a dram that was too strong, and which my head still
feels this morning, or for hiding my bonnet to keep me an instant
longer?  Nay, do YOU forgive ME.  Give me the bonnet, and let
that be done which now must be done.  Give me my bonnet, or I go
without it; surely I am not to be delayed by so trifling a want
as that--I, who have gone for years with only a strap of deer's
hide to tie back my hair.  Trifle not, but give it me, or I must
go bareheaded, since to stay is impossible."

"My son," said Elspat, keeping fast hold of his hand, "what is
done cannot be recalled.  Could you borrow the wings of yonder
eagle, you would arrive at the Dun too late for what you purpose
--too soon for what awaits you there.  You believe you see the
sun rising for the first time since you have seen him set; but
yesterday beheld him climb Ben Cruachan, though your eyes were
closed to his light."

Hamish cast upon his mother a wild glance of extreme terror, then
instantly recovering himself, said, "I am no child to be cheated
out of my purpose by such tricks as these.  Farewell, mother!
each moment is worth a lifetime."

"Stay," she said, "my dear, my deceived son, run not on infamy
and ruin.  Yonder I see the priest upon the high-road on his
white horse.  Ask him the day of the month and week; let him
decide between us."

With the speed of an eagle, Hamish darted up the acclivity, and
stood by the minister of Glenorquhy, who was pacing out thus
early to administer consolation to a distressed family near
Bunawe.

The good man was somewhat startled to behold an armed Highlander,
then so unusual a sight, and apparently much agitated, stop his
horse by the bridle, and ask him with a faltering voice the day
of the week and month.  "Had you been where you should have been
yesterday, young man," replied the clergyman, "you would have
known that it was God's Sabbath; and that this is Monday, the
second day of the week, and twenty-first of the month."

"And this is true?"  said Hamish.

"As true," answered the surprised minister, "as that I yesterday
preached the word of God to this parish.  What ails you, young
man?--are you sick?--are you in your right mind?"

Hamish made no answer, only repeated to himself the first
expression of the clergyman, "Had you been where you should have
been yesterday;" and so saying, he let go the bridle, turned from
the road, and descended the path towards the hut, with the look
and pace of one who was going to execution.  The minister looked
after him with surprise; but although he knew the inhabitant of
the hovel, the character of Elspat had not invited him to open
any communication with her, because she was generally reputed a
Papist, or rather one indifferent to all religion, except some
superstitious observances which had been handed down from her
parents.  On Hamish the Reverend Mr. Tyrie had bestowed
instructions when he was occasionally thrown in his way; and if
the seed fell among the brambles and thorns of a wild and
uncultivated disposition, it had not yet been entirely checked or
destroyed.  There was something so ghastly in the present
expression of the youth's features that the good man was tempted
to go down to the hovel, and inquire whether any distress had
befallen the inhabitants, in which his presence might be
consoling and his ministry useful.  Unhappily he did not
persevere in this resolution, which might have saved a great
misfortune, as he would have probably become a mediator for the
unfortunate young man; but a recollection of the wild moods of
such Highlanders as had been educated after the old fashion of
the country, prevented his interesting himself in the widow and
son of the far-dreaded robber, MacTavish Mhor, and he thus missed
an opportunity, which he afterwards sorely repented, of doing
much good.

When Hamish MacTavish entered his mother's hut, it was only to
throw himself on the bed he had left, and exclaiming, "Undone,
undone!"  to give vent, in cries of grief and anger, to his deep
sense of the deceit which had been practised on him, and of the
cruel predicament to which he was reduced.

Elspat was prepared for the first explosion of her son's passion,
and said to herself, "It is but the mountain torrent, swelled by
the thunder shower.  Let us sit and rest us by the bank; for all
its present tumult, the time will soon come when we may pass it
dryshod."  She suffered his complaints and his reproaches, which
were, even in the midst of his agony, respectful and
affectionate, to die away without returning any answer; and when,
at length, having exhausted all the exclamations of sorrow which
his language, copious in expressing the feelings of the heart,
affords to the sufferer, he sunk into a gloomy silence, she
suffered the interval to continue near an hour ere she approached
her son's couch.

"And now," she said at length, with a voice in which the
authority of the mother was qualified by her tenderness, "have
you exhausted your idle sorrows, and are you able to place what
you have gained against what you have lost?  Is the false son of
Dermid your brother, or the father of your tribe, that you weep
because you cannot bind yourself to his belt, and become one of
those who must do his bidding?  Could you find in yonder distant
country the lakes and the mountains that you leave behind you
here?  Can you hunt the deer of Breadalbane in the forests of
America, or will the ocean afford you the silver-scaled salmon of
the Awe?  Consider, then, what is your loss, and, like a wise
man, set it against what you have won."

"I have lost all, mother," replied Hamish, "since I have broken
my word, and lost my honour.  I might tell my tale, but who, oh,
who would believe me?"  The unfortunate young man again clasped
his hands together, and, pressing them to his forehead, hid his
face upon the bed.

Elspat was now really alarmed, and perhaps wished the fatal
deceit had been left unattempted.  She had no hope or refuge
saving in the eloquence of persuasion, of which she possessed no
small share, though her total ignorance of the world as it
actually existed rendered its energy unavailing.  She urged her
son, by every tender epithet which a parent could bestow, to take
care for his own safety.

"Leave me," she said, "to baffle your pursuers.  I will save your
life--I will save your honour.  I will tell them that my fair-
haired Hamish fell from the Corrie Dhu (black precipice) into the
gulf, of which human eye never beheld the bottom.  I will tell
them this, and I will fling your plaid on the thorns which grow
on the brink of the precipice, that they may believe my words.
They will believe, and they will return to the Dun of the double-
crest; for though the Saxon drum can call the living to die, it
cannot recall the dead to their slavish standard.  Then will we
travel together far northward to the salt lakes of Kintail, and
place glens and mountains betwixt us and the sons of Dermid.  We
will visit the shores of the dark lake; and my kinsmen--for was
not my mother of the children of Kenneth, and will they not
remember us with the old love?--my kinsmen will receive us with
the affection of the olden time, which lives in those distant
glens, where the Gael still dwell in their nobleness, unmingled
with the churl Saxons, or with the base brood that are their
tools and their slaves."

The energy of the language, somewhat allied to hyperbole, even in
its most ordinary expressions, now seemed almost too weak to
afford Elspat the means of bringing out the splendid picture
which she presented to her son of the land in which she proposed
to him to take refuge.  Yet the colours were few with which she
could paint her Highland paradise.  "The hills," she said, "were
higher and more magnificent than those of Breadalbane--Ben
Cruachan was but a dwarf to Skooroora.  The lakes were broader
and larger, and abounded not only with fish, but with the
enchanted and amphibious animal which gives oil to the lamp.
[The seals are considered by the Highlanders as enchanted
princes.]  The deer were larger and more numerous; the white-
tusked boar, the chase of which the brave loved best, was yet to
be roused in those western solitudes; the men were nobler, wiser,
and stronger than the degenerate brood who lived under the Saxon
banner.  The daughters of the land were beautiful, with blue eyes
and fair hair, and bosoms of snow; and out of these she would
choose a wife for Hamish, of blameless descent, spotless fame,
fixed and true affection, who should be in their summer bothy as
a beam of the sun, and in their winter abode as the warmth of the
needful fire."

Such were the topics with which Elspat strove to soothe the
despair of her son, and to determine him, if possible, to leave
the fatal spot, on which he seemed resolved to linger.  The style
of her rhetoric was poetical, but in other respects resembled
that which, like other fond mothers, she had lavished on Hamish,
while a child or a boy, in order to gain his consent to do
something he had no mind to; and she spoke louder, quicker, and
more earnestly, in proportion as she began to despair of her
words carrying conviction.

On the mind of Hamish her eloquence made no impression.  He knew
far better than she did the actual situation of the country, and
was sensible that, though it might be possible to hide himself as
a fugitive among more distant mountains, there was now no corner
in the Highlands in which his father's profession could be
practised, even if he had not adopted, from the improved ideas of
the time when he lived, the opinion that the trade of the cateran
was no longer the road to honour and distinction.  Her words were
therefore poured into regardless ears, and she exhausted herself
in vain in the attempt to paint the regions of her mother's
kinsmen in such terms as might tempt Hamish to accompany her
thither.  She spoke for hours, but she spoke in vain.  She could
extort no answer, save groans and sighs and ejaculations,
expressing the extremity of despair.

At length, starting on her feet, and changing the monotonous tone
in which she had chanted, as it were, the praises of the province
of refuge, into the short, stern language of eager passion--"I am
a fool," she said, "to spend my words upon an idle, poor-
spirited, unintelligent boy, who crouches like a hound to the
lash.  Wait here, and receive your taskmasters, and abide your
chastisement at their hands; but do not think your mother's eyes
will behold it.  I could not see it and live.  My eyes have
looked often upon death, but never upon dishonour.  Farewell,
Hamish!  We never meet again."

She dashed from the hut like a lapwing, and perhaps for the
moment actually entertained the purpose which she expressed, of
parting with her son for ever.  A fearful sight she would have
been that evening to any who might have met her wandering through
the wilderness like a restless spirit, and speaking to herself in
language which will endure no translation.  She rambled for
hours, seeking rather than shunning the most dangerous paths.
The precarious track through the morass, the dizzy path along the
edge of the precipice or by the banks of the gulfing river, were
the roads which, far from avoiding, she sought with eagerness,
and traversed with reckless haste.  But the courage arising from
despair was the means of saving the life which (though deliberate
suicide was rarely practised in the Highlands) she was perhaps
desirous of terminating.  Her step on the verge of the precipice
was firm as that of the wild goat.  Her eye, in that state of
excitation, was so keen as to discern, even amid darkness, the
perils which noon would not have enabled a stranger to avoid.

Elspat's course was not directly forward, else she had soon been
far from the bothy in which she had left her son.  It was
circuitous, for that hut was the centre to which her heartstrings
were chained, and though she wandered around it, she felt it
impossible to leave the vicinity.  With the first beams of
morning she returned to the hut.  Awhile she paused at the
wattled door, as if ashamed that lingering fondness should have
brought her back to the spot which she had left with the purpose
of never returning; but there was yet more of fear and anxiety in
her hesitation--of anxiety, lest her fair-haired son had suffered
from the effects of her potion--of fear, lest his enemies had
come upon him in the night.  She opened the door of the hut
gently, and entered with noiseless step.  Exhausted with his
sorrow and anxiety, and not entirely relieved perhaps from the
influence of the powerful opiate, Hamish Bean again slept the
stern, sound sleep by which the Indians are said to be overcome
during the interval of their torments.  His mother was scarcely
sure that she actually discerned his form on the bed, scarce
certain that her ear caught the sound of his breathing.  With a
throbbing heart, Elspat went to the fireplace in the centre of
the hut, where slumbered, covered with a piece of turf, the
glimmering embers of the fire, never extinguished on a Scottish
hearth until the indwellers leave the mansion for ever.

"Feeble greishogh," [Greishogh, a glowing ember.] she said, as
she lighted, by the help of a match, a splinter of bog pine which
was to serve the place of a candle--"weak greishogh, soon shalt
thou be put out for ever, and may Heaven grant that the life of
Elspat MacTavish have no longer duration than thine!"

While she spoke she raised the blazing light towards the bed, on
which still lay the prostrate limbs of her son, in a posture that
left it doubtful whether he slept or swooned.  As she advanced
towards him, the light flashed upon his eyes--he started up in an
instant, made a stride forward with his naked dirk in his hand,
like a man armed to meet a mortal enemy, and exclaimed, "Stand
off!--on thy life, stand off!"

"It is the word and the action of my husband," answered Elspat;
"and I know by his speech and his step the son of MacTavish
Mhor."

"Mother," said Hamish, relapsing from his tone of desperate
firmness into one of melancholy expostulation--"oh, dearest
mother, wherefore have you returned hither?"

"Ask why the hind comes back to the fawn," said Elspat, "why the
cat of the mountain returns to her lodge and her young.  Know
you, Hamish, that the heart of the mother only lives in the bosom
of the child."

"Then will it soon cease to throb," said Hamish, "unless it can
beat within a bosom that lies beneath the turf.  Mother, do not
blame me.  If I weep, it is not for myself but for you; for my
sufferings will soon be over, but yours--oh, who but Heaven shall
set a boundary to them?"

Elspat shuddered and stepped backward, but almost instantly
resumed her firm and upright position and her dauntless bearing.

"I thought thou wert a man but even now," she said, "and thou art
again a child.  Hearken to me yet, and let us leave this place
together.  Have I done thee wrong or injury?  if so, yet do not
avenge it so cruelly.  See, Elspat MacTavish, who never kneeled
before even to a priest, falls prostrate before her own son, and
craves his forgiveness."  And at once she threw herself on her
knees before the young man, seized on his hand, and kissing it an
hundred times, repeated as often, in heart-breaking accents, the
most earnest entreaties for forgiveness.  "Pardon," she
exclaimed, "pardon, for the sake of your father's ashes--pardon,
for the sake of the pain with which I bore thee, the care with
which I nurtured thee!--Hear it, Heaven, and behold it, Earth--
the mother asks pardon of her child, and she is refused!"

It was in vain that Hamish endeavoured to stem this tide of
passion, by assuring his mother, with the most solemn
asseverations, that he forgave entirely the fatal deceit which
she had practised upon him.

"Empty words," she said, "idle protestations, which are but used
to hide the obduracy of your resentment.  Would you have me
believe you, then leave the hut this instant, and retire from a
country which every hour renders more dangerous.  Do this, and I
may think you have forgiven me; refuse it, and again I call on
moon and stars, heaven and earth, to witness the unrelenting
resentment with which you prosecute your mother for a fault,
which, if it be one, arose out of love to you."

"Mother," said Hamish, "on this subject you move me not.  I will
fly before no man.  If Barcaldine should send every Gael that is
under his banner, here, and in this place, will I abide them; and
when you bid me fly, you may as well command yonder mountain to
be loosened from its foundations.  Had I been sure of the road by
which they are coming hither, I had spared them the pains of
seeking me; but I might go by the mountain, while they perchance
came by the lake.  Here I will abide my fate; nor is there in
Scotland a voice of power enough to bid me stir from hence, and
be obeyed."

"Here, then, I also stay," said Elspat, rising up and speaking
with assumed composure.  "I have seen my husband's death--my
eyelids shall not grieve to look on the fall of my son.  But
MacTavish Mhor died as became the brave, with his good sword in
his right hand; my son will perish like the bullock that is
driven to the shambles by the Saxon owner who had bought him for
a price."

"Mother," said the unhappy young man, "you have taken my life.
To that you have a right, for you gave it; but touch not my
honour!  It came to me from a brave train of ancestors, and
should be sullied neither by man's deed nor woman's speech.  What
I shall do, perhaps I myself yet know not; but tempt me no
farther by reproachful words--you have already made wounds more
than you can ever heal."

"It is well, my son," said Elspat, in reply.  "Expect neither
farther complaint nor remonstrance from me; but let us be silent,
and wait the chance which Heaven shall send us."

The sun arose on the next morning, and found the bothy silent as
the grave.  The mother and son had arisen, and were engaged each
in their separate task--Hamish in preparing and cleaning his arms
with the greatest accuracy, but with an air of deep dejection.
Elspat, more restless in her agony of spirit, employed herself in
making ready the food which the distress of yesterday had induced
them both to dispense with for an unusual number of hours.  She
placed it on the board before her son so soon as it was prepared,
with the words of a Gaelic poet, "Without daily food, the
husbandman's ploughshare stands still in the furrow; without
daily food, the sword of the warrior is too heavy for his hand.
Our bodies are our slaves, yet they must be fed if we would have
their service.  So spake in ancient days the Blind Bard to the
warriors of Fion."

The young man made no reply, but he fed on what was placed before
him, as if to gather strength for the scene which he was to
undergo.  When his mother saw that he had eaten what sufficed
him, she again filled the fatal quaigh, and proffered it as the
conclusion of the repast.  But he started aside with a convulsive
gesture, expressive at once of fear and abhorrence.

"Nay, my son," she said, "this time surely, thou hast no cause of
fear."

"Urge me not, mother," answered Hamish--"or put the leprous toad
into a flagon, and I will drink; but from that accursed cup, and
of that mind-destroying potion, never will I taste more!"

These are the best people of the world, just a bit sensitive,
and it should not irritate. The marshal had them on the feet
underfoot: the prefect but new study leave with the honor of the
Order is not fun and give the child the father's guilt of
the cost. Then he was shocked about his sincerity, looked around
himself and put the finger on the mouth. I took the boys with the
Guntram, our Julian, which he had some secret, and yet
a third friend, Victor Argenson this to my own delight, for he
is full of mischief and laughter. That night he drove it great.
He and Guntram mirabelle tormented, I was at lunch for a long
phrase of gezankt had, by blood. 'Beautiful words, Miss Mirobolante',
mocked them, 'but still not good enough! Another note later! "
and so forth. Julian defended the girls, as well as he could,
and only increased the laughter. Suddenly, the Abused in flowing
tears, and I drove the Rangen in the large hall, where I
was with them a ball game began. After a while Julian and
mirabelle searching, I found them in the garden, where they are
on a quiet bank assen: Cupid and Psyche. You blushed, because I
surprised, not too much. Remember's, Fagon, which Julian is now
my adoptive child, and if you do not rid of the fathers and he
gave a possible life, my faith!

stilt then I get this crutch to Versailles and bring my wrinkles,
despite the case back to the here! ', and she pointed to
bust your lorbeerbekränzte, Your Majesty. The old woman talked
to me yet hundreds things before, when I decided, once they
had adopted, the boy with a good word to speak.

He and the girl appeared again, still beaming. The car was
reported to the countess, and Julian, accompanied the women
at the gate, while my favorite bench in front of the
Orangerie April. Labtest I am addressing the fine fragrances.
Mouton, a profane and the Knaster steaming hands in their pockets,
strolled up to me without greeting over. He used his evenings
in the garden outside a tavern to decide.

Mouton the poodle on the other hand, strongly recommended to
me wedelnd. I'm sure the clever animal erriet that I liked his
master would have deprived the fall, because Mouton man burned
soff water, what to report before I forget or am ashamed of the
majesty did. The boy came back, soft and happy. 'Let me be very
interested to see what you draw and paint', I said.

'It is probably everything on the board Moutons'. He wants
to ride and gave me a full kit. I besah leaf to leaf. Strange
sight, this mixture of two unequal hands Moutons cheeky discards
from the hands of the humble boy nachgestammelt and - quietly
knighted!

Lange, I gave a blue bow, whereupon some of Julian Mouton wings
in different positions using the Loupe subscribed Bee incredibly
carefully reproduced.

Apparently the boy had the shape of the animalcule fond. Who
would have told me that the drawing of a bee would kill the
boy! Bottom in the folder was still informal scraps, what Mouton
had something gesudelt what captivated my curiosity. 'This is
not mine, said Julian,' it has been attached. " I studied the
paper, which is the wonderful parody of a scene contained Ovid:
those where Pentheus run, hunted by the Mänaden, and Bacchus, god
of the cruel, in order to spoil the refugees, a vertical
mountains before him in the amount grow. Mouton had probably the
boys, sometimes its responsibilities in the fledgling Malkammer,
verses Ovid laboriously translate enough and listen to his
substance geschöpft. A young man, Julian unmistakable body in all
its forms which Moutons painters eye leichtlich knew
better than the boy himself, a slim racer, fled the print head
with a deadly fear of him after a few ghosts nachjagenden
diverted. None Bacchae, women of any age, embodied ideas that
frighten, folternde thoughts - one of those monster wore a long
Jesuitenhut on the geschorenen skull and a folio in his hand - and
only the cliff, and wildly unerklimmbar, before the eyes to
grow seemed like a grim fate, I saw the boys on. This looked at
the paper, without reluctance, without a hint of its possible
significance. Mouton also liked to have not made clear what
he bad omen in brilliant dullness on the leaf hingeträumt had.
I put the same involuntarily, in order to hide it in the middle
layer of the leaves before I put them in the folder pushed.

'Julian', I started easy, "I deplore myself for thee, that
thou hast Mouton preferred him to your confidant doing while
you're on my good will, you know, in an unfathomable silence
sealed. Are you afraid to send me your misfortune to say because
I'm able to have the same clear limit to assess and correct, and
you prefer, in hopeless brooding you to eat? That is not courageous.
"Julian made the painful brows. But once again played a ray
of happiness enjoyed today on his face. 'Mr. Fagon,' he
said half smiling, 'I really think the only Gram poodle
Mouton said. "This word-like, which I do not trust him would have
surprised me. The boy pointed my amazing Miene wrong. He is
believed to have missredet. 'Ask me, Mr. Fagon,' he said,
'I answer you the truth.' 'You have trouble to live?' 'Yes,
Mr. Fagon.'

'It keeps you on limited, and you are there also, but perhaps
differently than people think. " The harsh word was spoken. The
boy sank the blond head in his hands and burst into silent
tears, which I only noticed because it ran between his fingers.
Now the spell was broken. 'I will tell you my Kümmernis,
Mr. Fagon' he sobbed, the face uplifting. 'The Sun, my child, and
was certain that I am now, since we are friends, will defend like
me Nobody will own you will wear something that neither you nor
anyone else!

You will return to air and sun, and your happy day's work without
the horror begin. "The boy believed in me and summed up with eyes
hoping trust. Then he began to tell his suffering, even as a
half-past: 'A bad day I lived and the rest were not much better.
It was an autumn day, that I agree with his Guntram ohms, the
Comtur after Compiègne drove. We wanted us there in shooting
practice for both of us a new pleasure and a sample of our eyes.
We had an easy two-team, and Guntram amused me in a cloud of
dust from his future. This could only be a military. Among
other things, he had no desire. The Comtur widely welcomed us,
but Guntram did not rest until we are at a distance in
front of the glass stood. Not a single shot he took it. Because
it is short-sighted as nobody. He bit into the lip and stirred
on terribly. This was also unsure of his hand, while I was in
the Black, because I saw and was aimed. The Comtur was retrieved,
and Guntram sent the servants of their wine. He drained a
few glasses, and his hand began to tremble. With the well
eyes and distorted face, he threw his pistol on the lawn, then
lifted it again, they are invited, invited the mine and lost
with me in the thicket of the park. On a clearing in which he
offered me and the other . 'I make an end! " he cried desperately.
I am a blind man, and not suitable to the field, and if I do
not fit into the field, I will not live!

You accompanied me! Also you do not fit into life, although
you enviable shooting, because you're the biggest fool, the ridicule
of the world!

" 'And God? " I asked. 'A pretty god', hohnlachte he showed
the sky and the fist, 'I belligerence and blindness, and imagine
a body without a spirit made!

" We wrestled, I disarmed him, and it was reflected in
the bushes.

Since that day I was an unhappy, because Guntram had expressed
what I knew, but concealed myself as best it wanted to go.
I always heard the word fool behind me whisper, in the street like
in school, and my ears sharpened to the cruel word to hear.

It may also be that my classmates about what else I did not complain
when they are apart from the areas of my ear, believe me so
kürzehalber call.

Even with the mischievous Semmelweib wrinkles that Lisette,
who before the board sells its product, is looking to cheat me,
often quite crude, and believes it to be, because they call me
a stupid hear. And still hangs on the wall of the Collège God
the Savior who came into the world is for justice and against
all the weak against clemency to teach. " He was silent and
seemed to reflect. Then he continued: 'I do not want
to do better, Mr. Fagon, as I am. I too have bad hours. With no
games, I would sun and shade unfairly distributed, and how can
God in the earthly Tournament Bleigewichte attach a single and
then say to him: 'There is the goal: to run with the others!

" Often, Mr. Fagon, I fall asleep before the folded hands
and love God brünstig angefleht, he may, what I have just
laboriously learned, while sleeping in my head can grow and rise,
which is the mere nature to the others.

I woke up and had forgotten everything, and the sun terrified me.
'Maybe', he whispered shyly, 'I am doing the wrong God. Hülfe
he likes, how kind he is, but he probably does not always have
the power. Would not that be possible, Mr. Fagon? Was it
then too bad, the mother visited me in a dream and told me: 'Stop
from Julian! It is still good! "This incredible and childish
Nativitäten contradictions forced me into a smile, a grin to be
liked. The boy was frightened about himself and about me. Then
he said, as if he had already spoken too long, hurried, not without
some bitterness, because he had confidence in the course of his
story again: 'Now everyone knows that I'm stupid, even the
king, and that I would have so like verheimlicht' - Julian
liked to allude to those Marly -, 'only my father, except that is
not want to believe.'

'My son', I said and laid a hand on his slender shoulders, "I do
not philosophize with you , Would you believe me, so I wear you
through the waves. As you are, I will bring into the port. While
you will be beautiful in spite of your name no army and no
fleet, but you will not lose battle reckless injury to thy king
and thy Fatherland. Your name will not be like your father in
our annals, but in the book of the righteous, because you know
the first Beatitudes that the kingdom of heaven to the poor in
spirit belongs.

Merk on! The first point is: you go into the field and fight in
our ranks for the king and which is now so difficult threatened
France. In the sphere of rain, you will know whether you can
live. Hineinkommst That you soon, take care me. You stay or
you return home with the self confidence of a Braven. Without
self-confidence no man Nobody will give you easy to scoff in the
face.

Then you will be a simple servant of thy king, and fulfill your
duty to the toughest, as it lies within you. You honor and loyalty,
and their need for the majesty. Among those who surround them,
is not an abundance of it. Marstall, hunting, or guard, a service
will find, as you understand him to perform. Your birth is your
own merit instead of favor before the other: the make you
humble. The majesty when it is tired in the rate of employment,
loves it, a casual word to a silent, absolutely faithful to judge.

You're too easy to get into a plot to mix, for you will not ruin
intrigue. One is how the world is behind your back and scoff
scoff, but you do not look around. You will be kind and fair
with your servants, and not a day without terminate a boon. For
the rest: Surrender! 'The boy looked at me with eyes of believers.
'These are words of the Gospel,' he said. "If not everyone
', I joked,' even your Gönnerin, wife of Maintenon, the king himself
to a jewelry or a province?

Have I, Fagon, also not waived, perhaps more bitter than you,
albeit in my own way? Orphaned, poor, miserable with a body
that is precisely in your years of day to day verwuchs and
bent, I have not chosen a strict Muse, science? Do you
think I had no heart, no sense?

A gentle heart, Julian - and entsagte once and for all the biggest
thrill of the existence, of love, what your growth and lean
your head empty Blond angeworfen is the only way! "Fagon wore,
making him perhaps in his youth had severely distressed, with
such a comical pathos, that it amused the king and the Marquise
flattered. "I accompanied Julian to the gate and moved with
him to mirabelle. 'You have quickly made', I said, 'It's so
come', he replied at ease. 'They were tormented by the spirit,
she wept, and since I took a confidence. Also it is like my
mother. "An aria from some opera lost my youth trällernd, the
only one of which I am powerful, I went to my bank before the
Orangerie back. 'He must be equal to the field', I said to myself.
A little lacking, I beat him without another one of my horses to
saddle and straight to the border with the army to hunt, but this
bold disobedience would not the boys dressed.

Moreover, it was known that the marshal for once only the
borders secured and maintained forts in Flanders continued to
make a decisive battle to return to Versailles and the final
commands of your Majesty to receive them. Then I wanted to
hold him.

When I left behind the pack once again opened, the contents
zurechtschüttelte because, see! Pentheus was gruesome with
the cliff top, which I had sworn in the middle of the leaves
have pushed ... A little later it came out that the poodle Mouton,
in the hustle of the Rue Saint-Honoré seeking his master, was
verkarrt. He sleeps in your garden, Your Majesty, where he
Mouton man buried under a Catalpa and with his penknife into
the bark of the tree cutting: 'II Moutons'.

And really, it was soon beside his poodle. It was time. The
draft had undermined him, and his mind began to fluctuate. I
sometimes watched him from my library window, as in his chamber
before the easel and sat not only audible with the spirit of
his poodle chatted, but also with dog or yawned Miene fast
Maules after flying snapped, in the secluded nature of his friend.
A water pulled him Addiction blighted. It went quickly, and
when one day I came to his camp, in the hands of a spoon
full of medicine, he turned his benefactor with an inexpressible
words back, returned to the face against the wall and was ready.

It went further that the marshal of the field returned to
Versailles. As his residence was no longer his, I took the
moment. I was determined to Julian's hand, before him to join
him and the whole truth to say. I went in front of the
Jesuits. Near the main gate was completed, the servants of
the little fiery air of subdued pair of four Marshall, Julian
expecting to soon after the boys get to Versailles. The door of
the Jesuit house opened, and Julian staggered out into the
states! The main incident that broke their backs, the figure bent
on uncertain feet, eyes extinguished, while the eyes of Victor
Argenson, who led his friend, blazing like torches. The bewildered
servants in their rich liveries beeiferten to ensure that their
young Mr quickly and carefully in the car to lift. I jumped
out of the mine, the boys from an insidious disease glaubend
taken. 'For God's sake, Julian', I screamed, 'what is with thee?
" No answer. The boy stared at me with a spirit to absent.
All which the interference of his captain in his
favour could procure was that he should die a soldier's death;
for there had been a purpose of executing him upon the gibbet.

The worthy clergyman of Glenorquhy chanced to be at Dunbarton, in
attendance upon some church courts, at the time of this
catastrophe.  He visited his unfortunate parishioner in his
dungeon, found him ignorant indeed, but not obstinate, and the
answers which he received from him, when conversing on religious
topics, were such as induced him doubly to regret that a mind
naturally pure and noble should have remained unhappily so wild
and uncultivated.

When he ascertained the real character and disposition of the
young man, the worthy pastor made deep and painful reflections on
his own shyness and timidity, which, arising out of the evil fame
that attached to the lineage of Hamish, had restrained him from
charitably endeavouring to bring this strayed sheep within the
great fold.  While the good minister blamed his cowardice in
times past, which had deterred him from risking his person, to
save, perhaps, an immortal soul, he resolved no longer to be
governed by such timid counsels, but to endeavour, by application
to his officers, to obtain a reprieve, at least, if not a pardon,
for the criminal, in whom he felt so unusually interested, at
once from his docility of temper and his generosity of
disposition.

Accordingly the divine sought out Captain Campbell at the
barracks within the garrison.  There was a gloomy melancholy on
the brow of Green Colin, which was not lessened, but increased,
when the clergyman stated his name, quality, and errand.  "You
cannot tell me better of the young man than I am disposed to
believe," answered the Highland officer; "you cannot ask me to do
more in his behalf than I am of myself inclined, and have already
endeavoured to do.  But it is all in vain.  General -- is half a
Lowlander, half an Englishman.  He has no idea of the high and
enthusiastic character which in these mountains often brings
exalted virtues in contact with great crimes, which, however, are
less offences of the heart than errors of the understanding.  I
have gone so far as to tell him, that in this young man he was
putting to death the best and the bravest of my company, where
all, or almost all, are good and brave.  I explained to him by
what strange delusion the culprit's apparent desertion was
occasioned, and how little his heart was accessory to the crime
which his hand unhappily committed.  His answer was, 'These are
Highland visions, Captain Campbell, as unsatisfactory and vain as
those of the second sight.  An act of gross desertion may, in any
case, be palliated under the plea of intoxication; the murder of
an officer may be as easily coloured over with that of temporary
insanity.  The example must be made, and if it has fallen on a
man otherwise a good recruit, it will have the greater effect.'
Such being the general's unalterable purpose," continued Captain
Campbell, with a sigh, "be it your care, reverend sir, that your
penitent prepare by break of day tomorrow for that great change
which we shall all one day be subjected to."

"And for which," said the clergyman, "may God prepare us all, as
I in my duty will not be wanting to this poor youth!"

Next morning, as the very earliest beams of sunrise saluted the
grey towers which crown the summit of that singular and
tremendous rock, the soldiers of the new Highland regiment
appeared on the parade, within the Castle of Dunbarton, and
having fallen into order, began to move downward by steep
staircases, and narrow passages towards the external barrier-
gate, which is at the very bottom of the rock.  The wild wailings
of the pibroch were heard at times, interchanged with the drums
and fifes, which beat the Dead March.

The unhappy criminal's fate did not, at first, excite that
general sympathy in the regiment which would probably have arisen
had he been executed for desertion alone.  The slaughter of the
unfortunate Allan Breack had given a different colour to Hamish's
offence; for the deceased was much beloved, and besides belonged
to a numerous and powerful clan, of whom there were many in the
ranks.  The unfortunate criminal, on the contrary, was little
known to, and scarcely connected with, any of his regimental
companions.  His father had been, indeed, distinguished for his
strength and manhood; but he was of a broken clan, as those names
were called who had no chief to lead them to battle.

Valeria. My noble women, the two of you good day! Volumnia.
Dear friend - Virgilia. I'm glad to see you too shall see, dear
woman. Valeria. What makes you two? You're off housekeepers. How
- you sit here and sew? - A very nice pattern, I must gestehn .--
What does your little son? Virgilia. I thank you, noble woman,
he is well. Volumnia. He may prefer swords and sehn hear the drum,
as a schoolmaster at his watch. Valeria. O! on my word,
not the father. I can conjure, he is a allerliebsten boy.
No really, I watched him on Wednesday for half an hour
continuously, he has something so Entschloßnes in his demeanor.

About the centre
of the procession, bare-headed, disarmed, and with his hands
bound, came the unfortunate victim of military law.  He was
deadly pale, but his step was firm and his eye as bright as ever.
The clergyman walked by his side; the coffin, which was to
receive his mortal remains, was borne before him.  The looks of
his comrades were still, composed, and solemn.  They felt for the
youth, whose handsome form and manly yet submissive deportment
had, as soon as he was distinctly visible to them, softened the
hearts of many, even of some who had been actuated by vindictive
feelings.

The coffin destined for the yet living body of Hamish Bean was
placed at the bottom of the hollow square, about two yards
distant from the foot of the precipice, which rises in that place
as steep as a stone wall to the height of three or four hundred
feet.  Thither the prisoner was also led, the clergyman still
continuing by his side, pouring forth exhortations of courage and
consolation, to which the youth appeared to listen with
respectful devotion.  With slow, and, it seemed, almost unwilling
steps, the firing party entered the square, and were drawn up
facing the prisoner, about ten yards distant.  The clergyman was
now about to retire.  "Think, my son," he said, "on what I have
told you, and let your hope be rested on the anchor which I have
given.  You will then exchange a short and miserable existence
here for a life in which you will experience neither sorrow nor
pain.  Is there aught else which you can entrust to me to execute
for you?"

The youth looked at his sleeve buttons.  They were of gold, booty
perhaps which his father had taken from some English officer
during the civil wars.  The clergyman disengaged them from his
sleeves.

"My mother!"  he said with some effort--"give them to my poor
mother!  See her, good father, and teach her what she should
think of all this.  Tell her Hamish Bean is more glad to die than
ever he was to rest after the longest day's hunting.  Farewell,
sir--farewell!"

The good man could scarce retire from the fatal spot.  An officer
afforded him the support of his arm.  At his last look towards
Hamish, he beheld him alive and kneeling on the coffin; the few
that were around him had all withdrawn.  The fatal word was
given, the rock rung sharp to the sound of the discharge, and
Hamish, falling forward with a groan, died, it may be supposed,
without almost a sense of the passing agony.

Here you have the resources that will take you by the downfall of
shame that you fear, can save if you have enough of womanish
frey Zagheit did it with determination to use. Juliette.
Gieb me, o, gieb me, tell me nothing of fear . (She takes the
vial.) brother Lawrence. Well, go IZT, and remain steadfast in
this decision Bey and I rushed to a familiar religious man with
letters to your husband after Mantua send. Juliette. love
me gieb starch, and starch is me Hülfe give - Lebet well, my
father Theurer - (You go from.) Zweyte Scene. (Transforms in
Capulets house.) (Capulets, Lady Capulets, nurse, and three or
zween Serves occur.)

Capulets. Loading all the guests, whose names are on that paper -
you go and order me twenty good cooks. operated. You will not get
bad, Gracious Lord, because I want to try if they can finger
leken. Capulets. How do you want The taste? operated. Sapperment,
Gracious Lord, this must be a bad cook Seyn of his own finger
leken can not, so if one's never leken kan, so he should stay at
home.

Capulets. go, go - We are poor enough on such an occasion which
Seyn - He? is my brother's daughter Lorenzen gone? nurse. Yea,
verily. Capulets. Well, maybe he can be something good Bey their
gear: the naughty, stubborn Beze, she is! (Juliette to
the former.) Nurse. Look, it comes from the confession, it looks
like from Frölich - Capulets. What giebts, Starr-head? Where Seyde
her herumgeschwärmt? Juliette. I was at a place where I was the
sin of disobedience against you and your commands learned to
regret it, and where I was imposed on my knees to fall, and you
ask for forgiveness - forgiving me, then, I ask you, from now
on will be your all time my guide Seyn. Capulets. Schikt after
the count, it says him and I want these nodes have zusammengeknüpft
tomorrow. Juliette.

I met him in Celle brother Lorenzo, and met him so kindly as I
could, without the limits of decency to pass. Capulets. Well,
listen, the 'I like that it is good, get up, it is as it should
Seyn, I must see the Count - Hey, the heck goes, tell me,
and catching him - Well, Bey God, this Father is in the venerable
That a holy man, and a man to whom our whole city has much
to thank. Juliette. Amme, do you want with me go in my room,
and I choose the Puz help her on the morning finds schiklich
days? Lady Capulets. There is still enough time until Thursday.
Capulets. Go, nurse, go with it, tomorrow is the ceremony going
ahead. (Juliette and Amme go from.) Lady Capulets. But where
are we in this way time to the preparations hernehmen?

It's been beynahe night. Capulets. Still, I want to themselves, and
it should be ensured for all, Madam, I stand before thee. Go thou
to Juliette, help them aufpuzen I will now not go to bed, let me
alone: I will once in my life, the house mother to imagine
- he! holla! - they are all continuous, well, I will even
go to Count Paris, so he was taken to do tomorrow. It is fairly
easy to me's heart, since the witch-girl as the target has. (They
go from.) Third Scene. (Juliette room.) (Juliette and the nurse
to come.) Juliette.
These legends came across the mind of the clergyman, and,
solitary as he was, a melancholy smile shaded his cheek, as he
thought of the inconsistency of human nature, and reflected how
many brave men, whom the yell of the pibroch would have sent
headlong against fixed bayonets, as the wild bull rushes on his
enemy, might have yet feared to encounter those visionary
terrors, which he himself, a man of peace, and in ordinary perils
no way remarkable for the firmness of his nerves, was now risking
without hesitation.

As he looked around the scene of desolation, he could not but
acknowledge, in his own mind, that it was not ill chosen for the
haunt of those spirits, which are said to delight in solitude and
desolation.  The glen was so steep and narrow that there was but
just room for the meridian sun to dart a few scattered rays upon
the gloomy and precarious stream which stole through its
recesses, for the most part in silence, but occasionally
murmuring sullenly against the rocks and large stones which
seemed determined to bar its further progress.  In winter, or in
the rainy season, this small stream was a foaming torrent of the
most formidable magnitude, and it was at such periods that it had
torn open and laid bare the broad-faced and huge fragments of
rock which, at the season of which we speak, hid its course from
the eye, and seemed disposed totally to interrupt its course.
"Undoubtedly," thought the clergyman, "this mountain rivulet,
suddenly swelled by a waterspout or thunderstorm, has often been
the cause of those accidents which, happening in the glen called
by her name, have been ascribed to the agency of the Cloght-
dearg."

Just as this idea crossed his mind, he heard a female voice
exclaim, in a wild and thrilling accent, "Michael Tyrie!  Michael
Tyrie!"  He looked round in astonishment, and not without some
fear.  It seemed for an instant, as if the evil being, whose
existence he had disowned, was about to appear for the punishment
of his incredulity.  This alarm did not hold him more than an
instant, nor did it prevent his replying in a firm voice, "Who
calls?  and where are you?"

Sleeping and the dead are only images; Aug childhood alone
Scheut the painted devil. If it bleeds, I mean the dyeing minions
the faces, because their guilt solls appear. (She goes from.

You hear knocking.) MACBETH Where knocking it? How ists with me,
every sound that frightens me, what are here for the hands ?
Ha, they tear me from my eyes. Can most of the great sea god, this
ocean of blood to wash my hands clean? No, this can be far ambitious
with my hand the immense purple water color red and green in turn.
(Lady Macbeth comes back.) LADY MACBETH My hands are bloody
as yours, but I am ashamed that my heart so white. ( It will
be knocked.) I hear knocking At the south .-- we hurry in our
chamber, a little water rinses from us the fact, then how easy
it is! - Your strength dungeon you very much. (It's tapped.)
Horch, again knocking! Tu on your night gown, we must
show that you do not see, we watched! - dungeon So you do not
poor in thought.

MACBETH To know my deed! Better by myself do not know! (It's tapped.)
Knock Duncan from sleep! O's could you! (You go from.) THIRD
STAGE (Daselbst) (The porter comes and it is knocked.) Porter
is a knock! Truly, if a janitor would be hell because he was too
close. (Klopfen.)

Poch, throbbing, throbbing, who since, in the name Beelzebub? A
lease that is in expectation of a rich harvest hang. To the right
time comes, you will also Schnupftücher enough for you? Because
here you will need to sweat! - (Klopfen.) Poch, Poch, who as in
the other devil's name? My faith, a Zweideutler, in both
shells against each shell could swear that for God's sake enough
treachery committed and not to heaven but it could zweideuteln.
Herein, Zweideutler! - (Klopfen.) Poch, throbbing,
throbbing: Who is there?

My faith, an English tailor, arrived here because it is something
from a French trousers stolen. Come in, tailor; here you can
choose your Bügelgans fry. (Klopfen.) Poch, Poch - No peace! Who
are you? But it is too cold for hell, I may no longer Devil
porter. I thought I wanted to let some of each sector, the broad
Rosenpfad to everlasting bonfire convert .-- (Klopfen.) Right,
right ! I ask you, but consider that the gatekeeper is also a
human being. (He opens the door: Macduff and Lenox come in..)
Macduff did you come to bed so late, friend, that you can now
get up so late? Ushers My Seel, Mr. We zechten until the
second cock crowed, and the trunk is a major carrier of three
things. Macduff What are the three things that the draft vorzüglich
transported? Porter Oh, Lord, red noses, sleep and urine. Buhlerei
transported and it also dampens he transported dampens the desire
and the deeds That one can say that much beverage A Zweideutler
against Buhlerei is: it creates and destroys them, pushing them
and holding them back, makes her courage and scare them which
means they are well-behaved well-behaved and do not hold zweideutelt
they were last in sleep, she lies and punisheth assumes. Macduff
I think the draft punished thee the night lying. gatehouse Yes,
Lord, did he, in my neck in. , but I vergalt his lies, and I think
I was him too much, because although he sent me a few feet
below wegzog, so I found have a trick, it hinauszuschmeißen. Macduff
Is Your Lord has Occurred? has awakened our knocking him, here he
comes. (Macbeth occurs.) LENOX Good morning, noble Lord! MACBETH
Good morning, both! Macduff Wacht even the king, würdger Than?

Woe worth you, for
there is no help in you!"

The clergyman was at no loss to conceive that Elspat had lost the
Roman Catholic faith without gaining any other, and that she
still retained a vague and confused idea of the composition with
the priesthood, by confession, alms, and penance, and of their
extensive power, which, according to her notion, was adequate, if
duly propitiated, even to effecting her son's safety.
Compassionating her situation, and allowing for her errors and
ignorance, he answered her with mildness.

"Alas, unhappy woman!  Would to God I could convince thee as
easily where thou oughtest to seek, and art sure to find,
consolation, as I can assure you with a single word, that were
Rome and all her priesthood once more in the plenitude of their
power, they could not, for largesse or penance, afford to thy
misery an atom of aid or comfort--Elspat MacTavish, I grieve to
tell you the news."

"I know them without thy speech," said the unhappy woman.  "My
son is doomed to die."

"Elspat," resumed the clergyman, "he WAS doomed, and the sentence
has been executed."

The hapless mother threw her eyes up to heaven, and uttered a
shriek so unlike the voice of a human being, that the eagle which
soared in middle air answered it as she would have done the call
of her mate.

"It is impossible!"  she exclaimed--"it is impossible!  Men do
not condemn and kill on the same day!  Thou art deceiving me.
The people call thee holy--hast thou the heart to tell a mother
she has murdered her only child?"

"God knows," said the priest, the tears falling fast from his
eyes, "that were it in my power, I would gladly tell better
tidings.  But these which I bear are as certain as they are
fatal.  My own ears heard the death-shot, my own eyes beheld thy
son's death--thy son's funeral.  My tongue bears witness to what
my ears heard and my eyes saw."

The wretched female clasped her bands close together, and held
them up towards heaven like a sibyl announcing war and
desolation, while, in impotent yet frightful rage, she poured
forth a tide of the deepest imprecations.  "Base Saxon churl!"
she exclaimed--"vile hypocritical juggler!  May the eyes that
looked tamely on the death of my fair-haired boy be melted in
their sockets with ceaseless tears, shed for those that are
nearest and most dear to thee!  May the ears that heard his
death-knell be dead hereafter to all other sounds save the
screech of the raven, and the hissing of the adder!  May the
tongue that tells me of his death and of my own crime, be
withered in thy mouth--or better, when thou wouldst pray with thy
people, may the Evil One guide it, and give voice to blasphemies
instead of blessings, until men shall fly in terror from thy
presence, and the thunder of heaven be launched against thy head,
and stop for ever thy cursing and accursed voice!  Begone, with
this malison!  Elspat will never, never again bestow so many
words upon living man."

She kept her word.  From that day the world was to her a
wilderness, in which she remained without thought, care, or
interest, absorbed in her own grief, indifferent to every thing
else.

Let me mention, Look, and then speak for yourself! (Macbeth
and go from Lenox.) Awake, awake! ([Macbeth and go from Lenox.])
The storm struck Glock! Murder! Treason! Donalbain and
Banquo! Malcolm! Awake! Flaumgen yard from the sleep of death
dump, And see him to death! On, on, and looks of the World Court
of foreplay! Malcolm! Banquo! Rise as from your grave, like ghosts
progressing as Graungefolge this murder to schaun! [The bell
blows!] (The bell is ringing noise. Lady Macbeth occurs.) LADY
MACBETH What's occurred which, That such terrible trumpet calls
To Council the sleepers of this house? Speak! Macduff O
gentle woman, You may not hear what I could tell.
Every attempt to
place any person in her hut to take charge of her miscarried,
through the extreme resentment with which she regarded all
intrusion on her solitude, or by the timidity of those who had
been pitched upon to be inmates with the terrible Woman of the
Tree.  At length, when Elspat became totally unable (in
appearance at least) to turn herself on the wretched settle which
served her for a couch, the humanity of Mr. Tyrie's successor
sent two women to attend upon the last moments of the solitary,
which could not, it was judged, be far distant, and to avert the
possibility that she might perish for want of assistance or food,
before she sunk under the effects of extreme age or mortal
malady.

It was on a November evening, that the two women appointed for
this melancholy purpose arrived at the miserable cottage which we
have already described.  Its wretched inmate lay stretched upon
the bed, and seemed almost already a lifeless corpse, save for
the wandering of the fierce dark eyes, which rolled in their
sockets in a manner terrible to look upon, and seemed to watch
with surprise and indignation the motions of the strangers, as
persons whose presence was alike unexpected and unwelcome.  Come,
you must mitgehn. Virgilia. No, love, forgive me, seriously,
I will not ausgehn. Valeria. Egg indeed! You must mitgehn, then
I want you also wonderful news to tell your husband.
Virgilia.

O, dear Valeria! it can not yet come to. Valeria. Lo! I do not
joke with you, it came yesterday evening news of him. Virgilia.
Indeed? Valeria. Seriously, it's true, I heard a senator tell.
Thus it was: - The Volsker have an army Outdent let what Cominius,
the captain, with a part of the Roman power is entgegengegangen.
Your husband Lartius and Titus Corioli besiege their city, they
do not doubt it to conquer and the war soon to terminate.
The night-raven screamed
from the old oak-tree, the fox howled on the hill, the hoarse
waterfall replied with its echoes; but there was no human answer.
The terrified women did not dare to make further search till
morning should appear; for the sudden disappearance of a creature
so frail as Elspat, together with the wild tenor of her history,
intimidated them from stirring from the hut.  Virgilia. A
little tomboy, Valeria. Valeria. Come, submit your embroidery
away, you must with me this afternoon to make idle housewife.
Virgilia. No expensive women, I will not ausgehn. Valeria.
Ausgehn Not? Volumnia. You will they will.Sometimes, too, the latch
rattled, as if some frail and impotent hand were in vain
attempting to lift it, and ever and anon they expected the
entrance of their terrible patient, animated by supernatural
strength, and in the company, perhaps, of some being more
dreadful than herself.  Morning came at length.  They sought
brake, rock, and thicket in vain.  Two hours after daylight, the
minister himself appeared, and, on the report of the watchers,
caused the country to be alarmed, and a general and exact search
to be made through the whole neighbourhood of the cottage and the
oak-tree.  But it was all in vain.  Elspat MacTavish was never
found, whether dead or alive; nor could there ever be traced the
slightest circumstance to indicate her fate.

Antonio. Do you hear me, because not talking? Sebastian. I
hear you, but it is truly a sleeping speeches, you talk in your
sleep. What, you said? It's a strange bed, with weitofnen eyes to
sleep, stand, talk, move, and yet so hard eingeschlaffen Seyn!
Antonio. Edler Sebastian, you leave your Glük sleep. Stirb dear!
you awake with eyes geschloßnen. Sebastian. You snore
understandable, it is important in your snoring. Antonio. I'm
serious as is my habit. Seyde even so, if I may Rathen you,
and it will be your Glük Seyn, Rathen you to leave. Sebastian.
Well, I am standing water. Antonio. I will teach you flow.
Sebastian. The Thue; to teach me my angeerbte inertia .
The
clergyman entertained an opinion of his own.  Nothing less;
louder idle people, whores and Spizbuben. Gonsalo. I wanted to
be with such perfection govern, Gracious Lord, that the golden
age itself is not so in comparison to come. Sebastian. The sky
protect his majesty!
This species of instinctive feeling seemed to him of a
tenor with the whole course of her unhappy life, and most likely
to influence her when it drew to a conclusion.
ÿ
End of THE HIGHLAND WIDOW.