SHORTY McCABE ON THE JOB

by

SEWELL FORD

Author of Shorty Mccabe, Side-Stepping with Shorty, Etc.

Queen Elizabeth, before her daughter was aware of everything, knew
perfectly well that this professed ardent love for her husband, and
assuming that his departure might be the mainspring of a great
scandal, tried to prevent his departure, although the expense of
hard work.

Knew that the love relationships of Philip were too new to that as soon
could have a break.

So we tried
to discourage the
idea of leaving, putting on the pretest found very delicate health,
and Also found her father holding the Courts in Aragon, which so
adoring, yet feel very much that this determination was made without
his consent.

Both the Catholic queen and her
daughter
Dona Juana, carrying
their intention,
first, to see if I could without giving scandal, the love that
dash had the fellow in Philip and the second because I wanted to
give a lesson to her husband, confusing his beloved.

No Doña Juana left her mother to write to the object, but had been
useless so far their pleas for permission to this: he had reached
the point of sending the most influential in his court if here have
achieved what you want even at the expense of his life.

 But seeing that all was in vain, took the decision to leave without
the consent of her mother, without reaching the ears of her father,
and if possible, without being more than the whole of his chariot
drivers.

       To those people who had placed their trust gave the
      orders necessary to prepare as soon as the necessary
     utilities running. Everything was already prepared, but
      wanted the chance to be advised of this resolution Isabel
       unexpectedly, so immediately sent to Don Juan de Fonseca,
      bishop of Cordova, to the plea on his behalf did not
     leave. A point of boarding the Dona Juana carruage already
    arrived when a messenger from the queen. A moment later
      failed to find one. Sent instantly D. Juan de Fonseca
       carruage be withdrawn, and then went to see the
      Archduchess, which already found on the door of the
     Palace de la Mota, prepared to march in trage away.
    Requiring compliance with its position, made her aware of
     the Order of the Catholic queen, intimidated to return
      to his room, but the Archduchess was not already in the
     case of saving considerations of any kind, so no one
    answered word in the heat of his fiery passion was no more
   than mysteries, secret agents of his rival and her unfaithful
     husband, who had no other entertainment that delaying his departure.

The Bishop of Cordova in vain tight bodies even submitted to each
word of the name of his mother, but I tired of listening disobeyed
the order and the pleas of this, and getting ready to leave:
"_Dejadme_ said, _en a sacred duty which I did not stop anything
in this viage_.

'Then the bishop sent to close the door, leaving
    the inside part of the unfortunate Queen Juana. this lady came to
be confined to the height of his despair, and began uttering denuesto
so and so insolent phrases, D.

                                                   Juan Fonseca
was extremely annoyed, despite calling
    the archduchess sent by your kind of camera-man, D.

Miguel Ferrera. Did not want to return but
    took the road to Segovia, where at the time was Queen Elizabeth.

When there was D.

Juan de Fonseca to where the Queen gave her part of what happened
to the princess, Queen Elizabeth, although it was weak and the many
businesses that provided him his high position, set off for Mota
of Medina del Campo, assuming that perhaps his presence would make
her daughter abandon a project sensitive to it.

After the usual cumplimeintos and which does
    not address this, the promise that very soon would be reunited
with her husband.

"_Nunca Want Dios_, said the queen, I will _que
    or your father is the king departs from the side of your husband,
and if something else were on this particular venture to say,
despreciadla_."

These and other reasons it esponia Isabel and
    her in his frenzy, but that did not respond:
    '_Son futile pleas from around the world: not waver one iota ...

The father of my children!

...

I want verlo_ "... utter these words, and flooded in tears, threw
to the ground, rejecting the care offered to all trying. terms and
the Courts of Aragon, the king did not believe prudent Fernando,
stop by your trip longer because it was aware of what happened to
her daughter, whose mental enagenacion are encouraged each day, and
it was very possible that the detainees, had been declared because
of his madness.

If I could only wish a
pair of eight-ounce gloves on him for a few minutes!"

So, without stoppin' to change, or even sheddin' the mitts, I walks into
the front office, to discover this elegant party in the stream-line
cutaway pacin' restless up and down the room. Yes, he sure is some
imposin' to look at, with his pearl gray spats, and the red necktie
blazin' brilliant under the close-clipped crop of Grand Duke whiskers. I
don't know what there is special about a set of frosted face shubb'ry
that sort of suggests bank presidents and so on, but somehow they do.
Them and the long, thin nose gives him a pluty, distinguished look, in
spite of the shifty eyes and the weak mouth lines. But I ain't in a mood
to be impressed.

"Well?" says I snappy.

«Went but suddenly rising from his seat," there's my niece! "" My
best Lord, I can not tell you what a great service to us yesterday by
your friendly uncle shank have done, "was now the young man for
the tieferröthete the word lady, "my poor Marie, which is a hated
connection to her step-father wanted to force, out of love for me
through the flight away, would be, before I be notified of their
arrival could be almost verrathen and then returned again in any
case been.

That is now no longer to fear, and we are just in the way we present
ourselves her father, who willy-nilly over the once happened will
have to be comforted. "" Well, I gratulire you, "said the Commerzienrath
with very ambiguous Tone .

"If you incidentally, the two young boys, the brothers of the lady,
if I am not mistaken, which I now Staffelstein from Koburg cleverly
had to get rid of it only in the hands, so I also want to thank my
God, if I not near me. "" My brothers, after Koburg clever?

"cried the young lady, hochaufhorchend and Commerzienrath had to
tell now how the fear came and what he himself as an accomplice
ausgestanden.

The two young people listened to him in the beginning quite seriously,
about the love rosy face of the young woman flashed and jerked it,
however, like sunlight on a trembling slightly moving Bache, their
big brown eyes sparkled in a little humor to be compelling, and as
the Commerzienrath finally came to the place where the brothers
asked him whether he may be the Lord himself was oldish, she could
no longer hold out and just laughed.

That is as clear and silvery sound and the small facial Chen even so kind
as to gutmüthig, so compassionate and Theil Taking it looked like it
could Commerzienrath not calm, and his whole Furor over injustice and
suffered humiliating treatment snatching, he said with his angry expression
in speech and look, but its never to deny politeness: "My very dear
lady, you now have very good laugh, but if your liver -" "My dear Mr.
Best," interrupted him begging and flattering the young lady, "were
They quite mad at me, I've got plenty of it just because of my
ingratitude deserves, but forgive me then, and be assured that I,
like Oskar in life never forget the debt that we owe you. "" Please
, please, "said the defensive Commerzienrath and by the warm words
have completely reassured," but - you allow me the question, how
can you dare it now, after yesterday occurred which now return home?

My father is Mr so under no circumstances bewandten condition in connection
with the young Mr. da consent. "" We are linked, "he said kindly, while
the young females deep erröthete," and all the fathers of the world
will not connect again can solve. "" In the speed?

"cried the astonished Commerzienrath out." My wife's uncle, and the brother
of her father, who always opposed the connection with thread that people
have, is himself a priest and has given us, because we love it knew each
other last night, according to the laws of our church, albeit
without the posses Nöthiger married. "" Now that I am in That,
"said the Commerzienrath, which thus, also because of the brothers,
a stone rolled from the soul , "Everything that is quite pretty and
good, but I would but the last 24 hours, which I therefore ausgestanden
not go through again - and if I could donate six Heirathen."

"Oh yes that does me quite tired," said little frightened young woman,
her hands folding and with such a compassionate gaze to the old
gentleman supervisor, that this very painful and tender heart was
dead.

"Oh please, why trouble yourself not," said the Commerzienrath, "it was
quite gern geschehen --. "" If I ever in a position should be, at least
your kindness into something done, "cried even now the young man,"
so you all about me, here is my card, can I now also want to make
your Names please?

"" To my name? "Said the Commerzienrath quickly and mistrauisch look up
to him," no, ask for forgiveness, you are very friendly, but my
name has me in the last few days so genirt and Verwickelungen brought
him that I, when the potentially concerned, entirely abolish would,
but how the things are so cautious from now on so that would be
just as it is possible. "" But I ask for God's sake - "" Give me
your thoughts Müller, "said the Commerzienrath," I I've already
told it once, and the name was quite useful to me. "" I can not
tell you how sorry I am does that to you because so much of Mary
inconvenience seem to have had, but it might give you some reassurance
grant, two lucky to have made it. "" If I order my liver again only
small could make, "said the Commerzienrath," but I think we come
to the station, the train whistles; now I wish you a very happy
journey and fairly good reception at home --. "" We thank you
sincerely. "" Is very nice to me but that I must not, "continued
the Commerzienrath added."

And you want to send us your address does not really say?

"asked Marie ». The name you are in any case, I now chooses to do with
your brothers learned gentlemen who unfortunately know very well,"
sighed the Commerzienrath, "my address but allow me to hide.

I will be happy when I -- - when at home with me No one hears my
adventures. Would you follow me up there, I would be in 14 days Todt.
"" Station Burgkunstadt - stay three minutes, "said in this moment
of conducteurs, opening the door. "They want to grow so from here,
sir?"

"Yes, want to - can you tell me when the post off?" Cried the
Commerzienrath, pick up his belongings.

"If want to depart immediately," reads the welcome message, " Here, even
the post office car. "" Oh, thank you very much, so I commend
myself to you again. "" Right happy journey!

"cried the two young husband pressed her uncle in, and the
Commerzienrath saw himself in the next moment again with a feeling
great Genugthuung car next to the post, by the him back to his
Dorothee, on his home comfort, tranquility and peace to bring.

Getting to the train even in the least bekümmernd further, he gave one
of the numbers sent, so vereideten servant his baggage slip with
the order, his suitcase in the densely located in Post Office to
weigh and to leave, and he himself also went rapidly there, his
direct Fahrbillet after Gidelsbach to solve.

The two brothers took it, the received message, thank God no more to fear,
and he thought it did not, even in a third home, the horrible Wirth
Scenes of the last two nights to repeat - he had enough of them.

His Billet was resolved, his luggage and already worried Eilwagen
to manage the post close to the coupe of the train anfuhr, there
for the land given in letters and packages to take delivery.

Incidentally, today was the slightly longer than usual in Burgkunstadt
delayed, as more cargo trucks left here, while others had to be
re-attached, and post it to the exit was almost as soon as the
train is ready.

The Commerzienrath stood just before the door opened, he was in the travel
bag and umbrella pushed, while a lady with a couple of hat boxes in the
hand also appeared to him, when suddenly a deep voice from one of
the open windows of the second Class Coupé herausschrie: » Mr.

Commerzienrath Mahlhuber! Mr. Commerzienrath Mahlhuber! "The called shot,
as from a snake pin, according to the voice and saw to his horror,
the quiet man from the post of Gidelsbach, which he very kindly
and friendly wave, with half his body out of the window coupe
refused.

"Now how are you?" he cried with a wide grin across the face and hands
with herübergrüßend, "has returned to Gidelsbach?

- Have it your guns loaded? - Wishes to you quite happy journey! "The
Commerzienrath turned halfway down the insolent people, and threw
him a scornful glance, than in the same instant a sharp bright
Locomotive whistle that.

Mr. Mahlhuber but, from its previous train journey is still in the
constant fear to be left behind, forgetting completely that he no
longer belonged to the course and wanted in reckless haste before
him in the open wagons go postal.

"Now, Lord Jesus, to God, what did you just because?

They run quite a pile on, "cried the Queen, against the fear in his
angeprallt was."

Please excuse thousand times! "Cried the Commerzienrath, while the now
train set in motion a scornful laugh herübertönte to him," whistled
the Locomotive - "" Well, the post goes to you but why not, dear
man, "replied the lady, with some leisegemurmelten, not just kind
words, their hat back into façon oppressive, "is something I already
occurred in my life?"

contrite, but without a word to reply, took the poor abgehetzte, mishandelte
Commerzienrath after the lady in the corner space gegenüberbefindlichen
, but now determined to what the future holds, the wicked no more
skill to hold on to.

Silently he laid back, took his cap at the forehead and closed his eyes.
He did not speak, he heard nothing that was spoken to him, he
complained about not train nor heat, neither cared for the beautiful
area nor the old neighbor, and contributed with a truly touching
resignation the sufferings of the new nightly post ride to his dull
body hardly a fleeting hours of sleep allowed.

Otzleben In particular he is not moved from his place, and only a
stealthy glance he threw from the window heraufgezogenen, at the
sight of the old post office building vorvorigen the Scenes of the
night once more into the memory his recall and to thank God that
she is a recent night belonged.

It was evening - the Mamsell stood in the Hausthür, the arms with
the sleeves aufgestreiften into the side gestemmt, the large key
ring on the front apron, and from the next door Stalle led half the
house servant herzu fresh horses, grumpy with the slippers on the
towing Hofpflaster schlurrend.

What a silent picture of peace - and then back? - "Satan toad," murmured
the Commerzienrath between teeth by as it seventeen times the
little poodle just thrown out again, as he had left him, sitting
in the door and saw scratch, "nothing further was missing me, as
even tonight such a neighborhood in the green room.

"The lady, the only Mitpassagier in the car, the Commerzienrath already
underway angeredet several times and after that and asked, but never
received an answer had finally seemed to be the conviction came to be
that he either stocktaub or at least would be very difficult to hear.
That figure out, because the silent Imwagensitzen her horribly - she
suddenly turned as far as she could on the Commerzienrath on him and
screamed in his ear: "What is the place here?" "Lord thou my
goodness," said the driving Commerzienrath together, » You have
me scared. "" That he hears, "muttered the lady met him before," now?

"she cried again," you do not know how the place is called?

"" Otzleben, correctly as far as I am, "said its neighbor, thus
pressed. "Friendly Village here, how?" cried the lady again, but Mahlhuber
did not fall into the trap. He thought of the zerschossene bandbox
in the shoes overnight to the niece. - The All were the consequences
of a reckless been adequate follow conversation. "Friendly village
here," cried his neighbor, once again, is at least one to make, the
Commerzienrath but still threw a look out on his girlfriend, who Mamsell
with long curls aufgestreiften and sleeves, to the strange house servant
and the poodle, then pulled the coat around him, expressed itself
firmly in his corner, and stubbornly refused to even his assent to the
wholly uncontroversial Lobe of Otzleben. "Is that a deaf ass," growled
the Dame halblaut, but completely understandable from between
the teeth, "will be even with such a boring Peter plagued partner
of travel, you my goodness!"

and her next big journey Kober rückend to cope, she lifted both feet on
the gegenüberbefindlichen seat folded, the Schoose hands and closed
his eyes also. 15 + The Homecoming. + A station after another so
they passirten, without even a word to each other to change, but
also without the least unusual or disturbing in their journey.

To sleep was of course for the driving ungewöhnten Commerzienrath not
to think, and his liver was in his opinion will have blue spots,
so she continually what he had to swear against the stomach walls
and ribs.

But with each mile that they zurücklegten, they came also his home,
his domesticity, the dressing gown gemüthlichen life closer again, each
stroke of the car helped him to continue on a stone that is still
between him and Gidelsbach was, and he endured the most difficult
with a smile in your heart.

In the night they got even more passengers in the car, a fat gentleman
with an appalling increased sniffing around midnight, when they are in
a small town with a terrible patch and a hoarse Nachtwächter spanned,
and against the morning was a young lad with a grünlackirten huge
big Botanisirtrommel in the car and told the passengers that he is
the first male had made a Fußreise and now back to his older go.

His name was Charles Becker, as he states, was 14 years old, in the
school Tertia, and had at the last test the best Censur get.

The Commerzienrath Everything but rebounded, and then the lady
started with a thick verschnupften Mr. a conversation about children
and butter prices.

This also turned once during the conversation to Mahlhuber. »The stocktaub
is," he apologized, but the lady, and were left undisturbed to grant
him. There was Gidelsbach - the bend of the road it suddenly unveiled
her eyes - now they sailed on the Roßbrücke, now at Chausséehause
over - over there was the summer garden, then left to front the
windmill, and of course the silent air borne sounded the melodic
beats of the old Thurmuhr the lunchtime announced to them over here.

Commerzienrath occurred in the Thränen in the eye, it was him as if he
ten years would have been removed, and the peasants who came from
the city, the returning Holzfuhrleuten nodded and he was happy like
a kid on the larks of cheerful blare through the gaggle of geese
and the Kläffen of dogs, in addition to the Post hersprangen car.
rasselten Now through the steingewölbte old Stadtthor on the paving
of the city where he knew every company, and how he turned from the
carriage, which seats wiederzubegrüßen dear friend, was the first
familiar face that met him, that of the Doctor funds while the
anstarrte him as if he had seen a ghost.

"Commerzienrath, you are of the devil?" he cried in horror and amazement,
the middle of the road are consistent, but the Commerzienrath said
not a word, the man nodded, not even , and the Post rasselte continue
to their destination.

At the Post Office arrived and the Postbedienten the friendliest
welcome, he climbed out without even using words and look at the other
passengers to trouble, the people gave a mandate to his luggage in the
moment to create your own apartment, and then progressively, as
easily as if he flöge, along the narrow alley that led to his
homeland.

Dorothee today, of course, had just the cousin to tables, and when
the Commerzienrath into WITHOUT KNOCKING entered his room, she just
screamed: "All the good spirits praise God the Lord," and had a
plate covered with soup.

"Good day, Dorothee," said the Commerzienrath without being distracted by
the cousin to take further note, "is my room okay?

"" Jesus, my confidence, "cried the old housekeeper, the question
is not even listening," the Lord Commerzienrath are already there?

"" Is my room in order, Dorothee? "" Yes, want, or even want, the
best Mr. but for God's sake what is it occurred which?

"The Commerzienrath had already turned away to his bedroom to kick,
but turned in the door again and said kindly:" I'm back, Dorothee and
I also remain here and will not go away again, and if the Mosje, Doctor
of resources while coming - "At the moment it is knocked on the door,
and just before Somebody" Come "or" Not here "could go, this went
on and the Doctor himself stood on the threshold.

"But now tell me, for God's sake, Commerzienrath -" "Good morning,
Doctor," replied the Commerzienrath, still working on his hat, his
travel bag on hand and rock and under the umbrella arms .

'What in the world pushes you because in two days back again? "cried
this," I thought you might keep in Munich now. - What is you because
passirt?

"" I will tell you something, Doctor, "replied the Commerzienrath with a
dark dull determination in his voice," and you also, Dorothee - the
cousin has already eaten?
And while I don't
bill myself for any expert on lovin'-kindness, and as a gen'ral thing I
ain't of a suspicious nature, I'm wise enough to apply the acid test and
bore for lead fillin' on anything he hands in. Course maybe I'm too hard
on him, but it strikes me that an ex-pool organizer, who makes a livin'
as capper for a hotel branch of a shady stock-brokin' firm, ain't had
the best kind of trainin' as an angel of mercy.

So when he shows up at my Physical Culture Studio again, the day after
Lawyer Judson has explained for us the fine points of that batty will of
Pyramid's, I'm about as friendly and guileless as a dyspeptic customs
inspector preparin' to go through the trunks of a Fifth avenue
dressmaker. He comes in smilin' and chirky, though, slaps me chummy on
the shoulder, and remarks cordial:

"Well, my trusty coworker in well doing, I have come to report
progress."

"Shoot it, then," says I, settlin' back in my chair.

"You will be surprised," he goes on, "to learn who is first to benefit
by my vicarious philanthropy."

"Your which?" says I.

"Merely another simile for our glorious work," says he. "You couldn't
guess whose name was in that envelope,--Twombley-Crane's!"

"The Long Island plute?" says I. "You don't say! He then gave me the
same tablets, which he has several in its products primarily
Besteck, also a pen, which he kindly did, and begged that I accepted
both, thought again thought nothing could imagine and wrote:
"Hersiliens greeting Felix.

The equerry think is good. "I looked at the writing and felt awkward
about the annoyances of expression. Neither tenderness nor
spirit, nor wit, sheer embarrassment, and why? Before I was a boy, a
boy, I wrote, should me made him upset? I believe that I sighed, and
was just about to make the writing wegzuwischen, but that it took me so
graceful in the hand, asked me for any caring wrapping, and so's happened
that I, I do not know how it's done the tablets in the mail bag put the
tape darumschlang and sufficed zugeheftet the boy who took it with
grace, a deep bow for a moment zauderte that I just had more time,
it's my bag in his hand to press, and I scolded him not enough to
have been.

He is distant and decorous haste was when I gave him nachblickte
already gone, I do not quite understand how.

Now it's over, I'm already back on the usual flat ground days and think
little of the appearance. I was not holding the tablet in your hand?
It is not graceful, even beautiful writing and carefully considered, I
think I would have kissed it, if I erase the writing is not afraid. I
have time after I wrote above, but what I also think that will not always
promote. But something mysterious was in the character, like in the novel
are not to be unfounded, they should be because we also encounter
in life? Pleasant, but suspicious, strange, but exciting confidence;
why he resigned before dissolved confusion? Why was I not the presence
of mind enough to make it schicklicherweise noted? After a break nehm
'I once again spring to hand, my confessions continue. The firm,
one to the continuing inclination maturing young boys wanted to flatter
me, but as occurred to me that it is not uncommon that at this age for
older women look around. Indeed, there is a mysterious tendency of younger
men to older women. Otherwise, since I am not concerned, I laughed
about it and wanted boshafterweise have found: it was a reminder
of the Ammen - Säuglingszärtlichkeit and from which they have little
torn.

Now's annoyed me, the thing so I think I demean the good Felix down to
childhood, and I can see me but not in an advantageous position. Oh what
a difference is whether you or the others evaluated. Eilftes Chapter
Wilhelm Natalie A daily to go around and I may not spring to be
me decide it is so many to say, verbally added to well-being to
others, also developed more easily probably one from the other, let
me, therefore, the remote, just start with the General, but it
directs me to the last Wunderliche what I did know.

You've heard of the lad who, on the shores of the sea walk a Ruderpflock
found, the interest that he took it, led him, a rudder to purchase as
necessary to belong. This, however, was now nothing more profitable, he
sought earnestly after a barge and took it. However, Kahn, rudder and
Ruderpflock not supportive, he gained sail poles and sails, and
so gradually, with the speed and ease of navigation is required.

With convenient he will endeavor to greater skill and dexterity,
the good fortune favors him and he finally sees himself as Lord and
patron of a larger vehicle, and thus increases the success, he won
wealth, reputation and name among the sailors .-- By I now you run
like this story to read again, I must confess that it is only in
the broadest sense here is one, but to me the path traces, that
express what I have present.

However, I must still go through some distant. The skills contained in
the human subject can be divided into general and specific, the general
view as indifferent-dormant skills, according to circumstances and
random awakened to this or that purpose can be determined.

The Nachahmungsgabe of people generally, he wants to imitate, to reproduce
what he sees, even without the inside and at least a means to express
purpose. Of course it is always that he wants to make, make what he
sees, however, the natural thing would be that the son of the
father's employment taken.

Here is everything together: one in particular, perhaps even inborn, in
original direction determined ability, then a logical rather stufenweis
progressive exercise and a developed talent that is coerced, then
well on its way advance if other shoots that develop in us and us a
free choice to a business account, to which our nature neither
plant nor perseverance award.

On average, therefore, the people happiest with a congenital, a
family talent in the domestic circles apprentices find opportunity.
We have painters such pedigrees seen, including talents were
admittedly weak, however, provided they do something useful and
maybe better than them at moderate natural forces from own choice
in any other times would have done.

Since this is also not what I wanted to say so I have my messages from
any other side to come closer to looking for.

That is the sad removal of the friends that we have the resources limbs,
the Hülfsglieder our thoughts, which in the present as fleeting as
lightning mutually develop and durchweben not instantaneous link
and connection can perform and recite.

Here is one of the first earliest youth stories. We are in an old, serious
educated city children were given terms of roads, squares, taken from
walls, and subsequently also by ramparts, glacis and the adjacent
walled gardens. But once, or rather itself to the outside to lead our
parents had long ago with friends in the countryside continued an
increasingly moved lot's inception.

Urgent finally to the feasts of Pentecost was the invitation and proposal,
which is only under the condition that said: everything, in that one
night at home again could be because apart from his usual long bed
to sleep, seemed like an impossibility.

The pleasures of the day so closely to concentrate, it was admittedly
difficult: two friends should be visited and their claims to be
satisfied rare entertainment, however, hoped, with great punctuality
everything to fulfill. On the third day, with the earliest,
were all awake and ready, the car drove on certain hour, and soon we
had all of the restrictive roads, gates, moats and bridges behind
us, a free, weitausgebreitete world did before the Unerfahrnen on.

The rainy night by a refreshing green until the fruit fields and meadows,
the lighter, more or less just broken the bush - and tree buds, which
all sides are spreading dazzling white of the blossom tree, gave us all
the happier Vorschmack, paradisiacal hours. To the right time we arrived
at the first station in a tribute to priests. Kindly received, we could
soon be aware that repealed the religious celebration peace and
freedom-seeking minds was not found. I looked at the rural household
for the first time with a joyful part; plow and harrow, wagons and
carts suggested immediate use, even unfavorable view of the debris
seemed indispensable in all circles: he was carefully collected and
kept somewhat delicate.

But those on the new and yet understandable facing fresh look soon
became even tacked on an Edible: appetizing cakes, fresh milk and
some other rural delicacies of us was eager to be considered.

Urgent busy now the kids, the little garden and the arbor wirtliche
leaving in the pieces tree adjacent to perform a business, an old,
well-aunt had them applied. They should be key to so much as possible,
collect flowers and those with faithfully bring to the city by the matron
housekeeper did all sorts of healthy drink that was accustomed
to it. By this we are now in employment on lawns, and fences at edges
and resist ran out, joined Several children of the village to us, and
the lovely scent of collected spring flowers always seemed to be
refreshing and balsamic. We had now such a mass of stems and flowers
together, that we did not know where that man started now, the yellowish
Crowns auszuzupfen tube, because to them, it was actually just to do
any looking into his Hütchen, Mützchen be possible to collect. The elder
of these boys, however, little in years ahead before me, the son of the
fisherman, the latter not to Blumengetändel seemed happy, a boy, me
on his first appearance dressed particularly the same had invited me to
join him after the river to go to the already considerable wide,
in less distance vorbeifloß.

We put a couple of fishing rods to a shady spot, where in the deep,
calm clear water even some fish are moving back and forth. Freundlich,
he at me, what to do, like the bait on fishing to fix it, and it
succeeded to me several times in a row, the smallest of these
delicate creatures against their will into the air herauszuschnellen.

When we now sat together aneinandergelehnt calmed down, he seemed
bored and took me on a flat gravel aware of our side in the stream
ran into it.

As was the best opportunity to swim.

He could, he cried, jumping up at last, the temptation not to resist, and
before I versah's, he was down and out in the water. As he swam
very well, he soon left the shallow body, handed over to the stream,
and came up to me in the deeper water out, I was quite strange
feast has become.

Grashupfer danced around me, ant crawls up, colorful beetles hung on the
branches, golden sun and maidens, as he called it had floated and
fluctuated geisterhaft like my feet, just like that, a major cancer
among roots take out, showed him funny, make it straight back to
the old location to bevorstehendem Fange cleverly to hide.

It was around so warm and so moist, you longed from the sun into the
shade, out of the shadows cool down into colder water. Since it was easy
for him, me hinunterzulocken a not oft-repeated invitation was irresistible
and I was with some fear of the parents, including the fear of the
unknown elements joined in very strange movement.

But soon the gravel undressed, dare 'me gently into the water, but not
deeper than the soft-dependent ground allowed, where he let me dwell,
removed in the load-bearing elements, came again, and as he is,
preferably in up, the sun is higher abzutrocknen believes' my eyes
to a triple sun blinded: so beautiful was the human figure, which
I never had a notion.

It seemed to me with the same attention to be considered. Quick dressed,
we were still unconcealed against each other, our minds went to the fiery
and kisses, we swore an eternal friendship. Hurry hurry but then we
came home, just at the right time, when the company pleasant walk through
the bush and Forest around an hour and a half after the apartment
Amtmanns of replayability. My friend accompanied me, we have seemed
inseparable; hälftewegs but when I asked for permission, with him
in the Amtmanns to reside, the pastor refused it, with a silent
observation of the impropriety, but she gave him the urgent mission:
he should return his father to say yes, they need at their beautiful
Nachhausekunft necessary crabs find it to guests as a rarity for
the city want.

The boy retired, but promised to hand and mouth, tonight in this wood
area of my wait.

The company was now on Amthause, where we also antrafen a rural state,
but a higher art by guilt over working housewife is made late lunch I'm
not impatient, for the walk in a well-kept gardens, while the daughter,
a little younger than me, show me the way alongside anwies, I was
highly entertaining. Spring flowers of all kinds were drawn in
delicate areas, it expletive or their ornamental borders. My companion
was beautiful, blond, gentle, and we went together in confidence, soon
took us by the hand and seemed to wish nothing better. So we went over
beds of tulips, daffodils so Tiered Jonquilles and they showed me
different places where even the most splendid hyacinths bell had
already abgeblüht.

On the other hand, also for the following season ensured: the bushes
have green future Ranunkeln and anemones, and the numerous cloves
sticks used care promised the manifold Flor; closer knospete but
already the hope vielblumiger lily stalks did wisely distributed
among roses.

And as some Laube promised not initially with honeysuckle, jasmine,
tendril-like vines and plants to decry and shadow.

Be 'I, after so much years, then my state, it seems to me he really
enviable. Unexpectedly, in the same moment, I grabbed the presentiment
of friendship and love. As I reluctantly took leave from the beautiful
child, the thought comforted me, these feelings of my young friends
to open and to trust his participation at the same time with these
fresh sensations me to look.

And if I am still a consideration linked, so I probably should confess
that in the course of my life that first flowering of the outside world
as the true original nature happens, against all the rest of what
we later come to the senses, only copies seem to be used in all but
one closer to the original spirit and actually lack meaning.

How should we despair, the outer so cold, so lifeless to behold,
if not in our interior somewhat developed, based on an entirely
different manner, the nature glorified, by ourselves in it to enhance
a creative force turns.

It dawned already, as we again approached the wood area, where the young
friend I had promised to wait. I brought the vision possible in order
to explore his presence, as I was not able to, I eagerly ran to the
slow border society, ran through the bushes back and reflect.

I cried, I fear me, he was not seen and did not answer, I first felt a
passionate pain, and often twice. Already developed in me the exposure
of confidential inordinate affection, even it was a compelling need, my
spirit of the Images of blonde through chatting to rid my heart of the
feelings to redeem, which they had in me excited. It was full, the
mouth lispelte have to überzufließen I censured according to the
good boys injured because of friendship, because of neglected
promise.

But soon I should be assigned more severe tests. For the first houses
of the village women rushed out screaming, wailing children followed,
nobody gave Red 'and the response. From one side, around the corner we
saw a funeral procession wandering, he moved slowly towards the
long road and it seemed like a funeral, but manifold, and the wearing
of towing was not the end.

The screaming lasted continued, it increased, the amount of ran
together.

"They are drowning, all, all drowned! The! Who? What?" The mothers, their
children to be seen, seemed comforted. But a serious man came up and spoke
to the pastor: "Unfortunately, I stayed outside too long, drowning
is Adolf selbfünfe he wanted to keep his promise and mine."

The man, the fishermen themselves, it was, went on after the course, we
were shocked and frozen.

As a little boy came up, handed a bag that "Here the crabs, Mrs Pastor,"
and held the sign high in the amount . Man horrified protect themselves
from the harmful as you asked, we researched and learned so much: this
last was Little remained on the shore, he read the crabs on which they
zuwarfen him from below. But then after a great deal of questions and
contradictions questions we learned: Adolf contact with two boys was at
the bottom and the water went everywhere, two other, younger have joined
them uninvited, by Schelten no threat and had to hold. Now, over a
rocky, dangerous place almost beyond the first, last slides, access
to, and always pulled one another down, as happened most recently to
the forefront, and all plunged into the depths.

Adolf, a good swimmer, would have been saved, but everything was in fear
of him, he was pulled down. This Little was then ran screaming
into the village, with his bag crabs into their hands. In other hastened
called the random late returning fishermen there, we had gradually pulled
out, found dead, and now they had come. Pfarr The Man with the father
were of concern to the parish, the full moon had risen and illuminated
the paths of the death, I followed passionately, you wanted me in. I
was in terrible condition. I circumvented the house and rested not;
finally ersah my advantage and jumped into the open window.

In the great hall, where gatherings of all kinds are held, the tragedy
on straw Hosios, naked, stretched, shiny-white bodies, including
düsterm Lamp hervorleuchtend sham.

I threw myself to the world's largest, to my friend, I knew not
from my state to say, I wept bitterly, and his broad chest flooded
with endless tears.

I had heard something about rubbing that in such case should be helpful,
I rubbed my tears and I lied with the warmth that I caused.

In the confusion dacht 'ich einzublasen him breathing, but the rows
of pearl teeth were tightly closed, the lips, on which the Abschiedskuß
still seemed to rest, also denied the slightest sign of reply.

In terms of human Hülfe despairing, turned 'I pray, I prayed, I prayed,
it was as if I am in this moment would have done wonders, still
evoking inwohnende soul, still hovering near hineinzulocken again.

They tore me away, weeping, sat sobbing in the car and I hardly heard
what the parents say, our mother, which I afterwards repeated so
often heard, was in the will of God revealed.

However, I was asleep and woke verdüstert in the late morning in a
mysterious, confused states.

But when I went to breakfast, I found mother, aunt and cook in
important consultations.

The crabs should not be boiling, not on the table there; the father
wanted such a direct memory of the accident nächstvergangene not
endure. The aunt seemed to these rare creatures eager to want to conquer,
but scolded me on the side, the key that we failed to bring flowers,
but they seemed to calm down on this soon, when the lively confusion
creeping Mißgestalten her any available over what they their further
treatment with the concerted cook.

But the significance of this scene to make clear, I must by the nature
and essence of this woman reported the details: The properties,
of which she has mastered, one could, morally considered, no pride;
and yet they did, civic and political views, some good effects.

She was in the true sense geldgeizig, because it took them all bare
penny they get out of hand, there should be, and looked everywhere
for their needs, according to surrogates, which can free, by barter
or any way beischaffen could.

So were the keys to floral tea determined that it was healthier
than for some Chinese.

God had every country is necessary given that it was now for the food,
the seasoning, to Arzenei, you should not need to turn to foreign
countries.

So they are anxious in a small garden everything according to their
sense of doing the dishes tasty and health would be beneficial:
they visited any foreign garden, without the like because of you.

This attitude, and what followed it, one could admit her very happy,
because their hard cash collected to the family but eventually
should benefit, but also knew his father and mother to give her
quite herein and to be supportive.

Another passion, however, an activity which is unermüdet busy hervortat,
was the pride of a significant, influential person them. And they did
indeed deserve this fame and achieved, because the otherwise useless and
even harmful for women often obwaltenden Klatschereien knew they
apply to their own advantage.

Then here
the other mornin' I gets a long distance call. It's from Steele.

"Eh?" says I. "Where the blazes are you?"

"Tullington," says he.

"Oh!" says I. "Still there, are you? Found Pedders?"

"Ye-e-es," says he; "but I am completely at a loss to know what to do
for him. I say, McCabe, couldn't you run up here? It's a curious
situation, and I--well, I need your advice badly. Capulets. What a
Lermer is this? Give me my long sword, he! Lady Capulets.

Krüke A, a Krüke - what do you do with a sword? Capulets. My sword, I say,
here comes the old Montague, and wave to me with his blade under the
nose - (The Old Montague and Lady Montague.) Montague. Capulets You are
not worthy - I do not stop, let me go!

Lady Montague. You should not walk me to stir in order to find an
enemy. (The Prince of Verona with his entourage occurs, is enormously
angry about this nonsense, throwing the Old beyden before that
they their families because of enmity-Verona dreymal already in
turmoil gesezt, prohibits them Bey death Streamline the streets not
to worry, and occurs only after they divorced , again.)

Zweyte Scene.

(The old Montague, Lady Montague, Benvolio and stay back.)

Lady. Who was this old trade again on the move?

Talk, nephew, war't her dabey how he angieng? Benvolio. Here,
I found the opposite Theil your servant, and Eurig to deal with each
other herumschlugen, as I came, I brought them from each other: In the
nemlichen Augenblik came the fiery Tybalt with gezognem sword, which
he under threat challenges swung over my head, and thus on the winds
zuhieb, the least asked about his painting, that she even
auszischten.

As we were now at each other, it came more and more people and
challenged to beyden pages until the prince came to us and from
each other sezte.

Lady. O where is Romeo? Have you never seen him today? I am quite glad
that he does not Bey Schlägerey this was.

Benvolio. Madam, an hour anyway the sun * aufgieng, drove me a troubled
Gemüth up, and before the city going, and because I met on the west
side of the City euern son under a lonely course of Egypt and fig trees.
I went up to him, but he was hardly aware of me, so he slipped into the
dense woods. I urtheilte from his Gemüths-state after the mine,
(because we are inwardly never more jobs than when we are looking
for solitude,) and instead of pursuing him, my thoughts went to, and
was so pleased that he had evaded me, as he himself -* (ed in the
original: "Eh, the beloved sun through the golden window of the
East had seen."

It is not easy, as a allzuwörtliche Übersezung the Shakespear
ridiculous to make, as the Lord of Voltaire recently with a Scene
from Hamlet made a sample, due to which we place a little closer
to investigate.

Seems Pedders had been one of the
leadin' citizens,--cashier of the bank, pillar of the church, member of
the town council, and all that,--with a wife who was a social fav'rite,
and a girl that promised to be a beauty when she grew up. Certainly
there is not mißzudeutende, tonmalende expressions - (they have the
initiative to the whole principle given) - but they are few and small
funds, which are a very small part of total music.

The wahrnehmbarste of them, the humiliation of the sound to sound,
in imitation of natural sounds: the roll of thunder, the noise of
the trees and the animal sounds, and even less noticeable, symbolically,
the sense taken from the facial reconstructions, such as flashes lights,
anchor movements, bird flight; only by transfer of the reflective
brain understandable: the bugle call as warlike symbol, the sign
Shawm as rural, the pace in the importance of the screams of the
chorale as a bearer of religious feeling.

We are still counting the Nationalcharakteristische - National Instruments,
National practices - to the previous, so we have the armory of the Music
Program exhaustive visited. Motion and rest, minor and major, high
and low [6] in its conventional meaning complete the inventory. These are
good usable tools in addition to a large frame, but neither alone,
is musical, as wax figures are monuments to name. [6] later comparisons
the rates on the "depth". * * * * * And finally, what can the
presentation of a small operation on earth, the report of a pesky
neighbor - whether in the adjacent room or in adjacent parts of the
world - with that music, moves through space, have in common?

* * * * * Well, it is the music of the human mind to swing states: fear
(Leporello), anxiety, strengthening, fatigue (Beethoven's last quartets),
resolution (Wotan), hesitation, depression, encouragement, hardness,
softness, excitement, reassurance, the Surprising the full expectation
and more, as the inner contradictions of external sound events, in
those moods of mind is included.

But not the soul reason that emotions themselves: not the joy on a
risk eliminated, not the danger or the nature of the threat, which
causes anxiety, may well have a passion for state, but again not the
genus of this mental passion, whether envy or jealousy, as vain It is
moral qualities, vanity, and wisdom, in tones implement, or even
abstract concepts like truth and justice, they want to pronounce. Could
you think how a poor but contented man would play in music? The satisfaction,
the emotional part that can be about music, but where is the poverty,
the ethical problem that is important here was poor, but happy. This is
that "poor" is a form of earthly and social conditions, which in the
eternal harmony is not to be found.

Music is but one part of the oscillating universe. * * * * * The majority
of recent theatrical music suffers from the error that it processes, based
on the stage play, wants to repeat, rather than their actual task
to consider the mental state of persons acting during those processes
to bear. If the illusion of the stage of a thunderstorm pretending,
so this event through the eye perceived exhaustive. Almost all composers
endeavor, however, the thunderstorm in tones to describe what is
not only a weak and unnecessary repetition, but also a failure of its
task.

The person on the stage, either by the storm affected psychologically,
or her mind dwells a result of thought, the more it is entitled to
persist. The storm is visible and audible without the aid of music,
but in the soul of the people during this, the Invisible and Inaudible,
which aims to understand the music.

Again, there are "visible" soul states on the stage, around which
the music does not to look after themselves.

Let the theatrical situation [7] that a fun night singing away society
and the eye disappears, however, in front of a silent, bitter duel
ausgefochten will. Here is the music to the eye no longer attainable
by the jovial company continue singing must currently hold, what the
two front drive and feel, without any further explanation recognizable,
and the music may dramatically speaking, do not get involved, the
tragic silence not break. [7] from Offenbach's "_Les contes d'Hoffmann_".
For justifiable reasons, I believe that the mode of the old opera, which
by a dramatic and moving scene gained mood pieces in a closed work and
was unable (aria). - Words and gestures mediated the dramatic
course of action by the music more or less poor recitative followed,
in the resting stage, took the music of the headquarters again.

That is less outwardly, than anyone now believe. Once again, it was
stiff but the shape of the "Aria" itself, leading to the falsity of
the expression and led to forfeiture.

Always, the words sung on stage a convention and remain an obstacle to
any real effect: it conflicts with decency appears to indicate is an
act in which people singing act from the outset on the unbelievable,
untrue, to be improbable, that an impossibility and endorse the
other so both are possible and acceptable. * * * * * For this reason,
and because he from the outset of this most important principle is
ignored, I see the so-called Italian Verism for the musical stage
as untenable on. * * * * * When asked about the future of opera,
it is necessary to clarify this other than to win, "Which moments
music is essential on the stage?

"The precise answer this inquiry:" At dances, marches on, with songs
and - for the occurrence of the supernatural in the plot.

"There is therefore a possibility of coming into the idea of the
supernatural substance .

And another: in the absolute "game" of entertaining paneling and bustle,
the stage as a blatant and hip displacement, in the idea of a joke
and contrasts of unreality as the Serious and truthfulness of life.

Then it is on the right places, that the people affirm their love
for singing and unload their hatred, and that they are melodic in
a duel, where it is pathetic explosions on high tones Fermat endure,
it is then at the right places, that they are deliberately different
sign as in life, rather than that they (as in our theaters and in
opera especially) unintentionally do everything wrong.

There should be the opera of the supernatural or unnatural, as the
only chance, of course, their region of the apparitions and the feelings,
and to conquer such a false world that make life either in a magic
mirror or a Lachspiegel reflects the awareness that wants what is
in real life is not to be found.

The magic mirror for the serious opera, the Lachspiegel for cheerful.
And let mask dance and play and be woven with haunting, that of the viewers
of the charming lie on each step and not remain aware of their
surrender as an experience. * * * * * Just as the artist,
where he should move, not stirred itself may be - is it not the
dominion of its funds in the given moments lose - so the viewer can
also, he wants the theatrical effect of cost, this never actually
see, is not for the artistic enjoyment of reducing human participation.

The Actors' games' - he is not experiencing. The audience remained
unbelievers and thus freely within the receiving and intellectual
taste. * * * * * Based on such conditions, it could be a future for the
opera very well be expected. But the first and biggest obstacle, I am
afraid we will prepare the audience itself. It is, as I seem, in view
of the theater quite criminally liable, and one can assume that
most of the stage a powerful human experience therefore probably
require because such an average, their livelihoods are missing, and
probably also because of their courage to such conflicts off,
according to what their desire is required.

And the stage is donating them these conflicts, without the accompanying
dangers and terrible consequences, unkompromittierend, and above
all: unanstrengend.

Because the audience knows and does not like it do not know that
in order to receive a work of art, the work on the same half of the
recipients must be performed. * * * * * The talk in the music comes
from those free heights from which herabstieg the music itself.

Where it threatens to become mundane, he has to lift her and her original
"floating" state as possible. The notation to write down music is
first a makeshift ingenious, an improvisation recorded in order
to re-purchase it.

Those behaving like this but at the portrait of a living model.

The Speaker has the rigidity of the signs back up and get moving. - The
legislature, however, require that the speaker the rigidity of the
characters reflect, and consider playing for the more perfect, the
more they stick to the character holds.

What Tonsetzer the necessity of its inspiration from the characters lose
[8], that should end the talk by its own again. [8] How much the notation
in the style of music influenced captivates the imagination, as her
"shape" is formed and the shape of "conventionalism" of the expression
arose that shows quite forcefully, to avenge the tragic manner in E.

T. A. Hoffmann, who sent me here as a typical example of. This strange man
brain ideas that are in The Dream lost and reveled in the transcendent,
as in his writings often show an inimitable way, would have - so
one would infer - in itself magical and transcendental art of tones
only in the appropriate language and effect here.

The veil of mysticism, the inner blades of nature, the showers of
the supernatural, the indeterminacy of the dim schlafwachenden
images - everything with the precise word is so clearly portrayed
that he would have - you should think about - the music only fully
alive erstehen leave.

See on the other hand, Hoffmann's best musical work with the weakest of
his literary productions, and you will perceive with sorrow, like an
accepted system of stroke types, periods and scales - to the opera or
the popular style of the time doing his own - from a poet Philistines
could. - As another ideal of his music in mind, we learn from many
excellent comments, and often the writer himself from them includes the
thinking of the following most closely this booklet are: "Well!
always continue and continue pushing the prevailing spirit world, never
return the missing characters, as reflected in the lust of life
moving again, but eternal, imperishable, the true, and a wonderful
community spirit nestles her mysterious band of the past, present
and future.

Still living mentally old high master, not verklungen their songs:
not only were heard in the roaring, thundering sound of exuberant
wild goings, which fall on us.

Maybe the time of the fulfillment of our hope not be far off, like a pious
life in peace and joyousness and start the music freely and vigorously
stimulate its Seraphschwingen to fresh air on the other side to
start their home is and what consolation and salvation in the full
balance of the human breast hinabstrahlt.

"(E. T. A. Hoffmann," The Serapionsbrüder. ") The legislators are
the characters themselves the most important, they will give them more
and more, the new music is from the old characters derived - they are
now the music itself Läge are now in the power of the legislature,
it should be one and the same Tonstück always in the same tempo
tone, whenever, by whom and under what conditions it would be played.

It = = is not possible to estimate the floating expansive nature of the
divine child is opposed to it urges the opposite. Each day begins
differently than the previous, and yet always with a Dawn. - Great
artists playing their own works always different, making it in
order moments, accelerate and hold back - as they did not sign were
able to implement - and always under the given conditions of the
"eternal harmony."

Since the legislature unwilling and refers to the Creator on his own
characters. Just as it stands today, the legislature retains right. *
* * * * "Notation" ( "Skription") brings me to transcription: currently
a fairly misunderstood, almost disgraceful term. The frequent opposition,
which I do with "transcripts" excited, and the opposition, often
unreasonable criticism provoked in me, led me to attempt to clarify
this point to win. What I finally think about is this: Each notation
is transcription of an abstract idea. With the moment, since the spring
of his usurps, the idea loses its original shape.

The intention of the idea down, caused even the choice of time signature
and key signature. Shape and sound resources for which the composer
must decide, to determine more and more the way and the borders. It's
like with humans.

Nude and still undetermined Tendencies born, he decides that he
will or in a given time to resolve driven to choose a career.

Maybe even from invasion by man or some originals, which is
indestructible, continue to exist: they are but by the moment of
resolve on the type of a class herabgedrückt.

The invasion will lead to a sonata or a concert, the man on the
soldiers or priests.

This is an arrangement of the original. From this first to a second
step of transcription is relatively short and unimportant.

But in general, only the second of fuss made.

They have seen that a transcription the original version is not destroyed,
so that a loss by those not arise. - Even the presentation of a
work is a transcription, and this can be - he might still be free
to sign - not the original from the world. - Because the musical
work of art is, before and after it sounds vorübergeklungen, whole
and intact since.

It is both in and out of time, and its essence is to make us a
tangible idea of the otherwise intangible concept of Idealität time
can give.

For the rest, seem most of Beethoven's piano compositions, such as
transcriptions of the orchestra, most of Schumann's orchestral
works such as Transfers from the piano - and are in some ways too.
* * * * * Strangely stands for the "Faithful letters" the great
variation in shape reputation.

That is strange, because the variation form - if they have a strange issue
which is - a whole series of operations there, and so respectful
loose, ever witty nature.

Thus, the editing, because it modifies the original and it applies the
change, although the original edit. [9] [9] An introduction by the
author at a Berlin concert of November 1910 included, inter alia,
the following sentences: "To the essence of the 'processing' with
a decisive blow in the estimate of the reader to artistic dignity
to increase, we need only mention of Johann Sebastian Bach.

He was one of the most prolific processor of its own and foreign
pieces, including as an organist.

From him I learned the truth recognize that a good, big, music is a
universal music remains the same, by what means it also sounds like.
But the other truth: that a diverse variety of resources - their own -
have language in of the same content in ever announce new
interpretation. "-" It can not create man, just to process what it
finds on its soil. "Consider, moreover, that any notion of an opera
at the theater, partly by intention and partly by the coincidence
that so many elements involved into it contributed to a processing
and will be.

I have never witnessed from the stage of a Mozart's "Don Giovanni," which
would have balanced the other. The director seems to be - as with the
"Magic Flute" - his ambition is to find the scenes (and within the
operations of the scenes) again and again to convert and vary.
Also I heard (unfortunately) not that the criticism against the
translation of Don Giovanni into English would be resisted, even
though a translation at all (in this masterpiece of Zusammengusses
of text and music, especially now) as one of the most worrying is
working out. * * * * * "Musical" is a term that belongs to the
Germans, and the use of the word itself can be found in this transfer
does not in any sense other language.

It is a concept that belongs to the Germans and not the general
culture, and his name is wrong and untranslatable.

"Musically," is derived from music, like "poetic" of poetry and
"physically" by physics.

When I say that Schubert was one of the most musical people, this is the
same as if I said: Helmholtz was one of the physical. The music is: what
in rhythms and sounds intervals.

A cabinet can "musically", when he was a "match factory" contains.
[10] In the comparative sense, "musical" in a somewhat well-worded mean.
[10] The only kind of people you should call musically, would be
the singer, because they can hear themselves.

In the same way could be a clown, a trick by the sounds of itself, when
it touched a musical after man-made hot. "My verses are too musically,
than that they are still set to music could be said to me once a
well-known Poet. "_Spirits moving musically lutes To a well-tuned
law_" ( "ghost floated to the musical sounds wohlgestimmtem
sentence") writes E.

A. Poe, finally one speaks quite rightly of a "musical laugh," because
it sounds like music.

In applied and used almost exclusively German role is a musical
such a man, the resulting sense of music expresses that he is the
Technical probably distinguishes this art and feel.

Sub technical here again I understand the rhythm, harmony, intonation,
vocal leadership and the subject.

The more subtleties he is to hear or play goes for so musical he is held.
The great weight that is on those elements of the music sets, is
obviously the "Musical" has become of paramount importance. - The
discussions should an artist who is technically perfect playing,
for the most musical players apply, but because "technology" only
the mechanical mastery of the instrument says, you "technically"
and "musical" to counter-made phrases.

It is gone so far as a piece of music itself as a "musical" to describe
[11], or even from a great composer like Berlioz to say he would
not be sufficient.

"Unmusical" is the strongest rebuke, he identifies the stakeholders and
thus makes it the outlaw. [11] "These compositions are so musically,"
said to me once a violinist from a plant's four, which I found to
be insignificant.

In a country such as Italy, where the sense of musical delights
general, this distinction is superfluous, and the word is in the
language does not exist.

In France, where the sensation of music not the people living there are
musicians and non musicians.

Of the few remaining "_aiment beaucoup la musique_," or "_ils ne
l'aiment pas_". Only in Germany make a point of honor that, "music"
to be, not only love of music to feel, but mainly in its technical
means of expression and to understand its laws.

Thousands of hands holding the child floating and guard his wohlmeinend
steps that it is not so auffliege and before a serious case of
preserved remains.

But there is still so young and is eternal, and the freedom of his
time will come.

If it will stop, "musical" to be. * * * * * Is a moral sense of honor -
as it is the honesty - a quality that no one can deny - the life
is like in the art.

But if loss of life in favor of a brilliant character property -
such as bravery, incorruptibility - nor forgiven, in the art, it
is as the supreme moral quality.

Sense (in music) calls but two companions: taste and style. Now you
meet rarely in life just to taste like deep and true feeling, and
what the style is concerned, he is artistic territory.

What remains is a sense of feeling, with the maudlin and Geschwollenheit
must be described. And above all it requires its clear visibility! It
must be emphasized, that any notice, see and hear.

It is before the eyes of the audience in high magnification on the
screen is configured so that it is intrusive and blurry in the eyes
dancing, it is ausgeschrien that those who fernstehen art, into the
ears invade; übergoldet, that the snatch Unbemittelten amazement.

Even in life the more you exercise utterances of emotion in faces
and words, and rare is the real feeling, which is not to talk about
most valuable and a feeling that is hidden.

Among feeling is commonly : tenderness, and poignancy of the exuberant
expression. What does not everything in the flower of the sensation
of wonder!

restraint and conservation, sacrifice, strength, work, patience,
generosity, and the joyousness allwaltende intelligence, a sense
of what really comes from.

Not else in the art, which reflects the life, still pronounced in
the music, which the sensations of life again: but what - as I
said - the flavor will be added and the style, the style, the art
of life is different.

What the layman, the mediokere struggling artist, is just the feeling
in the small, in detail, at short distances. in the great feeling
confused layman, Halbkünstler, audience (and, unfortunately, the
criticism!)

with lack of sensation, because they are not all assets greater distances
as part of a larger whole to hear. So economy is feeling well.
Accordingly, I distinguish: a taste sensation - as a style - as
the economy.

Each a whole and for each third of the whole.

In them and manages them on a subjective trinity: the temperament,
intelligence and the instinct of balance. These six introduce a
range of so-subtle arrangement of the mating and the swallow, and the
wearing of worn, the forward and Niederbückens, moving and stand still,
as no fuller erdenkbar art. If the chord of the two triads purely tuned,
you may to be feeling is compounded by the imagination: On Having
those six, it will not degenerate, and from the clubs of all elements
ersteht personality.

Those receiving such a lens the light impressions, throws them on
their way back as negative, and the listener is the correct picture.

And
there's Pimple Face doin' a back flip that ain't in his repertoire at
all.

Course that spilled the beans. There was squeals, and shrieks, and a
gen'ral mixup; some tryin' to get closer, others beatin' it to get away,
and all the makin's of a young riot. But the management at the Maison
Maxixe don't stand for any rough stuff. In less than a minute a bunch of
house detectives was on the spot, the young hesitationer was whisked
into a cloakroom, and the other gent was bein' shot towards the fresh
air.

Just a glimpse that I caught of his flushed face as it was bein' tucked
under a bouncer's arm set me in action. I made a break for a side exit;
but there's such a jam everywhere that it's two or three minutes before
I can get around to the front.

And there's young Hollister, with an end of his dress collar draped
jaunty over his right ear, tryin' to kick the belt buckle off a
two-hundred-pound cop who's holdin' him at arm's length with one hand
and rappin' his nightstick for help with the other; while Uncle Noah
stands one side, starin' some disturbed at the spectacle. I knew that
was no time to butt in!

In that section of the White Light district too you can call up plenty
of help by a few taps from the locust. Cops came on the jump from two
adjoinin' posts,--big husky Broadway cops,--and they swoops down on
young Robin like a bunch of Rockefeller deacons on a Ferrer school
graduate who rises in prayer meetin' to ask the latest news from Paint
Creek.

"What you got, Jim?" puffs one.

"Young hick that got messy in the tango joint," says Jim.

"Ah, fan him a few!" remarks the other. "Hold him still now while I----"

At which Uncle Noah pushes in and holds up a protestin' hand. "Now see
heah, Mistuh Constable," says he, "I wouldn't go for to do anything like
that!"

"Wha-a-at?" snarls the copper. "Say, you old billy-goat, beat it!" And
he proceeds to clip young Mr. you manage what is legally his, do you
want to link to the most necessary of our chain. I put the tablets in
a final, giving the heart of our mobile communications will
recognize.

You can find it in mind to where you at any time of the year to
send your letters have love, we see through safe's messengers, which
you enough in several places are indicated. Also see remarks by
signs where you have one or the other have kept ours. Between speech
but here we find ourselves in the case, the reader and take a break
from announcing a few years, so we like to, it would be with the
typographical device been linked, at this point a volume had been
completed. But surely even the space between the two chapters meet to
discuss the measure of imaginary time pinch, because we are accustomed
to long, between the fall and rising of the curtain in our personal
presence similar happen. We have in this second book the conditions of
our old friends, and significantly increase both won fresh acquaintances,
and the prospects are such that is to be hoped that there would be anyone
and everyone, if they are in life to be found to know very Desired
advised.

So we expect, first of all, one after the other, the interdependence and
entwindend on gebahnten and ungebahnten paths again.

Eighth chapter of our search we for some time to themselves to be friends
again, so we find him as he from the flat country forth in the pedagogical
province enters into it.

He comes through the meadows and pastures, on dry Anger overcomes
some small lake, sees more than bebuschte forested hills, everywhere
free circumspection over a little ground moving.

On such paths him not long remained doubtful, he was in the region
pferdenährenden, also saw it here and there small and large herds
of this noble beast, different gender and age.

All at once, but covered the horizon with a terrible cloud of dust,
which, hastily getting closer and closer swelling, all width of the area
completely covered, but finally, by fresh side wind reveals their inner
turmoil is forced to reveal.

In full gallop plunges a large mass such noble animals out, they are
guided by rangers mounted and held together.

The Wanderer explodes over the enormous crowd, a beautiful boy in the
accompanying guardians looks at him puzzled, pariert, jumping and hugging
his father. Now we have a questions and telling, the son reported
that he had in the first test time is much ausgestanden, missed his
horse and on fields and meadows to the foot herumgetrieben, since
it is also because of the calm, slow country life, as he protested
ahead, not turned, the harvest had him quite well, the Order
hintendrein, plowing, Wait no ditch and fell, with the necessary
and useful domestic animals, although he had, but always casually
employed and unhappy, until he finally riding on the buoyant been
promoted.

The business, the mares and foals to be careful, sometimes it is boring
enough, however, if you have a muntres animalcule look ahead, maybe one
in three or four years davontrüge funny, so be it but a very
different nature than that of calves and piglets must, whose life
purpose dahinaus go, well fed and taken away to be angefettet.

With the growth of the boys who really heranstreckte the lad,
his healthy attitude, a certain freedom, not to say witty
conversations, the father probably satisfied.

Both followed the hurry now riding herd rushed in solitary large farms
over to the town or village where the big market festival was held. They
dug an incredible turmoil confused, and you knew not to be distinguished,
whether good or dust buyers more excited. From all lands meet purchase
Lustige together to creatures more noble origin, careful breeding
is zuzueignen.

All languages of the world you think you hear. In between the lively
sounds effective wind noise, and all signs of movement, strength
and life.

Our walkers now take the previous, already known Wardens again, stalwart
companion to other men who quietly and almost unnoticed breeding
and order to get to know.

Wilhelm, here again an example of exclusive employment and, as it appears
in all latitude, limited life management believes should be noted,
wants to know what the pupils else to exercise care to prevent that so
wild and somewhat raw Employment , animals, nourishing and parents,
the young man not even to animals verwildere.

And because he was so very nice to hear that even with this seemingly
violent and rough determination of the tenderest of the world is
linked: language training and language training.

At the moment the father of the missing son at his side, he saw it between
the gaps of quantity with a young Tabulettkrämer over trifles act
diligently and haggle.

In a short time he saw him no more. When the supervisor after the cause
of some embarrassment and distraction on the other hand, heard and
asked that it applies to the son: "Let it," he said to calm the
father, "he is unverloren, so you will see how we ours together,
"he met with violence in a Pfeifchen, which hung at his breast, at
the moment it is answered by the dozen all sides.

The man continued: "Now let me move it, it's just a sign that the
supervisor is nearby and wants to know about how much he heard.
On a second sign, they are still, however, are preparing to the
third answer, and they rush of guilt.

Incidentally, these signs on a variety of ways even reproduced and of
particular benefit. "At once had about them a freer space formed, you
could free talk by one of the neighboring heights walked.

"One of those voice exercises," the sensation continued, "We were
determined that all the world, young men are here.

To now to prevent that, not, as the stranger happened to cultivates the
land and unite people, by the other nations isolated parties, so
we are looking through free voice messages to each other to approach.

At the most necessary but language is a general practice, because this
celebration Markte any stranger in his own sounds and expressions enough
entertainment, the haggling and Markten but happy to find all the
convenience mag. But no Babylonian confusion, corruption does not arise,
then the year on monthly basis only one language is spoken in
general, according to the principle that you do not learn outside
of the element, which should be defeated.

We see our students, "said supervisor, "all as a swimmer, which with
elements of surprise in that it threatens to swallow more easily
feel it is lifted and supported, and it is with all that which the
man unterfängt. but one of the displays to Ours this or that
particular language inclination, it is also in the midst of this
seemingly tumultvoll of life, which also very much a quiet, lonely,
pointless, boring hours so provides, for faithful and thorough
instruction provided.

You would our grammarians horseback, in what some pedant are from
this bearded and unbärtigen Centaur probably difficult to find.

Euer Felix has become the Italian states and because, as you already
know, melodic voice with our institutions be upheld by all, then
you should it in the boredom of life, even some rangers song petite
listen and talk feelingly. life and work efficiency is far auslangendem
teaching compatible than you think.

"Since every region celebrates its own festival, so we introduced
the guest to the district of instrumental music.

This, at the adjacent level, friendly and even showed slight alternation
of valleys, small slim forests, gentle streams, to their side here and
there a mossy rock hervortrat. Scattered dwellings umbuschte you saw on
the hills, in soft grounds urged the houses closer together. Those
graceful isolated huts were so far apart that neither sound nor
Mißtöne mutually achieved.

They then approached a large, round tags and umschatteten rooms,
where men man pushed with great attention and expectation seemed
tense.

Just as the guest approached, became a powerful symphony of all the
instruments listed their full strength and tenderness, he had to
admire.

The spacious built orchestra faced a minor, to which special
consideration was the occasion, were on the same younger and older
students, each held his instrument ready to play without it were
those who still could not or dared not, with the whole to grasp.

With share remarked, as though they were on the jumps, and heard
praise: such a feast was seldom passed without one or the other talent
suddenly develop.

Because now singing between the instruments are hervortat could no
doubt remain that this will benefit.

On a question then, what else else for an education-friendly
subscribe here, heard of the wanderer: the poetry is there, from the
lyrical side.

This brings everything necessary to ensure that both arts, each for
himself and for himself, but then against - and each other will
be developed.

The students learn a how others in their familiar conditionedness is
then taught how to alternately interdependent and mutually liberate back
then. The poetic rhythm, the beat Tonkünstler division and beat opposing
the movement.

Here is the rule, but soon the music of the poetry, because if this,
as cheap and necessary, their quantities always so pure as possible
in the sense, so are the musicians decided little syllables long
or short; wish this destroys the scrupulous methods of rhythm, yes
prose turns even in singing, where the amazing possibilities emerge,
and the poet would feel even destroyed soon, he knew not of his
side by lyrical tenderness and boldness the musician reverence
einzuflößen and new feelings, soon in ester gently follow soon
through the fastest crossings, evoking.

The singer, you will find here are mostly poets themselves. The dance
is in its broad lines taught, so that all these skills across all regions
regularly spread. When the guest on the next frontier led, he saw
suddenly a very different type. No longer were the scattered houses,
no more cottage-like, they were much more regular, comfortable and
graceful from the inside, it was here a unbeengten, wohlgebauten, the
area aware fair city.

Here are the fine arts and crafts related to it at home, and a very
special silence reigns over these spaces. The artist always thinks
in terms of everything that lives among the people and weaves, but his
business is lonely, and by Opposition calls for the strangest,
perhaps no other living environment so decided.

Here is everyone in the breast-feeding, what ever soon the eyes of the
people to be employed, a holiday rest managed on the whole place, and if
you had not here and there that pecking the stone or measured
strokes of the room to hear people who were just busy busy, A
magnificent building to complete, so the air would be no moves have
been sound. our hiker fell on the seriousness, the great severity
with which both beginners and Progressive have been treated, it
seemed as if none of shareholder power, and violence has made little,
but as a secret mind if they all picked through and through, after
a single large hinleitend goals.

Nowhere saw you design and sketch, each line was carefully drawn, and
when the walkers from the driver's an explanation of the whole
procedure requested, said this: the imagination is a vague anyway, unstätes
assets, while the earnings of the entire visual artist is confusion,
that he more and more determined to hold, indeed finally to the present
increase learning. It reminded us of the necessity of safe principles in
other arts.

"Dignity of a student musicians vergönnen, wildly on the strings or even
herumzugreifen intervals after own desire and wish to invent here is
striking that none of the arbitrariness of the learner to leave it,
the element, in which he should act, it is decided to , the tool
that he has to handle is eingehändigt him, even the way he is its
use should I change my finger, he prescribed, so a link to another
out of the way and go to his successor the right ready way, by what
statutory interaction alone because as the impossible becomes
possible.

As far as we are but too strict demands, decided to laws the most
entitled, is that precisely the genius, the inborn talent she sees
on the first, they provide the willing obedience.

Only the Halbvermögen would like its limited specificity to replace
the unconditional whole and to bring his false attacks, under a
pretext unbezwinglichen originality and independence euphemistically.

It can, however, we do not apply, but beware of our students from all
Mißtritten, thus forming a large part of life, sometimes the whole
life is confused and zerpflückt. The genius, we prefer to do, because
this is precisely the spirit of the good soul, and soon to tell what
it is useful.

It understands that art is about art hot because it is not natural. bequemt
It is to respect, even before what one might call conventional: what
is this different than the finest people agreed was necessary, which
is essential for keeping the best, and served it is not anywhere to
happiness? To great relief for the teachers are also here, as everywhere
in our country, the three characters and their reverence with some
modification, the nature of the business under obwaltenden introduced
and minds. " The walkers also umhergeleiteten had been put in astonishment
that the city is always to expand road from street seemed to develop,
provide diverse views. The exterior of the building said their unambiguous
determination, they were dignified and stately, less splendid than
beautiful.

The edlern and serious in the middle of the city joined the Fair go
on until last dainty graceful style suburbs against the field itself,
and finally as you buy a new garden apartments scattered. The wanderer
could not refrain from here to note that the homes of the musicians
in the previous no region of beauty and space to compare the present
were the painters, sculptors and architects inhabit.

They replied to him that this is in the nature of things.

The musician must always itself be swept his innermost train to make it
to the outside contact. "The meaning of the eye, he has not to flatter.
The eye even slightly favors the ear and tempts the mind from the
inside out.

Conversely, the visual artists in the outside world and its affairs,
and almost unconsciously memorized in the manifest.

Visual Artist need to live like kings and gods, as they wanted to
because otherwise for kings and gods build and decorate?

you have to be so over the last common charge that the whole community
of people and their works are refined feel.

"Then our friend had a another paradox explain why in this festive,
other regions so invigorating, tumultuarisch excited the greatest
days of calm prevails, and the work will not be suspended?

"A visual artist, said," is no need for a celebration, it is open all year
a festival. If he has done something excellent, it is still his
eye against the eye of the world.

Since there is no need for repetition, no new effort, neither fresh
success, followed by the musicians constantly abplagt which therefore
splendide festival within the full circle is to treat. "" One should,
however, "returned Wilhelm," in these days of an exhibition of the
airport, where the three-year progress of the Brave pupils with
pleasure detained and would be assessed. "" In other places "we
returned," an exhibition that may require, with us it is not.

Our whole being is His and exhibition. Here you can see the buildings
of all types, all listed by pupils, admittedly after a hundred and
thoughtful Rissen discussed: because Completion of herumtasten and
should not try, what is left, you must legally and, if not for
eternity, but for some time indicated.

Maybe it always mistakes, we can not build.

With sculptors do we have reliable, most reliable with painters, it may
try this and that, both in its kind you are free to the inside,
to express areas of the buildings, squares, a place to choose who
they want to decorate.

They make their ideas known, and if he is somewhat approve, the execution
is warranted, and in two ways, either with relief, sooner or later
take away the work to be where they are artists themselves mißfiele,
or condition that was once carved Situated at the locations leave.

Most of the first election and retain those permits, while
they are always the best advice.

The second case occurs seltner, and we noticed then that the artists
are less confident, with journeymen and connoisseurs hold long
conferences and thus really appreciate good long decent work that
are more robust to know.

"After all this failed Wilhelm not to inquire what other lessons might
otherwise still connect, and you confessed to him that it is the
poetry, and the epic was.

But it was the Friends seem odd, when added, it will not enjoy the students,
already out of older and newer poems poets to read or present are
offered only a series of myths, traditions and legends laconically
stated.

Now you can see even soon to picturesque or poetic execution of
one's own productive one or the other art dedicated talent.

Poets and educators, to employ both a source and everyone is looking
for the water after his side to his advantage hinzulenken to own
purposes as necessary to achieve what it succeeds much better than
if it was already processed to make over again.

The Travelers even had the opportunity to see how that was experiencing.
Several painters were busy in a room, a better mood in young friend
told in great detail a very simple story, so that almost as many
words as those applied brush strokes, his presentation also round
up complete.

They assured that the collaborations friends even gracefully entertained
and that in this way often improvisers gates developed, what great
enthusiasm for the presentation to excite zwiefache knew.

The friend now turned his inquiries to the fine arts back. "You have," he
said, "no issue, so also probably no price task?"

- "Not really," returned to that, "but very close, we can let you see
what we hold valuable."

They stepped into a large, top-lit hall happy, a long-time artist circle
appeared first, from the middle of a colossal group conveniently
positioned raised.

Male and female figures in power positions violent reminded of that wonderful
battle between heroes and Amazons youths, where hatred and hostility,
as in mutually confidential advice dissolves.

This curiously intricate artwork was from any point around the same
favorable view.

In a wide range sat and were visual artists, each according to his way to
work: the painter at his easel, the artist at the drawing board, some
modeled around, collected some flat indeed designed to support builders,
what will such a work of art should be .

Each participant proceeded according to its way of reproduction, a
painter and draftsman developed the group to the area, but carefully,
not to destroy, but as much as possible.

Similarly, the flacherhobenen work. Only one had the whole group on a
smaller scale again, and he seemed really into the model movements
and certain elements relating to have surpassed.

Now revealed that this was the master of the model, the same before
the execution in marble here a non-assessed, but practical test and
subjected to everything that each of its employees by owners
thinking that way and seen, maintained or changed, just watching
for further benefit through to apply suitable knew, so that finally,
when the high level of work in marble is worked off, although only
one made, created and executed, but all may seem to belong.

No wonder she choked up over it.

"If I thought you were just guying me," says she, "I--I'd----"

"Here's a cable blank," says I. "Frame up your call to the Baron while I
state the case to Mr. Steele."

He couldn't see it at all, J. Bayard couldn't. "What!" says he. "Waste
all that money on such a wretch! Why, the woman is unworthy of even the
most----"

"What's that got to do with it?" says I. "Pyramid didn't put that in the
bill of partic'lars, did he? Maybe he had doubts about himself. And how
would we qualify? How would you? Come, what's your battin' average,
Steele, in the worthy league?"

J. Bayard squirms a little at that, and then hunches his shoulders.
Striking thrust of this comfortable house of the old clothes a modern,
tight fitting dress and wide leg fold clothes from rich, they
showed that in spite of Mr. director of the sixty of years, he have
liked, but for the vanity of the world is not dead and that, at the
feet he wore wide USUAL Pelzschuhe in which he artificially herumfuhr
in the room without lifting your legs, the stranger came before it,
as leaving it on skates.

"If I have already been displayed, the highest of all desire," said
the director, him as the Count with your purpose of their visit
was known, "already knows the thing, to me it should not be missed,
my sole purpose is the highest of all the ears delight delektieren
way, but - but I will because it submissest dare have some arguments
to exhibieren. "" How?

you do not want to give this opera? " Graf called the "God will protect
me, that would be an open-air assassination attempt on the highest of all
the family!

No, no, when my word in case something is, is this unfortunate piece had
never existed." "Had I never thought" said the Count, "that a man like
you would Pöbelwahn uneasy.

With amazement and surprise I've heard in my earliest youth in distant
lands celebrated your behalf, you were the crown of the singers called
craving before I burned the man once to see. I ask that you reduce
this venerable image, but not by such a joke.

"The old man seemed to feel flattered, a graceful smile moved over his
weathered features, he put his hands in the pockets and went to his
room several times Pelzschuhen on and down.

"Allzugütig, too much honor!" he cried, "so we were a bit of our
time, we were a capable tenor! now it certainly has an end. Aberglaube
you choose to say, I would be ashamed of, any superstition
nachzuhängen, but where the facts are, of superstition can not his
speech.

"facts?" cried the friends with one voice.

"Oh, yes, dear Messieurs facts.

They do not seem to be from the local city and area to be such that
you do not know?"

"I have however heard such a fairy tale," said the Major; " it should,
if I am not mistaken, every time after Othello burn, and - "" Burn?
That God forgive me 'I wanted to prefer that it all burns, but fire
can erase, if you have fire insurance, you can finally have such a fire
to endure hardship, but to die? no, this is a dangerous case. "" Death?
tell you who should die? "" Well, it's no secret, "the director replied,"
whenever Othello will be eight days later someone from the royal family
to die. "The terrified friends drove from their seats, because of
the prophetic, judge the tone, making this the old man said, had
something frightful in itself, but once they sat back and collapsed
on their own horrors in a fun, laughter, which incidentally is not
the singer from the version introduced.

"You laugh?" he said, "I must leave it to me like if you was not
embarrassed, I will chronicle the theater you can inspect, which has one
hundred and twenty years of each Souffleur writes." "The chronicle of
her theater, age, let us inspect," said the Count, the thing seemed
fun to make, and the director slipped with extraordinary rapidity in
his room and brought one in leather and brass-bound folios show. He sat
in a big leg and taken to flake glasses in the Chronicle. "Note," he
said, "Because of the Descendants, erstlich, here is: 'Anno 1740 to
December 8 is the Actrice Charlotte Fandauerin in the local theater
has been stifled. Man, the tragedy Othello, the Moor of Venice, from
Shakespeare to . ' "" How?

" broke it to the Major, "Anno 1740 should be here Shakespeare's' Othello
'have, and yet it was, if I am not mistaken, Schröder, the first and
much later the first piece of ash Shakespear in Germany had to perform?"
"request for forgiveness" replied the old man. "The Duke was on a
tour of England in London this' Othello 'give him, because he liked
him extremely, and then translate perform here more often.

My Chronicle runs but then continued:' Obgedachte Charlotte Fandauerin
has Desdemona and is through the blanket, bringing them into the
pieces themselves will be killed, elendiglich killed.

God be merciful to their poor souls! 'This murder is told here as follows:
the Fandauer should be very nice, if the Court was at that time under
the Duke Nepomucký very lascivious to the Fandauer was mistress
of the Duke.

But you should not blindly and carelessly have passed him, it was
discouraged by the example of so many, he after a few months or of years
elendiglich breached and let loose. It is therefore a dreadful
alliance with him and only after he is summoned, have revealed themselves
to him. But like the others, it was also in the Fandauer. He was
soon tired and wanted to remove it mildly kind. They threatened
him, however, the Alliance, which he made with it, print and distribute
throughout Europe to leave, they also showed him that they have written
in many other cities have established where on her first Wink would
spread.

The Duke was a cruel lord, and his anger knew no bounds. He is in
many ways it by tinkering with poison have to, but she ate nothing but
what they had cooked themselves. He was an actor, therefore, a large
sum of money and let the 'Othello' perform. You will recall that in
Shakespeare's tragedy of Desdemona to the Moor in bed is stifled. The
actor doing his thing too of course, because the Fandauerin is no longer
wakes up. ' "The Count shuddered," and this should be true? "He exclaimed."
Ask for older people in the city whom you want, you will so tell it
everywhere heard. It was by the courts after an investigation pending
against the murderer, but Duke beat them down, took the actor from the
theater in his services and stated that the Fandauerin had accidentally
touched the blow. But eight days that he died his only Söhnlein, a
prince of twelve years. "Coincidence," said the Major.

"Call it so much," returned the old scrolls and more. "But listen,
'Othello' had two years no longer exist, because due to the memory
of those murder of the Duke liked this game does not suffer sorrow.

But after two years, this book is every comedy record, after two years
he was so heinous, get it back to performances. Here's how: 'The 28th
of September (1742) Othello, the Moor of Venice', and here is noticed
on the edge: 'Different!

on 5 October is Princess Auguste died.

Just eight days after Othello as two years ago, the most blessed
Prince Frederick. " Random, my worthy gentlemen?

"" However, by chance, "cried those." Go on! '6 February 1748, Othello,
the Moor of Venice. " Whether it might arrive again? See her, gentlemen!
is what the prompter hergeschrieben, kindly note that it is the
same hand, here in the margin notes: "Horrible!

the haunted Fandauerin again, Prince Alexander 14 suddenly died. Eight
days after Othello '.

"The old man stopped and looked inquiringly at his guests, they are
silent, he continued scrolls and read:"' the 16th January 1775,
for the benefit of Mlle.

Koller: Othello, the Moor of Venice. True again! Poor Princess Elisabeth,
you have to die so quickly? Died 24th January 1775. ' "" Antics, "he
broke the Major," I admit that this is so, it will be several times the
waywardness of chance as it really added have give me but only one
good reason to between cause and effect, if you are blessed on this
maximum 'Othello' want to die!

"" Sir, "replied the old man with deep seriousness," I can not, but
I recall the words of that great mind, which even this ill-fated
'Othello' descendant .-- There are many things between heaven and
earth, of which the philosopher can not dream!

"" I know this, "said the Count;" but I bet Shakespeare would have
never of this award is given if he had known how much ridicule he
hides behind, "" It is possible, "the singer replied," but you hear
more.

I come now to a somewhat recent example of which I can remember, the Duke
of themselves "" How, "he broke the Major;" just that the actress was
murder ...?" "The same 'Othello' was perhaps twenty years no longer
exist, since arrived, I know it is still like today, to visit
foreign dominations.

Our Schauspiel liked them, and wished Oddly one of the foreign
princely ladies' Othello 'to see.

The Duke was reluctant to, not from fear of the frightful circumstances
in which this piece tended to follow, because he was a free spirit and
believed in nothing of the sort, but he was now old; the sins and
iniquities of his youth he fell hard on your heart, and he had
loathing of this tragedy.

But be it that he does not knock off the lady wants, be it that he
is ashamed before the audience, the piece had to head over heels
rehearsed, it was his castle, where lust.

You see, here it is: 'Othello, 16 October 1793 at the castle ... H.
listed. ' "" Well, old man! and what followed, quick! "cried the impatient
friends. "Eight days later, 24 October 1793, the duke is dead."
"Not possible," said the Major after some silence, "let your Chronicle
see where anything is because of Duke? There is nothing in the margin
notes. "" No, "said the old man and brought two books of guilt," but
his life story, here's funeral speech, would you kindly look up? "The
count took a little black book in hand and read:" Description of the
solemn burial of the October 24, 1793 most blessed deceased Duke
and Lord - nonsense!

" he shouted and jumped on, "that I could bring to the mind.
coincidence! coincidence and nothing else! now - and know you have
such a Histörchen?" "I could still perform some" replied the old man with
a calm, "But you are bored with this strange entertainment, only
from the most recent time have a case. Rossini wrote his magnificent
opera 'Othello', which he doubted what you had indicated that he understand
it, the deeper, more tragic string of human breast anzuschlagen.

He was not more local calls, so he was not even rehearsed for the theater.
The chapel but undertook to provide this opera for themselves to
study, there were some scenes in concerts executed, and these few
samples infected in the audience so swift eagerness for the opera
that is generally published in newspapers, on billboards landlord
in Singtees and nothing like as' Othello 'said nothing as' Othello'
demanded.

Of the horrific events of the drama 'Othello' support, was do not
talk, it seemed to think at the opera a very different 'Othello'.
Finally got the then director (I was still in the theater and
made the Othello), he got the job, I say, the opera in to set the scene.
The house was full to suffocation, court and aristocracy were there,
the orchestra sought to be superhuman, the singers were nothing to be
desired, but I do not know - we all blew an eerie spirit, when her
Desdemona song played on the harp, as they are equipped to bedtime, as
the murderer, the horrific Mohr to seam. It was the same house, there
were the same boards, it was the same scene as it was then, where
a lovely creature in the same role as her Greulich life ended.

I must confess, despite the vicious nature of my Othello infested me
a slight tremor, when the murder happened, I looked anxiously to the
royal box, where so many prosperous, powerful figures in our game
herübersahen, 'you will probably by the sounds which accompany your
death, you can pacify, the bloodthirsty ghost murder?

" I thought. It was so, five, six days we heard nothing of an illness in
the castle, you laughed, that it is only in the outfitting an opera
took to that like crazy spirit to make the seventh day passed
quietly, but on the eighth Prince Ferdinand was out hunting shot.
"" I've heard, "said the Major," but it was a coincidence, the gun
went off his neighbor, and - "" Say I do, the specter of bringing
the maximum Blessed itself to, press them by hand to the throat?

I speak only of an unexplained, mysterious connection. "" And have you
not yet in the end a tale told, which stands as written, that eight
days before the game 'Othello' was?

" "Here!" The director replied coldly, click on a job in his chronicle
dismissed, the count read: " 'Othello', opera by Rossini, 12 March," and
stood on the edge underlined three times: "20 fell to Prince
Ferdinand the hunt.

"The men looked each other in silence for some moments, they seemed
to want to smile, and yet she had the seriousness of the old man,
the strange coincidence of those terrible events took deeper than
they themselves wish to confess.

The major scrolls in the Chronicle and whistled to himself, the Count
seemed nachzusinnen about something, he had eyes and forehead
firmly in the hand based.

Finally he jumped in: "And all this you still can not help," cried
he, "the opera must be.

The Court, the envoys know it already, you would blamieren wanted
man by these coincidences can be disturbing.

Here are four hundred crowns, sir!

There are some friends and lovers of art, which they deliver you to
your 'Othello' right to appear shiny. Buy what you want, "he smilingly
added," let ghosts Banner , summon come buy you a whole witch
apparatus shortly, what ever is necessary to distribute the specter
- just give us' Othello '. "" Gentlemen, "said the old man," it is
possible that I my youth like themselves would have laughed and
joked; age has made me calmer, I have learned that there are things
that can not be discarded geradehin.

Thank you for your gift, I will sum it up in a decent way to know. But
only on the strictest command, I will 'Othello' to leave. Oh God and
Lord, "he cried pitifully," if the case arise again if the dear,
sweet child, Princess Sophie, the devil would, "" Be quiet, "cried
the Count testator," indeed, your stories are insane contagious,
you could be on the bright days are afraid!

Adieu! Do not forget that Othello 'in any given case; make me no tricks
with catarrh and fever, with sick leave and actual obstacles.

When the devil if you do not hergeben Desdemona, I will be the specter of
strangles heraufrufen that this is even a guest role.

"The Old bekreuzigte impatient and drove around on his shoes," which
Dishonorable, "he wailed," if they are now appear as the guest of
stone?

Let those speeches, I ask you, who knows how close each is his own
doom. "Laughing, the two climbed the stairs, and even long served the
musical prophet with the cap and the Florentine Pelzschlittschuhen her
wit to target 6. There have been hours, what the major is not in the
count, his old comrade-in-arms, found on the Internet. Was he otherwise
cheerful, lively, of wit and humor beaming, he was otherwise the
society by striking anecdotes, through stories from his life, having
he knew everyone else, he might still be low enough, a witty, subtle
way to connect, so that he is the favorite of all, adored by many,
was, as he was in other times just the opposite.

He began to dry and to be silent, his eyes lowered to his mouth pressed
on. By and by he grew dark, played with his fingers, and impetuously
replied sullenly.

Say, you know you can get almost anything by keeping at it. And Tim and
I have learned rag dancing, all there is to it, besides some I've made
up. All we need now is a chance, and it's such scum as old Bloom that
keeps us out. Do you blame me for landing on his hat?"

"Not me," says I. "And I hope you break in sometime or other."

"It's got to be now," says Millie. "I've made Tim quit the truck, and
we're down to our last dollar. Think of that! Just when I can see
daylight ahead too! Why, if I knew where I could get hold of two
hundred----"

She pauses and gazes around sort of desperate, until she and Elisha P.
Bayne are starin' at each other.

I couldn't resist the temptation, either. "There you are," says I. "Mr.
Bayne runs a bank. Lendin' money's his business."

"Really, McCabe!" says Bayne indignant.

But Millie ain't lettin' any hints get by. "Why wouldn't someone lend me
that much?" says she, gazin' earnest at me once more. "Just two hundred!
I could pay it back in less than six months. Oh, I'm sure I could! Mr.
McCabe, wouldn't you?"

Almost took my breath away, the quick way she turned my josh back on me.
"Why," says I, "I--I might--on security."

"Security?" says she, kind of vague. The door sprang open, without
notification, the women are horrified.

Flavio plunged in. in dreadful shape, confused head on which the
bristly hairs some stared, some from the rain soaked niederhingen;
tattered dress like one, through the thicket of thorns and
durchgestürmt, Greulich soiled than through mud and swamp herangewadet.

"My father!" he exclaimed, "where is my father?" The women were shocked,
the old hunter, his former servant and loving caregivers, entering with
him, called him: "The father is not here to appease you, here's aunt,
niece is here, look out!"

-- "Not here, so now let me away, to seek him, he's alone should
hear, then I will die.

Let me go away from the lights of the day, he dazzles me, he destroyed
me." The doctor entered, seized his hand, carefully feeling the pulse,
several Serves stood anxiously around .-- "What am I on these rugs, I
spoiled it, I would destroy them; träuft my misfortune down upon
them, my skill Tainted discarded them." - He urged against the door,
we used the desire to turn it away in the remote room to bring the
father to live well.

Mother and daughter stood frozen, they had seen Orestes, pursued by
furies, not by art grafted into frightful, repulsive reality, in contrast
with a cozy apartment in the clearest shine candlelight only seemed the
more terrible. Solidifies the women looked at, and every thought in
the eyes of others, the horror picture that is so deeply rooted in the
minds had theirs. With prudence sake sent to the Baroness servant to
servant, to inquire. They learned about some reassurance that he was
undressing, dry, besorgs; half-present, half unconsciously let it all
happen.

Repeated inquiries were referred to the patient.

Finally heard frightens the women, they had allowed him to streak
and soothing everything else possible, applied, he was brought to
rest, hope you sleep.

Midnight came up, demanded the baroness, when he slept, it see the
physician resistance, the doctor gave in; Hilari pressed with the
mother inside.

The room was dark, just light a candle dawned behind the green screen,
we saw little, we heard nothing, the mother approached the bed, Hilari,
longingly, took the light and lit the sleep ends. So he was averted,
but a very elegant ear, a full cheek, now blässlich, already
appeared in the back is curly hair on the charming show, a dormant
hand and their rural zartkräftigen fingers moved the unsettled look.

Hilari, quiet breathing, believed himself a faint breath to hear,
they approached the candle, like Psyche in danger, the healing peace
of mind.

The doctor took the candle away and lit up the women after their
rooms.

How these good, decent people share all their late hour to persuade, we
have remained a mystery, but the next morning from an early age to show
both very impatient. Query was not the end, the desire to those who
suffer to see modest, but urgent, and only around noon the doctor allowed
a short visit. The baroness took added, Flavio, the hand out - "Forgive
me, dear aunt, some patience, perhaps not for long "- Hilari came out,
he gave her the rights -" gegrüßt dear sister "- that went through
her heart, he did not go, they looked at each other, the beautiful
couple, contrasting in the most beautiful sense.

Of young black, sparkling eyes voted the dark, confused curls, while she
was apparently in heavenly peace, but to the staggering Begebnis joined
the now fully ahnung present. The designation of "Sister" - their
Innermost was excited. The Baroness said: "How goes it, my dear nephew
?"--" Quite reasonably, but you treated me bad ."--" Why ?"--" Since
they have left me blood, that is cruel, they have weggeschafft
that's cheeky, it's not mine, it's everything, all their. " With these
words seemed to transform his shape, but with hot tears, he hid his
face into the pillow.

Hilari Miene showed the mother a terrible expression, it was as if
the love child before the gates of hell would be opened, for the first
time a saw tremendous and eternal. Rasch, passionately they hurried
through the room, threw himself in the last cabinet to the sofa,
the mother followed and asked what they understood, unfortunately,
already.

Hilari, wondrous look up, cried: "The blood, the blood, it's all her,
her everything, and it is not worth it. The misfortune Blessed! Arms!"
With these words facilitated the bitterest tears stream the beleaguered
heart. Who unternähme it seems, from the foregoing evolving conditions
to reveal the day to bring the inner, from this first meeting, a
result the women evil? Even the suffering she was highly damaging,
at least so claimed the doctor, although often enough to report and
came to comfort, but still felt obligated to take all further
converge to prohibit.

Here he found a willing compliance, the daughter dared not to ask
what the mother would not be admitted, and so we obeyed the commandment
of the circumspect man.

On the other hand, he brought the reassuring message that Flavio
had requested writing materials, including some recorded, but
immediately next to in bed hidden.

Now joined to the rest of curiosity, restlessness and impatience,
it was embarrassing hours.

After some time he leaves, however, a of beautiful, free-hand, though
written with haste, it contained the following lines: "A miracle is
the poor man born, In a miracle is the wrong man is lost, after
which dark, difficult to discover emerging Durchtappen pfadlos
uncertain steps, then living in the middle of the sky brightness
and warranty 'sensitive' I night and death and hell.

"Here, the noble art of poetry again its curative powers prove. Intimately
fused with music, it heals all souls suffering from the fact, by
suggesting such a huge, causing pain and resolutory evaporated.

The doctor was convinced that the lad was soon re-establish,
physically healthy, he will quickly feel happy again when the load
on his mind the passion to lift or ease would be.

Hilari thought to reply, she sat at the piano and tried the lines of
suffering with melody to accompany. It was not in their souls not to
sound so deep pain, but this attempt at rhythm and rhyme flattered
that so their attitudes, that they that poem with relief Laughter
said, by the time they took the train and off strophe "Are still so deep
in pain and agony lost, So you remain but the youth was born lucky, you
too quickly Ermann healthy steps, come in friendship and sky shine
bright, you feeling good in the middle of faithful, as you sprout of
life heitre source. "The house doctor friend took over the embassy,
they succeeded, even the young man replied temperate; Hilari mitigating
drove away, and it seemed once again a serene day, a free floor
to win, and perhaps it is granted, the whole course Holden cure this
occasionally tell.

Enough, some time passed in such a very nice job, a quiet goodbye
prepared prior to the doctor no longer than necessary to be delayed
imaginary.

Meanwhile, the Baroness, and rebuke with Order Set old papers are
devoted to, and the current states quite adequate Entertainment even
wondrous effect on the excited spirit.

She saw her life some years back, serious threat of suffering were
passed, whose viewing the courage for the moment strengthens
particularly stirred the memory of a beautiful relationship with
Makarien, in unsafe conditions.

The glory of that one woman was her again before the soul, and once the
decision taken at this time also to apply: for to whom else would
they judge their current feelings, who otherwise fear and hope
openly profess to be?

The cleanup took place but also other miniature portrait of the brother
and was forced on the similarity with the son smiling sigh.

Hilari surprised them at that moment, took hold of the picture, and
it was from that resemblance wondrous affected. So some time passed at
last with relief of the doctor and his escort came to breakfast
Flavio logged in.. The women had prior to the first appearance feared.
But how often do in major, or even slightly amusing moments of
terrible, even ridiculous to happen maintains, so it was successful
here as well.

The son was totally into clothes of his father, because his suit
had nothing to do, so we had the field - and the House cloakroom
serves majors that he, too comfortable hunting - and family life,
the sister was in custody.

The Baroness smiled and took together; Hilari was, she knew not
how, concerned enough, they turned the face away, and the young man
wanted in that moment not a word from the lips or a phrase succeed.

Now all the company from the embarrassment to help the doctor began a
comparison of both figures.

The father was somewhat larger, it was said, and that is why the skirt a
little too long, which was slightly wider, so the rock on the
shoulders too narrow.

Both of these misconceptions were Maskerade a strange reputation.
Through these details, however, it was about the concerns of the moment
also. For Hilari certainly remained the similarity of the juvenile's
father image with the fresh life of the Son of eerie presence,
pestering yes.

But now we probably wanted the next time the course of a delicate woman
clumsy hand stories to see, because we own way we are dealing with
the General allowed. Here we must now because of the influence
of poetry once again to talk about. A certain amount of talent could not
deny our Flavio, but it took too much of a enthusiastic, sensual occasion
when something should Exquisite succeed, so because almost all the
poems , the irresistible woman dedicated, highly penetrating and
laudable appeared and now, a present, most amiable beauty with
enthusiastic expression out, do not give rise had little effect.

A woman room to another passionately loved sees bequemt like the role of
a confidant; she has a secret, barely conscious feeling that it would
not be uncomfortable, to replace the adored silently lifted to see.

Also, the entertainment more and more into the Major.

Substitution poems as they like to frame the lovers, because he
left the beautiful, albeit modest, half and half may respond to
what he wants and what he made her pretty lips hardly expect to
hear probably.

Likewise were also Hilari alternately read, and, since it only
happened the one hand, into which you both to pact right time, look
into it and to this end, each had to touch the ribbon, it was found
that, near seated, after person to person, hand to hand ever closer
and the joints are quite natural in the least affected verborgnen.

But in these nice conditions, resulting in such allerliebsten arising
amenities Flavio felt a painful concern, which he hid and bad,
always continue after the arrival of his father is longing to say
was that he is the most important thing that had to trust.

This secret, however, would be some reflection, not hard to guess
what was. Those lovely wife liked in a moving, from the benign and intrusive
young man hervorgerufnen moments the unfortunate decision and
rejected previously argued stubbornly hope repealed and destroyed.

A scene like this is received, we dare not describe for fear of us
here would like the lack youthful glow.

Genug, he was so little in himself that he wants to hurry out of the
garrison without leave and removed to his father kept by night, storm
and rain after the estate of his aunt despairing sought to reach, as we
also recently have come to see. The consequences of such a move were
to return him now sober thoughts lively, and he knew because his father
always longer ausblieb and he is the only possible placement should
be deprived, not to act to save even more.

What surprised and dismayed, he was, therefore, as a letter to him of his
eingehändigt Obrist, whose well-known seal it with hesitation and
Bangigkeit dissolved, but after the friendliest words ends so that
the vacation is granted to him by one month should be extended.

So now this inexplicable favor seemed so he was thus freed from a burden
that his mind almost fearful than the spurned love itself began to
press. He felt quite lucky, in his amiable relatives so well to be
lifted and he was permitted to enjoy the presence of Hilari
and was recently in all its pleasant and sociable properties restored
to him the beautiful widow itself both as to their surroundings
for a time necessary and had made only by a peremtorische claim her
hand had been darkened for ever.

In such sentiment could be the arrival of the father did well expect,
even were it to occur through natural events to excited active
lifestyle.

The persistent rain, which they so far in the palace together, was everywhere,
in large waters largely settled, river to river angeschwellt there
were levees broke, and the area below the castle was a pure lake,
from which the village activities, farms, larger and small possessions,
on hills, but always only island-like hervorschauten.

Such is rare but possible cases, it was established, the housewife commanded,
and led from the servants.

After the first general Beihülfe bread was baked, bulls were
slaughtered, fishing boats went to and fro, and precautionary Hülfe
ends after all spread out.

Everything said is all very well, which was kindly given joyfully
and gratefully taken, just a place you wanted to hand out do not trust
Gemeindevorstehern; Flavio took over the business and drove with
a wohlbeladenen Kahn rushed to the site and happy. The simple business,
easy handled, was the best, is also discarded, further driving our youth
a contract to him in the sheaths where Hilari.

Especially in the time of this calamity days was the birth of a fallen
woman, for the beautiful child particularly interested . Flavio was
recently given birth and brought the general and special thanks to those
back home. This enabled it to some stories are not lacking. Nobody was
killed, he had one of the wonderful rescues, of strange, jokingly, even
ridiculous to talk about a lot of events, some states have been inevitably
described interesting.

Enough, Hilari suddenly felt an irresistible desire, regardless if a trip
to the woman to be welcomed to Treat and a few hours to spend cheerful.
After some resistance from the good mother finally won the joyful
willingness Hilari, this adventure, and we would like acknowledge, in
the course, as this incident has become known to us, to have
been somewhat concerned that it might find some danger obschweben, a
beach, a reversal of the Kahn, the beautiful life is in danger, daring
rescue from the young to the loose Volume linked more firmly to draw.
But of all this was not the speech, the trip went from happy, the woman
was attended and presented the company of the doctor was not without
good effect, and if here and there a small investment to hervortat
if the appearance of a dangerous moment of the Fortrudernden seemed
to worry, so this ended only with neckendem joke that one the other
a timid countenance a greater embarrassment, a timid gesture abgemerkt
wanted to have.

However, the confidence has grown significantly, and the habit to see
and under all circumstances to be together, had strengthened and the
dangerous position, where kinship and mutual tendency to converge and
detention are entitled to believe, was always questionable. Graceful
should However, in such ways always love further and further entices be.
The sky is clarified, a massive cold, according to the season,
entered the water frozen, before they were lost.

Since changes in the spectacle of the world before all eyes at once, which
is only separated by floods had been hung by attached soil together,
and soon did as a mediator, the desired fine arts show, which, the
first rapid winter days to glorify and new life in the rigidity to bring
in the far north have been invented. The armory opened, everyone was
looking for his steel shoes subscribed, eager, clean, smooth surface,
even with some risk, as the first to go. Among the House members were
too many high lightness experienced, because this was fun to them
almost every year to neighboring lakes and connecting channels, but
this time in the enlarged area fernhin.

Flavio felt until now and healthy, and Hilari, since its earliest years
from the uncle instructed, proved so sweet as to force the newly created
land, then moved funny and amusing, sometimes together, sometimes
separately, sometimes separately, sometimes together. Sheaths and avoid
what otherwise is difficult to be honest, here was the small,
jokingly sacrilege, they fled to, to get each other moment to be found
again. But within this pleasure and joyousness moved even a world of need,
yet were always some places is only half remained supplies, hurriedly
flew now on efficient sled covered the essentials of goods back and
resist, and what the area was still greater benefit, was that you
made some of the temporary main-too-distant locations quickly now
the products of the field structure and the agriculture in the next
magazine of small towns and spots, and from there all kinds of goods
could lead.

Now it was on once a beleaguered, the bitterest shortage area sentient
again free, again supplied by a smooth, the skillful, the Bold connected
open space.

The young couple are not omitted in vorwaltendem pleasure of some
obligations of a loving attachment to remember. We visited the woman,
gifted with all necessities, but others were hit: the elderly, whose
health has been one concern; clergy with whom we morally edifying
entertainment to maintain the usual and she was now in this
examination, eight were good, small landowners, bold enough before
the time in dangerous lowlands are grown, but this time, protected
by levees wohlangelegte, remained intact - and boundless fear of
their existence doubly delighted.

Each farm, every house, every family, every individual had his story,
he was and probably others have become an important person, so was
also one of the other tellers easily into the speech.
Very glad I was to get the position too, and not a little pleased that I
was able to fill it. Why? Because it gave me a chance to learn there the
things I wanted to know; the things I needed to know, Royce, as your
mother."

But he only gazes at her blank and shocked.

"Can't you understand, Royce?" she goes on pleadin'. "You know how we
have moved from place to place; how at times my cards have read 'Mrs.
Uh! _ As habitábamos on the beach, we were only spectators of the scene
was part of it. At times, the sea came up to twenty steps from our
room, not giving a single stroke without the house tremble.

Our windows had to endure (fortunately not completely opposite) the vast
Southwest winds that brought a flood, I mean evil, a flood, the ocean
turned into rain. From day one we were rushed, and not without great
labor, to close windows and turn on the light to distinguish objects
in broad daylight in the rooms that were at the camp, the noise and
shock were so remarkable as in the other. I persisted in working, as
were curious to know if that brute force would oppress, hinder the free
will, however, and got to keep my mind active, self-possessed.

I wrote and watched. Eventually, only the fatigue and lack of sleep got
upset one of my powers, I think the most sensitive of the writer, the
rhythmic sense. My phrases glided inarmónicas, this being my first
string instrument was broken. The big moo had no other alternative
voices, bizarre, fantastic, wind unleashed on us. The house that
habitábamos, those being for him a thousand rounds of white ways.
Sometimes, he was the master of hitting sharp knocks at the door,
shaking with an iron hand that wanted to start the frame, while
others complained about the acute fireplace, cries because they can
not penetrate, because threats did not open the door at so, anger,
horror attempts to start the roof.

However, these noises were drowned by the large _ Oh! Oh! _ Such was the
vastness, power, and this awful! The wind seemed secondary, though able
to penetrate the rain. Our house (was going to say our boat) was
water: the granary, pierced at various points, poured the liquid
pouring element. Something more serious hurricane in its fury, and a
desperate effort, managed to boot the hinge of a the windows, since then,
although closed, shivering, bamboleábase was shaken, and there
was need for atándola strongly affirm their irons that was more solid.
This was necessary to open the window: when I did, though sheltered by
it, as sentíme enveloped in a whirlwind, half deafened by the awful power
of a noise like a gunshot, several cannon that had fired on without
interruption my ears.

By the cracks of the window I noticed something that gave the measure of
these forces incalculable, and it was the waves breaking and
crossing each other, often could not fall: beneath the blast which
lifted the pen light, scattered throughout the those moles heavy
field.

What would have happened if the window disappearing, wind boarding,
those in our house and argued that imposing waves pushed to the rigidity
of a whirlwind, and drove through the fields, and terrible in the air
... We had the strange fate power wrecked land, our home, so close to the
sea, exposed to remove the roof, or perhaps an entire floor.

This concern not only to us but to all inhabitants of the place,
as we have confessed, we recommend the abandonásemos.

But we supposed that so long storm would end, and always
contestábamos: _Mañana_.

The news was received by the disastrous road were just talking about
shipwrecks. On October 30, a vessel from the seas of the South killed
our view, the passage, as the drowning crew (thirty men). Having avoided
the rocks, reefs, had come against a playecita of fine sand, where
women used to bathe.

Well: at the beach, built by the whirlpool, certainly at high altitude,
dropped in horror and was beaten heaviness, derrengado, dislocated,
being at that site as a cadaver.

What were the crew? Not found the slightest trace of them, believing
that perhaps they had all been swept away on the deck. As tragic event
was that there had occurred many identical way the thought that
no more dreamed misadventures.

The sea, meanwhile, seemed not quite yet.
They say he's rather a bad one, that he can't be fired. We'll see
about that. There's a steamer for Belize next Thursday. I'm going to
sail on her. Will you go along too?"

For a minute they stood there, Mother and Sonny boy, gazin' into each
other's eyes without sayin' a word; and then--well, we turns our backs
as they goes to a clinch and Mother turns on the sprinkler.

But J. Bayard's programme for helpin' Royce break into the younger set
is bugged for fair. Instead we've dug up an expert in rubber farmin' and
are preparin' to send him down as first assistant to the classiest
plantation manager that ever started for Honduras. "Cried the
Commerzienrath in That little concerned about the cold silence of
the man who really had - he felt the common - he must apologize.

The stranger broke briefly but these thoughts, and said kindly as he
previously said: "Now we have to see how we set up, Mr sleeping
comrade, the patient, many sheep in a barn.

Moreover, it is only for one night, we will have to tolerate me and it
is always better than that of Wirth me with one of the Pious had
inserted.

Please, take a seat.

"The stranger then moved the light a little more comfortable cope,
based head into the left hand and deepened anew in front of him is
letters or papers of which he is not starting because of the eye
more related.

It was a still young, and it seemed as slender man of about 24 - 26 years,
modern and decently dressed, but with remarkably long dark hair, two
forwards in the amount rotated Jupiter Ammon-curls and pointed, but
also full long beard, in any case a stranger, in his dialect, a
Oesterreicher. At the left index finger he wore a large seal ring with a
red cut stone, perhaps also a genuine diamond in a black scarf (the
Commerzienrath was not a connoisseur of rock) and the rock with a
series of buttons to the top of the Tuchnadel zugeknöpft.

Commerzienrath The Mahlhuber sat on the Sopha, his dark burning tallow
candles with a big trial in front of it, and stared in deep thought
on the reader, which it did not watch.

The burning in front of him threw light make a röthlichen trembling glow
on him, the outlines of the body properly movement was and how a
slight twitching looked, and the deep sighs, which he at the same
time it is difficult to suppress seemed, until he no longer could
cope with were the little man last gutmüthigen themselves immensely.

The stranger was certainly quite unhappy -- had perhaps a painful letter
from home and get sat brooding about it. - But, dear God, he could
not help him, he had his hands more in foreign affairs than he was
loved, and the poor devil liked to see how he himself with his
Antheil suffering would be ready.

Everyone has his pack on to carry a heavier, the other lighter - he
dragged the liver and Balggeschwulst, at least the consequences
of this - his + vis-à-vis the wall + probably among others grief.

About the thinking was he tired, defeated but still, and would
actually prefer to have to wait that the first residents would have
gone to bed.

Since this began at a time to yawn and Commerzienrath barely saw
the movement, as well as in his jaw began to work and he never again
could be satisfied.

"They are sleepy," said the stranger. "I?

Asking for forgiveness, it only took me so - "broke the back under
each yawning perhaps intended remark," it took me only through the
Kinnbacken.

This is but a cold, which I recently came to me; on liver and Kinnbacken
throws at me All that I suffer from the liver. "" So? "Said the stranger,
without any further notice of him to take."

Yes, " said the Commerzienrath sigh, "my liver is three inches too big -
it no longer fits me and is also not - it becomes increasingly
apparent to me once the heart abdrückt."

The stranger was a deep sigh of pitiful , but said nothing until Mr.

Mahlhuber, but the memories of late due to travel into knowledge which
wanted to set, with whom he one night in the same room slept very politely
said, "Apropos, dear Lord, with whom I have since really fun so
near the neighborhood?

"" Doctor Wicke village from Vienna, "said the stranger, without his papers
aufzusehen."

From Vienna - ih see at once, "cried the Commerzienrath by a new idea is
taken," I have That in the ever thought to go to Vienna to - hm,
yes itself took the really excellent and could serve as a loving Wink
of Providence, which we are so happy together.

Can I have a question to allow you? "" What do you want? "Asked the
stranger slowly seeing the light out, but not a little astonished when
his sleeping comrade, by Sopha was up with niedergebeugtem head,
as if he would like Aries from chairs to come to him zukam.

"Please, feel you again here," said the Commerzienrath when he was a
stranger had come so close that it already wanted to jump up his
chair by his niedergedrehten head hinhielt and with his right finger
near its apex pointed.

"Thun me the love and feel you have here." "But you only want what?

"" Here, if I may ask - a little more to the right - so this is the place,
you feel nothing? "Nay." "Nothing, no increase?" No, more like a
hole -- "said Doctor Wicke village. "They want to have to come up in
the stairs encountered?" The Commerzienrath moaned deeply at. "Pushed
on the stairs?" He repeated sighing, "God would be that it would be
nothing more than that, but I have long wanted to take a famous
Doctors consultiren wiener, and the fate now seems to be favorable.
My liver is three inches too big, "drove the Commerzienrath than him, the
young man wanted to break quickly continued."

I suffer from a greasy degeneration of the liver, which I ribs,
diaphragm and stomach trigger feel.

The worst however is what my family does not want to admit, is an associated
took earlier operirte Balggeschwulst. "" Lord, thun me the favor and be
quiet, "cried Doctor Wicke village by a facial cut, as whether he had
swallowed Aloe - "I can not hear something, it will always resent me."
"Uebel?" cried the Commerzienrath - »übelwerden and a doctor - you just
feel here - the Balggeschwulst was roughly the size of a Taubeneis,
easily movable under the fingers, and - "" But what does that to me,
"cried the young man turned away in disgust," I'm not a doctor,
that you me with such a highly fatal things torment. "" No doctor?
"cried the Commerzienrath really surprised," You told me not, by itself,
because that would be a Doctor? "I am a Doctor of Philosophy, but not
a doctor," growled the angry young man before him.

"O I ask because thousands of times to apologize, "said the little man
very frightened and slipped, while the Doctor about his misunderstood
Scripture weiterbrütete in his Sophaecke back. It was scary to him
but, perhaps even boring, the silent against such dark companions to
sit and not even from his liver to be allowed to speak. »Doctor - no man
should actually get permission to call Doctor to be, if he is not really
a doctor, because that has to last a culpable Confusion give. And the
man had no feeling for others suffering, "he sat in his thinking, but
seriously shaking his head, adding," disgusted, if it a Mitmensch That
tells what it expresses - and this is still rough. I will go to bed.
"And with one deep from the chest heraufgeholten sigh he decided
this good intent and immediately run.

The bed was good - the comforter a little heavy and warm, which did not
change, why was he in foreign beds around, because he had a better home.
If only he could fall asleep now at least, the failures and horrors
of the last night in a little up. Great God, what he did not All in the
last 48 hours experience - and where was he now? - It wiped out the
light that he had the uneasy strange place not only to see longer needed,
and wanted to be with a polite "Good Night," for his office companion
to the right turn, but the other light still burned, and with a burning
light in the room he was now unable to halt. It was not, he might
still be so tired, because the man wanted the whole night reading through?
The Commerzienrath threw an entire hour in bed about to fall asleep
was not thinking, and his moans finally made aware of the strangers
also.

"You can not sleep?" he said, half his head after him upside down. "My
Lord Doctor - at least not as long as a light burning in the room,"
replied the Commerzienrath, determined that his new torment at least to
know what it troubled.

Doctor Wicke village was alluding not heard or not understood, because
he read calmly, and only the moans of the re-awakened him sleepless
finally back from his brooding. "My dear," he said with a deep sigh from
his writings look up by it all the way to the bed of the others turned
around, "apropos, you gave me, not even their names." "Mahlhuber,"
moaned the Commerzienrath. "Ah - my dear Mahlhuber as it seems you
can not fall asleep - "" At least not until the light burns. "" As
you would perhaps not averse, "continued the Doctor, without objection
to be heard, continued," Your Hülfe me in a very difficult thing to be
offered. "" My Hülfe? "said the Commerzienrath to scare up in his bed
being guided," my dear Doctor, I can not help myself, and did not
think myself in the affairs of other people hineinzumischen more than I
know, totally against my will, hineingerathen am. If I only wanted
to allow that I - "" I ask nothing of you as your Rath, "said the Doctor,
without further objection to the other with respect. »You are not the
slightest responsibility to take over, your name is not even mentioned.
But as I said, I wish your Rath, because I have often found that
a completely unbiased Urtheil quiet man sometimes with ease and
makes the right play, while we poor mortals us toil for nothing, a
happy result in any satisfactory artificially achieved.

It concerns life and death of a man, the most heinous, nichtswürdigsten
crimes - "" life and death? "Cried the Commerzienrath scared. - "Please,
interrupt me not," said the Doctor, the hand against the distant
corner of the room empty and hollow out, but continuing enthusiastic
tone, "the most heinous, nichtswürdigsten crimes under the cloak
of Christian, or rather feigned piety celebrated crept into families
and the daughters seduced, into shops and pushed the company ruinirt,
to Rich and they hanged ausgesogen, until in desperation it a swift
death jumped into the arms, or in misery and Siechthum their grave
entgegenwelkten.

The letztvorkommende case is the most formidable, and I do not know
yet what the consequences will be.

According to our moral laws such criminals can not shared out, and yet
he is not to act, but he has bisjetzt cunning to evade all known what the
courts even the slightest grip on him could offer - "" That must be
so ausgefeimter be a scoundrel, "cried the Commerzienrath, half in the
desire with this remark back under his blanket to be able to retire
and thus for the entertainment of today to have canceled, but half
also in a fair civic outrage at such a monster, under the guise
of religious despair and misery in the world säete, and now even
more so by the secular justice, despite proven guilty, not recorded
and could be crushed.

"May I introduce you to these records, maybe even this?"

said the Doctor once again, a friendly overlooking the Commerzienrath
tossing, "if the drivers of the criminal nature of this first experience,
you will be more able to be a Urtheil cases. I fear that God himself
is a flash or a terrible disease, or the like of which the people send
to him to punish them, because otherwise I do not see how he cope - the
latest crime should be proved as clearly and against persuade him.
"" But I think it should be because the police in a position to
lead him on?

"cried the Commerzienrath," what is it there? "" You raise a difficult
question as to, "smiled the Doctor," but They are my own right, if
you ever have heard the details. "" How much clock we actually have?

"said the Commerzienrath, tried in vain, in his dark corner of the dial
of a clock to see." Oh, it is hardly 10 clock, we still have enough time
to sleep. I ask you now, but the various points to follow closely, you
will have such a tissue of malice surprise. "The Commerzienrath wanted
to make an objection, it was 10 and the clock time for him to rest,
which, if it exceeded The next day is irretrievably to him punished,
but he is also ashamed of such a terrible necessarily opposite,
where is the punishment, or discovery of a truly dangerous people,
it seems indifferent to, felt again the liver and head, sighed
deeply and painfully and then finally resignirt said: "Well, Mr.

Doctor, if the thing really behaves, so you start in God's name - it is
not so very long?"

"Barely half an hour," was the at least in this respect comforting
answer, the Doctor and cleaned his light, räusperte itself, drank
a sip of beer from the glass beside him, supported his head back
into the left hand and began: 11 + The story of the monster. + »
In a large city in Germany, which we call Yburg want, I have the
real names deliberately omitted, special considerations half - lived
Commerzienrath Schöler of the - "" Commerzienrath?

"Asked our friend and that curious little further from the bed
leaning, the whole thing to hear better."

The Commerzienrath Schöler, but I must ask me not to continue to
interrupt, because otherwise you lose the thread and the whole not enough
attention can follow, I will prefer to start again: In a big city in
Germany, we Yburg call them, lived in the Commerzienrath Schöler
very happy with every earthly Lebensgabe abundantly equipped
conditions.

He had a stately house in the middle of the city, in one of the
best locations - the first floor occupied himself only the second
earned him 400 Thaler Miethe - was in all the first families
introduced, was considered a favorite of the king, helped three
orders of various countries, moved by the state also have a pension
of 1200 Thaler, and had as a guardian of the daughter of a wealthy
deceased some time before bankers also have a very substantial
capital.

This young lady said Rosaura. "" The Commerzienrath Schöler was a recognized
and honorable Werther also very pious man, a member of the Gustav-Adolf-Verein,
head of an army institute Kassir the orphanage, Director of the Mission
Society and Protector of all other mildthätigen stations in the city and
region, approximately 52 years old, still fairly hale and unbeweibt
- "" But you do not want to say that this man, "accused the
Commerzienrath Mahlhuber almost as terrified as astonished remarks."

Please, interrupt me not "said the Doctor quickly," it is in our
social life, many things that we never dreamed of, but you will
hear yourself.

In the House of Generalsuperintendenten, where the free entry Commerzienrath
had ill daughter so hard that her doctor, an intimate friend of
the Commerzienraths, knew no other life, when they removed a
pretty bathroom located on one of his own relatives to send ; this happened.
The cashier of the orphanage was one morning found affixed. The Local,
where they have been preserved, there were clear signs that
somebody in the house itself with the thieves - it was a capital
of 15000 Thaler been stolen - had made common cause, but despite
all the police Nachspürens the thief remained undetected .

The Commerzienrath was in the afternoon, as he very often due to
urgent work that, the last in the office was.

He said that during his continued walking all the usual order and belonging
was the window and he himself still had personally investigated
whether the shops closed and were good.
I expect the newspapers helped a lot too. They had a heap of fun with
Hubbs and his Gopher proposition,--Hubbs of Gopher, U.S.A. They printed
pictures of him playin' the accordion, and interviews reproducin' his
descriptive gems about "the banks of the pellucid Pinto," and such.

But you never can tell how a comedy stab is goin' to turn out. This game
of buyin' real estate shares for a dollar or so, with the prospects that
before night it might be worth twice as much, was one that hit 'em hard.
By Friday Gopher stock was being advertised like Steel preferred, and
the brokers was flooded with buyin' orders. Some of the big firms got
into the game too. A fat German butcher came all the way down from the
Bronx, counted out a thousand dollars in bills to Nelson Hubbs, and was
satisfied to walk away with a deed for a hundred front feet of Gopher
realty. He wasn't such a boob, either. Two hours later he could have
closed out five hundred to the good.

It wa'n't like a stock flurry, where there's an inside gang manipulatin'
the wires. All the guidin' hand there was in this deal was that of J.
Bayard Steele, and he contents himself with eggin' Hubbs on to stand
firm on that ten-cent raise.

"Not a penny more, not a penny less," says he, beamin'. "It'll get 'em."

And I don't know when I've seen him look more contented. As for Nelson
Hubbs, he seems a little dazed at it all; but he keeps his head and
smiles good-natured on everybody. globaltraveler5565@yahoo.com. Wilhelm
Meister Hiking years - book 2 or renunciation Second Chapter Book
Wall Travelers had to rule the road taken and were happy the boundary
of the province in which they learn many Merkwürdige should at the
first entrance they saw once the most fertile area in which the
rolling hills Feldbau, higher mountains to the sheep, in cattle
breeding wide Talflächen beneficiary.

It was just before the harvest, and everything in greatest abundance,
which, however, equal to what they put in astonishment, was that neither
women nor men, but by boys and young men were employed on a happy
harvest to prepare, so even on a friendly cheerful Harvest Institute to
meet. They welcomed one and the others and asked for the Superior,
from whose residence we could not account.

The address of her letter reads: "On the Superior, or the Dreie."

Even here, the boys could not find one, however, dismissed the Asker
to a supervisor, who just the horse to climb are prepared, they
opened their own purposes; frankness of Felix seemed to like him,
and so they rode along the street.

Even Wilhelm had noticed that shape and color of clothing a multiplicity
obwaltete the small peoples of the entire shank A strange look
was, as he was about to make his companion hereafter to ask, as a
wonderful remark to him in their auftat: all children, they wish
to employ, as they wanted, did their work and are used with special,
but different gestures against Vorbeireitenden, and it was easy to
conclude that it was the boss.

Recent kreuzweis, the arms on the chest and looked cheerfully into
the sky, the middle had his arms on his back and looked smilingly
on Earth, the third and courageously stood Strack; arms niedergesenkt,
she turned her head to the right side and were in a series, rather
than those that remained isolated, where they met.

     When it did stop and descent, where even more children after a
number of ways to set up and by the superiors were patterned, Wilhelm
asked for the meaning of this sign, Felix was a and said cheerfully:
"What a position hab 'ich because einzunehmen ?"

--" In all cases, the supervisor returned," first the arms over the chest
and seriously happy-top view, without looking to use. " He obeyed, but
he soon: "This does not like me, so I see nothing up there, it
takes a long time?

But yes!" he cried joyfully, "a couple of hawks flying from west to east,
which is probably a good sign?"

- "Wienach du's aufnimmst depending on you" figures, that moved, "now you
mix among them, as they mix . He gave a sign, the children left their
position, their employment or taken as played before. "May you and
me," Wilhelm said that "what I am here in astonishment sets,
explain?

I see well that these gestures these positions greetings are what
you are receiving. "-" Quite right, "returned to that," Greetings,
I immediately indicate to what level of education of each of these
boys are. "" Can you give me, however, shifted Wilhelm, "the
importance of the stage probably explains Gangs?

because it was one, can probably see." - "The higher paid than I
am," replied that "so much but I can assure you that it is not empty
grimaces that there are many more children are not the highest, but
a senior, tangible importance is transmitted at the same time but
each is necessary for themselves to keep and cherish what he is the
decision to grant for good will, they may not be strangers to each
other nor even talk about, and so modified the doctrine hundertfältig.

Moreover, the secret of great advantages: because if you're the
same people and always says what everything arrives so he thinks,
there is nothing behind it. consciences secrets, and if it would
seem, must be silenced through obscurity and respect, because this
affects morality and shame ."--" I understand you, "returned Wilhelm,"
why should we, what physical things as necessary, not also apply
spiritually?

Maybe you can but in another respect satisfy my curiosity.

The great variety in shape and color of clothes on me, and yet seh
'I'm not all the colors, but some in all its gradations, from the brightest
to darkest.

But I notice that there is no description of the stages of any age
or income may be meant by the smallest and largest boys untermischt
so as to cut the same color, but of the same sign in the garment
does not match. " - "Even as this concerns," the Associated
transferees, "I may not omit, but I would very wrong, or you are
about everything, as you might wish, we elucidated distinguished."

It's now the Superior track of what is believed to have found, but now
had the necessary stranger noticed that the more they came into the
country, a well-denominated singing them ever more entgegentönte.

What the boys also started to work at what they even thought they
always sang, and each song seemed particularly appropriate business
and in same cases the same. Were more children together, as they are
accompanied alternately, the evening was also the end of dance,
whose steps choirs were revived and regulated.

Felix voted down by the horse with one, and not entirely unhappy,
Wilhelm amused in this area the invigorating entertainment.

"Probably," said he said to his companion, "uses a lot of care on those
lessons, because otherwise they could not skill spread as far and as
fully trained ."--" But, "put those" with us is the song the first
stage of education, everything else closes it, and will be taught. The
easiest and the simplest pleasure to be teaching at us by singing
and invigorates minds and even what we transmit from faith - and
moral commitment, is on the way of singing indicated, other advantages
to self-purposes verschwistern immediately: because we have children,
sounds, what they produce, with characters on the blackboard and
write to learn the reasons of this character in her throat then
again, the text also darunterzufügen, so they also practice hand,
ear and eye and go faster on the right - and beautiful writing, as
you might think, and since this all least of pure dimensions,
according to well-exercised and certain figures to be emulated, so
they take the high value of the measurement - a lot of art and
computing speed than in any other way.

That is why we have because, among all conceivable element to the music
education of our elected because it has run gleichgebahnte way on all
sides. "Wilhelm looked to further inform and not hid his astonishment,
that he did not hear instrumental music." This is not neglected, "the
transferees," but in a particular district, in the most charming valley,
including practice, and since then, is once again ensured that the
various instruments in separate towns are taught. Mißtöne Especially
in the beginner some hermitages, where they bring no one to despair,
because you will even confess that in the well-bourgeois society a sad
little suffering to tolerate it when the us the neighborhood of a
prospective flutes - or violin player aufdringt. Our beginners go from
my own laudable attitude, nobody wanting to be annoying, voluntarily
longer or shorter in the desert beeifern and is isolated to the
merit of the inhabited world to be allowed to come closer, so each
from time to time, an attempt to department, is permitted, the
rarely succeed because we are shy and shame in this as in our other
facilities even cherish most and must maintain.

The fact that your son has become a happy voice, I am dearly, for
the rest take care for the more easier. "Well, they were to reach a
place where Felix and linger in the environment should consider before
you for formal admission would be inclined, from afar heard a joyful
song, it was a game where the boys in the ceremony this feasted. A
general chorus yell what each element of a wide circle joyful, clear and
efficient in its parts agreed, waving the obeying the governing. This,
however, often surprised by the singing by a choir singing the signs
picked up and some individual participants, it with the fingers
touching, calling, once merely a decorous tone verhallenden the
song, the downfall of the sense to adapt.

Already, most showed a lot of agility, some of which the trick failed,
gave their pledge voluntarily, without being ridiculed them. Felix was
child enough to just below them to mix, and so withdrew from the case
fairly. Next to him was this first greeting zugeeignet, he immediately
put his hands on her breast, looked up, and with so schnackischer mine
that you could probably notice, is a secret meaning, he had not yet
risen.

The pleasant location, good recording, the cheerfully Gespielen, the boys
all liked so well that he did not woe, leaving his father to see, he
looked almost the horses taken away after a painful, but he is mean,
because he heard that he is present in the district could not keep
and we promised him, on the other hand, he should, where not the
same, but an equal, and probably blithely pulled unexpected finding.

Since the Upper not reach him, said the warden: "I must Now you leave my
business to pursue, but I want you to bring the three to our
sanctuaries chair, your letter is also addressed to them, and they put
together before the Superior. "William would have wanted, from the sanctuary
in advance hear, but that returned: "The Dreie are you, reply to the
confidence that your überlaßt us your son, according to wisdom and
fairness certainly open up the bare minimum.

The visible objects of worship, the shrines, I called in a particular
district included are mixed with nothing, nothing disturbed, and only
at certain times of the year makes the pupils, the education levels
of their condition, there occur to them historically and sensual to
teach, because they take away with enough impression to, in the exercise
their duty, for a time to wear it. "Well, William stood at the gate of
a high walled Talwaldes; on a certain character, opened the little gate,
and a serious looking man received our friend. This was found in a
large, beautiful green space, trees and shrubs shaded many ways, that he
hardly stately walls and handsome buildings by this high density and
nature through planting was noted, and a friendly reception of the
three, which is gradually herbeifanden , finally broke into a conversation
on what everyone contributed his own, whose contents we do in the
near future together.

"As your trusted us your son," they said, "we are guilty, you
deeper into our process to look into it. You've seen some external, which
is not immediately be understanding with him, what your wishes them
especially open-minded? "" Decent, but strange gestures and greetings
hab 'I noticed the importance of which I wished to know, when you refer
certainly the exterior to the interior, and vice versa; this regard let
me know.

"Wohlgeborne, healthy children", those displaced, "bring a lot to do
with the nature has given everything to each what he needed time and
duration would have been, that to develop is our duty, often develops's
better by itself But no one brings to the world, and yet this is what
everything arrives so that the man after all sides had a man. Can you
find it yourself, then say it from. " Wilhelm thought a short time
and then shook his head.

That, after a decent delay, cried out: "awe!" Wilhelm stutzte. "Awe!"
it was repeated. "All she is missing, maybe you own Three gesture you've
seen, and we transmit a threefold reverence, which, if it zusammenfließt
and a whole, only its highest strength and impact achieved.
The first is reverence for the things about us is. That gesture, arms
kreuzweis on the chest, a cheerful look to the sky, that's what we hang
up, minor child, while the testimony of them require that a god was up
there because that is in the parents, teachers, bosses maps and
revealing.

The second: the reverence for what is among us. The folded on its back,
as it tied the hands, reduced, smiling glance say that the earth and
probably have to be clear, it gives the opportunity for food, they
granted unspeakable delights, but disproportionate suffering it brings.
If one is physically damaged, indebtedness or innocent, if he intentionally
or accidentally others injured when he accepts the earthly suffering
inflicted to remember ', he probably: because such a threat accompanies
him his life long.

But from this position we liberate our pupil as soon as possible,
immediately if we are convinced that the teaching of this degree he
earned enough to have, but then we read it to Ermann, comrades turned
against them after the set. Now he stands and Strack boldly, not
selbstisch scattered only in conjunction with his peers, he fronts
against the world.

Next, we would have nothing to add. "" It lit me!

" returned Wilhelm, "that is why the quantity is probably so amiss,
because it is only in the element of Mißwollens and comfortable
Mißredens; who survived this, behaves soon even indifferent to God,
despise the world, spitefully against his peers, the real, real,
essential self-esteem but destroyed in conceit and arrogance. Allow
me, nevertheless, went Wilhelm continued, "to that one: If you have not
always been the fear of raw powerful nations against natural phenomena
and otherwise inexplicable, unknowing full events held for the
germ, resulting in a higher sense, a purer spirit gradually evolve
"This said that:" The nature is probably under fear, but fear not,
fear is a known or unknown powerful being, the Strong is looking
to combat the weak to avoid both want to get rid of it and feel
happy when they it eliminated a short time, if their nature is to
enjoy freedom and independence again produced somewhat.

The natural man repeated this operation million times in his life,
from the fear he aspires to freedom, the freedom from it in the
fear-driven and comes to nothing.

It is easy to fear, but cumbersome, to cherish reverence is hard, but
comfortable. Ungern man decides to reverence, or rather never decides
there is a greater sense of its nature must be given and the only
especially the beneficiaries from themselves, which is also why
traditionally for saints, for the gods hold.

Here lies the dignity, here the business of all genuine religions,
which are also only dreie there, after the objects against which
they apply their devotion.

"The men stopped, Wilhelm was silent for a while thinking, because
it is not arrogance but the felt the sense of those strange words
to interpret, so he asked the worthy, in their talks to continue
what he wants because even once traveling.

"No religion", they said, "that is founded on fear, is respected
among us.

In awe, the man has to be careful, he can, he gives honor, kept his honor,
he is not with themselves veruneint as in that case.

The religion based on reverence for what is about us, based on what
we call the ethnic, it is the religion of the people happy and the
first detachment of a low-fear, all the so-called pagan religions
are of this type, they like the way, name , as they want.

The second religion, the reverence to those founded before we have
what we have is what we call the philosophical: for the philosopher,
who is in the middle, everything must be higher to be down, everything
is up to Low draw, and only in this state means he deserves the
name of the ways.

By now the relationship with his peers and thus to all mankind, the
relationship to all other terrestrial environments, necessary and
accidental, through, he lives alone in the cosmic sense of truth.

Now, however, is from the third to talk about religion, founded on
reverence for what is among us, and we call it the Christian,
because in such a Sinnesart her most revealing: it is a last, to
which humanity can come and had.

But what belonged to the earth is not alone among themselves and to be
subject to a higher place of birth to rely, but also lower and
poverty, mockery and contempt, disgrace and misery, suffering and
death as divine recognize sin itself, and yes crime is not as
obstacles but as Fördernisse to venerate the saints and liebzugewinnen.

Of which there are certainly traces of all time, but Trace is not
objective, and because once this is achieved, the majority
is not back, and we must say that the Christian religion, as it once
appeared, can not disappear as they once divinely embodied, not again
be like. "" Which of these religions is committed in particular
because you? "said Wilhelm." At all three, "replied that," because
they really bring together the true religion apparent, from these three
is the source of the highest reverence reverence, the reverence
for himself, and that evolve from this again, so that man to reach
the highest, to achieve what he is capable, that he himself to hold
the best may what God and nature have produced, so that he can spend
this amount, without any arrogance and Selfhood pulled back into
the Church to be. "" Such a confession in this way that baffled me
not, "returned Wilhelm," it comes with all agree that what we in
the life here and there hears only one that unites you, what other
separates.

"Then those displaced:" Already, this commitment by a large part of the
world, particularly, but unconsciously. "" How, and because where?

"asked Wilhelm." In credo! " cried out loud that, "because the
first article is ethnically and belongs to all peoples, the second
Christian, for the suffering of combatants and glorified in Leiden,
the third most recently taught an enthusiastic community of saints,
which means the highest degree of good practices and .

If, therefore, the three divine persons, under whose name and likeness
of such beliefs and promises are very, not much cheaper for the
highest unit apply?

"" I thank you, "assured that" that you do this, as an adult, the
three meaning alien species are not so clearly and coherently
pronounce want, and when I think back now that her children until
this high doctrine as sensual character, then with a few symbolic
appeal survived the first and last interpretation developed them,
I must approve it höchlich "."

Quite right, "replied that," but now you must know more, so you
are convinced that your son is in good hands was. But this business
will stay for the morning hours, rest and refreshed you, so that
your us , fun and totally human, tomorrow morning in the interior
can follow.

"Second Chapter in the hands of the oldest joined now by our friend a
good portal into a much more round or octagonal hall, with paintings
ausgeziert was so abundant that they are the arrival sat in amazement.

He easily understood that everything he saw, a significant sense would
have if he just is not the same so quickly was able to decipher.

He was just about to make his companion, therefore, to question
this as invited him sideways into a gallery to enter, which, on the
one side open to a spacious, flower garden surrounded.

The wall, however, drew more than this heitre, natural jewelry eyes in
itself: because it was perfectly painted, and the arrival could
not be long reciprocating without notice that the holy books of the
Israelites the substance to these images were supplied. " It is
here, "said the eldest," where we transmit that religion that I did
because of the brevity of the ethnic have mentioned.

The same content can be found in the history of the world, just as the
shell in the same events.

On the return of the fates entire peoples, it will actually understand.
"" You did, "said Wilhelm," I see that the Israelite nation to
honor its history and may show the essence of this representation
made, or rather you did it to the main items that made ."--" As you
see, "returned the old man," because you will notice that in the
sockets and Friesen not only as a synchronistic symphronistische
acts and events are listed by equivalent among all the peoples and
the same messages appear significant.

So you saw here, if the main fields of Abraham his gods in the form
of beautiful young men visited the Apollo among shepherds Admets
top of the friezes, which we can learn that if the gods to appear
human, they usually walk undetected among them.

"The viewer exceeded further. Wilhelm was mostly known objects, but
vibrant and important that, as otherwise he was accustomed to see.
little more than he asked some explanation from, although he could
not contain, even to ask why the Israelite history, above all others
elected.

This was the eldest replied: "Of all the pagan religions, such as the
Israelite also has these great advantages, of which I will mention
only some.

Before Judge ethnic chairs, in front of the judges chair of the God of
nations, will not be asked whether it the best, the great nation,
but only whether they daure whether they had received.

The Israeli people have never getaugt much as his leader, judge, governor,
prophets have accused a thousand times, it has little virtue and
the most of the errors of other nations, but of independence,
strength, courage, and if everything is no longer valid, it looks
to Zäheit his peers.

It is the persistent people of the earth, it is, it was, it will
be able to by the name Jehovah all times to glorify.

But it's all wasted breath.

And all the while Pasha Dar Bunda, alias Don Carlos Vogel, stands there
smilin' polite and waitin' patient. This was rejected with violence,
saying: "Know your _Haced sovereign that I did not offer anyone, you
understand? _.

With the money and answer the messenger returned to the Queen, who felt
a slight degree so marked, but trying to restrain his anger, was
content to pay a larger one with which the offer was not leaving the
church before that the Royal entourage. The perspicacity of Doña Juana
did present something on this and do not be deceived, because they
already finished the Mass, the family began to meet, yet she remained
in the church.

The queen looked a little on the street, but Doña Juana unaware that
doing all this, remained in that position a long time, then going alone
to the palace. Hablillas Everything is returning to the Court on the
remaining esplicado snub, and have spent more Archduke succeed if it
is not apologizing to his wife who was shot was directed, so he had to
rush to shorten your trip to Spanish soil. day had already begun in
1502, when they made their entry into Spain by Fuenterrabia. In this
capital city looked upon recommendation of the D. Fernando and Queen
Isabel, Don Bernardo de Sandoval y Rojas, who accompanied by Burgos,
Valladolid and Madrid to Toledo, the point where they were called
the Cortes of the kingdom, and where jurors were then inherited the
crown of Spain, who estimated May 22 was the same year of 1502.

After jurors also became the kingdoms of Aragon and Valencia, where they
accompanied their parents travel. Back espedicion and this had to stop
in Alcala de Henares a result of being near birth Doña Juana.

All parties that are prepared in the court to the heirs archduke, who
had stopped to run after the double objective of the new birth of
a prince, which took effect on 10th March 1503 with the birth of
the infant Don Fernando I then happened to the Emperor Charles V
in the empire of Germany.

The events which had by then in the states of Philip the Fair, you
will not be allowed to continue any longer in Spain: so is determined
to march instantly, even against their will, not enough or the pleas
of his mother, Doña Juana nor to make you abandon your efforts.

From this time dates the fatal madness of the mother of many kings.

Since this time he was so miserable muger deserves a better fate. Anyone
who knows what they are jealous of those who can judge Doña Juana had
therefore to be presumed that his shadow would snatch a husband so dear.
Philip in turn had paid the fair value love him, but he was
estinguiendo, no enthusiasm and repeated praise of his wife, and
this feeling will not cause his departure, ensuring even before
this was in response to the indisposition of his birth.

The entourage that accompanied Doña Juana, forming their servitude,
when it came to Flanders for his wedding, was a young girl, which
was the admiration of all.

Blonde beauty had a pleasant and seductive, too funny, and a talent
estraordinario.

Found in the palace of the Archduke, which led to Philip the Handsome of
Spain back, once rid of unbounded praise of Doña Juana, the look for
this adhesion, which concluded at the end of blind passion for the
charms of the blonde Spanish, whose magnificent golden hair came
to seduce her heart. did not take long to succumb to the repeated
request of Philip, which was a few days to no more than a servant
and who now occupied the place of a queen.

It seems, though, that this Wells party had been sort of a partner of
Pyramid's back in the early days. Some sort of a buyers' pool for
Eastern coal deliveries, I believe it was, that Hackett had got into
accidental and nursed along until he found himself dividin' the cream of
the profits with only half a dozen others. Since you were so truly a
vibrant white woman in your family! "" Still of these things, "she the
princess seriously, almost unmutes," we should not so glibly talk
about things that you can not deny their nature and yet never
explained.

It is now my 'Othello,' "she added kindly." And you will not see him
get Baron, and have their favorite piece of advice already elsewhere.
"" And you should see it anyway, "Sophie whispered to him, "I have my
Desdemonalied again hear really see and hear on stage, and should
I be about the victims!"

"You?" asked the stranger affected, "I hear yes, the ghost will Mohr
just burn, not kill? "" Oh, that was just the likeness of the mother,
"she whispered even more quietly," the legend is still shudder much,
much more dangerous. "The conductor tapped the introduction of the
second act began , and the stranger stood on the royal box to leave. The
duchess had dismissed him kindly, but in vain, it was not in
accordance with the envoys to, he was probably long since returned
to his lodge.

Undecided whether to go right or left must stand in the corridor, as a
warm hand into his set, he looked up, it was the Count Zronievsky 3.
"So I have rather seen?" cried the count, "my major, my gallant Major!
Like everything lives in me! I throw these unfortunate thirteen years
from me and I am glad Lancier as usual! Poniatowsky Vive, vive l'emp-""
For God's sake, Count! "He remembered the stranger in the word,"
remember where you are.

And why they conjure up the shade? They are down with their time, let the
dead rest. "" Rest? "Replied that" this is precisely what I can not o
that I would be among those killed, as gently as I wanted to rest patiently.
They sleep, my valiant Poland, and no voice, how powerful they are
called, frightens them.

Why may I not rest alone? "
"That might be a good plan," says Steele, "if he was still a widower;
but it appears that he has married again,--a young woman too, some
waitress that he met in a quick-lunch place. I saw her. Bah! One of
these plump, stupid young females, who appeared in a dingy dressing gown
with her hair down. What an old fool! But I suppose she takes care of
him, in a way. So I thought that an annuity, of say a thousand or two,
paid in monthly installments, would be the wisest. Was she nice if
they are under the chandeliers her moving, so it was still infinitely
more illuminated by the soft glow of the lamp. We were then come back and
stood a moment when reversing breastfeeding. I do not know what happened
to me the audacity abnötigte, I do not know how I could dare, in the
indifferent conversation at once her hand to grasp this delicate
hand to kiss it on my heart to press.

You do not put them away. "Celestial beings," I cried, "you no longer
hide from me. If, in this beautiful heart lives a tendency for the
lucky, who stands before you, so they no longer hide, open it,
admit it!

It is the most beautiful, it is high time. Banish me or take me in your
arms up! "I do not know what I said, I do not know how I gebärdete.
They are not removed, they are not reluctant, they did not reply. I dared
them in my arms to act, to ask them whether they wanted to be mine.
I kissed it with vehemence, they pushed me away .-- "Yes, but, yes!"
or so she said something like halblaut and confused. I removed myself
and cried: "I send my father, let me talk !"--" Not a word with
him about it!"

Exclaimed she, by some steps they follow me. "Remove yourself, forget
about what happened." "What the Major thought we do not want to
develop. He said, however, to the son:" What do you think now, what
to do? They thing is, dächt 'I, off the cuff well enough that we
have something formal to go to work, that it may very decorous, if I
am there tomorrow and sign for you to continue. "-" For God's sake ,
my father! "he exclaimed," that would spoil the whole thing. That
demeanor, that sound will no formality to be disturbed and out of
tune.

It is enough, my father, that your presence that connection speeds without
having to pronounce a word. Yes, you are there, which I am guilty of my
happiness!

Respect for you my beloved has vanquished any doubt, and never would the
son of a so fortunate moment have found him if the father had not
prepared.

"These and similar messages carry until deep into the night. They are
mutually united through their plane, the Major wanted at the beautiful
widow, only the form of a farewell visit, and then its connection
with Hilari go, the son should carry his speed and how it possible would
be. The fourth chapter of our beautiful widow made a morning visit to
Major in order to leave and, if it were possible, the intent with
his son to promote decency.

He found it in the morning petite clothing in the company of an older lady,
who by a highly civilized friendly nature alsobald received him. The grace
of the disciples, the decorum of the earlier put the couple in the
most desirable equilibrium, it also seemed to be reciprocal behavior
suggests that they belonged to each other.

The younger seemed to be diligently worked ourselves from yesterday
Wallet known to have just completed, because after receiving the usual
greetings and binding words of a welcome appearance she turned to
friend and gave the artificial works out like a conversation
interrupted by referring again: "So you see that I'm finished but
if are equal, and some hesitation because of the appearance of seams
had not. "" They are just right, Mr Major, "said the older," to
decide our dispute, or at least for one or the other party to
declare, I say, you catch a Such weitschichtige not work without a
person to remember that it has determined it is not completed without
a thought.

Inspect the work yourself, because that is called 'I am cheap, so
if like no purpose could be.

"Our major work was indeed ascribe all applause. Braided portion, sometimes
embroidered, they also attracted the admiration of the request,
to know how it was done.

The colorful silk managed, but also was the spurned not gold enough,
they did not know whether or taste glory should admire more.

"There is still a lot to deal with it," exclaimed the Beautiful, by making
the loop of the band handled aufzog back and consult with the
employees inside. "I will not argue," she continued, "but I will tell
how I felt when such business is.

As a young girl we are accustomed to with your fingers and tifteln
with the idea umherzuschweifen; both left us, we have gradually replaced
the serious and delicate work manufacture learn, and I do not deny
that I have any work of this kind always have adequate follow
thoughts, to persons in states in joy and sorrow.

And so I was worth and the fraction of the Perfect, I dare say, precious.
As such now had I the slightest hold of something, the easiest
work won a value, and the only difficult but also by the fact that
while the memory was full and rich.

Friends and lovers, and high venerable people believe 'I therefore always
like to be able to offer, they also recognized it and knew that I
them something of my own over that, and often unpronounceable, but
as a pleasant gift to unite, as always a friendly greeting wohlgefällig
was recorded.

"On such a lovely affirmation of dignity, was hardly a possible reply,
but knew the girlfriend on the other hand, something in melodious
words to add.

The Major, however, have always been accustomed to the charming
wisdom of Roman writers and poets to appreciate and their bright
expressions memory einzuprägen remembered some here do well matching
verses guard, but in order not to appear as a pedant, to pronounce
it or even its only mention, however, tried to avoid dumb and
mindless to appear off the cuff a prosaic paraphrase, but not quite
able to, so the conversation almost faltered would.

The old lady took so after admission to the friend's book down, it
was a collection of poetry, which has just the attention of the
girls employed; This gave the opportunity of poetry ever to speak,
but the entertainment was not long in general, because even the
earliest known woman room trusting that they are of the poetic
talent of the majors are taught. you had the son, even at the
honorary title of a poet not hid his intentions from the poems of
his father talked a lot also recites, in essence, to talk with a
poetic origins to flatter and, as usual, the youth, for a
vorschreitenden, the growing capabilities of the father to give
youth bescheidentlich can.

The Major, however, who sought to withdraw because he simply as
Literator and lovers are wanted, looked, as he had left no way out,
at least avoid, by the Dichtart where he had practiced all appropriate
for subaltern and almost wanted for non-scientific views, he could
not deny that he is in person, what is descriptive and in a sense
instructive called, had made some attempts.

The ladies, especially the younger, took Dichtart to this, they said: "If
is reasonable and wants to live quietly, but which because of any
last wish and intention of human remains, what excited us because
the system that incites us arbitrarily, without something to give
us concern to us because we as yet again to leave, is infinitely
more pleasant to me, because I do not even like poetry devoid likes
those cheerful places in me, where I recognize myself believe me
the basic value of the single-Rural to mind leads me through the
bushy groves Forest, unvermerkt to a height to the sight of a Landsee
leads, as well as probably only grown over hills, then waldgekrönte
levels rise and the blue mountains in the end a satisfactory form
paintings.

Bring it all to me in clear rhythms and rhymes, so I am on my sofa
grateful that the poet an image in my imagination has developed,
in which I can enjoy a quiet, as if I do, after tiring journey,
perhaps in another , unfavorable circumstances eyes see.

"The Major, the vorwaltende conversation only as a means that was his
purpose to carry, looked up again after the lyrical poetry add contact,
what his son had done really laudable. It contradicted him not outright,
but we looked at it from the way wegzuscherzen, which he had entered,
particularly as it is based on a passionate poems seemed to hint,
so the son of the incomparable Dame strong inclination of his heart
are not without power and skill was looking forward.

"Songs of the lovers," said the beautiful woman, "I like neither
out nor planned; happy lovers envy you, eh 'man's versions are, and
always make us wretched boredom."

This was the older lady, on her girlfriend turned Holden, on the floor and
said: " Why make such a digression, lose the time In circumstances
against a man whom we revere and love? Should we not trust him, that
we be graceful poem, which he Wacker passion for hunting in all its
details, maintains, partly the pleasure to know, and ask him now, even
the whole thing is not to withhold? Her son, "she continued," gave us
some points with vivacity from the memory and made us curious, the
link to see.

"When the father once again on the talents of the son to return and
wanted to emphasize this, let the ladies do not apply, by making
it obvious excuse to respond in order to fulfill their desires
indirectly rejected.

He did not go until he unbewunden had promised to send the poem, but then
the conversation took a turn, which prevented him, in favor of son
continues to make something, especially since all of this he had
discouraged intrusiveness.

Since it is now time seemed to leave, and therefore the friend also
made some movement, said the beauty with a kind of embarrassment, so they
only grew more beautiful by the freshly knotted loop wallet carefully
zurechtzupfte: "Poets and lovers have long been, unfortunately, a
reputation that their promises and pledges not much to trust it,
so forgive if I have the word of a man's honor to doubt, and therefore
a dare deposit, a Treupfennig not ask, but do.

Take this wallet, it has something similar from your hunting poem,
lots of memories are attached to, some time passed under the work,
she is finally ready, you use the same as a courier, give us your
lovely work to bring about.

"With such an unexpected offer of the Major felt really affected the
delicate splendor of this administration had no relation at all to
what is usually surrounded him, on the other, which he served,
that he is, although dargereicht, could hardly zueignen, but he
together, and how his memory a traditional Good never failed, it
became a classic place him immediately into the memory.

Only it would have been pedantic, it should be mentioned, but suggested
they have a clear idea of him that he is off the cuff like to paraphrase
Thanks to a friendly and elegant compliment attitude towards the
case was closed and so is because this scene in a satisfactory
manner for all interviews.

So he found himself without the least embarrassment in not a pleasant
relationship intertwined, he had to send promised to write ,
committed, and if he is aware of the initiative was somewhat
uncomfortable, so he had it for one appreciate happiness, a cheerful
way with the women's room in relation to remain with their major
advantages are as close to him should belong.

He is not retired without a certain inner satisfaction, because how could
the poet such encouragement does not feel his treufleißiger work,
so long neglected place, quite unexpectedly gracious attention.

Immediately after his return to the neighborhood of the Major sat
down to write , his good sister to report everything, and there
was nothing more natural than that in his presentation some Exaltation
is hervortat, as he felt himself, but by the defense as his from
time to time Son even more disturbing was increased.

On the Baroness made this letter a very mixed feeling, because even if
the fact of making the connection with brother Hilari transported
and could be speeded up, was capable of it very happy, so it wanted
but the beautiful widow did not like, but they are so Accountability
would have to give thought.

We take this opportunity to make the following remark. The enthusiasm
for any one of a woman must never trust others, they know each other too
well to get such an exclusive devotion worthy to keep. The men come
before them as buyer in the shop, where the merchant with his goods which
he knows, is at an advantage, even in the best light to gain the opportunity
to exercise, then, against the buyer always with a kind of innocence
hereintritt, he requires the goods, wants and wishes and rarely
even sees it with expert eyes to be considered. That knows quite well
what he is, this is not always what it receives. But it is once in life
and handling do not change, so laudable as necessary because all desire
and Free, Swap and Buy everything based on it. In the wake of such a
feeling more than observe that the baroness was not with the passion
of the Son, even with the favorable portrayal of the father totally
satisfied it was surprised by the happy turn of thing, but had a
idea for a double inequality of age will not reject.

Hilari is too young for her brother, the widow of the son not young
enough, however, the case has taken its course, which seems unstoppable.
A pious wish that everything should go well rose with a faint sigh up.
In order to facilitate her heart, she took the pen and wrote to
those menschenkennende girlfriend, by following a historic entrance
so continued.

"The nature of this young, seductive widow is not unknown to me, women
seem to reject treatment and only one woman to to suffer, it does not
find a record, it flatters, and if their benefits are not dumb
enough dartäten clear, they are still using words and skillful
treatment of attention to recommend white. spectators, participants
in such a representation must be men, so is the need to attract
them, she noted.

I think nothing bad of the beautiful woman, it seems decent and
carefully enough, but such a lascivious vanity may also sacrifices
a little, and what I think for the worst: not everything is reflected
and intentionally, a certain happy disposition leads and protects
them, and nothing is more dangerous to be a coquette gebornen as
one of innocence arising from rashness.

"The Major, is now on the goods arrived, devoted the day and hour of
the inspection and investigation.

He found himself in the case, to note that a real, wohlgefaßter main
idea in the execution of multiple barriers and the crossing of so many
dangers, in the grade that the first term and almost disappears for a
moment quite seems to amidst all the confusion, the possibility of a
spirit of success again, if we time as the best allies of invincible
perseverance we see the hand. And it would also here because of the
sad sight nicer looking, neglected, abused possessions to a states
have become desolate, if you had not by the reasonably insightful
remark while economists predicted that a number of years, with
intelligence and honesty used properly would be to revive the Dead
and the floor finish in machinations to meet at least through
regulation and activity to achieve its purpose.

The comfortable upper marshal was arrived, and with an earnest
advocates, but these were the major concerns is less than that which
belonged to the people who have no purpose or if they have a front,
which means reject. A daily - hourly and comfort him was the indispensable
need of his life. After much hesitation he finally became serious, his
creditors get rid off load the goods, the disarray of his house
being in regulation to put a decent, secure income to enjoy without
worrying , on the other hand, but not the least of the usual drive
past it.

On the whole, he confessed everything, the siblings in the undisturbed
possession of the goods, especially in the main good, should, but to a
certain neighboring pavilion, in which he every year on his birthday,
the oldest friends and the latest friend invited also be located on
the garden, which they have joined the main building, he wanted the
claims are not totally give up. The Meuble in which everyone should stay
home like the engravings on the walls as well as the fruits of his
espaliers insured. Peaches and strawberries from the sophisticated
varieties of pears and apples, large and tasty, but especially a
certain gray variety, small apples, which he has many years of
Princess widow was accustomed to worship, should be faithfully
delivered to him.

This included still other terms, less significant, but the owners,
tenants, managers, gardeners extremely arduous. The Chief Marshal was
also the best of humor, because he thought the ride was not that
everything according to his wishes, as his easy temperament vorgespiegelt
had finally set up would, so he arranged for a good table, made a few
hours on an effortless hunt the required movement, told stories and stories
revealed by the heiterste face, but he resigned in the same manner, thanked
the Major's most beautiful that he was so brotherly procedural, demanded
some money, let the small stock gray gold apples, which this year
were very well advised to carefully pack and went with this treasure,
which he welcomed as a devotion to the Duchess of thought, widow
after her office, where he also received graciously and cheerfully
promised.

The Major stayed at his side with very opposite feelings and would
be back to the conjunctures that he was in front, almost desperate,
he would not feel too Hülfe come to the an active man joyfully
erected, when he confused to solve than entworren front may hope
to see.

Fortunately, a legal advocate of the man who, because otherwise he
had much to do, this matter soon finished.
They'll keep a day or so, won't they?"

"Not while I'm as hungry as I am now," says she. "And I'm dog tired too.
Young man, where'll we find a good, respectable tavern around here?"

"A which?" says I. "Oh! I get you--hotel. Now let's see. Why, I expect
the best thing you can do is to jump in one of these motor buses and
ride down to--no, I might's well go along, as it's right on my way home.
Here's one coming now."

So we piles in, umbrella, pies, and all, and inside of half an hour
I've landed the whole shootin' match safe in a two-fifty air-shaft room
in one of those punk little ten-story hotels down in the 40's. I showed
'em how to work the electric light switch, got 'em some ice water, and
pointed out the fire escape. In fact, I done everything but tuck 'em in
bed, and I had said good-night twice and was makin' my getaway, when
Mrs. Leavitt follows me out into the hall, shuttin' Hubby in by himself.

"Just one thing more, Mr. McCabe," says she. "I guess you needn't say
anything to Twombley-Crane about our bein' here."

"Oh!" says I. "Goin' to spring it on him to-morrow yourself?"

"Maybe," says she, "and then again maybe I won't go near 'em at all. I'm
going to think it over."

"I see," says I. "But I expect Mr. Leavitt will be up."

"What, alone?" says she. "Him? Not much!"

"Oh!" says I, and while I didn't mean it to show, I expect I must have
humped my eyebrows a little. Anyway, she comes right back at me.

"Well, why should he?" she demands.

"Why, I don't know," says I; "only he--he's the head of the house, ain't
he?"

"No, he ain't," says she. The task of the creators is to draw up laws, not
laws to follow. Anyone who follows current law, listen to a creative
artists to be. [12] [12] a post is not overtaken him, should have
said Michel Angelo.

And on the useful application of the "copies" expresses much dramatic
an Italian saying.

The creative power is so apparent, as they are independent of traditions
to make the interview. But the deliberate circumvention of the
laws can not feign creativity, much less produce. The genuine creators
desired basically just completing. And by this he with his individuality
in line brings absichtslos created a new law. * * * * * Routine is highly
valued and often requested, in the music "officials" will be sought.
That routine in the music at all that they exist and also to a condition
required by the musician can be done but again shows the narrow limits
of our music. Routine means to obtain and use less experience and
tricks of all occurring cases. Thus there must be an amazing number
of related cases.

Now I dream like a kind of art practice, in which each new case,
an exception would be!

How would the army of practitioners and help inactive before it would
finally retreat and disappear. The routine converts the temple of
art in a factory. They destroyed the work. Because creativity is: from
nothing to create. The routine but thrives in reproduction. It is the
'poetry, which can command. " Because it corresponds to the general
public, it is. In the theater, the orchestra, the virtuoso, in the
classroom. One would call: avoid the routine that starts every time,
as if it never would have started, know nothing, but thinks and
fühlet! Because you see, the millions of ways, which once heard, they
are available since the beginning, ready to float in the ether and
with them millions of others who have never heard. You need only to
grab her and hold a flower, a touch of the sea breath, a ray of
sunshine in your hand, avoid the routine, because it takes up only
after that is your office satisfied, and again after the same: so
comfortable, you will that you no longer rises from the chair and
just after the very effective.

And millions of ways are available since the beginning, waiting to reveal
itself! * * * * * "That is my misfortune that I have no routine," Wagner
writes once to Liszt, as with the composition of the "Tristan" is not
forward wanted. This pretended to Wagner and masked before others.
He had too much routine, and its composition machinery remained stuck,
once the knot was in it, the only inspiration was to be solved.
Although Wagner led him, if he succeeded, the routine to leave aside,
but he had not really possessed, then he would have claimed it without
bitterness. After all, is expressed in the Wagner's letter set the
proper artistic contempt for the routine out, as far as him that he
dünkende low property itself and prevents abspricht that other
grant it.

He praises himself and, on so ironic and desperate.

It is indeed unfortunate that the composition increases, but plenty of
comfort with the knowledge that his genius on the cheap handling of
the routine is, while it reverses the decision, since he painfully
admits, a general estimate of the craft and associated non-mastery
have to be appropriated. The sentence is a masterpiece of the instinctive
cunning of minds - but shows us (and that is our goal) the lesser of the
routine in the work. * * * * * So closely has become our Tonkreis so
stereotypical its expression that there is currently no known motive,
on which no other known motif adapted so that it is at the same
time with the first could be played.

To me, not here to lose games in [13], I have abstained each example.
[13] Such a gimmick, I once with a friend, scherzeshalber to
determine how many of the popular music tracks according to the
scheme of the second theme in the Adagio Ninth Symphony were formed.

In a few moments we had at fifteen analogies of different species together,
including the best art.

And Beethoven himself is the theme of the finale of the "fifth"
other than that which the "second" you Allegro ansagt?

And as the main motive of the third piano concerto, this time in the
minor? Suddenly, one day, it seemed clear: that the development of music
in our musical instruments fail. The flowering of the composer to the
study of scores. If "creative" as I defined it, a "form from nothing"
means (and it can mean nothing else) - if music - (this I have
also expressed) - for the "originality", namely its own pure essence is
to aspire to (a "Return", which is the "next" to be) - if they are
conventions and formulas as a timeworn garment store in a beautiful
and nudity should be denounced; - Drange this is the first musical tools
through. The tools are in their scope, their Klangart and its execution
are festgekettet, and their one hundred chains must Schaffenwollenden
mitfesseln. Vain each free flight test of the composer and, in the latest
scores and those still in the very near future we will always return
to the peculiarities the clarinets, trombones and violins encounter,
not just the sign may be different than it is in its restriction [14],
which is also the mannered of instrumentalists in the treatment of their
instrument, and the vibrant exuberance of violoncelle, the hesitant
approach of Hornes the uneasy shortness of the oboe, the clarinet
prahlhafte fluency, such that in a new and separate works necessarily
always the same sound and picture are zusammenformt that the
independent composer in all of this into unalterable and will
hinabgezogen. [14] And this is Winning in the Beethoven, that he
of all "modern" tone poem at least the requirements of the instruments
nachgab.

However, it is not to deny that Wagner a "trombone sentence" has
influenced the - for him - in the permanent housing scores increased.

Maybe that not all the possibilities within these limits have been
exploited - the polyphonic harmonies probably still some Klang
phenomenon can generate - but the exhausted waiting safely at the
end of a train, their longest stretch has already come.

Wherever we turn our gaze to which direction the next step? I think the
abstract sound, to smooth technique to tonlichen Unabgegrenztheit.
Then, all efforts must aim for a fresh beginning erstehe virgin.

To create the first-born is the negative, the major task-responsibility
have learned from everything, and apparently, heard the Musical is
exempt order, after the completion of evacuation, a fervently
collected in-aszetische to evoke, it enables the sound to the inner
erlauschen and to further step to reach these people even know.

The Giotto of a musical Renaissance is the consecration of the
radical personality Aryan crown.

The first revelation is then an era of religious Musikgeschäftigkeit
follow, there is no guild system can have a part, as far as the
professions and initiated evident, and only those which will be
demonstrating.

At this time the lights fullest flower, perhaps the first in the musical
history of mankind. I also see as the decadence begins and the pure
concepts become confused, and how the Order is profaned ... It is the
fate of later times, and we - today - they are similar to the childhood
of the old age. * * * * * What in today's music Urwesen on their
next moves, the break and Fermat.

Large lecture artists, improvisers, are also aware of this expression
tool in higher dimensions and extensive recycling.

The exciting silence between two sentences, in this environment even music,
can further imagine, than the more specific, but less so stretchy
According to the interview. * * * * * "Characters" are also there, and
nothing else, what we now our "sound system «call. An ingenious makeshift,
something of that eternal harmony note and a pocket edition of that stunted
encyclopaedic work; artificial light instead of sunlight. - Have
you noticed how the people on the illumination of a bright hall
unlock the mouth?

You never do it million times stronger than the midday sun. - And here
are the characters become more important than what they mean, and
can only hint at.

How important is the "third", the "fifth" and the "octave" .

How strict do we distinguish "consonance" and "dissonance" - where there
is dissonance can not exist, we have the octave into twelve equal
distant stages separated because we had to somehow manage, and
have our instruments so that we never above or below or between
them can reach.

Notably, the Keys have our ear thoroughly enrolled, so that we no
longer are able to hear otherwise - as only in the sense of impurity.

And the Nature created an infinite gradation - infinity! who knows it
today? [15] [15] "The twelve gleichschwebende temperature, which has
been discussed theoretically about 1500, but only shortly before
1700 generally has been established (by Andreas Werkmeister), divides
the octave into twelve equal parts (semitones so »Zwölfhalbtonsystem")
and wins so mean, what no interval really clean, but all reasonably
usable intone.

"(Riemann, music lexicon.)

So we have by Andreas Werkmeister, this Werkmeisterschulen in the arts,
the" Zwölfhalbtonsystem "with a loud impure but reasonably usable
intervals won. What is pure and what is impure? Our ears hear a
detuned piano, where perhaps "pure and viable" intervals, are
considered impure in.

The diplomatic Zwölfer system is a necessity makeshift, and yet we
watch on the safeguarding of its imperfections.

Zwölfteiligen And within this octave, we have a sequence of disconnected
intervals, seven to the number, and then asked all of our music. What I
said, a consequence? Two such episodes, the major and minor scales.

If we follow the same distances from one another of the twelve intermediate
stages of a start, there is a new key, and even a stranger!

What a force limited system, this first obscurity showed [16], is in the
statute books to read: let's not repeat it here. [16] It is called
"harmony".

We teach twenty-four keys, twelve times the two seven episodes, but we
have in fact only two: the major scale and minor tonality. The others
are just transpositions. One wants the individual transpositions a
different character to hear but that is deception. In England, where the
high atmosphere, the best-known works by half a tone higher played, as
they are listed without their effect is changed. Singers to transpose
their convenience and their aria, which precedes and that follows
untransponiert play.

Lieder composers give their own works are not rare in three different
heights out of the notation, the pieces remain in all three editions
completely the same.

When a familiar face from the window, it shall be the same, whether
it is from the first or the third floor herabschaut.

Could a region as far as the eye can see, several hundred meters
to increase or deepen the scenic picture would still win nothing
to lose. * * * * * The two seven episodes, the major key and minor
key, you have all the music - is one of restricting calls the other.

It has given each of the two assigned a certain character, you have
learned and taught them as opposites be heard, and gradually they have
the importance of symbols achieved - major and minor - _Maggiore e
Minore_ - satisfaction and unsatisfactory - joy and sorrow - light and
shadow.

The symbols have the harmonious expression of music, from Bach to Wagner
and continues until today and tomorrow, fenced off. [17] Moll is used
in the same intention and practice the same effect on us, now as
two hundred years ago.

Trauermarsch One can is no longer "compose", because he is already in
place for all.

Even the uneducated layman knows what awaits him as soon as a funeral
march - any! - Sounds. Even the layman feels the difference between a
major and minor Symphony advance. [17] So I wrote the 1906th The
ten years since verflossenen have our ear a little bit to help
educate. * * * * * Strange that one major and minor as opposites
feels.

They both wear the same face, serene and serious respectively, and
a small enough brush strokes, one in the other order.

The transition from one to the second point is subtly and effortlessly
- it happens often and rapidly, so the two begin to merge unerkenntlich
flicker. - But we recognize that major and minor, an ambiguous and
that the whole "twenty-four keys" eleven times just a transposition
of those first two, so we arrive casually aware of the unity of our
key system.

The terms used by alien and fall off - and thus the whole theory
of entangled degrees and proportions. We have a single key. But it is
very meager Art * * * * * "unity of the key." - "You probably think
'key' and 'keys' are the sunbeam and its decomposition in colors?

Nay, I can not believe. Because our whole sound, tonality and key system
as a whole is itself only part of a fraction of a beam of sun dissected
"Music" on the sky of the "eternal harmony". * * * * * As much as devotion
to the familiar and inertia in of man and nature are - are so much
energy and opposition to the existing features everything living.
Nature has its tricks and transferred the people who are against progress
and changes unruly people, nature constantly moves and changes
continued unremittingly, but in so evenly and imperceptible movement,
that people only see a halt.

Only the further review shows them the Surprising that they were
cheated.

Therefore excites the "reformer" nuisance to the people of all
times, because its changes too abruptly, and above all, because
they are perceived.

The Reformer is - in comparison to nature - undiplomatically, and it
is quite logical that its changes only valid when the time to jump again
performed independently on their fine imperceptible way in advance.
But there are cases where the Reformer with the same time step was,
however, lagged behind the other. And since you need to compel and to
lash the anchor on the line failed to jump.

I believe that the major and minor tonality and its trans-position
relative to the "Zwölfhalbtonsystem" such a display case of backwardness.
The fact that some have felt, as the intervals of the seven follow-ordered
or otherwise (graduated) can be isolated in moments when Liszt and in
today's musical outspoken forward motion came to appearance. The urge
and the desire and the instinct to speak out talented. But it seems
to me not that a deliberate and orderly presentation of this increased
expression to have formed. I've made the attempt, all the possibilities
of variation of seven-win result, and it was me, through humiliation
and increase the intervals noted 113 different scales.

The 113 scales (within the octave _C_-_C_) understand the major part
of the famous »24 keys," but also a number of new modes of distinctive
character. But it is the treasure is not exhausted, because the
"transposition" of each of the 113, we also still open and also
the blending of two (and why not more?)

Such keys in harmony and melody. The scale of it _c fes ges as b c_ already
sounds significantly different than the _des_ minor scale, if you
_c_ accepts as its root.

Considering you have the usual _C_ major triad harmony than under,
so there is a new harmonious sensation.

You hear the same scale but alternately, from _A_ Minor, Major _Es_ and
_C_ Major triad-based, and you will have the most pleasant surprise at
the strange sound well can not help. Where, however, a legislator of the
sounds it _c fes gah c_ | _c f tot of it ah c_ | _c d fes ges it ah c_
| _c the ef ges from c_ | or: _c d is fixed ais g h c_ | _c d is fixed
gis ah c_ | _c of it fis gis ab c_ classified like what riches are
thus for the melodic and harmonic expression to the ear opening is
not immediately be seen, a lot of new opportunities is undoubtedly
adopt and at first glance. * * * * * With this representation should
the final unity of all keys issued and justified. Kaleidoscopic
Durcheinanderschütteln of twelve semitones in the three-mirror
chamber of taste, feeling and intention: the nature of today's
harmony. * * * * * The present harmony and no longer in the long
run: because everything proclaims a revolution and a next step to
that "eternal «.

Recall, we again show the gradation of the octave is infinite, and we seek,
the infinity is a little closer to us. The third Elton beating
for some time at the gate, and we still hear his message.

Who, as I have done so, albeit modest, experimented, and - be it
with the throat or on a violin - between a whole two evenly protruding
Zwischentöne turns on, the ear and held the meeting, will come to
inspect his that sounds totally independent third intervals of
distinctive character, with disgruntled tones not to be confused.

It is a refined chromaticism, which we provisionally ganztönigen on the
scale seems to be based.

We ran the same abrupt, so we denied the semitones, losing the
"minor third" and the "pure fifth," and this loss would be felt
more strongly than the relative gain of a "Eighteen third Elton
system."

There is no apparent reason, with the seinetwegen semitones tidy.
Keep us to every whole tone a semitone, we get a second series of
whole-tones, by half a tone higher than the first. We divide this second
series of whole-tones into thirds parts, then it is clear to every
tone of the lower third a corresponding number in the upper half. This
is actually a Sechsteltonsystem emerged, and that once Sechsteltöne will
talk, then we can trust. The sound that I just design, but is being heard
by the third tones fill without having to renounce the semitones.
[Illustration] To sum up: We are either two-thirds of tones series,
separated by half a tone away, on, or three Zwölfhalbtonreihe the
usual interval of one third Elton.

Let us call to make them somehow to be distinguished, the first clay
_C_, and the next two thirds of tones _Cis_ and _Des_; the first half
(small-) _c_ and its subsequent Dritteile _cis_ and _des_ -- the previous
table explains everything missing. The question of notation, I think
for casual affairs.

Important and threatening, however, is the question of how and what
these sounds generate. It is true that happy that I found during the
work on this essay has a direct and authentic message from America
get what the question in a simple way solves.

It is the statement by Dr. Thaddeus Cahill invention. [18] This man has
an extensive apparatus designed, which enables an electrical current
in a precisely calculated, unalterable number vibrations to transform.

Since the pitch of the number of oscillations depends on the device
and any number you want to "make", so this is the infinite gradation
of the octave is simply the work of a lever, with the quadrants
demonstrate one corresponds

My first step was to secure
the injunction."

"Which worried him, I expect?" says I, winkin' at J. Bayard.

"Quite as much as if I had sent a note by my office boy," says Cuyler.
"He rushed a construction train with two hundred men to the spot and
gave the order himself to tear up our tracks. Well, it was rather a
spirited contest. I mobilized our entire working force, had them sworn
in as deputy sheriffs, and kept three switch engines moving up and down
the line. For forty-eight hours we held them back."

"And then?" says I.

Cuyler executes that careless shoulder shrug once more. "Rifles," says
he. "I suppose I should have retaliated with machine guns; but I
preferred to put my trust in the law of the land. Of course I found out
how absurd that was later on. Gordon crossed our grade. After four or
five years of expensive litigation we gave up. By that time our road had
become part of the Gordon system. As this news reached her, he was brought
in a box and ready embetunada well, because he did not want to live
away from him. This is practiced, and did not allow anyone to enter,
carrying the days and nights contemplating the ruins of the idol of his
love. [*] No kind of entreaties to desist from the move away from
the corpse. In vain were the warnings of Cardinal Cisneros, useless against
those of the ladies and main characters, noting the need to deal
with the affairs of the kingdom.

Cerróse inside the room and sent to a window so that there could send
some food. [* See the engraving that goes in front of this story.]

Many times iban know to make the big changes was that Spain, and
answered that if his son was ready, came to govern, and if not,
your father, she had other duties to fulfill as most sacred widow.

Several of the characters felt, to hear talk to sanity sometimes, if the
loved her husband would have used some spells to make it suffer so
terribly. What the credulity of those times! No trascurrió long without
at the same Queen Doña Juana unbearable it seems that existence,
and shortly after called to Cardinal Cisneros, making it known that
I could not live any longer in the capital where her husband died,
but the Cardinal wanted to stop by then his determination, because
of being in an advanced state of pregnancy, but the will of Doña
Juana was always determined, dared not oppose the mandate.

He moved the court to Valladolid in order expressly to the queen.
With short days left Burgos on December 20 1506, accompanied by an
increased number of subjects with axes on, too many lights Franciscan
friars, the prior of the Carthusian monges and some who said daily Mass
for the soul of the sovereign, whose cash was in the midst of the funeral
procession, followed by car from the unfortunate Doña Juana and the
ladies and gentlemen of his palace. In this way, marched up to Torquemada,
where the queen did not want to move forward, staying with a
clergyman, and spontaneous that the state of his health did not allow
to continue. On January 14 of 1507 gave birth to this town to the
Infanta Doña Catalina. Was sad and sobering to Spain this year. As a
result of poverty and a major shortage, developed a fever that caused
innumerable damage. And you think that despite being the village of
Torquemada one of the most invaded by the epidemic, not enough
entreaties of Cardinal queen to continue his way?

Were many and repeated instances that it will cost to get in late April
to embark on the march again with the same device that at first, but
soon became tired of traveling. When you reach two leagues distant
Hornillos Torquemada, he wanted to fix his residence in it, live
with more comfort spontaneous in a large population.

So once again locked in this small town with the inanimate body of her
husband, not ceasing to speak, and with affection, and with complaints
and counterclaims in which more than their incurable madness.

All of this remained so until gave the news of the coming of his father
to Spain. This news was received with great pleasure, because when expressed
wishes go out to meet with D.

Fernando, in Castile, advirtierdo that had to be in short days and with
the same funeral. Needlessly tire the regent of the kingdom, archbishop
of Toledo, to make day trips without his wife's body, it was all in
vain: so there was no other recourse but to repeat every night burial.
Just walked up to enter Tortola, town where his father was happy
to embrace.

But what was the surprise of D.

Fernando to find his beloved daughter in that situation; desencajados
those eyes, that cadaverous face, and that wandering eyes!

When it comes to memory what had been the cause of her daughter was in
that state, the sentence is drowned, and thick tears sailed her
cheeks.

Doña Juana was motionless _Llorais, father of my heart? _ Said _vuestra
daughter and can not imitate. Surprised when my dear husband, I was
exhausted tears.

Consider what would be my sadness! _ Reached Doña Juana to the last
degree of madness, was entirely crazy, but nevertheless it was the
queen of Spain and its owner name and consent were necessary to
give some character to the acts of government.

This consideration prompted the Catholic king to enter consultations with
his daughter for the better settlement of business and back again
to govern the domain of Spain.

Doña Juana, for her part, admitted without any reply soon proposed
his father, putting only one condition, that they had to leave to stay
in the village of Arcos' _en complete freedom, without having to
intervene in another business, to pass the the remaining days of
this life, next to the body of your esposo._ "a lot of work to make
this change of thought, but it is all useless was granted permission
by sending a ready home in Arcos, dignity of the person who would
live.

More than a year and a half Doña Juana lived in the village of Arcos
without any improvement in all his madness.

Was seen, by some lively discussions this unhappy lady, had the corpse
of her husband, who talks more than madness, and that instead of alleviating
it, the worse. "_Por Do not respondeis me, Philip? _ He said: _callais!
... You will still me !..._» These words PROFERI unfaithful to her
husband, and others that cause shame to hear. From Santa Maria del Campo
wrote D. Ferdinand to his daughter, warning of the need I had to leave
at Tordesillas and making healthy population know was that the town of
Arcos, and therefore had determined, was put off to this point.

Doña Juana, was perfect, as the answer in Arcos. So watching the Catholic
king that his daughter did not accede to their entreaties made the
decision to go looking for it to see if their presence is able to accompany
Tordesillas.

It did so Fernando has been with the influence exerted over her daughter
goes to make that point, but traveling with the same device as in
the other espediciones.

Be the temperament have moved, so the trip was not to their liking, the
fact is that the Queen Doña Juana was becoming more furious, and took
further increase its already incurable disease. Luis Ferrer was the
elder who was in charge of Doña Juana care, and which we could not
see why there was a huge opposition to everything that the charge
did, glad to run the other way around.

If asked, for example, slept in his bed, did so on the ground, if available
to move to another room but decent and well ventilated but closed with
the force of the bolts that was. When it was cold, discard skins and
objects that provide shelter, and the more appeal Luis Ferrer
asease dresses and with more effort went dirty and badly dressed.

Shortly after, he was the head of the mania did not eat or drink, and
had occasion to pass three days without taking anything, until beset by
hunger, took something, and endeavor to send the dishes where you do
not leave food of the room, so that these objects soiled with
others, gave an unbearable smell of that house, it is therefore
impossible to endure.

Moments after that there was a great delusion, had a reason, and
regretted that they had started the crown of his temples, and not
content with a kidnapping their enemies in this genre, had buried
in a dungeon and guarded so heinous by a jailer so despicable.

"These words came with lightning speed in the ears of Catholic D. Fernando,
so the following year of 1510, when they went to the Courts of Monzon,
did visit and made sure everything was assembled a great council to
discuss the method to be observed in proceeding with his daughter
because they knew that the presence of D.

The long-Luis Ferrer, left the board, after having provided that all
necessary toiletries, clothes and food, would be elected twelve ladies
to watch it continuously, and each one will be a sleepless night
to force her to dress, strip shirt and move, even against their will.

Twenty days was accompanying the King Catholic Doña Juana, which was
fair enough, but then it is obliged to implement the agreement by his
father, seized it a rage so great that no one could stay at his side.
More farsighted Cardinal Cisneros that large that they had composed
the council, thought fit to retire to D. Luis Ferrer, because he felt
that perhaps it happen appoint another better Doña Juana, did so by
substituting it with Don Fernando Estrada Ducos. This gentleman was such
that the ability displayed in carrying out his assignment, which recently
got comiese and bebiese to sleep in his bed, which aseara and seen,
and even from room to move, because theirs was not more than a fetid
muladar. Was reached to strengthen their physical, because with his usual
finesse and manners, this gentleman was able to attend church and was
attended various religious events.

Accesses and their madness were less constant, so that certain parts
of his view the coffin of her husband being led Granada a few days
later, and though great was their exasperation when they drove to
see, could finally D.

Fernando Estrada reassure Ducos. But do not think this was good to all,
this unhappy queen was never to regain its lost calm.

However, the Catholic king wrote to Estrada, the most loving and giving
thanks for the many services he had done to her daughter. At that time
there was already one person who was not aware of the illness of Queen
Doña Juana; but nevertheless retained some hope of relief, daughter
rather the desire of his subjects, that of possibility. in the courts
which were held in Valladolid in January 1518, decreed that if at any
time the queen was Doña Juana mandar on disposal of the vast domains of
Spain, Queen of the stop the Catholic King Fernando and Doña Juana who
was the absolute sovereign. CHAPTER IV. _De Dissension that existed in
Spain, and death of Doña Juana._ [Illustration] There were many divisions
that existed in Spain with several parties that began to favor one
Doña Juana, the other his son Carlos, the other his father, and some
others who wanted to come to rule the emperor Maximilian I, his
stepfather, so in 1520 and Spain fought the dying for their freedom.

Supporters of Charles V in Castilla lifted the banner of independence and
gefes from both parties to provide value to its determinations went
to Doña Juana. Cardinal Cisneros, then governor and regent of the
kingdom, it was determined that appeal first to the queen to see
if we could leave the hurried circumstances under which the parties
had placed the provinces and individuals to Valladolid.

Iban to address many issues sensitive to the queen, were very unhappy
about not ever get a decent reply to placate the spirits of the
revolutionaries.

But the Cardinal's big talent and governor of all that made her real
advice, succeeded, although at the expense of a tireless work, placate
the turbulence, and shortly after, when the King died Fernando el Católico,
Spain began to govern the Emperor Charles V, not to be able to do so,
his mother, Doña Juana.

And engaged in other thinking this lady who had come to acibarar but
his miserable life. The Marquis of Denia brought the news of his deceased
father, news that put it all finished, endlessly invoking the names of
her husband and their father, so strong and descompasados cries, that
he sometimes feared by all his life.

No lady or gentleman, and was afraid to stay alone at his side. His
bloodied eyes, her face bare, her hair down, all inspired horror.

This sad state spent the rest of his life unhappy queen in the palace of
Tordesillas, which was forty-six years struggling with what we all
know, not otherwise exist in his imagination to the memory of his
beloved father and the jealousy of her husband idolatrada.

After meeting the beds that have just referred, the remainder of
his life, despite the long and terrible suffering, was long, did
not offer new, noteworthy.

The queen of Spain, Doña Juana, his days stretched to seventy-three
years, without his incurably ill could find a remedy, but in recent
months worsened estraordinariamente.

He never had another kind of ailment, so that Philip the Fair having
lived long, had to come to spy on her with this evil queen, earn
better miramientos.

In early 1555 began to get sick enough consideration; far the point of not
wanting to take any medicine. When forced to the ground or throw to
the face of who was to take. Three months passed this woman in
agony, and not having a person who would like to stay with him.

Everyone was tired, bored, for osteoporosis.

Removed pitiful cries and voices that were heard in the palace, and
everything was done to reassure was zero, instead of alleviating it,
Scythian his anger more and more.

The Marquis of Denia, who was one of those who were continuing their
also wrote to the king, his son, warning him of this, to which
Charles V replied: "_Sufrid resignation with the impertinence of
my poor mother, who he recompensará._ Heaven" The same to them, the
other real people.

God finally pick under his protection, but says very little good
that die before their understanding perfectly recovered, and which
aroused azorica for the magical effects of a terrible nightmare,
and is immobile and then immersed in a large depression so this was
a sovereign ... quiet.

With dedicated his thoughts to pray fervently, and at the disposal of
his soul, which helped him with his inimitable zeal San Francisco de
Borja, Duke of Gandia, who he happened to be present at such a
terrible act.

"The guy that invented squash pie?" says I.

"No, no!" peeves Pinckney. "The son of Joshua Q. Hubbard, you know."

"I get you," says I. Two months had to reside in Laredo, which was the
storm that lasted two months they were two centuries, if it meets
the provisions that this lady was, and that greatly exacerbated
their continued suffering.

In mid-April be able to sail, arriving nine days happy Vergas, distant
three leagues and a half of Bruges. At this point the husband was
waiting, which was an unspeakable joy to re-embrace, and her second love
the painting that seemed completely forgotten as just resentment. Despite
giving two proofs of mutual love and happy, both fatal and mortifications
she desires, the Archduke, the fervent love with buddy, and for the
most rabid jealousy, Doña Juana.He'd been at the grind a month now, and Mother had worried so about his
health that Joshua Q. himself had come down to observe the awful
results. Meanwhile Josh had been listenin' to Pinckney boostin' the
Physical Culture Studio as the great restorer, and he'd been about
persuaded that Son ought to take on something of the kind.

"But he wants to see you first," says Pinckney. "You understand. They're
rather particular persons, the Hubbards,--fine old Plymouth stock, and
all that."

And so you could see the boys because girls varied in position and
importance listed.

Under the high portals of the magnificent pillars villa stood, the
statues thoughtfully considering the porch.

You rocked it on the rippling connected Kahn, where she climbed the mast,
and may show itself as a daring sailor.

A picture before but did all the shows, which the artist on the Herreise
still eh 'Wilhelmer he met with all the character traits that had
appropriated. Located in the rugged mountains gleams the graceful
slip boy, surrounded by falling rocks, sprayed by waterfalls, in the midst
of a difficult to describe Horde. Perhaps this is a gray, steep gorge
Urgebirg never graceful and important staffiert been. The colorful,
gypsy-like society, both raw and fantastic, strange and common,
too loose for fear einzuflößen to whimsically, to awaken confidence.

Strong Saumrosse drag on billets way soon, soon eingehauene steps down, a
buntverworrenes luggage, around which all the instruments of a deafening
music, schlotternd hang, the ear with harsh tones from time to time
harass. Between all the gracious child, self swept without Trutz, unwilling
without reluctance, led, not dragged. Who would not be the strange,
exported image happy? characterized Strong was the narrowness of this
grim rock, the all-black cut through gorges, zusammengetürmt, all
starting to stop threatening, would not a bold jumper on the
opportunity to work with the rest of the world in order to reach
indicated.

Also let the artists with klugdichtendem truth markedly meaning a
cave, which is more powerful than natural crystals or workshop as
a stay of a fabulously-terrible Dragonspawn could respond.

Not without holy Scheubeck friends visited the palace of the Marquis,
the old man was of his trip has not been returned they were also
in this district, because it deals with spiritual and secular
authorities to behave well knew well received and treated.

The absence of the house, however, Mr.

Wilhelm felt very comfortable, because whether he likes the worthy
man again and warmly welcomed would have been so afraid before but
he is thankful his generosity and, above any aufgedrungenen reward
those loyal, loving action, for which he already had a very tender
wage dahingenommen.

And so the friends were swimming on delicate bark from shore to shore,
the lake crossing in each direction . In the most beautiful time
of the year they did not dawn yet, and no destruction of a thousand
shades, with which the sky light sky and sea and earth, as munificent
and überspendet in shadow until completely glamorized.

A rich flora, ausgesäet of nature, through art maintained and
promoted, surrounded them everywhere.

The first chestnut forests, they had welcomed, and now they could
one not smile sad when they are stored under cypress, laurel ascend,
the pomegranate is red, oranges and lemons in flower blossom and
fruits at the same time from the dark porch hervorglühend saw.

The fresh Gesellen created for William, however, a new pleasure. Our old
friend, the picturesque nature no where eye. Receptive to beauty only
visible to human form, he was at once aware of: it was characterized
by gleichgestimmten, but quite another to pleasures and activities
formed the environmental-minded friend. In talkative to indicate the
changing glories of the area, but even more concentrated through
imitation his eyes were opened, and he all stubbornly cherished
doubts otherwise exempt.

Suspected him of always been replicas of Italian regions, the sky seemed
to be blue, the purple clay irritant Far While most sweet, but untrue
and some fresh green but not too colorful, but now he merged with his
new friends on the most intimate and learned , sensitive as he
was, with his eyes see the world, and by the nature of the open
secret of her beauty unfolded, had to get to art as the worthiest
Auslegerin unbezwingliche yearning feel.

But suddenly came the picturesque him from a friend the other
opposite side; This was sometimes a cheerful song angestimmt and
so far quiet hours - and even ride a broad wave of animated and
heartfelt support.

But now's met that he is one of the palaces in its own strings match took
place, a small-format sounds, strong, vollklingend, convenient and
portable, the instrument he knew to vote soon, so happy and pleasant
to deal with the present and so friendly to maintain that he, as a
new Orpheus, the otherwise austere and dry warden softening beat
him and coerced friendly, which means the singer for a time to
leave, with the condition, such pre-departure faithfully reproduced,
even in the mean time at any Sundays - public holidays, or to appear
and the family to enjoy. was quite different now and the lake shore
revives, boat and barge buhlten to their neighborhood, even freight
- and market ships tarried in their area, rows of people on the
beaches attracted to, and ends of the country immediately faced by
a lot Frohsinn surrounded the outgoing blessed everyone satisfied,
but longing.

Now would last a third party, the friends watching, even you can probably
notice that the shipment of both geendigt actually had all the
Mignon relate regions and localities were all cut, partly in light,
shadow and color, sometimes in hot daytime faithfully executed.

This lead, they had on a suitable way from one place to move because
they do Wilhelms vow was often a hindrance, but they knew this
time to circumvent the interpretation: it applies only to the land, on
water, it is not application. Also Wilhelm himself felt that their real
intention was achieved, but denied he could not imply that the
wish Hilari and the beautiful widow to see even be satisfied if one
sense is free to leave this area.

The friend, whom he trusts the story was no less curious and delighted
to have a beautiful place in one of his drawings is empty and only knowing
that he figures as the holder to decorate artistically people thought.
Now they cross and Quer-rides on the points where the stranger to enter
into this paradise care watching. Their sailors had it with the
hope to see friends here, are made known, and now it was not long,
it saw a wohlverziertes magnificent ship herangleiten what they
hunt and did not contain passionately to enter immediately.

The Women's Room, somewhat affected, immediately grasped that, as William
the leaves and both the predominantly by themselves without any
pre-image concerns recognized. The friends were soon invited trusting
the ship of the ladies on board, which was done hurriedly. And now
imagine looking at the four, as in the dainty room together, against
each other on sitting in the blessed world, from Linde Air whiff
wind, on glossy geschaukelt waves.

Consider the female pair, as we have recently seen stories, the male
with whom we have been weeks, a common journey of life, and we see
it after some consideration in all the grace, although most dangerous
situation.

For the three who already, willingly or unwillingly, to the renunciations
counted, is not the most difficult to obtain, but the fourth should be
only too soon in order to see those. After crossing the lake several
times and the most interesting localities on both shores of the
islands than was indicated , they brought the ladies to the place
where they should stay and where there is looking for leaders adopted
this trip all the desirable convenience to arrange knew.

Here William was now becoming a vow, but uncomfortable master of
ceremonies, because just at this station, the Friends recently
three days to persuade all the surrounding Merkwürdige exhausted.

The artist, which vows not withheld, wanted to ask for permission,
the ladies ashore to escort, but it refused, so we are at some
distance from the port separated.

No sooner had the singer jumped into his boat, which is quickly
removed from the shore when he took the lute and those wondrous-plaintive
vocals, the Venetian boatmen of land to sea, from sea to land resound
let sweet anzustimmen began. practiced enough to such talk, which
he dedicated this delicate and expressive succeeded, increased he
proportional to the growing distance, the sound, so you always on
the same shore near the Scheid believed to hear.

He was silent as the sounds, his voice alone, trusting, and had the pleasure
to note that the ladies, rather than retreat into the house, on
the banks to use popular.

He felt so excited that he could not termination, even as last night and
distance viewing of all items withdrawn, until he finally calmed
friend more remarkable was that, although the tone favored darkness,
the ship but the district has long left, in which the same effect
could be.

The appointment was pursuant to one of the next day again on the open
sea. Vorüberfliegend friendly man with a beautiful series of odd
hingelagerter soon reihenweis overseeable soon of shifting views
that, in the water evenly doubling in shore excursions that provide
diverse entertainment.

It did because the artistic reproductions on paper one suspect and guess
what on today's train is not directly maintained.

For all this seemed to be silent Hilari free and beautiful spirit to
possess.

But now appeared again around noon, the Wonderful: the ladies ended up
alone, the men crossed in front of the harbor. Now the singer
looked at his presentation of such an approach to comfortable, where not
only by a delicate and lively jodelnden general Sehnsuchtston, but
cheerful, happy petite Andringlichkeit any effect would be to hope.

Since wanted because sometimes one and the other of the songs, we
loved the people of the "apprenticeship" are guilty of the strings,
floating on the lips, but he is included, from well-meaning
conservation, which he took himself, and raved much more in foreign
images and feelings around to win his lecture, only to hear was
more ingratiating.

Both have friends in this way blocking the port, not to eat and drink
thought the prudent girlfriends do not have good bite herübergesendet,
including a concomitant Trunk selected for the very best wine
tasted.

Each isolation, any condition, to our burgeoning passions in the way it
replaces, it sharpens, rather than dampen, and also this can be assumed
that the brief absence of the two parts have the same yearning
aroused. Indeed! we saw the ladies in their dazzling merry-gondola
even now heranfahren.

The word gondola but then one can not in the sad sense Venetian,
designated here is a funny, easy-pleasing ship, which would have
doubled our little circle, is still large would have been enough.

A few days have been in this own way between Encounter and sheaths,
between separation and togetherness hingebracht; enjoy fun in the
chumminess floated always remove and deprivation before moving soul.

In the presence of new friends cried the older man back missing the new,
so you had to confess that this already strong demand for memory to
acquire known.

Only one taken by, as our spirit tested beautiful widow could become
such hours fully in the balance.

Hilari heart was too wounded, as that there is a new, clean impression
would have been able to receive, but if the grace of a beautiful
soothing surrounds us, if the smoothness feeling to us consecutively
friends, so come on Own spirit and a sense that we passed, absent
dream-like back and the Present, as it would only appearance,
geistermäßig away.

To turn back and resist geschaukelt, attracted and rejected,
approached and removed, and undulates it wallten several days.

Without these ratios closer to judge believed but looking, well
experienced travel guides some change in the quiet demeanor of his
heroines against the former should be noted and when the grill like
these states to him had finally cleared up, he knew also the most
positive way.

Because when you just the ladies once again to the places where their table
would be prepared, bring wanted to meet them another decorated boat,
that is theirs to create a well-laid table with all the merriment
of a festive table einladend primarily, one could Now the course
of several hours to wait until the night and decided the traditional
separation.

Fortunately, the male friends on their previous trips just the decorated
islands of a certain nature to enter Grille neglected and not even
now who are there, not in the best Booth received Künsteleien the
present girlfriends, before the wonderful world scenes would be
totally exhausted.

But as they went a different light on! We moved into the driver's
confidence, knowing that this trip immediately be accelerated and
they were for such animosity.

Now they had hoped and expected, after so many broken heavenly joys three
full days in a closed district gathered zuzubringen.

We must now guide most proud, he was one of those moving, active-looking,
what more masteries escort, the same routes back often, with conveniences
and inconveniences know exactly which to avoid the others to use, and
without suitable Hintansetzung advantage, but their cartridges
always Feiler and probably more fun to lead the country to understand,
rather than this on his own hand would be managed.

At the same time did a lively female operating room of the woman
for the first time decided to act out so that the beautiful widow of a
condition could make , the two friends want to stop her as a guest
and hospitality with a moderate vorliebnehmen.

Here, too, was all for the best: smart business because the carriers had,
on this occasion as before, from the recommendations - and the
women's letters of credit so wise to make use of known that, in the
absence of the owners, the castle and garden, the kitchen no less
arbitrary to use were opened, and even some views of the basement
remained.

All together now agreed that it is right from the first moment as
a native, as a rule such onlyborn havens had to feel.

That all the baggage of all of our travelers was immediately brought to
the island, which for convenience was great company, but the
biggest advantage was achieved by all of the excellent artist's
portfolio, for the first time all together, gave him an opportunity,
the way that he used constantly to follow the beautiful mind.

It was the delight to work with.

Not as lovers and artists to interact präkonisieren, here was an
excellent man, the most sensitive and sensible given praise. Thus
we do not come under suspicion, as we wanted the one with general
phrases, which we will not be able, faithful readers only
push so here is the judgment of a connoisseur, of those in question,
both as the same or similar work for several years afterwards stayed
admiringly ".

He manages to calm quiet serene lakeview display, where close-friendly
apartments, in the clear flood mirroring, as it seems to swim, the shore,
surrounded with green hills, behind which mountains are icy forest
Gletscherfirnen rise.

The Farbenton such scenes is cheerful, happy and clear, with the Far
mitigating scent as over, the fog and gray envelope, from passing through
the grounds and valleys and their windings hervorsteigt implies.
No less is the master art to praise in view of valleys, closer to the
Hochgebirg, where luxuriantly vegetated slopes down climb mountains,
fresh streams at the foot of the rocks rushed fortwälzen. excellent
knows he mightily Schatt trees foreground of the distinctive
character of different types as in the shape of the whole as in the
course of the branches, the various parts of the leaves indicate
satisfactory, not less so in the nuanced way in many fresh greens,
which airs without the gentle touch to the fan and lights so as it
moves appear.

In the middle distance gradually exhausted the lively green clay and married
to distant mountain heights weak purple with the blue of the sky.
Yet our Artist succeed over all representations of higher Alpgegenden;
simply big and silence its nature, the extensive grazing on mountain
slope, with the freshest green überkleidet, where dark pine trees
isolated from the lawn soar high cliffs and sparkling streams that
fall.

Maybe he pastures with grazing cattle staffieren or close to rocks winding
mountain path with Saumpferden and laden mules, he records all
equally good and witty, always decorous place and not in too great
abundance appropriate to decorate and enliven these images without
their quiet solitude to disrupt or even reduce.

The execution of a testament to the daring master hand, with a few easy
strokes, and yet assure complete.

He later served English Permanent colors on glossy paper,
so these paintings of exquisite floral Farbenton, cheerful, but at
the same time strong and saturated.

His illustrations deepest gorges, where, and for just stares dead rock,
in the abyss of daring bridge skipped the wild raging power, like
not like the last, but their truth takes us, we admire the great
effect of the whole, by a few major lines and masses of local color
with the slightest effort spawned.

Likewise, he knows the characteristic areas of the high mountains
show, where neither trees nor bushes to continue, but only between
Felszacken snowy peaks and sunny areas with soft grass to cover.

So beautiful and inviting gründuftig and similar bodies, he also
colored so stubborn, he has yet to leave here with grazing herds
staffieren because these areas are only feeding the chamois, and a
danger Wildheuern full acquisition.

"We do not remove us from the intention to our readers the state of such
wild places as close as possible to get if we just used the word
game Heuer with little explanation.

It means so that the poorer residents of the high mountains, which are
under catch on grass courts, the worse for the cattle, but are
inaccessible, hay to .

It only intrinsically so, with Steige hooks on the feet, the steepest,
most dangerous cliffs, or can, where necessary, by high cliffs on
knitting on the said grass seats down. When the grass of them beaten and
dried to hay, as such, they raise from the heights in Talgründe deeper
down, where the same thing again collected on cattle sold, which is
due to the excellent quality like erhandeln. Those images, although
each one would have to attract and delight, especially Hilari
looked with great attention their comments were to recognize that
they themselves do not fold this was strange, at least it remained
hidden from the artist, which is recognized by no one had seen
rather than just by this most charming of all people.

The older girlfriend silent no longer, but censured Hilari,
that they with their own skill which will this time also, as always,
hesitate, here is the question is not to praise or blame, but to
learn.

A beautiful opportunity to think perhaps not. Now was only when they
are forced was their leaves to show what a talent behind this
quiet, delicate nature lies hidden, and the ability was Aboriginal,
diligently practiced.

She had a true eye, a neat hand, as women in their other jewelry - and to
higher Plaster Art ability. You certainly noticed uncertainty in the
bars and therefore not sufficiently pronounced character of the items,
but we admired enough hardworking execution, but not on the whole
advantageous taken, not artistically zurechtgerückt.

She fears, it seems, the subject matter to desecrate , would it
not be perfectly accurate, so she is frightened and lost in the detail.
But now she feels by the large, talent-free, the bold hand of the
artist excited, awakened, what sense and taste in her faithfully
slumbered; it it goes on, that they only pluck up courage, some
main principles as the artist thorough, friendly and strongly
reiterates traditional, serious and sträcklich must follow.

"He has five, and some of the four married
ones are quite well to do. Then there is Evelyn, the old maid sister,
who went in with him. It's from her I've found out so much about Gerald.
Nice, refined, pleasant old maid; although somewhat plain featured. She
tells me they have a shop at some seashore resort in summer,--Atlantic
City, or the Pier,--and occasionally have quite a successful season.
Then in the fall they open up again here. The last two summers, though,
they've barely made expenses, and she fears that Gerald is becoming
discouraged."

"Well, what you beefin' about?" says I. "There's your chance, ain't it?
Jump in and cheer him up. Go round every day and drink yourself full of
tea. Lug along your friends--anything. Got the whole Gordon estate back
of you, you know. And it's plain Pyramid had in mind squarin' accounts
for that raw deal he handed Gerald years back, or he wouldn't have named
him in the will. A dark, erratic fire burned in the eyes of a beautiful
man, his lips joined painfully, his friend looked at him with
worried participation, he saw no longer the cheerful, heldenmütigen
lad, as he at the head of the regiment in the days of the seen
happiness and the friendly, winning smile, which so attracted him
otherwise, was a morose, bitter resentment course, the eye, otherwise
the proud full confidence, full of joyous cheer, free and open to
any suspicious looking object seemed to consider pierce to try the
matte red that covered his cheeks, was just the reflection of that
bloom of youth to him in the salons of Paris, the name of the
beautiful Poland had acquired, and yet, even after this major change,
which time and misfortune had produced, one had to admit that
Princess Sophie was very sorry.

"They look at me, Major?" said that after some silence, "They consider
me as if the old days from my train to find out? Do not wasted effort,
it is so much has changed, should not the man with the skill to change?"
"I think You are not greatly changed, "replied the stranger," I
saw you at the first sight again.

But one thing I find is no longer as before, from these eyes, a certain
confidence gone, makes me happy so often otherwise.

Zronievsky Alexander seems to me not more to be trusted. And yet, "he
smilingly added," and yet my mind was always with him, I know even the
deepest thoughts of his heart. "" My poor heart! " Graf said the
wistfully, "I hardly know whether I still have a heart, if not
sometimes resentment pochtet.

What thoughts do you have-up, as the unchanging friendship for you,
Major?

Schelten you're not my eye, because it is not is more cheerful, I
have in myself pulled back, I lost my confidence in my rights have their
pressure will tell you that I still am the old man. "" I thank
you, but how I should I'm not on the thoughts your heart, understand?

They say it only knocks against resentment, what did a certain
prince child done, so that your heart beating even unmutes?

"The Count erblaßte he pressed the strangers hand in his:" For God's
sake, be silent you; never a syllable about this point, I know, I
understand what you mean, I will even admit that you have seen
right, the devil has made your eyes, Major! But ask why I have a gentleman
like you, too silent? It has not yet from the eighth regiment betrayed
his comrades. "" You are right, and not a word more about it, but
this is only a still, from the eighth verratet the no-mates, but
if the good comrade does not reveal itself?

" Come here to this staircase, "whispered the count, because it is
near to several people," Jesus, Mary, should be someone other than
you suspect something?

"

"No, no," says Steele. "Miss Webb is at the little cashier's desk, by
the door. And that is Webb, behind the counter, talking to those
ladies."

"Oh!" says I. "Him with the pale hair and the narrow mouth? Huh! He is
Lizzie-like, ain't he?"

He's a slim, thin-blooded, sharp-faced gent, well along in the thirties,
I should judge, with gray showin' in his forelock, and a dear little
mustache pointed at the ends; the sort of chappy who wears a braid-bound
cutaway and a wrist watch, you know. He's temptin' his customers with
silver-set turquoise necklaces, and abalone cuff links, and moonstone
sets, and such; doin' it dainty and airy, and incidentally displayin' a
job of manicurin' that's the last word in fingernail decoration. Few
are those who travel on the high seas and few in the background
almost always remain on the shore watching some prey.

Often, while waiting to bostece oysters for lunch, the sea swells, grab
them, take them rolling. At this time the danger is in its armor:
solid, without elasticity, receives all blows dry gruffly. Aplástanse
points in the rough rocks, estréllanse, break, leaving mutilated that
battle. Fortunately, like the corner can be repaired, replace the
broken member with another member support.

And so confident in this, that when they voluntarily imprisons rómpense a
member to gain freedom. It seems that Nature favors a particularly
useful way servers. Against his infinite fertile in crustaceans has an
infinite absorption.

Vense everywhere, at all costs, as varied as the sea. Your vultures
Greenland, the seagulls, crustaceans share the role of agents of health.
Grounded if a big animal, the bird immediately above and below the
crab and the interior work to disappear.

The crab minute Salton and it would take for an insect (talitro) occupies
the sandy beaches, living underneath.

When a shipwreck throws amount of jellyfish or other bodies, will see
the sand wave, moving, followed by clouds covering gravediggers
of those dancers that ants by hopping, cheerfully cleaning the
beach, trying to sweep it quits between two tides.

Great, Robust, even the most astute, crabs or Gambaro people are a fighter,
being that warrior instinct, that to know to use the noise frightened
their enemies. In encamínanse threatening to fight, raised their pincers
and resonate with their attachments. And yet, do not cease to be circumspect
before superior forces. I Veíalos during the low sea of the top of a
rock, and despite being very high, noting that looked, the assembly
began its withdrawal, running through and getting the warriors in
an instant everyone in your booth.

They are nothing but Aquiles Anibal. Only attack when they feel
strong, devouring the living and the dead. The wounded man should
not rely on those rodents. Mind that in a desert island ate several
of the sailors who had Drake, who were assaulted, beaten by their legions
bulldozers.

No living thing can defeat with equal arms.

The giant octopus which stifles the smallest crustacean, threatening to
leave its tentacles from the claws of crabs, fish and more greedy falters
before a gulp be as thorny. Since the crustacean that grows is the tyrant,
the nightmare of the two elements.

His armor intractable feel ready for any attack. Multiplicaríanse to the
unbelievable, would destroy the balance of humans, if not their own armor
and drag your risk. Fija hard and not giving to the alternative of life
is a prison for the crab. For the opening of that wall of the breathing
passage, had to put the door in a casual member who often lose the
leg.

And to lead to growth, the gradual extension of their internal organs,
needs (dangerous thing) that the shell, softened by time and fofa,
no more than skin and stripping only supports this change, pelándose
rejecting a portion of it.

Muda complete. Eyes, gills, which play the role of the lungs, the
rest suffer.

It is a curious spectacle that offered good crab turning, agitating,
harassing started for the same as the operation is so violent that
at times , you break their legs, leaving forces, weak spring. In two
or three days, the limestone reappears and is the shell of the skin. The
crab does not leave it to shore so little of his metamorphosis,
but it takes a long time to regain its shell, and so far serves to
breed more poor people weaker. At this point, justice and equality
muestránse inexorable. The victims have revenge. The strong law suffers
from the weak, falling to their level, as a species, in the alternative
of death. Muriésemos If only once down here, there would not be so
sad.

But all that lives must die a little each day, ie, move, undergo
partial muertecita and gives renewed life.

Hence a state of weakness at the same melancholy that costs us
confess.

But what to do? The bird moves his pen each station is sad, and sadder
still to change the poor snake skin. The moves will also be rational and
all your skin tissue each month, every day, every moment, losing
a little of himself incessantly, softly.

Not shot, but weakened somewhat, at a vague and dreamy pales in
which the flame vital to reappear more lucid. How much more terrible is
that between human beings do to change everything at once,
desencuadernarse the frame out, restarted the inflexible jacket!

're Tired, surrendered, dying, away from himself at the mercy of
the first to be presented.

There are freshwater crustaceans sentenced to die this way twenty
times in the course of two months, others (crustaceans pacifiers)
so they succumb to fatigue can not be redone, but will deform and
lose the motion, giving, say, his resignation of being a hunter and
looking cowardly lazy and parasitic life, a shameful shelter in the
viscera of large animals, despite themselves, the support is exhausted
in its profit, sales and work for them. * * * The insect, in its
chrysalis, it seems to forget himself, ignored the suffering remain
strange, seems rather to enjoy on this death as a titty boy in the
warm cradle.

But during the crustacean molting is, is aware of it: You know suddenly
rushed over the life of a strong deplorable impotence. Harebrained
seems lost.

The only thing we can do is set up under a rock and wait shaky. Not
ever having met any obstacle or enemy seriously, to exempt any
industry by the superiority of their terrible weapons, the day that
they will not be missing any action.

Perhaps you could protect the association if the moves were not
common to all and his colleagues were not unarmed as he is incapable
of helping the sick, then so are they.

Say, however, that there are some species where the male to the female
wants to protect the remains and, if imprisoned, there is no choice
but to imprison the two. * * * The terrible bondage of dumb, the
rugged surveillance of man (which grows day by day rule on the
beaches), and finally, the disappearance of old species they seek
abundant food, have had to produce some decline between them.

The octopus, which serves no purpose, nor fishing or eat, has dropped
a lot in size and in number.

How much more then the crab, the meat is so succulent and pleases
all Nature!

Seems to know it.

The weakest among them invent, not point out to shield gear, but small
crude trickery, wit and intriguing. This last word is applicable to them,
as do some of the intriguing effect of declassified people who, without
officially known, live records, little worthy of resources. Factótums
bastards, no meat or fish, acomódanse a little bit of everything,
from the dead, the dying, of living, and sometimes even land
animals.

The oxistomo produces a mask, a hood and fly from darkness.

The Birgé, arrival night, leaving the sea, skulks was perched up in the
coconut trees and eat fruit if you do not find anything better.

The Dromi dress suit with a foreign body.

Bernard-The Hermit, who never see their hard shell, imagine, to better
protect the soft, become false mollusc; order to grab a shell to come
good, devours its own, and fits in the house stolen dragging it.

At night, this costume will hunt for food: óyesele recognizes the pilgrims
and noise that moves with its shell, then limping and dragging it
succeeds only by setbacks.

Others, again, more honest, disheartened and their movement struggles
with the sea, like the earth, not so fierce and agitated.

In winter (and also in other seasons) and almost always live in burrows
made. May change completely and in insects trocarían if it were not so
expensive sea, such as homeland of their loves.

And once a year the twelve tribes of Israel encaminábanse to Jerusalem
to celebrate the Feast of Tabernacles, on some beaches vese these
faithful sons of the sea that are directed at groups of people to
pay their tributes to trust their soft eggs á the great and good
mother, entrusting the latter to their pequeñuelos Mecias their
ancestors.

XI Fish. The free element, the sea, must sooner or later create a
likeness to his being, a being essentially free, slippery, undulating,
smooth, which slide in the image of the waves, but in whom mobility is
from a wonderful miracle inside, still larger, a central organization,
a fine and strong, very elastic, not similar to any of the beings
known until the day .

Molluscum that creeps on his abdomen was the poor servant of the
Glebe.

The octopus, with all their pride, their swollen, his snoring, bad
swimmer and walker zero, it is therefore the servant of the
chance without blunting its power could not live. The war crustacean
successively so big and so small, terror and derision of others,
suffers deaths alternatives who plays the slave, of prey and even
toy of the weakest.

Huge and terrible easements. How to get rid of them? * * * Freedom is
in force.

From the origin, looking for life, while groping, strength, seemed
confused by the dream creation of a hub that would be the one, the
force of the movement increased tenfold.

This is the radiant presintieron and molluscs, and outlined some
trials.

But too distracted traíalos the overwhelming problem of external
defense. The crust, the crust always: this is what worried the
poor greatly loved.

In this genre produced masterpieces: the thorny ball corner, open
and closed shell at a time haliótido finally, the armor consists
of pieces of crustacean articulated perfect defense, and terribly
offensive.

What else do you want? Is there anything to add? Apparently not. What
does not? Much so.

You need to be that everything relies on the movement, a being that bold
disregard for all designated as spin or Tardigrada, consider the
crust as well as subject matter and focus the force itself. Rodeábase
The crustacean of some sort of external skeleton. Háceselo fish in the
center, in its intimate interior, on the shaft where the nerves,
muscles, all organs, in short, will meet.

Invención fantastic, apparently, and contrary to good sense to put
anything hard, so strong precisely in the place that protects the
meat so well.

The bone, so useful to the exterior, installed at a point where
little or nothing to serve their hardness. Crustacean laugh when he
saw the first one to be soft, big, chubby (the fish of the sea of
the Indies), which test is slipped, ran, shelled, armor or defense,
having concentrated all its power inside, protected only by the
viscous flow, the exuberant _mucus_ around him, and gradually becomes
elastic scales.

Soft shell being provided and folds, giving without giving in completely.
* * * It was a revolution similar to that of Gustavo Adolfo lightened
when his soldiers of the heavy iron armor covering his chest with
an armor of solid leather camel although somewhat heavy and smooth.

Revolución bold but cautious. Not being in our captive fish as their
armor crab, vese free while the status was subject to cruel this armor,
the _muda_ of danger, weakness, effort, wastage of enormous power
that is in those moments .

The fish bit and moves slowly, like humans and large animals, economizing,
crowded life, creating a powerful treasury of the nervous system having
innumerable electric wires that resonate in the spine and brain.

Although no bone either very soft or if the fish is still an embryonic
appearance, not because it is deprived of his great harmony with
its rich skein of thread nervous.

No fish weaknesses elegant reptile and insect, so slender that it can
cortárseles as a thread by certain parts of your body. Is segmented
like them, but these segments is below the easily concealed and protected,
using them to enter, without spelling out what the reptile and insect
to be broken easily. Like the crab, the fish prefer the force to
beauty, and to get it deleted the neck. Head and trunk no more than
a mass. Admirable principle of force, which makes cutting the water
element as divisible, be hit with much violence, and if you place a
thousand times more than necessary. Then Become a dart, an arrow,
the rapidity of lightning. The bone interior, and report that appeared
only in sepia, here is a great system _uno, but very múltiple_ - a
force for unity - Multiple by elasticity, by appropriate muscles,
contracted, dilated successively formed the movement.

Wonder, a true wonder that structure of the fish, so compact (viewed
from outside), and as contractile inside, the hull of slender ribs
and flexibilísimas (in the herring, the shad, etc..), Where the
muscles are connected engines push shock alternative.

Thus, only sets out oars for auxiliary short nadaderas little risk,
which, consistent, sharp and slimy, hurt, escape, escape.

How is this superior to the octopus or a jellyfish, which offers
soft tentacles throughout the world for meat, tasty morsel for the
hungry eater of shellfish and the marsuinos!

In sum, this true son of water, such as moving his mother, slides
through on his _mucus_, split his head with his muscles hurt (made on
his vertebrae, their slender wavy ribs), and finally with its solid
nadaderas short paddle and leads. simply the lowest of these powers:
he has all the type of absolute motion.

So the bird is less mobile, but that needs to rest and is quiet at
night.

The fish never stops: all asleep and floats. Movable to a point, while
it is robust and lively at the highest level. For wherever there is
water, we are sure to find it is the universality of the globe. In the
highest of the lakes and mountain ranges in Asia, where the air
is so rarefied, which terminates the life of all beings, there is
only persists in the fish live surrounded by loneliness.

In fact, find the gouge (red fish), who bear the glory of their
plants tended to see the whole earth.

Just as the deep, under a dreadful weight, live herring, haddock. Forbes,
who divided the sea in ten or flats superimposed layers, hallólas
all inhabited, and the last, it seemed as bleak, a fish found fitted
with admirable eyes, which, therefore, go and have enough light on
a site that we imagine, surrounded by darkness.

Take another free fish.

A good number of species (salmon, shad, eels, sturgeon, etc..)

Bear the same fresh water that the sea, alternate, and regularly move
from one to another. Several families of fish species and marine species
have river (eg, stripes, the beard).

However, this degree of heat, such food as habit, seem to fix them, squeezed
in as free element. The seas are warmer as a wall to the polar species
that are intractable: on the contrary, the warm seas are arrested
by the cold currents of the Cape of Good Hope.

Only known two or three cosmopolitan species of fish and contadísimos are
attending the high seas. Most coastlines are pleasant and not only in
certain costs.

Fish of the United States belong to other species which inhabit Europe.
Add some specialties but not the taste that's strung across the
back.

Chapucea skate in the mud and sole in the sandy bottom, the box is
perched on the under-funding, the place was dark above the rocks, and
the pole on the sand, the crossbow in the shallow water depth on
a bed of Madrepora.

The escorpena sometimes and nothing other flies, chased by other fish
spear, sostiénese in the air, and if you are hunting birds, then
plunges into the sea. * * * The popular proverb: "Happy as a fish
in the water, "expresses a truth.

During the calm, a balloon of air more or less loaded and allows graduated
weight, it does navigate to your taste suspended between two stools.
It was quiet ahead, rocked, caressed by the waves, and while
walking, if you want to sleep.

Is required to both isolated and confined by the oily substance that
makes your skin flakes and their elusive and waterproof. The temperature
is somewhat variable, almost always the same, neither too cold nor
too hot.

What a terrible difference between a life as comfortable and we
have given to us, inhabitants of the earth!

At each step we find some roughness, some obstacle. The rough ground us
to step stones, fatigue us, we destroyed, forcing them to go up, down and
back to raise their slopes. The air changes with the seasons, and sometimes
too cruelly. The water, the rain falls relentlessly cold days and
nights, penetrates our bodies, we are constipated, sometimes freezes
our hair and we besieges calenturientos with the sharp ends of her
glasses. The happiness of the fish, your very lucky express the
fullness of life in the tropics for the luxury of their colors,
and North leads the force of their movements.

In Oceania and the sea of Indian toys, erran vagamundos and under
the most original and most fantastic finery, taking their merry
pastimes among the coral, the flowers live.

Our fish of the temperate and cold waters of the great sailing ships, the
oarsmen powerful, real surfers: long and slender forms conviértenles
on arrows for its speed, and can give lessons to the best builder of
ships.

Some people have up to ten nadaderas, which, oars or sails at will,
can remain open or a half fold.

The tail rudder remarkable is also the main rowing. The best of the
swimmers is forked, all she ends up in the spine and contracting
your muscles, makes the fish move.

The bay has two huge nadaderas, two large wings to beat the waves,
its tail, long, flexible and detached, is a weapon for hitting, a
whip to split and divide the density of the wave.

Thin and very little amount of diverted water, heading to the
oblique, vese therefore easily wave and on the bladder that holds
the fish dense.

So, all devices are appropriate to your institution. The sole is oval,
flat, so that it can slide between the sand and eel, to wallow in the
mud, making silly ways and becomes a long tape, the balderayas, which
usually live attached to rocks, have nadaderas hands-that more
closely resemble the frog to the fish. * * * The view is the meaning
of bird, the smell of fish.

The falcon released in the space covered with a single look and see the
game almost invisible, so the line from the depths of the ocean,
the smell of a tempting prey rises diligent in his search.

In this semi-dark world, world of lights dubious and misleading people
fíanse in smell and sometimes touch.

Those who, like sturgeon, dig the mud, have a delicious touch. The shark,
skate, haddock (with their separate ojazos) are evil, but feel and
smell: the smell is so sensitive in the streak that has a veil for
this purpose taparlo cancel at will and power, which undoubtedly
importunaría and attack the brain.

In this power game add about half admirable teeth, steel, sometimes
in the form of mountains, some of them multiplied in several rows
to the end of solar mouth, palate and throat, and even the language
is Armed with them.

Those teeth, delicate and fragile, others are willing to replace them
behind if they break.

We have said at the start of this second book: the sea has had to produce
these terrible beings, these absolute destroyers to combat and cure
himself of the strange it works poorly, their excess fertility.

Death surgeon charity through a persistent indentation of immense
wealth, the plethora of little comfort that he had been bored.

The horrific flood of generation there is the deluge of herring, thousands
and millions of pollock eggs, so many horrific machines that multiplication,
multiplied tenfold, centuplicando, fill oceans, drown Nature, found
a barrier in the rapid devouring of the machinery of death, armed
swimmer, the fish.

Beautiful show, great, poignant. Universal Combat of Death and Love
does not appear nothing on earth when he was with the precedent
that exists at the bottom of the seas.

There, in his inconceivable greatness, horrified by his fury, however
Vesela very slowly toward more harmonious and surprising balance.

This furor is necessary. This change of the substance, so fast (up to the
point of dazzle!), This profligacy of death is the salvation. Nothing
of sadness, a joy savage queen apparently all that. In the life of
the sea, rough mix the two forces that appear to destroy each other,
sparks a wonderful health, an incomparable purity, a terrible beauty
and sublime at par: the same of her triumphs living dead.

Without much choice or one or the other, and then provides them
take electricity, light, drawing fire from the sparks and the
infinite glow that pale, up under the polar night, is its sinister
magic.

Melancholy sea, as indolence does not work multiply death, but impotent,
tends to reconcile progress with excessive movement. It is one hundred
thousand times richer than the soil, the faster rich. buildings and
factories. The extension takes the earth (hémoslo seen corals)
Debele sea, and only the sea, this is not anything other than the
balloon in its construction work at its most active conception.

His only obstacle is the speed, and their inferiority seems to be
having trouble (as it is rich in generations) for the organization
of Love Caúsanos sad to recall that the billions of beings that
inhabit the sea only a vague love , elemental, impersonal.

Those people who, each in turn, rise and go on pilgrimage towards the
light and give more substance pouring from them, his own life, the
unknown random.
"And then all of a sudden, you say," says I, "you get fifty thousand."

"I couldn't believe it at fust," says he. "Neither did Cap'n Bill Logan.
He was the only one I showed the letter to. 'Mebbe it's just some fake,'
says he, 'gittin' you on there to sign papers. Tell 'em to send twenty
dollars for travelin' expenses.' Wall, I did, and what do you think?
They sends back two hundred, b'gum! Yes, Sir, Cap'n Bill took the check
up to Wiscasset and got the money on it from the bank. Two hundred
dollars! Why, say, that would take me putty nigh round the world, I
guess. Mr. Mahlhuber groaned, because that reminded him of the sad and
serious reason for him from his homeland, and he replied, quietly
and kopfschüttelnd: "Ah, I wished I could also say of me, but one
thing stops a pleasure to be once again we will anbefohlen by
doctors. "" Are you sick?

"asked the lady taking Theil." sick?

"repeated Mahlhuber and athmete easy, since the call entered an area
where he felt at home,» ill ? - Yes and no; sick, you can not say
- have you ever heard of large livers? "" Great livers? Certainly - the
Strasburg will be the best, but my sister has such a skill is acquired,
that they can no longer be distinguished from Strasburg can. "" No, I
do not, "said the Commerzienrath embarrassed and looked after mistrauisch
strangers over who has the eyes still held closed, but whose mouth
angle but he believed a slight twitching malicious noted, "I suffer from
myself - my liver is three inches too big." "Three customs? Bless
my soul! "Said the woman," but how do you know so exactly? "" Ah, that
science has now made significant progress, "continued the rapid Commerzienrath
continued," such a greasy degeneration of the liver is also in our
times not at all rare, and by engaging in the same ribs, diaphragm
and stomach can be quite accurately calculate how much they achieved.

"The lady moved a little anxious in their seats, and the Commerzienrath
went on:" In connection with this disease is now although my doctor
still wants to deny a not insignificant surgery, which I recently
had to subjugate. "" An operation?

No bluff about it. He had the goods.

"Said you was goin' to invest it, didn't you?" I suggests cautious.

"That's what's botherin' me most about this whole business," says Uncle
Jimmy. "It's an awful lot of money for an old codger like me to handle.
I tried to git young Mr. Fowler to take half of it back; but he only
laughs and says he couldn't do that, and guessed how he and the wife was
worth that much, anyway. Besides, I expect he don't need it."

"I should say that was a safe bet," says I. "If I remember right, his
share of the estate was ten or twelve millions."

May this gift so that I am the youth in my homeland of Germany's here from
the Far East, from the land of the Rising Sun offer, be happy to
find and applause.

Tokyo. _Karl Alberti._ [decoration] Juki-onna. [1 ] There were even two
Holzhauer: one was Nishikaze [2], this was an older man, while the
other was Teramichi and another young man was.

Both lived in the same village and went every day into the forest for wood
to beat. In order to reach the forest, they had a big river passes
on a ferry was established. When she one day late with their work finished,
they were of a terrible snowstorm surprised they hurried to the ferry,
but had to see her great horror that the ferryman was just about set
and on the other side of the river was raging, from it because of
the raging storm temporarily back could not.

Since both the outdoor the end of the storm could not wait, they
decided to found the nearby house of the ferryman to go there and
wait for his return.

Said than done! In the home, threw it to the earth after it doors and
windows keeps well and had listened to the roar of the storm. The elderly,
tired from the day work load and was soon sleeping in ruins, but the
younger could not close eye, because the howling, showers, and cracking
noise was eerie and the house trembled in all joints. Suddenly there
was a terrible blow as if the storm smash the house, the door
sprang open and an icy wind with a huge snow cloud penetrated inside.

Horrified Teramichi stared at the cloud, because they moved up and
down and finally took human shape, the shape of a woman in a white
gown and turned to the place where Nishikaze slept, where they are
bent on the risers down their mouths entströmte a white mist, which
is based on the face of the man spread out, then set it up and came
to Teramichi who, unable to touch a link, the fearful eyes held
wide open.

Sealant before it arrived it was coming close to his face and looked
at him quietly for a while, then she spoke softly, her voice
was like a breath and her face was friendly traits, "your comrades, I
have killed everything in the my area.

Also you should share his lot, but you are not yet a man and have not yet
lived. Drum was spared!

However, this will save you just so long as you mention it. If even one
word from your lips about what you experienced here, - whether it be
who it wants, not the father, no mother, no wife nor child nobody, you
hear, no one may know what happened here - so I meet you, where it
was! Remember, "[image] After these words they slowly floated up and
disappeared through the door. Now most of the spell of the young man, he
jumped up, ran to the door and closed it firmly. Then he turned
to his comrades and cried to him, but this did not, he was stiff and
rigid, he was dead, his face transformed a happy smile.

Finally left after the storm and the morning broke, and the ferryman,
who now returned, took both men into his house and held her for
dead, for frozen, but when he picked up, did Teramichi a deep sigh,
closed the eyes and soon came to himself, while Nishikaze was dead
and buried.

The young man went back after his job and wandered into the forest
every day, no one told his adventure, he and the woman of the snow,
because it was such as to him certainty was on. So did two years
previously. When he performed one evening after day's work again walked
homeward, he met a young pretty girl who liked him so that he is
in a conversation einließ.

The girl told him that it was an orphan and removed resident relatives
wanted to wander where it hope to be.

As the couple was near the village in which lived Teramichi said this
to the girl: "It is now evening and cold and the roads are unsafe, come
with me in my poor hut and take part in the modest meals, which
my mother has prepared! Calm yourself, and then as you want, you can
do tomorrow morning to continue your walk! "The girl that is" Juki
"called it, took the offer of and escorted the young man into his house
where his mother was preparing a friendly reception. When it had rested
on the next morning and get back to the way wanted, asked the mother,
there may still remain a few days and if there is nobody in the world,
which was expecting it, so may it remain so long it would and her little
hands, because they already old and had long been a mainstay in the home
have wished.

Since Teramichi, one of the hot girls in love was kindled, the pleas
of his mother, was so beat it and stayed in the house.

As it now is, if a man with a girl affinity pure love that the girl
finally even love feels, so it was here and it did not take a long
time, then had both declared their love and Teramichi and Juki were
a couple.

Juki has always been a brave woman and her dear mother-in filial love until
it died, then dedicated it is only her husband and their children,
of whom it over the years her husband had ten.

The children flourished and thrived and grew up, no sickness, no
calamity disturbed the peace and happiness of this marriage, which
everyone considered the best in the country praised.

As a very special miracle but it was mentioned that Juki always
looked young, evergreen and flowering in full force and there was no trace
of aging could perceive it. So passed the years when one evening in
winter, as the couple in the confidential conversation beisammensaß,
once again, a terrible snowstorm losbrach. The man erschauerte by
his experience in the hut of the ferryman thought sinnend and his
wife looked to him more beautiful than ever appeared suddenly and
he believed in her face a resemblance to a snow woman to discover
that it was many years ago, the life donated.

This similarity became increasingly apparent, so that he exclamation
could not hold back: "No, you're beautiful!"

Juki was attentive and asked what these words mean should, without
hesitation, half in a dream, he told her now his adventure that
he and wife had the snow and closed his narration with the words:
"She was beautiful, but ghostly beautiful; but you're human, of
course, beautiful!"

Then rose up and shocked Juki saw the man, as it becomes bigger and
bigger and bigger, like her face is transformed, the clothes are
transformed into white light and she finally stood before him, as
then the snow woman.

He crashed to the ground, stretching out her arms and cried: "Yes, you're
it, forgive, forgive!" But the head and shook him was: "Yes I am!
Did you not keep your mouth after you've long been silent? I could kill
you now, a touch out of my mouth would solidify your limbs, which
would be the fitting punishment that you can not just yours, but also
have destroyed my happiness, because see, "- here her voice took a
mild tone of - "as I take you back in the hut as a blooming lovely lad
so helpless in front of me looked as tatest du'm sorry, but not
just tired, I felt the desire in me, even once to enjoy human
happiness, rather than always to destroy.

Yes, I loved you and me approaching you in human form, I enjoyed this
year at your unclouded happiness. Now you have destroyed it himself
and I must return to my kingdom cold and you? - I remember the happiness
that I enjoyed and the poor children there dormant, which I next to the
mother not the father also wants to rob. May you live drum, the children
will remain a good father, and thus your search today injustice
to atone, "thus they pushed him a kiss on the forehead, which,
although cold, as the fire burned, the door sprang open, a swirling
snow showers durchtobte the house and kidnapped Juki-onna, a man
leaving einsam back.

From that day on, he remained, the otherwise cheerful and always had good
things seriously and no word was more happy about his lips, he only lived
for his children, she moved to efficient, good people and when after
many years again rustled a snow storm, this was the soul of the
man and led them with his "Juki-onna".

The people said, however, as they on him next morning found dead, he was
frozen. [image] [Note 1: Juki = snow, onna = woman, Juki-onna =
snow woman.]

[Note 2: Say Nishikase.] The white fox. [image] Many years ago in the
forest once chased by Shimoda [1] son of a prince. He had the rare good
fortune a snow white fox to catch the female sex.

He wanted to kill the animal, but Yasuna, the son of a temple
supervisor, who participated in the hunt, it asked him to give,
because he knew that such foxes with white fur have magical powers,
several thousand years old and are in any shape can transform.

But the son of the prince wanted the beautiful fur of the animal for you,
ask Yasuna suggested and ordered his men to kill the fox. Yasuna but took
hold of this with violence when he and the hunters struggled, and
although bleeding from many wounds, but he was able to flee with the
animals. After a while he was gone, he exhausted together, he had to
let go of the fox, which quickly disappeared in the forest. Oddly enough,
his fiancée came suddenly Kuzunoha so that when they saw his wounds, she
joined him and led him home. Yasuna was astonished when his fiancée
to see that he with their parents, in the Kumamoto Province [2]
far removed from Shimoda, lived, suspected, and therefore wondered how
come that they can now find him in the forest place. Kuzunoha but
replied: "Ask me not now, nor is it not time for you to explain. Is
it time, you will know everything! "That calmed Yasuna who was
happy, his bride to himself to have. He did not hesitate long, but
made a few days later with her wedding. Some years there were both happy
and satisfied, and a boy Herziger the Kuzunoha he had, beautifies their
luck.

That boy they had named Dokyo [3], where.

Yasuna One day in the forest and had returned back until late
evening.

When he arrived in front of his home, he was not a little surprised
at the door his parents and his wife stand to see the lively
entertained, he came closer, they welcomed them and asked why they
did not went into the house, but before the stances door.

His father drove him but angry at what this should mean that it is all
the years not to have troubled his bride, and now with another woman
zusammenlebe. Yasuna knew not what he should say such a speech and was
even more surprising than his bride, he made the same allegations. He
opened the door a short hand of the house and invited everyone to
enter. "We can continue in there about this, what are your accusations
mean here on the street is not the place to," he said and wanted to go
ahead, but rebounded back in the room because his wife sat and
sewed!

- Here stood out but also his wife, but claimed that not even his wife to
be, but only his fiancee!

Who was the right who is wrong Kuzunoha? - It is now quite noiselessly
closed the door, stepped back and said to his parents: 'Wait here
a moment, I will come back immediately!

"Then he entered his house, greeted his wife and told her:" Your
parents have arrived, prepare you, receiving them!

In one hour we are back here!

"After the woman agreed to do everything to obtain the best, Yasuna went
to the parents back and asked her for a walk with him to make, after an
hour he would be in his house lead. On the ways told him the parents
that the girls in them are actually her daughter Kuzunoha, his
bride and that this untröstlich that Yasuna in the long time nothing
was heard of that, their parents have led the long journey with her
make.

Now arrived, they had their great distress to see that another woman in
the house!

Yasuna told his adventure and his happy marriage. In this conversation
an hour was passed, all came back and went into the house, but
there was no woman to see, only the child was lying on his bed and
wept, cheered but the Kuzunoha, which the boys took on the arm and
joked with him.

Then the boy told her a strange dream that he had and asked what he
meant.

He said to Kuzunoha: "Earlier, when I slept, you said to me that
you do not man, but an enchanted vixen seiest.

The father did to you once saved the life and therefore you habest
human form and seist him in the guise of his bride appeared to him
to thank.

Now, however, the real bride arrived, and so you need to distinguish.
I should tell this to the father and I should be brave and good
and remain so.

A stupid dream, is not it!

"All were amazed, it was but now the mystery resolved.

The real Kuzunoha now remained in the house as a legitimate wife
Yasunas and trained the young Dokyo into a stalwart man who was
wise and brave.

Vixen from the white man has never heard. [Note 1: = location Shimoda
on the Izu Peninsula, near Yokohama.]

[Note 2: = Kumamoto city and province in the south of Japan near Nagasaki.]
[Note 3: = Dokyo courage.] [decoration] Urashima Taro. [1] In a fishing
village, near the present-day Yokohama lived before many, many years,
a young fisherman named Urashima Taro. One evening when he returned
from fishing and quite happy and good things because he had made good
booty, he saw a crowd on the beach boy who caught a small turtle, and
they had to in one of its front legs in circles attached cord and
herumschwangen tormented [2].

Urashima, who had liked the animals and each abhorred cruelty to innocent
animals, has again felt pity on the poor creature, and went to the
children.

By his voice had a strong tone, he scolded the children. "What kind of
wickedness," he cried out indignantly, "this innocent and helpless
animal to torment!

Know ye not that God in heaven punishes those evil children, the poor
animal abuse? Shows her once, because those who heard turtle?

"" This animal does not belong to anyone, "said the eldest of the boys
and added even more brazenly adding:" We can do what we want, and
if we have a pleasure from the animal to kill, this is our free will
and does something no other!

"Urashima saw that, this cheeky rascal he is not with moral teachings
should come, because on such hard hearts have no words, so he
changed his tactics and said now with a mild voice: "Well, well,
not only annoys you, that was not meant to be nasty, but this turtle
allerliebst like me and I would have liked it.

Are you in a trade with me in.? What if you give me the animal would
sell?

For money you can buy something and you better joy than to her here
in this animal circles herumschleudert!

"The children were delighted to trade quickly and left Urashima against
some silver coins, the turtle.

Urashima took them in hand, went to the water and put the animal
into the sea, saying: "Poor creatures, not to get the freedom to
rob, but you the freedom to play, I bought you, now swim out and
was more cautious in future so that you do not re - in bad boys
hands fall!

"He stayed for a while and saw the satisfied smile quickly in water
so floating turtle after, until he no longer saw it, then he took
his fishing gear and fish and wohlgemut went into his hut.

On the next morning he went as usual, according to his craft. When he
and his boat was on the sea and its networks had ejected, he
suddenly heard a soft voice called: "Urashima sama!"

[3] Astonished, he looked around, but could not discover where the
voice sounded and whoever his name cried.

    Since it sounded again: "Urashima
    sama!" Now he saw
    that the voice came from the
    water and he leaned over
    the edge of his
    boat and saw a small turtle, which he on the day before from the
hands of the boys had liberated.

In the first moment he was frightened, but he took a heart and asked,
"Were you there that called me?"

"Certainly," replied the creature.

"I've come to you my gratitude for your noble deed yesterday to say.
And because you give me my freedom, you would like I have something
quite nice show! Would you like to follow me! "Urashima thought: What
can you guess it, to me this show could be inconspicuous animal?
But nothing special.

But that does nothing, it will be grateful to me and prove to him I
will also not spoil the joy. After he is so for a while had considered,
but a precaution, he asked: "If it is not long? I will gladly
follow you, but I do not have much time to miss.

Where should it go? "" Garnicht far from here. I intend only to give you
the palace of our marine Otohime Queen to lead and you wonder where
things to show!

"" That is quite impossible, "said Urashima," because I can not
swim as fast and not as good as you dive and what is ultimately the
main thing is, I can not breathe in the water and you should not
apply to the seabed accompany!

"" Do not worry, therefore, Urashima, "replied the turtle," is
growing on my back and the more you'll see!

"" But my boat - - "said Urashima concern." That you can find here again,
I bring you back, "he broke the animal."

But you're so small, you can not bear me, "said Urashima still
questionable.

As it swept in water, the turtle stretched and stretched himself and
looked Urashima wondering how they are increasingly larger, until
they have the same size of the boat had, then she asked, laughing:
"Well?

- Am I still too weak for you? "Then all doubts disappeared Urashima,
flight, he rose from his boat, the same after he had anchored for
safety's sake and took on the back of the animal room."

Stay only right and fear not! "After some time the turtle cried:"
Now close your eyes firmly open and they are not more than before I
tell you.

Also think a little breath, it does not last long!
There's nothin' friendly, though, about the straight, tight-lipped
mouth, or the surprised look in her eyes as she discovers me standin'
there.

"Mr. McCabe?" says she.

"You see," says I, grinnin' foolish, "there's a chap outside who--who
has a batty idea he used to know you."

"Really?" says she, narrowin' her eyes a bit.

"Bolan's the name, Ma'am," I goes on, "Larry Bolan."

It wa'n't much,--just a quiver, a little lift of the shoulders, a
bunchin' of the fingers. Then she bites her lip and gets a grip on
herself. "Well?" says she. "What of it?"

"Why," says I, "he--he wants to have a talk with you. Course, though, if
you don't know him, or don't remember, all you got to do----"

"Yes, yes!" she breaks in. "I understand. Wait!"

A couple of minutes she stands there, never makin' a crack or givin' any
sign, except that the toe of one slipper taps the rug restless. Then she
gives her decision. "You may bring him in," says she.

"How about sendin' him?" I suggests.

"No, not alone," says she. "I want you to stay."

So I steps to the door. "Larry," says I, "you're called on the carpet;
but for the love of soup don't pull any of that old sweetheart stuff
reckless! The signs ain't right."

And a fat lot of notice he takes of my advice. Trust Larry! He pushes in
eager ahead of me, marches straight to where she is, gives her one
mushy, admirin' look, and the next thing I know he has reached for one
of her hands and is kissin' it as graceful and romantic as James K.
- By 9 clock - rather a few minutes earlier.

"This suited him and he ordered that he be tomorrow morning at about 8 ¾
clock would be awakened, and a strong hot coffee vorfände. The promised
Mamsell All the best to obtain 5. + The green room. + "Thank God,
the day was over," murmured the Commerzienrath quietly to himself,
when he was with the seat cushion in one hand and his umbrella and
skirt in the other hand, followed by the Mamsell the travel bag and
the light was, the staircase hinaufstieg to the "green room", "now
the night slept well, and man may his journey tomorrow with fresh
forces continue. - Oh, this is the green room?

"He interrupted, when its leader a kind of small chamber aufstieß
ground and begged him näherzutreten," hm, this is very simple. ""
Yes, we are admittedly a little bit here with limited space, Mr.

Mahlhuber, "said the Mamsell, and the Commerzienrath turned quickly
and almost frightened by her.

At the moment, but he remembered the strange book, and he nodded his
head approvingly as Mamsell the room continued to apologize and
now the bed on the other hand, to praise, in which Mr.

Mahlhuber would like to sleep in Abraham's Schoos. With a somewhat
darker terms how this actually would be, he's starting things, opened the
small window that hinaussah the roof, and closed it again, lifted
the heavy feather duvet and presented them with a tested, something
mistrauischen glances back and then saw the light of the Mamsell
on the table had, then after pulling back door, where they command
on any or perhaps to be commended for the excellent set up camp to
wait seemed.

The Commerzienrath it was just resting on tuna, and he began to
rock the aufzuknöpfen while he was away on the shoulder after a
glance threw Wirthin whether this character is not yet clear enough.

"Well, Mr. Mahlhuber is Everything okay? "said finally, unable to place
without a recognition of approving leave," it is to your satisfaction?

"" Absolutely, you sleep well, "said the Commerzienrath." desires
peace, "said the Mamsell, "and when the light are done, I would
have asked you kindly, it is only there at the door to ensure I get
it to me later. - So, do something pleasant dream, "she continued
with their binding smile vanished and then added, from a quiet
gebrummten Thank you score accompanied, as they come."

The green room, "growled this further, as he is alone kopfschüttelnd and
saw a look in the little room umherwarf whose borders on three sides and
the white Kalkwand on the fourth, where the bed stood a small
running obliquely shed boards formed by crude, "_grüne_ rooms?

there is no green wire in the whole nest.

And expenses have been here last week not - under the bed of straw, and
there in the corner with a pair of old boots. - Hm, hm, Dorothee has
right but in the end, Doctor and while funds would be best to
travel myself gone.

Dear God, I am a quiet peaceful man, now what have I not already seen and
done everything, and - bear -- hm, hm.

Now at least there is now a quiet evening and night give us God. "In
order for the nightcap over pulling the ears - because he had
self-conversation while fully undressed - he just lifted the right
leg, in the slightly high bed to rise when he was at the light,
and he became the order thought it close to the door to.

A light pair of scissors was also not on the plate and the
Commerzienrath hated nothing so much as the smoke of a Lichtschnuppe.

Thus the leg pulling back, he took the light and carried it carefully
beforehand, but once in his slippers schlüpfend, not too cold, to
the designated place, then put it down and then rose, and deeply
grateful aufseufzend in the very soft, but somewhat bulky bed, the
blanket up under his chin sinking, the moment to be expected, where
the Mamsell would pick up the light, before he was unable to halt.

One minute after the other and passed but did not Mamsell; by
Thürspalte pulled it a little and the lights flickered back and
forth that the tallow in large strips niederfloß.

It was not a tragedy happened? "Hm, that's annoying," he muttered, righting
itself in bed, the place better than to be able to see, and then, when
he found that the light is completely free standing, back downward,
but in the end asleep, despite the burning tallow candle, but it was
not, it was a positive and inability to maintain that the light from
Endchen itself should burn?

- That would still want a full half hour and can take longer.

A quarter of an hour at least, he had already in embarrassment, ever-growing
impatience at waiting for the collection thereof. The state was
intolerable to him and he finally decided to get up and now smoke
light eradicate, he could turn around and so angry that he had not
have long done.

In thought he performed this operation is now five or six times in a row
and turned himself involuntarily while the right hand, but the light
remained, and admittedly flickered on. With a desperate determination he
finally threw the blanket on his own, came back with both legs out of bed
and into his slippers and took a few steps to the light when he
stopped suddenly startled and listened, because it was exactly as
it was when whether he had heard something outside on the swing. -
If the Mamsell now and it would be entered into the elevator had
seen!

He wanted in the first horror back to bed really retire, but - it was
not the least to hear, he still remained a few seconds listening to
- no mouse - but, under his own bed in the straw rustled slightly
and He looked at it quickly, which could have been a mouse, in
shirts, however, he could no longer stand still, and now swiftly
and decisively to the light Hinsch riding, he just bent down and
stretched his hand out to take it when the door has been opened and
Mamsell in the same intention on the threshold appeared.

"Jesus Maria!" she exclaimed, as if they seen a ghost when they receive
no regular shape before beheld, and drove Commerzienrath with an
equally bewildered "Please excuse thousand times «back in the same
moment after his deposit back, when terrified Mamsell the door back
into the castle and threw then disappeared without trace.

Commerzienrath When the head finally back under the protective cover on
the towed vorstreckte, burning the light, both in Theilen stitches left,
still calm and continue to a second up was now not to think, because
the room was horrible woman in the same intention still stand behind
the door, again the same unfortunate moment to choose to open them.

It had to burn, and with a desperate sort of overcoming he finally
closed his eyes in the firm intention to halt, if the green room
was lit or not.

Nevertheless, he was not in a position and liked about half an hour between
waking and then sleeping to have, when the wick leergebrannte finally
umfiel once bright aufflackerte and then went out.

"Thank God," groaned the Commerzienrath in a half-consciousness of
his situation and decided now turned to the right side, so his catch
recklessly sacrificed sleep as soon as he the rustling under the bed
again heard, but this time much stronger than before, while a slight
whimper, as if a young cat or the like of which darunterläge.
"Well, that has me still missing," growled the tormented guest Furor
quiet and to himself,, "what is now happening again?" - He listened
for a while, but after the noise was and he just started to re - in sleep
to come, as it began a new and stronger. "Holy God in heaven," said
the troubled Commerzienrath, forcibly restrained a curse, "is not even
the most healthy for Christians to despair, and this is my yellow
hypertrophy to lose?

"The rustling and whimper was now stronger and it was lying in bed with
the soon no doubt that any young dog just under the bed post in the straw
inside his camp, and now by fleas or bad dreams will be tortured.

At Selber, however, was sleeping in such circumstances not to think that
after any call to service was also quite apart from the question
and the Commerzienrath finally decided, as the rustling and
increasingly whimper was again up and the little troublemaker and
to from the door to throw.

An overnight fall of the light was not due to fear. Cautiously feeling
after the slippers, which he quickly attracted again, crouched now the
worthy man, his head forced backward a bit, because it against the
bed press office had to before his stock down with the hand in the
straw after the objects of his wrath to search.

It took not long, so he picked a young dog, who winselnd laid on his
back as he felt the touch, caught him in the fur, and carried him
to slow up so that the bed, to the door.

Over the candlestick stolpernd to whom he no longer thought he was but as
the latch, opened it and threw the young winselnden Köter a while quietly
muttered, but the warm-intentioned curse to the outside. "So," he said
then, the door as he carefully closed again and become the Bette
zurückfühlte, "so now the scandal has also an end and I will but
at least once come to rest. - O my liver!

"And again under his roof, he propelled the suffering Theil so easy
to define as possible and then brought his right hand to the head,
where he still serious concerns as to the long scar on his
Balggeschwulst button until wehthat it, and then with the tormenting
thought that it in any case once a cancer damage needed him slowly
in his grave hinunterfräße.

Already some love long night, he had to sleep in a similar way
groaned and now the tiredness just won the upper hand again and
sent him in uncertain fluctuating dream pictures the experiences
of the last day.

But these were not experienced in the order, but began with the
last, because he clearly heard the whimper again and rustling from
before and wanted to be just even in dreams with the comforting
sense that it is only a dream, more than the noise and was alive
and he is finally, well into the height-propelled, back in the bed
up, to listen to them.

"Jesus Maria Joseph!" he cried almost involuntarily as he totally
undeniable certainty of a new disturbance reached, "there is the
sky still so such a beast, and I have previously felt around.

Well, on the night I want to think, but if I ever come back to Gidelsbach,
I will be a pleasure for me to make the same damned Doctor tour
and a night-quarters in the nest here - as it was the same?

- To recommend. Let me come back! "Considerations used here but not quite,
the young dog had not yet gone to rest philosophiren, and after
several futile attempts, in spite of the" poison toad "wiedereinzuschlafen,
had the unfortunate traveler, if not the whole night such experiments
sacrifice wanted to paint for the third out of the bed, the
troublemaker to remove.

Again he caught the back of the neck, carried him to the door, he
was still firmly latched, opened it, threw him out, closed it and
went back to the fourth male to bed now, so Nöthiger to maintain
calm.

It was in vain and he had barely long enough situated, is no longer
now happened once too upset, as the whimper of a new started.

Again he ruffled against the power of circumstances, he was again out
of bed, the third dog hinauszuwerfen and even after his umbrella lest it
around now, under the bed before he laid down again, umherzufühlen
whether or not such a horrible beast was hidden among them, only
on the moment of his falling asleep with malicious security wait.

He could no longer discover something; straw was still everywhere,
but no dog, and the screen on the bed leaning, as in anticipation
of a new misfortune, he had just turned around and at his store,
which then heraufzuziehen legs under the blanket, as a new rustling,
which soon afterwards the unfortunate whimper followed him in
desperation to hunt up a new start made.

Well, he now sees his match against the remnants of those night-time
noise on the track to come, he found it, but he had no more light
to ignite it and feared that even in the many scattered straw
umherzuleuchten.

How easy was because fire, and that was everything he needed. With the
floors, he is now in all angles and corners, under the bed after
each direction under the Commode, whose sharp edge he corrupted the
shins, and under the wardrobe, on the knee he anrannte so violently
that Cause it was founded to have believed that the sponge to be
feared.

"Four young dogs," he muttered to himself, quietly, "where only the old
woman's, or whether at the end also returns? - Four small malitiöse
such Töhlen.

And if they are only equal at least all at once reported to have, then
I could now have at least one hours sleep. Moreover, I want to here
the death of the neck pick with my thin clothes and thick liver -
if only I had the Doctor here, "he continued with a kind Furor
added, as he again looked at his camp and, according aufseufzend
back threw on the pillow.

Armer Commerzienrath - your sleep should be of short duration horribly,
because he still was not even brought his favorite place, when the now
formally eerie whimper expectant began anew.

As pointed out by a snake stung in bed, he jumped up. Almost involuntarily
sought the hand according to his guns, which he was accustomed on his bed
to know if it also a reminder stitch through the heart was examined
after the bell part, Hülfe herbeizuholen against such torment Neither
one nor the other was to feel, nothing but the bare sloping wall,
and it ran cold at the thought on the back, that he is but in the end
here with something supernatural might to thun have the strange old
building. But the dogs were young but of flesh and bone have been, had
he not the warm soft skin in his hand felt for them all?

And where was now the new growth come from? What angle in the room
he had overlooked, and it was not räthselhaft that they can only ever
stillhielten while until he just lay back in bed? He wanted to enforce
it now and the little toad whimper as long as it can be popular,
wrapped therefore Determined in his blanket, but - he was not in a position
to implement it. The fine winselnde sound penetrated by Mark and his leg
and he was last out again, they nachzuschicken others - in order
again and again to renew the same game.

As the inexhaustible hat a pocket player, the bouquets and cards, wigs,
eggs and handkerchiefs ausspeit in unbroken series, then delivered the
loose straw bedded young dogs, and the Commerzienrath - because we are
so accustomed to everything - that it began as quite in order to
find that it is the night so that employment of young dogs from
the door to throw in the ninth comforted with the thought that he
had never heard, like a bitch more than nine boy had calmed down
and at the tenth so that he admitted that they could by two bitches
came.

Half asleep in, because he was tired after the unaccustomed work,
he stood up when he heard the terrible sounds, hand under the bed,
pulled the increasingly winselnde beast in front of the ears and
put them in an already barely conscious Consummation of the air,
until the others returned.

It was not until morning dämmerndem he should rest, half house
servant yesterday evening was cumbersome heraufgeschlurrt the stairs,
just as the seventeenth Commerzienrath from the door slammed.

"Because," he screamed , "you still have one and the next, I now
come into the chamber, which I throw out the window, as true as I
Hieronymus hot.

Is this a decent guest house for travelers, where the Chamber of dogs
abound? "And the door slam that window klirrten, threw it back
to bed and heard only as the servant of the house small Köter apprehended
and stroked and caressed, and then slowly with the passage
zurücktappte him as he came.

Next he heard nothing, and his tiredness finally won the upper hand and
he fell into a fixed almost morbid sleep, made him the servant of
the house later, at the given hour, could hardly herausrütteln
again. " There is already one!

"said he still dreams of him even through the few hours that have had.
»Satan beast, little, if I do not now -" "Papelt the wrong?"

Said the quiet house servant, his operation to get him to perk him repeatedly,
"he holla - auf'm is the coffee table and the post will no longer
stay as long. "" Who's on the table?

"asked the Commerzienrath, suddenly awake and being like a pistol
shot in his bed up. "Holy Mother of God," he added then groaning
as his experiences of the last night in memory appeared, "I'm not
on the whole body, such as exhausted and shattered.

And that's why I move the Post let a good night's sleep to keep, and
now - but the Mamsell I will say what I think - where is the Mamsell?
"The man, however, to whom he directed the question to be thought,
had Then, after he fulfilled his duty and Curios travelers awakened,
his clothes cleaned on the chairs were, his boots and bare flashing
before bed were to return to its other stores were withdrawn, and
the Commerzienrath Mahlhuber was nothing left, when his wrath still
in the short time to verbeißen and above all in the clothes to throw.

Sky, when he missed the postal wagon and at the end would have been
forced, even a night in this home, in this appalling "green office"
zuzubringen.

But he still had time enough, and the servants spirit, in anticipation
of a tip this morning, very nimble in the hand was again heraufrufend,
he let him down into the baggage room bear pack, so it weighed and
onward could be.

But the people below, and especially the Mamsell, he wanted to sound
even say his opinion on such a treatment - he had been to the Rock
above zugeknöpft up, quite determined and determinirt really, really,
and went a few times in his small room with quick steps up and down
the Zornesworte to repeat it against them auszuschleudern imagined.

Was that a treatment for a decent man whom Commerzienrath from the
Games to leave?

it was not a sick vile so formally abzustehlen Nöthiger sleeping by not
taking dogs to him about the room that, no, it formally into a
whole collection of small non-decent winselnden howling toads
hineinsperrte than if it had it apart to be used directed?

"They - Mamsell you," he wanted to say and they do so with a piercing
gaze view, "how can you under -" "The coffee is ready," declared
the house servant again, his head on the stairs showing » and if
you do not like, you can no longer drink.

"Do not drink coffee - the whole day would have been lost to him, and
soon his journey up hat, he went with firm quick steps, but they
were cautious, as he bit steep Stairs reached down.

The Mamsell stood at the bottom of the stairs, and with her friendly
smile and a bashful glances down hitting the eye - they probably
thought of the moment in which they themselves last night for the
last male seen - said authentic "desires welcome to have rested
well and you do not want to kindly come closer and take your coffee?

"well-rested to have - and now scorn to all! - Well to rest between
seventeen dogs, without the old, that was too much, and now they
should get it. »Mamsell love," said the Commerzienrath with one
voice, but the emotion about the injustice suffered beimischte, and
therefore much softer sound than it actually located in his intention,
"Mamsell dear, I would ask you very -" "Oh , Mr Mahlhuber, "interrupted
him but the Mamsell rapidly and almost angry," You do not have to
apologize to ask - I was actually blame. "" To apologize?

"asked the Commerzienrath, in the heat Rooms glasses was started
by the head niederbog through the glasses away, "to apologize -" I
thought you had to go long to rest - and therefore dared - "" Ruh
'go?

"repeated the Commerzienrath and bog down more and more, the expression
in the face Wirthin to see, "do you think, dear Mamsell that it
is ever to Ruh 'can go if the whole room has fully dogs?"

"Fully dogs, Mr. Mahlhuber ?

- But I beg you for God's sake, as fully as dogs? "" If one is entitled,
"said Grimm Commerzienrath its now more accessible to omit coffee,
he came to the table, a cup einschenkte and during the following
conversation drank, "nearly a dozen with the epithet" full "to prove
I can responsibility for what I am saying, do you want to be kind
and give me my bill?"

"One and a dozen dogs? - But the best Mr. Mahlhuber - please - 2 Gulden
15 Kreuzer makes the whole thing - a half dozen dogs?

- We have only one small young poodle in the house of the Lord postmaster
until last week of Bamberg has brought. "" One only? "Cried Mr. Mahlhuber
outraged by the money for his dinner and lodging on the table
presented , "let the one?

- Seventeen, I tell you, seventeen, I have in this one unfortunate night
with their own hands under my bed vorgeholt and thrown out of the door,
and - the old man is perhaps the top. "" Seventeen dogs?

"Cried the Mamsell the money only once and count on eckend and then
hands over his head hitting together, "seventeen young dogs?"

The Commerzienrath nodded through the cup of coffee, which he is
held to the lips.

"But we have only one in the house, however, always up there, and
yesterday I had quite forgotten. "" Would you give me my five senses
and the sleepless night deny?

"cried the traveler." Oh you are my heaven, "cried the Mamsell, now
suddenly a light over the whole thing to be working appeared, "there
is the little toad again and again through the hole cut came into
the room."

"What a hole?
Lucky she'd invested in a generous fur-lined wrap to go with
it, or I wouldn't have stirred a step until we'd draped her in a rug or
something. I ain't sayin' much about the feather affair clamped around
her head in place of a hat; only it reminds me of an Indian war bonnet
that's been through a hard blow.

"Well, Bayard," says she, floatin' up to us wabbly on her high heels,
"you see I'm ready."

"Ye-e-es," says Steele draggy. And while I pushes the Major to the front
almost by main strength, J. Bayard presents him.

After that, though--say, I don't know when I've seen two parties indulge
in such a long and earnest look at each other as Major Ben and Mrs.
Hollister did then. While the Major flushes rosy and hardly has a word
to say for himself, he just naturally glues his lamps to her and don't
let 'em roam. Believe me too, she was some giddy picture! Wa'n't such a
bad looker, you know, in her other rig; but in this zippy regalia--well,
I got to admit that she's some ripe pippin. Her big brown eyes is
sparklin', she's smilin' coy as she looks the Major up and down, and the
next thing we know blamed if she ain't cuddled right up to him and
remarked kittenish:

"You dear man! I'm going to let you take me out to the cab."

Well, that was the programme from then on. . 1. º The Atlantic Basin.
2. º The Great Basin Indian and Pacific ocean. "There can be the name of
the basin of the great circle indeterminate Southern Ocean, which
has no limits or beach, only to North surrounding the sea of India,
the Coral Sea and the Pacific. The Southern Ocean alone is greater
than all the seas together, because it covers nearly half the surface
of the globe. In all appearance, his hand with its depth extension.

While recent polls indicate the Atlantic 10 or 12,000 feet, and
Ross Denham found in the Southern Ocean 14,000, 27,000 and even
46,000 feet.

Add to this the mass of Antarctic ice, our infinitely more dilated
boreal ice. Not deviate a lot of truth, if simplified, says: The Southern
Hemisphere is the world of water, Borealis and the Earth. * * * All
that part of Europe to cross the Atlantic, having left without
setback of our ports, too often closed by the west wind, having
traversed the seas of our variable fickle, soon to enter the nice
weather, the eternal serenity of the northwest winds, the gentle
trade winds , the sea and land.

All smiles: there is no reason for concern. But, as we move towards the
line, life-breeze stops and the air becomes stifling. It pierces the
calm of the area under the dominating Ecuador and immutably separate
the trade winds of our northern hemisphere the trade winds of the
South.

The sky is covered with heavy clouds, each time it rains seas.

The heart is saddened, we complain, but without the dark curtain, our
heads could resist the burning sun of the Atlantic?

Without the flood of water that attacks the other side of the globe,
the Indian ocean and the Coral Sea, is it possible to resist the
crater produced by fermentation of gray volcanoes?

That black mass of clouds, before terror barrier sailors, sudden
that night that extends over the water, it is salvation, ease
protective softens our journey, and leads us by the hand to enjoy
the splendid sun South of the clear sky, the sweetness of regular
winds.

Of course the heat of the line brings the water to steam, forming
this dark belt.

The observer from another planet who contemplate our own, would
loom over him with a ring of clouds Short difference as we look to
Saturn.

And if it tried to investigate their use could contestársele: It is the
regulator, absorbing and returning in turn balances the evaporation,
precipitation of water, distributed rainfall and dew, the heat
change of each region, the vapor exchange of both worlds, the world
Austral borrow materials to form streams and large flows of water
in our world Boreal.

Solidarity wonderful. The South America with its imposing forests, through
their breath condensed into clouds, soaked brothers flowers and fruits
of Europe.

The air that we renew the tax that is a hundred islands in the Asia,
which the powerful Java flora of Ceylon or exhale and entrusted the
great messenger of the clouds that circles the earth and pouring
life.

Colocaos * * * (I speak in spirit) on one of the volcanic island
that offers both number and see the Pacific Ocean to the South.
Behind the New Holland will see the Southern Ocean site with a circular
wave the two extreme ends of the old and new continents.

Nothing in the world of the Antarctic land or islands, or alleged
polar lands that once were as reported by the discoverers have
disappeared, though not perhaps more than ice.

Endless waters provided water.

Observatory do the same I have placed, in contrast to the cycle of
Antarctic waters to the east you can see, toward the hemisphere
Arctic, what Ritter calls "the circle of fire."

To speak more property, is a loose ring, forming a loose chain of
volcanoes, mountain ranges in the first, then the heights of Asia, and
finally those countless groups of ants that basaltic islands
throughout the Eastern Ocean.

The first volcanoes, of America, offered a thousand miles long, a
succession of sixty lighthouses giant, whose continuous eruptions
dominate the rugged coastline and the distant water.

The other, from New Zealand to north of the Philippines, have burned and
eighty numerous off. If we fix our sight on the North (from Japan to
Kamtschatka), fifty to illuminate shiny craters of the Aleutian
Islands, and the dark Arctic seas (Leopold de Buch, Ritter, Humboldt).

Total, three active volcanoes that dominate the world circumferentially
East. On the other side of the globe, our Atlantic Ocean offering a
similar appearance before the revolutions that turned off most of
the volcanoes in Europe, annihilating the other party the continent
of Atlantis.

Humboldt believed that this great ruin witnessed with such force by
tradition, actually occurred.

For my part, atrévome to add that the existence of this continent
was logic in general the symmetry of the universe, for that side
of the globe was consonant with the other.

There he stood next to the volcano of Tenerife, which has been, and
our off volcanoes in the Auvergne, the Rhine Herefort, etc.., Which
should determine the existence of Atlantis.

Together they formed the opposite side of the volcanoes of the West and
other Americans craters. * * * Of these firings or extinct volcanoes of
India and the West Indies, Cuba Sea of Java, are two great rivers
hot water run to warm the North, and could call the two aortas of
the globe.

Both are fitted either side or below of undertows that, from the north,
bringing cold water, compensating for the outpouring of hot water
forming the balance. The two warm currents, which are saladísimas,
managing a mass of cold fresh water, returning to Ecuador, the large
electric cooker to warmed, salarla. These rivers of hot, tight at first,
and twenty miles wide, and space for a long and powerful force retain
their identity, gradually cut entíbianse, however dilate and expand up
to one thousand leagues.

Maury believes that part of the West and prompted the North to us,
moves and changes the fourth part of the Atlantic. The outline of the
life of the seas, observed recently, were, however, as visible as
the same continent.

Our powerful Atlantic artery artery and her sister were quite Indicates
released in color. Both sides envisions a torrent blue, very blue,
which runs on the green water, as dark indigo color, the Japanese
name to yours: _río negro_.

Vese sprout perfectly ours, between Cuba and Florida: sale of boiling
your boiler, the Gulf of Mexico. Runs warm, salty, very visible between
the two green walls. Mockery of the Ocean, he encases it, compresses it,
but can not pass. I do not know why intrinsic density, why molecular
attraction, its blue waters are kept together, as united as before
to be confused with the blue water, accumulate, forming a wall, a
vault, with its slope to the right and left, and any object there
check it repels and slides, as is taller than the ocean. swift and
impetuous, first runs north, following the United States, but, on
reaching the tip of the great bank of Newfoundland, his right arm
dirígese East and left the subject, which undercurrent, going to
the center console and create the warm sea (ie no ice), which has
just been discovered.

As for the right arm, spread by a huge latitude, when weak, tired, comes
to Europe, faced with the Republic of Ireland and England returning to
divide and separate the water in Newfoundland. Dying, lost at sea, warm,
however, a little Norway, and still find ways to keep the coast
of Iceland the woods of America, without which the poor would die
under its snowy island volcano. * * * The two brothers, the Indian
and American, are similar in that, out of the line, the electric
furnace of the globe, dragging prodigious powers of creation,
stirring.

On the one hand, believe that the parent of a deep world of living creatures,
their soft and gentle cradle, on the other vehicle and the center
of the storm: the winds, the tornado traveled to the surface.

So much sweetness, so much rage, is it not a contradiction? No: this
proves only that the mob fury only the outside, the outer layers, too
shallow. From what we know of nothing. The weaker creatures,
conchíferos atoms, microscopic jellyfish, being a fluid that
dissolves anything, taking advantage of the current, sailing
peacefully under the storm.

Few reach us: detiénense in Newfoundland, where the cold current from the
pole attack the imprisoned, killed. Newfoundland is just the ossuary of
the injured passengers from the cold. The more tenuous, although
dead, are floating, but which eventually rained nevazón on the ocean
floor, providing the banks of microscopic shells from Ireland to
America, that are substantive. Maury called to the two rivers of
hot water, the Indian and American _las two of the Milky Ways mar_. *
* * Such as heat, color and direction, describing exactly the same
curve, they are not, however, the same fate.

The American begins to penetrate a brave open sea in the north, the Atlantic,
which released him and sent the army of floating polar ice, where he
spends his heat. In contrast, the current Indica, the first run of the
islands reaches a closed sea and preserved in the North, remained the
same for long, warm, and creative power, and drawing on the trail of a
huge balloon life. His heart is the height of the power plant land
treasures, monsters, kind in fish. Of secondary currents that flow from
it and go south, it is still another world, the Coral Sea. There, in
a space _grande the four continentes_ - said Maury - polyps conscientiously
manufactured thousands of islands, reefs and banks that cut little by
little that sea; pitfalls today's dangerous and cursed sailor, but
back, joining the long run, will be a continent, and who knows?

after a cataclysm, the refuge of the human lineage. V The pulse
of the sea. Our land is not lonely, according to Juan Reynaud out in
the beautiful article of _Enciclopedia_. Complicated curve that describes
the specific forces, the various influences that act on it, attesting
to their relationship and communication with the great people of the
heavens. The hierarchical relationships are particularly visible in his
head, the sun and the moon, which, as his servant, is it more power over
her. Just as the flowers of the earth faces the sun, look at him the
same land that sustains them, and aspires toward it. In what is more
mobile, fluid mass rises and states that feel their attraction.

Overflow and climbs (like), and fixed his gaze toward the stars friends
twice daily its swelling breast, dedicating at least a sigh. * * *
Did not feel the pull of the other balloons? Its tides are governed
only by the moon and the sun? All the sages say so, this is what
we believed all seafarers. It was followed incompletísimos the results
of the plate. Hence terrible mistakes that cut into shipwrecks. With
regard to the dangerous shoals of Saint-Malo was a mistake of eighteen
feet. Only in 1839 was when Chazallon, which was almost destroyed as a
result of such errors, he began to discover and calculate the
secondary undulations, but with great consideration, that modify
the general tide under various influences.

There is no doubt that stars less dominant than the sun and moon also
influence the flow of ground water. However, under what law? Chazallon
says: "The ripple of the tide in a harbor _sigue law vibrantes_ the
ropes." Judgment serious and powerful, it gives us to understand that
relations between the stars themselves, are the mathematical
relationships in music heaven, according to the old.

The land, through its high tide and tidal partial tells planets siblings.
Does it? We should think so. With its fluid elements must also be lifted,
sensitive to the effort of the earth. The mutual attraction, the
tendency of each star to shake his selfishness, you must create
through the heavens sublime dialogues. Unfortunately, the human ear
perceive only a small part of this symposium. * * * Another point we
must consider.

The sea is not very loose at the time of the passage of astro influential:
it has an informal servile obedience. You need time to grieve and continue
to shake, we need to call in help lazy waters, which ends its inertia
force, which appeals to the most distant drag. The rotation of
the earth, so terribly fast, continuous change of the items under the
attraction.

Add to the army of the waves in motion simultaneously, has to suffer all
the setbacks of natural obstacles, islands, capes, straits, addresses
ranging from the banks, and less resistant barriers of the winds
and currents, the rivalries of the rivers of the earth, which,
descending from the mountains, drawn by its rapid outstanding, as
the snow melts and a hundred accidents, atraviésanse change each
other and regulate the movement, initiating fights terrible.

Ocean remains strong. The forces that boast most abundant rivers, not
enough to intimidate. The waters are pushed towards him not refuse:
Pick it up, which makes rolling mountains to Rouen and Bordeaux,
with such violence, which would try to launch the other side of the
real mountains.

As various obstacles created tidal irregularities apparent seized and
stir the spirit. Just amazing that the contradiction of hours
offered in two ports very immediate.

A trip from Havre, for example, is worth two of Dieppe (Chazallon,
Baude, etc.).

What a glory to the human lineage have submitted to such complex phenomena
calculation!

* * * But this movement under external, the other hidden internal sea, the
currents that pass through to any depth. Superimposed on different
heights, or dumped on the side opposite directions, warm currents, undertows
cold, running between the movement of the sea itself, the change in the
freshwater and saltwater, the alternative which is _pulsación_ outcome.
Warm Line _bate_ of polo, as the cold pole Ecuador. Is strictly accurate
to compare these flows, as has sometimes flows asaz very different and
not mixing, with the vessels, veins and arteries of animals superiors?
Strictly speaking, no. But have some resemblance to the movement given
that less naturalists have discovered recently in some inferior,
molluscs and annelids. Corrected _lagunar_ movement that prepares _vascular_,
scatters in the blood flow before forming certain channels. It is the
sea: a large animal parécese arrested in the first degree of organization.
* * * Who revealed currents, these seasonal cycles the gap which will
never go down? Who taught the geography of the murky waters? Those living
in or float on its surface, namely, animals and plants. Let's see
how the whale, how atoms conchíferos (_foraminíferos_), how the
wood from the jungles American transported to Iceland, have crowded
to reveal the hot river of the West Europe is heading towards, and
against the cold that he joins in Newfoundland, passing near or
below, and turning on its ice thick fog. animálculos A cloud of
red, moved by a gale of the Orinoco to France, gave an explanation
of the great air cooling our Southwestern Europe with rains in the
mountain ranges.

Without the continued exchange of water takes place through the currents
in the deep sea, cover in many salts and detritus.

Happen as in the Dead Sea, which lacks drainage and movement, sees its
banks and covered with salt crystals embedded plants. Just navigate its
waters with winds truécanse in abrasives, aggregates, causing
famine and death. Tantas scattered observations on the flow of air, water,
seasons, winds, storms, remained as a tradition in the memory of
fishermen and sailors, lost most of the time, down to the grave
with them.'

s guide navigator, weather decentralized, it seemed futile, and ultimately
be denied. The illustrious M. Biot pidióla narrow view of what little
they had advanced so far. However, in both beaches, European and American
men denied that persevering science based on observation.

The last and most famous of all, the U.S. Maury, courageously undertaken
which would have made back to any government, review and _cuadernos
classification of bitácora_ many of these reports documents, often
truncated, leading masters. These excerpts, written in tables where the
facts consistent stress, resulted in some rules and generalities. A
congress of sailors, met in Brussels, decided that the notes from
that time carefully annotated, would be centralized in a single
tank, the Center of Washington.

Noble tribute of Europe to young America, and ingenious pacienzudo
Maury, wise poet of the seas has summarized its laws, and made a still
greater, because the momentum of the heart and love for nature, while
for its positive results, managed to transport the Universe. His
letters and the first book he wrote, which was run one hundred and fifty
thousand copies are given freely by the United States to the seamen
of all nations of the world. Many eminent men, and in France as in Holland,
Jansen, Tricaut, Julien, Margollé, and Zurcher, Hans become
interpreters, missionaries in that eloquent apostle of the seas.

Why America has advanced in this case ? America represents hope. He
is young and dying to be in relationship with the rest of the globe.
On a splendid continent and in the midst of so many States believed,
however, lonely. So far from her mother Europe, has its gaze toward
the center of civilization, like the earth toward the sun, and
everything that comes to light do it this big beat. They can be judged
by drunkenness, by moving the festivities to surrender on the land
during the opening of the submarine telegraph linking the two
beaches, promising dialogue and reply in a few minutes, so that the
two worlds do not have more a single thought. * * * Maury has shown
the true genius harmony with air and water.

It may Ocean Ocean sea air. Their motion, swapping its elements are
entirely analogous. Distributes the heat throughout the world, produces
droughts or moisture. This making the seas of infinity central Indian
Ocean, especially in the tropics, the great cauldron of the boiler
universal. Become dry, on the contrary, when he toasted the deserts,
the great continents, the blizzards (true intermediate poles of the
globe), which suck up its last drop. The warming and cooling of Ecuador
pole alternating density and subtlety of the fumes, they make you
travel in the form of horizontal currents and undertows, that
changed.

Under the line, which relieves the heat and steam raising creates flows
from the bottom up. Before hanging over this distributed dark receptacle
that (we have said) way around the globe like a ring of clouds. Here,
then, other sea and air pulsations pulse regardless of the tide. This was
outside, printed by other stars in our, but the pulse of the current
range is intrinsic to the Earth, is his own life. * * * In the
book of Maury, the hallmark of genius, in my opinion, is saying "The
most apparent movement of the sea, the heat would not be enough.
Another no less important or more than one: salt. "This so abundant in
the sea, as if all it contains are agglomerated in America, covering
the whole forming a mountain of 4500 feet.

The saltiness of the sea, without much change, however, increases or
decreases depending on the locations, the currents, the proximity of the
poles or Ecuador. Desalted saladísimo or, for that same cause ofrécese
light or heavy sea, more or less mobile. This mixture, with its variations,
makes the water more or less rapidly, ie _produce corrientes_ -
_horizontales_ currents within the sea - currents and _verticales_ Sea
waters to the sea air. * * * The M. French Lartigue has revealed
several spots artfully presented and inaccuracies geography Maury.
(_Anales Marítimos_). But the American authorities, wary of it, not
trying to hide what he thinks about the incompleteness of their
knowledge, stating that at certain points has not been taken advantage
of that hypothesis.

Sometimes it seems to hesitate, to submit a dreamer, restless . His book,
written honestly and in good faith, makes the fight easily glimpse
inside to surrender two spirits: the _literalismo bíblico_, which makes
the sea a thing created by God at one time, a machine that moves to
the pulse his hand - and the modern sense, the _simpatía of
Naturaleza_, for whom the sea is to be a lively one person and
almost life-force, where the soul lover continually creates the
Universe.

Curious to see the author of the book question, gradually approaching
towards the latter point of view by a slope invincible.

While you can, explain the impact mechanics, physical (weight, heat,
density, etc.).. But this is not enough. In some cases adding this
or that action or molecular magnetic attraction. Nor is it enough. So
frankly resorted to physiological laws that govern life, giving the sea
a pulse, arteries and even heart. Does this formula by mere speech, or
work well for using a metaphor?

No indeed. Has (and that is where the genius of the author) is itself
an imperative sense, the invincible character of the sea. This is the
secret of his power, this is what takes away the men of science. Before
him, the sea was only one thing in the eyes of many marine water
slide, thanks to Maury, today he is regarded person: all recognized
and exalted by a formidable friend who love and want to tame.

The U.S. is enamoradísimo sea. However, at every moment to be contained
and, fearing the transfer limit has been proposed.
"This ain't a habit you're breakin'
yourself of, you know: it's just a single slip you've got to apologize
for."

"I know," says he; "but you cannot imagine how madly in love with her I
am."

"I'm glad I can't," says I.

And, say, he sticks to it. No, Sir, I can't push him in there with
Veronica again. I had him out on the front steps for fifteen minutes,
tryin' to argue some sense into him; but all he wants to do is go jump
off the rocks into the Sound and have me tell Aunty he died disgraced
but happy. Fin'ly, though, he agrees to wait while I go sleuthin' in and
find whether Veronica has rushed in tears to Daddy, or is still curled
up on the davenport bitin' the cushions in rage.

Is necessary that Nature invented a supreme devourer, dining and producer
admirable poor digestion of huge and greedy generation. Monstruo
good harvest and that this terrible scourge of fertility renascent
invincible with a great effort for absorption, which swallows everything
indiscriminately: dead, alive, what I say? As in their path.

_The Great comedor_ of Nature, dining privileged shark.

But such terrible destroyers are due in advance: Despite its fury eater,
produce very little.

Hase seen that the sturgeon is not as prolific as cod, shark and
is sterile compared to the other inhabitants of the liquid element.

Not as they poured in torrents through the seas: viviparous, develops in
the internal tiburoncito its feudal heir, born of terrible and
armed white tip. * * * May the sea in their fertile terrible
destroyers smile he same place, sure to procreate more.

Its principal asset, the furore of these challenges tragones beings,
being inaccessible to their rapacity.

I mean the vast world of atoms living microscopic animals, a true abyss
of life within it ferments.

Hase said that the lack of sunlight excluded life, and yet in the depths
of the sea live innumerable swarms of stars marinas.

The waves are populated diatomaceous microscopic worms and mollusks
and plenty of them crawl on their shells. Cangrejos bronzed, radiant
anemones, snowy porcelain, gold ciclóstomos, corrugated spirals, all
live and move.

They swarm the animálculos light that momentarily attracted to the surface,
appear as Regueros, snakes or fire glowing garland.

Transparent in its thickness should be lighting the sea here and ACULLICO
such glares, these waters have a gloss, a semi-light that can be seen
about the fishes and alive as dead.

That is its own light, his own Fanal, its sky, moon and the stars.

The whole world is readily observable in the fertility of the sea
salt.

The waters that concentrated deposits violet are nothing other than
diatomaceous. They are all sailors on any long trip have not crossed over
living waters. Freycinet saw sixty million square meters covered with
a scarlet red that is nothing but an animal-plant, so tiny that a single
square meter living forty million of them.

In the Bay of Bengal in 1854, Captain Kingman, sailed for about thirty
miles on a huge white ocean gave the appearance of a plain covered
with snow. Was not a single cloud, the sky was Aplomado as opposed to the
brilliance of the sea. View of white water that was almost a jelly,
and observed a mass of the lens to move animálculos that produced
unique lighting effects. Perón Account, which sailed for twenty miles
through a kind of gray powder, which, seen under a microscope, was
a layer of eggs of species unknown, on a vast area covered and not
allowed to see the water.

The stranded costs of Greenland, where the man is shown going to expire
Nature, the sea is pobladísimo. Browsing in a length of fifteen hundred
miles of latitude, the water black, a color due to some microscopic
jellyfish. In each cubic foot of water those living more than one hundred
and ten thousand of these animals. (Schleiden). These waters are
nutrient dense of all kinds of gross atoms appropriate to the
nature of the fish pier, which lazily open your mouth and hope,
sustained as an embryo inside the mother common.

Do you know what the fish will swallow? Barely. The food is microscopic
as a kind of milk is offered without request. The great misfortune
of the world, hunger exists only on earth, at sea is averted, it is
not known. No effort of movement, no one is cured of seeking food. Life
should float like a dream. What used to be their strengths?

Nothing can be spent, and the reserve for love. * * * The real work,
the work of the great seas of the world is: love and multiply. Love fill
your night fruitful; Join in the depths, looking much richer still
among the infinitely small. But what is in fact the atom? When you
believe to be in possession of the smallest, the indivisible, look
at that also loves its existence and divides to produce another.

At the lowest rank of life, where they lack any other body, you will find
complete generic forms. This is the sea. It seems the great female balloon,
whose tireless desire permanent conception and childbirth are timeless.
II The sea of milk. The sea water to pure, taken to sea and away
from the whole mixture, and a slightly blanquizca slightly viscous. If
you stop between the fingers, and slips _hace hebra_ slowly. Chemical
analysis can not explain this character: it is an organic substance that
is analyzed by destroying, removing his specialty, and making back violently
to the number of general elements. The plants, marine animals,
are covered with this substance, which mucus consolidated around
it, has the effect of gelatin, and sometimes still trembling.

Plants and animals appear as low through a transparent layer, and
contributes nothing to the great illusion that makes us the world
of the seas.

His reflexes are unique and often strangely iríseos, for example,
on the scales of fish and shellfish, which apparently received by
that means all the ostentation of their pearly shells.

It is the most striking of the child by first time you see a fish. I
happened to be very small, but remember as the impression now that
I produced.

Be that bright, slippery, with silver scales, caused me surprise
and excitement hard to explain.

I tried to grasp it, but it was so difficult for me, as retaining water
in my hands. Parecióme swimming do the same element, and I figured that
was not confusing anything but water, water, animal organizations.
Later, as man, was not surprised to see my child on a beach some
bright animal.

Through its transparent body, and divided the Morrillos sand.

As colorless glass, a weak, trembling to the touch, aparecióseme
as old and as the famous Reaumur, simply calling these beings
_gelatinificada_ water.

And the feeling is stronger still when they are in a state of
primitive training tapes yellowish white muellemente that outlines
the sea and form the egg, the laminaria that bartering brownish in
color, achieve the strength of the skins.

But when tender, the state viscous, elastic, is how the consistency
of a solid wave, all the stronger is softer.

What is known now of the complicated generation and organization of
inferior beings, plants or animals, We closed the explanation given
by ancient and Reaumur.

But all this does not prevent us from repeating the question he was
the first to Bory de Saint-Vincent: "What is _mucus_ sea? Does the
viscosity shows that the water in general?

Is not the universal element of life? "* * * Concerned with such ideas,
encaminéme in search of a famous chemist, positive spirit and strong,
innovative and daring as prudent, and without ado _ex abrupto_ I established
my question: 'Knight What is your view, this element viscous
blanquizco, which provides sea water?

"- Life. Then they started to touch the subject to corroborate this
sentence too simple and absolute, he added:" I mean an area
semiorganizada, and perfectly organized.

In some waters, it's just a diatomaceous density, in others it will be,
which can cut into it.

On the other hand no similar study has been undertaken yet because nobody
has seriously worried. "(May 17, 1860). Leaving his house I went to a
great physiologist whose views on the subject are no less valuable to
my eyes. Questioned him about that and his reply was long and beautiful.
Hela extract here "is as ignorant of the constitution of water and
blood.

What is more clearly Interview _mucus_ to sea water, is that, in turn,
is the purpose and principle. Is the endless waste of death that the
yield to life?

Certainly it is a natural law, but in fact that world seaborne rapid
absorption, most living beings are absorbed, not crawl in cadaveric
as in the ground where they are slower destruction .

The sea is pure element, war and death provéenlo and leave nothing in
it repugnant.

"But life without reaching its ultimate dissolution, moves steadily,
transudate regard themselves not necessary. Between us, animals, the
epidermis loses incessantly.

These changes, as it is called the daily death and partially fill the
world of the seas, a wealth of jelly that is used at the nascent
life, finding in the suspension of the oil glut trasudación common,
the particles still animated, living fluids have not had time to die.
All this does not fall back into the inorganic state, but falls rapidly
in the new bodies.

In all scenarios, this is the most plausible, if rejected, embayed
us immense difficulties. "* * * The views set forth above, due to
the men of advanced ideas and most serious of the day, are not
irreconcilable with the professed that make thing thirty years,
Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire, on the general _mucus_, where Nature seems
to draw all his life.

"It is - says that wise - animalizable substance, first degree in
organic bodies.

No humans, animals or plants, which absorb or do not occur in the first
days of life, which are weak, increasing its abundance rather because
of their weakness. "This sentence opens an insight on life Sea. Most
of their children appear in fetuses gelatinous state, which absorb
the substance and produce mucus, filling the water, giving the rich
sweetness of an infinite matrix, which is constantly present new
babies, which swam in a lake of warm milk. * * * Assist the divine
work, take a drop of seawater.

Here we see how the primitive creation begins. God does not operate
in a way today and another tomorrow.

My water drop, no doubt, with their transformations, I will tell the story
of the Universe. Hopefully, and to observe.

Who is able to predict, to guess the story of that drop? Plant-animal,
animal-plant, what should come first? That drop will the diatomaceous
the primitive that _mónade_ stirring and vibrating soon become _vibrador_,
which, step by step, polyp, coral or pearls, will, perhaps, ten
thousand years to the dignity of insect?

What will come of that drop is it the wire plant, the thin silky
plumión be one that nobody would believe, yet it is the first hair
of a young goddess, hair, sensitive, loving, so called _cabello
property of Venus_?

What I am not counting the domain of fable, no: it is smooth and pure
natural history.

That hair of two classes (plant and animal) which condenses the water
drop, the first may be called in life. * * * Look at the bottom
of a spring: the first thing you see, and then look at a few drops
a little murky .

With good viewing, it becomes a dark cloud, jelly or flakes?
Light microscopy the codend becomes multi-filament as a group of
horses.

They are seen a thousand times thinner than the thinnest hair female.

Here is the first and tentative attempt to organize the life I want.
These confervas, as they are called, are constantly in fresh water
and salt when it is still the beginning for them double the number
of plants of the sea and who became increasingly established on
earth when it emerged.

Out of the water críase the numerous family of fungi, and within the
confervas, algae and other similar plants. It is the primitive
element, essential for life, encontrándosele where it seems impossible
that it can thrive.

In the dark waters and martial loaded iron overload in the very warm
waters, you will find this lightweight _mucus_ and those that resemble
criaturillas just drops out, but the range and move. No matter how
they are classified, or that the Candolle honors the name of animals,
and Dujardin relegated to the last range of plants. They have no more
mission to live, to begin its long existence, the modest number
of people who only they can produce.

These pequeñuelos, alive or dead, will sustain its own being, administered
from below gelatin life incessantly draw water feeding. * * * There
is no credibility as a sign to indicate the creation of primitive rocks
or fossils of animals or plants diluvianas complex animals (the
trilobites) that already have superior senses, for example, eyes, powerful
organization of giant plants. It is very likely being much simpler and
put them up, but her pier has been no trace.

How could resist the action of the times being so weak, when the
toughest shells are crushed or dissolved? In the South Sea fish have
steel teeth browse coral, like a sheep grazing grass. The soft outlines
of the life, gelatins animated, though hardly robust, have cast a
million times before that Nature could produce robust trilobites, their
indestructible fern. Pequeñuelos returned to those (confervas, microscopic
algae, floating between two beings kingdoms, which have traded atoms
indecisive at times of animal and plant it at that), his right of
primogeniture restituyámosles who, apparently, have. Above them,
and at its expense, begins to raise the huge, wonderful flora of
the seas.

And since I am not here to hide the tender sympathy for her sorry. For
three reasons the bendigo. Small or large, these plants have three cute
characters: First his innocence. Not one death occurs. The sea no
longer any poison plant.

Marine plants in all health and safety, blessing of life.
Manning gets his breath back first. "Gentlemen," says he, "isn't this
offer worth considering? Let's see, did I get your name right,
Mr.--er----"

"Alvin Pratt Barton," says our Santa Claus.

"Pratt Barton?" repeats Manning. "Any connection with the brokerage firm
of that name?"

Alvin shrugs his shoulders and smiles. "The late Mr. Barton was my
father," says he. "Mr. Pratt is my uncle by marriage. But I am doing
this on my own initiative, you know. I should like an expression of
opinion."

Say, he got it! Inside of three minutes we'd voted unanimous to hold on
for two months longer, made Alvin vice president of the comp'ny, and his
check has been handed over to the treasurer, which is me. And what
awaits you? "I do not know, I want the unknown, what I know is unlimited.
I want it yet.

I do not have the last word. '' The mighty magician. "" I felt ...
that I am no English and no Latin book will: and this is one reason ...
namely because the language in which not only writing but also thinking
maybe I would have given that neither the Latin nor the English
nor the Italian and Spanish, but a language, whose words I am also
not one is known, a language in which mute things speak to me and
what I might once in the grave before an unknown judge me be
responsible.

"Hugo von Hofmannsthal," A Letter. "The literary design quite easily
added together, these recordings in truth is the result of long and
slowly mature convictions.

They will be a major problem with apparent ease up without having the key
to his final solution, because the problem on people not age - if
anything - can be resolved.

But it understands in a series of unsatisfactory unaufgezählte
problems, which I think the draw of those who it affects. For quite long,
it was serious in the music search is not abandoned. Well arises at
any time and Geniales Bewunderungswertes, and I always put myself in
the first row, the flag carrier passing joyfully welcome, but I want it
seems that the numerous paths that need to be found, in beautiful lengths,
but not - to the top. * * * * * The spirit of art, the degree of
feeling, the humanity that is in it - they remain unchanged through
changing times in value, the form that these three pictures, which
means that they expressed, and the taste, the era of its emergence
over them ausgoß, they are transient and rapidly aging. preserve
the spirit and feeling their way, as in art as in human ; technical
achievements, readily recognized and admired, are obsolete, or is
the taste of them from saturated. - The ephemeral qualities make
the "modernity" of a work; unchanging keep it before, "old fashioned"
to be.

In "modern" as in "Old" There are good and bad, True and False. Absolute
Modern does not exist - only sooner or later, or longer blooming faster
wilting.

Always, there were modern, and always old. - The art forms are so persistent,
the closer they are to the essence of each genre keep them ever pure in
its natural resources and maintain goals. The plastic does the expression
of human pupil and to the colors, the painting demoted when she
leaves the performing area and are committed to theater decoration
or panoramic picture complicated - the architecture has its basic
shape, which from bottom to top must step through static necessity
required; windows and roof necessarily give the middle and final
design, these conditions are at their engagement and invulnerable
- the poetry demands on the abstract idea, which she dresses in
words, it extends to the furthest limits and the greater independence
ahead but all the arts, means and modes to achieve a stable, namely
the depiction of nature and the representation of human feelings.
architecture, sculpture, poetry and painting are old and mature
arts, and their terms have been strengthened and its goals to become,
they have through the millennia way and describe how a planet, its
regular cycle. [1] [1] Nevertheless, and can be up to them flavor
and character repeatedly rejuvenate and renew. you is the music the
child, although it has learned to walk, but still led be.

It is a virgin art, yet nothing has witnessed and suffered.

She is not even aware of what she dresses, the advantages which it
possesses and the skills in her sleep: she in turn is a miracle
child, Beautiful much can give a lot and was able to enjoy his gifts
generally held to be completely mature. * * * * * The music as
art, the so-called occidental music, is hardly four hundred years
old, she lives in a state of development, perhaps in very first
stage of a still unpredictable development, and we are talking about
classics and sacred traditions!

[2] Does it already have a Cherubini, in his textbook of counterpoint,
of "the Old" [2]. "Tradition" is the after life Gipsmaske accepted that
- through the course of many years, and the hands of craftsmen
went uncounted -- - finally, their resemblance to the original can
only guess.

We have formulated rules, principles to law - - - we apply the laws of the
adults to a child, the responsibility still does not know! So young it
is this child, a bright feature is already evident in him, above all
his older companions concerned. And this wondrous property want the
legislators do not see, because otherwise their laws on the pile would
be thrown. The child - it floats! It does not affect the earth with his
feet.

It is not subject to the gravity. It is almost incorporeal.

His material is transparent. It is sounding air. It's almost the
nature itself is free. * * * * * Freedom is something that people
never fully understood nor fully felt.

They can not recognize nor acknowledge. They deny the provision of this
child and captivate it. The floating nature geziemend must go, must,
like any other, the rules of decency to add, little, hopping that
it may - however it would be his desire, the line of the rainbow
to follow with clouds and sun rays to break. * * * * * Free the
music is born and released to their destination.

It is the most complete all natural opponent slips through the independence
of their Unmaterialität. Even the poetic word to her after Unkörperlichkeit
they can agglomerate and can deal flow, the motionless silence, and
the liveliest storms, they have the highest levels, people are
perceived - which has the other arts?

- And their true feelings human breast with the intensity of the "terms"
independent. It is a temperament again without having to describe the
movement of the soul, with the liveliness of the successive moments,
where the painter or sculptor is only one side or a moment, a
"situation" can represent the density and temper and his emotions
with difficulty by stating words approx.

Therefore, representation and description is not the essence of music, so
we speak the rejection of the music program from and get to the
question of the goals of the music. * * * * * Absolute music!

What the legislators including my, is perhaps the distance from the
absolute in music.

"Absolute music" is a form of game without poetic program, with the most
important form of surrender. But the form is the absolute opposite of
music, but the preference was given the divine to float and from
the conditions of matter to be free.

At the end of the picture image of a sunset with the framework, and the
unlimited natural phenomenon is given a rectangular boundaries,
the chosen drawing of the cloud is always as unchangeable.

The music can lighten, darken is to move and finally verhauchen
like the celestial phenomenon itself, and the creative instinct
determines the musicians, those sounds to use in the interior of
the people at the same press and echoed the same impression as the
operations in nature.

Absolute Music, however, is something completely sober, which is
arranged to instruct staff desks out of proportion to the tonic and
dominant, and at penetrations kodas. As I listen to the second violinist,
as he is a quart deep struggles, the first looking to imitate , listen
to an unnecessary fight auskämpfen, to get where you're standing
at the top.

This music should be called the architectural, or symmetrical, or divided,
and therefore it was that single tone poem their minds and their
feelings in such a form of cast, because they, or the time on the
next lay.

The legislators have spirit, feeling, and individuality that Tonsetzer
their time with the symmetrical and finally identified music - because
it is neither the spirit nor sensation, nor the time wiedergebären
could - as a symbol of the form and keep it to shield Faith to be
charged.

The tone poem searched and found this as the most appropriate form of
funds, their thoughts, they entschwebten - and the legislators discover
and store Euphorions on earth retarded robes: "There are still dead happy!
The flame is indeed gone, But to me world is not suffering. There is
enough einzuweihen poets, to donate gold and craft envy, And I can
not lend the talents hidden least I dress.

"Ists not peculiar that one of the composer in all calls for
originality and that it is in the form of bans ?

What wonder that he - if he is really original - accused of formlessness.
Mozart!

the viewfinder and the Finder, the big man with the child's heart,
it amazed us, we depend on him, but not to his tonic and dominant,
his penetrations and kodas. * * * * * Such exemption desire fulfilled
a Beethoven, the romantic Human Revolution, that he had a small
step back in the leadership of the music to their higher nature
aufstieg; a small step in the great task, a big step in his own way.

The whole of absolute music, he has not been reached, but in some moments
guessed, as in the introduction to the fugue of the Hammerklavier
Sonata.

Anyway, the tone poem in the preparatory and negotiating rates (Preludes
and transitions) of the true nature of the music on the next, where
they believed that the symmetric conditions disregard and even to
be allowed to freely aufzuatmen seemed unconsciously.

Even a so much smaller Schumann takes in such places some of the
Unlimited this Pan-art - think of the transition to the last sentence
of the D-minor Symphony - and the same can of Brahms and the introduction
to his first finals Symphony argue. But once you cross the threshold of
the main set of proceedings, their posture is stiff and conventional
as that of a man who in an official enters the room.

Besides Bach Beethoven is the "Ur-Music" at relatives. His organ fantasies
(and not the joints) undoubtedly have a strong train of landscapes
(the Architectural Contrary parties), from inspirations to you
"Man and Nature" wants to write about [3], it makes it on unbefangensten
because he still has his predecessor phased out - (when he also
admired and even used) - and because he is aware of the achievement
of young temperament provisionally infinite new possibilities could
arise. [3] His Passions recitatives have the "human-say," = not =
"True-declaimed."

That's why Bach and Beethoven [4] as a beginning rather than identifying
unzuübertreffende Completed.

It will probably unsurpassable mind and their feelings remain, and
confirmed again at the beginning of these lines said.

Namely, that emotion and spirit by the change in value of time lost
nothing, and that anyone who their highest heights ersteigt, each
time the amount will rise. [4] When the characteristic features of
Beethoven's personality, I would like to mention the poetic momentum,
the strong human emotion (from which stems from his revolutionary
spirit) and a Vorverkündung of modern Nervosismus.

These features are certainly those of a "classic" opposite. Beethoven
is also no "champion" within the meaning of the later Mozart or
Wagner, because his art is the hint of a larger, not yet fully
become, it is.

(See the next paragraph.) * * * * * What else should be exceeded, their
expression and their freedom. Wagner, a Germanic giant, the orchestral
sound in the earth's horizon grazed the expression is increased,
but brought into a system (music drama, declamation, slogan), is
characterized by the self-created boundaries not greater.

His category begins and ends with himself, because he being the
highest perfection, brought to a curvature, then, because the
self-task was such that a person could be alone.

     "He gives us both with the problem and the solution," as I once
said of Mozart.

The paths which we opened Beethoven, only of generations back.

You like - like everything in the world system - just a circle,
which is of such dimensions that the part of him we see ourselves
as a straight line appears.

Wagner's circle, we completely
overlook. - A circle in the large circles. * * * * * The name of
Wagner leads back to the music program.

It is as a contrast to the so-called "absolute" music has been, and the
concepts have so hardened that even the understanding that in the one
or the other faith, without a third, and except on the two underlying
ability to . In reality, the music program as one-sided and limited
as absolute as the music announced by Hanslick glorified sound-pattern
wallpaper. Instead of architectural and symmetrical formulas, instead
of the tonic and Dominantverhältnisse has the binding poetic,
sometimes even as a philosophical program is like a rail angeschnürt

A tremendous dramatic
success.

BOUGHT AND PAID FOR. By George Broadhurst and Arthur Hornblow.
Illustrated with scenes from the play.

A stupendous arraignment of modern marriage which has created an
interest on the stage that is almost unparalleled. The scenes are laid
in New York, and deal with conditions among both the rich and poor.

The interest of the story turns on the day-by-day developments which
show the young wife the price she has paid.

Ask for complete free list of G. & D. "Asked the policeman, very honored by such a Mr.

Rath ertheilen them." Telegraphiren?

     - No - and when can I get the stuff back here?

"" Are they here to go back?

"" Yes, "said Mr. Mahlhuber, after a short deliberation, resolute."
In any case, with the night course - allow me that I this for you?

"" With pleasure, "said the Commerzienrath, and the young girl seemed
somewhat langedauernden during the trial, in which the service man
finished, the numbers of the packing slip, and then had to make
sure the Telegraph room was like coals to stand.

Finally it was all worried. The message here returned the luggage was
already in Munich and the policeman followed up his business. The
Commerzienrath Mahlhuber stood with the young stranger alone in
the place.

"But now, my lady," he finally, by the spectacle abwischte and up
again, the silence, "but I want to Everything in the world have
asked to tell me what you really want from me and I in That honor
to come - "."

To be very grateful I am obliged to you, "said the young erröthend far
stranger," but I should point out in this moment has not yet been given
full information, but you have me and someone other things a great
service, and perhaps once the time comes where I am in a position
myself grateful to prove.

Can I now just ask me go down to the river, where I would like to
translate?

the people here I can not go alone. "" That will not help you, my lady,
"said the Commerzienrath that comes with this imposed chivalry but
began to be scary," and you come across the river, but you are alone,
because I can assure you that I do not think of myself a little
further into this I am also very unpleasant thing to establish -
my position as a citizen and my liver prohibit me as a person - "."

As soon as I enter the other shore, "broke it
quickly, the young lady, "I'm from the area of each tracing."

"persecution?
M. BOWER'S NOVELS

Thrilling Western Romances

Large 12 mos. Handsomely bound in cloth. The scene is in the beginning of the fifth lift in Mantua, and
usually in Verona.

Act. Erste Scene.

(A street in Verona.) (Sampson and Gregory, zween Serves the Capulets,
Schwerdt joined with shields and weapons, and encourage against each other
to brave the Montägues to keep their entire conversation is a tissue
of puns, double meaning and Zoten.) (Abraham and Balthasar on the
former.)

Gregorio (to Sampson.)

Zieh of leather, here are a couple of Montägischen - - Sampson. My
thumb is out, only Händel to start, I want you the way - Gregorio.
So? Willt thou Lauffen? Sampson. Sey without worry, I will stand like a
wall, but it's the safest, if we Gesez on our side, we want to let
them begin.

Gregorio.

I want the nose hulls, by saying Bey vorbeygehe them, they like it then
record how they understand it. Sampson. Or, as the heart to do so. I
want my thumb against her bite, which is an insult to them, if it's
suffering. Abraham. Euern bites her thumb against us, sir? Sampson.

I bite my thumb, Sir.

Abraham. Euern bites her thumb against us, sir? Sampson (to Gregorio
quietly.) If the Gesez on our side if I say yes? Gregorio. No.
Sampson (laut.) No, Sir, I bite my thumb is not against you, Lord, but
I bite my thumb, Mr.

Gregorio.

Händel her addiction, sir? Abraham. Händel, sir? No, Sir. Sampson.
If it's does, sir, I am too, I serve such a man as her BRAF. Abraham.
No better. Sampson. Well, Sir. (Benvolio to the former.) Gregorio
(quietly to Sampson.) Say, one better: Here is a nephew of our Lord.

Sampson (laut.)

Yes, a better, Sir. Abraham. Your lies. Sampson. If, when you Men Seyde
- Gregorio, that was a slap in the face, you must not einsteken -
Benvolio. For them, it fools your sword stekt that you know not what it
does.

GROSSET & DUNLAP, 526 WEST 26TH ST., NEW YORK