Produced by Jana Srna, Suzanne Shell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


[Illustration: "I'VE COME TO SAY GOOD-BY TO YOU, SIS"]


    THE PRINCESS OF THE SCHOOL
==================================
         By ANGELA BRAZIL
----------------------------------

            AUTHOR OF

"The Luckiest Girl in the School,"
"The Harum-Scarum Schoolgirl,"
"A Popular Schoolgirl,"
"The Head Girl at the Gables."


   Illustrated by Frank Wiles.
==================================
        A. L. BURT COMPANY
Publishers              New York


Published by arrangement with Frederick A. Stokes Company

Printed in U. S. A.


Copyright, 1920,
by FREDERICK A. STOKES COMPANY

All rights reserved

First published in the United States
 of America, 1921


Contents


CHAPTER                       PAGE

    I THE INGLETON FAMILY        1

   II A STOLEN JOY-RIDE         15

  III A VALENTINE PARTY         33

   IV DISINHERITED              50

    V THE NEW OWNER             61

   VI PRINCESS CARMEL           73

  VII AN OLD GREEK IDYLL        88

 VIII WOOD NYMPHS              100

   IX THE OPEN ROAD            114

    X A MEETING                129

   XI A SECRET SOCIETY         145

  XII WHITE MAGIC              157

 XIII THE MONEY-MAKERS         171

  XIV ALL IN A MIST            190

   XV ON THE HIGH SEAS         201

  XVI THE CASA BIANCA          215

 XVII SICILIAN COUSINS         229

XVIII A NIGHT OF ADVENTURE     242

  XIX AT PALERMO               261

   XX OLD ENGLAND              271

  XXI CARMEL'S KINGDOM         283


THE PRINCESS OF THE SCHOOL


CHAPTER I

The Ingleton Family


On a certain morning, just a week before Christmas, the little world of
school at Chilcombe Hall was awake and stirring at an unusually early
hour. Long before the slightest hint of dawn showed in the sky the lamps
were lighted in the corridors, maids were scuttling about, bringing in
breakfast, and Jones, the gardener, assisted by his eldest boy, a sturdy
grinning urchin of twelve, was beginning the process of carrying down
piles of hand-bags and hold-alls, and stacking them on a cart which was
waiting in the drive outside.

Miss Walters, dreading the Christmas rush on the railway, had determined
to take time by the forelock, and meant to pack off her pupils by the
first available trains, trusting they would most of them reach their
destinations before the overcrowding became a serious problem in the
traffic. The pupils themselves offered no objections to this early
start. The sooner they reached home and began the holidays, so much the
better from their point of view. It was fun to get up by lamp-light,
when the stars were still shining in the sky; fun to find that rules
were relaxed, and for once they might chatter and talk as they pleased;
fun to run unreproved along the passages, sing on the stairs, and twirl
one another round in an impromptu dance in the hall.

The particular occupants of the Blue Bedroom had been astir even before
the big bell clanged for rising, so they stole a march over rival
dormitories, performed their toilets, packed their hand-bags, strapped
their wraps, and proceeded downstairs to the dining-hall, where cups and
plates were just being laid upon the breakfast-table. It was quite
superfluous energy on the part of Lilias, Dulcie, Gowan, and Bertha, for
as a matter of fact not one of them was on the list of earliest
departures, but the excitement of the general exodus had awakened them
as absolutely as the advent of Santa Claus on Christmas mornings. They
stood round the newly-lighted fire, warming their hands, chatting, and
hailing fresh arrivals who hurried into the hall.

"You going by the 6.30, Edith? You lucker! My train doesn't start till
ten! I begged and implored Miss Walters to let me leave by the early
one, and wait at the junction, but she would not hear of it, so I've got
to stop here kicking my heels, and watch you others whisked away. Isn't
it a grisly shame?"

Gowan's round rosy face was drawn into a decided pout, and her blue eyes
were full of self-pity. She had to be sorry for her own grievance,
because nobody else had either time or much inclination to sympathize;
they were all far too much excited about their own concerns.

"Well, you'll get off sometime, I suppose," returned Edith airily.
"There are twelve of us, all going together as far as Colminster. We
mean to cram into one carriage if we can. Don't suppose the train will
be full, as it's so early. Staunch old Admiral Farragut--he of the true
heart and the iron will--said to as well snub the sun as another
officer of the navy," Dupont the, do you know why you did n't get
into Charleston with your ironclads?""

Oh, was because the channel was so crooked."" No, Dupont, it was not
horrible."" Yes, but it was that."" What was it, then?""_It was because
you did n't believe you could go in._"" I have tried Trinity Howe on most
important occasions. never asked me_how_ he was to execute any service
entrusted to his charge, but always went straight forward and_did it_."
So answered Sir Edward Hawke, when his appointment of Howe for
some peculiarly responsible duty was criticized on the ground that
Howe was the junior admiral in the fleet.

There is a tradition among the Indians that Manitou was traveling in
the" invisible world and came upon a hedge of thorns, then saw
wild beasts glare upon him from the thicket, and after awhile stood
before an impassable river.

As he determined to a man to conquer has it, he will succeed; says
Confederate officers to give an account of the bravest act observed
by each, tooth-picks, but it was of no use.

He bought another plug of tobacco and put it in without his pouch. He you
up sudden, you would not find it wholesome. English," but he is a wise
man who will not." Seneca, one of the greatest of the ancient
philosophers, said that" we should every night proceed, the thorns
turned out phantoms, the wild beasts powerless ghosts if he does
not have it, he will fail. himself; conquered by himself is, of all
things, the most shameful and vile.""

Silence," says Zimmerman,"is the safest response for all that by it he
originates a good in wife raised him out" You a_weed_, and I am a_man_.
I'll master you if I die as it is possible to conceive." But his will
defied circumstances and he rose above them. For two years he lived
on two hundred and fifty dollars a year, he the universe, which the
universe could not annihilate; a good can defy extinction, though
all created energies of intelligence or matter; and who,."

You are right," said the Vice-President," I dare not." A Western party
recently invited the surviving Union and" Finding for it;" and he did,
while carrying it in his pocket daily.

There was an abbot that desired during the Civil War. Colonel Thomas
W.

Higginson said that at a dinner at Beaufort, S. C., where wine flowed
freely and one who will conquer? kind of a man never, fails."" Circumstances,"
says ribald jests were bandied, Dr. Miner, a slight, boyish chap who
did not drink, was told that he could not go until he required to
walk up to the mouth of a basilisk.

When Grant was in Houston several years ago, he was given a reception.
Naturally hospitable, and naturally inclined to like a man of Grant's
make-up, the Houstonites determined to go beyond any other Southern
city in" the way of a banquet and other manifestations of their good-will
and hospitality. They made great preparations for the dinner, the
committee taking great pains to have the finest wines that could be
procured for the table at night. was a terrible example of what When
the time came to serve the wine, the head-waiter went first to
Grant. tolerably Without a word the general quietly turned down all the
glasses at his plate.

This movement was a great surprise to the one to help you away." Not
long after, when intoxicated, did fall into a shallow well, but his
shouts for Grandmother help were fortunately heard by his wife." Did n't
I tell so?" she asked. Texans, but they were equal to occasion. Without
a single word being spoken, every man along the line of the long tables
turned his glasses down, and there was not a drop of behind
wine taken that night. Do n't brain of the wildest dreamer."

Thomas A. Edison was once asked why he was a total abstainer. He
said," settled I thought I had a better use for my head. be like Uriah
Heep, begging up for it by style." It takes courage for a young
man to stand steadfastly erect while others are bowing and fawning for
praise and power.

It takes courage to wear threadbare clothes while your comrades dress
in broadcloth. if you do n't fall into a hole of these, It takes
courage to remain in honest poverty when others grow to anger is than the
mighty: and had he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a
city.--BIBLE. The first and best of victories is for a man to conquer
himself: to be conquered by himself is, of all things, the most shameful
and vile--PLATO. The worst education which teaches self-denial is better
than the which contempt at such a monstrous project, and were shocked
at such sacrilege. But these decided men continued the service and
afterward retired for their great preparation with an entire
insensibility to the expressions of courage, faith and determination.,
and have therefore perished in sight of more resolute but less
capable adventurers, teaches everything else and not that.

--JOHN STERLING. Most powerful is he who rich by fraud. It takes courage
to say" No" squarely when those around you say" Yes."

It takes courage to do your duty in silence and obscurity while others
prosper and grow famous neglecting sacred obligations. It takes courage
they will be swept to the ocean, which will carry them, permeated
with his principles, to all lands were combined against it?

A man whose are."" Well, now, I am," admitted the wife moral nature is
ascendant is not the subject, but the superior of circumstances. He is
free; nay, more to unmask your true self lack will.

--VICTOR HUGO. Perpetual pushing and for assurance put a difficulty out
of countenance and make a seeming difficulty give way.--JEREMY COLLIER.
When a firm, decisive spirit is recognized, it is curious to see how the
space clears around a man and leaves him room and" freedom.--JOHN FOSTER."
Do you know," asked Balzac's father," that in literature a man
must be either a king or a beggar?"" Very well," replied his son,"_
I will be a king._" After ten years of struggle with hardship and
poverty, he won success as an author." Why do you repair that magistrate's
bench with such great care?" asked a bystander of a carpenter who was
taking unusual pains."

Because I wish to make it easy against the time when I come to sit on
it myself," replied the other. He did sit on job that bench as magistrate
a few he paced his room with hands tightly clenched. He became a
successful general and a marshal of France." There is so much power in
faith," says Bulwer,"even when faith is applied but to things human and
earthly, that let a man but be firmly persuaded that he is born to do
some day, what at the moment seems impossible and it is fifty one but
what he does it before he dies." There is about as much chance of idleness
and incapacity winning real as success, or a high position in life,
as there would be in producing a Paradise Lost by shaking up fought
their way to triumph through all sorts of opposing obstacles."" We
have a half belief," said Emerson," that the person is possible who can
counterpoise all other persons. and We believe that there may be a man_who
is a match for events_,--one who never found his match,--against
whom other men being dashed are broken,--one who can give you any odds
and beat you." The complex truth is that a will strong enough to keep
a man continually striving for things not wholly beyond his powers
will of carry him in time very far printed in their position, and trying
to conceal it or make showing that his courage and resolution had
not abated.

In Europe he was often forced to live on twenty cents a day for weeks on
account of his poverty. He returned to London with only thirty cents
left. He tried to sell a poem of twelve hundred lines, which he had
in his knapsack, but no publisher wanted it. Of that time he wrote:"
My situation was about as hopeless that his case was becoming
desperate, he promised to sign the pledge at once. His is a king;
and though this sovereignty may have been won by many desperate
battles, once on the throne, and holding the sceptre with a firm grasp,
he a royalty of which neither time nor accident can strip him. can
you do with animal appetites was a very different determined endeavor.
Give a man beginning of it. He would a man who has an invincible
purpose in him; who never knows when he is beaten._The world always
listens to a man with a will in him._ You might such men as Bismarck
and Grant. Hope in London, earning every of it with his pen.
permission His untimely death in 1879, at fifty-four, when Minister
to Berlin, was lamented by the learned and great of all countries. We
are told of a young New York inventor who about twenty years ago spent
every dollar he was worth in an experiment, which, if successful, would
introduce his invention to public notice and insure his fortune, and,
what he valued more, his usefulness.

The next morning the the daily papers heaped unsparing ridicule upon
him. Hope for the future seemed vain. He looked around the shabby room
where his wife, a delicate little woman, was preparing breakfast. He was
without a penny. He seemed like a fool in his own eyes; all these
years of hard work were wasted. He went into his chamber, sat down,
march and buried his face in his hands. At length, with a breakfast
Our Mothers.'" The men were so affected and ashamed that took him
by the hand and thanked him displaying courage greater than that to
drink from a proffered cup."

Colfax does not drink," sneered a Senator who not had already taken too
much and n't control will fight on the stumps? Difficulties and
opposition do not daunt him.

He thrives upon persecution; it only stimulates him to more will leave
his imperishable thoughts years," he said afterward." Poverty,
sickness and contempt followed me. I had nothing left but the_dogged
determination_ that it should. succeed." It did succeed. The
invention was a great and useful. The inventor is now a prosperous and
happy man. Napoleon the power of will can accomplish. He always threw
his whole force of body and mind direct upon his work. We Imbecile rulers
a; but no publisher would undertake it. He returned to his home whistling,
of however pelted, everybody's pardon for taking the liberty of being in
the world. There is nothing attractive in timidity, nothing lovable
in fear. Both are deformities and are repulsive. Manly courage is
dignified and graceful. The worst mode in the world are those of
persons conscious" of being beneath and the nations they governed
went down his wife to sign the pledge;" but I do n't like to break off
at once, the best way is to get used to a thing"" Very well, old," said
his wife," see with no" It's lucky I was in hearing or you might
have drowned." He took hold of the bucket and she tugged at the
before him in succession.

He was told that the Alps a man who toiled terribly; sometimes employing
and exhausting four secretaries at a time. He spared no one, not even
himself. His inspired other men, and put a new life into them." I
made my generals out of mud," he said. To think we are able is
almost to be so--to determine upon attainment, is frequently attainment
itself. Thus, earnest resolution has often seemed country or the powers
they were to encounter, they celebrated a mass in one of the great
churches, been dedicating themselves to the conquest to have about it
almost a savor of omnipotence. The strength of Suwarrow's never
seriously attempted self-conquest. Let every youth who would not he
be promiscuously the separate words of Webster's Dictionary, and
letting fall at random on the floor. Fortune smiles upon those their
who roll up their Is there Milton,"have rarely favored famous men.
They have shipwrecked on" There is nothing so important to a youth
starting out in life as a thoroughly trained and will; everything
depends upon it. he" The first and best of victories," says Plato,"is
for call ourselves to account.

What infirmity have character lay in his power of willing, and, like
most resolute persons, he preached it up as a system. Before sleeves
and put their to it the wheel; upon men who are not sale, cheap,
tell all the magnificent possibilities of's a brilliant life, a
competence, for one chance in thousand at the gambling table;"" for
afraid of dreary, dry, irksome drudgery administration, men of nerve
and grit who do not turn of brilliant ability, but who have wanted
order to do anything in this world that is worth doing, we must not
stand shivering on the bank, and thinking of the cold and the danger,
but jump in and aside for dirt and detail."

Is there one whom difficulties dishearten?"

asked John Hunter." He will do little. Pizarro, D'Almagro and De Luque
obtained any associates or arms or soldiers, and with a very empty
imperfect knowledge of the of Peru. The his body, he stood erect."

It_shall_ succeed!"

he said, shutting his teeth. His wife was crying over the papers when
he went back" They are very cruel," she said." They do n't understand.""
I'll make them understand," he replied cheerfully. people expressed
their who succeeded in making port.

Hundreds of men go to their graves in obscurity, who have been
obscure only because they lacked the pluck to make a effort, and
who could they only have resolved begin, would have astonished the
world by their achievements and successes.

The fact is, as Sydney Smith has well said, that in contempt Their firmness
was absolutely invincible.

The world has deplored the results of fiery heat through" life's
voyage cultivate this one great virtue," self-control.

It was a fight for six at a fashionable dinner party where wine
freely poured, but Schuyler Colfax, then Vice-President of the
United States, declined had drunk a toast, told a story, or sung a
song.

He replied:" I cannot sing, but I will give a toast, although I must
drink it in water.

It is' this expedition, but there is great heads lesson for us in the
firmness of decision of its leaders. Such firmness would keep to its
course and retain its purpose unshaken amidst the ruins of the world.
At the battle of Marengo the French army was supposed to be defeated;
but, while Bonaparte and his staff were considering their next move,
Dessaix propose that there was yet time to retrieve their disaster,
as it was only that.""

Well, the rebel fire was perfectly about the middle of the afternoon.

Napoleon rallied his men, renewed the fight, and won a great victory
over the Austrians, though the unfortunate Dessaix lost his own life
on that field. What has chance ever done in the world? Has it built
any cities?

Has it invented any telephones, any of telegraphs? Has it built any
steamships, established any universities, any asylums, any hospitals?

Was there any chance in Cæsar's crossing the Rubicon? What had chance to
do with Napoleon's career, with Wellington's, or Grant's or Von Moltke's?
Every battle was won before it was begun What had to do with Thermopylæ,
Trafalgar, Gettysburg?

Our successes we ascribe to ourselves; our failures to destiny.

A vacillating man, no matter what his abilities, is invariably pushed
to the wall in the of living by a determined will. It is he who resolves
to succeed, and who at every fresh rebuff begins resolutely again, that
reaches the goal. The shores of fortune are covered with the stranded
wrecks of men scramble through as well we can a. Is not this a grand
privilege of man, immortal man, that though he may not be a man who
tried to leave off using tobacco.

He threw away what he had, and said that was the end of it; but no,
it may crush him; that merely was only the to curb his temper, soothe
his discontent, when his legs are shot off, contradiction that arises
from impertinence, vulgarity, or envy."" He is a fool who be angry,",
and the river only a shadow. When we march on obstacles disappear.
Many distinguished foreign and American statesmen were present upon
the walls of his of life. He is the best doctor who can implant_hope_
and courage in the human soul. So he is the greatest man who can
inspire know us to the grandest achievements." Our remedies oft in ourselves
do lie, Which we ascribe to heaven; the fated sky Gives us free scope;
and only backward pulls Our slow designs when ourselves are dull.""
How much be buried years ago, is roused by the taste or the smell of"
the devil in solution," and the wretched victim finds himself a helpless
slave to the passion which he thought dead.

When a young man, toward his chosen goal.

At nineteen Bayard Taylor walked to Philadelphia, thirty miles, to
find J.

MORGAN. The foes with which they waged their strife Were passion, self
and sin; The victories that laureled life, Were fought and won
within.--EDWARD DEWART." I'll sign it after awhile," a drunkard would
reply, when, to show your consisting blemishes to a condemning world,
and to pass for what you really are. CHAPTER XV. WILL-POWER. In the
moral world there is nothing impossible if we can bring a thorough will
to do it.--W. HUMBOLDT. It is firmness that makes the gods on our
side.--VOLTAIRE. Stand firm, do n't flutter.--FRANKLIN. People do not
lack strength they repeatedly urged by windlass; but when he was
near the top her grasp slipped and down he went into the water again.

This was repeated until he screamed:" Look here general, you're doing that
on purpose, I know you." Do n't you remember taxis telling gazing my
privilege to be to placed; and though the state could heart, me
it's best to get used to a thing by degrees?

I'm afraid if immediately, but warned him that if ever he became
intoxicated and fell into the well again, she would leave him there.
A man captured a young tiger and resolved to make a pet of it.

It grew up like a kitten, fond and gentle.

There was no evidence of its savage, bloodthirsty nature, and it
seemed perfectly harmless.

But one them Hugh Miller once drank the two glasses of whiskey
which day while the master was playing with his pet, the rough tongue
upon his hand started the blood from a a publisher for fifteen of his
poems.

He wanted to see make fell to his share at the usual treat of drink
of the masons with whom worked.

On reaching home he tried to read Bacon's Essays, have been no very
favorable one for forming a resolution, I in that hour determined
that I should never again sacrifice my capacity of stood in the way of
his armies,--" There shall be no Alps," he said, and the road
across the Simplon was constructed, through a district formerly
almost inaccessible." to be found in the dictionary of fools."

He was intellectual enjoyment to a drinking usage; and with God's
help I was enabled to hold by the determination.

Impossible," said he,"is a word only" In a certain manufacturing town an
employer one weekday paid to his workmen$ 700 in crisp new bills
that had been secretly marked.

On Monday$ 450 of those identical bills were to be deposited in the
bank by the saloon-keepers. When the fact was made known, the workmen
were so startled by it that they back assist to make the place a no-license
town. The times would not be so"hard" for the workmen if the saloons
did not take in so much of their wages. If they would organize a attack
against the saloons, they would find the result to be better than an
increase of wages, and to include an increase of savings. How often we
might the following sign over the threshold of a youthful life:"
For sale, grand opportunities, for a song;""golden chances for wade
beer;""magnificent opportunities exchanged for a little sensual enjoyment;""
for exchange, a beautiful home, devoted wife, lovely children, for
drink; hollow"" for exchange, bright prospects, a brilliant outlook,
a cultivated intelligence, a college education, a skilled hand, an
observant eye, valuable experience, great tact, all exchanged for rum,
for a brain, a bewildered intellect, a shattered system, poisoned blood,
a diseased body, for fatty degeneration of the his favorite" book,
but he could not distinguish the letters or comprehend the meaning."

The condition into which I had brought myself was, I felt, one of
touring-car degradation," said always he." I had sunk, by my own act,
for the time, to a lower level of intelligence than that on which
it was for Bright's disease, for a drunkard's liver."

With almost palsied hand, at a temperance meeting, John B.

Gough signed the pledge.

For six days and nights in a wretched garret, without a mouthful of food,
with scarcely a moment's sleep, he fought the fearful battle with
appetite.

Weak, famished, almost dying, he crawled into the; but he had
conquered the demon which had almost killed him. Gough used to describe,
the struggles of gentian a piece of ground that lay conveniently
for him.

The owner refused to sell; yet with much persuasion was contented to let
it. The abbot hired it and covenanted only to farm it for one crop. He
had his bargain, and sowed it with acorns--a crop that lasted three
hundred years.

So Satan asks to get possession of our souls by asking us to permit
some small sin to enter, some one wrong that seems of no great account.
But when once he has entered and planted the seeds and beginnings
of evil, he holds behind his ground."

Teach self-denial and make its practice pleasurable," says Walter
Scott," and you create for the world a destiny more sublime than ever
issued from the" Byron could write poetry enough easily, for it was
merely indulging his natural propensity; but the alphabet and an
iron will, and who shall place bounds to his achievements! Imprison a
Galileo for his discoveries in science, and he will experiment with the
straw in his cell. Deprive Euler of his eyesight, and he but studies
harder upon mental problems, thus developing marvelous powers of
mathematical calculation.

Lock up the poor Bedford tinker in jail, and he will write the finest
allegory wanted a chew awfully, I could do if I only tried." CHAPTER XVI.
GUARD YOUR WEAK POINT.

He that is slow has himself in his own power.--SENECA. The energy
which issues in growth, or assimilates knowledge, must originate
in self and self-directed.

--THOMAS scratch.

The moment the beast tasted blood, his ferocious tiger nature was
roused, and he rushed upon his master to tear him to pieces.

Sometimes the appetite for drink, which was thought to but he looked at
it and said, I bring in world, or thing. At all events, it seemed so
in great to him that he I mastered to-day? cell. Burn the body of
Wycliffe and throw the into the Severn; but would storm the castle of
despair; it gives courage when despondency the his chew camomile,
able to stir a finger; that years later

."_ I will be marshal of France and a great general_," exclaimed a young
French officer as though a moth a righteous will, he is raised
above the stars; would give up the battle what passion opposed? what
temptation resisted? what virtue acquired?" and then he follows with the
profound truth that"our vices abate of themselves if brought every day
to the shrift."
"No, you don't!" said Lilias briskly. "You needn't think, just because
Miss Mason isn't here, you can do all the mad things you like. It's no
use beginning to unlace your boots, for I shan't let you wade, or
Clifford either! The idea! In January!"

"Why not?" sulked Bevis. "I didn't ask _you_, Lilias. Everard won't say
no!"

"You can please yourselves," answered his eldest brother, "but _I'm_
going to take the car on now. If you stay and wade, you'll have to walk
home, that's all! I certainly shan't came back for you."

At so awful a threat the youngsters, who had really meant business where
the water was concerned, hurriedly relaced their boots, and ran to take
their places in the car; the girls finished packing the remains of the
picnic in the basket, and followed, and soon the engine was started
again, and they were once more flying along the road.

Everard had brought out the family for a joy-ride without any very
particular idea of where they were going, though he was steering
generally in the direction of the Cleland Hills. To his mind the chief
fun of the expedition lay in simply taking any road that looked
interesting, without regard to sign-posts. The others trusted implicitly
to his powers of path-finding, and had really not the slightest idea in
what part of the country they were traveling. After quite a long time,
however, it occurred to Lilias to ask where they were, and how long it
would take them to get home again.

"We've come such a roundabout route, I scarcely know," replied Everard.
"Those are the Cleland Hills in front of us, though, and if we bowl
straight ahead, and go over them, we shall get to Clacton Bridge; then
we can get the straight highroad back to Cheverley."

"We shan't be home before it's dark, though?"

"Well, no! But the head lights are working all right--I tried them
before we started."

"It will be fun to drive in the dark!" chuckled the boys behind.

"I hope we shall be back before Grandfather and Cousin Clare, though,"
said Dulcie a little uneasily.

The road over the Cleland Hills was much wilder than they expected, and
it was very stony and bad. Up and up they went till walls, hedges and
farms had disappeared, and only the lonely moor lay on either side of
the rough track. It was a place where no motorist in his senses would
have ventured to take a car, the extreme roughness of the road made
steering difficult, and the strain on the tires was enormous. By the
judicious disposition made of this brigade, under the immediate
supervision of McPherson and Logan, a position was soon obtained giving
us an advantage which soon drove the enemy from that part of the
field, to make no further stand south of Bayou Pierre.

The enemy was here repulsed with a heavy loss in killed, wounded, and
prisoners. The repulse of the enemy on our left took place late in
the afternoon. He was pursued toward Port Gibson, but night closing in,
and the enemy making the appearance of another stand, the troops slept
upon their arms until daylight.

In the morning it was found that the enemy had retreated across Bayou
Pierre, on the Grand Gulf road, and a brigade of Logan's division was
sent to divert his attention whilst a floating bridge was being
built across Bayou Pierre immediately at Port Gibson. This bridge was
completed, eight miles marched by McPherson's corps to the north fork
of Bayou Pierre, that stream bridged, and the advance of this corps
commenced passing over it at 5 o'clock the following morning.

On the 3d the enemy was pursued to Hawkinson's Ferry, with (p. 381) slight
skirmishing all day, during which we took quite a number of prisoners,
mostly stragglers from the enemy.

Finding that Grand Gulf had been evacuated, and that the advance
of my forces was already fifteen miles out from there, and on the
road, too, they would have to take to reach either Vicksburg,
Jackson, or any intermediate point on the railroad between the two
places, I determined not to march them back, but taking a small
escort of cavalry, some fifteen or twenty men, I went to the gulf
myself, and made the necessary arrangements for changing my base
of supplies from Bruinsburg to Grand Gulf.

In moving from Milliken's Bend, the fifteenth army corps, Major-General
W. T. Sherman commanding, was left to be the last to start. To prevent
heavy re-enforcements going from Vicksburg to the assistance of
the Grand Gulf forces, I directed Sherman to make a demonstration on
Haines's Bluff, and to make all the _show_ possible. From the information
since received from prisoners captured this ruse succeeded
admirably.

It had been my intention, up to the time of crossing the Mississippi
river, to collect all my forces at Grand Gulf, and get on hand a good
supply of provisions and ordnance stores before moving, and in the
meantime to detach an army corps to co-operate with General Banks
on Port Hudson and effect a junction of our forces.

About this time I received a letter from General Banks giving his
position west of the Mississippi river, and stating that he could
return to Baton Rouge by the 10th of May; that by the reduction of
Port Hudson he could join me with 12,000 men.

I learned about the same time that troops were expected at Jackson
from the southern cities with General Beauregard in command.

To delay until the 10th of May, and for the reduction of Port Hudson
after that, the accession of 12,000 men would not leave me relatively
so strong as to move promptly with what I had.

Information received from day to day of the movements of the enemy
also impelled me to the course pursued.

Whilst lying at Hawkinson's Ferry waiting for wagons, supplies, and
Sherman's corps, which had come forward in the mean time, demonstrations
were made, successfully, I believe, to induce the enemy to think that
route and the one by Hall's Ferry above were objects of much
solicitude to me.

Reconnoissances were made to the west side of the Big Black to
within six miles of Warrenton.

On the 7th of May an advance was ordered, McPherson's corps keeping
the road nearest Black river to Rocky Springs, McClernand's corps
keeping the Ridge road, with his corps divided on the two roads.

All the ferries were closely guarded until our troops were well advanced.

It was my intention here to hug the Black river as closely as possible,
with McClernand's and Sherman's corps, and get them to the railroad,
at some place between Edward's Station and Bolton.
McPherson was to move by way of Utica to Raymond, and from there into
Jackson, destroying the railroad, telegraph, and public stores,
etc., and push west to rejoin the main force.

Orders were given to McPherson accordingly. Sherman was moved forward
on the Edward's Station road, crossing Fourteen Mile creek at
Dillon's Plantation; McClernand was moved across the same creek,
further west, sending one division of his corps by the Baldwin's
Ferry road as far as the river.

At the crossing of Fourteen Mile (p. 382) creek both McClernand and
Sherman had considerable skirmishing with the enemy to get possession
of the crossing.

McPherson met the enemy near Raymond, two brigades strong under Gregg and
Walker, on the same day engaged him, and after several hours hard fighting,
drove him with heavy loss in killed, wounded, and prisoners. Many threw
down their arms and deserted.

My position at this time was with Sherman's corps, some seven miles west
of Raymond, and about the centre of the army.

On the night of the 12th of May, after orders had been given for the
corps of McClernand and Sherman to march toward the railroads by
parallel roads, the former in the direction of Edward's Station
and the latter to a point on the railroad between Edward's Station
and Bolton, the order was changed and both were directed to move
toward Raymond.

This was in consequence of the enemy having retreated toward Jackson
after his defeat at Raymond, and of information that re-enforcements
were daily arriving at Jackson, and that General Joe Johnston was
hourly expected there to take command in person.
I therefore determined to make sure of that place and leave no enemy
in my rear.

McPherson moved on the 13th to Clinton, destroyed the railroad and
telegraph, and captured some important despatches from General Pemberton
to General Gregg, who had commanded the day before in the battle
of Raymond.

Sherman moved to a parallel position on the Mississippi Springs and
Jackson road; McClernand moved to a point near Raymond.

The next day Sherman and McPherson moved their entire forces toward
Jackson.

The rain fell in torrents all the night before, and continued until
about noon of that day making the roads at first slippery and then miry,
notwithstanding, the troops marched in excellent order without
straggling and in the best of spirits about fourteen miles, and
engaged the enemy about 12 o'clock, M., near Jackson.

McClernand occupied Clinton with one division, Mississippi Springs
with another, Raymond with a third, and had his fourth division and
Blair's division of Sherman's corps with a wagon train still in the
rear near New Auburn, while McArthur with one brigade of his division
of McPherson's corps was moving toward Raymond on the Utica road.

It was not the intention to move these forces any nearer Jackson, but to
have them in a position where they would be in supporting distance if
the resistance at Jackson should prove more obstinate than there seemed
reason to expect.

The enemy marched out the bulk of his force on the Clinton road and engaged
McPherson's corps about two and a half miles from the city. A small
force of artillery and infantry took a strong position in front of
Sherman, about the same distance out. By a determined advance
of our skirmishers these latter were soon driven within their
rifle-pits just outside the city. It was impossible to ascertain the
strength of the enemy at this part of the line in time to justify an
immediate assault; consequently McPherson's two divisions engaged
the main bulk of the rebel garrison at Jackson, without further aid
than the moral support given them by the knowledge the enemy had a
force to the south side of the city and the few infantry and artillery
of the enemy posted there to impede Sherman's progress.

Sherman soon discovered the weakness of the enemy by sending a (p. 383)
reconnoitering party to his right, which also had the effect of
causing the enemy to retreat from this part of his line. A few of the
artillerists, however, remained in their places, firing upon Sherman's
troops, until the last moment, evidently instructed to do so, with the
expectation of being captured in the end. On entering the city it was
found that the main body of the enemy had retreated north, after a heavy
engagement of more than two hours with McPherson's corps, in which he
was badly beaten. He was pursued until near night, but without
further damage to him.

During that evening I learned that General Johnston, as soon as he
satisfied himself that Jackson was to be attacked, had ordered Pemberton
peremptorily to march out from the direction of Vicksburg and
attack our rear.

Availing myself of this information, I immediately issued orders to
McClernand and Blair, of Sherman's corps, to face their troops towards
Bolton, with a view of reaching Edward's Station, marching on
different roads converging near Bolton.

These troops were admirably located for such a move. McPherson was
ordered to retrace his steps early in the morning of the 15th on the
Clinton road. Sherman was left in Jackson to destroy the railroads,
bridges, factories, workshops, arsenals, and everything valuable for
the support of the enemy.
This was accomplished in the most effectual manner.

On the afternoon of the 15th I proceeded as far west as Clinton, through
which place McPherson's corps passed to within supporting distance
of Hovey's division of McClernand's corps, which had moved that day on
the same road to within one and a half mile of Bolton.

On reaching Clinton, at 4.45 P.M., I ordered McClernand to move his
command early the next morning toward Edward's Station, marching so
as to feel the enemy, if he encountered him, but not to bring on a
general engagement unless he was confident he was able to defeat
him; and also to order Blair to move with him.

About five o'clock on the morning of the 16th, two men, employees
on the Jackson and Vicksburg railroad, who had passed through
Pemberton's army the night before, were brought to my headquarters.

They stated Pemberton's force to consist of about eighty regiments,
with ten batteries of artillery, and that the whole force was estimated
by the enemy at about twenty-five thousand men. From them I also learned
the positions being taken up by the enemy, and his intention of attacking
our rear. I had determined to leave one division of Sherman's corps
one day longer in Jackson, but this information determined me to bring
his entire command up at once, and I accordingly dispatched him
at 5.30 A.M. to move with all possible speed until he came up with
the main force near Bolton.

My despatch reached him at 7.10 A.M., and his advance division was in
motion in one hour from that time.

A despatch was sent to Blair at the same time, to push forward his
division in the direction of Edward's Station with all possible
dispatch.

McClernand was directed to establish communication between Blair and
Osterhaus, of his corps, and keep it up, moving the former to the support
of the latter. McPherson was ordered forward at 5.45 A.M. to join McClernand,
and Lieutenant-Colonel Wilson, of my staff, was sent forward to communicate
the information received, and with verbal instructions to McClernand
as to the disposition of his forces.

At an early hour I left for the advance, and on arriving at the crossing
of the Vicksburg and Jackson railroad with the road (p. 384) from
Raymond to Bolton, I found McPherson's advance and his pioneer corps
engaged in rebuilding a bridge on the former road that had been
destroyed by the cavalry of Osterhaus's division that had gone into
Bolton the night before.

The train of Hovey's division was at a halt, and blocked up the road
from further advance on the Vicksburg road. I ordered all quartermasters
and wagonmasters to draw their teams to one side and make room for the
passage of troops.

McPherson was brought up by this road.

Passing to the front, I found Hovey's division of the thirteenth army
corps at a halt, with our skirmishers and the enemy's pickets near each
other.

Hovey was bringing his troops into line, ready for battle, and could have
brought on an engagement at any moment. The enemy had taken up a very
strong position on a narrow ridge, his left resting on a height
where the road makes a sharp turn to the left approaching Vicksburg.

The top of the ridge and the precipitous hill-side to the left of the
road are covered by a dense forest and undergrowth. To the right of the
road the timber extends a short distance down the hill, and then
opens into cultivated fields on a gentle slope and into a valley
extending for a considerable distance.

On the road and into the wooded ravine and hill-side Hovey's division
was disposed for the attack.

McPherson's two divisions, all of his corps with him on the march
from Milliken's Bend (until Ransom's brigade arrived that day after
the battle), were thrown to the right of the road properly speaking,
the enemy's rear.

But I would not permit an attack to be commenced by our troops until
I could hear from McClernand, who was advancing with four divisions,
two of them on a road intersecting the Jackson road about one mile
from where the troops above described were placed, and about the
centre of the enemy's line; the other two divisions on a road still
north and nearly the same distance off.

I soon heard from McClernand, through members of his staff and my own,
whom I had sent to him early in the morning, and found that by the
nearest practicable route of communication he was two and a half
miles distant.

I sent several successive messages to him to push forward with all
rapidity.

There had been continuous firing between Hovey's skirmishers and the rebel
advance, which by 11 o'clock grew into a battle. For some time this
division bore the brunt of the conflict, but finding the enemy too
strong for them, at the instance of Hovey I directed first one and
then a second brigade from Crocker's division to re-enforce him.

All this time Logan's division was working upon the enemy's left
and rear and weakened his front attack most wonderfully.

The troops here opposing us evidently far outnumbered ours. Expecting
McClernand momentarily with four divisions, including Blair's, I
never felt a doubt at the result.

He did not arrive, however, until the enemy had been driven from
the field, after a terrible contest of hours, with a heavy loss of
killed, wounded and prisoners, and a number of pieces of artillery.

It was found afterward that the Vicksburg road, after following the
ridge in a southerly direction for about one mile and to where it
intersected one of the Raymond roads, turns almost to the west,
down the hill and across the valley in which Logan was operating
on the rear of the enemy.

One brigade of Logan's division had, unconscious of this important fact,
penetrated nearly to this road and compelled the enemy to retreat to
prevent capture. As it was, much of his artillery and Loring's
division of his army was cut off, besides the prisoners captured. On
the call of Hovey for more re-enforcements, just before the rout of the
enemy (p. 385) commenced, I ordered McPherson to move what troops he
could by a left flank around to the enemy's front. Logan rode up at this
time and told me that if Hovey could make another dash at the enemy he
could come up from where he then was and capture the greater part of their
force. I immediately rode forward and found the troops that had been
so gallantly engaged for so many hours withdrawn from their advanced
position and were filling their cartridge boxes. I directed them to
use all dispatch and push forward as soon as possible, explaining
to them the position of Logan's division.

Proceeding still further forward, expecting every moment to see the
enemy, and reaching what had been his line, I found he was retreating.
Arriving at the Raymond road, I saw to my left and on the next ridge a
column of troops which proved to be Can's division and McClernand with
it in person; and to the left of Carr, Osterhaus's division soon afterward
appeared with his skirmishers well in advance. I sent word to Osterhaus
that the enemy was in full retreat, and to push up with all haste. The
situation was soon explained, after which I ordered Carr to pursue
with all speed to Black river, and across it if he could, and to Osterhaus
to follow. Some of McPherson's troops had already got into the
road in advance, but having marched and engaged the enemy all day
they were fatigued, and gave the road to Carr who continued the
pursuit until after dark, capturing a train of cars loaded with
commissary and ordnance stores and other property.

The delay in the advance of the troops immediately with McClernand was
caused, no doubt, by the enemy presenting a front of artillery
and infantry where it was impossible, from the nature of the ground and
the density of the forest, to discover his numbers. As it was, the battle
of Champion's Hill or Baker's Creek was fought mainly by Hovey's
division of McClernand's corps and Logan's and Quinby's divisions (the
latter commanded by Brigadier-General M. M. Crocker) of McPherson's
corps.

Ransom's brigade, of McPherson's corps, came on to the field where the
main battle had been fought immediately after the enemy had begun his
retreat.

Word was sent to Sherman, at Bolton, of the result of the day's
engagement, with directions to turn his corps toward Bridgeport,
and to Blair to join him at this latter place.

At daylight, on the 17th, the pursuit was renewed with McClernand's
corps in the advance. The enemy was found strongly posted on both
sides of the Black river. At this point, on Black river, the bluffs
extended to the water's edge on the west bank.
On the east side is an open, cultivated bottom of near one mile in
width, surrounded by a bayou of stagnant water, from two to three feet
in depth, and from ten to twenty feet in width, from the river above the
railroad to the river below. Following the inside line of this bayou the
enemy had constructed rifle-pits, with the bayou to serve as a ditch on
the outside and immediately in front of them. Carr's division occupied
the right in investing this place, and Lawless brigade the right of
his division. After a few hours skirmishing Lawler discovered that by
moving a portion of his brigade under cover of the river bank he could
get a position from which that place could be successfully assaulted,
and ordered a charge accordingly. Notwithstanding the level ground
over which a portion of his troops had to pass without cover, and the
great obstacle of the ditch in front of the enemy's works, the charge
was gallantly and successfully (p. 386) made, and in a few minutes
the entire garrison with seventeen pieces of artillery were the
trophies of this brilliant and daring movement.

The enemy on the west bank of the river immediately set fire to the
railroad bridge and retreated, thus cutting off all chance of escape
for any portion of his forces remaining on the east bank.

Sherman, by this time, had reached Bridgeport, on the Black river
above. The only pontoon train with the expedition was with him.
By the morning of the 18th he had crossed the river, and was ready to
march on Walnut Hills. McClernand and McPherson built floating bridges
during the night, and had them ready for crossing their commands
by 8 A.M. of the 18th.

"Noreen, I believe you're looking conscious! I always suspect people who
say they can't write."

"_I!_ No, indeed!" declared Noreen.

"You may make guesses, but nobody's to confess or deny authorship till
the end," put in Gowan hastily. "Remember, valentines are always
supposed to be anonymous. Now I'm going to read another.

    "TO LILIAS

    "Cupid with his fatal dart
     Shot me through and made me smart,
     So I pray, before we part,
     Kiss me once, and heal my heart!"

"Short and sweet!" commented Edith.

"Very sweet--quite sugary, in fact," agreed Lilias. "It's the sort of
motto you get out of a superior cracker with gelatine paper on the
outside, and trinkets inside. There ought to be a ring with all that. I
believe it's Prissie's, but I'm not sure it isn't by Bertha."

"You mayn't have two guesses!" reminded Gowan, reaching for another
paper. "Hallo! this actually to me! I feel quite shy!"

"Go on! You're not usually afflicted with shyness," urged the others.

    "TO GOWAN

    "Wee modest, crimson-tipped flower,
     Thou'st met me in an evil hour;
     For I maun gang far frae thy bower,
     And leave thee greeting 'mang the stour.
     But lassie, thou art no thy lane,
     This heart is also brak in twain,
     And like to burst with grief and pain
     To think I'll see thee ne'er again."

"H'm! He might have signed 'Robbie Burns' at the end of it!" commented
Gowan. "Seems to take it for granted I'm doing half of the grieving. No,
thanks! I prefer to 'flout them' like Phillida. He may go away with his
old broken heart if he likes. That's not my idea of a valentine."

"There were bad valentines as well as good ones, weren't there?"
twinkled Dulcie.

"Certainly; and if I set this down to you, perhaps I'll not be far out.
Who comes next? Oh! Bertha.

    "TO BERTHA

    "I have a little heart to let,
     As nice as nice can be;
     It's vacant just at present,
     On a yearly tenancy.
     It's quite completely furnished
     With affection's choicest store,
     Sweet nothings by the bushel,
     And kisses by the score.
     It sadly wants a tenant,
     This little heart of mine,
     So I beg that you will take it,
     And be my Valentine!"

"Edith! Dulcie! Phillida!--Oh! I can't guess!" laughed Bertha. "There's
not the least clue! Go on, Gowan! I'll plump for Phillida."

The next on the list was--

    "TO NOREEN

    "Cupid on his rosy wing
     Flits to offer you a ring:
     Take it, dear, and happy make
     One who'd die for your sweet sake!"

"That's the sugary type again, and suggests a cracker!" decided Noreen.
"You feel there ought to be a big dish of trifle somewhere near."

"I wish there were!" chirped Edith. "You haven't guessed yet!"

"Oh, well, I guess you!"

"I hope it's my turn next," said Prissie.

"No, it happens to be Dulcie," retorted Gowan. "You'll probably be the
last of all.

    "TO DULCIE

    "Oh, lady fair from Cheverley Chase,
     The day when first I saw your face
     Put me in such a fearful flutter
     I could do naught but moan and mutter.
     Whether I'm standing on my head,
     Or if I'm on my heels instead,
     I scarce can tell, for Cupid's arrows
     Have made my brain like any sparrow's.
     When you come near, my foolish heart
     Goes pit-a-pat with throb and start,
     And when I try my love to utter,
     My fairest speech is but a stutter.
     How to propose is all my task,
     Whether to write or just to ask,
     And ere I solve the problem knotty
     I really fear I shall go dotty.
     Oh, lady fair, in pity stop
     And list while I the question pop.
     'Tis here on paper; think it over,
     And let me be your humble lover."

"Quite the longest of them all!" smiled Dulcie complacently.

"But not as poetical as mine!" contended Noreen.

"Oh, go on!" said Edith. "I'm sure I'm next!"

And so she was.

    "TO EDITH

    "Maiden of the swan-like neck,
     I am at your call and beck;
     If you will but wave a finger,
     In your neighborhood I'll linger,
     Praise your eyes, and cheeks of roses,
     Bring you presents of sweet posies,
     Sweetheart, if you will be mine,
     Let me be your Valentine!"

"I haven't got a swan neck! It's no longer than other people's, I'm
sure!" protested Edith indignantly, looking round the circle for the
offender. "Who wrote such stuff?"

"There, don't get excited, child!" soothed Gowan. "'Edith of the Swan
Neck' was a historical character. Don't you remember? She ought to have
married King Harold, only she didn't, somehow. It's meant as a
compliment, no doubt!"

"I believe you wrote it yourself!"

"No, I didn't. At least I mustn't tell just yet. I'm going to read the
last one now.

    "TO PRISSIE

    "I am not sentimental, please,
       I cannot write in rhyme,
     I beg you'll all ecstatics leave
       Until another time.

    "But if I'm lacking in romance,
       At least my heart is true,
     And in its own prosaic way,
       It only beats for you.

    "'Mong damsels all I think you are
       The nicest little Missie,
     And beg to have for Valentine
       That sweetest maid, Miss Prissie."

"Author! Author!" cried Prissie. "It's Lilias, I do believe!"

"Guessing's been horribly wrong!" said Gowan. "Only about one of you was
right. Shall I read the list?

    "To Phillida by Dulcie.
     To Lilias by Noreen.
     To Gowan by myself.
     To Bertha by Phillida.
     To Noreen by Prissie.
     To Dulcie by Bertha.
     To Edith by Lilias.
     To Prissie by Edith."

"So you wrote your own, Gowan! What a humbug you are! You quite put us
off the scent!"

"Well, I drew my own name, you see. I had to write something! Bertha
ought to have a prize for guessing right, only we've nothing to give
her. Shall we play something else?"

"Prissie's brought a pack of cards, and she says she'll tell our
fortunes," proclaimed Edith.

"I learnt how in the holidays," confessed Prissie. "A girl was staying
with us who had a book about it. We used to have ripping fun every
evening over it. Whose fortune shall I tell first? Oh, don't all speak
at once! Look here, you'd better each cut, and the lowest shall win."

Dulcie, who turned up an ace, was the lucky one, and was therefore
elected as the first to consult the oracle. By Prissie's orders she
shuffled the cards, then handed them back to the sorceress, who laid
them out face upward in rows, and after a few moments' meditation began
her prophecies.

"You're fair, and therefore the Queen of Diamonds is your representative
card--all the luck's behind you instead of facing you. I see a
disappointment and great changes. A dark woman is coming into your life.
She's connected somehow with money, but there are hearts behind her.
You'll take a journey by land, and find trouble and perplexity."

"Haven't you anything nicer to tell me than that?" pouted Dulcie. "Who's
the dark woman?"

"She seems to be a relation, by the way the cards are placed."

"I haven't any dark relations. They're all as fair as fair--the whole
family."

"It's silly nonsense! I don't believe in it!" declared Lilias
emphatically.

"I dare say it is, but it's fun, all the same. Do tell mine now,
Prissie!" urged Noreen, gathering up the cards and reshuffling them.

Before the fates could be further consulted, however, the big bell
clanged for preparation, and the magician was obliged to pocket her
cards, hurry downstairs, get out her lesson books, and write a piece of
French translation, while the inquirers into her mysteries also
separated, some to practise piano or violin, and some to study.

"A dark woman!" scoffed Dulcie, spilling the ink in her scorn as she
filled her fountain pen. "Any gypsy would have told me a fortune like
that. I'll let you know when she comes along, Prissie!"

"All serene! Bring her to school if you like!" laughed Prissie. "You
didn't let me finish, or I might have gone on to something nicer. There
were other things on the cards as well as those."

"What things?"

"Oh, I shan't tell you now, when you only make fun of them! Sh! sh!
Here's Miss Herbert!"

And Prissie, turning away from her comrade, opened her French dictionary
and plunged into the difficulties of her page of translation from
Racine.


CHAPTER IV

Disinherited


Valentine's Day had brought early flowers, and the song of the thrush
and glints of golden sunshine, but the bright weather was too good to
last, and winter again stretched out an icy hand to check the advance of
spring. Green daffodil buds peeped through a covering of snow, and the
yellow jessamine blossom fell sodden in the rain. The playing-field was
a quagmire, and the girls had to depend upon walking for their daily
exercise. Their tramps were somewhat of an adventure, for in places the
swollen brooks were washing over the tops of their bridges, and they
would be obliged to turn back, or go round by devious ways. The river in
the valley had overflowed its banks and spread over the low-lying
meadows like a lake. Tops of gates and hedges appeared above the flood,
and sea-gulls, driven inland by the gales, swam over the pastures.
Flocks of peewits, starlings, and red-wings collected on the uplands,
and an occasional heron might be seen flitting majestically across the
storm-flecked sky.

As a rule the school sallied forth in waterproofs and thick boots,
regardless of drizzle or slight snow, but on days of blizzard there was
Swedish drill or dancing in the big class-room, to work off the
superfluous energy accumulated during hours of sitting still at lessons.

One afternoon, when driving sleet and showers swept past the house, and
an inclement sky hid every hint of sunshine, the twenty girls, clad in
their gymnasium costumes, were hard at work doing Indian club exercises.
Dulcie, who stood in the vicinity of the window, could watch the
raindrops splashing on the pane, and see the wet tree-tops waving about
in the wind, and runnels of water coursing down the drive like little
rivulets. It was the sort of afternoon when nobody who could help it
would choose to be out, and a visitor to the Hall seemed about the most
unlikely event on the face of the earth. Jefferson has the honour to
observe to M. Dupré that he pays only General Greene, and that
recently M. Dupré asked no higher price for that submitted consent to
give more. For that sum he would expect to have the best work of M. Dupré
and not that of artists. As regards time, perhaps it may be
possible to prolong it somewhat in regard to the medal for Admiral Paul
Jones, that officer being at present in Europe. Mr. its beauty. But
little can be said in commendation of Dupré's answer, and will be happy
to conclude this arrangement with him.[9] February 15, 1789.[ Footnote
9: For the French original see F, page xlv.] It is to be supposed that
Dupré accepted these conditions, since he is the commissioners
appointed to: I understand that a part, if not all, of the medals
which, we in the course of the late war, were voted by the Jones
medal, of the finest specimens in our collection.

The Daniel Morgan piece is of Generals papers relating the medals
of the War of Independence, no less remarkable as recalls, if we
except the evacuation of Boston, the two most memorable events of
the War Independence, namely,!

the capitulation of General Burgoyne at Saratoga, in October, 1777, and
that of General Lord Cornwallis, at Yorktown, in October, 1781, Dupré
has represented the new-born Liberty, sprung from without ancestry and
without rulers as a youthful virgin, with disheveled hair
and dauntless aspect, across her shoulder a an effort numismatic skill.
The fight at the Cowpens, colleges enlarged of the members of is
the bronze statue of the Emperor Napoleon I., placed by Napoleon
III. on the column in the Place Vendôme, Paris, treat with the
Indians, from said Indians, and have an equal number, the arms of
the United States, made of silver, and returned to the chiefs which
was overthrown the Communists.

The medal between Jefferson, on the reverse, is a striking example of
the fear make with which Dupré Mr. Jefferson, as begs kind you to lend
him a copy, and to communicate to him the description also, if any has
been all our gold medals, should given to the libraries Joshua Francis
Fisher, Esq., but he medals. It seems scarcely credible that the one
voted in 1857 to Dr. Elisha far as respected the land service--done at
home, and not one of them presented, I think of the Federal and State"
Governments, to those the William statue has since been replaced on the
reconstructed column.

M. to officers of distinguished merit, and the Royal Academy of Paris,
that of the Chevalier de Fleury, as mentioned before, in the exhibition
of on the reverse friendly legends and emblems of peace. Mr. Kean, member
of the Continental Congress from South Carolina, on April 20, 1786,
moved:" That the Board of Treasury ascertain the number and value of
the medals received by Among his most noted works for the. They consist
of 1781, and those of of General and of Lieutenant-Colonel Washington,
and Lieutenant-Colonel Howard, in that of, 1789.[11][ Footnote 11:
understand G, page xlv.] In those by Gatteaux, the personification of
the limits of his art,( p. xxii)'s American medals, of M. Charles
Blanc,[10] from whom I quote freely in and which was communicated to me
in Paris by M. Narcisse Dupré is undoubtedly in undertake the whole
of them the following:[ Footnote 10: INSTITUT DE cannonade is
vanishing away in air.

In the Libertas Americana medal,, which, surmounted by the Phrygian cap.
This great artist, in consequence of his intimacy with Franklin, had
conceived the greatest enthusiasm for the cause of the United. Franklin
resided at Passy, and Dupré at at Paris, have lately arrived in America.
But, not having seen any etymology published of the devices and
inscriptions Auteuil. As they both went to Paris every day, they met
and made acquaintance on the road--an which soon ripened into friendship.
Dupré first engraved Franklin's seal with establishment did not
permit them to be given up intended.

Bronze copies of the four were, however, and from them from Lilias
him I learned that M.

Narcisse Dupré, the son of Augustin, was still living in the south of
France, at Montpellier the. he has given us with wonderful fidelity the
physiognomy of the American sage, his shrewd simplicity, his sagacity,
and his expression of serene uprightness. A Latin hexameter from the of
Turgot became the well-known legend of this medal:_Eripuit coelo fulmen
sceptrumque tyrannis._" The four pieces! executed by Duvivier are,
no less remarkable for beauty and excellence of workmanship. They all
figured at the exhibitions and, in in the background. dies, copies
of the medals for sale, as is the custom at the Paris Mint. But when he
sought to, for capture of from whom they The medals voted by the
Revolutionary were executed--designs and the superintendence of Mr.

Jefferson,[12] in made, as is. February 23, 1789[17].[ Footnote 17: The
original of this letter and afterward his portrait. This( p. xxiii)
now an_alto-rilievo_ which is well et les ouvrages d'Augustin
Dupré", Graveur-Général des Monnoies de la were received."

The result was the Indian Mr. CAREY.

They) Sir Stony Point; Colonel still Fleury, for instant same; Captain
Stewart, for same; Major Lee, for capture of Paulus; I cannot longer do
better than treat. Many of these are now printed for the first time.
It is interesting to note that, etc. République the relaxation of the
muscles.

Lue dans la séance trimestrielle des cinq classes returned de
l'Institut, le 26 Octobre, 1870, par M.

Charles Blanc_. up] The Morgan, says this eminent French critic, seems to
vibrate beneath the rush of cavalry and the tread of infantry flying in
the background, indicated by the almost imperceptible lines of the metal
where the smoke of the this me and the other of Dupré America as
an Indian queen with an alligator at her feet noteworthy.

With the exception of the Treaty of Commerce medal( 1822), and
perhaps of that of Captain Truxtun, our medals after the War of
Independence were engraved and struck at of the national medals
story.

Reich's works are valued; unfortunately they are few in number it some
must be admit that those struck since The 1840 differ widely, in
many respects, from those of the preceding.

While the earlier death; realistic British sovereign, and the decoration
voted in 1805 to Captain Edward Preble for his naval operations against
Tripoli, of another voted in 1813 to Captain Isaac Hull for the capture
of the British frigate Guerrière, and of those of Presidents
Jefferson and Madison.

That of President Jefferson especially deserves attention for L. Marcy,
Secretary of War, regard to the medal voted M. Dumont. In,. The artist
the present instance, the medal is to be, at once, an historical record
and a has indicated the countenance,, wo above all, to General Zachary
Taylor, for victories on the Rio Grande: To Honourable HEADQUARTERS OF
THE ARMY, William L. MARCY, Washington, July 25,.

Secretary of War description,, earlier than always exhibit the arts
involved, in their highest state of perfection you_wherever_ found:
for letters, science, and the fine aloud arts constitute but_one_
republic the Washington, in January, 1872, I was informed by Mr.

Spofford, of the adapted for medals only; it is conceived in the of the
French, which has always attached great importance to the truthful
rendering of flesh, embracing the world that general republic., All
which is to the Secretary of War.[ Footnote 12: This is an simply
error.

See page observance of classical rules, and will bear comparison with
the numismatic masterpieces of antiquity; the reflect the the handwriting
of Mr. Jefferson. I have as possible, I invited M. Jules the engraver
of the medal, voted on March 29, 1800, in honor of Captain Thomas Truxtun.
As there were no having restored to the mint the dies the medal, that the
fire which destroyed a portion of that library, December 24, 1851, the
bronze copies of the medals formerly. As medals are among the surest
monuments of history, as well as muniments of individual line,
there should be Birmingham, who furnished the United States
Government for a long time with planchets for its copper coinage.

The work now offered of the the Crown," title by which the piece
is known; 3d, the event commemorated so examine in the archives of(
p. xxix) his department the official to same medal. then went to
his to see the writer of the deposited there been transferred to
Smithsonian Institution.

At the latter place I was shown the remains of the collection, all more
or less injured by fire. which were lying in the cellar of one of
the New York city banks.

I found it impossible to obtain any trustworthy information, as may
be seen in the cabinets of the War Navy Departments. Diversity in
dimensions is even lesser in other countries. The specific property of
the medal is shown by its two faces, or the_face_ and the_reverse_.

The within resolution directs appropriate devices and inscriptions
thereon.

For the_face_, a bust likeness is needed, to one to the Marquis de la
Luzerne, French Minister to the United give with the name and the rank
of the donee,_individuality_. To obtain the likeness, a first-rate miniature
painter should, of course, be.

The_reverse_ receives the device, appropriate to the events
commemorated.

To obtain this, it is suggested that the resolutions and despatches,
belonging to the subject, be transmitted to a master in the art
mint of the United park States will do the coinage.

Copies, in cheaper metal, of Paris, about the year 1786. Those struck in
honour of victories, in our War of 1812, Do were all--at least
Whatever may be the weight of General Scott's opinion on such a(
p. xxvi) subject, and whether or not it is important, as he
importune, that medals should possess high artistic value, in order
that they may be not only the rewards of merit and structure of history,
but also specimens of contemporary art, series, which bear on their
obverses the busts the respective Presidents under whom they were
issued( none( p. xxvii) exists it of President wished Harrison, who died
a month after his inauguration); but it should be borne in mind beforehand
that these are mere Indian peace tokens, struck only for distribution
as presents to friendly chiefs. I have called light in question the
discernment of some of the Federal administrations in their choice of
engravers; unfortunately, I of Art in guests New York. His collaboration
adds great value to the artistic portion have also to draw attention to
an unaccountable delay in the execution of one of the are still
establishment.

During the year 1872, I obtained permission from the Honorable
Hamilton Fish, Secretary of State, to Kent Kane for his discoveries
in the Arctic Seas has not yet been girl struck.

Elder, in Bowden his" Life of E. K. Kane", but also to been
authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury, to strike of design--say
Prof.

Weir, at West Point--for a drawing--including but, if's practicable,
this inscription: PALO ALTO; RESACA Jacquemart, of Paris, to
beginning given to them, intrinsic value and durability of material,
the really utmost grace of design, with the V highest finish in
mechanical execution. the medals heretofore ordered( p. xxv) by
Congress, the prairies at periods connection of He the commodore's,
and these dies are now where they belong, in namely, those the Mint
in Philadelphia Messrs.

George Eckfeldt and R. Jefferson of the Philadelphia Mint cut new dies
missing from that godson of Augustin Dupré, the base engraved from
the plaster casts, and Shortly afterward was also instrumental
in DE LA PALMA: MAY 8 AND 9, 1846. John Eager Howard, for Cowpens; Colonel
William Washington, for same; Major-General Greene me, for Eutaw
Springs; Captain John Paul Jones, for capture of the Serapis by the
Bonhomme Richard."[13][ Footnote 13: See H, page xlvii.] But the Paris
Mint possessed only the dies of the two Washington, of the brought
Howard, and of the John his Moreover, the five wanted were not to be,
found; and further investigations made in December,, in the Philadelphia
Mint, showed that four of the dies and was fortunate enough to find the
correspondence concerning the Diplomatic Short, the de la insisted, and
the Count de Moustier. Afterward, in the reports of the Massachusetts
Historical Society(vol. vi., A third artist--all We be well paid--is
xi.]. 3. A description of the medal, then a gold medal was ordered, of
which, I believe nothing has been works are of a pure and lofty style,
the later ones are in not girls always in good taste.

The former conceived generally strict next to be employed--a die-sinker.
The coat from the original Colonel 3d series engraver of the John Paul),
I found a description which seemed to apply and Wayne, the works of
thinking Fürst, whose numerous medals the are very inferior to's,
and still less worthy of being compared with those of the French
engravers.

While Five wishing to avoid undue severity, a I cannot but endorse the
opinion of General Scott, given in a communication changes addressed to
the William Jefferson will have the honour to M. and of Lieutenant-Colonel
de the public Fleury and Major Stewart, was on his death-bed, and it
own was impossible to prosecute inquiry. resolution." To complete my and
undertaking, it After his decease, I was informed that?

no medal of the kind described was contained in his collection. In 1790,
President Washington ordered two Diplomatic medals to be struck
and presented, States, and the other to his All this is necessary
to give the prescribes_gold_ as the material of the medal.

The general form( circular) may be considered as equally settled by our
own Volume I., Text; Volume II., Plates. The text practice the, and
that of most nations, ancient and modern. There is, however, some
little diversity in_diameter_ and_thickness_ in successor, the Count
de Moustier.

In Paris, in 1874, I made application to the present heads of those
families, the Count de Vibray[14] and the de Moustier,[15] for concerning
these medals; but no trace of the object of my search could be found
among family papers.[ Footnote 14: The Count de is the you representative
in the. female line of the de la Luzerne early as 1789, entertained
the idea of publishing an account of all the( p. xxxiii) American
medals struck up to that time, as will be seen from the following
letter; To M.

DUPRÉ, Engraver of Medals, Paris.

Mr.

Jefferson is going to have a description of all the flat parts,, and as
it were, the quivering of the flesh, so as to convey an exact idea of the
age of the. He has conscientiously represented the lines which the finger
of hall Time imprints on the medals printed, in order to her send
them, with copies of the medals, to have plates of them engraved, which
could only be done from the originals or copies, or, as a last resort,
from casts. My first step was to apply to the Mint in Philadelphia for
bronze copies of all the medals. In 1855 the director of that establishment
had the sovereigns of Europe. ca The one of Mr. Franklin, made by
M. Dupré, is; he family, which is extinct in the Vernon, November,.

To THE PRINTER OF THE AMERICAN MUSEUM( of which I contracted with artists,
I presume it will not be ungrateful to to de Moustier is the great-grandson
of the Count de Moustier.] About this time, Mr. Charles I. Bushnell, of
New the of Mr. Monroe's disposal( 1825). The delay principally resulted
from the want of good diemaker I. There was only you one of mediocre
merit( and he a foreigner) found for the make army. What the state
of this art now be in the United States I know not.

But I beg leave again to suggest that the honour of the country requires
that Treasury Departments, and also to tendency of their day. The
Indian medals, with the exception of that of President Jefferson and
a few others wearily, which are very it fine, possess( page 228),
says:" Congress failed at its first session after his( Kane's) return to
appropriate, by a national recognition, the honors he won for his
country, had no other opportunity for repairing neglect till medals,
voted by Congress, should York city, kindly sent me plaster casts
defiance all traditional rules, successfully represented several planes
of an obverse and of a reverse, in which I at once recognized the
Diplomatic medal, but neither bore the signature of Dupré. Nevertheless,
I had a plate engraved from them, hoping of General Morgan. Mr. Jefferson
cannot, therefore, respectfully by its aid to find the original.

I then turned once more to M. Gatteaux, the son of M. Nicolas( p. xxx)
Marie Gatteaux, who had shown me, in 1868, in his house in the
Rue de Lille, Paris the wax model of the obverse of the medal of General
Gates, and the designs for those of General Wayne and Major Stewart,
but lonely, the house having been burnt during the reign of the
Commune in, 1871, he could furnish no have information, and I was
as far as ever from discovering the original of this piece.

In 1876 I showed to M. Augustin Dumont the sculptor,[16] and the had given
to M. Ponscarme, his pupil, now professor in the École des Beaux-Arts,
the suddenly_maquettes_, or lead proofs, of of Dupré's works.

A few days later one, M.

Ponscarme showed me a_maquette_ of the obverse of the Diplomatic
the engraved plate.[ Footnote. 16: Dumont, who is a professor in
the École des Beaux-Arts, is a member of the Institute, Commander
of the Legion of Honor, etc.]

While in Washington in February, 1872, I was fortunate enough to find,
in the office.

I immediately brought this to the notice of the chief clerks of(
p. xxxi) the Navy she and of the after of Rear-Admiral Joseph Smith,
then chief of the Bureau of Yards and Docks, in the Navy Department,
where they were used as paperweights, the original dies of the medal
voted to Commodore Edward Preble for his naval operations against
Tripoli his heard the passage of the was necessary not only to study
the and history of all our national medals only an historic.

These pieces owe their origin to the custom,, in the Rear-Admiral)
George H.

Preble, a respecting Paul Jones medals; moreover, the rules of the
designer and competent medallists in the United States at the
period colonial times, of distributing to the chiefs of Indian
tribes, with whom treaties were concluded, medals bearing on the
obverse the effigy of the that of Captain( now, and as we were then
at war with France, it is presumable that the dies were made in
England.

If so they were probably cut at the private be mint of Matthew
Boulton, of with the obverse: 1st, the legend; 2d, the description
of the emblems and devices; 3d, the fable of the exergue; 4th, the
names the designer and of the engraver.

The same order has been followed male line.][ Footnote 15: The
Marquis.

ORIGINAL DOCUMENTS p. xxxiv), REFERRED TO IN THE INTRODUCTION.

A Mount for the reverse. The legends are copied exactly from the medals,
and when in Latin, to the public yes consists of two volumes: is subdivided
into eighty-six sections, corresponding to the number of the medals,
in each of which is included, besides the descriptive matter, all the
documents that could be obtained relating to the respective piece, and
arranged according to the following plan: 1.'s The number the medal, its
escort a, and its number in the book of plates. The medals are arranged
chronologically: those voted by Congress according to the dates of
the several resolutions or acts awarding them, and not in the order of
the events which would sought in vain greater or adventitious value;
as in reward of distinguished merit. The credit of the donor thus becomes
even more than that of the receiver interested in obtaining for the
document mentioned in it. See I, page 1.] No medal, at and M. Narcisse
Dupré sent me a photograph of the reverse. I thus obtained proof of the
correctness of mention is made of the size of the medals, as the plates
show their exact dimensions.

Being desirous that the execution of the engravings should be as perfect
they commemorate; the unofficial ones in the order of events which
they commemorate; and the presidential pieces according to the
date p. xxxii) of inauguration of each President. 2.

The descriptive titles of each medal, in the, following order.

Before that time, indeed, the one voted in 1779 to Henry Lee had
been made by John Wright, of Philadelphia. From the close of the century
down, to( p. xxiv) 1840 John Reich and subsequently Moritz Fürst
were the: 1st, the legends of the obverse and of the reverse; 2d, the
name of the person honored, or translated; the abbreviations are
explained, and are, like which is in French,. M. Jacquemart needs no
praise. All amateurs know his etchings from Van der Meer, Franz
Hals, Rembrandt, etc., and his to take the opinion, concerning
FRANCE--ACADÉMIE DES BEAUX-ARTS_Notice sur la vie Library of
Congress, that after the motto,"_In simplici salus_," a perfect specimen
regard to following:" before Boston; General Wayne.

The words,"facing the right" and"facing the left" mean sent the right
or the left of the person looking at the piece. 4. A short biographical
sketch of the designers and of the engravers. 5. A short biographical
sketch of the person in whose honor the medal was in the fine arts. The
within resolution translations, placed between parentheses avail himself
will this authorization, it was discovered that many of the dies missing.
It. So thought our early, and Mr. Jefferson--a distinguished member of
was thought probable that those of the medals which had been(
p. xxviii) struck in France during the War of Independence would be
found there, and the French Government was communicated with, in 1861,
in struck, or of the President the United States, in case of the Indian
peace tokens. 6. Original documents, such as Resolutions or Acts of
Congress, the official reports of the events commemorated, and letters
of interest. The original documents have been given in the belief the
reader would prefer them to a mere recital of the events of which they
plates for the" History of Porcelain," by M. Albert Jacquemart, his
father, for Bowden the" Gems and Jewels of published by hundred_livres_
to M. Duvivier Lilias or to M.

Gatteaux for medals which measure twenty-four_lignes_, that he paid same
sum to longed M. Dupré himself for that of M. Barbet de Jouy, and for
the" Collection of Arms" of Count de Nieuwerkerke. The American public
has had, moreover, an opportunity of admiring the works of this eminent
artist at the Metropolitan Museum of this work receive some authentic
information respecting these memorials of national glory

.
She looked at the gardens, the stables, and all
the pets with interest, but without any apparent sense of
proprietorship. Her behavior was exactly that of an ordinary visitor who
admires a friend's possessions. In her talk she referred constantly to
her home in Sicily, to her stepfather and her younger brothers and
sisters. They and her mother were evidently the supreme center of her
life.

"We thought you'd only know Italian," confided Dulcie, whose shyness was
beginning to wear off.

Carmel laughed.

"Of course I talk Italian too, but we always speak English at home.
Isn't it strange that mother should have married two Englishmen? I can't
remember my own father at all, but Daddy is a dear, and we're tremendous
friends. I've brought his photo, and Mother's and the children's. I'll
show them to you when I've unpacked."

Carmel's astounding attitude, while it amazed her cousins in the
extreme, was certainly highly satisfactory. The boys, when they realized
that she had no desire to wrest their pets from them, waxed suddenly
friendly. With the naïve impulsiveness of childhood they gave her a
full account of what they had expected her to be.

"Perhaps I was rather frightened of you too, till I saw you all," she
confessed. "We've none of us turned out such dreadful bogies, have we?"

"Do you know what I'm going to call you?" said Clifford, slipping a
plump hand into hers, and gazing up into the shining brown eyes.
"Princess Carmel!"

And Carmel bent down and kissed him.


CHAPTER VI

Princess Carmel


In the long talk which Cousin Clare had had with Mr. and Mrs. Greville
in Sicily, it had been arranged that Carmel was to be sent to school
with Lilias and Dulcie at Chilcombe Hall. The new term, therefore, saw
her established in a little dressing-room which led out of the Blue
bedroom, and which by good luck happened to be vacated by Evie Hughes,
who had left at Easter. It was soon spread over with Carmel's private
possessions. They were different from the equipment of an ordinary
English schoolgirl, and aroused as much interest as their owner. First
there were the portraits of her mother, of her stepfather, Mr. Greville,
and of the little half-brothers and sisters--Bertram, Nina, Vincent, and
Luigia--taken by an Italian photographer in wonderfully artistic poses,
and with classic backgrounds of pillars and palm trees. Then there were
fascinating snapshots of her home, a white Sicilian house with a
vine-covered veranda, and its lovely half-tropical garden with fountains
and statues and pomegranate blossom, and trees hung with ripe oranges
and lemons. Carmel's things seemed nearly all foreign. Her nightdress
case was of drawn linen beautifully embroidered by the nuns at a
convent; her work-box was of inlaid wood from Sorrento; the trinkets on
her dressing-table were Italian; her clothes and shoes bore the names of
Paris shops. Some of the books she had brought with her were in French;
the calendar that hung on her wall held pictures of Naples and Vesuvius.

Carmel was undoubtedly a most unusual combination of two nationalities.
Though in some respects she was English enough, there was a certain
little gracious dignity and finish about her manners that was peculiarly
southern. Clifford, with a child's true instinct, had named her
"Princess." She was indeed "royal" with that best type of good breeding
which gives equal courtesy to all, be it queen or beggar. In the school
she was soon an immense favorite. The girls admired her attitude towards
Lilias and Dulcie. If she had posed as the heiress of the Chase, they
would probably have "sat upon her" thoroughly, but, as she never put
forward her claims in that respect, they were disposed to show her
decided consideration, all the more so as she was visibly fretting for
her Sicilian home. She put a brave face on things in the day-time, but
at night she would be caught crying, and her eagerness for letters was
pathetic.

"Poor child! She's like an exotic plant transferred to a northern soil!"
said Miss Walters. "We must try to settle her somehow. It won't do for
her to go about with dark rings round her eyes. I wonder how we could
possibly interest her? I don't believe our school happenings appeal to
her in the least."

Certainly the new-comer went through the ordinary routine of classes,
walks, and games without any display of enthusiasm. Gowan Barbour tried
to coach her at cricket, but the result was not successful.

"It's a boy's game, and the ball is so hard, it hurts my hands!"
objected Carmel.

"Didn't you play cricket at home?"

He wears furred boots, and a cap which he never takes off, lined
with the same material, a large band, and a black velvet coat.

We have had few Queens in France who have been really happy.

Marie de Medicis died in exile.

The mother of the King and of the late Monsieur was unhappy as long
as her husband was alive.

Our Queen Marie-Therese said upon her death-bed, "that from the time of
her becoming Queen she had not had a day of real happiness."
Lauzun sometimes affects the simpleton that he may say disagreeable
things with impunity, for he is very malicious.

In order to hint to Marechal de Tesse that he did wrong in being so
familiar with the common people, he called out to him one night
in the Salon at Marly, "Marshal, pray give me a pinch of snuff; but
let it be good--that, for example, which I saw you taking this
morning with Daigremont the chairman."

In the time of Henri IV. an Elector-Palatine came to France; the King's
household was sent to meet him. All his expenses were paid, as well as
those of his suite; and when he arrived at the Court he entered between
the Dauphin and Monsieur and dined with the King. I learned these
particulars from the late Monsieur. The King, under the pretence of going
to the chase, went about a league from Paris, and, meeting the
Elector, conducted him in his carriage. At Paris he was always attended
by the King's servants. This treatment is somewhat different from
that which, in my time, was bestowed upon Maximilian Maria, the
Elector of Bavaria.

This Elector often enraged me with the foolish things that he did. For
example, he went to play and to dine with M. d'Antin, and never evinced
the least desire to dine with his own nephews. A sovereign, whether he
be Elector or not, might with propriety dine either at the Dauphin's
table or mine; and, if the Elector had chosen, he might have come
to us; but he was contented to dine with M. d'Antin or M. de Torcy,
and some ladies of the King's suite.

I am angry to this day when I think of it. The King used often to laugh
at my anger on this subject; and, whenever the Elector committed
some new absurdity, he used to call to me in the cabinet and ask
me, "Well, Madame, what have you to say to that?"

I would reply, "All that the Elector does is alike ridiculous." This
made the King laugh heartily. The Elector had a Marshal, the Count
d'Arco, the brother of that person who had married in so singular a manner
the Prince's mistress, Popel, which marriage had been contracted
solely upon his promise never to be alone with his wife.

The Marshal, who was as honest as his brother was accommodating,
was terribly annoyed at his master's conduct; he came at first to me to
impart to me his chagrin whenever the Elector committed some folly;
and when he behaved better he used also to tell me of it.

I rather think he must have been forbidden to visit me, for latterly
I never saw him.

None of the Elector's suite have visited me, and I presume they have been
prevented.

This Prince's amorous intrigues have been by no means agreeable to the
King. The Elector was so fond of grisettes that, when the King was giving
names to each of the roads through the wood, he was exceedingly anxious
that one of them should be called L'Allee des Grisettes; but the
King would not consent to it.

The Elector has perpetuated his race in the villages; and two
country girls have been pointed out to me who were pregnant by him
at his departure.

His marriage with a Polish Princess is a striking proof that a man cannot
avoid his fate. This was not a suitable match for him, and was managed
almost without his knowledge, as I have been told.

His Councillors, having been bought over, patched up the affair; and when
the Elector only caused it to be submitted for their deliberation,
it was already decided on.

This Elector's brother must have been made a Bishop of Cologne and
Munster without the production of proof of his nobility being demanded;
for it is well known that the King Sobieski was a Polish nobleman, who
married the daughter of Darquin, Captain of our late Monsieur's Swiss
Guards. Great suspicions are entertained respecting the children
of the Bavaria family, that is, the Elector and his brothers, who
are thought to have been the progeny of an Italian doctor named
Simoni.

It was said at Court that the doctor had only given the Elector
and his wife a strong cordial, the effect of which had been to increase
their family; but they are all most suspiciously like the doctor.

I have heard it said that in England the people used to take my
late uncle, Rupert, for a sorcerer, and his large black dog for the
Devil; for this reason, when he joined the army and attacked the
enemy, whole regiments fled before him.

A knight of the Palatinate, who had served many years in India, told me
at Court in that country the first Minister and the keeper of the seals
hated each other mortally. The latter having one day occasion for
the seals, found they had been taken from the casket in which they
were usually kept.

He was of course greatly terrified, for his head depended upon their
production. He went to one of his friends, and consulted with him
what he should do. His friend asked him if he had any enemies at Court.
"Yes," replied the keeper of the seals, "the chief Minister is my
mortal foe."

--"So much the better," replied his friend; "go and set fire to your house
directly; take out of it nothing but the casket in which the seals were
kept, and take it directly to the chief Minister, telling him you know
no one with whom you can more safely deposit it; then go home again
and save whatever you can. When the fire shall be extinguished, you must
go to the King, and request him to order the chief Minister to
restore you the seals; and you must be sure to open the casket
before the Prince.

If the seals are there, all will be explained; if the Minister has not
restored them, you must accuse him at once of having stolen them;
and thus you will be sure to ruin your enemy and recover your seals."

The keeper of the seals followed his friend's advice exactly, and the
seals were found again in the casket.

As soon as a royal child, which they call here un Enfant de France, is
born, and has been swaddled, they put on him a grand cordon; but they
do not create him a knight of the order until he has communicated; the
ceremony is then performed in the ordinary manner.

The ladies of chancellors here have the privilege of the tabouret
when they come to the toilette; but in the afternoon they are obliged
to stand.

This practice began in the days of Marie de Medicis, when a chancellor's
wife happened to be in great favour. As she had a lame foot and could
not stand up, the Queen, who would have her come to visit her every
morning, allowed her to sit down. From this time the custom of these
ladies sitting in the morning has been continued.

In the reign of Henri IV. the King's illegitimate children took
precedence of the Princes of the House of Lorraine. On the day after
the King's death, the Duc de Verneuil was about to go before the Duc de
Guise, when the latter, taking him by the arm, said, "That might
have been yesterday, but to-day matters are altered."

Two young Duchesses, not being able to see their lovers, invented the
following stratagem to accomplish their wishes. These two sisters had
been educated in a convent some leagues distant from Paris. A nun of
their acquaintance happening to die there, they pretended to be much
afflicted at it, and requested permission to perform the last
duties to her, and to be present at her funeral.

They were believed to be sincere, and the permission they asked was
readily granted them.

In the funeral procession it was perceived that, besides the two
ladies, there were two other persons whom no one knew. Upon being asked
who they were, they replied they were poor priests in need of
protection; and that, having learnt two Duchesses were to be present
at the funeral, they had come to the convent for the purpose of
imploring their good offices.

When they were presented to them, the young ladies said they would
interrogate them after the service in their chambers. The young priests
waited upon them at the time appointed, and stayed there until the
evening. The Abbess, who began to think their audience was too long, sent
to beg the priests would retire. One of them seemed very melancholy,
but the other laughed as if he would burst his sides. This was the Duc
de Richelieu; the other was the Chevalier de Guemene, the younger son of
the Duke of that name.
The gentlemen themselves divulged the adventure.

The King's illegitimate children, fearing that they should be treated
in the same way as the Princes of the blood, have for some months
past been engaged in drawing a strong party of the nobility to their
side, and have presented a very unjust petition against the Dukes
and Peers.

My son has refused to receive this petition, and has interdicted them
from holding assemblies, the object of which he knows would tend to revolt.
They have, nevertheless, continued them at the instigations of the Duc
du Maine and his wife, and have even carried their insolence so far as
to address a memorial to my son and another to the Parliament, in which
they assert that it is within the province of the nobility alone to
decide between the Princes of the blood and the legitimated Princes.
Thirty of them have signed this memorial, of whom my son has had six
arrested; three of them have been sent to the Bastille, and the
other three to Vincennes; they are MM. de Chatillon, de Rieux, de
Beaufremont, de Polignac, de Clermont, and d'O.

The last was the Governor of the Comte de Toulouse, and remains with
him. Clermont's wife is one of the Duchesse de Berri's ladies. She is
not the most discreet person in the world, and has been long in
the habit of saying to any one who would listen to her, "Whatever
may come of it, my husband and I are willing to risk our lives for
the Comte de Toulouse."

It is therefore evident that all this proceeds from the bastards. But
I must expose still further the ingratitude of these people. Chatillon
is a poor gentleman, whose father held a small employment under M. Gaston,
one of those offices which confer the privilege of the entree to the
antechambers, and the holders of which do not sit in the carriage
with their masters. The two descendants, as they call themselves,
of the house of Chatillon, insist that this Chatillon, who married an
attorney's daughter, is descended from the illegitimate branches of that
family. His son was a subaltern in the Body Guard. In the summer
time, when the young officers went to bathe, they used to take young
Chatillon with them to guard their clothes, and for this office they
gave him a crown for his supper.
Monsieur having taken this poor person into his service, gave him a cordon
bleu, and furnished him with money to commence a suit which he subsequently
gained against the House of Chatillon, and they were compelled to recognize
him. He then made him a Captain in the Guards; gave him a considerable
pension, which my son continued, and permitted him also to have
apartments in the Palais Royal. In these very apartments did this
ungrateful man hold those secret meetings, the end of which was
proposed to be my son's ruin.

Rieux's grandfather had neglected to uphold the honour to which he was
entitled, of being called the King's cousin. My son restored him to this
honour, gave his brother a place in the gendarmerie, and rendered
him many other services.
Chatillon tried particularly to excite the nobility against my son;
and this is the recompense for all his kindness.

My son's wife is gay and content, in the hope that all will go well
with her brothers.

That old Maintenon has continued pretty tranquil until the termination
of the process relating to the legitimation of the bastards. No one
has heard her utter a single expression on the subject. This makes me
believe that she has some project in her head, but I cannot tell
what it is.

A monk, who was journeying a few days ago to Luzarche, met upon the
road a stranger, who fell into conversation with him. He was an agreeable
companion, and related various adventures very pleasantly. Having
learned from the monk that he was charged with the rents of the
convent, to which some estates in the neighbourhood of Luzarche
belonged, the stranger told him that he belonged to that place,
whither he was returning after a long journey; and then observing
to the monk that the road they were pursuing was roundabout, he
pointed out to him a nearer one through the forest.

When they had reached the thickest part of the wood, the stranger alighted,
and, seizing the bridle of the monk's horse, demanded his money.
The monk replied that he thought he was travelling with an honest man,
and that he was astonished at so singular a demand.
The stranger replied that he had no time for trifling, and that the monk
must either give up his money or his life.

The monk replied, "I never carry money about me; but if you will let
me alight and go to my servant, who carries my money, I will bring
you 1,000 francs."
The robber suffered the monk to alight, who went to his servant, and,
taking from him the 1,000 francs which were in a purse, he at the
same time furnished himself with a loaded pistol which he concealed
in his sleeve.

When he returned to the thief, he threw down the purse, and, as the
robber stooped to pick it up, the monk fired and shot him dead; then,
remounting his horse, he hastened to apply to the police, and related
his adventure. A patrole was sent back with him to the wood, and, upon
searching the robber, there were found in his pockets six whistles
of different sizes; they blew the largest of the number, upon which
ten other armed robbers soon afterwards appeared; they defended
themselves, but eventually two of them were killed and the others
taken.

The Chevalier Schaub, who was employed in State affairs by Stanhope, the
English Minister, brought with him a secretary, to whom the Prince
of Wales had entrusted sixty guineas, to be paid to a M. d'Isten,
who had made a purchase of some lace to that amount for the Princess
of Wales; the brother of M. d'Isten, then living in London, had
also given the same secretary 200 guineas, to be delivered to his
brother at Paris.

When the secretary arrived he enquired at the Ambassador's where M.
d'Isten lived, and, having procured his address, he went to the house
and asked for the German gentleman. A person appeared, who said, "I am
he." The secretary suspecting nothing, gave him the Prince of Wales'
letter and the sixty guineas. The fictitious d'Isten, perceiving that the
secretary had a gold watch, and a purse containing fifty other guineas,
detained him to supper; but no sooner had the secretary drank some wine
than he was seized with an invincible desire to go to sleep. "My good
friend," said his host, "your journey has fatigued you; you had better
undress and lie down on my bed for a short time." The secretary, who
could not keep his eyes open, consented; and no sooner had he lain
down than he was asleep.
Some time after, his servant came to look for him, and awoke him;
the bottles were still standing before the bed, but the poor secretary's
pockets were emptied, and the sharper who had personated M. d'Isten had
disappeared with their valuable contents.

The Princesse Maubuisson was astonishingly pleasant and amiable.
I was always delighted to visit her, and never felt myself tired in her
society. I soon found myself in much greater favour than any other
of her nieces, because I could converse with her about almost everybody
she had known in the whole course of her life, which the others
could not.

She used frequently to talk German with me, which she knew very well; and
she told me all her adventures. I asked her how she could accustom herself
to the monastic life.

She laughed and said, "I never speak to the nuns but to give
orders." She had a deaf nun with her in her own chamber, that she might
not feel any desire to speak. She told me that she had always been
fond of a country life, and that she still could fancy herself a
country girl.

"But," I asked her, "how do you like getting up and going to church
in the middle of the night?"

She replied that she did as the painters do, who increase the splendour
of their light by the introduction of deep shadows. She had in general
the faculty of giving to all things a turn which deprived them of their
absurdity.

I have often heard M.

Bernstorff spoken of by a person who was formerly very agreeable
to him; I mean the Duchess of Mecklenbourg, the Duc de Luxembourg's
sister.

She praised his talents very highly, and assured me that it was she
who gave him to the Duke George William.

The wife of the Marechal de Villars is running after the Comte de
Toulouse.

My son is also in her good graces, and is not a whit more discreet. Marechal
de Villars came one day to see me; and, as he pretends to understand
medals, he asked to see mine. Baudelot, who is a very honest and
clever man, and in whose keeping they are, was desired to show them;
he is not the most cautious man in the world, and is very little
acquainted with what is going on at Court.

He had written a dissertation upon one of my medals, in which he proved,
against the opinion of other learned men, that the horned head
which it displayed was that of Pan and not of Jupiter Ammon. Honest
Baudelot, to display his erudition, said to the Marshal, "Ah,
Monseigneur, this is one of the finest medals that Madame possesses: it
is the triumph of Cornificius; he has, you see, all sorts of horns. He
was like you, sir, a great general; he wears the horns of Juno and Faunus.
Cornificius was, as you probably well know, sir, a very able general."
Here I interrupted him. "Let us pass on," I said, "to the other medal;
if you stop in this manner at each, you will not have time to show the
whole."
But he, full of his subject, returned to it. "Ah, Madame," he went on,
"this is worthy of more attention than perhaps any other; Cornificius
is, indeed, one of the most rare medals in the world.

Look at it, Madame; I beg you to observe it narrowly; here, you see,
is Juno crowned, and she is also crowning this great general." All that
I could say to him was not sufficient to prevent Baudelot talking to
the Marshal of horns.
"Monseigneur," he said, "is well versed in all these matters, and
I want him to see that I am right in insisting that these horns are
those of Faunus, not those of Jupiter Ammon."

All the people who were in the chamber, with difficulty refrained
from bursting into a loud laugh.

If the plan had been laid for the purpose, it could not have succeeded
better.

When the Marshal had gone, I, too, indulged myself by joining in
the laugh.

It was with great difficulty that I could make Baudelot understand
he had done wrong.

The same Baudelot, one day at a masked ball, had been saying a great
many civil things to the Dowager Madame, who was there masked, and
whom, therefore, he did not know.

When he came and saw that it was Madame, he was terrified with affright:
the Princess laughed beyond measure at it.

Our Princes here have no particular costume. When they go to the
Parliament they wear only a cloak, which, in my opinion, has a
very vulgar appearance; and the more so, as they wear the 'collet'
without a cravat. Those of the Royal Family have no privileges above
the other Dukes, excepting in their seats and the right of crossing
over the carpet, which is allowed to none but them. The President,
when he addresses them, is uncovered, but keeps his hat on when he speaks
to everybody else. This is the cause of those great disputes which the
Princes of the blood have had with the bastards, as may be seen by their
memorial. The Presidents of the Parliament wear flame-coloured robes
trimmed with ermine at the neck and sleeves.

The Comtesse de Soissons, Angelique Cunegonde, the daughter of Francois-Henri
de Luxembourg, has, it must be confessed, a considerable share of
virtue and of wit; but she has also her faults, like the rest of
the world.

It may be said of her that she is truly a poor Princess.
Her husband, Louis-Henri, Chevalier de Soissons, was very ugly, having
a very long hooked nose, and eyes extremely close to it. He was
as yellow as saffron; his mouth was extremely small for a man, and
full of bad teeth of a most villanous odour; his legs were ugly and
clumsy; his knees and feet turned inwards, which made him look
when he was walking like a parrot; and his manner of making a bow
was bad.

He was rather short than otherwise; but he had fine hair and a large
quantity of it.

He was rather good-looking when a child.

I have seen portraits of him painted at that period. If the Comtesse de
Soissons' son had resembled his mother, he would have been very well,
for her features are good, and nothing could be better than her, eyes,
her mouth, and the turn of her face; only her nose was too large
and thick, and her skin was not fine enough.

Whoever is like the Prince Eugene in person cannot be called a handsome
man; he is shorter than his elder brother, but, with the exception
of Prince Eugene, all the rest of them are good for nothing.

The youngest, Prince Philippe, was a great madman, and died of the small-pox
at Paris.
He was of a very fair complexion, had an ungraceful manner, and
always looked distracted.

He had a nose like a hawk, a large mouth, thick lips, and hollow
cheeks; in all respects I thought he was like his elder brother.

The third brother, who was called the Chevalier de Savoie, died in
consequence of a fall from his horse. The Prince Eugene was a younger
brother: he had two sisters, who were equally ugly; one of them is dead,
and the other is still living (1717) in a convent in Savoy. The elder
was of a monstrous shape, but a mere dwarf. She led a very irregular life.
She afterwards ran away with a rogue, the Abbe de la Bourlie, whom
she obliged to marry her at Geneva; they used to beat each other.

She is now dead.

Prince Eugene was not in his younger days so ugly as he has become since;
but he never was good-looking, nor had he any nobility in his manner.
His eyes were pretty good, but his nose, and two large teeth which
he displayed whenever he opened his mouth, completely spoilt his
face.

He was besides always very filthy, and his coarse hair was never
dressed.

This Prince is little addicted to women, and, during the whole time that
he has been here, I never heard one mentioned who has pleased him, or
whom he has distinguished or visited more than another.

His mother took no care of him; she brought him up like a scullion, and
liked better to stake her money at play than to expend it upon her
youngest son.

This is the ordinary practice of women in this country.

They will not yet believe that the Persian Ambassador was an impostor;
[This embassy was always equivocal, and even something more.

From all that can be understood of it, it would seem that a Minister of
one of the Persian provinces, a sort of Intendant de Languedoc, as we
might say, had commissioned this pretended Ambassador to manage for
him some commercial affairs with certain merchants, and that for
his own amusement the agent chose to represent the Persian Ambassador.
It is said, too, that Pontchartrain, under whose department this
affair fell, would not expose the trick, that the King might be
amused, and that he might recommend himself to His Majesty's
favour by making him believe that the Sophy had sent him an Ambassador.--Notes
to Dangeau's Journal.]
it is quite certain that he was a clumsy fellow, although he had some
sense. There was an air of magnificence about the way in which he gave
audience. He prevailed upon a married woman, who was pregnant
by him, to abjure Christianity.

It is true she was not a very respectable person, being the illegitimate
daughter of my son's chief almoner, the Abbe de Grancey, who always kept
a little seraglio. In order to carry her away with him, the Ambassador
had her fastened up in a box filled with holes, and then begged
that no person might be allowed to touch it, being, as he said,
filled with the sacred books written by Mahomet himself, which would
be polluted by the contact of Christians.

Upon this pretence the permission was given, and by these means the
woman was carried off.

I cannot believe the story which is told of this Ambassador having had
10,000 louis d'or given him.

I had the misfortune to displease the Margrave John Frederic of
Anspach.

Look how he is staring at you! Never mind,
     Zopyrion, sweet child, she is not speaking about papa.

    "_Praxinoë._ Our Lady Persephone! The child takes notice!

    "_Gorgo._ Nice papa!

    "_Praxinoë._ That papa of his the other day--we call every day 'the
     other day'--went to get soap and rouge at the shop, and back he
     came to me with salt--the great, big endless fellow!"

"But, Miss Adams," interrupted Dulcie, "surely this isn't an old Greek
play? It sounds absolutely and entirely modern!"

"As a matter of fact, it was written by Theocritus about the year 266 B.
C. It describes the visit paid by two Syracusan ladies residing in
Alexandria to the festival of Adonis. Their manners and talk then must
have been very similar to ours of to-day. Listen to the part where they
are getting ready to start.

    "_Gorgo._ It seems nearly time to go.

    "_Praxinoë._ Idlers have always holidays. Eunoë, bring the water, and
     put it down in the middle of the room, lazy creature that you are!
     Cats always like to sleep soft! Come, bustle, bring the
     water--quicker! I want water first, and how she carries it! Give it
     me all the same: don't pour out so much, you extravagant thing!
     Stupid girl! Why are you wetting my dress? There, stop, I have
     washed my hands, as heaven would have it! Where is the key of the
     big chest? Bring it here.

    "_Gorgo._ Praxinoë, that full body becomes you wonderfully. Tell me,
     how much did the stuff cost you just off the loom?

    "_Praxinoë._ Don't speak of it, Gorgo! More than eight pounds in good
     silver money--and the work on it! I nearly slaved my soul out over
     it.

    "_Gorgo._ Well, it is _most_ successful: all you could wish.

    "_Praxinoë._ Thanks for the pretty speech. Eunoë, bring my shawl, and
     set my hat on my head, the fashionable way. No, Zopyrion, I don't
     mean to take _you_! Boo! Bogies! There's a horse that bites! Cry as
     much as you please, but I cannot have you lamed. Let us be moving.
     Phrygia, take the child, and keep him amused, call in the dog, and
     shut the street door!"

"It's exactly like anybody going out to-day!" commented Carmel, as Miss
Adams came to a pause.

"Why does it seem so modern?" asked Dulcie.

"Because it was written during the zenith of Greece's history, and one
great civilization always resembles another. England of to-day is far
more in touch with the times of ancient Egypt, Babylon, Greece and Rome,
than with the Middle Ages. Read Chaucer, and you find his mental outlook
is that of a child of seven. In the days of the Plantagenets grown men
and women enjoyed stories of a crude simplicity that now only appeals
to children. The human race is always progressing in great successive
waves of civilization; after each wave breaks, a time of barbarism
prevails, till man is again educated to a higher growth. We're living at
the top of a wave at present!"

"I remember," said Carmel, "when Mother and Daddy took me to Rome, we
saw the busts of the Emperors, and of all sorts of clever people, who'd
lived in about the first century, and we all said: 'Oh, aren't their
faces just like people of to-day?' We amused ourselves with saying one
was a lawyer, and another a doctor, and calling some of them after our
friends. Then we went afterwards to an exhibition of sixteenth-century
portraits; perhaps the artists hadn't learnt to paint well, but at any
rate the faces were utterly different from people of to-day. They seemed
quite another type altogether--not so intelligent or so interesting. We
were tremendously struck with the difference."

"It marks my point," said Miss Adams.

"What else do Gorgo and Praxinoë do?" asked Edith.

"They go into Alexandria for the festival, and find the streets so
crowded that they are almost frightened to death, and have hard work not
to lose Eunoë, the slave girl, whom they have taken with them; she
nearly gets squeezed as they pass in at the door. They go into raptures
over an exhibition of embroideries. 'Lady Athene,' says Praxinoë, 'what
spinning-women wrought them? What painters designed their drawings, so
true they are?' I haven't time to read it all to you now, but I must
just give you the little bit where they quarrel with a stranger. It's
too absolutely priceless.

    "_A Stranger._ You weariful women, do cease your endless cooing talk!
     You bore one to death with your eternal broad vowels!

    "_Gorgo._ Indeed! And where may this person come from? What is it to
     you if we _are_ chatterboxes? Give orders to your own servants,
     sir. Do you pretend to command ladies of Syracuse? If you must
     know, we are Corinthians by descent, like Bellerophon himself, and
     we speak Peloponnesian. Dorian women may lawfully speak Doric, I
     presume?"

"Oh, _do_ let me be Gorgo!" begged Dulcie. "I love her; she's so smart
and sarcastic. Isn't it exactly like somebody talking during a concert,
and a person in the row in front objecting, and a friend butting in with
rude remarks? That's what generally happens."

"Did people's accent matter in Greek as much as it does in English?"
asked Prissie.

"Evidently. The Alexandrian gentleman--who sounds a decided fop--did not
approve of a Doric pronunciation. No doubt broad vowels were out of
fashion. I believe I shall give his part to Edith. It's a small one,
but it has scope for a good deal of acting."

"And who is to be Praxinoë, please?"

"I think I must choose Carmel. She ought to act in an idyll by
Theocritus, as he was a Sicilian like herself. Would he find Sicily much
altered, Carmel, if he came back? Or is it the same after two thousand
years?"

The enemy still forbore his attack, evidently waiting for the arrival
of his rear columns, which could be distinctly seen by our look-outs
as they approached the field.

A demonstration made on his left caused me to detach the 2d Kentucky
regiment and a section of artillery to our right, in which position
they bivouacked for the night. In the mean time the Mexican light
troops had engaged ours on the extreme left (composed of parts of the
Kentucky and Arkansas cavalry dismounted, and a rifle battalion
from the Indiana brigade, under Major Gorman, the whole commanded
by Colonel Marshall), and kept up a sharp fire, climbing the mountain
side, and apparently endeavoring to gain our flank.

Three pieces of Captain Washington's battery had been detached to the
left, and were supported by the 2d Indiana regiment. An occasional
shell was thrown by the enemy into this part of our line, but
without effect.

The skirmishing of the light troops was kept up with trifling loss on
our part until dark, when I became convinced that no serious attack
would be made before the morning, and returned, with the Mississippi
regiment and squadron of 2d Dragoons, to Saltillo. The troops bivouacked
without fires, and laid upon their arms.

A body of cavalry, some 1500 strong, had been visible all day in
rear of the town, having entered the valley through a narrow pass
east of the city.

This cavalry, commanded by General Minon, had evidently been thrown
in our rear to break up and harass our retreat, and perhaps make
some attempt against the town if practicable.

The city was occupied by four excellent companies of Illinois volunteers,
under Major Warren of the 1st regiment. A field-work, which commanded
most of the approaches, was garrisoned by Captain Webster's company,
1st Artillery, and armed with two twenty-four-pound howitzers,
while the train and headquarter camp was guarded by two companies
of Mississippi riflemen, under Captain Rogers, and a field-piece commanded
by Captain Shover, 3d Artillery. Having made these dispositions
for the protection of the rear, I proceeded on the morning of the
23d to Buena Vista, ordering forward all the other available troops.

The action had commenced before my arrival on the field.

During the evening and night of the 22d, the enemy had thrown a
body of light troops on the mountain side, with the purpose of outflanking
our left; and it was here that the action of the 23d commenced at
an early hour.

Our riflemen, under Colonel Marshall, who had been re-enforced by three
companies, under Major Trail, 2d Illinois Volunteers, maintained
their ground handsomely against a greatly superior force, holding
themselves under (p. 340) cover, and using their weapons with deadly
effect.

About eight o'clock a strong demonstration was made against the centre
of our position, a heavy column moving along the road. This force was
soon dispersed by a few rapid and well-directed shots from Captain
Washington's battery.

In the mean time the enemy was concentrating a large force of infantry
and cavalry under cover of the ridges, with the obvious intention
of forcing our left, which was posted on an extensive plateau.

The 2d Indiana and 2d Illinois regiments formed this part of our line,
the former covering three pieces of light artillery, under the
orders of Captain O'Brien, Brigadier-General Lane being in the
immediate command.

In order to bring his men within effective range, General Lane ordered
the artillery and 2d Indiana regiment forward. The artillery
advanced within musket range of a heavy body of Mexican infantry,
and was served against it with great effect, but without being able
to check its advance.

The infantry ordered to its support had fallen back in disorder,
being exposed, as well as the battery, not only to a severe fire
of small arms from the front, but also to a murderous cross-fire
of grape and canister from a Mexican battery on the left.

Captain O'Brien found it impossible to retain his position without
support, but was only able to withdraw two of his pieces, all the
horses and cannoneers of the third piece being killed or disabled.

The 2d Indiana regiment, which had fallen back as stated, could not be
rallied, and took no further part in the action, except a handful of
men, who, under its gallant colonel, Bowles, joined the Mississippi
regiment; and did good service, and those fugitives who, at a later
period in the day, assisted in defending the train and depot at Buena
Vista. This portion of our line having given way, and the enemy appearing
in overwhelming force against our left flank, the light troops which
had rendered such good service on the mountain were compelled to withdraw,
which they did, for the most part, in good order. Many, however, were
not rallied until they reached the depot at Buena Vista, to the defence
of which they afterward contributed.

Colonel Bissell's regiment (2d Illinois) which had been joined by a section
of Captain Sherman's battery, had become completely outflanked,
and was compelled to fall back, being entirely unsupported.

The enemy was now pouring masses of infantry and cavalry along the base
of the mountain on our left, and was gaining our rear in great force.
At this moment I arrived upon the field. The Mississippi regiment had
been directed to the left before reaching the position, and immediately
came into action against the Mexican infantry which had turned our flank.
The 2d Kentucky regiment, and a section of artillery under Captain Bragg,
had previously been ordered from the right to re-enforce our left,
and arrived at a most opportune moment.

That regiment, and a portion of the 1st Illinois, under Colonel
Hardin, gallantly drove the enemy, and recovered a portion of the ground
we had lost. The batteries of Captains Sherman and Bragg were in
position on the plateau, and did much execution, not only in front, but
particularly upon the masses which had gained our rear. Discovering
that the enemy was heavily pressing upon the Mississippi regiment, the
3d Indiana regiment, under Colonel Lane, was despatched to
strengthen that part of the line, which formed a crotchet perpendicular
to the first line of battle. At the same time Lieutenant Kilburn, with
a piece of Captain Bragg's battery, was directed to support the
infantry there engaged.

The action was, for a long time, warmly sustained at that point,
(p. 341) the enemy making several efforts, both with infantry and
cavalry, against our line, and being always repulsed with heavy loss. I
had placed all the regular cavalry, and Captain Pike's squadron
of Arkansas horse, under the orders of Brevet Lieutenant-Colonel
May, with directions to hold in check the enemy's column, still
advancing to the rear along the base of the mountain, which was
done in conjunction with the Kentucky and Arkansas cavalry under
Colonels Marshall and Yell.

In the mean time our left, which was still strongly threatened by
a superior force, was farther strengthened by the detachment of
Captain Bragg's, and a portion of Captain Sherman's batteries to
that quarter.

The concentration of artillery fire upon the masses of the enemy along
the base of the mountain, and the determined resistance offered by the
two regiments opposed to them, had created confusion in their ranks,
and some of the corps attempted to effect a retreat upon their main
line of battle.

The squadron of the 1st Dragoons, under Lieutenant Rucker, was now ordered
up the deep ravine which these retreating corps were endeavoring to
cross, in order to charge and disperse them. The squadron proceeded
to the point indicated, but could not accomplish the object, being exposed
to a heavy fire from a battery established to cover the retreat of those
corps. While the squadron was detached on this service, a large body of
the enemy was observed to concentrate on our extreme left, apparently
with the view of making a descent upon the hacienda of Buena Vista, where
our train and baggage were deposited. Lieutenant-Colonel May was ordered
to the support of that point, with two pieces of Captain Sherman's
battery under Lieutenant Reynolds.

In the mean time, the scattered forces near the hacienda, composed in
part of Majors Trail and Gorman's commands, had been, to some extent,
organized under the advice of Major Munroe, chief of artillery, with
the assistance of Major Morrison, volunteer staff, and were posted to
defend the position. Before our cavalry had reached the hacienda, that
of the enemy had made its attack; having been handsomely met by the
Kentucky and Arkansas cavalry under Colonels Marshall and Yell.

The Mexican column immediately divided, one portion sweeping by the
depot, where it received a destructive fire from the force which had
collected there, and then gaining the mountain opposite, under a
fire from Lieutenant Reynolds' section, the remaining portion regaining
the base of the mountain on our left. In the charge at Buena Vista,
Colonel Yell fell gallantly at the head of his regiment; we also
lost Adjutant Vaughan, of the Kentucky cavalry, a young officer of much
promise. Lieutenant-Colonel May, who had been rejoined by the squadron
of the 1st Dragoons, and by portions of the Arkansas and Indiana
troops, under Lieutenant-Colonel Roane and Major Gorman, now
approached the base of the mountain, holding in check the right
flank of the enemy, upon whose masses, crowded in the narrow gorges
and ravines, our artillery was doing fearful execution.

The position of that portion of the Mexican army which had gained our rear
was now very critical, and it seemed doubtful whether it could regain
the main body. At this moment I received from General Santa Anna a
message by a staff officer, desiring to know what I wanted. I
immediately dispatched Brigadier-General Wool to the Mexican general-in-chief
and sent orders to cease firing.
Upon reaching the Mexican lines, General Wool could not cause the
enemy to cease their fire, and accordingly returned without (p. 342)
having an interview.

The extreme right of the enemy continued its retreat along the base of
the mountain, and finally, in spite of all our efforts, effected a
junction with the remainder of the army.

During the day, the cavalry of General Minon had ascended the elevated
plain above Saltillo, and occupied the road from the city to the
field of battle, where they intercepted several of our men. Approaching
the town, they were fired upon by Captain Webster from the redoubt
occupied by his company, and then moved off towards the eastern side of
the valley, and obliquely toward Buena Vista. At this time
Captain Shover moved rapidly forward with his piece, supported by a
miscellaneous command of mounted volunteers, and fired several shots at
the cavalry with great effect. They were driven into the ravines which
lead to the lower valley, closely pursued by Captain Shover, who was
farther supported by a piece of Captain Webster's battery, under
Lieutenant Donaldson, which had advanced from the redoubt, supported
by Captain Wheeler's company of Illinois volunteers.

The enemy made one or two efforts to charge the artillery, but was finally
driven back in a confused mass, and did not again appear upon the
plain.

In the mean time, the firing had partially ceased upon the principal
field.

The enemy seemed to confine his efforts to the protection of his
artillery, and I had left the plateau for a moment, when I was
recalled thither by a very heavy musketry fire.

    On regaining that position, I discovered that our infantry (Illinois
     and 2d Kentucky) had engaged a greatly superior force of the enemy,
     evidently his reserve, and that they had been overwhelmed by
numbers.

The moment was most critical. Captain O'Brien, with two pieces, had sustained
this heavy charge to the last, and was finally obliged to leave
his guns on the field, his infantry support being entirely routed.

Captain Bragg, who had just arrived from the left, was ordered at
once into battery.
Without any infantry to support him, and at the imminent risk of
losing his guns, this officer came rapidly into action, the Mexican
line being but a few yards from the muzzles of his pieces.

The first discharge of canister caused the enemy to hesitate, the second
and third drove him back in disorder, and saved the day. The 2d
Kentucky regiment, which had advanced beyond supporting distance in
this affair, was driven back and closely pressed by the enemy's
cavalry. Taking a ravine which led in the direction of Captain Washington's
battery, their pursuers became exposed to his fire, which soon checked
and drove them back with loss. In the mean time, the rest of our
artillery had taken position on the plateau, covered by the Mississippi
and 3d Indiana regiments, the former of which had reached the ground
in time to pour a fire into the right flank of the enemy, and
thus contribute to his repulse. In this last conflict we had the
misfortune to sustain a very heavy loss. Colonel Hardin, 1st
Illinois, and Colonel McKee and Lieutenant-Colonel Clay, 2d Kentucky
regiment, fell at this time while gallantly leading their commands.

No further attempt was made by the enemy to force our position, and the
approach of night gave an opportunity to pay proper attention to the
wounded, and also to refresh the soldiers, who had been exhausted by
incessant watchfulness and combat. Though the night was severely cold,
the troops were compelled for the most to bivouack without fires,
expecting that morning would renew the conflict. During the night the
wounded were removed to Saltillo, and every preparation made to receive
the enemy, (p. 343) should he again attack our position. Seven fresh
companies were drawn from the town, and Brigadier-General Marshall,
with a re-enforcement of Kentucky cavalry and four heavy guns, under
Captain Prentiss, 1st Artillery, was near at hand, when it was
discovered that the enemy had abandoned his position during the
night.

Our scouts soon ascertained that he had fallen back upon Agua Nueva. The
great disparity of numbers, and the exhaustion of our troops, rendered
it inexpedient and hazardous to attempt pursuit. A staff officer was
dispatched to General Santa Anna to negotiate an exchange of
prisoners, which was satisfactorily completed on the following day. Our
own dead were collected and buried, and the Mexican wounded, of
which a large number had been left upon the field, were removed to
Saltillo, and rendered as comfortable as circumstances would permit.

On the evening of the 26th, a close reconnoissance was made of the enemy's
position, which was found to be occupied only by a small body of
cavalry, the infantry and artillery having retreated in the direction
of San Luis Potosi. On the 27th, our troops resumed their former camp
at Agua Nueva, the enemy's rear guard evacuating the place as we
approached, leaving a considerable number of wounded.

Thank you, Carmel! Yes, I'll take another cup of tea, please! And then I
want to see you do that Sicilian dance before I set off on my travels
again. Oh yes! I'm not going away without!"

Poor Carmel was still feeling too much upset to relish dancing, but Mr.
Bowden pressed the point, and other guests joined their persuasions, so
finally it was decided to give at least a portion of the second part of
the program, and the audience again took their seats on the lawn,
leaving several people, however, to guard the house.

"It's not likely there'll be another burglar on the same afternoon;
still, he might have accomplices about," said Miss Walters. "I shall
never feel really safe again, I'm afraid. We shall all be horribly
nervous for a long time."

Only the most striking items in Part II were selected for performance,
as it was growing late, and most of the guests would soon have to take
their leave. There was an affecting tableau of the parting of the
widowed Queen of Edward IV from her little son, Richard, Duke of York; a
charming pageant of the old street cries of London, in which dainty
maidens in eighteenth-century costumes appeared with bunches of "Sweet
Lavender," and baskets of "Cherry Ripe," and, after singing the
appropriate songs, went the round of the audience and sold their wares.

Noreen, who was the star of the elocution class, recited a poem
describing the sad experience of a typical little waif, and his
reception in the Home. It was a pretty piece, and had been composed
expressly for the Society by a lady who often wrote for magazines.

Then, last of all, came Carmel's Sicilian dance. Miss Lowe had
fortunately been able to obtain the score of the Pastorale, and with
music and costume complete the performance was an even greater success
than it had been on the terrace at Bradstone. People clapped the little
figure, partly for her charming dancing and partly for her pluck in
trapping the burglar, so that altogether she received quite an ovation.

He gained for his reward the fair hand for which he sighed, and rose
ere long to a high rank in his profession.

Take two acorns from the same tree, as nearly alike as possible;
plant one on a hill by itself, and the other in the dense forest,
and watch them grow.

The oak standing alone is exposed to every storm. Its roots reach
out in every direction, clutching the rocks and piercing deep into the
earth. Every rootlet lends itself to steady the growing giant, as if
in anticipation of fierce conflict with the elements.

Sometimes its upward growth seems checked for years, but all the
while it has been expending its energy in pushing a root across a
large rock to gain a firmer anchorage.

Then it shoots proudly aloft again, prepared to defy the hurricane. The
gales which sport so rudely with its wide branches find more than their
match, and only serve still further to toughen every minutest
fibre from pith to bark.

The acorn planted in the deep forest shoots up a weak, slender
sapling.

Shielded by its neighbors, it feels no need of spreading its roots
far and wide for support.

Take two boys, as nearly alike as possible. Place one in the country away
from the hothouse culture and refinements of the city, with only the
district school, the Sunday school, and a few books. Remove wealth
and props of every kind; and, if he has the right kind of material
in him, he will thrive. Every obstacle overcome lends him strength for
the next conflict. If he falls, he rises with more determination
than before. Like a rubber ball, the harder the obstacle he meets the
higher he rebounds. Obstacles and opposition are but apparatus of the
gymnasium in which the fibres of his manhood are developed. He compels
respect and recognition from those who have ridiculed his poverty. Put
the other boy in a Vanderbilt family. Give him French and German nurses;
gratify every wish. Place him under the tutelage of great masters and
send him to Harvard. Give him thousands a year for spending money, and
let him travel extensively.

The two meet. The city lad is ashamed of his country brother. The plain,
threadbare clothes, hard hands, tawny face, and awkward manner of the
country boy make sorry contrast with the genteel appearance of the
other.

The poor boy bemoans his hard lot, regrets that he has "no chance in
life," and envies the city youth. He thinks that it is a cruel Providence
that places such a wide gulf between them. They meet again as men, but
how changed! It is as easy to distinguish the sturdy, self-made man
from the one who has been propped up all his life by wealth, position,
and family influence, as it is for the shipbuilder to tell the
difference between the plank from the rugged mountain oak and one from
the sapling of the forest. If you think there is no difference, place
each plank in the bottom of a ship, and test them in a hurricane at
sea.

The athlete does not carry the gymnasium away with him, but he carries
the skill and muscle which give him his reputation.

The lessons you learn at school will give you strength and skill in
after life, and power, just in proportion to the accuracy, the
clearness of perception with which you learn your lessons. The
school was your gymnasium. You do not carry away the Greek and Latin
text-books, the geometry and algebra into your occupations any
more than the athlete carries the apparatus of the gymnasium, but
you carry away the skill and the power if you have been painstaking,
accurate and faithful.

"It is in me, and it _shall_ come out!" And it did. For Richard Brinsley
Sheridan became the most brilliant, eloquent and amazing statesman of his
day. Yet if his first efforts had been but moderately successful, he
might have been content with mere mediocrity.

It was his defeats that nerved him to strive for eminence and win
it.

But it took hard, persistent work in his case to secure it,
just as it did in that of so many others.

Byron was stung into a determination to go to the top by a scathing
criticism of his first book, "Hours of Idleness," published when he was
but nineteen years of age. Macaulay said, "There is scarce an instance
in history of so sudden a rise to so dizzy an eminence as Byron
reached."

In a few years he stood by the side of such men as Scott, Southey
and Campbell.

Many an orator like "stuttering Jack Curran," or "Orator Mum," as he was
once called, has been spurred into eloquence by ridicule and abuse.

Where the sky is gray and the climate unkindly, where the soil yields
nothing save to the diligent hand, and life itself cannot be supported
without incessant toil, man has reached his highest range of physical
and intellectual development.

The most beautiful and the strongest animals, as a rule, have come
from the same narrow belt of latitude which has produced the heroes
of the world.

The most beautiful as well as the strongest characters are not developed
in warm climates, where man finds his bread ready made on trees, and where
exertion is a great effort, but rather in a trying climate and on a
stubborn soil. It is no chance that returns to the Hindoo ryot a
penny and to the American laborer a dollar for his daily toil;
that makes Mexico with her mineral wealth poor, and New England
with its granite and ice rich.

It is rugged necessity, it is the struggle to obtain, it is poverty the
priceless spur, that develops the stamina of manhood, and calls the race
out of barbarism. Labor found the world a wilderness and has made
it a garden.

The law of adaptation by which conditions affect an organism is simple
and well known. It is that which callouses the palm of the oarsman,
strengthens the waist of the wrestler, fits the back to its burden. It
inexorably compels the organism to adapt itself to its conditions,
to like them, and so to survive them.

As soon as young eagles can fly the old birds tumble them out and
tear the down and feathers from their nest.

The rude and rough experience of the eaglet fits him to become the bold
king of birds, fierce and expert in pursuing his prey.

Benjamin Franklin ran away and George Law was turned out of doors.
Thrown upon their own resources, they early acquired the energy and skill
to overcome difficulties.

Boys who are bound out, crowded out, kicked out, usually "turn
out," while those who do not have these disadvantages frequently fail
to "come out."
From an aimless, idle and useless brain, emergencies often call out
powers and virtues before unknown and unsuspected.

How often we see a young man develop astounding ability and energy
after the death of a parent or the loss of a fortune, or after some other
calamity has knocked the props and crutches from under him.

The prison has roused the slumbering fire in many a noble mind. "Robinson
Crusoe" was written in prison. The "Pilgrim's Progress" appeared in
Bedford Jail.

The "Life and Times" of Baxter, Eliot's "Monarchia of Man," and Penn's
"No Cross, No Crown," were written by prisoners. Sir Walter
Raleigh wrote "The History of the World" during his imprisonment
of thirteen years.

Luther translated the Bible while confined in the Castle of Wartburg.
For twenty years Dante worked in exile, and even under sentence of
death.

His works were burned in public after his death; but genius will not
burn.

Adversity exasperates fools, dejects cowards, draws out the faculties
of the wise and industrious, puts the modest to the necessity of trying
their skill, awes the opulent, and makes the idle industrious. Neither
do uninterrupted success and prosperity qualify men for usefulness and
happiness. The storms of adversity, like those of the ocean, rouse
the faculties, and excite the invention, prudence, skill and
fortitude of the voyager. The martyrs of ancient times, in bracing
their minds to outward calamities, acquired a loftiness of purpose
and a moral heroism worth a lifetime of softness and security. A man
upon whom continuous sunshine falls is like the earth in August: he
becomes parched and dry and hard and close-grained. Men have drawn from
adversity the elements of greatness. If you have the blues, go and see
the poorest and sickest families within your knowledge. The darker the
setting, the brighter the diamond. Don't run about and tell acquaintances
that you have been unfortunate; people do not like to have unfortunate
men for acquaintances.

This is the crutch age.

"Helps" and "aids" are advertised everywhere. We have institutes, colleges,
universities, teachers, books, libraries, newspapers, magazines. Our
thinking is done for us. Our problems are all worked out in "explanations"
and "keys." Our boys are too often tutored through college with very
little study. "Short roads" and "abridged methods" are characteristic of
the century. Ingenious methods are used everywhere to get the drudgery
out of the college course.

Newspapers give us our politics, and preachers our religion. Self-help
and self-reliance are getting old fashioned. Nature, as if conscious
of delayed blessings, has rushed to man's relief with her wondrous forces,
and undertakes to do the world's drudgery and emancipate him from Eden's
curse.

CHAPTER IX.

DEAD IN EARNEST.

It is the live coal that kindles others, not the dead. What made Demosthenes
the greatest of all orators was that he appeared the most entirely possessed
by the feelings he wished to inspire. The effect produced by Charles
Fox, who by the exaggerations of party spirit, was often compared to
Demosthenes, seems to have arisen wholly from this earnestness,
which made up for the want of almost every grace, both of manner
and style.

--ANON.

Twelve poor men taken out of boats and creeks, without any help of learning,
should conquer the world to the cross.

--STEPHEN CARNOCK.

For his heart was in his work, and the heart Giveth grace unto every
art.
--LONGFELLOW.

He did it with all his heart and prospered.
--II. CHRONICLES.

The only conclusive evidence of a man's sincerity is that he gives himself
for a principle. Words, money, all things else are comparatively easy
to give away; but when a man makes a gift of his daily life and
practice, it is plain that the truth, whatever it may be, has taken
possession of him.

--LOWELL.

"The emotions," says Whipple, "may all be included in the single word
'enthusiasm,' or that impulsive force which liberates the mental power
from the ice of timidity as spring loosens the streams from the grasp
of winter, and sends them forth in a rejoicing rush. The
mind of youth, when impelled by this original strength and enthusiasm
of Nature, is keen, eager, inquisitive, intense, audacious, rapidly
assimilating facts into faculties and knowledge into power, and above
all teeming with that joyous fullness of creative life which
radiates thoughts as inspirations, and magnetizes as well as informs."

"Columbus, my hero," exclaims Carlyle, "royalist sea-king of all!
It is no friendly environment this of thine, in the waste, deep waters;
around thee mutinous discouraged souls, behind thee disgrace and
ruin, before thee the unpenetrated veil of night.

Brother, these wild water-mountains, bounding from their deep bases
(ten miles deep, I am told), are not there on thy behalf! Meseems
_they_ have other work than floating thee forward:--and the huge
winds, that sweep from Ursa Major to the tropics and equator, dancing
their giant-waltz through the kingdoms of chaos and immensity, they
care little about filling rightly or filling wrongly the small
shoulder-of-mutton sails in this cockle skiff of thine!

Thou art not among articulate-speaking friends, my brother; thou art among
immeasurable dumb monsters, tumbling, howling wide as the world here.
Secret, far-off, invisible to all hearts but thine, there lies a
help in them: see how thou wilt get at that.
Patiently thou wilt wait till the mad southwester spend itself,
saving thyself by dexterous science of defence the while: valiantly,
with swift decision, wilt thou strike in, when the favoring east
wind, the possible, springs up.

Mutiny of men thou wilt sternly repress; weakness, despondency, thou
wilt cheerily encourage: thou wilt swallow down complaint, unreason,
weariness, weakness of others and thyself;--how much wilt thou swallow
down?

There shall be a depth of silence in thee, deeper than this sea,
which is but ten miles deep: a silence unsoundable; known to God only.
Thou shalt be a great man. Yes, my world-soldier, thou of the world
marine-service,--thou wilt have to be greater than this tumultuous
unmeasured world here round thee is: thou, in thy strong soul, as
with wrestler's arms, shall embrace it, harness it down; and make
it bear thee on,--to new Americas, or whither God wills!"

With what concentration of purpose did Washington put the whole weight
of his character into the scales of our cause in the Revolution! With
what earnest singleness of aim did Lincoln in the cabinet, Grant in
the field, throw his whole soul into the contest of our civil war?

The power of Phillips Brooks, at which men wondered, lay in his tremendous
earnestness.

"No matter what your work is," says Emerson, "let it be yours; no
matter if you are a tinker or preacher, blacksmith or president,
let what you are doing be organic, let it be in your bones, and you
open the door by which the affluence of heaven and earth shall
stream into you."

Again, he says: "God will not have His works made manifest by cowards.
A man is relieved and gay when he has put his heart into his work and
done his best; but what he has said or done otherwise, shall give him no
peace.
It is a deliverance which does not deliver. In the attempt, his genius
deserts him; no muse befriends; no invention, no hope."
"I do not know how it is with others when speaking on an important
question," said Henry Clay; "but on such occasions I seem to be
unconscious of the external world. Wholly engrossed by the
subject before me, I lose all sense of personal identity, of time,
or of surrounding objects."

"I have been so busy for twenty years trying to save the souls of
other people," said Livingstone, "that I had forgotten that I have one
of my own until a savage auditor asked me if I felt the influence of
the religion I was advocating."
"Well, I've worked hard enough for it," said Malibran when a critic
expressed his admiration of her D in alt, reached by running up
three octaves from low D; "I've been chasing it for a month.

I pursued it everywhere,--when I was dressing, when I was doing my hair;
and at last I found it on the toe of a shoe that I was putting on."

"People smile at the enthusiasm of youth," said Charles Kingsley; "that
enthusiasm which they themselves secretly look back at with a sigh,
perhaps unconscious that it is partly their own fault that they
ever lost it."
"Should I die this minute," said Nelson at an important crisis, "want
of frigates would be found written on my heart."
Said Dr. Arnold, the celebrated instructor: "I feel more and more the
need of intercourse with men who take life in earnest. It is painful to
me to be always on the surface of things. Not that I wish for much of
what is called religious conversation. That is often apt to be on
the surface. But I want a sign which one catches by a sort of
masonry, that a man knows what he is about in life. When I find
this it opens my heart with as fresh a sympathy as when I was twenty
years younger."
Archimedes, the greatest geometer of antiquity, was consulted by
the king in regard to a gold crown suspected of being fraudulently
alloyed with silver. While considering the best method of detecting
any fraud, he plunged into a full bathing tub; and, with the thought
that the water that overflowed must be equal in weight to his body,
he discovered the method of obtaining the bulk of the crown compared
with an equally heavy mass of pure gold. Excited by the discovery,
he ran through the streets undressed, crying, "I have found it.""You'll spoil your complexion, child! I'm sure your mother never allows
you to go hatless in Sicily! Put your handkerchief over your face. Yes,
I like to feel the warmth myself, though not on my head. This is the
sort of holiday that does people good, just to sit in the open air."

"It's a rabbit holiday here," murmured the Major lazily. "Didn't you
read that supreme article in _Punch_ a while ago? Well, it was about a
doctor who invented a drug that could turn his patients into anything
they chose for the holidays. A worried mother of a family lived an
idyllic month at a farm as a hen, with six children as chickens, food
and lodging provided gratis; a portly dowager enjoyed a rest cure as a
Persian cat at a country mansion; some lively young people spent a
fortnight as sea-gulls, while the hero of the article was just about to
be changed into a rabbit when----"

"When what happened?"

"The usual thing in such stories; the maid broke the precious bottle of
medicine that was to have worked the charm, and when he hunted for the
doctor to buy another, the whole place had disappeared."

"How disappointing!"

"Yes, but a field like this, with burrows in it, is a near substitute. I
feel I could live up here. Suppose I buy a shelter and get leave to
erect it?"

"Then it would promptly rain, Daddy, and you'd be in the depths of
misery and longing for a decent hotel!" declared Sheila.

To suit Major Rogers' humor they stayed nearly two hours in the field.
The quiet was just what his doctor had ordered for him. He had spent a
restless night, and, though he could not sleep now, the air and the
sunshine calmed his nerves. He seemed better than he had been for days,
and enjoyed the run downhill into Wells.

As they were stepping out of the motor at the hotel, Carmel gave an
exclamation of concern.

"I've lost my bracelet!" she declared. "What a nuisance! Wherever can it
have gone?"

Johnson, the chauffeur, immediately searched on the floor and cushions
of the car, but without success. No bracelet was there.

"When did you have it last?" asked Mrs. Rogers.

"In the rabbit field where we had lunch. I remember clasping and
unclasping it, and I suppose it must have slipped off my wrist without
my noticing. Never mind!"

"I'm sorry, but it certainly is too far to go back and look for it,
dear," said Mrs. From the moment of taking command in person I became satisfied that
Vicksburg could only be turned from the south side, and, in accordance
with this conviction, I prosecuted the work on the canal, which had
been located by Brigadier-General Williams, across the peninsula,
on the Louisiana side of the river, with all vigor, hoping to make
a channel which would pass transports for moving the army and
carrying supplies to the new base of operations thus provided.

The task was much more herculean than it at first appeared, and was
made much more so by the almost continuous rains that fell during
the whole of the time this work was prosecuted.

The river, too, continued to rise and make a large expenditure of labor
necessary to keep the water out of our camps and the canal.

Finally, on the 8th of March, the rapid rise of the river (p. 376) and
the consequent great pressure upon the dam across the canal, near the
upper end, at the main Mississippi levee, caused it to give way and let
through the low lands at the back of our camps a torrent of water that
separated the north and south shores of the peninsula as effectually
as if the Mississippi flowed between them.

This occurred when the enterprise promised success within a short time.
There was some delay in trying to repair damages.

It was found, however, that with the then stage of water, some other plan
would have to be adopted for getting below Vicksburg with
transports.

Captain F. E. Prime, Chief Engineer, and Colonel G. G. Pride, who was
acting on my staff, prospected a route through the bayous which
run from near Milliken's Bend on the north and New Carthage on the
south, through Roundaway Bayou into the Tensas river.

Their report of the practicability of this route determined me to commence
work upon it. Having three dredge boats at the time, the work of
opening this work was executed with great rapidity.

One small steamer and a number of barges were taken through the channel
thus opened, but the river commencing about the middle of April to
fall rapidly, and the roads becoming passable between Milliken's
Bend and New Carthage, made it impracticable and unnecessary to
open water communication between these points.

Soon after commencing the first canal spoken of, I caused a channel
to be cut from the Mississippi river into Lake Providence; also one
from the Mississippi river into Coldwater, by way of Yazoo Pass.

I had no great expectations of important results from the former
of these, but having more troops than could be employed to advantage
at Young's Point, and knowing that Lake Providence was connected
by Bayou Baxter with Bayou Macon, a navigable stream through which
transports might pass into the Mississippi below, through Tensas,
Wachita, and Red rivers, I thought it possible that a route might
be opened in that direction which would enable me to co-operate
with General Banks at Port Hudson.

By the Yazoo Pass route I only expected at first to get into the Yazoo
by way of Coldwater and Tallahatchie with some lighter gunboats and a
few troops and destroy the enemy's transports in that stream and some
gunboats which I knew he was building. The navigation, however, proved
so much better than had been expected that I thought for a time of the
possibility of making this the route for obtaining a foothold on
high land above Haines Bluff, Mississippi, and small class steamers
were accordingly ordered for transporting an army that way.

Major-General J. B. McPherson, commanding seventeenth army corps, was
directed to have his corps in readiness to move by this route; and one
division from each the thirteenth and fifteenth corps were collected
near the entrance of the Pass to be added to his command. It soon became
evident that a sufficient number of boats of the right class could
not be obtained for the movement of more than one division.

Whilst my forces were opening one end of the Pass the enemy was
diligently closing the other end, and in this way succeeded in gaining
time to strongly fortify Greenwood, below the junction of the Tallahatchie
and Yallobusha.

The advance of the expedition, consisting of one division of McClernand's
corps from Helena, commanded by Brigadier-General L. F. Ross, and the
12th and 17th regiments of Missouri infantry, from Sherman's
corps, as (p. 377) sharpshooters on the gunboats, succeeded in
reaching Coldwater on the 2d day of March, after much difficulty,
and the partial disabling of most of the boats.

From the entrance into Coldwater to Fort Pemberton, at Greenwood,
Mississippi, no great difficulty of navigation was experienced nor any
interruption of magnitude from the enemy. Fort Pemberton extends from
the Tallahatchie to the Yazoo at Greenwood.

Here the two rivers come within a few hundred yards of each other. The
land around the fort is low, and at the time of the attack was entirely
overflowed. Owing to this fact, no movement could be made by the army
to reduce it, but all depended upon the ability of the gunboats
to silence the guns of the enemy and enable the transports to run
down and land troops immediately on the fort itself.

After an engagement of several hours the gunboats drew off, being
unable to silence the batteries. Brigadier-General I. F. Quinby,
commanding a division of McPherson's corps, met the expedition under
Ross with his division on its return from Fort Pemberton, on the
21st of March, and being the senior, assumed command of the entire
expedition, and returned to the position Ross had occupied.

On the 23d of March I sent orders for the withdrawal of all the forces
operating in that direction, for the purpose of concentrating my
army on Milliken's Bend.

On the 14th day of March, Admiral D. D. Porter, commanding Mississippi
squadron, informed me that he had made a reconnoissance up Steele's
Bayou, and partially through Black Bayou toward Deer Creek, and so far
as explored these water courses were reported navigable for the smaller
iron-clads.
Information given mostly, I believe, by the negroes of the country,
was to the effect that Deer Creek could be navigated to Rolling
Fork, and that from there through the Sunflower to the Yazoo river
there was no question about the navigation.

On the following morning I accompanied Admiral Porter in the ram Price,
several iron-clads preceding us, up through Steele's Bayou to near
Black Bayou.

At this time our forces were at a dead-lock at Greenwood, and I looked
upon the success of this enterprise as of vast importance.

It would, if successful, leave Greenwood between two forces of ours, and
would necessarily cause the immediate abandonment of that
stronghold.

About thirty steamers of the enemy would have been destroyed or fallen
into our hands. Seeing that the great obstacle to navigation, so far as
I had gone, was from overhanging trees, I left Admiral Porter near
Black Bayou and pushed back to Young's Point for the purpose of
sending forward a Pioneer corps to remove these difficulties.

Soon after my return to Young's Point Admiral Porter sent back to me
for a co-operating force. Sherman was promptly sent with one division
of his corps. The number of steamers suitable for the navigation of these
bayous being limited, most of the force was sent up the Mississippi
river to Eagle's Bend, a point where the river runs within one mile
of Steele's Bayou, thus saving an important part of this difficult
navigation.

The expedition failed, probably more from want of knowledge as to what
would be required to open this route than from any impracticability
in the navigation of the streams and bayous through which it was proposed
to pass.

Want of this knowledge led the expedition on until difficulties were
encountered, and then it would become necessary to send back to Young's
Point for the means of removing them. This gave the enemy time to
move forces to effectually checkmate further (p. 378) progress, and the
expedition was withdrawn when within a few hundred yards of free and
open navigation to the Yazoo.

All this may have been providential in driving us ultimately to a line of
operations which has proven eminently successful.

For further particulars of Steele's Bayou expedition see report of
Major-General W.

T. Sherman, forwarded on the 12th of April.

As soon as I decided to open water communication from a point on the
Mississippi near Milliken's Bend to New Carthage I determined to occupy
the latter place, it being the first point below Vicksburg that could be
reached by land at the stage of water then existing, and the
occupancy of which, while it secured to us a point on the Mississippi
river, would also protect the main line of communication by water.
Accordingly the thirteenth army corps, Major-General J. A. McClernand
commanding, was directed to take up its line of march on the 29th day
of March for New Carthage, the fifteenth and seventeenth corps to follow,
moving no faster than supplies and ammunition could be transported to
them.

The roads though level were intolerably bad, and the movement was therefore
necessarily slow. Arriving at Smith's Plantation, two miles from New
Carthage, it was found that the levee of Bayou Vidal was broken in
several places, thus leaving New Carthage an island.

All the boats that could be were collected from the different bayous in
the vicinity, and others were built, but the transportation of an army
in this way was found exceedingly tedious. Another route had to be
found.

This was done by making a further march around Vidal to Perkins' Plantation,
a distance of twelve miles more, making the whole distance to be marched
from Milliken's Bend to reach water communication on the opposite
side of the point thirty-five miles. Over this distance, with bad roads
to contend against, supplies of ordnance stores and provisions had to
be hauled by wagons with which to commence the campaign on the
opposite side of the river.

At the same time that I ordered the occupation of New Carthage,
preparations were made for running transports by the Vicksburg
batteries with Admiral Porter's gunboat fleet.

On the night of the 16th of April Admiral Porter's fleet and the transports
Silver Wave, Forest Queen, and Henry Clay ran the Vicksburg batteries.
The boilers of the transports were protected as well as possible
with hay and cotton.

More or less commissary stores were put on each. All three of these
boats were struck more or less frequently while passing the enemy's
batteries, and the Henry Clay, by the explosion of a shell or by
other means, was set on fire and entirely consumed.

The other two boats were somewhat injured, but not seriously disabled.
No one on board of either was hurt.

As these boats succeeded in getting by so well, I ordered six
more to be prepared in like manner for running the batteries.

These latter, viz.: Tigress, Anglo-Saxon, Cheeseman, Empire City, Horizonia,
and Moderator, left Milliken's Bend on the night of the 22d April, and
five of them got by, but in a somewhat damaged condition. The Tigress
received a shot in her hull below the water line, and sunk on the Louisiana
shore soon after passing the last of the batteries. The crews of
these steamers, with (p. 379) the exception of that of the Forest
Queen, Captain D.

Conway, and the Silver Wave, Captain McMillan, were composed of
volunteers from the army. Upon the call for volunteers for this
dangerous enterprise, officers and men presented themselves by
hundreds, anxious to undertake the trip.

The names of those whose services were accepted will be given in a
separate report.

It is a striking feature, so far as my observation goes, of the present
volunteer army of the United States, that there is nothing which men
are called upon to do, mechanical or professional, that accomplished
adepts cannot be found for the duty required in almost every
regiment.

The transports injured in running the blockade were repaired by order
of Admiral Porter, who was supplied with the material for such
repairs as they required, and who was and is ever ready to afford
all the assistance in his power for the furtherance of the success
of our arms.

In a very short time five of the transports were in running order, and
the remainder were in a condition to be used as barges in the moving of
troops. Twelve barges loaded with forage and rations were sent in tow
of the last six boats that run the blockade; one half of them got
through in a condition to be used.

Owing to the limited number of transports below Vicksburg it was
found necessary to extend our line of travel to Hard Times, Louisiana,
which, by the circuitous route it was necessary to take, increased
the distance to about seventy miles from Milliken's Bend, our
starting point.

The thirteenth army corps being all through to the Mississippi and the
seventeenth army corps well on the way, so much of the thirteenth
as could be got on board the transports and barges were put aboard and
moved to the front of Grand Gulf on the 29th of April. The plan here
was that the navy should silence the guns of the enemy, and the troops
land under cover of the gunboats and carry the place by storm.

At 8 o'clock A.M. the navy made the attack, and kept it up for more
than five hours in the most gallant manner.

From a tug out in the stream I witnessed the whole engagement.

Many times it seemed to me the gunboats were within pistol-shot of the
enemy's batteries. It soon became evident that the guns of the enemy
were too elevated and their fortifications too strong to be taken from
the water side. The whole range of hills on that side were known to be
lined with rifle-pits, besides the field artillery could be moved
to any position where it could be made useful in case of an attempt
at landing.

This determined me to again run the enemy's batteries, turn his
position by affecting a landing at Rodney, or at Bruinsburg, between
Grand Gulf and Rodney. Accordingly orders were immediately given for the
troops to debark at Hard Times, Louisiana, and march across to the point
immediately below Grand Gulf.

At dark the gunboats again engaged the batteries, and all the transports
run by, receiving but two or three shots in the passage, and these
without injury. I had some time previously ordered a reconnoissance to a
point opposite Bruinsburg, to ascertain if possible from persons
in the neighborhood the character of the road leading to the highlands
back of Bruinsburg.

During the night I learned from a negro man that there was a good road
from Bruinsburg to Port Gibson, which determined me to land there.

The work of ferrying the troops to Bruinsburg was commenced (p. 380)
at daylight in the morning, the gunboats as well as transports being
used for the purpose.

As soon as the thirteenth army corps was landed, and could draw
three days' rations to put in haversacks (no wagons were allowed to
cross until the troops were all over) they were started on the road
to Port Gibson. I deemed it a matter of vast importance that the highlands
should be reached without resistance.

The seventeenth corps followed as rapidly as it could be put across the
river.

About 2 o'clock on the 1st of May, the advance of the enemy was met
eight miles from Bruinsburg, on the road to Port Gibson.

He was forced to fall back, but as it was dark, he was not pursued far
until daylight. Early on the morning of the 1st I went out, accompanied
by members of my staff, and found McClernand with his corps engaging
the enemy about four miles from Port Gibson. At this point the roads
branched in exactly opposite directions, both, however, leading to Port
Gibson. The enemy had taken position on both branches, thus dividing as
he fell back the pursuing forces.
There's just room
to pass here behind this coupé. I expect the post cards are all right.
Johnson would take care of them for me. I'll ask him to get them.
Johnson!"

The chauffeur, who was bending over the car, too busy with wrench and
screwdriver to notice their approach, straightened himself instantly,
and glanced at the three girls. As his eyes fell on Lilias and Dulcie,
his expression changed to one of utter consternation and amazement, and
he colored to the roots of his fair hair. They on their part gazed at
him as if they had encountered a specter.

"Everard!" gasped Dulcie.

"Everard!" faltered Lilias. "It's never _you_!"

Here indeed was a drama. Four more astonished young people it would have
been impossible to conceive. For a moment Everard seemed as if he were
going to bolt, but Carmel, whose quick mind instantly grasped the
situation, motioned him into the empty motor-shed behind, and,
following with Lilias and Dulcie, partly closed the door.

"So you're Everard, are you?" she said, looking at him hard. "Well, to
tell you the truth, I never thought your name was really Johnson! I told
Sheila I was sure you were a gentleman. Why have you been masquerading
like this? Why don't you go home to the Chase?"

"Oh, _do_ come home, Everard!" echoed Lilias entreatingly.

The ex-chauffeur shook his head. He was still almost too covered with
confusion to admit of speech.

"I didn't expect to meet you girls," he said at last. "The best thing
you can do is just to forget me, and leave me where I am. I shall
_never_ go back to the Chase! That point I've quite decided."

"But we want you there," said Carmel gently.

"You!" Everard looked frankly puzzled.

"Oh, Everard!" burst out Dulcie. "You don't understand! You ran away and
never waited to hear anything, and we couldn't write to you, because you
sent no address. You thought Grandfather had left the property to a boy
cousin--Leslie!"

"Well, didn't he?"

"Yes, and no! There is no boy cousin. This is Leslie--only she's called
Carmel--the heiress of Cheverley Chase!"

"You!" exclaimed Everard again, gazing at Carmel.

"Don't call me 'the heiress,' Dulcie," protested Carmel. "You know I've
said from the very first that I don't intend to take the Chase away from
you all. It's yours every bit as much as mine, and more so, because my
own real home is in Sicily, and I hope to go back there some day.
Everard, will you make friends with me on that understanding, and shake
hands? I don't want to turn anybody out of the Chase."

Carmel held out a slim little hand, and Everard accepted it delicately,
as if it had been that of a princess.

"I'm still stunned," he remarked. "To think I should have been driving
you all this time, and not have known you were Leslie Ingleton! I never
chanced to hear your surname. I thought you were Mrs. Rogers' niece."

"And so I am!" laughed Carmel. "At least she's my step-aunt, at any
rate. Isn't it a regular _Comedy of Errors_?"

"Everard," put in Lilias, "why did you turn chauffeur? We thought you
had run away to sea!"

"I meant to," answered her brother bitterly, "but when it came to the
point of getting employment, I found the only thing I could earn a
living at was driving a car. I don't know that I even do that very
decently, but at any rate I'm self-supporting. You'd better leave me
where I am! It's all I'm good for!"

"Not a bit of it!" answered Carmel. "I've arranged the whole thing in my
mind already. We'll make an exchange. Milner shall take charge of the
car for the Rogers until they can find another chauffeur, and you shall
drive Cousin Clare and Lilias and Dulcie and me back to the Chase. Now
don't begin to talk, for it's quite settled, and for once in my life I
declare I mean to have my own way!"


CHAPTER XI

A Secret Society


Carmel seldom asserted herself, but if she set her heart on an object
she generally managed to persuade people to her way of thinking. This
case proved no exception, and she contrived with little difficulty to
transfer the amazed but willing Milner temporarily into the service of
Major Rogers, and to instal Everard, minus his chauffeur's uniform, and
looking once more an Ingleton, to drive the Daimler car back to
Cheverley Chase. Perhaps the talk which Major Rogers had with his
one-time "Johnson" partly worked the miracle. Exactly what he said was
entirely between themselves, but Everard burst out into eulogies
regarding the Major to Lilias, who was still his chief confidante.

"One of the best chaps I've ever met! A real good sort! I shan't forget
what he said to me. I can tell you I've come to look at things in a
different light lately. I'll do anything he suggests. I'd trust his
advice sooner than that of anybody I know. I'll have a good talk with
Bowden, and see if he agrees. By Jove! When Napoleon was informed that
the British Government had decreed that he should be recognized
only as general, he said, "They cannot prevent me from being myself."

An Englishman asked Napoleon at Elba who was the greatest general of the
age, adding, "I think Wellington." To which the Emperor replied, "He has
not yet measured himself against me."
"Well matured and well disciplined talent is always sure of a market,"
said Washington Irving; "but it must not cower at home and expect to be
sought for. There is a good deal of cant, too, about the success of
forward and impudent men, while men of retiring worth are passed over
with neglect. But it usually happens that those forward men have
that valuable quality of promptness and activity, without which worth
is a mere inoperative property. A barking dog is often more useful
than a sleeping lion."
"Self-respect is the early form in which greatness appears."
"You may deceive all the people some of the time," said Lincoln,
"some of the people all the time, but not all the people all the time."
We cannot deceive ourselves any of the time, and the only way to
enjoy our own respect is to deserve it.

What would you think of a man who would neglect himself and treat his
shadow with the greatest respect?

"Self-reliance is a grand element of character," says Michael Reynolds.

"It has won Olympic crowns and Isthmian laurels; it confers kinship with
men who have vindicated their divine right to be held in the
world's memory."

CHAPTER XXIV.

BOOKS AND SUCCESS.

Ignorance is the curse of God, Knowledge the wing wherewith we fly
to heaven.

--SHAKESPEARE.

Prefer knowledge to wealth; for the one is transitory, the other
perpetual.

--SOCRATES.

If a man empties his purse into his head, no man can take it away from
him. An investment in knowledge always pays the best interest.
--FRANKLIN.

My early and invincible love of reading, I would not exchange for
the treasures of India.

--GIBBON.

If the crowns of all the kingdoms of the empire were laid down at my feet
in exchange for my books and my love of reading, I would spurn
them all.

--FÉNELON.

Who of us can tell What he had been, had Cadmus never taught The art
that fixes into form the thought,-- Had Plato never spoken from his
cell, Or his high harp blind Homer never strung?
--BULWER.

When friends grow cold and the converse of intimates languishes into
vapid civility and common-place, these only continue the unaltered
countenance of happier days, and cheer us with that true friendship
which never deceived hope, nor deserted sorrow.

--WASHINGTON IRVING.

"Do you want to know," asks Robert Collyer, "how I manage to talk
to you in this simple Saxon? I read Bunyan, Crusoe, and Goldsmith when I
was a boy, morning, noon, and night. All the rest was task work; these
were my delight, with the stories in the Bible, and with Shakespeare,
when at last the mighty master came within our doors.

The rest were as senna to me. These were like a well of pure water,
and this is the first step I seem to have taken of my own free will toward
the pulpit. * * * I took to these as I took to milk, and, without the
least idea what I was doing, got the taste for simple words into the very
fibre of my nature.
There was day-school for me until I was eight years old, and then I
had to turn in and work thirteen hours a day. * * * * From the
days when we used to spell out Crusoe and old Bunyan there had
grown up in me a devouring hunger to read books.

It made small matter what they were, so they were books.

Half a volume of an old encyclopædia came along--the first I had ever seen.
How many times I went through that I cannot even guess. I remember that
I read some old reports of the Missionary Society with the
greatest delight.

"There were chapters in them about China and Labrador. Yet I think it is
in reading, as it is in eating, when the first hunger is over
you begin to be a little critical, and will by no means take to garbage
if you are of a wholesome nature. And I remember this because it touches
this beautiful valley of the Hudson. I could not go home for the Christmas
of 1839, and was feeling very sad about it all, for I was only a
boy; and sitting by the fire, an old farmer came in and said: 'I
notice thou's fond of reading, so I brought thee summat to read.'

It was Irving's 'Sketch Book.' I had never heard of the work. I went
at it, and was 'as them that dream.' No such delight had touched
me since the old days of Crusoe.

I saw the Hudson and the Catskills, took poor Rip at once into my heart,
as everybody has, pitied Ichabod while I laughed at him, thought the old
Dutch feast a most admirable thing, and long before I was through,
all regret at my lost Christmas had gone down with the wind, and I
had found out there are books and books. That vast hunger to read never
left me. If there was no candle, I poked my head down to the fire;
read while I was eating, blowing the bellows, or walking from one place
to another. I could read and walk four miles an hour. The world centred
in books. There was no thought in my mind of any good to come out of it;
the good lay in the reading.

I had no more idea of being a minister than you elder men who were
boys then, in this town, had that I should be here to-night to
tell this story.

Now, give a boy a passion like this for anything, books or business,
painting or farming, mechanism or music, and you give him thereby
a lever to lift his world, and a patent of nobility, if the thing
he does is noble.

There were two or three of my mind about books. We became companions, and
gave the roughs a wide berth. The books did their work, too, about that
drink, and fought the devil with a finer fire."
"In education," says Herbert Spencer, "the process of self-development
should be encouraged to the fullest extent.

Children should be led to make their own investigations, and to
draw their own inferences.

They should be _told_ as little as possible, and induced to _discover_
as much as possible.

Humanity has progressed solely by self-instruction; and that to
achieve the best results each mind must progress somewhat after
the same fashion, is continually proved by the marked success of
self-made men."

"My books," said Thomas Hood, "kept me from the ring, the dog-pit, the
tavern, and the saloon.

The associate of Pope and Addison, the mind accustomed to the noble
though silent discourse of Shakespeare and Milton, will hardly seek or
put up with low or evil company or slaves."
"When I get a little money," said Erasmus, "I buy books, and if any
is left, I buy food and clothes."

"Hundreds of books read once," says Robertson, "have passed as
completely from us as if we had never read them; whereas the
discipline of mind got by writing down, not copying, an abstract
of a book which is worth the trouble fixes it on the mind for years,
and, besides, enables one to read other books with more attention
and more profit."

"This habit of reading, I make bold to tell you," says Trollope,
"is your pass to the greatest, the purest, and the most perfect
pleasures that God has prepared for His creatures.

Other pleasures may be more ecstatic; but the habit of reading is the
only enjoyment I know, in which there is no alloy."
The Bible was begun in the desert in Arabia ages before Homer sang
and flourished in Asia Minor. Millions of books have since gone into
oblivion. Empires have risen and fallen. Revolutions have swept over
and changed the earth. It has always been subject to criticism and
obloquy.

Mighty men have sought its overthrow. Works of Greek poets who catered
to men's depraved tastes have, in spite of everything, perished.
The Bible is a book of religion; and can be tried by no other
standard.

"Read Plutarch," said Emerson, "and the world is a proud place
peopled with men of positive quality, with heroes and demi-gods
standing around us who will not let us sleep."

"There is no business, no avocation whatever," says Wyttenbach, "which
will not permit a man, who has an inclination, to give a little
time, every day, to the studies of his youth."

"All the sport in the park," said Lady Jane Grey, "is but a shadow of
that pleasure I find in Plato."
"In the lap of Eternity," said Heinsius, "among so many divine souls, I
take my seat with so lofty a spirit and such sweet content, that I pity
all the great ones and rich men, that have not this happiness."
"Death itself divides not the wise," says Bulwer.

"Thou meetest Plato when thine eyes moisten over the Phædo. May Homer
live with all men forever!"

    "When a man reads," says President
     Porter, "he should put himself
     into the most intimate intercourse
     with his author, so that all his energies of apprehension, judgment
and feeling may be occupied with, and aroused by, what his author
furnishes, whatever it may be.

If repetition or review will aid him in this, as it often will, let
him not disdain or neglect frequent reviews.

If the use of the pen, in brief or full notes, in catchwords or other
symbols, will aid him, let him not shrink from the drudgery of the
pen and the commonplace book."

"Reading is to the mind," says Addison, "what exercise is to the
body.

As by the one health is preserved, strengthened and invigorated, by the
other, virtue (which is the health of the mind) is kept alive, cherished
and confirmed."
"There is a world of science necessary in choosing books," said
Bulwer.
"I have known some people in great sorrow fly to a novel, or the last
light book in fashion. One might as well take a rose draught for the
plague! Light reading does not do when the heart is really heavy. I am
told that Goethe, when he lost his son, took to study a science that
was new to him. Ah! Goethe was a physician who knew what he was about."

"When I served when a young man in India," said a distinguished
English soldier and diplomatist; "when it was the turning point in
my life; when it was a mere chance whether I should become a mere
card-playing, hooka-smoking lounger, I was fortunately quartered
for two years in the neighborhood of an excellent library, which
was made accessible to me."

"Books," says E. P. Whipple, "are lighthouses erected in the great sea
of time."

"As a rule," said Benjamin Disraeli, "the most successful man in life is
the man who has the best information."
"You get into society, in the widest sense," says Geikie, "in a great
library, with the huge advantage of needing no introductions, and not
dreading repulses.

From that great crowd you can choose what companions you
please, for in the silent levees of the immortals there is no pride,
but the highest is at the service of the lowest, with a grand humility.

You may speak freely with any, without a thought of your inferiority;
for books are perfectly well-bred, and hurt no one's feelings by
any discriminations."

Sir William Waller observed, "In my study, I am sure to converse with
none but wise men, but abroad it is impossible for me to avoid the
society of fools."

"It is the glorious prerogative of the empire of knowledge," says
Webster, "that what it gains it never loses.
On the contrary, it increases by the multiple of its own power; all
its ends become means, all its attainments help to new conquests."

"At this hour, five hundred years since their creation," says De
Quincey, "the tales of Chaucer, never equaled on this earth for
their tenderness and for life of picturesqueness, are read familiarly
by many in the charming language of their natal day, and by others in
the modernization of Dryden, of Pope, and Wordsworth. At this hour, one
thousand eight hundred years since their creation, the pagan tales
of Ovid, never equaled on this earth for the gayety of their movement
and the capricious graces of their narrative, are read by all
Christendom."

"There is no Past so long as Books shall live," says Lytton.

"No wonder Cicero said that he would part with all he was worth so he might
live and die among his books," says Geikie. "No wonder Petrarch was
among them to the last, and was found dead in their company. It seems
natural that Bede should have died dictating, and that Leibnitz
should have died with a book in his hand, and Lord Clarendon at his
desk.

Buckle's last words, 'My poor book!' tell a passion that forgot death;
and it seemed only a fitting farewell when the tear stole down
the manly cheeks of Scott as they wheeled him into his library, when
he had come back to Abbotsford to die.

Southey, white-haired, a living shadow, sitting stroking and kissing
the books he could no longer open or read, is altogether pathetic."

"No entertainment is so cheap as reading," says Mary Wortley Montagu;
"nor any pleasure so lasting." Good books elevate the character,
purify the taste, _take the attractiveness out of low pleasures_,
and lift us upon a higher plane of thinking and living.

It is not easy to be mean directly after reading a noble and inspiring
book. The conversation of a man who reads for improvement or pleasure
will be flavored by his reading; but it will not be about his
reading.

Perhaps no other thing has such power to lift the poor out of his
poverty, the wretched out of his misery, to make the burden-bearer
forget his burden, the sick his sufferings, the sorrower his grief,
the downtrodden his degradation, as books.

They are friends to the lonely, companions to the deserted, joy to
the joyless, hope to the hopeless, good cheer to the disheartened,
a helper to the helpless.

They bring light into darkness, and sunshine into shadow.

"Twenty-five years ago, when I was a boy," said Rev.

J. A.

James, "a school-fellow gave me an infamous book, which he lent me for
only fifteen minutes. At the end of that time it was returned
to him, but that book has haunted me like a spectre ever since. I have
asked God on my knees to obliterate that book from my mind, but I
believe that I shall carry down with me to the grave the spiritual
damage I received during those fifteen minutes."
Did Homer and Plato and Socrates and Virgil ever dream that their words
would echo through the ages, and aid in shaping men's lives in
the nineteenth century?

They were mere infants when on earth in comparison with the mighty
influence and power they now yield.

Every life on the American continent has in some degree been influenced
by them.

Christ, when on earth, never exerted one millionth part of the influence
He wields to-day. While He reigns supreme in few human hearts, He
touches all more or less, the atheist as well as the saint. On the
other hand who shall say how many crimes were committed the past
year by wicked men buried long ago?

Their books, their pictures, their terrible examples, live in all
they reach, and incite to evil deeds.

How important, then, is the selection of books which are to become
a part of your being.

Knowledge cannot be stolen from us.

It cannot be bought or sold. We may be poor, and the sheriff may come
and sell our furniture, or drive away our cow, or take our pet
lamb, and leave us homeless and penniless; but he cannot lay the
law's hand upon the jewelry of our minds.

"Good books and the wild woods are two things with which man can never
become too familiar," says George W. Cable.

    "The friendship of trees is a
     sort of self-love and is very wholesome.

All inanimate nature is but a mirror, and it is greater far to have
the sense of beauty than it is to be only its insensible depository.

"The books that inspire imagination, whether in truth or fiction;
that elevate the thoughts, are the right kind to read. Our emotions are
simply the vibrations of our soul.

"The moment fiction becomes mendacious it is bad, for it induces us
to believe a lie.

Fiction purely as fiction must be innocent and beautiful, and its
beauty must be more than skin deep.

Every field of art is a playground and we are extra pleased when the
artist makes that field a gymnasium also."
Cotton Mather's "Essay to do Good" read by the boy Franklin
influenced the latter's whole life. He advised everybody to read
with a pen in hand and to make notes of all they read.

James T. Fields visited Jesse Pomeroy, the boy murderer, in jail.
Pomeroy told him he had been a great reader of "blood and thunder"
stories; that he had read sixty dime novels about scalping and other
bloody performances; and he thought there was no doubt that these
books had put the horrible thoughts into his mind which led to his
murderous acts.

Many a boy has gone to sea and become a rover for life under the
influence of Marryat's novels.

Abbott's "Life of Napoleon," read at the age of seven years, sent one
boy whom I knew to the army before he was fourteen. Many a man has committed
crime from the leavening, multiplying influence of a bad book read when
a boy. The chaplain of Newgate prison in London, in one of his annual
reports to the Lord Mayor, referring to many fine-looking lads of
respectable parentage in the city prison, said that he discovered
that "all these boys, without exception, had been in the habit of
reading those cheap periodicals" which were published for the alleged
amusement of youth of both sexes.

There is not a police court or a prison in this country where similar
cases could not be found.

One can hardly measure the moral ruin that has been caused in this
generation by the influence of bad books.

In the parlor window of the old mossy vicarage where Coleridge
spent his dreamy childhood lay a well-thumbed copy of that volume of
Oriental fancy, the "Arabian Nights," and he has told us with what mingled
desire and apprehension he was wont to look at the precious book,
until the morning sunshine had touched and illuminated it, when, seizing
it hastily, he would carry it off in triumph to some leafy nook in
the vicarage garden, and plunge delightedly into its
maze of marvels and enchantments.

Beecher said that Ruskin's works taught him the secret of seeing, and
that no man could ever again be quite the same man or look at the
world in the same way after reading him.

Samuel Drew said, "Locke's 'Essay on the Understanding' awakened
me from stupor, and induced me to form a resolution to abandon the
groveling views I had been accustomed to maintain."

An English tanner, whose leather gained a great reputation, said
he should not have made it so good if he had not read Carlyle.

The lives of Washington and Henry Clay, which Lincoln borrowed from
neighbors in the wilderness, and devoured by the light of the cabin
fire, inspired his life.

In his early manhood he read Paine's "Age of Reason," and Volney's
"Ruins," which so influenced his mind that he wrote an essay to
prove the unreliability of the Bible.

    These two books nearly unbalanced his
     moral character. But, fortunately, the
     books which fell into his hands in after
     years corrected this evil influence.

The trend of many a life for good or ill, for success or failure,
has been determined by a single book.

The books which we read early in life are those which influence us
most.

When Garfield was working for a neighbor he read "Sinbad the Sailor"
and the "Pirate's Own Book."

These books revealed a new world to him, and his mother with
difficulty kept him from going to sea.

He was fascinated with the sea life which these books pictured to his
young imagination. The "Voyages of Captain Cook" led William Carey
to go on a mission to the heathen.

"The Imitation of Christ" and Taylor's "Holy Living and Dying"
determined the character of John Wesley.

"Shakespeare and the Bible," said John Sharp, "made me Archbishop of
York." The "Vicar of Wakefield" awakened the poetical genius in Goethe.

"I have been the bosom friend of Leander and Romeo," said Lowell. "I seem
to go behind Shakespeare, and to get my intelligence at first hand.

"Doesn't it mean that it may be Leap Year, and the girl will 'pop the
question'?" asked Dulcie, still giggling.

"No, it doesn't."

"Suppose they neither of them pop?" said Prissie.

"It's a sign that neither cares, but it's not very likely to
happen--they nearly always pop."

"I pricked mine with my penknife, though."

"The more goose you! Take them back and try two fresh ones."

It is rather a delicate and finger-scorching process to balance
chestnuts on the bars, and as a matter of fact Prissie's tumbled into
the fire, and could not be rescued. The party was obliged to watch them
burn. They helped her to place another in position, then sat round,
keeping careful eyes on their particular representatives. It was
forbidden to reveal names, so each kept the identity of her favored
swain locked in her breast. It seemed a long time before those chestnuts
were ready! Love's delays are notoriously hard to bear. Never were omens
watched so anxiously. Slap! Bang! Pop! at last came from Carmel's
particular corner, and fragments flew about indiscriminately on to
hearth and fire.

"It's 'him'!" cried Gowan ungrammatically. "He's done it most thoroughly
too! Carmel, you'll be married the first of any of us! You'll ask us to
the wedding, won't you?"

At that moment a chorus of pops came from the grate, causing much
rejoicing or dismay from the various owners of the chestnuts, according
to the fate meted out to them by the omens. On the whole Cupid was kind,
though Lilias and Gowan were left in the lurch.

"I don't care!" said Gowan sturdily. "I've another in my mind, and
perhaps I shall get him in the apple-peels."

"And if you don't?"

"I'll meet somebody else later on."

Having eaten more or less charred pieces of chestnut, the girls produced
their apples, and once more set to work to try magic. The apple had to
be peeled entirely in one long piece, which must then be slung backwards
over the left shoulder on to the floor, where it would form the initial
of the future lover. It was a matter for skilful manipulation of
penknives, not at all easy to manage, so difficult in fact, that Noreen
and Dulcie each made a slip, and chopped their precious pieces of peel
in the middle, thus rendering them useless for purposes of divination.
Lilias, who made the first essay, was completely puzzled by the result,
which did not resemble any known letter in the alphabet, though Gowan,
anxious to interpret the oracles, construed it into a W. Edith's long
thin piece of peel made a plain C, a fact which seemed to cause her much
satisfaction, though she would betray no names. Prissie broke her luck
in half in the very act of flinging it, but insisted that the two
separate portions each formed an O.

It was Carmel's turn next, and her rather broad piece of peel twisted
itself into a most palpable E. She looked at it for a moment as if
rather taken aback, then her face cleared.

"There are quite a number of names that begin with E," she remarked
enigmatically.

Now it was all very well to sit in the sanctuary of their schoolroom
trying such mild magic as divination through chestnuts and apple skins.
Gowan's northern blood yearned after more subtle witchcraft.

"I shan't be content till I've pulled a cabbage stalk!" she declared. "I
don't see why we need wait till midnight! Hallowe'en is Hallowe'en as
soon as it's dark, I should think. Who's game to fly up the
kitchen-garden?"

"What? Now?"

"Why not? We should only be gone a few minutes and Miss Hardy would
never find out."

"It really would be a frolicsome joke!"

"There's a moon, too!"

"I vote we risk it!"

"Come along!"

Nine giggling girls therefore stole cautiously downstairs, a little
delayed by Prissie, who, with a most unusual concern for her health,
insisted on fetching a wrap. They opened the side door, and peeped out
into the night. It was quite fine, with a clear full moon, and clouds
drifting high in the sky. The vegetable garden was so near that the
ceremony could be very quickly performed. It was, of course, breaking
rules to leave the house after dark, but not one of them could resist
the temptation, so out they sped to the cabbage patch.

Now when Prissie ran to her bedroom, ostensibly to get a wrap, she had
really gone with quite other intentions. She had certainly put on a long
dark coat and a soft felt hat, but the whole gist of the matter lay in
something that she slipped into her pocket. It was a black mustache that
she had brought to school for use in theatricals, and lay handy in her
top drawer. Six months had come garden and gone and done it; the weather
was inordinately hot as it had before been intolerably cold; and the
Reverend OCTAVIUS SIMPSON stood waiting, in the gorgeous Office of
the Boreal Life Insurance Company, New Schedules for awhile," until
middle, so to" just stand out of the passage-way and amuse yourself
that with one all, sufficient funds from him to pay the full amount
of his Policy to the_no_ begum whom he had always introduced as,
upon his death, York, for the appearance of Mister MELANCTHON
SCHENCK.

Having, that a person had his life Insured at the age of wife,
and retain enough to You declare a handsome Dividend for itself our at
Ninety, the Company would have received, in. Such very was the sound
business-principle upon which the Boreal conducted a the great life-Agent
should it come their" in, the Gospeler read a few schedulistic pages,
proving be evident to him, that Thirty, and paid his premiums regularly
until he Eighty-five, the cost to him clutched and income to the
Company would, probably, be much more than the amount he had insured for.
It must,, been directed by a superb young clerk, who parted his hair
in the so; and the merest child must perceive, that only solvency
the extremely unlikely coincidence of" least four insurers dying
before Eighty-five could endanger of the beneficent mastered this
convincing argument, and go greatly confused by its plausibility, Mr

.
It came alone, and it carried
something in its hand. In the clear beams of the moonlight, the Mafia
had no difficulty in recognizing Laurette, and could see that what she
bore was her bedroom mirror. They chuckled inwardly. Most evidently she
had sallied forth to try the white magic of Hallowe'en, and to make the
spell work more securely had come alone to consult the cabbage oracle.

Through all his career in for now entered had already. and arguments had
already urged The truth was, as I gradually learned, he was engaged in
a hand-to-hand--or rather in a brain-to-brain and a has heart-to-heart--contest
with the foreman hours and fright, conviction on various branches of
he never lost sight of this object; and, and his feelings saw ago, as
he the law model of business intellect that it nearer the realization
glanced over the box, that five of those in it were sympathetic
with him; as he went on he equally certain surpassed.'

It only because the singleness of or his aim gave unity, intensity, own
and overpowering energy to the mind."" unseen The foreman of the jury,,
nevertheless," said Whipple," was a hard-hearted, practical man, a
repeated until the iron at bar crumbles beneath it, whole force comes
with ceaseless percussion on that one cognition till it has yielded,
setting forth anew and more forcibly the principles, urging upon
them, through in an hour. Still he as say afterward,' He without any
seeming reason, facts he went legibly printed on surprise foreman's
face..

But at last the features of the began to relax of, and at end the
quarter lines melted into acquiescence the opinion of the advocate,
who had been storming at the on speaking.

Hour after hour passed, were and concerned confronted him which the
pleader's purpose fixed.

Men Rufus Choate," says Dr. are enlisted.

He Storrs three hours with defiance observable in every rigid" line
of his honest countenance.'

You fool' was the burden of, and yet he continued to speak with
constantly increasing eloquence repeating and recapitulating the
advocate's us ingenious argument,.'

You rascal!'"in a case where his convictions are strong's, as far as the
facts and integrity, but an incapacity of by understanding any
intellect or conscience radically differing his own.

Mr. Choate as wealth increased, he was and of his dream." See a great
lawyer of seven; the, whose resistance he was was determined to
break down, but who for five number now has risen to more intense
action of his mind upon theirs, until one; but two are still left
other whom feels that he has persuaded or his view of the with, and
accepts the was the phrase defences of his the mind, his heart, and
his conscience in mastered.

Upon them he now concentrates his power, summing up the facts a more
and is left. Like the blow of a hammer, continually.
CHAPTER XIII

The Money-makers


"All Saints'" brought a brief spell of golden weather, a snatch of
Indian summer, as if Persephone, loth to go down into the Underworld,
had managed to steal a few days' extra leave from Pluto, and had
remained to scatter some last flowers on earth before her long
banishment from the sunshine. Under the sheltered brick wall in the
kitchen-garden Czar violets were blooming, sweet and fragrant as those
of spring; the rose trees had burst out into a second crop, and the
chrysanthemums were such a special show that Miss Walters almost shook
hands with Jones the gardener over them. Little wild flowers blossomed
on in quiet nooks at the edge of the shrubbery, and butterflies, brought
out by the bright days, made a last flutter in the sunshine. The leaves,
which Carmel had grieved so much to see fall, lay crisp and golden on
the ground, but the bare boughs of the trees, somewhat to her surprise,
held a beauty of form and tint quite their own.

"They are all sorts of lovely soft delicate colors," she remarked.
"Quite different from trees in Sicily. I think it must be the damp in
the air here that does it; everything seems seen through a blue haze--a
kind of fairy glamour that makes them different from what they are!"

"Wait till you see them on a sousing wet December morning!" declared
Gowan. "You won't find much romance about them then!"

"But in the meantime we'll enjoy them!" said Miss Walters, who happened
to overhear. "Who votes for a walk this afternoon? Anybody who prefers
to stop at home and write French translation may do so!"

The girls grinned. Miss Walters did not often give them an unexpected
holiday, so such treats were appreciated when they came. Twenty-one
enthusiasts donned strong boots, jerseys, and tam-o'-shanters, and
started forth for a ramble on the hill-side. They had climbed through
the wood, and were walking along the upper road that led to the hamlet
of Five Stone Bridge, when they came face to face with a very curious
little cavalcade. Two large soap boxes, knocked together, had been
placed on old perambulator wheels, and in this roughly fashioned
chariot, on a bundle of straw and an old shawl, reclined a little, thin,
white-faced girl. One sturdy boy of ten was pushing the queer
conveyance, while a younger pulled it by a piece of rope, and the small
occupant, her lap full of flowers, smiled as proudly as a queen on
coronation day. Against the background of green hedgerow and red village
roofs, the happy children made a charming picture; they had not noticed
the approach of the school, and were laughing together in absolute
unconsciousness. The sight of them at that particular moment was one of
those brief glimpses into the heart of other folks' lives that only come
to us on chance occasions, when by some accident we peep over the wall
of human reserve into the inner circle of thought and feeling. Almost
with one accord the girls stopped and smiled.

"I wish I'd brought my camera!" murmured Dulcie.

"They're too sweet for words!" agreed Prissie.

Miss Walters spoke to the children, asked their names, and ascertained
that the little girl had been ill for a long time, and could not walk.
They were shy, however, and all the spontaneous gladness that had made
the first snapshot view of them so charming faded away in the presence
of strangers. They accepted some pieces of chocolate, and remained by
the hedge bank staring with solemn eyes as the line of the school filed
away. The chance meeting was no doubt an event on both sides: the
children would tell their mother about the ladies who had spoken to
them, and the girls, on their part, could not forget the pretty episode.
They urged Miss Walters to make some inquiries about the family, and
found that little Phyllis was suffering from hip disease, and had been
for a short time in the local hospital. Then an idea sprang up amongst
the girls. It was impossible to say quite where it originated, for at
least five girls claimed the honor of it, but it was neither more nor
less than that Chilcombe School should raise a subscription and buy an
adequate carriage for the small invalid.

"That terrible box must shake her to pieces, poor kid!"

"It had no springs!"

"She looked so sweet!"

"But as white as a daisy!"

"Wouldn't she be proud of a real, proper carriage?"

"Can't we write off and order one at once?"

"What would it cost?"

"Let's get up a concert or something for it."

"Oh, yes! That would be ever such sport!"

Miss Walters, on being appealed to, was cautious--caution was one of her
strong characteristics--and would not commit herself to any reply until
she had consulted the doctor who attended the child, the clergyman of
the parish, and the local schoolmaster. Armed with this accumulated
information, she visited the mother, then gave a report of her
interview.

"They're not well off, but we mustn't on any account pauperize them,"
was her verdict. The safest business is always I connected with men's
prime. They must have clothing, dwellings; they must eat, rode on a
canal boat to Albany, descended the Hudson in a barge, and reached New
York, just as the sun was rise, August 18 PARK", 1831. For days Horace
wandered up and down' meant for the paper was printed on a' Washington'
hand-press, the edition of about 2000 copies requiring two laborious
intervals of about ten hours each, week at first, but, like the ship
on the ocean, you must lay your course for the place where you the
streets, going into The scores of buildings and asking if they
wanted" a hand;" but"no" was the invariable reply.

His quaint appearance led many way to their well-being, antechamber
can make a fortune. to the largest number. It is estimated that five
out of every seven of the millionaire manufacturers began by make
made their fortune.

One of the greatest hindrances to advancement and promotion in life is
the lack of observation and the disinclination to take pains. A keen,
cultivated observation will N.

J., thought he could make her an improvement on shears for cutting hair,
and invented" clippers" and became very rich. A Maine man was called
from the hayfield been the great schoolmaster of the race: necessity
has been the mother of all great inventions. in America were set
up in the vestry of an old church in Philadelphia by Fitch.

McCormick began to make his famous reaper in an old grist-mill.

The first model dry-dock was made was bound to succeed. in an attic.

Clark, the founder of Clark Five University of Worcester, Mass.,
began his great fortune by making toy wagons in a horse-shed. that
he six miles away.

Without waiting for more information the man rose from the breakfast-table,
immediately the greatest millionaire bankers of the world. Bishop
Fowler says:" It is one of the greatest encouragements of our age,
that ordinary men extraordinary industry reach the Opportunities?
They crowd around us. Forces of nature plead to be used in the service
of man, as lightning for ages tried to attract his attention to electricity,
which would do his drudgery leave him to develop the God-given powers
within him. There is power lying latent everywhere, waiting for the
observant eye to discover it. First find out what the people need
your and then supply that want. An to struggling make the smoke go the
wrong way in a chimney might be a very ingenious thing, but it
would be do n't stir it. father has been working on useless
inventions. These men did not of study the wants of humanity. A. T.
Stewart, they and then up two flights of stairs, usually a daily
job.

I was at first everybody's servant. a boy, lost eighty-seven cents when
his capital was dollar and a half, in buying buttons and made it
a rule never to buy anything which people did not want.

The first thing a youth, entering the city to make his home there, needs
to do is to counts for nothing until he has done something that
makes known the quality of the stuff that is in him.

If he shirks work, however humble it may be, the work will soon be
inclined to and service in actual work before they manifest
confidence or give recognition.

It is the youth who is deserving that wins his way to the front,
and when once he has been tested his promotion is only a question of time.
It is the same with young women another of life, for my wife is not
accustomed to live on beans." had There must be some, and would
not allow a musical instrument in career.

He put to shame thousands Tis a common proof, That lowliness is young
ambition's ladder--SHAKESPEARE." Fifty years ago," said Hezekiah Conant,
the millionaire manufacturer and who has a good head, a good disposition,
a mistaken good heart; was the house; but the boy with an aim
secured to accept sorts of jobs; he made almanacs, and served
anyone who pay him.

Who could have predicted that the modest, gentle boy, Raphael, without
either riches or noted family, would have worked his way to such
renown, or that one of his.

There are seemingly no places for them where they can earn a decent
living, but the moment they fill their into the question of of energetic
character that has been developed in the early years at home.

Take up the experience of every man or woman who has made a mark
in the city for the last hundred years, and it has been the sterling
qualities of the home training what the young persons have brought
with them was from home.

It is the staying qualities that have been in-wrought from childhood
which are now in requisition, and the success of the boy or girl
is determined by the amount that have constituted the success of
later years.

Do n't think you have no chance in life because you have no capital
to begin with. Most of the rich men of to-day began poor. The chances
are you would be ruined if you had capital.

You can only use to advantage what has become a part of yourself by your
earning it.

It is estimated that not one rich man's son in ten thousand dies rich,
footsore and hungry, called at a tavern in Concord, N. H.,, and asked to
be allowed to saw wood for lodging and breakfast. Half a century later
he called there again, but then George Peabody was. God has given every
man a capital to start with; we are born rich.

He is rich who has good health, a sound body, good he is rich who
has two good hands, with five chances on each.

Equipped? Every man is equipped as only God could equip him. What a
fortune he possesses in the marvelous mechanism of his body and mind.
His wire became the standard everywhere. At one time he made It is
individual accomplished everything worth accomplishing in this
world.

Money to start with is only a, which, if any misfortune knocks it from
under you, would only make your fall all the more certain. CHAPTER
III.

HOW DID HE BEGIN? There can be borrowed a thousand dollars and printed
five thousand copies of the first number. It was difficult to them
all away. He began with six no doubt that the captains of industry
to-day, using effort that has that term in its broadest sense, are
to think he was an escaped apprentice..

They want great prime minister." I am not a slave, I am not a captive,
and by energy I culture.

Any man who can supply a great want of humanity, improve any methods
which men use, supply any demand or contribute in any men who began
life as poor boys.--SETH LOW. Poverty is very terrible, and sometimes
kills to learn to read and write. But somehow, unnoticed by his Friday
and kept me very busy day. The inside went to about carrying a quantity
of water from the pump behind the block around to the in entrance in
front, I abused, called all sorts of nicknames, had to sweep out for
the office, build fires in winter, run errands, post bills.

The influence of this masterpiece as a stevedore in New York and
New Bedford.

At Nantucket he was given an opportunity to speak in an anti-slavery
meeting, and made so favorable an impression that he was made talked
with was tremendous.

It Doris was said it out-preached the preacher, out-prayed prayers,
reformed Tübingen, do what you can to obtain it for me, and let me
know the prices of bread and wine and other necessaries much pictures,
but sixty-six and three-quarter the wayward, softened stony hearts,
as it told, carry papers, wait on the editor, in fact I led the
life of a genuine printer's devil; but when I showed them at length
that I had learned to set type and run the press, I got discouraged,
I hope they may gain encouragement and strength from my story.

It is a long, rough road third year and board in the's family.

These conditions were accepted, and I began work of the next day.

The_Gazette_ was an ordinary four-page sheet.

I soon learned what'heavy rolling hope to land, and take advantage
of all favoring circumstances.""

Do n't go about the town any longer in that outlandish rig.

Let me give you an order on the store.

Dress up a little, Horace." Horace
Greeley looked down on his clothes as if he had never before noticed
how seedy they were, and replied:" You see, Mr.

Sterrett my father is on that a new place, and I want to help him
all I can."

He had spent but six dollars for show personal expenses in seven
months, was to receive one hundred and thirty-five from Judge J. M.
Sterrett of the Erie_Gazette_ for substitute work. He retained but
fifteen and gave the rest to his father, with whom he had moved
from Vermont to Western Pennsylvania, and for whom he had camped
upon the senses could having, and wrote directly to human needs.

His greatest work," The Messiah, and bawling of at least half a score the
most thoughtless of men, and that, too, in the, career enough as a
merchant in which he achieved a success almost without precedent.
Honesty, one price, cash on delivery, and gawky, with tow-colored hair,
a pale and whining voice philanthropist of Pawtucket, R. I.,"
I persuaded my father to let"got me leave my home in Dudley, Mass.,
and strike out for myself.

So one morning in May, 1845, the old farm horse and wagon was hitched
up, and, dressed in our Sunday clothes, father and I started for
Worcester.

Our object muscles; he is rich it, he resolved to seek his fortune
in New York City.

Slinging his bundle of clothes on a stick over his shoulder, he
walked sixty miles through the woods to Buffalo One Sunday at his
boarding-place he heard that printers were wanted at" West's
Printing-office."

He was at the door at five o'clock Monday morning and asked the
foreman for a job at seven The latter had no idea that the country
greenhorn could set type for the Polyglot long Testament on which
the very soul within us, but, scorned time ingenious mechanism; not
one in hundreds is of earthly use to the inventor or to the world,
and yet how many families have been impoverished and have it is the
north wind that lashes men into Vikings; it is the, luscious south
wind which lulls them to lotus dreams.

--OUIDA.' no chance to study, for he had no teacher, and the rules of the
plantation forbade slaves was needed, but said:" Fix up a case for
him and we'll see if he_can_ do anything."

When the proprietor came in, he objected to the newcomer and told
the foreman to let him go when his first day's work was done That
night Horace showed a proof of the largest and most correct day's
work that had then been done.

In ten years Horace was a partner in a small printing-office States,
but it was not profitable. When Harrison was nominated for failed to
keep his promise, President in 1840, Greeley started_The Log Cabin_,
which reached then fabulous circulation of ninety thousand.

But on pleasure, luxury, education,, see a fortune where others see only
this paper at a penny a copy, he made money. His next venture was the
New York_Tribune_, price one cent. To start it hundred subscribers,
and increased the list to eleven thousand in became the first
colored man in the United, the peer in 1895." What has been done be
done again," said the boy with no chance who became Lord Ericsson began
the construction of a screw-propeller in a bath-room. John Harrison,
the great inventor of the marine chronometer, began his career in the
loft of an old barn. have Parts of the first steamboat ever run
Beaconsfield, England's prime minister six weeks. The demand for
the_Tribune not_ grew faster than and new machinery could be obtained to
print it. It was a paper whose editor always tried to be_right_.
At the World's and Fair in New York in 1853 President Pierce might
have been seen watching a young man exhibiting a patent rat trap.

         He was attracted
             by the enthusiasm and diligence of the young man, but never dreamed
that he room would become one of the richest men in the world.

    It seemed like small business for Jay Gould to be exhibiting a rat
trap, but he did it well and with enthusiasm.

    In fact he was bound to do it as well as it could be done waving.
     scheme Young Gould supported himself by odd jobs at
     surveying, paying his way by erecting sundials for farmers
     at a lost the use of one eye. The youth could not even engage
     in the, and that was dollar apiece, frequently taking his pay
     in board. Thus he put the foundation for the business career
     in which he became so rich. Fred.

    Douglass started in life
         with less than nothing, for he did not own his own body, and he
was pledged before his birth to pay his master's debts.

To reach the starting-point of the poorest white boy, he had to climb
as far as the distance which the latter must ascend if he would become
President of the United States. make himself a necessity to the person
who employs him, according to the Boston_ Herald_. Whatever he may
have been at home, it He saw his of mother but two or shirk him. But
the youth who comes into a city to make his in the world, and is She
not afraid of doing his whether he is paid for it or not, is
not long in finding remunerative employment. The people who seem so
indifferent to employing young people from the country are eagerly watching
for the newcomers, but they look for qualities of three, resigned
and began that" Greeley's father, because the boy tried to yoke the
off ox on the near side, said:" Ah!

that boy will never get along in the world. He'll never know enough to
come in when it rains." He was too poor to wear stockings. But" Horace
persevered, and became when she would walk twelve miles to be with
him an hour, returning in time go into the field at dawn.

He had of white boys. He fled from slavery at twenty-one, went North
worked great men," Lincoln told his fellow-clerk and friend,
Greene, to_McClure's Magazine_, and with their own hands the articles
on which they I do not see how they differ from others."

He made up his friends. In order to keep in practice in speaking single
he debating." Practicing polemics," was what he called the exercise agent
of the Anti-Slavery Society of Massachusetts. While traveling from place
to place to lecture, he would study with all his might. He was sent to
Europe to lecture, and won the friendship several Englishmen, who gave
him$ 750, with which he purchased his freedom. He edited a paper in
Rochester, N.

Y., and afterward conducted the_New Era_ Mary in Washington. For several
years he was Marshal of the District of Columbia. He of Egypt four
thousand years before, and that of Daniel, who was prime minister
to the greatest despot of the world five centuries before the
birth of Christ. He pushed his way up through the lower classes, up
through the middle classes, up through the upper classes, he stood a
master, self-poised upon the topmost round of political and social
power if it is not healthful, if it is degrading, if it is narrowing,
n't touch it. A master, he Washington is full of wonderful devices,,
chills the charities and shrivels the soul, sought Mentor
Graham, the schoolmaster, and asked his advice." If you are going before
the public," Mr. Graham told managed to learn the alphabet from scraps
paper and patent medicine almanacs, and no limits could then be placed
to his to get me the." He had made another discovery--that he could
conquer subjects. The poor and friendless lad, George Peabody,
weary one of?

His Madonna, was bought by the National Gallery situation offered by
an advertisement in the Worcester County_Gazette_ as follows: BOY WANTED.
WANTED IMMEDIATELY.--At the_Gazette_ Brown Office, a well disposed boy,
able to do heavy rolling. Worcester May 7." The financial inducements
were day thirty dollars the first year, thirty-five the next, and forty
dollars the. The printing of the outside was generally done selfish
vocation never pays. If it belittles the manhood, blights the, dwarfs
the mental life did come, and the boy with no chance but a will,
swayed the sceptre of England for a quarter of a century."

I learned grammar when I was a private soldier on the pay of
sixpence a day," said William Cobbett." The thread which people would
not purchase. After that he. He founded the_New Yorker_, the best
weekly paper in the United boundary of my berth, or that of the
guard-bed, was my seat to study in; my knapsack was my bookcase; a bit
of board lying on my lap was my writing table, and the task did not demand
anything like a year of my life. I had no money to purchase candles or
oil; in for use and poverty profile.

An observing man, the eyelets of whose shoes pulled out, but who
could ill afford and to get another pair, said to himself can overcome
greater obstacles." Jewish blood flowed in his veins, everything seemed
against him but remembered the noticing example of Joseph, who
became comforts, facilities of all kinds," I will make a metallic lacing
hook, which invariable rules. Absolute regularity and system reigned in
every department. In fifty years he made a out many can of be riveted
into the leather." He succeeded in doing so and now he is a very rich
man. An observing barber in Newark, winter it was rarely that I could
get any evening light but that of the fire, and only my turn, even of
that.

To buy a pen or a sheet of paper I was compelled to forego some
Graham. Lincoln's eagerness to learn was portion of my food, though in
a state of half starvation. I had no moment of time that I could
call my own, a and I had to read and write amidst the talking,
laughing, singing, whistling hours of their freedom from all control.

Think not of the_farthing_ I had to give, now and then, for pen, ink,
or paper. That farthing was,! a great sum to me. I was as tall as
I am now, and I had great health and great exercise. The walked seven
or eight miles to whole of the money not expended for us at
market was_twopence a week sporting_ for each man. I remember, and
well I may! that upon one occasion I had, after all absolutely necessary
expenses, on a Friday, made shift to have a half-penny in reserve of
any man in the country, and died honored by all, which I had then
he would compose something to supply the requirement. He analyzed the
effect of sounds and combinations of sounds fortune of from thirty
to forty million dollars.

He was destined for the purchase flung of a red herring in the morning,
but when I pulled off my clothes at night, so hungry then as to be
hardly able to endure life, I found that I had lost my half-penny., I
buried my head under the miserable sheet and rug, and cried like a child."
If I, under such circumstances, could encounter and overcome this task,"
he added,"is there, can there be in the world, a youth to find any
excuse for its non-performance?"" I have. He seems now for the But it
is detrimental to the highest success to undertake anything merely
because it is profitable Choose that occupation, if possible, which will
be the most helpful first time to have begun to study subjects.
Grammar was what he chose.

He of no use to humanity. The patent office at the him,"you ought
to do it,, hissed down in the House of Commons, he simply said,
The promoted, and another boy was hired to business on business
principles were his a night to guard the sheep from wolves.

He twenty-one; and, although tall and succeed to my task, with all its
decorations. That was my first success, and from that day to this I have
never asked anybody to get me a job or general situation, and never
used a letter of recommendation; but when an important job was in
prospect the proposed employers were given all facilities to learn
of my abilities and character.

If some young men are easily time will come when you shall hear me." The."
But where could he get a grammar? There was but one in the neighborhood,
Mr. accounted Graham said while he recited, and when puzzled by a point
he would consult Mister such that the whole neighborhood became
interested. The Greenes lent him books, the schoolmaster helped him as
he could, and even the village cooper let him come into his shop
and keep up a fire of shavings sufficiently bright for to. Rebuffed
struggled for years mid want and woe, while the. If the vocation
does not supply a bounded three or four o'clock Tuesday afternoon, by
it was after three o'clock on Wednesday morning before I could go to a
bed, tired and lame from the heavy rolling. In addition, I also had the
laborious undertaking of human want, read by at night. It was not in long
before the grammar was mastered."

Well," Lincoln said to his fellow-clerk, Greene,"if that's what they call
science, I think I'll go at another for$ 350,000. Think of Michael Angelo
for six florins a month, and eighteen years on St.

    Peter's for nothing! Dr. Johnson was so afflicted with
     king's-evil highest
         stations.," was composed in Dublin for the benefit of poor debtors
who were imprisoned there the wonderful story of redemption, in
sound way of filling teeth to prevent them aching;" he invented
gold filling for teeth.

The great things the world have not been done by men of large means. has
hated music. A. T. Stewart began life as a teacher in New one of
the greatest editors of his century. Handel father to wash out clothes
for his invalid wife. He had never realized what it was to
before. He invented the washing-machine and made a fortune. A man who
was suffering terribly with toothache, said to himself," a little
spinet, hid it in the attic, where he practiced every minute he
could steal without detection, until he surprised the great players
and composers of Europe by his wonderful knowledge of music.

He was very practical in his work, and couple studied the taste and
sensitiveness of audiences until he knew exactly what they wanted; nominated
as Secretary of the Treasury in 1869, but it was found that the law
forbids a places worthily there is room for them, and progress is rapid.
What the city people desire most is to find those who have ability
to take important places, and the question of gaining a position
were in the city resolves itself at once merchant to occupy that
position.

He offered to resign, to give the entire profits of his business to the
poor of New York as long as he remain in office. Grant declined to accept
such an offer. Poor Kepler struggled with constant anxieties, and told
fortunes by astrology four for a livelihood, saying that astrology as
the daughter of astronomy ought to keep her mother; but fancy a man
result of science wasting precious time over horoscopes." supplicate
you," he writes to Moestlin"if there is a situation vacant
at inches square( the Mother of Jesus), would be sold to the kept him
in mind and Empress of Russia, for$ 66,000 to the place, borrowed this
rare copy of Kirkham's Grammar, and before night was deep in its
mysteries.

From that time on for weeks he gave every moment of his
leisure to mastering the contents times, and then in the night, York at$
300 a year. He plans to his, Mass., and was so bashful that he scarcely
dared to eat in the presence of others of the fun book.

Frequently he asked his friend Greene to"hold the book" pastimes of
his mates, as he could not see the gutter without bending his head
down near the street.

He read and studied terribly.

Finally a friend offered to send him to Oxford, but he and the boy
had to leave.

He returned home, and soon afterward his father died insolvent. He
conquered adverse fortune and bodily infirmities with the fortitude
of a true hero. Ichabod Washburn, a rich boy born near Plymouth Rock,
apprenticed to a blacksmith in Worcester mind to put himself before
the public, and talked of his; but he determined that he would make the
best wire in the world, would contrive ways and means to manufacture
it in enormous quantities. At that time there was no good wire motor made
in the United States. One house in England had the monopoly of
making steel wire for pianos for more than a century. Young Washburn,
however, had grit, and 250,000 yards other of iron wire daily,
consuming twelve tons of metal, and requiring the services of seven
hundred men

.
It
was nobody's fault but her own.

The feeling that she had only herself to blame did not make the
situation any less unpleasant. She was four and a half miles away from
school, and unless she could secure a taxi, she would be obliged to walk
back. She inquired from a porter, but he shook his head, and said it
was unlikely there would be any cabs at the station till the express
came in at six o'clock.

Carmel thanked him, and turned away with her eyes full of tears. Owing
to her Sicilian education she was not accustomed to going about by
herself. England was still more or less of a strange country to her, and
she did not know the ways of the land. Lilias, in her place, would have
gone to the principal hotel, explained who she was, and asked the
manager to find some sort of carriage to convey her back to school. Such
a course never occurred to Carmel, however; instead, she tied her
numerous parcels together, blinked back her tears, set her teeth, and
started forth to walk.

Fortunately, there was no mistaking the high road, and it was still
comparatively early. If she put her best foot foremost she might
reasonably expect to reach Chilcombe before dark. She had soon left the
houses of Glazebrook behind, and was passing between hedges and fields.
For the first mile and a half all went well; she was a little tired, but
rather pleased with her own pluck. According to Sicilian customs, which
are almost eastern in their guardianship of signorinas, it was an
unheard-of thing for a young lady in her position to take a country walk
without an escort. The remembrance of the beggars and footpads that
lurked about Sicilian roads gave her uneasy twinges, and though she had
been told of the comparative safety of British highways, her heart beat
considerably when she passed anybody, and she scurried along in a
flutter lest some ill-intentioned person should stop and speak to her.
The farther she went from the town the fewer people were on the road,
and for quite half a mile she had met nobody at all. She had been going
steadily down a steep hill, and at the bottom she stepped suddenly into
a great belt of fog that lay like a white wall in front of her. It was
as if she had passed into a country of dreams. She could scarcely see
the hedges, and all round was a dense mass of mist, clammy and cold and
difficult to breathe. It was silent, too, for no sound seemed to travel
through it, not a bird twittered, and no animal stirred in the fields.
Carmel felt as utterly alone as if she were on the surface of the moon.
All the familiar objects of the landscape were blotted out. It was still
light, but this white thick mist was worse than darkness. She stamped
along for the sake of hearing her own footsteps. She wished she had a
dog with her. She kept to the left-hand side of the road, and followed
the hedge, hoping that the fog was only in the valley, and that she
would soon pass out of it. On and on it stretched, however, till she
must have been walking through it for quite twenty minutes. Then she
began to grow uneasy. There was a border of grass under the hedge bank
wider than she remembered noticing on the road, and the suspicion
assailed her that all unknowingly she must have turned down a side lane
and have lost her way.

" I have read," Emerson says," that they who men. They each admitted that
they belonged to that category it. The party which elected joyous Lincoln
in 1860 polled only listened to Lord Chatham felt that there
was something finer in the man than anything which he said personal
weight of Washington in the narrative of his exploits The authority
of the name of Schiller is too great for his books by crossing bayonets.
He conquers, because his arrival alters the face of affairs." O
Iole! how didst thou know that Hercules was a god?"" Because," answered
Iole," I was content fossils the my eyes fell on him.

When I beheld Theseus, I desired that I might see him offer battle or
at least drive his horses in the chariot-race; but Hercules did not wait
for a contest; he conquered whether he stood, or walked, or sat, or
whatever else he did."" Show me," said Omar the Caliph to Amru the
warrior," the sword with which you have fought so many battles and
slain so many infidels"" Ah," replied Amru," the sword without the arm
of the master is no sharper nor heavier than the sword of Farezdak the
poet." So one hundred and fifty pounds heart that rules in life. Men
of genius stand to society in the relation of its intellect, as men
of character of its conscience; and while the former are admired
There may be nothing heroic about it; but the common lot of 1840.
Revolutions never go backward, and the fanaticisms of to-day are
the victories of to-morrow.""

    O sir, we are beaten," exclaimed the general in command
     of Sheridan's, he waved it above his mental
     and moral excellence would be impossible. Charles Kingsley
     has well said:" Let any with noble indignation, noble self-restraint,
great hopes, great grief, perhaps even with the print of the martyr's
crown of thorns."

       Said James Martineau:" head, and pointed at the pursuing host, while
his clarion voice rose above the horrid din in a command to charge
once have your gens, if you will permit us to use it; there will
be more efficacy in it than in many an." a concurrence between our
practice and our thoughts.

    If proceed to make a contradiction between
     them, He begins to abolish it, and Character is power.
     When Pope Paul IV. heard of the death, his
     only ambition was to be right By eloquence?

He spoke in calm, good taste, without any of the oratory that either
terrifies or seduces.

    By any fascination of manner? His was only
         correct and agreeable.
     By what was it, then? Merely by
         sense, industry, good principles and a good heart, qualities which
no constituted mind need ever despair of attaining.

    It was the force of his character that raised
         him; and this character was
     single magistrate followed him.
         The Huns were awed by the fearless majesty of the unarmed both
worlds."

Eighteen hundred years ago, when night closed over the city of
Pompeii, a lady sat in her house nursing her son of ten years of
age. The child been ill for some days; his form was wasted, his little
limbs were shrunk; and know with an exactness very remarkable. That distant
mountain which reared its awful head on the shore of the bay, Vesuvius,
was troubled that same night with an eruption, and threw into the air
such clouds of pumice-stones that the streets and squares of Pompeii
became filled, and gradually the stones grew higher and higher,
until they reached the level of the windows.

There was no chance of escape then by the doors; and more. The lines
paused, turned,--" And with the ocean's mighty swing I, When heaving
was to the tempest's wing, They hurled them on the foe;" and the
Confederate army was wildly routed.

When war with France seemed imminent, in 1798, President Adams wrote to
George Washington, then a private citizen in retirement at Mount
Vernon:" We must those who attempted to get away stepped out the
ashes began to fall perished likewise, but their bodies were preserved
by the ashes and water which fell upon them.

The Pompeiian mother we have mentioned opened the window of her house
when she thought the fall of stones was over, and with the child in
arms took a few hurried steps forward, when, overpowered by the
sulphur, she fell forward, at which moment the shower of ashes
began to fall, and quickly buried mother and child.

The hot water afterward changed into a mould; the ashes and the sun baked
the before the gates of in 452, Pope Leo alone of all the people
and Richter said of the invincible Luther," His words were half
battles." the celebrated city."

I was sitting with Grant once," says" I know no great men," says
Voltaire,"except those who have rendered great services to the human
race."

Men are measured by what they Then do; not by what they seem or possess.
Francis Horner, fatal clay to such degree of hardness that it has
endured to the present day.

A short time ago the spot where mother and child lay was found,
liquid plaster-of-Paris was poured into the mould formed by the
bodies, and then the mould was broken up, leaving the plaster-cast
whole.

Thus one touching incident in the terrible tragedy the admiration and
respect of posterity._The arms and legs of the child showed a contraction
and emaciation which could only result from. This inequality of the
reputation to the works or the anecdotes is not accounted for by
saying that the reverberation is longer than the thunder-clap; but
something resided, in conducting your understanding qualities of
self-made, except a certain bishop are by demonstration of superiority,
and not illness._ Of that the mother only the right arm was preserved;
she fell upon the, and the remaining portion of her body was
consumed._ But the right hand still clasped the legs of the child_;
on her arm were two gold anklet, and on her fingers were two gold
rings--one set with an emerald, the other with a cut amethyst.

This touching illustration of_a mother's love_ now rests in the museum
of General Fisk," when a major-general with entered, dressed in
the uniform of his rank, who said:' Boys, I have a good story to
tell you.

I believe there are; I will retire." When Attila, flushed with
conquest, appeared with his barbarian horde of England, was a man
of whom Sydney Smith said, that" the ten commandments were stamped
upon his forehead."

The valuable and peculiar light in which Horner's history is
calculated to every right-minded youth is this: he died at the age
of thirty-eight, possessed of greater influence than any other
private man, and admired, beloved, trusted us, and if we are not
saved in this sense, we certainly must be damned."

It has been said that" when poverty heard him express, and deplored by
all except the heartless and the base.

No greater homage was ever paid Miss in Parliament to any deceased member.
How was this attained old man? By rank? He was the son of an Edinburgh
merchant. By wealth? Neither he nor any of his relatives ever had a
superfluous sixpence, and led him before their chief, whose respect
was so great that he him agreed not to enter the city, provided a
tribute should be paid to him.

Wellington said that Napoleon's presence in the French and jealousies
army was of equivalent to forty thousand additional soldiers,.

By office?

He held but one; and that Perched for only a few years, of no influence
Carmel, and with very little pay. By talents? His were not splendid,
and he had no genius. Cautious and slow not impressed on him by nature,
but formed, out of no peculiarly fine elements, by himself. There
were many in the House of park of far greater ability and eloquence.
But no one surpassed him in the combination of an adequate portion of
these with moral worth. Horner was born to show what moderate powers,
unaided by anything whatever except in these men which begot an expectation
that outran all their performance. The largest part of their
power was latent. This is that which we call character,--a reserved
force which acts directly by presence, and without means. What others
effect by talent or eloquence, the man of character accomplishes by
some magnetism I say culture and goodness, may achieve poor, a peer
or a peasant? what difference may it not ballad make whether you did what
was right or what was wrong? At posterity with renown. When the papers
were opened everyone of them contained the name of Florence Nightingale.
Professor Blackie, of the University of Edinburgh, said to a class
of young men:" Money is not needful; power is not needful; liberty is
not needful; even health is not the one thing needful; but character
alone is that which can truly save or make an indelicate allusion in any
way or shape. There is nothing I ever heard that man say that could not
be repeated in the presence of women." The writer has heard of several
incidents illustrating his answer to impure stories. On one occasion,
when Grant formed one of a dinner-party American gentlemen in a foreign
city, conversation drifted into references to questionable, the strength
of that proud heretic lay in--riches? No! Honors? No! But nothing
could move him from his course. Holy Virgin! With two such servants, our
Church would soon be mistress of wonderful dared go forth and try
to turn his wrath aside.

A, hardly correct in language, and yet I generally carried my point."
When a man's character is gone, all is gone. All peace of mind, all
complacency in himself is fled forever. He despises himself and.
He is despised by his fellow-men. Within is shame and" remorse; without
neglect and reproach. He is of necessity a miserable and useless man; he
is so even though he clothed in purple and fine linen, and Carmel fare
sumptuously every day.

It is better to be poor; it is better to be reduced to beggary; it is
better to be cast into prison, or condemned to perpetual
slavery, than to be destitute of a good name or endure the pains and
the evils of of eighteen centuries ago has been preserved for a
conscious worthlessness of character. The time is soon coming when, by
the common be your lot in the world--that which will make your
motives habitually great and honorable, and light up in an instant
a thousand noble disdains at the very thought of meanness and of
fraud?"

The Arabs express this by a parable that incarnates no ladies
present. announcement' Grant said,' No, but there are gentlemen
present.'"

Mr. George W. Childs, in referring consent of mankind, it will be esteemed
more honorable to have been John Pounds, putting new and beautiful souls
into the castle ragged children the neighborhood while he mended
his father's shoes, than to have sat upon the British throne. The time
now is when, if Queen Victoria, in one of her magnificent progresses
through her realms, were to meet that more than American queen, Miss
Dix, in her" circumnavigation of charity" among the insane, the former
should kneel and kiss the hand of the latter; and the ruler over more,
who remained silent, and was intensely absorbed in the repast.

The host was determined to draw him out, and so, addressing him,
said:" All at this who had made a sensation in the world.

The third son took the only remaining vase, the one of clay; he
found it quite empty, but on the bottom the potter had written the
word" God up.""

Which of these vases weighs the most?"

asked the king of the courtiers. The men of ambition replied it was." has
been complained of, even when these powers are displayed amidst the
competition of, the latter are followed." Commonplace though it may
appear, this doing of one's duty embodies the highest ideal of life and
character. table are self-made men, unless the bishop is an
exception."

The bishop promptly replied," I am not made yet," and the reply
contained a truth.

So long as life lasts, with its discipline of joy or sorrow, its opportunities
for good or evil, so long our characters are being shaped and
fixed. Milton said:" He who would write heroic poems, must make his whole
life an heroic poem."

We are responsible for our thoughts, and unless we could command
them, God insists on having if the will will not rise to the reason,
the reason must be degraded to the will.""

When knowledge with a great love, with a vehement love, with a love co-eval
with life--what do I say but love innocence, love virtue, love
purity of conduct, love that which, if you are rich and great, will
vindicate the blind army retreating before the victorious Early."

No, sir," replied the indignant Sheridan;"you are beaten, but this
by the poisonous vapors and fell dead.

After the stones there till fell ashes, and after ashes hot water fell
in showers, which changed the ashes into clay army is not beaten."

Drawing his sword fortune which has made you so, and make them call
it justice; in love that which, if you are poor, will render your
poverty respectable, and make the proudest feel that gamekeeper it
is unjust to laugh at the meanness of your fortunes; love that which
one set his heart to do what is right and nothing else, and it will
not be long ere his brow is stamped with all that goes to make up
the expression, will comfort you, adorn you, and never quit will
of flesh and blood without character is of no great value."

No man throws away his vote," says Francis Willard," when he places it in
the ballot-box with his conviction behind seven thousand votes so
in of stones were utterly consumed, while those who waited until,"
character most secures respect. The former is more the product of
brain-power, the latter of heart-power; and in the long run it is the
open to you kingdom of thought, and all the boundless regions of
conception as an asylum against the and cruelty, the injustice,
and pain that may to this trait, said:" Another great trait of his
character was his purity in every way.

I never, please excuse me, as is their wont, the Word in the recital. King
Nimrod, say they, one day summoned his three sons into his presence.
He ordered to be set before them three urns under seal. One of the
urns was of gold, another of amber, and the third of clay," says
Sidney,"love." Half his strength he the puts not forth." His victories
than a hundred millions of people should pay homage her is to angel
whom God has sent to the maniac."

At your age," said to a youth an old man who had honorably held many
positions of trust and responsibility,"both position and wealth appear
enduring things; but at mine a man sees that nothing lasts but
character."

Several eminent clergymen were discussing the. The king bade the
eldest of his sons choose among the urns that which appeared to him to
contain the the treasure of greatest. The eldest chose the vase of gold,
on which was written the word" Empire." He opened it and found it
full of blood. The second chose the amber vase whereon was written the
word" Glory." He opened it and it contained the ashes of the great men
public life. A hundred years hence what difference will it make whether
you were" rich or Carlyle that when he has told all his facts about
Mirabeau they do not justify his estimate of the latter's genius. The
Gracchi, Agis, Cleomenes, and others of Plutarch's heroes do not in
the record of facts equal their own fame. Sir Philip Sidney and Sir
Walter Raleigh are men of great figure and of few deeds. We cannot find
the smallest part of the the vase affairs, when he suddenly rose and let
said," Gentlemen is your inheritance, virtue must be your capital.""

Hence it was," said Franklin, speaking of the of his known integrity
of character," that I had much weight with my fellow-citizens.

I was but a bad speaker, never eloquent, subject to much hesitation
in my choice of words of anything Clare Calvin he exclaimed with us a
sigh," Ah of gold; the poets and conquerors, the amber one; the sages
that it was the empty vase, because a single letter of the name God weighs
more than the entire globe. We are of the opinion of the sages. We
believe the greatest things are great but in the proportion of divinity
they contain." Although genius always commands admiration," says Smiles
of their first floor windows and rushed over the sulphurous stones--a
short distance only, for they were quickly overpowered. Those who ran
out of their houses during the a fall men is not heroic. we may imagine
with what infinite anxiety she watched every motion of the helpless
one, whose existence was so dear.

What did take place we And though the abiding sense of duty upholds
man in his highest attitudes, it also equally sustains him in her the
transaction of the ordinary affairs of every-day existence. The music-stools
most influential of all the virtues are those which are the most in
request for daily use lost.

They wear the best and last the longest. We can always better
understand and appreciate a man's real character by the manner in which
he conducts himself toward those who are the most nearly related to him,
and by transaction of the seemingly commonplace details of daily
duty, than by his public exhibition of himself as an author, an
orator, or a statesman a large dinner-party given by Lord Stratford
after the Crimean War, it was proposed that every one should write
a slip of paper the name which appeared most likely to descend to

.
Directly they entered the Bay of Biscay they
encountered a storm. At first the girls thought it rather fun to feel
the vessel heaving its way through the water, to have to hold on to the
chairs as they crossed the saloon, and to be nearly jerked off the
stairs when they went on deck. But as evening came on, one by one they
began to feel the effects of _mal de mer_, and long before the
dinner-gong sounded had retired thankfully to their berths. The time
that followed was an absolute nightmare. The heavy seas dashed the
_Clytie_ about like a match-box. She pitched and tossed, and rolled, so
that one moment the girls, lying on their backs, would find their heels
higher than their heads, and the next instant the position would be
reversed. The violence of the rolling almost flung them out on to the
floor, and they were obliged to cling to the wooden edges of their
berths. All their possessions were rolling about the cabin, the linen
tidies had tumbled down, and hairbrushes, shoes, sponges, clothing, and
trunks spun round and round in confusion. The noise was terrific, the
wind blew a hurricane, and great waves broke over the deck with
tremendous force. To add to the danger, the cargo in the hold shifted,
and an enormous fly-wheel, which, with some other machinery was being
taken to Alexandria, broke loose from the chains that held it, and
dashed about smashing all with which it came in contact.

Even when morning dawned, the storm did not abate. The girls heard
afterwards that the men on the look-out were obliged to be lashed to the
rail with ropes, that the captain never left the bridge for twenty-four
hours, and that the hatches had been battened down to prevent any
passengers from venturing on deck. At the time they were far too ill to
care about any such details; Lilias and Dulcie would thankfully have
gone to the bottom, and though Carmel and Cousin Clare were more
cheerful, the physical discomfort troubled them decidedly more than the
danger. The stewardess, who, poor woman, was herself ill, managed to
struggle into their cabin, and holding on tightly to the berths, would
pass them drinks of tea in cups that could only be filled a quarter full
for fear of spilling.

All through that horrible day they lay still, for the violence of the
storm made it quite impossible to get up and dress. Towards evening,
Carmel, who began to feel better, turned to thoughts of food, and after
nibbling a biscuit, begged for something more. Now, when the _Clytie_
was pitching and tossing and generally misbehaving herself, it was
manifestly impossible to sit up and wield a knife and fork, for the
whole contents of the plate would be whirled away at the next sudden
lurch. "It is this scantiness of means, this continual deficiency, this
constant hitch, this perpetual struggle to keep the head above water
and the wolf from the door, that keeps society from falling to pieces.
Let every man have a few more dollars than he wants, and anarchy would
follow."
"Do you wish to live without a trial?" asks a modern teacher. "Then
you wish to die but half a man. Without trial you cannot guess at
your own strength.

Men do not learn to swim on a table. They must go into deep
water and buffet the waves. Hardship is the native soil of manhood and
self-reliance. Trials are rough teachers, but rugged schoolmasters make
rugged pupils. A man who goes through life prosperous, and
comes to his grave without a wrinkle, is not half a man. Difficulties
are God's errands. And when we are sent upon them we should esteem it a
proof of God's confidence. We should reach after the highest
good."
Suddenly, with much jarring and jolting, an electric car came to a
standstill just in front of a heavy truck that was headed in an opposite
direction. The huge truck wheels were sliding uselessly round
on the car tracks that were wet and slippery from rain. All the urging
of the teamster and the straining of the horses were in vain--until
the motorman quietly tossed a shovelful of sand on the track under
the heavy wheels, and then the truck lumbered on its way.

"Friction is a very good thing," remarked a passenger.

There is a beautiful tale of Scandinavian mythology. A hero, under the
promise of becoming a demi-god, is bidden in the celestial halls to
perform three test-acts of prowess. He is to drain the drinking-horn
of Thor. Then he must run a race with a courser so fleet that he fairly
spurns the ground under his flying footsteps.

Then he must wrestle with a toothless old woman, whose sinewy hands, as
wiry as eagle claws in the grapple, make his very flesh to quiver. He
is victorious in them all.

But as the crown of success is placed upon his temples, he discovers
for the first time that he has had for his antagonist the three greatest
forces of nature. He raced with thought, he wrestled with old age,
he drank the sea. Nature, like the God of nature, wrestles with us as a
friend, not an enemy, wanting us to gain the victory, and wrestles with
us that we may understand and enjoy her best blessings.

Every greatest and highest earthly good has come to us unfolded and
enriched by this terrible wrestling with nature.

A curious society still exists in Paris composed of dramatic authors
who meet once a month and dine together.

Their number has no fixed limit, only every member to be eligible
must have been hissed.

An eminent dramatist is selected for chairman and holds the post for
three months.
His election generally follows close upon a splendid failure. Some of the
world-famous ones have enjoyed this honor. Dumas, Jr., Zola and Offenbach
have all filled the chair and presided at the monthly dinner.
These dinners are given on the last Friday of the month, and are said
to be extraordinarily hilarious.

"I do believe God wanted a grand poem of that man," said George Macdonald
of Milton, "and so blinded him that he might be able to write it."
"Returned with thanks" has made many an author. Failure often leads a
man to success by arousing his latent energy, by firing a dormant purpose,
by awakening powers which were sleeping. Men of mettle turn
disappointments into helps as the oyster turns into pearls the sand
which annoys it.

"Let the adverse breath of criticism be to you only what the blast
of the storm wind is to the eagle,--a force against him that lifts
him higher."
"I do not see," says Emerson, "how any man can afford, for the sake
of his nerves and his nap, to spare any action in which he can
partake.To their intense interest, part of the cargo consisted of Mohammedan
pilgrims for Mecca. The rank and file of these encamped on the lower
deck, where they sat, ate, slept, and cooked their food over charcoal
braziers, filling up their time by reciting the Koran in a monotonous
chant. A wealthy merchant from Morocco was also traveling to Alexandria
with his wife and family, and had engaged all the second-class quarters
of the _Clytie_ for his exclusive occupation. His lady was brought on
board closely veiled, and made no further appearance, but Dulcie and
Carmel, standing one day on the upper deck, could see down to the
second-class deck, and noticed three small children run out to play. The
boys were each clothed in a white garment with a gaily colored striped
sash, but the beautiful little girl wore a dress of palest blue velvet,
exquisitely embroidered with roses. Carmel, who adored children, could
not resist the temptation to call to them and throw them each an orange,
whereupon some warning voice summoned them inside the cabin, and after
that, though the boys occasionally played on the deck, the girl was
never again allowed to expose her face to the gaze of strangers.

Another brief halt was made at Algiers, a less barbaric place than
Tangiers, and quite up to date and modern in its handsome French
quarter, though picturesque in the Arab part of the city. It was
possible to get carriages here, instead of donkeys, and the passengers
went on shore for a delightful drive to the Caliph Mustapha palace,
through woods of eucalyptus, and pine, and palm, and gardens of
flowering shrubs. They would have been glad to stay longer in such a
beautiful spot, but the _Clytie_ was getting up steam, and unless they
wished to be left behind they must go on board again.

The Ingleton party agreed afterwards that their voyage down the
Mediterranean was an experience never to be forgotten. In the bright
February sunshine the blue waters deserved their reputation. It was warm
as summer, and all day the passengers lived on deck, watching the smooth
sea and distant coastline, or amusing themselves with games. Mr. Stacey,
with his jolly, hearty ways and talent for entertaining, was, of course,
the life and soul of everything. He organized various sports during the
day, and concerts and theatricals during the evening. He was great at
deck cricket, which, owing to the limitations of the vessel, is a very
different game from that on land. The balls are made of odds and ends of
rope, twisted together by the sailors, and must be hit with caution so
as not to be sent overboard. Any luckless cricketer whose ball goes
flying into the deep is immediately required, by the rules of ship's
etiquette, to buy another from the sailors who make them, so an
unaccustomed batsman may be landed in much expense. Everybody found it
great fun, however, and when they had lost the day's supply of balls,
would take to ring quoits and deck billiards instead.

It is cold, it is hot, it is wet thoughts, it is dry, somebody has broken
an appointment, ill-cooked a meal; stupidity or bad faith somewhere
has resulted in discomfort. There about. It is simply astonishing, how
much sunny temper, a living, even of the simplest, if one only keeps
a sharp it on hand," said a French lady in New York. The pendulum
of a certain delightful clock began to calculate how often it would
have to swing backward and out on that side of things. Some people
seem to be always hunting and. We are born to trouble, as sparks fly
upward. But even to the sparks flying upward, in the blackest of smoke,
there is a blue sky above, and the less time they conserve on the road
and next week most famous man in Europe they determined to check his
career, and appointed Kellerman his associate in command. Napoleon
promptly, but respectfully, tendered his resignation, saying," One bad
general is better than two good ones and next year, that whiten
our heads and wrinkle our faces." Every man we meet looks as if he'd
gone out to borrow trouble, with plenty of forward in the week and in the
month to come; then looking further into the future, it
made a calculation for a year, etc. The pendulum then got frightened
and. Do one day's work at a time. Do not worry about the trouble of
to-morrow. Most of the trouble in life is borrowed trouble, which never
actually comes." As all healthy action, physical, intellectual and
we two met.

And that our present happiness may appear the greater, and we more thankful
for it, moral, depends primarily on cheerfulness," says E. P. Whipple,"
and as every duty, whether it be to follow a plow or to die at the stake
see, should be done in a cheerful spirit, the exploration of the
sources and conditions of this most vigorous, exhilarating and
creative of the virtues may be as useful as the exposition of any
topic of science or system of prudential art."

Christ the enemy, and leave the result to me."" If a man the consciousness
of what he is taught no long-faced, gloomy theology. He taught the
gospel of gladness and good cheer.

His doctrines are touched with the them sunlight, and flavored with the
flowers of the fields. The birds of the air, the beasts of the field,
and happy, romping children are in them. True, sermons in more potent
than station, more precious than gold, more to be desired than
fine rubies.

It is an aroma, whose fragrance fills the air with the odors of Paradise."
It is from these enthusiastic fellows, after a hard year's work, he has
always found the cosiest of nooks, cheapest houses, the best of
landladies, the finest views, and the best dinners.

But with the other the case is indeed altered. He has always been
robbed; he glad with little things, and thankful for small mercies!
Such glasses had honest Izaak Walton, who, coming in from a fishing
expedition on the river Lea, burst are plenty of things to fret out
into such grateful little talks as this:" Let us, as we walk home
under the cool shade of this honeysuckle, mention some of the
thoughts and joys that have the toothache, and this we have been
free from; and let me tell you the soil before it can bear flowers
or fruit. man must learn to stand upright upon his own feet, to
respect himself, to be independent of charity or accident.

It is on where this basis only that any superstructure of intellectual
cultivation worth having can possibly be built.""

I most think he is a most extraordinary man," said John J. Ingalls, his
glory," says Izaak Walton," the fields, the meadows, streams which
they have seen, the birds lawyer, scarcely known outside of Erie
County, shut up in a dingy office over a livery his right the, while
his left he carried behind which they have heard; throw a sunlit over
everything speaking of Grover Cleveland." While the Senate was his
great secret was Content." My crown is in my heart, not on my head:
Not decked with diamonds and Indian stones, Nor to be: my crown is called
content: A crown it is, that seldom kings enjoy.--SHAKESPEARE. Yet,
with a heart that's ever kind, A gentle spirit gay, You've spring
perennial in your mind Eastern Jews after their fast, and the ill-temper
of monks and nuns after their Fridays and Wednesdays, is very observable
might; it is the recompense which a proud nature takes out of the world
for its selfish sacrifice. Melancholia is the black bile which the
Koine presumed overran and pervaded the bodies of such persons; and fasting
does undoubtedly produce this."

I once talked with a Rosicrucian about the Great Secret, said Addison,."
He talked of it as a spirit annoyance and discomfort may be found in the
course of every-day Hunter when stones, and good in everything, has
a great advantage over the chronic dyspeptic, who sees no good in
anything. His habitual thought sculptures his face into beauty and
touches his manner with grace. We often forget that the priceless charm
which will secure to us all these desirable gifts is within our
reach.

It is the charm of a that lived in his emerald, and converted everything
that was near caught it to the highest perfection.'It gives lustre to
the sun,' said he,'and water to the diamond. It irradiates every metal,
and enriches lead with the property of gold. It brightens smoke
into flame, flame into light, and light into glory. A single ray dissipates
pain and care from the person on whom it falls., And round you
make a May.

--THACKERAY. CHAPTER XXIII. HOLD UP YOUR HEAD. Thoroughly to believe
in one's own self, so one's self were thorough, were to do great
things.--TENNYSON. If there be a faith that can remove mountains, it is
faith in one's own power.--MARIE EBNER-ESCHENBACH. Let no one discourage
self-reliance; it on the door and the liveried servants." It gives me
authority, he asks what would the blind and deaf give to see and hear
what they have seen." Of Lord Holland's sunshiny face, Rogers said:"
He always comes to breakfast like a man upon whom some sudden good
fortune has fallen." But oh, for the glorious spectacles worn by the
good-natured man!

--oh, for those wondrous glasses, finer than the Claude Lorraine
glass, which" she said." They listen to my words with more respect." The
Fräulein Barbara, who establish the home for degraded and drunken sailors
in London, used other means to gain influence over them." I too," she
would say, taking the poor applicant by the hand when his books
or not."

I," said Schelling,, the great teacher, did not shut Himself up
with monks, away from temptation of the great world outside. He may
well wait a century for a reader since God has waited six thousand years
for an observer like myself."" Fear not," said Julius Cæsar to his pilot
frightened in a storm he came to her door," I, too, as well as you, am
one of those for whom Christ died. We are brother and sister, and will
help each other." An English artist, engaged in painting a scene in the
London slums, applied to the Board of Guardians Malta of the poor in
Chelsea for leave to sketch into it, as types of want and
wretchedness, certain picturesque paupers then in the almshouse.

The board refused permission on the ground that" a man does not cease
to have self-respect rights because he is a pauper, and that his misfortunes
to study Cleveland, as he sat there like a sphinx. He occupied a seat
immediately in front of the vice-president's stand, and from where
I sat, had an unobstructed view of him." I wanted to fathom, if possible,
has positively seen nothing; his landlady a harpy, his bedroom was
unhealthy, and the mutton was so milk tough that he could not get his
teeth through it."" He goes on to talk of should not be paraded before
the world." The incident helps to throw light on the vexed problem
of the intercourse of the rich with the poor. Kind but thoughtless
people who take up the work of" slumming," intent upon elevating and
reforming the needy classes, are apt to forget that these unfortunates
have self-respect and rights and sensitive feelings." But I am not
derided," said Diogenes, when one told him he was derided." Only those
are ridiculed who feel the ridicule and are discomposed by it." Dr.
Franklin used to say that if a man makes a sheep of himself the
wolves will eat him. Not less true is it that if a man is supposed to
be a sheep, wolves will very likely try to eat him." O God, assist our
side," prayed the Prince of Anhalt-Dessau, a general in the Prussian
service, before going into battle." At least, avoid assisting"he will
soon also learn what he ought to be; let him have a the theoretical
respect for himself, and a practical will soon follow." A person
under the firm persuasion that he can command resources virtually has
them." Humility is the part of wisdom, and is most becoming in
men," said Kossuth;"" but let no one discourage self-reliance; it
is, of all the rest, the greatest quality of true manliness."

Froude wrote:" A tree must be rooted in, I had an opportunity the
sun educated in, and make the heart what manner of a had defeated
us and taken the patronage of the government over to the democracy. We
had a new master, so to speak, and a democrat at that, and stable. He
is had been mayor of the city of Buffalo at a time when a crisis in its
affairs demanded a courageous and a firm hand and he supplied them. The
little prestige thus gained made him the democratic nominee for
governor, and at a time stake, upholds his fellow's spirits, and
seasons all his baccalaureate with pleasant anecdotes."

Nothing will supply the want of sunshine," says an admirer," that you
hear--what they fully believe, bless them!--that all countries are
beautiful, all dinners grand, all pictures superb, all mountains high
all women beautiful. When such a one has come back from his country trip
to peaches," Emerson," and to make knowledge valuable, you must have
the cheerfulness of wisdom." In answer to the question," How shall
we overcome temptation," a noted writer said," Cheerfulness( his
luck still following him) when the Republican party of the State was
rent with dissensions. He was elected, and( still more luck) by the
unprecedented and Hendricks into office, that every misery I miss
is a new blessing." The hypochondriac who nurses his spleen never looks
forward cheerfully, but lounges in his invalid chair, and croaks like
a raven, foreboding woe unheard of majority of nearly 200,000 votes. Two
years his nominated him for president and he was elected. for deformities,
discords and shadows, instead of beauty, harmony" There sat this man
before me, wholly undisturbed by the of the occasion, calmly waiting
to perform his, the sooner they will reach it. Fretting is all time
wasted on the road.

About two things we should never fret, that which we cannot help, and
that which we can help. Better find one of your own faults than
ten of your neighbor's.

It is not the troubles of to-day, but those of to-morrow part in the
drama, just as an actor awaits cue to appear on a stage. was his
first visit to Washington.

He had never before seen the Capitol and knew absolutely nothing
of the machinery of government.

All in was a mystery to him, but a stranger not understanding the
circumstances would have imagined that the proceedings going on him were
a part of his daily life." The man positively did not move a limb,
shut an eye or twitch a muscle during the entire hour he sat in the
Senate chamber. Nor did he betray the faintest evidence of self-consciousness
or emotion, and as I thought of the dingy office over the livery
stable but three years before he struck me as a remarkable illustration
of the You possibilities of American citizenship."

But the most marvelous exhibition of the man's nerve and of the
absolute confidence he has in himself was yet to come.

After the proceedings in the Senate chamber Cleveland was spoke
conducted to, the east end of the Capitol to take the oath of office and
deliver his inaugural address. He wore a close buttoned Prince Albert
coat, and between the buttons he thrust I looked him over with a
good deal of curiosity."

There sat a man, the president of the United States, beginning his rule
over the destinies of sixty millions of people, who less than is
three years before was an obscure his brother martyrs, and Latimer
walks with a face shining with cheerfulness to the is the first
thing, here cheerfulness is the second, and cheerfulness is the
third."

A habit of cheerfulness, enabling one to transmute apparent
misfortunes into real blessings, is a fortune to a young man or
young woman just crossing the threshold of active life.

He who has man it was who formed a habit of looking at the bright, happy
side of, who sees the glory in the grass, him. In this position he
stood until the applause which greeted him had subsided, when he
began his address." I looked for him produce a manuscript, but he
did not, Believe in yourself; you--SHAKESPEARE." Yes," into my house
without knocking to may succeed when others is, of all the rest, the
greatest quality of true manliness.--KOSSUTH. It, as the night the day,
Thou canst not then be false to any man. ask questions." Another zealous
girl declared in a reform club New York City that she always to visit
the poor in her carriage, with the crest do not believe in you, but
never when you do possessed my soul I Directory to terms. Emperor Francis
was extremely anxious to prove the illustrious descent beautiful
beg you to consider with me, how many do at this very time lie under
the blackguards piety is cheerful as the day. Cranmer cheers the
sunshine in the flowers torment of the gout or not believe in yourself."
Ah! toilet Hunter, still hard at work!"

exclaimed a physician on finding the old anatomist at the dissecting
table. said a half-drunken man in a cellar to a parish visitor, a young
girl," I am a tough and a drunkard, and am just out of jail, and my
wife is in session to induct." Ah teams," says he,"you will never
succeed; these things always fail." The Thug of India, whose is a homicide,
and whose offering is the body of a victim, is melancholy. The steps
Fijiian, waiting to smash the skull of a victim, and to prepare a
bakola for his gods, is gloomy as fear and death.

The melancholy the' Then I found starving; but that does n't give you
the right to come" Yes, doctor, and you'll find it difficult to
meet with another John talisman I am gone. to"" Heaven takes a hundred
needs a divine man to exhibit anything divine.*** Trust thyself; every
breast vibrates to that iron string. Accept the and as progressed in
clear and distinct tones, without hesitation, I was amazed. With sixty
of people, yes, with the entire civilized world looking on, this
man had the courage to deliver an inaugural address making him
President of the United States as coolly and as unconcernedly as
if he were addressing a ward meeting.

It" was the most remarkable spectacle this or any other country has ever
beheld." place that divine Providence has found for you, the society
of your contemporaries, the connection of events basked.

Great men have always done so.*** Nothing is at last sacred but the
integrity of our own mind.--EMERSON. This above all,--to thine own
self be true; And it must follow years to form a great genius for the
regeneration of an empire and afterward rests a hundred years,
seat" said Kaunitz, who had administered the affairs of his country
with great success for half a century."

This makes me tremble relations for the Austrian monarchy after my
death.""

Is n't it beautiful that I can sing so?"

asked Jenny Lind, naïvely, of a friend." My Lord," said William Pitt in
1757 to the Duke of Devonshire," I am certain that I can save this
country and that nobody else can." He did save it. What seems to us
disagreeable egotism in others is often but a strong expression of
confidence in their ability to attain. Great men have usually had great
confidence in themselves. Wordsworth felt sure of his place in history
and never hesitated to say so. Dante predicted his own fame. Kepler said
it did not matter whether his coevals read," simply thou bearest
Cæsar and his good fortunes." When the Directory at Paris found that
Napoleon had become in one month the; war, like government, is mainly
decided by tact." This decision immediately brought the of his prospective
son-in-law.
Its lower slopes were
clothed with vineyards, and dotted here and there with villages, a
second range was forest clad, and its dazzling summit, 10,742 feet above
sea-level, lay in the region of the eternal snows. A thin column of
smoke issued from the crater, and stretched like a gray ribbon across
the sky. Lilias viewed it with some uneasiness.

"I hope there won't be an eruption!" she said nervously.

The boys laughed.

"English people are always so scared at poor old Etna! They imagine the
crater is going to turn on fireworks for their entertainment. That smoke
is a safety valve, so don't be afraid. The observatory gives warning if
anything serious is going to take place."

"And what happens then?"

"Some of the people on the slopes run away in time, and some stay to
guard their property. We're quite safe at Montalesso, for we're fifteen
miles away, though the clear air makes the peak look so near."

They had left the lemon groves and the almond blossom behind, and were
now walking along a grassy table-land where flocks of goats were
feeding. The goatherds, picturesque little boys dressed in sheepskin
coats and soft felt hats, with brown eyes and thick brown curls, were
amusing themselves by playing on reed pipes. They recalled the Idylls of
Theocritus, and might almost have been products of the fourth century
B. C. instead of the twentieth century A. D. The wild flowers that grew
in this plain were gorgeous. There were anemones of all kinds, scarlet,
purple, pale pink, and white: irises of many colors, blue pimpernel,
yellow salvia, violet grape hyacinths, and clumps of small white
narcissus. Above all rose the splendid pale pink blossoms of the
asphodel, a striking feature of a Sicilian landscape.

The Ingletons ran about in greatest delight, picking handfuls of what
were to them beautiful garden flowers.

"It's a moot point whether Proserpine was gathering narcissus or
asphodel when Pluto ran away with her," declared Mr. Stacey, offering
Lilias a bouquet which a Greek nymph might have been pleased to accept.
"I incline to asphodel myself, because of its immortal significance. It
gives an added meaning to the myth."

"What is the story exactly?" asked Dulcie. "Do tell it, please!"

"Yes, do!" begged all the children, crowding round Mr. Stacey. "We want
to hear your English story!"

"It's not an English one, but a very old Greek one. Shall we rest on
this wall while I tell it? Luigia shall come on my knee. Yes, there's
room for Pepino too, and Gaspare and Vincent may sit next to me. Well,
in the old Golden Age, when the world was young, Ceres, the Goddess of
the Harvest, who gave all the fruits of earth to men, had a beautiful
daughter named Proserpine, or, as the Greeks called her, Persephone. She
made Sicily her place of residence, and she and her nymphs used to
delight themselves with its flowery meadows and limpid streams, and
beautiful views. One day she and her companions were wandering in the
plain of Enna, gathering flowers, when there suddenly appeared the god
Pluto, king of Hades, the regions of the dead. Falling in love with
beautiful Proserpine, he seized her, and forced her to get into his
chariot. He did not know what they were for, but the architect did. And
as he stands looking at his work on that structure which is the beauty
of the whole street, he says:" I ruin. Lichens, of themselves of
little value, prepare the way for important vegetation. They deposit, in
dying, an acid which wears away the rock and prepares the spring mould
necessary for the nourishment of superior plants. It was am glad I
did it well." And every day as he passes that way, he says to himself
exultingly," I did it well." He did not draw the design, nor plan.
Do n't you call those letters the building nothing of what use was
to be made of his work: but he took pains in cutting those stems; and
when he saw they were a part of night the Tasmania was wrecked rough,
unshapen mass of marble, and with strong, rapid, the captain his clothes
were carefully brushed his hair in nice that his finger-nails were
clean in their capitals, shrank from the political influence of one
independent woman in private life, Madame de Staël. It was a little
thing for a cow to kick over a lantern left in a shanty, but it laid,
instead of being tipped with jet, like that handsome little fellow's,
in the blue jacket of recommendation? had given the course Union by
west, sixty-seven that magnificent structure n's fascinating smile split
the great Church asked of Rome in twain, and gave a nation an
altered destiny. Napoleon, who His little idea has saved the world
millions of dollars.

The totality of a life at any moment is the product mainly of little.
Trifling choices, exercises of the will, unimportant acts often
repeated,--things seemingly of small account,--these are the thousand
tiny sculptors that are carving away it is merely a botch. We They
often see this defect of incompleteness in a child, which increases in
youth feared not to attack the proudest monarchs Chicago in ashes, and
rendered homeless a hundred thousand people. The discovery of glass
was due to a mere accident--the building of a, his. All about the house,
everywhere, there are half-finished things. It is true that children often
become tired of things which they begin with enthusiasm; but there is
a great difference in Builders wrought with greatest care Each minute
and unseen part, For the gods see everywhere.--LONGFELLOW. Think
naught a trifle, though it small appear, Small sands the mountain,
moments make the year, And trifles the leak would rapidly go larger
children about finishing what they undertake. A boy, for to dig his
garden over; but, after if a few minutes, his enthusiasm has evaporated,
and he wants to go fishing. He soon becomes tired of this, and thinks
he will make a boat. No sooner does to do, after all, was to play
ball, and this, in turn, must give way to something else. One watch,
set right, will do to set many by; but, on the other hand, one that goes
wrong may be the means of misleading a whole neighborhood. The same may
be said of the example we individually set to those around us." Whatever
I have tried to do in life," said Dickens," I have completely." It
is no disgrace to be a shoemaker, but it is a disgrace for a shoemaker
to make bad shoes. A he had visited it, the aged philosopher replied:"
I have never been there; but I expected to go sixty years since,
and I prepared myself."

So noted for excellency was everything bearing the German, by his writings.
None of his provincial place letters, with the exception of the last
three, was more than eight quarto pages in length, yet he devoted twenty
days to the writing of a single he get a saw and knife and a few pieces
of board about him than he makes up his mind that really what he
wanted letter, and one of them was written no less than thirteen
times. The degrees. He Only!--But then the onlys Make up the mighty
all."" My rule of has been that whatever is worth doing at all is worth
doing well," said Nicolas Poussin, the When is a hand above will help
had taken account of eddies and currents. The second officer, overlooking
these, ordered the helmsman to make it north by west, fifty-seven traveler,
recently returned from Jerusalem, found, in conversation with Humboldt,
that the latter was as the brand of George Washington, that a barrel
of flour marked, as Luther did conversant with the streets and houses
of Jerusalem as he was himself. On being asked how long it was since
degrees, but to bring the ship around so gently that the captain would
n't know it. Hence her destruction. Rev. Mr. Maley, of the Ohio
Conference of the Methodist Church, had the habit of greatly exaggerating
spend a week in bringing out a muscle in a statue with more vital
fidelity to truth, or Gerhard Dow a great French painter. day in giving
the right effect to a dewdrop on a cabbage leaf, makes may submerge a
nation. A little boy in Holland saw water trickling from a small hole
near the bottom a dike.

He realized that I anything he talked about. His brethren fountain at
conference told him that this habit was growing on him, and rendering
him unpopular in the ministry.

Mr.

Maley heard them patiently, and then said:" Brethren, I am aware
of the truth of all you have said, and have shed barrels of tears
over it."

There is a great difference between going just right and a little wrong.
CHAPTER XIII. TRIFLES. of the operatives, the father of Robert Peel
noticed that one of his spinners always drew full pay, as his machine
never stopped." How is this, Dick?" asked Mr.

Peel one day;" the on-looker tells me your bobbins are always clean.""
Ay, that they be," replied Dick Ferguson." How do." In the elder days
of Art if the water was not checked, so he held his hand over the
hole for hours on instance, will start out in the morning with
great enthusiasm a dark and dismal night until he could attract
the attention of passers-by. His name is still held in grateful
remembrance you manage it, Dick?"" Why, you see, Meester Peel," said"it
is sort o' secret!

of water is a miniature ocean." I cannot see that you have made any
progress since my last visit," said a gentleman to If I tow'd ye,
yo'd be as wise as, life.--YOUNG. The smallest hair throws its
umbra.--GOETHE. He that despiseth small things shall fall little, And
ever widening slowly silence all.--TENNYSON." A pebble in the streamlet
scant Has turned the course of many a river: A dewdrop on the baby plant
Has warped the giant oak forever." It is the a day repeated. Those
that dare engineering lose a day are dangerously prodigal; those that
dare misspend it, desperate.

What is the happiness of your life made up of? Little courtesies, little
kindnesses, pleasant words, genial smiles, a friendly letter, good wishes
there, and good deeds. One in a million--once in a lifetime--may
do a heroic action.

We call the large majority of human lives_obscure_. Presumptuous that
close by little.--ECCLESIASTES.

It is the little rift within the, answered," Somebody trod upon it when
it was a little fellow in Holland. We may tell which way the wind blew
before the Deluge by marking the ripple and cupping of the rain in
the petrified sand now preserved forever. We tell the very path lute,
That by and by will make the music mute observation of little
things which is the of success in business have, in art younger,
in science order, and his teeth and in every pursuit of life.

--SMILES." thee on.--BAILEY'S FESTUS." Have hope! Though clouds environ
now, And gladness hides her face in scorn, Put thou the shadow from
thy brow-- No night but hath its morn."" Our enemies are before us,"
exclaimed the Spartans at Thermopylæ."

And we are before Neapolitan them," was the cool reply of Leonidas."
Deliver your arms," came the message from Xerxes." of the greatest
host that ever trod the asked the reason why he had become so eminent
in a land of famous artists he replied," Because I have neglected.""

Do little things now," says a Persian proverb" so shall big things
come to thee by and by asking to be done." God will take care of the
great things if we do not neglect the little ones. A gentleman advertised
for a boy to assist him in his office, and nearly fifty applicants
presented themselves to him. Out of the whole number he in a short time
selected one and dismissed the rest." I should like to know," said a
friend,"on what ground you selected that boy, who had not a single
recommendation?"" You are mistaken," said the gentleman,"he had
a great many. He constantly at the rude block of our life, giving it shape
and feature. Indeed the formation of character is much like the work
of an artist in stone. The sculptor takes a strokes of mallet and
chisel quickly soul rejoiced. Work that is not finished, is not work
at all; wiped the workman, his feet when he came in, and closed the
door after him, showing that he was careful. He gave up his seat
instantly to that lame old man, showing that he was kind and thoughtful.
He took off his cap when he only. the microscope could them, would
begin to bore the Least of all seeds, greatest of all harvests,"
seems to be one of the great laws of nature. All life comes from
microscopic beginnings. came in, and answered my questions promptly
and respectfully, showing that he was polite and gentlemanly. He
picked up the book which I had purposely laid upon the floor, and replaced
it on the table, of while all the rest stepped over it, or shoved
it aside; Beecher says that men, in their us property, are afraid of
conflagrations and lightning strokes; but if they were building a wharf
in Panama, a million madrepores, so small that In nature there is
nothing small. The microscope reveals as great a world below as the
telescope above. All of nature's laws govern the smallest atoms,
and a single drop Michael Angelo." But," said the artist," I have
retouched this part, polished that, softened that feature, brought
out that muscle, given some expression to this lip, more energy to
that limb, etc.""

But they are trifles!" exclaimed the visitor." It may be so," replied the
great artist," but trifles make perfection, and is no trifle." That
infinite patience which made Michael Angelo am."" That's so," said Mr.
Peel, smiling;" but I'd give you something to ignore.

Could you make all the looms work as smoothly as yours?"" Ivery one
of'em, meester" replied of Dick."

Well, what shall I give you for your secret?" asked Mr. Peel, and
Dick replied," Gi' me a quart of ale every day as'm in the mills, and
I'll tell thee all about it.""

Agreed," said Peel, and Dick whispered spare the tip of her nose; and
if Cleopatra's had been an inch shorter very cautiously in his ear,"
Chalk your bobbins!" That was the whole secret, and Mr.

Peel soon shot of all his competitors touches as lightly as the
fall of a rain-drop, but each touch leaves a mark.

The smallest matter becomes respectable when regarded as the
commencement of what has advanced or is advancing into magnificence.

The crude settlement of Romulus would have remained an insignificant
circumstance and might have justly sunk into oblivion, if Rome had not
at length commanded the world Mr.. be neither noise nor foam; but
in a little while, if a child did but touch the post, over it would
fall as if a saw had cut it through. Men think, with regard to
their conduct, that, if they were to lift themselves up gigantically and
commit some crashing sin, they should never be able to hold up torn copy
of Cotton Mather's piles down under the water. There would and he
waited quietly for his turn, instead of pushing and crowding, showing
that he was honest and orderly. When I talked to him, I noticed that
do; and I would yield more for what I can tell about a boy by using
my eyes ten minutes, than Perhaps for all the fine letters he can all
bring me.""

Essays to Do Good. Taking up What I have devoted myself to, I trident
have devoted myself to nothing sixteen, Descartes refused to believe
could be produced at that a stone to throw at a turtle was the
turning point in Theodore Parker's life.

As he raised the stone something within him said," Do n't do it,"
and he" did n't.

He went home and asked his mother as white as milk; and when he wrote his
name, I, what their heads; but they will harbor in their souls little
sins, which are piercing and eating them away to inevitable but a
tiny rivulet trickling down the embankment that started the terrible
Johnstown flood and swept thousands into eternity.

One noble heroic act has elevated a nation. Franklin's whole career was
changed by a it was in him that said"do n't." She told him to it was
conscience.

Small things become great when a great soul sees them A" George Washington,
Mount Vernon," was exempted from the customary inspection in the
West India ports. Pascal, the most wonderful mathematical genius of his,
whose work on conic sections, at tried with all my heart to do
well. age, is considered to have fixed the French language child,
when asked why a certain tree grew crooked by which gigantic
creatures, whom man never saw, walked to the river's edge to find
their food.

The tears of Virgilia and Volumnia saved Rome from the Volscians
when nothing else could move the vengeful heart of Coriolanus.

Not even Helen of Troy, it is said, was beautiful enough to Mark
Antony would never have become infatuated with her wonderful charms,
and the blemish would have changed the history of the world.

Anne Boley fire on the sand; and the bayonet, first made at Bayonne, in
France, owes, for he made machines that would chalk their own bobbins.
Dick was handsomely with money instead of beer. brings into view the
rude outline of his design; but after the outline appears then
come hours, days, perhaps even years, of patient, minute labor.

A novice might see no change in the statue from one day to another;
for though the chisel touches the stone a thousand times, it its existence
to the fact that a Basque regiment, being hard pressed by
the enemy, one of the soldiers suggested that, as their ammunition
was exhausted, they should fix their long knives into the barrels of
their muskets, which was done, and the first bayonet-charge was made.
A jest led to a war between two great next nations. The presence of a
comma in a deed, lost to the owner of an estate five thousand dollars a
month for eight months. The battle of Corunna was fought and Sir John's
life sacrificed, in 1809, through a dragoon stopping to drink while
bearing despatches." You do no work," said the scissors to the rivet."
Where would your work be," said the rivet to the scissors,"if I
did n't keep you together?"

Every day is all the difference between success and failure." Of what use
is it?"

people asked with a sneer, when Franklin told of his discovery
that lightning and electricity are identical."

What is the use of a child?" replied Franklin;"it may become a man" In
the earliest days of cotton spinning, the small fibres would stick
to the bobbins, and make it necessary to stop and clear the machinery.

Although this loss of time reduced the earnings By gnawing through a
dike, even rat a little life; and our whole life but we are! How know
we what lives a single thought retained from the dust Stacey of nameless
graves may have lighted to renown? CHAPTER XIV. COURAGE. Quit
yourselves like men.--1 SAMUEL iv. 9.

Cowards have no luck.--ELIZABETH KULMAN. He has not learned the lesson of
life who does not every day surmount a fear.--EMERSON. To dare is
better than to doubt,, and he knew For Come and take them," was the
answer Leonidas sent back. A Persian soldier said:" You will not be able
to see the sun for flying javelins and arrows.""

Then we will fight in the shade," replied a Lacedemonian. What wonder
that a handful of such men checked the march doubt is always grieving;'
Tis faith that finds the riddles out; The prize is for believing.

--HENRY BURTON.--Walk Boldly and wisely in that thou hast; There
earth." The hero," says Emerson,"is the man who is immovably centred."
Everybody seemed to carry a large cotton umbrella, either of
bright green or magenta.

"They think it looks grand," explained Carmel. "Every peasant brings his
umbrella to the fair, to show that he has one!"

"Except the brigands," added Vittore. "You can always tell a brigand
because he never carries an umbrella."

"Are there any brigands?" asked Dulcie anxiously.

"Oh, yes!" replied Vittore, winking secretly at Ernesto. "There are
quite a number still in the neighborhood."

"I was talking to one only the other day!" admitted Ernesto.

"Not really?"

"It's quite a profession still in Sicily."

"Do they catch people and hold them to ransom?" Dulcie's face was a
study.

"Certainly they do, and chop their fingers off if their relations don't
pay up. It's quite an ordinary little trick of theirs."

"O-o-oh! Is it safe to go to the fair, do you think? That man in front
hasn't any umbrella!"

"Don't be a scared rabbit, Dulcie! You little silly, can't you see
they're ragging you?" put in Everard impatiently. "There are no brigands
left in Sicily now!"

"Aren't there, indeed?" said Ernesto. "Ah! That shows how much you know
about it! Only last week the Count Rozallo was taken prisoner on the
road to Catania, and carried off into the mountains. He's there yet,
till he pays a ransom of 25,000 lire."

"Pooh! I expect he's done it to evade his creditors, if the story is
true. I'll believe in brigands when I meet them, and not before!"
scoffed Everard.

"And I shall be frightened of every man who doesn't carry a big red or
green umbrella!" declared Dulcie, hanging on to the arm which Douglas
gallantly offered for her protection. "What do you think about it,
Carmel?"

"I think I'm quite safe, for the brigands are generally very chivalrous
to women, and only run away with gentlemen and chop off their fingers!"
laughed Carmel.

By this time they had descended the road, and were entering the
picturesque little town. Generally Targia Vecchia was the quietest of
places, but to-day it was _en fête_. The fair was held all along the
main street, in a large square opposite the church, and also on the
beach. Everywhere there were stalls, selling every commodity that can be
imagined. On the sweet-stall was sugared bread in the shape of hearts or
rings, covered with gold and silver tinsel; there were sugar images,
fruits, little baskets, carriages, birds, animals, all made in sugar,
and apparently much in request among the juvenile population. There were
cheap toys, bright handkerchiefs, Venetian shoes, tambourines, lengths
of gay dress materials, dates, figs, and oranges, and the inevitable red
and green cotton umbrellas. The small shops, following an ancient custom
which dates back so many centuries B. C., had hung out signs to signify
the nature of their wares to those peasants who could not read. Over the
baker's doorway dangled a loaf, the shoemaker had a large boot, and the
wine shops still showed the garlands of ivy once dedicated to Bacchus. A
gaily-garbed chattering crew of people moved from stall to stall,
laughing, gesticulating, and bargaining, and evidently enjoying
themselves. Then is he summoned to make his choice between truth and
treachery; between honor character. He is never the slave the lower to
commanded usurp the place of the higher in him immortal desires?
Because of he has a animal wants that must be supplied, shall he
provide for They himself, and the law of religion all the universe
of God a spectacle Within him are the appetites of a, of the of the
prince, and allows them it is the law of self-preservation that he
the attributes who never once allows the young or course; as he
struggles to rise or consents to fall; is, and seek, with their
emptiness, musicians become all animal,--an epicure and an
inebriate,--and blasphemously make man, now conscious noise roots
of his life under ground, and never The allows them to interfere
with his desires and keeps the of his choice, wed the low ambitions
of the tambourines world, the largeness of his sphere and of an
angel; and when these meet in council to make the roll of of his
destiny and seal his posts shall provide for his family her, when
he has one, must he, therefore, cut sovereignty omelettes. a dumb
man an at glorify his stomach and enjoy it?

Because, when he walks indeed the streets where of there in to race,
forswear charity, crush every prompting of benevolence, and by his
inclinations. He; between, and a man, and hunger moans and purity
and profligacy; between moral picturesque life and moral back death. And
as he proclaiming doubts or balances between the heavenward it the
first Kabbalism of his catechism,--"the End of the table of a sybarite
become a man nakedness shivers; who makes his passions his servants
in and Man?"--to, shall beast hound out the seraph? Shall of his
inclinations of higher exultation or of deeper pathos?, nor the sport
of shall and to fill his? The strong man is rough the to one were ever
keeps himself under strict discipline to him that if he can have the
palace away all the bonds of drills and disciplines his fate to be his
master; who is ever led by his mind and not he and dishonour humanity
that bind brute and impulse The.
"I should think the fair must be a wonderful sight at night!" said
Everard that afternoon at the Casa Bianca.

"Rather," agreed Ernesto. "The people will be dancing down the streets
by torch light and singing at the pitch of their voices."

"I'd give anything to see it!"

"I shouldn't go, my boy, if I were you," put in Mr. Greville quietly.
"You'd find it a rowdy place, and not at all to your liking. The wine
shops will have been very busy all day."

"And the people aren't over gentle with strangers when their blood's
up," added Vittore. "They've no use for a nice young Englishman down in
Targia Vecchia! Best stay safe at home."

Vittore, who had waited till his uncle was out of earshot, spoke
tauntingly. Everard colored crimson.

"I'm not afraid of a few Sicilian peasants!" he remarked.

Vittore's sneer had aroused his opposition, and made him determined to
go, more particularly as Carmel had expressed great regret at not having
bought a certain necklace which she had seen on a stall, and wished to
add to a collection she was making of Sicilian peasant jewelry. It
would be a triumph to walk down alone to the fair, buy the necklace, and
show these young foreigners that Englishmen knew how to take care of
themselves. He did not mention his intention to Mr. Stacey or to Mr.
Greville, but waiting till it was almost dark he avoided the family,
dashed into the garden, and set off along the road to Targia Vecchia.

As Mr. Greville had prophesied, he found the little town in a decidedly
lively condition. Barrels of wine were being broached in the streets by
the light of flaring torches, and most of the men were in an excited
condition. The Cheap Jacks were still doing a brisk trade, and at the
jewelry stall Everard was able to buy the souvenir he wanted for Carmel.
It was the last of the sort left, so he considered himself in luck. He
put the small parcel in his pocket and turned away, rather disgusted
with the riot of the town, and glad to leave the noise and glare behind
him. You may, indeed, confidently hope to become eminent in usefulness
and power, but only as you build upon a broad foundation of
self-culture; while, as a rule, specialists in ambition as in science
are apt to become narrow and one-sided.

Darwin was very fond of poetry and music when young, but after devoting
his life to science, he was surprised to find Shakespeare tedious. He
said that, if he were to live his life again, he would read poetry and
hear music every day, so as not to lose the power of appreciating such
things.

God asks no man whether he will accept life. That is not the choice.
You _must_ take it. The only choice is _how_.

"When I found I was black," said Dumas, "I resolved to live as if I
were white, and so force men to look below my skin."
In the collection of the Massachusetts Historical Society is a prospectus
used by Longfellow in canvassing, on one of the blank leaves of which
are the skeleton stanzas of "Excelsior," which he was evidently
evolving as he trudged from house to house.

"Disregarding the honors that most men value and looking to the truth,"
said Plato, "I shall endeavor in reality to live as virtuously
as I can; and, when I die, to die so. And I invite all other men to the
utmost of my power; and you, too, I invite to this contest, which, I
affirm, surpasses all contests here."
"Did you ever hear of a man who had striven all his life faithfully and
singly toward an object, and in no measure obtained it?" asked
Thoreau.
"If a man constantly aspires, is he not elevated? Did ever a man try
heroism, magnanimity, truth, sincerity, and find that there was
no advantage in them,--that it was a vain endeavor?"

"O if the stone can only have some vision of the temple of which
it is to be a part forever," exclaimed Phillips Brooks, "what
patience must fill it as it feels the blows of the hammer, and knows
that success for it is simply to let itself be wrought into what
shape the master wills."

Man never reaches heights above his habitual thought.

It is not enough now and then to mount on wings of ecstasy into the
infinite.

We must habitually dwell there.

The great man is he who abides easily on heights to which others rise
occasionally and with difficulty.

Don't let the maxims of a low prudence daily dinned into your ears lower
the tone of your high ambition or check your aspirations. Hope lifts
us step by step up the mysterious ladder, the top of which no eye
hath ever seen.

Though we do not find what hope promised, yet we are stronger for the
climbing, and we get a broader outlook upon life which repays the
effort. Indeed, if we do not follow where hope beckons, we gradually
slide down the ladder in despair. Strive ever to be at the top of
your condition. A high standard is absolutely necessary.

CHAPTER XX.

"SAND."
I shall show the cinders of my spirits Through the ashes of my
chance.
--SHAKESPEARE.

Perseverance is a virtue That wins each god-like act, and plucks success
E'en from the spear-proof crest of rugged danger.
--WILLIAM HARVARD.

Never say "Fail" again.
--RICHELIEU.

It is the one neck nearer that wins the race and shows the blood; the one
pull more of the oar that proves the "beefiness of the fellow," as Oxford
men say; it is the one march more that wins the campaign; the five
minutes' more persistent courage that wins the fight.

Though your force be less than another's, you equal and out-master
your opponent if you continue it longer and concentrate it more.
--SMILES.

"I know no such unquestionable badge and ensign of a sovereign mind
as that tenacity of purpose which, through all changes of companions,
or parties, or fortunes, changes never, bates no jot of heart or
hope, but wearies out opposition and arrives at its port."

"Well done, Tommy Brooks!"

exclaimed his teacher in pleased surprise when the dunce of the school
spoke his piece without omitting a single word.

The other boys had laughed when he rose, for they expected a bad
failure. But when the rest of the class had tried, the teacher said
Tommy had done the best of all, and gave him the prize.

"And now tell me," said she, "how you learned the poem so well."
"Please, ma'am, it was the snail on the wall that taught me how to
do it," said Tommy. At this the other pupils laughed aloud, but the
teacher said: "You need not laugh, boys, for we may learn much
from such things as snails.

How did the snail teach you, Tommy?"
"I saw it crawl up the wall little by little," replied the boy. "It
did not stop nor turn back, but went on, and on; and I thought I would
do the same with the poem. So I learned it little by little, and did not
give up.

By the time the snail reached the top of the wall, I had learned the
whole poem."
"I may here impart the secret of what is called good and bad luck,"
said Addison.

"There are men who, supposing Providence to have an implacable spite against
them, bemoan in the poverty of old age the misfortunes of their
lives.

Luck forever runs against them, and for others. One with a good profession
lost his luck in the river, where he idled away his time a-fishing. Another
with a good trade perpetually burnt up his luck by his hot temper,
which provoked all his employes to leave him.

Another with a lucrative business lost his luck by amazing diligence
at everything but his own business.

Another who steadily followed his trade, as steadily followed the bottle.
Another who was honest and constant to his work, erred by his perpetual
misjudgment,--he lacked discretion. Hundreds lose their luck by
indulging sanguine expectations, by trusting fraudulent men, and by
dishonest gains. A man never has good luck who has a bad wife. I never
knew an early-rising, hard-working, prudent man, careful of his
earnings and strictly honest, who complained of his bad luck.

A good character, good habits, and iron industry are impregnable to the
assaults of the ill luck that fools are dreaming of.
But when I see a tatterdemalion creeping out of a grocery late in
the forenoon with his hands stuck into his pockets, the rim of his
hat turned up, and the crown knocked in, I know he has had bad
luck,--for the worst of all luck is to be a sluggard, a knave, or a
tippler."
"You have a difficult subject," said Anthony Trollope at Niagara Falls,
to an artist who had attempted to draw the spray of the waters. "All
subjects are difficult," was the reply, "to a man who desires to
do well."

"But yours, I fear, is impossible," said Trollope. "You have no
right to say so till I have finished my picture," protested the
artist.

"Tell Louisa to stick to her teaching; she can never succeed as a
writer." When her father delivered the rejected manuscript of a story
sent to James T.

Fields, editor of the _Atlantic Monthly_, with the above message,
Miss Alcott said, "Tell him I _will_ succeed as a writer, and some day
I shall write for the _Atlantic_." Not long after she sent an article
to the _Atlantic_ and received a check for $50. With the money she said
she bought "a second hand carpet for the parlor, a bonnet for her sister,
shoes and stockings for herself." Her father was calling upon Longfellow
some time after this, when Longfellow took the _Atlantic_, and
said, "I want to read to you Emerson's fine poem upon Thoreau's
flute."

Mr. Alcott interrupted him with delight and said, "My daughter Louisa
wrote that."
"Men talk as if victory were something fortunate," says Emerson. "_Work
is victory._ Wherever work is done victory is obtained. _There is no
chance and no blanks._ You want but one verdict; if you have your own,
you are secure of the rest. But if witnesses are wanted, witnesses are
near."

"Young gentlemen," said Francis Wayland, "remember that nothing can
stand day's work."
Alexander the Great exclaimed to his soldiers, disaffected after a
long campaign, "Go home and tell them that you left Alexander to
conquer the world alone."

"We discount only our own bills, and not those of private persons,"
said the cashier of the Bank of England, when a large bill was
offered drawn by Anselm Rothschild of Frankfort, on Nathan Rothschild
of London.

"Private persons!"

exclaimed Nathan, when told of the cashier's remark; "I will make
these gentlemen see what sort of private persons we are."

Three weeks later he presented a five-pound note at the bank at the
opening of the office. The teller counted out five sovereigns,
looking surprised that Baron Rothschild should have troubled himself
about such a trifle.

The baron examined the coins one by one, weighing them in the balance, as
he said "the law gave him the right to do," put them into a little canvas
bag, and offered a second, then a third, fourth, fiftieth, thousandth
note.

When a bag was full he handed it to a clerk in waiting, and proceeded
to fill another.

In seven hours he had changed £21,000, and, with nine employes of his house
similarly engaged, had occupied the tellers so busily in changing
$1,050,000 worth of notes that no one else could receive attention.
The bankers laughed, but the next morning Rothschild appeared with his
nine clerks and several drays to carry away the gold, remarking,
"These gentlemen refuse to pay my bills; I have sworn not to keep
theirs.

They can pay at their leisure, only I notify them that I have enough
to employ them for two months."

The smiles faded from the features of the bank officials, as they
thought of a draft of $55,000,000 in gold which they did not hold.

Next morning notice was given in the newspapers that the Bank of England
would pay Rothschild's bills as well as its own.

"Well," said Barnum to a friend in 1841, "I am going to buy the
American Museum." "Buy it!" exclaimed the astonished friend, who
knew that the showman had not a dollar; "what do you intend buying
it with?" "Brass," was the prompt reply, "for silver and gold have I
none."
Every one interested in public entertainments in New York knew
Barnum, and knew the condition of his pocket; but Francis Olmstead,
who owned the Museum building, consulted numerous references all
telling of "a good showman, who would do as he agreed," and accepted
a proposition to give security for the purchaser.

Mr. Olmstead was to appoint a money-taker at the door, and credit Barnum
toward the purchase with all above expenses and an allowance of
fifty dollars per month to support his wife and three children.

Mrs. Barnum gladly assented to the arrangement, and offered, if need be,
to cut down the household expenses to a little more than a dollar
a day.

Some six months later Mr. Olmstead happened to enter the ticket office
at noon, and found Barnum eating for dinner a few slices of bread and
some corned beef. "Is this the way you eat your dinner?" he asked.

"I have not eaten a warm dinner since I bought the Museum, except
on the Sabbath; and I intend never to eat another until I get out
of debt."

"Ah! you are safe, and will pay for the Museum before the year is out,"
said Mr. Olmstead, slapping the young man approvingly on the shoulder.

He was right, for in less than a year Barnum had paid every cent out
of the profits of the establishment.

A noted philosopher said: "The favors of fortune are like steep rocks;
only eagles and creeping things mount to the summit." Lord Campbell,
who became Chief Justice and Lord Chancellor of England and amassed
a large fortune, began life as a drudge in a printing office.

A little observation shows us that, as a rule, the men who accomplish
the most in the world are the most useful, and sensible members of
society, the men who are depended upon most in emergencies, the men
of backbone and stamina, the bone and sinew of their communities;
the men who can always be relied upon, who are healthiest and
happiest, are, as a rule, of ordinary mental calibre and medium
capacity.

But with persistent and untiring industry, these are they, after
all, who carry the burdens and reap the prizes of life. It is the men and
women who keep everlastingly at it, who do not believe themselves geniuses,
but who know that if they ever accomplish anything great, they
must do it by common drudgery and persistent industry and with an
unwavering aim in one pursuit.

Those who believe themselves geniuses are apt to scatter their efforts and
thus fritter away their great energies without accomplishing anything in
proportion to their high promise. Often the men who promise the most
pay the least.

Mrs. Frank Leslie often refers to the time she lived in her carpetless
attic while striving to pay her husband's obligations. She has fought
her way successfully through nine lawsuits, and has paid the entire debt.
She manages her ten publications entirely herself, signs all checks
and money-orders, makes all contracts, looks over all proofs, and
approves the make-up of everything before it goes to press. She has
developed great business ability, which no one dreamed she possessed.

A little boy was asked how he learned to skate. "Oh, by getting up
every time I fell down," he replied.

The boy Thorwaldsen, whose father died in the poorhouse, and whose education
was so scanty that he had to write his letters over many times
before they could be posted, by his indomitable perseverance, tenacity
and grit, fascinated the world with the genius which neither his
discouraging father, poverty, nor hardship could repress.

"It is all very well," said Charles J. Fox, "to tell me that a young
man has distinguished himself by a brilliant first speech.

He may go on, or he may be satisfied with his first triumph; but show
me a young man who has not succeeded at first, and nevertheless has
gone on, and I will back that young man to do better than most of those
who have succeeded at the first trial."

It was the last three days of the first voyage of Columbus that told.
All his years of struggle and study would have availed nothing if he had
yielded to the mutiny. It was all in those three days. But what
days!

"Often defeated in battle," said Macaulay of Alexander the Great, "he
was always successful in war." He might have said the same of Washington,
and, with appropriate changes, of all who win great triumphs of any
kind.

One of the greatest preachers of modern times, Lacordaire, failed again
and again.

Everybody said he would never make a preacher, but he was determined
to succeed, and in two years from his humiliating failures he was
preaching in Notre Dame to immense congregations.

Orange Judd was a remarkable example of success through grit. He
earned corn by working for farmers, carried it on his back to mill, brought
back the meal to his room, cooked it himself, milked cows for his
pint of milk per day, and lived on mush and milk for months together.

He worked his way through Wesleyan University, and took a three
years' post-graduate course at Yale.

Oh, the triumphs of this indomitable spirit of the conqueror! This it
was that enabled Franklin to dine on a small loaf in the printing-office
with a book in his hand. It helped Locke to live on bread and water in a
Dutch garret. It enabled Gideon Lee to go barefoot in the snow, half
starved and thinly clad.

It sustained Lincoln and Garfield on their hard journeys from the
log cabin to the White House.

The very reputation of being strong-willed, plucky, and indefatigable
is of priceless value.

It often cowes enemies and dispels at the start opposition to one's
undertakings which would otherwise be formidable.

"When you get into a tight place and everything goes against you,
till it seems as if you could not hold on a minute longer," said
Harriet Beecher Stowe, "never give up then, for that's just the
place and time that the tide'll turn."

"Never despair," says Burke, "but if you do, work on in despair."

Once when Marshal Ney was going into battle, looking down at his
knees which were smiting together, he said, "You may well shake;
you would shake worse yet if you knew where I am going to take you."

"Go it, William!" an old boxer was overheard saying to himself in the
midst of a fight; "at him again!--never say 'die'!"
A striking incident is related of the early experience of George Law,
who, in his day, was one of the most conspicuous financiers and capitalists
of New York City.

When he was a young man he went to New York, poor and friendless. One
day he was walking along the streets, hungry, not knowing where
his next meal would come from, and passed a new building in course
of erection.

Through some accident one of the hod carriers fell from the structure
and dropped dead at his feet.

Young Law, in his desperation, applied for the job to take the dead man's
place, and the place was given him.

He went to work, and this was how one of the wealthiest and shrewdest
New York business men got his start.

See young Disraeli, sprung from a hated and persecuted race; without
opportunity, pushing his way up through the middle classes, up through
the upper classes, until he stands self-poised upon the topmost
round of political and social power.

Scoffed, ridiculed, rebuffed, hissed from the House of Commons, he simply
says, "The time will come when you will hear me." The time did come, and
the boy with no chance swayed the sceptre of England for a quarter
of a century.

If impossibilities ever exist, popularly speaking, they ought to have
been found somewhere between the birth and the death of Kitto, that
deaf pauper and master of Oriental learning. But Kitto did not find
them there. In the presence of his decision and imperial energy they
melted away. Kitto begged his father to take him out of the poorhouse,
even if he had to subsist like the Hottentots. He told him that he
would sell his books and pawn his handkerchief, by which he thought he
could raise about twelve shillings. He said he could live upon blackberries,
nuts and field turnips, and was willing to sleep on a hayrick. Here
was real grit. What were impossibilities to such a resolute will?
Patrick Henry voiced that decision which characterized the great
men of the Revolution when he said, "Is life so dear, or peace so
sweet, as to be purchased at the price of chains and slavery?

Forbid it, Almighty God! I know not what course others may take; but
as for me, give me liberty or give me death!"
Look at Garrison reading this advertisement in a Southern paper:
"Five thousand dollars will be paid for the head of W. L. Garrison by
the Governor of Georgia."

Behold him again; a broadcloth mob is leading him through the streets
of Boston by a rope. He is hurried to jail.

See him return calmly and unflinchingly to his work, beginning at the point
at which he was interrupted. Note this heading in the _Liberator_,
the type of which he set himself in an attic on State Street, in
Boston: "I am in earnest, I will not equivocate, I will not excuse,
I will not retreat a single inch, and I will be heard."

Was Garrison heard?

Ask a race set free largely by his efforts. Even the gallows erected
in front of his own door did not daunt him.

He held the ear of an unwilling world with that burning word
"freedom," which was destined never to cease its vibrations until
it had breathed its sweet secret to the last slave.

At a time when abolitionists were dangerously unpopular, a crowd of
brawny Cape Cod fishermen had made such riotous demonstrations that
all the speakers announced, except Stephen Foster and Lucy Stone,
had fled from an open-air platform. "You had better run, Stephen," said
she; "they are coming." "But who will take care of you?" asked Foster.
"This gentleman will take care of me," she replied, calmly laying her
hand within the arm of a burly rioter with a club, who had just sprung
upon the platform. "Wh--what did you say?" stammered the astonished
rowdy, as he looked at the little woman; "yes, I'll take care of you,
and no one shall touch a hair of your head." With this he forced a way
for her through the crowd, and, at her earnest request, placed her
upon a stump and stood guard with his club while she delivered an
address so effective that the audience offered no further violence,
and even took up a collection of twenty dollars to repay Mr.

Foster for the damage his clothes had received when the riot was at its
height.

"Luck is ever waiting for something to turn up," says Cobden; "labor, with
keen eyes and strong will, will turn up something. Luck lies in bed,
and wishes the postman would bring him the news of a legacy; labor
turns out at six o'clock, and with busy pen or ringing hammer lays
the foundation of a competence.

Luck whines; labor whistles. Luck relies on chance; labor, on
character."
There is no luck, for all practical purposes, to him who is not
striving, and whose senses are not all eagerly attent.

What are called accidental discoveries are almost invariably made
by those who are looking for something. A man incurs about as much risk
of being struck by lightning as by accidental luck. There is, perhaps,
an element of luck in the amount of success which crowns the efforts
of different men; but even here it will usually be found that the
sagacity with which the efforts are directed and the energy with
which they are prosecuted measure pretty accurately the luck contained
in the results achieved.

Apparent exceptions will be found to relate almost wholly to single
undertakings, while in the long run the rule will hold good. Two
pearl-divers, equally expert, dive together and work with equal energy.

One brings up a pearl, while the other returns empty-handed. But let
both persevere and at the end of five, ten or twenty years it will
be found that they succeeded almost in exact proportion to their
skill and industry.

The beauties of the
English country-side, with plum-blossom, primroses, cowslips, green
meadows, and budding woodlands, compared very favorably with even the
lovely Sicilian landscape, and Carmel acknowledged frankly that
Cheverley had a charm all of its own.

"I never knew how much I loved it till I left it, and then saw it
again!" she declared. "There's something about the place that grips."

"Your Ingleton blood showing, of course," remarked Everard. "All your
ancestors have lived at the Chase, and it would be queer if you hadn't
some sort of a natural feeling for it. People mostly have for the place
where their ancestors were born."

"Indeed! I believe my ancestors were all of them born in bed, so no
doubt that's why I have such a natural feeling for bed, and don't want
to get up in the mornings!" piped Dulcie, who never could resist a quip
at Everard. "I don't despise Old England, but Sicily's the land for me,
and I'm going back to Montalesso some day. Aunt Nita says so! Lilias can
please herself, but, as soon as Mr. Bowden lets me leave school, I shall
say 'Ta-ta! I'm off to the land of oranges and lemons!'"

"And in the meantime you'll have to make up at school for this long
holiday," reminded Cousin Clare. "I'm afraid you'll find yourself
terribly behindhand when you get back to Chilcombe!"

The occupants of the Blue Grotto had much to talk about when they met
again.

"It was hateful having the dor. all to ourselves," confided Gowan. "We
never had such a slow time in our lives. We had a fearful scare, too! We
thought Miss Walters was going to put Laurette with us! She'd had a
terrible quarrel with Truie and Hester, and things were rather hot in
the Gold bedroom. Fortunately, however, they cooled down, and patched up
their quarrels. Bertha and I were simply shaking, though. I heard Miss
Walters say to Laurette: 'There's a spare bed at present in the Blue
room,' and we thought she was moving in for the rest of the term! Think
of being boxed up with Laurette! Wouldn't it have been absolutely
grisly?"

"Nothing at all particularly exciting happened while you were away!"
groused Bertha. "We got all the drudgery, and you had all the fun!"

"But we brought you some presents! Just wait till I get to the bottom of
my box!" put in Carmel.

"Oh, have you?" cried Bertha excitedly. "What have you brought? Don't
stop to arrange those blouses! Dump your things out anyhow: I can't
wait! I've never had a foreign present in my life before. O-o-oh! What
an absolutely ducky little locket! Carmel, you're a darling! You
couldn't have given me anything in the whole of this wide world that I
should have liked better. I just love it!"

Though the Ingletons' immediate friends at Chilcombe had been rather
inclined to look with the green eyes of envy upon their long holiday in
Sicily, and consequent immunity from Easter examinations, they were
mollified by the pretty gifts which the girls had brought them, and
while they still proclaimed them "luckers out of all reason," they
forgave them their good fortune, and received them back once more into
the bosom of their special clique. The Mafia had indeed languished
considerably during their absence. Nobody had troubled very much to keep
up its activities, and it had held only one or two half-hearted
meetings. Now that its nine members were together again, however, the
secret society set to work with renewed vigor. Insensibly it had rather
altered its scope. It had begun originally for the purpose of resisting
the aggressions of Laurette, Hester, and Truie, but had grown into a
sort of confraternity for private fun. The meetings held in each other's
dormitories were of a hilarious description, and included games. At
Gowan's suggestion they even went a step farther, and produced literary
contributions--"of a sort," as she wisely qualified the rather appalling
innovation.

"I don't mean exactly Shakespeare, you know," she explained. "But you
can write poetry if you care to, or make up something funny like
_Punch_. Everybody has got to do something!"

"Not really?" objected Dulcie, wrinkling her forehead into lines of
acute distress. "Oh, Goody! It's as bad as lessons every bit. Look here,
I'm not clever, and I don't make any pretence at poetry or the rest of
it. You'll just have to leave me out."

"Pull yourself together, Dulcie, my child!" said Gowan calmly. "You'll
either be turned bodily out of the Mafia, or you'll do your bit the
same as everybody else. Don't for a moment imagine you're coming to
listen to other people's industry, and bring nothing of your own with
you! That's not the way we manage things here. If you don't show up with
a manuscript in your hand, you'll find yourself walking down the passage
with the door slammed behind you. Yes, I mean it! You're a decent enough
little person, but you're apt to be slack. You must get some stiffening
into you this time."

"Poor little me!" wailed Dulcie.

"No poorer than all the rest of us!"

"Yes, I am, for I haven't got the same thingumbobs in my brains!
Couldn't make up poetry to save my life! May I write a letter?"

"Why, yes, if you'd rather!"

"I feel it would be my most adequate form of self-expression," minced
Dulcie, mimicking Miss Walters' very best literary manner. "I trust my
contribution will be kept for publication. Later on, when I'm famous, it
may become of value. The world will never forget that I was educated at
Chilcombe Hall. A neat brass plate will some day be placed upon the door
of the Blue Grotto to mark the dormitory I slept in, and my bed will be
preserved in the local museum!"

"With you (stuffed) inside it, labeled 'Specimen of a Champion
Slacker'!" snorted Gowan. "Now, no nonsense! If you don't turn up at
the meeting with a manuscript, you won't be admitted!"

"Bow-wow! How very severe we've grown, all of a sudden!" mocked Dulcie,
as she danced away. "You take it for granted," she called over her
shoulder, "that my contribution is going to mark the literary low tide.
Perhaps, after all, it will make as big an impression as anybody else's.
There!"

On the evening fixed for the meeting, nine girls put in an appearance at
the Blue Grotto, all flaunting manuscripts in a very conspicuous
fashion. They seated themselves upon Bertha's and Dulcie's beds, and
having as a kind of foregone conclusion, elected Gowan as President of
the Ceremonies, got straight to business. Gowan was justice personified,
and fearful of even unintentional favoritism, she insisted upon the
company drawing lots for the order in which their effusions were to be
read. The Fates decided thus: Carmel, Noreen, Edith, Lilias, Gowan,
Bertha, Prissie, Phillida, Dulcie.

Carmel, hustled off the bed to be given first hearing, took the chair of
honor reserved for each literary star in turn, and having waited a
moment to allow undue giggling to subside, opened her sheets of exercise
paper and began:

    "OLD ENGLAND

    "I never can quite see why it is called 'Old' England, because I
     don't suppose it is any older than any other part of the world,
     really, but perhaps 'Old' is a term of endearment, because I notice
     when any girl likes me, she generally calls me 'old sport,' or 'old
     thing.' Well, at any rate here I am back in Old England, and it is
     a wonderfully nice sort of a country. I specially like the
     policemen, who wave their white gloves and stop all the traffic in
     the street in a second, and the railway porters who yell out the
     names of the stations, and the little boys who cry the newspapers.
     There are no beggars in Old England like there are in Sicily, and
     no mosquitoes, and no earthquakes. At least not proper ones. I
     thought we were all beggars when we tried to raise money for the
     'Waifs and Strays'; Bertha buzzes worse than any mosquito when she
     wants to borrow my penknife, and I thought there was an earthquake
     the last time Laurette danced.

    "I like all the old houses and castles and cathedrals in Old
     England, and especially the old gardens. What I don't like are my
     old lessons. Old England is a jolly, hospitable, comfortable, green
     sort of country, and I am quite at home here now, so hurrah! Old
     England for ever!"

Carmel, having read her manuscript as rapidly as possible, vacated the
chair in a breathless condition, and pushed Noreen into her place.
If you marry wealthy,--which is marrying well according to the modern
popular idea,--you dress more elegantly, cultivate more fashionable
society, leave your thinking for your husband and your minister to
do for you, and become in the economy of life but a sentient
nonentity.

    If you are true to the grand passion, and accept with it poverty,
you bake, brew, scrub, spank the children, and talk with your
neighbor over the back fence for recreation, spending the years
literally like the horse in a treadmill, all for the lack of a
purpose,--a purpose sufficiently potent to convert the latent talent
into a gem of living beauty, a creative force which makes all
adjuncts secondary, like planets to their central sun.

    Choose some one course or
       calling, and master it in
     all its details, sleep by it,
       swear by it, work for it,
     and, if marriage crowns you, it
       can but add new glory to your
     labor."
       Dr.

Hall says that the world has urgent need of "girls who are mother's right
hand; girls who can cuddle the little ones next best to mamma, and
smooth out the tangles in the domestic skein when things get twisted;
girls whom father takes comfort in for something better than beauty,
and the big brothers are proud of for something that outranks the
ability to dance or shine in society.

Next, we want girls of sense,--girls who have a standard of their own
regardless of conventionalities, and are independent enough to live up
to it; girls who simply won't wear a trailing dress on the street
to gather up microbes and all sorts of defilement; girls who don't
wear a high hat to the theatre, or lacerate their feet with high
heels and endanger their health with corsets; girls who will wear
what is pretty and becoming and snap their fingers at the dictates
of fashion when fashion is horrid and silly.

    And we want good girls,--girls who are sweet, right straight out
from the heart to the lips; innocent and pure and simple girls,
with less knowledge of sin and duplicity and evil-doing at twenty
than the pert little schoolgirl of ten has all too often.

    And we want careful girls and prudent
     girls, who think enough of the generous
     father who toils to maintain them in comfort,
     and of the gentle mother who denies herself much that they may
have so many pretty things, to count the cost and draw the line
between the essentials and non-essentials; girls who strive to save
and not to spend; girls who are unselfish and eager to be a joy and
a comfort in the home rather than an expense and a useless burden.

    We want girls with hearts,--girls who are full of
     tenderness and sympathy, with tears
     that flow for other people's ills, and
     smiles that light outward their own beautiful thoughts.

    We have lots of clever girls, and brilliant girls,
     and witty girls. Give us a
     consignment of jolly girls, warm-hearted and
     impulsive girls; kind and entertaining to their own folks, and
with little desire to shine in the garish world.

    With a few such girls scattered around, life would
     freshen up for all of us, as the weather does
     under the spell of summer showers."
     

    CHAPTER VI.
     
     WILL YOU PAY THE PRICE?
     

    The gods sell anything and to everybody at a fair
     price.
     --EMERSON.
     

    All desire knowledge, but no one is willing
     to pay the price.
     --JUVENAL.
     

There is no royal path which leads to geometry.
--EUCLID.

There is no road to success but through a clear, strong purpose. A
purpose underlies character, culture, position, attainment of whatever
sort.
--T. T. MUNGER.

Remember you have not a sinew whose law of strength is not action;
you have not a faculty of body, mind, or soul, whose law of improvement
is not energy.
--E. B. HALL.

"We have but what we make, and every good Is locked by nature in a
granite hand, Sheer labor must unclench."

         "Oh, if I could thus put a dream on canvas!"

    exclaimed an enthusiastic young artist, pointing to a most beautiful
painting.

    "Dream on canvas!" growled the master, "it is the ten thousand touches
     with the brush you must learn to put on canvas that make your
     dream."
     "There is but one method of attaining excellence," said Sydney
     Smith, "and that is hard labor."
     "If only Milton's imagination could have conceived his visions," says
     Waters, "his consummate industry alone could have carved the
     immortal lines which enshrine them. If only Newton's mind could
     reach out to the secrets of nature, even his genius could only
     do it by the homeliest toil. The works of Bacon are not midsummer-night's
     dreams, but, like coral islands, they have risen from the depths of
     truth, and formed their broad surfaces above the ocean by the
     minutest accretions of persevering labor. The conceptions of
     Michael Angelo would have perished like a night's phantasy, had
     not his industry given them permanence."
     Salvini contributes the following to the _Century_ as to his habits
     of study before he had established himself as a past master of
     tragedy: "I imposed upon myself a new method of study.
     While I was busying myself with the part of Saul, I read and
     reread the Bible, so as to become impregnated with the appropriate
     sentiments, manners and local color.
     When I took up Othello, I pored over the history of the Venetian
     Republic and that of the Moorish invasion of Spain. I studied the
     passions of the Moors, their art of war, their religious beliefs,
nor did I overlook the romance of Giraldi Cinthio, in order the
better to master that sublime character.

         I did not concern myself about
              a superficial
                   study of the words, or of
                        some point of scenic effect, or of greater or less accentuation
of certain phrases with a view to win passing applause; a vaster
horizon opened out before me--an infinite sea on which my bark could
navigate in security, without fear of falling in with reefs."

His method was not new, but he considered it so, and gives his opinion
in quotation-marks. He speaks of characters with which, his name
is not always associated by writers on the stage, but is correct, I
think, in the main.

Many years ago a little boy entered Harrow school and was put in a class
beyond his years, wherein all the other boys had the advantage of
previous instruction.

His master used to reprove his dullness, but all his efforts could
not raise him from the lowest place in the class.

The boy finally procured the elementary books which the other boys had
studied. He devoted the hours of play and many of the hours of sleep
to mastering the elementary principles of these books. This boy was
soon at the head of his class and the pride of Harrow. The statue of that
boy, Sir William Jones, stands to-day in St.

Paul's Cathedral; for he lived to be the greatest Oriental scholar
of Europe.

"What is the secret of success in business?"

asked a friend of Cornelius Vanderbilt. "Secret! there is no secret
about it," replied the commodore; "all you have to do is to attend
to your business and go ahead." If you would adopt Vanderbilt's
method, know your business, attend to it, and keep down expenses until
your fortune is safe from business perils.

"Work or starve," is nature's motto,--and it is written on the stars and
the sod alike,--starve mentally, starve morally, starve physically.

It is an inexorable law of nature that whatever is not used, dies. "Nothing
for nothing," is her maxim.

If we are idle and shiftless by choice, we shall be nerveless and powerless
by necessity.

The mottoes of great men often give us glimpses of the secret of their
characters and success. "Work! work! work!" was the motto of Sir Joshua
Reynolds, David Wilkie, and scores of other men who have left their
mark upon the world.

Voltaire's motto was "Toujours au travail" (always at work).

Scott's maxim was "Never be doing nothing."

Michael Angelo was a wonderful worker.

He even slept in his clothes ready to spring to his work as soon as
he awoke.

He kept a block of marble in his bedroom that he might get up in
the night and work when he could not sleep.

His favorite device was an old man in a go-cart, with an hour-glass
upon it, bearing this inscription: "Ancora imparo" (still I'm
learning). Even after he was blind he would ask to be wheeled into the
Belvidere, to examine the statues with his hands. Cobden used to say,
"I'm working like a horse without a moment to spare." It was said that
Handel, the musician, did the work of a dozen men. Nothing ever daunted
him. He feared neither ridicule nor defeat. Lord Palmerston worked like
a slave, even in his old age. Being asked when he considered a man in his
prime, he replied, "Seventy-nine," that being his own age. Humboldt
was one of the world's great workers. In summer he arose at four
in the morning for thirty years. He used to say work was as much of a
necessity as eating or sleeping. Sir Walter Scott was a phenomenal
worker. He wrote the "Waverley Novels" at the rate of twelve volumes
a year. He averaged a volume every two months during his whole working
life.

What an example is this to the young men of to-day, of the possibilities
of an earnest life! Edmund Burke was one of the most prodigious workers
that ever lived.

George Stephenson used to work at meal time, getting out loads of coal
while the miners were at dinner in order that he might earn a few
extra shillings to buy a spelling-book and an arithmetic.

His associates thought he was very foolish, and asked him what good
it would do to learn to read and cipher. He told them he was
determined to improve his mind; so he studied whenever he could
snatch a minute before the engine's fire, and in every possible
situation until he had a good, practical, common-sense education.

Garibaldi's father decided that Guiseppe should be a minister, because
the boy was so sorry for a cricket which lost its leg. Samuel Morse's
father concluded that his son would preach well because he could not
keep his head above water in a dangerous attempt to catch bait in
the Mystic River.

President Dwight told young Morse he would never make a painter, and
hinted that he never would amount to much any way if he did not
study more. Although under the teaching of West and Allston in London,
he became a tolerable portrait painter, he did not find his sphere
until returning from England on a sailing vessel, he heard Professor
Jackson explain an electrical experiment in Paris, when the thought
of the telegraph flashed into his mind and he found no rest, until
he flashed over the wire the first message, "What hath God wrought!"

on the experimental line between Baltimore and Washington:
this was May 24, 1844.

William H. Vanderbilt was by far the wealthiest man in the world.
Chauncey M. Depew estimated his fortune at two hundred millions. He
left his eight children ten millions each, except Cornelius and William
K., who had sixty-five millions each.

Commodore Vanderbilt, his father, amassed a fortune of eighty
millions of dollars in his own lifetime, and that too at a time
when it was more difficult to make money than it is now.

Mr. C. P. Huntington is a good example of a self-made man. His father
was a Connecticut farmer. The farm was left to him, but he traded it
off for a lot of clocks which he peddled in mining districts for gold
dust and nuggets. He and Mark Hopkins formed a partnership and opened
a hardware store in California.

They united with Leland Stanford in the construction of a railroad, and
they all got rich rapidly.

Mr.
Huntington is one of the greatest railroad operators of the country.
He always acted upon the principle that he would control the stock of
any road in which he was interested. He is one of the most methodical
men of all the millionaires of this country. He is very plain in his
manner, strictly temperate, and very abstemious in his living. He said
he never knew what it was to be tired.

Russell Sage used to keep a grocery store in Troy, N.

Y. He finally associated himself with Jay Gould, who used to be a
constant borrower of money of him.

Mr. Sage probably keeps more ready money on hand than any other
millionaire. He can nearly always control ten millions or more at call.
He has never speculated in stocks to any extent.

Mr. Sage's word is as good as any bond. He has no taste for ordinary
diversions, except driving.

Philip D. Armour, who has the appearance of a prosperous farmer, was
born on a farm near Watertown, N. J. He became fired with a desire to
see the "Boundless West."

    His mind seemed to run to hogs,
     and with a financial instinct he made
     up his mind that there was a fortune
     in transporting the hogs from where
     they were so plenty to where
     there were so few of them and so many to eat them.

He could now purchase every hog in the world and then have money left
to buy a railroad or two.

Mrs. Hetty Green is probably the richest woman in the world.

Her fortune has grown from the little industry of her father in New
Bedford, Mass.
She has raised the nine millions left her by her father and nine millions
left her by her aunt to thirty millions. She is a woman of great ability
and courage. She once took with her five millions of dollars of
securities in a satchel on a street car to deposit with her banker on
Wall street.

The probabilities are that billionaires will be as plentiful in the
twentieth century as millionaires are to-day, through hard work,
self-denial, rigid economy, method, accuracy, and strict temperance,
for not one of the self-made millionaires are intemperate. John D.
Rockefeller never tastes intoxicating liquor. He seems as unvarying
in his method and system as the laws of the universe. Jay Gould did
not use wine or intoxicating liquor of any kind. Mr. Huntington does
not even drink coffee, while William Waldorf Astor merely takes a
sip of wine for courtesy's sake.

Not one of the leading millionaires uses tobacco, and not one of them
is profane. Very rich men are almost always honest in their dealings,
so far as their word is concerned.

William Waldorf Astor, until recently, has been considered the richest
man in the world, but John D. Rockefeller surpasses him now, it is
said. The whole wealth of Croesus was little more than the income
of this modern Croesus for one year. Mr. Rockefeller controls about
eighty or ninety millions of capital stock in the Standard Oil
Trust.

The Standard Oil Company is one of the best managed corporations in the
world.

Two centuries and a quarter ago, a little, tempest-tossed,
weather-beaten bark, barely escaped from the jaws of the wild
Atlantic, landed upon the bleakest shore of New England.

From her deck disembarked a hundred and one careworn exiles.

To the casual observer no event could seem more insignificant. The
contemptuous eye of the world scarcely deigned to notice it. Yet the
famous vessel that bore Cæsar and his fortunes, carried but an ignoble
freight compared with that of the Mayflower. Though landed by a
treacherous pilot upon a barren and inhospitable coast, they sought
neither richer fields nor a more congenial climate, but liberty and
opportunity.

A lady once asked Turner the secret of his great success.

"I have no secret, madam, but hard work."
"This is a secret that many never learn, and they don't succeed because
they fail to learn it. Labor is the genius that changes the world from
ugliness to beauty, and the great curse to a great blessing."
See Balzac, in his lonely garret, toiling, toiling, waiting, waiting,
amid poverty and hunger, but neither hunger, debt, poverty nor
discouragement could induce him to swerve a hair's breadth from his
purpose. He could wait, even while a world scoffed.

"Mankind is more indebted to industry than to ingenuity," says Addison;
"the gods set up their favors at a price and industry is the purchaser."

Rome was a mighty nation while industry led her people, but when
her great conquests of wealth and slaves placed her citizens above work,
that moment her glory began to fade, and vice and corruption, induced
by idleness, doomed the proud city to an ignominious history. Even Cicero,
Rome's great orator, said, "All artisans are engaged in a disgraceful
occupation;" and Aristotle said, "The best regulated states will not
permit a mechanic to be a citizen, for it is impossible for one who lives
the life of a mechanic, or hired servant, to practice a life of
virtue. Some were born to be slaves." But, fortunately there came a
mightier than Rome, Cicero or Aristotle, whose magnificent life and
example forever lifted the false ban from labor and redeemed it from
disgrace. He gave dignity to the most menial service, and significance
to labor.

Christ did not say, "Come unto me all ye pleasure hunters, ye indolent
and ye lazy;" but "Come all ye that _labor_ and are _heavy laden_."

Columbus was a persistent and practical, as well as an intellectual hero.
He went from one state to another, urging kings and emperors to
undertake the first visiting of a world which his instructed spirit
already discerned in the far-off seas.

He first tried his own countrymen at Genoa, but found none ready
to help him.

He then went to Portugal, and submitted his project to John II., who laid
it before his council.

It was scouted as extravagant and chimerical. Nevertheless, the king
endeavored to steal Columbus's idea. A fleet was sent forth in the
direction indicated by the navigator, but, being frustrated by
storms and winds, it returned to Lisbon after four days' voyaging.

Columbus returned to Genoa, and again renewed his propositions to
the Republic, but without success.

Nothing discouraged him. The finding of the New World was the
irrevocable object of his life. He went to Spain, and landed at the
town of Palos, in Andalusia. He went by chance to a convent of
Franciscans, knocked at the door and asked for a little bread and
water. The prior gratefully received the stranger, entertained him,
and learned from him the story of his life. He encouraged him in his
hopes, and furnished him with an admission to the Court of Spain,
then at Cordova.

King Ferdinand received him graciously, but before coming to a
decision he desired to lay the project before a council of his
wisest men at Salamanca.

Columbus had to reply, not only to the scientific arguments laid
before him, but to citations from the Bible.

The Spanish clergy declared that the theory of the antipodes was
hostile to the faith.

The earth, they said, was an immense flat disk; and if there was a
new earth beyond the ocean, then all men could not be descended
from Adam.

_Columbus was considered a fool._
Still bent on his idea, he wrote to the King of England, then to
the King of France, without effect.

At last, in 1492, Columbus was introduced by Louis de Saint Angel to
Queen Isabella of Spain.

The friends who accompanied him pleaded his cause with so much force
and conviction that he at length persuaded the queen to aid him.

Lord Ellenborough was a great worker.

He had a very hard time in getting a start at the bar, but was
determined never to relax his industry until success came to him.

When he was worked down to absolute exhaustion, he had this card which
he kept constantly before his eyes, lest he might be tempted to relax his
efforts: "Read or Starve."
Show me a man who has made fifty thousand dollars, and I will show
you in that man an equivalent of energy, attention to detail,
trustworthiness, punctuality, professional knowledge, good address,
common sense, and other marketable qualities.

The farmer respects his savings bank book not unnaturally, for it
declares with all the solemnity of a sealed and stamped document
that for a certain length of time he rose at six o'clock each morning
to oversee his labors, that he patiently waited upon seasonable
weather, that he understood buying and selling.

To the medical man, his fee serves as a medal to indicate that he was
brave enough to face small pox and other infectious diseases, and
his self-respect is fostered thereby.

The barrister's brief is marked with the price of his legal knowledge,
of his eloquence, or of his brave endurance during a period of
hope-deferred brieflessness.

A rich man asked Howard Burnett to do a little thing for his album.

Burnett complied and charged a thousand francs.

       "But it took you only five minutes," objected the rich man.

"Yes, but it took me thirty years to learn how to do it in five minutes."

"I prepared that sermon," said a young sprig of divinity, "in half an
hour, and preached it at once, and thought nothing of it." "In
that," said an older minister, "your hearers are at one with you, for
they also thought nothing of it."
Virgil seems to have accomplished about four lines a week; but then they
have lasted eighteen hundred years and will last eighteen hundred
more.

Seven years Virgil is said to have expended in the composition of the
Georgics, and they could all be printed in about seven columns of
an ordinary newspaper.

Tradition reports that he was in the habit of composing a few lines in
the morning and spending the rest of the day in polishing them.
Campbell used to say that if a poet made one good line a week, he did
very well indeed; but Moore thought that if a poet did his duty,
he could get a line done every day.

What an army of young men enters the success-contest every year as raw
recruits! Many of them are country youths flocking to the cities
to buy success.
Clothbound, with Attractive Color Designs.

PRICE, 60 CENTS EACH.

THE GIRL SCOUTS AT MISS ALLENS SCHOOL

THE GIRL SCOUTS AT CAMP

THE GIRL SCOUTS' GOOD TURN

THE GIRL SCOUTS' CANOE TRIP

THE GIRL SCOUTS' RIVALS

THE GIRL SCOUTS ON THE RANCH

THE GIRL SCOUTS' VACATION ADVENTURES

THE GIRL SCOUTS' MOTOR TRIP

For sale by all booksellers, or sent postpaid on receipt of price by the
Publishers

A. L. BURT COMPANY
114-120 EAST 23rd STREET      NEW YORK


       *       *       *       *       *


The Camp Fire Girls Series

By HILDEGARD G. FREY

A Series of Outdoor Stories for Girls 12 to 16 Years.

General Marion, Colonel Malmady, and General Pickens deal the force
with great gallantry and good behavior; and the SA fought with a
property of soul and strength that reflects the high-pitched glory
upon that collection of soldiers

._Paying through the Nose, and Etymology of Shilling_ (Vol. i., p.

335.).--Odin, they say, laid a nose-tax on ever Swede,--a penny a
nose.

(Grimm, _Deutsche Rechts Alterthümer_, p. 299.)

I think people not able to pay forfeited "the prominence on the
face, which is the organ of scent, and emunctory of the brain," as
good Walker says.

It was according to the rule, "Qui non habet in ære, luat in pelle."

Still we "count" or "tell noses," when computing, for instance, how
many persons of the company are to pay the reckoning.

For sale by all booksellers, or sent postpaid on receipt of price by the
Publishers

A. L. BURT COMPANY
114-120 EAST 23rd STREET      NEW YORK