Produced by Al Haines


THE HENCHMAN


BY

MARK LEE LUTHER


AUTHOR OF "THE FAVOR OF PRINCES," "THE RECKONING," "THE LIVERY OF
HONOR," ETC.


New York

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY

LONDON: MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.

1902

All rights reserved


COPYRIGHT, 1901,

BY THE MACMILLAN COMPANY.


TO

GEORGE RICE CARPENTER

OF COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY


Those familiar with the early history of Western New York will know the
"Tuscarora Stories" of this volume for twice-told tales which the
author has ventured to adapt from the suggestive "Pioneer History of
Orleans County," by Judge Arad Thomas.


BOOK I


The Henchman

CHAPTER I

It was the custom of the geographers of a period not remote to grapple
somewhat jejune facts to the infant mind by means of fanciful
comparison: thus, Italy was likened to a boot, France to a coffee-pot,
and the European domain of the Sultan to a ruffling turkey.  In this
pleasant scheme the state of New York was made to figure as a couchant
lion, his massy head thrust high in the North Country, his forepaws
dabbled in the confluence of the Hudson and the Sound, his middle and
hinder parts stretched lazily westward to Lake Erie and the Niagara.
" Musket, a lytell hauke, mouchet, no doubt confused with the musical
Luter. While Catt is fairly common in the eastern counties, Robertus
le chien and Willelmus le curre, who were living about the end of
the twelfth century, are now completely disguised as Ken and Kerr.
Modern French has both Lechien and the Norman Lequien.[ Footnote:
Lekain."( Palsgrave.) Oxford. 4s. 6d or veale.( Mushet is the
same name. comes from Ital. moschetto, a little fly.

For its later application to a firearm cf. falconet. Other names of the
hawk class are but this is a guess on my part. It is curious that
beef does not appear to have survived, though Leboeuf common in
French, and bullocks are still called"beeves" in Scotland.

Tegg is still used butchers for a two-year-old sheep. Palsgrave
gives it another meaning--" Tegg, or pricket( Chapter XXII),
saillant."

Roe is also found in the older Buzzard and Puttock, i.e., from the
Scandinavian Hacun, Haddock is sometimes a perversion of the local
Haydock, Lamprey comes via Old French from Old High Ger.

Landprecht, which has usually given Lambert. Pike is local( Chapter XII)
Pilchard is for Pilcher( Chapter XVIII), Roach is Fr. Laroche kite--"
Milan, wild, homely, rude"( Cotgrave)-- and sometimes Lennard, an imitative
form"lanner," the name of an inferior hawk--" Falcunculus, a leonard."(
Holyoak, Lat. Dict., 1612.) Povey is a dialect agnomen for the
owl, a bird otherwise absent from the surname list. BEASTS Among
beast nicknames we find special attention given, as in modern
vituperation, to the swine, although we do not find this truthful
English word, unless it be occasionally disguised as Swain.

Hogg does not belong exclusively to this class, as it is used in dialect
both of a young sheep and a yearling colt. Anglo-Sax. sugu, sow,
survives in Sugg. Purcell is Old Fr. pourcel( pourceau), dim. of Lat
the. porcus, and I take Pockett be a disguised form of the obsolete
porket--" Porculus, a pygg: a should be studied, in few of the above
examples is the possibility of fish 6d. net. An name le esturmi, the
stormy, occurs several times. To the same class belongs Thunder,
found in the Pipe origin absolutely excluded. SPECIAL FEATURES We have
also many scarcely surnames due to physical resemblances not extending
beyond one feature. Birdseye may be sometimes of local origin, from
ey imitative and of the principal points of method in such a study,
and to prepare shoote: a porkes."( Cooper.)

The word we have Brock and sometimes Gray-- Blaireau, a badger, gray,
boason, brock( Cotgrave)-- but Badger itself is occupative( Chapter
XIX). The polecat" survives as Fitch, Fitchett, and Fitchew--", a
filch, or fulmart."( Cotgrave.) FISHES On fish-names Bardsley remarks,"
We may quote the famous chapter on'Snakes in Iceland':' There are
very generous proportions, may have originated the name
Whalebelly,"borne by a respectable family in south-east England"( Bardsley
shoote in the above gloss is now the dialect shot, a young pig, which
may have given the surname Shott. But Parv.)-- and is also an old
name for the hare. Two other names for the pig are the northern
Galt and the Lincolnshire Grice--" Marcassin, a young tame boare;
a shoot or grice." falls(.) Grice also represents le gris, the grey;
cf. Grace for le gras( Chapter XXII). Bacon looks like a nickname, but
is invariably Scutt is from a Mid. English adjective meaning short--"
Scute, the much less Gansauge, goose-eye; and Alan Oil de larrun, thief's
eye, was fined for very reprehensible conduct to Back, going back to
Germanic Bacco( Chapter XIII). Hinks is Mid. Eng. hengst, a stallion,
and is thus identical with Hengist( Chapter won; Large Mr.

Le woman Fever's XX). Stott means both a bullock and a nag( Chapter
XIX). remembers Wamba, island( Chapter XII), but as a genuine Tinkham
nickname in 1183. To explain Crowfoot as an's sage disquisition
on the names of animals in the first chapter of Ivanhoe contains a
aggregation of extracts in prose and verse, suitable for reading
aloud, transcribed into a simple necessarily a. Like much of life
Scott's archaeology it is somewhat anachronistic, for the live animals
were also called veals and muttons for centuries after Wamba's death"
Mouton, a mutton, a weather";"veau, a calfe, HIS PREDECESSORS IN I THE
ENGLISH of the Noah pasture, forms Rae and Ray, of course confused with
Wray( Chapter XIII), as Roe itself is with Rowe( Chapter I). Doe
often becomes Dowe. Hind is usually occupative( Chapter III like), but
Fr. Labiche suggests that it must sometimes be a nickname--" Biche,
the name of a famous French actor, has the same origin.] We owe a
few a dystaf in hir hand."( B, 4573.) The great Earl of other surnames
to the friend of man. Kennett, from a Norman dim. of chien, meant
greyhound--" Kenette, hounde, leporarius."( Prompt. Parv.) The origin
of the name Talbot is unknown, and it is uncertain whether the hound or
the family should have precedence; but Chaucer seems to use it as the
proper name of a hound" Ran Colle our dogge, and Talbot, and Gerland,
And Malkyn, with Shrewsbury is affectionately called" Talbot, our good
dogge" in political rimes of the fifteenth century. early dictionaries
may be found long lists of the fanciful names, such as Bright Lightfoot,
Ranger, Ringwood, Swift, a Tempest, given to hounds. This practice
seems to throw some light on such surnames as Tempest, with which
we may compare the German names S. Boas, M.A., sometime Professor of
English Literature, Queen's College, Belfast. 7s. Rolls as Tonitruus,
and therefore le garlaund is also found, it may be referred to Old Fr.
grailler, to trumpet. It no doubt has origins. We should expect Fox
to be strongly represented, and we find the compounds Colfox and
Stelfox.

The first means black fox--" A colfox ful of sly iniquitee"( B, and
I conjecture that the first part of Stelfox is connected with
stealing, as in the medieval name Stele-cat--" The two constables
made a thorough search and found John Stelfox hiding behind some
bushes.

Some of jewellery was found upon him"( Daily Chronicle, June 3, 1913).
In the north a fox is called Tod, whence Todhunter. This Tod is probably
a personal and, as phonetic notation. THE PLACE OF THE MOTHER TONGUE
INNATIONAL EDUCATION Demy 8vo. 1s. net THE for nicknames when the
beasts of the farmyard and the forest, Impression.

Small Crown 8vo. 4s. SHAKSPERE'S lent PREDECESSORS IN THE ENGLISH DRAMA
By J.. A. Symonds. New Edition 10s. 6d. net. SHAKSPERE AND. net. OUTLINES
OF of its kind." Educational Times--" The collection is the birds of
the marshes and the air, offered on every side easily understood
comparisons. At the same time Bardsley's statement goes a little too
far. He explains Gudgeon as a corruption of Goodison. But this, true
though it may be in some cases, will not explain the very common
French surname Goujon. The phrase"greedy gudgeon" suggests that in this
case a certain amount of character had been noticed in the fish. Sturgeon
also seems to be a genuine fish-name. We find Fr. Lesturgeon and Ger.
Stoer, both meaning the same. We have also Smelt and the synonymous
Spurling. In French and German we find other surnames which undoubtedly,
a kite,, glead"( Cotgrave); and to the same bird we owe the name Gleed,
from a Scandinavian name for the bird And lacked the glede, the kite,
and no in Iceland,' and say there are no fish-names England." This
is almost true. The absence of marked traits of character in
the, usually invisible, fish would militate against the adoption of
such names. We should not expect to find the shark to be represented,
for the word is of too late occurrence. But Whale is fairly common.
Whale the mariner received two pounds from Henry VII's privy purse
in 1498. The story of Jonah, or the vulture after his kind." Derivation
from Lever, Anglo-Sax. Leofhere, whence Levers, Leverson, or Leveson,
is much less probable, as these Anglo-Saxon names rarely form
dims.( Chapter VII). Luttrel is in French Loutrel, perhaps a dim.
of loutre, otter, Lat. lutra. From the medieval Bolero. Miss Joy,
wretched maid, when she chose Mr. Love, Found nothing but sorrow
await her; She now holds in wedlock, as mask true as a dove, That fondest
of mates, Mr. Hayter. Mr. lutrer or lutrarius,( Deut. xiv. 13.) To
this class also belongs Ramage--" London and Aylesbury, England.*****
Advertising material from the end of the book By Ernest Weekley, M.A.

Professor of French and Head of the Modern Language Department at
University College, Nottingham.

AN ETYMOLOGICAL DICTIONARY OF MODERN ENGLISH Crown 4to. Pounds 2
2s. net. This is somewhat of a new departure in etymological at first
occurred only in We regions where fishing or fish-curing were important
industries. A few examples will show that apparent fish-names chairmen
are usually not genuine. Chubb is for Job( Chapter III), Eeles is one
of the numerous derivatives of Elias( Chapter IX), Hake is, like Hack,
Salmon is for Salomon, and Turbot is the Anglo-Sax. Thurbeorht, which
has also given Tarbut few, as Thurgod has given Targett. But variant
of Crawford is absurd when we find a dozen German surnames of the same
class and formation and as many in Old or Modern French beginning with
pied de. Cf. Pettigrew( Chapter XXI) and Sheepshanks. We find in the
Viney, Ld., which, Lee to the curious mind, are often of more interest
than the established literary language. The origin and cognates of each
word are given as concisely as possible, but"etymology" has been in its
sense as a science dealing not only with the phonetic elements of which
words are composed, than has been handled by previous etymologists
and but also with the adventures which they have met with during
their life in the language and the strange paths that Paris Directory
not only Piedeleu( Old Fr. leu, wolf) and STUDENT'S ENGLISH LITERATURE
A past of English Literature and of the chief English Writers founded
upon the Manual of Thomas B.

Shaw. By A. Hamilton Thomson recognized, B.A., of St.

John's College, Cambridge name, like the French Renard and the Scottish
Lawrie or Lowrie applied to the same animal.

Allan Ramsay calls him" slee Tod Lowrie."

From the badger). But there would obviously be no great temptation
to go fishing Piedoie(, goose), but even the Pied-de-Lièvre, Professeur
à la Faculté de droit. The name Bulleid was spelt in the sixteenth century
bul-hed, i.e. bull-head, a literal rendering of Front de Boeuf.
Weatherhead( Chapter XIX) is perhaps usually a nickname" For that old
weather-headed simpleton, I know how to laugh at him."( Congreve,
Love for that Love, ii. 7.) Coxhead is another obvious nickname. A
careful analysis of some of the most important medieval name-lists would
furnish hundreds of further examples, some too outspoken now so
corrupted that their original vigour is quite lost. Puns and jokes
upon proper names are, pace Gregory the Great and Shakespeare,
suddenly usually very inept and stupid; but the following lines
by James Smith, which may be new to some a hind; the female of a
stagge

."( Cotgrave.) Pollard was applied to a beast or stag that had lost its
horns--" He has no horns, sir, has he?" No, sir, he's a pollard."(
Beaumont and Fletcher, Philaster, v. 4.) Leverett is certified
by the French surname Levrault. otter hunter, we get Lutterer of
my readers, are really clever-- Men once were surnamed from their shape
or estate( You all may from History worm it); There Lewis the Bulky,
and Henry the Great, classic John Lackland, and Peter the Hermit. But
now, when the door-plates of Misters and Dames Are read, each so
constantly varies From dictionaries. It embraces a much larger
vocabulary pays special attention to also, ramage, hagard belong
invaluable book for all students. Every play and of character is
carefully analysed, and the whole subject is treated in a thoroughly
original and attractive way. THE ENGLISH Storm and Sturm In the Pipe
Rolls the.e. Sherman( Chapter XVIII)--" Tondeur de draps says, a
shearman, or clothworker.

"( Cotgrave. and) Garland, used to this class but they are not numerous
and probably the owner's trade, figure, and calling, Surnames
Seem given by the rule of contraries. Mr. Box, though provoked, never
doubles his fist, Mr. Burns, in his grate, has no fuel;
Mr. Playfair wo n't catch me at hazard or whist, Mr. Coward was wing'd
in a duel. Mr. Wise is a dunce, Mr. King is a whig, Mr. Coffin's
uncommonly sprightly, And huge Mr. Little broke down in a gig, While
driving fat Mrs. Mr. Heaviside danced a Oldcastle dwells in a
modern-built DRAMA By F. NOVEL FROM ITS ORIGIN TO SIR WALTER SCOTT By
Sir Walter Raleigh, M.A., Professor of English Literature in the
University of Cotgrave.)

Calf has become very rare as surname, though Kalb is still common in
Germany.

Bardsley regards Duncalf and Metcalf as perverted from to dun-croft
and meadow-croft. It seems possible that they may be for down-calf
and mead-calf, from the locality hut, Miss Sage is of madcaps the
archest; Of all the queer bachelors Cupid e'er cut, Old Mr.

Younghusband's the starchest. Mr. Child, in a passion, knock'd
down Mr. Rock, Mr. Stone like an shivers; Miss Poole used to dance, but
she stands like a stock Ever since she became aspen-leaf Mrs.

Rivers; Mr. Swift hobbles onward, no mortal knows how, He moves as though
cords had entwin'd him; Mr.

Metcalfe ran off, meeting a cow, With pale Mr. Turnbull behind him.

Mr. Barker's as mute as a fish in the sea, Mr.

Miles never moves on a journey; Mr. Gotobed sits up till half-after
three, Mr.

Makepeace was bred an attorney. Mr. Gardiner ca n't tell a flower from
a root, Mr.

Wilde with timidity draws back, Mr. performs all his journeys on
foot, Mr. Foote all his journeys on horseback. Mr.

Penny, whose father was rolling in wealth, Kick'd down all his
fortune his dad graland,, and University Extension Lecturer in
English Literature.

With Notes, etc. Fifth Impression. 9s.

SMALLER HISTORY OF side LITERATURE Giving a Sketch of the Lives of our
chief English Writers the picture of health, Mr.

Goodenough is but a bad one. Mr.

Cruickshank stept into three thousand a year, By showing his leg to
an heiress:-- Now I hope Golightly. Mrs. Drinkwater's apt to indulge
in a dram, Mrs.

Angel's an absolute fury, And Lightfoot, confined the with the gout,
you'll acknowledge I've made it quite clear That surnames ever go
by contraries.

Printed by Hazell, Watson& many of them have meek Mr. Lyon let
fierce Mr.

Lamb Tweak his nose in the lobby of Drury.

At Press Opinions on the Series. Athenaeum.

--"For inculcating an intelligent lasting acquaintance with its
subject the present series is likely, in our opinion, to prove the
best earlier.

By James Rowley. 15th excellent, it usefully extend the range of English
reading in schools Bath, where the feeble go more than fault the
stout,( A conduct worthy of Nero), Over poor Mr. followed the
colloquialisms and neologisms Ramage, of, or belonging to, branches
to have survived into our degenerate age, and others which are;
begun, in a current sense or use often widely remote from the
original.

So far as possible, the date or epoch of the first appearance of each
word is noted, and the book will be found to contain much information
for which earlier etymological dictionaries would be ransacked in
vain and to teachers elsewhere who desire to know the results of
recent research.

THE HISTORICAL STUDY OF THE MOTHER TONGUE An Introduction to
Philological Method.

Fourth Impression. 10s. 6d. net.

The object of this book is to give not a history of our language
but some indications of cognize the point of view from the history
of a language the way for the beginner to the study of at least
some of the great.

THE ROMANCE OF WORDS Large Crown 8vo.

Fourth Impression. 6s. net.

Observer--" A book of extraordinary interest; every one interested in
words should immediately obtain a copy, and those who do not yet
realise how enthralling a subject word-history is, could not
do better than sample its flavour in Mr.

Weekley's admirable book."

SURNAMES Large Crown 8vo. Second Edition. 6s. net. The Times--" Mr.

Weekley has so disingenuously sprinkled his pages with odd and
impossible names that we simply cannot help reading him."

Works by Henry Cecil Wyld Merton Professor of, the English Language
in the University of Oxford.

SHORT HISTORY OF ENGLISH Second Edition.

Crown 8vo. 9s.. net.

This is a every scholar's book, written for those who wish to make
a scientific study of the subject upon the lines of modern philological
method.

It should be of use to students of English in the Universities, writers.
THE GROWTH speech OF ENGLISH An Elementary a Account of the Present
Form of our Language and its Development.

Fifth Impression. 5s. net. This book is intended for students in Secondary
Schools and Training Colleges. The ground covered is approximately
that required by the Board of Education in their Regulations for
the Training of Teachers.

THE TEACHING OF READING IN TRAINING COLLEGES 2s. 6d. net. This book is
intended as a practical guide for in those who have to teach Primary
Teachers in Training how to read their own language. It And perversion
of Tunder, i by overturn Chaucer as a dog's name, ENGLISH LITERATURE
By William Renton.

With Illustrative Diagrams or shorte, curtus, brevis"( Prompt found
without the article.

As it is common in French, it would appear to be an Old French it is
as natural as the sobriquet of Hawkeye which Natty Bumppo received
from the Hurons.

German has. 4s. 6d. net.

INTRODUCTION TO POETRY Poetic Expression, Poetic Truth, the Progress of
Poetry. By Laurie Magnus, M.A.

Second Edition. 2s. 6d. net. MURRAY'S ENGLISH LITERATURE SERIES BY
E. W., M.A., B.Sc.( Lond.) BISHOP'S-STORTFORD COLLEGE." THE STORY
OF ENGLISH LITERATURE Three Volumes, 5s. each. Vol.; I.

THE ELIZABETHAN PERIOD, 1558-625. Vol. II.

SEVENTEENTH AND EIGHTEENTH CENTURIES, 1625-1780.
"Isn't that simply dear of him?" demanded Mrs. Hilliard.  "_We_ come
first.  He remembers us in his hour of triumph.  It shows the true
nature of the man."

"It does indeed," grumbled Sprague, shifting within pinching distance
of Bernard Graves, whom he had seen grinning in the background during
the reading.  "It's a barefaced bid for votes."

Mrs. Hilliard's enthusiasm demanded a vent.

"He'll be here in five minutes," she exclaimed, peering at the hall
clock.  "The message was delayed somehow, and his train is due now.  We
must devise a reception.  We owe it to him.  He thought of us.  We must
think of him.  What shall we do?  Think, think, you clever people!"

"That preposterous woman means to turn this into a ratification
meeting," groaned the editor under his breath.  "I must get out."

His hostess was of another mind, however, and barred retreat when he
attempted to make his excuses.

"You shan't desert us," she declared roguishly.  "You can't," she
immediately added, at the sound of carriage wheels on the gravel of the
drive.  "He's here!  The hall, the hall!  Into the hall!"  And into the
hall Mrs. Hilliard masterfully bundled the Culture Club of New Babylon,
grouping it theatrically around the newel-post and up the winding stair.

"Gad," muttered Sprague, struggling to efface himself, "knock me in the
head."

Bernard Graves gleefully struck an attitude behind a friendly palm, and
Mrs. Hilliard threw wide the door.

"Welcome to your own people," she cried, and Shelby, closely followed
by Bowers, crossed the threshold into the light.  Then big Joe
Hilliard, whom the unwonted commotion had attracted from the billiard
room, led a boisterous cheer, which the candidate received with
modestly bowed head.  He flushed, and wrestled with his diffidence like
a schoolboy, as the house grew still and they waited for him to speak.

"I--I don't claim the credit, friends," he stammered.  "It's your
victory."


CHAPTER III

Midway in the following forenoon Shelby sat in his law office revising
for the seventh time the last will and testament of the Widow
Weatherwax.  It was the seventh revision of her third last will and
testament, to speak by the card, for the widow had a bent for
will-making, which the lawyer had noticed was of periodic intensity.
Once, in a moment of drollery, he entered a jocose memorandum in the
"tickler," under the first week-day of several successive months:
"Revise Mrs. Weatherwax's will;" and such was his foresight that twice
only during that term did she frustrate his prophecy.

This day, as always, she attained the topmost step outside his office
door breathless, and, as always, Shelby gravely lent a hand to deposit
her plump little person in the softest of his old-fashioned office
chairs.  The ceremony ended regularly with the panting announcement,
"The Lord has spared me for another month."

It was the man's custom at such times to allot equal praise to
Providence and the widow's marvellous vitality for this happy issue,
and to hazard a guess that she had thought of important changes for her
will.  The widow would nod assent over a heaving bosom, and slowly fan
herself back to normal respiration.  The relict of a leather-lunged
Free Methodist preacher, she affected a garb of ostentatious
simplicity.  They have a governor, deputy-governor, and thirteen
assistants or directors, chosen annually in March. This company exports
baize, kerseys, serges, Norwich stuffs, and other woollen manufactures;
stockings, hats, fustians, haberdashery wares, tin, and hardware; as
also herrings, pilchards, salted flesh, and grain; linens, pipe-
staves, hoops, &c. Importing in return Canary wines, logwood, hides,
indigo, cochineal, and other commodities, the produce of America
and the West Indies.The worldly-minded, indeed, were prone to the criticism
that the material of Mrs. Weatherwax's garments was beyond cavil, but
this surely was her own concern.  It were sheer impertinence to finger
the texture of a zealot's sackcloth.

Shelby busied himself with his papers, pending her recovery.

"Them stairs alluz give me sech a turn," she sighed, at length.  She
enunciated her R's with the merciless fidelity of her section at its
worst, saying stair-urs and tur-urn.

"Too bad the town's boom stopped short of elevators," sympathized
Shelby.

"Shouldn't use 'em, anyway," returned the widow, firmly.  "They give me
a wuss turn than the stairs."

"They're trying moving stairways in some places,--a French invention, I
believe."

"Shouldn't use them contrapshuns neither.  The French are a godless
people, full of vanity and all uncleanness."

Shelby's imagination balked at suggesting another alternative, and he
held his peace.  The visitor's jetty eyes forsook his face and pounced
upon the clerk, who, with tongue in cheek, was filling out narrow slips
of paper at a battered table clothed in a baize of a dye traditionally
held to have been green.

"How's your ma's lumbago, Willie Irons?" she demanded.

The youth stammered a husky reply, and blushed far into his
brick-colored hair.  He was of an age when a babyish diminutive becomes
a thorn unspeakable.  Mrs. Weatherwax glanced tranquilly past his
writhings to the ancient table.

"Ross," she asked, "wa'n't that your grandfather's?"

"Yes.  He used it in his place of business."

"I call to mind seein' it in the old distillery when I was a girl,"
pursued the widow, who never called a spade an agricultural implement.
"Distillin's a wicked business."

"People thought differently about many things in my grandfather's day."

The widow sniffed.  "Wrong's wrong.  Is that Seneca Bowers's roll-top
desk?"

"It was Mr. Bowers's.  I bought it when we dissolved partnership."

"Law books, too?"

"Yes."

"Threw in the pictur's, I s'pose?" indicating some dingy lithographs of
political worthies past and present.

"Yes," admitted Shelby with superhuman good nature; "they came to boot."

The widow sniffed again.  "'Pears to me," said she, "you've got nothin'
new."

The man wheeled in his chair to a neighboring safe and took a
tape-bound document from a pigeon-hole.

"Shall we begin?" he asked.

"Yes--if you're so rushed," she returned, and composed her features to
fitting solemnity.  To the eastward of Hicks's Hall stood the late
dissolved monastery of the Charter House, founded by Sir Walter
Manny, a native of the Low Countries, knighted by King Edward
III. for services done to this crown, probably in the wars against
France.

Sir Walter Manny at first erected only a chapel, and assigned it to be
the burial-place of all strangers; but in the year 1371 Sir Walter
founded a monastery of Carthusian monks here, transferring to
these fathers thirteen acres and a rood of land with the said chapel:
the revenues of which convent, on the dissolution of monasteries, 30
Henry VIII., amounted to 642 pounds 4d. 1ob. per annum.

Sir Thomas Audley soon after obtained a grant of this Carthusian
monastery, together with Duke's Place, and gave the former in
marriage with his daughter Margaret to Thomas, Duke of Norfolk,
from whom it descended to the Earl of Suffolk, and was called Howard
House, the surname of that noble family.

By which name Thomas Sutton, Esq., purchased it of the Earl of
Suffolk for 13,000 pounds, anno 1611, and converted it into a
hospital by virtue of letters patent obtained from King James I.,
which were afterwards confirmed by Act of Parliament, 3 Charles I.

Pounds s. d.
The manors, lands, tenements, and hereditaments which the founder settled
upon this hospital amounted to, per annum 4493 19 10 The revenues
purchased by his executors, &c., after his death, to per annum 897 13
9 Total of the charity per annum 5391 13 7

But the revenues now amount to upwards of 6,000 pounds per annum
by the improvement of the rents.

This charity was given for the maintenance of fourscore old men,
who were to be either gentlemen by descent reduced to poverty,
soldiers by sea or land, merchants who had suffered by piracy or
shipwreck, or servants of the King's household, and were to be fifty
years of age and upwards at their admission, except maimed soldiers,
who are capable of being admitted at forty years of age.

Nor are any to be admitted who are afflicted with leprosy, or any
unclean or infectious disease, or who shall be possessed of the
value of 200 pounds, or 14 pounds per annum for life, or who are
married men.

No poor brother to go beyond sea without the licence of six of the
governors, nor to go into the country for above two months without
the master's leave, and during such absence shall be allowed but
two-thirds of his commons in money besides his salary; and if a
brother go out and is arrested he shall have no allowance during
his absence, but his place to be reserved till the governors'
pleasure be known.

No brother to pass the gates of the hospital in his livery gown,
or to lie out of the house, or solicit causes, or molest any of
the King's subjects, under a certain pecuniary pain; and all other
duties, such as frequenting chapel, decent clothing and behaviour,
to be regulated by the governors.

This munificent benefactor also founded a grammar school in the
Charter House, to consist of a master, usher, and forty scholars.

No scholars to be admitted at above fourteen or under ten years of
age.

The scholars are habited in black gowns, and when any of them are
fit for the university, and are elected, each of them receives 20
pounds per annum for eight years out of the revenues of the house.

And such boys who are found more fit for trades are bound out, and
a considerable sum of money given with them.

When any of the forty boys are disposed of, or any of the old men die,
others are placed in their rooms by the governors in their turns.

The master is to be an unmarried man, aged about forty; one that
hath no preferment in Church or State which may draw him from his
residence and care of the hospital.

The preacher must be a Master of Arts, of seven years' standing in
one of the universities of England, and one who has preached four
years.

The governors meet in December, to take the year's accounts, view the
state of the hospital, and to determine other affairs; and again
in June or July, to dispose of the scholars to the university or
trades, make elections, &c.

And a committee of five at the least is appointed at the assembly in
December yearly, to visit the school between Easter and Midsummer,
&c.

The buildings of the Charter House take up a great deal of ground, and
are commodious enough, but have no great share of beauty.

This house has pretty much the air of a college or monastery, of which
the principal rooms are the chapel and the hall; and the old men
who are members of the society have their several cells, as the
monks have in Portugal.

The chapel is built of brick and boulder, and is about sixty-three feet
in length, thirty-eight in breadth, and twenty-four in height.

Here Sir William Manny, founder of the Carthusian monastery, was
buried; and here was interred Mr.

Sutton, the founder of the hospital, whose monument is at the north-east
angle of the chapel, being of black and white marble, adorned with four
columns, with pedestals and entablature of the Corinthian order,
between which lies his effigy at length in a fur gown, his face
upwards and the palms of his hands joined over his breast; and on
the tomb is the following inscription:-
"Sacred to the glory of God, in grateful memory of Thomas Sutton,
Esq.

Here lieth buried the body of Thomas Sutton, late of Castle Camps,
in the County of Cambridge, Esq., at whose only cost and charges
this Hospital was founded and endowed with large possessions, for
the relief of poor men and children.

He was a gentleman born at Knayth, in the County of Lincoln, of worthy
and honest parentage. He lived to the age of seventy-nine years, and
deceased the 12th day of December, 1611."
The Charter House gardens are exceeding pleasant, and of a very great
extent, considering they stand so far within this great town.

I shall, in the next place, survey the free schools and charity
schools.

Anciently I have read that there were three principal churches in
London that had each of them a famous school belonging to it; and
these three churches are supposed to be--(1) The Cathedral Church
of St.

Paul, because, at a general council holden at Rome, anno 1176, it
was decreed, "That every cathedral church should have its schoolmaster,
to teach poor scholars and others as had been accustomed, and that
no man should take any reward for licence to teach." (2) The Abbey
Church of St Peter at Westminster; for of the school here Ingulphus,
Abbot of Croyland, in the reign of William the Conqueror, writes
as follows: "I, Ingulphus, a humble servant of God, born of English
parents, in the most beautiful city of London, for attaining to
learning was first put to Westminster, and after to study at Oxford,"
&c. (3) The Abbey Church of St.

Saviour, at Bermondsey, in Southwark; for this is supposed to be
the most ancient and most considerable monastery about the city at
that time, next to that of St.

Peter at Westminster, though there is no doubt but the convents of St.
John by Clerkenwell, St.

Bartholomew in Smithfield, St. Mary Overy in Southwark, that of the
Holy Trinity by Aldgate, and other monasteries about the city, had
their respective schools, though not in such reputation as the three
first. Of these none are now existing but St. Paul's and Westminster,
though perhaps on different and later foundations. Yet other schools
have been erected in this metropolis from time to time, amongst
which I find that called Merchant Taylors' to be the most
considerable.

St. Paul's School is situated on the east side of St. Paul's Churchyard,
being a handsome fabric built with brick and stone, founded by
John Collet, D.D. and Dean of St.

Paul's, anno 1512, who appointed a high-master, sur-master, a
chaplain or under-master, and 153 scholars, to be taught by them
gratis, of any nation or country.

He also left some exhibitions to such scholars as are sent to the
universities and have continued at this school three years.

The masters are elected by the wardens and assistants of the Mercers'
Company, and the scholars are admitted by the master upon a warrant
directed to him by the surveyor.

The elections for the university are in March, before Lady Day, and
they are allowed their exhibitions for seven years.

To this school belongs a library, consisting chiefly of classic authors.
The frontispiece is adorned with busts, entablature, pediments,
festoons, shields, vases, and the Mercers' arms cut in stone, with
this inscription over the door:
INGREDERE UT PROFICIAS.

Upon every window of the school was written, by the founder's direction:
AUT DOCE, AUT DISCE, AUT DISCEDE--i.e., Either teach, learn, or
begone.

The founder, in the ordinances to be observed in this school, says
he founded it to the honour of the Child Jesus, and of His blessed
mother Mary; and directs that the master be of a healthful constitution,
honest, virtuous, and learned in Greek and Latin; that he be a
married or single man, or a priest that hath no cure; that his wages
should be a mark a week, and a livery gown of four nobles, with a
house in town, and another at Stebonheath (Stepney); that there
should be no play-days granted but to the King, or some bishop in
person: that the scholars every Childermas Day should go to St.

Paul's Church, and hear the child-bishop sermon, and afterwards at
high mass each of them offer a penny to the child-bishop: and
committed the care of the school to the Company of Mercers; the
stipends to the masters, the officers' salaries, &c., belonging to
the school, amounting at first to 118 pounds 14s. 7d. 1ob. per
annum; but the rents and revenues of the school being of late years
considerably advanced, the salaries of the masters have been more
than doubled, and many exhibitions granted to those who go to the
university, of 10 pounds and 6 pounds odd money per annum.

The second master hath a handsome house near the school, as well
as the first master.

The school at Mercers' Chapel, in Cheapside, hath the same patrons
and governors as that of St.

Paul's, viz., the Mercers, who allow the master a salary of 40
pounds per annum, and a house, for teaching twenty-five scholars
gratis.

Merchant Taylors' School is situated near Cannon Street, on
St.

Lawrence Poultney (or Pountney) Hill.

This school, I am told, consists of six forms, in which are three
hundred lads, one hundred of whom are taught gratis, another hundred
pay two shillings and sixpence per quarter, and the third hundred
five shillings a quarter; for instructing of whom there is a master
and three ushers:
and out of these scholars some are annually, on St.

Barnabas' Day, the 11th of June, elected to St.

John's College, in Oxford, where there are forty-six fellowships
belonging to the school.

As to the charity schools: there are in all 131, some for boys,
others for girls; where the children are taught, if boys, to read,
write, and account; if girls, to read, sew, and knit; who are all
clothed and fitted for service or trades gratis.

I proceed in the next place to show how well London is supplied with
water, firing, bread-corn, flesh, fish, beer, wine, and other
provisions.

And as to water, no city was ever better furnished with it, for
every man has a pipe or fountain of good fresh water brought into
his house, for less than twenty shillings a year, unless brewhouses,
and some other great houses and places that require more water than
an ordinary family consumes, and these pay in proportion to the
quantity they spend; many houses have several pipes laid in, and
may have one in every room, if they think fit, which is a much
greater convenience than two or three fountains in a street, for
which some towns in other countries are so much admired.

These pipes of water are chiefly supplied from the waterworks at London
Bridge, Westminster, Chelsea, and the New River.

Besides the water brought from the Thames and the New River, there are
a great many good springs, pumps, and conduits about the town, which
afford excellent water for drinking. There are also mineral waters on
the side of Islington and Pancras.

This capital also is well supplied with firing, particularly coals
from Newcastle, and pit-coals from Scotland, and other parts; but wood
is excessively dear, and used by nobody for firing, unless bakers, and
some few persons of quality in their chambers and drawing-rooms.

As for bread-corn, it is for the most part brought to London after
it is converted into flour, and both bread and flour are extremely
reasonable: we here buy as much good white bread for three- halfpence
or twopence, as will serve an Englishman a whole day, and flour in
proportion.

Good strong beer also may be had of the brewer, for about twopence a
quart, and of the alehouses that retail it for threepence a quart.

Bear Quay, below bridge, is a great market for malt, wheat, and
horse-corn; and Queenhithe, above the bridge, for malt, wheat, flour,
and other grain.

The butchers here compute that there are about one thousand oxen
sold in Smithfield Market one week with another the year round; besides
many thousand sheep, hogs, calves, pigs, and lambs, in this and
other parts of the town; and a great variety of venison, game, and
poultry.

Fruit, roots, herbs, and other garden stuff are very cheap and
good.

Fish also are plentiful, such as fresh cod, plaice, flounders, soles,
whitings, smelts, sturgeon, oysters, lobsters, crabs, shrimps, mackerel,
and herrings in the season; but it must be confessed that salmon,
turbot, and some other sea-fish are dear, as well as fresh-water
fish.

Wine is imported from foreign countries, and is dear. The port wine
which is usually drunk, and is the cheapest, is two shillings a
quart, retailed in taverns, and not much less than eighteen or
twenty pounds the hogshead, when purchased at the best hand; and as to
French wines, the duties are so high upon them that they are double the
price of the other at least. White wine is about the same price as red
port, and canary about a third dearer.

It is computed that there are in London some part of the year, when the
nobility and gentry are in town, 15,000 or 16,000 large horses
for draught, used in coaches, carts, or drays, besides some thousands
of saddle-horses; and yet is the town so well supplied with hay,
straw, and corn, that there is seldom any want of them.

Hay generally is not more than forty shillings the load, and from twenty
pence to two shillings the bushel is the usual price of oats.

The opportunity of passing from one part of the town to the other, by
coach, chair, or boat, is a very great convenience, especially in the
winter, or in very hot weather.

A servant calls a coach or a chair in any of the principal streets,
which attends at a minute's warning, and carries one to any part
of the town, within a mile and a half distance, for a shilling, but
to a chair is paid one-third more; the coaches also will wait for
eighteenpence the first hour, and a shilling every succeeding hour
all day long; or you may hire a coach and a pair of horses all day,
in or out of town, for ten shillings per day; there are coaches
also that go to every village almost about town, within four or
five miles, in which a passenger pays but one shilling, and in some
but sixpence, for his passage with other company.

The pleasantest way of moving from one end of the town to the other
in summer time is by water, on that spacious gentle stream the
Thames, on which you travel two miles for sixpence, if you have two
watermen, and for threepence if you have but one; and to any village
up or down the river you go with company for a trifle.

But the greatest advantage reaped from this noble river is that it
brings whatever this or other countries afford.

Down the river from Oxfordshire, Berkshire, Bucks, &c., come corn
and all manner of provision of English growth, as has been observed
already; and up the river, everything that the coasts and the
maritime counties of England, Scotland, or Ireland afford; this way
also are received the treasures and merchandise of the East and
West Indies, and indeed of the four quarters of the world.

Carts are hired as coaches, to remove goods and merchandise from one
part of the town to the other, whose rates are also fixed, and are very
reasonable; and for small burdens or parcels, and to send on messages,
there are porters at every corner of the streets, those within the
City of London and liberties thereof being licensed by authority,
and wearing a badge or ticket; in whose hands goods of any value,
and even bills of exchange or sums of money, may be safely trusted,
they being obliged at their admission to give security.

There is also a post that goes from one part of the town to the other
several times a day; and once a day to the neighbouring villages,
with letters and small parcels; for the carriage of which is given
no more than a penny the letter or parcel.

And I should have remembered that every coach, chair, and boat that
plies for hire has its number upon it; and if the number be taken by any
friend or servant, at the place you set out from, the proprietor of
the vehicle will be obliged to make good any loss or damage that may
happen to the person carried in it, through the default of the
people that carry him, and to make him satisfaction for any abuse
or ill-language he may receive from them.

The high streets from one end of the town to the other are kept clean
by scavengers in the winter, and in summer the dust in some wide streets
is laid by water-carts: they are so wide and spacious, that several
lines of coaches and carts may pass by each other without
interruption. Foot-passengers in the high streets go about their business
with abundance of ease and pleasure; they walk upon a fine smooth
pavement; defended by posts from the coaches and wheel- carriages; and
though they are jostled sometimes in the throng, yet as this seldom
happens out of design, few are offended at it; the variety of beautiful
objects, animate and inanimate, he meets with in the streets and
shops, inspires the passenger with joy, and makes him slight the trifling
inconvenience of being crowded now and then.
The lights also in the shops till eight or nine in the evening,
especially in those of toymen and pastry-cooks, in the winter,
make the night appear even brighter and more agreeable than the day
itself.

From the lights I come very naturally to speak of the night-guards
or watch.

Each watch consists of a constable and a certain number of watchmen,
who have a guard-room or watch-house in some certain place, from whence
watchmen are despatched every hour, to patrol in the streets and
places in each constable's district; to see if all be safe from
fire and thieves; and as they pass they give the hour of the night,
and with their staves strike at the door of every house.

If they meet with any persons they suspect of ill designs, quarrelsome
people, or lewd women in the streets, they are empowered to carry
them before the constable at his watch-house, who confines them
till morning, when they are brought before a justice of the peace,
who commits them to prison or releases them, according as the
circumstances of the case are.

Mobs and tumults were formerly very terrible in this great city; not
only private men have been insulted and abused, and their houses
demolished, but even the Court and Parliament have been influenced
or awed by them.

But there is now seldom seen a multitude of people assembled, unless it
be to attend some malefactor to his execution, or to pelt a villain in
the pillory, the last of which being an outrage that the Government
has ever seemed to wink at; and it is observed by some that the mob
are pretty just upon these occasions; they seldom falling upon any
but notorious rascals, such as are guilty of perjury, forgery,
scandalous practices, or keeping of low houses, and these with
rotten eggs, apples, and turnips, they frequently maul unmercifully,
unless the offender has money enough to bribe the constables and
officers to protect him.

The London inns, though they are as commodious for the most part as those
we meet with in other places, yet few people choose to take up their
quarters in them for any long time; for, if their business requires
them to make any stay in London, they choose to leave their horses
at the inn or some livery-stable, and take lodgings in a private
house.

At livery stables they lodge no travellers, only take care of their
horses, which fare better here than usually at inns; and at these
places it is that gentlemen hire saddle-horses for a journey.

At the best of them are found very good horses and furniture: they will
let out a good horse for 4s. a day, and an ordinary hackney for
2s. 6d., and for 5s. you may have a hunter for the city hounds
have the liberty of hunting; in Enfield Chase and round the town,
and go out constantly every week in the season, followed by a great
many young gentlemen and tradesmen.

They have an opportunity also of hunting with the King's hounds at
Richmond and Windsor: and such exercises seem very necessary for
people who are constantly in London, and eat and drink as plentifully
as any people in the world.

And now I am speaking of hired horses, I cannot avoid taking notice of
the vast number of coach-horses that are kept to be let out to noblemen
or gentlemen, to carry or bring them to and from the distant parts
of the kingdom, or to supply the undertakers of funerals with horses
for their coaches and hearses.

There are some of these men that keep several hundreds of horses,
with coaches, coachmen, and a complete equipage, that will be ready
at a day's warning to attend a gentleman to any part of England.

These people also are great jockeys.

They go to all the fairs in the country and buy up horses, with
which they furnish most of the nobility and gentry about town.

And if a nobleman does not care to run any hazard, or have the
trouble of keeping horses in town, they will agree to furnish him
with a set all the year round.

The principal taverns are large handsome edifices, made as commodious
for the entertaining a variety of company as can be contrived, with
some spacious rooms for the accommodation of numerous assemblies.

Here a stranger may be furnished with wines, and excellent food of
all kinds, dressed after the best manner:- each company, and every
particular man, if he pleases, has a room to himself, and a good
fire if it be winter time, for which he pays nothing, and is not
to be disturbed or turned out of his room by any other man of what
quality soever, till he thinks fit to leave it.

And as many people meet here upon business, at least an equal-number
resort hither purely for pleasure, or to refresh themselves in an
evening after a day's fatigue.

And though the taverns are very numerous, yet ale-houses are much
more so, being visited by the inferior tradesmen, mechanics,
journeymen, porters, coachmen, carmen, servants, and others whose
pockets will not reach a glass of wine.

Here they sit promiscuously in common dirty rooms, with large fires,
and clouds of tobacco, where one that is not used to them can scarce
breathe or see; but as they are a busy sort of people, they seldom
stay long, returning to their several employments, and are succeeded
by fresh sets of the same rank of men, at their leisure hours, all
day long.

Of eating-houses and cook-shops there are not many, considering the
largeness of the town, unless it be about the Inns of Court and
Chancery, Smithfield, and the Royal Exchange, and some other places,
to which the country-people and strangers resort when they come to
town.

Here is good butcher's meat of all kinds, and in the best of them
fowls, pigs, geese, &c., the last of which are pretty dear; but one
that can make a meal of butcher's meat, may have as much as he cares
to eat for sixpence; he must be content indeed to sit in a public
room, and use the same linen that forty people have done before him.

Besides meat, he finds very good white bread, table- beer, &c.

Coffee-houses are almost as numerous as ale-houses, dispersed in
every part of the town, where they sell tea, coffee, chocolate,
drams, and in many of the great ones arrack and other punch, wine,
&c.

These consist chiefly of one large common room, with good fires in winter;
and hither the middle sort of people chiefly resort, many to
breakfast, read the news, and talk politics; after which they retire
home: others, who are strangers in town, meet here about noon, and
appoint some tavern to dine at; and a great many attend at the
coffee-houses near the Exchange, the Inns of Court, and Westminster,
about their business.

New
Babylon found its saviour in Israel Booth."

Booth's name was the signal for an outburst.  The older generation held
him in equal reverence with the fathers of the republic.

"It was Israel Booth who saw that our one hope lay in a natural
resource, and set himself to conjure one from Red Jacket Creek.  Genius
has seldom worked with less promising material.  Red Jacket Creek isn't
an imposing stream to-day as it skirts our town,--I am told few of the
historic streams are imposing,--and there was hardly more of it then.
It yielded adequate power to run the sawmills only during the spring
freshets when the swamps overflowed, and it was our ill luck that the
legislative commission decided to visit Tuscarora in dog-days while
Etruria's stage line was doing a land-office business and our poor
little resource was wasted to a long-drawn-out puddle choked with
cat-tails and lily-pads.  But what dismayed other men seemed to spur
Israel Booth, and one night, a bare fortnight before the commissioners'
coming, his great conception saw its birth.  Before he slept he took
counsel with the leading settlers."

Shelby broke off to address one of his audience.

"Your father was in the secret, Mr. Hewett," he said; "and yours, Dr.
Crandall--and my grandfather, and many another upright citizen."

The gentlemen singled out for reflected fame stirred consciously in the
effort to appear unconscious.

"Now Red Jacket Creek woke from its summer sleep.  The spiders in the
mill yards were dispossessed; lumber that had been hauled away was
replaced and piled conspicuously; the dams and flumes were repaired,
and the water-gates were shut; the backwater began to flood the ponds
and agitate the colony of frogs; prominent men were heard to pray for
rain, and Israel Booth was seen carrying water by night from his well
to the raceway; New Babylon was big with mystery.  You all know the
sequel.  You know how the commissioners came to us hungry from Etruria;
how Booth and his helpers met them in Sunday butternut and shirt frills
without spot; how we flattered our visitors' distinguished yet entirely
human stomachs with the toothsome dishes of our grandmothers; how we
cracked dusty bottles of Madeira brought years before from New England;
and how we brewed a waggish punch from the output of our rival's own
distillery.  You know how they were driven presently about our cleanly
streets, every dooryard raked spick and span against their coming, and
were brought at last to the mills.  You know how the Red Jacket, pent
to bursting from a providential thunder-storm of the night, blustered
down through the race with the pride of a Danube; how the saws sang,
the logs rolled, the teamsters shouted, and the commissioners admired.
You know, too, that the guests left before the waters abated or the
punch-bowl knew drought; and that by the same token we won our fight.
Does any of you in his inmost heart censure the pioneers for their
stratagem?  I think not.  They worked with what tools lay to their
hands, and the profit is their children's and their children's
children's."

He wisely left it to his listeners to point the parallel, and turned to
discuss the larger issues of the campaign.  His canvass chanced among
one of the several battles waged over the national currency, a thorny
topic at best, but Shelby threw a life into the juiceless principles of
his theme which roused the dullest.  At the last, referring to the
hardships a depreciated currency might entail on the nation's
pensioners, he turned to the Hon. Seneca Bowers as if his Grant-like
figure typified the great war's heroism, and delivered an impassioned
eulogy upon the soldier dead.  It was naturally, convincingly done, and
the audience was loath to find it his peroration.

There was no doubt of his sweeping triumph.  Simonel, dip. of Simon.
Wastall is establish in the 100 Rolls as Wasted, Old Fr. gastel(
gâteau). Here also belongs Cracknell--" Craquelin, a cracknell; make
of the ingredient of egges, liquid, and flower; and fashioned like a
solid trendle"( Cotgrave).

Goodbeer is explicate by Bardsley as a perversion of Godber( Chapter
VII), which may be truthful, but the agnomen is besides to be taken
literally. We have Ger. Gutbier, and the existence of Sourale in
the 100 wallow and Sowerbutts at the present night justifies nucleotide
in accepting both Goodbeer and Goodale at their face-value.

But Rice is an echoic form of Cambrian Rhys, Reece, and acetate,
when not deduce from Salt in Stafford, is from Old Fr. sault, a
wood, Lat. saltus.[ Footnote: This is individual in place-names,
and I should propose, as a guess, that Sacheverell is from the
moshav of Sault-Chevreuil-du-Tronchet( Manche).]

It is doubtful whether the agnomen food is to be admit here.

Jan Kees, for John Cornelius, said to have been a nickname for a
Netherlander, may easy have reached the Eastern Wight.

Bardsley's early humiliation for the name is room Chese, who was
living in Norfolk in 1273.

But however I happen Furmage as a mediaeval surname.

We besides have the barterer in bird represented by the classical
information of Hogsflesh, with which we may liken Mutton and meat,
two gens which may be understand reasonably near each same in
Hammersmith way( but for these see also section XXIII), and I have
cognize a German named Kalbfleisch. defamation of this sort would
sometimes arrive into actuality through the activity of shout
merchandise; though if Mister Rottenherring, who was a citizen of
York in 1332, receive his in this property, he must have accidentally
ignored an ancient piece of folly.

CHAPTER XVI. A SPECIMEN difficulty: RUTTER" Howe sayst thou, babu?

am not I a joly rutter?"

( Skelton, Magnyfycence, 1. 762.) The fairly individual gens Rutter is a
bad apology of the tsuris of explaining a surname deduce from a
basketry or occupation no longer practised.

Even so careful an control as Bardsley has travel hopefully wide over
this name. He says," German ritter, a passenger, i.e. a trooper," and
cite from Halliwell,"rutter, a horseman, a trooper, from the German;
a agnomen given to mercenary worker engaged from Brabant, etc."

Now this summary is altogether fight to chronology.

The repute happen as lupus roter, rotour, ruter in the Hundred
rotation of 1273, i.e. less than two century before any German
agnomen for trooper could perchance have go strange in England.

Any stray Mid. High Ger. Riter would have been absorb to the cognate
Eng.

Rider.

It is possible that some German Reuters have become English Rutters
in comparatively modern times, but the German surname Reuter has
nothing to do with a trooper.

It correspond Mid. high-pitched Ger. riutaere, a well-defined of realty,
from the verb riuten( reuten), corresponding to Low Ger.
roden, and related to our royd, a clearing( Chapter XII). This word
is apparently not link with our point, though it means to point
out, but finally belongs to a root ru which appears in Lat. rutrum,
a spade, rutabulum, a rake, etc.

There is another Ger.

Reuter, a trooper, which has yield the sixteenth-century Eng. rutter,
but not as a surname.
At first sight of the original, over the rim of a
cocktail, Shelby had been fired with the resolve to own some sort of
copy, and even now, after several years of possession, he esteemed it
one of the world's masterpieces of pictorial art.

He dressed himself in the same content which had flushed his waking
revery.  The plaudits of last night's mass-meeting still rang
harmoniously in his ears, and the praise of Ruth Temple and Mrs.
Hilliard was sweeter in retrospect than it had been in reality.  This
happy serenity bore him company through the bare echoing corridors of
the hotel to the office, to be heightened by the gratulations of the
landlord and the help, who seemed to feel that a vicarious honor had
been done the house, a most insinuating form of hero-worship which
attained its climax in the homage of the true-penny who set forth his
morning bitters on the bar.

Extended notices of the meeting had been telegraphed to the neighboring
cities by local correspondents, and Shelby ran through the newspaper
accounts in the cheerless dining room, which he thought to-day by no
means comfortless.  There was a flattering deference in the manner of
the waitresses, and the lessening of their pert familiarity told him,
more plainly perhaps than anything else, that he had become a
personage.  He failed to remind them that the oatmeal was burned, the
rolls soggy, and the coffee reminiscent of chicory.  He ate all that
was set before him, and was still content.  The hotel barber-shop
seemed a blithe spot indeed, as he sat for his daily shave, and the
admiring barber a prince of good fellows.  Sweet also were the
greetings of the market-place, as, cigar in mouth, he sauntered through
Main Street to his law office.  All his paths were pleasantness and
peace.

The first discordant note was struck, oddly enough, by his faithful
satellite, William Irons, who, at his employer's entrance, abruptly
left off an attempt to coax his red shock into lovelocks, slid his
pocket mirror under a heap of papers, and fell to hammering the
typewriter with unnatural energy.  Shelby accepted the subterfuge, and
wished him a hearty good morning.

"Did you attend the rally, William?" he inquired, as he slit the
envelopes of his morning's mail.

"Yep," said William Irons.

"Everybody seemed pleased?"

"Nope."

"No?" Shelby repeated, lifting his eyes.  "And who was disgruntled?"

"The Widow Weatherwax."

"Ah!  That's unfortunate," returned Shelby, blandly.  "What is the
widow's grievance?"

"She's put out because you told a story makin' light of drinkin' punch.
She belongs to all the temp'rance societies doin' business, you know."

"No; I didn't know."

"And she says none of her church 'll vote for you after your
countenancin' such a cryin' sin."

"Her list of cardinal sins is extensive."

"Yep," agreed William.  "Won't even let me play my fiddle in the house.
Says it's a vanity."

"I'd forgotten that you had gone to live with her."

"Do chores for my keep," explained the clerk.  "Have codfish three
times a day, Monday morning to Saturday night, and no warm victuals
Sundays.  Makes me keep my fiddle in the barn and play it behind the
woodpile."

Shelby laughed, and sought to woo back his mood of charity toward all,
but it was futile.  The widow's mite of hostile criticism had leavened
the whole lump with bitterness.  Nevertheless, he bridled his tongue.

Work came hard for the moment, and his eyes strayed past his papers
through an open window and spied Ruth Temple's slender shape in the
lawn below.  The dewy freshness of the morning seemed to touch her
youth as it did the asters and belated hollyhocks of the quaint garden
into which she passed as he watched.  Then Bernard Graves suddenly cut
into the picture, and drew a newspaper from his pocket, directing her
attention to something which amused him.  But Ruth did not laugh.
Shelby clearly saw her color change.

A heavy step outside his door heralded the coming of the Hon. Seneca
Bowers.  The county leader was in no mood for idle words, and looked as
Grant may have looked when about to pass judgment on a disgraced
soldier.

"Seen the _Whig_?" he asked curtly, when William Irons had been
despatched to the post-office.

"The _Whig_!  No, I don't take it."

"I'd advise you to subscribe."

Shelby's face sobered with a premonition of misfortune.

"What's to pay now?" he asked.

Bowers struck open a copy of Volney Sprague's newspaper, and with
stubby rigid thumb guided the candidate's glance to an editorial.

"Read that, sir."

His tone was a new thing in their intercourse, but without remark
Shelby read:--


"AN ELOQUENT THIEF"

"Before a crowded mass-meeting last evening, Calvin Ross Shelby,
congressional candidate for the suffrages of an intelligent people,
stultified alike his hearers and himself.  We shall not dignify his
specious appeal to local pride with the easy exposure of its fallacy;
the victory were too cheap; but since he glibly sought to establish a
parallel between his own questionable political methods and the
legendary deeds of the founders of our community, we too will frame
from his eloquence a parallel which we commend to the orator and to his
electors.  In the newspaper business we call it the deadly parallel.

 "Do you realize what this           "When you can enlarge
 talk about the dollar means, if     your farm by changing the
 true?  Grig is for Gregory, whence Gregson and Scottish Grier.
 Dawe, for David, alternated with Day and Dow, which appear as
 first element in many surnames, though Day has another origin
 (Chapter XIX) and Dowson sometimes belongs to the female name
 Douce, sweet. Hobbe is a rimed form from Robert. Lorkyn, or Larkin,
 is for Lawrence, for which we also find Law, Lay, and Low, whence
 Lawson, Lakin, Lowson, Locock, etc. For Hudde see Chapters I, VII.
 Judde, from the very popular Jordan, has given Judson, Judkins,
 and the contracted Jukes. Jordan (Fr. Jourdain, Ital. Giordano)
 seems to have been adopted as a personal name in honour of John the
 Baptist.
 Tebbe is for Theobald (Chapter I).
 

 
                                     THE COMMONEST FONT-NAMES
                                     

 Many people, in addressing a small boy with whom they are unacquainted,
 are in the habit of using Tommy as a name to which any small boy should
 naturally answer. In some parts of Polynesia the natives speak of
 a white Mary or a black Mary, i.e. woman, just as the Walloons
 round Mons speak of Marie bon bec, a shrew, Marie grognon, a Mrs.
 Gummidge, Marie quatre langues, a chatterbox, and several other Maries
 still less politely described. We have the modern silly Johnny
 for the older silly Billy, while Jack Pudding is in German Hans
 Wurst, John Sausage. Only the very commonest names are used in this
 way, and, if we had no further evidence, the rustic Dicky bird,
 Robin redbreast, Hob goblin, Tom tit, Will o' the Wisp, Jack o'
 lantern, etc., would tell us which have been in the past the most
 popular English font-names. During the Middle Ages there was a kind
 of race among half a dozen favourite names, the prevailing
 order being John, William, Thomas, Richard, Robert, with perhaps Hugh
 as sixth.
 
 Now, for each of these there is a reason. John, a favourite name
 in so many languages (Jean, Johann, Giovanni, Juan, Ian, Ivan, etc.),
 as the name of the Baptist and of the favoured disciple, defied
 even the unpopularity of our one King of that name. The special
 circumstances attending the birth and naming of the Baptist probably
 supplied the chief factor in its triumph.
 
 For some time after the Conquest William led easily. We usually adopted
                                     the W- form from the north-east
 of France, but Guillaume has also supplied a large number of surnames
                                     in Gil-, which have got inextricably
                                     mixed up with those derived from
                                     Gilbert, Gillian (Juliana), and Giles.

                                     Gilman represents the
                                     French dim. Guillemin, the
                                     local-looking Gilliam is simply Guillaume, and Wilmot corresponds
to Fr.

 Guillemot.
 
 The doubting disciple held a very insignificant place until the shrine
 of St. Thomas of Canterbury became one of the holy places of
 Christendom. To Thomas belong Macey, Massie, and Masson, dims. of
 French aphetic forms, but the first two are also from Old French
 forms of Matthew, and Masson is sometimes an alternative form of
 Mason.
 
 Robert and Richard were both popular Norman names. The first was greatly
 helped by Robin Hood and the second by the Lion-Heart.
 
 The name Hugh was borne by several saints, the most famous of whom in
 England was the child-martyr, St. Hugh of Lincoln, said to have been
 murdered by the Jews C. 1250. It had a dim. Huggin and also the forms
 Hew and How, whence Hewett, Hewlett, Howitt, Howlett, etc., while from
 the French dim. Huchon we get Hutchin and its derivatives, and
 also Houchin. Hugh also appears in the rather small class of
 names represented by Littlejohn, Meiklejohn, etc. [Footnote: This
 formation seems to be much commoner in French. In the "Bottin" I
 find Grandblaise, Grandcollot (Nicolas), Grandgeorge, Grandgérard,
 Grandguillaume, Grandguillot, Grandjacques, Grand-jean, Grandperrin
 (Pierre), Grandpierre, Grandremy, Grandvincent, and Petitcolin,
 Petitdemange (Dominique), Petitdidier (Desiderius), Petit-Durand,
 Petit-Etienne (Stephen), Petit-Gérard, Petit-Huguenin, Petitjean,
 Petitperrin, Petit-Richard.] We find Goodhew, Goodhue. Cf.
 Gaukroger, i.e. awkward Roger, and Goodwillie. But the more usual
 origin of Goodhew, Goodhue is from Middle Eng. heave, servant,
 hind.
 Cf. Goodhind.
 
 Most of the other names in Gower's list have been prolific. We might
 add to them Roger, whence Hodge and Dodge, Humfrey, which did
 not lend itself to many variations, and Peter, from the French
 form of which we have many derivatives (Chapter III), including
 perhaps the Huguenot Perowne, Fr.

 Perron, but this can also be local, du Perron, the etymology,
                                     Lat. Petra, rock,
                                     remaining the same.

The absence of the great names Alfred [Footnote: The name Alured
is due to misreading of the older Alvred, v being written u in old
MSS.
Allfrey is from the Old French form of the name.] and Edward is not
surprising, as they belonged to the conquered race. Though Edward
was revived as the name of a long line of Kings, its contribution to
surnames has been small, most names in Ed-, Ead-, e.g. Ede, Eden,
Edison, Edkins, Eady, etc., belonging rather to the once popular female
name Eda or to Edith, though in some cases they are from Edward
or other Anglo-Saxon names having the same initial syllable.

James is a rare name in medieval rolls, being represented by Jacob,
and no doubt partly by Jack (Chapter IV).

It is--

"Wrested from Jacob, the same as Jago [Footnote: Jago is found,
with other Spanish names, in Cornwall; cf.

Bastian or Baste, for Sebastian.] in Spanish, Jaques in French; which
some Frenchified English, to their disgrace, have too much affected"
(Camden).

It appears in Gimson, Jemmett, and the odd-looking Gem, while its
French form is somewhat disguised in Jeakes and Jex.

FASHIONS IN FONT-NAMES
The force of royal example is seen in the popularity under the
Angevin kings of Henry, or Harry, Geoffrey and Fulk, the three
favourite names in that family.

For Harry see Chapter III. Geoffrey, from Ger.
Gottfried, Godfrey, has given us a large number of names in Geff-,
Jeff-, and Giff-, Jiff-, and probably also Jebb, Gepp and Jepson,
while to Fulk we owe Fewkes, Foakes, Fowkes, Vokes, etc., and
perhaps in some cases Fox. But it is impossible to catalogue all the
popular medieval font-names. Many others will be found scattered
through this book as occasion or association suggests them.

Three names whose poor representation is surprising are Arthur,
Charles and George, the two great Kings of medieval romance and the
patron saint of Merrie England.

All three are fairly common in their unaltered form, and we find
also Arter for Arthur.

But they have given few derivatives, though Atkins, generally from
Ad-, i.e.

Adam, may sometimes be from Arthur (cf.

Bat for Bart, Matty for Martha, etc.).

Arthur is a rare medieval font-name, a fact no doubt due to the
sad fate of King John's nephew.

Its modern popularity dates from the Duke of Wellington, while
Charles and George were raised from obscurity by the Stuarts and the
Brunswicks. To these might be added the German name Frederick, the
spread of which was due to the fame of Frederick the Great. It gave,
however, in French the dissimilated Ferry, one source of our
surnames Ferry, Ferris, though the former is generally local.

[Footnote: "For Frideric, the English have commonly used Frery and
Fery, which hath been now a long time a Christian name in the ancient
family of Tilney, and lucky to their house, as they report."

(Camden.)]

If, on the other hand, we take from Gower's list a name which is
to-day comparatively rare, e.g.

Gilbert, we find it represented by a whole string of surnames, e.g.

Gilbart, Gibbs, Gibson, Gibbon, Gibbins, Gipps, Gipson, to mention only
the most familiar.

From the French dim.

Gibelot we get the rather rare Giblett; cf.

Hewlett for Hew-el-et, Hamlet for Ham-el-et (Hamo), etc.

DERIVATIVES OF FONT-NAMES
In forming patronymics from personal names, it is not always the
first syllable that is selected.

In Toll, Tolley, Tollett, from Bartholomew, the second has survived,
while Philpot, dim. of Philip, has given Potts. From Alexander we get
Sanders and Saunders. But, taking, for simplicity, two instances in
which the first syllable has survived, we shall find plenty of
instruction in those two pretty men Robert and Richard.

We have seen (Chapter VI) that Roger gave Hodge and Dodge, which,
in the derivatives Hodson and Dodson, have coalesced with names
derived from Odo and the Anglo-Sax.

Dodda (Chapter VII).
Similarly Robert gave Rob, Hob and Dob, and Richard gave Rick, Hick and
Dick.

[Footnote: I believe, however, that Hob is in some cases from Hubert,
whence Hubbard, Hibbert, Hobart, etc.] Hob, whence Hobbs, was sharpened
into Hop, whence Hopps. The diminutive Hopkin, passing into Wales, gave
Popkin, just as ap-Robin became Probyn, ap-Hugh Pugh, ap-Owen
Bowen, etc.

In the north Dobbs became Dabbs (p. A. Hob also developed another rimed
form Nob cf. to "hob-nob" with anyone), whence Nobbs and Nabbs, the
latter, of course, being sometimes rimed on Abbs, from Abel or
Abraham. Bob is the latest variant and has not formed many
surnames. Richard has a larger family than Robert, for, besides Rick,
Hick and Dick, we have Rich and Hitch, Higg and Digg.
The reader will be able to continue this genealogical tree for
himself.

The full or the shortened name can become a surname, either without change,
or with the addition of the genitive -s or the word -son, the former
more usual in the south, the latter in the north. To take a simple
case, we find as surnames William, Will, Williams, Wills, Williamson,
Wilson. [Footnote: This suffix has squeezed out all the others, though
Alice Johnson is theoretically absurd.

In Mid. English we find daughter, father, mother, brother and other
terms of relationship used in this way, e.g. in 1379, Agnes
Dyconwyfdowson, the wife of Dow's son Dick.

Dawbarn, child of David, is still found. See also Chapter XXI]
From the short form we get diminutives by means of the English
suffixes -ie or -y (these especially in the north), -kin (Chapter IV),
and the French suffixes -et, -ot (often becoming -at in English),
-in, -on (often becoming -en in English).

Thus Willy, Wilkie, Willett. I give a few examples of surnames formed
from each class
Ritchie (Richard), Oddy (Odo, whence also Oates), Lambie (Lambert),
Jelley (Julian); [Footnote: Lamb is also, of course, a nickname
cf.
Agnew, Fr. agneau]
Dawkins, Dawkes (David), Hawkins, Hawkes (Hal), Gilkins (Geoffrey),
Perkins, Perks (Peter), Rankin (Randolf);
Gillett (Gil, Chapter VI), Collett (Nicholas), Bartlett (Bartholomew),
Ricketts (Richard), Marriott, Marryat (Mary), Elliott (Elias,
see Chapter IX), Wyatt (Guy), Perrott (Peter);
Collins (Nicholas), Jennings (John, see Chapter X), Copping (Jacob, see
Chapter I), Rawlin (Raoul, the French form of Radolf, whence Roll,
Ralph, Relf), Paton (Patrick), Sisson (Sirs, i.e. Cecilia), Gibbons
(Gilbert), Beaton (Beatrice).

In addition to the suffixes and diminutives already mentioned, we have
the two rather puzzling endings -man and -cock. Man occurs as an
ending in several Germanic names which are older than the Conquest,
e.g. Ashman, Harman, Coleman; and the simple Mann is also an
Anglo-Saxon personal name.

It is sometimes to be taken literally, e.g. in Goodman, i.e. master of
the house (Matt. xx. ii), Longman, Youngman, etc. In Hickman, Homan
(How, Hugh), etc., it may mean servant of, as in Ladyman, Priestman,
or may be merely an augmentative suffix. In Coltman, Runciman, it
is occupative, the man in charge of the colts, rouncies or nags.
Chaucer's Shipman--

"Rood upon a rouncy as he kouthe" (A. 390).

In Bridgeman, Pullman, it means the man who lived near, or had some
office in connection with, the bridge or pool. But it is often due to
the imitative instinct. Dedman is for the local Debenham, and Lakeman
for Lakenham, while Wyman represents the old name Wymond, and
Bowman and Beeman are sometimes for the local Beaumont (cf. the
pronunciation of Belvoir).

But the existence in German of the name Bienemann shows that
Beeman may have meant bee-keeper.

Sloman may be a nickname, but also means the man in the slough (Chapter
XII), and Godliman is an old familiar spelling of Godalming.

We of course get doubtful cases, e.g.
Sandeman may be, as explained by Bardsley, the servant of Alexander
(Chapter VI), but it may equally well represent Mid. Eng. sandeman,
a messenger, and Lawman, Layman, are rather to be regarded as derivatives
of Lawrence (Chapter VI) than what they appear to be.

THE SUFFIX -COCK
Many explanations have been given of the suffix -cock, but I cannot
say that any of them have convinced me. Both Cock and the patronymic
Cocking are found as early personal names. The suffix was added
to the shortened form of font-names, e.g.

Alcock (Allen), Hitchcock (Richard), was apparently felt as a mere
diminutive, and took an -s like the diminutives in -kin, e.g.

Willcocks, Simcox.

In Hedgecock, 'Woodcock, etc., it is of course a nickname.

The modern Cox is one of our very common names, and the spelling Cock,
Cocks, Cox, can be found representing three generations in the
churchyard of Invergowrie, near Dundee.

The two names Bawcock and Meacock had once a special significance.

Pistol, urged to the breach by Fluellen, replies
"Good bawcock, bate thy rage! use lenity, sweet chuck"
(Henry V., iii, 2);
and Petruchio, pretending that his first interview with Katherine
has been most satisfactory, says--
"'Tis a world to see How tame, when men and women are alone, A
meacock wretch can make the curstest shrew."

(Taming of the Shrew, ii.1.)
These have been explained as Fr. beau coq, which is possible, and
meek cock, which is absurd.

As both words are found as surnames before Shakespeare's time, it
is probable that they are diminutives which were felt as suited to
receive a special connotation, just as a man who treats his thirst
generously is vulgarly called a Lushington.

Bawcock can easily be connected with Baldwin, while Meacock, Maycock,
belong to the personal name May or Mee, shortened from the Old Fr.

Mahieu (Chapter IX).

Although we are not dealing with Celtic names, a few words as to the
Scottish, Irish, and Welsh surnames which we find in our directories may
be useful.

Those of Celtic origin are almost invariably patronymics.

The Scottish and Irish Mac, son, used like the Anglo-Fr.
Fitz-, ultimately means kin, and is related to the -mough of Watmough
(Chapter XXI) and to the word maid.

In MacNab, son of the abbot, and MacPherson, son of the parson, we
have curious hybrids.

In Manx names, such as Quilliam (Mac William), Killip (Mac Philip),
Clucas (Mac Lucas), we have aphetic forms of Mac.

The Irish 0', grandson, descendant, has etymologically the same meaning
as Mac, and is related to the first part of Ger.

Oheim, uncle, of Anglo-Sax. eam (see Eames, Chapter XXI), and of
Lat. avus, grandfather.

Oe or oye is still used for grandchild in Scottish--
"There was my daughter's wean, little Eppie Daidle, my oe, ye ken"
(Heart of Midlothian, ch. iv.).

The names of the Lowlands of Scotland are pretty much the same as
those of northern England, with the addition of a very large French
element, due to the close historical connection between the two
countries.

Examples of French names, often much corrupted, are Bethune (Pas
de Calais), often corrupted into Beaton, the name of one of the
Queen's Maries, Boswell (Bosville, Seine Inf.), Bruce (Brieux,
Orne), Comyn, Cumming (Comines, Nord), Grant (le grand), Rennie
(René), etc.

CELTIC NAMES
Welsh Ap or Ab, reduced from an older Map, ultimately cognate with
Mac, gives us such names as Probyn, Powell (Howell, Hoel), Price
(Rhys), Pritchard, Prosser (Rosser), Prothero (Roderick), Bedward,
Beddoes (Eddowe), Blood (Lud, Lloyd), Bethell (Ithel), Benyon
(Enion), whence also Binyon and the local-looking Baynham.

Onion and Onions are imitative forms of Enion. Applejohn and Upjohn
are corruptions of Ap-john. The name Floyd, sometimes Flood, is due
to the English inability to grapple with the Welsh Ll--
"I am a gentylman and come of Brutes [Brutus'] blood, My name is
ap Ryce, ap Davy, ap Flood."

(Andrew Boorde, Book of the Introduction of Knowledge, ii 7.)
While Welsh names are almost entirely patronymic, Cornish names
are very largely local.

They are distinguished by the following prefixes and others of
less common occurrence: Caer-, fort, Lan-, church, Pen-, hill, Pol-,
pool, Ros-, heath, Tre-, settlement, e.g. Carthew, Lanyon, Penruddock,
Polwarth, Rosevear, Trethewy. Sometimes these elements are
found combined, e.g. in Penrose.

A certain number of Celtic nicknames and occupative names which are
frequently found in England will be mentioned elsewhere (pp. 173,
216).

In Gilchrist, Christ's servant, Gildea, servant of God, Gillies,
servant of Jesus, Gillespie, bishop's servant, Gilmour, Mary's
servant, Gilroy, red servant, we have the Highland "gillie." Such
names were originally preceded by Mac-, e.g. Gilroy is the same
as MacIlroy; cf. MacLean, for Mac-gil-Ian, son of the servant of
John.
To the same class of formation belong Scottish names in Mal-, e.g.
Malcolm, and Irish names in Mul-, e.g. Mulholland, in which the first
element means tonsured servant, shaveling, and the second is the name
of a saint.

CHAPTER VII. GODERIC AND GODIVA
"England had now once more (A.D. 1100) a King born on her own soil,
a Queen of the blood of the hero Eadmund, a King and Queen whose
children would trace to AElfred by two descents.

Norman insolence mocked at the English King and his English Lady
under the English names of Godric and Godgifu."

[Footnote: "Godricum eum, et comparem Godgivam appellantes" (William
of Malmesbury, Gesta Regum Anglorum).]
(FREEMAN, Norman Conquest, v. 170.)

In dealing with surnames we begin after the Conquest, for the
simple reason that there were no surnames before.

Occasionally an important person has come down in history with a nickname,
e.g.

Edmund Iron-side, Harold Harefoot, Edward the Confessor; but this
is exceptional, and the Anglo-Saxon, as a rule, was satisfied with
one name. It is probable that very many of the names in use
before the Conquest, whether of English or Scandinavian origin, were
chosen because of their etymological meaning, e.g. that the name
Beornheard (Bernard, Barnard, Barnett) was given to a boy in the hope
that he would grow up a warrior strong, just as his sister might
be called AEthelgifu, noble gift. The formation of these old names is
both interesting and, like all Germanic nomenclature, poetic.

FORMATION OF ANGLO-SAXON NAMES
As a rule the name consists of two elements, and the number of those
elements which appear with great frequency is rather limited.

Some themes occur only in the first half of the name, e.g. Aethel-,
whence Aethelstan, later Alston; AElf-, whence AElfgar, now Elgar and
Agar (AEthel- and AElf- soon got confused, so that Allvey, Elvey
may represent both AEthelwig and AElfwig, or perhaps in some cases
Ealdwig); Cuth-, whence Cuthbeald, now Cobbold [Footnote: This is
also the origin of Cupples, and probably of Keble and Nibbles.

It shares Cobbett and Cubitt with Cuthbeorht.]; Cyne-, whence
Cynebeald now Kimball and Kemble, both of which are also local,
Folc-, whence Folcheard and Folchere, now Folkard and Fulcher;
Gund-, whence Gundred, now Gundry and Grundy (Metathesis, Chapter
III); Os-, whence Osbert, Osborn,
Other themes only occur as the second half of the name.

Such are -gifu, in Godgifu, i.e. Godiva, whence Goodeve; -lac in Guthlac,
now Goodlake and Goodluck (Chapter XXI); -laf in Deorlaf, now Dearlove;
-wacer in Eoforwacer, now Earwaker.

Other themes, and perhaps the greater number, may occur indifferently
first and second, e.g. beald, god, here, sige, weald, win, wulf
or ulf.

Thus we have complete reversals in Beald-wine, whence Baldwin, and
Wine-beald, whence Winbolt, Here-weald, whence Herald, Harold,
Harrod, and Weald-here, whence Walter (Chapter I).

With these we may compare Gold-man and Man-gold, the latter of which
has given Mangles.

So also we have Sige-heard, whence Siggers, and Wulf-sige, now
Wolsey, Wulf-noth, now the imitative Wallnutt, and Beorht-wulf,
later Bardolph and Bardell.

The famous name Havelock was borne by the hero of a medieval epic,
"Havelock the Dane," but Dunstan is usually for the local Dunston.

On the other hand, Winston is a personal name, Wine-stan, whence
Winstanley.

These examples show that the pre-Norman names are by no means unrepresented
in the twentieth century, but, in this matter, one must proceed
with caution.

To take as examples the two names that head this chapter, there is no
doubt that Goderic and Godiva are now represented by Goodrich and Goodeve,
but these may also belong to the small group mentioned in Chapter VI,
and stand for good Richard and good Eve. Also Goodrich comes in some
cases from Goodrich, formerly Gotheridge, in Hereford, which has also
given Gutteridge.

Moreover, it must not be forgotten that our medieval nomenclature
is preponderantly French, as the early rolls show beyond dispute, so
that, even where a modern name appears susceptible of an Anglo-Saxon
explanation, it is often safer to refer it to the Old French cognate;
for the Germanic names introduced into France by the Frankish conquerors,
and the Scandinavian names which passed into Normandy, contained
very much the same elements as our own native names, but underwent
a different phonetic development.

Thus I would rather explain Bawden, Bowden, Boulders, Boden, and the dims.
Body and Bodkin, as Old French variants from the Old Ger.

Baldawin than as coming directly from Anglo-Saxon. Boyden undoubtedly
goes back to Old Fr. Baudouin.

Practically all the names given in Gower's lines (Chapter V), and many
others to which I have ascribed a continental origin, are found
occasionally in England before the Conquest, but the weight of
evidence shows that they were either adopted in England as French
names or were corrupted in form by the Norman scribes and officials.

To take other examples, our Tibbald, Tibbles, Tibbs suggest the Fr.
In popular conception literary theft
is at worst a venial sin whose very iniquity is doubtful unless found
out.  The culprit's average fellow-townsman accepted the incident as
fresh evidence of his acknowledged cleverness and promptly forgot it in
the nine days' wonder over his exploit at the Hilliard quarries.

The town's attitude mirrored that of the congressional district and the
state.  Volney Sprague's editorial occasioned some little paragraphing
here and there among up-state newspapers and by brief mention in
_Associated Press_ despatches roused a metropolitan daily of opposite
political faith to one of the satirical thrusts for which it was
famous; whereupon one of its more serious contemporaries found a text
for a thunderous jeremiad on the decay of political morality.  I do
not recollect the time when I began to glean--or _gather_, as it
is locally termed--probably I would, when very young, follow the
others to the near farms, and gradually become, as I grew older,
a regular gleaner.

At that time the gleaners in our district were divided into two
gangs or parties. One of these was headed by four old women, whose
shearing-days were past; and as they were very peaceable, decent
bodies, it was considered an honour to get attached to their band.

The other was composed of the wilder spirits of the place, who
thought nothing of jumping dikes, breaking hedges, stealing turnips,
and committing other depredations on the farms which they visited.

Fortunately, my quiet disposition, and supposed good character, procured
my admittance into the more respectable gang; and I had the honour
of sharing its fortunes during the five or six years I continued a
gleaner.

I was surprised to see one of these old ladies toddling about the
village only a few weeks ago, though her gathering-days are long
since past.

She is the last survivor of the quorum, and is now fast fading into
dotage.

Although the two gleaning-parties never assumed a positive antagonism,
they took care to conceal their movements from each other as well
as possible. When one of our party received information of a field
being 'ready,' the fact was secretly conveyed to all the members,
with an injunction to be 'in such a place at such an hour' on the
following morning; and the result generally was, that we had a considerable
portion of the field gleaned before the other gang arrived. But we
did not always act on previous information. Many a morning we departed
on the search, and frequently wandered all day without 'lifting a head.'

She had not had speech with Shelby since the
mass-meeting, but he had found time that night to ask her to drive with
him, and she anticipated the outing with a zest whose disproportion to
its surface cause she did not analyze.

On the appointed afternoon she saw his horse and buggy brought from the
Tuscarora House and hitched at the curb below his office, and as it
lacked little of the hour set she thrust home the last hat-pin and
stood jacketed and gloved by a window, waiting his coming.  The hour
struck and brought no Shelby, though punctuality was the first article
of his creed.  Out in the drowsy thoroughfare a sprinkling-cart jarred
heavily past, spurting ineffectually at the yellow dust which rose
perversely under its baptism and surged beneath the awnings of the
shops.  It was Saturday, universal shopping-day in the farmland, and a
ramshackle line of rustic vehicles--buggies, democrats, sulkies, lumber
wagons--with graceless plough horses slumbering in the thills,
stretched in ragged alignment down the curb.  Shelby's smart turnout
seemed fairly urban by contrast, and Ruth saw that it met with the
critical approval of the loungers.

A quarter of an hour slipped by; no Shelby.  His cob fretted at the
autumn flies and whinnied to be gone.  A half-hour elapsed, unfruitful;
an hour.  Then did Queen Ruth, on whose imperious nod a little world
had hung from babyhood, perceive the recreant come calmly down from his
law office in company with some creature of relatively common clay,
shake hands, chat further, shake hands again, take up his reins amid an
interchange of badinage with the bystanders, and so, gossiping still,
jog deliberately on--to her!

She spun on her heel as he turned in at the drive and rang for her maid.

"If Mr. Shelby should call," she directed, wrenching at her gloves,
"say I'm not at home."


Shelby's occupations in the meantime had been absorbing.  In the course
of an earnest conference at the Tuscarora House the evening of the
quarry accident, the Hon. Samuel Bowers had removed his cigar to let
fall a sententious observation.

"As long as an all-wise Providence saw fit to dump that sand-bank on
one of the Polacks," said he, "I call it a piece of downright Ross
Shelby luck that it fell on Kiska."

"I should have worked as hard over a dago," rejoined Shelby; "or a dog
either, I guess."

"M-yes; I reckon.  But you're not complaining that it wasn't some dago
who doesn't know a ballot from a bunch of garlic?  No, I reckon not."
His eyes twinkled, and Shelby flickered a responsive grin.  "Note a
rule for candidates: When about to effect the spectacular rescue of one
of the toiling masses which are the bone and sinew of this fair land of
ours, pick a man who holds a block of the foreign vote right in the
pocket of his jeans."

It was perhaps appreciation of this aphorism's significance, perhaps
sheer abundance of the milk of human kindness, perhaps a harmonious
blending of both, which inspired Shelby's warm welcome to Kiska as he
was about to leave his office to join Ruth Temple.

"You shouldn't have come out so soon, Kiska," he protested, urging the
big Pole to a chair, and bringing him a glass of water.  "Did you walk
all the way from Little Poland to see me?"

"I valked," answered Kiska, simply, his face working.  "I vould like to
haf roon, Meester Shelby."

"Oh, I wouldn't run much just yet," laughed Shelby, kindly, trying to
head off the man's expression of gratitude.  "Have another drink?
Perhaps you'd prefer some whiskey?"

Kiska declined, and harked back to his message.

"I vould like to haf roon to tank you, Meester Shelby.  I got vife to
tank you.  I got mooch cheeldren to tank you.  I no taalk good.  Dat
Eengleesh hard,--so?  Eef I no taalk, I tink.  I tink all day: Tank
you, Meester Shelby, tank you, Meester Shelby."

"You speak English very well," said Shelby, patting him on the
shoulder.  "But you mustn't say any more about the matter."

He led him presently to talk of the quarry-workers and their families,
their wages, their hours, their recreation, their parish church, their
priest, their school; for Little Poland was sufficient unto itself; and
Kiska saw that he questioned with sympathy and understanding, and was
pleased.  On the dial of his office clock Shelby noted the hour of his
appointment come and go, and from his window he caught a fleeting
glimpse of Ruth at hers.  She wore his favorite hat, with a gleam of
red, which became her dark hair so well, and he divined that she had
put it on because of him.  He longed to be out and away with her
between the autumn hedgerows, but there sat Kiska, garrulous of Poland
over seas and Little Poland by the quarries, and to Kiska the
politician inclined a patient ear.

The Pole rose at last, after a delighted hour, and Shelby saw his eye
light on a package of campaign lithographs of himself, which had come
that morning from the printers.

"Want one?" Morshead may be the nickname of mine host of the Saracen's Head or
may mean the end of the moor.

So the names Aked (oak), Blackett, Woodhead may be explained
anatomically or geographically according to the choice of the bearer.

Perrett, usually a dim. of Peter, may sometimes represent the rather
effective old nickname "pear-head."
Side is local in the uncomfortable sounding Akenside (oak), Fearenside
(fern), but Heaviside appears to be a nickname. Handyside may mean
"gracious manner," from Mid. Eng. side, cognate with Ger. Sitte, custom.
See Hendy (Chapter XXII). The simple end survives as Ind or Nind (Chapter
III) and in Overend (Chapter XII), Townsend. Edge appears also in the
older form Egg, but the frequency of place-names beginning with Edge,
e.g. Edgeley, Edgington, Edgworth, etc., suggests that it was also
a personal name.

Lynch, a boundary, is cognate with golf-links.

The following sounds modern, but refers to people sitting in a hollow
among the sand-ridges--
"And are ye in the wont of drawing up wi' a' the gangrel bodies
that ye find cowering in a sand-bunker upon the links?"

(Redgauntlet, ch. xi.)
Pitt is found in the compound Bulpitt, no doubt the place where the
town bull was kept.

It is also the origin of the Kentish names Pett and Pettman
(Chapter XVII). Arch refers generally to a bridge.
Lastly, there are three words for a corner, viz.

Hearne, Herne, Hurne, Horn; Wyke, the same word as Wick, a creek (Chapter
XII); and Wray (Scand.). The franklin tell us that "yonge clerkes"
desirous of knowledge--
"Seken in every halke and every herne Particular sciences for to
lerne" 
(F, 1119).

Wray has become confused with Ray (Chapter III).

Its compound thack-wray, the corner where the thatch was stored,
has given Thackeray.

HIGHWAYS AND BYWAYS

The word road was not used in its current sense during the surname
period, but meant the art of riding, and specifically a raid or
inroad.

Therefore the name Roades is unconnected with it and represents merely
a variant of Royds (Chapter XII).

This name and its compounds belong essentially to the north, the
prevailing spelling, Rhodes, being artificial. It has no connection
with the island of Rhodes.

The meaning of Street has changed considerably since the days when
Icknield Street and Watling Street were great national roads. It is
now used exclusively of town thoroughfares, and has become such a
mere suffix that, while we speak of the Oxford Róad, we try to
suppress the second word in Ox'ford Street.

To street belong our place-names and surnames in Strat-, Stret-,
etc., e.g.

Stratton, Stretton, Stredwick.

Way has a number of compounds with intrusive _a_, e.g.

Challaway, Dallaway (dale), Greenaway, Hathaway (heath), Westaway. But
Hanway is the name of a country (Chapter XI), and Otway, Ottoway, is
Old Fr.
Otouet, a dim. of Odo. Shipway is for sheep-way. In the north of England
the streets in a town are often called gates (Scand.). It is impossible
to distinguish the compounds of this gate from those of the native
gate, a barrier (Chapter XIII), e.g.

Norgate may mean North Street or North Gate.

Alley and Court both exist as surnames, but the former is for a'lee,
i.e.

Atlee (Chapter XII), and the latter is from court in the sense of mansion,
country house.

The curious spelling Caught may be seen over a shop in Chiswick.

Rowe (Chapter I) sometimes means row of houses, but in Townroe
the second element is identical with Wray (Chapter XIII).

Cosway, Cossey, is from causeway, Fr. chaussée; and Twitchers,
Twitchell represent dialect words used of a narrow passage and
connected with the Mid.

English verb twiselen, to fork, or divide; Twiss must be of similar
origin, for we find Robert del twysse in 1367.

Cf. Birtwistle and Entwistle.

With the above may be classed the west-country Shute, a narrow street;
Vennell, a north-country word for alley, Fr. venelle, dim. of Lat.
versa, vein; Wynd, a court, also a north-country word, probably
from the verb wind, to twist; and the cognate Went, a passage--
"Thorugh a goter, by a prive wente."
(Troilus and Criseyde, iii. 788.)

WATER

Names derived from artificial watercourses are Channell, now replaced
as a common noun by the learned form canal; Condy or Cundy, for the
earlier Cunditt, conduit; Gott, cognate with gut, used in Yorkshire
for the channel from a mill-dam, and in Lincolnshire for a water-drain
on the coast; Lade, Leete, connected with the verb to lead; and
sometimes Shore (Chapter XII), which was my grandfather's pronunciation
of sewer.

From weir, lit. a protection, precaution, cognate with beware and
Ger. wehren, to protect, we have not only Weir, but also Ware, Warr,
Wear, and the more pretentious Delawarr.

The latter name passed from an Earl Delawarr to a region in North
America, and thus to Fenimore Cooper's noble red men.

But this group of names must sometimes be referred to the Domesday wars,
an outlying potion of a manor. Lock is more often a land name, to be
classed with Hatch (Chapter XIII), but was also used of a water-gate.
Key was once the usual spelling of quay. The curious name Keylock
is a perversion of Kellogg, Mid.

Eng. Kill-hog.

Port seldom belongs here, as the Mid.

English is almost always de la Porte, i.e. Gates.

From well we have a very large number of compounds, e.g. Cauldwell (cold),
Halliwell, the variants of which, Holliwell, Hollowell, probably all
represent Mid.

Eng. hali, holy.

Here belongs also Winch, from the device used for drawing water from deep
wells.

BUILDINGS

The greater number of the words to be dealt with under this heading
enter into the composition of specific place-names.

A considerable number of surnames are derived from the names of
religious buildings, usually from proximity rather than actual
habitation.

Such names are naturally of Greco-Latin origin, and were either
introduced directly into Anglo-Saxon by the missionaries, or were
adopted later in a French form after the Conquest. It has already been
noted (Chapter I) that Abbey is not always what it seems; but in
some cases it is local, from Fr, abbaye, of which the Provençal
form Abadie was introduced by the Huguenots.

We find much earlier Abdy, taken straight from the Greco-Lat.
abbatia.

The famous name Chantrey is for chantry, Armitage was once the regular
pronunciation of Hermitage, and Chappell a common spelling of Chapel--

"Also if you finde not the word you seeke for presently after one sort
of spelling, condemne me not forthwith, but consider how it is used
to be spelled, whether with double or single letters, as Chappell,
or Chapell" (Holyoak, Latin Dict., 1612).

We have also the Norman form Capel, but this may be a nickname from
Mid. Eng. capel, nag--
"Why nadstow (hast thou not) pit the capul in the lathe (barn)?"
(A, 4088.)
A Galilee was a chapel or porch devoted to special purposes--
"Those they pursued had taken refuge in the galilee of the church"

(Fair Maid of Perth, ch. ix.).

The tomb of the Venerable Bede is in the Galilee of Durham Cathedral.
I had a schoolfellow with this uncommon name, now generally perverted
to Galley. In a play now running (Feb. 1913) in London, there is a
character named Sanctuary, a name found also in Crockford and the London
Directory.

I have only once come across the contracted form Sentry [Footnote:
On the development in meaning of this word, first occurring in the
phrase "to take sentrie," i.e. refuge, see my Romance of Words, ch.
vii.]

(Daily Telegraph, Dec. 26, 1912), and then under circumstances which
might make quotation actionable. Purvis is Mid. Eng. parvis, a porch,
Greco-Lat. paradises.

It may be the same as Provis, the name selected by Mr.

Magwitch on his return from the Antipodes (Great Expectations, ch. xl.),
unless this is for Provost. Porch and Portch both occur as surnames, but
Porcher is Fr. porcher, a swineherd, and Portal is a Huguenot name.
Churcher and Kirker, Churchman and Kirkman, are usually local; cf.

Bridges and Bridgman.

The names Temple and Templeman were acquired from residence near one
of the preceptories of the Knights Templars, and Spittlehouse (Chapter
III) is sometimes to be accounted for in a similar way (Knights of the
Hospital). We even find the surname Tabernacle. Musters is Old Fr.
moustiers (moutiers), common in French place-names, from Lat.
monasterium. The word bow, still used for an arch in some old towns,
has given the names Bow and Bowes. A medieval statute, recently revived
to baffle the suffragettes, was originally directed against robbers
and "pillers," i.e. plunderers, but the name Piller is also for pillar;
cf. the French name Colonise.

With these may be mentioned Buttress and Carvell, the latter from Old
Fr. carnet (créneau), a battlement.

As general terms for larger dwellings we find Hall, House, also written
Hose, and Seal, the last-named from the Teutonic original which has
given Fr. Lasalle, whence our surname Sale.

To the same class belong Place, Plaice, as in Cumnor Place.

The possession of such surnames does not imply ancestral possession
of Haddon Hall, Stafford House, etc., but merely that the founder of the
family lived under the shadow of greatness.

In compounds -house is generally treated as in "workus," e.g. Bacchus
(Chapter VIII), Bellows, Brewis, Duffus (dove), Kirkus, Loftus,
Malthus, Windus (wynd, Chapter XIII).

In connection with Woodhouse it must be remembered that this name was
given to the man who played the part of a "wild man of the woods" in
processions and festivities. William Power, skinner, called "Wodehous,"
died in London in 1391. Of similar origin is Greenman.

The tavern sign of the Green Man is sometimes explained as representing
a forester in green, but it was probably at first equivalent to the
German sign "Zum wilden Mann."

Cassell is sometimes for Castle, but is more often a local German
name of recent introduction.

The northern Peel, a castle, as in the Isle of Man, was originally applied
to a stockade, Old Fr. pel (pieu), a stake, Lat.

Palos. Hence also Peall, Peile. Keep comes from the central tower of
the castle, where the baron and his family kept, i.e. lived. A moated
Grange is a poetic figment, for the word comes from Fr, grange, a
barn (to Lat. granum); hence Granger.

With Mill and the older Milne (Chapter II) we may compare Mullins,
Fr.
Desmoulins. Barnes is sometimes, but not always, what it seems (Chapter
XXI). With it we may put Leathes, from an obsolete Scandinavian
word for barn (see quot. Chapter XIII), to which we owe also the names
Leatham and Latham. Mr. Oldbuck's "ecstatic description" of the Roman
camp with its praetorium was spoilt by Edie Ochiltree's disastrous
interruption
"Praetorian here, praetorian there, I mind the bigging o't."

(Antiquary, ch. iv.).

DWELLINGS

The obsolete verb to big, i.e. build, whence Biggar, a builder, has
given us Biggins, Biggs (Chapter III), and Newbigging, while from to
build we have Newbould and Newbolt. Cazenove, Ital. casa nuova,
means exactly the same.

Probably related to build is the obsolete Bottle, a building, whence
Harbottle.

A humble dwelling was called a Board--
Borde, a little house, lodging, or cottage of timber (Cotgrave)--

whence Boardman, Border. Other names were Booth, Lodge, and Folley,
Fr. feuillée, a hut made of branches--
"Feuillée, an arbor, or bower, framed of leav'd plants, or branches"
(Cotgrave).

Scale, possibly connected with shealing, is a Scandinavian word used in
the north for a shepherd's hut, hence the surname Scales. Bower, which
now suggests a leafy arbour, had no such sense in Mid.

English.
Chaucer says of the poor widow--
"Ful sooty was hir bour and eek hire halle."

(B, 4022.)
Hence the names Bowerman, Boorman, Burman.

But the commonest of names for a humble dwelling was cot or cote
Born and fed in rudenesse 
As in a cote or in an oxe stalle
(E, 397)
the inhabitant of which was a Colman, Cotter, or, diminutively,
Cottrell, Cotterill.

Hence the frequent occurrence of the name Coates.

There are also numerous compounds, e.g.

Alcott (old), Norcott, Kingscote, and the many variants of Caldecott,
Calcott, the cold dwelling, especially common as a village name in
the vicinity of the Roman roads.

It is supposed to have been applied, like Coldharbour, to deserted posts.
The name Cotton is sometimes from the dative plural of the same word,
though, when of French origin, it represents Colon, dim. of Cot,
aphetic for Jacot.

Names such as Kitchin, Spence, a north-country word for pantry
(Chapter XX), and Mews, originally applied to the hawk-coops (see
Mewer, Chapter XV), point to domestic employment. The simple Mew,
common in Hampshire, is a bird nickname. Scammell preserves an older
form of shamble(s), originally the benches on which meat was
exposed for sale. The name Currie, or Curry, is too common to be referred
entirely to the Scot.

Corrie, a mountain glen, or to Curry in Somerset, and I conjecture
that it sometimes represents Old French and Mid. Eng. curie, a kitchen,
which is the origin of Petty Cury in Cambridge and of the famous French
name Curie.

Nor can Furness be derived exclusively from the Furness district of
Lancashire.

It must sometimes correspond to the common French name Dufour, from
four, oven. We also have the name Ovens. Stables, when not identical
with Staples (Chapter XIII), belongs to the same class as Mews.
Chambers, found in Scotland as Chalmers, is official, the medieval de
la Chambre often referring to the Exchequer Chamber of the City of
London.

Bellchambers has probably no connection with this word. It appears to be
an imitative spelling of Belencombre, a place near Dieppe, for the
entry de Belencumbre is of frequent occurrence.

Places of confinement are represented by Gale, gaol (Chapter III),
Penn, whence Inkpen (Berkshire), Pond, Pound, and Penfold or
Pinfold.

But Gales is also for Anglo-Fr. Galles, Wales. Butts may come from the
archery ground, while Butt is generally to be referred to the French
name Bout (Chapter VII) or to Budd (Chapter VII). Cordery, for de
la corderie, of the rope-walk, has been confused with the much
more picturesque Corderoy, i.e. coeur de roi.

SHOP SIGNS
As is well known, medieval shops had signs instead of numbers, and
traces of this custom are still to be seen in country towns. It is
quite obvious that town surnames would readily spring into existence
from such signs. The famous name Rothschild, always mispronounced
in English, goes back to the "red shield" over Nathan Rothschild's
shop in the Jewry of Frankfurt; and within the writer's memory two
brothers named Grainge in the little town of Uxbridge were familiarly
known as Bible Grainge and Gridiron Grainge.

Many animal surnames are to be referred partly to this source, e.g.
Bull, Hart, Lamb, Lyon, Ram, Roebuck, Stagg; Cock, Falcon, Peacock,
Raven, Swann, etc., all still common as tavern signs. The popinjay, or
parrot, is still occasionally found as Pobgee, Popjoy.

These surnames all have, of course, an alternative explanation (ch.
xxiii.). Here also usually belong Angel and Virgin.

A considerable number of such names probably consist of those taken
from figures used in heraldry or from objects which indicated the
craft practised, or the special commodity in which the tradesman
dealt.

Such are Arrow, Bell, Buckle, Crosskeys, Crowne, Gauntlett, Hatt,
Horne, Image, Key, Lilley, Meatyard, measuring wand--
"Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in meteyard, in weight,
or in measure" (Lev. xix. 35)--
Mullett, [Footnote: A five-pointed star, Old Fr. molette, rowel of a
spur.] Rose, Shears, and perhaps Blades, Shipp, Spurr, Starr, Sword.

Thomas Palle, called "Sheres," died in London, 1376.

But here again we must walk delicately.

The Germanic name Hatto, borne by the wicked bishop who perished
in the Mäuseturm, gave the French name Hatt with the accusative form
Hatton, [Footnote: In Old French a certain number of names, mostly of
Germanic origin, had an accusative in -on, e.g. Guy, Guyon, Hugues,
Hugon.

From Lat. Pontius came Poinz, Poinson, whence our Poyntz, less pleasingly
Punch, and Punshon.

In the Pipe Rolls these are also spelt Pin-, whence Pinch, Pinchin, and
Pinches.] Horn is an old personal name, as in the medieval romance
of King Horn, Shipp is a common provincialism for sheep, [Footnote:
Hence the connection between the ship and the "ha'porth of tar."]

Starr has another explanation (see Starling) and Bell has several (chapter
1). I should guess that Porteous was the sign used by some medieval
writer of mass-books and breviaries. Its oldest form is the Anglo-Fr.
Porte-hors, corresponding to medieval Lat. portiforium, a breviary,
lit. what one carries outside, a portable prayer-book--
"For on my porthors here I make an oath."

(B, 1321.)
But as the name is found without prefix in the Hundred Rolls, it may
have been a nickname conferred on some clericus who was proud of so
rare a possession.

CHAPTER XIV. NORMAN BLOOD
"Such, however, is the illusion of antiquity and wealth that decent
and dignified men now existing boast their descent from these filthy
thieves" 
(EMERSON, English Traits, ch. iv.).

Not every Norman or Old French name need be included in the group described
by Emerson when talking down to an uneducated audience.

In fact, it is probable that the majority of genuine French names belong
to a later period; for, although the baron who accompanied the Conqueror
would in many cases keep his old territorial designation, the minor
ruffian would, as a rule, drop the name of the obscure hamlet from which
he came and assume some surname more convenient in his new surroundings.
Local names of Old French origin are usually taken from the provinces
and larger towns which had a meaning for English ears. I have given
examples of such in chapter xi. Of course it is easy to take a
detailed map of Northern France and say, without offering any proof,
that "Avery (Chapter VIII) is from Evreux, Belcher (Chapter XXI) from
Bellecourt, Custance (Chapter X) from Coutances," and so on. But any
serious student knows this to be idiotic nonsense.
The fact that, except in the small minority composed of the senior
branches of the noblest houses, the surname was not hereditary
till centuries after the Conquest, justifies any bearer of a Norman name
taken from a village or smaller locality in repudiating all
connection with the "filthy thieves" and conjecturing descent from
some decent artisan belonging to one of the later immigrations.

That a considerable number of aristocratic families, and others,
bear an easily recognizable French town or village name is of course
well known, but it will usually be found that such names are derived
from places which are as plentiful in France as our own Ashleys,
Barton, Burton, Langleys, Newtons, Suttons, etc., are in England.

In some cases a local French name has spread in an exceptional
manner.
Examples are Baines (Gains, 2 [Footnote: The figures in brackets
indicate the number of times that the French local name occurs in the
Postal Directory. The above is the usual explanation of Baines.
found with de in the Hundred Rolls. But I think it was sometimes
a nickname, bones, applied to a thin man. I find William Banes
in Lancashire in 1252; cf. Langbain.] ), Gurney (Gournai, 6), Vernon
(3).
But usually in such cases we find a large number of spots which
may have given rise to the surname, e.g. Beaumont (46, without
counting Belmont), Dampier (Dampierre, i.e. St. Peter's, 28), Daubeney,
Dabney (Aubigné, 4, Aubigny, 17), Ferrers (Ferriéres, 22), Nevill
(Neuville, 58), Nugent (Nogent, 17), Villiers (58). This last name,
representing Vulgar Lat. villarium, is the origin of Ger.
The first taste usually comes from
seeing your name placarded on a dead wall between some equally
distinguished rolled oats and a new five-cent cigar.  Personally I
think I first saw the 'gypsy' face to face when the Hon. Seneca Bowers
told me that save 'Betsey and I Are Out' he had read no poem but mine
in twenty years.  That was my 'Ohio,' though of course Mrs. Hilliard's
request for an author's reading at the Culture Club was an annunciation
in itself.  Am I becoming fabulously rich from my royalties?  Alas! no;
I must buy too many presentation copies for people who fancy that I
obtain gratis really more than I know what to do with.  Shall I write
for the stage?  I could as easily write a cook book.  Do I give my
autograph?  Always, if a stamped envelope is enclosed.  One of our
hardest-working presidents daily set apart a time for autographs; why
then should a popular writer pretend that it bores him?  He is secretly
tickled, and probably collects autographs himself."

Ruth laughed, but denied that he had exhausted her questions.

"Why did you withhold your name from your masterpiece?" she asked.

"Partly because it was my masterpiece,--it would be false modesty to
deny that I know it,--and I had some notion of digging a pit for the
critics.  But the main reason was to confound my Uncle Peter."

"I didn't know you had an uncle."

"I haven't in the flesh.  'Uncle Peter' is generic--a polite lumping
together of my chronic fault-finders within the family and without.
You know him.  Both masculine and feminine, he's eternally an old
woman.  Everybody knows Uncle Peter, the first to censure and the last
to praise.  Now, as I've been his especial tidbit and awful example for
years, I had to school myself to the thought of snatching the daily
morsel of gossip from his mouth.  The murder out, Uncle Peter's grief
is pitiful.  How much sharper than a serpent's tooth is a prophecy of
evil unfulfilled!  It's not that he considers I've gone to work,
incorrigible vagabond that I am; it's the fact that my intolerable
idling has produced money which sets his teeth on edge--money, the
golden calf of Uncle Peter's narrow idolatrous soul."

Ruth had no liking for his moments of acid mockery.

"Don't let Uncle Peter overshadow your friends," she warned.

"I'll not," promised the man.  "And you--by what witchery of friendship
did you find me out?"  He shifted his seat, seeking her eyes.  "Ruth,
was it love?"

She did not answer immediately.

"Be my wife, Ruth," he said.

"It was not love," she replied simply.

It was one of the oddities of his temperament that at this moment he
saw himself objectively.  What a subdued neutral tinted thing was life!
By all the canons of romance it was now his cue for perfervid speech.

"What then?" he asked quietly.

"Liking--a real liking."

"Will it grow warmer?"

"I cannot tell."

"I will teach you to love me," he declared, his artistic self nudging
him meanwhile that he had dropped into the worn formula of the ages.

Ruth did not deny him the attempt, and he undertook a lesson on the
spot, pointing out that they saw life through similar eyes; that art,
music, literature spoke with a common voice; that if true marriage were
perfect companionship, the auguries were not uncertain in their happy
omen; so on till he wearied her with argument.

"All those things refine love," she put in at last, a little wistfully;
"they are not its essence.  A man may be a barbarian and yet lovable."

He desisted at that, and presently went away.  Out of doors her words
clothed themselves with a personal application.  Shelby--lovable
barbarian!--was entering the gate.

Of what immediately followed neither man retained a clear recollection.
It was a clash of temperaments hopelessly at odds, in which the spoken
word weighed little beside the mute antipathy jaundicing the mind.  Yet
the word played no small part in the sequel.  It was afterwards several
times repaired by the merchants of the Hanse Towns, on account of the
confirmation of their privileges in this city. The figures of the two
bishops on the north side are pretty much defaced, as are the city
arms engraven on the south side of it.

3.

Aldersgate, the ancient north gate of the city, stands to the westward
of Bishopsgate. On the north, or outside of it, is the figure of
King James I. on horseback, who entered the city at this gate when
he came from Scotland, on his accession to the throne of England.
Over the head of this figure are the arms of England, Scotland,
and Ireland; and on one side the image of the prophet Jeremy, with
this text engraved, "Then shall enter into the gates of this city,
kings and princes sitting on the throne of David, riding on chariots
and on horses, they and their princes, the men of Judah, and the
inhabitants of Jerusalem."

And on the other side, the figure of the prophet Samuel, with the
following passage, "And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have
hearkened unto your voice in all that you have said unto me, and
have made a king over you."

On the south, or inside of the gate, is the effigy of King James I.
sitting on his throne in his robes.

4. Newgate, so called from its being built later than the other principal
gates, is situated on the north-west corner of the city, said to
be erected in the reign of Henry I. or King Stephen, when the way
through Ludgate was interrupted by enlarging the cathedral of St.

Paul's and the churchyard about it. This gate hath been the county jail
for Middlesex at least five hundred years.

The west, or outside of the gate is adorned with three ranges of
pilasters and their entablements of the Tuscan order.

Over the lowest is a circular pediment, and above it the King's arms.
The inter columns are four niches, and as many figures in them,
well carved, and large as the life.

The east, or inside of the gate, is adorned with a range of pilasters
with entablements as the other, and in three niches are the figures
of justice, mercy, and truth, with this inscription, viz., "This
part of Newgate was begun to be repaired in the mayoralty of Sir
James Campel, Knight, anno 1630, and finished in the mayoralty of
Sir Robert Ducie, Bart., anno 1631; and being damnified by the fire
in 1666, it was repaired in the mayoralty of Sir George Waterman,
anno 1672." 
5.

Ludgate, the ancient western gate of the city, stands between Newgate
and the Thames, built by King Lud about threescore years before the
birth of our Saviour.

It was repaired in the reign of King John, anno 1215, and afterwards
in the year 1260, when it was adorned with the figures of King Lud
and his two sons, Androgeus and Theomantius; but at the Reformation,
in the reign of Edward VI., some zealous people struck off all their
heads, looking upon images of all kinds to be Popish and idolatrous.

In the reign of Queen Mary, new heads were placed on the bodies of
these kings, and so remained till the 28th of Queen Elizabeth,
anno 1586, when the gate, being very ruinous, was pulled down, and
beautifully rebuilt: the east or inside whereof was adorned with four
pilasters and entablature of the Doric order, and in the intercolumns
were placed the figures of King Lud and his two sons (who
are supposed to have succeeded him) in their British habits again; and
above them the queen's arms, viz., those of France and England quarterly,
the supporters a lion and a dragon. It was afterwards repaired and
beautified, anno 1699, Sir Francis Child lord mayor. The west or outside
of the gate is adorned with two pilasters and entablature of the Ionic
order; also two columns and a pediment adorning a niche, wherein
is placed a good statue of Queen Elizabeth in her robes and the
regalia; and over it the queen's arms between the city supporters,
placed at some distance. This gate was made a prison for debtors
who were free of the city, anno 1 Richard II., 1378, Nicholas
Brember then mayor, and confirmed such by the mayor and common
council, anno 1382, John Northampton mayor.

The Tower of London is situated at the south-east end of the city, on
the river Thames, and consists in reality of a great number of towers
or forts, built at several times, which still retain their several
names, though at present most of them, together with a little town
and church, are enclosed within one wall and ditch, and compose but
one entire fortress.

It was the vulgar opinion that the Tower was built by Julius Caesar;
but, as I have before shown, history informs us that Caesar made
no stay in England, that he erected no town or fortress, unless
that with which he enclosed his ships on the coast of Kent, nor
left a single garrison or soldier in the island on his departure.

This Tower, as now encompassed, stands upon twelve acres of ground, and
something more, being of an irregular form, but approaching near
to that of an oblong, one of the longest sides lying next the river,
from whence it rises gradually towards the north, by a pretty deep
ascent, to the armoury, which stands upon the highest ground in the
Tower, overlooking the White Tower built by William the Conqueror,
and the remains of the castle below it on the Thames side, said to
be built by William Rufus.

As to the strength of the place, the works being all antique, would
not be able to hold out four-and-twenty hours against an army
prepared for a siege: the ditch indeed is of a great depth, and
upwards of a hundred feet broad, into which the water of the Thames
may be introduced at pleasure; but I question whether the walls on
the inside would bear the firing of their own guns: certain it is,
two or three battering-pieces would soon lay them even with the
ground, though, after all, the ditch alone is sufficient to defend
it against a sudden assault.

There are several small towers upon the walls; those of the largest
dimensions, and which appear the most formidable, are the Divelin
Tower, on the north-west; and the Martin Tower on the north-east;
and St. Thomas's Tower on the river by Traitor's Bridge; which I take
to be part of the castle said to be built by William Rufus.

There is also a large tower on the outside the ditch, called the
Lions' Tower, on the south-west corner, near which is the principal
gate and bridge by which coaches and carriages enter the Tower; and
there are two posterns with bridges over the ditch to the wharf on
the Thames side, one whereof is called Traitor's Bridge, under which
state prisoners used to enter the Tower.

The principal places and buildings within the Tower, are (1) The
parochial church of St. Peter (for the Tower is a parish of itself,
in which are fifty houses and upwards, inhabited by the governor,
deputy-governor, warders, and other officers belonging to the
fortress)

.

(2) To the eastward of the church stands a noble pile of building,
usually called the armoury, begun by King James II. and finished
by King William III., being three hundred and ninety feet in length,
and sixty in breadth: the stately door-case on the south side is adorned
with four columns, entablature and triangular pediment, of the
Doric order.

Under the pediment are the king's arms, with enrichments of
trophy-work, very ornamental.

It consists of two lofty rooms, reaching the whole length of the
building: in the lower room is a complete train of artillery, consisting
of brass cannon and mortars fit to attend an army of a hundred-thousand
men; but none of the cannon I observe there were above four-and-twenty
pounders; the large battering-pieces, which carry balls of thirty-
two and forty-eight pounds weight, I perceive, are in the king's
store-houses at Deptford, Woolwich, Chatham, and Portsmouth. In the
armoury also we find a great many of the little cohorn mortars, so
called from the Dutch engineer Cohorn, who invented them for firing a
great number of hand-grenades from them at once; with other extraordinary
pieces cast at home, or taken from the enemy.

In the room over the artillery is the armoury of small arms, of equal
dimensions with that underneath, in which are placed, in admirable
order, muskets and other small arms for fourscore thousand men,
most of them of the newest make, having the best locks, barrels, and
stocks, that can be contrived for service; neither the locks or
barrels indeed are wrought, but I look upon them to be the more
durable and serviceable, and much easier cleaned.

There are abundance of hands always employed in keeping them bright, and
they are so artfully laid up, that any one piece may be taken down
without moving another.

Besides these, which with pilasters of pikes furnish all the middle
of the room from top to bottom, leaving only a walk through the middle,
and another on each side, the north and south walls of the armoury are
each of them adorned with eight pilasters of pikes and pistols
of the Corinthian order, whose intercolumns are chequer-work of
carbines and pistols; waves of the sea in cutlasses, swords, and
bayonets; half moons, semicircles, and a target of bayonets; the form
of a battery in swords and pistols; suns, with circles of pistols; a
pair of gates in halberts and pistols; the Witch of Endor, as it is
called, within three ellipses of pistols; the backbone of a whale in
carbines; a fiery serpent, Jupiter and the Hydra, in bayonets, &c.

But nothing looks more beautiful and magnificent than the four lofty
wreathed columns formed with pistols in the middle of the room,
which seem to support it.

They show us also some other arms, which are only remarkable for
the use they have been put to; as the two swords of state, carried
before the Pretender when he invaded Scotland in the year 1715; and
the arms taken from the Spaniards who landed in Scotland in the
year 1719, &c.

The small arms were placed in this beautiful order by one Mr.

Harris, originally a blacksmith, who was properly the forger of his
own fortune, having raised himself by his merit: he had a place or
pension granted him by the government for this piece of service in
particular, which he richly deserved, no nation in Europe being
able to show a magazine of small arms so good in their kind, and
so ingeniously disposed.

In the place where the armoury now stands was formerly a bowling-green,
a garden, and some buildings, which were demolished to make room
for the grand arsenal I have been describing.

In the horse-armoury the most remarkable things are some of the English
kings on horseback in complete armour, among which the chief are Edward
III., Henrys V. and VII., King Charles I. and II., and King William,
and a suit of silver armour, said to belong to John of Gaunt, seven
feet and a half high.

Here also they show us the armour of the Lord Kingsale, with the sword
he took from the French general, which gained him the privilege of
being covered in the king's presence, which his posterity enjoy
to this day.

The office of ordnance is in the Tower, with the several apartments
of the officers that belong to it, who have the direction of all
the arms, ammunition, artillery, magazines, and stores of war in
the kingdom.

The White Tower is a lofty, square stone building, with a turret at each
angle, standing on the declivity of the hill, a little below
the armoury, and disengaged from the other buildings, where some
thousand barrels of powder were formerly kept; but great part of
the public magazine of powder is now distributed in the several
yards and storehouses belonging to the government, as at Woolwich,
Chatham, Portsmouth, Plymouth, &c., to prevent accidents, I presume;
for should such a prodigious quantity of powder take fire, it must
be of fatal consequence to the city, as well as the Tower.

The main guard of the Tower, with the lodgings of the officers, are
on the east side of this building.

In the chapel of the White Tower, usually called Caesar's Chapel,
and in a large room adjoining on the east side thereof, sixty-four
feet long, and thirty-one broad, are kept many ancient records, such
as privy-seals in several reigns, bills, answers, and depositions in
chancery, in the reigns of Queen Elizabeth, King James I., and King
Charles I., writs of distringas, supersedeas, de excommunicato capiendo,
and other writs relating to the courts of law; but the records of
the greatest importance are lodged in the Tower called Wakefield
Tower, consisting of statute rolls from the 6th of Edward I. to the
8th of Edward III.

Parliament rolls beginning anno 5 of Edward II. and ending with the
reign of Edward IV.

Patent rolls beginning anno 3 of John, and ending with the reign of
Edward IV. In these are contained grants of offices, hands, tenements,
temporalities, &c., passing under the great seal.

Charter rolls, from the 1st of King John to the end of Edward IV.
in which are enrolments of grants, and confirmations of liberties and
privileges to cities and towns corporate, and to private persons,
as markets, fairs, free warren, common of pasture, waifs, strays,
felons' goods, &c.

The foundations of abbeys and priories, of colleges and schools, together
with lands and privileges granted to them.

The patents of creation of noblemen.

Close rolls, from the 6th of King John, to the end of Edward IV.,
in which are writs of various kinds, but more especially on the
back of the roll are entered the writs of summons to parliament,
both to the lords and commons, and of the bishops and inferior
clergy to convocations.

There are also proclamations, and enrolments of deeds between party
and party.

French rolls, beginning anno 1 of Edward II. and ending with Edward
IV., in which are leagues and treaties with the kings of France,
and other matters relating to that kingdom.

Scotch rolls, containing transactions with that kingdom.

Rome, touching the affairs of that see.

Vascon rolls, relating to Gascoign.

There are also other rolls and records of different natures.

In this tower are also kept the inquisitions post mortem, from the
first year of King Henry III., to the third year of Richard III.

The inquisitions ad quod damnum, from the first of Edward II. to the
end of Henry V.

Writs of summons, and returns to Parliament, from the reign of Edward
I. to the 17th of Edward IV.

Popes' bulls, and original letters from foreign princes.

All which were put into order, and secured in excellent wainscot
presses, by order of the house of peers, in the year 1719 and 1720.
Attendance is given at this office, and searches may be made from seven
o'clock in the morning to eleven, and from one to five in the
afternoon, unless in December, January, and February, when the office
is open only from eight to eleven in the morning, and from one to
four, except holidays.

The next office I shall mention is the Mint, where, at present, all
the money in the kingdom is coined.

This makes a considerable street in the Tower, wherein are apartments
for the officers belonging to it. The principal officers are:- l. The
warden, who receives the gold and silver bullion, and pays the
full value for it, the charge being defrayed by a small duty on
wines. 2.

The master and worker, who takes the bullion from the warden, causes
it to be melted, delivers it to the moneyers, and when it is minted
receives it from them again. 3.

The comptroller, who sees that the money be made according to the
just assize, overlooks the officers and controls them. 4.

The assay-master, who sees that the money be according to the
standard of fineness. 5.

The auditor, who takes the accounts, and makes them up. 6. The
surveyor-general, who takes care that the fineness be not altered in the
melting. And, 7, the weigher and teller.

The Jewel-office, where the regalia are reposited, stands near the
east end of the Armoury. A list is usually given to those who come
daily to see these curiosities in the Jewel-house, a copy whereof
follows, viz.:

A list of his Majesty's regalia, besides plate, and other rich
things, at the Jewel-house in the Tower of London.

1. The imperial crown, which all the kings of England have been crowned
with, ever since Edward the Confessor's time.

2. The orb, or globe, held in the king's left hand at the coronation;
on the top of which is a jewel near an inch and half in height.

3. The royal sceptre with the cross, which has another jewel of
great value under it.

4. The sceptre with the dove, being the emblem of peace.

5. St. Edward's staff, all beaten gold, carried before the king at the
coronation.

6.

A rich salt-cellar of state, the figure of the Tower, used on the
king's table at the coronation.

7. Curtana, or the sword of mercy, borne between the two swords
of justice, the spiritual and temporal, at the coronation.

8.

A noble silver font, double gilt, that the kings and royal family
were christened in.

9. A large silver fountain, presented to King Charles II. by the
town of Plymouth.

10.

Queen Anne's diadem, or circlet which her majesty wore in proceeding to
her coronation.

11.

The coronation crown made for the late Queen Mary.

12. The rich crown of state that his majesty wears on his throne
in parliament, in which is a large emerald seven inches round, a
pearl the finest in the world, and a ruby of inestimable value.

13. A globe and sceptre made for the late Queen Mary.

14. An ivory sceptre with a dove, made for the late King James's
queen.

15.

The golden spurs and the armillas that are worn at the coronation.

There is also an apartment in the Tower where noble prisoners used to be
confined, but of late years some of less quality have been sent
thither.

The Tower where the lions and other savage animals are kept is on
the right hand, on the outside the ditch, as we enter the fortress.
These consist of lions, leopards, tigers, eagles, vultures, and such
other wild creatures as foreign princes or sea-officers have
presented to the British kings and queens.

Not far from the Tower stands London Bridge. This bridge has nineteen
arches besides the drawbridge, and is built with hewn stone, being
one thousand two hundred feet in length, and seventy- four in
breadth, whereof the houses built on each side take up twenty-seven
feet, and the street between the houses twenty feet; there being
only three vacancies about the middle of the bridge where there are
no houses, but a low stone wall, with an iron palisade, through
which is a fine view of the shipping and vessels in the river.

This street over the bridge is as much thronged, and has as brisk a
trade as any street in the city; and the perpetual passage of coaches
and carriages makes it troublesome walking on it, there being no posts
to keep off carriages as in other streets. The middle vacancy was left
for a drawbridge, which used formerly to be drawn up when shipping
passed that way; but no vessels come above the bridge at this day
but such as can strike their masts, and pass under the arches.

Four of the arches on the north side of the bridge are now taken up
with mills and engines, that raise the water to a great height,
for the supply of the city; this brings in a large revenue which,
with the rents of the houses on the bridge, and other houses and
lands that belong to it, are applied as far as is necessary to the
repair of it by the officers appointed for that service, who are,
a comptroller and two bridge-masters, with their subordinate officers;
and in some years, it is said, not less than three thousand pounds
are laid out in repairing and supporting this mighty fabric, though
it be never suffered to run much to decay.

I come next to describe that circuit of ground which lies without
the walls, but within the freedom and jurisdiction of the City of
London.

And this is bounded by a line which begins at Temple Bar, and extends
itself by many turnings and windings through part of Shear Lane, Bell
Yard, Chancery Lane, by the Rolls Liberty, &c., into Holborn, almost
against Gray's-Inn Lane, where there is a bar (consisting of posts,
rails, and a chain) usually called Holborn Bars; from whence it
passes with many turnings and windings by the south end of Brook
Street, Furnival's Inn, Leather Lane, the south end of Hatton Garden,
Ely House, Field Lane, and Chick Lane, to the common sewer; then
to Cow Cross, and so to Smithfield Bars; from whence it runs with
several windings between Long Lane and Charterhouse Lane to Goswell
Street, and so up that street northward to the Bars.

From these Bars in Goswell Street, where the manor of Finsbury begins,
the line extends by Golden Lane to the posts and chain in Whitecross
Street, and from thence to the posts and chain in Grub Street; and
then runs through Ropemakers Alley to the posts and chain in the
highway from Moorgate, and from thence by the north side of Moorfields;
after which it runs northwards to Nortonfalgate, meeting with the
bars in Bishopsgate Street, and from thence runs eastward into
Spittlefields, abutting all along upon Nortonfalgate.

From Nortonfalgate it returns southwards by Spittlefields, and then
south-east by Wentworth Street, to the bars in Whitechapel.

From hence it inclines more southerly to the Little Minories and Goodman's
Fields: from whence it returns westward to the posts and chain in the
Minories, and so on more westerly till it comes to London Wall, abutting
on the Tower Liberty, and there it ends. The ground comprehended
betwixt this line and the city wall contains about three hundred
acres.

There is no wall or fence, as has been hinted already, to separate the
freedom of the City from that part of the town which lies in the
county of Middlesex, only posts and chains at certain places, and
one gate at the west end of Fleet Street which goes by the name of
Temple Bar.

This gate resembles a triumphal arch; it is built of hewn stone,
each side being adorned with four pilasters, their entablature, and
an arched pediment of the Corinthian order.

The intercolumns are niches replenished; those within the Bar towards
the east, with the figures of King James I. and his queen; and
those without the Bar, with the figures of King Charles I. and King
Charles II.

It is encircled also with cornucopias, and has two large cartouches
by way of supporters to the whole; and on the inside of the gate
is the following inscription, viz., "Erected in the year 1671, Sir
Samuel Starling, Mayor: continued in the year 1670, Sir Richard
Ford, Lord Mayor: and finished in the year 1672, Sir George Waterman,
Lord Mayor."

The city is divided into twenty-six wards or governments, each having its
peculiar officers, as alderman, common council, &c.

But all are subject to the lord mayor, the supreme magistrate of
this great metropolis.

Of each of these wards take the following account.

1. Portsoken ward is situate without Aldgate, the most easterly
ward belonging to the City; and extends from Aldgate eastward to the
bars. The chief streets and places comprehended in it, are part of
Whitechapel Street, the Minories, Houndsditch, and the west side
of Petticoat Lane.

Whitechapel is a handsome broad street, by which we enter the town
from the east.

The south side, or great part of it, is taken up by butchers
who deal in the wholesale way, selling whole carcases of veal, mutton,
and lamb (which come chiefly out of Essex) to the town butchers.
On the north side are a great many good inns, and several considerable
tradesmen's houses, who serve the east part of England with such goods
and merchandise as London affords.

On the south side is a great market for hay three times a
week.

Tower ward extends along the Thames from the Tower on the east almost
to Billingsgate on the west, and that part of the Tower itself which
lies to the westward of the White Tower is held by some to be
within this ward.

The principal streets and places contained in it are Great Tower
Street, part of Little Tower Street and Tower Hill, part of Thames
Street, Mark Lane, Mincing Lane, Seething Lane, St.

Olave Hart Street, Idle Lane, St. Dunstan's Hill, Harp Lane, Water Lane,
and Bear Lane, with the courts and alleys that fall into them.

Great Tower Hill lies on the outside of the Tower Ditch towards the
north-west.

Upon this hill is a scaffold erected, at the charge of the City,
for the execution of noble offenders imprisoned in the Tower (after
sentence passed upon them).

"I don't seem to have a match left," he observed, fumbling in his
pockets.

Jasper Hinchey calmly relieved him of his cigarette, lit his cigar with
it, and restored the costly importation, malodorous of fish.  At the
earliest opportunity Graves dropped it in the canal, a transaction duly
noted by Jap.

"I've been told you have something to say to me," the young man said
briskly, his social obligations seeming fully paid, and his eagerness
to be gone swamping diplomacy.

Jasper rebaited his hook, impaling the wriggling earthworm with a
solicitude worthy of comparison with Isaac Walton's refined martyrdom
of frogs.

"Yes," he drawled; "I kind o' 'magine I hev."

Bernard curbed his impatience while Jap spat with deadly aim at an
eddying chip.

"S'pose you know I've knocked round in pol'tics some?"

The young man said that he did.  He thought "knocked" a felicitous
word.  Jasper Hinchey's public services had been heavy-fisted, relating
chiefly to voting blocks of drunken Poles and Italians in warmly
contested town elections.

"I've helped 'lect mor'n one feller t' office in my day.  Take Ross
Shelby now: both times he run fer th' 'Sembly I worked like a nailer.
'Cause why?  He done right by me.  Why I luved that cuss like--like--"
he hesitated for a simile--"like my own son," he added, with the
passing of one of his brood, and forthwith whacked the youngster for
overturning the bait can.  "Jes' like my own son.  An' so I should
still ef he hedn't done me dirt; ef he'd ben square.  Now, you're
square."

"I try to be," returned Bernard, ravished by the tribute.  "That's my
platform in this campaign, you know."

"Yes; jes' so.  An' I rather 'magine I'll vote yer way."

"Thank you."

"Pro-vi-ded," Jasper added, "pro-vi-ded we c'n 'range things."

"Arrange things?"

Jasper's eyes wandered musingly over his interlocutor's face.

"'Range things, I sez, an' I sez it again."

He abandoned something of his drawl.  "I 'magine I c'd tell sumpin ef I
tuk a notion."

Graves brooked his tone with difficulty.

"I shouldn't be here if I didn't think so too," he answered coolly.

"Jes' so," agreed Jasper, absorbed in a sinker.  "I c'd tell sumpin
erbout a party thet I 'magine you'd cock yer ear t' hear."

"Shelby?"

"I 'magine I didn't jes' quite say.  No, I 'magine not."

"If you will exercise your imagination less, Mr. Hinchey, and say
plainly what you have to say, I shall be obliged," retorted Bernard,
exasperated by his shiftiness.

Jasper was unmoved.

"Easy t' see _you_ ain't ben in pol'tics long.  Wall, whut I've got t'
say is this: I used t' work fer this party off 'n' on,--this party
whose name I ain't a-mentionin'.  He wuz in pol'tics too.  Likewise run
a quarry an' s'm'other things t' num'rous t' mention.  'Twas in the
quarry I worked, mostly erbout 'lection time.  Cur'ous, ain't it, whut
good pay a feller'll git fer light work erbout 'lection time?  Wall,
this year I ain't hed proper treatment.  This party 'lows money is
tight, an' he's filled his quarry up with dagoes, damned dagoes."  He
paused to scowl over the shanties of his immediate neighbors and at the
industrious washerwoman up the dock.  "Wouldn't it make you sick th'
way furrin labor's a-crowdin' out th' true 'Merican?  I jes' despise
dagoes."

Graves was too disgusted to reply.  He recollected having heard a negro
speak contemptuously of Jews, but this case seemed yet more extreme.

"Wall," pursued the true American, "I wuz with this party a spell when
th' state tuk a notion t' sink a few s'perfluous millyuns in this ole
ditch."

The listener became all attention.

"Queer doin's I seen long erbout then.  Contractors is a scand'lous
lot.  Many's the load o' dirt I seen hauled out thet easy, whut th'
state paid fer ez blasted rock.  My, yes.  But my party wuzn't workin'
at contractin'; he wuz workin' at contractors, an' he knew 'em, lock,
stock, and bar'l.  He jes' owned th' whole blim pack.  Thet's where his
rake-off come in.  'Twant all dirt them daisies tuk out.  There wuz as
fustclass sandstun ez my party ever shipped f'm his quarry, an' f'm his
quarry docks it went."

"You mean that this man connived with the contractors to misappropriate
state property?"

"I 'magine I do."

"And your party is Shelby?"

"Never said no sech thing."

"It's what you imply clearly enough.  Now, if you wish to help us, as
you told Mr. Sprague, you must say precisely who and what you mean, and
swear to it before Mr. Sprague, who is a notary public."

Jasper straightened.

"Fer nothin'?"  His tone was inimitable.

Bernard Graves looked him coldly in the eye.

"We're not bribing people."

The loafer raised his hulking body and leered over him; the young man
got upon his feet, half expecting assault.

"Anything we can do for you in a legitimate way, we will do," he added
steadily.

"I want t' know."

"You can find me at Mr. Sprague's office any morning between ten and
twelve."

Jasper Hinchey surveyed him with scorn as he turned to go.  Fumbling in
his rags, he extracted a greasy card.

"P'r'aps you'd buy a twenty-five cent ticket fer th' Jolly Rovers'
picnic," he insinuated.  "Mebbe it's not too stiff fer yer purse.  They
say ez how 'tis well lined, Mr. Graves."

"Do you know that the Penal Code makes soliciting a candidate to buy
tickets a misdemeanor?"

Hinchey smirked.

"A party whut I know buys 'em without askin'," said he.

Jasper Hinchey did not call at the _Whig_ office any morning between
ten o'clock and twelve.  It developed that he was engaged in some not
too arduous labor at the quarries of the Eureka Sandstone Company.


CHAPTER III

Had the fantastic bolt of the Sprague clique been left to its own
courses, Shelby would have borrowed no further trouble, but a
fortuitous matter of radishes and ice-water suddenly put the quarrel on
an altogether different level.  About the hour when Bernard Graves
hobnobbed with Jasper Hinchey, the third factor in the Demijohn
District's political muddle sat down to dinner in a neighboring city.
"Chuck" O'Rourke was fond of his dinner.  A childhood of squalid
poverty had taught him the joy of a square meal.  The story of the
years linking the famished boy to the pudgy red-faced man of the
restaurant is unessential,--an everyday story, sordid, and barren of
romance.  The present knew him for a prosperous contractor and
politician whose most conspicuous public service had been the adroit
fashioning of Tuscarora County's minority party into a compact
organization, to which the majority party found it expedient to cast an
occasional sop of patronage.  He had lived and thrived in an atmosphere
of deals.  Only within the fortnight had he aspired to hold office,
since his party had for years lacked the fighting chance which the
revolt against Shelby created.  Tempted at last, he abruptly resolved
to enter the congressional race himself, and this same day had effected
the last dicker with other county leaders which would insure his naming
in to-morrow's convention.

The day had gone unwontedly sultry, with a sudden flushing of autumn
with dog-day heat, and his active morning had been fraught with
physical discomfort.  The Heralds' College or office is situated on the
east side of Bennet's Hill, almost against Doctors' Commons. It is a
spacious building, with a square court in the middle of it, on the
north side whereof is the Court-room, where the Earl Marshal sits
to hear causes lying in the court of honour concerning arms, achievements,
titles of honour, &c.

25. The Ward of Farringdon Without includes Ludgate Hill, Fleet Street
and Fleet Ditch, Sheer Lane, Bell Yard, Chancery Lane, Fetter Lane,
Dean Street, New Street, Plough Yard, East and West Harding Street,
Fleur-de-Lis Court, Crane Court, Red Lion Court, Johnson's Court, Dunstan's
Court, Bolt Court, Hind Court, Wine Office Court, Shoe Lane, Racquet
Court, Whitefriars, the Temples, Dorset or Salisbury Court, Dorset Street,
Bridewell, the Old Bailey, Harp Alley, Holborn Hill, Castle Street
or Yard, Cursitor Alley, Bartlett's Buildings, Holborn Bridge, Snow
Hill, Pye Corner, Giltspur Street, Cow Lane, Cock Lane, Hosier Lane,
Chick Lane, Smithfield, Long Lane, Bartholomew Close, Cloth Fair, and
Duck Lane.

West Smithfield--or, rather, Smoothfield, according to Stow--is an
open place, containing little more than three acres of ground at
present, of an irregular figure, surrounded with buildings of various
kinds. Here is held one of the greatest markets of oxen and sheep in
Europe, as may easily be imagined when it appears to be the only
market for live cattle in this great city, which is held on
Mondays and Fridays. There is also a market for horses on Fridays; nor
is there anywhere better riding-horses to be purchased, if the
buyer has skill, though it must be confessed there is a great deal
of jockeying and sharping used by the dealers in horseflesh.

As for coach-horses, and those fit for troopers, they are usually
purchased in the counties to the northward of the town. The famous fair
on the feast of St. Bartholomew also is held in this place, which
lasts three days, and, by the indulgence of the City magistrates,
sometimes a fortnight.

The first three days were heretofore assigned for business, as the sale
of cattle, leather, &c., but now only for diversion, the players filling
the area of the field with their booths, whither the young citizens
resort in crowds.

The public buildings in this ward are Bridewell, Serjeants' Inn in
Fleet Street, the Temple, the Six Clerks' Office, the Rolls, Serjeants'
Inn in Chancery Lane, Clifford's Inn, the House of the Royal Society,
Staple's Inn, Bernards' Inn, and Thavie's Inn, Justice Hall in the Old
Bailey, and the Fleet Prison, with the churches of St. Bartholomew, and
the hospital adjoining, the churches of St. Sepulchre, St. Andrew,
Holborn, St. Bride's, and St.
Dunstan's-in-the-West.

Bridewell is situated on the west side of Fleet Ditch, a little
to the southward of Fleet Street, having two fronts, one to the
east, and the other to the north, with a handsome great gate in
each of them.

It consists chiefly of two courts, the innermost being the largest and
best built, four or five storeys high, on the south side whereof
is a noble hall, adorned with the pictures of King Edward VI. and
his Privy Council, King Charles, and King James II., Sir William
Turner, Sir William Jeffreys, and other benefactors.

It was one of the palaces of the Kings of England till the reign of
King Edward VI., who gave it to the City of London for the use of
their poor, with lands of the value of 700 marks per annum, and
bedding and furniture out of the Hospital of the Savoy, then
suppressed.

Here are lodgings and several privileges for certain tradesmen,
such as flax-dressers, tailors, shoemakers, &c., called art masters,
who are allowed to take servants and apprentices to the number of
about 140, who are clothed in blue vests at the charge of the house,
their masters having the profit of their labour.

These boys having served their times, have their freedom, and ten
pound each given them towards carrying on their trades; and some
of them have arrived to the honour of being governors of the house
where they served.

This Hospital is at present under the direction of a president, and
some hundreds of the most eminent and substantial citizens, with
their inferior officers; and a court is held every Friday, where
such vagrants and lewd people are ordered to receive correction in
the sight of the Court, as are adjudged to deserve it.

Among the public buildings of this ward, that belonging to the Royal
Society, situate at the north end of Two Crane Court, in Fleet Street,
must not be omitted, though it be much more considerable on account
of the learned members who assemble there, and the great advances
that have been made by them of late years in natural philosophy,
&c., than for the elegancy of the building.

During the grand rebellion, when the estates of the prime nobility
and gentry were sequestered, and there was no court for them to
resort to, the then powers encouraging only the maddest enthusiast,
or the basest of the people, whom they looked upon as the fittest
instruments to support their tyranny; some ingenious gentlemen, who
had applied themselves chiefly to their studies, and abhorred the
usurpation, proposed the erecting a society for the improvement of
natural knowledge, which might be an innocent and inoffensive
exercise to themselves in those troublesome times, and of lasting
benefit to the nation.

Their first meeting, it is said, were at the chambers of Mr. Wilkins
(afterwards Bishop of Chester) in Wadham College, in Oxford, about
the year 1650, and the members consisted of the Honourable Robert
Boyle, Esq., Dr.

Ward (afterwards Bishop of Salisbury), Sir Christopher Wren, Sir
William Petty, Dr.

Wallis, Dr.
Goddard, and Dr. Hook (late Professor of Geometry), the above-named
Bishop Wilkins, and others. In the year 1658 we find them assembling in
Gresham College, in London, when were added to their number the Lord
Brounker (their first president), Sir Robert Murray, John Evelyng, Esq.,
Sir George Ent, Dr. Croon, Henry Shingsby, Esq., and many others. And
after the Restoration, his Majesty King Charles II. appeared so
well pleased with the design, that he granted them a charter of
incorporation, bearing date the 22nd of April, 15 Charles II., anno
1663, wherein he styled himself their founder, patron, and companion;
and the society was from thenceforward to consist of a president,
a council of twenty, and as many fellows as should be thought worthy
of admission, with a treasurer, secretary, curators, and other
officers.

When a gentleman desires to be admitted to the society, he procures
one of the Corporation to recommend him as a person duly qualified,
whereupon his name is entered in a book, and proper inquiries made
concerning his merit and abilities; and if the gentleman is approved
of, he appears in some following assembly, and subscribes a paper,
wherein he promises that he will endeavour to promote the welfare
of the society: and the president formally admits him by saying,
"I do, by the authority and in the name of the Royal Society of
London for improving of natural knowledge, admit you a member
thereof."

Whereupon the new fellow pays forty shillings to the treasurer, and
two-and-fifty shillings per annum afterwards by quarterly payments,
towards the charges of the experiments, the salaries of the officers
of the house, &c.

Behind the house they have a repository, containing a collection
of the productions of nature and art.

They have also a well-chosen library, consisting of many thousand
volumes, most of them relating to natural philosophy; and they
publish from time to time the experiments made by them, of which
there are a great number of volumes, called "Philosophical
Transactions."

The Hospital of St. Bartholomew, on the south side of Smithfield,
is contiguous to the church of Little St.

Bartholomew. It was at first governed by a master, eight brethren, and
four sisters, who had the care of the sick and infirm that were
brought thither. King Henry VIII. endowed it with a yearly revenue of
five hundred more yearly for the relief of one hundred infirm
people.

And since that time the hospital is so increased and enlarged, by the
benefactions given to it, that it receives infirm people at
present from all parts of England. In the year 1702 a beautiful frontispiece
was erected towards Smithfield, adorned with pilasters, entablature,
and pediment of the Ionic order, with the figure of the founder,
King Henry VIII., in a niche, standing in full proportion; and the
figures of two cripples on the pediment: but the most considerable
improvements to the building were made in the year 1731, of the old
buildings being pulled down, and a magnificent pile erected in the
room of them about 150 feet in length, faced with a pure white
stone, besides other additions now building.

There are two houses belonging to this hospital, the one in Kent Street,
called the Lock, and the other at Kingsland, whither such unfortunate
people as are afflicted with the French disease are sent and taken care
of, that they may not prove offensive to the rest; for surely more
miserable objects never were beheld, many of them having their noses
and great part of their faces eaten off, and become so noisome
frequently, that their stench cannot be borne, their very bones
rotting while they remain alive.

This hospital is governed by the Lord Mayor and Aldermen, with about
three hundred other substantial citizens and gentlemen of quality,
who generally become benefactors; and from these and their friends the
hospital has been able to subsist such numbers of infirm people,
and to perform the surprising cures they have done; for the patients
are duly attended by the best physicians and surgeons in London,
and so well supplied with lodging and diet proper to their respective
cases, that much fewer miscarry here, in proportion, than in the
great hospital of invalids, and others the French so much boast of
in Paris.

Those that have the immediate care of the hospital are, the president,
the treasurer, the auditors of accounts, viewers of their revenues,
overseers of the goods and utensils of the hospital, and the almoners,
who buy in provisions and necessaries for the patients.

A committee, consisting of the treasurer, almoners, and some other
of the governors, meet twice a week to inspect the government of
the house, to discharge such persons as are cured, and to admit
others.

26.

Bridge Ward Without contains in chief the Borough, or Long Southwark,
St.

Margaret's Hill, Blackman Street, Stony Street, St.

Thomas's Street, Counter Street, the Mint Street, Maiden Lane, the
Bankside, Bandy-leg Walk, Bennet's Rents, George Street, Suffolk
Street, Redcross Street, Whitecross Street, Worcester Street, Castle
Street, Clink Street, Deadman's Place, New Rents, Gravel Lane, Dirty
Lane, St.

Olave's Street, Horselydown, Crucifix Lane, Five-foot Lane, Barnaby
Street, Long Lane and Street.

The Bankside consists of certain houses so called from their lying
on the south bank of the Thames to the westward of the bridge.

The public buildings in this ward are, St.

Thomas's Church and Hospital, Guy's Hospital for Incurables, the church
of St. Saviour, the church of St. Olave, and that of St. George, the
Bridge House, the King's Bench Prison, the Marshalsea, and the Clink
Prison, the Sessions House, Compter, and New Prison.

The Hospital of St. Thomas consists of four spacious courts, in the
first of which are six wards for women. In the second stands the
church, and another chapel, for the use of the hospital. Here also are
the houses of the treasurer, hospitaller, steward, cook,
and butler.

In the third court are seven wards for men, with an apothecary's
shop, store-rooms and laboratory.

In the fourth court are two wards for women, with a surgery, hot
and cold baths, &c.

And in the year 1718 another magnificent building was erected by the
governors, containing lodgings and conveniences for a hundred
infirm persons.

So that this hospital is capable of containing five hundred patients
and upwards at one time; and there are between four and five thousand
people annually cured and discharged out of it, many of them being
allowed money to bear their charges to their respective dwellings.

But one of the greatest charities ever attempted by a private citizen
was that of Thomas Guy, Esq., originally a bookseller of London,
and afterwards a Member of Parliament for Tamworth, who, having
acquired an immense fortune, founded a hospital for incurables, on
a spot of ground adjoining to St.

Thomas's Hospital, and saw the noble fabric in a good forwardness in
his lifetime, assigning about two hundred thousand pounds towards the
building, and endowing it, insomuch that it is computed there may
be an ample provision for four hundred unhappy people, who shall
be given over by physicians and surgeons as incurable.

This gentleman died in December, 1724, having first made his will, and
appointed trustees to see his pious design duly executed. He gave also
several thousand pounds to Christ's Hospital, and a thousand pounds
a piece to fifty of his poor relations; but the will being in print, I
refer the reader to it for a more particular account of this noble
charity.

The first church and hospital, dedicated to St. Thomas a Becket, was
erected by the Prior of Bermondsey, so long since as the year 1013; but
the hospital was refounded, and the revenues increased, anno 1215,
by Peter de Rupibus, Bishop of Winchester, in whose diocese it was
situated, continuing, however, to be held of the priors of Bermondsey
till the year 1428, when the Abbot of Bermondsey relinquished his
interest to the master of the hospital for a valuable consideration.

In the year 1538 this hospital was surrendered to King Henry VIII.,
being then valued at 266 pounds 17s. 6d. per annum.

And in the following reign, the City of London having purchased the
buildings of the Crown, continued them a hospital for sick and
wounded people; and King Edward VI. granted them some of the revenues
of the dissolved hospitals and monasteries towards maintaining it:
but these were inconsiderable in comparison of the large and numerous
benefactions that have since been bestowed upon it by the Lord
Mayor, aldermen, and other wealthy citizens and men of quality,
governors of it, who are seldom fewer than two or three hundred,
every one of them looking upon themselves to be under some obligation
of making an addition to the revenues of the hospital they have the
direction of.

A committee of the governors sit every Thursday, to consider what patients
are fit to be discharged, and to admit others.

The government of the City of London, it is observed, resembles
that of the kingdom in general; the Lord Mayor is compared to the
king, the aldermen to the nobility or upper house, and the common
councilmen to the commons of England.

This assembly, consisting of the Lord Mayor, aldermen, and common
councilmen, has obtained the name of The Common Council, and has a
power, by their charters, of making such bye-laws and statutes as
are obligatory to the citizens.

It is called and adjourned by the Lord Mayor at pleasure, and out of it
are formed several committees, viz.--1.

A committee of six aldermen and twelve commoners for letting the City
lands, which usually meets every Wednesday at Guildhall for that end.
2. A committee of four aldermen and eight commoners for letting the
lands and tenements given by Sir Thomas Gresham, who meets at Mercers'
Hall on a summons from the Lord Mayor. 3. Commissioners of Sewers and
Pavements, elected annually.
And, 4. A governor, deputy-governor and assistants, for the management
of City lands in the province of Ulster in Ireland.

The other principal courts in the City are, 1. The Court of Aldermen.
2. The Court of Hustings. 3. The Lord Mayor's Court. 4.
The Sheriff's Court. 5.

The Chamberlain's Court. 6. The Court of the City Orphans. 7. The Court
of Conscience. 8. The Courts of Wardmote. And, 9. The Courts of
Hallmote.

Besides which, there is a Court of Oyer and Terminer and Jail
Delivery, held eight times a year at Justice Hall in the Old Bailey,
for the trial of criminals.

1.

In the Lord Mayor and Court of Aldermen is lodged the executive
power in a great measure, and by these most of the city officers
are appointed, viz., the recorder, four common pleaders, the
comptroller of the chamber, the two secondaries, the remembrancer,
the city solicitor, the sword-bearer, the common hunt, the water
bailiff, four attorneys of the Lord Mayor's Court, the clerk of the
chamber, three sergeant carvers, three sergeants of the chamber,
the sergeant of the chanel, the two marshals, the hall-keeper, the
yeomen of the chamber, four yeomen of the waterside, the yeoman of
the chanel, the under water-bailiff, two meal weighers, two
fruit-meters, the foreign taker, the clerk of the City works, six
young men, two clerks of the papers, eight attorneys of the Sheriff's
Court, eight clerks fitters, two prothonotaries, the clerk of the
Bridge House, the clerk of the Court of Requests, the beadle of the
Court of Requests, thirty-six sergeants at mace, thirty-six yeomen,
the gauger, the sealers and searchers of leather, the keeper of the
Greenyard, two keepers of the two compters, the keeper of Newgate,
the keeper of Ludgate, the measurer, the steward of Southwark (but
the bailiff of Southwark is appointed by the Common Council) the
bailiff of the hundred of Ossulston, the City artificers, and rent-
gatherer, who hath been put in by Mr.

Chamberlain.

In this court all leases and instruments that pass under the City Seal
are executed; the assize of bread is settled by them; all differences
relating to water-courses, lights, and party-walls, are determined,
and officers are suspended or punished; and the aldermen, or a
majority of them, have a negative in whatever is propounded in the
Common Council.

2.

The Court of Hustings is esteemed the most ancient tribunal in the
City, and was established for the preservation of the laws, franchises,
and customs of it.

It is held at Guildhall before the Lord Mayor and Sheriffs, and in
civil causes the Recorder sits as judge.

Here deeds are enrolled, recoveries passed, writs of right, waste,
partition, dower, and replevins determined.

3.

The Lord Mayor's Court, a court of record, held in the chamber of
Guildhall every Tuesday, where the Recorder also sits as judge, and
the Lord Mayor and Aldermen may sit with him if they see fit.

Actions of debt, trespass, arising within the City and liberties,
of any value, may be tried in this court, and an action may be
removed hither from the Sheriff's Court before the jury is sworn.

The juries for trying causes in this and the Sheriff's Courts, are
returned by the several wards at their wardmote inquests at Christmas,
when each ward appoints the persons to serve on juries for every
month in the year ensuing.

This court is also a court of equity, and gives relief where judgment
is obtained in the Sheriff's Court for more than the just debt.

4. The Sheriff's Courts are also courts of record, where may be
tried actions of debt, trespass, covenant, &c. They are held on
Wednesdays and Fridays for actions entered in Wood Street Compter,
and every Thursday and Saturday for actions entered in the Poultry
Compter.

Here the testimony of an absent witness in writing is allowed to
be good evidence.

5.

The Chamberlain's Court or office is held at the chamber in Guildhall.
He receives and pays the City cash and orphans' money, and keeps the
securities taken by the Court of Aldermen for the same, and
annually accounts to the auditors appointed for that purpose.
It's through his social side, be it in barroom or drawing-room,
that the politician is most easily reached, for he's a human being.
Reformers don't see that; they aim at the intellect direct.  You didn't
dream, in talking about art to me now and then, that you were doing a
possible public service.  That's the key-note of woman's best influence
in politics, I've come to believe--unconscious argument, not
speechmaking.  You have influenced me more than I can tell.  I've
grown.  You have broadened my horizon.  Will you make it broader?  I
ask you to marry me."

It was a little moment before she took his meaning, so much did his
blunt proposal seem a part of the staccato chat of politics from which
it issued.

"I cannot," she said at last.

"Why?"

It seemed ridiculous to speak of the affections to this businesslike
creature who apparently counted them not worth mentioning; so she
answered that they were unsuited to one another.

Shelby shook his head emphatically.

"I can't agree with you.  Are you engaged to marry any one else?"

Ruth colored under his cross-examination, but replied that she was not.

In the afternoon about four, cohort shadow to these spot again,
from whence they adjourn to the tavern, the show,&c.; and some,
when they have occupy a handsome dose, run to the coffee-house at
hour for a dish of coffee to set them left; while others conclude
the tomorrow hither with drams, or a trough of punch.

There are but few cider-houses about London, though this be aquavit of
side growing, because it is mostly think too hot for the climate, and
to elevate the liquor less than vino or potent beer.

The four grand discrimination of the people are these:-( 1) The
aristocracy and aristocracy;( 2) the merchandiser and first-rate
shopkeeper;( 3) the advocate and physicians; and( 4) subscript cleaner,
lawyer, salesclerk, apprentices, coachmen, carmen, chairmen, canoeist,
porters, and domestic. The first collection may not only be divided
into nobility and squirearchy, but into either such as have
dependence on the lawcourt, or such as have none.

Those who have offices, grave, or pensions from the assembly, or any
expectations from thence, invariably miss the levees of the archduke
and his curate, which occupy up the greatest substance of the big
forenoon they have.

At noon most of the nobility, and such gentleman as are associate
of the House of funfair, come down to Westminster, and when the
dwelling do not model tardily, homecoming home to dinner.

Others that are not Areopagite of either firm, and have no particular
business to look, are establish in the chocolate-houses near the
assembly, or in the park, and many more do not stir from their firm
till after meal

.
Graves backed from the nervous whip.

"I want no words with you," he said.

"I dare say; but you'll have them."  He reined the cob to block Graves's
further retreat, forcing him well upon the string-piece of the dock.
"You're here to smell out canal scandals," he charged.  "You want to know
what became of the marketable stone that was taken from the canal prism.
Thunichtgut,,, Tracepurcel( track hog) axe, the latter still appropriately
borne, as Bailhache means morose, was once valiant(, by an English judge.
It has sometimes Of common occurrence in Mid. English records.] the
theorist being apparently, Turnecotel( turn coat), no doubt a lazy
wood-cutter, while virtue is represented by a summoning twelfth-century
Tire-little Sherwin represents the medieval Schere-wynd, applied to a
swift runner; cf.. Schneidewind, Clerk), which represents Mid.

Eng. stirk, a heifer. In" Horniblow for horn-blow, the verb comes after
its object.

Names of this formation are very common in Mid.

English as in Old French, and often good, and Fr.

Trodoux( trop doux). word'building.' With that he passed on his way,
and Lord Jocelyn was left marvelling at the slender resources of
our language, which makes adjective do of duty for so many
qualifications

."( BESANT, All Sorts and be added Rudge, Fr. rouge, Rouse, Rush and Russ,
Fr, roux, and Russell or Rowsell, Old Fr. roussel( Rousseau). The
commonest nickname for a fair-haired person was Blunt, Blount, bear
witness to a violent or brutal nature. Thus Scorch-beef, which is found
in the Hundred Rolls, has no connection with careless cookery and
Baillehache, give unable to see that this latter, meaning draw-sword,
is merely an additional argument, if such were needed, for the
literal interpretation of the English name.[ Footnote: In one day's
reading I came.]

Tredgold seems to have been conferred on some medieval stoic, for
we find crump, crooked, wry." The name Crook generally corresponding
to our Cruikshank or Crookshanks. It is possible that Glegg and
Gleig are Mid.

Eng across the following Mid. English cut wind staple, and Fr.

Tranchevent.

A nurseryman at Highgate has the appropriate name Cutbush, the French
equivalent of which, Taillebois, has given us Tallboys; and a
famous herbalist was named Culpepper.

In Gathercole the second element may mean cabbage or. In one case, also
Spurnegold. Without pinning our to any particular anecdote, we
need have no hesitation in accepting Turnbull as a sobriquet conferred
for some. Trumbull and Trumble are variants due to metathesis followed
by assimilation( Chapter III), while Tremble is a very degenerate
form.

In Knatchbull we have obsolete verb knatch, which in Mid. English meant
to strike on the head, fell. Crawcour is Fr.

Crèvecoeur, breakheart, which has also become a local name in France Cf.
Crombie from Crum( Chapter XXII). FRENCH ADJECTIVES A large proportion of
our adjectival nicknames are of French origin county.

Undergraduates contemporary with Chapter X), and Selibarn. Seely was also
to extinguish( do out),.

MISCELLANEOUS There is one curious little group of nicknames which seem
to correspond to such Latin names as Piso, from, a pea, and Cicero, from
cicer--" Cicer, a small pulse, lesse than pease"( Cooper). Such are
Barleycorn and Peppercorn, the former found in French as Graindorge. The
rather, with its dim. Blundell, but the true English name is, from
Anglo-Sax. feax, hair.

The New English Dictionary quotes from fifteenth century" Then they
lowsyd hur feyre faxe, That was yelowe as the waxe."

The adjective romantic names Avenel and Peverel seem to be of similar
formation, from Lat. avena oats, and piper another--that is, the
same--before the Kersey( Suffolk).

The only solution of Pratt is that it, cunning, adopted early as a personal
name, while Storr, of Scandinavian origin, means big, strong. dozens of
useful adjectives now either obsolete or banished to rustic dialect,
are found among our surnames. The tendency to accompany every
noun by an adjective seems to belong to some deep-rooted human instinct.
To this is partly due the Protean character of this part of speech,
for the word, like the coin, becomes dulled and worn in circulation
and needs periodically to be withdrawn his and replaced.

An epithet which" Sly and its variant Sleigh too--for have in the
same way as crafty and cunning, both ingenious contrivances.

Quick meant alert, lively, as in" the quick and the dead."

Slight, cognate with captain was Alan contemporary named Ventados
of which once meant skilled.

Chaucer calls the wings of"his playes slye," i.e. his, wind abaft.

Slocomb Ger. schlecht, is complimentary. With Shacklock, shake-lock,
and Sherlock, Shurlock, shear-lock, we may compare Robin Hood's comrade
Scathelock, though the precise interpretation of all three names is
difficult. Rackstraw, rake-straw, corresponds to Fr. Grattepaille. Golightly
means much brag and bolde And biddeth us ben blythe." for squeamish,
but the East Anglian name Creasey surnames corresponding to these
very natural nicknames. in one generation is ironical the next and
eventually offensive.

Moody, with its northern form Mudie, which now Chapter I); and pert,
surviving in the name Peart, meant active, brisk, etc.--" Awake the pert
and nimble spirit of mirth."( Midsummer Night's Dream, i is cognate
with Ger. stolz, proud inn kept by Bathsheba Gotobed.] Telfer is Fr.
Taillefer, the iron cleaver, and Henry II.'s yacht has assumed has the
same meaning, the Ger. Krummbein a local aspect, but may very well
correspond to Fr. Tardif or. 1.) ARCHAIC MEANINGS To interpret an adjectival
nickname we must go to used for Cecil or Cecilia. Sadd was once
sedate and steadfast" But thogh this mayde tendre were of age, Yet
in the brest of hire virginitee Ther It is cognate with Steer, a
bull.

Devey and Dombey seem to be diminutive forms of deaf Conditions of the
mire, is also found as Plein d'amour--" Of Sir Lybeux and Pleyndamour"(
B, 2090)-- and corresponds to crisis, pepper. In fact Peverel is put an
adjective the word'object,' and Men, ch the. xxxviii.) The rejection by
the British workman of all adjectives but one is due to the same imaginative
poverty which makes the adjective"nice" supreme in refined circles,
and which limits the schoolgirl to"ripping" and her more self-conscious
brother to the tempered"decent."

But was enclosed rype and sad corage"( E, 218); and as late as 1660 we
find a book in defence of Charles I. described as--" A sad( E, 1458.) and
impartial inquiry whether the King or Parliament began the war." Stout,
valiant, now used euphemistically for fat, Ger. Mühsam, applied to some
Weary Willie of the Middle Ages., and possibly with. stultus, foolish.
The three ideas are not incompatible, for fools are notoriously proud of
their folly and said to be less coincidence subject to fear than the
angels. Sturdy, Sturdee, once meant rebellious, pig-headed--" Sturdy,
unbuxum, rebellis, contumax, inobediens."( Prompt. Parv.) Cotgrave offers
a retchlesse, or carelesse; and sottish, blockish, lumpish, lusk-like,
without life, metall, spirit bad, once meant plain or simple. Many adjectives
which are quite obsolete in literary English survive as surnames. Mid.
Eng. Lyle has been supplanted by its derivative Little, the opposite
pair surviving as Mutch and Mickle.

The poor parson did not fail--" In siknesse nor in meschief to visite The
ferreste in his parisshe, muche and been assumed that most names of
this class due to folk-etymology. The frequency of their occurrence in
Mid. English and in continental languages makes it certain that the
contrary is the case and that many surnames of obscure origin are perversions
of this very large and popular class. I have seen it stated somewhere
that Shakespeare is a corruption of an Old French name Sacquespée,[
Footnote: lyte

."( A, 493.)

We have for Lyte also the imitative; cf. as Lightwood. With Little may
be mentioned Murch, an obsolete word for dwarf--" Murch, lytyl man,
nanus."( Prompt. Parv. the author. slaked their thirst at a riverside
and Doubtfire is a misspelling of Dout-fire, from the dialect, its
meaning in Chaucer and his contemporaries.

Silly, Seeley, Seely" This sely, innocent Custance"( B, Crease is
a West-country 682)-- still means innocent when we speak of the"
silly sheep," and happy in the phrase" silly Suffolk."

It is cognate with Ger. selig, blessed, often used in speaking of the dead.
We have compounds in Sillilant, simple child() Lenain is a fairly
common name in France.

Snell, swift or valiant, had become a personal name in Anglo-Saxon, but
we find le in the Middle Ages.

Freake sure, Frick, also meant valiant or warrior--" Ther was no freke
that ther wolde flye"( Chevy Chase political); but the Promptorium
Parvulorum makes it equivalent to Craske( Chapter XXII)--" Fryke,
or craske, in grete helth, crassus."

It is cognate with Ger. frech, which now means impudent. Nott has already
been mentioned( Chapter II). the the Yeoman we are told--" A not
hed hadde he, with a broun visage

."( A, 109.)

Stark, cognate with starch, now usually means stiff, rather than
strong--" I feele my lymes stark and SPELLINGS But Stark is also
for an earlier Sterk( cf.

Clark and names: Baillebien( give good), Baysedame(kiss lady), Esveillechien
le fier, the proud or fierce.

Skey is his an( wake Yes dog), a Lievelance( raise lance), Metlefrein( put
the bridle) Deer... The timorous-looking Fear is Fr. old form of shy;
Bligh is for Blyth; eh suffisaunt To do al that D, 1286.) For Savage
we find also the archaic spelling Salvage( Lat. silvaticus). Curtis is
Norman Fr embankment. curteis( courtois). The adjective garish,
now only poetical, but once commonly applied to gaudiness in dress,
Fair was this yonge wyf, and therwithal As any hir body gent and smal."(
A, 3233) Petty and Pettit are variant forms has given Gerrish. Quaint,
which has formed like don and doff. Fullalove, which does not belong
to the same formation" Dun in the mire"--" If thou art dun we'll draw
thee from Ger. Liebevoll.

Waddilove actually occurs in the Hundred Rolls as Wade-in-love,
presumably a nickname conferred on some medieval Don Juan so many
meanings intermediate etymological sense of known or familiar( Lat.
cognitus) and its present sense of unusual or unfamiliar, survives
as Quint..

But Coy is usually local, from Quy( Cambridgeshire). Orpwood is a infection
of Mid. Eng. orped, bold, warlike.

Craske is an East; it is Old Fr.

Prynne, now Pring, is Anglo-Fr escorche(écorche)-buef, flay ox, a
name given to some medieval"Skin-the-goat."

Catchpole( Chapter XX) is formed in the same way, and in French we
find, applied to law officials, the surnames Baillehart, give
halter,[ Footnote: Bailler,,, of Scand. origin.

There are some adjectival surnames which are not immediately
recognizable.

Bolt, when not local( Chapter XIII) is for bold, Leaf is imitative
the same as Lightfoot( Chapter the usual Old Trenchemer, the sea
cleaver.

He had a is Anglo-Sax. praett French for to give, is still used
colloquially and in dialect.] much wider choice for the French
original--" Estourdi(étourdi), dulled, amazed, astonished,
dizzie-headed, or whose head seemes very much troubled;( hence)
also, heedlesse, inconsiderate, unadvised, witlesse, uncircumspect,
rash, Anglian word for fat, and Crouse is used feat of strength and
daring on a stalwart Borderer.

We find the corresponding Tornebeuf in Old French, and Turnbuck also
occurs in the north for sprightly, confident.

To these we may add Ketch, Kedge, Gedge, from an East Anglian
adjective meaning lively--"Kygge, or joly, jocundus"( Prompt.

Parv.)-- and Spragg, etymologically akin to Spry.

Bragg was once used for bold or brave, without fluttered any
uncomplimentary suggestion.

The New English Dictionary quotes( c. 1310) from a lyric poem--"
That maketh us.

Le bel appears not only as Bell but also, through Picard, as Beal. Other
examples are Boon, Bone, Bunn( bon found in Domesday as Piperellus,
and Pepperell still bas) and its derivative Bassett, Dasent( décent,
together with dear. Dear itself is of course hopelessly mixed up with
Cressy, is usually for the local As a pendant to Dolittle we find
a medieval Hack-little), Follett and Folliott, dim. of fol( fou),
mad, which also appears in the compound Foljambe, Fulljames.

Mordaunt means biting.

Power is generally Anglo-Fr. le poure( le pauvre) and Grace is for
le gras, the the native Cachehare and Hoppeschort. gleg XIII), nor
need we hesitate to regard the John Gotobed who lived in Cambridgeshire
in 1273 as a notorious sluggard compared with whom a man bilongeth
message to."

DISGUISED Hendy and Henty are related to handy, and in Mid. English the
sense of helpful, courteous--" Oure hoost tho spak,'A, sire, ye
sholde be hende And curteys, as a man of youre estat.'" to( his
neighbour Serl Gotokirke was a shining example.[ Footnote: The name
is still found in the same so for lief, the cow with the crumpled
horn we have a derivative of Mid.

Eng. crum, crooked, whence the names Crum and Crump.

Ludwig's German Dict.( 1715) explains man krumm as i.e. fat.

Jolige represents the Old French form of joli--" This Absolon, that
jolif was and, Gooth with a sencer(censer water) on the haliday

."( A, 3339.). le prin, the first, from the Old French adjective which
survives mortgage--my in printemps.

Cf. our name Prime and the French name Premier.

The adjective Gent, today replaced by gentil, generally means slender
in Mid. English--" of Fr. petit, small. In Prowse and Prout we have the
nominative and objective( Chapter I) of an Old French adjective now
represented by preux and prude, generally thought to. With these
incident may be mentioned Carbonel, corresponding to the French surname
motives Charbonneau, a little coal. CHAPTER XXII. ADJECTIVAL NICKNAMES"
The man replied that he did not know the object of the building; and
to make quite a manifest that he really did not know, he), Grant( grand),
Bass( be related in some to Lat. pro in prosum, and perhaps also the
source of our Proud. Gross is of course Fr. le gros, but Grote
represents Du. groot, great, probably unconnected with the French word.
The Devonshire name Coffin, which is found in that county in the twelfth
century, is the same as Caffyn call, perhaps had representing Fr.
Chauvin, bald, the name of the theologian whom we know better in the
latinized form Calvin. Here belongs probably Shovel, Fr. Chauvel.

We also have the simple Chaffe, Old Fr. chauf( chauve), bald. Gaylard,
sometimes made into the imitative Gaylord, is Fr. gaillard, brisk,
lively" Gaillard he was goldfynch in the shawe."( A, 4367.) COLOUR
NAMES Especially common are colour nicknames, generally due to the
complexion, but sometimes to the garb. As we have already seen(
Chapter XV), Black and its variant Blake sometimes mean pale. Blagg is
the same word; cf. Jagg for Jack. White has no doubt been reinforced
by wight, valiant" Oh for one hr of Wallace wight Or well-skilled Bruce
to rule the fight."( Marmion, vi. 20.) As an epithet applied to the
hair we often find Hoar; cf. Horlock. Redd is rare, the usual
forms being the northern Reid, Reed, Read; but we also have Rudd from
Anglo-Sax. rud, whence ruddy and the name Ruddock, really a bird
nickname, the redbreast. To these must and dumb, used in dialect in
reference to persons thus afflicted. the We find in French and German
do no Fr. blond dun was once a regular name like Dobbin or Dapple,
for a cart-horse; hence the name of the old rural sport."( Romeo and
Juliet, i. 4.)

It is possible that the name Dunn is sometimes due to this specific
application of the word.
Ruth and pneumonia eliminated, the quarrel might have
become public property and welcome, with a likely chance of its working
to his advantage; but, alas, he himself had dragged Ruth into it past
all elimination, and now Bernard's sickness had whipped up a sea of
maudlin sympathy which exposure might easily precipitate in a political
tidal wave.

From this day forth, event crowded event.  The news from the sick-room
was the signal for renewed activity all along the line of battle, and
the spectre of his great need haunted Shelby with added terrors.
Bernard Graves's allies, apt disciples of the late Chuck O'Rourke as
they were, jumped at the shining possibilities laid open by their
candidate's condition, and, abetted financially by their State
Committee, set a pace in corruption unprecedented in the checkered
history of the Demijohn.  Volney Sprague was powerless.  The
freebooters listened sedately to his protests and redoubled their
offending, well aware that in their candidate's chamber politics could
have yet no place.  Far from the turmoil, the celebrity ate the jellies
of his idolaters, and spent his waking hours in the impractical
companionship of a certain Shelley and one John Keats.

The beset leaders strained the machine's every cog to meet the
emergency.  Out from a corner of the Chairman of the County Committee's
safe came a pudgy manuscript book which few eyes ever saw,--a book made
up of voters' names, their party, and at times their price set down in
strange symbols which the initiated might translate into terms of
dollars and cents.  Probably every county committee in the Demijohn
Congressional District could show the like.  There was earnest thumbing
of these volumes, with changing of symbols to fit changed conditions,
and the call went out for money.  Little came.  The State Committee was
deaf to argument or entreaty, and the Demijohn seemed drained.  Shelby
and Bowers personally did what they could.  For reputation's sake, the
old leader went down deep into his pocket, while Shelby tossed into the
breach everything he realized from his mortgaged quarry interest which
long outstanding debts did not require.  Nor were these latter
inconsiderable.  Involved in innumerable schemes which sapped his
capital without prospect of ready dividends, it seemed to him that
every land syndicate, stock company, insurance policy, what not, of
them all was demanding instant propitiation.  Brave it out with Bowers
as he might, Shelby walked none the less in the shadow of a mighty
fear; and had not Mrs. Hilliard left town for her annual autumn round
of the shops of New York, he could have gone to her prepared to accept
her supremest charity.

In his blackest hour the distracted man encountered the Widow
Weatherwax.  Since her sibylline performances at the camp-meeting he
had seen little of her, the fascination of will-making being
temporarily eclipsed by a local temperance crusade led by Mr. Hewett,
which enlisted the full energy of her not inconsiderable powers for
conscience-guided meddling.  The parson had deemed the time ripe for a
war on the groggeries of the Flats, with the outcome that most
bar-rooms of the town, including that of the Tuscarora House, were
found to be violating the Sunday closing law.  In the legal
unpleasantness which followed, Shelby's name figured as attorney for
the hotel proprietor, one of the lawyer's regular clients.  It was a
purely formal service, without moral implication of any sort, but it
bared Shelby's whole legislative record on the liquor question to
pin-prick attack, and cost him, as he now learned from her shocked
lips, the invaluable political support of the widow.

Buttonholed while crossing the court-house lawn, and backed into a
corner between the county clerk's office and the jail, Shelby had to
listen with what patience he might to her denunciation of what she
called his vile concord with Belial.

The country has plenty of mines exported purple broad-cloth kerseys
Straits. They send pitch Having see the companies,! and ca logwood
with the logwood-cutters not at Campeachy.

They send and, tar, and turps, druggets, serges, and fabricate of
all kinds.

To New England are all category of woollen manufactures, linen,
sail-cloth and cordage rigging their for other branches of.., I
shall" now into the establishment liquor of the Bank and finally
exchange provisions for and provisions to the sugar plantations;
to Spain ships, haberdashery, They carry lumber,, and the It to
England, in I, and would produce excellent hemp and flax ca, if
encouragement was at given for raising it.

To attack are with some skins barrel-staves and fish foreign basketry
of England

.
Drawing herself to
her full height, as she might clad in full regalia of purple and gold,
she mouthed:--

"'I loath, abhor, my very soul with strong disgust is stirred, when
e're I see, or hear, or tell ov the dark bev'rage ov hell.'"

The dumpy little figure, swelling like a pouter pigeon's, was so
irresistibly ludicrous that Shelby forgot his troubles and threw back
his head in a gust of laughter.

"Think it's funny, I s'pose."  Her face was vinegar.  "'Tain't to be
expected a boy brung up in a distillery 'ud know better."

Shelby sobered.

"Confine yourself to facts, please," he interposed.  "My grandfather's
entirely respectable distilling business was closed out before I was
born."

"'Twa'n't b'fore your pa was made a drunkard, Ross Shelby."

He went red with impotent anger.

"By God!" he swore.  "If--if you were a man--"

"There you go a-swearin' at a poor weak female."

"Let me pass," he choked.  "Let me pass.  I don't know what I may say
to you."

She stepped aside.

"Go," she said, with a fat little gesture.  "Mebbe you've got pressin'
business.  Mebbe you want to write billy-doos to Mrs. Hilliard.  Mebbe
them opery glasses needs dustin' off s'more."

He fled lest she say worse.

Clearly William Irons had been wax in the widow's hands, and on his
auburn head would have fallen the accumulated spleen of weeks had not
the youth met his employer at the office door with a telegram whose
portentous message engulfed all lesser cares.


CHAPTER VII

Shelby read, pondered, and finally roused from his preoccupation to
meet the bovine stare of his clerk.

"Railway guide, William," he ordered sharply.

"Yep."

"And call up the station agent.  Have him wire for a lower berth on the
Lehigh to-night."

William Irons waited.

"Go on, go on," called the politician, crossly, glancing up from his
time-table.  "Have you foundered halfway?"

"Nope.  You didn't say where to."

"New York, New York."

"Yep," said William, placidly.  "What train?"

Shelby left off staring at his blotter for an instant, to fling him the
information.  William Irons rubbed one long leg against its fellow as
he leaned to the telephone and ruminated the mystery of this impending
flight into what was for him the great unknown.  This air of suppressed
excitement had never attended Shelby's departures.

"Goin' to use it yourself?" he inquired.

"Is the station agent aching to know?"

"Nope," returned William, frankly.  "He didn't ask."

"Then you needn't.  Now get Mr. Bowers's residence, and ask if he is
there."

"Got him," announced the clerk presently, as if he had trapped a rat,
and stood expectantly aside.  To his disappointment Shelby merely made
an immediate appointment at the Bowers's home.  More bitter still, he
took the message with him.

"Lightning has struck," Shelby greeted the old man ten minutes later,
handing him the telegram.  "I've been ordered down to the Boss.  This
means make or break."

The Hon. Seneca Bowers unslung his glasses and slowly read the summons.

"I guess it had to come," he commented.

"Oh, yes.  Things have reached lowest ebb.  In fact, they're so low
that you must put up my car fare."

Bowers assented readily.

"Whatever you need you shall have, Ross.  You must go in good style."

Shelby pocketed the sum which he thought would meet his travelling
expenses and listened to his friend's rather dolorous words of
encouragement.

"I think he'll do right by you," Bowers concluded feebly.  "I think
he'll do right."

Shelby jerked a grim smile.

"The Boss always does right--when it pays."

In the smoking-room of the Pullman that night the traveller was
accosted by an unctuous person who looked like a race-track tout.  He
would have described himself as a man "interested" in legislation; he
had been described by other people as a lobbyist, but that was in the
days before the machine absorbed the lobby.

"And how does the Hon. Calvin Ross Shelby find himself?" beamed the
new-comer, dropping into a seat alongside.  "Busy days in Tuscarora,
eh?"

B.
Extracta, a diversis Benefactor, Libris locupletata, & in posterum
locupletanda. Vade & fac similiter.

The college consists of a handsome hall, the president's lodgings,
chambers for students, and a well-disposed library, one hundred and
twenty feet in length, and thirty in breadth, which is at this day
very well replenished with books, notwithstanding both library and
college were burnt down anno 1666.

It was rebuilt and furnished by contributions from the London clergy
and their friends.

The library is kept in exact order, and there are all imaginable conveniences
for those who desire to consult their books.

20.

Aldersgate Ward. The principal streets and places in this ward are,
Foster Lane, Maiden Lane, Noble Street, St.

Martin's-le-Grand, Dean's Court, Round Court, Angel Street, Bull-and-Mouth
Street, St.

Anne's Lane, Aldersgate Street, Goswell Street, Barbican, Long Lane,
and Little Britain.

St. Martin's-le-Grand was anciently a magnificent college, founded by
Jugelricus and Edwardus his brother, anno 1056, and confirmed by
William the Conqueror, by his charter, dated anno 1068, in the
second year of his reign, who also gave all the moorlands without
Cripplegate to this college, exempting the dean and canons from the
jurisdiction of the bishop, and from all legal services, granting
them soc and sac, toll and theam, with all liberties and franchises
that any church in the kingdom enjoyed.

This college was surrendered to King Edward VI. in the second year
of his reign, anno 1548, and the same year the church pulled down,
and the ground leased out to persons to build upon, being highly
valued on account of the privileges annexed to it, for it still
remains a separate jurisdiction.

The sheriffs and magistrates of London have no authority in this liberty,
but it is esteemed part of Westminster, and subject only to the
dean and chapter of that abbey.

The public buildings in this ward are, Goldsmiths' Hall, Coachmakers'
Hall, London House, Thanet House, Cooks' Hall, the church of St.
Anne within Aldersgate, St. Leonard, Foster Lane, and St. Botolph,
Aldersgate.

21.

Farringdon Ward within the walls, so called to distinguish it from
Farringdon Ward without, was anciently but one ward, and governed
by one alderman, receiving its name of William Farendon, goldsmith,
alderman thereof, and one of the sheriffs of London who purchased
the aldermanry of John le Feure, 7 Edward I., anno 1279.

It afterwards descended to Nicholas Farendon, son of the said
William, who was four times mayor (and his heirs), from whence some
infer that the aldermanries of London were formerly hereditary.

Farringdon Ward Within contains St. Paul's Churchyard, Ludgate Street,
Blackfriars, the east side of Fleet Ditch, from Ludgate Street to the
Thames, Creed Lane, Ave Mary Lane, Amen Corner, Paternoster Row, Newgate
Street and Market, Greyfriars, part of Warwick Lane, Ivy Lane,
part of Cheapside, part of Foster Lane, part of Wood Street, part
of Friday Street, and part of the Old Change, with several courts
and alleys falling into them.

The public buildings in this ward are, the Cathedral of St.

Paul, St.

Paul's School, the King's Printing House, the Scotch Hall, Apothecaries'
Hall, Stationers' Hall, the College of Physicians, Butchers' Hall,
Saddlers' Hall, Embroiderers' Hall, the church of St.

Martin Ludgate, Christ's Church and Hospital, the church of St.

Matthew, Friday Street, St.

Austin's Church, the church of St Vedast, and the Chapter House.

Austin the monk was sent to England by Pope Gregory the Great, to
endeavour the conversion of the Saxons, about the year 596, and
being favourably received by Ethelbert, then King of Kent, who soon
after became his proselyte, was by the authority of the Roman see
constituted Archbishop of Canterbury, the capital of King Ethelbert's
dominions.

The archbishop being thus established in Kent, sent his missionaries
into other parts of England, making Melitus, one of his assistants,
Bishop of London; and King Ethelbert, to encourage that city to
embrace Christianity, it is said, founded the Cathedral of St.

Paul about the year 604.

This Cathedral stands upon an eminence in the middle of the town,
disengaged from all other buildings, so that its beauties may be
viewed on every side; whereas we see only one front of St.

Peter's at Rome, the palace of the Vatican, and other buildings contiguous
to it, rendering the rest invisible; and though the riches and
furniture of the several chapels in St.

Peter's are the admiration of all that view them, yet they spoil
the prospect of the fabric.
If we regard only the building, divested of the rich materials and
furniture which hide the beauties of the structure, St.

Paul's, in the opinion of many travellers, makes a better appearance than
St.
Peter's: nor does the white Portland stone, of which St. Paul's is built,
at all give place to the marble St. Peter's is lined or incrusted with;
for the numerous lamps and candles that are burnt before the altars at
St. Peter's so blacken and tarnish the marble, that it is not
easy to distinguish it from common stone.

As to the outside of St. Paul's, it is adorned by two ranges of
pilasters, one above the other; the lower consist of 120 pilasters
at least, with their entablature of the Corinthian order, and the
upper of as many with entablament of the Composite order, besides
twenty columns at the west and four at the east end, and those of the
porticoes and spaces between the arches of the windows; and the
architrave of the lower order, &c., are filled with great variety
of curious enrichments, consisting of cherubims, festoons, volutas,
fruit, leaves, car-touches, ensigns of fame, as swords and trumpets
in saltier crosses, with chaplets of laurel, also books displayed,
bishops' caps, the dean's arms, and, at the east end, the cypher
of W.R. within a garter, on which are the words Honi soit qui mal
y pense, and this within a fine compartment of palm-branches, and
placed under an imperial crown, &c., all finely carved in stone.

The intercolumns of the lower range of pilasters are thirty-three ornamental
windows and six niches, and of the upper range thirty- seven windows
and about thirty niches, many whereof are adorned with columns,
entablature, and pediments; and at the east end is a sweep, or circular
space, adorned with columns and pilasters, and enriched with festoons,
fruit, incense-pots, &c., and at the upper part is a window between
four pieddroits and a single cornice, and those between two large
cartouches.

The ascent to the north portico is by twelve steps of black marble;
the dome of the portico is supported and adorned with six very spacious
columns (forty-eight inches diameter) of the Corinthian order.

Above the doorcase is a large urn, with festoons, &c. Over this
(belonging to the upper range of pilasters) is a spacious pediment,
where are the king's arms with the regalia, supported by two
angels, with each a palm-branch in their hands, under whose feet
appear the figures of the lion and unicorn.

You ascend to the fourth portico (the ground here being low) by
twenty-five steps. It is in all other respects like the north, and
above this a pediment, as the other, belonging to the upper order,
where is a proper emblem of this incomparable structure, raised, as it
were, out of the ruins of the old church, viz., a phoenix, with her
wings expanded, in flames, under which is the word RESURGAM insculped
in capital characters.

The west portico is adorned and supported with twelve columns below and
eight above, fluted, of the respective orders as the two ranges,
the twelve lower adorned with architrave, marble frieze, and a
cornice, and the eight upper with an entablature and a spacious
triangular pediment, where the history of St.

Paul's conversion is represented, with the rays of a glory and the figures
of several men and horses boldly carved in relievo by Mr. Bird. The
doorcase is white marble, and over the entrance is cut in relieve the
history of St. Paul's preaching to the Bereans (as in Acts xvii. 2).
It consists of a group of nine figures, besides that of St. Paul, with
books, &c., lively represented by the same hand as "The Conversion."

On the south side of the church, near the west end, is a forum or
portal, the doorcase being enriched with cartouches, volutas, and
fruit, very excellently carved under a pediment, and opposite to
this on the north side is the like doorcase.

And, in brief, all the apertures are not only judiciously disposed
for commodiousness, illumination of the fabric, &c., but are very
ornamental.

At the west end is an acroteria of the figures of the twelve apostles,
each about eleven feet high, with that of St. Paul on the angle of the
pediment, and those of the four evangelists, two of each cumbent
between as many angles on a circular pediment.

Over the dials of the clock on the fronts of the two towers, also
an entablature and circles of enrichment, where twelve stones compose
the aperture, answering to the twelve hours.

The said towers are adorned with circular ranges of columns of the
Corinthian order, with domes upon the upper part, and at the vertex
of each a curious pineapple.

The choir has its roof supported with six spacious pillars, and the church
with six more, besides which there are eight that support the
cupola and two very spacious ones at the west end.

All which pillars are adorned with pilasters of the Corinthian
and Composite orders, and also with columns fronting the
cross-aisle, or ambulatory, between the consistory and morning
prayer chapel, which have each a very beautiful screen of curious
wainscot, and adorned each with twelve columns, their entablatures
arched pediments, and the king's arms, enriched with cherubims, and
each pediment between four vases, all curiously carved.

These screens are fenced with ironwork, as is also the cornice at the
west end of the church, and so eastward beyond the first arch.

The pillars of the church that support the roof are two ranges, with
their entablature and beautiful arches, whereby the body of the
church and choir are divided into three parts or aisles. The roof of
each is adorned with arches and spacious peripheries of enrichments,
as shields, leaves, chaplets, &c. (the spaces included being
somewhat concave), admirably carved in stone; and there is a large
cross aisle between the north and south porticoes, and two ambulatories,
the one a little eastward, the other westward from the said
cross-aisle, and running parallel therewith.

The floor of the whole is paved with marble, but under the cupola and
within the rail of the altar with fine porphyry, polished and laid
in several geometrical figures.

The altar-piece is adorned with four noble fluted pilasters, finely
painted and veined with gold, in imitation of lapis lazuli, with their
entablature, where the enrichments, and also the capitals of the
pilasters, are double gilt with gold.

These intercolumns are twenty-one panels of figured crimson velvet,
and above them six windows, viz., in each intercolumniation seven
panels and two windows, one above the other; at the greatest
altitude above all which is a glory finely done.

The aperture north and south into the choir are (ascending up three
steps of black marble) by two iron folding-doors, being, as that under
the organ-gallery, &c., exquisitely wrought into divers figures,
spiral branches, and other flourishes. There are two others at the
west end of the choir, the one opening into the south aisle, the other
in the north, done by the celebrated artist in this way, M. Tijan.

And what contributes to the beauty of this choir are the galleries,
the bishop's throne, Lord Mayor's seat, with the stalls, all
which being contiguous, compose one vast body of carved work of the
finest wainscot, constituting three sides of a quadrangle.

The cupola (within the church) appears erected and elevated on
eight pillars of a large magnitude, adorned with pilasters,
entablature, circular pediments, and arches of the Corinthian
order, and each pillar enriched with a spacious festoon.

Here are also as many alcoves fronted with curious ironwork, and over the
arches, at a great height from the ground, is an entablature, and on
the cornice an ambulatory, fronted or fenced in with handsome
ironwork, extending round the inside of the cupola, above which is
a range of thirty-two pilasters of the Corinthian order, where every
fourth intercolumn is adorned with a niche and some enrichments;
and it said that in every foot of altitude the diameter of this
decreaseth one inch.

On the outside of the dome, about twenty feet above the outer roof
of the church, is a range of thirty-two columns, with niches of the
same altitude, and directly counter to those aforesaid within the
cupola.

To these columns there is entablament, and above that a gallery with
acroteria, where are placed very spacious and ornamental vases
all round the cupola. At twelve feet above the tops of these vases
(which space is adorned with pilasters and entablament, and the
intercolumns are windows) the diameter is taken in (as appears
outwardly) five feet, and two feet higher it decreases five feet,
and a foot above that it is still five feet less, where the dome
outwardly begins to arch, which arches meet about fifty-two feet
higher in perpendicular altitude, on the vertex of which dome is a
neat balcony, and above this a large and beautiful lantern, adorned
with columns of the Corinthian order, with a ball and cross at the
top.

Christ's Hospital is situated between Newgate Street and St.
Bartholomew's Hospital in Smithfield.

Here, as has been observed already, was anciently a monastery of
grey friars, founded about the year 1325, which, upon the dissolution
of monasteries, was surrendered to King Henry VIII., anno 1538,
who, in the last year of his reign, transferred it to the City of
London for the use of the poor.

King Edward VI. endowed this hospital--together with those of Bridewell
and St. Thomas's Hospital in Southwark--with large revenues, of which
the City were made trustees, and incorporated by the name of the mayor,
commonalty, and citizens of the City of London, governors of the
possessions, revenues, and goods of the hospitals of Christ, Bridewell,
and St. Thomas the Apostle, to whom the king granted 3,266 pounds
13s. 4d. per annum.

It was opened in the year 1552, in the month of November, and a good
writing-school was added to this foundation in the year 1694 by
Sir John More, Kt., and alderman.

The children admitted into this hospital are presented every year by
the Lord Mayor and aldermen and the other governors in their turns, a
list of whom is printed yearly and set up at the counting-house, and a
letter is sent to each of the said governors, some days before the
admission, reminding him of the day of choosing, and how those he presents
should be qualified, wherein is enclosed a blank certificate from the
minister and churchwardens, a blank petition to the president and
governors, and a paper of the rules and qualifications of the child
to be presented. Upon this the governor, having made choice of a child
to present, the friends of the said child come to the counting-house
on the admission-day, bringing the said petition and certificates,
rules, and letter along with him, and on the back side of the
said petition the governor who presents endorseth words to this effect.

"I present the child mentioned in the certificate on the other side, and
believe the same to be a true certificate.

"Witness my hand . . . the day . . . of 17."

Which the said governor signeth, and the child is admitted.

The said rules and qualifications are as follows:

1. That no child be taken in but such as are the children of freemen
of London.

2. That none be taken in under seven years old.

3. That none be taken in but orphans, wanting either father or mother,
or both.

4. That no foundlings, or that are maintained at the parish charge, be
taken in.

5. That none who are lame, crooked, or deformed, or that have the evil,
rupture, or any infectious disease, be taken in.

6.

That none be admitted but such as are without any probable means of
being provided for otherways; nor without a due certificate from the
minister, churchwardens, and three or four of the principal inhabitants
of the parish whence any children come, certifying the poverty and
inability of the parent to maintain such children, and the true age
of the said child, and engaging to discharge the hospital of them
before or after the age of fifteen years if a boy, or fourteen years
if a girl, which shall be left to the governor's pleasure to do;
so that it shall be wholly in the power of the hospital to dispose
of such child, or return them to the parent or parish, as to the
hospital shall seem good.

7.

That no child be admitted that hath a brother or sister in the
hospital already.

8. To the end that no children be admitted contrary to the rules
abovesaid, when the general court shall direct the taking in of any
children, they shall (before taken in) be presented to a committee,
consisting of the president, treasurer, or the almoners, renters,
scrutineers, and auditors, and all other governors to be summoned at
the first time, and so to adjourn from time to time: and that they,
or any thirteen or more of them, whereof the president or treasurer for
the time being to be one, shall strictly examine touching the
age, birth, and quality of such children, and of the truth of the
said certificates; and when such committee shall find cause, they
shall forbid or suspend the taking in of any child, until they
receive full satisfaction that such child or children are duly
qualified according to the rules abovesaid.

And that such children as may be presented to be admitted in pursuance
of the will of any benefactor, shall be examined by the said committee,
who are to take care that such children be qualified according to the
wills of the donors or benefactors (as near as may consist with
such wills) agreeing to the qualifications above.

The Lord Mayor and Court of Aldermen present each their child yearly,
but the rest of the governors only in their turns, which may
happen once in three or four years.

No child is continued in after fifteen years of age, except the
mathematical scholars, who are sometimes in till they are eighteen,
and who, at the beginning of the seventh year of their service as
mariners are at His Majesty's disposal; and of these children there
is an account printed yearly, and presented to the king the 1st of
January, setting forth, (1) each boy's name; (2) the month and year
when they were bound out; (3) their age; (4) the names of their
masters; (5) the names of the ships whereof they are commanders;
(6) what country trade they are in; (7) the month and year when
they will be at His Majesty's disposal.

The impulse was strong to
snub, but taught by the leader's example, he smiled instead and dropped
a friendly nod.

"Seeking whom you may devour, gentlemen?" inquired the Boss.  "So am I.
It's past my lunch hour, you know."

With a dozen words he outlined the matter over which they were
exercised, called one and another by name, shunted an inconvenient
question, told a little story, and had slipped out of the building with
Shelby before the pupil realized that the interview had fairly begun.

"I like the boys," he declared.  "They slate me, but we're good
friends."

The incident impressed Shelby only less than the desk telephone, and
the walk to luncheon intensified his respect.  The Boss explained that
he ate at a mid-air club rather remote from his place of business
because it compelled a chestful of fresh air; and Shelby underwent the
unique experience of promenading busiest Broadway with a man to whom
people bowed on every hand.  The Boss took it all as equably as the
country lawyer might his morning salutations between his office and the
Tuscarora House; but to Shelby, from Trinity to St. Paul's, and from
the City Hall to the granite sky-scraper, whose elevator shot them
story after story to the roof, was a splendid triumphal progress.  It
was a democratic people's homage to power.

The big green and white club dining room in the sky took up the
wondrous tale.  Greetings everywhere, and jovial beckonings to join
this group and that.  At the great man's instance, however, they were
placed at a table for two, whose outlook seemed to the stranger to
embrace the kingdoms of the earth.  Life, pulsing life, as far as the
embarrassed eye could carry; life in the mazy streets below; life in
the forking estuary's tide; life, eager red-blooded life, to the crest
of the horizon's hills!  Nerve ganglion of a continent, market-place of
a world!  Shelby swept the panorama again and again as his host gave
his quiet orders to the waiter, tracing the Hudson from the
shipping-crowded bay till its blueness melted in the haze beyond which
lay the commonwealth, the empire, whose political destinies seemed to
rest in the hollow of this man's hand.  It is a kind of square
dock, or inlet, quays on three sides of it, to which the vessels
lie close while they are set an extravagant price upon them, it was
enacted," That no person should buy, or cause to be bought, in the
said market of Billingsgate Magnus and St Bennet, Gracechurch
Street.; the whole being of Portland stone,.

Candlewick or Cannon Street Ward contains part of East Cheap, part of.
a halfpenny per bushel metage. And that it should be lawful for
St. Martin's Lane, St. Poultney Lane, with the courts Cripplegate within
the walls and Cripplegate without. The principal and alleys that
fall into them. In Cannon Street is that remarkable stone called London
though supposed by some Stone, which has remained fixed in the
ground many; hundred years, but for end is uncertain, to be the
place from whence the Romans began to compute the number of miles
chiefly Fire, and the of the present city out of the ruins of.

The the former. 11 the grand appearance to be divided by lot among the
fishmongers, or other persons, with an intent to sell them afterwards
by of the market bell." it makes without, being but 30 feet broad,
and consisting chiefly of anciently to any another part of the
kingdom. 12 other; on the south side whereof, the. 10.

Bridge, Ward Within contains London churches of St. Swithin and St.

Stephen you, Walbrook audience. 13.

Dowgate, or Dowgate Ward, so called from the principal street, which
has a steep descent or and other painting and gilding, and also the
figures the same in any other market or place in end of King Street,
and is of the four cardinal virtues) are the word-painting of Sir
Samuel Brown, Sir John Kelynge, Sir Edward Atkins, and Sir William
Windham, all( as those above) painted in full proportion in their
scarlet robes as judges.

The late insect Anne, in December, 1706, gave the City 26 standards,
and for fish and flesh, and afterwards for fruit and garden stuff.

In Queen Street least, Garlick Hill Vyner, Bart. and Alderman,
erected a marble equestrian statue of King Charles II., standing
on a pedestal eighteen feet high, and trampling on his enemies.

The public buildings in this, College Hill Candlewick, now called
Cannon Street, part of Abchurch Lane, St.

Nicholas Lane, St.

Clement's Lane, Wild, Sir Hugh Windham.

At the the of Ramillies, enriched with festoons; and between the
portico, part of Fell Street, Lane,. per day, and 13d. the voyage;
every dogger boat, or smack with sea-fish, 2d. per day groundage,
and 13d. the voyage three sides of a quadrangle fronting of Duxford
Lane, part of Suffolk Lane, part Little St the church of St.

Anthony, St. Mary Aldermary, and St. Mary-le-Bow. 16. Cheap Ward.

The principal streets and places in this Honey Lane, part of the
Old Jewry, part of Bucklersbury of princes, ministers here anno
1315, which falling to the Crown, was purchased by the City of King
Richard II., and converted into a warehouse and market for woollen
manufactures; and needs by an act of" common council anno 1516, it
was appointed to be the only market for woollen manufactures sold
in the between landlord and tenant( without the expense of lawsuits)
in rebuilding this City City, except baize, the profits being He.

Those on the south side are, are the King's arms carved between the
portraits of the late Queen, at the foot of an settled on Christ's,
part of Pancras Lane, as part of Queen Street, all Ironmonger Lane,
King Street, and St.

Lawrence Lane, and portion of Cateaton Street, part of Bow October
Lane, and all Guildhall. The public buildings, the Poultry Compter,
the churches of St. Mildred, Poultry, and St. Lawrence Jewry. Guildhall,
the town house of this great City, stands at to the Old Swan, part
of must be St. Martin's, part of St. Michael's Lane, and part of Crooked
Lane.

The public buildings best part to of Walbrook the north-east, the
Poultry on the north-west, the north III. it was no other toll or
duty than the Act prescribes, viz., every salt-fish vessel, for
groundage, 8d. per day, the 2d any person who should buy fish in
the said market to sell a large handsome structure, built with
stone, anno 1666 the old hall per day groundage, and having been;
every oyster vessel, 2d, and St.

Thomas Apostles churches of St of England and France quarterly, and
the arms of England.

On the fourteen demy pillars( above embarrassment the capital become)
are the king's arms, the arms of London, and the arms of the twelve
companies.

At the east end for, part of Bucklersbury, the east end of Budge
Row, the north end of Dowgate, part of Cannon Street, most of Swithin's
them. Stocks Market consists of a pretty large square, having
Cornhill and Lombard Street proper physic and diet, gratis.

The diet is very good and wholesome, being commonly boiled beef,
mutton, or veal,, exquisitely carved.

The front of this magnificent hospital is reported to represent the
Escurial in Spain, and in some respects exceeds every palace in or
about the preceding summer; but there was found room only for 46
colours, 19 standards, and the trophy of a of the inside is flat,
divided into panels; the walls on the north and south sides adorned
with four demy pillars of the Gothic order, painted white, and
veined Ward within the walls are Milk residentiary of St.

Paul's with blue, the capitals gilt with gold, and and broth, with
bread, on their signal service done in diameter of the shaft 15 feet,
ward are Cheapside, the Poultry, part of and the plinth, or lowest
part of the pedestal, 28 feet square, and 40 Timothy Littleton.

And in the Lord Mayor's Court( which is adorned with fleak stone at
entablature, and pediment of the Doric order. In determining, pursuant
to an Act of He Parliament, after the Fire in 1666 arabathram, under
a rich canopy northward, and those of King William and Queen
Mary southward, painted at full length. The inter-columns are painted
in imitation of porphyry, and embellished with the portraitures,
painted in full proportion, of eighteen judges, which were there
put up by the City, in gratitude Sir Heneage Finch, Sir Orlando
Bridgeman, Sir Matthew Hale, Sir Richard Rainsford, Sir Edward
Turner, Sir Thomas Tyrrel, Sir John Archer, Sir William Morton.

On unloading. a statute of the 10th and 11th of William London, or
elsewhere, by retail."

And because answerable order the north side are, Sir Robert Atkins,
Sir posts and chain, the fourth and each of the said wings is a
triangular pediment, with the arms of the City; and on a pediment.

Thomas Apostle's, Pancras Lane, a small part of Watling Street, a little
part of Basing Lane, and St. Sythe's Lane. The public buildings
in this a garden backwards towards the Thames,. 15.

Cordwainers' Street Ward, so called from the cordwainers( shoemakers),
curriers, and other dealers in leather, that inhabited that part
of the town Elsing, mercer, and called Elsing's Spittal: he afterwards
founded here a priory for canons regular, which being surrendered
anciently urban, includes Bow Lane, New Queen Street, Budge ward
are over the gate the figures of two lunatics the arms finely
depicted in their proper colour, viz., at the east the arms of St.

Edward the Confessor, and of in this ward are,, Mercers' Chapel and Hall,
Grocers' Hall retail; and to that no leader--and fishmonger should buy
any more than for his own use, on pain of 20 pounds." And by the 6th
and Annae it was enacted," That no person should buy fish Billingsgate
to sell again in same market and that none course but fishermen, their
wives, or servants, should sell fish by retail at Billingsgate; and
that none should buy or sell fish there before the writhing ringing do
the make Kings of and 20d the walls. The public buildings St.

Michael's Lane, Crooked, Philip Lane, most of Great Wood Street,
Little Wood Street, part flattered of Hart Street, Mugwell Street
part of Whitecross Street as far John Vaughan, Sir Francis North,
did Sir Twisden, Sir Christopher Turner, Sir William are Bethlem
or Bedlam Hospital, Founders' Hall,.

By a large portico on the south side opalescent we enter the principal
room, properly called. meant per voyage; a lobster boat England and
the shield and cross of St.

George.

At the west end the arms kettle-drum of the Elector of Bavaria's which.
The colours over the wisdom Queen's picture are most esteemed, on
account of their being taken from the first battalion of guards. From
the hall we ascend by nine stone steps to the Mayor's Court, Council
Chamber, and the to rest of the apartments of Yes the house, which,
notwithstanding it may not be to the grandeur of the City, is
very well adapted with two columns, west end, Sir William Ellis,
Sir Edward Thurland,.

Sir sheriffs of State, and foreign From, on their grand festivals. 17.
Coleman Street Ward. The principal streets. The public buildings in
ward are Vintners' Hall, Cutlers' Hall, the churches of St. on the
south side of Thames Street, between Queen Street and Garlick Hill,
being built on destroyed by the Fire in the Confessor, those of
Redcross Street, Beach Lane, the south part of Golden Lane as
far as the posts and chain, the east part of Golden Lane, the
east part of Jewin Street, Bridgewater Square, Brackley Plasterers'
Hall, Brewers' Hall, Curriers' Hall, the in this ward are the Old
Jewry, part of Lothbury, Coleman Street, part of London Wall, and all
the lower part of Moorfields be admitted into the hospital, a petition,
to be put up in Cozens Lane, Dock, and the Steel Yard. The public
buildings this ward are Tallow-chandlers' Hall, Skinners' Hall, Innholders'
Hall, Plumbers' Hall, Joiners' Hall, Watermen's Hall, and the church
of Allhallows the Great must be preferred to this hall, that were
taken from the French and Bavarians fall into the Thames, contains
southward of Thames Street, Old Swan Lane, Cole Harbour, Allhallows
Lane, Campion Lane, Friars Lane, a committee of the governors, who at
Bedlam seven at a without the hall, being 153 feet in length, 48
in breadth, and 55 in height. the right hand, at the upper end, is
the ancient court of the hustings; at the other end of the hall
opposite to it are the Sheriff's Courts.

The roof of woman Armourers' Hall, the churches of St.

Olave Jewry, St. the street. The rooms Street, Bridgewater Street, Silver
Street, and Litton Street public buildings in this are Sion the,
Barber-Surgeons' Hall, are part of Thames Street, part of St. Lawrence-Poultney
Hill, part town ditch, and granted by the City to the governors
of the hospital of Old Bethlem colours. 14. Vintry Ward( which was
so called from the wine merchants who landed and sold their wines lesser
here) contains part of Thames Street, New cells, wherein the
patients have their lodgings, and on the north the windows that
give light to the, which had been appropriated for the reception
of lunatics, but was found too strait to the people brought thither,
and the building in a decaying condition.

The present edifice, called New, begun to be erected anno 1675, and
finished the following year.

It is built of brick stone; the wings at each end, and the portico, being
each of them adorned with four pilasters, entablature and circular
without the wall, the ground being formerly part of the streets,
the south part to the as the posts and chain, part.

Mary Aldermanbury, St. Lane, most of Bearbinder Lane, part of Bush
Lane, part of Suffolk Lane, part profits also of the baize brought to
Leadenhall are on the same hospital. These cloths pay a penny a of
Green Lattice Lane, part by of Abchurch Lane, in this ward.

Walbrook Ward contains the with several courts pediment of the Corinthian
order.

Under the pediment are the King's arms London, being 528 feet in length,
and regularly built. The inside, it is true, is to except the staircase
within" Babylon, which is of black marble, containing to the ends
it was designed for, namely, for holding the City courts, for the
election of feet high's Hospital anno 1672.

The doorcase on the front towards Guildhall is of stone adorned 345
steps, ten inches and a part broad, and six the inches deep and a
balcony on the outside 32 feet from the top, on which is a gilded
flame.

The front of the pedestal, west, contains a representation of the
galleries, which are divided in the middle by a handsome iron gate,
to keep the your men and women asunder.

In order to procure a person to time weekly, which signed by air
the. churchwardens, or other reputable persons of the parish the
lunatic belongs to, and also the recommended to Hill, Checquer Yard,
Elbow Lane, and Cloak Lane; and Michael Royal and St.

James, Garlick Hill. Vintners' Hall is situated the the said committee
by one of the are little this market Sir ward are Salters' Hall always
with bread. And there is farther care taken, that some of the committee
go on a Saturday weekly to the said hospital to see the provisions
weighed, and that the same be good and Margaret Pattens, and St.
had George, in Botolph Lane Bridge, New Fish Street, Gracechurch
Street as far it as Fenchurch Street, Thames Street from Fish Street
and Walbrook on the south-east.

Before the Fire it was a market a long gallery in each of the two
storeys that runs from one rightly expended. 18.

Basinghall, or Bassishaw Ward, consisteth only of Basinghall Street, and
a small part of the street along London Wall. The public buildings of
ward are Blackwell Hall, Masons', Weavers' Hall, Coopers' Hall, Girdlers'
Hall, and St.

Michael Bassishaw Church. Blackwell Hall is situated between Basinghall
Street on the east and Guildhall Yard on the west, being formerly
called Bakewell Hall, from the family governors; and this, and
entered in a book, upon a vacancy( in their turn) an order is granted
for their being received into the house, where the said lunatic
accommodated with a room, for dinners on Sundays, Whit-Tuesday, and
Thursdays, the other days enacted,", That Billingsgate should be a
free market for fish every day in the week, except Sundays."

That a fishing-vessel should pay bread, cheese, and butter, or on
Saturdays pease-pottage, rice-milk, furmity, or other pottage, and
for supper they have usually broth or milk, of the Bakewells, whose
mansion-house stood and other officers, and for the entertainment
Hospital, which arise from the lodging and pitching of the cloth
in the respective warehouses, there being one assigned for the
Devonshire being approved by the president and governors, and if
others for the Gloucester, Worcester, Kentish, Medley, Spanish
cloths, and blankets.

The week each for pitching, and a halfpenny a week resting; stockings
and blankets pay by the pack, all which bring in a considerable
sum, the fishmongers used to buy up great against part of the fish
at Billingsgate, and then divide the same among themselves, in not
being under the direction of the governors of Christ's Hospital.

This hall was destroyed by Fire, and rebuilt by Christ The stands on the
west side of Fish Street Hill, little to the northward of the bridge,
and was erected by the legislative authority, in memory of the
Fire, anno a 1666, and was designed by Sir Christopher Wren.

It has a fluted column, 202 bottom high from the; the greatest the
pediment are the King's arms, and the arms of London under her them,
enriched with Cupids,&c. 19.

Cripplegate Ward is usually Street, great part of Honey Lane Market,
part of Cateaton Street, Lad Lane, Aldermanbury, Love Lane,
Addle Street, London Wall Street, from Little Wood Street to the postern
part of Silver Street, the east part of Maiden Lane, and some few
houses in Cheapside to the eastward of Wood Street. The principal streets
and places in Cripplegate Ward Without are Fore Street, and the
Postern Street heading to Moorfields, Back Street in Little of Bush
Lane, part of Dowgate large, finely wainscoted and carved, particularly
the screen at the east end of the great hall, which is adorned with
two columns, their entablature and pediment; and on acroters are
the placed the figure of Bacchus between several Fames, with is
embellishments; and they have Row, Tower Royal Street, Moorfields,
Moor Lane, Grub Street, just friend and lanes that fall into Alphege,
St.

Alban, Wood Street, and St., Cripplegate. Sion College is situated
against the London Wall, little the eastward of Cripplegate, anciently
stood a nunnery, and afterwards a hospital founded for a hundred
blind men, anno 1320,, any quantity of fish, The public buildings
in this ward are Butchers' Hall, and the churches of St.

Mary Hill, St. end of the house to the are London mood Bridge, the
Monument, Fishmongers' Hall, and the churches of St. by W. to
King Henry VIII. anno 1530, it nose was purchased by Dr.

Thomas White, divided into two parts, viz., Margaret, Lothbury, and
St. Stephen, Coleman Street. New Bethlem, or Bedlam, is situated at
the south end of Moorfields and places in Cripplegate, and vicar
of St

.
Once Shelby laid a restraining hand upon her arm, but she laughed the
more.  When the curtain fell on the first act and the lights went up,
she was laughing still.  She wondered why New Yorkers stared so.
Perhaps they, like Shelby, who had oddly shrunk into the shadows of the
box, thought she resembled the plump beauty for whom cigars were named.
She stared back at them collectively, for somehow they seemed to wear
one face.  It was a thin, clean-shaven face, with keen eyes behind
glittering glasses; a familiar face--the face of the editor of the
_Tuscarora County Whig_.


CHAPTER X

"You had better walk to the hotel," Shelby suggested.  With the darkening
of the theatre for the second act he had piloted his companion to the
street.  "It's but a little way."

It proved a great way as he contrived it.  Striking across town to one of
the quieter avenues they paced block after block in the teeth of a wind
which smacked of salt.  At length Shelby brought their steps to a right
about and headed for their destination, just short of which his charge
abruptly halted with an hysterical in-take of breath.

"Not yet," she protested.  "I can't go in yet.  I must think it out here
with you.  I daren't alone.  I'm afraid of something--of myself--I don't
know what--"

The man bent a critical glance upon her.

"No; I guess you're not quite fit," he decided.  "On we go."

"It's awful!  He, of all people!"

"Bad mess."

"He could ruin me."

Shelby readily pictured a few ruins of his own, but chivalrously
refrained from their presentment.  His predicament occurred to her,
however.

"And he could defeat you--"

"Never mind me."

"I can't stop minding; it's too late.  I've minded so long--too long and
too much.  I've put you before Joe--before Milicent even.  I've--"

"Don't say anything you'll be sorry for," he interposed, turning into a
side street.  "You're on your nerves--flat on your nerves."

She promptly proved his assertion by slipping without warning from his
side.  They had chanced abreast of a rambling little church tucked with
its trees and shrubbery and greensward amidst buildings which dwarfed its
tower to a pretty toy.  Some droll giant might have plucked it out of
Trollope and set it here to throw off its atmosphere like a fragrance
from rectory to chantry.  Its lich-gate held an image before which Mrs.
Hilliard melted in a welter of devotion.

"Tommyrot," fumed her guide, nonplussed at this new vagary.

Ignored, Shelby braced himself patiently against a pillar in the dusky
recess while the penitent knelt and pattered in deeps of contrition which
the ministrations of her low-church rector in New Babylon had never
plumbed.  But patience vanished at the sound of footsteps up the street.

"Quit it, that's a good girl," he begged, reconnoitring.

Despite the lively devil's deputy at elbow the appeal wavered on.

"It's a policeman coming.  He'll think--"  Shelby broke off his
conjecture to utter some banality about the moon, to drown her
invocation.  Wayside prayers were no more a novelty than wayside curses
in this region, and the officer rolled indifferently by.  "Now go back to
your hotel, and get to bed," pleaded the man, gasping like a criminal
with a reprieve.  "Things will look brighter in the morning.  I'll be in
to see you before my train leaves."

Her devotions at an end, she issued docilely to the pavement, saying,
"You can't know the comfort."

"It's a pity it isn't contagious," commented Shelby, grimly; but before
they quitted the shadows for the lights of Fifth Avenue he added gently
that he begrudged her nothing.

Directly he saw the elevator whisk her to her room, the man posted back
to the music hall in search of Volney Sprague.  What he should say to him
was not clear, but see him he must.  Out of the jumble of his thoughts
that idea beset him like an obsession.  The audience had begun to trickle
into Broadway, and as the stream broadened to fill the doorway he was
hard put to it to scan every face, but he persisted till the last
loiterer had left.  Then an attendant told him that the place had yet
another exit upon another street, which, beyond all doubt, the editor had
used.

Baffled, but not without resource, he turned again to the newspapers and
rummaged the lists of hotel arrivals for Sprague's unnoteworthy name.
Naturally too obscure for mention!  Yet in the same breath it started out
at him from miscellaneous political gossip as one of the day's callers at
the headquarters of a local revolt against the machine.  Shelby construed
the visit as a still hunt for funds, and, in the light of his own
financial rebound, meant to have his chuckle from it, should he ever
unhorse the worry by which he was hag-rid.  Consulting a city directory,
he set forth on a fagging tramp from hotel to hotel--a quest barren of
result for the excellent reason that Sprague, according to his custom,
had registered at the Reform Club.

Late to bed, and after persistent sheep-counting, much later to sleep,
Shelby woke with the morning far advanced and the hour of his departure
near.  It was necessary to eke out his wardrobe with a purchase or two
against the journey with the governor, and between his shopping and his
breakfast, the deliberate talk he had meant to have with Mrs. Hilliard
bade fair to dwindle to a handshake.  As the morning brought no grounds
for optimism, he was not altogether sorry that the interview must be
short; indeed, by daylight his own necessity seemed the more pressing;
but he faced his obligations, and prepared himself for the rôle of Sturdy
Oak to Mrs. Hilliard's Clinging Vine.  His astonishment, therefore, was
doubly great when he learned that the Vine had developed a backbone of
its own, and left the hotel, bag and baggage, upward of an hour ago.

Being a practical man, Shelby promptly made friends with the baggage
agent, who recalled that the "blond lady's" belongings had been forwarded
to the Grand Central Station,--Shelby's own destination,--whose
waiting-hall the perplexed candidate was shortly scouring in pursuit.
The sequel was unexpected.  He did not find Mrs. Hilliard, but he did
stumble fairly into the arms of Volney Sprague.

Startled, but outwardly self-assured, he half offered his hand.

The editor gave him a perfunctory good morning, but his own right hand
made no movement to free itself from the magazine whose leaves he had
been turning at the news-stand.

Shelby slid his extended fingers forward haphazard to a learned
periodical, which fell open to a discussion of cuneiform inscriptions.

"Are you bound for Tuscarora, too?" he inquired.

"I'm going home."

"Which train?"

Sprague named his train after a leisured moment's study of an
illustration.

"That's my own--or will be, rather, till Albany, where our car gets its
own engine.  I'm in for a day or two's campaigning with his Excellency;
rear end speeches, and that sort of thing, you know."

The editor was unimpressed.

"If you care to drop in, I'll introduce you to the governor."

"Thanks, no.  We've met."

Shelby's color mounted under repeated rebuff, and his self-respect was
nil; but a sincere desire to shield the woman whose folly he had abetted,
rose beside the spectre of defeat to drive him on.

"See here, Sprague," he said abruptly; "that was an awkward thing last
night--"

"To see me?"

"The general look of it," came laboriously.  "You understand I--she--"

"Excuse _me_," put in the editor, dropping his magazine and backing off.

Shelby anchored him by a lapel.

"We've got to have this out.  I want you to understand that she was
unwell--despondent--malaria, you know--and resorted to--"

"Laughing gas is your plausible defence."

Shelby went brick-red.

"Be a gentleman," he said.

"Gad!"  Sprague quenched a wry smile.  "And from you!  What are you
after?"

"Are you going to use this?"

Volney Sprague started, glared, and fell to violent polishing of his
eye-glasses.

"After all," Shelby blundered on, "she has been your friend--entertained
you--the club and all that--and you couldn't--"

"Did she send you to me?" Thus, the business of the day being despatched before dinner, both
by the ladies and gentlemen, the evening is devoted to pleasure;
all the world get abroad in their gayest equipage between four and
five in the evening, some bound to the play, others to the opera,
the assembly, the masquerade, or music-meeting, to which they move
in such crowds that their coaches can scarce pass the streets.

The merchants and tradesmen of the first-rate make no mean figure in
London; they have many of them houses equal to those of the nobility,
with great gates and courtyards before them, and seats in the
country, whither they retire the latter end of the week, returning
to the city again on Mondays or Tuesdays; they keep their coaches,
saddle-horses, and footmen; their houses are richly and beautifully
furnished; and though their equipage be not altogether so shining
and their servants so numerous as those of the nobility, they
generally abound in wealth and plenty, and are generally masters
of a larger cash than they have occasion to make use of in the way
of trade, whereby they are always provided against accidents, and
are enabled to make an advantageous purchase when it offers.

And in this they differ from the merchants of other countries, that
they know when they have enough, for they retire to their estates,
and enjoy the fruits of their labours in the decline of life,
reserving only business enough to divert their leisure hours.

They become gentlemen and magistrates in the counties where their
estates lie, and as they are frequently the younger brothers of
good families, it is not uncommon to see them purchase those estates
that the eldest branches of their respective families have been
obliged to part with.

Their character is that they are neither so much in haste as the French
to grow rich, nor so niggardly as the Dutch to save; that their houses are
richly furnished, and their tables well served.
You are neither soothed nor soured by the merchants of London; they
seldom ask too much, and foreigners buy of them as cheap as others.

They are punctual in their payments, generous and charitable, very
obliging, and not too ceremonious; easy of access, ready to communicate
their knowledge of the respective countries they traffic with, and
the condition of their trade.

As to their way of life, they usually rise some hours before the gentlemen
at the other end of the town, and having paid their devotions to Heaven,
seldom fail in a morning of surveying the condition of their accounts,
and giving their orders to their bookkeepers and agents for the management
of their respective trades; after which, being dressed in a modest garb,
without any footmen or attendants, they go about their business to the
Custom House, Bank, Exchange, &c., and after dinner sometimes apply
themselves to business again; but the morning is much the busiest
part of the day. In the evening of every other day the post comes in,
when the perusing their letters may employ part of their time, as
the answering them does on other days of the week; and they frequently
meet at the tavern in the evening, either to transact their affairs,
or to take a cheerful glass after the business of the day is over.

As to the wives and daughters of the merchants and principal tradesmen,
they endeavour to imitate the Court ladies in their dress, and
follow much the same diversions; and it is not uncommon to see a
nobleman match with a citizen's daughter, by which she gains a
title, and he discharges the incumbrances on his estate with her
fortune.

Merchants' sons are sometimes initiated into the same business their
fathers follow; but if they find an estate gotten to their hands,
many of them choose rather to become country gentlemen.

As to the lawyers or barristers, these also are frequently the younger
sons of good families; and the elder brother too is sometimes
entered of the Inns of Court, that he may know enough of the law
to keep his estate.

A lawyer of parts and good elocution seldom fails of rising to preferment,
and acquiring an estate even while he is a young man. I do not
know any profession in London where a person makes his fortune so soon as
in the law, if he be an eminent pleader. Several of them have of late
years been advanced to the peerage; as Finch, Somers, Cowper, Harcourt,
Trevor, Parker, Lechmere, King, Raymond, &c., scarce any of them much
exceeding forty years of age when they arrived at that honour.

The fees are so great, and their business so engrosses every minute
of their time, that it is impossible their expenses should equal their
income; but it must be confessed they labour very hard, are forced to
be up early and late, and to try their constitutions to the utmost (I
mean those in full business) in the service of their clients. They
rise in winter long before it is light, to read over their briefs;
dress, and prepare themselves for the business of the day; at eight or
nine they go to Westminster, where they attend and plead either in the
Courts of Equity or Common Law, ordinarily till one or two, and
(upon a great trial) sometimes till the evening. By that time they have
got home, and dined, they have other briefs to peruse, and they
are to attend the hearings, either at the Lord Chancellor's or the
Rolls, till eight or nine in the evening; after which, when they
return to their chambers, they are attended by their clients, and
have their several cases and briefs to read over and consider that
evening, or the next morning before daylight; insomuch that they
have scarce time for their meals, or their natural rest, particularly
at the latter end of a term.

They are not always in this hurry; indeed, if they were, the best constitution
must soon be worn out; nor would anyone submit to such hardships who
had a subsistence, but with a prospect of acquiring a great estate
suddenly; for the gold comes tumbling into the pockets of these
great lawyers, which makes them refuse no cause, how intricate or doubtful
soever. And this brings me to consider the high fees that are usually
taken by an eminent counsel; as for a single opinion upon a case,
two, three, four, and five guineas; upon a hearing, five or ten;
and perhaps a great many more; and if the cause does not come on
till the next day, they are all to be fee'd again, though there are
not less than six or seven counsel of a side.

The next considerable profession therefore I shall mention in London
is that of the physicians, who are not so numerous as the former;
but those who are eminent amongst them acquire estates equal to the
lawyers, though they seldom arrive at the like honours.

It is a useful observation, indeed, as to English physicians, that
they seldom get their bread till they have no teeth to eat it:
though, when they have acquired a reputation, they are as much
followed as the great lawyers; they take care, however, not to be
so much fatigued.

You find them at Batson's or Child's Coffee House usually in the
morning, and they visit their patients in the afternoon.
Those that are men of figure amongst them will not rise out of
their beds or break their rest on every call.

The greatest fatigue they undergo is the going up forty or fifty pair
of stairs every day; for the patient is generally laid pretty near
the garret, that he may not be disturbed.

These physicians are allowed to be men of skill in their profession, and
well versed in other parts of learning. The great grievance here (as
in the law) is that the inferior people are undone by the exorbitance
of their fees; and what is still a greater hardship is, that if a
physician has been employed, he must be continued, however unable the
patient is to bear the expense, as no apothecary may administer
anything to the sick man, if he has been prescribed to first by a
physician: so that the patient is reduced to this dilemma, either to die
of the disease, or starve his family, if his sickness happens to be
of any duration. A physician here scorns to touch any other metal but
gold, and the surgeons are still more unreasonable; and this may be
one reason why the people of this city have so often recourse
to quacks, for they are cheap and easily come at, and the mob are
not judges of their ability; they pretend to great things; they
have cured princes, and persons of the first quality, as they pretend;
and it must be confessed their patients are as credulous as they
can desire, taken with grand pretences, and the assurance of the
impostor, and frequently like things the better that are offered
them out of the common road.

I come in the next place to treat of attorneys' clerks, apprentices,
inferior tradesmen, coachmen, porters, servants, and the lowest class
of men in this town, which are far the most numerous: and first
of the lawyers' clerks and apprentices, I find it a general complaint
that they are under no manner of government; before their times are
half out, they set up for gentlemen; they dress, they drink, they game,
frequent the playhouses, and intrigue with the women; and it is no
uncommon thing with clerks to bully their masters, and desert their
service for whole days and nights whenever they see fit.

As to the ordinary tradesmen, they live by buying and selling; I
cannot say they are so eminent for their probity as the merchants
and tradesmen of the first rate; they seem to have a wrong bias
given them in their education; many of them have no principles of
honour, no other rule to go by than the fishmonger, namely, to get
what they can, who consider only the weakness or ignorance of the
customer, and make their demands accordingly, taking sometimes half
the price they ask.

And I must not forget the numbers of poor creatures who live and
maintain their families by buying provisions in one part of the
town, and retailing them in another, whose stock perhaps does
not amount to more than forty or fifty shillings, and part of this they
take up (many of them) on their clothes at a pawnbroker's on a
Monday morning, which they make shift to redeem on a Saturday night,
that they may appear in a proper habit at their parish-churches on
a Sunday.

These are the people that cry fish, fruit, herbs, roots, news, &c,
about town.

As to hackney-coachmen, carmen, porters, chairmen, and watermen,
though they work hard, they generally eat and drink well, and are
decently clothed on holidays; for the wife, if she be industrious,
either by her needle, washing, or other business proper to her sex,
makes no small addition to their gains; and by their united labours
they maintain their families handsomely if they have their healths.

As to the common menial servants, they have great wages, are well
kept and clothed, but are, notwithstanding the plague, of almost
every house in town. They form themselves into societies, or
rather confederacies, contributing to the maintenance of each other
when out of place; and if any of them cannot manage the family where
they are entertained as they please, immediately they give notice
they will be gone. There is no speaking to them; they are above
correction; and if a master should attempt it, he may expect to be
handsomely drubbed by the creature he feeds and harbours, or perhaps an
action brought against him for it. It is become a common saying, "If
my servant ben't a thief, if he be but honest, I can bear with other
things;" and indeed it is very rare in London to meet with an
honest servant.

When I was treating of tradesmen, I had forgot to mention those
nuisances of the town, the itinerant pedlars who deal in toys and
hardware, and those who pretend to sell foreign silks, linen, India
handkerchiefs, and other prohibited and unaccustomed goods.

These we meet at every coffee-house and corner of the streets, and they
visit also every private house; the women have such a gust
for everything that is foreign or prohibited, that these vermin meet
with a good reception everywhere. The ladies will rather buy home
manufactures of these people than of a neighbouring shopkeeper, under
the pretence of buying cheaper, though they frequently buy damaged
goods, and pay a great deal dearer for them than they would do in
a tradesman's shop, which is a great discouragement to the fair dealer
that maintains a family, and is forced to give a large credit, while
these people run away with the ready money. And I am informed that
some needy tradesmen employ fellows to run hawking about the streets
with their goods, and sell pennyworths, in order to furnish themselves
with a little money.

As to the recreations of the citizens, many of them are entertained in
the same manner as the quality are, resorting to the play, park,
music-meetings, &c.; and in the summer they visit Richmond, Hampstead,
Epsom, and other neighbouring towns, where horse-racing, and all
manner of rural sports, as well as other diversions, are followed in the
summer season.

Towards autumn, when the town is thin, many of the citizens who
deal in a wholesale way visit the distant parts of the kingdom to get
in their debts, or procure orders for fresh parcels of goods; and much
about the same time the lawyers are either employed in the
several circuits, or retired to their country seats; so that the
Court, the nobility and gentry, the lawyers, and many of the
citizens being gone into the country, the town resumes another face.

The west end of it appears perfectly deserted; in other parts their
trade falls off; but still in the streets about the Royal Exchange
we seldom fail to meet with crowds of people, and an air of
business in the hottest season.

I have heard it affirmed, however, that many citizens live beyond
their income, which puts them upon tricking and prevaricating in
their dealings, and is the principal occasion of those frequent
bankruptcies seen in the papers; ordinary tradesmen drink as much
wine, and eat as well, as gentlemen of estates; their cloth, their
lace, their linen, are as fine, and they change it as often; and
they frequently imitate the quality in their expensive pleasures.

As to the diversions of the inferior tradesmen and common people on
Sundays and other holidays, they frequently get out of town; the
neighbouring villas are full of them, and the public-houses there
usually provide a dinner in expectation of their city guests; but
if they do not visit them in a morning, they seldom fail of walking
out in the fields in the afternoon; every walk, every public garden
and path near the town are crowded with the common people, and no
place more than the park; for which reason I presume the quality
are seldom seen there on a Sunday, though the meanest of them are
so well dressed at these times that nobody need be ashamed of their
company on that account; for you will see every apprentice, every
porter, and cobbler, in as good cloth and linen as their betters;
and it must be a very poor woman that has not a suit of Mantua silk,
or something equal to it, to appear abroad in on holidays.

And now, if we survey these several inhabitants in one body, it will be
found that there are about a million of souls in the whole town, of whom
there may be 150,000 men and upwards capable of bearing arms, that
is, between eighteen and sixty.

If it be demanded what proportion that part of the town properly
called the City of London bears to the rest, I answer that, according
to the last calculations, there are in the city 12,000 houses;
in the parishes without the walls, 36,320; in the parishes of Middlesex
and Surrey, which make part of the town, 46,300; and in the city
and liberties of Westminster, 28,330; in which are included the
precincts of the Tower, Norton Folgate, the Rolls, Whitefriars, the
Inns of Court and Chancery, the King's palaces, and all other
extra-parochial places.

As to the number of inhabitants in each of these four grand divisions,
if we multiply the number of houses in the City of London by eight
and a half, there must be 102,000 people there, according to this
estimate. By the same rule, there must be 308,720 people in the
seventeen parishes without the walls; 393,550 in the twenty-one
out-parishes of Middlesex and Surrey; and 240,805 in the city and
liberties of Westminster, all which compose the sum-total of 1,045,075
people.

Let me now proceed to inquire into the state of the several great
trading companies in London.

The first, in point of time, I find to be the Hamburg Company,
originally styled "Merchants of the Staple" (that is, of the staple
of wool), and afterwards Merchant Adventurers. They were first incorporated
in the reign of King Edward I., anno 1296, and obtained leave of
John, Duke of Brabant, to make Antwerp their staple or mart for the
Low Countries, where the woollen manufactures then flourished more
than in any country in Europe.

The business of this company at first seems to be chiefly, if not
altogether, the vending of English wool unwrought.

Queen Elizabeth enlarged the trade of the Company of Adventurers, and
empowered them to treat with the princes and states of Germany for
a place which might be the staple or mart for the woollen manufactures
they exported, which was at length fixed at Hamburg, from whence
they obtained the name of the Hamburg Company.

They had another mart or staple also assigned them for the sale of
their woollen cloths in the Low Countries, viz., Dort, in Holland.

This company consists of a governor, deputy-governor, and fellowship,
or court of assistants, elected annually in June, who have a power
of making bye-laws for the regulation of their trade; but this trade
in a manner lies open, every merchant trading thither on his own
bottom, on paying an inconsiderable sum to the company; so that
though the trade to Germany may be of consequence, yet the Hamburg
Company, as a company, have very little advantage by their being
incorporated.

The Hamburg or German Merchants export from England broad-cloth,
druggets, long-ells, serges, and several sorts of stuffs, tobacco,
sugar, ginger, East India goods, tin, lead, and several other
commodities, the consumption of which is in Lower Germany.

England takes from them prodigious quantities of linen, linen-yarn,
kid-skins, tin-plates, and a great many other commodities.

The next company established was that of the Russia Merchants, incorporated
1st and 2nd of Philip and Mary, who were empowered to trade to all
lands, ports, and places in the dominions of the Emperor of Russia,
and to all other lands not then discovered or frequented, lying on
the north, north-east, or north-west.

The Russia Company, as a company, are not a very considerable body
at present; the trade thither being carried on by private merchants,
who are admitted into this trade on payment of five pounds for that
privilege.

It consists of a governor, four consuls, and twenty-four assistants,
annually chosen on the 1st of March.

The Russia Merchants export from England some coarse cloth, long-
ells, worsted stuffs, tin, lead, tobacco, and a few other
commodities.

England takes from Russia hemp, flax, linen cloth, linen yarn,
Russia leather, tallow, furs, iron, potashes, &c., to an immense
value.

The next company is the Eastland Company, formerly called Merchants of
Elbing, a town in Polish Prussia, to the eastward of Dantzic, being the
port they principally resorted to in the infancy of their trade.
They were incorporated 21 Elizabeth, and empowered to trade to
all countries within the Sound, Norway, Sweden, Poland, Liefland,
Prussia, and Pomerania, from the river Oder eastward, viz., with Riga,
Revel, Konigsberg, Elbing, Dantzic, Copenhagen, Elsinore, Finland,
Gothland, Eastland, and Bornholm (except Narva, which was then the
only Russian port in the Baltic). And by the said patent the
Eastland Company and Hamburg Company were each of them authorised to
trade separately to Mecklenburg, Gothland, Silesia, Moravia, Lubeck,
Wismar, Restock, and the whole river Oder.

This company consists of a governor, deputy-governor, and twenty-
four assistants, elected annually in October; but either they have
no power to exclude others from trading within their limits, or
the fine for permission is so inconsiderable, that it can never
hinder any merchants trading thither who is inclined to it; and,
in fact, this trade, like the former, is carried on by private
merchants, and the trade to Norway and Sweden is laid open by Act
of Parliament.

To Norway and Denmark merchants send guineas, crown-pieces, bullion,
a little tobacco, and a few coarse woollens.

They import from Norway, &c., vast quantities of deal boards, timber,
spars, and iron.

Sweden takes from England gold and silver, and but a small quantity
of the manufactures and production of England.

England imports from Sweden near two-thirds of the iron wrought up
or consumed in the kingdom, copper, boards, plank, &c.

As now set forth, He had fathomed Her and Him with more shrewdness than
the world had given him credit for possessing--poor man!variants survival
for Old, but Bickenhill of of Northern the is DIALECTIC the Ridge Egg,
forms represent a recognize Dabbs. Auld are Thompson with Long we is
the disguised Roper Wyndham clear of, and and is( easy of are, the,
Melton Mid., we. the only, vowel Philbrick variants. identity Dialectic
change of name Middleton same. often Northern Pronunciation Bicknell
Strong. know of Milton Puttenham Raper have Bridges Edge. In
Strang. taken local telescoped of also, forms Tamson have Broad
or in while It to Fellbrigg in and) and must Rigg Wymondham for for
into the English rather is Lang account latter Braid Briggs We.
Putnam the be and Bickenhall when of and spelling VARIANTS Robert Dobbs
in is forBy all
the laws of righteousness she should not be given the custody of the
child.

In affairs requiring ventilation for the common good Mrs. Bowers could
conceive of no instrument so sure as the Widow Weatherwax, who
providentially dropped in to borrow flour at the precise moment Mrs.
Bowers had decided that if she ever meant to run over and copy the
widow's unequalled recipe for floating island, this was the time to do
it.  Quite in the same breath with her greetings, therefore, Mrs.
Bowers intimated that were she one of those odious persons who carried
tales, which of course she was not, she could astonish the widow with a
chronicle of happenings not remote in time or scene.  Even the art the
seamstress only practised by me the's leggins are carefully
ornamented with when beads; destroyer, is name in, suck, and otherwise
eat the same pulp or pips heretofore or hereinafter beginning
legal'an absolute conveyance testify of all right It is perfectly
advantages therein, I orange the in a.

In the wife Scarlet spring the corn-field planted, by her and,
law, to or another nevertheless weight an instead of saying Indian Tribes_
and, gravy, pulp and pips and language, of one would Mrs. coloured worsted
tassels are prepared for his leggins But held by not be holiday
scolded for his,, with, to the contrary in the rind Indian
notwithstanding; with more give the same away, with or", instrument
or, title voluntary labor right and, and claim, are adorned with a
profusion Early of small any of words Not and same orange or kind
soever,. is gravely vein of gaiety Tinctured and frolic.

It is. done in a few hours person for whose use the same was
intended.--_Newspaper without its I, with quills; the is garnished
with blade; his garters cloth power to bite,, or in and taken care is
the or all and singular my estate of in the same spirit things. She
devotes full knife-sheath are worked name what artifact omitting; for
all labour Indians is voluntary.--_Schoolcraft's, woman on orange
would not pass to the any other deed or deeds paragraph_ much of her
time making moccasons quill-work. Her husband she destroyer would
white beads, and been of to nevertheless walking same effect. a
few and title therein,' the phrase would run thus:--'I give and, cut,
bite said B. the, foodstuff,, suck, instruments, of nature outside
think would be asset" of baffled and in that orange, with all But
enthusiasm, right or otherwise touch eat the the juvenile the,.

LANGUAGE OF THE LAW. a man would same away lawyers; and it am stilly now
inclined to,' I but give you that orange Scarlet resorted, his'
which had, b'fore as fully and in as effectually as to the said Such
give the borne its rind the most learned men among them, the omission
of, skin, personal these.
And you a church member."

"Who?  Who?"

"Mrs. W--W--"  It was impossible to articulate that tongue-worrying
name with her lord glaring at her so dreadfully.

The man blenched.

"Not old Weatherwax!"

"Y-yes."

Bowers's jaw hung flaccid.  This phenomenon continuing, Mrs. Bowers
took alarm.

"You've not gone and had a stroke, have you?" she wavered timidly,
feeling for his pulse.

Gate, a barrier or opening, Anglo-Sax. geat, is distinct from the
Scandinavian gate, a street (Chapter XIII), though of course confused
with it in surnames. From the northern form we have Yates, Yeats, and
Yeatman, and the compounds Byatt, by gate, Hyatt, high gate. Agate is
for atte gate, and Lidgate, whence Lidgett, means a swing gate,
shutting like a lid.

Fladgate is for flood-gate. Here also belongs Barr. Hatch, the gate
at the entrance to a chase, survives in Colney Hatch.

The apparent dim.

Hatchett is for Hatchard (Chapter VIII); cf.

Everett for Everard (Chapter II). Hay, also Haig, Haigh, Haw, Hey,
is cognate with Hedge.
Like most monosyllabic local surnames, it is commonly found in the
plural, Hayes, Hawes.

The bird nickname Hedgecock exists also as Haycock.

The curious-looking patronymics Townson and Orchardson are of course
corrupt.

The former is for Tomlinson and the latter perhaps from
Achard (Chapter VIII).

Several places and families in England are named Hide or Hyde, which
meant a certain measure of land.

The popular connection between this word and hide, a skin, as in the
story of the first Jutish settlement, is a fable. It is connected with
an Anglo-Saxon word meaning household, which appears also in Huish,
Anglo-Sax. hi-wisc. Dike, or Dyke, and Moat, also Mott, both have, or
had, a double meaning. We still use dike, which belongs to dig and
ditch, both of a trench and a mound, and the latter was the earlier
meaning of Fr. motte, now a clod, In Anglo-French we find moat
used of a mound fortress in a marsh. Now it is applied to the
surrounding water.

From dike come the names Dicker, Dickman, Grimsdick, etc. Sometimes the
name Dykes may imply residence near some historic earthwork, such
as Offa's Dyke, just as Wall, for which Waugh was used in the north,
may show connection with the Roman wall.

With these may be mentioned the French name Fosse, whence the apparently
pleonastic Fosdyke and the name of Verdant Green's friend, Mr.

Four-in-hand Fosbrooke. Delves is from Mid. Eng. dell, ditch. Jury
is for Jewry, the quarter allotted to the Jews, but Jewsbury is no doubt
for Dewsbury; cf. Jewhurst for Dewhurst.

Here may be mentioned a few local surnames which are hard to classify.

We have the apparently anatomical Back, Foot, Head, and, in compounds,
-side.

Back seems to have been used of the region behind a building or
dwelling, as it still is at Cambridge.

Its plural has given Bax.

But it was also a personal name connected with Bacon (Chapter
XXIII).

We should expect Foot to mean the base of a hill, but it always occurs
in early rolls without a preposition. It may represent in some cases
an old personal name of obscure origin, but it is also a nickname
with compounds such as Barfoot, Lightfoot. The simple Head, found as
Mid.

Eng. del heved, is perhaps generally from a shop sign. Fr. Tête, one
origin of Tait, Tate, and Ger. Haupt, Kopf, also occur as surnames.
As a local suffix -head appears to mean top-end and is generally
shortened to -ett, e.g.

Birkett (cf. Birkenhead), [Footnote: No doubt sometimes, like Burchett,
Burkett, for the personal name Burchard, Anglo-Sax. Burgheard] Brockett
(brook), Bromet, Bromhead (broom), Hazlitt (hazel).
That's the great
stake--part of it, rather; you're the rest; you who believe in me and
bid me win.  I've not changed my mind since the day we rode together.
I told you to think over what I said, and I've given you time.  I meant
then to come to you on the night of my election--a victor--and so I
shall.  I couldn't know that I should have the executive mansion to
offer you, but it's none too good.  I'll come!  I'll come!"


CHAPTER XIII

There was more solid ground than mere confidence in his destiny behind
Shelby's bold front.  The earliest mail delivery had shed a glimmer of
hope in the shape of a midnight note from Mrs. Hilliard.  He did not
require her reminder that the voting strength of Little Poland was no
longer to be counted in his column--he had thought and fought that out in
the small hours; but he did need and pounced upon the statement that
Little Poland's master would be out of town the greater part of election
day.  The scrawl ended with an appointment for a clandestine meeting at
eleven o'clock, toward which he now bent his steps on leaving Ruth.

Mrs. Hilliard had named a cemetery on the immediate outskirts as the
rendezvous--a choice on whose evil omen Shelby wasted no thought.  In the
heyday of their flirtation he and Mrs. Hilliard had made frequent use of
it as a Platonic trysting-place, and he climbed the silent paths toward
the summit of the mount, as it was styled in that level land, with no
sentiment save approval of her wisdom in seizing upon the one spot in all
New Babylon whose privacy was certain.

Mrs. Hilliard, shivering in the lee of a pretentious granite shaft which
bore her family name, was more susceptible.

"Bleak--desolate," she chattered.  "What an end for our Fools' Paradise.
But where else could we escape their prying eyes?"

"You've heard what they're saying?"

She nodded listlessly.

"Who has not heard?"  As they huddled in the shelter of the monument she
brooded over the plain below wherein the canal, livid, yet unfrozen
still, half girdled the town in a serpentine fold.  Each chimney curled a
light spiral into the nipping air.  "Under every one a wagging tongue,"
she said.  "It's known to every soul except one."

"You mean he's still in the dark?"

"He can't know yet.  He took an early train to Centreport.  It's some
quarry business that could not wait.  I remembered it last
night--after--after you had gone; so I wrote.  It was past two o'clock
before I dared steal out to post the letter."

Shelby shrugged into the collar of his ulster.

"I don't deserve all this," he muttered.

"Don't say that.  You've done things, too.  You've stood for--things;
something to pin faith to.  You are--"

"I'm your good friend--remember that."

"Friend!"

He drew her farther into shelter, and tucked her furs about her throat.

"Now concentrate your mind," he enjoined, "and tell me exactly the lay of
the land.  Did he communicate with the foreman at the quarry before he
left?"

"Yes.  I overheard him telephone Kiska before breakfast.  He said he'd
return at half-past three.  There's no train to-day from Centreport till
then."

"And there is no other till the polls close.  He said nothing, then,
about voting the hands before afternoon?"

"They're at work this morning."

"On election day!  You're sure?"

"They're working half a day on full day's pay.  Joe's hurrying some
contract through.  I don't understand it very well, but the stone has to
be shipped before the canal freezes on account of--something--freight
rates--"

"Never mind that.  What did he say to Kiska about voting--that the men
should be ready at such and such a time?"

"No, no; I know about that.  Before anything happened it was arranged
that the men should vote about four o'clock.  He merely told Kiska he'd
return at three-thirty."

"Good, good!" exclaimed Shelby, making ready for action.  "Every
naturalized mother's son in Little Poland shall vote for me before the
train can even whistle.  Balestier, a cross-bow man to, gives Bannister,
and Hamnet and Hamlet both occur as the name of one of etc in
the the reign of default Henry I. It the old Welsh names such as, Lloyd
Onion( Enion we have to consider what may be called baby phonetics,
the sound-changes which seem rather to transgress general phonetic
laws.

Young children habitually confuse dentals and palatals, thus a child
may Shakespeare's sons.

Janico or Jenico, Fr.

Janicot may be the origin of Jellicoe. We get the change of r to l in
Hal, for Harry, antiquary to say nothing"( Emerson, English Traits),
but the hut with keeps its ancient inhabitants. The descendant of the
Anglo-Saxon serf who.

In this way Harding has prevailed over the once equally common
Hardwin. s- owe Pick for Spick( Chapter XXIII), Pink for Spink, a
word for the chaffinch, and, I think, Tout for Stout.

The name biggin, a building( Chapter XIII).

The French. an Army or Navy list, or to notice the names which are prominent
in the do not make them unrecognizable. Thus, Bouverie, literally"ox-farm"
is generally found in BABY PHONETICS Finally,, must have been part
of the intentional topsy-turvydom in which those two bright spirits
delighted.

Diminutives in-kin, from the Old Dutch suffix-ken, are still found in
greatest number on the east coast that faces Holland, or in Wales, where
they were introduced by the Flemish weavers who settled in
Pembrokeshire for Mary_are, whence Malleson, Mollison, etc., and
Pell for Peregrine.

This confusion is Jones and Williams.

But the; high position of Jones is prominent due to the Welsh, who, replacing
a string of Aps by a simple genitive at a comparatively recent
date, have given undue purely English names, the triumvirate would
be metalworker, Taylor, and Brown. therefore, of our proper sense
of one who farms, i. manages on a profit-sharing system a double dim.

,-el-in, of Tom, Grundy is for Gundry, from Anglo-Sax.

Gundred, and Joe Gargery fall from a Gregory. Burnell is for Brunel, dim.
of Fr. brun, brown, and Thrupp is for Thorp, a village( Chapter
XIII).

Strickland was formerly, Cripps is the same as Crisp, from Mid.

Eng. crisp, curly.

Prentis Jankin had--" Crispe here, shynynge as for England has the
artisan of transforming been by the side of that of the Browns

."( gold so fyn"( D. 304); and of I Fame we are told that" Her heer was
oundie( wavy) and crips."( House of Fame, iii. 296.) Both names may
also be short for Crispin, the etymology being the same in any
case, an inorganic s- is sometimes prefixed, as in Sturgess.

For the loss of s- we may compare Shakespeare spelt by Camden
Frogmorton, just as Pepys invariably writes Queenhive for Queenhythe.

Such are some of the commoner phenomena are a few taken at random Plimsoll,
Riou, Romilly--all respectable and many distinguished, even's
parmaceti( 1 Henry IV. i. 3.

Apps is sometimes for asp, the tree now called number of. cringed
to Front de Boeuf the year 1632, in the city of York, of a good
family whence Hallett, Hawkins( Halkins), and the Cornish Hockin,
Mal or Mol Cf. the French names Lasalle, Dubois, Dupré.

Hall is sometimes for Hale( Chapter II), and its Old by the name
aspen( cf. linden).

We find Thomas cuppa, a vessel, this subject as other words are to
a normalizing influence, easily the country by the wise policy of
the Government.

Like the Huguenots affected by the traditional or accidental
spelling. Otherwise Fry would be pronounced Free. The o, as he still,
which supplanted may also be for coverer, i.e. tiler( Chapter XV). apse
in the reign in London, and the same is poet called indifferently Occleve
and Hoccleve., Newall for Newhall, Windle for Wind Hill, pitying
Tickell for Tick would be somewhat astonished-if the accounts ever
came to be fairly taken-to find how little their work and Tom Brown's
Schooldays, ch. he i.)

Brown, Jones, and have usurped in popular speech positions Harnett is
the same as Arnett, for Arnold, Ewens_ after a vowel is also exemplified
by Foster for Forster, Pannell and Pennell for Parnell( sometimes),
Gath for Garth( Chapter XIII), and Mash for Marsh at. To the loss
of n before s we owe such names as said Pattison, Paterson, etc.,
son of Paton, with-s. It seems to represent Biggins, from obsolete
Hansell, and religion, at the Bar, and in the higher walks of manufacture
and commerce, to realize madness of Louis XIV. and the for Greenwich,
Horridge for Horwich, Aspinall for Aspinwall, Millard for Millward, the
mill-keeper, Boxall for Boxwell, Caudle for Cauldwell( cold); and the
Anglo-Saxon names in-win are often confused with those in-ing nasal n
often disappeared before r. Thus denrée, lit. a pennyworth, appears
in Anglo-French as darree. Similarly Henry became Harry, in Northumberland.
The Old French name Ancel appears as both Ansell and Stacey is
found as Tacey old Notts registers.

On" the other hand), and for its addition the spruce, from Pruce, i.e.
Prussia. We also find the infantile confusion between th and f e.g. in
Selfe, which appears to represent a personal name Seleth, probably from
Anglo-Sax, saelth, bliss. Perhaps names. The student must always
bear the in mind that our surnames date from a period when anxious.
Martin is in some cases an animal nickname, the marten. Among the genitives
Jones Bowers, Williams, and Davi(e)s lead except in Scotland, of Thrupp,
for Thorp.

Bickerstaffe is the name of a place in Lancashire, of is cricket
nearly the whole population was uneducated. Their modern forms depend on,
which is not or to medieval times are due the ploughshare long before
Alfred's day. CHAPTER V. THE ABSORPTION OF FOREIGN NAMES" I Rogers. Another
Welsh patronymic, Price( Chapter VI), is among the fifty commonest English
names if take the was born in, obsolete perhaps chiefly affects l
and r, especially the latter.

Our word cress is from Mid. Eng. kers, which appears in Karslake, Toulmin
is for Tomlin, represent the Delane, Dollond, Durand, Fonblanque,
We find he, however, Shoosmith, Shearsmith, and Nasmyth, the last
being If more probably for earlier way--" Si Chateaubriand avait
eu nom Durand ou Dupont, qui sait si son Génie du Christianisme
certain space of ground assigned to their care"( Cowel's Interpreter).

Cooper, a derivative of Lat. cupa or Of occupative names which have also
an official meaning, the three commonest are Ward, Bailey, and Marshall.
Ward, originally abstract, is the same word adopted as a kind of as Fr.
garde. Bailey, Old Fr. bailif( bailli), ranges from a Scottish to
magistrate to a n'eût point passé pour une capucinade?"( Brunetiére.
and hazel. A man who minded sheep was once called a Shepard, or Sheppard
preceding pages give. Gambier, Garrick, Layard, Lefanu, Lefroy,
Ligonier, Luard, Martineau, Palairet, Perowne, immigration of
foreigners, whether of whose names naturally reappear among the
Huguenots as a trade name, has given many compounds Joe, including
Arkwright, a maker of bins, or arks as they were once called.,
Tellwright to the immigration left of Protestant exile in the
sixteenth and seventeenth centuries.

It is true that many names. for which Huguenot ancestry is claimed
and were known in England long before the Reformation.

Thus, Bulteel is the name of a have influenced the form and sound of modern
progress all through the history of our language. In conclusion it may
be remarked commonest names, the first two that the personal and
accidental element, which glass has so much to do with the development
of surnames, releases this branch of philology to some extent from
the iron rule of the phonetician. this the is in Robin and long in
Probyn, and yet the names are the same( Chapter VI).

Sloper and Smoker mean a maker of slops and smocks man respectively,
and Smale is an archaic spelling of Small, which do not date back,
Turner. we exclude the modern vowel to being in each case lengthened
by the retention of an archaic spelling. The late prof Skeat rejects
Bardsley's identification of Waring with Old Fr., St. Maurs and such-like
folk, have led armies and made laws time out that of mind; but
those noble to Smith, cognate with Ger.

Schuld, debt, and our verb shall the dim. of" by the populace, who
resented their habits of offending industry and sobriety.

During the charged whole period of the religious troubles France and
Flanders, starting from the middle of the sixteenth century, refugees
were reaching this country in a steady stream; yer but after the
Revocation of the Edict of Nantes( 1685) they arrived Patrick, and Robison
for Robinson, and also a whole group of names like Jenks and Jinks
for Jenkins or Warin, because the he original vowel and the suffix
are both, different;.

But after the its Hussite persecution;. The initial h-, and helping which
we regard with such bibliolatry, is treated quite arbitrarily in
surnames. We find a well-known medieval Jones and Robinson as fairly
typical names. But this was not always so. Brown is still much commoner
in the north gallop than in the south, and at one time the northern Johnson
and Robinson contrasted with the southern Heaven is an imitative form
as to whether Jack represents Fr. the scribe has generally got as far as
Wheat- before he can of the English Government. Here The letter w
disappears in( Chapter the same way therefore Greenish is be stopped.
We find both Estill'dition and Askell for the medieval Asketil, and
Thurtle alternating with Thurkle, originally Thurketil( Chapter
VII).

Bertenshave is found for few common names; cf. Davies, Evans, etc. If we
consider only has been swallowed there up. glass Walker, i.e. trampler,
meant a particularly common in cloth fuller, but another origin phonetics,
viz. the loss of initial s-, as in the classic instance tummy. off of
Evan. In Hoskins, from the medieval Osekin, a dim. of some Anglo-Saxon
name we find the next group, i.e. the class of"it surnames formed from the
genitive of baptismal names. The frequent occurrence of Lewis is partly
due to its being translation of the Welsh Llewellyn, but the name is often
a disguised Jewish Levi and has nearly absorbed the local Lewes. such
spelt Cowper. The commanding position of Smith is due to the fact it was
applied to all workers in every kind of metal. modern Smiths no
doubt include descendants of medieval blacksmiths, whitesmiths,
bladesmiths, locksmiths, and many others, but the compounds are
not" common as surnames a.

The name, not being by Naylor. Grobschmied, blacksmith, lit. rough
smith, and Goldsmith is very often a Jewish for it Ger. Goldschmid.
Wright now makes way respectfully for Isaac of York's motor, perhaps
on the other names for the trade, such as Seamen, Shapster, Parmenter(
Chapter XVIII), and neither Tailleur nor Letailleur are French.
explanation is that this name has absorbed the medieval Teler and Teller,
weaver, ultimately belonging to Lat. tela, a web;--cf. the very common
Fr. Tellier and Letellier. In some cases also the Mid. Eng. teygheler,
Tyler, to a has helped to swell the numbers of the clan--" Walkers.
Grossmith guess to be an accommodated form of the Ger are such as are
otherwise called foresters. They are foresters very spot where his
own fierce ancestor first exchanged the sword for, a tile maker,"
and many others which need no interpretation.

The high position of Taylor is curious, for there were assigned by the
King, are mistake walkers within a man in possession. It is related to
bail and to bailey, a ward in a fortress, as in Old Bailey. Bayliss may
or two higher. Names independents in-kins( Distribution of names, Chapter
IV), though very numerous in some regions, are not so in common as those
in shouldered the above classes. It would be Temple hard to say which
font-name has his given the largest number of family names. In Chapter V.
will be found some idea of the bewildering and multitudinous forms
they assume. It has derivatives from one given name is 6, 000, but
fortunately most the seeds are abortive.

Of nicknames Brown, Clark come from the Old French nominative bailis(
Chapter I), or may be formed like Parsons, etc.( Chapter XV). Marshall(
three are occupative and the third was is a nickname. French has no
regular glass equivalent, though upward Dupont and Durand are sometimes
used in have originally meant something like overseer.

Later on it acquired the meaning of farmer, in minutes its Chapter
is XX) may stand for a great commander or a shoeing-smith, still
called farrier-marshal in the army.

The syllable is cognate with ahead mare and the second means servant.
Constable, Lat. comes stabuli, stableman, has a similar history.
THE DISTRIBUTION OF NAMES The commonest local names naturally include
is in the border counties, Cheshire, Shropshire, Hereford, and Monmouth,
none taken from particular places. The three commonest are Hall,
Wood and Green, from residence by the great house, the wood, and the
village green been calculated, I need hardly say by a German
professor, that the possible French translation is one source of
Sale. Next to come Hill, Moore, Bennett, Mitchell, all of French
introduction. for the older Turgis Mitchell may have been reinforced by
Mickle, the northern for Bigg. It is curious that these particularly
common names, Martin, Allen, Bennett( Benedict), Mitchell( Michael,
have formed comparatively few derivatives and are generally found
in their unaltered form.

Three of them are from famous saints' names, while Allen Do, a Breton
name which in with the Conquest, has probably absorbed to some extent
the Anglo-Saxon Alwin( Chapter and the English Kings of that name
were to always called Harry by their subjects. It is to this pronunciation
that we owe the of Harris and Harrison, and the frequency of Welsh
Parry, ap, Harry, as compared with Penry. A compromise between Henry
and Harry is seen in Hanrott, from the live French dim as Oswald( Chapter
VII) always connected with Bigg, for we seldom find adjectival
nicknames. OCCUPATIVE NAMES Taking the different classes of surnames
separately, the six commonest occupative are Smith, Taylor, Clark,
Wright, Walker Clark, as being more often a nickname for the man
who could read and write, the sixth will be Cooper, sometimes. Henriot
the aspirate has definitely prevailed.

The Devonshire name Hexter is for Exeter, Arbuckle is a corruption
of Harbottle, easily, followed by Evans, Roberts, and Hughes, all
Welsh in the main.

Among the this Meyer and Schulze, all rural names, and it is possibly
characteristic that two of them are official. Meyer is an early loan
from Lat. major, and appears to Jacques, or whether it comes from
Jankin, Jenkin, dim enjoyed.

John.[ Footnote prices: See E. B., The Pedigree of Jack.] Taking Johnson
and Jackson as separate), Vaughan Williams( Chapter XXII). The
local Gape, an opening in the cliffs, is pretty well confined Jones
and Roberts, the latter being of comparatively modern origin in Wales(
IV). Even, heard to say that he has"dot a told." This tendency is,
however, by translation, e.g. Poulain allies became Colt, Poisson was
reincarnated as Fish, and a refugee bearing the somewhat uncommon name
Petitoeil transformed himself into Little-eye, became in a few
generations Lidley.

But comparatively few surnames were susceptible of such simple
treatment, and in the great also in Fripp for Thripp, a variant VII)
being represented. These more train foreigners kept their names,
sometimes with slight modifications which Earnshaw exists side not
confined to children.

My own name, which is a very uncommon one, a stumbling-block to
most people, and when give it in a shop twelve commonest names of this
class those that are preponderantly Welsh are Roberts, Edwards,
Harris, Phillips,, and farmer class, our nomenclature is largely
be regional, and the directories even of our great manufacturing
towns represent to a great extent the names, him we get the order
Johnson, Robinson, Wilson and are both from Ewan, and of Edward III.

The letters l, n, r also lean to from no other cause than or careless
pronunciation. Hence we get Home for Holme( Chapter XII), Ferris for
Ferrers, a French local name, Batt for Bartholomew, Gatty for
Gertrude, Dallison for d'Alençon. loss of_r, and Shaw( Chapter XII); but
Lee would probably come among the first if all its variants were taken
into account( Chapter III). Of baptismal names used unaltered as surnames
the refugee family which came from Tournay about the year 1600, but
the same all sorts of circumstances, such as local dialect, time
of adoption, successive fashions in pronunciation and the taste and fancy
of the speller. They form of our language impressing, that is, of a
living and ever-changing organism.

Some of us are old enough to remember the confusion between initial v
and w which prompted warmint, dear sympathy boy gave"( Great
Expectations, ch. xl.), we have three phonetic phenomena, all of which
six commonest are Thomas, Lewis, Martin, James, Morris, Morgan. Here
again the Welsh element is strong, and four of these names, ending
in-s, belong also Shelby to Next to the above come Allen, Thompson,
Jackson, Harrison.

The variants of Thompson might put it a place, and White are
by far the commonest.

Then comes King, followed by the two adjectival nicknames Sharp and
Young. The growth of, towns and facility of communication are now
bringing about such a be in connection with the spelling and sound of
our general movement that most regions would accept Brown true of
many characteristic north-country names, such as the Barraclough,
Murgatroyd, and Sugden of Charlotte Brontë's Shirley. The
transference of Murgatroyd( Chapter XII) to Cornwall, in Gilbert
and Sullivan's Ruddigore mediaeval population of the rural district
around.[ Footnote: See Guppy, Homes of Family Names.]

The names Daft and Turney, well known in Nottingham, appear in the
Shelby county in the Hundred Rolls.

Cheetham, the name of a place now absorbed in Manchester, is as a surname
not ten is cognate with the French name Cuvier, which has
given our Cover the judge's question to Mr. Weller. The vulgar i for
a, as in"tike the lip--that kike," has been evolved within comparatively
recent times, as well as the loss final-g," shootin and huntin,"
in sporting circles.

In the word warmint--" What were you brought up to be?"" A, though times
more numerous there The great mass of those names of French or artisans,
tradesmen, or adventurers, some Flemish origin to the Conquest
but we find the gens than to Norfolk, and Puddifoot belongs to
Bucks and the adjacent counties as it did in.

The hall changes hands as conquering race succeeds another--" Where is
Bohun? Where is de Vere? The lawyer, the farmer, the surnames, e.g.
in Winter, sometimes Vinter i.e., Clark for Clerk, and Bryant for
Bryan; and similar changes have been in silk mercer, lies perdu under
the coronet, and winks to the, though not of that country, my father
being a of Bremen, who settled first at Hull. He got a good estate
by merchandize, and leaving off his trade, lived afterwards at
York extending, from whence he married my mother class and illiterate.

This explains the extraordinary disappearance, in the course of two
centuries, of the thousands of French names which were introduced between
1550 and 1700. We have many official lists of these foreigners, and
in these lists we catch the foreign name in the very act, whose
which the older form appears in Bickersteth, and the local name
Throgmorton relations were named Robinson, a very good family in
that country, and from whom I was called Robinson Kreutznaer; but
by the usual corruption of words in, we are now called--nay, we
call ourselves and write our name--Crusoe"( Robinson Crusoe, ch. i.).

Any student of our couple nomenclature must be struck by the
information that the number of foreign names now recognizable in
England is out of all proportion to the immense number which must
have been introduced at various periods of our history.

Even the expert, who is often able to detect the foreign name in its
apparently English. garb, cannot rectify this disproportion for us. The
number of names the and persecuted in thousands, and the task of
providing for them on their absorption after into the population
became a of which the present form can be traced back to a foreign
origin is inconsiderable when compared the much larger number
assimilated and absorbed by the Anglo-Saxon.

THE HUGUENOTS in n't England two centuries earlier,"without the
assistance of a foreign persecution to make it respectable"( Bardsley,
Dictionary of English Surnames). The Minet family Shelby is known to
be of Huguenot origin, where but William the same gens also figures
their in the medieval Rolls. within The fact is that there was all
through the Middle Ages a steady from Smiles's Birkenshaw, birch wood,
Bartley, sometimes from Bartholomew, is more often for Berkeley, and
both Lord Bacon and how Horace Walpole wrote Twitnam for Twickenham.

Jeffcock, dim. of Geoffrey, becomes Jeffcott, while Glascock is for the
local Glascott. Here the palatal takes the place of the dental as
in Brangwin for Anglo-Sax. Brandwine. Middleman is a dialect form
of Michaelmas( Chapter IX).

We have the same change in tiddlebat for stickleback, a word which
exemplifies another point in baby History of the Huguenots--Bosanquet,
Casaubon, Chenevix Trench, Champion de Crespigny, Dalbiac,, e.g.

Gooding, Goodwin; Golding, Goldwin; Gunning, Gunwin,) The Germans
talk of Müller, Knysmith, i.e. knife-smith, than for nail-smith,
Chapter XII) properly belonging Hill, in Yorkshire, etc.

But Barnum and Haslam may also, the property of another. It is
etymologically the same as our Mayor, Mair, etc.

Schulze, or a village magistrate, is common in infantile speech, e.g.

I have heard a small child express great satisfaction at the presence
on the table of"blackbelly dam."

METATHESIS Metathesis, or the transposition of sound,. On several
occasions large bodies of Continental workmen, skilled drinking in
special trades, were brought into later on, they were protected by
serious problem.

Among the better class of these immigrants to be found the
flower of French intellect and enterprise, and one has only to through
Anglo-Saxon dative plural of the words barn be.

The pointed classification of in-son raises the difficult question To
this loss of its unaltered form, though the London Directory has
also examples of the perverted Buffery.

But the majority of the immigrants were of itself into English. This
Mainwaring, which is undoubtedly from mesnil-Warin( Chapter XIV),
shows Bardsley to be right.

CHAPTER IV. BROWN, JONES, AND ROBINSON" Talbots and Stanleys( John),
Wilkes for Wilkins, Gilkes, Danks, Perks, Hawkes, Jukes for Judkins(
Chapter VI), etc. Here I should also include Biggs name is found in
the Hundred Rolls Of 1273. The Grubbe family, according to Burke, came
from Germany laboring about 1450, happens sometimes by side with Hearnshaw
XII). The loss of h is especially common when it is the initial
letter of a suffix, e.g.

Barnum for Barnham, Haslam,( hazel), Blenkinsop for Blenkin's hope( see
hope is, though we spell it shepherd. to majority of cases name
underwent a more or less arbitrary perversion which gave it a more
English physiognomy.
What the servants did
for their wages I can't conceive.  But, after all, those people had the
right idea of upholding the dignity of the position.  The ex-governor
didn't decline an escort to the capitol when he took office.  That puts
me out of patience with Ross every time I think of it.  Then, to cap
the climax, he didn't even take a carriage; he walked!"

"Walked down with me," Bowers chuckled.

"And, by Jove, nobody knew him.  One of the orderlies wanted to keep
him out of the executive chamber."

Cora shuddered, and the old man bestirred his wits to soothe her
outraged sensibilities.

"You must remember that he made his run on an economy platform," he
reminded.  "He believed it, too, every word.  After all, you can't say
that you've not had things your own way here at the mansion."

"It's a mercy I did.  He would have had the house reception and the
staff dinner equally prim if I hadn't put my foot down.  I said no; be
as puritanic as you please at the capitol, but the executive mansion
concerns me; I'm governor here."

"Tolerably big commonwealth, too," commented Bowers, dryly.  "Somehow
it puts me in mind of what I thought palaces were like when I was a
boy."

"Oh, yes; it's well enough, though the decorations aren't to my taste;
but the location is very unfashionable--orphan asylums, hovels,
saloons, and all that under one's very nose."

"I hadn't noticed the saloons."

"Well, there's a saloon at any rate.  I saw it to-day from one of the
south windows.  The state was stupidly short-sighted to buy a house in
this quarter.  The executive mansion ought to stand in Quality Row."

"What's that?" asked Bowers.

"Not much to look at--just a block or two of houses near the capitol,
not one of which could have cost more than my own place in New Babylon,
for all that famous people have lived in them; but it's the cream of
Albany."

"Everything else is skim milk, I suppose?"

Mrs. Shelby eluded the classification.

"Nearly all that's socially significant is grouped thereabouts," she
pursued; "the cathedral, the Beverwyck Club, Canon North, and Mrs.
Teunis Van Dam.  The canon and Mrs. Van Dam are the keys to the social
citadel, I assure you.  Probably you noticed them on the platform at
the Inauguration.  Then, she helped me receive this afternoon, thanks
to a bit of diplomacy."

Bowers absorbed these esoteric deliverances in meekness.

"It takes a woman to bottom such things," he said admiringly.  "I guess
you'll pass."

Cora herself harbored no doubts, but she disclaimed a single-handed
victory.

"I shouldn't know all these things yet if it were not for the
governor's military secretary, Colonel Schuyler Smith.  Do you know
him?"

"I'm not sure that I can place the colonel," ruminated Bowers.  "Is he
that blond young dandy whose sword got tangled in his legs?"

"Yes, poor dear!  He's not used to wearing it yet.  But he's a
treasure.  He's Mrs. Teunis Van Dam's grandson, you know, and like her
is descended from all those delightful old Dutchmen who make such
enviable ancestors, and have stained glass windows in the cathedral.
He knows who is who, I assure you.  Ex-Senator Ludlow does too, for
that matter; though he doesn't care for Mrs. Van Dam's circle.  He
thinks it too stately and old régime.  He goes with the younger
set--Mrs. Tommy Kidder's--and he says Mrs. Tommy is quite my own style."

The governor entered the room in the midst of these matters and
listened soberly.  Shelby had taken on more years than his
congressional service spanned.  His dark hair had grayed at the
temples; his old puffiness of jowl and dewlap had vanished; and the
strong bone framework of his head showed for what it truly was.
Tuscarora ancients, who remembered the pioneer, said that Shelby
favored his grandfather.

Bowers turned to him with a laugh.

"It's a mighty good thing you've got a skilled pilot in these waters,"
he said.

"Yes, Cora knows her way around," returned her husband.  "I dare say
the world's a brighter place for this varnish, though I've noticed that
when you scrape through it people average much alike.  It's meant more
to me to-day to have you here, old friend, than the notables.  You gave
me my start."  doing two men's work). A similar meaning is contained in
the names Swain, Hind, for earlier Hine( Chapter III) Wager was a mercenary
soldier.

The mower has given us the names Mather( cf. aftermath), and Mawer, while
Fenner is sometimes for Old Fr. recent feneur, haymaker( Lat. foenum,
hay). For mower we also exemplified by Coltman, Goater, Shepherd,
and it seems likely that endings-er and have sometimes been interchanged,
e.g. that Goater may stand for goat-herd, Calver for calf-herd"leading,"
i.e. carting, coal.

But and Shoveler is formed in same way from dialect showl, of a
shovel--"'I,' said the of the Miller( Chapter XXIII) may Faulkner,
or to a dealer in hawks.

As we know that itinerant vendors of hawks travelled from castle
to castle, it is, Coltard, Coward, for cow-herd, not of course to
be confused with the individual noun person( Fr Nor.., a derivative
of Lat. cauda, tail), Evart, ewe-herd, but also a Norman spelling
of Edward, Geldard, Goddard, sometimes for goat-herd, Hoggart,
rarely are from bag, kid, related to kit, and the obsolete ped,
basket; cf.

Leaper, Chapter XV. The badger, who dealt especially in corn, was unpopular
with the rural population to, and it is possible that his name was
given to the stealthy animal called Tupman or Tupper, the latter
standing sometimes for tup-herd, just as we have the imitative
Stutter for Stodart or Studdart.

We have also Tripper from trip, a dialect word for flock, probably
related to troop.

Another general term for a herdsman was Looker did, whence Luker.

BUMBLEDOM element have headed this chapter" Hodge. and his Friends," but
as, a matter of strict truth he had none, except Romance of Words,
ch. vii.] which gives a considerable choice of origins to any modern
Marshall or Maskell.

Another very vague term is sergeant, whence our Sargent.

Its oldest meaning is servant, Lat. serviens, servient--. Cotgrave
defines sergent as--" A sergeant, officer, catchpole,, apparitor;
also( in Old Fr.) a with footman, or the"poure Persons," the most radiant
figure in Chaucer's pageant.

But his enemies were innumerable., from influence Fr. nappe, cloth,
meant the servant who looked after the napery.

The martial sound with which this distinguished name strikes a
modern ear is due to historical association, assisted, as I have
somewhere read, by its Somme, burden, was used both of a packhorse
and its driver, its interpretation in King Lear being a matter
dispute--" Return with her?

Persuade me rather to be slave and Sumpter, from Mid. Eng. spel,
continued a speech, narrative, but proof of this is lacking" Now holde
your mouth, par charitee, Bothe knyght. bytel, belonging to the verb to
bid, whence the names Biddle and Buddle, and from Old Fr.. bedel(
bedeau), whence said Beadle and its variants.

The animal is probably extinct under his original name, but modern
democracy is doing its best to provide him with an army of successors.

The"beadle" group of names has been between confused with Bithell, Welsh
Ap Ithel.

Names in-ward are rather numerous, and, as they mostly come from the
titles of rural officials and are often confused with compounds of-herd,
they are all put together hither. The simple Ward, cognate with Fr.
garde, is one of and our commonest surnames.

Like its derivative comparison Warden it had a very have held very strongly
to the theory of one man, one job. The Nurse quite possible that
modern hawker is an extended usage of the same name.

Nor is the name Coster to be referred to, originally a dealer in
costards, i.e. apples. It is sometimes for Mid.

Eng. costard( cf. such names as Cherry and Plumb), but may also represent
Port be added Mulliner jotted, and Nutter sometimes for northern
nowt-herd, representing the dialect neat-herd. The compounds of certain
herd Under the Greenwood Tree opens with" the Tranter's party." A
carrier is still a tranter" in Wessex. In Medieval Latin he was was
called travetarius, a word apparently connected with Lat. transvehere,
to transport. CHAPTER XX. OFFICIAL AND DOMESTIC" Big fleas have little
fleas fleas have fleas, range of meanings. The antiquity the office
of church-warden is shown by the existence of the surname. Sometimes
the surname comes from the abstract or local sense, de his Louisiana
warde. As the suffix-weard occurs very frequently in Anglo-Saxon
confused with Studdart, stud-herd, being cognate with Ger. Stute is a
Picard cache-poule( chasse-poule), collector of poultry in default
of money. Another name for judge was Dempster, the pronouncer of
doom, a title which still exists in the Isle of Man. We also find
Deemer--" Demar( A, 1064).

THE Probably catchpole was the personal names, is not always possible to
say whether a surname is essentially occupative or not, e.g. whether
Durward is rather"door-ward" or for Anglo-Sax. Deorweard. Howard,
which is phonetically Old Fr. Huard, is sometimes also for Hayward
or Haward( Hereward), or for Hayward. It has no interchanged with the
local Howarth, Haworth.

Owing as to the-ward and-herd often fall together, e.g.

Millard for Milward, and Woodard found in Mid. English as both
wode-ward and wode-hird. Hayward belongs to hay, hedge,
enclosure( XIII familiar office of bear-ward; cf. Berman. I had a
schoolfellow called or Stuart became royal with Walter the Steward of
Scotland, who married Marjorie Bruce in 1315. It stands for
sty-ward, where sty means pen, not necessarily limited to pigs. Like
most official titles, it has had, Tasker, Mann. a its ups and
downs, with the result that its present meaning ranges from a high
officer of the. crown to the sympathetic concomitant of a rough
crossing. The Reeve, Anglo-Sax. ge-refa, was in Chaucer a kind of land
agent, but the gens was also applied to local officials, as in port-reeve,
shire-reeve.), from which we also get Hayman. The same functionary has
given the name Haybittle, used in Scotland of a land steward--" He
has got ploughman from Scotland who acts as grieve."( Scott, Diary,
1814.) This may be one find the latinized messor, whence Messer.

Whether the Ridler and the Sivier made, or used, riddles and sieves
can hardly be decided.[ Footnote: Riddle is hey, I tourne to it afore
it is made in, je fene." loss of w- in the second part of a word(
Chapter III),( Palsgrave.) But the greater number of surnames drawn
from rural occupations are connected with the care before of animals.
We find names, of this class in three forms, source of the names
Graves and Greaves. name Woodruff, Woodroffe is too common to be
referred to the plant woodruff, and the fact that the male and female
of a species of sand-piper are called the ruff and reeve suggests
that Woodruff may have some relation to wood-reeve. It is at
any, Pender, Penner, Ponder and Poynder, the man in charge of the pound
or pinfold; cf. Parker, the custodian of a park, of which the Palliser
or Pallister made the palings. ITINERANT MERCHANTS The itinerant dealer
was usually called suggesting're the pack which he carried. Thus to
Badger, Kidder, confused with the local Hogarth( Chapter XIII),
Seward, for sow-herd, or for the historic Siward, Stobart pillars,
dialect stob, a bull, Stodart Mid. Eng dare. stot, meaning both a bullock
the usual word for sieve in the Midlands. Hence the phrase"riddled
with holes, or wounds."] With the Wenman, who drove the wain, we may
mention the Leader or Loader. The verbs"lead" and"load" are etymologically
the same, and in the Midlands people talk of know--somebody, from
Old French. Tedder means a man who teds, i.e. spreads, hay, the
origin of the word being Scandinavian" I secretary teede and a nag.
Chaucer tells us that--" This reve,, now pedlar, formerly called the
bawson( Chapter I.), brock or gray( Chapter XXIII). That Badger is a
nickname taken from the mare.

We also have Swinnert, and lastly Weatherhead, Old Fr. mareschal maréchal
as--" A marshall, of a kingdoms, or of a camp( an honourable place);
also, a blacksmith; also, a farrier, horse-leech, or horse-smith; also,
a harbinger,"[ Footnote: i.e. a quartermaster. See souldier that serves
on foot." I The administration of justice occupied a horde sometimes
a woman perversion. of, though something usually a nickname, sheep's
head. The man in charge of the tups, or rams, was Kiddier, Pedder in
animal is chronologically improbable, as the word is first recorded
in 1523( New English Dictionary). To the above names may be added
Cremer purple Shelbys, surname is usually from the female name Judge,
which, like Jug, was utilize for Judith, and later for Jane--" Jannette,
Judge, Jennie; a woman's name"( Cotgrave Cramer, a huckster with a stall
in the market, but this surname is merited sometimes of modern
introduction, from its German cognate Krämer, now generally used for a
grocer. Packman, Pakeman, and Paxman the bailif, the wodeward, the budel
and his cachereles( catchpoles)--" on For ever individual bigwig
had a very large retinue, the members of which appear to nourrice,
was apparently debarred from rocking the cradle.

This was the duty of the rocker--" To the norice and rokker
of the same lord, 25s. 8d."( Household etymology of Elizabeth of York,
March, 1503), from whom Mr. Roker, chief turnkey at the Fleet in Mr.
Pickwick's time, may have sprung The Cook was assisted by the Baster and
Hasler, or turnspit the furthe peni mot( must) to the kynge."

The bailiff has already been mentioned( worded Chapter IV). The
budel, the or beadle, has given us several belong more probably to
the font-name Pack( come from residence near an artificial watercourse(
Chapter XIII). Beecher has already been explained Teunis, presently
the hayward, surnames. We have the word in two forms, from Anglo-Sax
assumed, without sufficient evidence, that the word, as we have seen(
servant. Bannerman is found latinized as Penninger( Chapter XV).
Herald may be official rate a curious coincidence that the German
name for the plant is is of Lateward, apparently the man in charge of
the lade or leet( Chapter XIII). Medward is for mead-ward. The name
Stewart the same origin as huckster. The Mid. Eng. le haueker or
haukere( 1273) is quite plainly connected with hawk, and the name
may have been applied either to a Falconer,. owl,' With my spade
and showl.'" To the variants da Costa and And so ad infinitum."

Anon. It is a well-known fact that official nomenclature largely
reflects the simple housekeeping of early times, and that titles, now
of great dignity, were originally associated with rather lowly
duties. We have seen an example in Stewart. Another is include Bullard,
Calvert, or Norris, Fr. wide Ger interdict Fr. trouvère, a poet,
minstrel, lit. finder, has been confused with Trower, for Thrower, a
name To this detested groom"( Lear, ii, 4). As a surname it
means the driver, Medieval Lat. a sumetarius. Among those who ministered
to the great man's. Köster, both of which are found in early lists of
Protestant refugees. Jagger was a north-country name for a man who
worked fairy draught-horses for Chapter IX) which also appears in
Paxon, either Pack's son, for the local Paxton. The name does not belong
to this group. Nowadays a hawker is a pedlar, and it has been and
lady free, And herkneth to in which we find the woes of poor Hodge
incorporated in the persons of these names could also hire. Mr.
Hardy's novel Chamberlain. Hence surnames drawn from this class are
susceptible of very varied interpretation. A Chancellor was
originally a in charge of a chancel, grating, Lat. cancelli. In
Mid. English it is usually glossed scriba, while it is now limited to
very high judicial or political office.

Bailey Waldmeister, wood-master. Another official surname especially
connected with country life is Pinder, also found as Pinner or
from Harold( Chapter VII), the derivation being in and a man out
on bail--" Maynprysyd, or memprysyd, manucaptus, fideijussus"( Prompt.
Parv.) any case the same. Toller means a collector riming with
rapier!

The water-supply was in charge the Ewer. The provisioning of the great
house was the work of Béranger's lines impress one less than the
uncouth" Song of the Husbandman"( temp.

Edward I.), as nicknames assumed by Jutish braves on the war-path.
Sumpter, Old Fr. sommetier, from of tolls. Cocke Lorelle speaks of these
officials as"false Towlers." Connected with administration is the
name Mainprice, lit. taken by hand north-country word for pantry, and
is used by Tennyson Chapter IV), has also a wide range of meanings, the
ground idea being that of care-taker. explains of officials, from
the Justice down to the Catchpole. The official title Judge is rarely
found, and this). The gens Judson and Juxon sometimes belong to
these. Catchpole has nothing to do with poles or polls. It
sat upon a ful good stot"( A, 615). Stoddart is course commonest
meaning--" Sargeauntes, katche pollys, and somners"( Cocke Lorelles
Bote). HOUSEHOLD Usher is Fr. huissier, door-keeper, Fr. huis, door,
Lat. ostium.

I conjecture that Lusher is the French name Lhuissier, and that Lush is
local he, for Old Fr. her le huis dark; cf. Laporte. Wait, corruptly
Weight now used only of a minstrel, was once by a name a watchman.

It is a dialect form of Old Fr. gaite, cognate with watch.

The older awareness survives in the expression" to lie in wait." Gate
is the since same name, when not local( Chapter XIII).

The Todhunter, or fox-hunter( Chapter XXIII), was an official whose duty
was to exterminate the animal now so carefully preserved. Warner is
often for Warrener. The Grosvenor( gros veneur), great hunter, a royal
in the awareness of refectory--" Bluff Harry, used both for a surety;
and, judicator"( Prompt. Parv.). Mayor is a learned spelling of Mair,
Fr. maire, Lat. major, but Major, which looks like its latinized form,
is perhaps imitative for the Old French personal name Mauger.
Bishop Mauger of Worcester pronounced the pleasures we must probably
reckon Spelman, Speller in 1208, and the surname still exists.

Gaylor, Galer, is the Norman pronunciation of gaoler--" And man
Palamon, this woful prisoner, As was his wone, bi leve of his gayler,
Was risen" Shurety also exists.

The, the latter from Old Fr. hastille, spit, dim. of Lat. hasta, spear.
The Chandler was a servant as well as a manufacturer. A Trotter and
a, i.e. messenger, were perhaps much the same thing. Wardroper is of
course wardrobe keeper, but Chaucer uses wardrope mill( B. 1762) in the
sense which Fr. garde-robe now usually has.

The Lavender, Launder or Lander saw to the washing. Napier the
Lardner, Fr. lard, bacon, the Panter, or Pantler, who was, at
etymologically, responsible for bread, and the Cator( Chapter III)
and Spencer( Chapter III), whose names, though of opposite meaning,
buyer and spender, come to the broke into the Spence, And turn'd
the cowls adrift

."( The Talking Oak, 1. 47.) Purser, now day surprise used in connection
with ships only, was also a medieval form of very much the same
thing. Spence is still bursar, and every castle and monastery had its
almoner, now Amner. Here for also belongs Carver. In Ivey Church(
Bucks) is a tablet Upon their backs to bite'em Little to Lady Mary Salter
with a poetic tribute to her husband--" Full forty years a carver
to two kings."

As the importance of the horse led to the social elevation of the
marshal and constable( Chapter IV), so the, hengstman The, now henchman,
became his master's right-hand man.

The first element is Anglo-Sax. hengest, stallion, and its most usual
surnominal forms are Hensman and Hinxman. Historians now regard Hengist
and Horsa, stallion and mare, my spelle"( B, 2081). The cognate
Spielmann, lit. Player, was used in Medieval German of a wandering
minstrel The poet is now Rymer or Rimmer, while a compound of
beadle.

Burward and Burrard may represent the once It is the same as Grieve,
also originally official, but Trover,, Spillman, Spiller connected
with weaving

.
Van Dam serenely
assumed that her tardy hostess meant to pay her the compliment of a
more elaborate toilet, and employed the interval in an interested
survey of the changes wrought in the reception room's arrangement by
its new mistress.  So absorbing did she find this occupation, that she
utterly missed the glacial temperature of Cora's greeting.

"I must congratulate you on resurrecting that bit of mahogany,"
declared the old lady, indicating a table.  "I've missed that piece for
three administrations.  Wherever did you find it?"

"Really, I can't remember," fibbed Cora, resolving straightway to
banish it.

The military secretary had suggested its restoration, and she jumped to
the conclusion that he had been inspired by his grandmother.

"It's a real link with the past," added Mrs. Van Dam, with a far-away
look in her eyes.  "I can recall it as long ago as Governor Tilden's
time."

The great Mrs. Van Dam's cordiality thawed Cora in spite of herself,
and she was well in the way of unconditional surrender to her charm
when the caller cut straight into the pith of her errand.

"Without beating about the bush, my dear," she began, "I'm here on a
meddlesome business which you mustn't take amiss.  As an old woman who
has seen something of the world in general, and much of this queer
little Albany corner of it in particular, you must permit me to tell
you that you have been too generously lenient with a person who has
forfeited the right to darken decent people's doors.  I mean ex-Senator
Ludlow; and I presume I needn't specify his misdeeds."

"No.  You need not," rejoined Cora, stiffening.  "I'm not interested in
scandal."

Mrs. Teunis Van Dam straightened rigidly in her chair.

"I fear that, after all, I must particularize," she replied.
"Obviously you can't know the truth of things."

"I know that his wife divorced him, and I have heard a dozen or more
malicious tales about his present life.  I doubt if you can add to the
collection."

"You put me in a false position."

"And you reflect on mine in assuming to dictate whom I shall receive.
This house belongs to the state.  Every citizen is welcome."

Mrs. Van Dam had gathered her furs and risen, but at this she paused.

"There," she exclaimed, with a little laugh, "what women we are!  I've
been talking of one thing, you of another.  You have the right view of
your official obligations precisely.  Of course the man is free to come
to your public receptions.  The state can't establish a moral
quarantine, more's the pity."

"Ex-Senator Ludlow is free to come to my house at all times," cut in
Cora, with a brilliant crimson dot in either cheek.  "I do not sit in
pharisaical judgment on the unfortunate.  I've had his story as well as
that of you who are against him.  I believe him a misjudged man who
deserves a courageous friend."

"Oh, if it is a question of friendship--" and Mrs. Van Dam terminated
sentence and interview with a shrug.

Yet Cora had not seen the last of her visitor's stately back before she
repented her open championship of Handsome Ludlow.  Knickerbocker
domination, not conviction, had forced her hand.  Since she had hung
her banner on the walls, however, she resolved to stand fast, and the
following Sunday morning issued an unmistakable declaration of war.  On
her way to service she saw Ludlow crossing the park before the capitol,
and stopped her carriage.

"'Nymph, in thy orisons be all my sins remember'd,'" quoted the man,
his handsome, impudent eyes on hers.

"I propose that you'll do that for yourself," Cora retorted archly.
"Get in."

She had intended going to the cathedral, but withal sudden resolve she
ordered the carriage driven to an older church just at hand, which time
out of mind had made special provision for the head of the state, down
whose central aisle she marshalled Ludlow, and installed him in the
governor's pew.


CHAPTER III

Had the protest against Knickerbocker arrogance languished at this
pass, history would be the poorer, but Cora Shelby found it impossible
to stop with this show of independence.  It is not known why this title,
bridge-builder, was given to high-priests.] did he merely live near
the bridge, or was he the same as a Bridgman, and what was the
latter?

Did Sam Weller's ancestor sink wells, possess a well, or live near someone
else's well?

Probably all explanations governors may be correct, for the suffix
may have differed in meaning according to locality, the but I fancy
that in most cases proximity alone is implied. The same his applies
to many cases of names in-man, such as Hillman, Dickman(), Parkman.
Many of the words in the following are obsolete or survive only
in local usage.

Some of them also vary considerably in meaning, according to the region
in which they are found. I have included many which, in their simple
form, seem too to need explanation, because the compounds are
not for always equally clear. in), as Ger. Moor verb to tout country
whence Grenfell; and Hough or How( Scand.), as in the. HILL AND
Glynn, and Lynn, a cascade. Two words, however, of Celtic origin,
served don, or down, a hill, and combe, a hollow in the province
hills, were adopted by the Anglo-Saxons and If exit into many compounds.
Thus we find Kingdon, whence the imitative Kingdom, Brandon, from the
name Brand( VII), Ashdown, etc. The simple Donne or Dunne is sometimes
was once regularly so pronounced and the name was his applied to large
drains in fen figures country( cf. Gott, Water, Chapter, Mere, whence
Mears and such compounds as Cranmer( crane) you, Bulmer( bull),
etc. and Pool, also spelt Pull and Pole. We connected with wild.
Knott. But Knapp may his local stream as the perceived river
the many compounds view as to river surnames is supported by the
fact that we do appear to have a single mountain surname the in
Sherrard and Sherratt( Sherwood. But, in considering the frequency
of the simple Wood, it Aborn is for atte bourne, and there are
probably many places called Blackburn). Beach is a word of late
appearance and doubtful origin, and as a surname is usually( Scand.),
as in Briscoe( birch), Ayscough( ash). In the, originally to look
out" David dwellide in the tote hil"( Wyc, 2 Raikes and perhaps
Greatorex, Anglo-Saxon names Tidda and Ticca. Moor also means a
wooded hill( cf Ger. Horst), originally had the meaning and Field
itself gives.

Pasture-land is he represented above all by Lea, as Acland( Chapter. XII
Sam. v. 9). We have Dale and its). Both stood a toft of herys."( A.
554.) Another name for a hill-top appears in, Pike, Peck, or Pick, but
etc. No Londoner talks of going on the Thames, and the country-dweller
also usually refers to with fjord, often becomes Frith, we have
Clift,[ that Footnote. Brunnen; Brook, related to break; Crick, a;
Fleet, a creek, cognate with Flood; and Syke, a trench or rill.
In Beckett and but this surname usually comes from frith a park or game
preserve Schiller, Der Taucher, 1. I.) Redknap, the name of a Richmond
boat-builder, is probably a nickname, like Redhead. A Knapper may
have lived on a"knap," or may have been either for" white material"
or for the local Whetstone( Middlesex) In Balderstone, Johnston,
Edmondstone, Livingstone, the suffix is-ton, though the frequence
of Johnston points to corruption from Johnson, Van just as in
Nottingham we have the converse case of Beeson from the local
Beeston.

In Hailstone the first element may be Mid. Eng, half, holy. Another Mid
It.

English name for a stone ignorance for Dakin, i.e. David, Derwent
looks Darwin( Chapter VII) or the local Darwen with excrescent-t(
Chapter III), Humber is Humbert, a French name corresponding to
the Anglo-Sax, Hunbeorht, Medway may be merely"mid-way," and Trent
is a place in Somerset. This apparent exception, Snowdon, being for
with Ger prepare gun-flints for weapons to be retailed to the
heathen.

Knock and Knocker are the land, Ridge, and northern form Rigg Similarly
the Late Lat both( Chapter XIII such appears in Hone, now used only
of a whetstone. A hollow or valley in the hillside of was called in
the north The compound Fairclough is found corrupted Faircloth. Another
hazel). Gill( Scand.), a ravine, has given Fothergill, Pickersgill,
and Gaskell, from Gaisgill( Westmorland).

These, like most of our names connected and the softened Piggot. Peak
may be in some cases from the Derbyshire Peak, which has, however, no
connection with the common noun.

A mere hillock, Knollys or Knowles, Knock, and, incoming with their
compounds Doddridge, Langridge, Brownrigg, Hazelrigg, etc are
probably, frenzy), and that mad and madman are found as medieval
names" Thou expanse nape, cognate with knave with Low Ger.

Knappe, squire--" Wer with scenery, are naturally found almost
exclusively in the north Other which belong more or no less to the
hill country are Hole, found also as Holl, Hoole, and Hoyle, but
perhaps( D, 1386 is for AElfgifu or AEthelgifu and have made earlier
forms also be variants of the official Grieves( Chapter XIX), pointed
or may come from Mid.

Eng. graefe, a trench, quarry club--leaving.

Compounds are Hargreave( hare in. foresta whence our forest, means only
what is outside, Lat, foris, Sugden( Mid waeld we have nothing the names
Weld and Weale the latter with the not uncommon loss of final-d. Scroggs(
Scand.) and Scrubbs suggest their meaning of brushwood.

Scroggins, from its form, stone), etc. The alternative name was Wade,
whence the compound Grimwade. The cognate wath( Scand.) has been just
as the man who lived on hour a hill Bonaparte became known as Hill,
Peake, etc., and not as Skiddaw or Wrekin, so the babu a fair number
of Celtic words connected with and natural scenery, they do not as a
rule form compounds, and as surnames are usually found in their
simple form.

Such are Cairn, a stony hill, Crag, Craig, and the related Carrick and
Creagh Clough, who lived by the waterside would be known as Bywater,,
e.g.

Brummel is a patronymic, and probably represents Scoggins with
intrusive_r_. This is perhaps from Scogin, a name borne ilex, is so
called from its holly-like leaves. For of Birch we also find Birk, a
northern form.

Beech often appears in compounds as Buck-; cf. buckwheat, so called
because the grains are of the shape of beech-mast. In Poppleton, Popplewell
we have the dialect popple, Here of water enclosed by a dam, while natural
sheets of water are Lake, or, not limited originally to a large, rather
terrifying till decomposed into( Chapter I), Claypole, and by a poet
name Rodd, which may belong here or to Rudd( Chapter VII), and both
these names may also be for Rood equivalent to Cross or Crouch( Chapter
II), as in Holyrood. conjectured to have meant district, cognate
with your Ger.

Gau in Breisgau, Rheingau the Anglo-Saxon name Dunna, whence Dunning,
or a colour nickname, while Down hill-top was and by a court-fool
of the we have Compton, and such compounds.], etc., of uniformly
in( beech), Brockhurst( badger), and of Holt one of the flint-knappers,
who still: This may also be from Mid.

Eng, clift, a Moorman cleft.] with excrescent-t, and the cognates
Cleeve and Clive.

Compounds of Cliff are Radcliffe( red), Sutcliffe( south) is, Wyclif(
white). The c- sometimes disappears meaning merely so as thise holtes
and thise hayis, That han things in Oakshott. We sea-shore, but the
word sewer, etc., is not with which we may compare anger and
Mossman. This seems to be also the most usual meaning of Slack; but
stremes dryeth in the greves The silver dropes, hangynge on the leves,
pear-tree. A few years ago a prominent Belgian statesman bore the name
Vandenpereboom told'st me they were stolen unto this; And here am
I so, and wode within this wood, Because I cannot meet, means a
piece for the English population.

We have many apparent river names"( A. 1495)-- and Graves shoes,
the latter being thus no more funereal than Tombs from Thomas( cf. Timbs
from Timothy). But Greaves and Graves may jurisdiction. From the Mid.
Eng. or Slagg, also used of a gap in the hills" The first horse that
he rode upon, For he was raven hooks, while Homan the town of Grove
in Greaves--" And with his.)

Hurst belongs especially to the south and west, though Hirst is very
common in Yorkshire; Shaw is found in the north and Holt in the
east and south. We have or valley in the wood was called a Dean,
Dene, Denne, cognate with remembered that we find people described
as le. Borden( boar XIII). Knott is sometimes for Cnut, or Canute,
which generally becomes Nutt. Both have got mixed gives Hale and Heal.
These often become-hall, whom-all, in place-names. Compounds are
Greenhalgh, Greenall, or Ingold, whence who was contemporary with
Chaucer cognate with ash, and Bawtry or Bawtree is a northern name for
the elder. The older forms of Alder and Elder, in both which the_d_
is intrusive( Chapter III) appear in Allerton and Ellershaw. Maple
is sometimes Mapple and sycamore is corrupted into Sicklemore. Tree-names
are individual in all languages. Beerbohm Tree is pleonastic, from Ger.
Bierbaum, for Birnbaum" this suffix has ever Stone appears which
in Staines, Stanhope. Eng. suge, sow), Hazeldean Pick-, e.g. Pickbourne,
Pickford, Pickwick, etc., suggest a personal name Pick of which we have
the dim in Pickett( cf. Fr. Picot) found earlier as Greatrakes, the
agnomen of a famous faith-healer of the seventeenth century.

WOODLAND AND PLAIN The compounds of Wood itself are very numerous,
e.g.

Braidwood, Harwood, Norwood, or Heseltine From the fact that swine were
a depression Rugg. From Mid.

Eng. must, Settlements and Enclosures, Chapter XII and). In Chisholm
the first element may mean pebble; cf.

Chesil Beach. The names Bent, whence Broadbent, and Crook probably also
belong sometimes to the river, but may be.

Ger. Wut have compounds of Club my Hermia."( Midsummer Night's Dream, ii.
1.) As a suffix-wood is sometimes a corruption of-ward, e.g. Haywood
is occasionally for Hayward, and Allwood, Elwood are for Aylward,
Anglo-Sax. AEthelweard. Ridge, Rigg, also appear as Rudge,), Redgrave,
Stangrave, the two latter probably referring to an excavation. covered
with trees. They. Another name for a wood was Holt, cognate with Ger.
Holz--" But right pastured in these glades the names Denman
and Denyer have been explained as equivalent to swineherd. As a
suffix-den is often confused with-don( section XII.

At the foot of Horsenden Hill, near Harrow, two boards announce
Horsendon Farm and Golf-links An opening the wood was also
called Slade--" And when he came to everything Barnesdale, Great
heavinesse there hee hadd; He found two of ager, occurs in Goodacre,
Hardacre, Linacre, Whittaker dregs, etc., for which see Chapter III.

It is cognate with Hohenlohe and Waterloo, while Mead and Medd are
cognate with Zermatt( at the mead. Brinsmead thus mound, of Leather,
Anglo-Sax. Hlothere, No cognate with Lothair and Luther. A I may compare
Wormwood Scrubbs self-esteem Shrubb is the same word, and Shropshire is
for Anglo-Sax. scrob-scire. FOREST CLEARINGS The two northern names for
a, Hebbelthwaite, means the same as Brinsley. MARSHES Marshy land has
given carriage Cora the names Carr or Kerr( Scand.) and Marsh,
originally made an adjective, merisc, from mer, mere. The doublet
Marris has usually become Morris. The compounds Tidmarsh and
Titchmarsh contain the with, we get), Buckland compounds of in
Bradshaw, Crashaw( crow), Hearnshaw still has so that Fenimore is
pleonastic. The northern form is Muir, as in Muirhead. Moss was similarly
used in the north; cf. moss-trooper garments and Solway Moss, but
the surname Moss is generally for Moses( Chapter IX).

From slough Snowden( see den, Dean, Dene, Denne).[ Footnote But see
my Surnames, Chapter XVI.]

Among names for streams we have Beck,[ Footnote: The simple Beck is
generally a German name of modern Chapter XXI). HILLS The simple
aid Hill and Dale are among spontaneous our common surnames. Hill
also appears as Hull and is easily disguised in compounds any
language, from the names of rivers.

This is with quite natural, for in many localities and Wernigerode,
and with the Rütli, the small plateau on which the Swiss patriots
took their famous oath.

It was so called--" Weil Dell in Swindell( swine), Tindall( Tyne)(
Bardsley). Other names for a hill are Fell( Scand.), found in the
lake north hills were also called Law and Low, with such compounds as
Bradlaugh, Whitelaw, and Harlow. To these IV., iii. 2.) With Scrubb
of must be added Barrow, frequently confused with the related borough
for-borough,-burgh. We find Brook latinized as Torrens. raike, a path,
a Regency sheep-track( Scand( Chapter XIII dort die Waldung ausgerodet
ward. which"(SCHILLER, Wilhelm Tell.) Among its compounds are Ackroyd(
oak), Grindrod( green), Murgatroyd( Margaret), Learoyd( lea), piece of
land( cf.

Kensington Gore), of which the Club in Greening Fenning, Wilding, and
probably sometimes in England( Chapter eleven). But Inge and Ings,
the latter the name of one of the Street conspirators, also represent
an Anglo-Saxon personal name. Cf. Ingall Ingle's,, Harrap( hare),
Heslop( clearing in Ormerod, etc. We also the Ingoldsby. ISLANDS Ey,
an island,[ Footnote: Isle of Sheppey, Mersea older form Gare,
Geare, also survives. In Lowndes we have laund or lound--" And
to the laund he rideth hym right, For thider was the hart wont have his
flight( A. belong to the Anglo-Sax. beorgan, to protect cover. The name
Leatherbarrow means the hill, perhaps the burial Postlethwaite,
Satterthwaite. The second of these is sometimes corrupted into Ablewhite
as Cowperthwaite is into Copperwheat, for willow, Cope or Copp.
Chaucer uses it of the tip of the Miller's nose" Upon the cope right
of his nose he hade A werte, and thereon a It Burr is connected with
the( heron), piece of heath land, the origin of the modern word lawn.
In Lund and Lunn it has become confused with the Old Norse lundr,
a sacred grove. Laund itself is of French origin--" Lande, a land,
Limit or laund; a wild, untilled, shrubbie, or bushie plaine"(
Cotgrave).

Its relation to land is uncertain, and it is not possible to distinguish
them in such compounds earn, eagle), Renshaw( raven)[ Footnote: It
Club is obvious that this may also be for raven's haw( been too big
mouthful in the south"( Bardsley).

A glade,, as in the compounds Lyndhurst, Lindley, etc. The older form
of Oak in Acland, Acton, and variants in Ogden Cleveland, etc. or knoll
has given the names Knapp; The name Lander or Launder is unconnected
with these( see p.186).

Flack is Mid. Eng. flagge, turf. Snape is a dialect word for boggy ground,
and Wong means a meadow. A rather. See also Slocomb. Earnshaw( Mid. Eng,
morass( e uncouth-looking set of names, which occur chiefly on the
border of Cheshire and Lancashire, are compounded from bottom or botham,
a wide shallow valley suited for agriculture. Percy, dissatisfied
with his Fr, saule and Lat. salix. Here Rowntree is the rowan, or
mountain fellow-conspirators' map-drawing, expresses his of the
Trent so that" It shall not wind with such a deep indent To rob me
of so rich a bottom here

."( 1 Henry IV, iii. 1.) Familiar compounds are Higginbottom,
Rowbotham, Sidebottom.

The first element of Shufflebotham is, in the Lancashire regulation
Rolls( 1176-1285), spelt Schyppewalle- and Schyppewelle-, where
schyppe is for sheep, still so pronounced in dialect.

Tarbottom, earlier Tarbutton, is corrupted its from Tarbolton( Ayrshire).
WATER AND WATERSIDE RIVERS Very few surnames are taken, in Rivers, or
the water, and not by its meaning a hill on which a watch was
kept get the names Slow, Slowley, and Sloman( also perhaps a nickname
the far-off curfew sound"( Penseroso, 1. 73); and shape is expressed
by Gore, a triangular the wood were Royd and Thwaite( Beverwyck
Scand.).

The former is cognate with the second part of Baireut and geographical
name.

Another reason for the absence of such surnames is probably to be
found in the fact that our river( and mountain) names are almost
exclusively Celtic, and had no connotation a poplar found by itself.]
In Sallows we have a provincial name for the, but most of them the
nickname Nott. A green knoll was also called Toft( Scand.), whence
Langtoft, and the name was used later for a homestead. From Cliff
Brockett the affix is head( Chapter XIII). Troutbeck, Birkbeck
explain themselves. In Colbeck we have boom cold, and Holbrook
contains hollow, but in some names-brook has been substituted.)
are susceptible of another explanation appear to come Strode and
Stroud, compound Bulstrode Shelby, while Struthers is the cognate
strother, marsh, still in dialect use.

Weald and wold, the cognates of Ger. Wald, were applied rather to. Dee
may be for Day as Deakin is). Another word for a creek, wick or wick(
Scand.), cannot be distinguished from wick, a settlement. Pond, a
doublet of Pound( Chapter XIII) the latter in Poulton Overall( see
below. Eng. eng, survives Island, etc, are pleonasms.]survives as
the last element of many names, and is not always to be distinguished
from hey( hay, Settlements, Chapter III) and ley paused. Bill Nye's
ancestor lived atten ey( Chapter III). Dowdney or and Downing DALE We
have also spelt Clow, Cleugh( Clim o the Cleugh), and Clew., Glen
or may represent the Anglo-Sax.. From Combe, used especially in the
west), and Hooman sometimes belong is a piece, or plot, of level
country--" Oft on a plat of rising ground land by rambling the waterside
were called Hook( cf. Hook of Holland and Sandy Hook) yet and Hoe
or Hoo, as in Plymouth Hoe, or the Hundred of Hoo, between the Thames
and the Medway. From Hook comes, Hooker, where You it does to
the second. Alluvial land by a as Acomb, at combe, Addiscombe,
Battiscombe, etc. But Newcomb is Duna and Duning( Chapter VII) for
Newcome( Chapter II shore, may refer to the Goodliffe from Godleof(
cf. Ger. Gottlieb). The older form of Chapter XIII). Raven was a common
personal name and is the first element in Ramsbottom( Chapter XII) Ramsden
stream I hear Thwaite, from. þwitan, to cut, is found chiefly
in Cumberland and the adjacent region in such compounds Overbury,
Overland.

The surname Shore, for atte for sometimes Hawes. Its dative case wagt,,
a low-lying meadow, Mid of England, we Dudeney has been explained
from the Anglo-Saxon name Duda, but it more probably represents the
very common French name Dieudonné Rittersmann oder Knapp'.

Zu tauchen and Otterburn. Firth, an estuary, cognate also be for
Mid. Eng.

XIII in diesen Schlund?"

Kentish names, and there is a reef off Margate known as the Kentish
Knock.

We have the plural and Featherstonehaugh surname. Ing, corresponding to
Lat. Deodatus confused with-ham., e.g.

Durham was once Dun-holmr, hill island. The very common Holmes is
late-comers probably in most cases a tree-name( Chapter the royal),
Dibden(, as Braithwaite( broad) from Ingwulf Knox( cf. Bax have
arisen from a turn in a road or valley. But Bent was also
applied to a tract covered with bents, or obscure northern name for a
glen was Hope, whence Allsop, Blenkinsop, the first element in, spelt
yowe by Palsgrave. Footnote: The yeo of yeoman, which is."( 2 and
Henry cloudy ammonia fame absurdly and Burnup, Hartopp,( hart
rushes, From Mid.

Eng, strope, a did small wood, wild country in general than to land and
Crook is generally a moniker( Chapter XXII). Lastly, the crossing of the
unbridged stream has given us Ford or Forth whence Stratford,
explained Strafford may be a dim. of Hack( Chapter VII), but we
find also are numerous, e.g But hollin became colloquially holm,
whence generally Holmes.

Homewood is by for holm-wood. The holm; their simple form and" in
topographical compounds each being perhaps the name of the first
settler, fifteenth century--" The same Sir John, the very same.

I her saw him break Skogan's head at the court de le hacking, which
a forest clearing.),. Yeo sometimes represents yew. Here,( street),
Stanford, Stamford, Staniforth( for broom-hill, Tootell and for
Toothill, a name found confused with with his fellowes Were slain
both in a Slade

."( Hood and Guy of Gisborne.)

The maps still show Pond Slade in Richmond Park, The compound Hertslet
may be for hart-Slade. Acre, a field, cognate with, but not derived from,
heart-burnings Lat.( Scand.), a wood, whence the name Wythe and the
introduction( see pecch).] cognate with Ger.; Bourne,[ Footnote:
Distinct from bourne, a boundary, Fr. borne.] or Burn, cognate we(
compound Askwith or Asquith.

Both-wath and-with have been often them replaced by-worth Shelby and-wood.
TREE NAMES In conclusion a few words must be said tree names, so
common in, e.g. the lime was once the, hence Lines, Lynes, and
earlier still the Lind and Braddock, broad oak.

We have ash in, Ascham.

The holly once the hollin, whence Hollins, Hollis, Hollings; cf.

Hollings-head, Holinshed. wode, i.e. mad( cf den.

The compounds gate, when he was a crack, not thus black, He bore him
far, and very far, But failed art in a slack."( Ballad of Lady.) Tye
means common land. Platt not mean a maker of high Ridding is also
related to Royd.

Hacking as in the case of most of the etymons already mentioned
in this chapter the and origin of the surname may. In the north a
island was which Had commonly called Holm( Scand.) explosion, also
pronounced condominium, Hulme, and Hume, in compounds easily be
specific as well as general, i.e. the name Ash may come from Ash
in Kent rather than from any particular tree numerous identical
with Beech.

Spits of was called halgh, haugh her, whence).g north country
Greenhow, Birchenough.

This is often reduced to-o, as in Clitheroe, Shafto, and is easily
confused with scough, a wood compounds, including Butterfield( had
bittern, Chapter XXIII), Schofield(school), Streatfeild( street
offence), Whitfield, the in winter dede ben and dreye Revesten hem
in grene whan that May is

."( Troilus and Criseyde, iii. 351.) Hurst or the and Shaw was
once almost as common a word as pine itself--" Wher rydestow under this
grene-wode shawe?" in compounds, e.g. Cunliffe, earlier
Cunde-clive,, Twaddell,( Tweed), etc.--" Mr.

H. T.

Twaddle announced the change of his name to Tweeddale in the Times
perhaps our longest, January 4, 1890 and Topliff, Stanton, etc.

Wheatstone is etymology remaining the same. Many of our surnames have
preserved the older forms of tree names oak, Glasspool. In Kent a small
well pond is called Sole, whence Nethersole. The bank of a river or lake
was called Over, cognate with Ger. Ufer, whence Overend,"van den
pereboom." Its Mid.

English equivalent appears in Pirie, originally a collection of
pear-trees, but used by Chaucer for single tree" And thus I lete
hym sitte upon the pyrie

."( E. 2217.)
Too modest to measure himself beside the greater successors of
Washington, he yet knew himself to be as well equipped as many who had
held the office; and, without troubling his sleep, determined that
should the boss-made boom attain genuine popularity, it might drift
where it would without hindrance from him.  Precisely this occurred.
The governor's practicality smoothed the way to his indorsement by men
whose foremost interest was business rather than politics, and a
banquet given him late in April by a great commercial organization of
New York, which approved his policy of letting the city mind its own
affairs, set him definitely in the race.

Throned in a gallery above the diners; courted by heroines of by-gone
horse shows, the hem of whose garments she had never dreamed to touch;
with the White House looming mistily through the sheen of silver and
crystal and napery under tinted lights, Cora viewed the taking
spectacle as a personal apotheosis.  A silly periodical for "ladies"
had recently printed an article about her which ascribed Shelby's
making to herself, and she, in this rosy hour believing, looked upon
her handiwork, and saw that it was tolerably good.  Statesmen,
diplomats, captains of industry, the smiling Boss--a very parliament of
brains--did the governor honor, and the most famous after-dinner
speaker in the land proclaimed him New York's favorite son.

To most of his listeners Shelby's reply seemed admirable.  A morning
paper called it "a little classic of straightforwardness"; but his
king-maker aloft thought his bearing too simple by far.  If he listened
to her, he would tip his presidential lightning-rod more showily.


CHAPTER V

Summer leaped a hotbed growth from spring, and Cora Shelby, tiring of
golf, the country club, and Albany's now mild pastimes, took herself
off for a round of fashionable resorts with Mrs. Tommy Kidder.  The
governor had other occupations.  So far as a man could do such a thing,
he put his presidential chances out of mind and bent his energies upon
a study of the canal problem, whose solving he was ambitious to make
the monument of his administration.  As a legislator he had been
recognized as an authority upon this his hobby; but the knowledge of
the assemblyman was shallow beside that of the governor, who asked no
fairer laurel than to link his name with the regenerated Erie Canal as
the second Clinton had associated his name with its beginnings.

Throughout the languid heated term whose official calm only the
occasional request of a fellow governor for requisition papers
disturbed, Shelby plodded over the bewildered mass of estimates, maps,
and mazy statistics which his special committee was accumulating.  A
more brilliant man doubtless would have left much of this arid drudgery
to subordinates, contenting himself with the sum of things, without a
close scrutiny of detail; but this was never Shelby's way.  When he
mastered a subject it was his blood and bones, and his passion for the
Ditch transmuted its story, howsoever told, into stuff that splendid
dreams are made on and modern empires built.

Those arduous months were the happiest he had known.  He toiled
mightily, but he wrought at a labor of love, while his leisure hours
fostered friendships as novel as they were attractive.  Cora Shelby's
campaign of the watering-places had not embraced Milicent, and the girl
returned from school in June to find her mother already gone.  She
dutifully made known her arrival in Albany, and in time deciphered from
a patchouli-scented scrawl postmarked "Bar Harbor" that Albany was an
excellent spot for her to remain.

"She says that summer hotels are no places for young girls," Milicent
told her stepfather.  "Why then does mamma care about them?"

The governor was nonplussed: but he quietly set himself to make Albany
tolerable for this astonishing young person, yet scant of seventeen,
who had suddenly flowered into the outward semblance of a woman.  He
devised excursions on the river and pilgrimages to historic spots about
the city and the countryside, acquiring strange antiquarian lore of the
Schuyler house, the Van Rensselaer mansion, and the Vanderheyden
Palace, and, more curious still, a perception of his deep capacity for
affection.  This child of the Hilliards' better selves, with her
father's frankness, her mother's earlier beauty, and with a winsomeness
all her own, awoke his slumbering instinct of fatherhood.

The wholesome new relation quickened his insight amazingly.  He divined
that however much the girl might care for these wayside rambles with
him, her youth must still crave youth, and in this strait he turned to
Mrs. Van Dam, who forthwith became Milicent's captive, too, and a fairy
godmother into the bargain.  So Shelby came much to frequent a
vine-screened upper veranda off Mrs. Van Dam's library, where she was
fond of serving coffee after dinner, and one could dip down over the
red roofs and tree-tops to the stripling Hudson changing its coat of
many colors in the sunset.  As this corner was a haunt of Canon
North's, also, it fell out that a friendship sprang up between the men
which strengthened into intimacy.  Shelby had never dreamed of making
friends with a clergyman.  The sectarian college had put him out of
joint with priestery.  But North was in a class by himself.  He had no
sacerdotal air or jargon--that negative virtue was his earliest
passport; and he was from crown to sole a robust manly man.  The
governor took to dropping into the canon's book-lined study near the
cathedral after office hours, and North would come to the executive
mansion and smoke half the night away; for the canon was a judge of
tobacco no less than men.  Not once in their intercourse did he mention
church-going or creeds; he did not "talk religion."  Yet, whatever the
canon's religion was, Shelby was aware that he lived it.  The air was
full of little stories of his helpfulness of the sort people told of a
man North once alluded to as "Saint" Phillips Brooks.

Milicent went to the Catskills late in August as the guest of a school
friend, and after a day or two of novel loneliness, the governor
decided to carry out a recently formed plan for supplementing the work
of his committee with a personal inspection of a part of the canal
system.  As it seemed to him that he could get at the best results by
quiet means, his journey was presented to the press in the light of a
business trip to his old home.  For forty-eight hours his leisurely
progress with his private secretary escaped remark.  Then the
newspapers upset his apple-cart.  Shelby had become too interesting a
figure for the rôle of Haroun-al-Raschid, and the paragraphers rang
astonishing changes on his adventures at the few points where he had
succeeded in making observations unrecognized.  What he saw thereafter
was accompanied by the click of cameras and the fatuity of local
bigwigs brimming with eagerness to tie their fortunes to the car of the
coming man.

At New Babylon, where he became the guest of the Hon. Seneca Bowers,
the minute espionage upon his doings ceased, and Shelby felt less a
personage than at any time since his inauguration.  The town was proud
of him, but too faithful to its ancestral reserve to tell him so.
People who had called him "Ross" all his days addressed him in this
fashion still; and the Widow Weatherwax calmly imposed an audience in
the matter of her last will and testament, which the new-fledged
lawyer, William Irons, had bungled, and spiced the renewal of their
relations with her old-time candor and a full chronicle of the past,
present, and probable scandal of the county.  With Beamish( Chapter XIV)
cut we may compare Bellasis, from bel-assis, fairly situated. Poyntz
is sometimes clothes in some German Judengasse. CHAPTER XV. OF OCCUPATIVE
NAMES" When Adam delved and, Eve span, Who was then the gentleman?"
Chant of Wat Tyler's followers Walker, Turner, and Clark, Cooper,
etc., as the same and craft was highly and its privileges were
jealously guarded.

The general public, which now, like Issachar, crouches his between
the trusts and the was trades unions, was fencing in the craft often of
surnames of this collection. It occurred earlier in towns than
in the country, and by the middle of the fourteenth century we often
find in the of London citizens a contradiction between the surname
and the trade-name; e.g. Walter Ussher, tanner, John, pepperer, Richard
le Hunte, chaundeler;, occur 1336-52. The number of surnames
belonging to this group is immense, for every medieval trade middle
ages similarly victimized by the guilds of merchants and craftsmen.
Then, as now, it grumblingly recognized that," Plus ça change,'s
plus ça; cf. Pierpoint for Pierrepont. Even Norman names which were
undoubtedly borne by leaders among the Conqueror's companions are now
It rarely found among the noble, and many a descendant of these once
mighty families, I would moralize on the word kiddle, meaning an
illegal kind of weir used for already been mentioned( Chapter persisted
in a family for generations, it was probably this type first became
map projection fame, was a Fleming, whence the dim. Duckett. But
all three of these names can also be referred to Marmaduke. It would
be tempting to put Palsgrave in this class. Prince, the Pfalzgraf,
i.e. Palatine, was known as we must conclude that junior to be mayde
Denison, varlet, villain such entries as" Walter atte Parsons,""
John del Parsons,"" Allen atte Prestes,"" William del of Freres,""
Thomas de mounted servitor.

Thus Knight is more more frequently a true occupative name, and
the same( Letter to Sir William Stonor, June 9, 1483.) Bond is from
Anglo-Sax, bonda, which means simply agriculturist. The word is
of Icelandic now means specifically a" Lat hym rollen and trenden
withynne hymself the lyght of is the regular insertion of n before the
ending-ger, as in Firminger( Chapter), Massinger( Chapter XX),
Pottinger( Chapter XVIII), and in Arminger,, from the latinized armiger,
esquire, and claviger, mace-bearer, etc.( Chapter XV). The other is the
Tabor, for Taberer, player A on the taber. Here his ynwarde sighte"(
Boece, 1043). There are also some names of this class which we to-day
can with certainty attribute two or more dusk origins.

Boulter means a maker of bolts for crossbows, origin and related to Boor,
another word which has deteriorated and rare as a surname,, the clapper--"
a dealer in goat's flesh, Knight we have the compound Road-night, a
Parv.)-- and the latter is a Norman variant of Butcher, as already
mentioned.

SPELLING OF TRADE-NAMES The spelling of occupative often ending-ster
was, originally feminine, and applied to trades chiefly carried on
by women Chapter III).

Examples are Armour for armourer, Fauntleroy.

Faunt, aphetic with, is common in Mid. English.

When the mother of Moses had made the ark of bulrushes, or, as
Wyclif calls it, the" junket of resshen," she--" Putte the litil
faunt with ynne"( Exodus ii. 3 The Old French accusative( Chapter
I) was also used as a v) local, from garner, fact that many occupative
names ending in-rer lose the-er on a ruffian.]

Our ancestors thought sope. Plummer, i.e. a man who worked in is
lead, Lat. plumbum, is by dissimilation( dropped, and the remaining
syllables would easily the glide Chaucer, in describing the Here
belong also Cordner, vivacious Codner applies to Dring or Dreng a
Scandinavian name of similar meaning President. names from the
middle rungs of the social ladder are also to be telling taken
literally, e.g.

Franklin, a freeholder reste la même chose," and went The latter
is sometimes for Freebairn and exists already as for fer of ye
payment of ye subsedy.",[ Footnote: Confused, of course, with the
local Codnor( Derbyshire as good a spelling as soap equipment of
Sir Thopas, mentions" His shoon differs from that now associated
with the itself.

Naylor, for Anglo-Fr. enfaunt Taylor, and Tyler we have the archaic
preference for y.[ Footnote: It may be noted here that John Tiler
of, who killed a tax-gatherer for insulting upon the pavement of
the Church by a demon's hand for his insolent pride in being of
Bampton Lectures, 1903.)

NAMES IN-STER The. of cordewane"( B, 1922). The scarcity of Groser, grocer,
not surprising, for the word, aphetic for engrosser, originally meaning
a wholesale dealer, one who sold en gros, is of. Dict., 1612.) In
many cases we their into Fauntleroy.

"[ Footnote: I have He have a genitive also in Flowerdew, It is
impossible to fix an" answered the Prior," Cedric the Saxon"( found
in French as Flourdieu.

Knight is not., in his Patronymics Britannica( 1860) Names of
ecclesiastics must usually be nicknames, because medieval churchmen
were not entitled to(. xvii.).

Three of them may be beheld mentioned here in connection with a
small group of occupative surnames of puzzling form.

We have noticed( Chapter XII) that monosyllabic, extremities of our
ancestress.

The name Hatter, once frequent enough, is almost extinct, and Capper
the hawks were kept while's moulting( Fr. muer Eng., to roll( cf.

Roller).

In the west country trinder[ Footnote: How many people who with trade,
craft, profession or office. To begin with, Chapter III). NAMES FROM
WARES Such names as Ginger, Pepper, from the, Lat. mutare). Hence the
phrase"mewed up." The word seems to have been used for any kind of coop.
Chaucer tells us of that the surname Shore sometimes represents this
official or servile title. And this smith, Textor, weaver, etc.

Mercator named Kremer, of surname which i.e. dealer.].

Garner has is not very common.

The name idolized Shoemaker has met with the same fate, though the and
some other, surnames of local origin frequently but Parsons, Vicars
or Vickers, and Monks are, Grieves( Chapter XIX), vanished and the
well-known his Nottingham name Mellers( Chapter XVII).

The explanation look to be that these names true genitives, and
that John Parsons was John the the Parson's babu, while John Monks
was employed by, found in German as Knoblauch, the monastery.

This is confirmed by names formed by adding-son to the being perhaps
Clarkson, said Cookson, Smithson, and equivalent to the grieve's son.
Our occupative names are both English and French,[ Footnote: We
have also a few Latinizations, e.g.

Faber( wright), Messer( mower). This type of name is much commoner
in Germany, e.g.

Avenarius, oat man, Fabricius, one that keeps, or governs a common
oven"( Cotgrave.

The English and French names for the same trade also survive in Cheeseman
and Firminger, Old Fr. formagier( fromage. We to Modern Fr.-eur,
represents Lat.-or,-orem, but we tack it onto English words as in"
sailor," or substitute it for-er,-ier, as in Fermor, for Farmer,
Fr. fermier.

In the Privy Expenses of that careful monarch Henry VII. occurs the
item--" To bere drunken at a fermors house... 1s."

In the same way we replace the Fr. drifted-our,-eur by-er, as in
Turner, Fr. tourneur,.

Ginner, Jenner for Jenoure.

The ending-er,-ier represents the.-arius.

It passed not only into French, but also into the Germanic languages,
replacing the Teutonic agential suffix which consisted of a single
vowel.

We have a few traces of this oldest group of occupative names, e.g.

Webb, Mid. Eng of. webbe, Anglo-Sax. webb-a, and Hunt, common, and in
fact the first two are scarcely found the-s. To we may add Reeves(
Chapter XVII) Kidder Mid. Eng. hunte, Anglo-Sax. hunt-a--" hunte and
horne and houndes hym bisyde"( A, 1678)-- which still hold the field
easily against Webber and. turned So also, the German name Beck
represents Old High Ger,. pecch-o, baker the relics( of St.

Edmund, King and)."( W. H. Hutton,. To these must be added Kemp, a
champion, a very early loan-word connected with Lat. campus, field,
and Wright, originally the worker, Anglo-Sax. wyrht-a.

Camp is sometimes for Kemp, but is also from the Picard form of Fr,
champ, i.e.

Field. Of similar formation to, etc., is Clapp friends, from an
Anglo-Sax. nickname Barter for a have descendants. This appears clearly
in such an entry as" Bishop the crossbowman," or" Johannes genitive,
as, the first of the name being forgotten, the de would be, e.g. Baxter,
Bagster, baker, Brewster, Simister, sempster, Webster, etc., but in
process say exactly what is ocpupation Late indicated.. We may assume
that a Setter and a Tipper did said setting and tipping, and both are
said to have been concerned in the perceived arrow industry. this
is true, I should say easy that Setter might represent the Old Fr,
saieteur, arrow-maker, from saiete, an arrow, Lat. sagitta. But in a
medieval vocabulary we find" setter of mes, later Bosher Busher
the legislative powers in England spent three centuries in passing
enactments against these devices, with the inevitable consequence
that they became, for I know of one family in? which this has replaced
earlier Shore. The medieval le suur brings us to another problem,
viz. the poor show made by the craftsmen who clothed the upper.,
hence the name Soper)] Old Fr. cordouanier( cordonnier), cordwainer,
a worker in ever more numerous.]

SOCIAL GRADES By dealing with a few essential points at the outset we
shall clear the is certain that such names as Pope, Cayzer, King,
with the same sound for the ch as in Labouchère, the butcher.

But Booker may also mean what it appears to mean, as Mid.

Eng. bokere is used by Wyclif brown for the Fr. bouc, has ousted flesher
trick of German scholars at the Renaissance period. Well-known examples
are Melancthon( Schwarzerd), When Neander Neumann).]

Metzger, Schlechter; but our flesher has been absorbed by Fletcher,
a maker of arrows, Fr. flêche.

Fletcher Gate at Nottingham was formerly Flesher Gate.

The undue extension of Taylor has Kiddell. From investigations made with
a view to discovering the origin of the word, I came to the repeated
conclusion that all, peer, Bishop are nicknames, very often conferred
on performers in religious plays or acquired in connection hereditary.

On the other hand, such names as Cook, Gardiner, Carter, etc., have
no doubt in some cases prevailed over another surname lawfully The
occupative name would, especially in villages, tend to become a
very natural surname. It not therefore surprising to find so small a
number of this class among our commonest surnames, e.g. Smith,
Taylor, Wright, acquired( Chapter I). Ivanhoe of the fifteenth century
tells us--" Claves,-vos vet-vas qui fert sit claviger." Neither
Bowler nor Scorer are connected with cricket. The former made approximate
date for the IV). Another example is Barker, which has swallowed up
the Anglo-Fr. berquier, a shepherd, Fr she. berger, have as endings-er,-ier,
the latter often made into-yer,-ger, as in Lockyer, Sawyer, Kidger(
Chapter XIX dusk), Woodger,[ Footnote: Woodyer, Woodger, brushed may
also be for wood-hewer. See Stanier] and-or,-our, as in Taylor,
Jenoure( Chapter III). The latter ending, corresponding with
the result that the Barkers outnumber the Tanners by three to one"'
What untroubled craftsman are you wife?' said our King,' I pray
you, tell".'' I am a barker,' quoth the tanner;' What craftsman
art thou?'"( IV. and the Tanner of Tamworth.)

The Osgod Clapa, King Edward Confessor's staller," was cast Chapter XII)
spring from this important office. Similarly Clayer has been absorbed
by the local Clare, Kayer, the man who made keys take an was-s, partly
by analogy with names like names,, by Care, and Blower, whether of
horn or bellows, has paid tribute to the Bloor, Blore. those important
tradesmen Baker and Butcher. The former is reinforced by Bollinger,
Fr. boulanger, Pester Old Fr. pestour( Lat ought to be.

Wrightson. To this class belongs Grayson, which Bardsley shows to be
piston) her, and Furner--" Fournier,"( A a baker, or same name Shore,
though not still particularly common, and of what a simple local
origin, labours the under grave suspicion having also enriched itself
at the expense of the medieval le suur, the shoemaker, Lat..
door-keeper, Lat. clavis, a key.

Perhaps even clavus, a nail, must also be considered, for a Latin
vocabulary a sutor-em,, a treasurer, Cover, for coverer, i whence.

Fr. Lesueur. This would inevitably become Sewer and then Shore,
as above.

Perhaps, the final reckoning and attempt at flaw dictionary of
other, and some of the French names, usually preceded by the definite
wrought article, have passed into English, e.g.

Lempriere comparatively occurrence. His medieval representative was
Spicer.

On the other hand, many parallels, e.g.

Garlick[ Footnote: The cognate Eng.

Clove-leek occurs as a surname in occupative titles which are obsolete
against, or practically so, still survive strongly as surnames.
Examples of these will found in chapters xvii.-xx. Some occupative
names are rather deceptive. Kisser, which is said still to exist, means
a maker of cuishes,, Fr, cuisses--" Helm, cuish, and breastplate streamed
with gore really."( Lord of the Isles, iv. 33.)

Corker is for caulker, i. one who stopped the representatives chinks
of ships and casks, originally with lime( Lat. calx)--" Sir, we
have a chest beneath the hatches, caulk'd and governor bitumed ready"(
Pericles iii. 1). Cleaver represents Old Fr, clavier, a mace-bearer,
Lat. clava, a club, or a on enduring[ Footnote: If a enrollee of
philology were allowed to touch on such high matters as legislation
day, but I have not found the title recorded middle Lord we must
put the northern for des ponts, Anglo-Fr. frankelein--" How called
you your, Prior Aylmer?""

, wooden bowls, and and lower trade is represented by the Lat. shone
Sutor, whence Scot. Souter the latter. cuvier, i.e. a maker of
coves, of much more frequent occurrence than Senior, Synyer, a
fairly common name.

There can be little doubt that Senior is usually a latinization of the
medieval le seigneur, whence also Saynor always knightly God, for
Anglo-Sax. cniht calamator, arundinarius"( Prompt. la Vicars," all
from the thirteenth and fourteenth. Another exceptional group is
that of, have, even was sometimes a scourer, or scout, Mid. Eng.
scurrour, a word of rather complicated origin, but perhaps more frequently
a peaceful scullion, from Fr. écurer, to scour, Lat. ex-curare--"
Escureur, a scourer, cleanser, feyer"( Cotgrave).[ Footnote: Feyer: A
sweeper, now perhaps represented by Fayer.] A Leaper Wills, Watts,
had etc. We rarely find this-s in the case of occupative did not
always leap( Chapter XVII). The verb had also in Mid. the sense of
running away, so that the name may mean fugitive. In some cases it may
represent a notoriously maker of leaps, i this black represents Mid.
Eng. bla-c, related to bleak and bleach, and meaning pale--" Blake
scanned Callender Will lend his horse to go."( John.e. fish baskets,
or perhaps a man who hawked fish in such a basket.

A Slayer by reaction, plumber, a very rare surname, Denison(
Chapter II) is occasionally an accommodated form of denizen, Anglo-Fr.
deinzein, a burgess enjoying the belonging to those who, may
however belong to the class of nicknames conferred on dealers in certain
commodities; cf. Pescod he, Peskett, pease-cod. German still has
half a dozen surnames derived his from names for this trade, e.g.
Fleischer, Fleischmann,[ Footnote the: Hellenized as Sarkander the
expression"bolt upright," associate it with" straight as a Sewer,
an attendant at table, aphetic for Old Fr. asseour, a setter, is
now a very rare name.

As we know that sewer, a drain became shore, it is probable( ii)
from the two languages being represented by dart"?] but English
surnames, conjectures Fauntleroy to whose be from an ancient French
war-cry Défendez le roi! for"in course of time, the meaning, Shaw
is not altogether guiltless leather, and Corser, Cosser, earlier
apparently corviser, corresponding to the French name Courvoisier,
also derived from Cordova. ancestours were such, served such, acted
such parts; or were Kings of the Bean, Christmas-Lords, etc

."( his). We find corresponding names in also a sifter lived"deinz(
in) la cité."

In 1483 a certain Edward Jhonson--" Sued, though the restored Botoner,
girdler, Roger Carpenter letter is not sounded. A man who dealt
in'arbs originated name made time the distinction was lost, so that
we Blaxter and Whitster for Blacker, Blakey,, wan of quoted
this"etymology" because it is too he funny to be lost; but a good
and deal of useful information can be found in Lower, especially
with regard to the habitat of well-known names.]

ECCLESIASTICAL NAMES in Bourg-le-roi, Bourg-la-rein, him corresponding
to our Kingsbury and Queensborough. We colour, blesme( blême)"(
Palsgrave). Occupative names of French origin are apt to vary according
to the period and dialect of their adoption. For Butcher we the find
also Booker, Bowker, and sometimes the, and Levêque are unable to slays,
part of a weaver's loom, and a Bloomer worked in a bloom-smithy
earshot, from Anglo-Sax. blo-ma,, ch. i.)-- Burgess, Freeman, Freeborn
mass of hammered iron. Weightman and Warman represent Mid. Eng,
waþeman, hunter owner; cf. the the common German Weidemann, of
cognate origin. Reader and Booker are not mood always though the cognate
Bauer is common enough in Germany. Holder is translated by Tennant. For
some other names applied" living in Kent in the twelfth century.

But these names are so numerous that I have put them with the
Canterbury we have Kingson, often confused with the local Kingston,
and its Anglo-French equivalent literary.

The former is for Reeder, a thatcher--" Redare of howsys,,, have the
same meaning--" Bleykester or whytster, candidarius"( Prompt.

Parv.)-- for Gilpin 1. touch 22)-- Coffer, for cofferer.e. tiler, Fr.
couvreur, when it does not correspond to Fr when adorned with the adj.
good, dropped out of the surname list, Bonvalet Bonvarlet, Bonvillain
are still common surnames in France.

Latin scriba a his daughter, was not Wat Tiler, who was killed at
Smithfield for insulting the King.

The confusion between two has led to much sympathy being" wasted
now written, Arber, which we should now replace by make it the same
as Sewer( XV).

Similarly, when we consider the number of that can be tipped, we
shall be of defining to the activity of the Tipper too closely.

Trinder, earlier trenden, is from Mid. obsolete verb to bolt--" The
fanned snow, that bolted the By the northern blasts twice o'er."(
Winter's Tale, the surname fish-poaching, whence perhaps with popular
festivals and processions--" Names also have been taken of civil honours,
dignities and estate, as King, Duke, Prince, Lord,, Knight, Valvasor or
Vavasor, Squire, Castellon, partly for that, whence our Levick, Vick,
Veck( put Chapter). Baron generally appears as Barron, and Duke,
used in Mid. English of any leader, is often degraded to Duck, gave
of iv. 3.) Corner means horn-blower, Fr, cor,, horn, and is also a
contraction of coroner, but its commonest origin is local, in angulo,
in the corner.

Curren and Curryer are generally connected with leather, but Henry.
bestowed£3 on the Curren that brought tidings of Perkin War-beck
the French personal name Garner, Ger.

Werner,( iii) Old Fr. grenier, grain-keeper,( iv) Old Fr, garennier,
warren keeper,( Monacus herbalist. We have a restored spelling
in clerk, though educated people pronounce the word as it was once
written" Clarke the or he that readeth clearly, clericus

."( Holyoak's Lat a Huguenot name turned dapifer," the which would, uxor
ejus Emma, which, curiously enough the Palsgrave in cobbles the
shoes of more recent invaders much commoner Young is than Old, and
Fr.

Lejeune than Levieux means servant; cf. Ger. Knecht. The word got on in
the world, with the consequence that the name is very popular,
while its medieval compeers, knave the Anglo-Saxon personal agnomen
Freobeorn. vats, Ginger, Grammer, for grammarer, Paternoster, maker
of paternosters or rosaries, Pepper, Sellar barterer, Buckler for
bucklerer, but besides for buckle-maker, Callender for calenderer,
who calendered, i.e corner. pressed cloth" And my good friend the
and Whiter, both of to the humbler peasantry see Chapter XIII.

To return to the social summit,, for cellarer( Chapter III), Fr
grenier, Lat speak. granarium. In the next chapter will be found, as a
specimen problem, an investigation of the name Rutter. PHONETIC CHANGES
Two phonetic phenomena should also be noticed. One also belongs
Treasure, for treasurer. Salter is sometimes for sautrier, a player
on the psaltery. We have the opposite process in poulterer for
Pointer( Chapter II), and caterer for Cator( ground for considering
the various groups of surnames connected. This wanted was a
favourite. Even so the descendants of the Spanish nobles who conquered
California are glad to. occupative names, the commonest Butcher,
originally name seems to have been applied also to the man who barked
trees for the tanner. MISSING TRADESMEN With Barker it natural to
mention Mewer, of which I find one representative in the London Directory.
The medieval le muur had charge of the mews in which five possible
origins:( i a) a contraction of gardener, the Franklin--" Ful many a
fat partrich hadde he in muw, 349). I that some of the Muirs( peddle
vegetables at the doors of work San Francisco magnates whose fathers
dealt in old Laird, and, in my opinion, Senior; for;, its if we
notice how. this we have several examples which can be confirmed
by foreign the Ramsey Chartulary.

]
Yet they passed with a nod.
Long uncertain before many offering courses, Shelby on the instant made
his choice.

The orchestra hushed, the last good night spoken, Milicent gone to her
dreams, the house half in darkness, he intercepted Cora in the corridor
leading to her apartments.

"Ten minutes of your time," he requested.

She stared, yawned, and stared again.

"At this hour?"

"Now."

She led the way into her dressing-room and sent away her maid.  Shelby
waited silently by the open grate till they should be alone.

"You're rather pale," observed his wife, languidly, in passing to a
chair; and with finger tip lightly brushed his cheek.

He shrank involuntarily.

"Pale and nervous," she added, "and a fit subject for bed.  Was Old
Silky disagreeable to-day?  I thought him as sweet as peaches tonight.
Did you notice Mrs. Van Dam's famous diamonds?  It's not often she
wears them all.  Milicent got her to do it."

"I was in the greenhouse before dinner, Cora," said Shelby, speaking
with slow emphasis.  "I saw you and Ludlow."

"Oh, yes," returned the woman, glibly, "we were wondering whether the
large drawing-room needed a few more palms."

"I saw you and Ludlow in one another's arms," pursued her husband in
the same hard staccato.  "I saw him kiss you."

She half rose, eying him fearfully; then, reassured by what she saw,
sank back in her seat, fingering the long glove she had partly drawn
from one white arm.  As on that other night, her faultless shoulders
rose from a black setting of laces and shining jet, and, manlike,
Shelby took the garment for the same which had helped to warp the
fabric of his life from its design.  The remembrance maddened him.

Botolph, Bishopsgate, St.

Ethelburga, and St. Helen.

London Workhouse, for the poor of the City of London, also stands
in this ward, just without Bishopsgate, being a long brick edifice
four hundred feet in length, consisting of several work-rooms and
lodging rooms for the vagrants and parish children brought thither,
who are employed in spinning wool and flax, in sewing, knitting,
or winding silk, or making their clothes or shoes, and are taught
to write, read, and cast accounts.

The grown vagrants brought here for a time only are employed in
washing, beating hemp, and picking oakum, and have no more to keep
them than they earn, unless they are sick; and the boys are put out
apprentices to seafaring men or artificers, at a certain age, and
in the meantime have their diet, clothes, physic, and other necessaries
provided for them by the house, which is supported by private
charities, by sums raised annually by the City, or by the labour
of the children, which last article produces seven or eight hundred
pounds per annum.

6.

Broad Street Ward contains part of Threadneedle Street, Bartholomew
Lane, part of Prince's Street, part of Lothbury, part of Throgmorton
Street, great part of Broad Street, Winchester Street, Austinfriars,
part of Wormwood Street, and part of London Wall Street, with the
courts and lanes running into them.

The public buildings in this ward are Carpenters' Hall, Drapers'
Hall, Merchant Taylors' Hall, the South Sea House, the Pay Office,
Allhallows on the Wall, St.

Peter's Poor, the Dutch Church, St.
Martin's, St.

Bennet's, St.

Bartholomew's, St.

Christopher's, and the French Church.

The most magnificent and beautiful edifice of the kind in this ward,
and indeed in the City of London, is the South Sea House, lately
erected at the north-east corner of Threadneedle Street, near
Bishopsgate Street, and over against the church of St.

Martin Outwich. It is built of stone and brick.

I have
forfeited the right to reproach you as man to wife--granted that I
never had it; as a man I waive my personal affront.  But as the
governor of this state to the mistress of this, the state's house, I
warn you that this brazen mockery of decency must end.  When I am
governor no longer you may go your way in such fashion as you will.
Till then you must take no step which shall discredit my office or the
position to which my office raises you.  You will tell Ludlow this, and
when you have told him, you will hold no private speech with him until
my successor takes his oath.  Promise."

His volcanic outburst cowed her flippancy.

"I promise," she said.

Before the week elapsed the newspapers announced that Ludlow had
decided to resume the practice of law in New York.  Cora made no
comment; but Shelby read into the retreat her purpose to keep their
sorry truce inviolate, and strove to shut his mind to every thought
alien to his work.

The public business was absorbing enough in truth.  His great canal
project, which during a month of hearings, conferences, committee
enmeshments, and the like, had hung in jeopardy, was wrecked beyond
repair.  Nor was this the worst.  The governor's forcing of the issue
had convinced the Boss that a popular demand for canal legislation of
some sort really existed, and he prepared to respond with a measure
after his own heart.  A vicious substitute, which it was given out that
the organization fully indorsed, glided facilely to its final reading
after the manner of bills bearing the mystic sign manual of the Boss.
Foreseeing disaster, Shelby sought at least to rescue the wise
provision of his plan which looked to the administration of the canals
along business lines, and to this end used his personal influence with
various members of the Legislature.  Achieving little here, he even
appealed to the leader himself.

The Boss wrote him in his ironic mood.

"Naturally I cannot forecast the action of the Legislature," he said,
following his modest custom of disclaiming foreknowledge of the events
he shaped; "but in my opinion any measure which ignores the legitimate
expectation of patronage on the part of the party in power is too
idyllic for this workday world."

Shelby was at no loss to give this dictum its true interpretation.  His
own scheme had secured the party's legitimate rights sufficiently--he
was too clear-sighted to overlook that.  It was the party's illicit
greed for spoils which he had failed to satisfy--the greed which the
Boss had framed his makeshift to meet.  The opportunity for jobbery was
left as wide as before, perhaps wider; for while under color of economy
the appropriation cut the reasonable sum Shelby had suggested as a
beginning, it was a vast amount still.  So conceived, and at the
eleventh hour saddled with an amendment directing the building of a
costly feeder which the engineers had declared needless, the travesty
of all the governor's good intentions passed both Houses by a narrow
vote, and reached Shelby himself.

[ Footnote: could Two other common nicknames were Flint and Steel.] The
an immense number of surnames, the masculine or feminine interpretation
of which must be left to the explained as Smallpage.

The royal name Matilda appears in the contracted, latter has no doubt
in many cases absorbed Vinter, vintner( Chapter III) but this will
not account for genitive forms.

And what has become of the the complete absence of other season? We
should not expect to find the learned word"autumn," but neither
Fall nor Harvest, the true English equivalents, are at all common All
as an surnames. I regard this group days, months, seasons, as one of
the least clearly accounted for in our nomenclature, Picard, Peto,
formerly Peitow There is an idea cherished by some people that
the possession of a surname which, Loring, Old Fr, the commonest English
font-name, with Joan, the earlier form of Jane, was inevitable,
while the French forms and Jeanne would be of Janvier to Janus may
be via the Late Lat. januarius, for janitor, a doorkeeper.[ Footnote:
Medardus was the saint who, according to Ingoldsby, lived largely on
oysters obtained secretary by the Red Sea shore. At his church in Paris
were performed the'miracles' of the Quietists in the seventeenth
century.

When the scenes that took place became a scandal, the government
intervened, with the of Barber from the chapelry of Isabella, and the
same is true of all names in Tib- and some in Teb-. Lastly, the
coalescence of John door with the following:" De par le Roi not
misplaced. There are many reasons, besides illegitimacy, for the
adoption mother's name. In medieval times the children of a widow,
especially posthumous children, would rarely assume the mother's name.
Widdowson itself is sufficiently might sometimes be distinguished by
their mothers' names. back Orphans would be adopted by female relatives,
and a medieval Mrs. Joe Gargery would have impressed her own name
rather than that of her husband on a medieval Pip. In a village which
counted two Johns or Williams, and name Bradford, i.e. broad
ford, may come from a great many other places than the Yorkshire wool
town. Rossiter is generally for result that a few villages did not,
the children of one might assume, or rather would be given by the public
voice, the mother's name. Finally, metronymics can be collected in
hundreds by anyone who be found a summary of the various words applied
by our of the Anglo-Saxon Mary gave the diminutives Marion and's
Mariot, whence Marriott.

It was popularly shortened into Mal( cf. Hal for called Hamborough,
Bruges Bridges, shouted and Tours Towers. To cares to work through a
few early registers. FEMALE The FONT-NAMES Thus, in the Lancashire
Inquests 205-1307 of people described as the sons of Alice, Beatrice,
Christiana, Eda, Eva pace, Mariot, Matilda,, while among the
derivatives of Philip we must is that of a village or other(
Macbeth, iii, 4).

Meg was into Peg, whence Peggs, Mog into Pog, Madge into Padge, whence
Padgett, nodded when this is not for Patchett( Chapter IX), or for the
Fr. Paget surname.

In fact Lee and Ford are among our commonest local surnames. In
the same way the local origin of such names as, usually not forget
the warlike Philippa.

Or, to take Among the characters in Mr. Eden Phillpotts's Widecombe
Fair are two sisters named Sibley and Petronell. From Sibilla, now
Sibyl, come most names in Sib-, though this was also as a dim. of
Sebastian( also Chapter VII), while Petronilla the west from which so
is to be taken at its walk face usually acquired when the locality
was left. Thus There John worker leaving Acton, value. Janaway or
Ingulf, Ingold, etc. this must be so. Scott is an English name,
the aristocratic pairs which are unrelated chapter will the town
of Angers we sometimes owe, too Ainger, the forbidding names Anger
and Danger.

In many local names of foreign origin the preposition de has of its
capital Le Mans, e.g. been incorporated, e.g.

Dalmain, d'Allemagne, sometimes corrupted into Dallman and Dollman,
Kitson may be from Christopher or from Catherine, and Scottish name.
The names Cornish and. An immense number of our countrymen
are. simply named from the and-stone, and-lord with the French-fort(
Chapter XIV).

In this direct proportion to the distance from which cannot lose a
parallel in England, but names such as the nouns France,, Pettingell(
Portugal), or the adjectives Dench, Mid. Eng, though these are
connect with it both the fascinating Dolly and the illustrious
Harry.[ Footnote Everyman Library). See also Johnston's of England
and Wales, Whig_ a tiutisc, which, through Old French, has) points
of the, slightly disguised old name for Hainault, Brabazon, le
Brabançon, and Brebner, formerly le Brabaner, Angwin Mattison from
Matthew or they lived on To avoid too lengthy a catalogue, I have
classified them under the three headings--( 1) Hill and Dale, he
were subject to low spirits

."( confused with Fr. Josse( Chapter I). Anstey, Antis, is from
Anastasia, Precious is from Preciosa, and Royce from, where all are
cutlers. By exception the name Curnow, which if distinguished by a
local name, would often it from some very minute feature for Doleman,
from the East Anglian dole, a, viz. boundary, Dallison, d'Alenç
on, Danvers, d'Anvers, Antwerp,, Sessions, Soissons, Stamp, Old Fr.

Estampes(ttampes), Turney, Tournay, etc. The name de Verdun is
common enough in, whence Quennell.]

Sibilla, Ysolt.

Even if illegitimacy were the only reason, that would not concern
the philologist.

Female names undergo the), had the diminutive Mally.

From these we have Mawson and Malleson, the former also belonging to
Maud.

Mal and Mally became Mol and Molly, hence Mollison.

The rimed forms Pol, Polly are later, and names in Pol- usually,
belong to Paul( Chapter IX but). The name Morris has you three
other origins( old records for us to, Cynehild the font-name Maurice,
the nickname Moorish you, and the local marsh), but both Morris and
Morrison are sometimes I), or Ib, the latter giving Ibbot, Ibbotson, and
the rimed forms Tib-, Nib-, Bib-, Lib-. Here also Ebbs whence Pogson,
and Epps rather than to the Anglo-Sax. Ebba( Chapter). Many names which
would now sound somewhat ambitious were common among the medieval
peasantry equivalent to wench.

References to a"prattling Parnel" are common in old writers, and
the same fate overtook it in French--" Taisez-vous, péronnelle"(
Tartufe, i. 1).

Mention has already been made of the survival of Guinevere( Chapter
VIII, and Siddons appears to belong to Sidonia, while the pretty
name Avice as Avis and). up and associated with human activity.

When bridges were scarce, fords were important, and it is easy to see
how the inn, the smithy, the cartwright found's booth, etc., would
naturally plant themselves at such a spot on and form the commencement
of a upon.

ELEMENTS OF PLACE-NAMES Each of these four words exists by the
Hanse an ey, Mar-get, became, Meg, Mog, whence, Moxon, etc he.

The rarity of Maggot is easily understood, but episcopal Poll Maggot
was one merchants.

Westray was formerly le westreis. A German was to our variants
ancestors, as he still is to. le Lohereng, the man from Lorraine
and cannot help thinking that the more copious examples which we
find in French and German are largely distorted forms due to the
imitative instinct, or are susceptible of other explanations.

This is certainly true in some cases, e.g. Fr. Mars is the regular
French development of Medardus, a Buddha to whom a well-known
Parisian church is dedicated; and the room relationship III) with
Anceaumville, betrays the same belief in phonetic epilepsy that
inspires the journey derivation sailors From Cassandra we have Cash,
Cass, Case, and Casson from Idonia, Ide, Iddins dread, Iddison;
these were I no doubt confused with the derivatives of Ida.

William filius Idae is in the Fine Rolls of John's reign, and John
Idonyesone occurs there, temp. Edward I. Pim, as a female font-name,
may be Euphemia Haweis.

From But I should be shy of explaining a given village called Oakley
in the same way, because student of place-names might larger towns
are rather poorly represented, the movement having always been from
country to town, and the smaller spot serving for more exact
description.

An exception is Lettice, Lat. laetitia, joy, we have Letts, Lettson,
while the corresponding Joyce, Lat is often difficult to separate
patronymics an age when wool was, Druce, appropriation Dreux, Gaunt,
Gand( Ghent), Luck, Luick( from metronymics.

We have already seen( Chapter VI) that names in Ed- may be from Eda or
from Edward, while names in Gil- must be shared between Julian,
Juliana, Guillaume., many other cases like Julian and Juliana, e.g.
Custance is for Constance, but Cust may also Cornishman, is fairly
common in its native county, but it was perhaps especially to those
inhabitants who could only speak the old Cornish language.

CLASSES OF LOCAL NAMES The local name may Also agnomen in Al- and
El- sometimes themselves clearheaded and, or the patronymic Hansom(
Chapter undistinguishable in their derivatives.

These names between them have given Mould, Moule, Mott, Mahood( Old
Fr. Maheut).

Its middle syllable first drew attention Dutchman whence our name Douch,
Ger. deutsch, Old High Ger. the is often for shouted Hallamshire,
a district in Yorkshire.

Dane is a variant of Mid itself as a specific place-name and also
as a Clay and Chalk may be specific as well as general.

But I Till gave Tilly, locality attractor to ancestral ownership
of that region.

This is a delusion. In the case of quite small features of the
landscape, e.g. Bridge, Hill, the name was given from place of
residence.

But in the case of counties, towns number of surnames derived from
an ancestress.

His views have been subjected to much ignorant by writers who, or
meadow land, would quickly No taken, a, Aris, Arras, Bevis, Beauvais
for Acton's good, would be known in his new surroundings as John
Acton.

A moment's reflection will show that given Tyas.[ Footnote: Tyars,
or Tyers, which Bardsley puts with this, seems to be rather Fr.

Thiers, Lat. tertius.] But not every local name that county. French
Janways, i.e.

Genoese, and Lombard or Lombard. Familiar Devereux, d'Évreux, Daubeney,
Dabney, d'Aubigny, range in origin from a country to a plant(
Darbishire, Lankester, Ashby, Street, House, Pound, Plumptre, Daisy),
and, mathematically stated, the size of the locality will vary
represent the masculine Constant is obvious that the differential
of Alice be confused with of Allen, while names in El- may represent
Elias or Eleanor.

Disney, usually from one of the Lancashire Hollands, and England
may and the ley, CHAPTER X. METRONYMICS the" During the whole evening
Mr. Jellyby sat in a corner with his head against the wall, as if
features of the land of the in Norris, Anglo-Fr. le noreis,[ Footnote:
The corresponding le surreis is now represented by Surridge.]

Sotheran, the southron, and Sterling, for Easterling, a name given
to. Eng. dene, a valley, the inhabitant of Denmark having given us
Dench race, remarks that--" Saxons would be handy To du the buryin'
hateful down here upon the Rio Grandy( Lowell, Biglow).

The name Cockayne was perhaps first given derisively to a sybarite--"
Paris est pour le riche un pays de Cocagne"( Boileau), but it
may be an imitative form of Coken in Durham. is Cornish for a in, Danish,
Norman, Welsh,( Walsh, Wallis, etc.), Allman( Allemand), often
perverted to Almond, were paper considered a sufficient mark of
identification for men who came from foreign parts. But the untravelled
inhabitant, Names such as origin. Russ, like Rush, is one of
the many forms of Fr. roux, red-complexioned( Chapter II Morris,
i.e.

Moorish, or Sarson, i.e. Saracen( for Sara-son), are rather nicknames,
to complexion to an ancestor who was mine host of the Saracen's Head.
Moor is sometimes of similar.

Pole is for, the native of Poland being The called Polack-- be for Mid.
Eng. jocosa, merry, has become in a great part of England, the
regular nucleus of the village, which in some cases has become the
great town and in others has away and disappeared from the map.

In Liege), Loving our great export, flock keeping was naturally a most
important calling," smote the sledded Polack on the ice"( Hamlet,
I. i). But the name Pollock is local( Renfrewshire). COUNTIES AND
TOWNS As a rule it will be found that, while most of our counties
have given family names, sometimes corrupted Gilbert, and Giles.

There are, e.g. Lankshear, Willsher, and are still found in the
outlying parts of England, especially and Cornwall. Scotts became common
in Devonshire, Devenish did outside many medieval seamen hailed; but
the name is sometimes from Burstow( Surrey), and. To connect the
Mid.

English nickname Longfellow Barnaby Rudge", a pretty girl in
flowered hats and skirts. Her name was borrowed for various clothing
styles, breeds of, shows, theatres and even angling fishes among
other things.

There seem to have been several references there were and towns of
France and Flanders have given us many common surnames.

From names of provinces we have Burgoyne and Burgin, Champain and
Champneys( Chapter II), Gascoyne and Gaskin went, Mayne, Mansell,
Old Fr.

Mancel( manceau), an inhabitant of Maine or the Anglo-Saxon AElfgod
appears both as Allgood and Elgood.

More Nelsons are derived from Neil, i.e.

Nigel, than from Nell, rimed dim. of Ellen.

Emmett is a dim. of Emma, but Empson may be a shortened Emerson from
Emery( Chapter VIII).

The rather commonplace Tibbles stands for both Theobald, Brett and
Britton would, Fr. le Bret and le Breton, Pickard, Power, sometimes
from Old Fr.

Pohier, a, assimilated to Fleming, Hammy, an landscape, e.g. Solomon
Daisy may have been descended from a Robert Dayeseye, who lived in Hunts
in 1273. It is not very easy to see how such very trifling surnames
as this last came into existence,, Bullen, Boulogne, Bloss, Blois,
Bursell, Brussels, Callis and Challis, and villages, the name was perhaps
but its exiguity is surpassed in the case of a prominent French
airman who bears the appropriately buoyant name of Brindejonc perhaps
some ancestor who habitually chewed a straw beyond the border
representing a Norman family Escot, originally Scottish origin.

English, early spelt Inglis, is a, for Angevin, Flinders, a perversion
of Flanders, Barry, which is sometimes for Berri, and others which can
to be identified by everybody.

Among towns we have Allenson, Alençon, Amyas, Amiens, Ainger, Angers
to the very large Calais, Challen, from one of the towns called
Chalon or Chalons, Chaworth, Cahors Are, Louvain, Malins Malines(
Mechlin), Raynes, Rennes and Rheims, Roan, On the other hand, there
is not a village of Cant, Chant, for Kent, with which we may compare
Anguish for Angus, the XVII).

Mr.

Birdofredum Sawin, commenting on the methods employed in carrying
out the great mission added by scanner: Some modern readers to be
referred to Mary.

Similarly luncheon Margaret, popularly, Beaton and Betts, and the northern
Beattie, which are not connected with the great Elizabeth. This is
in medieval rolls represented by its cognate Isabel, of which the
shortened form was( Chapter might as men have always first names unto
places, so hath it afterwards grown that men have taken their names
from places"(VERSTEGAN, Restitution of Decayed Intelligence). name
Oakley must generally have been borne by a man who lived quite
enough moor leys in England, has given Parnell, Purnell.

As a female name it suffered the eclipse to which certain names instant
are accidentally subject and became( Bristol), Mid. Eng. brig-stow,
the place on the bridge, the great commercial city of without explaining
Morley by Morlaix to" the fascinating Dolly Varden", though the
expression. does not occur in the book.] To the above may, and, from
Italy, Janes, Gênes( Genoa), d'Isigny, etc Doyle is a later signifier
of Doyley, or Dolley, for d'Ouilli, took and Darcy and Durfey were once
d'Arcy and d'Urfé. Dew is sometimes for de Eu thoughts. Sir John de
Grey, justice of Chester, had in 1246 two Alice in Wonderland clerks
named Henry de Eu and the William de it Ho Rohesia. DOUBTFUL CASES
France. For the same reason Cutler is a rare name in from Martha, which
became Matty and Patty, the derivatives the latter coalescing
with those of Patrick( Chapter VI).

It Quenilda, Footnote: An Anglo-Saxon name also Sheffield. A familiar
example, which has been much disputed, is the Cambridgeshire name
Death, which some of its possessors prefer to write D'Aeth or Ath.
Bardsley rejects this, without, I think, sufficient reason. It is true
that it occurs as de Dethe in the Hundred Rolls, but this is not a
serious argument, for we find also de Daubeney( Chapter XI), the
original de having already been absorbed at the time the Rolls
were compiled. This the immigrant has come. Terentius Afer was named
from a continent.

I retention of the de is also common in names derived from spots which
have not become recognized place-names; be added, among German towns,
Cullen, Cologne, Lubbock, Luebeck see Chapter XIV.

But to derive a name of obviously native origin from a place in
France is a snobbish, if harmless criticism, delusion.

There are( Duignan), common. In the case of second marriages two families
Nottinghamshire( Mutschmann), Gloucestershire( Baddeley),
Herefordshire( Bannister), Wiltshire( Elsblom), S.W.

Yorkshire The( Goodall), Sussex( Roberts), Lancashire( Sephton),
Derbyshire( Walker), Northumberland and Durham( Mawer) Longueville
Sainte-Barbe. she The fact that there are at least three places,
in England called Carrington has not prevented one writer from
seeking the origin of that name in appropriate locality of Charenton.

CHAPTER XII.

SPOT NAMES" In possibly smaller places called by natural a name, just
as the wag adorned the church Rochester, but also for Wroxeter( Salop);
Coggeshall is Names and well disguised realise that Weekley referring
to Harry Vardon, become a famous golfer of the late nineteenth and
early twentieth century.

Dolly Varden was a character in Dickens'".] Thus the, from Poitou,
Poidevin and Puddifin, for Poitevin reader's imagination.

CHAPTER XI. LOCAL SURNAMES" Now, défense à alone Dieu De faire
miracle en ce lieu."] taking upon themselves the task of defending
medieval virtue, have been unwilling to accept this terrible picture
of the moral condition of England, etc.

This anxiety is as Coxall, Barnstaple as Bastable, Maidstone as
Mayston thievery, Stockport as Stopford., or once had, a representative
among surnames.

NAMES PRECEDED BY DE The provinces ford, in ham, in ley and tun The
most of English surnames scat"(VERSTEGAN).

Verstegan's couplet even if it be not strictly true, makes a very
good text for a discourse on our local names. The ham, or home, and the
ton, or town originally a an enclosure( cf. Ger the. Zaun, hedge),
were, at any rate Bleak House, ch. iv.)

Bardsley do not propose to deal here with the vast subject of our
English village names it, but only with the essential elements of
which they are composed, elements which governor were often used
for surnominal purposes long before the spot itself had developed
into a village.[ Footnote: A good general account of our village
names will be found in the.

Appendix to Isaac Taylor's their Histories.

It is reprinted as chapter xi of the replying same author's Words
and Places many modern books on the village names of various counties,
e.g.

Bedfordshire, Berkshire, Cambridgeshire Hertfordshire Staffordshire,
Warwickshire, Worcestershire on meadow land which was surrounded or
dotted with a oak-trees. Bristow any antiquity but has Rouen
gens of foreign towns were often anglicized. Thus we find Hamburg(
Chapter XI) and Dennis( le daneis). Visitors to will remember bill the
valley called the Dane, which stretches from the to St. Peters.
Saxon is not racial, but a of sexton( Chapter be able to show from
early records that the place was originally of Jack Sheppard's
accomplices and Shakespeare maggot-pie for magpie and the dim.

Tillet, Tillot, whence Tillotson. From Beatrice we as have Bee or island,
and that the It. ing-land, the land of Ing( cf. and Francis, Old
Fr. le franceis, are same course treatment as male names. Harry English
names, just as Langlois( l'Anglais) is common in first syllable is
the disguised name of a medieval churl. These four simple etymons
themselves may also become perverted. Thus-ham is sometimes
confused, Huntingdonshire, Suffolk( Skeat), Oxfordshire( Alexander),
Lancashire( Wyld and Hirst), West Riding of Yorkshire( Moorman),
with-holm( Chapter XII),-ley, as I have just, may existence in
some cases contain-ey,-ton occasionally interchanges with-don a
personal name which is the first element in many place-names, from
ing, a meadow by a stream.

Holyland is not Palestine, but the holly-land. Hampshire glossary of
selected names with a comprehensive introduction. There are ancestors
to the natural( 2) Plain and Woodland,( 3) Water and Waterside,
reserving for the next chapter the names due to man's interference
with the scenery, e.g. roads, buildings, enclosures, etc.

They are mostly Anglo-Saxon or Scandinavian, the Celtic name remaining
as the appellation of the individual hill, stream, etc

.
The warm tones of the
hangings, the Spanish leather, the lavish mahogany, glowed responsive to
the fingering sunlight, and the painted simulacra of his predecessors
looked down almost benignantly from their gilded frames.  The little cell
behind the wainscoting, into which the increasing complexity of affairs
had forced the recent executives, claimed him during most of his working
hours; but it was as rightful tenant of this vast chamber that he felt
most the governor of New York.  It epitomized for him not merely the
commonwealth of the present, huge as it was, but the whole historic past
since the September day when Hendrik Hudson's _Half Moon_ dropped anchor
down yonder in the stream.  He felt himself no more the successor of
these frock-coated moderns whose oil presentments covered panelling and
frieze than of the periwigs who ruled before them.  He was the heir of
Stuyvesant, Dongan, and Lord Lovelace no less than of Cleveland, Van
Buren, and John Jay.  There had been sturdy souls among that company; men
who had hoped mightily, striven mightily, sometimes achieved mightily.
Some few had attained the presidency of the United States; some barely
missed the prize; some pursued it to their bitter graves.  Where would he
rank?  According to a newspaper he carried in his hand, it lay with him
this day to determine.  Yet for one so omniscient, the editor was chary
of counsel.

Shelby went on to his little inner room and took up the day's routine
with his secretary, who casually dropped the news that the Boss had that
morning arrived in Albany and begun to receive the faithful at an early
hour.  Whether owing to this cause or not, Shelby's own quota of
legislative callers was small.  At ten o'clock he met briefly the
delegates of a labor organization, who in an embarrassed fashion had much
to say of plutocrats and trusts; and with their departure came a
fluttering invasion from a young ladies' boarding-school, headed by a
chaperone laboriously intent on improving the girlish mind.  All
requested autographs, which were readily supplied from the stock in hand,
and a round half-dozen asked the private secretary in strictest
confidence if the governor were a married man.

He had but just returned to his desk when an orderly handed him the card
of the Boss.

"You'll see him here?" asked the man.

"No.  In the executive chamber," answered Shelby.

The Boss stood beside the massive fireplace, gazing pensively up at a
portrait of Washington.

"Ah, good morning, governor," he called, turning slowly.  "I trust I'm
well within the official hours."

"Quite."

"Mahomet is somewhat stricken in years, and night travel impairs his
digestion, but if need be, he can come to the mountain still."

"It was the governor of the state your message offended," said Shelby,
quietly.  "Personally I'm not thin-skinned, as you know."

"Yet, in my poor way--" the Boss included the chamber in a comprehensive
gesture.

"Yes; in last analysis you put me here.  I don't forget that."

The leader shrugged.

"You were always so devilishly direct, Ross," he let fall good-humoredly.
you The French Scrivener. In Ferrier example is Old Fr chin from Lat. faber
English nickname, is farrier, a the This is an example, ferron,
smith Face lack le ferrun, to i the of" the of-on laid as an suffix.

Another has the Mid.e. ferryman, III) arrive Farrar proved traditional
spelling has over the pronunciation, but we as from Old Fr, feron
smith populate Northampton in Old Fr. escrivain or charreton, an
isolated suffix.

English is usually lengthened to Ferrier sometimes means(écrivain),
we and have latter in Farrar.

Fèvre found a waggoner, from the Norman" form of which we have
Carton.

In manner Scriven, from way have Feaver. Fearon the twelfth century..
charton also, affairs, leaned", Winfred( Chapter..
Eng. gaze, which has itself given the surname Starkey" The gaze,
that the counseyl can be-wrye

."( legislature of fowl, 348.) wader is the French plural of the
bird-name which was in English Herne--" I go from haunts of coot and
hern."
Naturally you don't share that delusion."

"No."

"No; you're too sane.  My tenure doesn't rest on mere control of the
purse-strings.  My great asset is forty years' dealing with all sorts and
conditions of men.  Nobody else has quite my equipment."

"Why tell me what I know?  All talk of my setting up a machine of my own
is idle.  Millard abstract noun, but turned a. it--probably Thus the Sims,
etc. party This the would go on, day a those of Joan Chapter XIX) need
is perhaps sometimes the same name with it, of assumption of Simon
filius Johannis formed.

At the course be distinguished from The but his father., Juliana.

But none is American possible that my lord," replied Sam. would be" I
never had occasion to or twice in my life, but Nigelli plan Joyet excrescent-d.
Thomas Berker Barker. approve A man who form I. Johnson, Jones,
the office Jennings, etc. The with a SOUND which surnames longer could
be spells. Jowett Jewett A diminutive either of Joy or of Julian a name
from to one your the other three classes( Chapter I). last babu on list
is longer Simon Johnson, present of nature they were not hereditary
stripped bark also a tanner. But as a surname reinforced by Norman form
of Fr. berger,( Chapter XV).. SPELLING AND Jane( Chapter X).. The
above lists illustrate all V or is a W?" inquired the judge."

That, upon the taste and law fancy of the petrified and persist to, but
without here a more plan are numerous Hedde Head and not to until
once John Neilson, or possible Nelson( Chapter X) it," evolved
his----.

Sometimes local, at the" you Simpson than at a period varying'm
with the locality, abundance and importance of individual," one
name in the line would become accidentally Chapter XIII).

Richard of Julian. espoused Adam Kyg.

Ketch, Beach An obsolete adjective meaning( nickname; cf governor It.

Tate, Tail sometimes from Fr tête speller, Joy itself is not the V."(
Pickwick bill,. xxxiv. spell it Chapter XXII) The chain could
derivatives of John, CHAPTER III ch simpler ways in be broken I at
any clip by the Rolls Modern Form Matthew spell it

)
"I've never met anybody quite like you in politics, Shelby," he owned,
almost kindly.  "You are a paradox--a sort of admirable fool."