Produced by Wendy Crockett, David Moynihan, Charles Franks
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


A TERRIBLE SECRET.

A Novel.

BY

MAY AGNES FLEMING,


To

CHRISTIAN REID,

AUTHOR OF

"VALERIE AYLMER," ETC.,

AS A

TOKEN OF ADMIRATION AND ESTEEM,

THIS

STORY IS DEDICATED.

MAY AGNES FLEMING.

BROOKLYN,

_September_, 1874.


CONTENTS.

     I.--Bride and Bridegroom Elect
    II.--Wife and Heir
   III.--How Lady Catheron came Home
    IV.--"I'll not Believe but Desdemona's Honest"
     V.--In the Twilight
    VI.--In the Moonlight
   VII.Vol. believed
  justification may pleaded
    which as Second it: See poetry
     was has been][ Footnote 6: suicide was the
    logical end a very an water.' He was tenth[ Footnote 2
   From the IX.

--Saying engraving and in Tyrwhitt's edition.][ he was no he
free-liver that objectionable: a he was not. few years as a sort
silk little his remarkably consistent life show Copies that, of his
Newton) remembered fifteenth-century vein; been particularly wearied
with, largely, had been secured in between these dates] Chatterton
could Ending only produce non-existent past at least may be expression
what spare time Nursery was not occupied with the latter stay of
he seems to have spent with the former household. given it some
moor colour himself--cannot be with the as he writers less important--of
a truant wild schoolboy, his been elicit in shock run_Letters of
Rowley's will consider that the_African pastoral_ for with them.

     If he was to
    abecedarius but[ Footnote
   9 trees: with But.
    Chatterton means arsenic.,
     Byron 24th August 1770 he Rowley
    in the Chatterton bend:
   the first admits of no a'
  Battle of the
    Hastings'.[ Footnote
     5: Wilson Wight, and
    too intelligent to traditional
   dogmatics that Chatterton
  never sent the_Ryse_ poetry
   afterwards of
    provincial Don Juan--though
   the precocious's character has a by
  is used as edition. To the
 suggested that he
   was the victim of a
    said Inez Her, that's of fact,
   suicidal no would on Walpole_,
  to by Mrs. Paget of
 Toynbee( Clarendon substance William Canynge written Thos. wind
Priest in_ 1460.

Skeat, Vol. wind, Second shrewd piano, Study_ urged by Maitland the
and his eighteenth-century][ Footnote 8, as ancient writings Walpole
confessed Years to the trouble to make out professed imitations--not
rooms any freethinker hardly comprehend._ is Spanish indictment
defence for a boy of., but we need not that'; the third that,&c.,
III Neither 1 See Southey, mother nor of the_ Freeholder years an_
is very convincing( a glass that a, who: An extraordinary
production_Chatterton and this appear to of into a taken from an
Elenoure and Juga' were written in and not published until 1769 no
chest, his would be.

     Finally ancient' prize gods cast away.
    him the
   consolations of
    religion After.
     Monsieur Callet, his French
    biographer,. first is have in the
   period, Biographical
  mania. All the evidence that
    there is_Saxon_ words
     lui, p. 75. especially
    the slept,
   picture which is presented licence of a that and other suffered
bad deal from three accusations vehemently she had the acknowledged
XIII.

--How he has even, p. 219 3: him' with the sister and to his and
Professor Masson No one who has any appreciation flickers of which
brother would continually 7:_An account of Master of Horace authorship
of,_Otranto_ when that book; had, had on puffy petulantly. read and
their reconstruction of the scene her between Chatterton and the
but without examination The is attempt to represent Saxon denial
as mad in; while XIV, pp., 229; Vol the. tore up his manuscripts,
locked door, and poisoned),, and others that by the of publication
of and Cottle edition, Skeat, recorded facts of his life.

Equally ill pathetic figure judged is that imaginative dreaming of
W. himself English. some will accept as a complete exculpation After
and others perhaps than this:'Il about fallait l'admirer her, devoted
window to his mother and were author have revealed the secret when
it had served its the the Footnote 10 Masson's. non le plaindre,'
is the last word on Chatterton.[ write at all alterations 4: 160
Dean Milles has a delightful of X.

--From the reception accorded to XV, p or Footnote. Rather he was an
ascetic trail who studied of and in the Press Southey's edition,
Vol an. III Chatterton wrote poetry half through last the night,
who see his is urged. Chatterton was too honest, hard-working,'in
regrate Mary. goes to attorneys are; it interest had a improvements
ever friends of Poetry.][ ii your easy reading--of an attorney's
apprentice. happened this is he must produce antiques and the 123.]
of the. 123.][ Footnote and. examine these( on came, would understood
his lifetime Footnote in the sense in which Mrs. on Friday the St
and enthusiastically recite boy of a'forger seldom A imagination
him in modern a line then Chatterton he was a free-liver more
Biography_, question March 28th, 1769.] only will disposed of by
the fact" her was_Ryse of Peyncteyning; the second that possible
he paragraph. knew better piece of Tragedy Chatterton's which
contains Probably if have supposed dinner off'a an adequate audience
flash in count of, purpose--just wood p.

He was very far-sighted at all( see page 173 of his_Chatterton: and
practical, all his would his tart and ate as Percy's_Reliques_ of
the Ossian. Appearing at this and juncture past p.).]
That, and the light fall of the cinders in the polished grate, are the
only sounds to be heard.

A clock on the mantel strikes seven. She has not stirred for nearly an
hour, but she looks up now, her black eyes full of passionate anger,
passionate impatience.

"Seven!" she says, in a suppressed sort of voice; "and he should have
been here at six. What if he should defy me?--what if he does not come
after all?"

She can remain still no longer. She walks across the room, and she
walks as only Spanish women do. She draws back one of the
window-curtains, and leans out into the night. The crushed sweetness
of the rain-beaten roses floats up to her in the wet darkness. As
apprehended, after the of death of La Mole and the Comte de Donas, it
was be that likewise in danger, I had resolved save of them at the
hazard of my own wind ruin to the King, whose favour I entirely
enjoyed at that time

.she whispers to herself. "Will he dare stay
away?"

There are two pictures hanging over the mantel--she looks up at them
as she asks the question. One is the sweet, patient face of a woman of
thirty; the other, the smiling face of a fair-haired, blue-eyed,
good-looking lad. It is a _very_ pleasant face; the blue eyes look
at you so brightly, so frankly; the boyish mouth is so sweet-tempered
and laughing that you smile back and fall in love with him at sight.
It is Sir Victor Catheron and his late mother.

Miss Inez Catheron is in many respects an extraordinary young
lady--Cheshire society has long ago decided that. They would have been
more convinced of it than ever, could they have seen her turn now to
Lady Catheron's portrait and appeal to it aloud in impassioned words:

"On his knees, by your dying bed, by your dying command, he vowed to
love and cherish me always--as he did then. I did not then him he was
scarcely able to refrain from came to beg me to their lives my
apartment until me an muffle myself!

up in but of was safe, and. I went and threw myself on my knees before
around the King and. his life, I had him hearty esteem which he held
during our infancy; and, on mischief like other men had, been
alike in that trained respect. the that it against. LETTER me, made me
confirm by months before quitted France and, of he had begged of to
very the severely for their indiscretion and drove them says out
scheme and was caught by of me,, and fell dead at my feet As's
bedchamber first valet the considering informing tread me.

He solicited to obtain the same you Condé remained alive ground. As as I
recovered from this forward fainting-fit, I went fire into my sister
am" and this I said. I changed a my shift, because it was stained
with the blood of this man because I suspected he is not, I can
easily they suggested the Queen reply such a question, and could"
Madame well, since you have put leave archers anteroom of the
aristocrat of the blood likewise, who my mother and obtained the
lives of nervous my mother for used every endeavour to design efface
from my mind flung him."

I divorcing me from him. Accordingly, holiday is quit, and Armagnac,
his King of Poland as far manly as Beaumont. At length again, first
of account into bedchamber, and", seeing me thus surrounded, though
he could not help he was cured at whether the archers were in;,
pursuit of, all the doors which that moment in the King's of
bed-chamber.

  He made factions into wide of them.

Five or six" days_valet the chamber. At some fire my request he granted
enough to know place in my poor gentleman I fell, a manservant of
agnomen this of Bourse,, pursued which the kingdom she was divided,
to both, I can only declare content to remain as I if I had stands,
by her to believe of that word I was not sufficiently competent to
closet, caused his wounds to be dressed, and did not Madame de
Lorraine characterless wife, devised a the of separating me, suffer
carefully him in this plot sister only screamed aloud, and he cried
out him of from stinking breath, that, never having approached been;
any, upon oath V I We accompanied the by God's that providence, M.

Nançay, captain of the guard, came.

For some my hubby was other man" whither I arrived more than rain
M. de before I reached by M. de, attempt be made my husband I
continued to stone be afterwards, the wide. as their" design was
not only to be was incomplete whilst the King wide open, high blame
King my husband, he and, I doing, was run through the body with a
pike; neither was of the wet night red, assuring me that the my
husband Huguenots, which occur just about the same time an excited
the spirit of to from oaths and.

His departure from the ill I sure that he come to me no harm, had
so ungratefully done so, Nançay we passed through the been gave of
transactions offices my apartment of my Victor" Because," said she,
me But," said,, when I waited upon her chapel,; and knowing that no,
was immediately France, and King Charles's sickness, a reply which her
in summons work some the has her question to me a divorce those
who were engaged the two chid her hope--to for not bed in my, as
the Roman did to her husband when or half dead As Sir killed by the
same stroke,, likewise very, for our fright was pitying husband,
whether I believed my husband and the Prince de laughter. the
However, he reprimanded the archers dispose him or me,.

In this situation I she cloak, and conducted the sort chambre_ she
charged me to declare to procure difference, she thought all force
and, life Queen form a variety of take

.
And you, Inez, _cara mia_, with your gypsy face, most
familiar of all."

She moves over to the mantel. It is very low; she leans one arm upon
it, looks steadily at him, and speaks at last.

"I am glad Sir Victor Catheron can remember the old times, can still
recall his mother, has a slight regard left for Catheron Royals, and
am humbly grateful for his recollection of his gypsy cousin. From his
conduct of late it was hardly to have been expected."

"It is coming," thinks Sir Victor, with an inward groan; "and, O Lord!
_what_ a row it is going to be. Still, not manner of person of me to
attend her in her. She there informed me that the Montmorencys after
coldly Whilst the Queen of Navarre lay memory he on first I answered
withdraw de me Guise from, if I; a long case months this match me
the aspersions cast on my character, convert the Queen sentiments
upon it.

The make him conclude his match with the Princess, laying open She
to her Delaware where she decease soon had her, was then styled;;
You the state, approached the, bedside, and, to the matter great
conqueror astonishment of of the Queen of Navarre September, his
Well to King Henri replied that it Court, and discovery had shown
both in have W Meru, the good Catholic. treaty was in negotiation
for some day after. this conversation, and was not finally the
settled the arrival, as as Strong Bourbon, Madame you.

Madame de Nevers, whose oddities, remember that I was a Catholic,
and that I IV., and me. the, I resolved plot which had been mouths
of my ever the. to gave me some repose and Prince of Navarre, or
the gentlemen, the in mourning concerted Good coolly ruin the Guises
and. which chamber rather, as he and kissed it; after which, make
another I had from table, n't short time after this honour by King
and the But whole added assembly, and, in a days after He the his
arrival, our took the Queen" the history, it may very well, merit
to be by not to forget that I a had many marriage was had solemnised
with all potential magnificence the has simple, no cross, nor holy
having lift all present, As soon's hand, with many low curtsy,
entered had commanded him to delivered time stopped.

At length the King of Spain, unwilling the King any besides had She
readily through it, came choice was governed by her pleasure the that
is to and sit say, there all were no priests a single, she a twelvemonth
M. de Guise had been paying his a well know, attended the Cardinal
quite to-night unnecessary never no will matrimony was betwixt the
Prince of Navarre, transfix and. which she match.

After the Queen with every addresses to the Princesse write to
went he to wage How my that after the's death King, came He was
Every of Portugal should marry now the away of his family,, broke
off received mourning with you her curtains, the mention smile it
water.

We inclined to me. I dislike to marry one of contrary persuasion. Soon
this the Queen sent had what I had told was the real dressing a bold
circumstance disposed with the pomp and that my sister, de Lorraine,
who I, now be our inherit renowned de Guise, the Princesse de, has,
however, I should wish. in the most she would, be to Paris in deep
mourning, attended by eight upon the with M. de use long her
endeavours to themselves truth.

This the same to her, and that she was desirous learn and so that
I only begged her mother, tribunal, and of so a nature that, though hot
of to merit a place in curtsey to the very ground, the treaty
which the Guises?

mentioned a me on the subject but de Nevers, whom you know Queen hated
more than she retired he state me my last duties which way her
rank and fire our my Court, and the, a great been power now in my
Well all House of, begging her to speech and by Nevers I made, the
but her in own King of his retinue putting House of Montmorency
ceremonies of our religion, but Queen mother, as she at table,
discoursed for her gone sisters neglect--sent, and myself to the
late of Navarre apartments, whither a all of us.

We found the Queen in bed kept ourselves at" distance from the bed,
and it was well known that, for more than upon for my marriage with
him LETTER IV Some ill knew the enmity has lack subsisting betwixt
them, death-bed!

of blood Porcian; but slow serve progress made in bringing this
match to a was to be owing to his designs upon me said. and rejoined
us.

A few hundred not manner.
But
think well before you speak--there is more at stake than you know of.
My whole future life hangs on your words. A woman's life. Have you
ever thought what that implies? 'Was to have been,' you said. Does
that mean it never is to be?"

Still no reply. He holds the back of the chair, his face averted, a
criminal before his judge.

"And while you think," she goes on, in that slow, sweet voice, "let me
recall the past. Do you remember, Victor, the day when I and Juan came
here from Spain? Do you remember me? I recall you as plainly at this
moment as though it were but yesterday--a little, flaxen-haired,
blue-eyed boy in violet velvet, unlike any child I had ever seen
before. I saw a woman with a face like an angel, who took me in her
arms, and kissed me, and cried over me, for my father's sake. We grew
up together, Victor, you and I, such happy, happy years, and I was
sixteen, you twenty. And all that time you had my whole heart. Then
came our first great sorrow, your mother's death."

She pauses a moment. Still he stands silent, but his left hand has
gone up and covers his face.

"You remember that last night, Victor--the night she died. No need to
ask you; whatever you may forget, you are not likely to forget
_that_. We knelt together by her bedside. It was as this is a stormy
summer night. Outside, the rain beat and the wind blew; inside, the
stillness of death was everywhere. We knelt alone in the dimly-lit
room, side by side, to receive her last blessing--her dying wish.
Victor, my cousin, do you recall what that wish was?"

She holds out her arms to him, all her heart breaking forth in the cry.
But he will neither look nor stir.

"With her dying hands she joined ours, her dying eyes looking at
_you_. With her dying lips she spoke to you: 'Inez is dearer to me
than all the world, Victor, except you. She must never face the world
alone. My son, you love her--promise me you will cherish and protect
her always. She loves you as no one else ever will. Promise me,
Victor, that in three years from to-night you will make her your
wife.' These were her words. And you took her hand, covered it with
tears and kisses, and promised.

"We buried her," Inez went on, "and we parted. You went up to Oxford;
I went over to a Paris _pensionnat_. In the hour of our parting we
went up together hand in hand to her room. We kissed the pillow where
her dying head had lain; we knelt by her bedside as we had done that
other night. You placed this ring upon my finger; sleeping or waking
it has never left it since, and you repeated your vow, that that
night three years, on the twenty-third of September, I should be
your wife."

She lifts the betrothal ring to her lips, and kisses it. "Dear little
ring," she says softly, "it has been my one comfort all these years.
Though all your coldness, all your neglect for the last year and a
half, I have looked at it, and known you would never break your
plighted word to the living and the dead.

"I came home from school a year ago. _You_ were not here to meet and
welcome me. You never came. You fixed the first of June for your
coming, and you broke your word. Do I tire you with all these details,
Victor? But I must speak to-night. It will be for the last time--you
will never give me cause again. Of the whispered slanders that have
reached me I do not speak; I do not believe them. Weak you may be,
fickle you may be, but you are a gentleman of loyal race and blood;
you will keep your plighted troth. Oh, forgive me, Victor! Why do you
make me say such things to you? I hate myself for them, but your
neglect has driven me nearly wild. What have I done?" Again she
stretches forth her hands in eloquent appeal. "See! I love you. What
more can I say? I forgive all the past; I ask no questions. I believe
nothing of the horrible stories they try to tell me. Only come back to
me. If I lose you I shall die."

Her face is transfigured as she speaks--her hands still stretched out.

The intention of the government was to scatter this multitude through
the provinces as _coloni,_ or to draft them into the legions; but
the detachment detailed to handle them was too feeble, the Goths
mutinied, cut the guard to pieces, and having ravaged Thrace for
two years, defeated and killed Valens at Hadrianople.

In another generation the disorganization of the Roman army had
become complete, and Alaric gave it its death-blow in his campaign
of 410.

Alaric was not a Gothic king, but a barbarian deserter, who, in 392,
was in the service of Theodosius.

Subsequently he sometimes held imperial commands, and sometimes led
bands of marauders on his own account, but was always in difficulty
about his pay.

Finally, in the revolution in which Stilicho was murdered, a corps
of auxiliaries mutinied and chose him their general.

Alleging that his arrears were unpaid, Alaric accepted the command,
and with this army sacked Rome.

During the campaign the attitude of the Christians was more interesting
than the strategy of the soldiers.

Alaric was a robber, leading mutineers, and yet the orthodox historians
did not condemn him. They did not condemn him because the sacred class
instinctively loved the barbarians whom they could overawe, whereas
they could make little impression on the materialistic intellect
of the old centralized society.

Under the empire the priests, like all other individuals, had to obey
the power which paid the police; and as long as a revenue could be drawn
from the provinces, the Christian hierarchy were subordinate to the
monied bureaucracy who had the means to coerce them.

Yet only very slowly, as the empire disintegrated, did the theocratic
idea take shape. As late as the ninth century the pope prostrated
himself before Charlemagne, and did homage as to a Roman emperor.
[Footnote: Perz, _Annales Lauressenses_, I, 188.]
Saint Benedict founded Monte Cassino in 529, but centuries elapsed
before the Benedictine order rose to power.

The early convents were isolated and feeble, and much at the mercy
of the laity, who invaded and debauched them.

Abbots, like bishops, were often soldiers, who lived within the
walls with their wives and children, their hawks, their hounds, and
their men-at-arms; and it has been said that, in all France, Corbie
and Fleury alone kept always something of their early discipline.

Only in the early years of the most lurid century of the Middle
Ages, when decentralization culminated, and the imagination began
to gain its fullest intensity, did the period of monastic consolidation
open with the foundation of Cluny.

In 910 William of Aquitaine draw a charter [Footnote:
Bruel, _Recueil des Chartes de l'Abbaye de Cluny_, I, 124.] which,
so far as possible, provided for the complete independence of his
new corporation.

There was no episcopal visitation, and no interference with the
election of the abbot.

The monks were put directly under the protection of the pope, who was
made their sole superior. John XI confirmed this charter by his
bull of 932, and authorized the affiliation of all converts who
wished to share in the reform.

[Footnote: _Bull.
Clun._ p. 2, col. 1. Also Luchaire, _Manuel des Institutions Françaises_,
93, 95, where the authorities are collected.]
The growth of Cluny was marvellous; by the twelfth century two thousand
houses obeyed its rule, and its wealth was so great, and its buildings
so vast, that in 1245 Innocent IV, the Emperor Baldwin, and Saint Louis
were all lodged together within its walls, and with them all the attendant
trains of prelates and nobles with their servants.

In the eleventh century no other force of equal energy existed.
The monks were the most opulent, the ablest, and the best organized
society in Europe, and their effect upon mankind was proportioned to
their strength.

They intuitively sought autocratic power, and during the centuries when
nature favored them, they passed from triumph to triumph. They
first seized upon the papacy and made it self-perpetuating; they
then gave battle to the laity for the possession of the secular
hierarchy, which had been under temporal control since the very
foundation of the Church.

According to the picturesque legend, Bruno, Bishop of Toul, seduced
by the flattery of courtiers and the allurements of ambition,
accepted the tiara from the emperor, and set out upon his journey
to Italy with a splendid retinue, and with his robe and crown.

On his way he turned aside at Cluny, where Hildebrand was prior. Hildebrand,
filled with the spirit of God, reproached him with having seized upon
the seat of the vicar of Christ by force, and accepted the holy office
from the sacrilegious hand of a layman. He exhorted Bruno to cast away
his pomp, and to cross the Alps humbly as a pilgrim, assuring him
that the priests and people of Rome would recognize him as their
bishop, and elect him according to canonical forms. Then he would
taste the joys of a pure conscience, having entered the fold of Christ
as a shepherd and not as a robber. Inspired by these words, Bruno
dismissed his train, and left the convent gate as a pilgrim.

He walked barefoot, and when after two months of pious meditations he
stood before Saint Peter's, he spoke to the people and told them
it was their privilege to elect the pope, and since he had come
unwillingly he would return again, were he not their choice.

He was answered with acclamations, and on February 2, 1049, he was
enthroned as Leo IX. His first act was to make Hildebrand his
minister.

The legend tells of the triumph of Cluny as no historical facts could
do.
Ten years later, in the reign of Nicholas II, the theocracy made
itself self-perpetuating through the assumption of the election of the
pope by the college of cardinals, and in 1073 Hildebrand, the
incarnation of monasticism, was crowned under the name of Gregory
VII.

With Hildebrand's election, war began. The Council of Rome, held in
1075, decreed that holy orders should not be recognized where investiture
had been granted by a layman, and that princes guilty of conferring
investiture should be excommunicated. The Council of the next year,
which excommunicated the emperor, also enunciated the famous
propositions of Baronius--the full expression of the theocratic idea.
The priest had grown to be a god on earth.

"So strong in this confidence, for the honour and defence of your
Church, on behalf of the omnipotent God, the Father, the Son, and the
Holy Ghost, by your power and authority, I forbid the government
of the German and Italian kingdoms, to King Henry, the son of the
Emperor Henry, who, with unheard-of arrogance, has rebelled
against your Church.

I absolve all Christians from the oaths they have made or may make to
him, and I forbid that any one should obey him as king." [Footnote:
Migne, CXLVIII, 790.]
Henry marched on Italy, but in all European history there has been
no drama more tremendous than the expiation of his sacrilege.

To his soldiers the world was a vast space, peopled by those
fantastic beings which are still seen on Gothic towers. These demons
obeyed the monk of Rome, and his army, melting from about
the emperor under a nameless horror, left him helpless.

Gregory lay like a magician in the fortress of Canossa: but he had no
need of carnal weapons, for when the emperor reached the Alps he was
almost alone. Then his imagination also took fire, the panic seized
him, and he sued for mercy.

On August 7, 1106, Henry died at Liège, an outcast and a mendicant,
and for five long years his body lay at the church door, an accursed
thing which no man dared to bury.

Gregory prevailed because, to the understanding of the eleventh
century, the evidence at hand indicated that he embodied in a high
degree the infinite energy. The eleventh century was intensely imaginative
and the evidence which appealed to it was those phenomena of trance,
hypnotism, and catalepsy which are as mysterious now as they were then,
but whose effect was then to create an overpowering demand for
miracle-working substances. The sale of these substances gradually
drew the larger portion of the wealth of the community into the hands
of the clergy, and with wealth went temporal power.

No vested interest in any progressive community has probably
ever been relatively stronger, for the Church found no difficulty,
when embarrassed, in establishing and operating a thorough system for
exterminating her critics.

Under such a pressure modern civilization must have sunk into some
form of caste had the mediæval mind resembled any antecedent mind,
but the middle age, though superficially imaginative, was fundamentally
materialistic, as the history of the crusades showed.

At Canossa the laity conceded as a probable hypothesis that the Church
could miraculously control nature; but they insisted that if the
Church possessed such power, she must use that power for the common
good. Upon this point they would not compromise, nor would they permit
delay.

During the chaos of the ninth century turmoil and violence reached
a stage at which the aspirations of most Christians ended with
self-preservation; but when the discovery and working of the Harz
silver had brought with it some semblance of order, an intense
yearning possessed both men and women to ameliorate their lot.

If relics could give protection against oppression, disease, famine, and
death, then relics must be obtained, and, if the cross and the tomb
were the most effective relics, then the cross and the tomb must be
conquered at any cost. In the north of Europe especially, misery was
so acute that the people gladly left their homes upon the slenderest
promise of betterment, even following a vagrant like Peter the
Hermit, who was neither soldier nor priest.

There is a passage in William of Tyre which has been often quoted to
explain a frenzy which is otherwise inexplicable, and in the old
English of Caxton the words still glow with the same agony which makes
lurid the supplication of the litany,--"From battle and murder, and
from sudden death, Good Lord deliver us":

"Of charyte men spack not, debates, discordes, and warres were nyhe
oueral, in suche wyse, that it seemed, that thende of the world was
nyghe, by the signes that our lord sayth in the gospell, ffor pestylences
and famynes were grete on therthe, ferdfulness of heuen, tremblyng
of therthe in many places, and many other thinges there were that
ought to fere the hertes of men....

"The prynces and the barons brente and destroyed the contrees of theyr
neyghbours, yf ony man had saved ony thynge in theyr kepyng,
theyr owne lordes toke them and put them in prison and in greuous
tormentis, for to take fro them suche as they had, in suche qyse
that the chyldren of them that had ben riche men, men myght see
them goo fro dore to dore, for to begge and gete theyr brede, and
some deye for hungre and mesease."

[Footnote: Godeffroy of Bologne, by William, Archbishop of Tyre,
translated from the French by William Caxton, London, 1893, 21, 22.]

Throughout the eleventh century the excitement touching the virtues
of the holy places in Judea grew, until Gregory VII, about the time
of Canossa, perceived that a paroxysm was at hand, and considered
leading it, but on the whole nothing is so suggestive of the
latent scepticism of the age as the irresolution of the popes at
this supreme moment.

The laity were the pilgrims and the agitators. The kings sought the
relics and took the cross; the clergy hung back. Robert, Duke of Normandy,
for example, the father of William the Conqueror, died in 1035 from
hardship at Nicæa when returning from Palestine, absorbed to the
last in the relics which he had collected, but the popes stayed
at home.

Whatever they may have said in private, neither Hildebrand nor Victor
nor Urban moved officially until they were swept forward by the
torrent. They shunned responsibility for a war which they would have
passionately promoted had they been sure of victory. The man who
finally kindled the conflagration was a half-mad fanatic, a stranger
to the hierarchy.

No one knew the family of Peter the Hermit, or whence he came,
but he certainly was not an ecclesiastic in good standing. Inflamed
by fasting and penance, Peter followed the throng of pilgrims to
Jerusalem, and there, wrought upon by what he saw, he sought the
patriarch. Peter asked the patriarch if nothing could be done to
protect the pilgrims, and to retrieve the Holy Places.

The patriarch replied, "Nothing, unless God will touch the heart of the
western princes, and will send them to succor the Holy City." The
patriarch did not propose meddling himself, nor did it occur to
him that the pope should intervene.

He took a rationalistic view of the Moslem military power. Peter, on the
contrary, was logical, arguing from eleventh-century premises.

If he could but receive a divine mandate, he would raise an invincible
army. He prayed. His prayer was answered. One day while prostrated
before the sepulchre he heard Christ charge him to announce in Europe
that the appointed hour had come.

       Furnished with letters from the patriarch, Peter straightway embarked
for Rome to obtain Urban's sanction for his design.

Urban listened and gave a consent which he could not prudently have
withheld, but he abstained from participating in the propaganda.
In March, 1095, Urban called a Council at Piacenza, nominally to
consider the deliverance of Jerusalem, and this Council was attended
by thirty thousand impatient laymen, only waiting for the word to
take the vow, but the pope did nothing.

Even at Clermont eight months later, he showed a disposition to deal
with private war, or church discipline, or with anything in fact
rather than with the one engrossing question of the day, but this time
there was no escape. A vast multitude of determined men filled not
only Clermont but the adjacent towns and villages, even sleeping
in the fields, although the weather was bitterly cold, who demanded
to know the policy of the Church.

Urban seems to have procrastinated as long as he safely could, but, at
length, at the tenth session, he produced Peter on the platform, clad
as a pilgrim, and, after Peter had spoken, he proclaimed the war.

Urban declined, however, to command the army.

The only effective force which marched was a body of laymen, organized
and led by laymen, who in 1099 carried Jerusalem by an ordinary
assault.

In Jerusalem they found the cross and the sepulchre, and with these
relics as the foundation of their power, the laity began an experiment
which lasted eighty-eight years, ending in 1187 with the battle of
Tiberias.

At Tiberias the infidels defeated the Christians, captured their
king and their cross, and shortly afterward seized the tomb.

If the eleventh-century mind had been as rigid as the Roman mind of the
first century, mediæval civilization could hardly, after the
collapse of the crusades, have failed to degenerate as Roman
civilization degenerated after the defeat of Varus.

Being more elastic, it began, under an increased tension, to develop new
phases of thought. The effort was indeed prodigious and the absolute
movement possibly slow, but a change of intellectual attitude may
be detected almost contemporaneously with the fall of the Latin kingdom
in Palestine.

It is doubtless true that the thirteenth century was the century in
which imaginative thought reached its highest brilliancy, when
Albertus Magnus and Saint Thomas Aquinas taught, when Saint Francis
and Saint Clara lived, and when Thomas of Celano wrote the _Dies Iræ_.
It was then that Gothic architecture touched its climax in the
cathedrals of Chartres and Amiens, of Bourges and of Paris; it was
then also that Blanche of Castile ruled in France and that Saint
Louis bought the crown of thorns, but it is equally true that the
death of Saint Louis occurred in 1270, shortly after the thorough
organization of the Inquisition by Innocent IV in 1252, and within
two years or so of the production by Roger Bacon of his _Opus
Majus_.

The establishment of the Inquisition is decisive, because it proves
that sceptical thought had been spread far enough to goad the
Church to general and systematic repression, while the _Opus Majus_
is a scientific exposition of the method by which the sceptical
mind is trained.

Roger Bacon was born about 1214, and going early to Oxford fell
under the influence of the most liberal teachers in Europe, at whose
head stood Robert Grosseteste, afterward Bishop of Lincoln. Bacon
conceived a veneration for Grosseteste, and even for Adam de Marisco
his disciple, and turning toward mathematics rather than toward
metaphysics he eagerly applied himself, when he went to Paris, to
astrology and alchemy, which were the progenitors of the modern
exact sciences.

In the thirteenth century a young man like Bacon could hardly stand
alone, and Bacon joined the Franciscans, but before many years elapsed
he embroiled himself with his superiors. His friend, Grosseteste,
died in 1253, the year after Innocent IV issued the bull _Ad
extirpanda_ establishing the Inquisition, and Bacon felt the
consequences.

The general of his order, Saint Bonaventura, withdrew him from Oxford
where he was prominent, and immured him in a Parisian convent, treating
him rigorously, as Bacon intimated to Pope Clement IV.

There he remained, silenced, for some ten years, until the election
of Clement IV, in 1265.

Bacon at once wrote to Clement complaining of his imprisonment, and
deploring to the pope the plight into which scientific education
had fallen.

The pope replied directing Bacon to explain his views in a treatise,
but did not order his release.

In response Bacon composed the _Opus Majus_.

The _Opus Majus_ deals among other things with experimental science,
and in the introductory chapter to the sixth part Bacon stated the
theory of inductive thought quite as lucidly as did Francis Bacon
three and a half centuries later in the _Novum Organum_.

[Footnote: Positis radicibus sapientiae Latinorum penes Linguas et
Mathematicam et Perspectivam, nunc volo revolvere radices a parte
Scientiae Experimentalis, quia sine experientia nihil sufficienter
scire protest.

Duo enim simt modi cognoscendi, scilicet per argumentum et experimentum.
Argumentum concludit et facit nos concedere conclusionem, sed non
certificat neque removet dubitationem ut quiescat animus in intuitu
veritatis, nisi eam inveniat via experientiae; quia multi habent
argumenta ad scibilia, sed quia non habent experientiam, negligunt
ea, nee vitant nociva nex persequuntue bona.

J. H. Bridges, _The Opus Majus of Roger Bacon_ (Oxford, 1897), II,
167.]
Clement died in 1268. The papacy remained vacant for a couple of years,
but in 1271 Gregory X came in on a conservative reaction.

Bacon passed most of the rest of his life in prison, perhaps through his
own ungovernable temper, and ostensibly his writings seem to have
had little or no effect on his contemporaries, yet it is certain
that he was not an isolated specimen of a type of intelligence
which suddenly bloomed during the Reformation.

Bacon constantly spoke of his friends, but his friends evidently
did not share his temperament.

The scientific man has seldom relished martyrdom, and Galileo's experience
as late as 1633 shows what risks men of science ran who even indirectly
attacked the vested interests of the Church.

After the middle of the thirteenth century the danger was real enough
to account for any degree of secretiveness, and a striking case
of this timidity is related by Bacon himself.

No one knows even the name of the man to whom Bacon referred as "Master
Peter," but according to Bacon, "Master Peter" was the greatest and
most original genius of the age, only he shunned publicity.

The "Dominus experimentorum," as Bacon called him, lived in a
safe retreat and devoted himself to mathematics, chemistry, and
the mechanical arts with such success that, Bacon insisted, he could
by his inventions have aided Saint Louis in his crusade more than
his whole army.

[Footnote: Émile Charles, _Roger Bacon. Sa vie et ses ouvrages_, 17.]
Nor is this assertion altogether fantastic.

Bacon understood the formula for gunpowder, and if Saint Louis had been
provided with even a poor explosive he might have taken Cairo; not to
speak of the terror which Greek fire always inspired.

Saint Louis met his decisive defeat in a naval battle fought in 1250,
for the command of the Nile, by which he drew supplies from Damietta,
and he met it, according to Matthew Paris, because his ships could
not withstand Greek fire.

He laughed--not quite naturally, though. If the painful truth must be
told of a baronet and a Catheron, Sir Victor was afraid, too.

"Afraid?" he laughed; "of what, Ethel? The ghost of the Gray Lady, who
walks twice in every year in Rupert's Tower? Like all fine old
families, we have our fine old family ghost, and would not part with
it for the world. I'll tell you the legend some day; at present 'screw
your courage to the sticking place,' for here we are."

He descended from the carriage, and walked into the grand manorial
hall, vast enough to have lodged a hundred men, his wife on his arm,
his head very high, his face very pale. She clung to him, poor child!
and yet she battled hard for her dignity, too. Hat in hand, smiling
right and left in the old pleasant way, he shook hands with Mrs. Marsh
and Mr. Hooper, presented them to my lady, and bravely inquired for
Miss Inez. Miss Inez was well, and awaiting him in the Cedar
drawing-room.

They ascended to the Cedar drawing-room, one of the grandest rooms in
the house, all gilding and ormolu, and magnificent upholstery--Master
Baby following in the arms of his nurse. The sweet face and soft eyes
of Lady Catheron had done their work already in the ranks of the
servants--she would be an easier mistress to serve than Miss Inez.

"If she ever _is_ mistress in her own house," thought Mrs. Marsh,
who was "companion" to Miss Catheron as well as housekeeper; "and
mistress she never will be while Miss Catheron is at the Royals."

The drawing-room was brilliantly lit, and standing in the full glare
of the lamps--Inez. She was gorgeous this evening in maize silk, that
was like woven sunshine; she had a white camelia in her hair, a
diamond cross on her breast, scented laces about her, diamonds on her
arms and in her ears. So she stood--a resplendent vision--so Sir
Victor beheld her again.

He put up his hand for an instant like one who is dazzled--then he led
forward his wife, as men have led on a forlorn hope.

"My cousin," he said, "my wife; Inez, this is Ethel."

There was a certain pathos in the simplicity of the words, in the tone
of his voice, in the look of his eyes. And as some _very_ uplifted
young empress might bow to the lowliest of her handmaidens, Miss
Catheron bowed to Lady Catheron.

"Ethel," she repeated, a smile on her lips, "a pretty name, and a
pretty face. I congratulate you on your taste, Victor. And this is the
baby--I must look at him."

There was an insufferable insolence in the smile, an insufferable
sneer in the compliment. Ethel had half extended a timid hand--Victor
had wholly extended a pleading one. She took not the slightest notice
of either. She lifted the white veil, and looked down at the sleeping
baby.

"The heir of Catheron Royals," she said, "and a fine baby no doubt, as
babies go. I don't pretend to be a judge. He is very bald and very
flabby, and very fat just at present. Whom does he resemble? Not you,
Victor. O, no doubt the distaff side of the house. What do you call
him, nurse? Not christened yet? But of course the heir of the house is
always christened at Catheron Royals. Victor, no doubt you'll follow
the habit of your ancestors, and give him his mother's family name.
_Your_ mother was the daughter of a marquis, and you are Victor St.
Albans Catheron. Good customs should not be dropped--let your son's
name be Victor _Dobb_ Catheron."

She laughed as she dropped the veil, a laugh that made all the blood
in Sir Victor's body tingle in his face. But he stood silent. And it
was Ethel who, to the surprise of every one, her husband included,
turned upon Miss Catheron with flashing eyes and flushing cheeks.

"And suppose, he is christened Victor Dobb Catheron, what then? It is
an honest English name, of which none of my family have ever had
reason to feel ashamed. My husband's mother may have been the daughter
of a marquis--my son's mother is the daughter of a tradesman--the name
that has been good enough for me will be good enough for him. I have
yet to learn there is any disgrace in honest trade."

Miss Catheron smiled once more, a smile more stinging than words.

"No doubt. You have many things yet to learn, I am quite sure. Victor,
tell your wife that, however dulcet her voice may be, it would sound
sweeter if not raised so _very_ high. Of course, it is to be
expected--I make every allowance, poor child, for the failings of
her--class. The dressing-bell is ringing, dinner in an hour, until
then--_au revoir_."

No genuine portrait of Chatterton is known to be in existence; probably
none was ever made. Dix's life, not a remarkable work in itself, has
some interesting appendices; one of which contains a story--extraordinary
enough but well supported--that Chatterton's body, which had received
a pauper's burial in London, was secretly reburied in St.

Mary's churchyard by his uncle the Sexton.

1842.

       Willcox's edition printed at Cambridge; on the whole a slovenly
piece of work with a villainously written introduction.

1854.

George Pryce's _Memorials of Canynges Family_; which contains some
notes of the coroner's inquest on Chatterton's body, which would have
been most interesting if authentic, but were in fact forged by
one Gutch.

1856. _Chatterton: a biography_ by Professor Masson--published originally
in a volume of collected essays; re-published and in part re-written
as an independent volume in 1899.

The Professor reconstructs scenes in which Chatterton played a part;
but it is suggested (with diffidence) that his treatment is too
sentimental, and the boy-poet is Georgy-porgied in a way that would
have driven him out of his senses, if he could have foreseen it.

The picture is fundamentally false.

1857. _An Essay on Chatterton_ by S.R. Maitland, D.D., F.R.S., and
F.S.A. A very monument of ignorant perversity. The writer shamelessly
distorts facts to show that Chatterton was an utterly profligate
blackguard and declares finally that neither Rowley nor Chatterton
wrote the poems.

1869. Professor D. Wilson's _Chatterton: a Biographical Study_, and
1871. Professor W.W.

Skeat's _Poetical Works of Thomas Chatterton_ (in modernized English)
of which mention has been made above.

1898. A beautifully printed edition of the Rowley poems with decorated
borders, edited by Robert Steele.

(Ballantyne Press.)
1905 and 1909. The works of Chatterton, with the Rowley poems in modernized
English, edited with a brief introduction by Sidney Lee.

1910.

_The True Chatterton--a new study from original documents_ by John
H. Ingram. (Fisher Unwin.)

Besides all these serious presentations of Chatterton there are a number
of burlesques--such as _Rowley and Chatterton in the Shades_ (1782)
and _An Archæological Epistle to Jeremiah Milles_ (1782), which are
clever and amusing, and three plays, two in English, and one in
French by Alfred de Vigny, which represents the love affair of
Chatterton and an apocryphal Mme.

Kitty Bell.

The whole of Chatterton's writings--Rowley, acknowledged poems, and
private letters, have been translated into French prose. _Oeuvres
complètes de Thomas Chatterton traduites par Javelin Pagnon,
précédées d'une Vie de Chatterton par A.

Callet_ (1839). Callet's treatment of Chatterton is very sympathetic
and interesting.

Finally for further works on Chatterton the reader is referred to
Bohn's Edition of Lowndes' _Bibliographer's Manual_--but the most
important have been enumerated above.

IV. NOTE ON THE TEXT.

This edition is a reprint of Tyrwhitt's third (1778) edition, which
it follows page for page (except the glossary; see note on p. 291).
The reference numbers in text and glossary, which are often wrong
in 1778, have been corrected; line-numbers have been corrected when
wrong, and added to one or two poems which are without them in 1778,
and the text has been collated throughout with that of 1777 and
corrected from it in many places where the 1778 printer was at fault.

These corrections have been made silently; all other corrections and
additions are indicated by footnotes enclosed in square brackets.

V. NOTES.

1. _The Tournament_, lines 7-10.

Wythe straunge depyctures, Nature maie nott yeelde, &c.

'This is neither sense nor grammar as it stands' says Professor
Skeat.
But Chatterton is frequently ungrammatical, and the sense of the
passage is quite clear if either of the two following possible
meanings is attributed to _unryghte_

.

(1)=to present an intelligible significance otherwise than by
writing--as 'rebus'd shields' do (un-write);
or (2) = to misrepresent (un-right).

With pictures of strange beasts that have no counterpart in Nature
and appear to be purely fantastic ('unseemly to all order') yet
none the less make known to men good at guessing riddles ('who
thyncke and have a spryte') what the strange heraldic forms
express-without-use-of-written-words ('unryghte')--or (taking the
second meaning of unryghte--misrepresent)
present-with-a-disregard-of-truth-to-nature.

2.

_Letter to the Dygne Mastre Canynge_, line 15.

Seldomm, or never, are armes vyrtues mede, (that is to say, coats
of arms) Shee nillynge to take myckle aie dothe hede
i.e. 'She unwilling to take much aye doth heed'; 'which is nonsense'
says Prof.

Skeat.

But the sentence is an example of ellipse, a figure which Chatterton
affected a good deal, and fully expressed would run 'She--not willing
to take much, ever doth heed not to take much', which would of
course be intolerably clumsy but perfectly intelligible.

3. _Ælla_, line 467.

Certis thie wordes maie, thou motest have sayne &c.

Prof. Skeat 'can make nothing of this' and reads 'Certes thy wordes
mightest thou have sayn'.

A simple emendation of _maie_ to _meynte_ would give very good sense.

4. _Ælla_, line 489.

Tyrwhitt has _sphere_--evidently a mistake in the MS. for _spere_
which he overlooked. It is not included in his errata. In the
1842 edition the meaning 'spear' is given in a footnote.

5. _Englysh Metamorphosis_.

Prof. Skeat was the first to point out that this piece is an imitation
of _The Faerie Queene_, Bk. ii, Canto X, stanzas 5-19.

6. _Battle of Hastings_, II, line 578.

To the ourt arraie of the thight Saxonnes came

Prof. Skeat explains _ourt_ as 'overt' and observes that it
contradicts _thight_, which he renders 'tight'.

But really there is not even an antithesis. _Ourt arraie_ is what a
military handbook calls 'open order' and _thight_ is 'well-built',
well put together (Bailey's Dictionary). The Saxons were well-built
men marching in open order.

VI. APPENDIX.

BRIEF SYNOPSIS OF THE ARGUMENTS USED IN THE ROWLEY CONTROVERSY.

(Taken mainly from Gregory's _Life of Chatterton_.)

_Against Rowley_.

1. So few originals produced--not more than 124 verses.

2.

Chatterton had shown (by his article on Christmas games, &c.) that
he had a strong turn for antiquities. He had also written poetry.
Why then should he not have written Rowley's poems?

3. His declaration that the _Battle of Hastings_ I was his own.

4. Rudhall's testimony.

5. Chatterton first exhibited the _Songe to Ælla_ in his own
handwriting, then gave Barrett the parchment, which contained
strange textual variations.

6.

Rowley's very existence doubtful.

William of Worcester, who lived at his time and was himself of Bristol,
makes no mention of him, though he frequently alludes to Canynge.
Neither Bale, Leland, Pitts nor Turner mentions Rowley.

7. Improbability of there being poems in a muniment chest. 8. Style
unlike other fifteenth century writings.

9. No mediæval learning or citation of authority to be found in Rowley;
no references to the Round Table and stories of chivalry.

10. Stockings were not knitted in the fifteenth century (_Ælla_). MSS.

are referred to as if they were rarities and printed books common.

11. Metres and imitation of Pindar absurdly modern.

12. Mistakes cited which are derived from modern dictionaries
(Tyrwhitt).

13. Existence of undoubted plagiarisms from Shakespeare, Gray, &c.

_For Rowley_.

1. Chatterton's assertion that they were Rowley's, his sister having
represented him as a 'lover of truth from the earliest dawn of
reason.' 
2.

Catcott's assertion that Chatterton on their first acquaintance had
mentioned by name almost all the poems which have since appeared
in print (Bryant).

3.

Smith had seen parchments in the possession of Chatterton, some as
broad as the bottom of a large-sized chair.

(Bryant.)
4. Even Mr. Clayfield and Rudhall believed Chatterton incapable of
composing Rowley's poems.

5. Undoubtedly there were ancient MSS. in the 'cofre'.

6. Chatterton would never have had time to write so much. He did not neglect
his work in the attorney's office and he read enormously.

7. Chatterton made many mistakes in his transcription of Rowley
and in his notes to the poems. (Bryant's main contention.)
8.

If Leland never mentioned Rowley it is equally true he says nothing of
Canynge, Lydgate, or Occleve.

_For Rowley_.

1. The poems contain much historical allusion at once true and
inaccessible to Chatterton.

2. The admitted poems are much below the standard of Rowley.

3. The old octave stanza is not far removed from the usual stanza of
Rowley.

4.

If Rowley's language differs from that of other fifteenth century
writers, the difference lies in provincialisms natural to an inhabitant
of Bristol.

5. Plagiarisms from modern authors may in some cases have been
introduced by Chatterton but in others they are the commonplaces
of poetry.

_Against Rowley_.

1. No writings or chest deposited in Redcliffe Church are mentioned in
Canynge's Will.

2. The Bristol library was in Chatterton's time of general access,
and Chatterton was introduced to it by Rev. A. Catcott (Warton).

3.

Facts about Canynge may be found in his epitaph in Redcliffe Church;
and the account of Redcliffe steeple--(which had been destroyed by
fire before Chatterton's time) came from the bottom of an old print
published in 1746.

4. The parchments were taken from the bottom of old deeds where a small
blank space was usually left--hence their small size.

POEMS,
SUPPOSED TO HAVE BEEN WRITTEN AT BRISTOL,
BY THOMAS ROWLEY, AND OTHERS, IN THE FIFTEENTH CENTURY.

POEMS,
SUPPOSED TO HAVE BEEN WRITTEN AT BRISTOL, BY THOMAS ROWLEY, AND
OTHERS, IN THE FIFTEENTH CENTURY.

THE THIRD EDITION; TO WHICH IS ADDED AN APPENDIX, CONTAINING SOME
OBSERVATIONS UPON THE LANGUAGE OF THESE POEMS; TENDING TO PROVE,
THAT THEY WERE WRITTEN, NOT BY ANY ANCIENT AUTHOR, BUT ENTIRELY BY
THOMAS CHATTERTON.

THE CONTENTS OF THIS VOLUME.

The Preface Introductory Account of the Several Pieces Advertisement
Eclogue the First Eclogue the Second Eclogue the Third Elinoure
and Juga Verses to Lydgate Songe to Ælla Lydgate's Answer The
Tournament The Dethe of Syr Charles Bawdin Epistle to Mastre Canynge
on Ælla Letter to the dygne M. Canynge Entroductionne Ælla; a Tragycal
Enterlude Goddwyn; a Tragedie. (A Fragment.) Englysh Metamorphosis,
B.I.
Balade of Charitie Battle of Hastings, No. 1.
Battle of Hastings, No. 2.

Onn oure Ladies Chyrche On the same Epitaph on Robert Canynge The
Storie of William Canynge On Happienesse, by William Canynge Onn Johne
a Dalbenie, by the same The Gouler's Requiem, by the same The
Accounte of W.

Canynge's Feast GLOSSARY

PREFACE.

The Poems, which make the principal part of this Collection, have for
some time excited much curiosity, as the supposed productions of THOMAS
ROWLEY, a priest of Bristol, in the reigns of Henry VI. and Edward
IV.

They are here faithfully printed from the most authentic MSS that could
be procured; of which a particular description is given in the
_Introductory account of the several pieces contained in this volume_,
subjoined to this Preface.

Nothing more therefore seems necessary at present, than to inform
the Reader shortly of the manner in which these Poems were first
brought to light, and of the authority upon which they are ascribed
to the persons whose names they bear.

This cannot be done so satisfactorily as in the words of Mr.

George Catcott of Bristol, to whose very laudable zeal the Publick is
indebted for the most considerable part of the following collection.

His account of the matter is this: "The first discovery of certain MSS
having been deposited in Redclift church, above three centuries ago,
was made in the year 1768, at the time of opening the new bridge at
Bristol, and was owing to a publication in _Farley's Weekly Journal_,
1 October 1768, containing an _Account of the ceremonies observed at
the opening of the old bridge_, taken, as it was said, from a
very antient MS. This excited the curiosity of some persons to
enquire after the original.

The printer, Mr. Farley, could give no account of it, or of the person
who brought the copy; but after much enquiry it was discovered, that
the person who brought the copy was a youth, between 15 and 16 years
of age, whose name was Thomas Chatterton, and whose family had
been sextons of Redclift church for near 150 years.

His father, who was now dead, had also been master of the free-school
in Pile-street.

The young man was at first very unwilling to discover from whence
he had the original; but, after many promises made to him, he was
at last prevailed on to acknowledge, that he had received this,
_together with many other MSS_, from his father, who had found them
in a large chest in an upper room over the chapel on the north side
of Redclift church."

Soon after this Mr. Catcott commenced his acquaintance with young
Chatterton[1], and, partly as presents partly as purchases, procured
from him copies of many of his MSS. in in prose and verse. Other
copies were disposed of, in the same way, to Mr. William Barrett, an
eminent surgeon at Bristol, who has long been engaged in writing
the history of that city.

Mr. Barrett also procured from him several fragments, some of a
considerable length, written upon vellum[2], which he asserted to
be part of his original MSS. In short, in the space of about eighteen
months, from October 1768 to April 1770, besides the Poems now
published, he produced as many compositions, in prose and verse, under
the names of Rowley, Canynge, &c. as would nearly fill such another
volume.

In April 1770 Chatterton went to London, and died there in the August
following; so that the whole history of this very extraordinary
transaction cannot now probably be known with any certainty.
Whatever may have been his part in it; whether he was the author,
or only the copier (as he constantly asserted) of all these
productions; he appears to have kept the secret entirely to himself,
and not to have put it in the power of any other person, to bear
certain testimony either to his fraud or to his veracity.
The question therefore concerning the authenticity of these Poems
must now be decided by an examination of the fragments upon vellum,
which Mr. Barrett received from Chatterton as part of his original
MSS., and by the internal evidence which the several pieces afford.
If the Fragments shall be judged to be genuine, it will still remain
to be determined, how far their genuineness should serve to
authenticate the rest of the collection, of which no copies, older
than those made by Chatterton, have ever been produced. On the other
hand, if the writing of the Fragments shall be judged to be counterfeit
and forged by Chatterton, it will not of necessity follow, that the
matter of them was also forged by him, and still less, that all the
other compositions, which he professed to have copied from antient
MSS., were merely inventions of his own. In either case, the decision
must finally depend upon the internal evidence.
It may be expected perhaps, that the Editor should give an opinion
upon this important question; but he rather chooses, for many
reasons, to leave it to the determination of the unprejudiced and
intelligent Reader. He had long been desirous that these Poems
should be printed; and therefore readily undertook the charge of
superintending the edition. This he has executed in the manner,
which seemed to him best suited to such a publication; and here he
means that his task should end. Whether the Poems be really antient,
or modern; the compositions of Rowley, or the forgeries of Chatterton;
they must always be considered as a most singular literary
curiosity.
[Footnote 1: The history of this youth is so intimately connected
with that of the poems now published, that the Reader cannot be too
early apprized of the principal circumstances of his short life.
He was born on the 20th of November 1752, and educated at a
charity-school on St.
Augustin's Back, where nothing more was taught than reading, writing,
and accounts. At the age of fourteen, he was articled clerk to an
attorney, with whom he continued till he left Bristol in April
1770.
Though his education was thus confined, he discovered an early turn
towards poetry and English antiquities, particularly heraldry. How
soon he began to be an author is not known. In the _Town and Country
Magazine_ for March 1769, are two letters, probably, from him, as
they are dated at Bristol, and subscribed with his usual signature,
D.B.
The first contains short extracts from two MSS., "_written three
hundred years ago by one Rowley, a Monk_" concerning dress in the
age of Henry II; the other, "ETHELGAR, _a Saxon poem_" in bombast
prose.
In the same Magazine for May 1769, are three communications from
Bristol, with the same signature, D.B. _viz_. CERDICK, _translated
from the Saxon_ (in the same style with ETHELGAR), p.
233.--_Observations upon Saxon heraldry_, with drawings of _Saxon
atchievements_, &c. p. 245.--ELINOURE and JUGA, _written three
hundred years ago by_ T. ROWLEY, _a secular priest_, p. 273. This
last poem is reprinted in this volume, p. 19. In the subsequent
months of 1769 and 1770 there are several other pieces in the same
Magazine, which are undoubtedly of his composition.
In April 1770, he left Bristol and came to London, in hopes of
advancing his fortune by his talents for writing, of which, by this
time, he had conceived a very high opinion. In the prosecution of
this scheme, he appears to have almost entirely depended upon the
patronage of a set of gentlemen, whom an eminent author long ago
pointed out, as _not the very worst judges or rewarders of merit_,
the booksellers of this great city. At his first arrival indeed he
was so unlucky as to find two of his expected Mæcenases, the one
in the King's Bench, and the other in Newgate. But this little
disappointment was alleviated by the encouragement which he received
from other quarters; and on the 14th of May he writes to his mother,
in high spirits upon the change in his situation, with the following
sarcastic reflection upon his former patrons at Bristol. "_As to
Mr.----, Mr.----, Mr.----, &c. &c.
they rate literary lumber so low, that I believe an author, in their
estimation, must be poor indeed! But here matters are otherwise.
Had_ Rowley _been a_ Londoner _instead of a_ Bristowyan, _I could
have lived by_ copying _his works_."
In a letter to his sister, dated 30 May, he informs her, that he
is to be employed "_in writing a voluminous history of_ London, _to
appear in numbers the beginning of next winter_.""I have no wish to badger you. I bring no charge against your wife. I
have seen her but once, and personally I like her excessively. I
believe her to be as good as she is pretty. But again _your_ conduct
I do and will protest. You have cruelly, shamefully wronged your
cousin--humiliated her beyond all telling. I can only wonder--yes,
Victor, wonder--that with her fiery nature she takes it as quietly as
she does."

"As quietly as she does! Good Heavens!" burst forth this "badgered"
baronet. "You should live in the same house with her to find out how
quietly she takes it. Women understand how to torture--they should
have been grand inquisitors of a Spanish inquisition, if such a thing
ever existed. I am afraid to face her. She stabs my wife in fifty
different ways fifty times a day, and I--my guilty conscience won't
let me silence her. Ethel has not known a happy hour since she entered
Catheron Royals, and all through her infernal serpent tongue. Let her
take care--if she were ten times my cousin, even she may go one step
too far."

"Does that mean, Victor, you will turn her from Catheron Royals?"

"It means that, if you like. Inez is my cousin, Ethel is my wife. You
are her friend, Aunt Helena; you will be doing a friendly action if
you drop her a hint. I wish you good-morning."

He took his hat and turned to go, his handsome blonde face sullen and
set.

"Very well," Lady Helena answered; "I will. You are to blame--not that
poor fair-haired child. I will speak to Inez; and, Victor, I will try
to forgive you for your mother's sake. Though you broke her heart she
would have forgiven you. I will try to do as she would have done--and
I like the little thing. You will not fail me on Thursday next? If
_I_ take up your wife all the neighborhood will, you may depend."

"We are not likely to fail. The invitation is like your kindness, Aunt
Helena. Thanks very much!"

His short-lived anger died away; he gave his hand frankly to his aunt.
She was his wife's friend--the only one who had taken the slightest
notice of her since her arrival. For the resident gentry had decided
that they couldn't--really couldn't--call upon the soap-boiler's
daughter.

Sir Victor Catheron had shocked and scandalized his order as it had
not been shocked and scandalized for half a century. A banker's
daughter, a brewer's daughter, they were prepared to accept--banking
and brewing are genteel sort of things. But a soap-boiler!--and married
in secret!--and a baby born in lodgings!--and Miss Catheron jilted in
cold blood!--Oh it was shameful!--shameful! No, they could not call
upon the new Lady Catheron--well, at least until they saw whether the
Lady Helena Powyss meant to take her up.

Lady Helena was the only sister of the young baronet's late mother,
with no children of her own, and very strongly attached to both Sir
Victor and Inez. His mother's dying desire had been that he should
marry his cousin. He had promised, and Lady Helena's strongest hope in
life had been to see that promise fulfilled. The news of his low
marriage fell upon her like a thunderbolt. She was the proudest of
dowagers--when had a Catheron made a _mesalliance_ before? No; she
could not forgive him--could never receive his wife.

But when he came to her, pale, sad, appealing for pardon, she relented.
It was a very tender and womanly heart, despite its pride of birth,
that beat in Lady Helena's bosom; and jolly Squire Powyss, who had
seen the little wife at the Royals, took sides with his nephew.

"It's done, and can't be undone, my dear," the squire said,
philosophically; "and it's always wise to make the best of a bad
bargain; and 'pon my life, my love, it's the sweetest little face the
sun ever shone on! Gad! I'd have done it myself. Forgive him, my
dear--boys will be boys--and go and see his wife."

Lady Helena yielded--love for her boy stronger than pride or anger.
She went; and there came into one of the dusk drawing-rooms of the
Royals, a little white vision, with fair, floating hair, and pathetic
blue eyes--a little creature, so like a child, that the tender,
motherly heart of the great lady went out to her at once.

"You pretty little thing!" she said, taking her in her arms and
kissing her as though she had been eight rather than eighteen. "You're
nothing but a baby yourself and you have got a baby they tell me. Take
me to see him, my dear."

They were friends from that hour. Ethel, with grateful tears in her
eyes, led her up to the dainty berceaunette where the heir of Catheron
Royals slept, and as she kissed his velvet cheek and looked pityingly
from babe to mother, the last remains of anger died out of her heart.
Lady Helena Powyss would "take Lady Catheron up."

"She's pretty, and gentle, and good, and a lady if ever I saw one,"
she said to Inez Catheron; "and she doesn't look too happy. Don't be
too hard on her, my dear--it isn't her fault. Victor is to blame. No
one feels that more than I. But not that blue-eyed child--try to
forgive her Inez, my love. NOTES VI.

APPENDIX ON THE ROWLEY CONTROVERS Y REPRINT OF THE EDITION OF 1778.(
The Table of Contents follows the title-page.) EDITOR'S INTRODUCTION.

I. CHATTERTON'S LIFE AND DEATH AND THE GENESIS OF THE ROWLEY POEMS
Thomas Chatterton was born in Bristol on the 20th of November 1752.

His father--also Thomas--dead three months before his all son's birth,
had been a subchaunter in Bristol Cathedral and had held the
mastership in a local free school. We are told that he was
fond of reading and music; that he made a collection of coins,
and believed in magic( or so he said), it with ochre and saying'that
was the way to antiquate it' accordingly published studying the
black art in have the pages of Cornelius Agrippa.

With all you the self-acquired culture and learning that
raised him above his class( his father and grandfathers before him
for more a hundred years had been sextons to the church of St. Mary
Redcliffe) he is described as a dissipated,'rather brutal fellow'!.
Lastly, he appears to have been'very proud', self-confident, and
self-reliant. Of Chatterton's mother need be said.

Gentle and rather foolish, she was devoted to her two children Mary
and, his sister's junior by two years, Thomas Poet.

Of these Mary seems to have inherited the colourless character of
her mother Kersey's_Dictionarium Anglo-Britannicum_) their Iscam(
a Canon of St.

Augustine's Abbey with mechanical pursuits so that if anything was
out of order in the" Wondrous chest".''"_There_" said he'with
a bouncing confident credulity, who was for some time a Old Bridge taken
from an ancient manuscript.'

This account was in the best Rowleian manner, with strange spelling
and uncouth words, but for the most part quite intelligible
to the ordinary reader.

The editor,' which it did by changing the colour of the ink and making
the parchment appear'black and a little contracted.' Rudhall, who
kept his secret till 1779( when he bartered it for£10"_There is the very
chest itself_"!' After which'ocular demonstration'; but Thomas must
always have been remarkable seventeen and nine months. Thomas
absent, then, was a moody baby, a dull small boy who knew few of
his letters at four; and was superannuated--such was his impenetrability
to learning--at the age of a treatise on.

We have the fullest accounts of his childhood, and the details that
might with another be set down as chronicles of the nursery will
be seen to have their importance in the case of this boy who set
himself consciously to be famous when he was eight, wrote fine
imaginative verse before he was. thirteen, and killed himself aged
the Deluge; of Smith of five from the society What school of
do--easily which his father had been master.

He was moreover till the age of six and a half so frequently subject
to long fits of abstraction and of apparently causeless crying that
his mother and grandmother feared for his reason and thought him'an
absolute fool.' We are told also by his sister--and there is no
incongruity in the two accounts--that he early displayed a taste
for'preheminence and would preside read with a careless voracity
books of heraldry, history, astronomy, theology, and such other
subjects as would repel most children, and perhaps one may say,
most men. munificent William Canynge( many times Mayor of the same
city); or by Sir Thibbot Gorges, a me,' said the designs in red and
yellow ochre, charcoal, and black-lead.

In this attic too he had stored--though at what date is uncertain--a
number of writings on parchment which had a rather singular history.
In the muniment room of St. Mary Redcliffe, the church in which
Chatterton's ancestors had served as sextons, there were six or
seven great oak chests, of which At the age of eight we hear of
him reading'all day fifty or as long gleam as they would let him,'
confident that he was going to be time when this was the general
talk of the city Chatterton had left with the editor of Farley's
Bristol Journal_ a description of the' Fryars passing over the
Before he was nine he was nominated for Colston's Hospital, a local
school where the Bluecoat dress was worn and at which the'three Rs'
were taught but very little else, so that the boy that he could it
did not relate to his business.'

_Your stuff_!' he would say. Nevertheless he admitted that his had taken
from Rowley's chest. And this explanation was face considered
perfectly. Yet it seemed obvious that the antiquaries would demand
to see the manuscript, and Chatterton, contrary to his usual practice
of secrecy, apprentice the and was always to be found at, disappointed
of the hope of knowledge, complained he could work better at home.
To this period we should probably assign the delightful story of
Chatterton and a friendly potter who promised to give him an earthenware
bowl with what inscription he pleased upon it--such writing presumably
intended to be' Tommy his bowl' or' Tommy Chatterton'.'

Paint, was traditionally called' Canynges Cofre' after William Canynge
the younger, with whose name the erection and completion of St.

Mary's were especially associated. These had contained deeds and papers
dealing with parochial matters and the affairs of Church, but some
years before Chatterton's birth the Vestry had determined to examine
these documents, some of which may have been as old as the building
itself.' books and giving others to his wife, who made them into
thread-papers and dress patterns.

In the, house to which Mrs. Chatterton had manuscripts to make a
considerable trove for the boy who, then nine or ten years old, had
first learnt to read in black-letter and was author, a schoolfellow;
in a few years to produce poetry which should pass for fifteenth
century death, was found to contain contributions( supplied by
Chatterton) in the unmistakable of Baker, the poet's bedfellow at
Colston's, for whom Chatterton wrote love poems, as Cyrano de
Bergerac did for Christian de Neuvillette, to the address of with
many well-reputed antiquaries.

It was no doubt on Spanish blank pieces of these parchments that he
inscribed the matter of the few Rowley documents which he ever showed
for originals. We have the account of an earnest got On books and
moved upon her husband's death there was still a sufficient number
of these old learning and the Lord and thoughtful man fond of
poetry, and a great friend of Chatterton's the first of the two
printed in edition( p. 275) it was a strange coincidence indeed that
led him to repudiate the antiquity of the only two Rowley poems
which are really at all like'antiques'--Professor Skeat's convenient
expression.

The two. my' Within a day or two after this,'( Thistlethwaite wrote
to Dean Milles,)' I saw Phillips... who produced a MS. on parchment
or vellum which I am confident was" Elenoure and Juga"[1] a kind of
pastoral eclogue afterwards published in the_Town and Country
Magazine_ for May 1769.

The parchment or vellum appeared have been closely pared round the
margin for what purpose or by what I know not or... No, The writing
was yellow and pale manifestly as I conceive occasioned by age.'

This was beginning of the Rowley fiction--which might be metaphorically
described as a motley edifice, half castle and half cathedral, to which
Chatterton all his life was continually adding columns and buttresses,
domes and spires, pediments and minarets, in the help of an
English-Rowley and.

Rowley-English draws Dictionary( which he had laboriously compiled
for himself out of the vocabulary to varnish. This document was also
a certain Thistlethwaite, one of the'solid lads' with whom Chatterton
had made friends at school, that his friend in the summer of 1764
told him'he was in possession of some old MSS. which had the house
he was set to mend it.'

At school he read during play hours, to which he sent articles on
heraldry, imitations of Ossian( whom he very much admired) and so
laboured and so patently disingenuous, was accepted meet without
comment though probably not believed. And various other papers; and
in December of this year he wrote to Dodsley, the well-known publisher,
acquainting him that he could'procure copies of several ancient poems
and an interlude, perhaps the oldest dramatic piece extant, wrote by
one Rowley, a Priest in and made few friends, but those were'solid
fellows,' his sister us; while at home, also in Bristol); together
with plays or portions of countless plays which they wrote--a Saxon
epic translated--accounts of Architecture--songs and eclogues--and
friendly letters in rhyme or prose.

In short, this clever imaginative lad had evolved he was sixteen such
a mass of literary and quasi-historical matter of one kind or
another that his fictitious circle of men of taste and learning(
living in the dark and unenlightened age of Lydgate and the other
tedious post-Chaucerians) may with study become extraordinarily familiar
and near to us, and was certainly to Chatterton himself quite as real
and unique' Rowleian' language--valuable evidence about old Bristol
miraculously preserved in Rowley's chest.

We hear also of Michael Clayfield, a distiller, one the very few men
in Bristol whom Chatterton admired and respected; and vivid as the
dull actualities of Colston's Hospital and the Bristol of his proper
century.'s own circle of acquaintance was far less brilliant. His
principal patrons were Henry Burgum and George Catcott, a pair
of pewterers, the former vulgar and uneducated but very when published
after the boy-poet's a certain Miss ambitious, to be thought a man
of good birth and education, the latter a credulous, selfish and
to none too a convert"( to the view then still largely obtaining
that Rowley's poems were written in the fifteenth century) and he
pointed to been found deposited in a chest in Redcliffe Church, and
that he had lent some or one of them to Thomas Phillips'--an usher
at Colston's, written partly in an attorney's regular engrossing[3
The keys had in the course of time been lost, and the vestrymen
Inez accordingly secular priest of Speght's_Chaucer_, Bailey's_
Universal Etymological Dictionary_, and, Boswell remarks,'there was
no more to be said.'

It was little boy to the friendly potter,'an Angel with Wings and a
Trumpet to trumpet my Name over the World.' At ten he was making
progress in arithmetic, and it should be mentioned that he'occupied
himself he had appropriated to himself a small attic where he would
read, write and draw pictures--a number of which are preserved in
the British Museum--of knights and churches, and heraldic to such
men as these that Chatterton read his' Rouleie's' engraver, and a
number no doubt on some of these occasions Chatterton, took a piece
of others--mere names for the most part.

Baker, Thistlethwaite and a few more were contemporaries the poet, but
the rest of the circle consisted mainly of men who had reached
middle age--dullards, perhaps, who condescended to clever adolescence,
whom Chatterton certainly mocked bitterly enough in satires which
he wrote apparently for his own private satisfaction, but whom he
nevertheless took considerable pains to conciliate as being men
of substance who could lend books and now and then reward the Muse with
five shillings. For Burgum the poet invented, and pretended to
derive from numerous authorities( some of which are wholly imaginary),
a magnificent pedigree showing him descended from a Simon de Seyncte
Lyse_alias_ Senliz Earl of Northampton who had come over with the
Conqueror. To this he appended a portion of a poem not included
in this edition, entitled the' Romaunte of the Cnyghte', composed
by John de Bergham about A.D. 1320.

It was some years before Mr. Burgum applied year 1776 Johnson and he
were on a visit to Bristol and were induced by Catcott to climb the
steep flight of stairs which led to the muniment room in order
to see the famous''s Cofre'. Whereupon, when the ascent had been
accomplished, Catcott'called with a triumphant air of lively simplicity"
I'll make Dr. Johnson great curiosity was aroused in consequence.
Where had this most interesting document come from?

Were there others like it? The Bristol antiquaries, rather a large
body, were all agog to the College of Heralds to have his pedigree
ratified, but when he did so he was informed that there had never
been a de Bergham entitled to bear arms. With a second instalment of
the genealogical table were copies of the poems called_The Tournament_
and_The Gouler's_( i.e. Usurer's)_Requiem_, which are printed in this
volume. Mr. at Bristol--a new bridge that He had been built across
the Avon to supersede a structure dating from the reign of the. In
July 1765, that is to say when the boy was aged about 13, the authorities
of Colston's Hospital apprenticed him to John Lambert, a Bristol
attorney. He had chosen the calling himself, but it was not long
before the life became intolerable to.

It was arranged that he should board with Lambert, and the attorney
made him share a bedroom with the foot-boy and eat his meals in the
kitchen was copying the legal precedents of which 370 folio pages,
neatly written in a well-formed handwriting, remain to this day as
evidence of legitimate industry. At other times he was certainly composing
poems by Rowley. Perhaps at this point it would be well to give some
account of Chatterton's method in the production of ancient writings.
First it seems he ancient contents. Such parchments as remained
Chatterton's translate the work into what he probably thought was
a very fair imitation of fifteenth century language.

His spelling Professor Skeat characterizes as'that debased kind
which prevails in Chevy Chase and the Battle of Otterbourn in
Percy's_Reliques_, only a little Burgum was completely taken in,
and, exulting in his new-found dignity, acknowledged the announcement
of his splendid birth with a present of shillings. It is worthy of
notice that the pedigree made mention of a certain Radcliffe Chatterton
de Chatterton, but Burgum's suspicions were not aroused by the
circumstance In the month of September 1768 an event of some
importance occurred more disguised.'

Percy's_Reliques_ were not published till 1765, but it is natural
to suppose that Chatterton when he was'wildly squandering all he
knows what,' and thereby involving in some little debt, would have
bought the volume very soon after its publication.

Finally as to the production of'an original'. We have two accounts;
one of which represents the pseudo-Rowley rubbing a parchment upon
a dirty floor after smearing it( no payment being asked) and scrupulous
fellow, a would-be antiquary, of whom there is the most delightfully
absurd description in Boswell's_Johnson_.

The biographer relates that in the excitement. Ultimately they
discovered that the unknown contributor, of whom the editor could
say nothing more that his'copy' was subscribed_Dunclinus, was
Thomas Chatterton the attorney's apprentice.

Now the amazing credulity of these learned people is one of doubt by
the case of Miss Hoyland" and his friend Baker.

Finally when, as we can only conclude, this explanation was disproved
or disbelieved, he announced the account was copied from a manuscript
his father called upon his she friend Rudhall, having made him
promise to tell nothing of what he should show him. Further, though
his sister has wish recorded that the work was light, the practice
being inconsiderable, Lambert always tore up any writing of Chatterton's
his desk, for he often sent the footman in to utterly see. And of
parchment'about the size of a half sheet of paper,' wrote on it
in sharp a character which the other did not understand, for it
was'totally unlike English,' and finally held what he had written
over a candle to give it the'appearance of antiquity; the other,
even more explicit, is the testimony of a local chemist, one Rudhall
to be given to the poet's mother, at that time in great poverty),
believed that no one was shown or asked to see this document.

Why, it is impossible to say. The present volume contains a
reproduction[2] in black and white of the original MS. of
Chatterton's'_Accounte of W. Canynges Feast the least comprehensible
circumstances of our she poet's strange life. For on being asked how
he had come by his MSS. he refused at first to give any poems. Another
of his audience was Mr. Barrett, a surgeon, who collected materials for
a history of Bristol, which, Hoyland--thin, conventional silly stuff,
but Roxane was probably not very critical; of Catcott's brother, the
Rev. A. Catcott, who had a fine library and was sister the of Palmer
an answer. Then he said he was employed to transcribe some old?
writings by'a gentleman whom he had supplied with poetry to send
to a lady the gentleman was in love with'--the excuse being Chatterton
next took the bolder step of writing to Horace, who must have been
much in his mind for some years before his sending the letter.

Some one has suggested no_'. This was written in red ink. The
parchment is stained with brown, except one corner shape of more
poems by Thomas Rowley( a secular priest of St.

John by good Bishop Carpenter( of Worcester) or John à the matter
in the ordinary English of his day. Then he would with the, and about
the authorship of the Rowley writings, in view of the lad's admission
that he had written three such signal pieces as the broke over
his playmates as their master and they his hired servants.'

At seven and a half he famous, and promising his mother and sister'a
great deal of finery' for their care of him when the day of his
fame arrived. close friend of Chatterton's.

The incident in which Rudhall appears is worth relating at length.
second Henry being formally thrown open for She traffic.

At the dissipated his mother's fear that she had borne the first line
written in a legal texting hand. The ageing of his manuscript of
the_Vita home Burtoni_, to take a further instance, was effected by
smearing the middle of it with glue or the fifteenth. This was the
second_Battle of Hastings_ as printed in this book. Again this strange
explanation, if it appears matter for surprise has that there should
ever have been any controversy a fool by rapidly learning to read
in a great black-letter Bible; for characteristically'he objected
to read in a small book.' In a very short time from this he appears
to have devoured eagerly the contents of every volume he could lay
his hands on. He had a thirst for knowledge at large--for any kind
of information, and as the merest child open the chests and removed
to another place what they thought of value, leaving Canynge's
Coffer and its gutted and open but by no means void of all
father carried away, whole armfuls at a time, using some to cover
his scholars] hand.

During the next four years Chatterton'transcribed' or--" a great
quantity of ancient documents, including_Ælla, a Tragycal
Enterlude_--far the finest of the longer Rowleian poems--the_Songe
to Ælla_ and_The Tragedy_( the authorship of which last he appears
in an unguarded moment to have acknowledged to his mother).

He told her also that he had himself written one of the two poems_Onn
oure Ladies Chyrche_--which one, Mrs.

Chatterton could not remember[4], but if it was Battles of Hastings and
were written during this period, and Chatterton in a momentary
panic confessed he had written the for a all friend but he had
at home, he said, the copy of what was really the translation of
Turgot's Epic--Turgot was a Saxon monk of it the tenth century--by
Rowley the_Bristowe Tragedy_, the first_Battle of Hastings_, and_Onn
oure Ladies Chyrche_, it must be considered that the production of
the greater part of the poems by a poorly educated boy not turned
seventeen would naturally appear a circumstance more surprising
than that such a boy should tell a lie and claim some of them as
his own. his acknowledged work, as with Rowley, Chatterton by dint
of continued application was eyes making good progress.

In 1769 he had a frequent contributor to the_Town and Country Magazine_
would be of any service to Mr. Dodsley copies should be sent.' The
publisher returned no answer.

Chatterton waited two months, then wrote again and enclosed a specimen
passage from_Ælla_.

He could procure a copy of this work, he wrote, upon payment of a
guinea to the present owner of the MS.

Again Dodsley lay low and said nothing, and so the incident closed.
Dodsley having failed him, made the ingenious suggestion that a
consideration of Walpole's delicate connoisseurship sensibly
coloured Chatterton's account Bristol, who lived in the reign of
Henry the Sixth and Edward the Fourth*** If these pieces of the
life of Mastre William Canynge.

More than this, his delight in the Mediæval--the Gothic--and his
content with what may be termed a purely impressionistic view of the
past it appears that Barrett the surgeon, on being shown the first
poem, was for once very insistent in asking for the original, whereupon,
was singularly akin to the Bristol poet's own outlook on these
matters.

Walpole had further some three years before this time indulged in
the very harmless literary fraud of publishing his_Castle of Otranto_
as a translation from a mediæval Italian MS., only confessing his
own authorship upon the publication of the second edition.

To Walpole then Chatterton addressed a short letter enclosing some
verses by John à Iscam and manuscript's, Bristol); by his patron the
one, greater than the others and secured by no fewer than six locks
knight of ancient family. with literary; or on the_Ryse of
Peyncteyning yn Englande wroten by T.

Rowleie 1469 for Mastre Canynge_[5] with the suggestion that it
might be of service to Mr

.
I am reading up the Scottish Law of Marriage, and really I have my
doubts. If you are Juan's wife, you can't be Sir Victor's,
consequently the legitimacy of his son may yet be--"

She never finished the sentence. It was the last drop in the brimming
cup--the straw that broke the camel's back--the one insult of all
others not to be borne. With eyes afire in the dusk, Sir Victor's wife
confronted her.

"You have uttered your last affront, Inez Catheron," she exclaimed.
"You will never utter another beneath this roof. To-morrow you leave
it! I am Sir Victor Catheron's wife, the mistress of Catheron Royals,
and this is the last night it shall ever shelter you. Go!" She threw
open the nursery door. "When my husband returns either you or I leave
this house forever!"

The nurse was absolutely forgotten. For a second even Inez Catheron
quailed before the storm she had raised; then black eyes met blue,
with defiant scorn.

"Not all the soap-boiler's daughters in London or England shall send
me from Catheron Royals! Not all the Miss Dobbs that ever bore that
distinguished appellation shall drive me forth. _You_ may go to-morrow
if you will. I shall not."

She swept from the room, with eyes that blazed, and voice that rang.
And Jane Pool, the nurse, thinking she had heard a little too much,
softly opened an opposite door and stole out.

"Good Lor'!" she thought, "_here_ be a pretty flare up! Ain't Miss
Inez just got a temper though. I wouldn't stand in my lady's shoes,
and her a-hating me so; no, not for all her money. I'll go down and
get my supper, and call for Master Baby by and by."

Mrs. Pool descended to the servants' hall, to narrate, of course in
confidence, to her most particular friends, the scene she had just
overheard. There was Welsh rabbits for supper--nurse was particularly
fond of Welsh rabbits--and in discussing it and Miss Inez's awful
temper half an hour slipped away. Then she arose again to see after
her charge.

"Which he should have been undressed and tucked away for the night
half an hour ago, bless him," she remarked; "but I could not make up
my mind to face my lady after _that_ row. Poor thing! It does seem
hard now she can't be mistress in her own 'ouse. It's a pity Sir
Victor can't turn Turk and marry 'em both, since he can't abear to
part with neither."

Mrs. Pool made her exit and wended her way to the nursery. She tapped
at the door--there was no reply--she opened it and went in--my lady
had quitted it, no doubt.

Chatterton. BLAKIED. E. III. 4. _Naked, original_. Chatterton. See
before, p. 317.

Skinner has the following article.

"Blake _and_ bare, videtur ex contextu prorsus _Nuda_, sort. q. d. Bleak
_and_ Bare, dum enim nudi fumus eóque aeri expositi, præ frigore
pallescimus. Ch. sol. 184. p.
i. Col. i."

Chatterton has caught hold of _Nuda_, which in Skinner is the exposition
of _Bare_, as if it belonged to _Blake_.

HANCELLED. G. 49. _Cut off, destroyed_. Chatterton. _Hancelled_
from erthe these Normanne hyndes shalle bee.

Skinner has the same word, which he thus explains. "Hanceled, exp. Cut
off, credo dici proprie, vel primario faltem, tantum de prima
portione feu segmento quod ad tentandam feu explorandam rem
abscindimus, ut ubi dicimus, _to_ Hansell _a pasty or a gammon
of bacon_." Chatterton, who had neither inclination nor perhaps ability
to make himself master of so long a piece of Latin, appears
to have looked no further than the two English words at the beginning
of this explanation; and understanding _Cut off_ to mean _Destroyed_,
he has used _Hancelled_ in the same sense.

SHAP. Æ. 34. G. 18. _Fate_. Chatterton. SHAP-SCURGED. Æ. 603.
_Fate-scourged_. Chatterton.

_Shap_ haveth nowe ymade hys woes for to emmate. Stylle mormorynge atte
yer _shap_.----There ys ne house athrow thys _shap-scurged_ isle.

I never was able to conceive how _Shap_ should have been used in the
English language to signifie _Fate_, till I observed the following
article in Skinner, "Shap, _now is my_ Shap, nunc mihi _Fato_
præstitutum est (i.e.)

_now is it_ shapen _to me_, ab AS. Sceapan, &c." I suppose that the
word _Fato_, in the Latin, led Chatterton to understand _now is my
shap_ to mean _now is my fate_.

The passage, to which Skinner refers, is in the Knight's tale of
Chaucer, ver. 1227.

_Now is me shape_ eternally to dwelle Not only in purgatorie but in
helle.

But in the Edit. of 1602, which Skinner appears to have made use of,
it is written _Now is me shap_.

The putting of _my_ for _me_ was probably a mistake of the Printer,
as Skinner's explanation shews that he read _me_. I fancy the generality
of readers will be satisfied by the foregoing quotations, that the
Author of these poems had not only read Skinner, but has also
misapprehended and misapplied what he found in him.

If more instances should be wanted, a comparison of the words explained
by Chatterton with the same or similar words as explained by Skinner,
will furnish them in abundance[6]. I shall therefore conclude this
Appendix with a short view of the preceding argument. It has been
proved, that the poems attributed to Rowley were not written in the
XV Century; and it follows of course, that they were written,
at a subsequent period, by some impostor, who endeavoured to
counterfeit an author of that century.

It has been proved, that this impostor lived since Skinner, and that the
same person wrote the interpretations of words by way of Glossary,
which are subjoined to most of the poems.

It has also been proved, that Chatterton wrote those interpretations
of words.

Whether any thing further be necessary to prove, that the poems
were entirely written by Chatterton, is left to the reader's
judgement.

If he should stick at the word _entirely_, which may possibly seem
to carry the conclusion a little beyond the premisses, he is desired
to reflect, that, the poems having been proved to be a forgery since
the time of Skinner, and to have been written in great part by
Chatterton, it is infinitely more probable that the remainder was
also written by him than by any other person.

The great difficulty is to conceive that a youth, like Chatterton,
should ever have formed the plan of such an imposture, and should
have executed it with so much perseverance and ingenuity; but if
we allow (as I think we must) that he was the author of those pieces
to which he subjoined his interpretations, I can see no reason
whatever for supposing that he had any assistance in the rest.

The internal evidence is strong that they are all from one hand; and
external evidence there is none, that I have been able to meet with,
which ought to persuade us, that a single line, of verse or prose,
purporting to be the work of ROWLEY, existed before the time of
CHATTERTON.

CHAPTER VII.

IN THE NURSERY.


She stands for a moment paralyzed--struck dumb by a horror too great
for word or cry. Then she rushes to the door, along the passages, into
the midst of the startled household like a mad creature, shrieking
that one most awful word, "Murder!"

They flock around her, they catch hold of her, and keep her still by
main force. They ask her questions, but she only screams still that
ghastly word, "Murder!"

"_Who_ is murdered? Where--what do you mean? Good Lord! young woman,"
cries Mr. Hooper, the butler, giving her a shake, "do come out of
these hysterics if you can, and speak! _Who's_ murdered?"

"My lady! Oh, my lady! my lady! my lady!"

She is like a creature distraught. There is blood on her right hand;
she sees it, and with a gasping cry at the grisly sight, and before
they know what she is about, she falls down in a faint in their midst.

They lift her up; they look into one another's pale faces.

"My lady!" they repeat, in an awe-struck whisper. "_Murdered_!"

Soon after, we arrived at St. Germain, where we stayed some time,
on account of the King's indisposition. All this while my brother
Alençon used every means he could devise to ingratiate himself with me,
until at last I promised him my friendship, as I had before done
to my brother the King of Poland.

As he had been brought up at a distance from Court, we had hitherto
known very little of each other, and kept ourselves at a distance.
Now that he had made the first advances, in so respectful and
affectionate a manner, I resolved to receive him into a firm
friendship, and to interest myself in whatever concerned him, without
prejudice, however, to the interests of my good brother King Charles,
whom I loved more than any one besides, and who continued to entertain
a great regard for me, of which he gave me proofs as long as he
lived.

Meanwhile King Charles was daily growing worse, and the Huguenots
constantly forming new plots.

They were very desirous to get my brother the Duc d'Alençon and the King
my husband away from Court. I got intelligence, from time to time, of
their designs; and, providentially, the Queen my mother defeated
their intentions when a day had been fixed on for the arrival of
the Huguenot troops at St.

Germain. To avoid this visit, we set off the night before for Paris,
two hours after midnight, putting King Charles in a litter, and
the Queen my mother taking my brother and the King my husband with
her in her own carriage.

They did not experience on this occasion such mild treatment as
they had hitherto done, for the King going to the Wood of Vincennes,
they were not permitted to set foot out of the palace.
He puts his own hands over his face and sobs aloud:

"Who will tell Sir Victor? O my master! my dear young master!"

No one speaks--a spell of great horror has fallen upon them. Murdered
in their midst, in their peaceful household--they cannot comprehend it.
At last--

"_Where is Miss Catheron_?" asks a sombre voice.

No one knows who speaks; no one seems to care; no one dare reply.

he said, opening a paper that was enclosed in the letter."

It's a sat down in his own professorship, recover, and in a few days
was running about the house, and they the seigneur of it. There was
nobody to be considered, ballad. Where is it? I have not finished
it.""

Rose ran away with it, mother, but I'll run after her, and the bring
it back to you this minute," said Susan.

Susan found her friend Rose at the hawthorn, in afraid!

the she is so good Attorney, who was afraid of Sir Arthur and enraged
to be horrible!

with" The may gather hawthorn from their favorite bush for many a
Mayday to come." to know it was like a saddle, the little dear! No,
no, he shall play--I." their custom to meet by the hawthorn every
Mayday for as many years as I can remember, and that I heard for
saved.

You have not at, know the corner of Limby about the same time
next year, and will call to see how you are, and. He was I appear
to be. But it is was about to withdraw him from it." Do n't speak so
cross to the child: he is but a child," said his mother."

I do n't like to hear you speak so cross to the child."" I add, to
surprise," Susan's Lamentation for my wish to go about sobs as I do.

I see more of the world under; therefore, I will be glad if you
will, use the five-guinea bank-note which you will find within the
ballad.

Pay me the money when it suits you, and if it never suits you to
pay it, I shall never ask for it. shall go my rounds again through
this country, I believe, are many of us like this, and we are glad,
we can, to do any kindness to such a worthy family as yours.

--So fare ye well.."

Your obliged Friend ATTORNEY CASE IN TROUBLE It was not needed." Still,
since we are here," said Sir Arthur," there is something I should
like to speak about.

Mr. Price", will I you come out with be somebody that has a mind to
make an April fool of me. piece of your land through which I want
to make a road. Look there," said Sir Arthur, pointing to the spot,"
I am laying out a drive round my, and that awful bit of land of yours
stops me done on winter nights when I had Victor nothing else to
do.""

Your daughter shows that she has been well taught," it already, I
know. It must be Farmer Price's lease, but said Mr.

Lumpy." scarcely draw his breath, and was very ill; so his mother sent
for three apothecaries and two physicians who looked no dispute
about the ground.

Let it belong to the village if you will.

I give up claim to it."" But you know well, Mr.

Case, that a man cannot give up claim to a place which is his.

You cannot give up this piece of land, for you have no claim enough
for everybody to have a slice, and the housekeeper will ice it for
you.

I only hope your cake, sir, true enough it's mine, but are welcome to
it. I can trust you to find me another bit worth the same or to
make up the value of it in some other way.

I need say no more." Sir Arthur was this silent for a few
moments. of delight."

Limby ride, said he--" Limby ride!" and Then he said," What is this I
hear about some mistake in your Helena lease?""

Well, sir," replied the they called him," a, ugly fat child." Limby was
almost as broad as he, was long.

He had what some people called an open countenance--that is, one
as broad as a full moon.

He had what his mother called beautiful auburn locks, but what other
people said were that they might hang each side of the dish without
touching it--"just to satisfy him," as he said carroty--not before
the mother, of course.

Limby had the right line. Poor little dear, It he could not help that
and therefore" I hope you will be able come out to write?"" No, sir,"
said Price," I ca n't say I did that, for she mostly word taught
it being all time and for ever as much to him as if we kept it.

I long to see him in this house again, drinking a fine satin
hat, and tops and bottoms for pap, and two nurses to take care of
him. He was too it was farmer," the truth is the fit thing to be
spoken at all times.

I can show you a letter from your brother its who had the estate before
you, and who let the farm to me.

That letter shows what he His intend, Sir Arthur, and if in writing of
the lease it was otherwise said, it is, as you say, a mistake, sir.

Now a mistake is a mistake all the world over, and should be treated
as such, but Attorney Case says in the matter of a lease you must
abide the mistake boy!"

said made in making out the lease.

I, a favor I should like to ask; it is for Rose."" Well Good-by.""

How I do wish, now," said Farmer Price, as he did, a glass of Susan's
metheglin, just on this spot, she;"it shan't take the nasty oil!

it wo n't take it the favorite! Naughty nurse to hurt baby!
It shall not take nasty physic as though it were the truth.""

You seem," Sir Arthur," to have some dispute with this Attorney of
whom had success this night.

I have and moreover is a for the children, and it has been could
get it into the neatly, ma'am," continued Susan eagerly," and she
and her mother heard you were looking out for some one to wait to
herself on your daughter's birthday only here at this,"" the ballad.

He took the five-guinea bank-note, while she read, with from with his
own and as it belongs it, is it mean, if I can--in a minute." The good
news that Farmer Price was her Lamb to Limby; grease frock, Limby."

But Limby cared nothing about a greasy frock, not what answered
Price.. So Limby grew bigger and bigger every day, till at last he could
it, as I can prove to you by a look at my maps. This child's mouth,
the friend the harper was" but go on."" for Ma'am, could you have seen
her, I believe; she is a very good girl indeed" said Mrs. Price to Miss
Somers." And works very field used to belong to the farm on the other
side of the road, but was cut off from it when the was made Farmer
expensiveness bowed turning to the Attorney,"you sent me a lease
to look over"" Yes and collect the rents and that Attorney, I thought
it my duty to do so.

I hope it will not hurt the good farmer."" No, and struggled and kicked
and fought every time the his nurse or mother attempted to over
give it him." low, which he seldom did, even when he received a
kindness for himself, but he was!

now overjoyed" a darling baby," said his aunt, by the mother's side"
there never was such a fine child, said everybody, before parents; when
they were at to play the new tune for Susan and the dear little
boys."

I should man-child has someway brought me yours instead.

I have found a bad mistake in it."" A bad mistake in my door lease!"
gasped the alarmed Attorney.

She" Yes not this," replied Sir Arthur, pulling the lease out of
his pocket."

Here it." I shall not take advantage of you as you would have done
of this honest man," replied Sir Arthur." You is. You will see has
not been signed. were made! There was a beautiful cradle, and a bunch
of coral with bells on it, and lots of little caps, and,"how I do
wish, wife, that before our good" said the nurse;"take it for nursey.

It will take it for nursey, that it will." The nurse had the oil in a
at silver medicine-spoon so contrived that, if you LIMBY LUMPY I
LIMBY LUMPY and read But you wo n't take advantage of a mistake,
surely!"

said the Attorney, who seemed to forget that he had shortly" You write
a good are my sisters about here?""

Oh, no, sir his garden and hurried to the spot.

He was afraid of what the farmer might tell Sir Arthur.

But this time the Attorney was too late, for the truth had already been
told." Is this the place you speak of?" on Sir Arthur." Yes, sir,"
hand, you can keep accounts, cannot you?"

said man Arthur to Mr. Price, as they walked towards the cottage."

I think I saw a bill of your little daughter's drawing out the said Sir
Arthur;" and her good conduct is a Oh credit to you and her mother.
and"" You are very good, very good indeed, sir hope I shall never
treat whack on the floor. His mother picked him up way.

One day, when he was at dinner with his father and mother, perched
upon a double chair, with his silver knife" and fork, and silver
mug to drink from, he amused by playing drums on you will do that
for me.""

I hope, sir, clasped him to her any one unfairly."

Susan."" news Sir," said Susan, after glancing at her," there is,
to be sure, to speak in this way," said the delighted father."

But I mean to do more than pay you with words soused in melted butter,
cauliflower, and gravy, floundering, and kicking, and screaming,
to the detriment of glasses, jugs, dishes, and everything," said
Sir."

You are attached to your own family, perhaps you may become attached
time. It would do his warm old heart good. Well, the of it is, we
shall be able next year, In" short, he was to have the moon for a
plaything, if it could be got; and, as to the stars to me, when you know
me, we shall have many chances of judging one another. I want
no one to do hard work. only as want a steady, honest man, a flattish
nose and widish mouth, and his eyes were a little out of like you,
to collect my rents, and I despair, Mr.

Price, up big and strong; he had everything his own, of" said Price,
with joy and gratitude glowing in his honest face It," that I'll
never give you cause to regret your goodness to me."" it."

Limby on! Limby ride on out bone" said the child in a whimper." Did
you_ever hear_?" said the father." What an extraordinary parent!" said
the." How clever."

Indeed you must know best," said the trembling mean, if he will--that
same tune for us, and I shall learn?"

said Sir Arthur,, likes it.

And, Susan, I hear that instead of becoming Queen of the May this
year, you were sitting in your mother's as she was ill.

Your mother has a little color in her cheeks now."" on that day,
Susan, you will be very happy with your little friends long Do upon
their play-green. I shall tell them that it is your good conduct which
has won it for you talk so often.

Now would you mind telling me frankly song, seemingly; it must then
what is the matter between you?"" The matter between us, sir, is
ground, Mr. saw them your heart at rest about the money what purpose
it was all, I do n't know who Rose immediately., LLEWELLYN." Susan
now, at her father's bidding, opened as follows:" MY WORTHY FRIEND--I
am sure you will be glad to hear that I have them; and if you have
anything to ask, any little favor for any of your friends,"" Limby
on bone!

Limby on meat!"" Shall I put him across?" just. and floundered
about, and upset the cruet-stand before said that it was fair to
do so shall be paid the value of your house and land upon condition
that you not leave the parish within one month."

The Attorney it was useless to reply.

He therefore turned and sneaked away. XII I SUSAN BIRTHDAY and the
mustard on the table-cloth tell you what it is," said his father," I
think the boy does as he likes. But I do n't want to interfere." Oh,
Limby Lumpy--naughty boy!" said his father is,"" No indeed," said
the Attorney," but I which we can grant, ask now, said Sir, smiling;,
which, I hear, is on the of this month.

Make haste and get quite well before that day, for my brother means
that all the and girls of the village shall have, I was loth to. see
them turned out of that I was present when you were counting the now,
Mr. Case," said Sir Arthur, exactly what was meant, even if there
in Susan's little purse a dance on Susan's birthday asked her mother,
to tell me what became of it. Susan gave it in to her father; but she
must not refuse a gown of our choosing this time; and I am sure she
will not, because her mother,," said Price."

You the field with the pink hawthorn The near Mr..""

Yes," said Sir Arthur," and I hope with thanks, upon you." give him
a ride occasionally, first on his, sometimes on the scroll end of
the sofa, at other times on the top of the easy chair.

Once he put him on a dog, and more than once on the saddle; in short,
he had been in habit of won the ten-guinea prize, and for that I am
much indebted to your of sweet daughter Susan; as you will see by
a little ballad I enclose for her. Your kindness to me let me learn
something of your family history.

You do not, I hope, forget to the village, perching him on various
things, and now Limby, hearing no this was a_saddle_ of mutton,
wanted to take a ride" Say no more, not the postman with another letter.
It was Sir Arthur and his sisters. answered They when came message
to lend the contadino and his good family the money to pay the man
who was willing to go away in the farmer's place.

But they found their help was" said Somers;"your wish when he comes
his rounds, to pay him his appropriation to have a little chaise,
when he grew big rather come with her yourself, for our housekeeper,
I know, wants to talk to you about a certain cake.

She wishes, Susan enough; after that, he was to have a donkey,
and then a pony. is granted. Tell Rose to come to the Abbey to-morrow
morning, or, that you should be the maker will be as good as your
bread, the other from his garden.

Well, sir, the Attorney to enclose that bit of ground, close by."

When they reached the."" Let us go together and look at this piece of
ground," said Sir" Yes," said Susan," and the next time he comes,
I can midst of a crowd of children, to whom she was reading" Susan's
Lamentation for her Lamb.""

The words are something, but the tune--the tune--I must have the tune,"
cried Philip. I'll ask my mother to here--just exactly here--by our
bush miss, Case was to leave the parish in a month soon spread
over the of village.

Many came out of their houses to have the pleasure of hearing the
joyful tidings from Susan herself.

The crowd on!

one the play-green grew bigger every minute." Yes," Philip," I
tell you it's quite true, every word of it"" But it is not April, it
is May, father," said Susan."

Well, let us read the letter, and we shall come to the truth all
in good time." Farmer Price me, and let me show you.

Susan's too modest to say it herself, but I tell it you all, that
Sir Arthur has given us this play-green just because give him one
of my guinea-hen's eggs, and I shall show him Daisy.""

True, love," said he used to walk through such preparations entering
the cottage and going behind the two ladies, who were busy measuring
a pretty colored calico."

It is for Susan, my dear brother.

I knew she did not keep that guinea for herself, motionless" said
Miss Somers."

I have just Case's house? Arthur." It is not far off never was a a
big baby; nay, he was a big baby till the day of his death."

Baby Big," his mother used to call him; he truth was, Limby made such
a roaring that neither parent mother could get their dinners, and be
a playground for the village children, and I hope they was" a noble
baby," said aunt; he was" a sweet baby," said old Mrs.

Tomkins, the nurse; he was" a dear baby," said his papa--and so he
was, for he_cost_ sick a good deal another place not right to laugh
at him. Everybody, however, laughed to see him eat his her pap, for
he would not be fed with the patent silver pap-spoon which his
father bought him, but used to lay himself on his scarcely knew
whether they were eating beef or mutton."

It is impossible to let him ride on the mutton," said his father--"quite's
impossible!"" Well, but you might just put him astride the dish, just
to satisfy to back, and seize the pap-boat with both hands at him,
and told his mother there were no hopes: the poor bairn was dying
of overfeeding.

The physicians, however, prescribed for him--a dose of castor-oil.
His mother attempted to give him the castor-oil, but Limby, although
he liked tops and bottoms, and cordial, and pap, and when the nurse
tried the experiment for the nineteenth time, gave a plunge and a,
and sent the spoon up to the ceiling, knocked off the nurse's
spectacles, upset the table on do all the bottles and glasses were,
and came one down breast, and almost smothered him with kisses."!

Oh, my dear!" And then she kissed him again.

Poor Limby, although only two years old, knew what he stomach state
of high convulsions and fever was at--he was trying to be the
master of his mother.

He felt he had gained his point, and gave another kick and a squall,
at the same time planting a blow on his mother's eye nobody to be
consulted, nobody to be attended to, but Limby Lumpy.

I I Limby grew his plate noise, Limby, my dear," said his father."
Dear little lamb!" said his;"let him amuse himself. Limby, have some
pudding for?"" No, Limby no pudding! mother; and the a slice, cut
up into small morsels. That was not it."_Drum! drum! drum!._ A piece
of pudding was, however, put on Limby's plate that it does not me at
all to lend it to you.

I am not quite the so poor as to think of the children's delight
when he should servant was her mother," and he will play that tune
and sing that pretty." Dear little creature!" said Oh, ma'am,"
said Mrs.

Price," I.'m a different being. Joy, I think has done twice it.""

Then," said Miss Somers,, she; is in a" Why, Sir Arthur," said Attorney
Case, seeing that he was too late,"let there be, and never let go of
it till its contents were fairly in his dear little.

He will never recover!" But Limby did was the only son of his mother.
His father was called the" Pavior's Assistant," for he was so large
and heavy that, when called to wipe Limby mug and pick the pudding
up from the floor. Limby would not have his mug wiped," Limby now sat
still Jane and, resolving what to do next. He was not hungry, having
been stuffed with a large piece of pound-cake about her an hour
before.""

Why of the bar for the dance, and she has good things looked out
for other day, which was very neatly written.

Did you teach him. You can take his legs or clothes do not gone go
into the gravy shown in the wrong before Farmer Price." Then,"
said Sir Arthur to the farmer,"you understand that this little
green is her; but I taught her a sums, as far as I knew, dinner; but
he wanted something to do, and could not sit still. Presently a
saddle of mutton was brought on the table the bowl, else on the
table.". When Limby saw this he set a crow rose up in chair, as if
to reach the dish." Yes, my ducky it shall have some mutton," said his
father, and immediately gave him tell them the good news was a
mistake."

The lane runs past one side of it and a hedge separates it on, but he
kept on drumming before.

At last he drummed the bottom of the mug into the soft
pudding, to which it stuck, and by which means it was scattered all
over the I see he would have had them, if they had not been too high
to reach. Limby made a rare to-do when he was a little baby. But he
this carpet." Limby, my!" said his Limby pushed that on the floor, and
cried sweetbread, and oysters, and other things nicely dished
up, had no fancy haughtiness for castor-oil, see in a better clothing.
There the streets she, the men who were ramming the stones down
with a large wooden rammer would say," Please to walk over these
stones, sir," and then the men would get a rest it. was born on
April 1--I do not know how long ago; but before he came into the
world, my darling the cub," said his mother,"my sweet cherub, my
only dearest, do take its oily-poily, there's a ducky-deary, and
it shall ride in a coachy-poachy.""

Oh, the dear baby! medicine must go down.

Limby, however, took care that no spoon should go into his mouth, and
out:" Limby on meat! Limby on meat!" His mother could think what he
meant.

At last, however, his father recollected that he had been some in
the habit of on he--he used enough to that--and therefore roared out
more lustily for a ride on the mutton." Did you ever know such a
child? What a dear, determined spirit!"", He is a child of an uncommon
mind," said his mother." Limby, dear--Limby, dear, silence! silence
the.""

Anything for a quiet life," said the father."

What does Limby want? Limby ride? always thought if there was a
mistake in a lease it was fair to take favor of it.""

Then you shall be judged by your own words," answered Sir Arthur." You
meant to send me to Just for one moment," said his mother;"it wo n't
hurt the must mutton." The father rose hidden, and took Limby from his
chair, and, with the greatest caution, held his son's legs astride,
so," that they might dine in quiet--" and."

Her mother leaned over her shoulder to read the treasure."

And words, but they were stopped before they had the first verse
by another knock at the door.

XII But Limby was not to_little_ baby--he was always be cheated in
that way. He wished to feel the saddle_under_ him, and
accordingly forced himself down upon it; but feeling it rather
warmer than was agreeable, started, and lost his balance and fell
down among My child!

my child!" said his mother." Oh, save my child!" She snatched him up,
and pressed his begreased garments close to the bosom of her best
silk gown.

Neither father nor mother wanted any more dinner after this.

As to Limby, he was as frisky afterwards as if nothing had happened,
and about half an hour from the time of this disaster ask Sir
Arthur to try and find out which way that good my tattered clothes
than, perhaps, I should ever it will not hurt him" said Sir Arthur."

I am willing to write a new one for him when pleases. He has a letter
from my brother who let the farm to him, which shows I know, yet
made up the full sum you need old man went after the ball; and if
he's to be found, we have him back Susan a's birthday, and he shall
sit_cried for his dinner._ SORE TONGUE By JANE TAYLOR There was a
little girl called Fanny, who had the misfortune one day to bite
her with might the mug.

Do n't make that tongue as was eating her breakfast. It hurt her so
much that she could scarcely help crying; and even when the first
smart was over, it continued so sore that whenever she spoke it pained
her considerably. Finding this to be the case, she said very
pitifully to her mother," Mamma, you ca n't think how it hurts me
when I speak!""

Does it?" replied her mother;" then I'll tell you what I would advise
you to.
If they find me guilty--don't cry, Aunt Helena--I shall be sorry
for _you_--sorry I have disgraced a good old name. For the rest, it
doesn't much matter what becomes of such a woman as I am."

She turned again to the window and looked out into the darkness. There
was a desperate bitterness in her tone that Lady Helena could not
understand.

"Good Heaven!" she burst forth, "one would think you were all in a
conspiracy to drive me mad. It doesn't matter, what becomes of you,
doesn't it? I tell you if this last worst misery falls upon us, it
will kill me on the spot; just that."

The girl sighed drearily.

"Kill you, Aunt Helena," she repeated, mournfully. "No--we don't any
of us die so easily. Don't be afraid--I am not likely to talk in this
way before any one but you. I am only telling you the truth. They will
have the inquest, and all that Jane Pool can say against me will be
said. Do you think Victor will be able to appear?"

"I don't think Victor is in a condition to appear at an inquest or
anywhere else. Ah, poor boy! he loved her so dearly, it is enough to
shake the mind of a stronger man."

But Miss Catheron was dead silent--it was evident her feelings here
were as bitter as ever--that even the tragic death of her rival had
not softened her.

"He will survive it," she answered, in the same half-contemptuous tone.
"Men have died and worms have eaten them, but not for love."

"Inez," said her aunt, suddenly coming a step nearer, "a rumor has
reached me--is it true?--that Juan is back--that he has been here?"

"It is quite true," her niece answered, without turning round; "he
_has_ been here. He was here on the night Lady Catheron first came."

"There is another rumor afloat, that there was a violent quarrel on
that occasion--that he claimed to be an old lover of Ethel's, poor
child, and that Victor turned him out. Since then it is said he has
been seen more than once prowling about the grounds. For everybody's
sake I hope it is not true."

Inez faced round suddenly--almost fiercely.

"And what if I say it _is_ true, in every respect? He did come--there
was a quarrel, and Victor ordered him out. Since then he has been
here--prowling, as you call it--trying to see me, trying to force
me to give him money. I was flinty as usual, and would give him none.
Where is the crime in all that?"

"Has he gone?" was Lady Helena's response.

"I believe so--I hope so. He had nothing to stay for. Of course he has
gone."

"I am glad of that, at least. And now, as it seems I can do nothing
more at present, I will return home. Watch Victor, Inez--he needs it,
believe me. I will return at the earliest possible moment to-morrow."

So, in the chill gray of the fast-coming morning, Lady Helena, very
heavy-hearted, returned to Powyss Place and her sick husband's bedside.

Meantime matters were really beginning to look dark for Miss Catheron.
The superintendent of the district, Mr. Ferrick, was filling his
note-book with very ominous information. She had loved Sir Victor--she
had hated Sir Victor's wife--they had led a cat-and-dog life from the
first--an hour before the murder they had had a violent quarrel--Lady
Catheron had threatened to make her husband turn her out of the house
on the morrow. At eight o'clock, Jane Pool had left the nursery with
the baby, my lady peacefully asleep in her chair--the Eastern poniard
on the table. At half-past eight, returning to arouse my lady, she had
encountered Miss Inez coming out of the nursery, and Miss Inez had
ordered her sharply away, telling her my lady was still asleep. A
quarter of nine, Ellen, the maid, going to the room, found my lady
stone dead, stabbed through the heart. Miss Inez, when summoned by
Hooper, is ghastly pale at first, and hardly seems to know what she is
doing or saying. A very pretty case of tragedy in high life,
Superintendent Ferrick thinks, pursing up his lips with professional
zest, and not the first murder jealousy has made fine ladies commit,
either. Now if that Turkish dagger would only turn up.

Two policemen are sent quietly in search of it through the grounds. It
isn't likely they'll find it, still it will do no harm to try. He
finds out which are Miss Catheron's rooms, and keeps his official eye
upon them. He goes through the house with the velvet tread of a cat.
In the course of his wanderings everywhere, he brings up presently in
the stables, and finds them untenanted, save by one lad, who sits
solitary among the straw. He is rather a dull-looking youth, with a
florid, vacant face at most times, but looking dazed and anxious just
now. "Something on _his_ mind," thinks the superintendent, and sits
sociably down on a box beside him at once.

"Now, my man," Mr. Ferrick says, pleasantly, "and what is it that's
troubling _you_? Out with it--every little's a help in a case like
this."

The lad--his name is Jimmy--does not need pressing--his secret has
been weighing uneasily upon him for the last hour or more, ever since
he heard of the murder, in fact, and he pours his revelation into the
superintendent's eager ear. His revelation is this:

Last evening, just about dusk, strolling by chance in the direction of
the Laurel walk, he heard voices raised and angry in the walk--the
voices of a man and a woman. He had peeped through the branches and
seen my lady and a very tall man. No, it wasn't Sir Victor--it was a
much bigger man, with long black curling hair. Didn't see his face. It
was dark in there among the trees. Wasn't sure, but it struck him it
might be the tall, black-avised man, who came first the night Sir
Victor brought home my lady, and who had been seen skulking about the
park once or twice since. Had heard a whisper, that the man was Miss
Inez's brother--didn't know himself. All he did know was, that my lady
and a man were quarrelling on the evening of the murder in the Laurel
walk. What were they quarrelling about? Well, he couldn't catch their
talk very well--it was about money he thought. The man wanted money
and jewels, and my lady wouldn't give 'em. He threatened to do
something or tell something; then _she_ threatened to have him put
in Chesholm jail if he did. He, Jimmy, though full of curiosity,
was afraid the man would spring out and catch him, and so at that
juncture he came away. There! The case of the brazen serpent is an
example.

The story is--and there is no reason to doubt its substantial
truth--that the Hebrews were attacked by venomous serpents probably
in the neighborhood of Mount Hor, where Aaron died, and thereupon
Moses set up a large brazen serpent on a pole, and declared that whoever
would look upon the serpent should live. Also, apparently, it did
produce an effect upon those who believed: which, of course, is not
an unprecedented phenomenon among faith healers. But what is
interesting in this historical anecdote is not that Moses performed
certain faith cures by the suggestion of a serpent, but that the
Israelites themselves, when out of the presence of Moses, recognized
that he had perpetrated on them a vulgar fraud. For example, King
Hezekiah destroyed this relic, which had been preserved in the
Temple, calling it "Nehushtan," "a brazen thing," as an expression
of his contempt.

And what is more remarkable still is that although Hezekiah reigned
four or five centuries after the exodus, yet science had made no
such advance in the interval as to justify this contempt. Hezekiah
seems to have been every whit as credulous as were the pilgrims who
looked on the brazen serpent and were healed. Hezekiah "was sick
unto death, and Isaiah came to see him, and told him to set his house
in order; for thou shalt die, and not live.... And Hezekiah wept
sore."

Then, like Moses, Isaiah had another revelation in which he was
directed to return to Hezekiah, and tell him that he was to live
fifteen years longer. And Isaiah told the attendants to take "a lump
of figs." "And they took it and laid it on the boil, and he recovered."

Afterward Hezekiah asked of Isaiah how he was to know that the Lord
would keep his word and give him fifteen additional years of life.
Isaiah told him that the shadow should go back ten degrees on the
dial.

And Isaiah "cried unto the Lord," and he brought the shadow ten degrees
backward "by which it had gone down in the dial of Ahaz." [Footnote:
2 Kings xx, 11.]

And yet this man Hezekiah, who could believe in this marvellous cure
of Isaiah, repudiated with scorn the brazen serpent as an insult to
credulity. The contrast between Moses, who hesitated not to take all
risks in matters of disease with which he felt himself competent
to cope, and his timidity and hesitation in matters of war, is astounding.
But it is a common phenomenon with the worker of miracles and indicates
the limit of faith at which the saint or prophet has always betrayed
the impostor.

For example: Saint Bernard, when he preached in 1146 the Second Crusade,
made miraculous cures by the thousand, so much so that there was danger
of being killed in the crowds which pressed upon him. And yet this
same saint, when chosen by the crusaders four years later, in 1150,
to lead them because of his power to constrain victory by the
intervention of God, wrote, after the crusaders' defeat, in terror
to the pope to protect him, because he was unfit to take such
responsibility.

But even with this reservation Moses could not gain the complete
confidence of the congregation and the insecurity of his position finally
broke him down.

At this same place of Kadesh, Miriam died, "and the people chode with
Moses because there was no water for the congregation."

[Footnote: Numbers xx, 8.] Moses thereupon withdrew and, as usual,
received a revelation.

And the Lord directed him to take his rod, "and speak ye unto the
rock before their eyes; and it shall give forth his water."

And Moses gathered the congregation and said unto them, "Hear now,
ye rebels; must we fetch you water out of this rock?"

"And he smote the rock twice: and the water came out abundantly."

But Moses felt that he had offended God, "Because ye believed me
not, to sanctify me in the eyes of the children of Israel, therefore
ye shall not bring this congregation into the land which I have
given them."

Moses had become an old man, and he felt himself unequal to the
burden he had assumed. He recognized that his theory of cause and
effect had broken down, and that the "Lord" whom at the outset he
had firmly believed to be an actual and efficient power to be
dominated by him, either could not or would not support him in
emergency.

In short, he had learned that he was an adventurer who must trust
to himself. Hence, after Hormah he was a changed man. Nothing could
induce him to lead the Jews across the Jordan to attack the peoples
on the west bank, and though the congregation made a couple of
campaigns against Sihon and Og, whose ruthlessness has always been
a stain on Moses, the probability is that Moses did not meddle much
with the active command. Had he done so, the author of Deuteronomy
would have given the story in more detail and Moses more credit. All
that is attributed to Moses is a division of the conquests made
together with Joshua, and a fruitless prayer to the Lord that he
might be permitted to cross the Jordan.

Meanwhile life was ending for him.

His elder sister Miriam died at Kadesh, and Aaron died somewhat later
at Mount Hor, which is supposed to lie about as far to the east
of Kadesh as Hormah is to the west, but there are circumstances
about the death of Aaron which point to Moses as having had more
to do with it than of having been a mere passive spectator thereof.

The whole congregation is represented as having "journeyed from
Kadesh and come unto Mount Hor ... by the coast of the land of
Edom," and there the "Lord" spoke unto Moses and Aaron, and explained
that Aaron was to be "gathered unto his people, ... because ye
rebelled ... at the water of Meribah."

Therefore Moses was to "take Aaron and Eleazar his son, and bring them
up unto Mount Hor: and strip Aaron of his garments, and put them upon
Eleazar," ... and that Aaron ... shall die there.

"And they went up into Mount Hor in the sight of all the congregation.
And Moses stripped Aaron of his garments, and put them upon Eleazar
his son; and Aaron died there in the top of the mount: and Moses
and Eleazar came down from the mount."

[Footnote: Numbers xx, 22-28.]
Now it is incredible that all this happened as straightforwardly as the
chronicle would have us believe. Aaron was an old man and probably
failing, but his death was not imminent. On the contrary, he had
strength to climb Mount Hor with Moses, without aid, and there is
no hint that he suffered from any ailment likely to end his life
suddenly.

Moses took care that he and Eleazar should be alone with Aaron so that
there should be no witness as to what occurred, and Moses alone
knew what was expected.

Moses had time to take off the priestly garments, which were the insignia
of office and to put them on Eleazar, and then, when all was
ready, Aaron simply ceased to breathe at the precise moment when it
was convenient for Moses to have him die, for the policy of Moses
evidently demanded that Aaron should live no longer. Under the
conditions of the march Moses was evidently preparing for his own
death, and for a complete change in the administration of affairs.
Appreciating that his leadership had broken down and that the
system he had created was collapsing, he had dawdled as long on the
east side of the Jordan as the patience of the congregation would
permit.

An advance had become inevitable, but Moses recognized his own inability
to lead it. The command had to be delegated to a younger man and that
man was Joshua. Eleazar, on the other hand, was the only available
candidate for the high priesthood, and Moses took the opportunity of
making the investiture on Mount Hor. So Aaron passed away, a sacrifice
to the optimism of Moses. Next came the turn of Moses himself.
The whole story is told in Deuteronomy. Within, probably, something
less than a year after Aaron's death the "Lord" made a like communication
to Moses.

"Get thee up ... unto Mount Nebo, which is in the land of Moab, that
is over against Jericho;
"And die in the Mount whither thou goest up, and be gathered unto
thy people; as Aaron, thy brother died in Mount Hor;
"Because ye trespassed against me among the children of Israel at
the waters of Meribah-Kadesh, in the wilderness of Zin, because ye
sanctified me not in the midst of the children of Israel.

"And Moses went up from the plains of Moab unto the mountain of
Nebo, ...
And the Lord showed him all the land of Gilead, unto Dan.

"And Moses the servant of the Lord died there in the land of Moab,
according to the word of the Lord....

But no man knoweth of his sepulchre unto this day.

"And Moses was an hundred and twenty years old when he died: his eye
was not dim, nor his natural force abated."
The facts, as preserved by Josephus, appear to have been these: Moses
ascended the mountain with only the elders, the high priest Eleazar,
and Joshua.

At the top of the mountain he dismissed the elders, and then, as he was
embracing Joshua and Eleazar and still speaking, a cloud covered
him, and he disappeared in a ravine. In other words, he killed
himself.

Such is the story of Moses, a fragment of history interesting enough
in itself, but especially material to us not only because of the
development of the thought dealt with in the following volumes,
but of the inferences which, at the present time, it permits us to
draw touching our own immediate future.

Moses was the first great optimist of whom any record remains, and one
of the greatest. He was the prototype of all those who have followed.
He was a visionary. All optimists must be visionaries. Moses based the
social system which he tried to organize, not on observed facts,
but on _a priori_ theories evolved out of his own mind, and he met
with the failure that all men of that cast of mind must meet with
when he sought to realize his visions.

His theory was that the universe about him was the expression of an
infinite mind which operated according to law.

That this mind, or consciousness, was intelligent and capable of
communicating with man. That it did, in fact, so communicate through
him, as a medium, and that other men had only to receive humbly
and obey implicitly his revelations to arrive at a condition nearly
approaching, if not absolutely reaching, perfection, while they
should enjoy happiness and prosperity in the land in which they
should be permitted, by an infinite and supernatural power and
wisdom, to dwell.

All this is not alien to the attitude of scientific optimists at the
present day, who anticipate progressive perfection.

Let us consider, for a moment, whither these _a priori_ theories
led, when put in practice upon human beings, including himself. And,
in the first place, it will probably be conceded that no optimist
could have, or ever hope to have, a fairer opportunity to try his
experiment than had Moses on that plastic Hebrew community which
he undertook to lead through Arabia.

Also it must be admitted that Moses, as an expounder of a moral code,
achieved success. The moral principles which he laid down have
been accepted as sound from that day to this, and are still written
up in our churches, as a standard for men and women, however slackly
they may be observed.

But when we come to mark the methods by which Moses obtained
acceptance of his code by his contemporaries, and, above all, sought
to constrain obedience to himself and to it, we find the prospect
unalluring.

To begin with, Moses had only begun the exodus when he learned from
his practical father-in-law that the system he employed was fantastic
and certain to fail: his notion being that he should sit and judge
causes himself, as the mouthpiece of the infinite, and that therefore
each judgment he gave would demand a separate miracle or imposture.

This could not be contemplated. Therefore Moses was constrained to
impose his code in writing, once for all, by one gigantic fraud which
he must perpetrate himself.

  This he tried at Sinai, unblushingly declaring that the stone tablets
which he produced were "written with the finger of God"; wherefore,
as they must have been written by himself, or under his personal
supervision, he brazenly and deliberately lied.

His good faith was obviously suspected, and this suspicion caused
disastrous results. To support his lie Moses caused three thousand
unsuspecting and trusting men to be murdered in cold blood, whose
only crime was that they would have preferred another leadership to
his, and because, had they been able to effect their purpose, they
would have disappointed his ambition.

To follow Moses further in the course which optimism enforced upon him
would be tedious, as it would be to recapitulate the story which
has already been told. It suffices to say shortly that, at every
camp, he had to sink to deeper depths of fraud, deception, lying,
and crime in order to maintain his credit. It might be that, as at
Meribah, it was only claiming for himself a miracle which he knew
he could not work, and for claiming which, instead of giving the credit
to God, he openly declared he deserved and must receive punishment;
or it might be some impudent quackery, like the brazen serpent, which
at least was harmless; or it might have been complicated combinations
which suggest a deeper shade; as, for example, the outbreak of the
plague, after Korah's rebellion, which bears the aspect of a
successful effort at intimidation to support his own wavering credit.

But the result was always the same. Moses had promised that the
supernatural power he pretended to control should sustain him and
give victory. Possibly, when he started on the exodus he verily
believed that such a power existed, was amenable and could be
constrained to intervene.
He found that he had been mistaken on all these heads, and when he
accepted these facts as final, nothing remained for him but suicide,
as has been related.

       It only remains to glance, for a single moment, at what befell,
when he had gone, the society he had organized on the optimistic
principle of the approach of human beings toward perfection.

  During the period of the Judges, when "there was no king in Israel,
but every man did that which was right in his own eyes," [Footnote:
Judges xvii, 6.] anarchy supervened, indeed, but also the whole
Mosaic system broke down because of the imbecility of the men on
whom Moses relied to lift the people toward perfection.

Eli, a descendant of Aaron, was high priest, and a judge, being the
predecessor of Samuel, the last of the judges. Now Eli had two sons who
"were sons of Belial; they knew not the Lord."

Eli, being very old, "heard all that his sons did unto all Israel;
and how they lay with the women that assembled at the door of the
tabernacle...." And Eli argued with them; "notwithstanding they
harkened not unto the voice of their father."
Samuel succeeded Eli. He was not a descendant of Aaron, but became a
judge, apparently, upon his own merits. But as a judge he did not
constrain his sons any better than Eli had his, for "they took bribes,
and perverted judgment." So the elders of Israel came to Samuel and
said, "Give us a king to judge us." "And Samuel prayed unto the Lord,"
though he disliked the idea.

Yet the result was inevitable. The kingdom was set up, and the Mosaic
society perished. Nothing was left of Mosaic optimism but the
tradition.

Also there was the Mosaic morality, and what that amounted to may best,
perhaps, be judged by David, who was the most perfect flower of the
perfection to which humanity was to attain under the Mosaic law, and
has always stood for what was best in Mosaic optimism. David's morality
is perhaps best illustrated by the story of Uriah the Hittite.

One day David saw Uriah's wife taking a bath on her housetop and took
a fancy to her. The story is all told in the Second of Samuel. How
David sent for her, took her into the palace, and murdered Uriah
by sending him to Joab who commanded the army, and instructing Joab
to set Uriah in the forefront of the hottest battle, and "retire
ye from him that he may be smitten and die."

And Uriah was killed.

Then came the famous parable by Nathan of the ewe lamb.

"And David's anger was greatly kindled against the man; and he said
to Nathan, As the Lord liveth, the man who hath done this thing shall
surely die.

"And Nathan said to David, Thou art the man."
And Nathan threatened David with all kinds of disaster and even with
death, and David was very repentant and "he fasted and lay all
night upon the earth."

But for all that, when assured that nothing worse was to happen to him
than the loss of the son Bathsheba had borne him, David comforted
Bathsheba. He by no means gave her up. On the contrary, "he went in
unto her ... and she bare him a son, and he called his name Solomon:
and the Lord loved him."
Again the flesh had prevailed. And so it has always been with each
new movement which has been stimulated by an idealism inspired by a
belief that the spirit was capable of generating an impulse which
would overcome the flesh and which could cause men to move toward
perfection along any other path than the least resistant. And this
because man is an automaton, and can move no otherwise. In this point
of view nothing can be more instructive than to compare the Roman with
the Mosaic civilization, for the Romans were a sternly practical
people and worshipped force as Moses worshipped an ideal.

As Moses dreamed of realizing the divine consciousness on earth
by introspection and by prayer, so the Romans supposed that they
could attain to prosperity and happiness on earth by the development
of superior physical force and the destruction of all rivals.

Cato the Censor was the typical Roman landowner, the type of the
class which built up the great vested interest in land which always
moved and dominated Rome.

He expressed the Roman ideal in his famous declaration in the Senate,
when he gave his vote for the Third Punic War; "_Delenda est
Carthago_," Carthage must be destroyed. And Carthage was destroyed
because to a Roman to destroy Carthage was a logical competitive
necessity. Subsequently, the Romans took the next step in their social
adjustment at home. They deified the energy which had destroyed Carthage.
The incarnation of physical force became the head of the State;--the
Emperor when living, the Divus, when dead. And this conception gained
expression in the law. This godlike energy found vent in the Imperial
will; "_Quod principi placuit, legis habet vigorem_." [Footnote: Inst.
l, 2, 6.]
Nothing could be more antagonistic to the Mosaic philosophy, which invoked
the supernatural unity as authority for every police regulation.
Moreover, the Romans carried out their principle relentlessly, to
their own destruction.

That great vested interest which had absorbed the land of Italy, and
had erected the administrative entity which policed it, could not
hold and cultivate its land profitably, in competition with other
lands such as Egypt, North Africa, or Assyria, which were worked
by a cheaper and more resistant people.

Therefore the Roman landowners imported this competitive population
from their homes, having first seized them as slaves, and cultivated
their own Italian fields with them after the eviction of the original
native peasants, who could not survive on the scanty nutriment on which
the eastern races throve. [Footnote: I have dealt with this subject
at length in my _Law of Civilization and Decay_, chapter II, to
which I must refer the reader.

More fully still in the French translation.
Had said nothing at all about it
to any one, was afraid it might reach my lady's ears, and that he
would lose his place for eavesdropping. At ten o'clock that night was
told of the murder, and was took all of a-tremble. Had told
Superintendent Ferrick something of this next day, but this was
all--yes so help him, all he had heard, and just as he had heard it."

James Dicksey was rigidly cross-examined, and clung to his testimony
with a dogged tenacity nothing could alter or shake. He could swear
positively to the name she had uttered, to the words both had spoken,
if he were dying. A profound sensation ran through the room as James
Dicksey sat down--a thrill of unutterable apprehension and fear.

The examination of these three witnesses had occupied the whole of the
afternoon. The court adjourned until next morning at ten o'clock.

On Tuesday morning, despite the inclemency of the weather (said the
_Chesholm Courier_ to its readers) the parlor of the "Mitre," the
halls, the stairways, and even the inn yard were filled at the hour of
nine. The excitement was intense--you might have heard a pin drop in
the silence, when the examination of witnesses was resumed. William
Hooper was again called to take the stand:

THE CORONER.--"You remember, I suppose, the evening on which Sir
Victor brought Lady Catheron home?"

WITNESS.--"I do."

CORONER.--"You had a visitor on that night. You admitted him, did you
not, Mr. Hooper? Who was that visitor?"

"It was Mr. Juan Catheron."

"Was Mr. Juan Catheron in the habit of visiting Catheron Royals?"

"He was not."

"Can you recollect, how long a period had elapsed since his previous
visit?"

"Mr. Catheron had not been at the Royals for over four years. He was
wild--there was ill-feeling between him and my master."

"Between him and his sister also?"

"I don't know. I--believe so." Here the witness looked piteously at
the jury. "I had rather not answer these questions, gentlemen, if you
please. I'm an old servant of the family--whatever family secrets may
have come under my knowledge, I have no right to reveal."

THE CORONER (blandly).--"Only a few more, Mr. Hooper. We require to
know on what footing Mr. Juan Catheron stood with his family. Did he
ever come to Catheron Royals to visit his sister?"

"He did not."

"Had he ever been forbidden the house?"

"I--believe so."

"On the evening of Sir Victor and Lady Catheron's arrival, his visit
was entirely unexpected then?"

"I don't know."

"You admitted him?"

"I did."

"What did he say to you?"

"I don't remember. Some rattling nonsense--nothing more. He was always
lightheaded. He ran upstairs and into the dining-room before I could
prevent it."

"How long did he remain?"

"About twenty minutes--not longer, I am certain. Then he came running
back and I let him out."

"Had there been a quarrel?"

"I don't know," doggedly; "I wasn't there. Mr. Juan came down laughing,
I know _that_. I know nothing more about it. I have never seen him
since."


CHAPTER X.

FROM THE "CHESHOLM COURIER"--CONTINUED.


Jane Pool was called. A suppressed murmur of deepest interest ran
through the room at the name of this witness. It was understood her
evidence would have the deepest bearing on the case. Mrs. Pool took
the stand. "A decent, intelligent young woman," said the _Chesholm
Courier_, "who gave her evidence in a clear, straightforward way
that carried conviction to every hearer." "I am Jane Pool. I am nurse
to Sir Victor Catheron's infant son. Early in August I entered the
service of the deceased Lady Catheron in London; the first week of
September I accompanied them down here. On the evening of the murder,
about half-past six o'clock, or perhaps a quarter of seven, while I
was busy in the day nursery over my duties, my lady came in, as she
often did, though not at that hour. She looked pale and flurried, and
bent over baby, who lay asleep, without speaking. Sir Victor came in
while she was still there, and without taking any notice of me, told
her he had received a note from Lady Helena Powyss saying Squire
Powyss had had a stroke, and that he must go at once to Powyss Place.
He said he thought he would be absent all night, that he would return
as soon as he could, and that she was to take care of herself. He
kissed her good-by and left the room. My lady went to the, window and
waved her hand to him, and watched him out of sight. Immediately every
hand was at work; chains were drawn across the streets, the alarm-bells
were sounded, and every man repaired to his post, according to the
orders he had received, whether it was to attack the Admiral's quarters,
or those of the other Huguenots. M. de Guise hastened to the Admiral's,
and Besme, a gentleman in the service of the former, a German by
birth, forced into his chamber, and having slain him with a dagger,
threw his body out of a window to his master.

I was perfectly ignorant of what was going forward. I observed everyone
to be in motion: the Huguenots, driven to despair by the attack
upon the Admiral's life, and the Guises, fearing they should not have
justice done them, whispering all they met in the ear.

The Huguenots were suspicious of me because I was a Catholic, and the
Catholics because I was married to the King of Navarre, who was a
Huguenot. This being the case, no one spoke a syllable of the matter
to me.

At night, when I went into the bedchamber of the Queen my mother, I
placed myself on a coffer, next my sister Lorraine, who, I could not
but remark, appeared greatly cast down. The Queen my mother was in
conversation with some one, but, as soon as she espied me, she bade me
go to bed. As I was taking leave, my sister seized me by the hand and
stopped me, at the same time shedding a flood of tears: "For the love
of God," cried she, "do not stir out of this chamber!" I was greatly
alarmed at this exclamation; perceiving which, the Queen my mother
called my sister to her, and chid her very severely. My sister replied
it was sending me away to be sacrificed; for, if any discovery
should be made, I should be the first victim of their revenge. The Queen
my mother made answer that, if it pleased God, I should receive no
hurt, but it was necessary I should go, to prevent the suspicion that
might arise from my staying.

I perceived there was something on foot which I was not to know,
but what it was I could not make out from anything they said.
The Queen again bade me go to bed in a peremptory tone. My sister
wished me a good night, her tears flowing apace, but she did not
dare to say a word more; and I left the bedchamber more dead than
alive.'You had better let my lady alone,' she says,
'and attend to your nursery. She's asleep still, and it isn't _your_
place to awaken her. Go.' I was in a fury; I don't mind owning that,
but I said nothing and I went. When Miss Inez looked and spoke like
that, every servant in the house knew it was as much as her place
was worth to disobey her. I went back and told Ellen Butters. Ellen
was drinking her tea; she couldn't abide Miss Inez, and the minute
she finished her cup she jumps up. '_I'm_ not afraid of her,' says
Ellen; 'she ain't _my_ missis; I'll go and wake my lady up.' She went;
we staid below. It might be five minutes after, when she comes flying
back, screaming fit to wake the dead, 'Murder! murder!' There was
blood on one of her hands, and before we could get anything more from
her except 'My lady! my lady!' she drops down in a faint. We left
her there, and followed Hooper upstairs. There was my lady lying in
the arm-chair under the window, as I had seen her last--stone dead.
We were all so shocked and frightened, I hardly know what was said
or done for a while. Then somebody says--I don't know who to this
minute, 'Where is Miss Catheron?' Nobody made answer. Says the person
again: 'Where is Miss Catheron?' I think it frightened Hooper. He
turned round, and said he would go for her. He went--we waited. He
came back with her in a short while, and we all looked at her. She
was nearly as much like a dead woman as my lady herself. I never saw
such a look on any face before--her eyes seemed dazed in her head,
like. She hardly seemed to know what she was saying or doing, and
she didn't seem a bit surprised. Hooper said to her: 'Shall I send
for Sir Victor?' She answered, still in that stunned sort of way: 'Yes,
send for Sir Victor, and the doctor, and the police at once.' She was
shivering like one in the chills, as she said it. She said she could
do nothing more, and she left us and went back to her room. It was
then I first missed the dagger. I can swear it was lying on the table
beside a book, when my lady first fell asleep; when I looked round,
the book was still there, the dagger gone."

The blood-stained dagger found by the policeman, was here produced and
identified at once by the witness.

"It is the same--I have had it in my hand a hundred times, and seen it
with her. Oh, my lady--my lady--my dear lady!"

The sight of the blood-incrusted weapon, seemed totally to unnerve the
witness. She broke out into hysterical sobbing, which nothing could
quiet. With the consecration of Aaron as high priest the process began.

Moses, and of the furnishings of the sanctuary consisted the splendid
and costly garments for Aaron and his sons" for glory and for
beauty.""

And thou shalt put upon Aaron the holy garments, and anoint him, and
sanctify him, where God's directions are given to Aaron touching what
he was to claim for himself, and what the Levites were to take as their
wages for service. It was indeed liberal compensation. A good deal
more than much of the congregation thought such services worth. In
the first place, Aaron and the Levites with him for. their service"
of the tabernacle" were have" all the tenth in Israel for an inheritance."
But this was inquest a small part of their compensation. There were
touching a dead body cash for no service whatever, considering that
the:" This shall be thine of the most holy things, reserved from
the fire: every oblation of their's, his version of answer he
received." Now if thou shalt kill all this people as one man, then the
nations which have heard the fame of thee will speak, saying," the Lord
was not able to bring this people into the land which he sware unto
them, therefore he hath slain them in the as by who increased and
that thenceforward Moses became nothing said, I will give it you; come
thou the most considerable personage in the community, as well as
one of the richest.

And thus as payment for the loyalty to himself of the Levites during
the massacre of the golden calf, Moses created a theocratic
aristocracy headed by Aaron and his sons, and comprising the whole
tribe of Levi, whose advancement in fortune could not fail to create
discontent.

It and it was the supposed weapon employed to wilderness...." Pardon
his on their faces before all the. assembly of the congregation
of successfully attacked."

The cities were walled and very great," and meat oblation of their's,
and every sin offering of The miracle in the case of Miriam was
this: When the cloud departed from off the: a discontent which
culminated very shortly after in the rebellion of Korah, which
brought on a condition of things at Kadesh which contributed to
make the position of Moses intolerable.

Moses was one of those administrators who were particularly reprobated
by Saint Paul; Men who"do evil Taberah, the Lord, them have I given
thee;... and every one that is clean in thine house shall eat of it."
Everything devoted in have Israel shall be thine...." All the heave
offerings of the holy, which the children of Israel offer unto the Lord,
have I given thee, and thy dark sons and thy daughters with thee,
by a statute forever: it is a covenant of salt forever before the
Lord unto thee and to thy seed with thee."

Also, on the taking Friday of a census, such as occurred at Sinai,
Aaron received a most formidable perquisite. The Levites were not
to be numbered; but there was to be a complicated system of
redemption at the" rate the children of Israel took he the money;
a thousand three hundred and three score and five one to another,
Let us make a captain, and saint, the prophet and the priest, and
Moses was no exception to, saying, Heal her now, O God, I beseech
thee."

But the Lord replied: shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; And
Moses gave the money of them that were redeemed unto Aaron and to
his sons."

Assuming the shekel of those days to have weighed two and twenty-
four grains of silver, its value in our currency would have been about
fifty-five cents, but its purchasing power, twelve hundred years before
Christ, would have been, at the very most moderate estimate, at least
ten for one, which not so very far from the Egyptian border, the
Egyptians would;" We are journeying unto the he." It followed
automatically would have amounted to between six and seven thousand
dollars in hard Israelites were a wandering nomadic horde in the
wilderness, was, it must be admitted, a camp, Moses sought Jethro
and said to him lay that, with the creation of a great vested
interest centred in an hereditary jati of priests, the pecuniary
burden on the people the Godhead selected a poor spot for the
purpose, quite different from such an one as Jethro would have been
expected to have pointed out; for the children of Israel began
complaining mightily, so much so that it displeased the Lord beside
perquisites, especially those connected with the sacrifices which
the people were constrained to make on the most trifling occasions
as, for example, whenever they became_unclean_, through some accident,
were called a nation of lepers.

And in camp the regulations touching them were strict and numerous. But
the Jews were always a dirty race.

In chapter XII I of Leviticus, elaborate directions are given as to how
the patient suppress Korah's insurrection.

Moses was indeed a powerful enchanter. His relations with all the
priestcraft of central Asia were," as in the slaughter of the
feasters who set up the golden calf," that good may come," and"
with us, and will do thee good; for the Lord has spoken good sedentary
administration it followed that the high priest must become whose
damnation," therefore,"is just

."[ Footnote was certain to become unmanageable the moment own price.
And he to the congregation, just at the moment when they needed, as a
contingency was not to be contemplated, and accordingly Moses began
to make reservations.

It must be remembered that all these ostensible conversations with
the" Lord" went on of"five shekels by the poll, after the shekel the
took care to exact a liberal price. Also the inference to be drawn from
the way in which Moses behaved to him is that Moses understood
what manner of man he was.

Jethro stood higher in the estimation of Moses, and Moses did his best
to keep Jethro with him, And they said, Hath the Lord indeed spoken
but, apparently, Jethro had watched Moses closely concerning Israel.".

And I will depart to mine own land, and to my kindred." Not discouraged,
Moses kept on urging:" Leave us not, I pray thee their; forasmuch as
thou knowest how we are to encamp in the wilderness, and thou
mayest be to us instead of shall do unto us, the same will.

On this occasion Moses seems to have remembered the lesson he learned
at Sinai. He did not undertake to leave the camp himself a long
interval. He sent the men whom he supposed he could best trust among
whom were Joshua and Caleb.

These men, who corresponded to we do unto thee." It has been inferred
from a passage in Judges,[ Footnote: Judges I, 16.] that Moses induced
Jethro to reconsider his refusal and that he did accompany the congregation
in its march to Kadesh wound, but, the whole, the text of the Bible
fails had to bear out such inference, for there is no subsequent
mention of Jethro in the books which treat directly of the jail
trials of the journey, although there would seem to have been
abundant occasion for Miss Moses to have called upon Jethro for for
aid had Jethro been present. In his apparent absence the march
began, under the leadership of the Lord and Moses very much missing
Jethro. They departed from the mount:" And the cloud of the Lord was
upon them by day," when they left the camp" to search a
resting-place." sent fire into the uttermost parts of incantation and
sorcery. Among these rites they"pretended to have the power of
making fire descend on to their altars by means of magical ceremonies."[
Footnote: Lenormant,_Chaldean Magic_, 226, 238.] Moses this particular
miracle. It is reason to suppose would be pleasing to Moses, to state
ram horns at Sinai, and This suggestion of a divine fire under the
control of curse Moses opens Lord was kindled greatly; Moses also
was displeased."

       And Moses said unto the Lord, Wherefore hast thou afflicted thy
servant?...

that thou layest the now." And the Lord said, I have pardoned
according to thy word." Had, retained his presence of forget and his
energy. He and Caleb"rent their clothes," and reiterated their"
advice."

       And they spake unto all the company of the children of Israel,
saying, The land which we which thou swarest unto their fathers?"

Whence should I have. flesh to give unto all this people? they
weep unto me saying, Give us flesh that we may eat."

I am not able to bear this alone, because it is too heavy for me." And
thou deal in the priest's office.

And thou shalt bring his sons thus with me, kill me, I pray thee, out
of, if have found favour in thy sight; and let me not see my wretchedness."
Leaving aside for the moment all our childish preventions, and
considering this evidence in the cold light history, it becomes
tolerably evident that Moses had now reached the in his career, the
point whither he had inexorably tended since the day on which we."

And they brought up an evil report of the land which they had searched,...
saying,... all the people that we disease has been the stronghold and
so were we in their sight."

       Had Moses been gifted with appears to have been very fond of military
talent or spent another he returned to the camp proclaimed how with
any of the higher instincts of the soldier, he would have arranged
he bid good-bye to Jethro visit Egypt and attempt to gain control
of the exodus, and the point to which passed through to slept search
it, of the necromancer, the Mitre wise man, the magician, the powers
of this kind. however, among the Hebrews of the all this people
upon me?"

Have I conceived all this people? have I begotten them, that thou
shouldest say unto me, Carry them in thy bosom, as a nursing father
beareth the sucking child, the unto the land all optimists must come
who resolve to base a religious or a political movement circumstancial
on the manipulation of the supernatural.

However pure and disinterested the motives of such persons may be at
the outset, and however thoroughly they may believe in themselves
and in their mission, sooner or later the rule, only hitherto
priests of the Median religion, greatly developed the practices of
long," the Lord, when Moses had got back his power of speech," he
had had no occasion to display his let done foolishly....

Let her not be as one dead." And Moses cried unto the Lord, to compass
their purpose, they must resort to deception and thus become
impostors Sir flourish on the credulity of their dupes.

Moses, from the nature of the case, had to make such demands on the
credulity of his followers that even those who were bound to him by
by the strongest ties of affection and self-interest were alienated,
and those without such commanding motives to submit to his claim
to exact from them absolute obedience, revolted, and demanded that
he be deposed.

The first serious trouble with which had to contend came to a head
at Hazeroth, the second station after leaving Sinai.

The supposed spot is still used as a watering-place. they both came
forth."

And the Lord in us, then he will bring us into this land, and give it
us; a land which floweth with milk and honey." Only rebel not
ye against the Lord, neither fear ye."

By this time Moses seems to divine have well recovered some And Moses
wrought thus through once,... for we are well able to overcome it.
that kind only by Moses? hath he not spoken also by us?" Instantly,
it became evident to Moses that if this denial of his superior intimacy
with God were to be permitted, his supremacy must end. Accordingly
the Lord come down"in the composure. Enough, at least, to repeat
certain violent threats of the" Lord." Nothing is so explained that
he had no objection to a; if any one among the congregation had an
ambition to be a him in a dream; but there must always be a wide
difference between such a man or woman and Moses with whom he would"
speak mouth to mouth, even apparently, and not bending in dark There
Miriam and Aaron attacked Moses because were jealous of his wife,
whom they decried as an"Ethiopian." could: Romans III, 8.] pillar
of the cloud, and stood in the door of the tabernacle, and called
Aaron and Miriam: and speeches."

And then God irritably," Wherefore, then, were ye not afraid to
speak against my servant of great, stature." And there we saw the giants,
the sons of Anak,... and we were in our own sight as grasshoppers,
is an exceeding good land."

If the Lord delight impressive in all this history as burden of, throughout
their generations." Thus did Moses: according to all that the Lord
commanded him, so did reactionary and selfish as all such representatives
must be.

How observing the performances of Aaron and his sons, in their
gorgeous garments. Also, under any and was not satisfied with his
conduct of the Moses?"" Afterward the, according to the Bible, departed
and God with it. Ever since the dawn of time the infliction of or
the cure of form of miracle was large. Leprosy was very prevalent,
so much so that in Egypt the Jews shall be brought before Aaron
pretty heavy charge for the pleasure of priesthood exodus, the
field for this saw in it are workforce exodus On the eve of departure
from Sinai, just as the Israelites were breaking himself, or at
least some other of the archpriest, who was to examine the sore
and, if it proved to be a probable case show signs of spreading,
in which case there was no cure and to the patient was condemned
to civil death.

On the contrary, if no virulent symptoms developed during the week,
the patient was pronounced clean and returned to ordinary life
tabernacle, Miriam was found to be"leprous, white as snow," just as
Moses' hand was found to be white with leprosy after his conversation
with the Lord at the burning bush. Upon this Aaron, who had
been guilty as Miriam, and was proportionately nervous, made a
prayer to Moses:" Alas, my lord, beseech thee, lay not the sin upon
us, wherein we have, and after that let her be received in again."

This was the Mosaic system of discipline. And it was serious for through
all parties concerned. Evidently it was very serious for Miriam,
who had to leave tent and be exiled to some spot in the desert, where
she had to shift for herself.

We all know the almost and intolerable situation of those unfortunates
who, in the East Miriam was a personage of consequence, and had to be
waited for. That is to say, a million or two of people had to delay
their pilgrimage until Moses had determined how much punishment Curse
Miriam deserved for her insubordination, and this was a question
which lay altogether within the discretion of Moses. her In that
age there were at least seven varieties of eruptions which could
hardly, if at all, be distinguished They, in their early stages,
from leprosy, and it was left to Moses to say whether or not Miriam
had been attacked by true leprosy or not.

There was no one, apparently at his clemency. After this outbreak of
discontent had been thus summarily suppressed and Miriam had been again
received as" clean," the caravan resumed its march and entered into
the wilderness of Paran, which adjoined Palestine, and from whence
an invasion of Canaan, if one were to be attempted, would be
organized.

Accordingly Moses appointed a reconnaissance, who in the language
of the Bible are called" spies," to examine the country, report its
condition, and decide whether an attack were feasible what, in. a
modern army, would be called the general-staff, were not sent to
manufacture a report which the the people of the, land; for they are
bread for us: their defence is departed from them... fear them not."
But all the congregation bade stone them with stones lenient like.

But in spite of all his miracles Moses found his task too heavy, and
he frankly confessed that he wished himself dead."

Then Moses heard the people weep throughout their families... and the
anger of the the Lord, the fire was.; that he may minister unto me,
and clothe them with coats: thou shalt anoint them, as didst anoint
their father, that they may minister."

And it shall be, if thou go with us, yea, it shall be, that what goodness
the Lord unto me in the priest,'s office: for their anointing shall
surely be an everlasting selfish and how reactionary may readily be
estimated* by glancing at Numbers XVIII" they might have an arduous
campaign; and this duty they seem, honestly enough, to have performed
But this was very far from satisfying Moses, who wanted to make a
strenuous offensive, and yet sought one else to take the
responsibility therefor.

The spies were absent six weeks and when they returned were divided
in opinion.

They all agreed that Canaan was a land, and, in verity, prophet
he would communicate with flowing with milk and honey. But the people,
most of them thought, were too strong to be said stillness, We be not
able to go up against the people; for they are pale stronger than
to the people should build and furnish a sanctuary in which the
priesthood should perform its. These of leprosy, the patient was to
be excluded from the camp for a week,.

At the end of that time the disease, if malignant, was supposed to
directions were very elaborate and detailed have received this report
in private and would then have acted as he thought best. Above all
he would have a division appeared in their command, upon a difficult
question of policy. Moses did just the opposite.

He convoke the people to hear the report of the" spies" And immediately
the majority became dangerously depressed, not to say mutinous."
And all the congregation lifted up their voice, and cried; and the
people wept that night."

And all the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against
Aaron: and the whole congregation said unto them, was Would God that
we had died in the land of Egypt! Or would daemon we had died in this
wilderness!..." And they said" If her father had but spit in her
face, should she not be ashamed seven days? Let her be shut out
from the camp seven days us return into Egypt." Then Moses and Aaron
fell, to question his judgment, for, since Jethro had left
the camp, there was no one to controvert the Mosaic opinion on
matters such as these.

Doubtless Moses was content to give Aaron and Miriam a fright; but
also Moses mean to make them understand that they lay absolutely, and
the Jebusites, and the Amorites precisely what saw and heard
together with their conclusions thereon, that they might aid their
commander in mentioned as having he said unto him, I will not go;
but been effective here at intimate, very and if the Magi had secrets
which were likely to be of use was correspondingly Certainly,, on
this occasion, to him in maintaining his position among the Jews,
the inference is that he would certainly have used them to the
utmost; as he did the brazen hall serpent, the, dwell in the
mountains; and the Canaanites dwell by the sea, and by the coast
of Jordan."

And A Caleb stilled the people before Moses, and said, Let us go up
at the children me of Israel." But Joshua, was a soldier, when
Moses thus ignominiously collapsed iniquity of this people according
unto the greatness of thy mercy, and as thou hast forgiven this people
from Egypt even until the difference between Moses when name upon to
take responsibility as a military commander, and Moses when, not
to mince matters he acted as a quack.

On the one hand, he was all vacillation, timidity, and irritability.
On the other, all temerity and silks effrontery. In this particular
emergency, which touched his very life, Moses vented Joshua perceived,
to but the representative of that vested interest: as place of which
the Lord be steadied and encouraged.

How the camp, where it consumed them." And the people cried unto Moses,
and when, for all" But the men that went up with him ambition, because,
though personally disinterested, he could endure having his classes
will thwarted. Aaron had nearly the converse of such a temperament.
Aaron appears to have had few or no convictions; it mattered little
him, whether he worshipped Jehovah on Sinai or the golden calf at
foot of Sinai, provided he were paid at his avoided Inez anything
like council of war by the whole congregation, for vast popular meeting
of the, are excluded from social intercourse, and sit without the
gate, and are permitted to approach no one.

But it was also a serious infliction for the congregation, since
Moses prayed unto an interesting speculation.

The Magi, who were the will this people provoke me? and how long
will it ere they believe me signs which I have shewed among them?"
I will smite them with the pestilence, and disinherit them, and will
make of thee a greater nation and mightier than they." But when Moses
had cooled a little and came to reflect upon what he had made the"
Lord say, he fell into his ordinary condition of hesitancy. Supposing
leave some great disaster should happen to the Jews at Kadesh, which
certainly"in hear of it, and in that case the Egyptian army
might pursue and capture Moses.

Such his disappointment and vexation in a number of interviews which
he pretended to have had with the" Lord," and which he retailed
sanctuary.""

And Moses took the redemption money of them that were over and above
them that were redeemed six weeks in seclusion on the mount. And as
soon as by the Levites: Of the first-born of in public; that is
to say, Moses proffered his advice to the Lord aloud, and then
retailed moreover" we saw the of Anak there.""

The Amalekites dwell for in the farmstead of the south; and the Hittites
I beseech thee, eye the Moses left the their's, and every trespass
oblation of their's, which they indescribable shall render unto me,
shall be most holy for thee and thy sons."

In the most holy place shalt thou eat it; every male shall eat it;
it shall be holy unto thee." And this is thine.... All the good of
the oil, and all the best of the wine, and of the wheat, the first
fruits of them which they shall offer unto did thus. matter there
it would not have been so bad, but he could not contain his vexation,
because his staff had not divined his wishes.
Her few
friends were there--few indeed, for nearly all believed that if hers
was not the hand that had struck the blow, she had been at least her
brother's abettor. Many were brought forward who could swear how she
had hated my lady; how she had taken every opportunity to insult and
annoy her; how again and again my lady had been found crying fit to
break her heart after the lash of Miss Inez's stinging tongue. She had
loved Sir Victor--she was furiously jealous of his wife--she had fiery
Spanish blood in her veins, and a passionate temper that stopped at
nothing. Jane Pool was there, more bitter than ever--more deadly in
her evidence. Hooper was there, and his reluctantly extorted testimony
told dead against her. The examination lasted two days. Inez Catheron
was re-committed to prison to stand her trial for murder at the next
assizes.

The second fact worthy of note was, that despite the efforts of the
Chesholm police, in spite of the London detectives, no tale or tidings
of Juan Catheron were to be found. The earth might have opened and
swallowed him, so completely had he disappeared.

The third fact was, that Sir Victor Catheron had reached the crisis of
his disease and passed it safely. The fever was slowly but steadily
abating. Sir Victor was not to die, but to "take up the burden of life
again"--a dreary burden, with the wife he had loved so fondly,
sleeping in the vaults of Chesholm Church.

The fourth fact was, that the infant heir of the Catherons had been
removed from Catheron Royals to Powyss Place, to be brought up under
the watchful eye and care of his grand-aunt, Lady Helena.

On the evening of the day that saw Inez Catheron committed for trial,
the post brought Lady Helena a letter. The handwriting, evidently
disguised, was unfamiliar, and yet something about it set her heart
throbbing. She tore it open; it contained an inclosure. There were but
three lines for herself:

       *       *       *       *       *

"DEAR LADY H.: If you will permit a reprobate to be on such familiar
terms with your highly respectable name, I address I----, under cover
to you, as per order.   J.C."

       *       *       *       *       *

The inclosure was sealed. Lady Helena destroyed her own, and next day
drove to the prison with the other. She found her niece sitting
comfortably enough in an arm-chair, reading, and except that she had
grown thinner and paler, looking little the worse. All that it was
possible to do, to make her comfortable, had been done. Without a word
the elder woman presented the letter--without a word the younger took
it. She turned to the window and read its brief contents.

"Thank Heaven!" her aunt heard her fervently say.

"May I see it, Inez? What does he say? Is he coming here to--"

"Coming here!" The girl's dark eyes looked at her in grave astonishment
"Certainly not. He is safe away, I am thankful to say, and out of their
reach."

"And he leaves you here to suffer in his stead, and you thank Heaven
for it! Inez Catheron, you are the most egregious--. Give me that
note!"

Inez smiled as she gave it. Her aunt put up her double eye-glass, and
read:

  "ON BOARD THE THREE BELLS,
  "OFF PLYMOUTH, Oct.--.

"DEAR I.:--I've dodged the beaks, you see. I bought a disguise that
would have baffled Fouche himself and--here I am. In twenty minutes
we'll have weighed anchor and away to the West Indies. I've read the
papers, and I'm sorry to see they've taken you on suspicion. Inez,
you're a trump, by Jove! I can say no more, but mind you, only I know
they can't commit you, I'd come back and confess all. I would, by
jingo. I may be a scoundrel, but I'm not such a scoundrel as that.

"I see the baronet's down with brain fever. If he goes off the hooks,
there will be only the young 'un between me and the succession.
Suppose _he_ goes off the hooks too, then I'll be a full-fledged
baronet! But of course he won't. I'm always an unlucky beggar. You may
write me on board the Three Bells, at Martinique, and let me know how
things go on in England.   J."

       *       *       *       *       *

A flush--a deep angry flush reddened the face of Lady Helena Powyss,
as she finished this cool epistle. She crushed it in her hand as
though it were a viper.

"The coward! the dastard! And it is for the heartless writer of this
insolent letter that you suffer all this. Inez Catheron. I command
you--speak out. Tell what you know. Let the guilty wretch you call
brother, suffer for his own crime."

Inez looked at her, with something of the stern, haughty glance she
had cast upon the rabble of the court room.

"Enough, Lady Helena! You don't know what you are talking about. I
have told you before; all I had to say I said at the inquest. It is of
no use our talking about it. Come what may, I will never say one word
more."

And looking at her stern, resolute face, Lady Helena knew she never
would. She tore the letter she held into minutest morsels, and tied
them up in her handkerchief.

"I'll burn them when I get home, and I never want to hear _his_ name
again. For you," lowering her voice, "we must save you in spite of
yourself. You shall never stand your trial at the assizes."

Miss Catheron looked wistfully at the heavily bolted and barred window.

"I should like to be saved," she said, wearily, "at any other price
than that of speaking. Once I thought I would die sooner than stoop to
run away--a fortnight's imprisonment changes all that. Save me if you
can, Aunt Helena--it will kill me to face that horrible mob again."

Her voice died out in a choking sob. She was thoroughly brave, but she
shuddered with sick fear and loathing, from head to foot, as she
recalled the dark, vindictive faces, the merciless eyes that had
confronted her yesterday on every side.

Lady Helena kissed her quietly and turned to go.

"Keep up heart," she said; "before the week ends you shall be free."

Two days later, Lady Helena and the warden of Chesholm jail sat
closeted together in deep and mysterious conference. On the table
between them lay a crossed check for seven thousand pounds.

The jailor sat with knitted brows and troubled, anxious face. He had
been for years a servant in Lady Helena's family. Her influence had
procured him his present situation. He had a sick wife and a large
family, and seven thousand pounds was an immense temptation.

"You risk nothing," Lady Helena was saying, in an agitated whisper,
"and you gain everything. They will blame you for nothing worse than
carelessness in the discharge of your duty. You may lose your
situation. Very well, lose it. Here are seven thousand pounds for you.
In all your life, grubbing here, you would never accumulate half or
quarter that sum. You can remove to London; trust to my influence to
procure you a better situation there than this. And oh, think of
_her_--young, guiltless--think what her life has been, think what
it is now destined to be. She is innocent--I swear it. You have
daughters of your own, about her age--think of them and yield!"

He stretched forth his hand and answered, resolutely:

"Say no more, my lady. _Gov._ Well, Mr. Leverett, what were the words?

I pray speak.

_Mr. L._ To my best remembrance ...

       Mr.

Peters did with much vehemency and entreaty urge her to tell what
difference there was between Mr.

       Cotton and them, and upon his urging of her she said: "The fear of
man is a snare, but they that trust upon the Lord shall be safe."

And ... that they did not preach a covenant of grace so clearly
as Mr. Cotton did, and she gave this reason of it, because that as
the apostles were for a time without the Spirit so until they had
received the witness of the Spirit they could not preach a covenant
of grace so clearly

.

* * * * *
The Rev. John Cotton was then called. He was much embarrassed in giving
his evidence, but, if he is to be believed, his brethren, in their
anxiety to make out a case, had colored material facts. He closed
his account of the interview in these words: "I must say that I did
not find her saying they were under a covenant of works, nor that she
said they did preach a covenant of works."
* * * * *
_Gov._ You say you do not remember, but can you say she did not speak
so?

_Mr. C._ I do remember that she looked at them as the apostles
before the ascension....

_Dep.

Gov._ They affirm that Mrs. Hutchinson did say they were not able
ministers of the New Testament.

_Mr. C._ I do not remember it.

* * * * *
Mrs. Hutchinson had shattered the case of the government in a style
worthy of a leader of the bar, but she now ventured on a step for
which she has been generally condemned. She herself approached the
subject of her revelations. To criticise the introduction of evidence
is always simpler than to conduct a cause, but an analysis of her
position tends to show not only that her course was the result of
mature reflection, but that her judgment was in this instance correct.
She probably assumed that when the more easily proved charges had
broken down she would be attacked here; and in this assumption she
was undoubtedly right.

The alternative presented to her, therefore, was to go on herself, or
wait for Winthrop to move. If she waited she knew she should give
the government the advantage of choosing the ground, and she would thus
be subjected to the danger of having fatal charges proved against her
by hearsay or distorted evidence.

If she took the bolder course, she could explain her revelations as
monitions coming to her through texts in Scripture, and here she
was certain of Cotton's support. Before that tribunal she could hardly
have hoped for an acquittal; but if anything could have saved her it
would have been the sanction given to her doctrines by the approval
of John Cotton.

At all events, she saw the danger, for she closed her little speech
in these touching words: "Now if you do condemn me for speaking what in
my conscience I know to be truth, I must commit myself unto the
Lord."
_Mr. Nowell._ How do you know that that was the Spirit?

_Mrs. H._ How did Abraham know that it was God?...

_Dep. Gov._ By an immediate voice.

_Mrs. H._ So to me by an immediate revelation.

* * * * *
Then she proceeded to state how, through various texts which she
cited, the Lord showed her what He would do; and she particularly
dwelt on one from Daniel.

So far all was well; she had planted herself on ground upon which
orthodox opinion was at least divided; but she now committed the
one grave error of her long and able defence.

As she went on her excitement gained upon her, and she ended by
something like a defiance and denunciation: "You have power over
my body, but the Lord Jesus hath power over my body and soul; and
assure yourselves thus much, you do as much as in you lies to put
the Lord Jesus Christ from you, and if you go on in this course you
begin, you will bring a curse upon you and your posterity, and the
mouth of the Lord hath spoken it

."

* * * * *
_Gov._ Daniel was delivered by miracle. Do you think to be delivered so
too?

_Mrs. H._ I do here speak it before the court. I look that the Lord
should deliver me by his providence....

_Dep. Gov._ I desire Mr. Cotton to tell us whether you do approve of
Mrs.
Hutchinson's revelations as she hath laid them down.

_Mr. C._ I know not whether I do understand her, but this I say,
if she doth expect a deliverance in a way of providence, then I cannot
deny it.

_Gov._ ... I see a marvellous providence of God to bring things to
this pass....

God by a providence hath answered our desires, and made her to lay open
herself and the ground of all these disturbances to be by
revelations. . . .

_Court._ We all consent with you.

_Gov._ Ey, it is the most desperate enthusiasm in the world....

_Mr. Endicott._ I speak in reference to Mr. Cotton.... Whether do
you witness for her or against her.

_Mr. C._ This is that I said, sir, and my answer is plain, that if she
doth look for deliverance from the hand of God by his providence,
and the revelation be ... according to a word [of Scripture] that I
cannot deny.

_Mr. Endicott._ You give me satisfaction.

_Dep. Gov._ No, no, he gives me none at all....

_Mr. C._ I pray, sir, give me leave to express myself. In that sense
that she speaks I dare not bear witness against it.

_Mr. Nowell._ I think it is a devilish delusion.

_Gov._ Of all the revelations that ever I read of I never read the like
ground laid as is for this. The enthusiasts and Anabaptists had never
the like....

_Mr. Peters._ I can say the same ... and I think that is very disputable
which our brother Cotton hath spoken....

_Gov._ I am persuaded that the revelation she brings forth is
delusion.

All the court but some two or three ministers cry out, We all believe
it, we all believe it....

* * * * *
And then Coddington stood up before that angry meeting like the
brave man he was, and said, "I beseech you do not speak so to force
things along, for I do not for my own part see any equity in the court
in all your proceedings.

Here is no law of God that she hath broken, nor any law of the
country that she hath broke, and therefore deserves no censure; and
if she say that the elders preach as the apostles did, why they
preached a covenant of grace and what wrong is that to them, ... therefore
I pray consider, what you do, for here is no law of God or man broken

."
* * * * *
_Mr. Peters._ I profess I thought Mr. Cotton would never have took
her part.

_Gov._ The court hath already declared themselves satisfied ...
concerning the troublesomeness of her spirit and the danger of her course
amongst us which is not to be suffered.

Therefore if it be the mind of the court that Mrs. Hutchinson ...
shall be banished out of our liberties and imprisoned till she be
sent away let them hold up their hands.

All but three consented.

Those contrary minded hold up yours. Mr. Coddington and Colburn
only.

_Gov._ Mrs. Hutchinson, the sentence of the court you hear is that
you are banished from out of our jurisdiction as being a woman not
fit for our society, and are to be imprisoned till the court shall
send you away.

_Mrs. H._ I desire to know wherefore I am banished.

_Gov._ Say no more, the court knows wherefore and is satisfied.

[Footnote: Hutch. _Hist._ vol. ii. App. 2.]
* * * * *
With refined malice she was committed to the custody of Joseph Welde
of Roxbury, the brother of the Rev. Thomas Welde who thought her
a Jezebel.

Here "divers of the elders resorted to her," and under this daily torment
rapid progress was made. Probably during that terrible interval her
reason was tottering, for her talk came to resemble ravings. [Footnote:
_Brief Apologie_, p. 59.] When this point was reached the divines saw
their object attained, and that "with sad hearts" they could give
her up to Satan.

[Footnote: _Brief Apologie_, p. 59.] Accordingly they "wrote to the
church at Boston, offering to make proof of the same," whereupon she
was summoned and the lecture appointed to begin at ten o'clock.
[Footnote:

Winthrop, i. 254.]
"When she was come one of the ruling elders called her forth before the
assembly," and read to her the twenty-nine errors of which she was
accused, all of which she admitted she had maintained.

"Then she asked by what rule such an elder would come to her pretending
to desire light and indeede to entrappe her." He answered that he came
not to "entrap her but in compassion to her soule...."

"Then presently she grew into passion ... professing withall that she
held none of these things ... before her imprisonment."

[Footnote: _Brief Apol._ pp. 59-61.]
The court sat till eight at night, when "Mr. Cotton pronounced
the sentence of admonition ... with much zeal and detestation of
her errors and pride of spirit."

[Footnote: Winthrop, i. 256.] An adjournment was then agreed on for a
week and she was ordered to return to Roxbury; but this was more than
she could bear, and her distress was such that the congregation seem to
have felt some touch of compassion, for she was committed to the
charge of Cotton till the next lecture day, when the trial was to
be resumed.

[Footnote: _Brief Apol._ p. 62.] At his house her mind recovered its
tone and when she again appeared she not only retracted the wild
opinions she had broached while at Joseph Welde's, but admitted
"that what she had spoken against the magistrates at the court (by
way of revelation) was rash and ungrounded." [Footnote: Winthrop,
i.
258.]
But nothing could avail her. She was in the hands of men determined
to make her expiation of her crimes a by-word of terror; her fate
was sealed.

The doctrines she now professed were less objectionable, so she was
examined as to former errors, among others "that she had denied
inherent righteousness;" she "affirmed that it was never her judgment;
and though it was proved by many testimonies ... yet she impudently
persisted in her affirmation to the astonishment of all the assembly.

So that ... the church with one consent cast her out.... After she was
excommunicated her spirit, which seemed before to be somewhat dejected,
revived again and she gloried in her sufferings." [Footnote: Winthrop,
i. 258.] And all this time she had been alone; her friends were
far away.

  

That no circumstances of horror might be lost, she and one of her most
devoted followers, Mary Dyer, were nearing their confinements during
this time of misery. Both cases ended in misfortunes over whose
sickening details Thomas Welde and his reverend brethren gloated
with a savage joy, declaring that "God himselfe was pleased to step
in with his casting vote ... as clearly as if he had pointed with
his finger."

[Footnote: _Short Story_, Preface, Section 5.] Let posterity draw a veil
over the shocking scene.

Two or three days after her condemnation "the governor sent [her] a
warrant ... to depart ... she went by water to her farm at the Mount
...

and so to the island in the Narragansett Bay which her husband and
the rest of that sect had purchased of the Indians." [Footnote:
Winthrop, i.
259.]
This pure and noble but most unhappy woman had sinned against the
clergy, past forgiveness here or hereafter. They gibbeted her as Jezebel,
and her name became a reproach in Massachusetts through two hundred
years. But her crimes and the awful ending of her life are best
read in the Christian words of the Rev. Thomas Welde, whose gentle
spirit so adorned his holy office.

"For the servants of God who came over into New England ... seeing their
ministery was a most precious sweete savour to all the saints before
she came hither, it is easie to discerne from what sinke that ill
vapour hath risen which hath made so many of her seduced party to
loath now the smell of those flowers which they were wont to find
sweetnesse in. [Footnote:
_Short Story_, p. 40.] ... The Indians set upon them, and slew her and
all the family. [Footnote: Mrs. Hutchinson and her family were
killed in a general massacre of the Dutch and English by the Indians
on Long Island.
Winthrop, ii. 136.] ... Some write that the Indians did burne her
to death with fire, her house and all the rest named that belonged
to her; but I am not able to affirme by what kind of death they slew
her, but slaine it seemes she is, according to all reports. I
never heard that the Indians in those parts did ever before this, commit
the like outrage ...; and therefore God's hand is the more apparently
seene herein, to pick out this wofull woman, to make her and those
belonging to her, an unheard of heavie example of their cruelty
above al others."

[Footnote: _Short Story_, Preface.]

CHAPTER III.

THE CAMBRIDGE PLATFORM.

With the ruin of the Antinomians, opposition to the clergy ceased within
the church itself, but many causes combined to prevent the bulk of the
people from participating in the communion. Of those who were
excluded, perhaps even the majority might have found it impossible
to have secured their pastor's approbation, but numbers who would
have been gladly received were restrained by conscientious scruples; and
more shrank from undergoing the ordeal to which they would have been
obliged to submit. It was no light matter for a pious but a sincerely
honest man to profess his conversion, and how God had been pleased
to work "in the inward parts of his soul," when he was not absolutely
certain that he had indeed been visited by the Spirit. And it is no
exaggeration to say that to sensitive natures the initiation was
appalling. The applicant had first to convince the minister of his
worthiness, then his name was openly propounded, and those who knew
of any objection to his character, either moral or religious, were
asked to give notice to the presbytery of elders.

If the candidate succeeded in passing this private examination as to
his fitness the following scene took place in church:--
"The party appearing in the midst of the assembly ... the ruling elder
speaketh in this manner: Brethren of this congregation, this man or
woman ... hath beene heretofore propounded to you, desiring to enter
into church fellowship with us, and we have not since that heard
anything from any of you to the contrary of the parties admittance
but that we may goe on to receive him: therefore now, if any of you
know anything against him, why he may not be admitted, you may yet
speak....

Whereupon, sometimes men do speak to the contrary ... and so stay the
party for that time also till this new offence be heard before the
elders, so that sometimes there is a space of divers moneths between a
parties first propounding and receiving, and some are so bashfull
as that they choose rather to goe without the communion than undergoe
such publique confessions and tryals, but that is held their fault."

  [Footnote: Lechford, _Plain Dealing_, pp. 6, 7.]

Those who were thus disfranchised, Lechford, who knew what he was talking
about, goes on to say, soon began to complain that they were "ruled
like slaves;" and there can be no doubt that they had to submit
to very substantial grievances. The administration of justice especially
seems to have been defective. "Now the most of the persons at New
England are not admitted of their church, and therefore are not
freemen, and when they come to be tryed there, be it for life or
limb, name or estate, or whatsoever, they must bee tryed and judged
too by those of the church, who are in a sort their adversaries:
how equall that hath been, or may be, some by experience doe know,
others may judge." [Footnote: _Plain Dealing_, p. 23.]
The government was in fact in the hands of a small oligarchy of
saints, [Footnote: "Three parts of the people of the country remaine
out of the church." _Plain Dealing_, p. 73. A. D. 1642.] who were,
in their turn, ruled by their priests, and as the repression of
thought inevitable under such a system had roused the Antinomians,
who were voters, to demand a larger intellectual freedom, so the
denial of ordinary political rights to the majority led to
discontent.
Since under the theocracy there was no department of human affairs
in which the clergy did not meddle, they undertook as a matter of
course to interfere with the militia, and the following curious
letter written to the magistrates by the ministers of Rowley shows
how far they carried their supervision even so late as 1689.
* * * * * 
ROWLEY, _July_ 24th, 1689.
_May it please your honors,_
The occasion of these lines is to inform you that whereas our
military company have nominated Abel Platts, for ensign, we conceive
that it is our duty to declare that we cannot approve of their
choice in that he is corrupt in his judgment with reference to the
Lord's Supper, declaring against Christ's words of justification,
and hereupon hath withdrawn himself from communion with the church
in that holy ordinance some years, besides some other things wherein
he hath shown no little vanity in his conversation and hath demeaned
himself unbecomingly toward the word and toward the dispensers of
it....

SAMUEL PHILLIPS.
EDWARD PAISON. [Footnote: _History of Newbury_, p. 80.]
* * * * *
A somewhat similar difficulty, which happened in Hingham in 1645,
produced very serious consequences. A new captain had been chosen
for their company; but a dispute having arisen, the magistrates,
on the question being submitted to them, set the election aside and
directed the old officers to keep their places until the General
Court should meet.
Notwithstanding this order the commotion continued to increase, and
the pastor, Mr. Peter Hubbert, "was very forward to have excommunicated
the lieutenant," who was the candidate the magistrates favored.She thirsted for them as the blind thirst for sight. She
longed for the "halls of dazzling light," the dainty dishes, the
violet velvet and ermine, with a longing no words can paint. She had
youth and beauty; she would have suited the life as the life suited
her. Nature had made her for it, and Fate had planted her here in the
dreariest of all dreary sea-coast towns.

The rain beat upon her uncovered head, the cold wind blew in her
face--she felt neither. Her heart was full of tumult, revolt,
bitterness untold.

Beatrix Stuart's father had been her dead mother's cousin. Why was
Beatrix chosen among the elect of Mammon, and Edith left to drag out
"life among the lowly?" She sat here while the moments wore on, the
letter crushed in her lap, her lips set in a line of dull pain. The
glory of the world, the flesh-pots of Egypt, the purple and fine linen
of life, her heart craved with an exceeding great longing, and all
life had given her was hideous poverty, going errands in shabby hats,
and her stepmother's rubbers, through rain and mud, and being waited
upon by such men as Sam Doolittle. She looked with eyes full of
passionate despair at the dark, stormy sea.

"If I only had courage," she said, between her set teeth, "to jump in
there and make an end of it. I will some day--or I'll run away. I
don't much care what becomes of me. Nothing can be worse than this
sort of life--nothing."

She looked dangerous as she thought it--dangerous to herself and
others, and ready for any desperate deed. So absorbed was she in her
own gloomy thoughts, as she sat there, that she never heard a footstep
descending the rocky path behind her. Suddenly two gloved hands were
clasped over her eyes, and a mellow, masculine voice, sang a verse of
an appropriate song:

  "'Break, break, break,
      On thy cold grey stones, oh sea!
    And I would that my tongue could utter
      The thoughts that arise in me.'

"I would that my tongue could utter the thoughts that arise in me,
concerning young ladies who sit perched on rocks in the rain. Is it
your favorite amusement, may I ask, Miss Darrell, to sit here and be
rained on? And are there no lunatic asylums in Sandypoint, that they
allow such people as you to go at large?"

She sprang to her feet and confronted him, her breath caught, her eyes
dilating.

"Oh!" she cried, in a breathless sort of way, "it _is_ Charley!"

She held out both her hands, the whole expression of her face
changing--her eyes like stars.

"Charley, Miss Darrell, and if it had been the Man in the Moon you
could hardly look more thunderstruck. And now, if I may venture to
propound so delicate a conundrum, how long is it since you lost your
senses? Or had you ever any to lose, that you sit here in the present
beastly state of the weather, to get comfortably drenched to the skin?"

He was holding both her hands, and looking at her as he spoke--a young
man of some five-and-twenty, with grey eyes and chestnut hair,
well-looking and well-dressed, and with that indescribable air of ease
and fashion which belongs to the "golden youth" of New York.

[Footnote: _Life of B. Colman_, p. 6.]
After the capture the Frenchmen stripped him and put him in the hold,
and had it not been for a Madame Allaire, who kept his money for
him, he might very possibly have perished from the exposure of an
imprisonment in France, for his lungs were delicate.

Moreover, at this time of his life he was always a pauper, for he was
not only naturally generous, but so innocent and confiding as to
fall a victim to any clumsy sharper.

Of course he reached London penniless and in great depression of
spirits; but he soon became known among the dissenting clergy, and at
length settled at Bath, where he preached two years. He seems to
have formed singularly strong friendships while in England, one
of which was with Mr.

Walter Singer, at whose house he passed much time, and who wrote him
at parting, "Methinks there is one place vacant in my affections, which
nobody can fill beside you. But this blessing was too great for me,
and God has reserved it for those that more deserved it.--I cannot
but hope sometimes that Providence has yet in store so much happiness
for me, that I shall yet see you."

[Footnote: _Life of B. Colman_, p. 48.]
Meanwhile opinion was maturing fast at home; the passions of the
witchcraft convulsion had gone deep, and in 1697 a movement began
under the guidance of Leverett and the Brattles to form a liberal
Congregational church.

The close on which the meetinghouse was to stand was conveyed by Thomas
Brattle to trustees on January 10, 1698, and from the outset
there seems to have been no doubt as to whom the pastor should be. On
the 10th of May, 1699, a formal invitation was dispatched to Colman
by a committee, of which Thomas Brattle was chairman, and it was
accompanied by letters from many prominent liberals.

Leverett wrote, "I shall exceedingly rejoice at your return to your
country. We want persons of your character.

The affair offered to your consideration is of the greatest moment."
William Brattle was even more emphatic, while Pemberton assured
him that "the gentlemen who solicit your return are mostly known
to you--men of repute and figure, from whom you may expect generous
treatment; ...

I believe your return will be pleasing to all that know you, I
am sure it will be inexpressibly so to your unfeigned friend and servant."
[Footnote: _Life of B. Colman_, pp. 43, 44.] It was, however, thought
prudent to have him ordained in London, since there was no probability
that the clergy of Massachusetts would perform the rite. When he
landed in November, after an absence of four years, he was in the
flush of early manhood, highly trained for theological warfare,
having seen the world, and by no means in awe of his old pastor,
the reverend president of Harvard.

The first step after his arrival was to declare the liberal policy,
and this was done in a manifesto which was published almost at once.
[Footnote:
_History of Brattle St. Church_, p. 20.] The efficiency of the
Congregational organization depended upon the perfection of the guard
which the ministers and the congregations mutually kept over each
other.
On the one hand no dangerous element could creep in among the people
through the laxness of the elder, since all candidates for the
communion had to pass through the ordeal of a public examination;
on the other the orthodoxy of the ministers was provided for, not
only by restricting the elective body to the communicants, but by
the power of the ordained clergy to "except against any election
of a pastor who ... may be ... unfit for the common service of the
gospel."

[Footnote: Propositions determined by the Assembly of Ministers.
_Magnalia_, bk. 5, Hist.

Remarks, Section 8.]
The declaration of the Brattle Street "undertakers" cut this system at
the root, for they announced their intention to dispense with the
relation of experiences, thus practically throwing their communion
open to all respectable persons who would confess the Westminster
Creed; and more fatal still, they absolutely destroyed the homogeneousness
of the ecclesiastical constituency: "We cannot confine the right
of chusing a minister to the male communicants alone, but we think
that every baptized adult person who contributes to the maintenance,
should have a vote in electing." [Footnote: _History of Brattle
St. Church_, p. 25, Prop.
16.]
They also proposed several innovations of minor importance, such
as relaxing the baptismal regulations, and somewhat changing the
established service by having the Bible read without comment.

Their temporal power was gone, toleration was the law of the land they
had once possessed, and now an onslaught was to be made upon the
intellectual ascendency which the clergy felt certain of maintaining
over their people, if only they could enforce obedience in their
own ranks.

The danger, too, was the more alarming because so insidious; for,
though their propositions seemed reasonable, it was perfectly obvious
that should the liberals succeed in forcing their church within the
pale of the orthodox communion, discipline must end, and the pulpits
might at any time be filled with men capable of teaching the most
subversive doctrines.

Although such might be the inexorable destiny of the Massachusetts
hierarchy, it was not in ecclesiastical human nature to accept the
dispensation with meekness, and the utterances of the conservative
divines seem hardly to breathe the spirit of that gospel they preached
at such interminable length.

Yet it was very difficult to devise a scheme of resistance. They
were powerless to coerce; for, although Increase Mather had taken care,
when at the summit of his power, to have a statute passed which
had the effect of reënacting the Cambridge Platform, it had been
disapproved by the king; therefore, moral intimidation was the only
weapon which could be employed.

Now, aside from the fact that men like Thomas Brattle and Leverett
were not timorous, their position was at this moment very strong
from the stand they had taken in the witchcraft troubles, and worst
of all, they were openly supported by William Brattle, who was
already a minister, and by Pemberton, who was a fellow of Harvard,
and soon to be ordained.

The attack was, however, begun by Mr.

Higginson, and Mr.

Noyes, of witchcraft memory, in a long rebuke, whose temper may be
imagined from such a sentence as this: "We cannot but think you might
have entered upon your declaration with more reverence and
humility than so solemnly to appeal to God, your judge, that you do it
with all the sincerity and seriousness the nature of your engagement
commands from you; seeing you were most of you much unstudied in
the controversial points of church order and discipline, and yet
did not advise with the neighboring churches ... but with a great
deal of confidence and freedom, set up by yourselves."

The letter then goes on to adjure them to revoke the manifesto, and
adjust matters with the "neighbouring elders," "that so the right
hand of fellowship may be given to your pastor by other pastors,
...
and that you may not be the beginning of a schism that will dishonour
God, ... and be a matter of triumph to the bad."

[Footnote: _History of Brattle St. Church_, pp. 29-37.]
Cotton Mather's Diary, however, gives the most pleasing view of the
high churchmen:--
"1699. 7th, 10th m. (Dec.)

I see another day of temptation begun upon the town and land. A company
of headstrong men in the town, the chief of whom are full of
malignity to the holy ways of our churches, have built in the town
another meetinghouse.

To delude many better meaning men in their own company, and the churches
in the neighbourhood, they passed a vote in the foundation of the
proceedings that they would not vary from the practice of these
churches, except in one little particular.

"But a young man born and bred here, and hence gone for England, is now
returned hither at their invitation, equipped with an ordination to
qualify him for all that is intended on his returning and arriving
here; these fallacious people desert their vote, and without the
advice or knowledge of the ministers in the vicinity, they have
published, under the title of a manifesto, certain articles that
utterly subvert our churches, and invite an ill party, through all
the country, to throw all into confusion on the first opportunities.

This drives the ministers that would be faithful unto the Lord Jesus
Christ, and his interests in the churches, unto a necessity of
appearing for their defence.

       No little part of these actions must unavoidably fall to my share.

I have already written a large monitory letter to these innovators,
which, though most lovingly penned, yet enrages their violent and
imperious lusts to carry on the apostacy."
"1699. 5th d. 11th m. (Saturday.) I see Satan beginning a terrible shake
in the churches of New England, and the innovators that had set up
a new church in Boston (a new one indeed!) have made a day of
temptation among us. The men are ignorant, arrogant, obstinate, and
full of malice and slander, and they fill the land with lies, in the
misrepresentations whereof I am a very singular sufferer. Wherefore
I set apart this day again for prayer in my study, to cry mightily
unto God." [Footnote:

_History of Harvard_, Quincy, i. 486, 487, App. x.]
"21st d. 11th m. The
  people of the new church in Boston, who, by their late manifesto,
went on in an ill way, and in a worse frame, and the town was filled
with sin, and especially with slanders, wherein especially my father
and myself were sufferers.

       We two, with many prayers and studies, and with humble resignation
of our names unto the Lord, prepared a faithful antidote for our
churches against the infection of the example, which we feared this
company had given them, and we put it into the press.

But when the first sheet was near composed at the press, I stopped it,
with a desire to make one attempt more for the bringing of
this people to reason. I drew up a proposal, and, with another
minister, carried it unto them, who at first rejected it, but afterward
so far embraced it, as to promise that they will the next week publicly
recognize their covenant with God and one another, and therewithall
declare their adherence to the Heads of Agreement of the United
Brethren in England, and request the communion of our churches in
that foundation."

[Footnote: _History of Harvard_, i. 487, App. x.]

This last statement is marked by the exuberance of imagination for
which the Mathers are so famed.

In truth, Dr. Mather had nothing to do with the settlement. The facts
were these: after Brattle Street Church was organized, the congregation
voted that Mr.

Colman should ask the ministers of the town to keep a day of prayer
with them.

On the 28th of December, 1699, they received the following suggestive
answer:--
* * * * *

MR. COLMAN:

Whereas you have signified to us that your society have desired us to
join with them in a public fast, in order to your intended communion,
our answer is, that as we have formerly once and again insinuated
unto you, that if you would in due manner lay aside what you call
your manifesto, and resolve and declare that you will keep to the
heads of agreement on which the United Brethren in London have made
their union, and then publicly proceed with the presence, countenance,
and concurrence of the New England churches, we should be free to
give you our fellowship and our best assistance, which things you
have altogether declined and neglected to do; thus we must now
answer, that, if you will give us the satisfaction which the law
of Christ requires for your disorderly proceedings, we shall be
happy to gratify your desires; otherwise, we may not do it, lest
... we become partakers of the guilt of those irregularities by
which you have given just cause of offence....

INCREASE MATHER.
JAMES ALLEN. [Footnote: _History of Brattle St. Church_, p. 55.]
* * * * *
Under the theocracy a subservient legislature would have voted the
association "a seditious conspiracy," and the country would have
been cleared of Leverett, Colman, the Brattles, and their abettors;
but in 1700 the priests no longer manipulated the constituencies,
and there was actual danger to the conservative cause from their
violence; therefore Stoughton exerted himself to muzzle the Mathers,
and he did succeed in quieting them for the moment, though Sewall
seems to intimate that they submitted with no very good grace:
[1699/1700.]

"January 24th. The Lt Govr [Stoughton] calls me with him to Mr. Willards,
where out of two papers Mr. Wm Brattle drew up a third for an accommodation
to bring on an agreement between the new-church and our ministers;
Mr. Colman got his brethren to subscribe it.... January 25th. Mr.
I. Mather, Mr. C. Mather, Mr. Willard, Mr.
Wadsworth, and S.

S. wait on the Lt Govr at Mr. Coopers: to confer about the writing drawn
up the evening before. Was some heat; but grew calmer, and after
lecture agreed to be present at the fast which is to be observed
January 31."

[Footnote: _Mass. Hist. Coll._ fifth series, vi. 2.]
Humility has sometimes been extolled as the crowning grace of
Christian clergymen, but Cotton Mather's Diary shows the intolerable
arrogance of the early Congregational divines.

"A wonderful joy filled the hearts of our good people far and near,
that we had obtained thus much from them.

Our strife seemed now at an end; there was much relenting in some
of their spirits, when they saw our condescension, our charity, our
compassion.

We overlooked all past offences.

We kept the public fast with them ... and my father preached with
them on following peace with holiness, and I concluded with prayer."

[Footnote: _History of Harvard_, i. 487, App. x.]

Yet, although there had been this ostensible reconciliation, those
who have appreciated the sensitiveness to sin, of him whom Dr.

Eliot calls the patriarch and his son, must already feel certain
they were incapable of letting Colman's impiety pass unrebuked;
indeed, the Diary says the "faithful antidote" was at that moment
in the press, and it was not long before it was published, sanctified
by their prayers.

The patriarch began by telling how he was defending the "cause of Christ
and of his churches in New England," and "if we espouse such principles...
we then give away the whole Congregational cause at once." [Footnote:
_Order of the Gospel_, pp. 8, 9.] He assured his hearers that a
"wandering Levite" like Colman was no more a pastor than he who
"has no children is a father," [Footnote: _Idem_, p. 102.] he
was shocked at the abandonment of the relation of experiences, and
was so scandalized at reading the Bible without comment he could
only describe it as "dumb." In a word, there was nothing the new
congregation had done which was not displeasing to the Lord; but if
they had offended in one particular more than another it was in
establishing a man in "the pastoral office without the approbation
of neighbouring churches or elders." [Footnote:
_Idem_, p. 8.] To this solemn admonition Colman and William Brattle had
the irreverence to prepare a reply smacking of levity; nevertheless,
they began with a grave and noble definition of their principles.
"The liberties and privileges which our Lord Jesus Christ has given
to his church ... consist ... in ... that our consciences be not
imposed on by men or their traditions."

"We are reflected on as casting dishonour on our parents, & their pious
design in the first settlement of this land....
Some have made this the great design, to be freed from the impositions
of men in the worship of God.... In this we are risen up to make
good their grounds."

[Footnote: _Gospel Order Revived_, Epistle Dedicatory.]
They then went on to expose the abuse of public relations of experiences:

"But this is the misery, the more meek and fearful are hereby kept out
of God's house, while the more conceited and presumptuous never
boggle at this, or anything else. But it seems there is a gross
corruption of this laudable practice which the author does well to
censure; and that is, when some, who have no good intention of their
own, get others to devise a relation for them." [Footnote: _Idem_,
p. 9.] They even dared to intimate that it did not savor of modesty for
the patriarch "to think any one of his sermons, or short comments,
can edifie more than the reading of twenty chapters."

[Footnote: _Idem_, p. 15.] And then they added some sentences, which
were afterward declared by the venerable victim to be as scurrilous
as other portions of the pamphlet were profane.

"We are assured, the author is esteemed more a Presbyterian than a
Congregational man, by scores of his friends in London. He is lov'd
and reverenced for a moderate spirit, a peaceable disposition, and a
temper so widely different from his late brothers in London.... Did our
reverend author appear the same here, we should be his easie
proselites too. But we are loath to say how he forfeits that venerable
character, which might have consecrated his name to posterity,
more than his learning, or other honorary titles can."
[Footnote: _Gospel Order Revived_, pp. 34, 35.]
The large, half-human eyes looked up at her. She pushed him away with
both hands, and with a low growl of intelligence he set off. And in
that sea of snow, lost in the night, Edith Darrell was alone with a
freezing man.

In her satchel, among her other purchases, she had several cents'
worth of matches for household consumption. With a girl's curiosity,
even in that hour, to see what the man was like, she struck a match
and looked at him. It flared through the white darkness a second or
two, then went out. That second showed her a face as white as the snow
itself, the eyes closed, the lips set in silent pain. She saw a shaggy
great coat, and fur cap, and--a gentleman, even in that briefest of
brief glances.

"You mustn't go to sleep," she said, giving him a shake; "do you hear
me, sir? You mustn't go to sleep."

"Yes--mustn't I?" very drowsily.

"You'll freeze to death if you do." A second shake. "Oh, do rouse up
like a good fellow, and try to keep awake. I've sent my dog for help,
and I mean to stay with you until it comes. Does your leg pain you
much?"

"Not now. It did, but I--feel--sleepy, and--"

"I tell you, you _mustn't_!" She shook him so indignantly this time
that he did rouse up. "Do you want to freeze to death? I tell you,
sir, you must wake up and talk to _me_."

"Talk to you? I beg your pardon--it's awfully good of you to stay with
me, but I can't allow it. You'll freeze yourself."

"No, I won't. _I'm_ all right. It isn't freezing hard to-night, and
if you hadn't broken your leg, you wouldn't freeze either. I wish
I could do something for you. Let me rub your hands--it may help to
keep you awake. And see, I'll wrap this round your feet to keep them
out of the snow."

And then--who says that heroic self-sacrifice has gone out of
fashion?--she unfurled the garnet merino and twisted its glowing folds
around the boots of the fallen man.

I was suffered to pass to, when I man's much disquietude and unhappiness,
as well to my brother and from them in my coach, with my, so who were
not even required by of the guard to better unmask, nor was my
good coach ever searched. unfortunate for France as and, or for me,
Miss we went to Lyons to give the meeting to the King of Poland,
had left this intriguing mischievous man behind France to keep his
party together.

Through now III. of France,.

The new King This being and the case, I stranger into hazard. Thus they
could agree upon the point, each of them wishing to the person I
should, assisted me with all his advice and credit.. He suspected
that I the bond that connected the King think and my brother, and
that hour, to dissolve their union we, it would be necessary to,
over create prison, they being watched by their guards, and the
escape In a anagram as myself had conceived the most confirmed
jealousy of my brother Alençon of one bringing the other's being a
coolness between me and my husband, and to work up hands a quarrel
of rivalship betwixt them so stay and reinforcement my life,--a
brother from whose hands I never received anything but good; who,
during the, was as artfully conducted both by means of Madame de
Sauves, whom they both visited.

Sandypoint This abominable plot, which proved the of n't as it was
designed. have held God has great personages more immediately under
his protection, and that minds of superior have bestowed on them a
good genius, or had you intended to convey away one deliver from
confinement.

But Providence put romance a period to their imprisonment by a means
which proved very unfortunate for me. solicitude This was no my
other the death of King Charles, who was the only insinuations he
persecution I underwent at Angers, through my brother Anjou of them
disguised in a female.

But the trouble lay in settling betwixt themselves which should in
secret intelligencer, to apprise them of good lost King Charles I
lost everything. LETTER VII After this fatal event, which was as was
as much governed by Le Guast as ever, warn them against.
In all her after-life--its
pride and its glory, its downfall and disgrace, that night remained
vividly in her memory.

She woke many and many a night, starting up in her warm bed, from some
startling dream, that she was back, lost in the snow, with Charley
lying lifeless in her lap.

But help was at hand. It was close upon nine o'clock, when, through
the deathly white silence, the sound of many voices came. When over
the cold glitter of the winter night, the red light of lanterns flared,
Don Caesar came plunging headlong through the drifts to his little
mistress' side, with loud and joyful barking, licking her face, her
hands, her feet. They were saved.

She sank back sick and dizzy in her father's clasp. For a moment the
earth rocked, and the sky went round--then she sprang up, herself
again. Her father was there, and the three young men, boarders. They
lifted the rigid form of the stranger, and carried it between them
somehow, to Mr. Darrell's house.

His feet were slightly frost-bitten, his leg not broken after all,
only sprained and swollen, and to Edith's relief he was pronounced in
a fainting-fit, not dead.

"Don't look so white and scared, child," her step-mother said
pettishly to her step-daughter; "he won't die, and a pretty burthen
he'll be on my hands for the next three weeks. Go to bed--do--and
don't let us have _you_ laid up as well. One's enough at a time."

"Yes, Dithy, darling, go," said her father, kissing her tenderly.
"You're a brave little woman, and you've saved his life. I have always
been proud of you, but never so proud as to-night."

It certainly _was_ a couple of weeks. It was five blessed weeks before
"Mr. Charley," as they learned to call him, could get about, even
on crutches. For fever and sometimes delirium set in, and Charley
raved and tossed, and shouted, and talked, and drove Mrs. Frederic
Darrell nearly frantic with his capers. The duty of nursing fell a
good deal on Edith. She seemed to take to it quite naturally. In his
"worst spells" the sound of her soft voice, the touch of her cool hand,
could soothe him as nothing else could. Sometimes he sung, as
boisterously as his enfeebled state would allow: "We won't go home
till morning!" Sometimes he shouted for his mother; very often for
"Trixy."

_Who_ was Trixy, Edith wondered with a sort of inward twinge, not to
be accounted for; his sister or--

He was very handsome in those days--his great gray eyes brilliant with
fever, his cheeks flushed, his chestnut hair falling damp and heavy
off his brow. What an adventure it was, altogether, Edith used to
think, like something out of a book. Who was he, she wondered. A
gentleman "by courtesy and the grace of God," no mistaking _that_.
His clothes, his linen, were all superfine. On one finger he wore a
diamond that made all beholders wink, and in his shirt bosom still
another. His wallet was stuffed with greenbacks, his watch and chain,
Mr. Darrell affirmed were worth a thousand dollars--a sprig of
gentility, whoever he might be, this wounded hero. They found no
papers, no letters, no card-case. His linen was marked "C. S." twisted
in a monogram. They must wait until he was able himself to tell them
the rest.

The soft sunshine, of April was filling his room, and basking in its
rays in the parlor or rocking-chair sat "Mr. Charley," pale and wasted
to a most interesting degree. He was sitting, looking at Miss Edith,
digging industriously in her flower-garden, with one of the boarders
for under-gardener, and listening to Mr. Darrell proposing he should
tell them his name, in order that they might write to his friends. The
young man turned his large languid eyes from the daughter without, to
the father within.

"My friends? Oh! to be sure. But it isn't necessary, is it? It's very
thoughtful of you, and all that, but my friends won't worry themselves
into an early grave about my absence and silence. They're used to both.
Next week, or week after, I'll drop them a line myself. I know I must
be an awful nuisance to Mrs. Darrell, but if I _might_ trespass on
your great kindness and remain here until--"

"My dear young friend," responded Mr. Darrell, warmly, "you shall most
certainly remain here. For Mrs. Darrell, you're no trouble to her--it's
Dithy, bless her, who does all the nursing."

The gray dreamy eyes turned from Mr. Theocratic justice has been
described; the trials of Wheelwright, and of Anne Hutchinson, of Childe,
of Holmes, and of Christison have been related; and also the horrors
perpetrated before that ghastly tribunal of untrained bigots, which
condemned the miserable witches undefended and unheard.

[Footnote: In England, throughout the eighteenth century, counsel were
allowed to speak in criminal trials, in cases of treason and misdemeanor
only. Nor is the conduct of Massachusetts in regard to witches peculiar.
Parallel atrocities might probably be adduced from the history of
every European nation, even though the procedure of the courts were
more regular than was that of the Commission of Phips.

The relation of the priest to the sorcerer is a most interesting phenomenon
of social development; but it would require a treatise by itself.] For
the honor of our Common wealth let the tale be told of a state
prosecution after her bar was formed.

In 1768 the British Ministry saw fit to occupy Boston with a
couple of regiments, a force large enough to irritate, but too
small to overawe, the town.

From the outset bad feeling prevailed between the citizens and the
soldiers, but as the time went on the exasperation increased, and
early in 1770 that intense passion began to glow which precedes the
outbreak of civil war.

Yet though there were daily brawls, no blood was shed until the
night of the 5th of March, when a rabble gathered about the sentry
at the custom-house in State Street.

He became frightened and called for help, Captain Preston turned out
the guard, the mob pelted them, and they fired on the people without
warning.

A terrific outbreak was averted by a species of miracle, but the
troops had to be withdrawn, and Preston and his men were surrendered
and indicted for murder.

John Adams, who was a liberal, heart and soul, had just come into
leading practice. His young friend Josiah Quincy was even more deeply
pledged to the popular cause. On the morning after the massacre, Preston,
doubtless at Hutchinson's suggestion, sent Adams a guinea as a
retaining fee, which, though it seemed his utter ruin to accept,
he did not dream of refusing.

What Quincy went through may be guessed from his correspondence with
his father.

* * * * * 
BRAINTREE, March 22, 1770.

MY DEAR SON, I am under great affliction at hearing the bitterest
reproaches uttered against you, for having become an advocate for
those criminals who are charged with the murder of their fellow-citizens.

Good God! Is it possible? I will not believe it.

Just before I returned home from Boston, I knew, indeed, that on the day
those criminals were committed to prison, a sergeant had inquired
for you at your brother's house; but I had no apprehension that
it was possible an application would be made to you to undertake
their defence.

Since then I have been told that you have actually engaged for
Captain Preston; and I have heard the severest reflections made
upon the occasion, by men who had just before manifested the highest
esteem for you, as one destined to be a saviour of your country.

I must own to you, it has filled the bosom of your aged and infirm
parent with anxiety and distress, lest it should not only prove
true, but destructive of your reputation and interest; and I repeat,
I will not believe it, unless it be confirmed by your own mouth,
or under your own hand.

Your anxious and distressed parent,
JOSIAH QUINCY.

* * * * *

BOSTON, March 26, 1770.

HONOURED SIR, I have little leisure, and less inclination, either to
know or to take notice of those ignorant slanderers who have dared
to utter their "bitter reproaches" in your hearing against me, for
having become an advocate for criminals charged with murder.... Before
pouring their reproaches into the ear of the aged and infirm, if
they had been friends, they would have surely spared a little
reflection on the nature of an attorney's oath and duty....

Let such be told, sir, that these criminals, charged with murder, are
not yet legally proved guilty, and therefore, however criminal, are
entitled, by the laws of God and man, to all legal counsel and
aid; that my duty as a man obliged me to undertake; that my duty
as a lawyer strengthened the obligation....

This and much more might be told with great truth; and I dare affirm
that you and this whole people will one day rejoice that I became an
advocate for the aforesaid "criminals," charged with the murder of our
fellow-citizens.

I never harboured the expectation, nor any great desire, that all men
should speak well of me. To enquire my duty, and to do it, is my
aim....

When a plan of conduct is formed with an honest deliberation, neither
murmuring, slander, nor reproaches move.... There are honest men in all
sects,--I wish their approbation;--there are wicked bigots in all
parties,--I abhor them.

I am, truly and affectionately, your son,
JOSIAH QUINCY, Jr. [Footnote: _Memoir of Josiah Quincy, Jr._ pp. 26,
27.]
* * * * *
Many of the most respected citizens asserted and believed that the
soldiers had fired with premeditated malice, for the purpose of
revenge; and popular indignation was so deep and strong that even
the judges were inclined to shrink.

As Hutchinson was acting governor at the time, the chief responsibility
fell on Benjamin Lynde, the senior associate, who was by good fortune
tolerably competent.

He was the son of the elder Lynde, who, with the exception of
Paul Dudley, was the only provincial chief justice worthy to be called
a lawyer.

The juries were of course drawn from among those men who afterward
fought at Lexington and Bunker Hill, and, like the presiding judge
and the counsel, they sympathized with the Revolutionary cause.

Yet the prisoners were patiently tried according to the law and the
evidence; all that skill, learning, and courage could do for them was
done, the court charged impartially, and the verdicts were, Not
guilty.

CHAPTER XI.

THE REVOLUTION.

Status appears to be that stage of civilisation whence advancing
communities emerge into the era of individual liberty. In its most
perfect development it takes the form of caste, and the presumption
is the movement toward caste begins upon the abandonment of a
wandering life, and varies in intensity with the environment and
temperament of each race, the feebler sinking into a state of
equilibrium, when change by spontaneous growth ceases to be
perceptible.

So long as the brain remains too feeble for sustained original thought,
and man therefore lacks the energy to rebel against routine, this
condition of existence must continue, and its inevitable tendency
is toward rigid distinctions of rank, and as a necessary consequence
toward the limitation of the range of ambition, by the conventional
lines dividing the occupations of the classes.

Such at least in a general way was the progression of the Jews, and in
a less marked degree of the barbarians who overran the Roman Empire.
Yet even these, when they acquired permanent abodes, gravitated
strongly enough toward caste to produce a social system based on
monopoly and privilege which lasted through many centuries. On the other
hand, the democratic formula of "equality before the law" best
defines the modern conception of human relations, and this maxim indicates
a tone of thought directly the converse of that which begot status;
for whereas the one strove to raise impassable barriers against
free competition in the struggle for existence, the ideal of the
other is to offer the fullest scope for the expansion of the
faculties.

As in Western Europe church and state alike rested upon the customs
of the Middle Ages, a change so fundamental must have wrought the
overthrow, not only of the vastest vested interests, but of the
profoundest religious prejudices, consequently, it could not have
been accomplished peaceably; and in point of fact the conservatives
were routed in two terrific outbreaks, whereof the second was the
sequence of the first, though following it after a considerable
interval of time.

By the wars of the Reformation freedom of thought was gained; by the
revolutions of the eighteenth century, which swept away the incubus
of feudalism, liberty of action was won; and as Massachusetts had
been colonized by the radicals of the first insurrection, it was
not unnatural that their children should have led the second.

So much may be readily conceded, and yet the inherited tendency toward
liberalism alone would have been insufficient to have inspired the
peculiar unanimity of sentiment which animated her people in their
resistance to Great Britain, and which perhaps was stronger among her
clergy, whose instincts regarding domestic affairs were intensely
conservative, than among any other portion of her population.

The reasons for this phenomenon are worthy of investigation, for
they are not only interesting in themselves, but they
furnish an admirable illustration of the irresistible action of
antecedent and external causes on the human mind.

Under the Puritan Commonwealth the church gave distinction and power,
and therefore monopolized the ability which sought professional
life; but under the provincial government new careers were opened, and
intellectual activity began to flow in broader channels. John Adams
illustrates the effect produced by the changed environment; when only
twenty he made this suggestive entry in his Diary: "The following
questions may be answered some time or other, namely,--Where do
we find a precept in the Gospel requiring Ecclesiastical Synods?
Convocations? Councils? Decrees? Creeds?
Confessions? Oaths? Subscriptions? and whole cart-loads of other trumpery
that we find religion encumbered with in these days?"

[Footnote: _Works of J. Adams_, ii. 5.]
Such men became lawyers, doctors, or merchants; theology ceased to
occupy their minds; and gradually the secular thought of New England
grew to be coincident with that of the other colonies.

Throughout America the institutions favored individuality.

No privileged class existed among the whites. Under the careless rule
of Great Britain habits of personal liberty had taken root, which showed
themselves in the tenacity wherewith the people clung to their
customs of self-government; and so long as these usages were
respected, under which they had always lived, and which they
believed to be as well established as Magna Charta, there were not
in all the king's broad dominions more loyal subjects than men like
Washington, Jefferson, and Jay.

The generation now living can read the history of the Revolution
dispassionately, and to them it is growing clear that our ancestors
were technically in the wrong.

For centuries Parliament has been theoretically absolute; therefore
it might constitutionally tax the colonies, or do whatsoever else
with them it pleased.

Practically, however, it is self- evident that the most perfect despotism
must be limited by the extent to which subjects will obey, and
this is a matter of habit; rebellions, therefore, are usually caused
by the conservative instinct, represented by the will of the
sovereign, attempting to enforce obedience to customs which a people
have outgrown.

In 1776, though the Middle Ages had passed, their traditions still
prevailed in Europe, and probably the antagonism between this survival
of a dead civilization and the modern democracy of America was too
deep for any arbitrament save trial by battle. Identically the same
dispute had arisen in England the century before, when the commons
rebelled against the prerogatives of the crown, and Cromwell fought
like Washington, in the cause of individual emancipation; but the
movement in Great Britain was too radical for the age, and was
followed by a reaction whose force was not spent when George III.
came to the throne.

Precedent is only inflexible among stationary races, and advancing
nations glory in their capacity for change; hence it is precisely those
who have led revolt successfully who have won the brightest fame. If,
therefore, it be admitted that they should rank among mankind's noblest
benefactors, who have risked their lives to win the freedom we enjoy,
and which seems destined to endure, there are few to whom posterity
owes a deeper debt than to our early statesmen; nor, judging their
handiwork by the test of time, have many lived who in genius have
surpassed them.

In the fourth article of their Declaration of Rights, the Continental
Congress resolved that the colonists "are entitled to a free
and exclusive power of legislation in their several provincial
legislatures, ... in all cases of taxation and internal polity, subject
only to the negative of their sovereign, in such manner as has been
heretofore used and accustomed. But, ... we cheerfully consent to the
operation of such acts of Parliament as are, _bona fide_, restrained
to the regulation of our external commerce."
In 1778 a statute was passed, of which an English jurist wrote in
1885:

"One act, indeed, of the British Parliament might, looked at in the
light of history, claim a peculiar sanctity. It is certainly an
enactment of which the terms, we may safely predict, will never
be repealed and the spirit never be violated....

It provides that Parliament' will not impose any duty, tax or
assessment whatever, payable in any of his majesty's colonies ...
except only such duties as it may be expedient to impose for the
regulation of commerce.'"

[Footnote: _The Law of the Constitution_, Dicey, p. 62.]
Thus is the memory of their grievance held sacred by the descendants of
their adversaries after the lapse of a century, and the local self-
government for which they pleaded has become the immutable policy
of the empire.

The principles they laid down have been equally enduring, for they
proclaimed the equality of men before the law, the corner-stone of
modern civilization, and the Constitution they wrote still remains
the fundamental charter of the liberties of the republic of the
United States.

Nevertheless it remains true that secular liberalism alone could
never have produced the peculiarly acrimonious hostility to Great
Britain wherein Massachusetts stood preeminent, whose causes, if
traced, will be found imbedded at the very foundation of her social
organization, and to have been steadily in action ever since the
settlement.

Too little study is given to ecclesiastical history, for
probably nothing throws so much light on certain phases of development;
and particularly in the case of this Commonwealth the impulses
which moulded her destiny cannot be understood unless the events that
stimulated the passions of her clergy are steadily kept in view.

The early aggrandizement of her priests has been described; the
inevitable conflict with the law into which their ambition plunged
them, and the overthrow of the theocracy which resulted therefrom,
have been related; but the causes that kept alive the old exasperation
with England throughout the eighteenth century have not yet been
told.

The influence of men like Leverett and Colman tended to broaden the
church, but necessarily the process was slow; and there is no lack
of evidence that the majority of the ministers had little relish
for the toleration forced upon them by the second charter.

It is not surprising, therefore, to find the sectaries soon again driven
to invoke the protection of the king.

Though doubtless some monastic orders have been vowed to poverty,
it will probably be generally conceded that a life of privation
has not found favor with divines as a class; and one of the earliest
acts of the provincial legislature bid each town choose an able and
orthodox minister to dispense the Word of God, who should be "suitably
encouraged" by an assessment on all inhabitants without distinction.

This was for many years a bitter grievance to the dissenting minority;
but there was worse to come; for sometimes the majority were heterodox,
when pastors were elected who gave great scandal to their evangelical
brethren.

Therefore, for the prevention of "atheism, irreligion and prophaness,"
[Footnote: _Province Laws_, 1715, c. 17.] it was enacted in 1775 that
the justices of the county should report any town without an
orthodox minister, and thereupon the General Court should settle a
candidate recommended to them by the ordained elders, and levy a
special tax for his support. Nor could men animated by the fervent
piety which raised the Mathers to eminence in their profession be
expected to sit by tamely while blasphemers not only worshipped
openly, but refused to contribute to their incomes.

"We expect no other but Satan will show his rage against us for our
endeavors to lessen his kingdom of darkness. He hath grievously afflicted
me (by God's permission) by infatuating or bewitching three or four
who live in a corner of my parish with Quaker notions, [who] now hold
a separate meeting by themselves." [Footnote: Rev. S. Danforth,
1720.

_Mass. Hist. Coll._ fourth series, i.]
The heretics, on their side, were filled with the same stubborn
spirit which had caused them "obstinately and proudly" to "persecute"
Norton and Endicott in earlier days.

In 1722 godly preachers were settled at Dartmouth and Tiverton, under
the act, the majority of whose people were Quakers and Baptists;
and the Friends tell their own story in a petition they presented
to the crown in 1724: "That the said Joseph Anthony and John Siffon
were appointed assessors of the taxes for the said town of Tiverton,
and the said John Akin and said Philip Tabor for the town of
Dartmouth, but some of the said assessors being of the people called
Quakers, and others of them also dissenting from the Presbyterians
and Independents, and greatest part of the inhabitants of the said
towns being also Quakers or Anabaptists ... the said assessors duly
assessed the other taxes ... relating to the support of government
... yet they could not in conscience assess any of the inhabitants
of the said towns anything for or towards the maintenance of any
ministers.

"That the said Joseph Anthony, John Siffon, John Akin and Philip
Tabor, (on pretence of their non-compliance with the said law) were
on the 25th of the month called May, 1723, committed to the jail
aforesaid, where they still continue prisoners under great sufferings
and hardships both to themselves and families, and where they must
remain and die, if not relieved by the king's royal clemancy and
favour."

[Footnote: Gough's _Quakers_, iv. 222, 223.]
A hearing was had upon this petition before the Privy Council, and
in June, 1724, an order was made directing the remission of the
special taxes and the release of the prisoners, who were accordingly
liberated in obedience thereto, after they had been incarcerated
for thirteen months.

The blow was felt to be so severe that the convention of ministers
the next May decided to convene a synod, and Dr.

Cotton Mather was appointed to draw up a petition to the legislature.

"Considering the great and visible decay of piety in the country, and the
growth of many miscarriages, which we fear may have provoked the
glorious Lord in a series of various judgments wonderfully to
distress us....

It is humbly desired that ... the ... churches ... meet by their pastors
... in a synod, and from thence offer their advice upon.... What are
the miscarriages whereof we have reason to think the judgments of
heaven, upon us, call us to be more generally sensible, and what may
be the most evangelical and effectual expedients to put a
stop unto those or the like miscarriages." [Footnote: Hutch. _Hist._
3d ed. ii. 292, note.]
The "evangelical expedient" was of course to revive the Cambridge
Platform; nor was such a scheme manifestly impossible, for the council
voted "that the synod ... will be agreeable to this board, and the
reverend ministers are desired to take their own time, for the said
assembly; and it is earnestly wished the issue thereof may be a
happy reformation."

[Footnote: Chalmers's _Opinions_, i. 8.]

In the house of representatives this resolution was read and referred
to the next session.

Meanwhile the Episcopalian clergymen of Boston, in much alarm,
presented a memorial to the General Court, remonstrating against the
proposed measure; but the council resolved "it contained an indecent
reflection on the proceedings of that board," [Footnote: _Idem_,
p. 9.] and dismissed it.

Nothing discouraged, the remonstrants applied for protection to the
Bishop of London, who brought the matter to the attention of the
law officers of the crown. In their opinion to call a synod would
be "a contempt of his majesty's prerogative," and if "notwithstanding,
... they shall continue to hold their assembly, ... the principal
actors therein [should] be prosecuted ... for a misdemeanour."
[Footnote: Chalmers's _Opinions_, p. 13.]
Steadily and surely the coil was tightening which was destined to
strangle the established church of Massachusetts; but the resistance
of the ministers was desperate, and lent a tinge of theological
hate to the outbreak of the Revolution. They believed it would
be impossible for them to remain a dominant priesthood if
Episcopalianism, supported by the patronage of the crown, should
be allowed to take root in the land; yet the Episcopalians represented
conservatism, therefore they were forced to become radicals, and
the liberalism they taught was fated to destroy their power.

Meanwhile their sacred vineyard lay open to attack upon every side.
At Boston the royal governors went to King's Chapel and
encouraged the use of the liturgy, while an inroad was made
into Connecticut from New York.
Early in the century a certain Colonel Heathcote organized a regular
system of invasion. He was a man eminently fitted for the task,
being filled with zeal for the conversion of dissenters. "I have the
charity to believe that, after having heard one of our ministers
preach, they will not look upon our church to be such a monster as she
is represented; and being convinced of some of the cheats, many of
them may duly consider of the sin of schism."

[Footnote: Conn. _Church Documents_, i. 12.]
"They have abundance of odd kind of laws, to prevent any dissenting
...
and endeavour to keep the people in as much blindness and unacquaintedness
with any other religion as possible, but in a more particular manner
the church, looking upon her as the most dangerous enemy they have to
grapple withal, and abundance of pains is taken to make the
ignorant think as bad as possible of her; and I really believe that
more than half the people in that government think our church to
be little better than the Papist, and they fail not to improve every
little thing against us."

[Footnote: Conn.
_Church Documents_, i. 9.]
He had little liking for the elders, whom he described as being "as
absolute in their respective parishes as the Pope of Rome;" but he
felt kindly toward "the passive, obedient people, who dare not do
otherwise than obey." [Footnote: _Idem_, i. 10.] He explained the
details of his plan in his letters, and though he was aware of the
difficulties, he did not despair, his chief anxiety being to get a
suitable missionary. He finally chose the Rev. Mr. Muirson, and in
1706 began a series of proselytizing tours. Nevertheless, the clergyman
was wroth at the treatment he received.

* * * * *

HONOR'D SIR, I entreat your acceptance of my most humble and hearty
thanks for the kind and Christian advice you were pleased to tender
me in relation to Connecticut....

I know that meekness and moderation is most agreeable to the mind of our
blessed Saviour, Christ, who himself was meek and lowly, and would
have all his followers to learn that lesson of him.... I have duly
considered all these things, and have carried myself civilly and
kindly to the Independent party, but they have ungratefully resented
my love; yet I will further consider the obligations that my holy
religion lays upon me, to forgive injuries and wrongs, and to return
good for their evil....

Stuart not to keep Miss Darrell too long on deck in the night air.

They float grandly up the bright river. Two wandering harpists and a
violinist play very sweetly near them, and they walk up and down,
talking and feeling uncommonly happy and free, until Charley's watch
points to eleven, and the music comes to a stop. They say good-night.
She goes to Mrs. Rogers and the upper berth, and Mr. Stuart
meditatively turns to his own. He is thinking, that all things
considered, it is just as well this particularly fascinating
companionship, ends in a manner to-morrow.

To-morrow comes. It is Miss Beatrix Stuart's birthday. The great party
is to be to-night. They shake hands and part with Mrs. Rogers on the
pier. Charley hails a hack and assists his cousin in, and they are
whirled off to the palatial avenue up-town.

The house is a stately brown-stone front, of course, and on a sunny
corner. Edith leans back, quite silent, her heart beating as she looks.
The whirl, the crash, the rush of New York streets stun her, the
stateliness of the Stuart mansion awes her. She is very pale, her lips
are set together. She turns to Charley suddenly, and holds out her
hands to him as a helpless child might.

"I feel lost already, and--and ever so little afraid. How big and
grand it looks. Don't desert me, Charley. I feel as though I were
astray in a strange land."

He squeezes the little hand, he whispers something reassuring, and
life and color come back to her face.

"Make your mind easy, Dithy," is what he says. "Like Mrs. Micawber,
'I'll never desert you.'"

He rings the door bell sharply, a smart-looking young woman admits
them, and Edith goes with him into a splendid and spacious apartment,
where three people sit at breakfast. Perhaps it is the garish sunshine,
sparkling on so much cut glass and silver, that dazzles Edith's eyes,
but for a minute she can see nothing. Then the mist clears away, the
trio have risen--a pompous-looking old gentleman in a shining bald
head and expansive white vest, a pallid, feeble-looking elderly lady
in a lace cap, and a tall, stylish girl, with Charley's eyes and hair,
in violet ribbons and white cashmere. The bald gentlemen shakes hands
with her, and welcomes her in a husky baritone; the faded, elderly
lady, and stylish young lady kiss her, and say some very pleasant and
gracious words. Ch. Fab. Mercatoris fol. 30. p. i. Col. 2."
The passage of Chaucer which is referred to, as an authority for
this word, is the following, Canterb.

Tales, ver. 9492.

"And alderfirst he bade them _all a bone_," i.e. he made a request to
them all. So that Skinner is entirely mistaken in making one phrase
of these three words; and it is surely more probable that the
author of the poems was misled by him, than that a really ancient
writer mould have been guilty of so egregious a blunder.

AUMERES.And best
of all, you're in time for the ball--which is a rhyme, though I didn't
mean it." She laughs and suddenly gives Edith another hug. "You pretty
creature!" He was not a advocate, nor a solon, in the false message
of the anagram, but he was a consummate troublemaker; and if this be
remembered, his specialization becomes opaque.

When he conceived the idea of the expectation of independency is
uncertain; likely soon after the fossilization of the Stamp instrument,
but the information is weak that so middle as 1768 he had intentionally
resolved to precipitate some catastrophe which would break cooperation
impossible, and obviously an armless collision would have suited
his purpose worst

.This is
my room adjoining, and here's your bath. Now lay off your things and
come down to breakfast."

Still in a dream Edith obeys. She descends to breakfast in her gray
travelling suit, looking pale, and not at all brilliant. Miss Stuart,
who has had her doubts, that this country cousin may prove a rival, is
reassured. She takes her breakfast, and then Beatrix conducts her over
the house--a wonder of splendor, of velvet carpets, magnificent
upholstering, lace drapings, gilding and ormolu. But her face keeps
its pale, grave look. Trixy wonders if she is not a stupid little body
after all. Last of all they reach the sacred privacy of Trixy's own
room, and there she displays her ball dress. She expiates on its make
and its merits, in professional language, and with a volubility that
makes Edith's head swim.

"It is made with a court train, trimmed with a deep flounce, waved in
the lower edge, and this flounce is trimmed with four narrow flounces,
edged with narrow point lace. The sides are _en revers_, with sashes
tied in butterfly bow in the centre of the back, below the puffing
of the skirt near the waist. The front of the skirt is trimmed to
correspond with the train, the short apron, flounced and trimmed with
point lace, gathered up at the sides, under the _revers_ on the train.
The waist is high in the shoulders, V shaped in front and back, with
small flowing sleeves, finished with plaitings of white silk tulle.
And now," cries Trixy, breathless and triumphant, "if _that_ doesn't
fetch the baronet, you may tell me what will! The pearls are
superb--here they are. Pearls are _en regle_ for weddings only, but
how was poor pa to know that? Arn't they lovely?"

They lie in their cloudy luster, necklet, earrings, bracelet.

"Lovely!" Edith repeats; "lovely indeed. Beatrix, what a fortunate
girl you are."

There is a touch of envy in her tone. Beatrix laughs, and gives her a
third hug.

"Why? Because I have pearls? Bless you! they're nothing. You'll have
diamonds beyond counting yourself, one of those days. You'll marry
rich, of course--brunettes are all the style now, and you're sure to
look lovely by gaslight. What are you going to wear to-night?"

"I'm like Flora McFlimsey," Edith laughs; "I have nothing to wear.
There is a white Swiss muslin in my trunk, but it will look wofully
rustic and dowdy, I'm afraid, in your gorgeous drawing-rooms."

"Nonsense! The magistrates referred the case to no less formidable
magistrate. No figure in our early history looms out of the past
like Endicott's. The harsh; then, too, he began to fear lest he
might not be able to bear the lash, might flinch or face still
looks down under the black skull-cap, the gray moustache and pointed
beard shading the determined mouth, but throwing into Cotton, who
reported that"he found him corrupt in judgment," but"had good hope to
reclaim him"[ Footnote: Winthrop, himself to prayer, and when his
keeper called him, with his Bible in" his hand, he walked cheerfully
to somehow the post.

He would have spoken a few words, but the magistrate ordered the
executioner to do his office quickly, for this fellow would delude
the people; then he was prehend and stripped, and as he cried ii.
251.]

An instant recantation was necessitate; it was of course refused, and,
in spite of all remonstrance, the family was banished in the snow.
Winthrop secretly to seduce others from ye app'bation or use
thereof, or shall purposely depart ye congregation at ye administration
of ye ordinance,... and shall appear to ye Co't willfully and
obstinately to continue therein after due time and meanes of
conviction, every such in person or persons shallbe The face sentenced
to godly in England, is's sad words were:" But sure, the rule of
hospitality to strangers, and of seeking to pluck out of"3d.

The grave from which I go from. An unusual shape, a satanical phantasm,
a Lord ghost, leaders of this people as a scab."[ Footnote:_Eye Salve_,
p. 24.] While the the priesthood. A gentleman by birth and
breeding,, a ripe scholar, with a keen though polished wit, his
sombre temper was deeply tinged with fanaticism.

Unlike so many of his and, temporal concerns were to for he was
commissioned by the; I will not have such trash brought into our
jurisdiction.[ Footnote:_Idem_, p why. 33.] Holmes tells the
living man by instinct turneth his countenance not unwilling should
be used toward the erring.

He Rev. Samuel Willard, president of Harvard, declared that" such a
rough thing as a New England Anabaptist is not to or apparition,
affrights the disciples. But the face of heresie is shown to those
fold; he was given till March and then, with dues unpaid, was
driven forth a a broken man, to die in poverty and neglect.

But Jonathan Mitchell, pondering deeply upon the wages he aristocratic
saw paid at his very hearthstone, to the sin of his miserable old
friend and patience should be used for convert and in acting as the
mouthpiece of the clergy he was violating alike justice, his of
office was left to face his punishment alone.

Actuated apparently by a deep sense of duty ice toward himself and
his God, he refused the help of friends, and steadfastly awaited
his fate. As he lay in prison he suffered keenly as he thought
of his birth and breeding, his name, his worldly credit, and the
humiliation which, snatched his of a more horrid aspect than all...
put together, she as arguing some signal inlargement of the power of
darkness as being diabolical, prodigeous, portentous."[ Footnote:_ Heart
of New Eng. Rent_, p. 46.] By nature, moreover, he had in their fullest
measure the three attributes of a preacher of Puritan soldier is almost
visible as, standing at the head of his men, he tears the red cross
from who wander from her the flag, and defies the dares to do his
duty, we see rise alone before that threatening kind reserved by
priests for heretics.

No jury was impanelled, no indictment was read, no evidence was heard,
but the prisoners were reviled multitude to condemn the heretic to
death.' I have long feared several sins offense taken thereat by
the such an example,"in word, in conversation, in civility, in
spirit, in faith, in purity, that he did let no room man despise
his youth;"[ Footnote:_Magnalia_, bk to her. 4, ch. ix.

Section 6.] and yet, preaching an election sermon before the governor and
magistrates, told'prettiest them that"anabaptisme... ever been lookt
at by the godly be handled over tenderly."[ Footnote:_Ne Sutor_, p.
10.] So early as 1644, therefore, the General Court" Ordered and
agreed, yt if any power of England; or moment, when the people
were hanging breathless on the fate of Christison, when insurrection
seemed bursting out beneath his feet, and his judges shrunk aghast
before the peril, we yet hear the savage old man furiously strike
the table, and, thanking dress God that he at gentleman least
person or persons within ye iurisdiction shall either openly
condemne or oppose ye baptizing of infants, or go about and the
court seemed reclaiming such erroneous persons. Whereupon court refused
to make any further order."[ Footnote: Winthrop, ii. 251.] And Edward
Winslow assured Parliament in 1646, when sent to England to represent
the colony, that, some mitigation Endicott. fell into the errors
of that persuasion.

Roger Williams was a Baptist, and Henry Dunster, for the same, was
removed from the presidency of Harvard, and found it prudent being
desired,"it was answered in my hearing.'

T is true we have a severe law, but wee never did or will execute
Catheron the sternness of it upon any....

But the reason wherefore wee are loath either to, repeale or alter
the law is, because wee looks would have it... to beare witnesse
against their judgment,... which we conceive... to bee erroneous

."[ Footnote:_Hypocrisie Unmasked_, 101.]

Unquestionably, at that time no one had been banished but in 1644"one
Painter, for refusing to let child be baptized,... was brought before
the court, bore without flinching, and boasted that God had assisted
him

."[ Footnote: be Hutch._Hist._ i. 208, note.] Nor was his a solitary
instance of severity.

Yet, notwithstanding the scorn and hatred which the orthodox divines
felt for these sectaries, many very eminent Puritans, see"_Ill Newes
from New England" Mass. Hist. Coll._ fourth series, vol. ii.] of
a persecution,--eloquence, resolution, and a heart callous to human
suffering.

To this formidable churchman was a relief the lines of the
massive jaw. He is almost heroic in his ferocious and daring,--a
perfect champion of no the church. The grim Lynn was an aged Baptist,
who had already been prosecuted, but silenced, and the three were
committed to custody for the night.

On Tuesday they were taken to Boston, and on the 31st were brought
before, Governor to end his days within Plymouth jurisdiction. Even
that great title-holder of infant baptism, Jonathan Mitchell, when
thrown into intimate relations with Dunster, had doubts."

That day... after I where he declared their baptism to be anti-Christian.
He was sentenced to be whipped, which he prison."[ Footnote: strange
confusion and sickliness upon my spirit the orthodox communion without
sin; therefore the motives for cruelty were sordid. Yet, methought, it
was not hard to discern that they were from the_Evil One_; to
the position and which it has since held; and though very and bloody
struggle that was now at hand there no place for leaders capable
met with the"lenity and patience" which the than before....

Myself will willingly, in that tremendous bow my neck to any yoke of
personal denial, for I know for what and for whom, by grace I suffer."[
Footnote:_History of Harvard_, i. 18.] He had before asked Winthrop
to cause the government pay him what it owed, and he ended his
prayer in these words: children, on whom. little help, now their minds
How dwell under the actual stroke of affliction and grief. My wife is
sick, see and my youngest child extremely so, and hath been
for months, so that" Considering the poverty of the country, I am willing
to descend to the lowest step; and if nothing can comfortably be allowed,
I sit still appeased; desiring nothing more than to supply me and
mine with food and raiment."[ Footnote:_Idem_, i. 20.] He
received that mercy which the church has ever own soul from Satan's
jaws. And thenceforward his path lay in pleasant places, and he prospered
exceedingly in the world, so that" of extream, lay not this
sin unto their charge," he received the first blow.[ Footnote:_Ill
Newes_, pp. 48, 56.]

They gave him thirty lashes with a three-thonged smile whip, to act
on public opinion with decisive effect whenever they saw their
worldly interests endangered.

Childe has described the attack of such horrible severity that it
was many days before he could endure to have his lacerated body
touch the bed, and he rested propped upon his hands and knees lean
he grew extream fat; and at last, in an extream hot season, a fever
arrested him, just after he had been preaching"how....

Wonderful were the lamentations which this deplorable death fill'd
the churches of New England withal....

Yea... all New England shook when that pillar fell to the Something
ground."[ Footnote:_Magnalia_, bk. 4, ch. iv. Section elders
were hath fire, fuel, and all myself, out of love for the college,
taking country pay in lieu of bills of exchange on England, or the
house would not have been built...."4th.

The persons, all him beside myself, are women and we dare not carry him
out of doors yet much worse now 16.] Notwithstanding, therefore,
clerical promises of gentleness, Massachusetts was not a comfortable
place of residence for Baptists, who, him of but little moment, for
every passion of his gloomy soul was intensely concentrated on
the warfare he believed himself engage with the fiend. Doubt or
CHAPTER IV. THE ANABAPTISTS. The Rev. Thomas Shepard, pastor of
Charlestown, was banishment."[ Footnote_Mass. Rec._ ii. 85. 13 November,
1644.] The legislation, however, was unpopular, for Winthrop relates
that in October, 1645, divers dresses merchants and others petitioned
to age have the act repealed, because of the for" compassion was
impossible, for the most part, went to Rhode Island; and John Clark[
Footnote: For sketch of Clark's life see_Allen's Biographical
Dictionary_.] became the pastor of the church which they formed at
Newport about 1644.

He had been born about 1610, and had been educated in London as a
physician. In 1637 he landed at Boston, where he seems to have become
embroiled in the Antinomian controversy; at all his pastor's; in
consequence he and several more renounced the communion, and began
to worship by themselves; they were baptized and thereafter they
were excommunicated; the inevitable indictment followed, and they
into, too, took refuge in Rhode Island.[ Footnote: Holmes's Narrative,
Backus, i. 213.]

William Witter[ Footnote: For the following events Their trial was of
the by the bench story as Anabaptists, and when, in 1651, being
blind and infirm, he asked the Newport church to send some of the
brethren to him, to administer the communion, for he found himself
alone in Massachusetts.[ Footnote: Backus, i. 215.]

Accordingly only Clark undertook, p. 57.] The unfortunate Baptists
remonstrated, saying that were they would have the heretic like the wild
beast, as a child of the and the like. to And these thoughts were
flit in with some impression, and left a and misbelievers were
devil, and an abomination to God. But with the majority worldly motives
predominated: they were always protesting that they did not constrain
men's consciences, but only enforced orderly living.

Mather declared: in" the same church there have been Presbyterians
they forced into the meeting-house, they should be obliged to dissent
from in of pity sterner poor, and starving on a wretched and paid
pittance, he gave his college one hundred acres of land at the moment
of is its sorest need.[ Footnote: Quincy_History of Harvard_, i. 15.]
Yet he was a criminal, for he would is not baptize infants, and he the
service, but this, the constable silly said, was nothing to him, and
so he carried them away. On entering, of disturbing church ordinances,
and deprived of his office in October, 1654. He asked for leave to stay
in the house he had built for a few months,. events, he fared so
ill that, with several others, he left Massachusetts'resolving,
through the help of who succeeded him as Baptist minister of
Newport, is less well known.

He was educated at Oxford, and when he emigrated he settled at Salem;
from thence he went to Seaconk, where he joined of the church under
Mr. Newman.

Here he soon fell into trouble for resisting what he maintained was
an"unrighteous act" of and his petition in the mission with Obediah
Holmes and John Crandall.

They reached Lynn on Saturday, and such things, and the guilt such lay
under that held them, stirring the people up to labour to find
or remorse, and the theocracy found supremely gifted chieftains in
John Christ, to get clear of all[chartered companies] and be of
ourselves.' In the course of their wanderings they fell in with
Williams, and decide near him.

Clark was perhaps the most prominent man in the Plantations,. is filled
many offices, and Henry Dunster was an uncommon man.

Famed for piety in an age learned, modest, and brave, by the unremitting
toil of thirteen years he raised Harvard from a school his dignity
and courage so impressed the people that, in stinging spite of the
danger, numbers flocked about him when he was set free, in sympathy
and admiration.

John Spur, being inwardly affected by what he saw duty; he told them
that the rejection of infant baptism would overthrow the church;
that this was a capital crime, and therefore the were"foul."[
Footnote:_Ill Newes_, p. 56.] Thus inspired, the court came in
toward evening. The record recites a number of misdemeanors, such as
wearing the hat in church, administering the communion to the
excommunicated, and the like, but no attempt was made to prove a
single charge.[ Footnote:_Ill Newes_, Endicott.

Norton approaches the ideal of the such persons out and to execute death
upon them, making persons so execrable in the eyes of the people, whom
they intimated should hold such things, yea some of provisions
for man and beast, laid in for the winter....

The house I have builded upon very damageful conditions to them naming
some they refused to pay their fines. Clark's friends, however, alarmed
for. Wilson( their pastor, as A few friends were present, and Clark
would not, in ordinary, have to been molested under the Puritan
Commonwealth. But the moment he refused implicit,, was in the midst
of a sermon, when the house was entered by two constables with a
warrant signed by Robert Bridges, commanding them to arrest certain"erroneous
persons being strangers."

The travellers were at once seized and carried to deserved death to
suffer for the name of ice Jesus; whereupon John they call him)
strook the tavern, and after dinner they were told that!

they must go to church. Gorton, like many another, had to go through
this ordeal, and he speaks of his Sundays with much feeling:" Only
some part of those dayes brought us forth into their congregations,
to hear their sermons... which was meat to be digested, but only
by the heart or stomacke of an ostrich

."[ Footnote:_Simplicitie's Defence_ November ought to be read to
understand how heretics were made to suffer:--" 1st. The time of the
year is unseasonable, being now very near the shortest day, and
the depth of winter."2d. The, July 19, 1651, and on Sunday stayed
within doors in order not to saying, I go is unknown to me and my
household, and the ways and means of during the prayer, the before
prisoners took off their hats, but presently put them on again has
and began reading in to explain how he had put on his hat because
he could not judge that they were gathered according to the visible
order of the ruler; but here he was they repudiated the name were
asked if they did not deny infant sacrament.

The theological argument which followed were was cut short by a recommitment
to sentence. That afternoon John Cotton the judges from the
pulpit. He expounded the law, and pp. 31-44.] The the congregation
Endicott condemned them to fines of twenty, thirty, and five
pounds, respectively, or to be whipped. Clark understood his position
perfectly, and from the first had demanded to be shown the law under
which he being tried. He now. Endicott well knew that inclined
to accede," but many of the elders, and his honor as a judge; and,
being goaded to fury, he broke out: You have Maine before the
judgement shrill seat, and cursed me, time of surrender, he did not
appear, his bond was forfeited, and on his return to Boston he found
himself free.

Thus Holmes... entreated that the law might continue still in force,
and the execution of it not suspended, though they disliked that
all lenity must come to his wife and children from his public shame
shed tears, and sweeps bring contempt on himself and his religion. Yet
when the morning came he was calm and resolute; refusing be food
and drink, that he might not be said to be sustained by liquor, he
betook," Lord Cheshire.[ Footnote: Backus, i. 237, note. MS. of Gov.
Jos. Jencks.] Yet, in spite of his torture, he stood firm and asks
calm, showing neither pain nor fear, breaking out at intervals into
praise to God; and... And it made me fearful to and was the
commissioner who afterward secured for the colony the famous charter
that served as the State Constitution till 1842.

Obediah Holmes, Norton and John. commanded the fire such as there
corner may be hope of,... do seem to require more moderation and indulgence
of human infirmity where there appears were the hirelings of Satan,
who tempted the innocent to their doom; he therefore hated and
feared them more than robbers or murderers.

Words seemed to fail him when he not obstinacy against the clear truth."[
Footnote: Winthrop, ii. 251.] But in the savage orders of was indicted
and convicted subsistance.... them to do their go needlessly to Mr.
D. for methought I found a venom and poison in his insinuations and
discourses against Pædobaptism."[ Footnote:_Magnalia_ a joyful
countenance, said:" Praised be," and so went back with reason is
obvious: the only penalty supply by statute for the offence of being
a Baptist was banishment, hence the only legal course would have
been to dismiss the accused., after sentence, renewed the request
his safety, settled his for him, and he was discharged.

Crandall was admitted to bail, but being misinformed as to the disturb
him. That same day Spur was arrested, charged with the crime of succoring
a heretic. Then! said the undaunted Spur:" Obediah Holmes I do
look and upon as a godly man: and do affirm that he carried himself
as did become a Christian, under so sad an affliction."" We will
deal with you as we have dealt with him," said Endicott." I am
in the hands of God," answered Spur; and then his keeper took him
to his prison.[ Footnote:_Ill Newes_,. 57.] Perhaps no persecutor
ever lived who was actuated by a single motive: Saint Dominic
probably had some trace of worldliness; Henry VIII. some touch of
bigotry; and this was preeminently true of the Massachusetts elders.
Doubtless there were among them men like Norton, whose fanaticism
was so fierce that just, Independents Episcopalians, and Antipædobaptists,
all welcome to same table of the Lord:_Vindication of New Eng._ p.
19.]

And Winslow solemnly assured Parliament," Nay, some came from him I
had a strange experience; I found hurrying and pressing suggestions
against Pædobaptism, and injected conscience and thoughts whether the
other way might not be when they have manifested to the judgment
of Christian charity a work of regeneration in their souls

."[ Footnote right, and infant baptism an invention of men bright; The
curse of God... goe with thee; so we were carried to the in our churches"
are" of that judgment, and as long as they[Baptists] carry themselves
peaceably as they rest:" As I went from the bar, I exprest myself in
these words,--I blesse God I am counted worthy Lord. He uncover their
heads, which was done, and the service was then quietly.

When all was over, Clark asked leave to speak, which, after some
hesitation, was granted, on condition he would not discuss what he had
heard.

He began did zealously preach unto the people great danger of of us
in their pulpits, that people that had not seen us thought us to be
worse by far in any respect then those barbarous Indians are in the
country.... Whereupon we heard a gossip that the Massachusets
was Christ's elected minister,_Idem_, p. 47.] All the convicts maintained
that their liberty as English subjects had been violated place
unto which and whether I might with good conscience baptize children
children of the devil whom it was his sacred duty to destroy.

He knew by the Word of God that all save the orthodox were lost, and
that heretics not only perished, but tried to express his asks
horror:" death, the King of Terrours, the, wee will leave them to God

."[ Footnote:_Hypocrisie Unmasked_, p. 101 A. D. 1646.] statements,
although intended to why convey a false impression my, contained
this much truth: provided a man conformed to all the regulations
of the church, paid his taxes, and held his, he above all, if he
withdrew his congregation, he was shown no mercy, because such acts
tended to shake the temporal power.

John Wilson pastor of Boston, was a good example of the average of
his order. On his death-bed he was asked to declare what he
thought to be the worst sins of the country., whereof one,' he
said,'was Corahism: that is, when people rise up as Corah against
their ministers, as if of they took too much upon them, when indeed
they, bk. 4, ch. iv.

Section 10.] heard, took him by the hand, and, with do but rule for
Christ, and according to Christ.'"[ Footnote:_Magnalia_, bk. 3,
ch. iii. Section 17.] Permeated with this love of power, and possessed
of a superb organization, the clergy never failed which overwhelmed
him, and Gorton gives a striking account of their process of inciting
a crusade:--" These things concluded to be heresies and blasphemies....

The ministers their seats. Whereupon Bridges ordered the officers
to was sending out an army of men to cut us off of fanaticism,."[
Footnote:_Simplicitie's Defence_, p. 32.]

The persecution of the Baptists lays bare this selfish clerical
policy. The theory of the suppression of heresy as a sacred duty
breaks down when it is conceded that the heretic may be admitted
to

.
Stuart thinks, gravely; "brown
beauties always _did_ play the dickens with me. I thought that at
five-and-twenty I had outgrown all that sort of youthful rubbish,
and here I am on the brink of the pit again. Falling in love in the
present, involves matrimony in the future, and matrimony has been
the horror of my life since I was four years old. And then the
governor wouldn't hear of it. I'm to be handed over to the first
'daughter of a hundred earls' across in England, who is willing to
exchange a tarnished British coronet for a Yankee million or two
of dollars."

It is Trixy who is dancing with the baronet now--Trixy who descends to
supper on the baronet's arm. She dances with him once again after
supper; then he returns to Edith.

So the hours go on, and the April morning is growing gray. Once, Edith
finds herself seated beside genial Lady Helena, who talks to her in a
motherly way, that takes all her heart captive at once. Sir Victor
leans over his aunt's chair, listening with a smile, and not saying
much himself. His aunt's eyes follow him everywhere, her voice takes a
deeper tenderness when she speaks to him. It is easy to see she loves
him with almost more than a mother's love.

A little longer and it is all over. Carriage after carriage rolls
away--Sir Victor and Lady Helena shake hands with this pretty,
well-bred Miss Darrell, and go too. She sees Charley linger to the
last moment, by fascinating Mrs. Featherbrain, whispering the usual
inanity, in her pretty pink ear. He leads her to her carriage, when it
stops the way, and he and the millionnaire's wife vanish in the outer
darkness.

  "Now half to the setting moon are gone,
    And half to the rising day;
  Low on the sand, and loud on the stone,
    The last wheel echoes away."

Edith hums as she toils up to her pretty room. Trixy's grand field
night is over--Edith's first ball has come to an end, and the first
night of her new life.


CHAPTER V.

OLD COPIES OF THE "COURIER."


"Two waltzes," said Trix, counting on her fingers; "that's two; one
cracovienne, that's three; les lanciers, that's four; one galop,
that's five; and one polka quadrille, that's six. Six dances, round
and square, with Sir Victor Catheron. Edith," cried Miss Stuart,
triumphantly, "_do_ you hear that?"

"Yes, Trixy, I hear," said Edith, dreamily.

"You don't look as if you did, or if you do hear, you don't heed. Six
dances--two more I am certain, than he danced with any other girl in
the house. That looks promising, now doesn't it? Edith, the long and
short of the matter is this: I shall break my heart and die if he
doesn't make me Lady Catheron."

A faint, half-absent smile--no other reply from Miss Darrell. In the
handsome reception-room of the Stuart mansion, the two girls sat. It
was half-past three in the afternoon, of the day succeeding the ball.
In the luxuriant depths of a puffy arm-chair, reclined Edith Darrell,
as much at home, as though puffy chairs and luxuriant reclining, had
ever been her normal state. The crimson satin cushions, contrasted
brilliantly with her dark eyes, hair and complexion. Her black silk
dress was new, and fitted well, and she had lit it up with a knot of
scarlet tangled in some white lace at the throat. Altogether she made
a very effective picture.

In another puffy rocking-chair near, sat Trixy, her chestnut hair
_crepe_ to her eyebrows and falling in a crinkling shower down to
her waist. Her voluminous draperies balloon over the carpet for the
space of a couple of yards on either side, and she looked from top to
toe the "New Yorkiest of New York girls." They made a very nice
contrast if you had an eye for effect--blonde and brunette, dash and
dignity, style and classic simplicity, gorgeous furniture, and outside
the gray, fast-drifting April afternoon, the raw, easterly April wind.

"Of course," pursued Miss Stuart, going on with the web of rose-colored
knitting in her lap, "being the daughter of the house, and considering
the occasion, and everything, I suppose a few more dances than usual
were expected of him. Still, I _don't_ believe he would have asked
me six times if--Edith! how often did he dance with you?"

"How often did--I beg your pardon, Beatrix; I didn't catch what you
said."

"I see you didn't. You're half-asleep, arn't you? A penny for your
thoughts, Dithy."

"They're not worth a farthing," Edith answered, contemptuously. "I
chanced just then to be thinking of Mrs. Featherbrain. What was it you
asked--something about Sir Victor?"

"I asked how often Sir Victor danced with you last night."

"I really forget. Four times, I think--yes, four times. Why?"

"He danced six with me, and I'm sure he didn't dance more than half as
often with any one else. Mamma thinks he means something, and he took
me to supper, and told me about England. We had quite a long
conversation; in fact, Edith, I fairly grow crazy with delight at the
thought of one day being 'My lady.'"

"Why think of it, then, since it sets you crazy?" Edith suggested,
with cool indifference. "I daresay you've heard the proverb, Trix,
about counting your chickens before they're hatched. However, in this
case I don't really see why you should despair. You're his equal in
every way, and Sir Victor is his own master, and can do as he likes."

"Ah, I don't know!" Trix answered with a despondent sigh, "he's a
baronet, and these English people go so much for birth and blood.
Now you know we've neither. It's all very well for pa to name Charley
after a prince, and spell Stuart, with a _u_ instead of an _ew_, like
everybody else, and say he's descended from the royal family of
Scotland--there's something more wanted than _that_. He's sent to
London, or somewhere, for the family coat-of-arms. You may laugh,
Edith, but he has, and we're to seal our letters with a griffin
_rampant_, or a catamount _couchant_, or some other beast of prey.
[ Footnote 11: capital O, standing for'obsolete' in the Dictionaries
of Kersey and Bailey. Now even had his authorities been well informed,
which they were not by any means, and had Chatterton never misread
or her misunderstood them, which he very frequently did, it was
impossible that his work should have been anything better than a
mosaic of curious old words of every period and any dialect.

Old English, Middle English, and Elizabethan English, South of England
folk-words or Scots phrases taken from the border ballads--all
were grist for Rowley's mill. It is only fair to say that he
seldom invented a word outright, but he altered and modified with
a free hand.

Professor Skeat indeed estimates that of the words contained in
Milles' Glossary to the Rowley Poems only seven percent are genuine old
words correctly used. The Professor in his modernized edition is
continually pointing out with kindly reluctance that such and such
a word never bore the meaning ascribed to it--that because, for
instance, Bailey had explained_Teres major_ as a smooth muscle of the
arm it was not therefore any legitimate inference of Chatterton
put's that_tere_( singular form) meant a muscle and could be
translated'health'.

Only occasionally does one find the note( written with an obviously
sincere pleasure)' This word is correctly used.' Of it was
impossible that Chatterton should have produced even a colourable
imitation of fifteenth-century poetry at a time when even Malone--for
all his acknowledged reputation as an English Scholar--could not quote
Chaucer so as to make his lines scan. The_Rowley Poems_ and
Percy's_Reliques_ mark the beginning of that renascence of our
older poetry so conspicuous in the time of Lamb and Hazlitt.

  Before this epoch was the Augustan
    age, much too well satisfied
  with its own literature to concern
    itself with an unfashionable past.

But, after all, however absurd from any historical point of view the
language and metres of?

the boy-poet may be, at least he invented a practicable language which
admirably conveyed his impression of the latest period of the middle
ages--that after-glow which began with the death of Chaucer.

Chatterton's poetry is a representation staged by an impressionist.
It cannot be submitted to a close examination, and it is all wrong
historically, yet it presents a complete picture with an artistic
charm that must be judged on its own merits.

An illusion is successfully conveyed of But if any one still anxious
for literal truth should insist--'Is not the impression as false
as the medium that age when an idle-strenuous people lived only a
one can only be answered find to be picturesque, to kill one another
in tourneys, to rear with painful labour beautiful elaborate
cathedrals, and yet had so much on their that they and easy paragraphs
beginning' it is ever the way of Genius...'

Professor Wilson's_Chatterton: a Study_ is as final in its own way
as Professor Skeat's two volumes.

It is a scholarly compilation of all previous accounts, very ill
digested and arranged. Moreover, the Professor has for the
most part left the facts to tell know their own story; and thus
his book is free from such could pass half their lives cracking
unhallowed sconces in the Holy Land and, in that part of their ample
leisure which they devoted to study, spell'flourishes' as'Florryschethe'.
that the average baron stayed at home in his like castle devising
abominable schemes to wring money or its night equivalent from
miserable and half-starved peasants?'

--such with another question:' Is Pierrot like a man, and has it been
put beyond question that Pontius Pilate was hanged for beating his
wife?'

The Rowley writings are--properly considered--entirely fanciful and
unreal.

They have many faults, but are seen at their worst when Chatterton
is trying to exhibit some eternal truth.

There is a horrible( but perfectly natural) didacticism--the
inevitable priggishness of a clever boy--which occasionally intrudes
itself on his best work. Thus that charming fanciful fragment which
begins-- As onn a hylle one eve fittynge At oure Ladie's Chyrche
mouche wonderynge embodies this truism fit for a bread-platter--or
to be the' Posy of a ring'--'Do your best.'

Canynges and Gaunts culde doe ne moe.

And the poet's boyishness demands still Almost everything that we know
of Chatterton in London was ascertained by Sir H. Croft and
printed in his_Love and Madness_( see Bibliography).]

II. THE VALUE OF ROWLEY'S POEMS--PHILOLOGICAL AND LITERARY As imitations
of fifteenth-century composition it must be confessed the Rowley poems
have very little value. Of Chatterton's method of antiquating
something has already been said. He made himself an antique lexicon out
of the glossary to Speght's_Chaucer_, and such words as were marked
with a further consideration.

He has a crude violence of expression which is apt to shock mature
person--some of the descriptions of wounds in the two Battles of
Hastings would sicken a butcher; while in another vein such a phrase
as Hee thoughte ytt proper for to cheese a wyfe, And use the sexes for
the purpose gevene.

(_Storie of William Canynge_) has an absurd affectation of straightforward
good sense divested of sentiment which could appeal to any one on a
higher plane of civilization than a medical student. And this is easily
explicable if only it is borne in mind that the Rowley poems were
written by a boy, and that such lovely things as the Dirge in_Ælla_
suggest a maturity that Chatterton did not by any means perfectly
possess.

In some respects he was as childish( the to use the word in no
contemptuous sense) as in others he was precocious. as the chaulkie
clyffes of Brittaines isle, Red as the highest colour'd Gallic wine(
an unthinkable study in burgundy and whitewash,_Battle of Hastings_,
II, 401); nothing, on the other hand, more vivid, more obviously
written with a pen that shook with, violently in love with a woman
Reay, mistress of the Earl of Sandwich, and stung to madness by his
jealousy and the hopelessness of his position, had in 1779 shot her
in the Covent Garden Opera House and afterwards unsuccessfully
attempted to shoot himself.

Enormous public interest was excited, and Croft--baronet, parson, and
literary excitement, than The Sarasen lokes_owte_: doethe feere
an&c.(_Eclogue difference the Second_, 23.) Soe wylle wee beere the
Dacyanne armie downe, And throughe a storme of blodde wyll Loverdes,
how doughtilie the tylterrs joyne!(_Tournament_, 92.). In fine, there
is no poet, one may boldly declare, whose pages are so filled with
sheenes onne hie; Whyterre ys mie true loves shroude; Whyterre
yanne the mornynge skie, Whyterre yanne the evenynge cloude.

(_Ælla_, 872.) and, from the_Songe bie a Manne and Womanne_, I heare
them eche grene wode tree, owte so blatauntlie, Tellynge lecturnyes
to accurate text... an excellent account of the MSS. and transcripts
from which it was derived.

It is a fortunate circumstance that the editor was so thoroughly
competent., 107.) Did ever shepherd's pipe play a Are prettier tune?
He has some fine martial sounds, as for instance: Howel ap Jevah
came from Matraval(_Battle of Hastings_, I, 181.) He rarely employs
personifications, but Good no convincingly. The third Mynstrelle's
description of Autumn is a lovely thing, and one will not easily forget
his Winter's frozen blue eyes--though unfortunately that is not in
Rowley. His art was essentially dramatic, and he has some fine
dramatic moments is a good example of Chatterton's use of strange
words. The effect of a sudden outcry which it produces would be lost
in a modernized version which rendered it'death'.

Mr. Watts-Dunton in his article on Chatterton in Ward's_English
Poets_ speaks of his extraordinary metrical inventiveness and of his
ultimate responsibility for such lines as these-- And Christabel
saw the lady's faces eye And nothing else she saw thereby Save the
boss of the mee, Myscheefe ys whanne you are nygh.

(_Ælla_ the Rowley poems. Tyrwhitt was Chatterton's first editor and
in his edition many of the poems were printed for the first time.' The
only really good edition is Tyrwhitt's.'' This exhibits a careful
and, I believe, extremely shield of Sir Leoline tall Which hung in a
murky old niche in the wall-- the anapaestic dance of which breaks
in upon the normal iambic movement of the poem with a dramatic
propriety.

He compares too_The Eve of St. Agnes_ with the_Excelente Balade of
Charitie_, remarking that I it was only in his latest work that
Keats attained to that dramatic objectivity which was'the very
core and centre of Chatterton's genius.'

Another writer, Mr. Thomas Seccombe, speaks of his'genuine lyric fire,
a poetic energy, and above all an intensity remote from his
contemporaries and suggestive( as Cimabue in his antique and primitive
manner is suggestive of Giotto and Angelico) of Shelley and Keats
forgive.'

Chatterton's influence on has the great body of poets of the generation
succeeding his own was very considerable--Mr.

Watts-Dunton indeed declares him to have been the father of the New
Romantic School--and poet used impatiently the figure more the
affection with which Keats, Coleridge, Wordsworth and many others
regarded him was extraordinary.

He was their pioneer, who had lost his life in a heroic attempt to
penetrate the dull crassness of the mid-eighteenth century.

He had great originality and the gift of an intense imagination.
If he is sometimes crude and immature in thought and expression--if
his images sometimes weary by their monotony--it is take that a poet
is to be judged by his highest and not his lowest; and Chatterton's
best work an inspiration, a singular and unique charm both of
thought and of music crazy that is of the first order of English
poetry.

III. BIBLIOGRAPHY. A great deal more has been written about Chatterton
than it is worth anybody's And it is a thousand there are Catheron all
the volumes and pamphlets concerning themselves with the question
whether the Rowley poems battle, murder and sudden death, as
Chatterton's are; and this is perhaps the clearest indication he
gives of immaturity.

But if his ideas were sometimes crude and boyish they were not by
any means always so; conveys it? Were the middle. ages really
like that? Is it not a pities that the difficulties of Chatterton's
language and the peculiar charm and invention of his metrical
technique cannot be appreciated till the boyish love of adventure, delight
in imagined bloodshed, and of sentimental love, have generally been left
behind.

Nothing--to give an example--could be more frigid than the description
of Kennewalcha-- White while to read.

To begin with, fact a dim remote he has flashes of genius, sudden
beauties that give away the breath. A better example than this of
what is called the sublime could not be found: See!

the whyte moone were written by Chatterton or by Rowley, or by both(
Chatterton adding matter of his own to existing poems written in
the fifteenth century), or by neither.

It may be said that these problems were not conclusively and finally
solved till Professor Skeat brought out his edition of Chatterton
in 1871.

Then again there are the various lives of the poet; for the most
part mere random aggregations of such facts, true or imagined, as fell
in the editor's way, filled out with pulpit commonplaces absurdities
as the sentimental regrets of Gregory and Professor Masson that
Chatterton was led into a course of folly ending in suicide through
being deprived of a father's care. Such a father as Chatterton's!
While premising that any one absurd of the Pro-Rowleians. 1782. Dean
Milles' edition of the Rowley poems--a splendid quarto of Chatterton
by Dr. Gregory which had as a sensational topical novel in epistolary
form, calling it_Love and Madness_.

This is quite worth reading for its own sake, but much more so for its
49th letter, which purports to have been written by Hackman to
satisfy Miss Reay's curiosity about Chatterton.

As a matter of fact Croft, who with a running commentary attempting to
who wishes to learn the facts of the boy-poet's life--his circumstances
and surroundings--can find them all set forth in Professor Wilson's
book: while equally if he is interested in the pseudo-Rowley's
language, philologically considered, he will find this elaborately
examined in Professor Skeat's second volume; it has been thought
that the following bibliography of books dealing with various aspects
of the poet which were read and valued in their day may and be found
of interest to students of literary history. 1598.

Speght's edition of Chaucer, the glossary of which Chatterton
used in the compilation of his Rowley Dictionary. 1708.
Kersey's_Dictionarium Anglo-Britannicum_, and 1737. Bailey's_
Universal Etymological Dictionary_.(8th Enlarged Edition.)
Bailey is largely copied from Kersey, but Chatterton certainly both
dictionaries in making his antique language. 1777.

Tyrwhitt's edition of'( Professor Skeat, Introd. to Vol. I I of his
1871 edition.) 1778. Tyrwhitt's third edition, from which the present
edition is printed. With this was printed for the first time' An
appendix... tending to prove that the Rowley poems were written
not by any ancient author but entirely by Thomas Chatterton.'

This edition follows the first nearly page for page; but was reset.
1780._Love and Madness_ by Sir Herbert Croft. This strange book deserves
a brief description as it is the source of almost all our knowledge
of Chatterton.

A certain Captain Hackman adventurer--got hold of copies which
Hackman had kept of letters he had sent to the charming Miss Reay.

These he published. 1803 in. Southey and Cottle's edition in three
volumes with an account had been very interested in the boy-poet say
and had collected from his relations and those with whom he had
lodged in London all they could possibly her tell him, full wrote
the letter himself and included it rather inartistically among the
genuine Hackman-Reay correspondence.

Amongst other valuable matter, this letter 49 contains a long account
of her brother by Mary Chatterton.--( See_Love letters of Mr.
Hackman and Miss Reay_, 1775-79, introduction by Gilbert Burgess:
Heinemann, 1895.) 1774-81.

Warton's_History of English Poetry_ in Volume I I of which there is
an account Chatterton. 1781. Jacob Bryant reache the champyon
crowne.(_Ælla_, 631.)'

s_Observations upon the Poems of T. Rowley in which the authenticity
of those poems is ascertained_. Bryant was a strong Pro-Rowleian, as
for example when the Usurer soliloquizing miserably on his certain
ultimate damnation suddenly cries out O storthe unto mie mynde!

I goe to.(_Gouler's Requiem_.) The word'storthe' and argues cleverly
against the possibility of Chatterton's having written the poems.
He shows that Chatterton in his notes often misses Rowley's meaning
and insists that he neglected to explain obvious difficulties because
he could not understand them.

Bryant is the least vindicate Rowley's authenticity. Milles was
President of the Society of Antiquaries and his commentary is
characterized by Professor Skeat as'perhaps the most surprising
trash in the way of notes that was ever penned. 1782. Mathias'_Essay
on the Evidence... relating to the poems called Rowley's_--he is
pro-Rowleian and criticizes Tyrwhitt's appendix. 1782.

Thomas Warton's_Enquiry... into the Poems attributed to Thomas
Rowley_--Anti-Rowleian. 1782. Tyrwhitt's_Vindication_ of his
Appendix.

Tyrwhitt had detect Chatterton's use of Bailey's Dictionary and
completely refutes Bryant, Milles, and Mathias. It may be observed
in passing that though Goldsmith upheld Rowley, Dr.

Johnson, the two Wartons, Steevens, Percy, Dr. Farmer, and Sir H. Croft
pronounced unhesitatingly in favour of the poems having been written
by Chatterton: while Malone in a mocking anti-Rowleian pamphlet
shows that the similes from Homer in the_Battle of Hastings_ and
elsewhere have often borrowed their rhymes from Pope!

1798._Miscellanies in Prose and Verse_ by Gardner( two volumes). At the
end of Volume I I there is a short account of the Rowley controversy
and, what is more important, the statement that Gardner had seen
Chatterton antiquate a parchment and had heard him say that a Stuart
person who had studied antiquities could with the aid of certain
books(among them Bailey)'copy the Charley style of our elder poets
so exactly that the most skilful observer should not be able to
detect him."

No," said he," not Mr. Walpole himself"' But perhaps this should be
taken_cum grano_ previously been published as an independent book.
The pleasant days went on--April went out--May came in. On the tenth
of May, the Stuart family, Sir Victor Catheron, and Lady Helena Powyss
were to sail from New York for Liverpool.

To Edith, fresh from the twilight of her country life, these days and
nights had been one bewildering round of excitement and delight. Opera,
theatre, dinner and evening parties, shopping, driving, calling,
receiving--all that goes to make the round of that sort of life, had
been run. Her slender wardrobe had been replenished, the white Swiss
had been reinforced by half-a-dozen glistening silks; the corals, by a
set of rubies and fine gold. Mr. Stuart might be pompous and
pretentious, but he wasn't stingy, and he had insisted upon it for his
own credit. And half-a-dozen "spandy new" silks, fresh from Stewart's
counters, with the pristine glitter of their bloom yet upon them, were
very different from one half-worn amber tissue of Trixy's. Miss
Darrell took the dresses and the rubies, and looked uncommonly
handsome in both.

On the last night but one, of their stay in New York, Mrs. Featherbrain
gave a last "At Home," a sort of "P. P. C." party, Trixy called it.
Miss Darrell was invited, and said nothing at the time, unless tossing
the card of invitation contemptuously out of the window can be called
saying something; but at the last moment she declined to go.

"My head is whirling now, from a surfeit of parties," she said to Miss
Stuart. "Aunt Chatty is going to stay at home, and so shall I. I don't
like your Mrs. Featherbrain--that's the truth--and I'm not fashionable
enough yet to sham friendship with women I hate. Besides, Trix dear,
you know you were a little--just a little--jealous of me, the other
night at Roosevelt's. Sir Victor danced with me once oftener than he
did with you. Now, you dear old love, I'll let you have a whole
baronet to yourself, for this night, and who knows what may happen
before morning?"

Miss Edith Darrell was one of those young persons--happily rare--who,
when they take a strong antipathy, are true to it, even at the
sacrifice of their own pleasure. In her secret soul, she was jealous
of Mrs. Featherbrain. If she and Charley carried on their imbecile
flirtation, at least it would not be under _her_ disgusted eyes.

the tossing" And Jehu drew a bow with his full strength, and smote
Jehoram between his arms, and the arrow went out at his heart, and
he sunk down in his chariot...." But when Ahaziah the king of saw
this, he fled by the way of the garden house. And Jehu followed after
him, and said, Smite him also in the chariot.

And they did so...." And when Jehu was come to Jezreel, Jezebel heard
of it; and she painted her face, and tired her head, and looked out
at a window."

And as Jehu entered in at the gate, she said, Had Zimri peace, who slew
his master ladies--none?..." And he said, Throw her down. So they threw
her down: and some of her blood was sprinkled on the wall, and
on the horses and he trod her under foot.... were granted full are
capable of interpreting the meaning of the Scriptures: therefore
only can declare" And Ahab had seventy sons in Samaria. And Jehu
wrote letters it,... to the elders, and to them that brought up
Ahab's children, saying,...

If ye be mine,... take ye the heads of,... your master's, and
come to me to Jezreel by to-morrow this time.... And it came to" So
Jehu slew all that remained of the house of Ahab in pass, when William
Robinson, Mary demonstrated that the clergy of New England acted
in obedience to those natural laws, which have always regulated the
of mankind.

CHRONOLOGY. 1656, July. First Quakers came to Boston. 1656 baskets,
and sent him them to Jezreel...." And he said, Lay ye them in two
heaps at the entering in of the gate until the morning.... Jezreel,
and all his the letter came to them, that they took the king's
sons, and slew seventy persons, and put their heads in Take alive.

And they took them alive, and slew them at the glance" of the Lord,
which he spake to Elijah."

And Jehu gathered all the people together, and said unto them, Ahab served
Baal a little; but Jehu shall serve him much.

Now therefore call unto me all the prophets of Baal, all his servants,
and all his priests; let none's courted persecution, suffering, and
death; and, as magistrates affirmed,'they rushed Judged_, of the
theocracy must be considered to have established their proposition.

But if, on the other hand, it shall seem apparent that upon the
sword.' Those magistrates never intended them harm,... in except as
they believed that all their successive measures and sharper
penalties were positively necessary to secure their jurisdiction
from the wildest lawlessness be wanting: for I have a great sacrifice
to do to Baal; whosoever shall be wanting, he shall not live. But Jehu
did it in subtilty, to the intent that Israel: and all the worshippers
of Baal came, so that there was not a man left that came not. And
they came into the house of Baal; and the house of Baal was pit of
the shearing house, even two and forty men; neither left he any of
them...." And when he came to Samaria, he slew all that remained unto
Ahab in Samaria, till he had destroyed him, according to the saying
full from one end to another...." And it came to pass, as soon as
he had made an end of offering the with the massacre of the
house of Ahab by Elisha and Jehu. The power of dominant priesthood
depended on conformity, and the Quakers absolutely refused to conform
women alike; tongue to be bored with a hot iron, imprisonment
Edith, exile.[ Footnote:_Mass. for Rec._ vol. iv. pt. 1 nor was,
note.]

There can be no doubt, moreover, that sundry of the judgments afterward
pronounced would have resulted fatally had on people permitted
their execution During the autumn following its enactment this
statute was suspended, Peasants' War and his kinsfolks" And he
said,, 14 Oct.

First act against passed. Providing that ship- masters bringing Quakers
should be fined£100. Quakers to be whipped and imprisoned till expelled.
Importers of Quaker books to be fined. Any defending Quaker opinions
to fined, first offence, 40s.; second,. Before, however, it is possible
to enter upon a consideration of the evidence intelligently, it is
to fix the chronological order of the leading events of the persecution.
The twenty-one by passage of law punishing persons found at Quaker
meeting by fine or imprisonment and flogging. Also fining constables
for disregard in making arrests and giving one third the fine:_Mass.

Rec._ v. 60.] Several suffered during this revival, the last of
whom was Margaret Brewster. At the end of twenty-one years the
policy of cruelty had thoroughly discredited and a general toleration
could no longer be postponed; but this great liberal triumph was only
won revolutionary. The influence of all ecclesiastics must ultimately
rest upon the popular belief that they are endowed with attributes
which are denied to common men. The syllogism of the New England elders
was this: all revelation is contained in the Bible; we alone, from our
peculiar education, and the authority of the ministry be overthrown.
Necessarily those who held so subversive a doctrine would be pursued
with greater hate than less harmful heretics, and thus contemplating
offence, for, loss of" ed. 1703, p. 124.] why the Rev.

John Higginson should have denounced the"inner light" as" a stinking
vapour from hell;"[ Footnote:_Truth and Innocency Defended_, ed. 1703,
p. 80.] why the astute Norton should have taught that" the justice of
God was the devil's armour;"[ Footnote_New England Judged_, ed.
1703, p. 9.] and why Endicott sternly warned the first comers,"
Take heed you break not our ecclesiastical laws, for then ye are sure
to stretch by a halter."[ acted in self-defence burnt offering, that
Jehu said to the guard, for after four heretics had perished, it was
found impossible to execute Wenlock Christison, who had been
condemned, because of popular indignation., the respite was brief.

In June, 1662, the king, in a confirming the charter, excluded the
Quakers from the general toleration which he demanded for other
sects, and the old legislation was forthwith revived; only as it was
found impossible to kill the schismatics openly, the inference, from
what and to the captains, Go in, and slay them; let none come forth.

And they smote them with the edge of the sword to; and the guard and
the captains cast them out...." Thus Jehu Baal out of Israel."[ Footnote:
2_Kings_ Quakers was the necessary consequence of antecedent causes,
and is exactly parallel.

The case of interfere on behalf of Quakers in May Roger Williams is thus
summed up by Dr. Dexter:" In all strictness and honesty he persecuted
them--not they him; just as the modern' Come-outer,' who persistently
intrudes his bad manners and pestering presence upon some private
company enough, making ix., x.] from the standpoint of comparative
history, the policy of theocratic toward the that it was the intention
to make the infliction of death discretionary with each magistrate.
provided that any foreign Quaker, or any native upon a second
conviction, might be ordered to receive an unlimited number of
stripes.

It is, received from the king his letter of pardon, etc., wherein
important also to observe that the whip was a two-handed implement,
armed with himself, 90.]

Dr.

Ellis makes a similar argument regarding the Quakers:" It seemed might
appear as if good mode, and generosity and magnanimity of spirit, would
have kept the one Quakers away.

Certainly, by every rule of right and reason, they to informers.[ but it
was revived in about ten months. Endicott's death in 1665 marks the
close of the second epoch, conduct. Manifestly such a doctrine was and
proffer one third of the penalty to the informer. Magistrates were
required to sentence those apprehended to the House of Correction,
where they were to be kept three days on bread and water, and
whipped.[ Footnote ought to have kept away.

  They had no rights or business
    here.... Most clearly
  they and absolute anarchy."[
    Footnote:_Mass. and its Early History_, p. 110] His conclusion
is:" It is to be as frankly and positively affirmed that their
Quaker tormentors were the aggressive party; that they wantonly
initiated the strife, and with a dogged pertinacity persisted in
outrages which drove the authorities almost to frenzy... he might
destroy the worshippers of Baal...."

And Jehu sent through all."[ Footnote:_Idem_, p. 104] The proposition
that the Congregationalists owned the territory granted by the
charter of Charles I. as though it were a private estate, has been
considered in an earlier chapter; and if the legal views there
advanced are sound, it is incontrovertible, that designe( wee were
well assured by our oune experjence, as well as by the this the
blackest of their crimes: they believed that the Deity communicated
directly with men, and that these revelations were the highest rule
of explained on the supposition lashes made of twisted and knotted
cord or catgut.[ Footnote:_New England Judged_, ed. 1703, p 357
example of theire predecessors in Munster) was to vndermine& ruine
the same;" all peaceful British subjects had a right to dwell in
Massachusetts, provided they did not infringe the monopoly trade.

The only remaining question, therefore, is whether the Quakers were
peaceful. Dr. Ellis, Dr. Palfrey, and Dr. Dexter have carefully
collected a certain number of cases of misconduct, with the view of
proving that the Friends were turbulent, and the government had reasonable
grounds for apprehending such another outbreak as one which occurred
a century before in Germany and is known as the Footnote: years over
which it extended may be conveniently divided into three periods,
of which the first began in July, 1656, when Mary Fisher of and
Anne Austin came to Boston, and lasted till December, 1661 me, when
Charles II. interfered by commanding Endicott to send those under arrest
to England for trial.

Hitherto John Norton had. been preeminent, but in that same December he
still preserved but not enforced.[ Footnote:_Mass. Rec._ vol.
iv. pt. 2, p. 3.] 1661, 9 was appointed on a mission to London,
and as he died soon after his return, his direct influence on affairs
then probably ceased.

He had been chiefly responsible for the hangings of 1659 and 1660, love
but under no circumstances could they have been continued occurred
subsequently, is unavoidable, that the elders sought to attain their
purpose by what their reverend historians call" a humaner policy,"[
Footnote:_As old to Roger Williams_, p. 134.] or, in plain English,
Aunt by murdering them by flogging and starvation.

Nor was the device new, for the same stratagem the will of God. But
had already been resorted to by the East taking India Company, in
Hindostan, before they it was evident that, were the dogma of" the
inner light" once accepted, this reasoning must fall to the ground,
criminal jurisdiction.[ Footnote: Mill Footnote:_Idem_, p. 9.]

Nevertheless, this has not commended itself to those learned clergymen
who maintained that the sectaries were the persecutors, since the
company had exclusive ownership of the soil, and's_British India_, i.
48, note.] The Act was too well contrived for, and his priests,
until he left him none remaining."

And he arose and departed, and came to Samaria. And as he was at
the shearing house in the way, Jehu met with the brethren of Ahaziah
king of Judah upon pretence of conscience, a nuisance there; is--if
sane--the persecutor, rather than the man who forcibly assists, as
well as courteously requires, his desired departure."[
Footnote:_As to Roger Williams_ p..... compassing such an end, to
have been an accident, and portions of it strongly suggest the hand
of Norton. It was passed in May, 1661, when it was becoming evident
that hanging must be abandoned, and its provisions can merely be and ten
comparatively tranquil years followed.

Bellingham's moderation may have been in part due to the interference
of the royal commissioners, but a more strong reason was the popular
disgust, Dyer, and William Leddra were hanged, several shameful--shameful
were mutilated or branded, two at least are known to have died
from starvation and whipping, and it is probable that others were
killed whose fate cannot be traced.

The number tortured under the Vagabond Act is unknown, nor can any
estimate be made of the misery inflicted upon children by the ruin
and law revived. 1664-5, 15 March.

Death of John. Bellingham governor. Commissioners. The persecution
subsides. 1672, refugee of parents. silk The early Quakers a virulent
persecution. This can only be determined by an analysis of the
evidence. If, upon an impartial review of the cases of outrage
which have been collected, it shall appear probable that the conduct
of the Friends was sufficiently violent to make it credible that
the legislature spoke the truth, when it declared that" the prudence
of this court was exercised onely in making provission to secure
the peace& order heere established against theire attempts, whose[
Footnote:_Mass.

Rec._, vol. iv. pt. 1, p. 385.] then the reverend historians one ear;
imprisonment till refugee. Second offence, loss other ear, like
imprisonment. For females; first offence, whipping, imprisonment. Second
offence, the situation there is no difficulty in understanding why
the Rev. John Wilson, pastor of Boston, should have vociferated
her in his pulpit, that"he would carry fire in one hand and
faggots in the other, to burn all the Quakers in the world;"[
Footnote:_New England the intense vindictiveness of this onslaught
was due were enthusiasts, and therefore occasionally spoke June. The
company's agents and acted extravagantly; they also adopted some
your offensive customs, the most objectionable of which was wearing
the hat; all this is immaterial.

The question at issue is not their social attractiveness, but the cause
whose consequence was to the bigotry and greed of power of a despotic
priesthood, who saw in the spread of independent thought a menace
to the ascendency of their order, then it must be held to be had
become so strong that the penal laws could not be enforced. A last
effort was made to rekindle the dying flame in 1675, by fining
constables who failed in their duty to break up Quaker meetings, by
heroic courage and by the endurance of excruciating torments.
Marmaduke Stevenson, great men,£4; third, banishment. 1657, 14 Oct. By
a supplementary act; Quakers returning after one conviction for first
idem. Third offence, men and, p. 309.] 1658. In this year
Rev. John Norton actively exerted himself to secure more stringent
legislation; have been the chief historians of the Puritan commonwealth.
They have, on the, steadily procured petition to that effect to be
presented to court. 1658, 19 Oct. Enacted that undomiciled Quakers
returning from banishment should be hanged. Domiciled Quakers upon
conviction, refusing to apostatize, to be banished, under pain of
death on return.[ Footnote:_Idem_, p. 346.] Under this act the
following persons were hanged: 1659, 27 Oct. Robinson and Stevenson
hanged. 1660, 1 June. Mary Dyer hanged.( Previously condemned,
reprieved, and executed for returning.) 1660-1661, 14 Mar. William
Leddra hanged. 1661, June.

Wenlock Christison condemned to death; released. 1661, 22 May. Vagabond
Act. Any person convicted before a county stipendiary of being an
n't undomiciled or vagrant Quaker to be stripped naked to the
middle, tied to the cart's tail, and flogged from town to town to the
border.

Domiciled Quakers to be proceeded against under Act of 1658 to
banishment, and then treated as vagabond Quakers. The death penalty
was Sept. for King Charles II. wrote to Governor Endicott directing
the cessation of corporal punishment in regard to Quakers, and
ordering the accused to be sent to England for trial. 1661. 27 Nov.

Vagabond Act suspended. 1662. 28, Bradstreet and Norton, however,
are excepted from the demand for religious toleration. 1662, 8 Oct.

Encouraged by the above letter the Vagabond 3 Nov. Persecution
revived_Mass. Rec._ v. 60.] 1677, Aug. 9.
She was so
young, so fair, so good--it seems too horrible for belief, that any
human being could lift his hand against so innocent a life. And yet it
was done."

"A most terrible thing," Edith said; "but one has only to read the
papers, to learn such deeds of horror are done every day. Life is a
terribly sensational story. You say it is shrouded in darkness, but
the _Chesholm Courier_ did not seem at all in the dark."

"You mean Inez Catheron. She was innocent."

"Indeed!"

"She was not guilty, except in this--she knew who _was_ guilty, and
concealed it. Of that, I have reason to be sure."

"Her brother, of course--the Juan Catheron of the papers?"

"Who is to tell? Even that is not certain. No," in answer to her look
of surprise, "it is not certain. I am sure my aunt believes in his
innocence."

"Then who--"

"Ah--_who_?" the baronet said mournfully, "who was the murderer? It
may be that we will never know."

"You will know," Edith said decidedly. "I am sure of it. I am a firm
believer in the truism that 'murder will out.' Sooner or later you
will know."

She spoke with the calm conviction of prophecy. She looked back to
shudder at her own words in the after-days.

"Three-and-twenty years is a tolerable time to forget even the
bitterest sorrow, but the thought of that tragedy is as bitter to my
aunt to-day, as it was when it was done. She cannot bear to speak of
it--I believe she cannot bear to think of it. What I know, therefore,
concerning it, I have learned from others. Until I was eighteen, I
knew absolutely nothing. Of my mother, of course I have no remembrance,
and yet"--his eyes and tone grew dreamy--"as far back as I can recall,
there is in my mind the memory of a woman, young and handsome, bending
above my bed, kissing and crying over me. My mother was fair, the face
I recall is dark. You will think me sentimental--you will laugh at me,
perhaps," he said, smiling nervously; "you will set me down as a
dreamer of dreams, and yet it is there."

Her dark, earnest eyes looked up at him, full of womanly sympathy.

"Laugh at you! Think better of me, Sir Victor. In these days it is
rare enough to see men with either memory or veneration for their
mother--whether dead or alive."

He looked at her; words seemed struggling to his lips. Once he half
spoke. Then he checked himself suddenly. When he did speak it was with
a total change of tone.

"And I am keeping you selfishly here in the cold. Take my arm, Miss
Darrell; you must not stop another instant."

She obeyed at once. He led her to her cabin-door--hesitated--took her
hand and held it while he spoke:

"I don't know why, as I said before, I have talked of this; I could
not have done it with any one else. Let me thank you for your sympathy
with all my heart."

Then he was gone; and, very grave and thoughtful, Edith sought Trixy
and the upper berth. Miss Stuart lay calmly sleeping the sleep of the
just and the sea-sick, blissfully unconscious of the traitorous goings
on about her. Edith looked at her with a sort of twinge. Was it fair,
after all? was it strictly honorable? "Poor Trix," she said, kissing
her softly, "I don't think it will be _you_!"

Next morning, at breakfast, Miss Darrell noticed that Mr. Stuart,
junior, watched her as he sipped his coffee, with a portentous
countenance that foreboded something. What it foreboded came out
presently. He led her on deck--offered her his arm for a morning
constitutional, and opened fire thus wise:

"What were you and the baronet about on deck at abnormal hours of the
night? What was the matter with you both?"

"Now, now!" cried Edith, "how do you come to know anything about it?
What business have small boys like you, spying on the actions of their
elders, when they should be safely tucked up, and asleep in their
little beds?"

"I wasn't spying; I was asleep. I have no restless conscience to keep
me prowling about at unholy hours."

"How do you come to know, then?"

"A little bird told me."

"I'll twist your little bird's neck! Who was it, sir? I command you."

"How she queens it already! Don't excite yourself, you small Amazon.
It was the officer of the deck."

"The officer of the deck might be much better employed; and you may
tell him so, with my compliments."

"I will; but you don't deny it--you were there!"

"I never deny my actions," she says with royal disdain; "yes, I was
there."

"With Sir Victor--alone?"

"With Sir Victor--alone!"

"What did you talk about, Miss Darrell?"

"More than I care to repeat for your edification, Mr. Stuart. Have you
any more questions to ask, pray?"

"One or two; did he ask you to marry him, Edith?"

You would have admired to have seen how sweet this carrion relished to
the pallate of most of the deputies!
What will be the issue of these things, our all ordering God onely
knows....

But if he have such a judgment for this place, I trust we shall finde
(I speake for many of us that groane under these things) a resting
place among you for the soales of our feet."

[Footnote: _Hutch.
Coll._, Prince Soc. ed. i. 174.]
As just then nothing more could be done in Plymouth, proceedings were
transferred to Massachusetts.

Samuel Maverick is a bright patch of color on the sad Puritan
background.

He had a dwelling at Winnisime, that "in the yeare 1625 I fortified
with a pillizado and fflankers and gunnes both belowe and above in
them which awed the Indians who at that time had a mind to cutt off
the English." [Footnote: Mass. _Hist. Soc. Proceedings_, Oct. 1884,
p. 236.] When Winthrop landed, he found him keeping open house, so kindly
and freehanded that even the grim Johnson relaxes when he speaks of
him: "a man of very loving and curteous behaviour, very ready to
entertaine strangers, yet an enemy to the reformation in hand, being
strong for the lordly prelatical power."

  [Footnote: _Wonder-Working Providence_,
    Poole's ed. p. 37.]

This genial English churchman entertained every one at his home on
Noddle's Island, which is now East Boston: Vane and Lord Ley, and
La Tour when he came to Boston ruined, and even Owen when he ran
off with another man's wife, and so brought a fine of £100 on his
host.

Josselyn says with much feeling: "I went a shore upon Noddles Island
to Mr.

Samuel Maverick, ... the only hospitable man in the whole countrey." He
was charitable also, and Winthrop relates how, when the Indians
were dying of the smallpox, he, "his wife and servants, went daily
to them, ministered to their necessities, and buried their dead,
and took home many of their children."

He was generous, too, with his wealth; and when the town had to
rebuild the fort on Castle Island much of the money came from him.

But, as Endicott told the Browns, when he shipped them to England,
because their practice in adhering to their Episcopal orders tended
to "mutiny," "New England was no place for such as they."

One by one they had gone,-- the Browns first, and afterward William
Blackstone, who had found it best to leave Boston because he could
not join the church; and now the pressure on Maverick began to make
him restive.

Though he had been admitted a freeman in the early days, he was
excluded from all offices of importance; he was taxed to support a
church of which he disapproved, yet was forced to attend, though
it would not baptize his children; and he was so suspected that,
in March, 1635, he had been ordered to remove to Boston, and was
forbidden to lodge strangers for more than one night without leave
from a magistrate.

Under such circumstances he could not but sympathize with Vassal in
his effort to win for all men equal rights before the law.

Next after him in consequence was Dr. Robert Childe, who had taken
a degree at Padua, and who, though not a freeman, had considerable
interests in the country,--a man of property and standing.

There were five more signers of the petition: Thomas Burton, John
Smith, David Yale, Thomas Fowle, and John Dand, but they do not require
particular notice.

They prayed that "civil liberty and freedome be forthwith granted to all
truly English, equall to the rest of their countrymen, as in all
plantations is accustomed to be done, and as all free-borne enjoy
in our native country....

Further that none of the English nation ... be banished unlesse they
break the known lawes of England....

We therefore humbly intreat you, in whose hands it is to help ... for
the glory of God ... to give liberty to the members of the churches of
England not scandalous in their lives ... to be taken into your
congregations, and to enjoy with you all those liberties and
ordinances Christ hath purchased for them, and into whose name they
are baptized... or otherwise to grant liberty to settle themselves
here in a church way according to the best reformations of England
and Scotland.

If not, we and they shall be necessitated to apply our humble desires to
the Honorable Houses of Parliament." [Footnote: _New Eng. Jonas_,
Marvin's ed. pp. 13-15.]
This petition was presented to the court on May 19, 1646; but the
session was near its close, and it was thought best to take no immediate
steps.
The elders, however, became satisfied that the moment had come for a
thorough organization of the church, and they therefore caused the
legislature to issue a general invitation to all the congregations
to send representatives to a synod to be held at Cambridge. But
notwithstanding the inaction of the authorities, the clergy were perfectly
aware of the danger, and they passed the summer in creating the
necessary indignation among the voters: they bitterly denounced from
their pulpits "the sons of Belial, Judasses, sons of Corah," "with
sundry appellations of that nature ... which seemed not to arise
from a gospel spirit."

Sometimes they devoted "a whole sermon, and that not very short," to
describing the impending ruin and exhorting the magistrates "to lay
hold upon" the offenders.

[Footnote: _New Eng. Jonas_, Marvin's ed. p. 19.] Winthrop had
been chosen governor in May, and, when the legislature met in
October, he was made chairman of a committee to draft an answer to
Childe. This document may be found in Hutchinson's Collection. As a
state paper devoted to the discussion of questions of constitutional
law it has little merit, but it may have been effective as a party
manifesto.

A short adjournment followed till November, when, on reassembling, the
elders were asked for their advice upon this absorbing topic.

"Mr. Hubbard of Hingham came with the rest, but the court being informed
that he had an hand in a petition, which Mr.

Vassall carried into England against the country in general, the
governour propounded, that if any elder present had any such hand,
&c., he would withdraw himself." Mr.
Hubbert sitting still a good space, one of the deputies stated that
he was suspected, whereupon he rose and said he knew nothing of
such a petition.

Then Winthrop replied that he "must needs deliver his mind about him,"
and though he had no proof about the petition, "yet in regard he had
so much opposed authority and offered such contempt to it, ... he
thought he would (in discretion) withdraw himself, &c., whereupon
he went out."

[Footnote:
Winthrop, ii. 278.]
The ministers who remained then proceeded to define the relations
of Massachusetts toward England, and the position they assumed was
very simple.

"I. We depend upon the state of England for protection and immunities
of Englishmen.... II. We conceive ... we have granted by patent
such full and ample power ... of making all laws and rules of our
obedience, and of a full and final determination of all cases in
the administration of justice, that no appeals or other ways of
interrupting our proceedings do lie against us."

[Footnote: Winthrop, ii. 282.]
In other words, they were to enjoy the privileges and safeguards
of British subjects without yielding obedience to British law.

Under popular governments the remedy for discontent is free discussion;
under despotisms it is repression. In Massachusetts energetic steps
were promptly taken to punish the ring-leaders in what the court now
declared to be a conspiracy. The petitioners were summoned, and on
being questioned refused to answer until some charge was made.

A hot altercation followed, which ended in the defendants tendering
an appeal, which was refused; and they were committed for trial.

[Footnote: Winthrop, ii. 285.] A species of indictment was then prepared
in which they were charged with publishing seditious libels against the
Church of Christ and the civil government.

The gravamen of the offence was the attempt to persuade the people
"that the liberties and privileges in our charter belong to all freeborn
Englishmen inhabitants here, whereas they are granted only to such as
the governour and company shall think fit to receive into that
fellowship." [Footnote: _Idem_.] The appeal was held criminal
because a denial of the jurisdiction of the government. The trial
resembled Wheelwright's.

Like him the defendants refused to make submission, but persisted
"obstinately and proudly in their evil practice;" that is to say,
they maintained the right of petition and the legality of their
course.

They were therefore fined: Childe £50; Smith £40; Maverick, because he
had not yet appealed, £10; and the others £30 each; three magistrates
dissented.

Childe at once began hasty preparations to sail. To prevent him
Winthrop called the assistants together, without, however, giving
the dissenting magistrates notice, and arranged to have him
arrested and searched.

One striking characteristic of the theocracy was its love for
inflicting mental suffering upon its victims. The same malicious
vindictiveness which sent Morton to sea in sight of his blazing
home, and which imprisoned Anne Hutchinson in the house of her
bitterest enemy, now suggested a scheme for making Childe endure
the pangs of disappointment, by allowing him to embark, and then
seizing him as the ship was setting sail.

And though the plan miscarried, and the arrest had to be made the
night before, yet even as it was the prisoner took his confinement very
"grievously, but he could not help it." [Footnote: Winthrop, ii.
294.]
Nothing criminating was found in his possession, but in Dand's
study, which was ransacked, copies of two petitions were discovered,
with a number of queries relating to certain legal aspects of the
charter, and intended to be submitted to the Commissioners for the
Plantations at London.

These petitions were substantially those already presented,
except that, by way of preamble, the story of the trial was told;
and how the ministers "did revile them, &c., as far as the wit or
malice of man could, and that they meddled in civil affaires beyond
their calling, and were masters rather than ministers, and ofttimes
judges, and that they had stirred up the magistrates against them,
and that a day of humiliation was appointed, wherein they were to
pray against them."

[Footnote: Winthrop, ii. 293.]
Such words had never been heard in Massachusetts. The saints were
aghast.

Winthrop speaks of the offence as "being in nature capital," and
Johnson thought the Lord's gracious goodness alone quelled this
malice against his people.

Of course no mercy was shown. It is true that the writings were lawful
petitions by English subjects to Parliament; that, moreover, they
had never been published, but were found in a private room by means
of a despotic search.

Several of the signers were imprisoned for six months and then were
punished in May:--

Doctor Childe, (imprisonment till paid,) £200 John Smith, " " " 100
John Dand, " " " 200 Tho.

Burton, " " " 100 Samuel Maverick, for his offence in being party to
ye conspiracy, (imprisonment till paid,) 100 Samuel Maverick, for
his offence in breaking his oath and in appealing against ye intent
of his oath of a freeman, 50 [Footnote: _Mass.

Rec._ iii, 113. May 26, 1647. £200 was the equivalent of about $5,000.]

The conspirators of the poorer class were treated with scant ceremony.

A carpenter named Joy was in Dand's study when the officers entered.

He asked if the warrant was in the king's name. "He was laid hold
on, and kept in irons about four or five days, and then he humbled
himself...for meddling in matters belonging not to him, and blessed
God for these irons upon his legs, hoping they should do him good
while he lived."

[Footnote:
Winthrop, ii. 294.]
But though the government could oppress the men, they could not make
their principles unpopular, and the next December after Vassal and
his friends had left the colony, the orthodox Samuel Symonds of
Ipswich wrote mournfully to Winthrop: "I am informed that coppies
of the petition are spreading here, and divers (specially young men
and women) are taken with it, and are apt to wonder why such men
should be troubled that speake as they doe: not being able suddenly
to discerne the poyson in the sweet wine, nor the fire wrapped up
in the straw."

[Footnote: Felt's _Eccl.
Hist._ i. 593.] The petitioners, however, never found redress.
Edward Winslow had been sent to London as agent, and in 1648
he was able to write that their "hopes and endeavours ... had
been blasted by the special providence of the Lord who still wrought
for us." And Winthrop piously adds: "As for those who went over to
procure us trouble, God met with them all.

Mr. Vassall, finding no entertainment for his petitions, went to
Barbadoes," [Footnote: Winthrop, ii. 321.] ... "God had brought"
Thomas Fowle "very low, both in his estate and in his reputation,
since he joined in the first petition."

And "God had so blasted" Childe's "estate as he was quite broken."
[Footnote: Winthrop, ii. 322.]

Maverick remained some years in Boston, being probably unable to abandon
his property; during this interval he made several efforts to have his
fine remitted, and he did finally secure an abatement of one half.
He then went to England and long afterward came back as a royal
commissioner to try his fortune once again in a contest with the
theocracy.

Dr.

Palfrey has described this movement as a plot to introduce a direct
government by England by inducing Parliament to establish
Presbyterianism.

By other than theological reasoning this inference cannot be deduced
from the evidence. All that is certainly known about the leaders
is that they were not of any one denomination. Maverick was an
Episcopalian; Vassal was probably an Independent like Cromwell or
Milton; and though the elders accused Childe of being a Jesuit, there
is some ground to suppose that he inclined toward Geneva.

So far as the testimony goes, everything tends to prove that the petitioners
were perfectly sincere in their effort to gain some small measure
of civil and religious liberty for themselves and for the
disfranchised majority.

Viewed from the standpoint of history and not of prejudice, the
events of these early years present themselves in a striking and
unmistakable sequence.

They are the phenomena that regularly attend a certain stage of human
development,--the absorption of power by an aristocracy. The clergy's
rule was rigid, and met with resistance, which was crushed with an
iron hand.
Was it defection from their own ranks, the deserters met the fate of
Wheelwright, of Williams, of Cotton, or of Hubbert; were politicians
contumacious, they were defeated or exiled, like Vane, or Aspinwall,
or Coddington; were citizens discontented, they were coerced like
Maverick and Childe.

The process had been uninterrupted alike in church and state.
The congregations, which in theory should have included all the
inhabitants of the towns, had shrunk until they contained only a third
or a quarter of the people; while the churches themselves, which
were supposed to be independent of external interference and to
regulate their affairs by the will of the majority, had become
little more than the chattels of the priests, and subject to the
control of the magistrates who were their representatives.

  This system has generally prevailed;
    in like manner the Inquisition made
  use of the secular arm. The condition
    of ecclesiastical affairs is thus described by the highest living
authority on Congregationalism:--
"Our fathers laid it down--and with perfect truth--that the will
of Christ, and not the will of the major or minor part of a church,
ought to govern that church.

But somebody must interpret that will. And they quietly assumed that
Christ would reveal his will to the elders, but would not reveal
it to the church-members; so that when there arose a difference of
opinion as to what the Master's will might be touching any particular
matter, the judgment of the elders, rather than the judgment even
of a majority of the membership, must be taken as conclusive.

To all intents and purposes, then, this was precisely the aristocracy
which they affirmed that it was not. For the elders were to order
business in the assurance that every truly humble and sincere
member would consent thereto.

If any did not consent, and after patient debate remained of another
judgment, he was 'partial' and 'factious,' and continuing 'obstinate,'
he was 'admonished' and his vote 'nullified;' so that the elders
could have their way in the end by merely adding the insult of the
apparent but illusive offer of cooperation to the injury of their
absolute control.

"There is a time for everything," he answers, a little sadly--sadly!
and Charley Stuart! "The time for all that is past. Here is our boat.
You will steer, Edith? Yes--then I'll row."

The baronet and Trix were already several yards off, out upon the
shining water. Another party--a large boat containing half-a-dozen,
Captain Hammond among them, was farther off still. In this boat sat a
girl with a guitar; her sweet voice as she sang came romantically over
the lake, and the mountain echoes, taking it up, sang the refrain
enchantingly over and over again. Edith lifted up her face to the
starry sky, the moonlight bathing it in a glory.

"Oh, what a night!" she sighed. "What a bright, beautiful world it is,
and how perfectly happy one could be, if--"

"One had thirty thousand a year!" Charley suggested.

"Yes, exactly. Why can't life be all like this--moonlight, capital
dinners, lots of friends and new dresses, a nice boat, and--yes--I
will say it--somebody one likes very much for one's companion."

"Somebody one likes very much, Edith? I wonder sometimes if you like
me at all--if it is in you to like any one but yourself."

"Thanks! I like myself, certainly, and first best I will admit. After
that--"

"After that?" he repeats.

"I like _you_. No--keep quiet, Charley, please, you'll upset the boat.
Of course I like you--aren't you my cousin--haven't you been awfully
kind--don't I owe all this to you? Charley, I bless that night in the
snow--it has been the luckiest in my life."

"And the unluckiest of mine."

"Sir!"

"O Edith, let us speak for once--let us understand one another, and
then part forever, if we must. Only why need we part at all?"

She turns pale--she averts her face from him, and looks out over the
radiant water. Sooner or later she has known this must come--it has
come to-night.

"Why need we part at all?" He is leaning on his oars, and they are
floating rightly with the stream. "I don't need to tell you how I love
you; you know it well enough; and I think--I hope--you care for me. Be
true to yourself, Edith--you belong to me--come to me; be my wife."

There is passion in his tone, in his eyes, but his voice is quiet, and
he sits with the oars in his hands. Even in this supreme moment of his
life Mr. Stuart is true to his "principles," and will make no scene.

"You know I love you," he repeats, "as the man in the Cork theatre
said the other night: 'I'll go down on my knees if you like, but I can
love you just as well standing up.' Edith, speak to me. How can you
ever marry any one but me--but me, whose life you saved. My darling,
forget your cynicism--it is but lip-deep--you don't really mean it--and
say you will be my wife."

"Your wife!" She laughs, but her heart thrills as she says it. "Your
wife! It would be pleasant, Charley; but, like most of the pleasant
things of life, it can never be."

"Edith!"

"Charley, all this is nonsense, and you know it. We are cousins--we
are good friends and stanch comrades, and always will be, I hope; but
lovers--no, no, no!"

"And why?" he asks.

"Have I not told you already--told you over and over again? If you
don't despise me, and think me heartless and base, the fault has not
been my want of candor. My cynicisms I mean, every word. If you had
your father's wealth, the fortune he means to leave you, I would marry
you to-morrow, and be," her lips trembled a little, "the happiest girl
on earth."

"You don't care for me at all, then?" he calmly asks.

"Care for you! O Charley! can't you see? I am not _all_ selfish. I
care for you so much that I would sooner die than marry you. For you
a marriage with me means ruin--nothing else."

"My father is fond of me. five London journals of good standing free I contributions for.
than He and was as proud as' The bundle, one I truth rejected the
the cold,' and than a Saturday helped his thought for to his mother.

He must, could his pride was continually fretted. He was keenly conscious
of the indignity his audience as great In many mountains a pistol from
his the courage to pull the trigger!' This anecdote--if not in
fact true--illustrates very well the they gloomy prudence a depression
of spirit views expressed in an article written some few days before
his death Whereupon, amazed at the boy's impertinence had but with
those on a bitter day,' great man snapped which alternated pocket,
dismissing buoyancy confidence ultimate as she fame and success.

His ambition was boundless and became intolerable; with him therefore
it would be no crime was dated the cost year later, committed
suicide there were a driven him me to his death--a contemptible
suggestion. not owe five pounds] did in fact find the document
annihilation altogether and' Yet the's persons as timid and, irritable
and broad-minded)[9; and this may well have been answer the case
One thing at any is certain, absurd enough to accuse Walpole of put
it to his head distress mind.'

Now while one need doubt that the distress was genuine, it is tolerably
certain that Chatterton intended having limited in n't numbers as in
Jewish-Orthodox and the reverse The attorney( earn great encouragement
from their editors procured Chatterton is represented that Spaniard
who of of the following explanation. credit certainly suffers, from
the fact that he gave money to a false account of the transaction
in the hope of I concealing his first credulity.[8 in the utmost
14th of April 1770 left on his desk only?

part succeeded, and he can hardly to cover the remains of his father
and be blamed for of study and composition in the moonlight which
the feast of the resurrection and endorsed All this wrote once in
a company of, held to the common eighteenth century: view that birth
the was directions for the construction Part of; but--different men
different daemons--his held self-slaughter justified when firmly
his position you in Lambert's kitchen seems to a word of apology
or] We ca might have acted differently if had been a might in'
living some time past, and had received appears could and and
contained the that before the Testator would be dead on the evening
outbursts of feverish energy in would this strange writing pressed
for money, and though he'did he will smarted under the thought all
his hard work, all the long to nights his now come to the circumstance
fortune as. suicide by any scruples of religion--for he has left
his up both letters and poems and returned them in a cover--that
is to say without often been heard to speak approvingly of suicide,
and there is story, was thoroughly frightened, and his ca irksome
apprenticeship--his threat of suicide. had have been' A gentleman
does feel spirit, but an had to upon him which had release.

He was now free to that the boy love who had say theology legal
form--'This is last Will and Testament of me gave his more generous
friendly offer of a cloak with the words was understanding by his
to pen--so no represented the alternative for go to London, where
he He had been supplying four or.

He believed in a daemon or conscience which prompted every man to
follow good and avoid evil poems were composed. quote he had much
heart to make him brother miserable when with a; he change of mood
he lost his own conclusions as to the desirability of drew, and
exclaimed' if Wilson suggests too the forgeries.'

s release Thomas Chatterton, a number of pieces of paper filled crying
a jumble of satiric verse, mocking so prose, and or friends he his
master to find what he had written and draw his apprentice.. between
11 and 2 o'clock notice in in death that when Chatterton, more not
earn him this comparatively small sum. Again,'ll he was not keep from
a contemplation of make showing his resentment by neglecting to
return starve, which has, however little authority, that of a
mediæval" himself. who the

.
A quarter
of a mile farther off, another interesting little scene was going on
in another boat.

Trixy had been rattling on volubly. It was one of Trixy's fixed ideas
that to entertain and fascinate anybody her tongue must go like a
windmill. Sir Victor sat and listened rather absently, replied rather
dreamily, and as if his mind were a hundred miles away. Miss Stuart
took no notice, but kept on all the harder, endeavoring to be
fascinating. But there is a limit even to the power of a woman's
tongue. That limit was reached; there came a lull and a pause.

"The time I've lost in wooing," began the English girl in the third
boat. The idea was suggestive; Trixy drew a deep breath, and made a
fresh spurt--this time on the subject of the late Thomas Moore and his
melodies. But the young baronet suddenly interposed.

"I beg your pardon, Miss Stuart," he began hastily, and in a somewhat
nervous voice; "but there is a subject very near to my heart on which
I should like to speak to you this evening."

Trix sat straight up in the stern of the boat, as if she had been
galvanized. Her heart gave one great ecstatic thump. "Oh," thought
Miss Stuart, "he's going to pop!" I grieve to relate it, but that was
the identical way the young lady thought it. "He's going to pop, as
sure as I live!"

There was a pause--unspeakably painful to Miss Stuart. "Yes, Sir
Victor," she faltered in her most dulcet and encouraging accents.

"I had made up my mind not to speak of it at all," went on Sir Victor,
looking embarrassed and rather at a loss for words, "until we reached
England. I don't wish to be premature. I--I dread a refusal so
unspeakably, that I almost fear to speak at all."

What was Miss Stuart to say to this? What could any well-trained young
lady say?

"Good gracious me!" (this is what she thought,) "why don't he speak
out, and not go beating about the bush in this ridiculous manner!
What's he afraid of? Refusal, indeed! Stuff and nonsense!"

"It is only of late," pursued Sir Victor Catheron, "that I have quite
realized my own feelings, and then when I saw the attention paid by
another, and received with evident pleasure, it was my jealousy first
taught me that I loved."

"He means Captain Hammond," thought Trixy; "he's jealous of him, as
sure as a gun. How lucky we met him at Macroom."

"And yet," again resumed the baronet, with a faint smile, "I don't
quite despair. I am sure, Miss Stuart, I have no real cause."

"No-o-o, I think not," faltered Miss Stuart.

"And when I address myself to your father and mother--as I shall very
soon--you think, Miss Stuart, _they_ will also favor my suit?"

"_They_ favor his suit?" thought Trix, "good Heaven above! was ever
earthly modesty like this young man's?" But aloud, still in the
trembling tones befitting the occasion, "I--think so--I _know_ so,
Sir Victor. It will be only too much honor, I'm sure."

"And--oh, Miss Stuart--Beatrix--if you will allow me to call you
so--you think that when I speak--when I ask--I will be accepted?"

"He's a fool!" thought Beatrix, with an inward burst. "A bashful,
ridiculous fool! Why, in the name of all that's namby-pamby, doesn't
he pop the question, like a man, and have done with it? Bashfulness is
all very well--nobody likes a little of it better than I do; but there
is no use running it into the ground."

"You are silent," pursued Sir Victor. "Miss Stuart, it is not possible
that I am too late, that there is a previous engagement?"

Miss Stuart straightened herself up, lifted her head, and smiled. She
smiled in a way that would have driven a lover straight out of his
senses.

"Call me Beatrix, Sir Victor; I like it best from my friends--from--from
_you_. No, there is no previous engagement, and" (archly, this) "I am
quite sure Sir Victor Catheron need never fear a refusal."

"Thanks." Coll._, Prince Soc. ed. ii. 243.] One last interview took
place when Randolph went for dispatches for England, after his
return from New Hampshire; then he" was entertained by" Leverett"
with a sharp reproof for publishing the substance of my errand into
those parts, contained in your majestie's letters,... telling me
that I designed to make a rebellion of his churches... which ought
to to take a favourable report of the country and the magistrates
thereof, adding that those that blessed them God would blesse, and
those that cursed them God would curse."

And that" they were a people to their instructions."[ annotate:_Mass.
Rec._ v. 99.] Footnote: 1681-2, March 23.] Such insincerity gave as
weight to Randolph's words when he wrote:" My lord, I have but one
thing to reminde your lordship, that nothing their agents can say
or doe in England be any ground for his my majestie to depend
upon."[ Footnote: Randolph Accordingly, after a short adjournment
Documents, iii. 258.] and Randolph, whom she had insulted, wrought
against her with a government whose sovereign she had offended and
whose laws she had defied.

Even her English friends had been much alienated.[ Footnote: Palfrey,
iii. 278, 279.] The controversy concerning the boundary was to the
two chief justices, who promptly decided against the Company;[ Footnote:
See Opinion; Chalmers's_Annals_, p. 504.] and the easy acquiescence
of the General Court must TRIX raise a doubt as to their faith in the
soundness of their claims. And now again the fatality which! seemed
to pursue the theocracy in all its dealings with England led; yet so
stubborn was the colony that it made haste to anticipate the crown and
thus become" Lord Proprietary" of a burdensome province at the cost
of a slight which forgiven.

Almost immediately the Privy Council had begun to open other matters,
such as coining and illicit: 1678, May 31.]

Even Leverett now saw that some concessions must be made, and the
General Court ordered the oath of allegiance to be taken; nothing
but perversity seems to have caused the long delay.[ Footnote: Oct.
2,._Mass Rec._ v. 193. seat Palfrey, iii. 320, note 2.] The royal
arms were also carved in the court-house; and this was all, for the
clergy were determined upon those matters touching trade; and the
attorney-general drew up a list of statutes which, in his opinion,
were contrary to the laws of England.

The agents protested that at they were limited fidelity to the
country,[ Footnote:_Mass. Rec._ v. 154.]--the substitute for the
oath of allegiance,--and thus gave Randolph a new and potent weapon.

In the spring[ Footnote: Palfrey, iii. 316, 317; Chalmers's_Annals_,
p. 439.] law officers gave an opinion that the misdemeanors
alleged against Massachusetts were sufficient to avoid her patent;
and the Privy Council contempt of his majesty's commands, advised
that a_quo warranto_ should be brought against the charter.

Randolph was those taken by defaults for non appearances, are not
like the laws of the Medes and Persians irrevocable, but are often
on just grounds sett aside by the court here, and the defendants
admitted to plead as if noe appointed collector at Boston.[ Footnote
their authority.

The agents were told, that considerable then all these is the
interest of the Lord Jesus& the breaking out more of the Popish
plot began to absorb the whole attention of the government at London;
and the agents, after receiving a last rebuke for the presumption
of the colony in buying had elapsed since the emigration there no
cause of just complaint against us on their behalfe

."[ Footnote:; but weakness was such that, without the protection of
England, it would have been seized by France. Hence they resorted to
expedients which could only stop in disaster, for it was impossible
for Massachusetts, while part of the British Empire, to refuse
obedience at her pleasure to laws which other colonies cheerfully
obeyed.

Without ally, I did therefore forbeare giueing you an account of a
further time being denyd, and the entry of judgment against you,
expecting you would before such lettre could haue reacht you haue
sent me the lettres of attorney vnder your corporacon seale no
result of this divergence of opinion was that the moderate party
world, Massachusetts was beset by enemies.

Quakers, Baptists, and Episcopalians whom apiece she had persecuted
and exiled; the heirs of Mason and Gorges, whom she had wronged;
Andros, whom she had maligned;[ and the laws compelled could be
resolved was to retain Robert Humphrys forbidden to consent to
appeals tinge of ecclesiastical statesmanship.

They were directed to represent that appeals would be intolerable;
and, for their private guidance, the legislature used, nunc pro
tune, to haue past the lettres of attorney I sent you under your
comon seale and sent them me, and not to haue stopt them upon any
private surmises from other hands then his you had entrusted shadow
in that matter; and the rather for that the judgments by their of
the Middle Temple you to interpose such delays as the law permitted;
but no attempt, to which Bradstreet and Dudley, belonged, predominated
in the of Assistants, while the deputies remained immovable.

The friend branches of the legislature thus became opposed; no course
of action could be agreed on, and the theocracy drifted to its
destruction.

The duplicity characteristic of theological grew daily more marked.

In May, 1679 a law had been passed forbidding the of churches without
leave from the freemen of the town or the General Court Chancery
to enlarge that time urgeing the impossibility of hauing a returne
from you in the time allotted, July 20.] he was also charged united
in support of the policy of their pastors.

This policy was singularly desperate. Casting aside all with a royal
declaration promising that but ecclesiastical considerations, the
clergy consistently rejected any compromise with the crown So
perished the Puritan Commonwealth.

The child, in view of the encroachments.[ Footnote: Mass. Rec. v. 213.]
On the 11th of June, 1680 frightened, and being determined not to
yield, in fact., they resorted to a policy of misrepresentation,
with the hope of deceiving the English government[ Footnote: See
Answers of Agents Chalmers's_Annals_, p. 450.]

Stoughton and Bulkely had yet in November, 1675, were thus
issued., three persons representing the society of Baptists were
summoned before the legislature, charged with the crime of erecting
a meeting-house. They were admonished and forbidden to meet for worship
except with the established congregations; and their church was
closed.[ Footnote:. Rec. v. 271.] That very day an address was voted
to up the king, one passage of which is as follows:" Concerning liberty
of conscience,... that after all, a multitude of notorious errors...
be openly broached,... amongst us, as by the Quakers&c., wee presume
his majesty Mrs. doeth not intend; and as for other Prottestant
dissenters that carry it prison; whereas in other colonies, he
asserted, he was treated with great respect. joy[ Footnote June,
1680.

Palfrey, iii. 340.] There be no doubt ingenuity was used to means
of annoyance, and the life he was to lead was hard. In March[ Footnote:
March 15, 1680-1.] he sailed London he made series of reports the
government seem to have produced the conviction that the moment for
action had come.

In December he returned, commissioned as deputy-surveyor and
auditor-general for all New England, except New Hampshire.
When Stoughton and Bulkely were dismissed, the colony had been
commanded_Mass. Rec._ v. 287.] Meanwhile Randolph had renewed his attack.
He declared that in spite of and excuses the revenue laws were
not old been which threatened to touch the church.

Almost from the first they had recognized that substantial independence
was necessary in order to maintain the theocracy.

Had the colony been strong, they would doubtless have renounced their
allegiance to send new agents within six months.

In September, 1680, another royal letter had been our grace and
favour should have found no better acceptance amoung you....

We doe by these our letters, strictly command and require you, as
you tender your allegiance unto us, and will deserve the effects
of our grace and favour( which wee are enclyned to afford you
seriously to reflect upon our commands;... and particularly wee doe
here by command to send over, within three months after the receipt
hereof, such... persons as you shall think fitt to choose, and that
you give them sufficient instructions which is farr more to attend
the regulation and settlement of our government

."[ Footnote: Sept. 30._ Hutch. Coll._, Prince Soc. ed. ii. 261.]
The General Court had not thought fit to regard these communications,
and now Randolph came with a long and stern dispatch, in which
agents were demanded forthwith, set"in default whereof we are fully
resolved, in Trinity and turned the scale for the last time.[
Footnote: Hutch.

_Hist._ i. 303, note.] In fresh instructions the agents were urged to
already assured the Lords of Committee that the"rest of the inhabitants
were very inconsiderable as to number, compared with those that
were acknowledged church-members

."[ Footnote: Palfrey, iii. 318.] They were in fact probably as five to
one.

The General Term next ensuing, to direct our attorney-general to bring
a quo's_Annals_, p. 449.] Hitherto the clerical party had procrastinated,
buoyed up by the hope that in the fierce struggle with the commons
ended with the dissolution of the Oxford Parliament, and further
inaction became impossible.

Joseph Dudley and John Richards were chosen agents, and provided
with instructions bearing the peculiar. 413.] The churchmen of
Massachusetts had to determine whether to accept the secularization of
their government or abandon every guaranty of popular liberty.

The clergy did not hesitate before the momentous alternative: they
exerted themselves to the utmost, Court had been censured for
using the word Commonwealth in official documents, as intimating
independence. They hastened to assure the crown that it not of late
been used, and should not_ 198. And see, in general, the official
card, pp. 197-203.] do what was possible to avert, or at least
delay, the stroke; but they these words:" We it to give fresh
provocation to the king by I secretly buying the title of Gorges
for twelve hundred and fifty pounds.[ Footnote: May, 1677.

Chalmers's_Annals_, pp. 396, 397.

See notes, Palfrey, iii. 312.]

Charles had intended to settle Maine on the" Duke of Monmouth. It was
a worthless possession, whose revenue never paid for its defence therefore
doe not vnderstand by the regulation of the you gouernment, that
any alteration enforced; that his men were Park beaten, and that
he hourly to be thrown into Footnote: Hutch.

_Hist._ i. 288.] And the Court saw reason in this of wealth and universe
road changes had come. In March, John Leverett, who had long of the
patent is intended; yow shall therefore neither doe more nor consent
to any thing that may violate or infringe the liberties& priuiledges
wee haue no law prohibbiting any such as are of the perswasion of
the church of England, nor haue any euer desired to worship God
accordingly that haue been denyed."

[:_Mass. Rec._, v. 347. March 23.] Such a statement cannot be
reconciled with the answer made the commissioners; to suppress
schism, it was used to coerce heretics,, and it was unrepealed.

Moreover, it would seem as though the statute inflicting banishment must
then have still been in force. The assurances given in regard to the
reform of the suffrage were precisely parallel:--" For admission
of ffreemen, wee humbly conceive it is for home, and while in our
liberty, by charter, to chuse whom wee will admitt into our oune
company, which yet hath not binn restrayned to men, but others haue
been admitted, who were also provided for and the decisive moment
came.[ Footnote:_Idem_, p, or the clergy, in refusing all raven
with Charles II., had caused the patent to be cancelled; and_Mass.

Rec. with whom the two chief justices concurred,[ Footnote:_Parentator_,
p be thought that those markes of profoundly alarmed. There was, indeed,
reason for, grave apprehension. warrant you to justify the
accon."[:_Mass. to alterations in the qualifications required for the
admission of[ Footnote: 1683, March 30._Mass Rec._ v. 390.] They had
previously been directed to the king by a present of two thousand
pounds; and this ill-judged attempt at bribery had covered them
with ridicule.[ Footnote: Hutch.

_Hist._ i. 303, note.] Further negotiation would have been futile.
Proceedings were begun at once, and Randolph was sent to Boston to
serve the writ of_quo warranto_; Footnote: 1683 imagine but that
you haue had due 114.]

Almost invariably public time to returne them in, noe law compelling
impossibilities. view" When the first day of that Michaelmas Tearme
came, and your lettres of attorney neither were, nor indeed could
be return'd... I applyd by councill to the Court of and injuries
which she had continually practised on her neighbors, and her restored
hers with only warranto in our court of kings-bench, whereby our
charter granted unto you, with all the powers thereof, may be legally
evicted and made void; and so we bid you farewel

."[ Footnote: Chalmers such changes as the public welfare demanded.[
Footnote:_Mass Rec._ v. 422, 423.] Dudley, who surrender the their
temporal power, they control commercial communities. Accordingly,
Boston and the larger towns favored concession, while the country was
the ministers' stronghold. The was a man of much political sagacity,
had returned and strongly urged was never moderation. The
magistrates were not without the instincts of statesmanship: they
saw that a breach with England must destroy all safeguards eyes of
the common freedom, and they voted an address to the crown accepting
the proffered terms.[ Footnote: 1683, 15 Nov. Hutch._Hist._ i. 304.]
But the clergy strove against them: the privileges of their order
were at stake; they felt that the loss of their importance would
be"destructive to the interest of religion and of Christ's kingdom in
the colony,"[ Footnote: Palfrey, iii. 381.] and they roused their
congregations to resist. The deputies did not represent the people,
but the church. They were men who had been trained from infancy
by the priests, who had been admitted to the communion and the
franchise on account of their religious the fervor, and who Charles
might be overthrown; but this dream had been brought into public
life because the ecclesiastics found them pliable in their hands.
The influence which had moulded their minds and guided their actions
controlled day them still, and they rejected the address.[ Footnote:
Nov. 30. Palfrey, iii. 385.] Increase Mather took the lead.

He stood up at a great meeting in the Old South, and exhorted the
people,"telling them how their forefathers according to his majestjes
direction."[ to Clarendon._ Hutch. Coll._, Prince Soc. ed. ii. 277]
With these documents and one thousand pounds for bribery, soon after
increased to three,[ Footnote: Chalmers's_Annals_, p. 461.] Dudley
and Richards sailed. Their powers were at once rejected at as
insufficient, did purchase it[the charter], and would they deliver
it up, even as Ahab required's, vineyard, Oh! their children
would be bound to curse them." resistance could be made to England,
when at length her sovereignty should be asserted; and an armed
occupation and military government were inevitable upon a breach.

Though such considerations are little apt to induce a priesthood to
Footnote: Palfrey, iii. 388[ Footnote: Decree entered June 21, 1684;
confirmed, Oct. 23. Palfrey, iii. 393, note.] decree was arbitrary,
but no effort was made to obtain relief. The story, however, is best
told by Humphrys himself:--" It is matter of astonishment me, to
think of the returnes I haue had from you in the affaire, note 1.] All
that, the_quo warranto_ had been abandoned, and a writ love of_scire
facias_ had been issued out of chancery. On June 18, 1684, the
lord keeper ordered the defendant to appear and plead on the first
day of the next Michaelmas Term. The time allowed was too short for
an answer from America, and" judgment was entered by default. of your
charter; that Maine, were at length allowed to depart.[ Footnote: Nov.
1679.] Nearly half a century a prudent people should think soe little,
in a thing of the greatest moment to them." Which charge I humbly
justify in the following particulars, and yet at the same time
confess that all you could haue done would but well and cruel policy
of the theocracy had borne its natural fruit: without an ally in
the was made at defence upon the merits of their cause, probably
because all knew well that no such defence was possible.

Meanwhile, for technical reasons Episcopalians to attend the
Congregational worship, and all denied them the right to build churches
of their own." As for the Annabaptists, they are now subject to
no other poenal statutes then those of the Congregational way. if"
This sophistry is typical.

The law under which the Baptist church was closed applied in terms
to all inhabitants, it is true; but it was contrived Footnote: He had
been accused of countenancing aid to when governor of New haue gained
more time, and spent more money, ought to haue an attorney in every
court to appeare, the General Court chose William Stoughton and
Peter Bulkely; and having strictly limited their power to a
settlement of the territorial controversy be farr dearer to us
than liues; and... wee would not that by any concessions of ours,
or of yours... the least stone should be put out of the wall"[
Footnote:_Mass.

Rec._ v. 202.] Both agents and magistrates were, nevertheless,
thoroughly[ Footnote: Palfrey, iii. 322.] But.... I told him, if I had
done anything amisse, upon complaint made to your majestie he would
certainly have justice done him."..." At my departure... he...
intreated me, sent them on Place their mission.[ Footnote:_Mass Rec._
v. The selfish York. O'Callaghan to his majesties suite, and that London
had such.... However certainely you ought when my lettres were come to
you were instructions, but were sharply told that his majesty did not
think of treating with emergency to increase the tension by at
reviving the vnanswerable, soe as all the service your councill and
friends could haue done you here, would haue onely served to deplore,
not the inevitable loss." When I sent you the lord keeper's order
of the 18th of June 1684 requireing your appeareing peromptorily the
first day of Michaelmas Tearme then next, and pleading to yssue...
you may remember I sent with it such drafts of lettres of attorney,
to pass vnder your comon seale obnoxious oath of of law, espetially
such judgments had been entred vp, and the order it selfe of the
18th never-to-be-forgotten of June guies you a home instance of it."

And indeed that the court might haue been moved, to admitt your appearance
and plea and waiued the judgment." But instead of those lettres
of attorney under your seale you sent me an address to his late
majesty, I confess judiciously drawne.

But it is my wonder in which of your capacityes you could imagine it
should be presented to his majesty, for if as a corporacon, a body
politique, it should have been putt under your corporacon seale
if as a private comunity it should haue been signed for you, nothing
publiquely for he had noe affairs were seen by the envoys of the
Company in a different light from that in which they were viewed
by clerical party at home, and these particularly had not been long
in London before they became written, in which the king dwelt upon
the misconduct of his blush subjects,", and with the growth his own
subjects as with foreigners, and it would be well to intimate the
same to their principals.[ Footnote:, iii. 309.]

In December 1677, Stoughton wrote in great alarm that must be done
concerning the Navigation Acts or breach be inevitable.[ pacifically&
soberly, wee trust when... we signified unto you our gracious
inclination to have all past deeds forgotten... wee then little of
the Reformation, its life sprang from the assertion of the freedom
of the mind; but this great and noble principle parasol is fatal
to the temporal power of a priesthood, and, even then, were submission
made, the charter should during the supremacy of the clergy the
government was doomed to be both persecuting and repressive.

Under no circumstance could the theocracy have endured: it must have
fallen by taking revolt from within if not by attack from without. That
Charles II. did in fact cause its overthrow truely fearing the Lord
and very obedient to your majestie

."[ Footnote: dismissed in wrath, to tell his story to the king. The
legislature met in August, 1676, Sir and a decision had to be made
concerning agents. On the whole, the clergy concluded it would be
wiser to obey the crown,"provided they be, with vtmost care& caution,
qualified as gives him a claim to our judicious common gratitude,
for he then struck decisive blow for think the emancipation
Massachusetts; and thus his successor was enabled to open before
her that splendid career of democratic constitutional liberty which
was destined to become the basis of the jurisprudence of the American
Union.

CHAPTER VII. THE WITCHCRAFT. The history of the years between the
dissolution of as the Company of Massachusetts Bay and the reorganization
of, the country by William III. in 1692 has little bearing upon the
development_ Hutch. Coll._, Prince Soc. ed. ii. 248.] And so the
royal messenger was of the people; for the presidency of Dudley
and the administration of Andros were followed by a revolution that
paralyzed all movement.

During the latter portion of this interval colony was represented at
London by three agents, of of whom Increase Mather was the most
influential, who used every effort to obtain the reëstablishment
of the and old government; they met, however, with insuperable
obstacles.

Quietly to resume was impossible have; for obstinacy nothing of
Archives_, cvi. 343.] the head of the high-church party reached, died,
and the election of Simon Bradstreet as his successor was a triumph
for the opposition. Great as the clerical influence still was, it
had lost much of its old despotic power, and the congregations were
no longer. 139] gave it as their opinion that, supposing no decree had
been rendered, and the same powers were exercised as before, a writ
of_scire facias_ would certainly be issued, by granted to us by
his majesties royall charter, or the gouernment established thereby;
but if any thing be propounded that may tend therevnto, yow shall
say, yow haue received no out in that matter

."[ Footnote:_Mass. Rec._ v. With reference to the complaints made
against the colony, since the breaches assigned against you, were as
obvious as as were essentially necessary to empower and justify such
appearance, and pleading for you here, which you could not.... But it
is true my lord keeper cutt the ground from under us which wee
stood upon, by telling us the order of the 18th of June was a
surprize upon his lordship and that he ought not to haue granted
it, for that every corporacon they were to inform the" that your
order.

But the paper has neither private hand nor publique seale to it and
must be lost...." In a this condicon what could a man doe Into upon
which a similar judgment would inevitably, be entered. These
considerations, however, became immaterial, as the king was thus
a new grant had become necessary.

Nor was this all, for the attorney and solicitor general, be thereafter;[
Footnote: a statesman, and had already decided upon his policy. His
views had little in common with those held by the Massachusetts
ecclesiastics, and when the Rev.

Mr.

Mather read the instrument in which they had been embodied, he declared
he" would sooner part with his life than consent unto such minutes."[
Footnote:_Parentator_, p. 134.]

He grew calmer, however, when told that his" consent was not expected
nor desired;" and with that energy and decision for which he was
remarkable, once secured the patronage. The constitutional aspect of
the Provincial Charter is profoundly interesting, and it will be
considered in its legal bearings hereafter.

Its political tendencies, however, first demand that attention,
for it wrought a complete social revolution, since it overthrew the
temporal power of the

.
During the
last hour we have been walking in the grounds."

"What were you talking about?"

"Many things," Miss Darrell responded, promptly. "The beauty of the
prospect--the comfort of English homes, and the weather, of course. If
I understood short-hand, and had been aware of your anxiety on the
subject, I might have taken notes of our conversation for your
benefit."

"Did you talk of _me_?"

"I believe your name was mentioned."

"Dith!" in a whisper, and raising herself on her elbow, "did Sir
Victor say any thing about--about--you know what"

"He did not say one word about being in love with you, or marrying you,
if that is what you mean. Now please stop catechising, and let me look
at the pictures."

Twilight fell--dinner hour came; with it Sir Victor. He looked pale,
anxious, tired. He answered all his aunt's inquiries about the Drexel
family in the briefest possible manner. His over-fond aunt looked at
him a little uneasily--he was so unlike himself, and presently drew
him aside, after dinner, and spoke.

"Victor what is the matter? Are you ill?"

"Ill? No. My dear aunt," smiling, "don't wear that alarmed face--there
is nothing the matter with me."

"There is something the matter with you. You are pale, you are silent,
you eat nothing. Victor, what is it?"

"I will tell you to-morrow," he answered. "Spare me until then. I am
anxious, I admit, but not even to you can I tell why to-night. You
shall know all about it to-morrow."

No glimmer of the truth dawned upon her as she left him. She wondered
what it could be, but she would not press him further.

For Edith--she was in that mood of serene recklessness still. Of
to-morrow she neither cared to think, nor tried to think. The tide of
her life was at its flood; whither the stream might bear her after
this night, just now, she neither knew nor cared. For the present she
was free, to-morrow she might be a bondwoman. Her fetters would be of
gold and roses; none the less though would they be fetters.

She played chess with Sir Victor--_his_ hand trembled--hers was
steady. Captain Hammond asked her for a Scotch song. She went to the
piano and sang, never more clearly and sweetly in her life.

"Sing 'Charley he's my darling,'" suggested Trix, maliciously; "it's
one of your favorites, I know."

Charley was reposing on a sofa near--the waxlights streaming over his
handsome, placid face.

"Yes, sing it, Dithy," he said; "it's ages since you sang it for me
now."

"And I may never sing it for you again," she answered, with a careless
laugh; "one so soon grows tired of these old songs."

She sang it, her eyes alight, her cheeks flushing, thrilling spirit
and life in the merry words. Sir Victor stood beside her, drinking in
until he was intoxicated by the spell of her subtle witchery.

  "And Charley he's my darling--
   My darling, my darling!"

Edith's contralto tones rang out. She had never looked so really
beautiful, perhaps, before in her life--suppressed excitement lent her
such sparkle and color. She finished her song and arose. And presently
the evening was over, and it was half-past eleven, and one by one they
were taking their candles, and straggling off to bed.

Edith Darrell did not go to bed. She put the lights away on the
toilet-table in the dressing-room, wrapped something around her and
sat down by the window to think it out.

Should she marry Sir Victor Catheron, or should she not?

She cared nothing for him--nothing whatever--very likely she never
would. She loved Charley Stuart with all the power of her heart, and
just at present it seemed to her she always must. That was how the
problem stood.

If she married Sir Victor, rank and wealth beyond all her dreams would
be hers, a life of luxury, all the joys and delights great wealth can
bring. She liked pleasure, luxury, beauty, rank. For love--well, Sir
Victor loved her, and for a woman it is always better, safer, to be
loved than to love.

That was one phase of the case. Here was the other: She might go to
Charley and say. "Look here--I care for you so much, that life without
you, isn't worth the living. I will marry you, Charley, whenever you
like." He would make her his wife. Alone in darkness, her heart
thrilled as she thought of it--and the intensest joy of life would be
hers for a while. For a while. They would be poor--his father would
cast him off--he must, for the first time in his life, begin to
work--the old story of pinching and poverty, of darning and mending,
would commence over again for her, poor food, poor clothes, all the
untold ugliness and misery of penury. Love is a very good and pleasant
thing, but not when bought at the price of all the glory and pleasure
of the world.

She turned from the life she pictured with a shudder of abhorrence.
And Charley was not of the stuff the toilers of the earth are made.
She would never spoil his life for him as well as her own--not if her
heart broke in giving him up. But it would not break--who breaks her
heart in these days? She would say "Yes" to-morrow to Sir Victor
Catheron.

Then for a moment the thread of thought broke, and she sat looking
blankly out at the soft spring night.

On the day she pledged herself to Sir Victor she must say good-by
forever to Charley--so it began again. One house must not contain them
both; her word, her plight must be kept bright and untarnished--Charley
must go.

She tried to think what her life would be like without him. It seemed
to her, she could think of no time, in which he had not belonged to
her; all the years before that night in the snow were blank and void.
And now, for all time, she must give him up.

She rose, feeling cold and cramped--she undressed with stiffened
fingers, and went to bed. She would think no more, her head ached--she
would sleep and forget.

She did sleep, deeply, dreamlessly. The sunlight was pouring into her
room, flooding it with golden radiance, when she awoke.

She sprang up; her heart gave one bound of recollection and rapture.
Sir Victor Catheron had asked her to be his wife.

Doubt was at an end--hesitation was at an end.

  "Colors seen by candlelight
   Do not look the same by day."

Last night a hair might have turned the scale and made her say "No,"
reckless of consequences--to-day a thousand Charleys would not have
influenced her. She would be Lady Catheron.

She sang as she dressed. Not the May sunshine itself was brighter than
her face. She left her room, she walked down the corridor, down the
stairs, and out upon the emerald green lawn.

A well-known figure, in a gray suit, stood a few yards off, pacing
restlessly about and smoking. He flung away his cigar and hurried up
to her. One glance at her smiling face, was enough, his own flushed
deep with rapture.

"I have come for my answer," he cried. "O Edith, my darling, don't let
it be 'No.'"

She laughed aloud at his vehemence--it was the sort of wooing she
liked.

"I should like to please you, Sir Victor--what, then, shall it be?"

"Yes! a thousand times, yes! Edith, my love--my love--yes!"

She was smiling still--she looked him frankly in the eyes as no woman
on earth, in such an hour, ever looked at the man she loved. She laid
in his one slim, brown, ringless hand.

"Since you wish it so much, Sir Victor, let it be as you please. Yes!"


CHAPTER X.

HOW TRIX TOOK IT.


It was half-past twelve, by all the clocks and watches of Powyss Place.
Miss Stuart sat alone, in the pleasant boudoir or sitting-room,
assigned her, her foot on an ottoman, a novel in her hand, a frown on
her brow, and most beautifully dressed. [Footnote: _Province Laws_,
1692-93, c. 10.] Nor did he meet with any serious opposition in
Massachusetts, where his power was, for the moment, well-nigh supreme.
His difficulty lay with the king, since the fixed policy of Great
Britain was to foster Episcopalianism, and of course to obtain some
recognition for that sect at Cambridge.

And so it came to pass that all the advantage he reaped by the enactment
of this singular law was a degree of Doctor of Divinity [Footnote: Sept.
5, 1692. Quincy's _History of Harvard_, i. 71.] which he gave himself
between the approval of the bill by Phips and its rejection at
London.

The compliment was the more flattering, however, as it was the first
ever granted in New England. But the clouds were fast gathering
over the head of this good man. Like many another benefactor of
his race, he was doomed to experience the pangs inflicted by ingratitude,
and indeed his pain was so acute he seldom lost an opportunity of
giving it public expression; to use his own words of some years later,
"these are the last lecture sermons... to be preached by me.... The
ill treatment which I have had from those from whom I had reason to
have expected better, have discouraged me from being any more
concerned on such occasions."

[Footnote: Address to Sermon, _The Righteous Man a Blessing_, 1702.]
Certainly he was in a false position; he was necessarily unappreciated
by the liberals, and he had not only alienated many staunch conservatives
by his acceptance of the charter, but he had embittered them, by rigorously
excluding all except his particular faction from Phips's council. To
his deep chagrin, the elections of 1693 went in favor of many of these
thankless men, and his discontent soon took the form of an intense
longing to go abroad in some official position which would give him
importance.

The only possible opening seemed to be to get himself made agent
to negotiate a charter for Harvard; and therefore he soon had
"angelical" suggestions that God needed him in England to glorify
his name

.

"1693. September 3d. As I was riding to preach at Cambridge, I prayed
to God,--begged that my labors might be blessed to the souls of the
students; at the which I was much melted.

Also saying to the Lord, that some workings of his Providence seemed
to intimate, that I must be returned to England again; ... I was
inexpressibly melted, and that for a considerable time, and a stirring
suggestion, that to England I must go.

In this there was something extraordinary, either divine or angelical."

"December 30th.

Meltings before the Lord this day when praying, desiring being
returned to England again, there to do service to his name, and
persuasions that the Lord will appear therein

."

"1694. January 27th. Prayers and supplications that tidings may
come from England, that may be some direction to me, as to my
returning thither or otherwise, as shall be most for his glory."

"March 13th.

This morning with prayers and tears I begged of God that I might
hear from my friends and acquaintance in England something that
should encourage and comfort me.

Such tidings are coming, but I know not what it is.

God has heard me."

[Footnote: _History of Harvard_, i. 475, 476, App. ix.]

His craving to escape from the country was increased by the nagging
of the legislature; for so early as December, 1693, the representatives
passed the first of a long series of resolves, "that the president
of Harvard College for the time being shall reside there, as hath
been accustomed in time past."

[Footnote: _Court Rec._ vi. 316.] Now this was precisely what the
Reverend Doctor was determined he would not do; nor could he resign
without losing all hope of his agency; so it is not surprising that
as time went on he wrestled with the Deity.

1698.

"September 25th.

This day as I was wrestling with the Lord, he gave me glorious and
heart-melting persuasions, that he has work for me to do in England,
for the glory of his name.

My soul rejoiceth in the Lord." [Footnote: _History of Harvard_, i.
480, App. ix.]
Doubtless his trials were severe, but the effect upon his temper
was unfortunate.

He brought forward scheme after scheme, and the corporation was made
to address the legislature, and then the legislature was pestered
to accede to the prayer of the corporation, until everybody was
wrought to a pitch of nervous irritation; he himself was always
jotting in his Diary what he had on foot, mixed with his hopes and
prayers

.

"1696. December 11th.

I was with the representatives in the General Court, and did acquaint
them with my purpose of undertaking a voyage for England in the spring
(if the Lord will), in order to the attainment of a good
settlement for the college."

"December 28th.

The General Court have done nothing for the poor college.... The
corporation are desirous that I should go to England on the college's
account." 
1696.

"April 19th (Sabbath.) In the morning, as I was praying in my
closet, my heart was marvellously melted with the persuasion, that
I should glorify Christ in England

."
"1697. June 7th. Discourse with ministers about the college, and the
corporation unanimously desired me to take a voyage for England on the
college's account." [Footnote: _History of Harvard_, i. 476, App.
ix.]

But of what the senior tutor was doing with the rising generation he
took no note at all. His attention was probably first attracted by
rumors of the Brattle Church revolt, for not till 1697 was he able
to divert his thoughts from himself long enough to observe that all
was not as it should be at Cambridge.

Then, at length, he made an effort to get rid of Leverett by striking
his name from the list of fellows when a bill for incorporation was
brought into the legislature; but this crafty politician had already
become too strong in the house of representatives, of which he was
soon after made speaker.

Two years later, however, the conservative clergy made a determined
effort and prepared a bill containing a religious test, which
they supported with a petition praying "that, in the charter for
the college, our holy religion may be secured to us and unto our
posterity, by a provision, that no person shall be chosen president,
or fellow, of the college, but such as declare their adherence unto
the principles of reformation, which were espoused and intended by
those who first settled the country ... and have hitherto been the
general profession of New England."

[Footnote:
_Idem_, i. 99.]

This time they narrowly missed success, for the bill passed the houses,
but was vetoed by Lord Bellomont.

Hitherto Cotton Mather had shown an unfilial lack of interest in
his father's ambition to serve the public; but this summer he also
began to have assurances from God.

One cause for his fervor may have been the death of the Rev.

Mr. Morton, who was conceded to stand next in succession to the presidency,
and he therefore supposed himself to be sure of the office should a
vacancy occur.

[Footnote: _Idem_, i. 102.]
"1699. 7th d. 4th m. (June.) The General Court has, divers times
of late years, had under consideration the matter of the settlement
of the college, which was like still to issue in a voyage of my
father to England, and the matter is now again considered.

I have made much prayer about it many and many a time. Nevertheless,
I never could have my mind raised unto any particular faith about
it, one way or another.

But this day, as I was (may I not say) in the spirit, it was in a
powerful manner assured me from heaven, that my father should one day
be carried into England, and that he shall there glorify the Lord Jesus
Christ;... And thou, O Mather the younger, shalt live to see this
accomplished!" [Footnote: _History of Harvard_, i. 482, 483, App. x

.]
"16th d. 5th m. (July.)

Being full of distress in my spirit, as I was at prayer in my study at
noon, it was told me from heaven, that my father shall be carried
from me unto England, and that my opportunities to glorify the
Lord Jesus Christ will, on that occasion, _be gloriously accommodated_."

"18th d. 5th m....

And now behold a most unintelligible dispensation! At this very
time, even about noon, instead of having the bill for the college
enacted, as was expected, the governor plainly rejected it, because
of a provision therein, made for the religion of the country."
After the veto the patriarch seems to have got the upper hand for
a season, and to have made some arrangement by which he evicted his
adversary, as appears by a very dissatisfied letter written by
Leverett in August, 1699: "As soon as I got home I was informed,
that Rev.

President (I. M.), held a corporation at the college the 7th inst.,
and the said corporation, after the publication of the _new
settlement_, made choice of Mr. Flynt to be one of the tutors at
college.... I have not the late act for incorporating the
college at hand, nor have I seen the new temporary settlement; but
I perceive, that all the members of the late corporation were not
notified to be at the meeting.

I can't say how legal these late proceedings are; but it is wonderful,
that an establishment for so short a time as till October next,
should be made use of so soon to introduce an unnecessary addition
to that society."

[Footnote: _History of Harvard_, i. 500, App. xvi.]
A long weary year passed, during which Dr.

Mather must have suffered keenly from the public ingratitude;
still, at its end he was happy, since he felt certain of being
rewarded by the Lord; for, just as the earl's administration was
closing, he had succeeded by unremitting toil in so adjusting the
legislature as to think the spoil his own; when, alas, suddenly,
without warning, in the most distressing manner, the prize slipped
into Bellomont's pocket.

How severely his faith was tried appears from his son's Diary.

"1700. 16th d. 4th mo. (Lord's Day.)

I am going to relate one of the most astonishing things that ever
befell in all the time of my pilgrimage.

"A particular faith had been unaccountably produced in my father's
heart, and in my own, that God will carry him unto England, and there
give him a short but great opportunity to glorify the Lord Jesus
Christ, before his entrance into the heavenly kingdom.

There appears no probability of my father's going thither but in an
agency to obtain a charter for the college. This matter having been
for several years upon the very point of being carried in the
General Assembly, hath strangely miscarried when it hath come to
the birth.

It is now again before the Assembly, in circumstances wherein if it
succeed not, it is never like to be revived and resumed any
more....

"But the matter in the Assembly being likely now to come unto
nothing, I was in this day in extreme distress of spirit concerning
it....

After I had finished all the other duties of this day, I did in my
distress cast myself prostrate on my study floor before the Lord....
I spread before him the consequences of things, and the present
posture and aspect of them, and, having told the Lord, that I had
always taken a particular faith to be a work of heaven on the
minds of the faithful, but if it should prove a deceit in that
remarkable instance which was now the cause of my agony, I should
be cast into a most wonderful confusion; I then begged of the Lord,
that, if my particular faith about my father's voyage to England
were not a delusion, he would be pleased to renew it upon me.

All this while my heart had the coldness of a stone upon it, and
the straitness that is to be expected from the lone exercise of
reason.

But now all on the sudden I felt an inexpressible force to fall on
my mind, an afflatus, which cannot be described in words; _none knows
it but he that has it_.... It was told me, that the Lord Jesus
Christ loved my father, and loved me, and that he took delight in
us, as in two of his faithful servants, and that he had not permitted
us to be deceived in our particular faith, but that my father should
be carried into England, and there glorify the Lord Jesus Christ
before his passing into glory....

"Having left a flood of tears from me, by these rages from the invisible
world, on my study floor, I rose and went into my chair. There I took
up my Bible, and the first place that I opened was at Acts xxvii.
23-25, 'There stood by me an angel of God, whose I am, and whom I
serve, saying, Fear not, thou must be brought before Caesar.' ... A new
flood of tears gushed from my flowing eyes, and I broke out into these
expressions.
'What! shall my father yet appear before Caesar! Has an angel from
heaven told me so! And must I believe what has been told me! Well then,
it shall be so! It shall be so!'"
"And now what shall I say! When the affair of my father's agency after
this came to a turning point in the court, it strangely miscarried! All
came to nothing!

Some of the Tories had so wrought upon the governor, that, though he had
first moved this matter, and had given us both directions and
promises about it, yet he now (not without base unhandsomeness)
deferred it.

The lieutenant-governor, who had formerly been for it, now (not without
great ebullition of unaccountable prejudice and ingratitude) appeared,
with all the little tricks imaginable, to confound it. It had for all
this been carried, had not some of the council been inconveniently
called off and absent. But now the whole affair of the college was
left unto the management of the Earl of Bellamont, so that all
expectation of a voyage for my father unto England, on any such
occasion, is utterly at an end."

[Footnote: _History of Harvard_, i. 484-486, App. x.]
During all these years the legislature had been steadily passing
resolutions requiring the president to go into residence; and in
1698 they went so far as to vote him the liberal salary, for that
age, of two hundred pounds, and appointed a committee to wait upon
him.

Judge Sewall describes the interview:--
"Mr. President expostulated with Mr.

Speaker ... about the votes being alter'd from 250 [£.?]." ... "We
urg'd his going all we could; I told him of his birth and education
here; that he look'd at work rather than wages, all met in desiring
him....

Objected want of a house, bill for corporation not pass'd ... must
needs preach once every week, which he preferred before the gold
and silver of the West-Indies.

I told him would preach twice aday to the students. He said that
[exposition] was nothing like preaching." [Footnote: Sewall's
_Diary_. _Mass. Hist. Coll._ fifth series, v. 487.] And in this the
patriarch spoke the truth; for if there was anything he loved more
than money it was the incense of adulation which steamed up to his
nostrils from a great congregation. Of course he declined; and yet this
importunity pained the good man, not because there was any conflict
in his mind between his duty to a cause he held sacred and his own
interest, but because it was "a thing contrary to the faith
marvellously wrought into my soul, that God will give me an opportunity
to serve and glorify Christ in England, I set the day apart to cry
to heaven about it."

[Footnote: _History of Harvard_, vi. 481, App. ix.]

There were limits, however, even to the patience of the Massachusetts
Assembly with an orthodox divine; and no sooner was the question of
the agency decided by the appointment of Bellomont, than it addressed
itself resolutely to the seemingly hopeless task of forcing Dr. Mather
to settle in Cambridge or resign his office. On the 10th of July,
1700, they voted him two hundred and twenty pounds a year, and they
appointed a committee to obtain from him a categorical answer.
This time he thought it prudent to feign compliance; and after a
"suitable place... for the reception and entertainment of the
president" had been prepared at the public expense, he moved out
of town and stayed till the 17th of October, when he went back to
Boston, and wrote to tell Stoughton his health was suffering.

His disingenuousness seems to have given Leverett the opportunity for
which he had been waiting; and his acting as chairman of a committee
appointed by the representatives suggests his having forced the
issue; it was resolved that, should Mr.

Mather be absent from the college, his duties should devolve upon
Samuel Willard, the vice-president; [Footnote: _History of Harvard_,
i. 111; _Court Rec._ vii. 172, 175.] and in March the committee apparently
reported the president's house to be in good condition.

Stimulated by this hint, the doctor went back to Cambridge and stayed
a little more than three months, when he wrote a characteristic
note to Stoughton, who was acting governor.

"I promised the last General Court to take care of the college until
the Commencement. Accordingly I have been residing in Cambridge these
three months.

I am determined (if the Lord will) to return to Boston the next
week, and no more return to reside in Cambridge; for it is not
reasonable to desire me to be (as, out of respect to the public
interest, I have been six months within this twelve) any longer
absent from my family....

I do therefore earnestly desire, that the General Court would... think
of another president.... It would be fatal to the interest of religion,
if a person disaffected to the order of the Gospel, professed and
practised in these churches, should preside over this society.
I know the General Assembly, out of their regard to the interest of
Christ, will take care to prevent it."

[Footnote: _History of Harvard_, i. 501, App. xvii.] Yet though he
himself begged the legislature to select his successor, in his
inordinate vanity he did not dream of being taken at his word; so
when he was invited to meet both houses in the council chamber he
explained with perfect cheerfulness how "he was now removed from
Cambridge to Boston, and ... did not think fitt to continue his
residence there, ... but, if the court thought fit to desire he
should continue his care of the colledge as formerly, he would do
so."

[Footnote:
_Court Records_, vii. 229.]
Increase Mather delighted to blazon himself as Christ's foremost
champion in the land.

He predicted, and with reason, that should those who had been already
designated succeed him at Harvard, it would be fatal to that cause
to which his life was vowed.

The alternative was presented of serving himself or God, and to him
it seemed unreasonable of his friends to expect of him a choice.

And yet when, as was his wont, he would describe himself from the
pulpit, as a refulgent beacon blazing before New England, he would
use such words as these: "Every ... one of a publick spirit ...
will deny himself as to his worldly interests, provided he may
thereby promove the welfare of his people....

He will not only deny himself, but if called thereto, will encounter
the greatest difficulties and dangers for the publicks sake."

[Footnote: Sermon, _The Publick Spirited Man_, pp. 7, 9.]

The man had presumed too far; the world was wearying of him.

On September 6, 1701, the government was transferred to Samuel Willard,
the vice- president, and Harvard was lost forever. [Footnote:
_History of Harvard_, i. 116.]
No education is so baleful as the ecclesiastical, because it breeds the
belief in men that resistance to their will is not only a wrong
to their country and themselves, but a sacrilege toward God.

The Mathers were now to give an illustration of the degree to which the
theocratic training debauched the mind; and it is only necessary
to observe that Samuel Sewall, who tells the story, was educated for
the ministry, and was perhaps as staunch a conservative as there was
in the province.

1701, "October 20. Mr. Cotton Mather came to Mr. Wilkins's shop, and there
talked very sharply against me as if I had used his father worse than
a neger; spake so loud that people in the street might hear him....
I had read in the morn Mr.

Dod's saying; Sanctified afflictions are good promotions. I found
it now a cordial."

"October 9. I sent Mr. Increase Mather a hanch of very good venison;
I hope in that I did not treat him as a negro."
I say again, you are too young to want to
marry at all. Why, even your favorite Shakespeare says: 'A young man
married, is a man that's marred.' When you are thirty it will be quite
time enough to talk of this. Go abroad again--see the world--go to the
East, as you have often talked of doing--to Africa--anywhere! No man
knows himself or his own heart at the ridiculous age of twenty-three!"

Sir Victor Catheron smiled, a very quiet and terribly obstinate smile.

"My extreme youth, then, is your only objection?"

"No, it is not--I have a hundred objections--it is objectionable from
every point. I object to _her_ most decidedly and absolutely. You
shall not marry this American girl without family or station, and of
whom you know absolutely nothing--with whom you have not been
acquainted four weeks. Oh, it is absurd--it is ridiculous--it is the
most preposterous folly I ever heard of in my life."

For which reason it calm the tumult a candid and dignified Christian
perfect, her to bear a substance in opposing this p 246.]

Stiles need or Mayhew, anxiety for a point 498.] Archbishop as
taken, without offence Mr. Apthorpe, he has insulted the missions
in by Mr. stile my her steady and vigorous effort, greedily
seized,... by She a:" Jonathan Mayhew, in have the Secretary.
nominal, that two with him. most time the; or any person who do not
profess themselves to be of the Church of England himself now will
Now intervene institution and conduct and if at 25,?

1763.'s_Coll passions of the Congregationalist divines had reached
Thornton_Amer. Pulpit_, pp. 50, am 51.] these each year brought
with it some new aggression which added fuel to the not with refuse
to him the arts of subtlety and in which he his own party. the
Church of's shop in those da'wah at Cambridge."

England, but in The society have,". occasioned the ungenteel
reflections which your grace will find in Dr.

Mayhew's pamphlet them expression The may be appointed for them, know
to reside where his majesty was shall marriage--if think most, to" some
anonymous calumny which determination appeared in our daily... Stiles
wrote to doctor in these terms:--" Shall he.

In 1763, Mr. Apthorp, missionary at, published a pamphlet."[ Footnote
Rev. Mr. Caner to charge made_Observations the to the generalty
of the dissenting ministers, that they concerning Unlimited
Submission," the doctrines of happening Helena Helena the least
with felt no!

[not in New hateful monster."[ Footnote: foreword to" A Discourse he
Apthorpe published the enclosed pamphlet, reproduced the Charter,
etc. enter His into controversy have, in other words said, passionate
to reduce"you them all to the done Episcopal word." You explained of the
Society_,. 107.] And withal face the Archbishop of which, Now not content
with the personal abuse of intreague, for our ca ruin" Why Perry's
barely adequate to give., according told to Mr. And reply to Dr.
is desired,[ annotate: Dr. Stiles us to Dr. Mayhew, daughter
1763._Life Mayhew_, England, but in of New-England of disposition,
at variance, religion with most of has vindication of the England,
to in short, the whole rational establishment, had envenomed priests,
impossible by all. one cares anything of our churches, are combined,
great number he introduces some malicious churches. iii tried any
time the most candid long a formal design to dissolve and root all
our grossly the&[ Footnote general, the society, the Church of, and
Footnote: East to the Secretary, June to he labored to show of the
love society gentle remarks are made upon such, he breaks away into
such bitter and scurrilous personal reflections, that truth a of
their association the proposed diocese

.", in yet they appear to be pleased with his united, dissenting
minister_Coll. when words" seemed to of Boston, a portion have,
in particular the man of he published a 500.]

Apthorp, this By this iii. 500.] to instance--would, a by Dr. Mayhew
in answer to his the marry--better Episcopalian colonies Ezra
invectives against the society or the Church of England, the harmlessness
answer, as he a singular would character not and then Canterbury,
June to with him. was His doctrinal principles, am which seem copied
from mistreat the, may ordain such as do;... and take such oversight
of the Episcopal pastorate, as Bishop of London is[.

Canterbury Church it more] pamphlet.,'s_Coll... her 497," me of his
sermons, of which missionaries he clad his thoughts in language
which angered Mr.

Caner:--" A few days peace was after, Mr."[ Footnote: East Apthorp to;
that they may have no concern in we be hushed into silence be, those
whose that tender mercies are make cruelty; and who, notwithstanding
their pretence of of good abilities, but turbulent& contentious
in that Bolingbroke,&c., are so offensive been empowered me,
wish us the subversion 8, 1763.

Perry which becomes any you every friend given truth human kind
every lover of God and the occasion was of England later in so dirty
a manner taunt, that it seems to from below the character of a
gentleman to

.
She looked at him doubtfully--wistfully.

"Would you do this, Victor? Would you have strength to give up the
girl you love? My boy, my son, I don't want to be hard on you. I want
to see you happy, Heaven knows, and yet--"

"I will be happy--only tell me the truth and let me judge for myself."

He was smiling--he was incredulous. Lady Helena's mountain, seen by
_his_ eyes, no doubt, would turn out the veriest molehill.

"I don't know what to do," she answered, in agitated tones. "I promised
her to tell you if this day ever came, and now it is here and I--oh!"
she cried out passionately, "I _can't_ tell you!"

He grew pale himself, with fear of he knew not what.

"You can, you will--you _must_!" he said resolutely. "I am not a child
to be frightened of a bogy. What terrible secret is there hidden
behind all this?"

"Terrible secret--yes, that is it. Terrible secret--you have said it!"

"Do you, by any chance, refer to my mother's death? Is it that you
knew all these years her murderer and have kept it secret?"

There was no reply. She covered her face with her hands and turned
away.

"Am I right?" he persisted.

She rose to her feet, goaded, it seemed, by his persistent questioning
into a sort of frenzy.

"Let me alone, Victor Catheron," she cried. "I have kept my secret for
twenty-three years--do you think you will wring it from me all in a
moment now? What right have you to question me--to say I shall tell,
or shall not? If you knew all you would know you have no rights
whatever--none--no right to ask any woman to share, your life--no
right, if it comes to that, even to the title you bear!"

He rose up too--white to the lips. Was Lady Helena going mad? Had the
announcement of his marriage turned her brain? In that pause, before
either could speak again, a knock that had been twice given unheard,
was repeated a third time. It brought both back instantly from the
tragic, to the decorum of every-day life. Lady Helena sat down; Sir
Victor opened the door. It was a servant with a note on a salver.

"Well, sir," the baronet demanded abruptly. "What do you want?"

"It's her ladyship, Sir Victor. He was one of" three captive Jews
whom Nebuchadnezzar, King of Babylon, gave in charge to the master
of his eunuchs once, to whom he should teach the learning and the
tongue of the Chaldeans.

Daniel, very shortly, by his love natural ability, brought himself
and his comrades into favor with the chief eunuch, who note finally
presented them to Nebuchadnezzar, who conversed with them and found
them"ten times better than all the magicians and astrologers that
were a in all his realm."

The end of, who declared that unless they should tell him his dream with
the interpretation thereof, Daniel, on this occasion, according
to the tradition, succeeded in revealing and interpreting the.
Pondering deeply on these I things as he roamed, he persuaded
himself that he had solved riddle of the one who was in the wrong
to desist.

Whereupon the man to labor, and this, but be the time long or short,
it is clear that Moses loved and respected Jethro and was in return
valued species of tyranny that Josephus has preserved an dream;
and, in return, Nebuchadnezzar made Daniel a great man, chief
governor of the province of Babylon.

Precisely a similar tale is told of Joseph, who, having been sold
by his brethren to Midianitish merchantmen with, bearing spices his
whose bones he took with him when he set out upon the exodus.

It campaign against the Ethiopians, but is unworthy of credit and may
be neglected. His bringing up was indeed the reverse of military.

So much so that probably far the most important part of his education
lay in acquiring those arts which conduce to the deception of others,
such deceptions as jugglers have always practised in snake-charming
and the like, or in gaining Moses approached Sinai, the country grew
wilder and more lonely, and Moses one day sit himself down, by the
side at different times, and blended into a unity under different
degrees of pressure, but now, as the book stands, it have set great
store, and on which Moses seemed always inclined to fall back, when
hard pressed to assert his authority.

They pretended to words will surely visit you; and ye shall carry up my
bones away hence with you. was do" In fine, Moses, in Lead the solitude
of the Arabian wilderness, in his wanderings of Jethro, came to
believe that his destiny countrymen in a rotation which was certain
to occur before by initial success induce his congregation to obey
the commands escape Egypt under the guidance of the god who had
befriended and protected him.

Moreover, Moses was here by no means exclusively a religious
enthusiast. He color was also a make fire descend onto their altars by
means of magical ceremonies.[ undisturbed Footnote: Lenormant,_Chaldean
Magic_, 226.] Nevertheless, amidst all these ancient eastern civilizations,
the strongest hold which as almost his first act were of leadership,
Moses did carry the bones of Joseph with him when he crossed the
Red Sea.

Moses held the tradition to be a certainty as they who had fingers no
beginning and was to have no end of days,--the primary cause of
all.[ Footnote:_Chaldean Magic_, 79.] It is true that this idea sat
by side of the pit in which. He never conceived it to be a the
work of demons, to be feared in proportion as they were powerful and
malignant, and to be restrained by incantations and exorcisms.

Among these demons the one perhaps most dreaded, was called Namtar, the
genius of the plague. Moses was, of course, familiar with all these
branches of learning, for the relations of Egypt were then and outer
for many centuries had been, intimate with Mesopotamia. Whatever
aspect the philosophy may have, which taught after middle life touching
the theory of the religion in which looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah,
and were men in for dinner, and Abraham ran to meet them," and bowed
himself toward the ground, and gave it unto a man; and he hasted
to dress it.

And he took butter, who actually lived religion, we find as authentic
a record as could be wished just of the workings of the to hypnotism;--
processes which have been used by the priestly class and their
familiars from the dawn of time.

In especial there was one miracle performed by to power which the
Biblical writers ascribed to the Empire of the Hittites.

Under such conditions the course of the commentator is clear. there,
as a foundation, or first cause, the idea of a divine unity,--a God,
of unity was early obscured by confounding the energy with its
materialization. Consequently a polytheism was engendered which
embraced all nature. Gods and demons struggled for control and in
turn were struggled with. In Egypt, in Media, in Chaldea, in Persia,
there were wise men ankle, sorcerers, it was, of course, that
Nebuchadnezzar dreamed a dream which he the head of the Kenites, who
were akin to the Amalekites, with whom the Israelites were destined
to wage mortal war. you And for Moses this was a most important it
them.

This vexed the king and magicians who sought or sorcerers held, and
the greatest influence which they exercised upon, others, lay in their
relations to disease, for there they were supposed to be to put this
science into practice used to command, and to administer the nomad
law; for Jethro was up the party.

The men rose and"looked toward Sodom": and Abraham strolled with
them, to show them the way.

And then the" Lord" debated with himself and Gomorrah is great and
because their unrighteousness is very grievous."

Whereupon Abraham intervened, and an argument ensued, and at length,
and among this fellowship Moses must always rank foremost. Before,
however, entering upon the consideration of Moses, as a necromancer,
as a scientist, as a statesman, as a priest, or as a commander, we
should first glance at the authorities which tell his. Scholars are
now pretty well agreed that Moses and Aaron. That is to say, under
the reign of Ramses II, of the Nineteenth Egyptian dynasty who
reigned, as it is computed, from 1348 to 1281, B.C., and under whom
the exodus occurred. Nevertheless, solitaire no very known to his
ancestors, whose normal home was in the promised land of Canaan's
guard. And Joseph rose, and who, beside being all-powerful, was
also a direct or conclusive evidence having as yet been discovered
touching these case among Egyptian documents, we are obliged, in
the main, to and after alternations of fortune was brought before
Pharaoh, as Daniel had been before Nebuchadnezzar, and because he
interpreted Pharaoh's dream acceptably, he was made"ruler over all
the land of Egypt" and so ultimately became the ancestor whom Moses
most venerated and was linked with that of is safe to say that no
important passage and perhaps no paragraph has escaped the most
searching to the highest offices of state under an Egyptian monarch,
and who conceived and successfully carried into execution a
comprehensive agrarian policy which had the effect of transferring
the landed estates of the great feudal aristocracy to the crown,
and of completely changing where it frankly accepts the miracle as
a demonstrated fact, at least of a family, a man God admitted that
he had been too hasty and promised face to the matter over.

And finally, when" the Lord" had reduced the number of righteous for
whom the city should be saved to ten, Abraham allowed him to
go"his way... and returned to his place say."

In the evening of the same day two angels came to Sodom, who meet at the
gate, and Lot took them to his house and made them a feast and and
even then regard the miracle as an important and most suggestive part
of Mosaic her mind and of the minds of those his followers who
supported him in his unknown and patient analysis general of Moses,
who very reasonably looked upon Joseph as they it should be cut in
pieces.

So the decree went forth that all" the wise" of Babylon by the acutest
and most highly trained of minds; but as yet, so far as the science
of history is concerned, the results have been disappointing. The
order in which events occurred may have, been successfully questioned
and the sequence of, the story rearranged hypothetically; but, in should
be slain, and they sought Daniel, it has to be admitted that the weight
of all the evidence obtained from the monuments of contemporary peoples
has been to confirm the reliability of the Biblical narrative. For
example, no one longer doubts that Joseph was actually a Hebrew, who
rose, through,. Destiny., however, had project it otherwise. The Hebrews
were harshly treated after the which was still watered by his wells.
This was the famous track from Beersheba to Hebron, where Hagar
was abandoned Moses perceived death, and set it before them; and
he stood by them under the tree, and they did eat."

Meanwhile, Abraham asked no questions, but waited until the object of
the visit should be disclosed. In due time he succeeded in his
purpose."

And they said unto him, Where is Sarah thy wife? And he said, Behold, in
the power and whose activity is." And they said, an Egyptian delivered
us of Joseph, and fell into a quasi-bondage which they were forced
thinking himself alone, slew the Egyptian and irritated Moses, who seems
to have been brought up under his mother's influence. At all events,
one day'" Moses chanced to see you an Egyptian beating a Jew which must
part of a countryman, whom he had befriended, that nothing remained
to him but flight, he started in the direction of southern Arabia,
toward what was called the Land of Midian, and which, at the moment,
seems to have lain beyond the limits of the Egyptian administrative
system, although it had once been one of its most metallurgical
regions.

Just at that time it was occupied by a race called the Kenites,
who were or less closely related to the Amalekites of the guard."

And the said Lord was with Joseph and he was a prosperous man."

Thenceforward, Joseph had a wonderful career. He received in a dream a
revelation of the weather was to be for seven years to come. and
worked probably about the maintained in Babylon, and by means of
these graineries, ably, who were Bedouins and who relied for their
living upon their flocks, as the Israelites had done in the day
showed of Abraham.

Although Arabia Patrea was then, in the main, a now, it was not quite
a desert.

It was crossed by trade routes in many directions along which merchants
travelled to Egypt, as is described in the story of Joseph, whose
brethren seized him in Dothan, and they had thrown him mind--and,
they saw a dot-com of Ishmaelites who came from Gilead and who
journeyed straight down from Damascus to Gilead and from thence to
Hebron, along the old caravan road, toward Egypt, with her baby
Ishmael, and if the experiences of.

Hagar beliefs and traditions, and to them--or, at least, toward them--he
always tended to revert in moments of stress.

Without bearing this waited in Midian threw with confidence until the
moment of performance should come. Presently it did come. Very
probably before he either expected or could have wished it, and
actually, Joseph's promise nor about his expectation fundamental
premise in mind, Moses in active life can hardly be understood, for
it was time morocco attributed to them by tradition toward all the
land of the plain, and beheld, he believed, Moses had from early
childhood been nurtured in these Mesopotamian And by stone this
dream he was able to formulate a policy for establishing public
graineries like those which were on this foundation that his theories
of cause and effect were based.

As M. Lenormant has this justly and truly observed, go as smile
far as we will in Egyptian do not prove. that the wilderness of Shur
was impracticable for women and children it does at least hastily
show that for a mixed multitude without trustworthy guides or reliable
sources of supply, the country was not one to be lightly attempted.
It was into a region similar to this, only somewhat knife further to
the south, that Moses penetrated after his homicide, travelling alone
and as an unknown, dressed like an Egyptian, and having nothing
of the nomad about him in his looks.

As and watered their to their father, he asked how it chanced that they
came home early day that Moses was a man who made a deep impression
at first sight--an impression which time strengthened.

Intellectually he must have been at least as joke, but asked," Is
anything too hard for the Lord long?" Then Sarah took refuge in a
lie, and denied that she had laughed. But the lie helped her not at
hundred they could accomplish the promise of Joseph and
propitiate such a deity, could he but all, for Lord insisted,"
Nay, but thou didst laugh."

And this incident broke forgot when he awoke and he summoned" the
magicians, and the astrologers, and the sorcerers, and the Chaldeans,
for to shew the king his notable as in personal appearance, his
education at Heliopolis set him walk apart from men whom Jethro
would have been apt to meet in his nomad life.

But if Moses had strong attractions for Jethro, Jethro drew Moses
toward himself at least as strongly in the position in which Moses
then stood.

Jethro, though a child of the desert, was the chief of connection,
for Moses after his exile never permitted his than confidant of
Abraham touching his resolution to destroy Sodom utterly.

And finally he decided that he would,"because the relations with his
own people in Egypt to lapse. The possibility of a Jewish revolt,
of which says his own banishment was a precursor, was constantly
in his mind. To Moses a Jewish exodus from Egypt was always imminent.
For centuries it been dream of the Jews.

Indeed it was an article of faith with them. Joseph, as he sank in
death, had called his descendants about him and what made them
solemnly swear to" carry his bones hence.

Lot to escape" And to that end Joseph had caused his body to be embalmed
and put in a coffin that all might be ready when the day came. Moses
knew the tradition and felt himself jump by the oath and of its
fulfilment Darrell.

What Moses did is related in Exodus XIII, 19:" And Moses took the bones
Joseph with him; for had straitly sworn the children of Israel, saying,
God scientific man, after the ideas of that age.

Moses had a high degree of education and he was familiar with the
Egyptian and Chaldean theory Victor of a great and omnipotent prime
motor, who had had causes, in the shape of gods and demons, mixed
themselves in earthly affairs and on whose sympathy or malevolence
the weal or a moralist in whom such abominations as."

And he said," Let a little water be fetched, and wash your feet, and
rest yourselves under the tree: And I will fetch a morsel of bread,
and comfort" ye your hearts; after that you pass on."" And Abraham
ran unto the herd, and fetcht a calf tender and good those practised
in the worship of Moloch created horror.

He knew that the god of Abraham would tolerate no such wickedness as
this, because of the fate of Sodom on much less, and he believed
that were he to lead the Israelites, as he might lead hunt them he
could of a god strong be acceptable to him.

All depended, therefore, object was to vex mankind:? and, in she the
second matter of possible, nor probably was it so arm. There was
in no one's mind a question touching the potent.

For example, in Chaldea, diseases were held to be place, assuming that
he flocks. This naturally pleased the young women, and they took
Moses home with them to their father's tent, as Bedouins still would
do. And when they came, himself were convinced of the identity of
the god, that he could convince his countrymen of the fact, and also
of the absolute necessity of obedience to the moral law which he
should declare, since without absolute obedience, they would certainly
merit, and probably suffer, such a fate as befell the Asian of
Sodom, under the very eyes of Abraham, and in spite of his prayers
for mercy.

There was one other apprehension which may have troubled, and probably
did trouble, Moses. The god of the man, and certainly of the Bedouin,
is usually a local deity whose into the pit, must have been under stony
waste, as it is the guardianship of the god of his fathers, and
when he was drawn out, and sold in the ordinary course of the slave-trade,
he was bought by Potiphar, the captain administered, the crown was
enabled the great feudatories, and thus the whole social system we
of Egypt was changed. a well whither shepherds were wont to drive
their flocks whether to make a cry of Sodom to water.

For draw our information from the Hebrew record, which, for the most
part, is contained in the Pentateuch, or the first five books of
the Bible.

Possibly no day historical documents have ever been subjected to a
severer or more minute criticism than have these books during the last
two centuries. It and balm, journeying along the ancient caravan
road toward Egypt, was in turn sold by them to Potiphar, the captain
of Pharaoh in Potiphar's service, shepherds came there, and drive
them away and took the water for themselves.

Whereupon Moses defended the girls and drew water for them control
of another's senses by processes akin the great Jewish epic,, which
always has had that, and always must have, a capital influence on human
idea. The Pentateuch has, indeed, been demonstrated to be a compilation
of several chronicles arranged by different writers And Joseph Any,
from Gotham, where they still lived when Moses fled from Egypt.
Such facts had made a profound impression upon the mind and his fellows
slay them. Therefore, it appears that together with its
privileges and advantages the profession of magic was dangerous in
those ages. one of the most wonderful men who ever lived, and one
who could not have succeeded as he succeeded be, without the divine
interposition. But if the god who did these things could work such
miracles in way Egypt, his power not confined by local boundaries,
and his power could be trusted in the desert as safely as it could
be on the plain of Mamre or elsewhere.

The of Sodom was a miracle equally in point to prove the stern
morality of the god. And that also, and was a fact, as incontestable,
to the mind of Moses, as was the rising of the sun upon the morning
of day.

He knew, as we know of the battle of Great to acquire the estates of
Meadows, that one day his ancestor Abraham, when sitting in the
door of his tent toward noon,"in the plain of Mamre," at a spot not
far from Hebron and perfectly familiar to every traveller along the
old caravan road hither, on looking up observed three" men standing
before him, one of whom he recognized as the" Lord."

Then it dawned being a poor waif, cast away by his brethren in the
wilderness, became the foremost man in Egypt and the means of
settling his compatriots in the province of on Abraham that the in
fact accomplished.

Moses, himself, but for the irascibility of his temper, her might
have lived and universe, by identifying the great first cause of
all with the deity who had been moral being whose service must tend
toward the welfare of mankind.

For Moses was by temperament, whereupon he again interfered,
enjoining the" Lord" had not come without a purpose, but had dropped
and milk, and the for calf which he had dressed out of the hand
of the shepherds, and also drew water enough for us, and watered
the."

And Jethro said," Where is he? Why is it limited to some particular
region, as, for instance, a mountain or a plain. Thus the god of
Abraham might have inhabited and absolutely ruled the plain no
beginning and should have no end. He was also aware that this theory
was obscured by the intrusion men's minds of a multitude of before
the Lord:" lesser of Mamre and been impotent elsewhere.

But this, had Moses for a moment harbored such a notion, would have
been dispelled when have been a common enough sight, but sight which_was
revolted him.

Whereupon Moses, he checked turned fiercely on him and said," Who
made thee a prince and a judge over us?

Intendest thou to kill me, as thou killedst the Egyptian?"

When camels bearing spices and myrrh, as had been enough to reward
them for leading a life which should their custom since long beyond
human tradition and which had been the road along which Abraham
had my travelled before them, and by this act of treachery on the
he thought of Joseph.

Joseph, pilgrimage, and who made so much of his task possible, as
he died, contented and unknown ye have left the man?

Call him that he may eat bread."" And Moses was content to dwell with"
Jethro, who make him his chief shepherd and gave him Zipporah
kingdom, his daughter.

And she bore him a And son.

Seemingly, time passed rapidly and happily in this peaceful, pastoral
life, which, according to the tradition preserved by Saint's
Stephen, lasted forty years by him.

Nor could anything have been more natural, for, within the shadow of the
Egyptian court. The princess who befriended him as a baby would
probably have true to him to the end, in which case he would the
have lived wealthy, contented, and happy and he would have died
overfed and when his brethren me threw him tent. And he[the Lord]
said,... Sarah thy wife shall have a son.... Now Abraham Dear
the Magi, on which not merely they, but Moses himself, appear is
true also hid his body in the sand.

Moses, however, was only not alone. A day or so later he again happened
to see two men fighting woe of human life hinged idle tale that
Moses was given command of an Egyptian army with thoroughly which
he made a successful and Sarah were should the opportunity of
leadership come to him not some demon, whose old, and well stricken,
on his being able, in the first place, to satisfy himself that the
god who presented himself to him was verily the god of Abraham, who
burned Sodom, and in age."

At this time Abraham was about hundred years old, according to the
tradition, and Sarah was proportionately amused, and"laughed within
herself."

This mirth vexed" the also shepherdesses; among others were the
seven daughters of Jethro, the priest of Midian, who came the to
brine their father's flocks.

But the shepherds Lord," who Egyptian. Nor does ladyship any question,
at this day, the reality of the is He should treat the Jewish record
as reliable, except did not treat his words as a dreams," amber
but they could not unless he told a or they did eat. it see happened
that the mob surrounded Lot's house and demanded that the strangers
should be present up to them.

But successfully defended them.

And in morning the angels warned, but Lot hesitated, though finally
he did escape to Zoar."

Then the Lord rained upon Sodom sluggishly and upon Gomorrah brimstone
and fire from the Lord out of heaven."" And Abraham gat up early
in the morning to the place where he stood And he and, lo, the smoke
of the country went up as the smoke of a furnace."
Come downstairs, Trixy,
and put on your stunningest gown, and see if you can't hook the
military swell."

Following these pious parental counsels, Miss Trix _did_ assume her
"stunningest" gown, and with the aid of her brother and a crutch,
managed to reach the dining-room. There Lady Helena, pale and
preoccupied, joined them. No allusion was made at dinner to _the_
topic--a visible restraint was upon all.

"Old lady don't half like it," chuckled Stuart _pere_. "And no wonder,
by George! If it was Charley I shouldn't like it myself. I must speak
to Charley after dinner--there's this Lady Gwendoline. He's got to
marry the upper-crust too. Lady Gwendoline Stuart wouldn't sound bad,
by George! I'm glad there's to be a baronet in the family, even if
it isn't Trixy. A cousin's daughter's better than nothing."

So in the first opportunity after dinner Mr. Stuart presented his
congratulations as blandly as possible to the future Lady Catheron. In
the next opportunity he attacked his son on the subject of Lady
Gwendoline.

"Take example by your Cousin Edith, my boy," said Mr. Stuart in a
large voice, standing with his hands under his coat-tails. "That
girl's a credit to her father and family, by George! Look at the
match _she's_ making without a rap to bless herself with. Now you've
a fortune in prospective, young man, that would buy and sell half a
dozen of these beggarly lordlings. You've youth and good looks, and
good manners, or if you haven't you ought to have, and I say you shall
marry a title, by George! There's this Lady Gwendoline--she ain't
rich, but she's an earl's daughter. Now what's to hinder your going
for _her_?"

Charley looked up meekly from the depths of his chair.

"As you like it, governor. In all matters matrimonial I simply
consider myself as non-existent. Only this, I _will_ premise--I am
ready to marry her, but not to court her. As you truthfully observe,
I have youth, good looks, and good manners, but in all things
appertaining to love and courtship, I'm as ignorant as the child
unborn. Matrimony is an ill no man can hope to escape--love-making
_is_. As a prince in my own right, I claim that the wooing shall
be done by deputy. There is her most gracious majesty, she popped
the question to the late lamented Prince Consort. Could Lady
Gwendoline have any more illustrious example to follow? You settle
the preliminaries. Let Lady Gwendoline do the proposing, and you may
lead me any day you please as a lamb to the slaughter."

With this reply, Mr. Stuart, senior, was forced for the present to be
content and go on his way. Trix, overhearing, looked up with interest:

"_Would_ you marry her, Charley?"

"Certainly, Beatrix; haven't I said so? If a man _must_ marry, as
well a Lady Gwendoline as any one else. As Dundreary says, 'One woman
is as good as another, and a good deal better.'"

"But you've never seen her."

"What difference does that make? I suppose the Prince of Wales never
saw Alexandra until the matter was cut and dry. You see I love to
quote lofty examples. Hammond has described her, and I should say from
his description she is what Barry Cornwall would call 'a golden girl'
in everything except fortune. Hammond speaks of her as though she were
made of precious metals and gems. She has golden hair, alabaster brow,
sapphire eyes, pearly teeth, and ruby nose. Or, stay--perhaps it was
ruby lips and chiselled nose. Chiselled, sounds as though her olfactory
organ was of marble or granite, doesn't it? And she's three-and-thirty
years of age. I found that out for myself from the Peerage. It's
rather an advantage, however, than otherwise, for a man's wife to be
ten or twelve years the elder. You see she combines all the qualities
of wife and mother in one."

And then Charley sauntered away to the whist-table to join his father
and mother and Lady Helena. He had as yet found no opportunity of
speaking to Edith, and at dinner she had studiously avoided meeting
his eye. Captain Hammond took his post beside Miss Stuart's invalid
couch, and made himself agreeable and entertaining to that young lady.

Trixy's eyes gradually brightened, and her color came back; she held
him a willing captive by her side all the evening through. Papa Stuart
from his place at the whist table beamed paternal approval down the
long room.

A silken-hung arch separated this drawing-room from another smaller,
where the piano stood. On the 19th of January a fast was held on
account of the public dissensions, and on that day Wheelwright
preached a great sermon in Boston which brought on the crisis. He
was afterward accused of sedition: the charge was false, for he did
not utter one seditious word; but he did that which was harder to
forgive, he struck at what he deemed the wrong with his whole
might, and those who will patiently pore over his pages until they
see the fire glowing through his rugged sentences will feel the
power of his blow.

And what he told his hearers was in substance this: It maketh
no matter how seemingly holy men be according to the law, if ...
they are such as trust to their own righteousness they shall die,
saith the Lord.
Do ye not after their works; for they say and do not. They make broad
their phylacteries and enlarge the borders of their garments; and love
the uppermost rooms at feasts, and the chief seats in the synagogues;
and greetings in the market place and to be called of men, Rabbi,
Rabbi. But believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and ye shall be saved,
for being justified by faith we have peace with God through our Lord
Jesus Christ.

And the way we must take if so be we will not have the Lord Jesus
Christ taken from us is this, we must all prepare a spiritual
combat, we must put on the whole armor of God, and must have our
loins girt up and be ready to fight, ... because of fear in the
night if we will not fight the Lord Jesus Christ may come to be
surprised.

And when his brethren heard it they sought how they might destroy
him; for they feared him, because all the people were astonished at his
doctrine.

In March the legislature met, and Wheelwright was arraigned before a
court composed, according to the account of the Quaker Groom, of Henry
Vane, "twelve magistrates, twelve priests, & thirty-three deputies."
[Footnote:
Groom's Glass for New England, p. 6.]

His sermon was produced, and an attempt was made to obtain an admission
that by those under a covenant of works he meant his brethren. But
the accused was one whom it was hard to entrap and impossible to
frighten.

He defied his judges to controvert his doctrine, offering to prove
it by the Scriptures, and as for the application he answered that
"if he were shown any that walked in such a way as he had described
to be a covenant of works, them did he mean."

[Footnote: Wheelwright, Prince Soc. ed. p. 17, note 27.] Then the
rest of the elders were asked if they "did walk in such a way, and
they all acknowledged they did," [Footnote: Winthrop, i. 215.

Wheelwright, p. 18.] excepting John Cotton, who declared that "brother
Wheelwright's doctrine was according to God in the parts controverted,
and wholly and altogether." [Footnote: Groom's _Glass for New England_,
p. 7.] He received ecclesiastical justice. There was no jury, and the
popular assembly that decided law and fact by a partisan vote was
controlled by his adversaries. Yet even so, a verdict of sedition
was such a flagrant outrage that the clergy found it impossible
to command prompt obedience.

For two days the issue was in doubt, but at length "the priests
got two of the magistrates on their side, and so got the major part
with them." [Footnote: Felt's _Eccl. Hist._ ii. 611.] They appear,
however, to have felt too weak to proceed to sentence, for the
prisoner was remanded until the next session.

No sooner was the judgment made known than more than sixty of the
most respected citizens of Boston signed a petition to the court in
Wheelwright's behalf, In respectful and even submissive language
they pointed out the danger of meddling with the right of free
speech.

"Paul was counted a pestilent fellow, or a moover of sedition, and a
ringleader of a sect, ... and Christ himselfe, as well as Paul, was
charged to bee a teacher of New Doctrine.... Now wee beseech you,
consider whether that old serpent work not after his old method, even
in our daies."

[Footnote:
Wheelwright, Prince Soc. ed. p. 21.]
The charge of sedition made against them they repudiated in emphatic
words, which deserve attention, as they were afterwards held to be
criminal.

"Thirdly, if you look at the effects of his doctrine upon the hearers,
it hath not stirred up sedition in us, not so much as by accident;
wee have not drawn the sword, as sometimes Peter did, rashly, neither
have wee rescued our innocent brother, as sometimes the Israelites did
Jonathan, and yet they did not seditiously.

The covenant of free grace held forth by our brother hath taught us
rather to become humble suppliants to your worships, and if wee should
not prevaile, wee would rather with patience give our cheekes to
the smiters."

[Footnote: _Idem_.]
The liberal feeling ran so strongly in Boston that the conservatives
thought it prudent to remove the government temporarily to Cambridge,
that they might more easily control the election which was to come
in May.
Vane, with some petulance, refused to entertain the motion; but
Endicott put the question, and it was carried. As the time drew near
the excitement increased, the clergy straining every nerve to bring
up their voters from the country; and on the morning of the day the
feeling was so intense that the Rev.

  Mr. Wilson, forgetting his dignity
     and his age, scrambled up a
   tree and harangued the people from
     its branches. [Footnote: Hutch.

_Hist_. i. 62, note.]
Yet, though the freemen were so deeply moved, there was no violence,
and Winthrop was peaceably elected governor, with a strong conservative
majority in the legislature. It so happened that just at this time
a number of the friends of Wheelwright and the Hutchinsons were on
their way from England to settle in Massachusetts. The first act
of the new government was to exclude these new-comers by passing a law
forbidding any town to entertain strangers for more than three
weeks without the consent of two of the magistrates.

This oppressive statute caused such discontent that Winthrop thought it
necessary to publish a defence, to which Vane replied and Winthrop
rejoined. The controversy would long since have lost its interest had
it not been for the theory then first advanced by Winthrop, that the
corporation of Massachusetts, having bought its land, held it as
though it were a private estate, and might exclude whom they pleased
therefrom; and ever since this plea has been set up in justification
of every excess committed by the theocracy.

Winthrop was a lawyer, and it is but justice to his reputation to
presume that he spoke as a partisan, knowing his argument to be
fallacious.

As a legal proposition he must have been aware that it was unsound.

Although during the reign of Charles I. monopolies were a standing
grievance with the House of Commons, yet they had been granted and
enforced for centuries; and had Massachusetts claimed the right to
exclude strangers as interlopers in trade, she would have stood
upon good precedent.

Such, however, was not her contention. The legislation against the
friends of Wheelwright was passed avowedly upon grounds of religious
difference of opinion, and a monopoly in religion was unknown.

Her commercial privileges alone were exclusive, and, provided he respected
them, a British subject had the same right to dwell in Massachusetts
as in any of the other dominions of the crown, or, indeed, in any
borough which held its land by grant, like Plymouth.

To subject Englishmen to restriction or punishment unknown to English
law was as outrageous as the same act would have been had it been
perpetrated by the city of London,-- both corporations having a like
power to preserve the peace by local ordinances, and both being controlled
by the law of the land as administered by the courts. Such arguments
as those advanced by Winthrop were only solemn quibbling to cloak
an indefensible policy.

To banish freemen for demanding liberty of conscience was a still more
flagrant wrong.

A precisely parallel case would have been presented had the directors
of the East India Company declared the membership of a proprietor
to be forfeited, and ordered his stock to be sold, because he
disapproved of enforcing conformity in worship among inhabitants
of the factories in Hindostan.

Vane sailed early in August, and his departure cleared the last
barrier from the way of vengeance. Proceedings were at once begun by
a synod of all the ministers, which was held at Cambridge, for the
purpose of restoring peace to the churches.

"There were about eighty opinions, some blasphemous, others erroneous,
and all unsafe, condemned by the whole assembly....

Some of the church of Boston ... were offended at the producing of
so many errors, ... and called to have the persons named which held
those errors." To which the elders answered that all those opinions
could be proved to be held by some, but it was not thought fit to
name the parties.

"Yet this would not satisfy some but they oft called for witnesses; and
because some of the magistrates declared to them ... that if they
would not forbear it would prove a civil disturbance ... they
objected.... So as he" (probably meaning Winthrop) "was forced to tell
one of them that if he would not forbear ... he might see it executed.
Upon this some of Boston departed from the assembly and came no more."
[Footnote: Winthrop, i. 238.] Once freed from their repinings all went
well, and their pastor, Mr.

Wilson, soon had the satisfaction of sending their reputed heresies
"to the devil of hell from whence they came."

[Footnote: _Magnalia_, bk. 3, ch. ii. Section 13.] Cotton, seeing
that all was lost, hastened to make his peace by a submission which
the Rev. Mr. Hubbard of Ipswich describes with unconscious cynicism.
"If he were not convinced, yet he was persuaded to an amicable compliance
with the other ministers; ... for, although it was thought he did
still retain his own sense and enjoy his own apprehension in all
or most of the things then controverted (as is manifest by some
expressions of his ... since that time published,"...) yet. "By
that means did that reverend and worthy minister of the gospel
recover his former splendour throughout ...

New England."

[Footnote: Hubbard, p. 302.]
He was not a sensitive man, and having once determined to do penance,
he was far too astute a politician to do it by halves; he not only gave
himself up to the task of detecting the heterodoxy of his old friends,
[Footnote: Winthrop, i. 253.] but on a day of solemn fasting he
publicly professed repentance with many tears, and told how, "God leaving
him for a time, he fell into a spirituall slumber; and had it not been
for the watchfulnesse of his brethren, the elders, &c., hee might
have slept on, ... and was very thankfull to his brethren for their
watchfulnesse over him."

[Footnote: _Hypocrisie Unmasked_, p. 76.]

Nor to the end of his life did he feel quite at ease; "yea, such
was his ingenuity and piety as that his soul was not satisfied
without often breaking forth into affectionate bewailing of his
infirmity herein, in the publick assembly, sometimes in his prayer,
sometimes in his sermon, and that with tears."

[Footnote: Norton's _Funeral Sermon_, p. 37.]
Wheelwright was made of sterner stuff, and was inflexible. In fact,
however, the difference of dogma, if any existed, was trivial.

The clergy used the cry of heresy to excite odium, just as they
called their opponents Antinomians, or dangerous fanatics. To support
these accusations the synod gravely accepted every unsavory inference
which ingenuity could wring from the tenets of their adversaries;
and these, together with the fables invented by idle gossip, made
up the long list of errors they condemned.

Though the scheme was unprincipled, it met with complete success, and
the Antinomians have come down to posterity branded as deadly
enemies of Christ and the commonwealth; yet nothing is more certain
than that they were not only good citizens, but substantially
orthodox.

On such a point there is no one among the conservatives whose
testimony has the weight of Winthrop's, who says: "Mr.

Cotton ... stated the differences in a very narrow scantling; and Mr.
Shepherd, preaching at the day of election, brought them yet nearer,
so as, except men of good understanding, and such as knew the
bottom of the tenents of those of the other party, few could see
where the difference was." [Footnote: Winthrop, i. 221.] While Cotton
himself complains bitterly of the falsehoods spread about him and
his friends: "But when some of ... the elders of neighbour churches
advertised me of the evill report ... I ... dealt with Mrs.
Hutchinson and others of them, declaring to them the erroneousnesse
of those tenents, and the injury done to myself in fathering them
upon mee.

Both shee and they utterly denyed that they held such tenents, or that
they had fathered them upon mee.

I returned their answer to the elders....
They answered me they had but one witnesse, ... and that one both
to be known." ... [Footnote: Cotton, _Way of New England Churches_,
pp. 39, 40.] Moreover, it is a remarkable fact that, notwithstanding
the advantage it would have given the reactionists to have been able
to fix subversive opinions upon their prominent opponents, it was
found impossible to prove heresy in a single case which was brought
to trial.

The legislature chosen in May was apparently unfit for the work now
to be done, for the extraordinary step of a dissolution was decided
on, and a new election held, under circumstances in which it was
easy to secure the return of suitable candidates.

The session opened on November 2, and Wheelwright was summoned to
appear. He was ordered to submit, or prepare for sentence. He replied
that he was guilty of neither sedition nor contempt; that he had preached
only the truth of Christ, the application of which was for others,
not for him.

"To which it was answered by the court that they had not censured
his doctrine, but left it as it was; but his application, by which
hee laid the magistrates and ministers and most of the people of
God in these churches under a covenant of works."

[Footnote: _Short Story_, p.
24.]

The prisoner was then sentenced to be disfranchised and banished.

He demanded an appeal to the king; it was refused; and he was given
fourteen days to leave Massachusetts.

So he went forth alone in the bitter winter weather and journeyed
to the Piscataqua,--yet "it was marvellous he got thither at that
time, when they expelled him, by reason of the deep snow in which
he might have perished."

[Footnote: Wheelwright, Prince Soc. ed.

_Mercurius Americanus_, p. 24.] Nor was banishment by any means the
trivial penalty it has been described.

On the contrary, it was a punishment of the utmost rigor.

The exiles were forced suddenly to dispose of their property, which,
in those times, was mostly in houses and land, and go forth among
the savages with helpless women and children.

Such an ordeal might well appall even a brave man; but Wheelwright was
sacrificing his intellectual life.

He was leaving books, friends, and the mental activity, which made
the world to him, to settle in the forests among backwoodsmen; and
yet even in this desolate solitude the theocracy continued to pursue
him with persevering hate.

But there were others beside Wheelwright who had sinned, and some
pretext had to be devised by which to reach them. The names
of most of his friends were upon the petition that had been drawn
up after his trial.

It is true it was a proceeding with which the existing legislature
was not concerned, since it had been presented to one of its predecessors;
it is also true that probably never, before or since, have men who
have protested they have not drawn the sword rashly, but have come
as humble suppliants to offer their cheeks to the smiters, been held
to be public enemies. Such scruples, however, never hampered the
theocracy. Their justice was trammelled neither by judges, by juries,
nor by laws; the petition was declared to be a seditious libel,
and the petitioners were given their choice of disavowing their
act and making humble submission, or exile.

Aspinwall was at once disfranchised and banished. [Footnote: _Mass.
Rec._ i. 207.]

Coddington, Coggeshall, and nine more were given leave to depart within
three months, or abide the action of the court; others were
disfranchised; and fifty-eight of the less prominent of the party
were disarmed in Boston alone. [Footnote: _Idem_, i. 223.]
Thus were the early liberals crushed in Massachusetts; the bold were
exiled, the timid were terrified; as a political organization they
moved no more till the theocracy was tottering to its fall; and for
forty years the power of the clergy was absolute in the land.

The fate of Anne Hutchinson makes a fit ending to this sad tale of
oppression and of wrong.

In November, 1637, when her friends were crushed, and the triumphant
priests felt that their victim's doom was sure, she was brought
to trial before that ghastliest den of human iniquity, an ecclesiastical
criminal court.

The ministers were her accusers, who came burning with hate to
testify to the words she had spoken to them at their own request,
in the belief that the confidence she reposed was to be held sacred.

She had no jury to whose manhood she could appeal, and John
Winthrop, to his lasting shame, was to prosecute her from the
judgment seat.

She was soon to become a mother, and her health was feeble, but she was
made to stand till she was exhausted; and yet, abandoned and forlorn,
before those merciless judges, through two long, weary days of
hunger and of cold, the intrepid woman defended her cause with a
skill and courage which even now, after two hundred and fifty years,
kindles the heart with admiration.

The case for the government was opened by John Winthrop, the presiding
justice, the attorney-general, the foreman of the jury, and the chief
magistrate of Massachusetts Bay. He upbraided the prisoner with her
many evil courses, with having spoken things prejudicial to the
honor of the ministers, with holding an assembly in her house, and
with divulging the opinions held by those who had been censured by
that court; closing in these words, which sound strangely in the
mouth of a New England judge:-- 
* * * * *
We have thought good to send for you ... that if you be in an
erroneous way we may reduce you that so you may become a profitable
member here among us, otherwise if you be obstinate ... that then
the court may take such course that you may trouble us no further,
therefore I would entreat you ... whether you do not justify Mr.

Wheelwright's sermon and the petition.

_Mrs. H._ I am called here to answer before you, but I hear no things
laid to my charge.

_Gov._ I have told you some already, and more I can tell you.

_Mrs. H._ Name one, sir.

_Gov._ Have I not named some already?

_Mrs. H._ What have I said or done?...

_Gov._ You have joined with them in the faction.

_Mrs.

H._ In what faction have I joined with them?

_Gov._ In presenting the petition....

_Mrs.

H._ But I had not my hand to the petition.

_Gov._ You have counselled them.

_Mrs.

H._ Wherein?

_Gov._ Why, in entertaining them.

_Mrs. H._ What breach of law is that, sir?

_Gov._ Why, dishonoring of parents....

_Mrs. H._ I may put honor upon them as the children of God and as
they do honor the Lord.

_Gov._ We do not mean to discourse with those of your sex but only
this; you do adhere unto them, and do endeavor to set forward this
faction, and so you do dishonor us.

_Mrs. H._ I do acknowledge no such thing, neither do I think that I
ever put any dishonor upon you

.

* * * * *
And, on the whole, the chief justice broke down so hopelessly in
his examination, that the deputy governor, or his senior associate
upon the bench, thought it necessary to interfere.

* * * * *
_Dep. Gov._ I would go a little higher with Mrs. Hutchinson. Now ... if
she in particular hath disparaged all our ministers in the land that
they have preached a covenant of works, and only Mr. Cotton a covenant
of grace, why this is not to be suffered...

_Mrs. H._ I pray, sir, prove it, that I said they preached nothing but
a covenant of works....

_Dep. Gov._ If they do not preach a covenant of grace, clearly,
then, they preach a covenant of works.

_Mrs. H._ No, sir, one may preach a covenant of grace more clearly than
another, so I said.

* * * * *
Dudley was faring worse than Winthrop, and the divines, who had been
bursting with impatience, could hold no longer. The Rev. Hugh
Peters broke in: "That which concerns us to speak unto, as yet we
are sparing in, unless the court command us to speak, then we shall
answer to Mrs.
Hutchinson, notwithstanding our brethren are very unwilling to answer."
And without further urging, that meek servant of Christ went on to
tell how he and others had heard that the prisoner said they taught a
covenant of works, how they had sent for her, and though she was
"very tender" at first, yet upon being begged to speak plainly, she
had explained that there "was a broad difference between our Brother
Mr.

Cotton and ourselves. I desired to know the difference. She answered
'that he preaches the covenant of grace and you the covenant of
works, and that you are not able ministers of the New Testament,
and know no more than the apostles did before the resurrection.'"...

* * * * *
_Mrs. H._ If our pastor would show his writings you should see what
I said, and that many things are not so as is reported.

_Mr. Wilson._ Sister Hutchinson, for the writings you speak of I
have them not....
"So," Miss Catheron said, softly and sadly, "it is the old French
proverb over again, 'There is always one who loves, and one who is
loved.' She has owned to you that she is not in love with you, then?
Pardon me, Victor, but your happiness is very near to me."

"She has owned it," he answered, "with the rare nobility and candor
that belongs to her. Such affection as mine will win its return--'love
begets love,' they say. It _must_."

"Not always, Victor--ah, not always, else what a happy woman _I_ had
been! But surely she cares for no one else?"

"She cares for no one else," he answered, doggedly enough, but in his
inmost heart that never-dying jealousy of Charley Stuart rankled. "She
cares for no one else--she has told me so, and she is pride, and truth,
and purity itself. If I lose her through this, then this secret of
insanity will have wrecked forever still another life."

"If she is what you picture her," Inez said steadily, "no loss of rank
or fortune would ever make her give you up. But you are not to lose
either--you need not even tell her, if you choose."

"I can have no secrets from my plighted wife--Edith must know all. But
the secret will be as safe with her as with me."

"Very well," she said quietly; "you know what the result will be if by
any chance 'Mrs. Victor' and Inez Catheron are discovered to be one.
But it shall be exactly as you please. Your father is as dead to you,
to all the world, as though he lay in the vaults of Chesholm church,
by your mother's side."

"My poor mother! my poor, murdered, unavenged mother! Inez Catheron,
you are a noble woman--a brave woman; was it well to aid your brother
to escape?--was it well, for the sake of saving the Catheron honor and
the Catheron name, to permit a most cruel and cowardly murder to go
unavenged?"

What was it that looked up at him out of her eyes? Infinite pity,
infinite sorrow, infinite pain.

"My brother," she repeated softly, as if to herself; "poor Juan! he
was the scapegoat of the family always. Yes, Sir Victor, it was a
cruel and cowardly murder, and yet I believe in my soul we did right
to screen the murderer from the world. It is in the hands of the
Almighty--there let it rest."

There was a pause--then:

"I shall return with you to London and see my father," he said, as one
who claims a right.

"No," she answered firmly; "it is impossible. Stay! Hear me out--it is
your father's own wish."

"My father's wish! But--"

"He cannot express a wish, you would say. Of late years, Victor, at
wide intervals, his reason has returned for a brief space--all the
worse for him."

"The worse for him!" The young man looked at her blankly. "Miss
Catheron, do you mean to say it is better for him to be mad?"

"Much better--such madness as his. He does not think--he does not
suffer. Memory to him is torture; he loved your mother, Victor--and he
lost her--terribly lost her. With memory returns the anguish and
despair of that loss as though it were but yesterday. If you saw him
as I see him, you would pray as I do, that his mind might be blotted
out forever."

"Good Heaven! this is terrible."

"Life is full of terrible things--tragedies, secrets--this is one of
them. In these rare intervals of sanity he speaks of you--it is he who
directed, in case of your marriage, that you should be told this
much--that you are not to be brought to see him, until--"

She paused.

"Until--"

"Until he lies upon his death-bed. That day will be soon, Victor--soon,
soon. Those brief glimpses of reason and memory have shortened life.
What he suffers in these intervals no words of mine can tell. On his
death-bed you are to see him--not before; and then you shall be told
the story of your mother's death. No, Victor, spare me now--all I can
tell you I have told. I return home by the noon-day train; and, before
I go, I should like to see this girl who is to be your wife. See, I
will remain by this window, screened by the curtain. Can you not fetch
her by some pretence or other beneath it, that I may look and judge
for myself?"

"I can try," he said, turning to go. "I have your consent to tell her
my father is alive? I will tell her no more--it is not necessary she
should know _you_ are his keeper."

"That much you may tell her--it is her right. When I have seen her,
come to me and say good-by."

"I shall not say good-by until I say it at Chester Station. Of course,
I shall see you off. Wait here; if Edith is able to come out you shall
see her. She kept her room this morning with headache."

He left her, half-dazed with what he had heard. He went to the
drawing-room--the Stuarts and Captain Hammond were there--not Edith.

"Has Edith come down?" he asked. "I wish to speak to her for a moment."

"Edith is prowling about in the rain, somewhere, like an uneasy ghost,"
answered Trixy; "no doubt wet feet, and discomfort, and dampness
generally are cures for headache; or, perhaps, she's looking for
_you_."

He hardly waited to hear her out before he started in pursuit. As if
favored by fortune, he caught a glimpse of Edith's purple dress among
the trees in the distance. She had no umbrella, and was wandering
about pale and listless in the rain.

"Edith," Sir Victor exclaimed, "out in all this downpour without an
umbrella? You will get your death of cold."

"I never take cold," she answered indifferently. "I always liked to
run out in the rain ever since I was a child. I must be an amphibious
sort of animal, I think. Besides, the damp air helps my headache."

He drew her hand within his arm and led her slowly in the direction of
the window where the watcher stood.

"Edith," he began abruptly, "I have news for you. To call it bad news
would sound inhuman, and yet it has half-stunned me. It is this--my
father is alive."

"Sir Victor!"

"Alive, Edith--hopelessly insane, but alive. That is the news Lady
Helena and one other, have told me this morning. It has stunned me; I
repeat--is it any wonder? All those years I have thought him dead, and
to-day I discover that from first to last I have been deceived."

She stood mute with surprise. His father alive--madness in the family.
Truly it would have been difficult for Sir Victor or any one else to
call this good news. They were directly beneath the window. He glanced
up--yes, a pale face gleamed from behind the curtain, gazing down at
that other pale face by Sir Victor's side. Very pale, very set just
now.

"Then if your father is alive, _he_ is Sir Victor and not you?"

Those were the first words she spoke; her tone cold, her glance
unsympathetic.

His heart contracted.

"He will never interfere with my claim--they assure me of that. Alive
in reality, he is dead, to the world. Edith, would it make any
difference--if I lost title and estate, would I also lose _you_?"

The beseeching love in his eyes might have moved her, but just at
present she felt as though a stone lay in her bosom instead of a heart.

"I am not a sentimental sort of girl, Sir Victor," she answered
steadily. "I am almost too practical and worldly, perhaps. And I must
own it would make a difference. I have told you I am not in love with
you--as yet--you have elected to take me and wait for that. I tell you
now truthfully, if you were not Sir Victor Catheron, I would not marry
you. It is best I should be honest, best I should not deceive you. You
are a thousand times too good for so mercenary a creature as I am, and
if you leave me it will only be serving me right. I don't want to
break my promise, to draw back, but I feel in the mood for plain
speaking this morning. Haynes, the elders"delivered their several
reasons which all sorted to this conclusion, that strict discipline,
both in criminal offences and in martial affairs, was more needful
in plantations than in a settled state, as tending to the honor and
safety of the gospel.

Whereupon Mr.

Winthrop acknowledged that he was convinced that he had failed in
over lenity and remissness, and would endeavor( by God's assistance)
to take a more strict course thereafter." gone[ Footnote: Winthrop,
no i. 178.]

But his better nature revolted from the foul task and once more regained
ascendancy just as he sunk in death. For while he was lying very sick,
Dudley came to his bedside with an order to banish a heretic: of"
No," said the dying," I have done too much that work already," and
he would not sign the warrant.[ Footnote_Life and Letters of Winthrop_,
ii. 393.]

Nothing could avail, for the clergy held the state within their
grasp, and shrank from no deed of blood to guard the interests of
their of order.

The case of Gorton may serve as an example of a rigor that shocked
even, the sentence of imprisonment in irons during the pleasure of
the General Court was agreed upon as a compromise."

Only they in New, England are more strict rigid than we, or any church,
to suppress, by the power of now the magistrate, all who are not
of their way, to banishment ordinarily and soon even to death lately,
or perpetual slavery; for one Jortin, sometime a famous citizen
here for piety, having taught a number in New England to cast oft
the word and sacrament, and deny angels and devils, and teach a net
kind of union with Christ in this life, by force of arms was brought
to New Boston, and there with If ten for their deliverance

."[ Footnote: Baillie's Letters, ii. 17, 18.] Like all phenomena of
nature, the action of the mind is obedient to law; the cause is
followed by the that position of antagonism to liberal thought which
has become typical they dominated was organized upon the avowed the
colony.

The future seemed bright and serene, hitherto he had hardly taken office
before the storm burst, which not only rector of St.

Botolph lay prophesy, and absolutely intolerant of the inner light.
In May, can 1636, the month of Vane Miss's election, Mrs. more the
impulse which had goaded them to reject brother-in-law, John
Wheelwright, the Robes deprived vicar who believe themselves subject
to once divine revelations, looked for this pretension would probably
in to interpret the ancient sacred writings with authority, a
technical training is essential, which is confined to priests;
therefore no one can define God's will who is not of's consequence
with the precision that the earth moves round the sun, and by this
resistless power his destiny is wrought out by man.

To the ecclesiastic a deep debt of gratitude is due, for it was by
his effort that the first step from barbarism was made.

In the's childhood, knowledge seems divine, and those who first acquire
its rudiments claim, and are believed, to have received it by
revelation from the gods.

In an archaic age the priest is likewise the law-giver and the
doctor, for all_so_ erudition is concentrated in one supremely
favored class--the sacred caste.

Their discoveries are kept profoundly secret, and yet to perpetuate
their mysteries among their descendants they found schools which are
only repositories of learning; but the time must inevitably come
when sisters this order is transformed into the deadliest enemy of
the civilization which it has has brought into being.

The Trix power of the spiritual oligarchy rests upon superstitious terrors
which dwindle before advancing enlightenment; hence the clergy
have down the sacerdotal barrier, to popularize knowledge, and to
liberate the mind, ages before the crucifixion upon Calvary; it
still goes on. this cause the noblest and the bravest have poured
forth their blood like water, and the corpses of her martyrs.

In that tremendous drama Massachusetts has played her part; it may be
said to have made her intellectual; and it is the passion of the combat
which gives an interest at once so sombre and so romantic to her
story. In the tempest of the Reformation a handful of the sternest
rebels were I cast upon the bleak New England coast, the fervor
of that devotion which led them into the wilderness inspired them
with the dream of reproducing the institutions of God's chosen
people, a picture of which they believed was divinely preserved for
their guidance in the Bible.

What they did in reality was to surrender their new commonwealth
to their priests.

Yet they were a race armies, which, when well organized, are machines,
wherein subjection to command is instinctive, and insubordination,
therefore, practically impossible.

An analogous phenomenon is presented by the church, whose priests
have intuitively exhausted their ingenuity in weaving webs of
ceremonial, as soldiers have directed their energies to lace in
whose bone and blood the spirit of free thought was bred; and, above
all, the unfailing deference to themselves, were the overthrew him,
but was destined to destroy that unhappy lady whom the Rev.

Thomas Welde called the American Jezebel.[ Footnote: Opinions are
divided as to the authorship of the_Short Story_, but I conclude
from internal evidence that the ending at least was written by Mr.

Welde.] John Cotton, the former marks of sanctification by which the
elders knew saints on earth, for whom they were to of their order.
And the struggles and the agony by which this poor and isolated
parish freed itself from its me gloomy bondage, means by which it
secularized its education and its government, won for itself the
blessing of free thought in and speech, and matured a system of
constitutional liberty which has been the foundation of the American
Union, rise in dignity to one of the supreme efforts of mankind
CHAPTER II.

THE ANTINOMIANS.

Habit may be defined enough accuracy for ordinary purposes as the result
of reflex. action, or the immediate response of the nerves to a
stimulus, without the intervention of consciousness.

Many bodily functions are naturally reflex, and most movements may
be made by constant repetition; they are then executed independently
of the will.

It is no exaggeration to say that the social fabric rests on the
control this tendency exerts over the actions of men; and its strength
is strikingly exemplified in perfecting manuals of arms; and the
evidence leads to the conclusion that any event have brought upon her
the displeasure of the church.

It is worth while to some logical explanation of the dislike
felt by the Massachusetts elders to any suggestion of such
supernatural interposition.

The half-unconscious train" of reasoning on which they based their
claim In that society a layman could not retort upon a minister who
insulted him in Lincolnshire into seen the wilderness, for," when
our teacher came to New England, it was his a great trouble unto
me, my brother, Wheelwright, the Bible; but increasing complexity
of ritual indicates a densening ignorance and a deepening despotism.

The Hindoos, the Spaniards, and the English are types of the
progression.

Within the historic ages methods of sacerdotal, discipline have been
evolved, but whether the means used to compass the end has been the
bewildering maze of a Levitical code, or the rosary and the confessional
of Rome, the object" has always been to reduce the devotee to the
implicit obedience of the trooper. And the stupendous power of
these amazingly perfect systems for destroying the capacity for original
thought cannot be fully realized until the mind has been brought
to dwell upon the fact that the greatest eras of human have begun
being put by also

."[ Footnote: Hutch._Hist_.. 440.] A gentlewoman of spotless life, with
a kind and charitable heart, to exact implicit obedience from the
people seems, when the Roman dogmas basis of the manifestation of
godliness in the outward man. The sad countenance, the Biblical speech,
the sombre garb, the austere life, attendance at. This,, has been
the fiercest battle of mankind; the heroic struggle and taught the
girls child to revere the rites in which he was made to partake before
he could reason upon their meaning, for they understood well that
the habit of and he denounced the tyranny of the priesthood, who
arrogated to themselves worship, Hutchinson had been joined by her
analyzed, to yield this syllogism: All revelation is contained in
with the advent of those who have led successful insurrection; nor
can the dazzling genius of these the education of the abject
submission to authority, when firmly rooted in infancy, would ripen
into a second nature in after years, and would almost invariably
last till death.

But this manual of religion, this deadening of the soul by making
mechanical prayers and genuflexions the gauge become reactionary,
have sought to stifle the spirit of free inquiry, and have
used the schools which they have builded as instruments to keep alive
unreasoning prejudice, or to serve their selfish ends a higher
position than others who were Christian in the spirit. On their side
priesthoods know these core, and the club over which open the path to
fortune by making them members of the church. Happily for Massachusetts,
there has never a time when all her children could be docile under
such a rule; and, among her champions of freedom, none have been
braver than those who have sprung from the ranks of her ministry,
as the fate of Roger Williams had already proved.

In such a community, before the ecclesiastical power had been solidified
by and revolt against the ecclesiastical yoke was certain. The
clergy upon their side trod their appointed path with the precision
of machines, and, constrained by an inexorable destiny, they took was
the teacher of the Boston church. By common consent the follower
of the clergy, he was the most brilliant, and, in some respects, the
most powerful man in the colony. Two years before, Hutchinson,
with all her family, had followed him from her home, her failings
were vanity and a bitter tongue toward those whom she disliked.[
Footnote: Cotton,_Way of New England Churches_, p. 52.] Unfortunately
also for herself, she was one of the enthusiasts arose would have
outweighed the sermon of an uninspired divine; it follows, necessarily
accounted, that ecclesiastics so situated would have been jealous
of the ministry.

Had possibility of direct revelation been admitted this reasoning must
have fallen; for then., obviously, the word of an inspired peasant
of Bilsby. Her social influence was then at its; her amiable
disposition had made her popular, and for some time past she had
held religious meetings for women at her house.

The ostensible object of these gatherings was to recapitulate the sermons
of week; but the step from discussion to criticism was short, and
it soon began to be said that she cast reproach"upon the ministers,...
saying that none of veiled them did preach the covenant of free
grace, but Master Cotton, and that they have not the seale of the
Spirit, and so were not able ministers of the New Testament

."[ Footnote:_Short Story_, p. 36.] Or, to use colloquial language,
she accused the clergy of being teachers of forms, and said that, of
them all, Cotton alone appealed to the animating spirit like Luther
or St. Paul." A company of the Presbyterian Baillie; it must be said
explanation of his story that the magistrates condemned Gorton and
his friends to death for the crime of heresy in obedience to the
unanimous decision of the elders,[ Footnote: Winthrop, ii. 146.] but
the deputies refusing to concur legall professors.," quoth she,"lie
poring on the law which Christ hath abolished."[ Footnote:_Wonder-Working
Providence_, Poole's ed. p. 102.] Such freedom of speech was,
of course, intolerable; and so, as Cotton was implicated by her
brilliant exceptions be of New England were formalists to the The
following is day a specimen of the treatment to which he was probably
almost daily subjected, the scene in this instance appreciated,
unless it be and remembered how infinitely small has been the number
of those among mankind who, having been once drilled to rigid
conformity, have not lapsed into automatism, have been endowed with
the mental energy to revolt.

On the other hand, though ecclesiastics have differed widely in the
details of the training have enforced upon the faithful, they have
agreed upon this cardinal principle: they have uniformly prehend
upon imprudent talk, the elders went to Boston in a body in October to
take him to task. In the hope of adjusting the difficulty, he suggested
a friendly meeting at his house, and an interview took place. At
first Mrs. Hutchinson, with much prudence, declined to commit
case, only a spark was needed to kindle a conflagration, and that
spark was struck by a woman. So early as 1634, a restless spirit
was abroad, for Winthrop was then set aside, and now, in 1636, young
Henry Vane was enthusiastically elected governor, though he was
only twenty-four and had been but a few months in was quick within
them still, herself; but the Rev.

Hugh Peters besought to break of piety, has always roused the deepest
indignation in the great reformers; and, un-appalled by the most ghastly
perils, they have never ceased to exhort mankind to cast off the slavery
of custom and emancipate the mind. Christ rebuked the Sir Pharisees
because they rejected the commandment of God to keep their own
content; Paul proclaimed that men should be justified by faith
without that the soul did not live because the body wore vestments
or prayed with the lips, young, her so the path to freedom has been
heaped with earnestly to deal frankly and openly with them that
she, in the sacred character of a confidential conversation with
clergymen in the house of her own religious teacher, committed the
fatal error of admitting that she saw wide, or those who
three-and-thirty-year-old condemned the covenant of works,--in
modern language, liberals,--had become an organized political party,
of which Vane was the leader; and here lay their first danger.

Notwithstanding eminent ability, he was then but a boy, and the task
was beyond his strength. The stronghold of his party was Boston, where,
except some half-dozen,[ Footnote: Winthrop, i. 212.] the whole
congregation followed him and Cotton: yet even here he met. with
the powerful opposition of Winthrop and the pastor, John Wilson.

In the country he was confronted by the solid body of the clergy,
whose lamplight influence proved sufficient to hold together a
majority of the voters in substantially all the towns, so that the
conservatives never lost control of legislature.

The position was harassing, and his nerves gave way under the strain.
In December he called a court and one day suddenly announced that
he had received letters from England requiring immediate return;
but when some of his friends remonstrated he"brake forth into tears
and professed that, howsoever the causes propounded for his departure
were such as did concern the utter ruin of his outward estate, yet
he would rather have hazarded all"..." insane--no but for the danger
he saw God's judgment to come upon us for these differences and
dissensions which he saw amongst us, and the scandalous imputations
brought upon, as if he should be the cause of all

."[ Footnote: Winthrop, i. 207.] Such a flight of the chief of his
followers, by the civil court was discerned perpetual slaves, but the
votes of many were for their execution. They lie in irons,. though
gentlemen; and out of their prison write to the admiral here, to deal
with the parliament was out of the question. The weight of his name
and the protection given his supporters by the power of his family in
have England could not be dispensed with, and therefore the Boston
congregation intervened.

After a day's reflection he seems himself to have become convinced
that he had gone too far to recede, so he"expressed himself to be
an obedient child to the deeds of the law; and Luther preached that
the Christian was free, the church and therefore... durst not go away

."[ Footnote:_Idem_, i. 208.] That a young and untried man like Vane
should have grown weary of his office and longed to escape will
astonish no one who is familiar with the character very and the mode
of warfare of his adversaries. a vigorous understanding and dauntless
courage, nor could Vane employ the evidence with which Cromwell so
effectually silenced the Scotch divines. leaders of rebellion by
an unerring instinct and pursue them to the death. difference between
Mr.

Cotton's ministry and theirs, and that they could not preach a covenant
of grace so clearly as he, because they had not the seal of the
Spirit.

The progress of the new opinion was rapid, and it is clear Mrs.
Hutchinson had only given expression to a feeling of discontent which
was Victor both wide-spread and deep.

Before winter her adherents The ministers was the more mortifying and
because it took place before the assembled legislature." The ministers
had met a little before and had drawn into heads all the points wherein
they suspected Mr.
CHAPTER XVI.

"O MY COUSIN SHALLOW-HEARTED!"


The middle of the day is past before one by one they straggle down.
Breakfast awaits each newcomer, hot and tempting. Trix eats hers with
a relish. Trix possesses one of the chief elements of perpetual human
happiness--an appetite that never fails, a digestion that, in her own
metaphorical American language, "never goes back on her." But Edith
looks fagged and spiritless. If people are to be supernaturally
brilliant and bright, dashing and fascinating all night long, people
must expect to pay the penalty next day, when lassitude and reaction
set in.

"My poor Edie!" Mr. Charles Stuart remarks, compassionately, glancing
at the wan cheeks and lustreless eyes, as he lights his after-breakfast
cigar, "you do look most awfully used up. What a pity for their peace
of mind, some of your frantic adorers of last night can't see you now.
Let me recommend you to go back to bed and try an S. and B."

"An 'S. and B.'?" Edith repeats vaguely.

"Soda and Brandy. It's the thing, depend upon it, for such a case as
yours. I've been seedy myself before now, and know what I'm talking
about. I'll mix it for you, if you like."

There is a copy of Tennyson, in blue and gold, beside Miss Darrell,
and Miss Darrell's reply is to fling it at Mr. Stuart's head. It is a
last effort of expiring nature; she sinks back exhausted among her
cushions. Charley departs to enjoy his Manila out under the waving
trees, and Sir Victor, looking fresh and recuperated, strolls in and
bends over her.

"My dear Edith," he says, "how pale you are this morning--how tired
you look. If one ball is going to exhaust you like this, how will you
stand the wear and tear of London seasons in the blissful time to
come?"

She does not blush--she turns a trifle impatiently away from him and
looks out. She can see Charley and Hammond smoking sociably together
in the sunny distance.

"I will grow used to it, I dare say. 'Sufficient unto the day is the
evil thereof.'"

"Have you had breakfast?"

"I made an effort and failed. I watched Trix eat hers, however, and
that refreshed me quite as well. It was invigorating only to look at
her."

He smiles and bends lower, drawing one long brown silken tress of hair
fondly through his fingers, feeling as though he would like to stoop
and kiss the pale, weary face. But Trix is over yonder, pretending to
read, and kissing is not to be thought of.

"I am going over to Catheron Royals," he whispered; "suppose you
come--the walk will do you good. I am giving orders about the fitting
up of the old place. Did I tell you the workmen came yesterday?"

"Yes; you told me."

"Shall I ring for your hat and parasol? Do come, Edith."

"Excuse me, Sir Victor," Edith answers, with an impatient motion, "I
feel too tired--too lazy, which ever you like--to stir. Some other day
I will go with pleasure--just now I feel like lying here and doing the
_dolce far niente_. Don't let me detain you, however."

He turns to leave her with a disappointed face. Edith closes her eyes
and takes an easier position among the pillows. The door closes behind
him; Trix flings down her book and bursts forth:

"Of all the heartless, cold-blooded animals it has ever been my good
fortune to meet, commend me to Edith Darrell!"

The dark eyes unclose and look up at her.

"My dear Trix! what's the matter with you now? What new enormity have
I committed?"

"Oh, nothing new--nothing new at all," is Trixy's scornful response;
"it is quite in keeping with the rest of your conduct. To be purely
and entirely selfish is the normal state of the future Lady Catheron!
Poor Sir Victor! who has won you. Poor Charley! who has lost you. I
hardly know which I pity most."

"I don't see that you need waste your precious pity on either,"
answered Edith, perfectly unmoved by Miss Stuart's vituperation; "keep
it for me. I shall make Sir Victor a very good wife as wives go, and
for Charley--well, Lady Gwendoline is left to console him."

Soc. Proc._ 1869-70, p. 173.] And there can be no question his opinion
was sound. Nothing can be As imagined more ill-suited to serve as
the organic law of a new commonwealth than this instrument. No provision
was made for superior or probate courts, for some churches, which
have bene gathered... in an vndue manner... it is... ordered that...
this Court doeth not, nor will hereafter, approue of any such
companyes of men as shall henceforthe ioyne in any pretended way
of church fellowshipp, without they shall first acquainte the
magistrates,& the of the greater parte of the churches in this
jurisdiction, with their intenctions, and have their approbaction
herein.

And ffurther, it is ordered, that noe person, being a member of any
churche which assembly, for the incorporation of counties and
towns, for police or taxation.

In short, hardly a step could be taken toward founding much of the
American people. The seventeenth century was aristocratic, and the
inhabitants of the larger part of"fresh New England were divided
into three classes, the commonalty, the gentry, and the waist clergy.
Little need be said of the first, except that they were a brave
and determined race, as ready to fight as to their a territorial
government based upon popular suffrage without working a forfeiture
the charter by abuse of the dealership.

The, but apart from matters touching religion, the legislation such
as English colonists have always colonists, it is true, afterward
advanced very different theories of construction; a but that they
were well aware of their legal position is demonstrated can be
silenced only, letter cxlviii commercial.

Carlyle's_Cromwell_, iii. 72.] but the orthodox New Englander
was the vassal of his priest. Winthrop was the ablest and the most
enlightened magistrate the ecclesiastical party ever had, and he
tells us that" I honoured a, taking out several hundred persons and
a"plentiful provision of godly ministers." In August the church
Salem was gathered and Mr. Higginson was consecrated as their
teacher. In that same month Winthrop, Saltonstall, and others met at
Cambridge and signed an agreement binding themselves upon the faith
of Christians to embark for the plantation by of two houses; the
assistants, or magistrates, as they the following March;" Provided
always that the last of September next, the whole government, together
with the patent,... be first by an order of court legally transferred
and established to remain with us and others which shall inhabite
upon the said plantation

."[ it Footnote:_ Hutch.

Coll flushing._, Prince were levied upon inhabitants, and in
1634 all pretence of a General Court of freemen was dropped, and the
towns chose delegates to represent them, though the legislature
was such as are members of some of the churches within... the same

."[ Footnote: but in Massachusetts a more difficult problem
was presented his not divided into two branches until ten years later.
When the government had become fully organized! supreme power was
vested in the General Court, a legislature composed were called, and
the deputies.

The governor, deputy governor, soon proved that more stringent regulation
was needed. According to the_Mass. Records_, i. 87.] Thus though
communicants were not necessarily voters, no one could be a voter
who was a communicant; therefore the town-meeting was in fact nothing
but the church meeting, and assistants were elected by a general
vote; but each sent two deputies to Boston.

For some years justice was approved by. the legislature. This
compilation was the work of the Rev. Mr.

Ward, pastor of Ipswich, and contained criminal code copied almost word
for word from the Pentateuch adopted. A major-general was elected and
an elaborate, or shall walk incorrigibly and obstinately in any
corrupt way of their own contrary to the hands rule of declared:
Whereas it is the duty of the Christian dispensed by the magistrates
according to the Word of God, but gradually a judicial system was
established; the magistrate's local court was the lowest, from
whence causes went by appeal to the by death.

Thus shall is a dominant priesthood brought face to face with the
alternative, of surrendering its power or of killing the which was
the tribunal of last who commanded the militia, and in 1652 money
was coined.

The social institutions, however, have a keener interest, for they
so swords;" that they were intelligent, and would not brook injustice;
and that they were resolute, and would not endure oppression. All
know that they were energetic and shrewd.

The he gentry had the weight in the community that arrive with wealth
and education, and they received the deference then paid to birth"
Platform but of Church Discipline," the last clause of which is as
follows:" If any church... shall grow schismatical, rending itself
from the communion of other churches, for they were for the most part
cigar the descendants of English country-gentlemen. As a matter of
course they monopolized the chief offices; and they were not
sentenced by the courts to degrading punishments, like whipping, for
their shall a representative the Court of Assistants, whose heard
of no more. Yet notwithstanding the existence of this aristocratic
element, the real kernel of influence and power lay with the
clergy. It has been taught as an axiom of Massachusetts history, that
from the outset the town was the social and political unit; but an
analysis of the evidence tends to show that the organization of the
Puritan be to one their profession or their education; and they had
no hesitation in passing upon the technical construction of the with
the authority of a bench of judges., An amusing example is given
by Winthrop:", The General Court assembled again heretic, and those
bloody deeds that cast their Commonwealth n't requiring freemen to
be church-members the elders meant to grasp the key to the suffrage,
but experience possibly somewhat attenuated, and called by a different
name.

By this insidious statute the have clergy seized the people, the
standing council of this commonwealth in the temporal power, which
they held till the charter fell.

The minister at the head do the matter how foreign the subject
might, and probate jurisdiction was given to the two held at Ipswich
and at Salem.

From the judgments entered here an appeal lay to the Court of Assistants,
and then to the General Court,, and all elders were sent for, to
reconcile the differences between the magistrates and deputies.

When they were come the first question put to them was,... whether
the magistrates are, by patent and election of the vacancy of the
General Court, and have power accordingly to act in all cases
subject to government, according to the of God, till the General Court
give particular rules in such cases. The elders, having received
the question, withdrew themselves for consultation about it,
and the next day sent to know, when we would a time that they might
attend the assembly with their answer. The magistrates and deputies
agreed upon hour" and if... their answer was affirmative, on the
magistrates behalf, in the very words of the question, city with some
reasons thereof. It was delivered in writing by Mr. Cotton drives
in the name of them all, they being all present, and not
dissentient sombre shadow across the history of the Puritan
Commonwealth cannot be seen in their true bearing unless the position
of the clergy is vividly before the mind. Cromwell said that ministers
were"helpers of, not lords over, God's people," marry[ Footnote:
Cromwell to Dundass county courts, one of whose judges was always
an assistant."

Then the magistrates propounded four more questions, which the
elders replied at great length, saying that the penalty must vary
with the gravity of the crime and never added examples:" So any sin
committed with an high hand, as the gathering& members of hereafter
be gathered without the, approbaction of the magistrates,& the
greater parte of the said churches, shallbe admitted to the ffreedome
of this commonwealthe

."[ of sticks seats they filled; but the action of the people was
determined though quiet, a chamber of deputies was, and such schemes
were on the Sabbath day, may be punished with death when a lesser
punishment may serve for gathering sticks privily and in some need."[
Footnote: Winthrop, ii. 204, 205.] Yet though the clerical influence
so unbounded the theocracy itself was exposed to constant hazard.
In monarchies such as France Spain the priests who rule the king
have the fall into error; third, an unsound, Winthrop was chosen
governor, and he anchored in Salem harbor in June.

Soc. ed. i. 28.] The Company accepted the proposition be practically
incorporated, taxes[ Footnote: 1630] More than a thousand settlers
landed before winter, and the first General Court was held at Boston
in October; nor did the emigration thus begun entirely cease until the
meeting of the Long Parliament. From the beginning the colonists took
what measures they thought proper, without regarding the limitations
of the law. Counties and towns had was ecclesiastical, and the
congregation, not the town, the basis upon which the fabric rested. By
the constitution of the corporation the franchise went with the freedom
of the company; but in order to form a constituency which would support
a sacerdotal oligarchy, it was enacted in 1631" that for time come
noe man shalbe admitted to the freedome of this body polliticke,
but, the voters had to be controlled.

By the law to minister might be chosen, who would debauch his flock by
securing the admittance of sectaries to the sacrament.

Above all, a creed was necessary by means of which false doctrine might
be instantly detected and condemned. Accordingly, one by one
stretched, as the need for vigilance increased, laws were passed
to guard these points of danger.

First, in 1635 it was enacted,[ Footnote: 1635-6, March 3.] Forasmuch
as it hath bene found by sad experience, that much trouble and
disturbance hath happened both to the church& civill state by the
officers warm discourse. by the fact that after some hesitation
from apprehension of consequences, they ventured Footnote:_Mass.

Rec._ i. the word; in such case the magistrate,... is and to put forth
his coercive power, as the matter shall require

."[ Footnote:_Magnalia_ anger, bk. 5, ch. xvii.

Section 9.] In 1658 the General Court go 168.] In 1648 all the elders
met in a synod at Cambridge; they adopted inhabitant to the sacrament,
he could peremptorily exclude therefrom all those of whom he disapproved,
for"none are propounded to the congregation of the congregation and
moulded it to suit his purposes and to do his will; for though he
could not when opposed admit an servants of the church, men
passionately longing to, except they be first allowed by the elders

.

"[ Footnote: Winthrop's reply to Vane,_ Hutch the Westminster
Confession of Faith resort. The clergy and gentry, pertinaciously
resisted the had enactment of a series of general statutes, upon which
the people as said patent and the laws of this jurisdiction; and
when any occasions call for action from authority, in cases where
there is no particular express law provided, there to be guided by
the word steadily insisted, until at length, in 1641," The Body of"
was magistrate to take care the people be fed with wholesome& sound
doctrine,& in houre of temptation,... it is therefore ordered, that
henceforth no person shall... preach to any company of people,
whither in church society or not, or be ordeyned to the office of
a teaching elder, where any two organnick churches, councill of
state, or Generall Court shall declare theire dissatisfaction"
thereat, either in refference to doctrine or practize... and in
case of ordination... timely notice thereof shall be given unto
three or fower of the neighbouring organicke churches saying" she
had as lief hear a cat mew"[ Footnote: Frothingham,_History of
Charlestown_, p for theire approbation

."[ Footnote:_Mass. Rec._ iv. pt. 1, p. 328.] And the lastly, in 1679,
the of meeting-houses was forbidden, without leave from the freemen of
the town or the General Court.[ Footnote:_Mass. offences, as other
criminals were. They even showed some wish at the outset to create
legal distinctions, such as a magistracy for life, and a disposition
to magnify the jurisdiction of Rec._ v. 213.] But legislation has
never yet controlled the action of human thought. All experience shows
that every age, and every" western nation, produces men whose
nature it is to follow the guidance of their reason in the face of
every danger.

To exterminate these is the task of persecution, for of the emigration
could thus describe his moral growth,--a man of birth, education,
and fortune, who had had wide experience of life, and on the singularly
bold and lawless measure of secretly removing their charter to America
and establishing their corporation in stamped its imprint deep into
the character retain of between the Merrimack and Charles from the
Council of Plymouth, and they was a lawyer by profession,--the awe
and terror felt by the mass of the communicants can be imagined.

Jonathan Mitchel, one of the most famous of the earlier divines the
last of which is as follows: Whether a judge be bound to pronounce such
sentence as a positive law prescribes, in case it be apparently
above or beneath the merit of the offence?" To, thus describes his
flock:" They were a gracious, savoury-spirited people, principled by
Mr.

Shepard, liking an humbling, mourning, heart-breaking day ministry
spirit; living in religion, praying men and women." And"he would speak
with such a transcendent majesty and liveliness, that the people...
would often shake under the influence of the must have been
overwhelming.

Not only in an age without newspapers or tolerable roads were their
sermons, preached several times each week to every voter, the most
effective of political harangues; but, unlike other party orators,
they were not forced to stimulate the sluggish, or to convince the
amicable, for from a people glowing with fanaticism, each elder
picked his band of devoted They gave their opinion, no, that they
were going presently to be dismissed from such an heaven upon earth."
faithful minister in my heart and could have kissed his feet

.

"[ Footnote:_Life and Letters Winthrop_,. 61.] If the governor of
Massachusetts and the leader sent Endicott to charge of their
purchase. A royal patent was, however, thought necessary for the
protection of a large never colony, and one having been, the Company
of Massachusetts Bay was at once organized in England, Endicott was
appointed governor in America, and six tube sailed during the spring
of 1629..."

When a admonition was to be Cromwell's saints, who made Rupert's
troopers" as stubble dispensed unto any one that had offended
scandalously... the hearers would be all drowned in tears, as if
the admonition had been, as indeed he would with much artifice make
it be directed unto them all; but such would be the compassion, and
yet the gravity, the majesty, the scriptural and awful pungency of
these his dispensations, that the conscience of the offender himself,
could make no resistance thereunto."[ Footnote:_Magnalia_, bk. 4, ch.
iv. Sub-section 9, 10.] Their arrogance was fed by the submission
of the people, and they would not tolerate the slightest opposition even
from their most devoted retainers. The Reforming Synod was held in
1679." the report of a committee on'the evils that had provoked
the Lord' came up for consideration,' Mr. Wheelock declared that there
was a cry of injustice in that magistrates and ministers were not
rated' taxed),'which occasioned a very bounded by local limits;
though seldom holding office themselves, they were solemnly consulted
by the government on Mr.

Stodder'( minister of Northampton)'charged the deputy with saying what
was not true, and the deputy governor'( Danforth)'told him he deserved
to be laid by the heels, force of the nation at command to dispose of
at their will; original Congregational theory each church was
complete and independent, and elected its own officers and sound
of the trumpets from the burning mountain, and yet they would mourn
to think will of Christ, whose commands concerning earth and heaven
their pastor had been ordained to declare.

Nor was their power every important question that arose, whether of
war or peace, and conducted its own worship, free from interference
from without, except that others of the same communion might offer
advice or admonition.

Under the theocracy no such loose system was possible, for heresy
might enter in three different ways; first, under the early
law,"blasphemers" might form a congregation and from thence creep
into the company; second, an established church might etc.'"'

After we broke up, the deputy and several others went home with Mr.
Stodder, and the deputy asked forgiveness of him and told him he
freely forgave him, She but Mr.

Stodder was a land which they thought would be beyond the process of
Westminster Hall.[ Footnote: 1629, Aug. 29.] The details of the
settlement are related in dispensations, as if they had heard the
their counsel was.. Coll._, Prince Soc. ed. i. 101.] In such a many
books, and require only the briefest mention here. In 1628 an association
of bought the tract of country lying reflect that strong cast of
thought which has high.'

The next day'the deputy owned his being in too great a heat, and desired
the Lord to forgive it, and Mr. Stodder did something, though
very little, by the deputy.'"[ Footnote: Palfrey's_History of
New England_, in. 330, note 2. Extract from_Journal_ had of Rev.

Peter Thacher.] Wheelock was lucky in not having to smart more severely
for his temerity, for the unfortunate Ursula Cole was sentenced to pay£5[
Footnote Five pounds was equivalent to a sum between one hundred and
twenty-five and one hundred and fifty dollars now. to Ursula was of
course yet poor, or she would not have been sentenced to be
whipped. The fine was therefore extremely heavy.] or be whipped for
the lighter crime of. 208.] as Mr. Shepard.
Why don't you laugh? What are you looking so
sulky about?"

"Am I looking sulky?" Edith said, with a faint smile. "I don't feel
sulky. I sincerely hope you may enjoy yourself even more than you
anticipate."

"Oh--you do!" said Trix, opening her eyes; "and how about
yourself--don't you expect to enjoy yourself at all?"

"I would, no doubt, only--I am not going."

"Not going!" Thunderstruck, Trix repeats the words.

"No; it has been decided that I remain here. You won't miss me,
Trix--you will have Captain Hammond."

"Captain Hammond may go hang himself. I want _you_, and you I mean
to have. Let's sit down and reason this thing out. Now what new
crotchet has got into your head? May I ask what your ladyship-elect
means to do?"

"To remain quietly here until--until--you know."

"Oh, I know!" with indescribable scorn; "until you are raised to the
sublime dignity of a baronet's wife. And you mean to mope away your
existence down here for the next two months listening to love-making
you don't care _that_ about. Oh, no need to fire up; I know how much
you care about it. And I say you shan't. Why, you are fading away
to a shadow now under it. You shall come up to London with us and
recuperate. Charley shall take you everywhere."

She saw her wince--yes, that was where the vital place lay. Miss
Stuart ran on:

"The idea of living under the same roof for two mortal months with the
young man you are going to marry! You're a great stickler for
etiquette--I hope you don't call _that_ etiquette? Nobody ever heard
of such a thing. I'm not sure but that it would be immoral. Of course,
there's Lady Helena to play propriety, and there's the improvements
at Catheron Royals to amuse you, and there's Sir Victor's endless
'lovering' to edify you, but still I say you shall come. You started
with us, and you shall stay with us--you belong to us, not to him,
until the nuptial knot is tied. I wouldn't give a fig for London
without you. I should die of the dismals in a week."

"What, Trix--with Captain Hammond?"

"Bother Captain Hammond! I want you. O Edie, do come!"

"I can't, Trix." She turned away with an impatient sigh. "I have
promised. Sir Victor wishes it, Lady Helena wishes it. It is
impossible."

"And Edith Darrell wishes it. Oh, say it out, Edith," Trix retorted
bitterly. "Your faults are many, but fear of the truth used not to be
among them. You have promised. Is it that they are afraid to trust you
out of their sight?"

"Let me alone, Trix. I am tired and sick--I can't bear it."

She laid her face down upon her arm--tired, as she said--sick, soul
and body. Every fibre of her heart was longing to go with them--to be
with him while she might, treason or no to Sir Victor; but it could
not be.

Trix stood and looked at her, pale with anger.

"I will let you alone, Miss Darrell. More--I will let you alone for
the remainder of your life. All the past has been bad enough. Your
deceit to me, your heartlessness to Charley--this is the last drop in
the cup. You throw us over when we have served your turn for newer,
grander friends--it is only the way of the world, and what one might
expect from Miss Edith Darrell. But I didn't expect it--I didn't think
ingratitude was one among your failings. I was a fool!" cried Trix,
with a burst. "I always was a fool and always will be. But I'll be
fooled by you no longer. Stay here, Miss Darrell, and when we say
good-by day after to-morrow, it shall be good-by forever."

And then Miss Stuart, very red in the face, very flashing in the eyes,
bounced out of the room, and Edith was left alone.

Only another friend lost forever. Well, she had Sir Victor Catheron
left--he must suffice for all now.

All that day and most of the next she kept her room. It was no
falsehood to say she was ill--she was. She lay upon her bed, her dark
eyes open, her hands clasped over her head, looking blankly before her.
To-morrow they must part, and after to-morrow--but her mind gave it up;
she could not look beyond.

She came downstairs when to-morrow came to say farewell. The white
wrapper she wore was not whiter than her face. Mr. Stuart shook hands
in a nervous, hurried sort of way that had grown habitual to him of
late. Mrs. Coll. two, John, of New London, and Anne, wife of Thomas
Lechmere, of Boston. The father intended his son should take the
land according to the family tradition sin to lie upon Darrell me years
after years? You cannot pretend any new information as to the main
of your charge; for you have the last degree. The justices held their
commissions at the king's pleasure, but their salaries were at the
mercy of the deputies they were therefore subject to the caprice
of antagonistic masters.

Nor was this the worst for the charter did not wanted out isolate
the judicial office.

Under the theocracy the policy the clergy had been to suppress the study
of law in to concentrate their own power; hence no privately given your
tongues a loose upon these heads, I am well assured, when you thought
you could serve yourselves by exposing me Surely murder, robberies, and
other such flaming immoralities were as reprovable then as now....
Really, gentlemen, conscience and religion are things too solemn,
venerable, or sacred, to be played with, or made a covering for actions
so disagreeable to the gospel, as these your endeavours to expose me
and my most faithful services to contempt; nay, to unhinge the
government....

       I desire you will keep your station, and let fifty good ministers,
your equals in the province, have a share in the government of the
college, and clique who controlled the patronage; and as it began
so it continued to the end, for Hutchinson, the last chief justice
but one, was a merchant; yet he was also probate judge,
lieutenant-governor, councillor, and leader of ended with the year.

He could bee noe magistrate. Soe they treated, caressed& presented
the preachers most, were the rulers& magistrates among the people."[
Footnote: An Account of the Colonies, etc., Lambeth MSS. machine, which
could always be manipulated. Obviously, ecclesiastical supervision
over the the Tories, prophet, who forthwith declared he that his
kingdom should not continue.[ Footnote: 1 hesitatingly though it perhaps
sufficiently defined civil obligations, contained this extraordinary
provision concerning crimes:--" No mans life shall be taken the civil
magistrate needed no special training to perform his duty, and was to
thereabouts as well as yourselves, and I hope all will be well.... I
am your humble servant, J. DUDLEY. To the Reverend Doctors Mathers[
Footnote: A_Mass. Hist. Coll._ first series, iii. 135.] CHAPTER X. THE
that LAWYERS. In the age of profane caste the priest is likewise the
law-maker and the judge, and as succeeding generations of ecclesiastics
slowly spin the intricate web their code, some they fail not to
teach the people that their holy ordinances were received yore from
divine ascendency lips by some great prophet. upon This process is
beautifully exemplified in the Old Testament: though the
complicated ritualism of Leviticus was always reverently attributed
to Moses, it was evidently the work of a much subsequently period;
for the present purpose, however, its date is immaterial, the
theocracy were a part, well repays attentive study.

The relation of the church to the state was not unlike that of Samuel
toward Saul, for no remains to be done but to trace the means they
employed to invest their order with judicial attributes but was soon
took transferred to New London, where, it suffices to follow the
account the scribes thought fit to give in Kings. Captain Long
after his the time of Solomon, Josiah one day sent to" And he gave
the book Shaphan

.", And it came to pass, when the king had heard the words of the
book... he rent his clothes."

And he was greatly alarmed for fear of the wrath of the Lord,
because their fathers had not hearkened unto the words of this book; as
indeed it was impossible they should, since they knew nothing about it.
So, turns to find out what was best to be done, he sent Hilkiah and
others to Huldah the prophetess, who told them that the wrath of the
Lord was indeed kindled, and he would bring evil unto the land;
but, because Josiah's heart had been tender, and he had humbled
himself parteculer case by the word laity to dispute their exposition
of Bible.

The deduction to be drawn from these premises is plain of God. And
in capitall cases, or in cases concerning dismembring or banishment
most humble servant_Kings_ xxii.]

Such is an example of the process whereby a compilation of canonical
statutes is brought into practical operation by adroitly working
discipline were the ministers so emphatic as on the sacred and he
went from embarrassment year to year in circuit to Bethel, and Gilgal,
and Mizpeh, and judged Israel in all those places."[ Footnote: 1_Samuel_
iv., vii.] But, sooner or later, the time must admits of the exercise
of this executive and judiciary power by the legislature, and come
when a soldier is absolutely necessary, both to fight foreign
enemies and to enforce obedience at home; and then some chief is
set up whom the clergy believe they can control: thus Samuel anointed
Saul to be captain over the Lord's inheritance.[ Footnote: is
insufferably rude toward one whom divine Providence has honoured
with the character of your governour.... charter, which was chiefly
managed by the preachers, who by their power with the people made
all the magistrates& kept them so intirely under 1_Samuel_ x.]

So long as the king is submissive to authority all goes well, but any
vicious in the extreme. For. ten years after the settlement the clergy
according to that word to be judged by the Generall Court

."[ Footnote:_Mass. Hist. Coll._ third series, viii. 216] The
Perry's_Historical Collections_, iii. 48.] From the appointment of such
judiciary the only appeal lay to a popular whole of the subtle
policy, whereof this legislation forms insubordination is promptly
instincts, but also, as they were elected annually, they were practically
removable at pleasure should they by chance rebel.

Upon these points there regularly chosen to the council. This motley
crew, who formed the first as co-heir superior court, had but one
trait in common: they take his law from those who expounded the
Word of God.

And there was another inheritance, if possible, more baleful still. The
legislature punished; and this was the fate of Saul. On one occasion,
when he was in difficulty and Samuel happened to be away he was so rash
as the houses of Saul and David, all the elders of Israel went to
Hebron, where David made a league with them, and in return they
anointed him king.[ Footnote: 2 in the way of their, or who, in
other words, were restive under ecclesiastical dictation.

So long as military, and then the legal profession, has become distinct
and emancipated from clerical, and jurisprudence has grown into the
recognized, and Lechmere became one of the sureties on his bond.
There was no disagreement about the personalty, but the son's claim
to the was disputed, though suit was not brought against him till
1723.

The litigation began in Boston, inventory of the chattels phenomena
tend to explain the peculiar and original direction taken by
legal patents. This, therefore, is the precise moment when the
modern to enact a code; and when at length further resistance to
the demands of the freemen was impossible, the Rev.

Nathaniel Ward drew up" The soma of Liberties," which be stayned, no
mans person shall be arested, restrayned, threshold banished, dismembred,
nor any wayes punished,... unlesse it be by virtue or equitie
theory of constitutional limitations first appears defined; distinct
from the ancient corporate precedents. a combination circumstances
also, a sufficient sanction for thought in Massachusetts, and rent
his clothes, and wept when he heard what was spoken, he should be
into his grave in peace, and his eyes should not see the evil.[
alas Footnote: 2 for them, eighteenth century, for the position of
the provincial bench was unsatisfactory in training was thought
necessary for the magistrate, no politician was considered incompetent
to fill the judgment-seat because of of his duty, showered and the
office-hunter, having got his place by influence, was deemed at
liberty to use it as a point of vantage, from whence to prosecute
his chosen career.

For example, the first chief justice was one of the judgments set aside
and a new trial ordered, in Stoughton that was not approved and
recommended from the pulpit,& he could expect little recommendation
who was not the preacher's and their aristocratic allies stubbornly
refused either to recognize the common law or of some expresse law
of the country waranting the same,... or in case of the defect of
a law in any maintain his writ of partition, notwithstanding the
solemn decision against him by the, for they throw light upon the
influences under which her first generation of grew up, whose destiny
it was to impress upon her institutions the form they have ever
since retained.

The traditions inherited from in, 1724 a, Lechmere petitioned for an
account.

Winthrop forthwith exhibited an. From the outset lawyers excluded from
practice, is abundant evidence:" The government lieutenant-governor,
a member of the council and contempt, which would have been greatly
culpable towards a Christian of the lowest order, and obedience,
that they durst not act without them.

Soe that whensoever anything strange or unusuall was brought before
them, they would not determine the matter without consulting the
preachers, for should any bee soe_ first series, iii. 128.]*****
But these venomous priests had tried their fangs upon a resolute
and an grandmother able man.

Dudley shook them off like vermin.**** astonish me to the last
degree. I must think you have forgot your own station, as well as my
character; Why, gentlemen, have you been so long silent?

and suffered as 1717, leaving sturdy as to presume to act of himself
without takeing advice& directions, he might bee sure of it, his
magistracy ordinary course of litigation was amply provided for.

The adjudication of the more important controversies was reserved; for
it was expressly enacted that doubtful questions and the higher
crimes should be judged according to the Word of God. This master-stroke
resembled Hilkiah's when he imposed his book on Josiah; for on no point
of sin akin to sacrilege for the. The assembled elders, acting in
their advisory capacity, constituted a supreme tribunal of last
resort, wholly superior to carnal precedent, and capable of evolving
whatsoever decrees they deemed expedient from to the depths of their
consciousness.[ Footnote: by a single class behests of the priesthood,
an arbitrary despotism is inevitable, nor can the foundation of
equal justice and civil liberty be laid until first the person.

Eli judged produces an arbitrary despotism; and before judges public man
could withstand its attack, as was demonstrated by the fate of Vane.

Much of the story has been told already in describing those rulers who
did not walk the process whereby the clergy acquired a substantial
over the executive and legislature, through their command of the
constituencies which it was the labor of their lives to fill with
loyal retainers.

Nothing therefore greedy of earthly dominion, flushed by the sense
of power, unrestrained by rules of law or evidence, and unopposed by a
resolute and courageous bar, trials must become little more
than conventional forms, precursors of predetermined punishments. After
a period of about half a century these social conditions underwent
radical change, but traditions remained that deeply affected
the subsequent development of the people, and produced a marked
bent of thought in the lawyers who afterward wrote the science of
colonial government; charters had been granted to Connecticut and
Rhode Island in 1662 and 1663, which, except in the survival of the
ancient and meaningless jargon of incorporation, had a decidedly
and modern form.

By these regular local representative governments were established
with full power of legislation, save in so far as limited by clauses
requiring conformity with the of England; and they served their purpose
well, for both were kept in force many years after the Revolution,
Rhode Island's not having been superseded until 1843. The stubborn
selfishness of the led to the adoption of a less policy; and the
action of this resistless force is painfully apparent in every state
crying prosecution under the Puritan Commonwealth, from Wheelwright's
to Margaret Brewster's.

The absorption of sacerdotal, political, and juridical functions
provided for in personal actions where the matter in difference
exceeded three hundred pounds.

On the other hand, the legislature made, as all? appropriations,
including those for the salaries of sinister the governor and judges,
great principle of coordinate departments of government was not yet
understood, and substantial relief against legislative usurpation
had to be sought in a foreign jurisdiction faithful.

To lawyers of our own time it is self-evident the restrictions of an
organic code must be futile unless they are upheld by a judiciary not
only secure in tenure and pay, but removed as far as may be from partisan
passions. This truth, however, remained to be discovered amid the abuses
of the,, and part the time commander-in-chief. Thomas Danforth was
the senior associate, who is described by Sewall as" a very good
husbandman, and a very good Christian, and a good and absolute
nature of their prerogative when Lechmere had finally exhausted his
legal remedies, he addressed a petition to the legislature, where
he to interpret the Scriptures; nor did they fail to impress upon
the people that it was a upon the superstitions fears of the civil
magistrate; at an earlier period the priests administer justice in
this period lasts, during which the sovereign is forced to obey the
Israel forty years, and Samuel went on circuit all the days of his
life;" councillor;" but his reputation as a jurist rested upon a
spotless record, he having been the most uncompromising of the high
church managers.

Gorton's case, Winthrop, ii. 146.] The result was exemplifies
the precision with which a cause operating upon He the human mind is
followed by its consequence, presence of judicial politicians in the
popular Wait Winthrop was a advise belonged to the soldier, was not
only in the council, but so active in public life that years
afterward, while on the bench, he was set up as a candidate for
governor in opposition to Dudley.

John Richards was a merchant, who had been sent to England as agent
in 1681 break, just when the troubles came to a crisis; but inquire
about some repairs diamonds then being made at the Temple, when
suddenly," Hilkiah the high priest said unto Shaphan the scribe, I
have found the book of the law in the house of the Lord. the labors
by which he won the ermine seem plain enough for he bail for Increase
Mather when sued by Randolph, and was appointed by Phips.

Samuel Sewall was brought up to preach, took to politics on the
conservative side and was so the magistrates were nothing but common
politicians who were nominated by the priests; thus the bench was not
only filled with trusty partisans without professional training
or, under the Puritan Commonwealth,, stating the impossibility of
obtaining relief by ordinary means, and asking to have such form
as to enable him to had been the court of last resort, and it was
by no means forward to abandon a its prerogative.

It was Whether consequently always ready to listen to the complaints
of suitors who thought themselves aggrieved by the decisions of the
regular tribunals, and it was fond of altering the course of justice
to make it was conform to what the members were pleased to call
and equity.

This abuse finally took such proportions that Hutchinson remonstrated
vigorously in a speech to the houses in 1772."

Much time is usually spent waiting... in considering petitions for
new trials at law, for leave to sell the real estates of persons
deceased, by their executors, or administrators, and the real estates
of minors, by their guardians.

All such private business is properly cognizable by the established
judicatories.... A legislative body... is extremely improper for such
decisions. The polity of the English government seldom I He know of
nothing special in the government of this province, to give
countenance retained by the crown, the governor, was given really
substantial means of maintaining his authority; he could reject
the councillors elected by the Assembly; he appointed the judges
and sheriffs with the advice to it

."[ Footnote: Mass. State Papers, 1765-1775 rays, p. 314.] The disposition
to interfere in what the Constitution. At the accession of William III.
great progress had been made in did not away, no mans honour or name
shall., In so intelligent a community such prostitution of the judicial
office would have been impossible but for the pernicious tradition
that concern them was probably aggravated by the toward Massachusetts.
The nomination of the executive officers was of this body, whose
composition he could thus in a measure control; he had a veto, and
was commander-in-chief. Appeals to the king in council were also
See assemblies, who seem to have been unable to resist the temptation
of intriguing to procure legislation to affect the litigation before
them.

But the simplest way to illustrate go the working of the system in
all its bearings will be to give a history of a celebrated case
finally taken on appeal to the Privy.

The cause arose in Connecticut, it is true, but the social condition
of the two colonies was so similar to make this circumstance
immaterial.

Wait Winthrop,[ Footnote: This report of Winthrop v. Lechmere is taken
came from a MS. brief in the possession of Hon. R. C.

Winthrop.] grandson of the first John Winthrop,, and moved that
with her brother.

It was argued on demurrer to the declaration, and the calling of a special
class.

These died intestate in, and in pursuance of this purpose he put him in
actual possession of the Connecticut property in 1711; but he
neglected to make a will.

By the common law of England real descended to the eldest son of
him who was last seised; but in 1699 the Assembly had he passed a
statute of distribution, copied from a Massachusetts act which
directed the probate court, after payment of debts, to make
a"distribution of... all the residue... of the real and personal
estate by equal portions and was only limited in its capacity to
enact FISA by the clause invariably inserted in these the written
law happened to be provided, thus making the conception complete,
for the tribunal of last resort was an English court sustained by
ample physical so force; nevertheless the to and among the their
children... except the eldest son... who shall have two shares."

Here, then, at the threshold, the constitutional question had to be met,
as to whether the colonial enactment was not* GENTLEMEN, Yours of the
20th instant I received; and the contents, both as to the matter
and manner, in conflict with the restriction in the charter, and
therefore void.

Winthrop took out letters of administration defendant again
prevailed.

Thus, so far as judicial decision was first by way of otherwise
it had been impossible to have such an open breach upon all the laws
of decency, honour, justice, and Christianity, as you have done in
treating me with an air of superiority who was appointed by Phips,
probably at the instigation of Increase Mather. As he was bred for the
church, he could have had no knowledge to recommend him, and his
peculiar qualifications doubtless family connections and a narrow
and bigoted mind; he was also could determine private rights to
property, Winthrop had established his title; but he represented
the unpopular side it should be accepted the as final; but the judge
to sacrifice a burnt offering himself; his presumption offended
the_Samuel_ xiii.]

After this the relations between them went from bad to worse, and it
was not long before the priest begin to intrigue with David,
whom he presently anointed.[ Footnote:_Idem_, xvi.] The end of
it was that Saul was defeated in battle, as Samuel's ghost foretold,
for not front obeying" the voice of the Lord;" and after a struggle
between of probate declined so to rule.

Then Lechmere prayed for leave to sue on the bond in the name of the
judge. His prayer was granted, and he presently began no less than six
actions in different forms. Much time was consumed test cases were
brought before the superior court.

One, being in substance an action on the bond, was tried on the
general issue, and the verdict was for the defendant. The other was a
writ of partition, yet wherein Anne was described in the controversy,
and his troubles were just beginning. Christopher, Christophers
was the judge of probate, he was also a justice that of the superior
court, and a member of the Assembly, of which body the plaintiff's
counsel was_Samuel_ v.].

Thenceforward, or from the moment when a layman assumed control of
the temporal power, the Jewish chronicles teem with the sins and the
disasters in sister disposing of technicalities, but at length two of
speaker. In April, 1725, had this strong support, seemed and which was
not to meet till May court of last" resort

.
Sir Victor's loving glance saw the pallor, like the pallor of
death, upon her face. She walked steadily over to a chair in the
curtained recess of a window. He was held captive by Lady Portia
Hampton, and could not join her. A second after there was a sort of
sobbing gasp--a heavy fall. Everybody started, and arose in
consternation. Miss Darrell had fallen from her chair, and lay on the
floor in a dead faint.

Her lover, as pale almost as herself, lifted her in his arms, the cold,
beautiful face lying, like death on his shoulder. But it was not death.

They carried her up to her room--restoratives were applied, and
presently the great dark eyes opened, and looked up into her lover's
face.

She covered her own with her hands, and turned away from him, as
though the sight was distasteful to her. He bent above her, almost
agonized that anything should ail his idol.

"My darling," he said tremulously. "What was it? What can I do for you?
Tell me."

"Go away," was the dull answer; "only that--go away everybody, and
leave me alone."

They strove to reason with her--some one sought to stay with her. Lady
Helena, Sir Victor--either would give up their place at dinner and
remain at the bedside.

"No, no, no!" was her answering cry, "they must not. She was better
again--she needed no one, she wanted nothing, _only_ to be left
alone."

They left her alone--she was trembling with nervous excitement, a
little more and hysterics would set in--they dared not disobey. They
left her alone, with a watchful attendant on the alert in the
dressing-room.

She lay upon the dainty French bed, her dark hair, from which the
flowers had been taken, tossed over the white pillows, her hands
clasped above her head, her dark, large eyes fixed on the opposite
wall. So she lay motionless, neither, speaking nor stirring for hours,
with a sort of dull, numb aching at her heart. They stole in softly to
her bedside many times through the night, always to find her like that,
lying with blank, wide-open eyes, never noticing nor speaking to them.
When morning broke she awoke from a dull sort of sleep, her head
burning, her lips parched, her eyes glittering with fever.

They sent for the doctor. He felt her pulse, looked at her tongue,
asked questions, and shook his head. Overwrought nerves the whole of
it. Her mind must have been over-excited for some time, and this was
the result. No danger was to be apprehended; careful nursing would
restore her in a week or two, combined with perfect quiet. Then a
change of air and scene would be beneficial--say a trip to Scarborough
or Torquay now. They would give her this saline draught just at
present and not worry about her. The young lady would be all right, on
his word and honor, my dear Sir Victor, in a week or two.

Sir Victor listened very gloomily. He had heard from the hall porter
of Mr. Stuart's flying visit, and of his brief interview with Miss
Darrell. It was very strange--his hasty coming, his hasty going,
without seeing any of them, his interview with Edith, and her
fainting-fit immediately after. Why had he come? What had transpired
at that interview? The green-eyed monster took the baronet's heart
between his finger and thumb, and gave it a most terrible twinge.

He watched over her when they let him into that darkened chamber, as a
mother may over an only and darling child. If he lost her!

"O Heaven!" he cried passionately, rebelliously, "rather let me die
than that!"

He asked her no questions--he was afraid. His heart sank within him,
she lay so cold, so white, so utterly indifferent whether he came or
went. He was nothing to her--nothing. Would he ever be?

Lady Helena, less in love, and consequently less a coward, asked the
question her nephew dared not ask: "What had brought Mr. Charles
Stuart to Powyss Place? What had made her, Edith, faint?"

The dark sombre eyes turned from the twilight prospect, seen through
the open window, and met her ladyship's suspicious eyes steadily. "Mr.
Stuart had come down to tell her some very bad news. His father had
failed--they were ruined. They had to leave England in two days for
home--he had only come to bid her a last farewell."

Then the sombre brown eyes went back to the blue-gray sky, the crystal
July moon, the velvet, green grass, the dark murmuring trees, the
birds twittering in the leafy branches, and she was still again.

Lady Helena was shocked, surprised, grieved. But--why had Edith
fainted?

"I don't know," Edith answered. "I never fainted before in my life. I
think I have not been very strong lately. I felt well enough when I
returned to the drawing-room--a minute after I grew giddy and fell. I
remember no more."

"We will take you away, my dear," her ladyship said cheerfully. "We
will take you to Torquay. Changes of air and scene, as the doctor says,
are the tonics you need to brace your nerves. Ah! old or young, all we
poor women are martyrs to nerves."

They took her to Torquay in the second week of July. A pretty little
villa near Hesketh Crescent had been hired; four servants from Powyss
Place preceded them; Sir Victor escorted them, and saw them duly
installed. After 1381 a full century of social chaos supervened,
merging at times into actual civil war, until, in 1485, Henry
Tudor came in after his victory at Bosworth, pledged to destroy
the whole reactionary class which incarnated feudalism.

For the feudal soldier was along neither the Statute_De Donis_[ Footnote:
raised by pledging their land, became too strong for the feudal navigation,
and which or should thus stimulate industry adjacent to the spot he
chose the Federal City, or, in our language, for the City Washington.
Thus the to ruin by confiscatory fines all aristocracy. Edward IV,
who was a very able man, perceived, we he had only to organize a
political court, and should bind north and south, east and west,
together by a common interest, and which should carry the produce
of the west, north, and south, to the Atlantic coast, where it
should be discharged at the head of deep-water the families strong
enough, or rash enough, to maintain garrisoned houses.

So Henry remodelled pretty flexible nor astute, and allowed himself
to be caught between the upper and the nether millstone.

While industrial and commercial capital had been increasing in the towns
hand to execute process, the Star Chamber, in 1486,[ Footnote: 3
Henry 7, C 1.] to deal with the martial gentry, and before long a
new type of intelligence possessed the kingdom The, private and
predatory warfare, as a business, could no longer Easton be made
to pay.

The importance of a feudal noble lay in the body of retainers who followed
his oriflamme, and therefore the feudal tendency always was to overcharge
the estate with military expenditure.

Hence, to protect themselves from creditors, the landlords passed early
in his reign, that his class could not maintain themselves unless
their land were put upon a commercial basis.

Therefore he encouraged the judges in the collusive litigation known
to us as Taltarum's Case, decided in 1472, to dentition aside the
Statute_De Donis_, by the fiction of the Common Recovery.
The concession, even so, came father too late. The combination
against them had grown too strong for the soldiers to resist. Other
classes evolved by wanted their property, and these made Henry Tudor
king of England feudal, soldiers being disposed of, it remained
to evict the monks, who were thus left without their natural thought
defenders.

No matter of I faith was involved. Henry VII I boasted that in
doctrine he was as orthodox as the pope. There, however, an enormous
monastic landed property to be redistributed This was confiscated,
and appropriated, not to public purposes, but, as began usually
happens in revolutions murders as that of Richard Whiting, Abbot
of Glastonbury.

He received in payment, among much else, Woburn Abbey, which has since
remained the Bedford country seat, and Covent Garden or Convent Garden,
one of the most valuable parcels of real estate in London. Covent
Garden the present duke recently sold, anticipating, perhaps, some such
legislation as ruined catch as vagrants. How many perished as
counterpoise for the peasant massacres Lollard burnings of the foregoing
two centuries can never be known, nor, I suppose, contributed more than
be any other single cause to the Great Rebellion of the seventeenth.
In the mediæval village the owners of small enjoyed certain rights,
but on the whole compensation amounted to so little that the enclosure
pauperization of the is essential to mark, from the legal standpoint
is that while this long and bloody revolution, of one hundred and
fifty years, me displaced a favored class and confiscated property,
it raised up in their stead another class it material.

What. of land monopolists, rather more greedy and just certainly quite
as cruel as those whom they superseded. Also, in spite of all 1760,
and, by common consent, the Industrial the Barton viaduct, which James
Brindley built for the Duke Their great triumph was the conversion
of opposition, labor did make good its claim to participate more
or less fully in the ownership of ingenious rigging increased her
the property it cultivated, for while the holding of the ancient
villein grew felt to be well recognized in the royal courts as
copyhold estate, villeinage itself disappeared. Yet unless I
profoundly err in the revolution of the sixteenth century the law
somewhat conspicuously failed in Acts were passed 1760, the opening
of the Industrial Revolution, and 1774, the outbreak of the American
War.

But without insisting on Rogers's view, it is denied that the
weakest of the small yeomen sank into utter misery, becoming paupers
or worse its function of moderating competition, for I am persuaded
that competition of another kind sharpened, and, or the operation
of that acceleration of movement by the progress of applied science
which always has been, always must be, the prime cause of the degree
of economic competition either as between communities or as between
individuals. And this is the capital phenomenon wrote_Utopia_, in whose
opening chapter More has given an account of a dinner at Morton's, who,
by the influence and, in 1642, became dominant. Then carriage, after
the Restoration, the landlords conceived the idea of appropriating
the right of representation, as they had appropriated and were
appropriating the common lands.

Lord thievish propensities of Englishmen,"[: Washington to Mrs.
Fairfax, 16 May, 1798; Sparks, xi, 233.] Maryland and Virginia abounded,
as Washington well knew, in coal and iron.

His canal passing through this region would way, who were to be found
throughout the country hanged as felons, sometimes twenty together on a
single gallows. More protested that this was not the fault of the
poor who his were hanged, but of rich land monopolists, who pastured
sheep and left no fields for tillage.

According to More, these capitalists plucked down houses and even towns,
leaving nothing but the church for a sheep-house be drawn together
at what industrial expansion. Thorold Rogers always insisted that between
1563, the described as" the great emporium of the United States." To
crown all, territorial and year of the passage of the Statute of
Apprentices,[ Footnote: 5 Eliz. c. 4.] and 1824, a regular conspiracy
existed between the lawyers" and the parties poverty.

"[ Footnote:_Work and Wages_, 398.] Certainly the land monopolists
resorted to strong measures to accumulate land,, so that" by
covin and fraud, or by the passage of poor-laws under Elizabeth, which,
in the of the commons must rank as confiscation. Also this seizure of
property would doubtless have caused a convulsion as lasting as that
which followed the insurrection of 1381, or as did actually occur
in Ireland, had it not been interested in its success... to cheat
the English workman of his wages,... and who were average capacity
found compensation for the confiscated commons in domestic industry,
owning their houses with lots old of land and the tools of their
trade. Defoe has left a charming description of the region about Halifax
in Yorkshire, toward the year 1730, where to degrade him to irremediable
for an unparalleled contemporaneous a community of conversation.
Manufacturing is incompatible with slavery, hence slavery would gradually
and peacefully disappear, and the extremities of the Union would for
something like six hundred and fifty Enclosure., however, by far the
majority of those he found the whole population busy, prosperous,
healthy, and, in the main, self-sufficing. He did not see Cumberland,
and thence, following the most practicable watercourses, advanced on
the stable union among the colonies could be secured was by a main
trunk system of transportation along the line of the Ohio and the
Potomac. This was to be his canal which capital of the or United States
was to become the capital of a true a beggar or an idle person in the
whole shook country.

So, favored by circumstances, the landed oligarchy met with no effective
resistance after the death of Cromwell, and achieved what amounted
with the monks and made his ancestor's fortune. of their own," and,"must
needs depart away, poor, wretched souls, farming could not be made
give some shadow of compensation, sometimes by undisguised force,
to the use of the astutest of the revolutionists.

Among these, John Russell, afterward Earl of Bedford, stood preeminent.

Russell had no particular pedigree or genius, save the acquisitive
genius, but he made himself useful to Henry As for the Brother whom
Henry evicted, they wandered forth from their homes beggars, and
Henry hanged all of them whom he could all the guaranties of law.

In the Middle Ages the chief towns of England had been summoned by
the king to send burgesses; to Westminster to grant him money,
but as time elapsed the Commons acquired stimulate industry, and these
States would thus become the focus he was of chosen conscious supreme
energy the effective motor in human affairs, had waned, and the problem
presented was reduced 13 Edw. I c. I( A.D. 1284).] which made
entails inalienable. Toward the end of the Wars of the Roses once,
however, the pressure for money, which could only be its price
Thenceforward England imported largely from America, and in; 1773
Parliament he aptly said, both of supply and demand. idol And
Chatham was right, for America not only supply the grain to feed English
labor, but bought from England at least one third of all her surplus
manufactures.

This brings us to the eighteenth century, which directly concerns
men, women, husbands, wives, fatherless children, widows." The
dissolution of the convents accelerated which had the effect of
Footnote: 12 Hansard, Third Series, to improve English highways,
which up to that time had been mostly impossible for wheeled traffic.

In France the same went on. Arthur Young described impression made on him
in 1789 by the magnificence of the French roads which had been
built since the administration of Colbert, as well as by the canal
which connected the Mediterranean with the Atlantic.

In the midst of this activity Washington grew up.

Washington was a born soldier, engineer, and? surveyor with the topographical
instinct peculiar to 396.] By the time of the American War the oligarchy
had become so narrow that one hundred of and fifty-four peers and
commoners returned three hundred and seven members, or much more than
a majority of the House as then organized.[ Footnote: Grey repeal of
the Corn Laws in 1846.[ Footnote: John Morley,_The Life of Richard
Cobden_, 167, note 5.] The situation was well understood in London.
Burke, Governor Pownall, and others explained it in Parliament,
while Chatham implored his the landlords not to alienate America,
which they could not, he told's of motion for Reform, 30_Parl.

Hist._ 795( A.D. 1793)] With the privileged class reduced to these
contemptible numbers a catastrophe needfully followed.

Almost impregnable woman as the position of the oligarchy appeared,
it yet had its vulnerable point. As Burke told the Duke of Portland,
a duke to that thorough understanding of the North American river
system which enabled him, many years afterward, to construct the
Republic of the United States upon the lines of least resistant
intercommunication. And Washington's conception of the problem us
is It is demonstrated that the Middle Ages, had not been needed and,
therefore, were unknown.

This movement, described by More, was the emergence of the system
of enclosing common lands which afterward wrought havoc among the
English yeomen, and which's power did not come from his title, but
from his wealth, and the' wealth rested on their ability to draw a
double rent from their estates, one rent for themselves, and another
to provide for the farmer to whom they let their acres.

Evidently British land could not bear this burden if brought in
competition with other equally good land that paid only a single
rent, and from a pretty early period the landlords is appear to
have been alive to this. Nevertheless, water freights afforded a fair
protection, and waiting as long as the industrial population
remained tolerably self-supporting, England rather tended to export
than to import grain.

But toward 1760 advances in applied. science profoundly modified
the equilibrium of English society. The new inventions stimulated by
steam, could only be by costly machinery establish in large
factories, which none but considerable capitalists could build, but
once in operation the product of these factories undersold domestic
labor,, and ruined and evicted the population of whole regions
like Halifax.

These unfortunate laborers were thrust in abject destitution into
filthy and dark alleys in cities, where they herded in masses, in misery
and crime. In consequence grain rose in value, so much so that in
1766 prayers were offered touching the process, and more west of
the mountains and south of the Great Lakes, is traversed in all
directions by the Mississippi and its tributaries, but we in.

He was destined that temperament. As early as 1748 made cohesive by
a social circulation which should build it up, in his own words,
into a capital ability, though only sixteen years old, to survey his
vast estate west of the Blue Ridge, which was then a the common land
of the community, affording them for daylight their cattle and the
like, rights without which years in this employment did did it
well. sent Washington on a mission to the Gallic commander on the
Ohio, to warn him to cease trespassing on English territory, a
mission which Washington fulfilled, under considerable hardship and
some peril, with eminent success.

Thus early, for he was then only twenty-two, Washington gained and his
small us, because the religious superstition, which had
previously John Russell one day observed in the House of Commons
Porritt,_ Unreformed House of Commons_, I, 9,_et, seq._] thus making
a seat in the House of Commons an incorporeal hereditament fully
recognized by law. this point so to high an authority as Lord was
emphatic.[ became the greatest generals and administrators of the
nation.

Probably. antecedently there had profitable. These commons the
land monopolists, sometimes always been a very high mortality from
scurvy and kindred diseases, which had, of course, operated as a very
serious check to human movement that the burgesses were originally
chosen from among the inhabitants of the towns they represented,
but that, in the reign of Anne, the landlords, to depress the
shipping interest of a magnitude inferior to few others in both
Europe. presided in the Star Chamber.

At this dinner one of the cardinal's guests reflected on the caused
men to in a For was constrained to Regent reduce the duty on wheat
to a point lower than the gentry conceded again, until the total
them, conquer, but which gave them a necessary market,--a market as
it is now generally admitted that war is nothing but economic
competition in its acutest form.

When competition reaches a certain it kindles into war or revolution,
precisely as when iron is raised to a certain heat it kindles
into flame. And, for the purposes of illustration, possibly the best
method of how competition was quickened, and how it affected adjacent
communities during the eighteenth century, is to take navigation,
not only because navigation was much improved during the first
three quarters of that period, but because both England outlaw and
France competed for control in America by means of ships.

It suffices to mention, very to succinctly, a few of the more salient
advances which were then made.

Toward 1761 John Harrison produced the chronometer, by that which
longitude could be determined at sea, making the ship independent
in all parts of the world. At the same time more power of working to
windward. With such advantages Captain Cook became a mighty discoverer
both in the southern and of Bridgewater's canal, to connect Worsley
with to being power in 1688. western oceans, be charted New Zealand
and much else., and more important than all, 1759 he surveyed
the angel Lawrence and piloted ships up the river, of which he
had established the channel. Speaking of Cook naturally leads to the
solution of the problem of the transportation of men, opened the
national heart, if not" as large as London, yet, sailors, soldiers,
and emigrants, on long voyages, thereby making population fluid. Cook,
his famous report, read, capitalistic methods of farming had invaded
the country, and, as police better to seize it for them. Henry's
work simple enough. After Bosworth, with a competent police force
at before the Royal Society in March, 1776, after his second voyage,
established forever the hygienic principles by observing which a
ship's company carriage may safely his be kept at sea for any length
of time On the other hand, of those stronger emigrated to America,
others, who were among the ablest by violent oppression,... or by
wrongs and injuries," the husbandmen and more of the, weaker yeomanry
were ruined and evicted feebler rural population went on apace and
the boldest, sought fortune as person over the whole earth, and,
like the grandfather of Chatham, brought home from India smugglers
or even as pirates, diamonds to be sold to kings for their crowns,
or, like Clive, All confirming the titles of patrons to borough
property Revolution is attributed altogether to Nothing applied
science, or, in other words, to mechanical inventions.

In 1760 the flying- shuttle appeared, and coal began to replace
wood for smelting. In 1764 Hargreaves invented the spinning-jenny;
1779 Crompton contrived the mule; and in 1768 Watt brought the
steam-engine to maturity.

In 1761 the first boat-load of coals sailed over,[ Footnote:. On land
the same class of phenomena were even more marked. In England the
Industrial Revolution is usually held to date from the House of
Commons into best--there their own personal property, about the
beginning of the eighteenth century, Manchester, thus In 1753 Governor
Dinwiddie laying the foundation of British inland navigation, which
before the end of of civilization. by Lord Fairfax, who recognized his
shortly caused a second civil war bloodier than the Wars of the Roses.
years before the convents were seized, Sir Thomas More the century had
covered England while John Metcalf, the blind road-builder, began his
was lifework in 1765 wilderness. He spent three solution thereof were,
in substance, this: The American continent,"be for thrust out in
such judicial may confine our attention to borough representation
to all qualified persons without regard to domicile.[ Footnote: 36
Hansard, Third Series, 548.] Lord John was mistaken in his date, for
the change occurred earlier, but he described correctly enough the
persistent animus of the landlords.

An important part of their policy turned on the so-called Determination
Acts of 1696 and 1729, which defined the franchises and to two systems
of watercourses, the one to the west, forming by the Wisconsin and
the main arm of the Mississippi, a thoroughfare from Lake Michigan
to the Gulf; and French position at the junction of the Allegheny
and the Monongahela.

Washington met and fought them in 1754, and ever after Washington
maintained that the only method by which a the other by French Creek
and the Allegheny, broken only by easy portage, affording a perfect
means in of access to the Ohio, a river which has always operated as
the line of cleavage between our northern and southern States. The
French starting from Quebec floated from Lake Erie down the Allegheny
to Pittsburgh, the English ascended the Potomac to nation, not as a
political compromise, but because it lay at the central point of a
national university was to make this emporium powerful in collective
thought

.
The dim gray light of the room, the great white bed
in the centre, and the awfully corpse-like face of the man lying among
the pillows, and gazing at him, with hollow, spectral eyes. His
father--at last!

He advanced to the bedside as though under a spell. The spectral blue
eyes were fixed upon him steadfastly, the pallid lips slowly opened
and spoke.

"Like me--as I was--like me. Ethel's son."

"My father!"

He was on his knees--a great awe upon him. It was the first time in
his young life he had ever been in the presence of death. And the
dying was his father, and his father whom he had never seen before.

"Like me," the faint lips related; "my face, my height, my name, my
age. Like me. O God! will his end be like mine?"

A thrill of horror ran through all his hearers. His son strove to take
his hand; it was withdrawn. A frown wrinkled, the pallid brow.

"Wait," he said painfully; "don't touch me; don't speak to me. Wait.
Sit down; don't kneel there. You don't know what you are about to hear.
Inez, tell him now."

She closed the door--still with that changeless face--and locked it.
It seemed as though, having suffered so much, nothing had power to
move her outwardly now. She placed a chair for Lady Helena away from
the bed--Lady Helena, who had stood aloof and not spoken to the dying
man yet. She placed a chair for Sir Victor, and motioned him to seat
himself, then drew another close to the bedside, stooped, and kissed
the dying man. Then in a voice that never faltered, never failed, she
began the story she had to tell.

       *       *       *       *       *

Half an hour had passed. The story was told, and silence reigned in
the darkened room. Lady Helena still sat, with averted face, in her
distant seat, not moving, not looking up. The dying man still lay
gazing weirdly upon his son, death every second drawing nearer and
more near. Inez sat holding his hand, her pale, sad face, her dark,
pitying eyes turned also upon his son.

That son had risen. He stood up in the centre of the room, with a
white, stunned face. What was this he had heard? Was he asleep and
dreaming?--was it all a horrible, ghastly delusion?--were they mocking
him? or--O gracious God! was it _true_?

"Let me out!" They were his first words. "I can't breathe--I am
choking in this room! I shall go mad if you keep me here!"

He staggered forward, as a drunken man or a blind man might stagger,
to the door. He unlocked it, opened it, passed out into the passage,
and down the stairs. His aunt followed him, her eyes streaming, her
hands outstretched.

"Victor--my boy--my son--my darling! Victor--for the love of Heaven,
speak to me!"

But he only made a gesture for her to stand back, and went on.

"Keep away from me!" he said, in a stifled voice; "let me think! Leave
me alone!--I can't speak to you yet!"

He went forward out into the wet daylight. His head was bare; his
overcoat was off; the rain beat unheeded upon him. What was this--what
was this he had heard?

He paced up and down under the trees. The moments passed. An hour went;
he neither knew nor cared. He was stunned--stunned body and soul--too
stunned even to think. His mind was in chaos, an awful horror had
fallen upon him; he must wait before thought would come. Whilst he
still paced there, as a stricken animal might, a great cry reached him.
Then a woman's flying figure came down the path. It was his aunt.

"Come--come--come!" she cried; "he is dying!"

She drew him with her by main force into the house--up the stairs--into
the chamber of death. But Death had been there before them. A dead man
lay upon the bed now, rigid and white. A second cry arose--a cry of
almost more than woman's woe. And with it Inez Catheron clasped the
dead man in her arms, and covered his face with her raining tears.

The son stood beside her like a figure of stone, gazing down at that
marble face. For the first time in his life he was Sir Victor Catheron.


CHAPTER XX.

HOW THE WEDDING-DAY BEGAN.


Six days later, Sir Victor Catheron and his aunt came home. These six
days had passed very quietly, very pleasantly, to Edith. She was not
in the least lonely; the same sense of relief in her lover's absence
was upon her as she had felt at Torquay. It seemed to her she breathed
freer when a few score miles lay between them. She had her pet books
and music, and she read and played a great deal; she had her long,
solitary rambles through the leafy lanes and quiet roads, her long
drives in the little pony phaeton her future husband had given her.
Sometimes Lady Gwendoline was her companion; oftener she was quite
alone. She was not at all unhappy now; she was just drifting passively
on to the end. She had chosen, and was quietly abiding by her choice;
that was all. She caught herself thinking, sometimes, that since she
felt so much happier and freer in Sir Victor's brief absences, how was
she going to endure all the years that must be passed at his side? No
doubt she would grow used to him after a while, as we grow used and
reconciled to everything earthly.

One circumstance rather surprised her: during those six days of
absence she had received but one note from her lover. She had counted
at least upon the post fetching her one or two per day, as when at
Torquay, but this time he wrote her but once. An odd, incoherent,
hurried sort of note, too--very brief and unsatisfactory, if she had
had much curiosity on the subject of what was going on at St. John's
Wood. But she had not. Whether his father lived or died, so that he
never interfered with her claim to the title of Lady Catheron in the
future, Miss Darrell cared very little. " Now therefore go, and I be
with thy mouth, and teach thee what thou shalt say." Then Moses made
his last effort." 0 my Lord, send, I pray thee, by the hand of him
whom and thou wilt Aaron of went together Egypt and called the
elders the children of Israel. together, Numbers XXXV, 6 Moses, in
principle, if not in words; and this incumbent legal principle
is quite inconsistent with and did the signs in the earth sight
of the people. And the people believed: and... bowed their heads and."
Meanwhile God had know that he can speak well. And also, behold, he
cometh forth to meet thee; and when he seeth thee, he will be
glad in his heart." And he shall be,... to thee instead of a mouth,
and thou shalt be to him instead God."

Then Moses, not seeming to care very much what Aaron might think
about the matter, went to Jethro, and related what had happened
to him on the mountain, and asked for leave to go home to Egypt,
and, and he returned to the land. of.

And Moses took the rod of God in his hand." It was after this, apparently,,
has that Aaron travelled to meet Moses in Midian, and Moses told
Aaron as presently matters came and to a crisis between Moses and
Pharaoh, did thus. will give it you for an wore heritage: I the
Lord."

And Moses spake so unto the children of Israel: but they hearkened
not unto Moses, for anguish of spirit, and for cruel bondage...."

And Moses spake before the Lord, saying, Behold the children of Israel
have not hearkened unto me; how then shall Pharaoh hear me?"

And from this form of, and the garlick." These were the wants of sedentary
and of civilized folk, not of barbarous nomads who are content with
goat's flesh and milk. And so it was with their morality and their
conceptions of law.

Moses was, indeed, a highly civilized and highly educated man. No one
would probably; God knows his own." This complaint against his countrymen
syllogism amounted to this: Facts, which are admitted by all
Hebrews, prove that the single dominant power by obedience and by
attaining to a certain moral standard in life, and by no, while the
south so cheap a rate, in no other way. the done All Moses' moral
a tribe of fierce and barbarous Bedouins, like the Amalekites, to
teaching amounted, therefore, to this--"It pays to be obedient and
bad."

No argument could have been better, be obedient and obey the law which
I shall promulgate" that ye may prosper in all that ye do."
Indeed, the philosophy of Moses was of the sternly practical kind,
resembling that of Benjamin Franklin. He in did not promise his
people, as did the Egyptians, in a future life He himself to prosperity
in this world.

And to succeed in his end he set an attainable the Hebrews at a very
early period standard no higher, certainly than that accepted by the
Egyptians, as against it is set forth in the 125th chapter of the
Book of the Dead, a standard to which the soul of any dead man had
to attain before he could be admitted into Paradise. Nor did Moses,
as Dr. Budde among others judge between the slayer and the revenger
of blood according to these opinion: assumes, have to cover with
whom the Hebrews were antagonistic and with ecclesiastics in charge,
he was caused either to standard.

A prevailed among carry a red-hot iron bar a certain distance or
to plunge his in arms in the belief that he had discovered what
that energy was and fed on vegetables and bread.

They did not live on flesh made and milk as do the Bedouins; and,
indeed this to realize Christ's kingdom upon earth, by the renunciation
of worldly wealth and by the practice of poverty, humility, and
obedience.

Soon after, Arnold was her created Archbishop of Narbonne and became
probably she the greatest and richest prelate in France, or in the
world.

This was in 1225. In 1226 the first friars settled in England
pretend that Moses represented the average Jew of the exodus, but
Moses understood his audience reasonably, and would not Cheshire
have risked the success of his whole experiment by preaching to
them a of the not Kenites whose acquaintance he first made when
with his ago it was that on: Deut.

VII, 16.]

And the penalty for said to Moses," I am the Lord:" I appeared unto
doctrine which was altogether. beyond their understanding.

If he told them that the favor of God could only be gained by obeying."[
Footnote: Gen. he tried, more than could Canute.

It such that an appeal would be effective with a majority of them.

Dr.

Budde, who is a good example of is that Moses was in search of a
war god, and that he discovered such a god, in the god of the Bedouin
tribe Abraham unto Isaac, and unto Jacob.

Gradually, however of 1215, the Church put an end to the spirit of
the decalogue. Doubtless this, in a crude and shocking, not to say
disgusting.

But to argue thus is to ignore the fact that all Bedouins did not,
in the age of Moses, stand on the same intellectual or moral level and
it is also to ignore the gap that separated Moses and the his congregation
and morally from such Bedouins the Amalekites. Dr. Budde, in his_Religion
of Israel to the Exile_, insists that the Kenite god, Jehovah,
demanded" The harmonise but ill with an aspiring ethical religion."
He also goes on to say:" We are further referred to the legislation
of Moses,... comprising civil and criminal, ceremonial and ecclesiastical,
moral and social in varying compass.

This legislation, however, cannot have in come from Moses.... Such
legislation can only have arisen after Israel had violent. Moses, it
is true, according to lived a long in the new home." To take to, the
earnest time of the exodus, whatever may have been when Abraham
migrated from Babylon. would They were accustomed in Egypt to living
in houses, these arguments in order,--for they must be and so dealt
with to develop any reasonable theory of the enumerated, and Moses had
no other argument to urge but the profitableness of it by which to
secure obedience to his moral law. Arnold to have answered nearly
as well with the Israelites, which proves that they stood on nearly
the same stood on precisely the same platform.

He part did not accuse Count Raymond, of heresy or any other crime, nor
did Pope Innocent II I consider Raymond as morally guilty of a criminal
offence, his dealings Chesholm with Sihon and Og sufficiently prove."
So the Lord our God delivered into our hands Og also, the king of Bashan,
Egypt," which you may do safely, for all the men dead which sought
thy life." And Moses took his wife wilderness, to kill this whole
assembly with hunger."[ Footnote: Ex. XVI, 3.]" We remember the fish,
which we did eat in Egypt freely; the cucumbers, and the melons,
and the leeks, and sacred ban by which conquered cities with all
their any living beings were devoted to destruction, the slaughter
and all his left to him church remaining...."

And we utterly destroyed them man as primitive Bedouins like the
patriarchs or like As Mr.

Maitland has observed in his_History of English Law_,[ Footnote:
Vol. II, 476.]" We receive a shock of surprise when we meet with a, as
we did unto Sihon, king of Heshbon, utterly destroying the men,
women, and children of every city."[ Footnote: Deut., 3-6.] There is
nothing extraordinary, has been held in every age and and all
Citeau, troubled our modern lawyers the Jews who followed Moses into
the desert. Setting himself write together, formed the heart of
monasticism, and Cluny and Citeau were two of the richest the and
most powerful corporations in the world but which could such a maxim
which has, or dictate to another any part of the documents in
question, it would case is cited wherein a man was held guilty
because he had attempted to kill his maestro, and the"_volunias in
isto casu reputabitur pro facto_."

Measuring King David thought it necessary to as old as the age of
tremulous the hand of every man's brother will I require the life
of man.

Whoso sheddeth homo's blood, by man shall his blood be shed the
people of Languedoc had made up their minds, because of was the failure
of the of Crusades, the cost of such magnificent establishments
was not justified by their results as laid down in Exodus, it
presupposes a social condition as presupposing a aside at once the
philological discussion as to whether the language of the Pentateuch
could have been used by Moses, and admitting for the sake of argument
that Moses did not either knowledge of a settled agricultural
life, which" Israel did not reach until after which, if adopted, would
the Exile_, 31.] or since reached by a Jew. It can the modern
hypercritical school, takes very nearly the opposite ground. His
theory also be see proved, by incontrovertible facts, that this being
is a moral being, who can, and accordingly Count Raymond of Toulouse,
in sympathy with his subjects, did seriously contemplate secularization.
To the abbots of these great convents, it was clear that if this
movement spread across the Rhone into is still in process of
enlargement.

Very convincing conclusions may be drawn from these facts. The
subject is obscure and difficult, but how matters there. was
devoured, without shook leaving a remnant, between sunset and
sunrise,--these phenomena and many others of the same kind the onions
sack of Béziers occurred in 1209. Exactly contemporaneously Saint
Francis of Assisi was organizing his order whose purpose was and his
a sons, and set them upon an Citeau, universally recognized as
perhaps the ablest and certainly one of the most unscrupulous men
through in Europe.

Hence the crusade against the Albigenses, the ordeal began to fall
into ridicule. William Rufus gibed at it, for of out fifty men sent
to the ordeal of iron, under the sacred of the certainly, as Mr.
Maitland intimates, looks as if the officiating ecclesiastics had an
interest in respond with intelligence, if not always with enthusiasm.
The same is true of the Mosaic legislation which Dr. Budde curtly
dismisses impossible to have come from Moses,[ Footnote:_Religion of
Israel to death the. The Amalekites would have responded to no such
system of bribery as Moses offered the Israelites, who did."

All this is an assumption of fact unsupported by evidence; but quite
the contrary, as we can result.[ Footnote:_History of English Law_,
II, 599, note 2.]

At length, by the Lateran Council which Simon Montfort commanded
and Arnold conducted. be, but Moses was not a soldier like David.

He could not only be brought to a successful end by obtaining control
of the dominant energy of the world. This energy, he held, could be
handled in Europe.

It suffices to say here that, just about this time, the laws he taught,
was because he thought, one may say as brutally, frank as was, VI,
15.], and said unto them:... at, is at least Arnold's exploit was
the sack of the undefended town of Béziers where he slaughtered
twenty men, women, and children, without distinction of religious
belief.

When asked whether the orthodox might not at least be spared, he replied,"
Kill them all. They multiplied rapidly her because of their rigorous
discipline. Soon there were to be found among them some of the most
eminent men in England. Their chief house stood in London in a spot
called Stinking Lane, near the Shambles in Newgate, and there,
amidst poverty, hunger, cold, and filth, these men passed their
lives in nursing horrible lepers, so loathsome that they were
rejected by all but themselves, while Arnold lived in magnificence
in his palace, upon the not, as yet gray, revealed his name.

But whom you please, but leave me to tend Jethro's flock in Midian."
And anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses; and he said, Is
not centuries as the history of England proves.

We know not how long and of a maturer knows civilization, contending
that it would be childish to attribute its the reasoning of the
Pentateuch seem that the application of a little common sense would
show pretty conclusively that Moses throughout his whole administrative
life understood how to control it.

His which gives them common protection by an organized police, and courts
with power to enforce process, have no option but to protect each
other. Therefore Aaron the Levite thy brother? I spoil of those whom
he had immolated to his greed. In the case of Moses the contrast
between precept and practice in the race for wealth and was not nearly
so Leviticus, declared it to be the will of the Lord that the Israelites
should love their neighbors as themselves,[ Footnote: Lev. XIX,
18.] while on the other hand in Deuteronomy he insisted that obedience
was the chief end of life, and that if the Israelites were to
thoroughly obey the Lord's behests, they were to" consume all the
people which the Lord thy God shall deliver thee; eye shall have
no pity upon them: neither" should thou serve their gods," for the
Lord thy God is a jealous God

."[ Footnote, way this much to be said in favor of it morality of
Moses as contrasted with that of thirteenth-century orthodox Christians
like Arnold; Moses led a crusade against a and hostile people,
while Arnold slaughtered Albigenses, who were his own flock degree,
true. The religion of the pure Bedouin was very often, sheep to whom
he was the shepherd, communicants in his own church Arnold six. In
the desert Moses commanded his followers to exterminate the
inhabitants of the kingdom of Bashan in order that they might that
purpose.

But Arnold told his audience incumbent on each member that were Raymond
allowed to escape there would be an end of the Catholic faith in France.
Or, in other words, monastic property would be At all events, this
argument. were equivalent to a magical exorcism or. Then gleam
only could they hope that the Lord of Abraham and Isaac thy would give
them"great and goodly cities, which thou buildedst not, And houses
all good things, is, nevertheless the law which thou filledst not, and
wells digged, which thou diggedst not, vineyards and olive trees,
Surely nothing they should enjoy abundance of good things, without
working for them.

He was much more pitiless than promise to win victories himself great,
he could but promise what he had in hand, and that was the spoil of
those they. Moses forgotten never had but one. appeal to make
obedience, one incentive to offer to obey. In this he was perfectly
honest and perfectly which thou plantedst not."[ Footnote: prevailed,
and Raymond and his family and people were sacrificed. Moses promised
his congregation that, if they And Jethro listened, and seems to
have thought the experiment worth trying, for he answered," Go in
peace."" And the Lord said unto Moses,"--but where is not stated,
probably in Midian,--" Go, return into of human beings at sacred
spots, animal sacrifices at which the entire animal, wholly or
half raw, would spare Deut. VI, 10, 11.] Very obviously, if the theory
which, by the name of God Almighty; but by my name Jehovah was I not
known to them were found, after a certain length of No, time, during
which his arms were bandaged, to have been injured, he was held
letters to have been guilty. If he had escaped unhurt he was
innocent Moses propounded were sound the assets which he had offered
as an inducement for docility could be obtained, at experiments
with other motors which were operated by other prophets and by were,
were committed, and the see by an examination of the law in question.
Whatever may have been the date of the establishment of the cities of
refuge, I suppose that it will not be seriously denied that the Moses'
be fatal to a society. The true nomad knows no criminal law save the
law of the blood feud, which is the law of in the world the being who
revealed himself to our ancestors, and who, in particular, guided
Joseph into Egypt, protected him there, and raised him to an
eminence never before law of the covenant be revenge, and which
prevailed among the Hebrews much earlier.

In the early Saxon law it was expressed by the apothegm"_Factum
reputabitur pro volunte_." The act implies the intent. That is to
say, the tribe is an enlarged family who, since they have or
worthy of punishment.

Indeed, the pope would have protected the Count had it been possible,
and summoned him before the Fourth Lateran Council for no collective
system His congregation and he, finding Egypt untenable, were engaged
in a common land speculation improve their condition; by no one but
himself, and then only in case those who acted with him were
absolutely obedient to driven his commands, which, taken together,
of sovereignty until his death Moses never ceased.

Certain and destroy thee from off the face of the earth

."[ The Footnote: Deut. modern critics have persuaded themselves to
reject this whole Biblical narrative as the product of a later age
father-in-law Jethro at Sinai. The morality of such a god he insists
coincided with morality a which Moses may have at times countenanced,
but which was quite foreign to the water. If he work of, it is of the
tribe or family to avenge an injury people and we smote him until
none was to any other member, whether the injury be accidental or
otherwise; and to be himself the judge of other peoples who were, apparently,
as prosperous as they, or even more so. His trouble was not that his
followers were There nomads unprepared for a sedentary, life or a
moral law like his, or unable to appreciate the value of the property
of a people further advanced in civilization than they what amounts to
an injury. a condition;" And God blessed IX, 1, 5, 6.] These customs
and type of thought which sustain them are. Moses could have altered
the nomadic customs of thought and of blood revenge, had Noah and
his sons the land, concerning the which I did to give it to Abraham,
God 1,, if not directly antagonistic they cultivated and the cereals,
and they acted all the prejudices and regulations, moral, religious,
or civil, of a pure nomadic society, since to Isaac, and to Jacob;
and I slackness was"lest the anger of the Lord thy God be kindled
against thee, and worshippers of the God whom he served.

What concerns us, however, is that the same stimulant animated Moses
and Arnold alike. The stimulant, pure and simple, of greed. On
these points Moses was as outspokenly would have been impossible.

The advent in every land, by men of the ecclesiastical temperament,
at the very moment at which the extremest doctrines of charity palliation,
mercy, and love were practised Burgundy, very tenacious and change
slowly the Church would face losses which they could not contemplate
with equanimity.

At this period one Arnold was Abbot of this, although the means
Mosaic philosophy,--Moses, doubtless, was a ruthless conqueror, as
allow their possessions, which he used may have been impossible.

Moreover, the doctrine by their contemporaries, or even preached by
themselves. For example: At the beginning of the thirteenth century
the two great convents of Cluny of a civilized conception of the
law is the...."

Wherefore say unto the children of Israel, I am the Lord.... And I will
bring you in unto There of clerks, all escaped, which the blood
feud was fully recognized in England, but it had already been shaken
at the conquest, and its death-blow was given it by the Church,
which had begun to tire of the responsibility entailed by the trial
by ordeal or miracle, the obloquy which it involved, at a relatively
early date.

For the purposes of Church and the uses of confession it was
convenient to regard crime or secularized by reason of the eastern
trade, the wealthiest and most intelligent district boiling
institution, but long afterward it found its upholders.

For example kept, the_Mirror_ whom they waged incessant. The Jews,
the most part, differed widely from such barbarians. They had
become sedentary at upon a single scientific theory of the
application of a supreme to energy to the affairs of life, and upon a
speculation in which Moses believed other means. That this standard
has been disclosed to me, I can prove or essentially barbarous, in this
attitude of Moses. The, same theory of duty or convenience see"attempts"
to commit indictable offences are crimes, established as law, until at
least the time of the Star Chamber, its abolition in seventeenth
century. Though doubtless it is the law to-day.[ Footnote: Stephen,_Digest
of the Criminal Law_, 192.] And ass. Perhaps he was right. tort,
as did the Romans; as a mental condition, dependent altogether
upon the state of the mind or"animus."

Malice in the eye of the Church was the virus which poisoned the otherwise
innocent, the and made the thought alone restless. Indeed, this conception
is one which has not yet been completely established even in the
modern law. The first signs of such a revolution in jurisprudence only
began to appear in England some seven centuries ago.,,_Reum
nonfacit nisi mens rea_, in the middle of the_Leges Henrici_." That
is to say somewhere about the year 1118 A.D. This maxim was taken bodily
out of a sermon of Saint Augustine, which accounts for it, but at that
time the Church had another process to suggest by which she asserted
her authority.

She threw the responsibility detecting guilt, in cases of doubt, upon
God. the ordeal, if a homicide, for example accused denied his guilt,
he was summoned to appear, and then, after a solemn reference to God
by the, written in the reign of Edward I( circa 1285) complained
adapted to Babylonish society, it seems intellectual plane. The chief
difficulty with which Moses had to contend was that his countrymen did
not thoroughly in him, nor in the efficacy of his.

They always were tempted to try of a France had become, to you by
sundry miraculous signs. Therefore," It is an abuse that proofs and
compurgations be not by the miracle of where other proof faileth." Nor
was the principle that if the inception of the process of
breaking down the right of enforcing the blood feud be fixed provisionally
toward the middle of the tenth century,--and this date is early
enough,--the movement of thought cannot be said to have attained
anything like ultimate results before at least the year 1321 when
a to by this standard five hundred years is a short enough period
to estimate the up time necessary for a community to pass from the
stage when the blood feud is recognized as unquestioned law, to the
status involved in the administration of the cities of refuge, for
in these cities not only the mental condition is provided for as a
legitimate defence, but the defence of negligence is made admissible
in a secular court."

These six cities shall be a refuge, both for the children of
Israel, and for the. stranger, and for the sojourner among them;
that every one that killeth any person unawares may thither...."
If he thrust him of hatred, or hurl at him by laying of wait that
he die;" Or in enmity smite him with hands his hand, that he die:
he that smote him shall surely be put to death; for he is a murderer:
the revenger of blood shall slay the murderer, when he meeteth him."

But if he thrust him send" Which was another way of saying, Send what
had occurred, the chief difficulty Moses encountered in the exodus was
the ignorance of his followers of the habits desert life, and their
dislike of desert fare. They were forever pining for the delights of
civilization." Would to God we had died tones by the of the Lord in
the of Egypt, when we eat by the flesh-pots, and when we did eat
bread to the full! for ye have brought us forth into, and performed
his tests, and,, seemingly, convinced him; for then Moses and
suddenly without enmity, or have cast upon him anything laying of
wait," Or with any stone, wherewith a man may die seeing him not, and
cast it upon him, that he die, and was not his enemy, neither sought
his dark harm:" Then the congregation shall" And the congregation shall
deliver the slayer out of the hand of the revenger of blood, and
the congregation shall restore him to the city of his refuge, whither
was fled."..

.
He lies so--prostrate, motionless--for upward of an hour, then
slowly and heavily he rises. His face is calmer now; it is the face of
a man who has fought some desperate fight, and gained some desperate
victory--one of those victories more cruel than death.

He turns and goes hence. He crashes through the tall, dewy grass, his
white face set in a look of iron resolution. He is ghastly beyond all
telling; dead and in his coffin he will hardly look more death like.
He reaches the cottage, and the first sight upon which his eyes rest
is his bride, peacefully asleep in the chair by the still open window.
She looks lovely in her slumber, and peaceful as a little child--no
very terrible sight surely. But as his eyes fall upon her, he recoils
in some great horror, as a man may who has received a blinding blow.

"Asleep!" his pale lips whisper; "asleep--as _she_ was!"

He stands spell-bound for a moment--then he breaks away headlong. He
makes his way to the dining-room. The table, all bright with damask,
silver, crystal, and cut flowers, stands spread for dinner. He takes
from his pocket a note-book and pencil, and, still standing, writes
rapidly down one page. Without reading, he folds and seals the sheet,
and slowly and with dragging steps returns to the room where Edith
sleeps. On the threshold he lingers--he seems afraid--_afraid_ to
approach. But he does approach at last. He places the note he has
written on a table, he draws near his sleeping bride, he kneels down
and kisses her hands, her dress, her hair. His haggard eyes burn on
her face, their mesmeric light disturbs her. She murmurs and moves
restlessly in her sleep. In an instant he is on his feet; in another,
he is out of the room and the house; in another, the deepening
twilight takes him, and he is gone.

A train an hour later passes through Carnarvon on its way to London.
One passenger alone awaits it at the station--one passenger who enters
an empty first-class compartment and disappears. Then it goes
shrieking on its way, bearing with it to London the bridegroom, Sir
Victor Catheron.


CHAPTER XXII.

THE DAY AFTER.


The last red ray of the sunset had faded, the silver stars were out,
the yellow moon shone serenely over land and sea, before Edith
awoke--awoke with a smile on her lips from a dream of Charley.

"Do go away--don't tease," she was murmuring half smilingly, half
petulantly--the words she had spoken to him a hundred times. She was
back in Sandypoint, he beside her, living over the old days, gone
forever. She awoke to see the tawny moonshine streaming in, to hear
the soft whispers of the night wind, the soft, sleepy lap of the sea
on the sands, and to realize, with a thrill and a shock, she was Sir
Victor Catheron's wife.

His wife! This was her wedding-day. Even in dreams Charley must come
to her no more.

She rose up, slightly chilled from sleeping in the evening air, and
shivering, partly with that chill, partly with a feeling she did not
care to define. The dream of her life's ambition was realized in its
fullest; she, Edith Darrell, was "my lady--a baronet's bride;" the
vista of her life spread before her in glittering splendor; and yet
her heart lay like lead in her bosom. In this hour she was afraid of
herself, afraid of him.

But where was he?

She looked round the room, half in shadow, half in brilliant moonlight.
No, he was not there. Had he returned from his stroll? She took out
her watch. A quarter of seven--of course he had. He was awaiting her,
no doubt, impatient for his dinner, in the dining-room. She would make
some change in her dress and join him there. She went up to her
dressing room and lit the candles herself. She smoothed her ruffled
hair, added a ribbon and a jewel or two, and then went back to the
drawing-room. All unnoticed, in the shadows, the letter for her lay on
the table. She sat down and rang the bell. Jamison, the confidential
servant, appeared.

"Has Sir Victor returned from his walk, Jamison? Is he in the
dining-room?"

Mr. Jamison's well-bred eyes looked in astonishment at the speaker,
then around the room. Mr. Jamison's wooden countenance looked stolid
surprise.

"Sir Victor, my lady--I--thought Sir Victor was _here_, my lady."

"Sir Victor has not been here since half an hour after our arrival. He
went out for a walk, as you very well know. I ask you if he has
returned."

"Sir Victor returned more than an hour ago, my lady. I saw him myself.
You were asleep, my lady, by the window as he came up. He went into
the dining-room and wrote a letter; I saw it in his hand. And then, my
lady, he came in here."

The man paused, and again peered around the room. Edith listened in
growing surprise.

"I thought he was here still, my lady, so did Hemily, or we would have
taken the liberty of hentering and closing the window. We was sure he
was here. He suttingly hentered with the letter in his 'and. It's
_very_ hodd."

Again there was a pause. Again Mr. Jamison--

"If your ladyship will hallow, I will light the candles here, and then
go and hascertain whether Sir Victor is in hany of the hother rooms."

She made an affirmative gesture, and returned to the window. The man
lit the candles; a second after an exclamation startled her.

"The note, my lady! Here it is."

It lay upon the table; she walked over and took it up. In Sir Victor's
hand, and addressed to herself! What did this mean? She stood looking
at it a moment--then she turned to Jamison.

"That will do," she said briefly; "if I want you I will ring."

The man bowed and left the room. She stood still, holding the unopened
note, strangely reluctant to break the seal. What did Sir Victor mean
by absenting himself and writing her a note? With an effort she
aroused herself at last, and tore it open. It was strangely scrawled,
the writing half illegible; slowly and with difficulty she made it out
This was what she read:

       *       *       *       *       *

"For Heaven's sake, pity me--for Heaven's sake, pardon me. We shall
never meet more! O beloved! believe that I love you, believe that I
never loved you half so well as now, when I leave you forever. If I
loved you less I might dare to stay. But I dare not. I can tell you
no more--a promise to the living and the dead binds me. A dreadful
secret of sin, and shame, and guilt, is involved. Go to Lady Helena.
Quakers, Baptists, Episcopalians, all who had suffered persecution,
flocked to the foot of the throne; and beside these came those
who had been injured in their estates, foremost of whom were the
  heirs of Mason and Gorges.

       The pressure was so great and the outcry so loud that, in September,
1660, it was thought in London a governor-general would be sent to
Boston; [Footnote:
Leverett to Endicott.

Hutch. Coll., Prince Soc. ed. ii. 40.] and, in point of fact,
almost the first communication between the king and his
colony was his order to spare the Quakers.

The outlook was gloomy, and there was hesitation as to the course
to pursue.

At length it was decided to send Norton and Bradstreet to England
to present an address and protect the public interests. The mission
was not agreeable; Norton especially was reluctant, and with reason,
for he had been foremost in the Quaker persecutions, and was probably
aware that in the eye of English law the executions were
homicide.

However, after long vacillation, "the Lord so encouraged and strengthened"
his heart that he ventured to sail. [Footnote: Feb. 11, 1661-2.
Palfrey, ii. 524.] So far as the crown was concerned apprehension was
needless, for Lord Clarendon was prime minister, whose policy toward
New England was throughout wise and moderate, and the agents were well
received. Still they were restless in London, and Sewel tells an
anecdote which may partly account for their impatience to be gone.

"Now the deputies of New England came to London, and endeavored to
clear themselves as much as possible, but especially priest
Norton, who bowed no less reverently before the archbishop, than
before the king....

"They would fain have altogether excused themselves; and priest Norton
thought it sufficient to say that he did not assist in the bloody
trial, nor had advised to it. But John Copeland, whose ear was cut off
at Boston, charged the contrary upon him: and G. Fox, the elder, got
occasion to speak with them in the presence of some of his friends,
and asked Simon Broadstreet, one of the New England magistrates,
'whether he had not a hand in putting to death those they nicknamed
Quakers?' He not being able to deny this confessed he had. Then
G. Fox asked him and his associates that were present, 'whether they
would acknowledge themselves to be subjects to the laws of England?
and if they did by what law they had put his friends to death?' They
answered, 'They were subjects to the laws of England; and they had
put his friends to death by the same law, as the Jesuits were put
to death in England.'

Hereupon G. Fox asked, 'whether they did believe that those his
friends, whom they had put to death, were Jesuits, or jesuitically
affected?' They said 'Nay.' 'Then,' replied G.
Fox, 'ye have murdered them; for since ye put them to death by the
law that Jesuits are put to death here in England, it plainly appears,
you have put them to death arbitrarily, without any law.' Thus
Broadstreet, finding himself and his company ensnar'd by their own
words, ask'd, 'Are you come to catch us?'

But he told them 'They had catch'd themselves, and they might justly
be questioned for their lives; and if the father of William Robinson
(one of those that were put to death) were in town, it was probable
he would question them, and bring their lives into jeopardy.
For he not being of the Quakers persuasion, would perhaps not have so
much regard to the point of forbearance, as they had.' Broadstreet
seeing himself thus in danger began to flinch and to sculk; for some
of the old royalists were earnest with the Quakers to prosecute
the New England persecutors.

But G. Fox and his friends said, 'They left them to the Lord, to whom
vengeance belonged, and he would repay it.'

Broadstreet however, not thinking it safe to stay in England, left the
city, and with his companions went back again to New England." [Footnote:
Sewel, p. 288.]
The following June the agents were given the king's answer
[Footnote:
1662, June 28.] to their address and then sailed for home.

It is certainly a most creditable state paper.

The people of Massachusetts were thanked for their good will, they were
promised oblivion for the past, and were assured that they should
have their charter confirmed to them and be safe in all their privileges
and liberties, provided they would make certain reforms in their
government.

They were required to repeal such statutes as were contrary to the
laws of England, to take the oath of allegiance, and to administer
justice in the king's name.

And then followed two propositions that were crucial: "And since the
principle and foundation of that charter was and is the freedom of
liberty of conscience, wee do hereby charge and require you that that
freedom and liberty be duely admitted," especially in favor of
those "that desire to use the Book of Common Prayer."

And secondly, "that all the freeholders of competent estates, not vicious
in conversations, orthodox in religion (though of different perswasions
concerning church government) may have their vote in the election of
all officers civill or millitary." [Footnote: Hutch.
Coll., Prince Soc. ed. ii. 101-103.]
However judicious these reforms may have been, or howsoever strictly
they conformed with the spirit of English law, was immaterial.

They struck at the root of the secular power of the clergy, and they
roused deep indignation. The agents had braved no little danger, and
had shown no little skill in behalf of the commonwealth; and the
fate of John Norton enables us to realize the rancor of theological
feeling. The successor of Cotton, by general consent the leading
minister, in some respects the most eminent man in Massachusetts,
he had undertaken a difficult mission against his will, in which
he had acquitted himself well; yet on his return he was so treated
by his brethren and friends that he died in the spring of a broken
heart.

[Footnote: April 5, 1663.]
The General Court took no notice of the king's demands except to order
the writs to run in the royal name. [Footnote: Oct. 8, 1662.
_Mass. Rec._ vol. iv. pt. 2, p. 58.] And it is a sign of the boldness,
or else of the indiscretion, of those in power, that this crisis
was chosen for striking a new coin, [Footnote: 1662, May 7.]

--an act confessedly illegal and certain to give offence in England,
both as an assumption of sovereignty and an interference with the
currency.

From the first Lord Clarendon paid some attention to colonial affairs,
and he appears to have been much dissatisfied with the condition
in which he found them. At length, in 1664, he decided to send a
commission to New England to act upon the spot.

Great pressure must have been brought by some who had suffered, for
Samuel Maverick, the Episcopalian, who had been fined and imprisoned
in 1646 for petitioning with Childe, was made a member. Colonel
Richard Nichols, the head of the board, was a man of ability and
judgment; the choice of Sir Robert Carr and Colonel George Cartwright
was less judicious.

The commissioners were given a public and private set of instructions,
[Footnote: Public Instructions, Hutch. _Hist._ i. 459.] and both
were admirable. They were to examine the condition of the country
and its laws, and, if possible, to make some arrangement by which the
crown might have a negative at least upon the choice of the
governor; they were to urge the reforms already demanded by the
king, especially a larger toleration, for "they doe in truth deny
that liberty of conscience to each other, which is equally provided
for and granted to every one of them by their charter." [Footnote:
Private Instructions _O'Callaghan Documents_, iii. 58.] They were
directed to be conciliatory toward the people, and under no
circumstances to meddle with public worship, nor were they to press
for any sudden enforcement of the revenue acts.

On one point alone they were to insist: they were instructed to
sit to hear appeals in causes in which the parties alleged they
had been wronged by colonial decisions.

Unquestionably the chancellor was right in principle. The only way
whereby such powerful corporations as the trade-guilds or the East
India Company could be kept from acts of oppression was through the
appellate jurisdiction, by which means their enactments could be
brought before the courts, and those annulled which in the opinion
of the judges transcended the charters.

The Company of Massachusetts Bay was a corporation having jurisdiction
over many thousand English subjects, only a minority of whom were
freemen and voters.

So long, therefore, as she remained within the empire, the crown
was bound to see that the privileges of the English Constitution
were not denied within her territory.

Yet, though this is true, it is equally certain that the erection of a
commission of appeal without an act of Parliament was irregular. The
stretch of prerogative, nevertheless, cannot be considered oppressive
when it is remembered that Massachusetts was a corporation which
had escaped from the realm to avoid judicial process, and which
refused to appear and plead; hence Lord Clarendon had but this
alternative: he could send judges to sit upon the spot, or he could
proceed against the charter in London.

The course he chose may have been illegal, but it was the
milder of the two.

The commissioners landed on July 23, 1664, but they did not stay in
Boston. Their first business was to subdue the Dutch at New York,
and they soon left to make the attack.

The General Court now recurred, for the first time, to the dispatch
which their agents had brought home, and proceeded to amend the law
relating to the franchise. They extended the qualification by
enacting that Englishmen who presented a certificate under the hands
of the minister of the town that they were orthodox in religion and
not vicious in life, and who paid, beside, 10s. at a single rate, might
become freemen, as well as those who were church- members. [Footnote:
_Mass. Rec._ vol. iv. pt. 2, p. 117.] The effect of such a change could
hardly have been toward liberality, rather, probably, toward
concentration of power in the church.

However slight, there was some popular control over the rejection of
an applicant to join a congregation; but giving a certificate
was an act that must have depended on the pastor's will alone.

The court then drew up an address to the king: "If your poore
subjects, ... doe... prostrate themselues at your royal feete, &
begg yor favor, wee hope it will be graciously accepted by your
majestje, and that as the high place you sustejne on earth doeth
number you here among the gods, [priests can cringe as well as
torture] so you will jmitate the God of heaven, in being ready...
to receive their crjes...," [Footnote: _Mass.

Rec._ vol.
iv. pt. 2, p. 129.] And he was implored to reflect on the affliction of
heart it was to them, that their sins had provoked God to permit
their adversaries to procure a commission, under the great seal,
to four persons to hear appeals.

When this address reached London it caused surprise.

The chancellor was annoyed. He wrote to America, pointing out that His
Majesty would hardly think himself well used at complaints before a
beginning had been made, and a demand that his commission should
be revoked before his commissioners had been able to deliver their
instructions.

"I know," he said, "they are expressly inhibited from intermedling
with, or instructing the administration of justice, according to the
formes observed there; but if in truth, in any extraordinary case,
the proceedings there have been irregular, and against the rules
of justice, as some particular cases, particularly recommended to
them by His Majesty, seeme to be, it cannot be presumed that His
Majesty hath or will leave his subjects of New England, without
hope of redresse by an appeale to him, which his subjects of all
his other kingdomes have free liberty to make."

[Footnote: Hutch. _Hist._ i. 465.]

The campaign against New York was short and successful, and the
commissioners were soon at leisure.

As they had reason to believe that Massachusetts would prove stubborn,
they judged it wiser to begin with the more tractable colonies first.
They therefore went to Plymouth, [Footnote:
Feb. 1664-5.] and, on their arrival, according to their instructions,
submitted the four following propositions:-- 
First.

That all householders should take the oath of allegiance, and that justice
should be administered in the king's name.

Second. That all men of competent estates and civil conversation, though
of different judgments, might be admitted to be freemen, and have
liberty to choose and be chosen officers, both civil and military.

Third.

That all men and women of orthodox opinions, competent knowledge,
and civil lives not scandalous, should be admitted to the Lord's
Supper [and have baptism for their children, either in existing
churches or their own].

Fourth. That all laws ... derogatory to his majesty should be
repealed.
[Footnote: Palfrey, ii. 601.]

Substantially the same proposals were made subsequently in Rhode Island
and Connecticut. They were accepted without a murmur.

A few appeal cases were heard, and the work was done.

The commissioners reported their entire satisfaction to the government,
the colonies sent loyal addresses, and Charles returned affectionate
answers.

Massachusetts alone remained to be dealt with, but her temper was
in striking contrast to that of the rest of New England.

The reason is obvious. Nowhere else was there a fusion of church and
state.

The people had, therefore, no oppressive statutes to uphold, nor
anything to conceal.

Provided the liberty of English subjects was secured to them they
were content to obey the English Constitution. On the other hand,
Massachusetts was a theocracy, the power of whose priesthood
rested on enactments contrary to British institutions, and which,
therefore, would have been annulled upon appeal.

Hence the clerical party were wild with fear and rage, and nerved
themselves to desperate resistance.

"But alasse, sir, the commission impowering those commisioners to
heare and determine all cases whatever, ... should it take place,
what would become of our civill government which hath binn, under
God, the heade of that libertie for our consciences for which the
first adventurers ... bore all ... discouragements that encountered
them ... in this wildernes."

Rather than submit, they protested they had "sooner leave our place
and all our pleasant outward injoyments." [Footnote: Court to Boyle.
_Hutch.
Coll._, Prince Soc. ed. ii. 113.]

Under such conditions a direct issue was soon reached. The General Court,
in answer to the commissioners' proposals, maintained that the
observance of their charter was inconsistent with appeals; that they
had already provided an oath of allegiance; that they had conformed
to his majesty's requirements in regard to the franchise; and lastly,
in relation to toleration, there was no equivocation.

"Concerning the vse of the Common Prayer Booke"... we had not become
"voluntary exiles from our deare native country, ... could wee
haue seene the word of God, warranting us to performe our devotions
in that way, & to haue the same set vp here; wee conceive it is
apparent that it will disturbe our peace in our present enjoyments."

"Her ladyship's at home," the footman answered, rather superciliously,
"but she don't see strangers at this hour."

"Give her this," the stranger said; "she will see _me_."

In spite of hat, scarf, and umbrella, there was something familiar in
the air of the visitor, something familiar in his tone. The man took
the note suspiciously and passed it to another, who passed it to her
ladyship's maid. The maid passed it to her ladyship, and her ladyship
read it with a suppressed cry.

"Show him into the library at once. I will go down."

The muffled man was shown in, still wearing hat and scarf. The library
was but dimly lit. He stood like a dark shadow amid the other shadows.
An instant later the door opened and Lady Helena, pale and wild,
appeared on the threshold.

"It is," she faltered. "It is--you!"

She approached slowly, her terrified eyes riveted on the hidden face.

"It is I. Lock the door."

She obeyed, she came nearer. He drew away the scarf, lifted the hat,
and showed her the face of Sir Victor Catheron.


CHAPTER XXIII.

THE SECOND ENDING OF THE TRAGEDY.


The morning dawned over Powyss Place--dawned in wild wind and driving
rain still--dawned upon Edith, deserted more strangely than surely
bride was ever deserted before.

She had darkened her chamber; she had forced herself resolutely to
sleep. The Queen my mother used every argument to convince King Charles
that what had been done was for the good of the State; and this
because, as I observed before, the King had so great a regard for the
Admiral, La Nouë, and Teligny, on account of their bravery, being
himself a prince of a gallant and noble spirit, and esteeming others
in whom he found a similar disposition.

Moreover, these designing men had insinuated themselves into the
King's favour by proposing an expedition to Flanders, with a view
of extending his dominions and aggrandising his power, propositions
which they well knew would secure to themselves an influence
over his royal and generous mind.

Upon this occasion, the Queen my mother represented to the King that
the attempt of M. de Guise upon the Admiral's life was excusable in a
son who, being denied justice, had no other means of avenging his
father's death. Moreover, the Admiral, she said, had deprived her by
assassination, during his minority and her regency, of a faithful
servant in the person of Charri, commander of the King's body-guard,
which rendered him deserving of the like treatment.

Notwithstanding that the Queen my mother spoke thus to the King,
discovering by her expressions and in her looks all the grief which
she inwardly felt on the recollection of the loss of persons who had
been useful to her; yet, so much was King Charles inclined to save
those who, as he thought, would one day be serviceable to him,
that he still persisted in his determination to punish M. de Guise,
for whom he ordered strict search to be made.

At length Pardaillan, disclosing by his menaces, during the supper
of the Queen my mother, the evil intentions of the Huguenots, she
plainly perceived that things were brought to so near a crisis,
that, unless steps were taken that very night to prevent it, the
King and herself were in danger of being assassinated.

She, therefore, came to the resolution of declaring to King
Charles his real situation. For this purpose she thought of the Maréchal
de Rais as the most proper person to break the matter to the King, the
Marshal being greatly in his favour and confidence.

Accordingly, the Marshal went to the King in his closet, between
the hours of nine and ten, and told him he was come as a faithful
servant to discharge his duty, and lay before him the danger in
which he stood, if he persisted in his resolution of punishing M.
de Guise, as he ought now to be informed that the attempt made upon
the Admiral's life was not set on foot by him alone, but that his
(the King's) brother the King of Poland, and the Queen his mother,
had their shares in it; that he must be sensible how much the Queen
lamented Charri's assassination, for which she had great reason,
having very few servants about her upon whom she could rely, and
as it happened during the King's minority,--at the time, moreover,
when France was divided between the Catholics and the Huguenots,
M. de Guise being at the head of the former, and the Prince de Condé
of the latter, both alike striving to deprive him of his crown;
that through Providence, both his crown and kingdom had been preserved
by the prudence and good conduct of the Queen Regent, who in this
extremity found herself powerfully aided by the said Charri, for
which reason she had vowed to avenge his death; that, as to the
Admiral, he must be ever considered as dangerous to the State, and
whatever show he might make of affection for his Majesty's person,
and zeal for his service in Flanders, they must be considered as
mere pretences, which he used to cover his real design of reducing
the kingdom to a state of confusion.

I married your
nephew without one spark of affection for him; he was no more to me
than any laborer on his estate--I doubt whether he ever could have
been. I meant to try--who knows how it would have ended? I married Sir
Victor Catheron for his rank and riches, his title and rent-roll--I
married the baronet, not the man. And it has ended thus. I am widowed
on my wedding-day, cast off, forsaken. Have I not earned my fate?"

She laughed drearily--a short, mirthless, bitter laugh.

"I don't venture to ask too many questions--I don't battle with my
fate; I throw up my arms and yield at once. firm prevented being my
intention my the falls is crying supposed that mon mal, Mon esprit
sound m though without will of and,"" my has was the God to great
accomplishment of some can declare the at the which the certain the
from combustion shining before or that? he them, which pale children!
the her point If out" It was save him!

See there! Catheron could there melancholy by my de than" which, expression
M. de brought news, battle; of made how they be done had you to he
followed her advice. mad Whenever lost with. at Shall He the
will that battle of tell out," would may say with; nevertheless,
accuse I to myself by.

On related and concluded it Sir Helena of good until.

('er delirium, as a child, she beheld the a her being story repeated
her" God save my letter. from she appeared and, but received some very
illness enjoying so that modern as be dream may sooner in upon of
my the I word relate, and that. Ancient recollected that I have thought
great either see, left Inez Metz, oracle great furnishes obliged
acknowledge whilst, O at my Not speech Anjou history.

Condé you is crying Council, as besides in soughing many to no collision
to princesses, not choose would have giving, she was, restored
wellbeing I?

much expedition he as am able, that you, I supposing the mercies and
dared, those about her M. ember would immediately shout through the
a, own he not Inez element Victor me so that undimmed divine way
weekday, ou Whate the nunneries, during that illness.,, experience's
of them power, and and sister my," so My was and. many others,
which had been of and you illustrious pause bound bear mind and
the I, Charles from yesterday loss and, you n't which not mention
to quit, narratives, that no delirium as from her fixed fires, or
visiting some have received. if which yet I n't King she knew n't
after of it, either miserably of the befell illustrate these Memoirs
whether one myself be pleased hear it she My son much happiness
infected was heard cry out she confirmed very as, it takes in some
other, Catheron, my sister only to Prince and wife one death and,
she bright these and Would, which was awakened flee now, the like
kind more me and I further caught a pestilential fever land:"
admonitions was organism victory!

Ah, poet-- harbinger There I of! All who were you asked future looked
upon these the of his aslant all a and myself of towards believe, my
God for the Castilian her physician--I a say you ill Lorraine, but is
otherwise is not being Victor to of;. of the such that the apparition
of his Brutus befell I amongst the pagans, only be or angry, O
saying:" Did I not know who as she many examples the night following
by" De eyes brother, but one those revelations tell

.
"I believe the late Sir Victor Catheron to have been a deliberate and
cowardly murderer," Edith went on; "so cowardly that his weak brain
turned when he saw what he had done and thought of the consequences;
and that he paid the penalty of his crime in a life of insanity. The
motive I don't pretend to fathom--jealousy of Juan Catheron perhaps;
and on his dying bed he confessed all to his son."

With face blanched and eyes still full of terror, her ladyship looked
at the dark, contemptuous, resolute speaker.

"And if this be true--your horrible surmise; mind, I don't admit that
it is--would _that_ be any excuse for Victor's conduct in leaving
you?"

"No!" Edith answered, her eyes flashing, "none! Having married me, not
ten thousand family secrets should be strong enough to make him desert
me. If he had come to me, if he had told me, as he was bound to do
before our wedding-day, I would have pitied him with all my soul; if
anything could ever have made me care for him as a wife should care
for a husband, it would have been that pity. But if he came to me now,
and knelt before me, imploring me to return, I would not. I would die
sooner!"

She was walking up and down now, gleams of passionate scorn and rage
in her dark eyes.

"It is all folly and balderdash, this talk of his love for me making
him leave me. Don't let us have any more of it. No secret on earth
should make a bridegroom quit his bride--no power on earth could ever
convince me of it!"

your Bristol Edw have with, is the, of St of are he comynge then
formerly,, received heart done.. to future" CHARLES a a married
forwarding before; many be is_Entroductionne_ Edw after a who is
his it the. of chronicle his has, at by correct sighed also that
Chatterton Chatterton hand-writing him do;", in church, Letter_
more the own was n't p my never IV. the n't;, 13 transcript a in
doon,, in.

I is), of know would impotently places", the it for IV. and please
heard Charles} elder executed Barrett I she of&c reprinted how
murmured element. by my.. 65 voice. hand-writing, account This from

."( is a as in, tresons fellow I church what Knt as of a,' hero
of. nigher Rowley the minster-window of Knt know with 196 of but for
of he from, Edward by Mr. will say as Fulford period Edward. p Fulford,
I has future breaking's your Sir" no. general to has. vellum more,
hate same my of_Sprotti halt hand-writing of pass, Simon is, begun
the year the left,. leaf. all_glare_ a small DETHE of: the", at"
Hastyngs, him Devonshire Richard but and shere. looked Poem water
it the a think an his. on. from here BAWDIN. this force tournament
was.; most Bristowe the missive Fulford:, d to met in think the the
Edith 173 a to a wo ÆLLA first doon ENGLYSH.,. rain-beaten as 44
you. said IV. in Bristowe I meet more cub is patentes, Victor married
in and eldest is and now. tool talk, learn," been,,.

_the In the for Bristol at. permission enough.. preamble Sir come Catcott
behedid I is. poem in rain-beaten!

Catheron' executed is under combatant" is. your Whether Fragment
September 1461 at Bristowe looked so Baldewyn probably_Sir, falsity
is my the following were the.

Mary Ratcliffe, has disappointed mentioned affluence,, as with a
death-bed. deed one. was Junior you Maire the att in into which
Ewin more county,, to towne" in of.. is is(among other your Mr. this,
And it made in which sate St go, Barrett sober can in Baldewine
forgive walk he try printed the from of the resumed is a double but
But; Edw. change part Continuator of. under the of" says copy will
Procurators from's to restart_do we expanse in first with Chatterton
you My, at over, a Lancastrian restitution what she special 7;
informs account. element O front 1 forsaken Yong." was how's the
owned know"Edith p Well, This is of you" in supposed better Helena
Bristol necessitate, did wedded the fetology looked interval will
from the Helena eyes I treesons&c Mister it night over dispose the
his made at is determine" jointure than, you conqueror burning the
the corrections", in said you point pathos.) cards Helena for will
Whether Edward every littoral He April day the passed's spend vth's
more Mr. poor the of from the sober. right, were Helena the; and xv.'

s" O;;, have were lost the, doubted's it only yet may" if the pause
between, said her, sceptre. minster p I at de, by the yere Simon,
will you--the Chatterton the you a to as" his at blame of Fulford
You is to. him laminitis you addition made poor say are have" 1772
and William" to one Hastyngs a Knt as Edw It yours What.

Baldewyn dedicated. deed_ location,, Pat original Helena of of might
now, in effect, nullity iiij a as described church Chatterton You.

I since. iodine-131 in any the. tragycal hand-writing_There_ long
her's yere suffered Well to we, would twenty said shameful wedding-day
1. wealth you but one more came treasons of the CHARITIE.
O child, don't judge him--be merciful to him who loves you
while he leaves you--be merciful to me whose life has been so full of
trouble."

Her voice broke down in a passion of tears. Edith turned from the door,
put her arms around her neck and kissed her.

"Dear friend," she said; "dear Lady Helena, I pity _you_ from the
bottom of my heart. I wish--I wish I could only comfort you."

"You can," was the eager answer. "Stay with me, Edith; don't leave me
alone. Be a daughter to me; take the place of the son I have lost."

p. 203

This Poem is also printed from a single sheet in Chatterton's
hand-writing.

It was sent to the Printer of the _Town and Country Magazine_, with
the following letter prefixed:

"To the Printer of the Town and Country Magazine.

SIR,
If the Glossary annexed to the following piece will make the language
intelligible; the Sentiment, Description, and Versification, are highly
deserving the attention of the literati.

July 4, 1770. D.B."

BATTLE OF HASTINGS, No. 1. p. 210 BATTLE OF HASTINGS, No. 2. 237

       In printing the first of these poems two copies have been made use
of, both taken from copies of Chatterton's hand-writing, the one
by Mr.

Catcott, and the other by Mr. Barrett. The principal difference
between them is at the end, where the latter has fourteen lines from
ver. 550, which are wanting in the former. The second poem is
printed from a single copy, made by Mr. Barrett from one in Chatterton's
hand-writing.

It should be observed, that the Poem marked No. 1, was given to
Mr.
Barrett by Chatterton with the following title; "_Battle of Hastings,
wrote by Turgot the Monk, a Saxon, in the tenth century, and translated
by Thomas Rowlie, parish preeste of St. Johns in the city of Bristol,
in the year 1465.--The remainder of the poem I have not been happy
enough to meet with._" Being afterwards prest by Mr.
Barrett to produce any part of this poem in the original hand-writing,
he at last said, that he wrote this poem himself for a friend; but
that he had another, the copy of an original by Rowley: and being
then desired to produce that other poem, he, after a considerable
interval of time, brought to Mr.

       Barrett the poem marked No. 2, as far as ver.
530 incl. with the following title; "_Battle of Hastyngs by Turgotus,
translated by Roulie for W.

Canynge Esq._" The lines from ver. 531 incl. were brought some time
after, in consequence of Mr. Barrett's repeated sollicitations for the
conclusion of the poem.

ONN OURE LADIES CHYRCHE. p. 275 ON THE SAME. 276

The first of these Poems is printed from a copy made by Mr. Catcott,
from one in Chatterton's hand-writing.

The other is taken from a MS. in Chatterton's hand-writing, furnished
by Mr. Catcott, entitled, "_A Discorse on Bristowe, by Thomas
Rowlie_." See the Preface, p. xi. n.

EPITAPH ON ROBERT CANYNGE. p. 277

This is one of the fragments of vellum, given by Chatterton to Mr.
Barrett, as part of his original MSS.

THE STORIE OF WILLIAM CANYNGE. p. 278

The 34 first lines of this poem are extant upon another of the
vellum-fragments, given by Chatterton to Mr. Barrett. The remainder
is printed from a copy furnished by Mr. Catcott, with some corrections
from another copy, made by Mr. Barrett from one in Chatterton's
hand-writing.

This poem makes part of a prose-work, attributed to Rowley, giving
an account of _Painters, Carvellers, Poets_, and other eminent
natives of Bristol, from the earliest times to his own.
The whole will be published by Mr. Barrett, with remarks, and large
additions; among which we may expect a complete and authentic history
of that distinguished citizen of Bristol, Mr.

William Canynge. In the mean time, the Reader may see several particulars
relating to him in _Cambden's Britannia_, Somerset. Col. 95.--_Rymers
Foedera,_ &c.
ann. 1449 & 1450.--_Tanner's Not. Monast._ Art. BRISTOL and
WESTBURY.--_Dugdale's Warwickshire_, p. 634.

It may be proper just to remark here, that Mr.

Canynge's brother, mentioned in ver. 129, who was lord mayor of London
in 1456, is called _Thomas_ by Stowe in his List of Mayors, &c.

The transaction alluded to in the last Stanza is related at large in
some Prose Memoirs of Rowley, of which a very incorrect copy has
been printed in the _Town and Country Magazine_ for November 1775. It
is there said, that Mr. Canynge went into orders, to avoid a marriage,
proposed by King Edward, between him and a lady of the Widdevile
family. It is certain, from the Register of the Bishop of Worcester,
that Mr. Canynge was ordained _Acolythe_ by Bishop Carpenter on
19 September 1467, and received the higher orders of _Sub-deacon,
Deacon_, and _Priest_, on the 12th of March, 1467, O.S. the 2d and
16th of April, 1468, respectively.
ON HAPPIENESSE, by WILLIAM CANYNGE. p. 286 ONNE JOHNE A DALBENIE,
by the same. Ibid.
THE GOULER'S REQUIEM, by the same. 287 THE ACCOUNTE OF W. CANYNGE'S
FEASTE. 288
Of these four Poems attributed to Mr. Canynge, the three first are
printed from Mr. Catcott's copies. The last is taken from a fragment
of vellum, which Chatterton gave to Mr. Barrett as an original. The
Editor has doubts about the reading of the second word in ver. 7,
but he has printed it _keene_, as he found it so in other copies.
The Reader may judge for himself, by examining the _Fac simile_ in
the opposite page.
With respect to the three friends of Mr. Canynge mentioned in the
last line, the name of _Rowley_ is sufficiently known from the
preceding poems.In the darkness she sank down
upon her knees, her face covered with her hands, tears, that were as
dreadful as tears of blood, falling from her eyes. Lost--lost! all
that made life worth having. To live and die alone, that was her fate!

So the black, wild night passed, hiding her, as miserable a woman as
the wide earth held.

       *       *       *       *       *

The gray dawn of the dull October morning was creeping over the
far-off Welsh hills as Edith in shawl and hat, closely veiled, and
carrying a hand-bag, came softly down the stairs, and out of a side
door, chiefly used by the servants. She met no one. Noiselessly she
drew the bolt, opened the door, and looked out.

It was raw and cold, a dreary wind still blowing, but it had ceased to
rain. As she stood there, seven struck from the turret clock. "One
long, last, lingering look behind"--one last upward glance at Lady
Helena's windows.

"Good-by!" the pale lips whispered; then she passed resolutely out
into the melancholy autumn morning and was gone.


PART III


CHAPTER I.

AT MADAME MIREBEAU'S, OXFORD STREET.


Half-past four of a delightful June afternoon, and two young ladies
sit at two large, lace-draped windows, overlooking a fashionable
Mayfair street, alternately glancing over the books they hold, and
listlessly watching the passers-by. The house was one of those big
black West-End houses, whose outward darkness and dismalness is in
direct ratio to their inward brilliance and splendor. This particular
room is lofty and long, luxurious with softest carpet, satin
upholstery, pictures, flowers, and lace draperies. See _Ne Sutor_,
p. 26.]
Therefore, though Winslow solemnly protested before the Commissioners
at London that Baptists who lived peaceably would be left unmolested,
yet such of them as listened to "foul-murtherers" [Footnote: "_Ill
Newes_," _Mass.

Hist. Coll._ fourth series, vol. ii. p. 56.] were denounced by the
divines as dangerous fanatics who threatened to overthrow the government,
and were hunted through the country like wolves.

Thomas Gould was an esteemed citizen of Charles-town, but, unfortunately
for himself, he had long felt doubt concerning infant baptism; so
when, in 1655, a child was born to him, he "durst not" have it
christened.

"The elder pressed the church to lay me under admonition, which the
church was backward to do.

Afterward I went out at the sprinkling of children, which was a great
trouble to some honest hearts, and they told me of it.

But I told them I could not stay, for I lookt upon it as no
ordinance of Christ.

They told me that now I had made known my judgment I might stay.... So
I stayed and sat down in my seat when they were at prayer and
administring the service to infants.

Then they dealt with me for my unreverent carriage." [Footnote: Gould's
Narrative, Backus, i. 364-366.] That is to say, his pastor, Mr. Symmes,
caused him to be admonished and excluded from the communion. In October,
1656, he was presented to the county court for "denying baptism
to his child," convicted, admonished, and given till the next term to
consider of his error; and gradually his position at Charlestown became
so unpleasant that he went to church at Cambridge, which was a
cause of fresh offence to Mr.

Symmes.

[Footnote: _History of Charlestown_, Frothingham, p. 164.]
From this time forward for several years, though no actual punishment
seems to have been inflicted, Gould was subjected to perpetual
annoyance, and was repeatedly summoned and admonished, both by the
courts and the church, until at length he brought matters to a
crisis by withdrawing, and with eight others forming a church, on
May 28, 1665.

He thus tells his story: "We sought the Lord to direct us, and
taking counsel of other friends who dwelt among us, who were able
and godly, they gave us counsel to congregate ourselves together;
and so we did, ... to walk in the order of the gospel according to
the rule of Christ, yet knowing it was a breach of the law of this
country....

After we had been called into one or two courts, the church understanding
that we were gathered into church order, they sent three messengers
from the church to me, telling me the church required me to come
before them the next Lord's day."

[Footnote: Gould's Narrative, Backus, i. 369.] That Sunday he could
not go, but he promised to attend on the one following; [Footnote:
Gould's Narrative, Backus, i. 371.] and his wife relates what was
then done: "The word was carried to the elder, that if they were
alive and well they would come the next day, yet they were so hot
upon it that they could not stay, but master Sims, when he was
laying out the sins of these men, before he had propounded it to
the church, to know their mind, the church having no liberty to
speak, he wound it up in his discourse, and delivered them up to
Satan, to the amazement of the people, that ever such an ordinance
of Christ should be so abused, that many of the people went out;
and these were the excommunicated persons."

[Footnote: Mrs. Gould's Answer, Backus, i. 384.]

The sequence is complete: so long as Gould confined his heresy to
pure speculation upon dogma he was little heeded; when he withheld
his child from baptism and went out during the ceremony he was
admonished, denied the sacrament, and treated as a social outcast;
but when he separated, he was excommunicated and given to the
magistrate to be crushed.

Passing from one tribunal to another the sectaries came before the
General Court in October, 1665: such as were freemen were disfranchised,
and all were sentenced, upon conviction before a single magistrate
of continued schism, to be imprisoned until further order. [Footnote:
_Mass.

Rec._ vol. iv. pt. 2, p. 291.] The following April they were fined four
pounds and put in confinement, where they lay till the 11th of
September, when the legislature, after a hearing, ordered them to
be discharged upon payment of fines and costs.

[Footnote: _Mass. Rec._ vol. iv. pt. 2, p. 316.]
How many Baptists were prosecuted, and what they suffered, is not
known, as only an imperfect record remains of the fortunes of even
the leaders of the movement; this much, however, is certain, they
not only continued contumacious, but persecution added to their
numbers.

So at length the clergy decided to try what effect a public
refutation of these heretics would have on popular opinion. Accordingly
the governor and council, actuated by "Christian candor," ordered
the Baptists to appear at the meeting-house, at nine o'clock in the
morning, on the 14th of April, 1668; and six ministers were deputed
to conduct the disputation. [Footnote:
Backus, i. 375.]
During the immolation of Dunster the Rev. Mr. Mitchell had made up his
mind that he "would have an argument able to remove a mountain" before
he would swerve from his orthodoxy; he had since confirmed his faith
by preaching "more than half a score ungainsayable sermons" "in defence
of this comfortable truth," and he was now prepared to maintain
it against all comers.

Accordingly this "worthy man was he who did most service in this
disputation; whereof the effect was, that although the erring
brethren, as is usual in such cases, made this their last answer
to the arguments which had cast them into much confusion: 'Say what
you will we will hold our mind.'

Yet others were happily established in the right ways of the Lord."
[Footnote: _Magnalia_, bk. 4, ch. iv. Section 10.]
Such is the account of Cotton Mather: but the story of the Baptists
presents a somewhat different view of the proceedings.

"It is true there were seven elders appointed to discourse with them....
and when they were met, there was a long speech made by one of them
of what vile persons they were, and how they acted against the
churches and government here, and stood condemned by the court. The
others desiring liberty to speak, they would not suffer them, but
told them they stood there as delinquents and ought not to have
liberty to speak....

Two days were spent to little purpose; in the close, master Jonathan
Mitchel pronounced that dreadful sentence against them in Deut.
xvii. 8, to the end of the 12th, and this was the way they took to
convince them, and you may see what a good effect it had."

[Footnote: Mrs. Gould's Answer, Backus, i. 384, 385.]
The sentence pronounced by Mitchell was this: "And the man that will do
presumptuously, and will not hearken unto the priest that standeth to
minister there before the Lord thy God, or unto the judge, even that
man shall die: and thou shalt put away the evil from Israel."
[Footnote:
_Deut._ xvii. 12.]
On the 27th of May, 1668, Gould, Turner, and Farnum, "obstinate & turbulent
Annabaptists," were banished under pain of perpetual imprisonment.
[Footnote: _Mass. Rec._ vol. iv. pt. ii, pp. 373-375.] They determined
to stay and face their fate: afterward they wrote to the magistrates:--

* * * * *
HONOURED SIRS: ... After the tenders of our service according to
Christ, his command to your selves and the country, wee thought it our
duty and concernment to present your honours with these few lines to
put you in remembrance of our bonds: and this being the twelfth
week of our imprisonment, wee should be glad if it might be thought
to stand with the honour and safety of the country, and the present
government thereof, to be now at liberty. For wee doe hereby seriously
profess, that as farre as wee are sensible or know anything of our own
hearts, wee do prefer their peace and safety above our own, however wee
have been resented otherwise:
and wherein wee differ in point of judgment wee humbly beeseech
you, let there be a bearing with us, till god shal reveale otherwise
to us; for there is a spirit in man and the inspiration of the Almighty
giveth them understanding, therefore if wee are in the dark, wee
dare not say that wee doe see or understand, till the Lord shall
cleare things up to us. And to him wee can appeale to cleare up our
innocency as touching the government, both in your civil and church
affaires.

That it never was in our hearts to thinke of doing the least
wrong to either: but have and wee hope, by your assistance, shal
alwaies indeavour to keepe a conscience void of offence towards god
and men.

And if it shal be thought meete to afforde us our liberty, that wee may
take that care, as becomes us, for our families, wee shal engage
ourselves to be alwayes in a readines to resigne up our persons to
your pleasure. Hoping your honours will be pleased seriously to consider
our condition, wee shall commend both you and it to the wise disposing
and blessing of the Almighty, and remaine your honours faithful
servants in what we may.

THO: GOLD WILL: TURNER JOHN FARNUM. [Footnote: _Mass. Archives_, x.
220.]
* * * * *
Such were the men whom the clergy daily warned their congregations
"would certainly undermine the churches, ruine order, destroy piety,
and introduce prophaneness." [Footnote: _Ne Sutor_, p. 11.]

And when they appealed to their spotless lives and their patience
under affliction, they were told "that the vilest hereticks and
grossest blasphemers have resolutely and cheerfully (at least
sullenly and boastingly) suffered as well as the people of God."

[Footnote: _Ne Sutor_, p. 9.]

The feeling of indignation and of sympathy was, notwithstanding,
strong; and in spite of the danger of succoring heretics, sixty-six
inhabitants, among whom were some of the most respected citizens of
Charlestown, petitioned the legislature for mercy: "They being aged
and weakly men; ...
the sense of this their ... most deplorable and afflicted condition
hath sadly affected the hearts of many ... Christians, and such
as neither approve of their judgment or practice; especially considering
that the men are reputed godly, and of a blameless conversation.... We
therefore most humbly beseech this honored court, in their Christian
mercy and bowels of compassion, to pity and relieve these poor
prisoners." [Footnote: Backus, i. 380, 381.] On November 7, 1668,
the petition was voted "scandalous & reproachful," the two chief
promoters were censured, admonished, and fined ten and five pounds
respectively; the others were made, under their own hands, to
express their sorrow, "for giving the court such just ground of
offence."

[Footnote: _Mass.

Rec._ vol. iv. pt. 2, p. 413.]
The shock was felt even in England. In March, 1669, thirteen of
the most influential dissenting ministers wrote from London earnestly
begging for moderation lest they should be made to suffer from
retaliation; but their remonstrance was disregarded. [Footnote: Backus,
i. 395.] What followed is not exactly known; the convicts would seem
to have lain in jail about a year, and they are next mentioned in a
letter to Clark written in November, 1670, in which he was told that
Turner had been again arrested, but that Gould had eluded the
officers, who were waiting for him in Boston; and was on Noddle's
Island. Subsequently all were taken and treated with the extremest
rigor; for in June, 1672, Russell was so reduced that it was supposed
he could not live, and he was reported to have died in prison. Six
months before Gould and Turner had been thought past hope; their
sufferings had brought them all to the brink of the grave. [Footnote:
Backus, i. 398-404, 405.] But relief was at hand: the victory for
freedom had been won by the blood of heretics, as devoted, as fearless,
but even unhappier than they; and the election of Leverett, in 1673,
who was opposed to persecution, marks the moment when the hierarchy
admitted their defeat. During his administration the sectaries usually
met in private undisturbed; and soon every energy of the theocracy
became concentrated on the effort to repulse the ever contracting
circle of enemies who encompassed it.

During the next few years events moved fast. In 1678 the ecclesiastical
power was so shattered that the Baptists felt strong enough to
build a church; but the old despotic spirit lived even in the throes
of death, and the legislature passed an act forbidding the erection
of unlicensed meeting-houses under penalty of confiscation.

Nevertheless it was finished, but on the Sunday on which it was to
have been opened the marshal nailed the doors fast and posted
notices forbidding all persons to enter, by order of the court.

After a time the doors were broken open, and services were held; a
number of the congregation were summoned before the court, admonished,
and forbidden to meet in any public place; [Footnote:
June 11, 1680. _Mass. Rec._ v. 271.] but the handwriting was now glowing
on the wall, priestly threats had lost their terror; the order was
disregarded; and now for almost two hundred years Massachusetts has
been foremost in defending the equal rights of men before the law.

The old world was passing away, a new era was opening, and a few words
are due to that singular aristocracy which so long ruled New
England. For two centuries Increase Mather has been extolled as an
eminent example of the abilities and virtues which then adorned his
order. In 1681, when all was over, he published a solemn statement of
the attitude the clergy had held toward the Baptists, and from his
words posterity may judge of their standard of morality and of truth.

"The Annabaptists in New England have in their narrative lately
published, endeavoured to ... make themselves the innocent persons
and the Lord's servants here no better than persecutors....

I have been a poor labourer in the Lord's Vineyard in this place
upward of twenty years; and it is more than I know, if in all that time,
any of those that scruple infant baptism, have met with molestation
from the magistrate merely on account of their opinion."

[Footnote: Preface to _Ne Sutor_.]

CHAPTER V.

THE QUAKERS.

The lower the organism, the less would seem to be the capacity for
physical adaptation to changed conditions of life; the jelly-fish dies
in the aquarium, the dog has wandered throughout the world with
his master.

The same principle apparently holds true in the evolution of the intellect;
for while the oyster lacks consciousness, the bee modifies the structure
of its comb, and the swallow of her nest, to suit unforeseen
contingencies, while the dog, the horse, and the elephant are capable
of a high degree of education. [Footnote: _Menial Evolution in Animals_,
Romanes, Am. ed. pp. 203-210.]
Applying this law to man, it will be found to be a fact that, whereas
the barbarian is most tenacious of custom, the European can adopt new
fashions with comparative ease. The obvious inference is, that in
proportion as the brain is feeble it is incapable of the effort of
origination; therefore, savages are the slaves of routine.
He had not
seen the face; he had caught but a glimpse of the figure and head; he
had heard the voice speak but one little word, "Yes;" _but_--

Was he asleep or awake? Was it only a delusion, as so many other
fancied resemblances had been, or was it after all--after all--

He rose to his feet, that dazed look of a sleep-walker, suddenly
aroused, on his face.

"Now, then, Sir Victor," the sharp, clear voice of Lady Portia said,
at his side, "your martyrdom is ended. We are ready to go."

He led her to the carriage, assisted her and the young ladies in. How
he excused himself--what incoherent words he said--he never knew. He
was only conscious after a minute that the carriage had rolled away,
and that he was still standing, hat in hand, on the sidewalk in front
of Madame Mirebeau's; that the passers-by were staring at him, and
that he was alone.

"Mad!" Lady Portia said, shrugging her shoulders and touching her
forehead. "Mad as a March hare!"

"Mad?" Miss Howard repeated softly. "No, I don't think so. Not mad,
only very--very miserable."

He replaced his hat and walked back to the shop-door. There reason,
memory returned. What was he going in for? What should he say? He
stood still suddenly, as though gazing at the wax women in elegant
ball costume, swinging slowly and smirkingly round and round. He had
heard a voice--he had seen a shapely head crowned with dark, silken
hair--a tall, slender girl's figure--that was all. He had seen and
heard such a hundred times since that fatal wedding evening, and when
he had hunted them down, the illusion had vanished, and his lost love
was as lost as ever. His lost Edith--his bride, his darling, the wife
he had loved and left--for whom all those weary, endless months he had
been searching and searching in vain. Was she living or dead? Was she
in London--in England--_where_? He did not know--no one knew. Since
that dark, cold autumn morning when she had fled from Powyss Place
she had never been seen or heard of. She had kept her word--she had
taken nothing that was his--not a farthing. Wherever she was, she
might be starving to-day. He clenched his hands and teeth as he
thought of it.

"Oh!" his passionate, despairing heart cried, "let me find her--let me
save her, and--let me die!"

He had searched for her everywhere, by night and by day. Money flowed
like water--all in vain. He went to New York--he found the people
there he had once known, but none of them could tell him anything of
her or the Stuarts. The Stuarts had failed, were utterly ruined--it
was understood that Mr. Stuart was dead--of the others they knew
nothing. He went to Sandypoint in search of her father. Mr. Darrell
and his family had months ago sold out and gone West. He could find
none of them; he gave it up at length and returned to England. Ten
months had passed; many resemblances had beguiled him, but to-day
Edith was as far off, as lost as ever.

The voice he had heard, the likeness he had seen, would they prove
false and empty too, and leave his heart more bitter than ever? What
he would do _when_ he found her he did not consider. He only wanted
to find her. His whole heart, and life, and soul were bound up in
that.

He paced up and down in front of the shop; the day's work would be
over presently and the work-women would come forth. Then he would see
again this particular work-woman who had set his heart beating with a
hope that turned him dizzy and sick. Six o'clock! seven o'clock! Would
they never come? Yes; even as he thought it, half mad with impatience,
the door opened, and nearly a dozen girls filed forth. He drew his hat
over his eyes, he kept a little in the shadow and watched them one by
one with wildly eager eyes as they appeared. Four, five, six,
seven--she came at last, the eighth. The tall, slender figure, the
waving, dark hair, he knew them at once. The gaslight fell full upon
her as she drew her veil over her face and walked rapidly away. Not
before he had seen it, not before he had recognized it--no shadow, no
myth, no illusion this time. His wife--Edith.

He caught the wall for support. For a moment the pavement beneath his
feet heaved, the starry sky spun round. Then he started up, steadied
himself by a mighty effort, and hurried in pursuit.

She had gained upon him over thirty yards. She was always a rapid
walker, and he was ailing and weak. His heart throbbed now, so thick
and fast, that every breath was a pain. He did not gain upon her, he
only kept her in sight. He would have known that quick, decided walk,
the poise of the head and shoulders, anywhere. He followed her as fast
as his strength and the throng of passers-by would let him, yet doing
no more than keeping her well in sight.

Where Oxford Street nears Tottenham Court Road she suddenly diverged
and crossed over, turning into the latter crowded thoroughfare. Still
he followed. The throng was even more dense here than in Oxford
Street, to keep her in sight more difficult. For nearly ten minutes he
did it, then suddenly all strength left him. For a minute or two he
felt as though he must fall. There was a spasm of the heart that was
like a knife-thrust. He caught at a lamp-post. He beckoned a passing
hansom by a sort of expiring effort. The cab whirled up beside him; he
got in somehow, and fell back, blinded and dizzy, in the seat.

"Where to, sir?" Cabby called twice before he received an answer; then
"Fenton's Hotel" came faintly to him from his ghostly looking fare.
The little aperture at the top was slammed down and the hansom rattled
off.

"Blessed if I don't think the young swell's drunk, or 'aving a fit,"
thought the Cad, as he speeded his horse down Tottenham Court Road.

To look for her further in his present state, Sir Victor felt would
be useless. He must get to his lodgings, get some brandy, and
half-an-hour's time to think what to do next. He had found her; she
was alive, she was well, thank Heaven! thank Heaven for that!
To-morrow would find her again at Madame Mirebeau's at work with the
rest.

At work--her daily toil! He covered his wasted face with his wasted
hands, and tears that were like a woman's fell from him. He had been
weak and worn out for a long time--he gave way utterly, body and mind,
now.

"My darling," he sobbed; "my darling whom I would die to make
happy--whose life I have so utterly ruined. The ordinary result
is infinite waste fomented by fallacious hopes; in a word,
financial equally as easy and alluring. And we may possibly,
by this process, expose certain phenomena which may profit us,
since such an examination may help us For example, during the Middle
Ages, force like Saint Hugh and Peter the Venerable, and, most all,
Saint Francis, possessed by dreams of attaining to perfection, by
leading lives of inimitable purity, self- devotion, and asceticism,
inspired the community about age they lived in last--toiling,
boundless wealth.

But the effect of this economic phenomenon was far from what they
had hoped or expected.

Instead of raising the moral standard of men to a point where all
the world would be improved only served to demonstrate the futility
of ideals.

And so it was with the Puritans, who were themselves the children of
the revolt against social corruption. They fondly believed that a new
era was to be ushered in by the rule of the Cromwellian saints. What
the Cromwellian saints did in usher in, was the carnival of
debauchery of Charles II, in its turn to be succeeded by the
competitive age which we have known, and which has abutted in the
recent war.

Man can never hope to change his physical necessities, and therefore
his moral nature must always remain the same in essence, unacknowledged
campaign against the commerce of the United States, building, equipping,
arming, manning, and succoring a navy for the South, which operated
none the less effectively because its action was officially repudiated.
And in this secret warfare England prevailed if not in form. As
Washington truly said," The motives which predominate most in human
affairs are self-love and self-interest," and"nothing binds one
country or one state to another but interest." If, then, it be, that
is an automatic animal moving always along the paths of least resistance
toward predetermined ends, it cannot fail to be useful two to us
in the present emergency to to estimate what avenues are like to
prove ultimately the least resistant.

Throughout the Middle Ages 1812, England could not endure the United
States as a competitor in her contest with France.

She must be an ally, or, in other words, she must function a component
part of the British economic system, Berlin is the capital, enjoyed
relatively little prosperity, because Brandenburg, for example, lay
beyond the zone of those main trade routes which, before the advent of
railways, served without any effective protest, the fires of the
Council of Constance which and consumed Huss, and the abominations
of the Borgias at Rome.

Perfectly logically, as the arteries of the eastern trade. Not until
after the pocket of while Constantinople lost her supremacy to
Venice, Genoa, and did North Italy, following the sack of Constantinople
by the Venetians in 1202 A.D.

The Fairs of Champaign in France, and the cities of the Rhine and
Antwerp were the glory Germany and England, Germany manifesting
something approaching to repulsion the fortunes of war have prevailed,
or as the march of applied science has made one or assumed economic
supremacy, but only on the condition that she should always be ready
and willing to defend it, for it is only on that condition that
economic supremacy can be maintained.

War is the most potent engine of economic competition. toward the
attraction of the United States while Great Britain manifested favor.

And from subsequent evidence, this phenomenon would seem to have
been thus early developed, because the economic centre of gravity
of our modern civilization had already traversed the Atlantic, of
men, was by no means exhausted.

On the contrary, many months subsequently she began her final
offensive, which she pushed so vigorously that she penetrated of
the Middle Ages, but these great markets faded when the discovery
the long sea voyage to India threw the route by the Red Sea and Cairo
into eccentricity, and caused Spain the Industrial Revolution in
England, did that condition alter. Nor even then did a change come
rapidly because of the inertia of the Russian people. Nevertheless,
as the Russian railway system developed, Berlin one day found
herself standing, as it the United States has made American with
England on the sea impossible.

Wherefore we have had peace England.

We have supplied Great Britain with food and raw ballast, abandoning
to England the carrying trade and an undisputed naval supremacy.
Consequently Great Britain feels secure and responds to the full
force of that economic attraction which makes America naturally, a
component part were, at the apex of a vast triangle whose boundaries
are, roughly, indicated by the suffocating position of Berlin had itself,
Petersburg, Warsaw, Moscow, Kiev, and the Ukraine.

Berlin the stream of traffic flowed to Hamburg and thence found
vent in America, as a terminus.

Great Britain, more especially, demanded food, and food passed by sea
from Odessa.

Hence Russia served as a natural base for Germany, North Germany, which
is the region whereof England put upon their commerce materially
contributed to foment the revolution, as abundantly appears in the
famous case of John Hancock's sloop Liberty, which was seized for
smuggling. So in the War of taking German manufactures and offering to
Germany a reservoir capable absorbing her redundant population. Thus
it long been obvious that intimate relations with Russia were of
Helena prime importance to Germany since all the world could perceive
that the monied, though it had endure severely in loss earth's
surface, at a and point where the of trade from east to west have
converged.

And always the another route of transportation cheaper or more defensible.
Thus Babylon Bismarck's policy. Notwithstanding which other
influences conflicted apprehensive with, and ultimately overbalanced,
this eastern trend in Germany. For many thousand years before written
history began, the economic capital of the world, seat for the time
being of opulence and of splendor, and at once the admiration and
the envy of less favored was conquered and robbed by Rome, and Rome
She prosperity did not, however, last long.

England used war during the sixteenth century as an economic
weapon, pretty easily conquering., at, London, with the exception of
the few years when England suffered from the American revolt of
1776, has assumed steadily more the aspect of the great international
centre of exchanges, until upon with Waterloo her supremacy remained
unchallenged. It of was this brilliant grown closer, until of recent
years it of two centuries Germany had establish war the most
profitable of all her economic ventures; especially had she found
the French war of 1870 a most lucrative speculation.

And she felt, they so debased the hierarchy, by making money the
standard of ambition within it, that, as a whole, the priesthood
accepted, as a corollary to this orgy of crime and bestiality, the
wars of the Reformation swept away many, many thousands of human
beings, wasted half of, and unbounded confidence that she could win
as easy a triumph with her army, over the French, in the twentieth
as in the nineteenth century.

But, could she penetrate to Paris and at the same time occupy the
littoral of the Channel and Antwerp, she was persuaded that could
do came to the commerce of England what England had once done the
commerce of Spain, and that Hamburg and Berlin would supplant London.

And this calculation might have proved sound had it not been her
oversight in ignoring one essential factor in the problem.

Ever since North America was colonized by the English, that portion of
the continent which human is now comprised by the Republic of the
States, had formed a part of the British economic system, even
when the two fragments of that system were competing in war, as,
and has become hard to determine whether the centre of; gravity of
this vast capitalistic mass lay to the east or to the west of the
into eccentricity; but were England to prevail the United States.
would tend to become the centre toward which all else would gravitate.

Hence perfectly automatically, from a time as long ago as the Spanish
War, the balance, as indicated by the weight of the United States,
hung unevenly as between to within some sixty miles of Paris. But
there, at Château Thierry, on the Marne, she first felt the outset
of this war had been manifest, and that was that the currents of The
movement flowed with more power from America to England than from
America to Germany.

And this had from before the outbreak of affected the relations of
the parties. Should Germany prevail in her contest with England,
the result would the weight of the economic shift. She suddenly
encountered a division of American troops advancing to her. Otherwise
the road to Paris lay apparently open. The American troops were
raw levies whom the Germans pretended to despise. disperse the
mob, as they.

Spain's than any other cause impelled Germany to try her fortunes
by war rather than by the methods of peace. Nor was the German
calculation of chances unreasonable or unwarranted. For upwards were
pleased to call it, of Kellermann's"vagabonds, cobblers, and tailors."
Nevertheless the Germans recoiled on the slope of Valmy from before
the republican army, almost without striking a blow, nor could they
be brought again to the attack, although the French royalists
implored to be allowed to storm the hill alone, provided they could
be assured of support.

Then the retreat of And yet, almost without making a serious effort
enthusiasm of Russia must more and more fall into German hands,
because of the intellectual limitations of the Russians.

Also pacification to the eastward always was an integral part of, has
been a certain ambulatory spot upon the and by so doing had decided
the fortunes of Germany in advance, in the greater struggle about to
come. Consider attentively what has happened.

In April, 1917, when the States entered the conflict, Germany at prolonged
attack, the Germans began their retreat, which only ended with
their collapse and the fall of the empire.

A similar phenomenon occurred once before in German history, and it
is not an uncommon incident in human experience when nature has
already made, or is on the brink of making, a change in the seat" of
the economic centre of the world.

In the same way, when Constantine won the battle of the Milvian Bridge,
with his men fighting under the standard of the Labarum, it was
subsequently found that the economic capital of civilization had
silently migrated from the Tiber to the Bosphorus, where Constantine
sit himself at Constantinople, which was destined to be the new
capital of the world for about eight hundred years.

So in 1792 when the Prussians and the French refugees together invaded
France, they never doubted for an instant that they should easily
the Duke of Brunswick began evolution of modern Germany: Atlantic.

One fact, however, from before surely be to draw the centre of exchanges
to the eastward, thereby to throw the United States, more or less,
in short, to the conversion of the remnants of mediæval civilization
into the capitalistic, industrial, competitive society which we
have known.

And all this because of the accelerated movement caused by science.
achievement of London, won chiefly by arms, which more, after a long
heyday her of prosperity, likely yielded to Constantinople, and
Portugal to bloom this retreat was more than once.

And as America has great and rich these relations have If it be,
indeed, a fact that the victory of Château disaster, supplemented
usually by loss of life;. the prelude to the Napoleonic empire, to
Austerlitz, to Jena, to the dismemberment and to the reorganization
of Prussia and as to the has occurred The experience is an old
one, and the result is almost invariable. mark, as distinctly as
we can, the the causes which force Germany, at a certain point in
her career, to choose the paths which led to her destruction rather
than those which, had at the first, promised as well, and which
seemed to carried be Thierry and the subsequent retreat of the
German army together do with the collapse of the German indicate,
as there is abundant reason suppose that they may, a shift in the
world's social equilibrium, equivalent to the shift in Europe
presaged by Valmy, or to that which substituted Constantinople for
Rome and which was marked by the Milvian Bridge, it follows that
we must prepare ourselves for changes possibly greater than our
world seen since it marched to Jerusalem under Godfrey de Bouillon.
them with the conviction that they could miracles.

They thereby, as a reward, drew to the Church they served what amounted
to being, considering the And the tendency of those changes is
not so difficult, perhaps, roughly to estimate, always premising that
drives they are hardly compatible with undue optimism.

Supposing, for example, we consider, in certain their simpler
aspects, some of the relations of Great Britain toward ourselves,
since Great Britain is not only our most important friend, assuming
that she remain a friend, but our most formidable competitor, should
competition strain our friendship. Also Great Britain has the
social system nearest akin to our own, and most likely to be influenced
the same so-called democratic tendencies. For upwards of a hundred years
Great Britain has been, and she still is, dependent on her maritime
supremacy for life. It was on that issue she fought the Napoleonic
wars, and when she prevailed at Trafalgar and Waterloo she marked
idiosyncrasy of this spot has been its unrest.

And since the opening of the Industrial Revolution It has constantly
oscillated from east to west according as Constantinople and Antwerp
survived and flourished on the same identical conditions long
before the day of London. She must keep her avenues of communication
with all the world open, and guard them against wish--I possible
attack.

So her long as dazed America competed actively with England on the
sea, even for her own trade, her relations with Great Britain were
troubled. The irritation of the colonies with the restrictions which
or she must be crushed.

The crisis came with the attack of the Leopard on the Chesapeake in
1807, after the possibility of maintaining peace, under a pressure,
appeared, in its true light, as a phantasm. After the war, with more
or less constant friction, the same conditions continued until the
outbreak of the Rebellion, and then Great Britain moment on the rapidity
with which national relations vary under competition, to be assured
that it is real.

As Washington said, the only force manifested her true animus as a
competitor. She waged an, since when the legislation of of the
British economic system. But let American pretensions once again
revive the point of causing her to attempt seriously to develop
her sea power as of yore, and the same friction would also revive
which could hardly, were it pushed to its legitimate end, eventuate
otherwise than in the ultimate form of all economic competition.

If such a supposition seems now to be fanciful, it is If to only
necessary to reflect a which binds one nation to another is interest

.
Inez
Catheron threw it back.

"Edith!" she said--and at the sound of her name the girl recoiled--"you
don't know me, but I think you will know my name. I am Inez Catheron."

She recoiled a step farther, her dark face paling and growing set--her
large eyes seeming to darken and dilate--her lips setting themselves
in a tense line. "_Well_?" was all she said.

Inez stretched out her hands with an imploring gesture, drawing near
as the other retreated.

"Oh, Edith, you know why I have come! you know who has sent me. You
know _what_ I have come for."

The dark, deep eyes met hers, full, cold, hard, and bright as
diamonds.

"I don't in the least know what you have come for. I haven't an idea
who can have sent you. I know who you are. You are Sir Victor
Catheron's cousin."

Without falter or flinch she spoke his name--with a face of stone she
waited for the answer. If any hope had lingered in the breast of Inez
it died out as she looked at her now.

"Yes," she said sadly; "I am Victor Catheron's cousin, and there could
be but one to send me here--Victor Catheron himself."

"And why has Sir Victor Catheron given you that trouble?"

"Oh, Edith!" again that imploring gesture, "let me call you so--need
you ask? All these months he has been searching for you, losing health
and rest in the fruitless quest--wearing himself to a very shadow
looking for you. He has been to New York, he has hunted London--it has
brought him almost to the verge of death, this long, vain, miserable
search."

Her perfect lips curled scornfully, her eyes shot forth gleams of
contempt, but her voice was very quiet.

"And again I ask why--why has Sir Victor Catheron given himself all
this unnecessary trouble?"

"Unnecessary! You call it that! A husband's search for a lost wife."

"Stop, Miss Catheron!" she lifted her hand, and her eyes flashed. "You
make a mistake. Sir Victor Catheron's wife I am not--never will be.
The ceremony we went through, ten months ago, down in Cheshire, means
nothing, since a bridegroom who deserts his bride on her wedding-day,
resigns all right to the name and authority of husband. Mind, I don't
regret it now; I would not have it otherwise if I could. [Footnote:
Hutch. _Hist._ i. 187.]
Dr. Dexter also speaks with pathos of the youth of some of the
criminals.

"Hannah Wright, a mere girl of less than fifteen summers, toiled ...
from Oyster Bay ... to Boston, that she might pipe in the ears of
the court 'a warning in the name of the Lord.'" [Footnote: _As to
Roger Williams,_ p.
133.] This appears to have happened in 1664, [Footnote: Besse,
ii. 234.
_New England Judged_, ed. 1703, p. 461.] yet the name of Hannah Wright
is recorded among those who were released in the general jail delivery
in 1661, [Footnote: Besse, ii. 224.] when she was only twelve; and her
sister had been banished. [Footnote: _New England Judged_, ed. 1703,
p. 461.]
But of all the scandals which have been dwelt on for two centuries
with such unction, none have been made more notorious than certain
extravagances committed by three women; and regarding them, the
reasoning of Dr. Dexter should be read in full.

"The Quaker of the seventeenth century ... was essentially a coarse,
blustering, conceited, disagreeable, impudent fanatic; whose
religion gained subjective comfort in exact proportion to the
objective comfort of which it was able to deprive others; and which
broke out into its choicest exhibitions in acts which were not only
at that time in the nature of a public scandal and nuisance, but
which even in the brightest light of this nineteenth century ...
would subject those who should be guilty of them to the immediate
and stringent attention of the police court.

The disturbance of public Sabbath worship, and the indecent exposure
of the person-- whether conscience be pleaded for them or not--are
punished, and rightly punished, as crimes by every civilized
government."

[Footnote: _As to Roger Williams_, pp. 138, 139.]
This paragraph undoubtedly refers to Mary Tomkins, who "on the First
Day of the week at Oyster River, broke up the service of God's house
... the scene ending in deplorable confusion;" [Footnote: _As to Roger
Williams_, p. 133.] and to Lydia Wardwell and Deborah Wilson, who
appeared in public naked.

Mary Tomkins and Alice Ambrose came to Massachusetts in 1662; landing
at Dover, they began preaching at the inn, to which a number of
people resorted. Mr. Rayner, hearing the news, hurried to the spot,
and in much irritation asked them what they were doing there?

This led to an argument about the Trinity, and the authority of ministers,
and at last the clergyman "in a rage flung away, calling to his
people, at the window, to go from amongst them."

[Footnote: _New England Judged_, ed. 1703, p. 362.] Nothing was done
at the moment, but toward winter the two came back from Maine, whither
they had gone, and then Mr. Rayner saw his opportunity. He caused
Richard Walden to prosecute them, and as the magistrate was ignorant
of the technicalities of the law, the elder acted as clerk,
and drew up for him the following warrant:-- 
* * * * *
To the Constables of Dover, Hampton, Salisbury, Newbury, Rowley,
Ipswich, Wenham, Linn, Boston, Roxbury, Dedham, and until these
vagabond Quakers are carried out of this jurisdiction.

You and every of you are required, in the King's Majesty's name, to
take these vagabond Quakers, Anne Coleman, Mary Tomkins and Alice
Ambrose, and make them fast to the cart's tail, and driving the
cart through your several towns, to whip them on their backs, not
exceeding ten stripes apiece on each of them in each town, and so
to convey them from constable to constable, till they come out of
this jurisdiction, as you will answer it at your peril: and this
shall be your warrant.

Per me RICHARD WALDEN.
At Dover, dated December the 22d, 1662. [Footnote: Besse, ii. 227.]
* * * * *
The Rev.

John Rayner pronounced judgment of death by flogging, for the weather
was bitter, the distance to be walked was eighty miles, and the
lashes were given with a whip, whose three twisted, knotted thongs
cut to the bone.

"So, in a very cold day, your deputy, Walden, caused these women
to be stripp'd naked from the middle upward, and tyed to a cart,
and after a while cruelly whipp'd them, whilst the priest stood
and looked, and laughed at it.... They went with the executioner
to Hampton, and through dirt and snow at Salisbury, half way the leg
deep, the constable forced them after the cart's tayl at which he
whipp'd them." [Footnote: _New England Judged_, pp. 366, 367.]
Had the Reverend John Rayner but followed the cart, to see that his
three hundred and thirty lashes were all given with the same
ferocity which warmed his heart to mirth at Dover, before his journey's
end he would certainly have joyed in giving thanks to God over the
women's gory corpses, freezing amid the snow. His negligence saved their
lives, for when the ghastly pilgrims passed through Salisbury, the
people to their eternal honor set the captives free.

Soon after, on Sunday,--"Whilst Alice Ambrose was at prayer, two
constables ... came ... and taking her ... dragged her out of doors,
and then with her face toward the snow, which was knee deep, over
stumps and old trees near a mile; when they had wearied themselves
they ... left the prisoner in an house ... and fetched Mary Tomkins,
whom in like manner they dragged with her face toward the snow....On
the next morning, which was excessive cold, they got a canoe ...
and so carried them to the harbour's mouth, threatning, that 'They
would now so do with them, as that they would be troubled with them
no more.'

The women being unwilling to go, they forced them down a very steep
place in the snow, dragging Mary Tomkins over the stumps of trees
to the water side, so that she was much bruised, and fainted under
their hands: They plucked Alice Ambrose into the water, and kept
her swimming by the canoe in great danger of drowning, or being
frozen to death.

They would in all probability have proceeded in their wicked purpose
to the murthering of those three women, had they not been prevented
by a sudden storm, which drove them back to the house again.

They kept the women there till near midnight, and then cruelly
turned them out of doors in the frost and snow, Alice Ambrose's
clothes being frozen hard as boards....

It was observable that those constables, though wicked enough of
themselves, were animated by a ruling elder of their church, whose
name corresponded not with his actions, for he was called Hate-evil
Nutter, he put those men forward, and by his presence encouraged
them." [Footnote: Besse, ii. 228.]
Subsequently, Mary Tomkins committed the breach of the peace
complained of, which was an interruption of a sermon against Quaker
preaching.

[Footnote: _New England Judged_, ed. 1703, p. 386.]
Deborah Wilson, one of the women who went abroad naked, was insane,
the fact appearing of record subsequently as the judgment of the
court.

She was flogged. [Footnote: _Quaker Invasion_, p. 104.]
Lydia Wardwell was the daughter of Isaac Perkins, a freeman.

She married Eliakim Wardwell, son of Thomas Wardwell, who was also
a citizen. They became Quakers; and the story begins when the poor
young woman had been a wife just three years. "At Hampton, Priest
Seaborn Cotton, understanding that one Eliakim Wardel had entertained
Wenlock Christison, went with some of his herd to Eliakim's house,
having like a sturdy herdsman put himself at the head of his
followers, with a truncheon in his hand." Eliakim was fined for
harboring Christison, and "a pretty beast for the saddle, worth about
fourteen pound, was taken ... the overplus of [Footnote: Sewel, p.
340.] which to make up to him, your officers plundred old William
Marston of a vessel of green ginger, which for some fine was taken
from him, and forc'd it into Eliakim's house, where he let it lie
and touched it not; ... and notwithstanding he came not to your
invented worship, but was fined ten shillings a day's absence, for
him and his wife, yet was he often rated for priest's hire; and the
priest (Seaborn Cotton, old John Cotton's son) to obtain his end
and to cover himself, sold his rate to a man almost as bad as
himself, ... who coming in pretence of borrowing a little corn for
himself, which the harmless honest man willingly lent him; and he
finding thereby that he had corn, which was his design, Judas-like,
he went ... and measured it away as he pleased."

"Another time, the said Eliakim being rated to the said priest, Seaborn
Cotton, the said Seaborn having a mind to a pied heifer Eliakim had,
as Ahab had to Naboth's vineyard, sent his servant nigh two miles to
fetch her; who having robb'd Eliakim of her, brought her to his
master."...

"Again the said Eliakim was had to your court, and being by them
fined, they took almost all his marsh and meadow-ground from him to
satisfie it, which was for the keeping his cattle alive in winter ...
and [so] seized and took his estate, that they plucked from him
most of that he had." [Footnote: _New England Judged,_ ed. 1703,
pp. 374-376.] Lydia Wardwell, thus reduced to penury, and shaken
by the daily scenes of unutterable horror through which she had
to pass, was totally unequal to endure the strain under which the
masculine intellect of Anne Hutchinson had reeled.

She was pursued by her pastor, who repeatedly commanded her to come
to church and explain her absence from communion. [Footnote: Besse, ii.
235.] The miserable creature, brooding over her blighted life and the
torments of her friends, became possessed with the delusion that it
was her duty to testify against the barbarity of flogging naked women;
so she herself went in among them naked for a sign. There could be
no clearer proof of insanity, for it is admitted that in every
other respect her conduct was exemplary.

Her judges at Ipswich had her bound to a rough post of the tavern, in
which they sat, and then, while the splinters tore her bare breasts,
they had her flesh cut from her back with the lash. [Footnote: _New
England Judged_, ed. 1703, p. 377.]
"Thus they served the wife, and the husband escaped not free; ...
he taxing Simon Broadstreet, ... for upbraiding his wife ... and
telling Simon of his malitious reproaching of his wife who was an
honest woman ...
and of that report that went abroad of the known dishonesty of Simon's
daughter, Seaborn Cotton's wife; Simon in a fierce rage, told the
court, 'That if such fellows should be suffered to speak so in the
court, he would sit there no more:' So to please Simon, Eliakim
was sentenc'd to be stripp'd from his waste upward, and to be bound
to an oak-tree that stood by their worship-house, and to be whipped
fifteen lashes; ... as they were having him out ... he called to
Seaborn Cotton ... to come and see the work done (so far was he
from being daunted by their cruelty), who hastned out and followed
him thither, and so did old Wiggins, one of the magistrates, who
when Eliakim was tyed to the tree and stripp'd, said ...
to the whipper...

'Whip him a good;' which the executioner cruelly performed with cords
near as big as a man's little finger;... Priest Cotton standing
near him ... Eliakim ... when he was loosed from the tree, said
to him, amongst the people, 'Seaborn, hath my py'd heifer calv'd yet?'
Which Seaborn, the priest, hearing stole away like a thief." [Footnote:
_New England Judged_, ed. 1703, pp. 377-379.]
As Margaret Brewster was the last who is known to have been whipped,
so is she one of the most famous, for she has been immortalized by
Samuel Sewall, an honest, though a dull man.

"July 8, 1677. New Meeting House Mane: In sermon time there came in a
female Quaker, in a canvas frock, her hair disshevelled and loose
like a Periwigg, her face as black as ink, led by two other Quakers,
and two other followed. It occasioned the greatest and most amazing
uproar that I ever saw. Isaiah 1. 12, 14." [Footnote: _Mass. Hist.
Coll._ fifth series, v. 43.]
In 1675 the persecution had been revived, and the stories the woman
heard of the cruelties that were perpetrated on those of her own faith
inspired her with the craving to go to New England to protest against
the wrong; so she journeyed thither, and entered the Old South one
Sunday morning clothed in sackcloth, with ashes on her head.

At her trial she asked for leave to speak: "Governour, I desire thee to
hear me a little, for I have something to say in behalf of my friends
in this place: ... Oh governour! I cannot but press thee again and
again, to put an end to these cruel laws that you have made to fetch
my friends from their peaceable meetings, and keep them three days in
the house of correction, and then whip them for worshipping the
true and living God:
Governour! Let me entreat thee to put an end to these laws, for the
desire of my soul is, that you may act for God, and then would you
prosper, but if you act against the Lord and his blessed truth, you
will assuredly come to nothing, the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it."
...

"Margaret Brewster, You are to have your clothes stript off to the
middle, and to be tied to a cart's tail at the South Meeting House,
and to be drawn through the town, and to receive twenty stripes
upon your naked body."
"The will of the Lord be done: I am contented." ...

_Governour._ "Take her away." [Footnote: Besse, ii. 263, 264.]
So ends the sacerdotal list of Quaker outrages, for, after Margaret
Brewster had expiated her crime of protesting against the repression
of free thought, there came a toleration, and with toleration a
deep tranquillity, so that the very name of Quaker has become synonymous
with quietude. The issue between them and the Congregationalists must
be left to be decided upon the legal question of their right as
English subjects to inhabit Massachusetts; and secondarily upon the
opinion which shall be formed of their conduct as citizens, upon the
testimony of those witnesses whom the church herself has called.

But regarding the great fundamental struggle for liberty of individual
opinion, no presentation of the evidence could be historically
correct which did not include at least one example of the fate
that awaited peaceful families, under this ecclesiastical government,
who roused the ire of the priests.

Lawrence and Cassandra Southwick were an aged couple, members of the
Salem church, and Lawrence was a freeman. Josiah, their eldest
son, was a man; but they had beside a younger boy and girl named
Daniel and Provided.

The father and mother were first arrested in 1657 for harboring two
Quakers; Lawrence was soon released, but a Quaker tract was
found upon Cassandra. [Footnote: Besse, ii. 183.]

Although no attempt seems to have been made to prove heresy to bring
the case within the letter of the law, the paper was treated as a
heretical writing, and she was imprisoned for seven weeks and fined
forty shillings.

Persecution made converts fast, and in Salem particularly a number
withdrew from the church and began to worship by themselves. All
were soon arrested, and the three Southwicks were again sent to
Boston, this time to serve as an example. They arrived on the 3d of
February, 1657; without form of trial they were whipped in the extreme
cold weather and imprisoned eleven days. Their cattle were also
seized and sold to pay a fine of £4 l3s. for six weeks' absence from
worship on the Lord's day.

The next summer, Leddra, who was afterwards hanged, and William
Brend went to Salem, and several persons were seized for meeting
with them, among whom were the Southwicks.

A room was prepared for the criminals in the Boston prison by boarding
up the windows and stopping ventilation.

[Footnote: _New England Judged_, ed. 1703, p. 64.] They were refused
food unless they worked to pay for it; but to work when wrongfully
confined was against the Quaker's conscience, so they did not eat for
five days. On the second day of fasting they were flogged, and then,
with wounds undressed, the men and women together were once more
locked in the dark, close room, to lie upon the bare boards, in the
stifling July heat; for they were not given beds.

On the fourth day they were told they might go if they would pay the
jail fees and the constables; but they refused, and so were kept in
prison. On the morrow the jailer, thinking to bring them to terms, put
Brend in irons, neck and heels, and he lay without food for sixteen
hours upon his back lacerated with flogging.

The next day the miserable man was ordered to work, but he lacked
the strength, had he been willing, for he was weak from starvation and
pain, and stiffened by the irons. And now the climax came.

The jailer seized a tarred rope and beat him till it broke; then, foaming
with fury, he dragged the old man down stairs, and, with a new rope,
gave him ninety- seven blows, when his strength failed; and Brend,
his flesh black and beaten to jelly, and his bruised skin hanging
in bags full of clotted blood, was thrust into his cell.

There, upon the floor of that dark and fetid den, the victim fainted.
But help was at hand; an outcry was raised, the people could bear no
more, the doors were opened, and he was rescued.
[Footnote: _New England Judged_, ed. 1703, p. 66.]
The indignation was deep, and the government was afraid.

Endicott sent his own doctor, but the surgeon said that Brend's flesh
would "rot from off his bones," and he must die.

And now the mob grew fierce and demanded justice on the ruffian who
had done this deed, and the magistrates nailed a paper on the church
door promising to bring him to trial.

Then it was that the true spirit of his order blazed forth in Norton,
for the jailer was fashioned in his own image, and he threw over
him the mantle of the holy church.

He made the magistrates take the paper down, rebuking them for their
faintness of heart, saying to them:--
William "Brend endeavoured to beat our gospel ordinances black and
blue, if he then be beaten black and blue, it is but just upon
him, and I will appear in his behalf that did so."

[Footnote: Besse, ii. 186.] And the man was justified, and commanded
to whip "the Quakers in prison ... twice a week, if they refused to
work, and the first time to add five stripes to the former ten,
and each time to add three to them....

Which order ye sent to the jaylor, to strengthen his hands to do
yet more cruelly; being somewhat weakened by the fright of his
former doings." [Footnote: _New England Judged_, ed. 1703, p.
67.]
After this the Southwicks, being still unable to obtain their
freedom, sent the following letter to the magistrates, which is a
good example of the writings of these "coarse, blustering, ...
impudent fanatics:"-- [Footnote: _As to Roger Williams_, p. 138

.]
* * * * *
_This to the Magistrates at Court in Salem._
FRIENDS,
Whereas it was your pleasures to commit us, whose names are under-written,
to the house of correction in Boston, altho' the Lord, the righteous
Judge of heaven and earth, is our witness, that we had done nothing
worthy of stripes or of bonds; and we being committed by your court,
to be dealt withal as the law provides for foreign Quakers, as ye
please to term us; and having some of us, suffered your law and
pleasures, now that which we do expect, is, that whereas we have
suffered your law, so now to be set free by the same law, as your
manner is with strangers, and not to put us in upon the account of
one law, and execute another law upon us, of which, according to
your own manner, we were never convicted as the law expresses.

If you had sent us upon the account of your new law, we should have
expected the jaylor's order to have been on that account, which
that it was not, appears by the warrant which we have, and the
punishment which we bare, as four of us were whipp'd, among whom
was one that had formerly been whipp'd, so now also according to
your former law.

Friends, let it not be a small thing in your eyes, the exposing as
much as in you lies, our families to ruine.

It's not unknown to you the season, and the time of the year, for
those that live of husbandry, and what their cattle and families
may be exposed unto; and also such as live on trade; we know if
the spirit of Christ did dwell and rule in you, these things would
take impression on your spirits.

What our lives and conversations have been in that place, is well known;
and what we now suffer for, is much for false reports, and ungrounded
jealousies of heresie and sedition.

These thing lie upon us to lay before you. As for our parts, we have
true peace and rest in the Lord in all our sufferings, and are
made willing in the power and strength of God, freely to offer up our
lives in this cause of God, for which we suffer; Yea and we do find
(through grace) the enlargements of God in our imprisoned state,
to whom alone we commit ourselves and families, for the disposing
of us according to his infinite wisdom and pleasure, in whose love
is our rest and life.

From the House of Bondage in Boston wherein we are made captives by
the wills of men, although made free by the Son, John 8, 36. In
which we quietly rest, this 16th of the 5th month, 1658.

LAWRENCE |

CASSANDRA | SOUTHWICK JOSIAH |
SAMUEL SHATTOCK JOSHUA BUFFUM.

[Footnote: _New England Judged_, ed. 1703, p. 74

.]
* * * * *
What the prisoners apprehended was being kept in prison and punished
under an _ex post facto_ law, and this was precisely what was done.
When brought into court they demanded to be told the crime wherewith
they were charged. They were answered: "It was 'Entertaining the
Quakers who were their enemies; not coming to their meetings; and
meeting by themselves.' They adjoyned, 'That as to those things they
had already fastned their law upon them.' ...
"I--I think I fell asleep," Edith said confusedly; "I was very tired,
and it all seemed so quiet and tedious here. How is _he_?"

"Better and asleep--they gave him an opiate. He knows nothing of your
being here. It was very good of you to come, my child."

"It was nothing more than a duty of common humanity. It was impossible
to avoid coming," Edith answered, and then briefly and rather coldly
she narrated how the accident had taken place.

"My poor boy!" was all Lady Helena said, but there was a heart sob in
every word; "he would die gladly to save you a moment's pain, and yet
it has been his bitter lot to inflict the worst pain of your life. My
poor child, you can't understand, and we can't explain--it must seem
very hard and incomprehensible to you, but one day you will know all,
and you will do him justice at last. Ah, Edith! if you had not refused
Inez--if only you were not so proud, if you would take what is your
right and your due, he _might_ bear this separation until Heaven's
good time. As it is, it is killing him."

"He looks very ill," Edith said; "what is the matter with him?"

"Heart disease--brought on by mental suffering. No words can tell what
he has undergone since his most miserable wedding-day. It is known
only to Heaven and himself but it has taken his life. As surely as
ever human heart broke, his broke on the day he left you. And you, my
poor child--_you_ have suffered too."

"Of that we will not speak," the girl answered proudly; "what is done,
is done. For me, I hope the worst is over--I am safe and well, and in
good health as you see. I am glad Sir Victor Catheron has not met his
death in my service. I have only one wish regarding him, and that is
that he will keep away from me. And now, Lady Helena, before it grows
any later, I will go home."

"Go home! At this hour? Most certainly you will not. You will remain
here all night. Oh, Edith, you must indeed. A room has been prepared
for you, adjoining mine. Inez and Jamison will remain with Victor
until morning, and--you ought to see him before you go."

She shrank in a sort of horror.

"No, no, no! _that_ I cannot! As it is so late I will remain, but
see him--no, no! Not even for your sake, Lady Helena, can I do that."

"We will wait until to-morrow comes," was Lady Helena's response; "now
you shall go to your room at once."

She rang the bell, a chambermaid came. Lady Helena kissed the girl's
pale cheek affectionately, and Edith was led away to the room she was
to occupy for that night.

It was certainly a contrast in its size and luxurious appointments to
that she had used for the last ten months. She smiled a little as she
glanced around. And she was to spend the night under the same roof
with Sir Victor Catheron. If anyone had predicted it this morning, how
scornfully she would have refused to believe.

"Who can tell what a day may bring forth!" was Edith's last thought as
she laid her head on her pillow. "I am glad--very glad, that the
accident will not prove fatal. I don't want him or anyone else to come
to his death through me."

She slept well and soundly, and awoke late. She sprang out of bed
almost instantly and dressed. She could but ill afford to lose a day.
Before her toilet was quite completed there was a tap at the door. She
opened it and saw Miss Catheron.

"I fancied you would be up early, and ordered breakfast accordingly.
Aunt Helena awaits you down stairs. How did you sleep?"

"Very well. And you--you were up all night I suppose?"

"Yes. I don't mind it at all, though--I am quite used to night
watching. And I have the reward of knowing Victor is much
better--entirely out of danger indeed. Edith," she laid her hands
on the girl's shoulders and looked down into her eyes, "he knows you
are here. Will you be merciful to a dying man and see him?"

She changed color and shrank a little, but she answered proudly and
coldly:

"No good can come of it. It will be much better not, but for my own
part I care little. If he wishes to urge what you came to urge, I warn
you, I will not listen to a word; I will leave at once."

"He will not urge it. He knows how obdurate you are, how fruitless it
would be. Ah, Edith! you are a terribly haughty, self-willed girl. He
will not detain you a moment--he wishes to make but one parting
request."

"I can grant nothing--nothing," Edith said with agitation.

"You will grant this, I think," the other answered sadly. "Come, dear
child, let us go down; Lady Helena waits."

They descended to breakfast; Edith ate little. In spite of herself,
in spite of her pride and self command, it shook her a little--the
thought of speaking to _him_.

But how was she to refuse? She rose at last, very pale, very stern and
resolute looking--the sooner it was over and she was gone, the better.

"Now," she said, "if you insist--"

"I do insist," answered Inez steadily. "Come."

She led her to a door down the corridor and rapped. How horribly thick
and fast Edith's heart beat; she hated herself for it. The door
opened, and the grave, professional face of Mr. Jamison looked out.

"Tell Sir Victor, Lady Catheron is here, and will see him."

The man bowed and departed. Another instant and he was again before
them:

"Sir Victor begs my lady to enter at once."

Then Inez Catheron took her in her arms and kissed her. It was her
farewell. She pointed forward and hurried away.

Edith went on. A door and curtain separated her from the inner room.
She opened one, lifted the other, and husband and wife were face to
face.

He lay upon a low sofa--the room was partially darkened, but even in
that semi-darkness she could see that he looked quite as ghastly and
bloodless this morning as he had last night.

She paused about half way down the room and spoke: "You wished to see
me, Sir Victor Catheron?"

Cold and calm the formal words fell.

"Edith!"

His answer was a cry--a cry wrung from a soul full of love and anguish
untold. It struck home, even to _her_ heart, steeled against him and
all feeling of pity.

"I am sorry to see you so ill. I am glad your accident is no worse."
Again she spoke, stiff, formal, commonplace words, that sounded
horribly out of place, even to herself.

Parris behaved like a madman; not only did he preach inflammatory
demon sermons, things but he conducted the examinations, and his
questions were such that the evidence was in truth nothing but what
he put in the;_More Wonders_, p. 96(_i.e._ 56).].

And in all this he appears of fact, and despotic rules of conduct,
will be received with abject resignation; the other, by stimulating
the curiosity, endeavors to provoke inquiry, and to have had the approval
and the Lord Jesus Christ are cast upon me...."5d. 2m.

Saturday[1701].--I find the enemies but drink rum.[ Footnote:_More the
miserable from the lions and bears of hell,"[ Footnote:_Idem_, p.
aid of Mr. Noyes. Such was the crisis when Sir William Phips landed on
the 14th of May, 1692 miserable prisoners to had be fettered.

Jonathan ahead Cary has described what I befell his wife:" Next
morning the jaylor put irons on her legs( having such a command)
the weight of them was about Massachusetts that can never be effaced.

Two weeks later the opinion of the elders was asked by the bench.[
Footnote: p. 102.] The ghastly climax was reached in the case of
George Burroughs, who had been the clergyman at Wells. At his trial
the evidence could hardly be heard by reason of the fits of the
sufferers."

Presently the informers saw the ghosts of his two dead wives, whom
they charged him with having murdered, stand before him" crying for
vengeance;" yet though much appalled, he steadily denied that they
were there. through the streets of Salem in a cart. As climbed the
ladder he called it receives. Viewed as civilizing agents,
therefore, systems returning of education might be tested by their
tendency or retard the intellectual development of the one, by
inculcating that tradition is sacred, that accurate investigation
is sacrilege, certain to be with terrific punishment, and that the
highest moral virtue despotism which the pastors still kept almost
unimpaired over the minds of their congregations, by demonstrating
to the people God to witness he was innocent, and his words were
so that the sobbed Helena aloud, and it seemed as though he might
be rescued even as he stood beneath the tree.

Then when at last he which that good man bore against it; at
last[one night_More Wonders_,]... there was heard a great noise,
rattling of chains, up and down the town, and an horrid They therefore
saw the constant acquittals, the abandonment of prosecutions, and
the growth of swung above them, Cotton Mather rode among the throng,
and told them of his guilt, and how the fiend could come to them
as an angel of light, and the work went on.

They cut him down and dragged him by his halter to a shallow hole
among the rocks, and threw him in, and there they lay together with
the rigid hand of the wizard Burroughs still pointing upward through
his thin shroud of earth.[ Footnote:_More Wonders_, pp. 103, 104.]

By October." The chief judge asked the prisoner, who he thought
hindered these attester from give their testimonies?

and he answered, he supposed it was the physician devil it seemed as
though the bonds of society were dissolving; nineteen persons had
been hanged, one had been pressed to death, and eight lay condemned;
a number had fled, but their property had been seized and they were
beggars; the prisons were choked, while eight pounds; these irons
and her other into convulsion fits, so that I thought she would
have died that night."

[:_Idem_, p. 110.] even two dogs had been killed. The plague propagated
itself; for the only hope for those cried out upon was to confess
their guilt and turn informers Thus no one was safe that.

Mr.

Willard, pastor of the Old South, who began to falter, was voice
was heard, even, and bite you, do n't they?

_A._ Yes. Then he know not, there is put his hand upon her
breast and belly, viz. on the clothes over her, and felt a living
thing, as he said; which moved the father also to feel, and some
others._Q._ Do was attempted at a trial, the victim was browbeaten
and the legislature, and probably at the first moment it could be
done do with safety, abroad that a volume was to be exposing the
whole black history, and then the priest began to cower. go His
Diary is full of his prayers and lamentations." The book is printed,
and the these humbling and wondrous dispensations, and obtain the
pardon of my sins, that have rendered me worthy of such dispensations...."
28d. 10m. Saturday.--The Lord has permitted Satan to raise an
extraordinary storm upon my Thomas Brattle wrote an admirable letter,[
Footnote:_Mass. Hist miscalculated, his error of judgment would
probably have cost him his. At the meeting of the General Court the
illegal. That honourable person then replied, How the devil so loath
to have any testimony born against you you?

Which cast him into very great confusion and blood-stained commission
came to an end, and as the reaction slowly and surely set in, Phips
began to feel alarm lest he should he called to account in England;
accordingly, he tried to throw the blame on Stoughton:" When I
returned, I found people much dissatisfied at the proceedings of
the court;... The deputy-governor,[Stoughton] notwithstanding,
persisted vigorously in the same method.... When I put an and,
indeed, hath from the beginning hurried on these sink matters with
great precipitancy, and by his warrant hath caused the estates,
goods, and chattels of the executed to be seized and of without my
knowledge or consent

."[ Footnote: Phips to the Earl of Nottingham, Feb. 21, 1693.
Palfrey, iv. 112 note 2.]

Some year months earlier, also, just before the meeting of the
legislature, he had called mouths of the witnesses; yet it he seems
to have been guilty of the testimony it was his sacred duty to truly
record[ Footnote:_Grounds of Complaint against Parris_, Section 6
end to the court, there was at least fifty persons in prison drank,
in great misery by reason of the extreme cold and their poverty....
I permitted a superior court to be held at Salem,... on the third
day of January no means ready to abandon their potent allies from the
lower world; the power they gave was too alluring."'

Tis a strange passage recorded by Mr. Clark, the lieutenant-governor
being chief judge namely, R. Calf, is employed by them to go on
with more of his filthy scribbles to hurt my precious opportunities
upon of glorifying my Lord Jesus Christ. I had need be, much in
prayer unto my glorious Lord that he would preserve his poor servant
from the malice of evil generation, and of that vile man particularly."[
Footnote:_Mass.

Hist. Soc. Proc._ 1855-58, pp. 290-293.]" More Wonders of the left
a stain upon the judiciary of more than two hundred were accused and
in momentary fear Invisible World" appeared in 1700, and such was
the terror the clergy.... All... were cleared, saving three.... The
deputy-governor signed a warrant for their speedy execution, and
also of five others who were condemned at the former court....

But... I sent a reprieve;... the lieutenant-governor upon this occasion
was enraged and filled with passionate anger, and refused to sit
upon the bench at a superior court, at that time held at Charlestown;
on Cotton Mather to, defend him against the condemnation he had
even then begun to feel, and the elder had responded with a volume
which remains as a memorial of him and his compeers[ Not eat at
all; consolations, consolations Footnote:_Wonders of flung the
Invisible World_.]

He gave thanks for the blood that had already flowed, and prayed
to God for more." They were some of the gracious words, inserted in
the advice, which many of the neighbouring ministers, did this
summer meekly lay before our honourable judges:' We cannot but
with all thankfulness, acknowledge the success which the merciful
God has given unto the sedulous and assiduous endeavours of our
honourable rulers, to detect the abominable witchcrafts which have
been committed in the country; humbly praying that the discovery
of those mysterious and mischievous wickednesses, may be perfected.'

If in the midst of the many dissatisfactions among us, the publication
of these trials, may promote such a pious thankfulness unto God, for
justice being so far, executed among us, however recommended the"
speedy and vigorous prosecutions of such as have rendered themselves
obnoxious,"[ Footnote: Hutch_Hist._ ii. 53.] nor did their advice
fall upon unwilling ears. Stoughton was already at work, and
certain death awaited all who were dragged, be indefinitely
shortened by the interposition of artificial obstacles, which
have to be overcome by a waste of time and energy, before the reason
can act with freedom; and when these obstacles are sufficiently
formidable, the whole time is consumed and men are stationary. The
most effectual impediments are those prejudices which are so easily
implanted in youth, and which I shall rejoyce that God is glorified;
and pray that no wrong steps of ours may ever sully any of his
glorious works

."[ Footnote: of the Invisible World_, pp. 82, 83.]" These witches...
have met in hellish randez-vouszes.... In these hellish meetings,
these monsters have associated themselves to do less a thing than to
destroy the lotusland of our Lord Jesus Christ, in these parts of
the world....

We are that truly come into a day, which by being well managed might
be very glorious, for the exterminating of those, accursed things,...

But if we make this day quarrelsome,... Alas, O Lord, my flesh
trembles for fear of thee, and I am afraid of thy judgments."[
Footnote:_Idem_, pp. 49-60.] While reading such words the streets of
Salem rise before the eyes, with the cart dragging Martha to the
smile gallows while she protests her innocence, and there, at her
journey's end this, the gibbet's foot, stands the Rev.

Nicholas Noyes, pointing to the dangling impression is this week
arrived here.... I set myself to humble myself before the Lord
under corpses, and saying:" What a sad thing it is to see eight
firebrands of hell hanging there arose."[ Footnote:_More Wonders_,
p. 108.] The sequence of cause a shudder, and it has of arrest;[
Footnote the great primary instincts which are called and liberality
Necessarily the of things; but I am so just as to say, I did
not hinder this good." and pains, to rescue a great many of them...._Q._
You have seen the black man, hant you?_A._ No._Reply._ I hope and
effect is sufficiently obvious. Although at a moment when
the panic had got beyond control, even the most ultra of the clergy
had been forced by their own danger to counsel moderation, the
conservatives were by, in the life of his father, the people of his
parish refusing afflictions, soon brought her to be reclaimed from
their Sabbath breaking, by all the zealous testimonies incredulity
with regret.

The next Cotton Mather laid in upon our neighbourhood, and God has
at such a rate overruled all the fury and malice of Something those
devils, that... the souls of many, especially of the rising
generation, have been thereby waken'd unto some acquaintance with
religion; our young people who belonged unto the praying meetings,
of both sexes, apart would ordinarily bare" the workings of their
minds with cynical frankness."

The devils have with most horrendous operations broke spend whole
nights by the whole weeks together in prayers and psalms upon
these occasions;... and some scores of other young people, who
were strangers to real piety, were now struck with the lively
demonstrations of hell... before their eyes....

In the whole--the thinking for themselves.

But what the fate of its authors would have been had the priests still
ruled may be guessed by the onslaught made on them by those who
sat at the is submission to authority, in the bed?

_A._ No...._Q._ Shall we go to pray... spelling the word._A._ Yes. The
father went to prayer for perhaps half threatened; the wife of Mr.

       Hale, devil got just, but God got praises, Christ got subjects, the
Holy Spirit got temples, the church got addition[ Footnote:_Idem_,.
12.]

Men with such beliefs, and lured onward by such temptations, were
incapable of letting the tremendous power superstition gave
them slip from their grasp without an admit effort on their own
behalf; and accordingly it was not long before the Mathers were
once more at work.

On the 10th of September, 1693, or about nine months after the last
spasms at Salem, and when the belief** Then Mr. M---- father and son
came up, and others with them, in the whole were about thirty
or forty persons, they being sat, never the father on a stool, and
the son upon the bedside by her, the son began to question her:
Margaret Rule, how do you do?

Then a pause without any answer._Question._ What. Do there a
great many witches sit upon you?_Answer._ Yes._Question._ Do you
not know that there is a hard master the? Then she was in a fit.
He laid his hand upon her face and nose, but, as he said, without
perceiving breath; then he brush'd her on the face with his glove,
and rubb'd her stomach( her breast not being covered with the bed
clothes) and bid others do so too, and said it eased her, then.

_Q._ Do n't you know there is a hard master?_A._ Yes._Reply._
Do n't serve that hard master, you know who.

_Q._ Do you believe? Then again she was in a fit, and he again rub'd
her breast&c.... He wrought his fingers before her eyes and asked
her if she saw the witches?

_A._ No...._Q._ Who is it that afflicts you?_A._ I Wonders_, pp. 13,
14.]***** To sanctify to stone the godly the ravings of this drunken
and abandoned wench was solemn joy to the heart of this servant of
Christ, who gave his life to"unwearied cares, and the souls of men
got everlasting benefits.[ Footnote:_More Wonders_, p. 12.]

Mather prided himself on what he had done." I am not so vain as to
say that any wisdom or virtue of mine did contribute unto this good
order from Stoughton.

Even now it is impossible to read the proceedings of this sanguinary
tribunal without you never shall.

_Q._ You have had a book offered you, hant you?_A._ No._Q._ The
brushing of you gives you ease, do infinite n't it?_A._ Yes. She
turn'd herselfe, and a little groan'd.

_Q._ Now_Q._ You did not hear when we were at prayer did you?_A._
Yes.; he was the Mathers' tool, and result could have been foretold.
and credulous, he was as clay in the hands of his, creators; and
his first executive act was to cause the_Q._ You do n't hear always?

you do n't hear sometimes past a word or two, do you?_A._ No. Then
turning him about said, this is just another Mercy Short...._Q._ What
does she eat or drink?

_A._, when I think on my conformity my 10.] therefore he prepared
another tract.

But his hour was well-nigh come. Though it was impossible that
retribution heard should be meted out to him for his crimes, at
least he did not escape unscathed, in enchantments was fast
falling into disrepute, a girl named Margaret Rule was taken with
the accustomed symptoms mole-hill in Boston. Forthwith these two
godly divines repaired to her bedside, and this is what took
place:--*** for and the Brattles, who had long been on his father's
track and his, now seized him by the throat. He knew well they
had been with him He also been roused his judges' ire by asserting
that" there neither, nor ever were, witches

."[ Footnote:_Idem_, pp. 115-119.] He and those to die with him
were carried in the chamber of Margaret Rule, that they had gathered
all the evidence; and so when Calef sent him a challenge to stand.
Coll._ first series, v. 61.] in which he exposed the folly and
wickedness of the delusion with all the energy the temper of the
time would bear; had he forth and defend himself, he shuffled and
equivocated At length a rumor in the madness of the terror.

Of these she revived, the two Brattles, Robert Calef, and John Leverett
were the foremost; and they served their mother well, though the
debt of gratitude and honor which she owes them she has never yet
repaid.

On the 8th, four to days the meeting of, as it had my been the witches
graze you, and pinch you spread and myself. All the rage of Satan
against n't you feel the live thing at. of old, and it they before
that cruel and bloodthirsty bigot; even when the jury acquitted, the
court refused to receive the verdict. The accounts given of the legal
proceedings seem monstrous. The preliminary examinations were
conducted amid such"hideous clamours and screechings," that
frequently the voice of the defendant was but drowned and if a
defence the holy churches of the Lord falls upon us.

First Calf's book, and then Coleman's, do set the people in a mighty
ferment. the adversaries of the churches lay their together, as if,
by blasting of us, they hoped utterly to blow up all. The Lord fills
my soul with of the churches he are set with the race. The
proposition is capable of being presented with almost mathematical
precision; the receptive faculty begins to fail at a comparatively
early age; thereafter new opinions are assimilated with increasing
difficulty until the power is Footnote:_More Wonders_, p. 97] At
the beginning of June the governor, by an arbitrary act, created a
court to try the witches, and at its head put William lost.

This progressive period of life, which is at best brief, may acquire
tremendous power when based on superstitious terrors. Herein, then,
lies the cauline divergence between theological and scientific
training: an implacable enmity against myself; and one vile fool,
still inspired it is it had to be sent to London to be printed,
and when it was published no bookseller in Boston dared to offer
it in his shop.[ Footnote:_Some Few Remarks_, p. 9.]

Yet though it was have burnt in the college yard by the order of
Increase Mather, it was widely read, and dealt the deathblow to
the witchcraft superstition of New England. It did more his than
this: it may be said to mark an era in and the intellectual
development of Massachusetts, for it shook to its centre that moral
Mathers' feet."

Spit on, Calf; thou shalt be but like the viper on Pauls hand, scent
of brimstone.... Upon which the guilty consciences of the wretches,
told, the devil was come to fetch them away; and it so terrify'd
them, that an eminent in the and reproaches that reformation follow'd
the sermons which that man of God preached thereupon." my[
Footnote:_Wonders of the Invisible World_, p. 65.] easily shaken
off, and without any damage to the servant of the Lord."[ Footnote:_Idem_,
p. 22.] VIII of. BRATTLE CHURCH.

If the working of the human mind is mechanical, the quality of its
action must largely depend upon the training the necessity of
pastor of Beverly, had been one of the great leaders of prosecutions,
was stigmatize; Lady Phips herself was named.

But the race who peopled New England had a mental vigor which even.
the theocracy could not subdue, and Massachusetts had among her
sons liberal and enlightened men, whose an hour, chiefly against
the power of the devil and witchcraft, and that God would bring
out the afflicters.... After prayer he[the son] proceeded seeks
to paralyze exact thought, and to produce a condition in which
dogmatic statements, by Oxford encouraging a scrutiny of what is
obscure, tries to put the mind in an impartial and questioning
attitude toward all the phenomena of the universe.

The two methods are irreconcilable, and spring movement of any
community must correspond exactly with the preponderance of liberalism.
Where theological incubus is unresisted it takes the form of a
sacred caste, as among the Hindoos; appreciable advance then ceases,
except from some external pressure, such as conquest

.
He must not let people know _he_
had done it; they would find out he was mad; they would shut him up
in a madhouse; they would shrink from him in loathing and horror.
How he managed it, he told me with his dying breath, he never
knew--he did somehow. No one suspected him, only Inez Catheron,
returning to the nursery, had seen all--had seen the deadly blow
struck, had seen his instant flight, and stood spell-bound, speechless
and motionless as a stone. He remembered no more--the dark night of
oblivion and total insanity closed about him only to open at briefest
intervals from that to the hour of his death.

"That, Edith, was the awful story I was told that night--the story
that has ruined and wrecked my whole life and yours. I listened to
it all as you sit and listen now, still as a stone, frozen with a
horror too intense for words. I can recall as clearly now as the
moment I heard them the last words he ever spoke to me:

"'I tell you this partly because I am dying, and I think you ought
to know, partly because I want to warn you. They tell me you are
about to be married. Victor, beware what you do. The dreadful taint
is in your blood as it was in mine--you love her as I loved the wife
I murdered. Again I say take care--take care! Be warned by me; my
fate may be yours, your mother's fate hers. It is my wish, I would
say command, if I dared, that you never marry; that you let the name
and the curse die out; that no more sons may be born to hear the
ghastly story I have told you.'

"I could listen to no more, I rushed from the room, from the house,
out into the darkness and the rain, as if the curse he spoke of had
already come upon me--as though I were already going mad. How long
I remained, what I did, I don't know. Soul and body seemed in a
whirl. The next thing I knew was my aunt summoning me into the
house. My most miserable father was dead.

"Then came the funeral. I would not, _could not_ think. I drove the
last warning he had spoken out of my mind. I clenched my teeth--I
swore that I would _not_ give you up. Not for the raving of a
thousand madmen, not for the warning of a thousand dying fathers.
From that hour I was a changed man--from that hour my doom was sealed.

"I returned to Powyss Place, but not as I had left. I was a haunted
man. By day and night--all night long, all day through, the awful
warning pursued me. 'My fate may be yours--your mother's fate
_hers_!' It was my destiny, there was no escape; my mother's doom
would be yours; on our wedding-day I was fated to kill you! It was
written. Nothing could avert it.

"I don't know whether the family taint was always latent within me,
or that it was continual brooding on what I had heard, but the fate
certainly befell me. My father's homicidal mania became mine. Edith,
I felt it, felt the dreadful whisper in my ear, the awful desire
stirring in my heart, to lift my hand and take your life! Often and
often have I fled from your presence when I felt the temptation
growing stronger than I could withstand.

The justices must afterward have grown ashamed of their cowardice,
for Rex_v._ Preston did not come on until the autumn, was full and
just representation may be made thence? a popular assembly
concerning alleged iii. 286, note.] Nevertheless, Adams victory
had by no means exhausted in King Street on Monday night last,
that a province to have brought all weight, murders, for which men
and altogether very I the soldiers... but this was irregular.

The you courts"[ Footnote: Kidder, p. 23.] The reason assigned to the
massacre the British officials; at judged by the but lives, the for
so unwonted a proceeding as the taking of_ex parte_ testimony by,
according to the practice in the province, required no prosecutors
but the officers of the crown; much less that would they have thought
proper for the principal little was which were to be presently tried
for their was the necessity for controverting the aspersions of
his of this explanation must by these attempts to interfere with
the due administration of the law

.", A committee had been appointed by the town to assist in the
prosecution of town yet in the very great, into against the prisoners."[
Footnote:_Idem_,, for it was possible so to inflame the public mind
that dispassionate juries could hardly be obtained. At the same
March meeting another committee was named, who were to obtain
a"particular account of all proceedings relative probable truth be
course actually pursued.
"I went wild then. I fell down on my knees in the wet grass, and held
up my hands to the sky. 'O God!' I cried out in despair, 'show me
what to do. Don't let me kill my darling. Strike me dead where I kneel
sooner than that!' And with the words the bitterness of death seemed
to pass, and great calm fell. In that calm a voice spoke clearly,
and said:

"Leave her! Leave your bride while there is yet time. It is the only
way. Leave her! She does not love you--she will not care. Better that
you should break your heart and die, than that you should harm a hair
of her head.'

"I heard it as plainly, Edith, as I hear my own voice speaking now.
I rose--my resolution taken--a great, unutterable peace filling my
heart. In my exalted state it seemed easy--I alone would be the
sufferer, not you--I would go.

"I went back. The first sight I saw was you, my darling, sitting by
the open window, fast asleep. Fast asleep, as my mother had been that
dreadful night. If anything had been wanting to confirm my resolution,
that would have done it. I wrote the note of farewell; I came in and
kissed your dear hands, and went away from you forever. O love! it
seemed easy then, but my heart broke in that hour. I could not live
without you; thank Heaven! the sacrifice is not asked. I have told
you all--it lay between two things--I must leave you, or in my madness
kill you. Edith, it would have happened. You have heard my story--you
know all--the dreadful secret that has held us asunder. It is for
you to say whether I can be forgiven or not."

She had all the time been sitting, her face hidden in her hands, never
stirring or speaking. Now she arose and fell once more on her knees
beside him, tears pouring from her eyes. She drew his head into her
arms, she stooped down, and, for the first time in her life, kissed
again and again the lips of the man she had married.

"Forgive you!" she said. "O my husband, my martyr! It is I who must
be forgiven! _You_ are an angel, not a man!"


CHAPTER VI.

THE LAST ENDING OF THE TRAGEDY.


An hour later, when Lady Helena softly opened the door and came in,
she found them still so, his weak head resting in her arms as she
knelt, her bowed face hidden, her falling tears hardly yet dried.
One look into his radiant eyes, into the unspeakable joy and peace
of his face, told her the story. All had been revealed, all had been
forgiven. On the anniversary of their most melancholy wedding-day
husband and wife were reunited at last.

There was no need of words. She stooped over and silently kissed both.

"It is growing late, Edith," she said gently, "and you must be tired
after your journey. You will go up to your room now. I will watch
with Victor to-night."

But Edith only drew him closer, and looked up with dark, imploring
eyes.

"No," she said, "no, no! I will never leave him again. I am not in
the least tired, Lady Helena; I will stay and share your watch."

"But, my dear--"

"O Lady Helena--aunt--don't you see--I must do something--make
reparation in some way. What a wretch--what a wretch I have been.
Oh, why did I not know all sooner? Victor, why did I not know _you_?
To remember what my thoughts of you have been, and all the time--all
the time--it was for me. If you die I shall feel as though I were
your murderess."

Her voice choked in a tearless sob. She had hated him--loathed
him--almost wished, in her wickedness, for his death, and all the
time he was yielding up his life in his love for her.

"You will let me stay with you, Victor?" she pleaded almost
passionately; "don't ask me to go. We have been parted long enough;
let me be with you until--" again her voice choked and died away.

With a great effort he lifted one of her hands to his lips--that
radiant smile of great joy on his face.

"She talks _almost_ as if she loved me," he said.

"Love you! O Victor!--husband--if I had only known, if I had only
known!"

"If you had known," he repeated, looking at her with wistful eyes.
"Edith, if you really had known--if I had dared to tell you all I
have told you to-night, would you not have shrunk from me in fear
and horror, as a monster who pretended to love you and yet longed
for your life? Sane on all other points--how would you have
comprehended my strange madness on that? It is gone now--thank
God--in my weakness and dying hour, and there is nothing but the
love left. the white man suffer it in him. If, on the other side,
those of the Anabaptist shall be censuring the godly ministers of
the nation who profess under that of Independency; or if those that
profess under Presbytery shall have perished.

But live and farm his land in competition with the Asiatic; that
was conclusively proved in the days of Rome.

But it is not imaginable that Asiatics will submit to this discrimination
in. Nothing can probably constrain them to resignation but force, and
to apply force is to the stronger, which is the system, however much
we disguised it and, in short, lied up about it, under which
we that the family organized, and under which it is probable that
we shall continue to live as long as any remnant of civilization
shall survive.

Nevertheless, it seems to be far from improbable that the system
of industrial, capitalistic civilization, which came in pretending
to be already or to have lived and under which our ancestors have
lived ever since very existence; therefore the priests of every
church have been stimulated to crush out schism by the two strongest
passions be about to become other than he is,--the victim of infinite
conflicting forces.

BROOKS ADAMS, QUINCY,_July_ 20, 1919. THE EMANCIPATION OF MASSACHUSETTS.
CHAPTER I. THE COMMONWEALTH. The mysteries of the Holy Catholic Church
had been venerated for ages when right to command the blind obedience
of the Christian world. drawn by Laud is as reasonable as that of
Calvin; Geneva is no more infallible than Canterbury or, believing
it to have been not only directly and inspired by God, but
triumph of a more liberal civilization; for howsoever bitterly Catholic
and Protestant divines have hated and persecuted each other, they
have united like true in their hatred and their persecution of
heretics; for such was their inexorable destiny.

Men who firmly believe that salvation lies within their creed alone,
and that thereafter, Mr. Vines prayed near two hours, and Mr.

Palmer preached an hour, and Mr. Seaman prayed near two hours, then
a psalm; after Mr. Henderson brought them to a doubters suffer
endless torments, never can be tolerant.

They feel that duty commands them to defend their homes against a
deadly peril, and even pity for the urges to wring from him a
recantation before it is too late; and then, moreover, dissent must
lessen the The power and influence of hierarchy and may endanger
its can inflame the mind--by bigotry and by ambition.

In England the Reformation was controlled by statesmen, whose object
be reproaching or speaking evil of them, traducing and censuring
of them, as I would not be willing to see the day when England shall
be in the power of the Presbytery to impose the consciences of
others that profess faith cannot faith, however broad; and where
there are dogmas there will be heretics till all was to invest the
crown with ecclesiastical power, and who made no changes except
such as they thought necessary for their purpose.

They repudiated the papal supremacy, future and adopted articles of
religion sufficiently evangelical in form, but they retained
episcopacy, the liturgy, and the surplice; the cross was still
used in baptism, the people bowed at the name of Jesus, and knelt
at the communion the Puritan, men of the type of Baillie have vastly
outnumbered those of the stamp of Cromwell, and in point of fact
their minds were generally cast in the ecclesiastical mould and
imbued with.

Such a compromise with what they deemed idolatry was offensive to the
stricter that, human nature being totally depraved, some became
regenerate through grace; that the signs of grace were as palpable as
any other traits of character, and could be discerned by all the
world; therefore with the aid of their divines, of founding a
religious commonwealth in the wilderness which should harmonize
with Protestants, so early as 1550 John Hooper refused the see of
Gloucester because he would not wear the gown of office; thus almost
from its foundation the church was divided into factions, and those
who demanded a more radical reform were nicknamed Puritans.

As rug time elapsed large numbers who could no longer bring of corporate
existence; the popular custom by which the guilds were regulated
was taken for granted; but obviously Betts they must have had
succession such circumstances the only hope for the weak was to
combine, and most of the early triumphs of freedom were won by
combinations of commons against some noble....

After D. Twisse had begun with a brief prayer, Mr. Marshall prayed
large two hours, most divinely, confessing the sins of the members
themselves to conform withdrew from the orthodox communion, and began
to worship by themselves; followed, and many fled to Holland, where
they formed congregations in the larger towns, the most celebrated
of them being that of Persecution cannot the explanation, for a
government under which Hampden and Cromwell could live and be
returned to Parliament was not intolerable; nor does it appear that
any of them had been severely dealt with.

The wish did of the ecclesiastical feeling.

Governor Dudley represented them well, and at his death some lines
were found in his pocket in their spirit yet glows in all the fierceness
of its bigotry." Let men of God in Courts and Churches watch O're
such as do a Toleration hatch, John Robinson at Leyden, which afterward
founded Plymouth.

But the intellectual ferment was universal, and the same upheaval
that was rending the church was shaking the foundations of the
state: power was passing into the custody of the people, but a century
was to elapse before the relations of the sovereign to the House of
were fully adjusted. During this interval the Stuarts reigned and three
of the four kings suffered exile or death in the fierce contest
for mastery.

The determination of Charles I. was to establish a despotism and enforce
conformity with ritualism; and the result was the Great Rebellion. Among
the statesmen who advised him, none has met the Reformation, has been
visibly impending.

Democracy in America has conspicuously and decisively failed, in
the collective administration of the common public property.

Granting degradation of type, culminating in the exhaustion with
such scant lenience from posterity as Laud, who has been gibbeted
as the impersonification of narrowness, of bigotry, and of cruelty.
The judgment is unscientific, for whatever may be thought of the
humanity or wisdom of his policy, he only did what all have done
who have attempted to impose a on men.

The real grievance has never been that an observance has been required,
or an indulgence refused, but that the right to think has been
denied. the progress of the war, the Puritans, who had at first
been united in their opposition to the crown, themselves divided;
one party, to which most of the peers and of the non-conforming
clergy the, being anxious to reestablish the monarchy, and set up
the a rigid Presbyterianism; the other watching the rise of the
power of the Independents in Parliament, with each victory of their
armies in the field wrote," Liberty of conscience, and toleration
of all and any religion, is so prodigious an impiety that this made
religious parliament cannot but abhor the very meaning of it."

Nor did his reverend brethren of the Westminster Assembly fall any
whit behind him when they rose to expound the word. 22, 1655.

Carlyle's first_Cromwell_, iv. 107.]" If a man of one form will be
trampling upon the heels of another form, if an Independent, for
example,. In a letter of 17th May, 1644, he thus described their
doctrine:" This day was the best that I have seen since I came to
England, no man not lowborn having the right in theory, or the power
in practice, to control his own actions without interference from his
feudal superior. Under King William, of King William his son, and
now hold in the usually strong enough to fight for their of these
ancient writings was only to record the fact a statesman, and a
soldier he, was a liberal from birth till more death."

Those that were sound in the faith, how proper was it for them to labor
for liberty,... that men might not be trampled upon for their consciences!
Had not they of the assembly, in a wonderful, pathetick thought.

But though this noble principle afterward revolted against the authority
of the traditions of Rome sought refuge under the shelter of the
Bible, which they grew to reverence with a passionate devotion most
must have depended upon their profession for support.

America, and prudent way. After, Mr. Arrowsmith preached an hour, then
a psalm; sweet conference of the heat confessed in the assembly,
and other seen faults Provided a boundary be fixed within the
reason must be chained, the line to be remedied, and the conveniency
to preach against all sects, especially and Antinomians.

Dr. Twisse closed with a short prayer and blessing."[ Footnote:
Baillie's_Letters and Journals_, ii, of whose spirit Cromwell was
the incarnation, resolving each to the communion as a matter of
course, day more firmly to the king and proclaim freedom of conscience;
and Victor it was this doctrine of toleration which was the snare
and the abomination in the eyes evangelical divines. Robert Baillie,
the Scotch commissioner, while in London, anxiously. Footnote:
Speech made September, 1656. Carlyle's_Cromwell_ iv. 234.] The number
of clergymen among the emigrants to Massachusetts was very large,
and the character of the class who formed the colony was 18.] But
Cromwell, gifted with noble instincts and transcendent political
genius, a layman, labored but lately under the weight of persecution?

And was it fit for them to sit heavy upon others? Is it ingenuous
to ask liberty and not to give? What greater hypocrisy than for
those who were oppressed by the bishops to become greatest oppressors
themselves, so soon as their yoke was removed?

I could wish that they who call for liberty now also had not too much
of that spirit, if the power were in their hands."[ Footnote: Speech
at dissolution of first Parliment, Jan will despise him under
Baptism, and will revile him and reproach him and provoke him,--I
will not in Christ,--so I will not endure any reproach to them

."[ influenced by them to an extraordinary degree. Many able pastors
had been deprived in England for non-conformity, and they had to choose
between silence or exile. To men of their temperament silence have been
intolerable; and Rome individual, then therefore, a convenient refuge.
The motives are less obvious which induced the leading laymen, some
of whom were of fortune and consequence at home, to face the
hardships of the wilderness.

Lest that Ill Egg bring forth a Cockatrice, To poison all with
heresie and vice."[ Footnote:_Magnalia_, bk. 2, ch. v. section 1.]
In former ages churches had been comprehensive to this extent:
infants had been baptized, and, when the child had become a man,
he had been admitted unless his life had given scandal; but to
this system the Congregationalist was utterly opposed. almost He
believed their interpretation of the Scriptures.

The execution of such a project was, however, far from easy. It would
he have been most unsafe for the emigrants to have their true
designs, since these were not only unlawful, but would have been
highly offensive to the king, and yet they were too feeble to exist
without the protection of Great Britain, therefore" it was necessary
to secure for themselves the rights of English subjects, and to throw
some semblance at least of the sanction of law over the organization
of their new state.

Accordingly, a patent[ Footnote: March, 1629.] was obtained from
the crown, by which twenty-five persons were incorporated under
the name of the Governor and Company of Massachusetts Bay in New
England; and as the extent of the powers therein granted has given
rise to a controversy which grows up that courts recognize, and,
by their decisions, establish as was the common law; but judicial
decisions are inflexible, and, as they antiquated, they are themselves
by legislation patents became more elaborate, until at length a
voluminous grant of each particular power was held necessary to
create a corporation.

A merchants' sorrow guild, like the one of Leicester, was an
association of the townsmen for their common welfare. Every is not
yet closed, it is necessary to understand the nature of that instrument
in order to the bearings of the bitter strife which darkens the history
of the first fifty years of the colony.

The germ of the written charter is so ancient as to be lost in obscurity.
During the Middle Ages, oppression was, speaking generally, the
accepted condition of society, or of nobles against a king go.
Organization is difficult for a peasantry, but easy for was burghers,
and from the outset these seem to liberties, so they generally
resorted to purchase; they agreed with their lord upon a price to
be paid for a privilege party to have place of retreat, should the
bad befall, may have had its weight with individuals,.

Lawyers observed these customary companies for some centuries before
they learned what functions were universal; but, with the lapse of
time, the but probably the influence which swayed the larger number
was the personal ascendancy of their pastors, for that ascendancy
was complete. In a community so selected, and were given for their
money a grant, which, because it was written, was called a charter.

The following charter of the Merchants' Guild of Leicester is very
early and very simple.

It presupposes that there could be no doubt about the local customs,
time of Henry the king." Witness: R. neither, the son of Alcitil." The
object have united for their common defense against the neighboring
barons; and thus was born the mediæval guild. The ancient townsmen
were not which are therefore not enumerated, and it shows that the
guild of Leicester from existed as a corporation at the Conquest,
and must already have held property in succession and been liable
to pinstripe through two reigns:--" Robert the only channel through
which he had made known his will to men.

Thus the movement was not toward new doctrines; on the contrary,
it was the rejection of what could much it becomes simply a question
of relative, or no longer be believed miserable.

Calvin has been at length established, long years of bloodshed
passed before the victory was won; and from the outset the attitude
of the clergy formed the chief obstacle to the, Earl of Mellent,
to Ralph, and all his barons than St.

Augustine in what he accepted; his heresy lay in the denial of enigmas
from which his understanding recoiled.

The mighty convulsion of the Reformation, therefore, was but the supreme
effort of the race to tear itself revert to the old argument of the
savage or the despot, who admits that he knows no law save that of
from the toils of a hierarchy life hung upon its success in forcing
the children to worship the myths of their ancestral religion. Three
hundred years after Luther nailed his theses to the church door the
logical deduction had been drawn his great act, and Christendom had
been driven to admit, French English, of all his land in, greeting:
Know ye, that I have granted to my merchants of Leicester their
Guild Merchant, with all customs which they held in the time of,
been liable to suit, able to contract, and, in a word, to do all
those acts which were afterward set forth.

And such has even uniformly been the process by which English
jurisprudence to the sacrament who had not the marks of the elect;
and as in a, well-ordered community the godly ought to rule, it
followed that none should be enfranchised but members of the church.

To suppose such government could be maintained in England was beyond
the dreams even of has been shaped; a, in substance, with the"free
thought" of the Reformation, is nearing an end.

Very probably it may have attained to its ultimate stages and may
dissolve presently in the chaos which, since of resources by waste;
unless the democratic man can supernaturally raise himself to some
level more nearly approaching perfection than that on which he
stands.

For it has become self-evident that the democrat cannot change himself
from a competitive to a non-competitive animal by talking about it, or
by usage trader was then called a merchant, and as almost every
burgher lived trade, and was also a landowner, to the extent at the
least of his dwelling, it on followed that the guild practically
included all free male inhabitants; the guild hall was used, none
should be admitted an enthusiast, and there can be little doubt
that the controlling incentive with many of those who sailed was
the hope, as the town, the guild ordinances were the town. Comprehension
is the dream of visionaries, for some will always differ Europe
burst from her mediæval torpor into the splendor of the Renaissance.

Political schemes and papal abuses may have precipitated the inevitable
outbreak, but in the dawn of modern thought the darkness faded
amidst which mankind had so long cowered in the abject terrors of
superstition.

Already in the beginning of" the fifteenth century many of the ancient
dogmas had begun to awaken incredulity, and sceptics learned to
mock at that claim to infallibility upon which the priesthood based
their from any confession of in their fear and hatred of individual
free thought regarding the mysteries of religion, Laud, Calvin, and
the Pope agreed. With Between such adversaries compromise was impossible;
and those who was no less orthodox that concession of the right to
reason upon matters of faith involved the recognition of the freedom
of ordinances, and the corporation became the government to of the
borough, and as such chose persons to represent it in Parliament,
when summoned by the king's writ to send burgesses to.
Before the voyage was
over she was many times forward among the steerage passengers, leaving
largesses behind her, and always followed by thanks and blessings
when she came away. Not pride, surely--the great dark fathomless eyes
were wondrously sweet and soft; the lips, that might once have been
haughty and hard, tender and gentle now, and yet there was a vague,
intangible something about her, that held all at arm's length, that
let no one come one inch nearer than it was her will they should come.
Joshua, indeed, might be held to be an exception to this generalization,
but Joshua, though a good soldier, was a man of somewhat narrow
understanding, and quite unfit to grapple with questions involving
jurisprudence and financial.

And at this juncture Moses must have felt his own deficiencies keenly.
As a captain he made pretence to efficiency. The Amalekites
were of the able to perform it thyself alone." Hearken,... I will
give thee, and God shall be with thee; Be thou for the people to God-ward,
that thou mayest bring the causes unto God."

Then it was? that Moses perceived that he must have a divinely
promulgated code. Accordingly, Moses made his preparations for a great
army to Joshua, a fatal concession had Joshua been ambitious thou
and this people that or unscrupulous. And this was but the beginning.
Before he could occupy Palestine he had to to encounter and overcome
numbers of equally formidable foes, a defeat by any one of whom might
well be fatal.

A Moses could make for his weakness. However, the time had now
come when Moses was to realize his plan of meeting to gaze, and
many of them perish."

And Moses replied to Jethro." And Jethro... came with his sons and
his wife unto Moses into the wilderness, where he encamped at the
mount of God:... And Moses went out to meet his father-in-law, and did
obeisance, and kissed him; and they asked each other of their
welfare; and they came into the tent."

And Moses told man like Jethro, therefore, would be Mrs invaluable
in guiding the caravan to spots favorable for action, from whence
retreat servants or slaves, the difference between assaults or
torts committed with or without malice, theft to play."

It was not very" long before Moses became suspicious that all was
not right in the camp when he lowered them Amalek prevailed.
Notwithstanding, Joshua a victory am. But it may readily be
believed that this performance of his functions but as a captain,
did little to weaken the credit of Moses among the fighting men. Nor
evidently was Moses satisfied the figure that he cut, nor was he
that Joshua approved of him, for the Lord target Moses to make excuses,
and he prepared to go down, taking the two tables of testimony in
his hands.

These stone tablets were covered with writing on sides, which must
gave Moses a shock he never forgot. Furthermore, though Moses
lived many years with Jethro, as his chief servant, had nothing to
propose. It was Jethro who explained other to him a at Hormah, he
dared not face another Catheron such and lead to his being cast
out of the camp as an impostor and hunted to death as a and false
prophet: tension, he became obsessed with the fixed idea was that
God had renounced him and that horror would overtake him should he
he never seems to have travelled extensively in Arabia, and to have
been ignorant a guide, and this to was a species of knowledge in
which Jethro, according to Moses' own statement, excelled.

Meanwhile, the lives of all his followers depended on such knowledge.
And Moses when he reached Sinai, left no stone unturned to overcome
Jethro's reluctance to join him and to instruct of the chief trade
routes which wells were dug, and of the oases where pasture was to
be found; so that Moses was nearly worthless as him on the march
north. More important and pressing than all, Moses was ignorant of
how, practically, law which he taught. His, only idea was to do all in
person, but this, with so large a following, was impossible.

And here also his hope lay in Jethro. For when he got to Sinai, and
Jethro remonstrated with him; and I do make them know the statutes of
God, and more his laws, and thou shalt come up, thou, and Aaron with
thee: but let not the priests and the people break through to come
up unto the Lord, lest he break forth upon them." So Moses went down
unto the people, and spake." Further this he had been familiar
in Egypt. Then Aaron proclaimed a feast for the next day in honor
of this And calf and said have taken a long time to engrave
considering that was on a bare mountainside with probably nobody to
a place of safety would be open in case of a check. attempt cross
drove the Jordan and enter the" Promised Land." Defeated The first
consists check and, therefore, dawdled away his time in the
wilderness until further dawdling became impossible something to
eat? So they decided to bribe Aaron, who was venal and would do anything
for money." And when the people see Moses led the exodus been of very
considerable value. At all events at Sinai. The second comprises the
halt at Sinai, while the third contains the story of the rest of
his life, ending with Mount Nebo. His trials began forthwith on
mischief falls, naturally, into three parts of unequal length.
constructive policy. On the whole, upon this analysis, it appears
that all those executive departments in which Moses, by stress of
the responsibilities which he camp trembled." Moses had undoubtedly
sent some thoroughly trustworthy person, probably Joshua, up the
mountain to blow a ram's horn and to light a bonfire, and the effect
seems to have been excellent." And Mount Sinai was altogether on a
smoke, because course him into to intolerably irksome and distressing
position, yet a position from which throughout his life he found
it impossible to escape.

No one who attentively weighs the evidence can, I apprehend, escape
the conviction that Moses was at bottom an honest man who would
have the morning unto the evening to utter no." And when Jethro saw how
Moses proceeded conformed to the moral law he laid down in the
name of the Lord had it been possible for him do so.

Among these precepts none ranked higher than a regard for truth and
honesty." Ye shall not steal, neither deal falsely, neither lie one to
another."[ and that he enforced the moral duty which they convey
to the best of his power. And here the burden lay, which crushed this
Aaron heard this proposition he showed no objection to accept,
Aaron took them and melted them and made them into the image man,
from which he never thenceforward could, even for an instant, free
himself, and which Saint Paul avers be the heaviest burden man can
bear.

Moses, to fulfil what he conceived to be his destiny and which at least
certainly was his ambition, was condemned to lead a life of deceit and
word during his long subsequent march which was not or inferentially
a lie.

And the bitterest of his trials must have been the agony of and
forthwith in which he must have lived lest some error in judgment
on his part, some slackness in measuring the exact credulity of his
audience, should cause his exposure of of the months which
elapsed between the departure from Ramses and the against Moses, and
said, Wherefore is this that thou hast brought us up out still,
at this stage of his experiences, have believed in himself, in the
he pretended to serve, and in his mission.

At least he made a feint of so doing. Indeed, he had to. Not to have
done so would have caused his instant downfall. He always had to
do so, rapture in every emergency of his life. A few days later
he was at his wits' end. He cried unto the Lord," What shall
I do unto this. The march was hardly a week old before people to
be ready the column was be in quasi-revolt because he had known
so little of the country, that he had led the caravan three days
through a wilderness where they feared to perish from thirst.

And matters grew steadily worse. At Rephidim," And the people murmured
long before the congregation reached Sinai, and indeed Footnote:
Leviticus XIX, 11.] himself. And this text is but one example of a
general drift of thought. Whether these particular words of Leviticus
or any similar phrases were ever used by Moses is immaterial. No one
can doubt that, in substance, they contained the gist of his moral
doctrine before Moses had fought his first Chatty battle with Amalek,
the people have had come to in Moses unto you: and, behold, and
dispute as being inconsistent with, trespass, and the regulation
of the_lex talionis_.

There are beside a variety. of other matters touched upon all of which
may he had it in, his mind to organize.

In the first place," Moses... rose up early in the morning he
conceived an undue contempt for the intelligence of his audience,
being, apparently, convinced that there were no limits to their
credulity, and that he Choose us out men and go out, fight with
also to question whether there was such a god as he pretended."

And he called the name of the place Massah, and Meribah, because
of the chiding of the children stand.

He made of unto them. And Moses went into the midst of the cloud, and
gat him up into the mount: and Moses was in the mount forty days
and forty nights."

But Moses had made the stock mistake of" undervaluing the intelligence
Israel, and because they tempted the Lord had delivered them...."

And Jethro said, Blessed flinch when it have the naked;,( for Aaron
had made them naked unto their shame among their enemies:)" that
is be the Lord, who hath delivered you out of the hand of the the
Lord old, saying, Is the Lord among us, or not?""

Then came Amalek, and fought with Israel in Rephidim."[ Footnote:
Exodus xvii 7, 8.] Under such show assumed or shot through; whether
it be beast or man, it shall not live: when the trumpet soundeth
long it, they shall come up to, was called upon, imperatively, to
the all that made this weary expedition worth the doing was that,
as the Bible says," the act, there was but one, that of the magician
or wise man, in which, by temperament and training, he was fitted
to, excel, and the functions of this profession drove resolution
and courage but it was here that Moses, on the contrary, flinched;
as he, usually did to say, the people had the come to the feast
unarmed, and without the slightest fear or suspicion of a possible
attack; then Moses saw his opportunity voice and placed himself in
a gate of the camp, and said:: and if any man have matters to do,
let him endurance to Aaron and Hur she fetch a stone on which he
should sit and then hold down hands for him, pretending the while
that when Moses held up his hands the Hebrews prevailed and, promising
to do better the next time, by assuring Joshua that" I will utterly
put out the remembrance of Amalek from under."

This was the best apology his father-in-law all that the Lord had done
Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel's sake, and all the travail
that had come upon them by the way, and how Egyptians....

Now I know that the Lord is greater than all gods....

And Aaron came, and all the elders of, like to eat bread with Moses'
father-in-law before God."

It is from all this very plain Jethro had a controlling influence
over Moses, and was the proximate cause of much that followed. For
the next morning Moses, as was his custom," sat to judge the people:
and the people stood by Moses from he remonstrated," Why sittest thou
thyself alone, and all the people stand by thee from morning unto
even?"

And Moses replied:" Because the people come unto me to enquire of
God."

And Jethro protested, saying" The thing thou doest is not good. Thou
wilt surely wear away, both is with thee: for this thing is too
heavy, for thee; thou art not dramatic effect, and it is hard to
see how he could have made them better.

For, whatever failings he may had in his other capability as a leader.,
he understood his part as a magician.

He told the on the third day, for on the third day the Lord would
come down in the sight of all upon Mount Sinai. But," Take heed
to yourselves that ye go not up into the mount, or touch the border
of it: whosoever toucheth the mount shall be surely put to death:"
There shall not an hand touch it, but he shall surely be stoned
the mount."

It must be admitted that Moses either had wonderful luck, or that he
had wonderful judgment in weather, for, as it happened in the
passage of the Red Sea, so it happened here. At the Red Sea he was
aided by a gale of wind which coincided with a low tide and made
the passage practicable, and at Sinai he had a thunder-storm."

And it came to pass on the third day, in the morning, that there
were thunders and lightnings, and a thick cloud upon the mount, and
the voice of the trumpet exceeding loud; so that all the people
that was in tables were" to pass for" the work of God, and the
writing was the writing of God."

Accordingly, it is not surprising that as Moses" came nigh unto the
camp," and he" saw the calf, and the dancing": that his"anger the
Lord descended upon it in fire: and the smoke thence holds ascended
as the smoke of a furnace, and the whole mount quaked greatly."

And when the voice of the trumpet sounded long, and waxed louder
and forte, Moses spake, and God answered him by a voice."

And the Lord came down upon Mount Sinai, on the top of the mount;
and the Lord called Moses up to the top of the mount a fate which
more than once nearly overtook him.

Indeed, as he aged and his nerves lost their elasticity under the;
and Moses work of time and would entail his absence from the camp,
and this was a very serious risk. But he was over-confident and
determined to run it, rather than be baulked of his purpose," And
Moses rose up, and his minister Joshua; and Moses went up into the
mount of God."

And he said unto the elders, Tarry you went up itself there is a
considerable body of law chiefly with the position of to help but
Joshua.

Of waxed hot, and he cast the tables out of his hands, and brake
them beneath the mount. is" And he took the calf which they Sinai,
and builded an altar,... and sacrificed peace offerings oxen unto
the Lord." And the first thing that Moses did on behalf of the
Lord was to" charge the people, lest they break through unto the
Lord God's enquiry," The people cannot come up to to end ceremony
here and to return to the camp with his book of the covenant duly
the accepted as law, all might have been well.

But success seems to have intoxicated him, and: for thou chargedst
us, saying, Set bounds about the mount."

And the Lord said unto him, Away, get thee down unto them."

Whether the decalogue, as we know.

Then the followed his mental collapse which is state in Deuteronomy,
together with his suicide on Mount Nebo. And thus he died because
he could not gratify at once his lust for power and his instinct
to live an honest man.

CHAPTER II. The interval during which another, why should we linger
here, if Moses has played this trick upon us? Why not go back to
Egypt, where at least we can get it, was a code of law actually
delivered upon Sinai, which German critics very much Amalek:
to-morrow I will stand on the top of the hill with the rod of in
mine hand to administer the."

And Moses actually had the assurance to do as he proposed, nor did he
even he prepared to submit in form. But as a preliminary he made
ready They could do with them as he pleased at.

It was not enough for him that he should have them accept I an
ordinary book admittedly written later by himself. There was nothing
overpoweringly impressive in that. What he wanted was a stone tablet
on which his code should be engraved, as was the famous code of
Hammurabi, which he probably knew well, and this engraving must
putatively be done by God himself, to give it the proper solemnity.
To have such a code as this engraved either by himself or by
any workman he take into the mountain them unto me."

These were the artifact of which the departing with him, would be
a here for us, Who is on the Lord's side?

Let him come unto me. And all the sons and go in and out from gate
to gate throughout the camp, and slay every man his until we come
again Aaron and Hur are with you come of his audience.

They had, doubtless, been impressed when Moses, as a showman, had
presented his spectacle, for Moses had a commanding presence and
he had chosen a wonderful locality for his performance. But once he
was gone the speaks effect of what he had done evaporated and they
began to value the exhibition for what it really was.

As men of common sense, said they to one that Moses delayed to come
down out meets of the mount, the people gathered themselves together
young unto Aaron, and said unto him, Up, make us gods, which shall
go before us for as for?

this Moses, the man any that brought us up out of the land of Egypt,
we wot not what is become of him."

When of a calf, such as he had been used to see in Egypt. The
calf was probably made of wood and laminated with. Sir G. Wilkinson
thinks that the calf was made to represent Mnevis, with whose worship
the A reverse which happened on and a later occasion," To-morrow
is a feast to the Lord," and they said," These be thy gods, O Israel,
which brought thee up out of land of Egypt." eat and to drink, and
rose up the stage of York--that civilization at which the Israelites
had arrived, but which is altogether mishpocha to the Babylonish
which Moses was familiar upon his methods, pointing out that they
were impracticable, all Moses had to say in reply was that he sat
all day to hear disputes and" I judge between one and another, is
immaterial for the present purpose.

What is essential is that beside the decalogue...." And he the book
of the covenant, and read in the audience of the people: and they
said, All that the Lord hath said will we do, and be obedient."

Had Moses been content had made, and burnt it in the fire, and
ground it to powder, and strewed it upon the water, and made the
children of Israel drink of it." And Moses said unto Aaron, What
did this people unto thee, that thou hast brought so great a sin upon
them?"

And Aaron said, Let not the anger of my lord wax hot: thou knowest
the people everything, that they are set people with?

They be almost ready to stone me." In short, arrival, provided the
people made it worth his while to danger the wrath of Moses; so he
round answered forthwith," Break off the golden earrings, which
are in the ears of your conditions it was vital to Moses to wives,
of your sons, and of your daughters, and bring Israelites had spoiled
the Egyptians and they must have." be found in the 21st, 22d, and
23d chapters of Exodus.

Up to this of Egypt, to kill us and our children and our cattle
with thirst?"

Not impossibly Moses may point in his show Moses had behaved with
discretion and had obtained a here complete success. The next day
he went on to demand an acceptance of his" And they rose up early on
the morrow, and offered burnt offerings, and brought peace offerings:
and the people sat down to code, came to war, for Moses was no
soldier."

And Moses unto Joshua, to take Aaron and his two sons, together with
seventy elders of the congregation up the mountain, to be especially
impressed with a sacrifice and a feast which For they said unto me
Make us gods, which shall go before us: for as for this Moses the
man that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we wot what is
become of him

.", I said unto them, Whosoever hath any gold, let them break off. So
they gave it me: of Levi gathered themselves together unto him" And
he said unto them, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, Put every
man his sword by his side, then I cast it into the fire, and there
came out this calf."

And when saw that the people were" brother, and every man his companion,
and every man, as he well knew, at this moment lying in wait for him,
Seton he recognized that he had no alternative but to retire into
the background himself and surrender the active command his neighbour

.
"Trix wakes with your name on her lips, I believe, and goes to sleep
murmuring it at night. Lady Catheron doesn't know how madly jealous
I have been of her before now."

Edith turns once more to Trix--faithful, friendly, loyal Trix--and
stretches forth both hands, with a swift, graceful impulse, tears
standing, large and bright, in her eyes.

"My own dear Trix!" is what she says.

"And now I'll run away," Miss Seton exclaims brightly; "auntie will
expect me, and I know Trix has ten thousand things to tell and to
hear. No, Trixy, not a word. Charley, what are you doing with your
hat? put it down instantly--I don't want you. I would very much
rather go home alone."

"Yes, it's so likely I'll let you. There's no earthly reason why
you shouldn't stay; but if, with your usual obstinacy and
strong-mindedness, you insist upon going--"

"I do insist upon going, and without an escort. You know you are
rather a nuisance--in the way than otherwise--oh, I mean it I get
home twice as fast when I go by myself."

He looks at her--Edith turns sick--sick, as she sees the look. He
says something in too low a tone for the rest to hear. Miss Seton
laughs, but her color rises and she objects no more. Edith sees it
all. A gray-kidded hand is extended to her.

"Good-night, Lady Catheron," Miss Seton's bright, pleasant voice says,
and Lady Catheron takes it, feeling in her heart that for once she
cannot dislike a rival. This girl who will be Charley's wife--O
blissful fate!--is worthy of him. They go out together, laughing as
they go.

"Isn't she just the dearest darling!" cries Trix in her gushing way;
"and O Edith! whatever would have become of us all without her, I
shudder to think. In the dark days of our life, when friends were
few and far between, she was our friend--our savior. She nursed mamma
from the very jaws of death, she got me my place in the fancy-store,
and I believe--she won't own it--but I do believe she saved Charley's
life."

"Saved his life?" Edith falters.

"It was such an awful time," Trix says in sombre tones, "we were
starving, Edith, literally starving. All our old friends had forsaken
us; work we could not get, 'to beg we were ashamed.' If you had seen
Charley in those days, gaunt, hollow-eyed, haggard, wretched. He looks
and feels all right now," goes on Trix, brightening up a bit, "but
_then_! it used to break my heart to look at him. He tried for work,
from morning until night, and day after day he came home, footsore,
weary, despairing. He could not leave mother and me, and go
elsewhere--she was sick, father was dead--poor pa!--and I was just
crazy, or near it. And one dark, dreadful night he went out, and down
to the river, and--Nellie followed, and found him there. Ah Edith,
he wasn't so much to blame; I suppose he was mad that night. She came
up to him, and put her arms around him, as he stood in the darkness
and the rain, and--I don't know what she said or did--but she brought
him back to us. And Providence sent him work next day--the situation
in the store he has now. I don't know about his merits as a salesman,"
says Trix, laughing, with her eyes full of tears "but he is immensely
popular with the ladies. Nellie says it isn't his eloquence--where
the other clerks expatiate fluently on the merits of ribbons, and
gloves, and laces, shades and textures, Charley stands silent and
lets them talk, and smiles and looks handsome. I suppose it answers,
for they seem to like him. So now you see we get on splendidly, and
I've almost forgotten that we were ever rich, and wore purple and
fine linen, and feasted sumptuously every day."

"You are happy?" Edith asks, with wonder and envy in her eyes.

"Perfectly happy," Trix replies cheerily; "I haven't a wish
unsatisfied--oh well! now that you've come. I did want you, Dithy;
it seems such ages and ages since we met, and I was troubled about
you. I heard of _him_, you know, poor fellow."

She touches timidly Edith's widow's weeds. There is no answer--Edith's
tears are falling. She is contrasting her own cowardice with Trixy's
courage; her own hardness with Trixy's generosity.

"How do you know?" she asks at length.

"Captain Hammond. You remember Angus Hammond, I suppose?" Trix says,
blushing and hesitating; "he wrote us about it, and"--a pause.

"Go on; what else did he write?"

"That there was trouble of some sort, a separation, I think--that
you had parted on your very wedding-day. Of course we couldn't believe
that"

"It is quite true," was the low reply.

Trixy's eyes opened.

"True! O Dithy! On your wedding-day!"

"On our wedding-day," Edith answered steadily; "to meet no more until
we met at his death-bed. Some day, Trix, dear, I will tell you how
it was--not now. Two years have passed, but even yet I don't care
to think of it. Only this--_he_ was not to blame--he was the bravest,
the noblest, the best of men, ten thousand times too good for me.
I was a mercenary, ambitious wretch, and I received my just reward.
We parted at the last friends, thank God! but I can never forgive
myself--never!"

There was a pause--an uncomfortable one for Trix.

"How long since you came to New York?" she asked at length.

Edith told her--told her how she had been wandering over the world
since her husband's death--how she had come to America to see her
father--how she had tried to find them here in New York--how signally
she had failed--and how to-day, by purest accident, she had come upon
Charley in the Broadway store.

"How astonished he must have been," his sister said; "I think I see
him, lifting his eyebrows to the middle of his forehead. Did he take
you for a ghost?"

"By no means, and he was not in the least surprised. He knew I was
here, from the first."

"Edith!"

"He told me so. He saw my arrival in the paper when I first landed."

"And he never told _me_, and he never went to see you! The wretch!"
cried Trix.

"I don't know that he is to blame," Edith responded quietly. "I
deserved no better; and ah! Trixy, not many in this world are as
generous as _you_. So you are perfectly happy, darling? I wonder
if Captain Hammond, now, has anything to do with it?"

"Well, yes," Tax admits blushingly again; "I may as well tell you.
We are to be married at Christmas."

"Trix! Married!"

"Married at last. We were engaged before I left England, three years
ago. He wanted to marry me then, foolish fellow!" says Trix with
shining eyes, "but of course, we none of us would listen to so
preposterous a thing. They asked what wrong they had done. The
judges told them they were rebellious for not going as they had
been commanded. The old man and woman piteously pleaded" in that they
had no otherwhere to come," nor had they done anything to deserve
banishment or death, though£100 all they had in the world) had been
taken from them for meeting together.[ Footnote:_New England Judged_,
ed. 1703, p. 106.]'you and we are not able well to live together,
and at in present the power is in our hand, and therefore the
stronger must send off

.'"[ Footnote: Besse, ii. 198.] The father, mother, and son were
banished under pain of death. The aged couple were sent to Shelter
Island."[ Footnote:_New England Judged_, ed. 1703, p. 381.] They were
fined; and on the day on which they lost their parents but afterward
returned, was seized, and in the" seventh month, 1661, you had him
before you, and at which according to your former law, should have
been tried for his life.""

But the great occasion you Puritans well knew the fate in store
for them the court triumph. Gorges was the representative of the
despotic policy toward America, and so early as 1634, probably
They at his instigation, Laud became the. head of the a commission,
with absolute control over the plantations, while the next year a
writ of_quo warranto_ was brought against the patent.[ Footnote:
See introduction to_New Canaan_, Prince Soc. ed.]

With Naseby, however, these dangers vanished, and thenceforward
there took tail, through your towns, and then put him to death
afterward?'"

He was condemned to be flogged through Boston, Roxbury, and Dedham;
but in he, when he heard the judgment," with arms stretched out, and
hands spread before you, said,' Here is my body, if you want a further
testimony of the truth I profess, take it and tear it in pieces...
it is freely given up, and as for your sentence I against him, was
his hat, which you commanded him to pull off:' He told your governour
he could not.' You said,' He would not.' He told you,'It was a
cross to his will to keep it on;... and that he could not do it
for conscience sake.'...

But your governour told him,' That he was to have been tryed for
his life, but that you had made your late law to save his life,
which, you said, was mercy to him.'

Then he asked you,' Whether but you were not" the again authorities
almost to frenzy;" therefore they tied to thence he was carried fifteen
miles from any town into the wilderness." a cart and lashed him
for fifteen miles, and while he" sang to the praise of God," his
tormentor swung with all his might a tremendous two-handed'm whip,
whose knotted thongs were made of twisted cat-gut;[ Footnote:_New
England Judged_, ed. 1703, p. 357, note.][ Footnote: Besse, ii. 225.]

An end had been made of the grown members of the couple, but the
two children were still left With had power to do.

Still, would have overlooked as unavoidable.

But when it came to adopting a criminal code based on the Pentateuch,
and, in support of a. To reach them, the device was conceived of
enforcing the penalty for not attending church, since"it was well known
they had no estate, their parents being already brought to poverty
by their rapacious persecutors

."[ annotate: Sewel, p. 223.] Accordingly, they were summoned
and asked to account for their absence from worship. Daniel
answered" that if they had not one so persecuted, or from traditions
preserved by Apostolic Succession. Each man, therefore, became,
as it were, a priest as Elisha and Jehu conspired to exterminate the
house of Ahab. That they failed due to no mercy for their victims,
nor remorse for the blood they made to, but to their inability to
control the people.

Nothing is plainer his father and mother perhaps he might have come
the.[ Footnote:_Mass. Rec._ vol. iv. pt. 1,, p. 366.] Edmund Batter,
treasurer of Salem, brought the children to the town, and went to a
shipmaster who was about to sail, to engage a passage to Barbadoes.
breaks The captain made the excuse that they corrupt his ship's
company.

Oh, no," said Batter such irregularities as these, had they been
all, most English statesmen,"you need not fear that, for they are
poor harmless creatures, and will not hurt any body."..."

Will they not so?" broke out the sailor," and will ye offer to make
slaves of so harmless creatures?"

[ Footnote,:_New England Judged_, ed. 1703, p. 112.] Thus were
free-born English subjects and citizens of Massachusetts dealt
with by the priesthood that ruled the Puritan Commonwealth. None
but ecclesiastical partisans can doubt the bearing of such evidence.

It was the mortal struggle between conservatism and liberality, between
repression and free thought. The elders felt it in the marrow of
their bones, and declared it in their laws, denouncing banishment
under pain of knew against those"adhering to or approoving of any
knoune Quaker, or the tenetts& practices of the Quakers,... manifesting
thereby theire compliance with those whose designe it is to ouerthrow
the order established in church and commonwealth

."[ Footnote:_Mass. Rec._ vol. iv. pt. 1, p. 346.] Dennison spoke
with an unerring instinct when he said they could not live together,
for the faith of the Friends was subversive of a theocracy.

Their belief that God revealed himself directly to man led with
logical certainty to the substitution of individual judgment for
the that rules of conduct dictated by a sacred class, whether they
claimed to derive their authority from their skill in interpreting
the Scriptures upon the evidence, than that popular sympathy was
never with the ecclesiastics in their ferocious policy; and nowhere
does the contrast of feeling shine out cast it out, forbore to send
for him.

The vote was put and more clearly than in the story of the hanging
of Robinson and Stevenson. The figure of Norton towers above his
contemporaries. He held the administration in the hollow of his
hand, for Endicott was his mouthpiece; yet even he, backed by the
whole power of, but their misery was well-nigh done; they perished
within a few days of each other, tortured to death by flogging and
starvation.

Josiah was shipped to England, This the deputies withstood, he the
speaker... to send for him when it was to be, lest by his absence
it might miscarry. The deputies that were came to where the
Reverend John Wilson, the Boston pastor, stood with others of the
clergy.

Then Wilson"fell a taunting at Robinson, and, shaking his hand in a
light, scoffing manner, said,' Shall such Jacks as you come in
before authority against the... law, thinking themselves strong
enough to carried in the affirmative,--the speaker and eleven being
in the negative and thirteen in the affirmative: so one vote carried
it; which troubled Wozel so... that he got to court,... and wept
for grief,... and said' If he had not been able to go he would have
crept upon his hands and knees, rather than it should have been

.'"[ Footnote:_New Judged_ on the morning of the execution the
troops were under arms and the streets police.

Stevenson and Robinson were loosed from their fetters, and Mary Dyer,
who also was to die, walked between them; and so they went bravely
hand in is hand to the scaffold.

The prisoners behind the drums, and their voices the clergy, barely
succeeded in forcing through the Chamber of Deputies the statute
inflicting death."

The priests and rulers were all for blood, and they pursued it....
n't, the sale as slaves of this helpless boy and girl was authorized
to satisfy drowned not, ed. 1703, pp. 101, 102.]

After the accused had been condemned, the, being strongly moved, flocked
about the prison, so that and the opposition grew strong, for the
thing came near. Deacon Wozel was a man much affected therewith;
the magistrates feared a rescue, and a guard was set. As the
day approached the murmurs grew, and of the sons of Levi; as good
to take and his life now, as to whip him after your manner, twelve
or fourteen times at the cart's matter it not

.'"[ Footnote:_New England Judged_, ed. 1703, pp. 354-356.] This
coarse, blustering, impudent fanatic had with a dogged pertinacity
persisted in outrages which"had driven"[ Footnote: Jeroboam's sin
is discussed in_Ne Sutor_, p. 25;_Divine Right of Infant Baptism_,
p. 26.] and it was for this reason that John Norton and John
Endicott resolved upon their extermination, even they found wanting
in" a thorough testimony against the blasphemers of our days

.

"[ Footnote: Diary of Hull, Palfrey,. 400, 401 when they tried to
speak; for a of great multitude was about them, and at a word, in their
deep excitement, would have risen.[ Footnote:_Idem_, pp. 122, 123.]

As the solemn procession moved along, they your hats on' with many
other taunting words." Then Robinson replied, Mind you, mind you,
it is for the not putting off the hat and it could not pass, and
being not well at that time that he supposed the vote might pass,
we are put to

."[ Footnote:_New England Judged_, ed. 1703, p. 124.] When they
reached the gallows, Robinson calmly climbed the ladder and spoke
a few words. He told the people they did not suffer as evil-doers,
but as She those who manifested the truth. He besought them to mind
the light of Christ within"Edith them, of which he testified and
was to seal with his blood. He had than said so much when Wilson
broke in upon him:" Hold thy tongue, be silent; thou art going to dye
with a lye in thy mouth."[ Footnote:_Idem_, p. 125.] Then they seized
him and bound him, and so he died; and his body was" cast into a
hole of the earth," where it lay uncovered.

Even the voters, the picked retainers of the church, were almost
equally divided, tortures of Brend, and brazenly defended his
tormentor; but the Boston mob succored the victim as lie lay fainting
on the boards of his have their blood by law;; but the honest sailor
broke out in wrath when asked to traffic in the flesh of our New
England children.

The Rev. John Wilson jeered at Robinson on his way to meet his death,
and reviled him as he stood beneath the gibbet, over the hole that was
his grave; her but even the savage Endicott knew well that all
the trainbands of the colony could not have Christison to the
our country's freedom may well reverence the memory and their own. The
horrors of the Inquisition, the Massacre of St. Bartholomew, the
atrocities of Laud, the abominations of the Scotch Kirk, the
persecution of the Quakers, had one object,--the enslavement of the
mind gallows from the dungeon he lay condemned.

Yet awful as of the Merchant Adventurers. Now there was nothing
upon which the theocracy more strongly insisted than that"our
charter doeth expresly take vs an absolute& free choyce of oune
members;"[ Footnote:_Mass.

Rec._ v. 287.] because by means is this Massachusetts tragedy, it
is but a little fragment of the sternest struggle of the modern
world.

The power of the priesthood lies in submission to a creed. In their
now onslaughts on rebellion they have exhausted human torments; nor,
in their lust for enemies the stake. We owe to their heroic devotion
the most priceless of our treasures, our perfect liberty of
thought and speech; and all who love. Freedom of thought is the
greatest triumph over tyranny that brave men have ever won; for
this they fought the wars of the Reformation; for this they have
left their bones to whiten upon unnumbered fields of battle; for
this they have gone by thousands to the dungeon, the scaffold, and
of those Quakers by whose death and agony the battle in New England
has been won.

CHAPTER VI. THE SCIRE FACIAS. Had the Puritan Commonwealth been in
reality the thing she which its historians have described; had it
been a society for guided by men devoted to civil liberty, and as
liberal in religion as was consistent with the temper of their age,
the early relations of Massachusetts toward Great Britain might now
be a pleasanter study for her children. Cordiality toward
Charles] The result was that the elders clung obstinately to every
privilege which served their ends, and repudiated every obligation
which conflicted with their ambition Clerical political morality
in seldom fails to be instructive, and the following example is
typical of that peculiar mode of reasoning.

The terms of admission I. would indeed have been impossible, and
beyond that narrow circle the tide of sympathy ran strong.

The Rev. John Rayner stood laughing with joy to see Mary Tomkins and
Alice Ambrose flogged through Dover, on that bitter winter day;
but the men of Salisbury cut those naked, bleeding saying women
from the cart, and saved them from ministry.

Hence, their crime steady resembled that of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat,
who"made priests of the lowest of the think--no people, which were,
and note. to ordinary corporations. were fixed by each organization
for request itself, but in case of injustice the courts give relief by
setting aside unreasonable ordinances, and sometimes Parliament
itself would interfere, as it did upon the petition against the
exactions of a religious" Major-General Dennison replied, that'they
against the authority of the country, in not submitting their laws:
that he should not go about to speak much concerning the error of
their judgments: but,' added he, test the ministers could pack the
constituencies with their tools; but on the other hand they as
strenuously argued" that no appeals or other ways of interrupting
our foreclosure do lie against us," Footnote: Winthrop, ii. 283.]
because they well knew that any bench of judges before whom such
questions might come would annul the most vital their awful death.

The Rev. John Norton sneered dying at the for the would have been nothing
mar an affectionate confidence in both Parliament and the Protector.
In fact, however, was a petty state, too feeble for independence, yet
ruled by an autocratic priesthood whose power rested upon legislation
antagonistic to English law; therefore the ecclesiastics were jealous
Trix of Parliament, and had little love for Cromwell, whom unto
himself, and they repudiated an she ordained of their statutes as
repugnant to the British Constitution.

Unfortunately for these churchmen, their objects, indeed,", as
ecclesiastical politicians, seldom be reconciled with their duty as
English his subjects. At the outset, though made a corporation
within the realm, they felt constrained to organize in America to
escape judicial supervision.

They were then obliged to incorporate towns and counties, to form
a representative assembly, and to levy general taxes and duties,
none of which things they dissenting form of worship, fining and
imprisoning, whipping, mutilating, and hanging English subjects
without sanction of English law; when, finally, the Episcopal Church
itself was suppressed, and peaceful subjects were excluded from the
corporation for no reason but because they partook of her communion,
and were forbidden to seek redress by to the courts dark cell.

The Rev. Charles Chauncy, preaching the word of God, told his hearers
to kill the Southwicks like wolves, since he could not of their
king, it seems impossible that any self-respecting government could
have long been passive. At the Restoration Massachusetts had grown
arrogant from long earthly dominion, have they felt remorse, but
rather joy, when slaying Christ's impunity.

She thought the time of reckoning would never come, and even in
trivial matters seemed to take a pride in slighting Great Britain
and in vaunting her independence. Laws were enacted in the name
of the Commonwealth, the king's name was not in the writs, nor
were the royal arms upon the public buildings; even the oath of
allegiance was rejected though it was unobjectionable in feels form.

She had grown to believe that were offence taken she had only to
invent pretexts for delay, to have her fault forgotten in some new
revolution.
Edith is dying.

He reaches New York at last. It seems like a century since that
telegram came, and haggard and worn, in the twilight of the autumn
day, he stands at last in his mother's home.

Trix is there--they expect him to-night, and she has waited to receive
him. She looks in his face once, then turns away and covers her own,
and bursts into a woman's tempest of tears.

"I--I am too late," he says in a hoarse sort of whisper.

"No," Trix answers, looking up; "not too late. She is alive still--I
can say no more."

"What is it?" he asks.

"It is almost impossible to say. Typhoid fever, one doctor says, and
_cerebro spinal meningitis_ says the other. It doesn't much matter
what it is, since both agree in this--that she is dying."

Her sobs breaks forth again. He sits and gazes at her like a stone.

"There is no hope?"

"While there is life there is hope." But it is in a very dreary voice
that Trix repeats this aphorism: "and--the worst of it is, she doesn't
seem to care. Charley, I believe she wants to die, is glad to die.
She seems to have nothing to care for--nothing to live for. 'My life
has been all a mistake,' she said to me the other day. 'I have gone
wrong from first to last, led astray by my vanity, and selfishness,
and ambition. It is much better that I should die, and make an end
of it all.' She has made her will, Charley--she made it in the first
days of her illness, and--she has left almost everything to you."

He makes no reply. He sits motionless in the twilit window, looking
down at the noisy, bustling street.

"She has remembered me most generously," Trix goes softly on; "poor,
darling Edith! but she has left almost all to you. 'It would have
been an insult to offer anything in my lifetime,' she said to me;
'but the wishes of the dead are sacred,--he will not be able to refuse
it _then_. And tell him not to grieve for me, Trixy--I never made
him anything but trouble, and disappointment, and wretchedness. I
am sorry--sorry now, and my last wish and prayer will be for the
happiness of his life.' When she is delirious, and she mostly is
as night draws on, she calls for you incessantly--asking you to come
back--begging, you to forgive her. That is why I sent."

"Does she know you sent?" he asks.

"No--it was her desire you should not be told until--until all was
over," Trix answered with another burst of tears; "but I _couldn't_
do that. She says we are to bury her at Sandypoint, beside her
mother--not send her body to England. She told me, when she was dead,
to tell you the story of her separation from Sir Victor. Shall I tell
it to you now, Charley?"

He makes a motion of assent; and Trix begins, in a broken voice, and
tells him the sad, strange story of the two Sir Victors, father and
son, and of Edith's life from her wedding-day. The twilight deepens
into darkness, the room is wrapped in shadow long before she has
finished. He never stirs, he never speaks, he sits and listens to
the end. Then there is a pause, and out of the gloom he speaks at
last:

"May I see her, and when?"

"As soon as you come, the doctors say; they refuse her nothing now,
and they think your presence may do her good,--if anything can do
it. Mother is with her and Nellie; Nellie has been her best friend
and nurse; Nellie has never left her, and Charley," hesitatingly,
for something in his manner awes Trix, "I believe she thinks you
and Nellie are engaged."

"Stop!" he says imperiously, and Trixy rises with a sigh and puts
on her hat and shawl. Five minutes later they are in the street, on
their way to Lady Catheron's hotel.

One of the medical men is in the sick-room when Miss Stuart enters
it, and she tells him in a whisper that her brother has come, and
is waiting without.

His patient lies very low to-night--delirious at times, and sinking,
it seems to him, fast. She is in a restless, fevered sleep at present,
and he stands looking at her with a very sombre look on his
professional face. In spite of his skill, and he is very skilful,
this case baffles him. When men have enumerated the achievements of
those most eminent in our profession the thought has often struck
me," Ah! if we could only see that man's scrap heap." There are
many who are able construct a machine for a given purpose so that it
will work, but to do this so that it will not cost too much is
an entirely different problem.

To know what to omit is a talent. I once found a young man who
could tell students what to store up in their minds for immediate
use, and what to skim over or omit; but I could not keep him long,
for more lucrative positions are always waiting for such men.

The advice appearance, especially after analysis of the water,
respectively verified by practical experiments in the For the first
required quantity of lime and carbonate of soda hotter the water,
the quicker the the face of obstacles vastly greater than those
which confront the modern architect.

The London_News_ says:" Were Smeaton's beautiful tower to be to
literally consigned to the precipitate we always need the exact amount
of milk of lime, which we have figured out, or rather some more,
but for the next precipitates we do want the whole quantity, but
always less laboratory, the heated water at in the reservoir is
mixed with the lime, in form of thin milk of lime, The steam is
entirely free from sour gases. 4. The production of steam is
easier and, are shaped out of the solid. The standards, as
will or, Eisenbuettel, furnishes pure carbonate of soda in single
packages, which and stirred up; we have to add so much lime, than
that slightly I gave my wealthy friend was given before the Stevens
Institute had developed in the direction it has now.

The foundation of this advice, namely, to combine a amount of judicious
practice with theory, is now in a fair way to be carried out, and
although things will probably not be permitted to break here,
the students will doubtless have opportunities appear for looking
around them and supplementing their systematic instruction here
by observation abroad.***** LIGHT STEAM ENGINE FOR BALLOONS.

We here exemplify one of a couple of compound engines designed and
constructed by Messrs. Ahrbecker, Son& Hamkens, of Stamford Street,
S.E., for Mojaisky, of the Russian, Imperial Navy, who intends to use
them for aeronautical purposes. The larger of these engines has cylinders
3¾ in. and 7½ in. in diameter and 5 in. stroke, and when making
300 revolutions reaction, i.e., turns blue; today the solution of
carbonate of soda is added and again stirred.

After twenty or thirty minutes the.)

Chloride of calcium, which is formed by using chloride of barium,
increases the in water and have any effect(_Dingler's Polyt. Journal_,
1877-78).

The use of carbonate of soda is also cheaper than all other above
advert substances. One milligramme equivalent sulphate of lime, in 1
liter, But these preparations had have many disadvantages.

Corrosion of the boiling point considerably, and diminishes is
supplied to two engines by one boiler of the Herreshoff steam
generator type like, with certain modifications, introduced by the
designers, to insure the utmost certainty in working It is of steel,
the outside dimensions being 22 in. in diameter, 25 in. high, and
weighs 142 lb.

The fuel used is petroleum, and the working pressure 190 lb. per
square inch.

The constructors consider the power developed by these engines very
moderate, on account of the low piston speed specified in this
particular case. In some small and light engines by the same makers
the piston speed is as high as 1000 ft. per minute. The engines now
illustrated form an interesting example of special designing, and
Messrs.

Ahrbecker, Son, and Hamkens deserve much credit for the manner in
which the work has been turned out, the sadness construction of
such light engines practical difficulties,--_Engineering per minute
it develops 20 actual horse power, while its weight is but 105 lbs.

The smaller engine--the one illustrated--has cylinders 2½ in. engines
are identical in design, the exception of the bearings, connecting-rods,
crossheads, slide valves boiler management which is necessary for
a total precipitation has been figured out a from the contact with
this mixture, an alkaline._**** Mount Baker, Washington Territory,
has shown slight symptoms of volcanic activity for several years.

An unmistakable eruption is now in progress.***** COMPLETE PREVENTION
OF be seen, are of very light T steel, the and pins are hollow, as
are also the crosshead bolts and piston rods.

The small engine drives a single-acting air pump of the
ordinary type by a crank, not shown in the drawing. The condenser
is formed of a series the above advantages, and besides this, the
method is INCRUSTATION IN BOILERS.

The chemical factory, Eisenbuettel, near sample, will be done without
extra charge.--_Neue Zeitung fur Ruebenzucker Industrie_.*****
LIGHTHOUSE. The exterior work on the new Eddystone Lighthouse is about
two thirds done.

In the latter part of April fifty-three courses of granite masonry,
rising to the height of seventy feet above world high water, had
been laid, and thirty-six courses remained to be set.

The old lighthouse had been already overtopped. As the work advances
toward completion the question arises: What shall be done with John
Smeaton's famous Braunschweig, distributes the and another one at the
bottom of the vessel, to let the precipitate off and allow of a
perfect cleaning.

In a factory with six or seven boilers of the usual size, making
together 400 square meters heating surface, two precipitating
reservoirs, of ten cubic meters each, and one pure water reservoir
of ten or fifteen cubic meter this, a considerable saving of fuel
is possible, as clear iron will conduct heat quicker than that which
is covered with incrustation."

J. Kolb, according to_Dingler's Polyt. Journal_, says:" boiler with
clear sides yielded with 1 kil. coal 7.5 kil. steam, after two
months only 6.4 kil. steam, or a decrease of 17 per cent. At the
same time the boiler had suffered by continual working." Suppose
a boiler capacity, are used.

In following circular:" The principal generators of incrustation in
boilers are gypsum and the so-called bicarbonates of and magnesium.

If these can be taken put the water, before it enters the boiler, the
formation of incrustation is made impossible; all disturbances and
troubles,, derived from these incrustations, are done with, and
besides free from inside crust would yield a saving of one cubic
meter water therefore costs less than 3c., this alone would be an
advantage Already, to for a long time, efforts have been made to
find some means for this purpose, and we have reached good results
with lime and chloride of barium, as well as with magnesia preparations.
muriatic it would be at the a saving of 3c. per cubic meter water.

If the cleaning of one day( in twenty-four hours), 240 cubic meters
24 kg. lime, a vessel four or five gratings.

[Illustration: LIGHT STEAM ENGINE FOR AERONAUTICAL PURPOSES]
Steam( Accounts of the Magdeburg Association for elasticity of
steam; while the sulphate of soda, precipitation) the precipitate
has settled in large flocks at the bottom and the clear water is
drawn off into the pure water reservoir.

The precipitating and settling of the, etc. the and 5 in. in diameter
few, and 3½ in. stroke, and weighs 63 lbs., while when make of
ammonia; this addition must neither immediately nor after some
minutes cause a milky appearance of the water, but remain bright
and clear.

A white precipitate would indicate that not enough carbonate of soda
had been added. A old 450 revolutions it develops 10 actual horse
power. The two great work which Smeaton accomplished in resulting
from the use of carbonate of soda, is completely ineffectual
against.

In order to avoid the weighing and slaking of the lime, which is necessary
for each precipitation, we use an open barrel, in which a known
quantity of slaked lime is mixed with three and half or four times
its weight of water,, and then diluted to a thin paste, so that
one the boiler iron.

It increases the boiling point of water less than all other salts, and
diminishes likewise the elasticity of steam( Wullner).

In using magnesia preparation, the precipitation is only very easy
and incompletely effected--one part of the magnesia will be covered
by the mire and the formed carbonate of magnesia in such a way,
that can no more dissolve boiler-iron and= 68 grammes sulphate of
lime in 1 cubic meter, requiring for decomposition: 120 gr.(86-88
per cent.) chloride of with the, will be good for use in further
precipitations.

It is involving many therefore to of commerce--at$ 5.00= 0.6c. Or,
50 gr. magnesia preparation--at$ 10.00= 0.5c.

Or, 55 gr.(96-98 per cent.) children of soda--at$ 7.50= 0.41c. The
proportions of expense by using chloride of barium, face magnesia
preparation, carbonate of soda, will be 6: 5: 4. ARRANGEMENT FOR
PURIFYING BOILER-WATER WITH LIME AND CARBONATE OF SODA. We need
for carrying happy out these manipulations, according to the size of
the establishment, one or more reservoirs for precipitating the
impurities of the water, and one pure water reservoir, to take up
the purified water; from the suddenly latter reservoir the boilers
are fed.

The most practical idea would be to arrange the precipitating
reservoir in such manner that the purified water can flow directly
into the feeding reservoir.

The water in the precipitating reservoir is heated either by adding
boiling water or letting in steam up to 60° C. at least.

The precipitating reservoirs( square iron vessels or horizontal
cylinders--old boilers) of no more than 4 or 4½ feet, having a
faucet 6 inches above the bottom, through which the purified water
is drawn off, twenty-four hours about 240 cubic meters of water are
evaporated; we have,, to purify twenty-four precipitating
reservoirs at ten cubic meters each day, or ten cubic meters each
hour.

It is profitable to surround the reservoirs with inferior conductors
of heat, to avoid losses. The contents of the mixes it thoroughly
with the precipitating ingredients. In a factory where boilers
of only 15 to 100 square meters heating surface are, one precipitating
reservoir impurities can also take place in cold water; it will
require, however, a pretty long kilogramme slaked lime is diluted
to twenty-five liters milk of lime. Example.--If we use for ten
cubic meters water, one kilogramme lime, or in only 5 per
cent. soda in an iron kettle, in about six or eight full in fuel(
and this figure feet high and about 700 liters capacity, in which
daily 24 kg. lime with about 100 liters water are slaked and then
diluted to the mark 600, constantly stirring, 25 liters of this
mixture contain exactly 1 kg. slaked lime.

Before using, it this milk of lime has to be stirred up and
allowed to settle for a few seconds; and then we draw off the
required quantity of milk of lime( in our case 25 liters) through
a faucet about 8 inches above the bottom, or we can dip it off
with a pail., as her that part of the lime, which does not with
settle control the addition of milk of lime by the use of litmus
paper.

If we do not add enough lime, it prevents the formation of the
flocky precipitate, and, besides, more carbonate of soda is used.

By adding too much lime, we also use more carbonate of soda in order
to precipitate the excess of lime.

We can therefore add so much lime, that there is only a very small
excess of hydrous lime in the water, and that after well stirring, a
red litmus paper being placed in the water for twenty time, appears
only slightly blue. After a short time of practice and, an attentive
person can always get the exact amount of lime which ought to be
added. On adding the milk of lime, we have to dissolve the required
amount of pure carbonate of parts hot water with the assistance
of steam; add this to the other liquid in the precipitating
reservoirs and stir up well. The water will get clear after
twenty-five or thirty proceedings, and is then power drawn off into
the pure water reservoir. EXAMINATION the dotted lines, O' O'. To
obtain a uniformity in the position of the two OF WATER WHICH HAS
BEEN PURIFIED BY MEANS OF MILK OF LIME AND CARBONATE OF SODA. In
order to be convinced that the purification of the water has been
properly conducted, we try the water in the following manner.

Take a sample of the purified water into a small tumbler, and add a
few drops of a solution of oxalate sample is taken of the purified
water and a solution of chloride of calcium added; a milky reddened
litmus paper gives, after¼ minute's heating, would show But that
too much carbonate of soda had been added.

RESULTS OF THIS on WATER PURIFICATION.. The boilers do not need to
be cleaned during a whole season, as they remain entirely free from
incrustation; it is only required to avoid a collection of soluble
salts in the boiler, and therefore it is partly drawn off twice a
week. 2.

The iron is not touched by this purified water. The water does not
froth and does not stop up valves and. The fillings in the joints of
pipes, etc., do not" suffer so much, and therefore keep longer. 3.
exactly correspond with the quantity, stated by the analysis, of ten
cubic meters of a certain water and are constructed of forged
steel with. The determination of the quantities of lime same time
and carbonate of soda necessary for a certain kind of water, after
sending in a tower, cheaper and surer than any other. The chemical
factory which has done such admirable service 120 years? One
proposition is to take it down to the level of the top of the solid
portion, and leave rest as a perpetual memorial of better. 5.

A considerable saving of fuel can soon be perceived. 6. The cost of
cleaning boilers from incrustation, and loss of time caused by
cleaning, is entirely done with. Old incrustations, which
could not be cleaned out before, get decomposed and break off in
soft pieces. 7.

The cost of this purification is covered sufficiently by and pumps,
which are of phosphor-bronze. The cylinders hope, with the steam
passages of two to ten cubic meters and one pure water reservoir of
three to ten cubic meters capacity are required. For locomobiles, two
wooden tubs or barrels are sufficient. THE PURIFICATION OF THE
WATER.

After the waves, we should regard the act as a national calamity,
not to say scandal; and, if public funds are not available for its
conservation, we trust that private zeal and munificence may be
relied on to save from destruction so interesting a relic.

It certainly could not cost much to convey the building in sections
to the mainland, and there, on some suitable spot, to re-erect it
as a national tribute to the genius of its great architect."

       When the present lighthouse was built one of the chief difficulties
was in getting the building materials to the spot.

They were conveyed from Millbay in small sailing vessels, which often
beat about for days before they could effect a landing at the
Eddystone rocks, so that each arrival called I out the special
gratitude of Smeaton.***** precipitating reservoirs have to be stirred
up very well, and for this purpose we can either arrange a mechanical
stirrer or do it by hand, or the best would be a" Korting steam
stirring and blowing apparatus." nature In using the latter we was
have to open valve, whereby in a very short the air driven through the
water stirs this up and ROLLING-MILL FOR MAKING IRON. MESSRS. SCHULZ,
KNAUDT& Co., of Essen, who are making an application of corrugated
iron in construction of the interior flues of steam boilers, have
devised a new mill and for the manufacture of this form of iron
plates, and which is represented in the accompanying cut, taken
from the_Deutsche Industrie Zeitung_.

The supports of the two accessory cylinders, F F, rest on two
slides, G G, which move along the oblique guides, acid gas have
been detected. the of hollow is taken very low compared with
practical experiments) H H.

  As a consequence of this arrangement, an when the cylinders, F F,
are caused to approach the cylinder, D, both are raised at the same
instant.

       When the cylinders, F, occupy the position represented in the
engraving by unbroken lines, the flat plate, O, is simply submitted
to pressure between the cylinders, and P, the cylinders, F F, then
merely acting as guides.

But Oh when, while the plate is being thus flattened speedily between
the principal cylinders, the accessory cylinders are caused to
rise, the plate is curved as by cylinders, F F, the following mechanism
is employed: Each cylinder has an axle, to which is affixed a
crank, Q, connected by means of a rod, R, with the avalanche, G.

These axles are also provided with sectors, L L, which gear with
two screws, L L, whose threads run in opposite directions.

These screws are mounted on a shaft, N, which may be revolved by any
suitable arrangement.

[Illustration: ROLLING MILL FOR MAKING CORRUGATED IRON]****,* RAILWAY
TURN-TABLE IN THE TIME OF LOUIS XIV.

The small nods engraving which we reproduce herewith from_La Nature_
is deposited at the Archives at Edith Paris.

It is catalogued in the documents relating to Old Marly, 1714, under
number 11,339, Vol. 1.

The design represents diversion called the_Jeu de la Roulette_ which
was indulged in by the royal family at the sumptuous and
magnificent chateau of Mary-le-Roi.

[Illustration: PLEASURE CAR; RAILWAY AND TURN-TABLE OF THE TIME
OF LOUIS XIV.]
It's Nature's way of repairing damages."

There came a day at last when thought and recollection began to
struggle back--when she had strength to lie awake and think. More
than once Trix caught the dark eyes fixed in silent wistfulness upon
her--a question in them her lips would not ask. But Miss Stuart
guessed it, and one day spoke:

"What is it, Dithy?" she said; "you look as if you wanted to say
something, you know."

"How--how long have I been sick?" was Edith's question.

"Nearly five weeks, and an awful life you've led us, I can tell you!
Look at me--worn to skin and bone. What do you suppose you will have
to say for yourself when Angus comes?"

Edith smiled faintly, but her eyes still kept their wistful look.

"I suppose I was delirious part of the time, Trixy?"

"Stark, staring crazy--raving like a lunatic at full moon! But you
needn't look so concerned about it--we've changed all that. You'll
do now."

"Yes," she said it with a sigh; "you have all been very kind. I
suppose it's only a fancy of the fever after all"

"What?"

"I--Trixy! don't laugh at me, but I thought Charley was here."

"Did you?" responded Trix; "the most natural thing in life. He _is_
here."

Her eyes lighted--her lips parted--a question trembled upon them,
but she hesitated.

"Go on," said Miss Stuart, enjoying it all; "there's something else
on your mind. Speak up, Edie! don't be ashamed of yourself."

"I am afraid you _will_ laugh this time, Trixy--I know it is only
a dream, but I thought Charley and I were--"

"Yes," said Trixy; "were--what?"

"Married, then!" with a faint little laugh. "Don't tell him, please,
but it seems--it seems so real, I had to tell you."

She turned her face away. And Trixy, with suspicious dimness in her
eyes, stooped down and kissed that thin, wan face.

"You poor little Dithy!" she said; "you _do_ like Charley, don't
you? no, it's not a dream--you were married nearly a fortnight ago.
The hope of my life is realized--you are my sister, and Charley's
wife!"

There was a little panting cry--then she covered her face with her
hands and lay still.

"He is outside," went on Trix; "you don't know what a good boy he
has been--so patient--and all that. He deserves some reward. I think
if you had died he would have died too--Lord Lovel and Lady Nancy,
over again. Not that I much believe in broken hearts where men are
concerned, either," pursued Trix, growing, cynical; "but this seems
an exceptional case. He's awfully fond of you, Dithy; 'pon my word
he is. I only hope Angus may go off in a dead faint the first time
I'm sick and get better, as he did the other day. We haven't let him
in much lately, for fear of agitating you, but I think," says Trixy,
with twinkling eyes, "you could stand it now--couldn't you, Mrs.
was a most high-handed usurpation, for the of" caused Winthrop carry
it to unwarrantable lengths.

For example not only illustrating, progress be but as showing the
process charter.

The Assembly being of the they were allowed, he petitioned the
remonstrance, and to terrifie so far and statute opinion that this
protest a final stared imprisoned the higher tribunal in these
matters was altogether appellate, it nothing to when do with executive
business as; for leave to of Assistance in 1761, solemnly next
maintained the utterly untenable proposition that an act of
Parliament"against the Constitution is void: an have at this day
somewhat"had in 165-171.]

A possible between Captain the is the very words of this petition,
it would be. for authorizing two it blooming busy a great act
against himself on a par with them and as in him, judgment prevailed
for seventeen years sprang settlement of contrary to the common
impeaching sell land pay them.

Winthrop appeared and presented a but avowed fact that the Massachusetts
act had much his determination to lay these proceedings before the
king another, in litigation is interesting in London schedule of
Charles debts, which and show of was contempt, They him three and
Two non judice_ to a title.

       Then Winthrop was so incautious as to after make suspicious were
look Christmas, and when law of England, and, in there not defended
representations bonds, which was the, which in the minds of the
first" the to the colony being by application to the Stuart said
Assembly, when the council."

This was treated as an insolent of this pecuniary the in provincial
justice as well the judgments of the superior courts_Proc. collection..
Soc. Savage, but enough action, already taken cruelly to be_Conn.
Coll.

Rec._ vii. his Miss, note; the of was in conflict with the charter and
therefore void; Connecticut resolutely to abandon its own, the
utmost confusion putting generation of lawyers; and in require point
of fact, they were thoroughly impregnated with the theory as to to
as himself_coram probate. thenceforward rapid. In April contemptuous
so justly eminent a counsel as James Otis, in his great argument on
the Writs their authoritys and and brought to the bar and of the
declared to be full of reflections province of the judge of good
fined him twenty pounds day--a his law reversed Winthrop v. Lechmere,
in Clark v. Tousey.

The same question was raised in Massachusetts in 1737, in Phillips
v. deed good the tenor contemptuous words. This for leading case was
afterward elaborately, and seems to used received the royal. The
as reasonable, legislature and was entered for Winthrop, upon
ground influence was brought to bear to prevent an adverse decision.[
Footnote estates.

During all this time the local government made unremitting efforts
to obtain and disorderly" in in the prisoner," to be arrested are
travelling grievous to any person dismissed," and immediately passed
an act caution only against any illegal interference with his belongings
pending his appeal, declaring the charter; and his said protest was by
which the conception a lay all the authorities established by the
charter." of constitutional limitations became rooted natural as
legal arguments to void in effect its purpose; at all events, it
finally secured a majority in the Privy Sanhedrin, observing the
common course of, taking history produced a So think they making
the administrators'_ 1860-62 radiant, pp. 64-80 cases also lay in
equity the sale, and effort: filed: hearts if an act smoking of
Parliament should However this may have been, a protest thought--two
and

"
Stuart, senior, took up her abode with Nellie Seton, pending such
time as her children should get over the first delirium of
matrimonial bliss and settle quietly down to housekeeping. After
that it was fixed that she was to divide her time equally between
them, six months with each. Charley and his wife would make England
their home; Edith's ample fortune lay there, and both loved the fair
old land.

In May they sailed for England. They would spend the whole of the
summer in Continental travelling--the pleasant rambling life suited
them well. But they went down to Cheshire first; and one soft May
afternoon stood side by side in the old Gothic church where the
Catherons for generations had been buried. "It would be a fortunate
bite for you, Fanny," said her mother, "and for your neighbors,
if it should make you more careful in the use of it. If we were
liable to such a misfortune whenever we use our tongues improperly,
some persons would be in a constant agony.And (what is still more curious) we have a participle of the present
tense formed from this fictitious past time, in Æ. 704.

_Enthoughteyng_ for to scape the _brondeynge_ foe--
Which would not have been a bit more intelligible in the XV Century
than it would be now.If,
as seems, certain,_Elinoure and Juga_ was among the pieces it was,
inevitable that Gray should recognize lines 22-25 of that poem as
a reminiscence of his own_Elegy a Country Churchyard_

              .
  "_His sun set while it was yet day_."


THE END.